5* THE HISTORY

B o o K affairs, with that which they had enjoyed underNuma,

L '__. became pofiefied of an opinion, that the only prof-

pect left them, of being relieved from the ficknefs,

was, in obtaining pardon and favour from the gods. It

is faid, that the king himfclf, turning over the com­

mentaries of Numa, and difcovering there, that cer­

tain fecret folemn facrifices had been performed to

Jupiter Elicius, fhut himfelf up, and fet about the

performance of this foltmnity; but, not having un­

dertaken, or conducted, the rites, in due form, he not

only failed of obtaining any notification from the

gods, but, through the refentment of Jupiter, for

being addrefied in an improper manner, was ftruck

with lightning, and reduced to afhes, together with

his houfe. Tullus reigned thirty-two years, highly

renowned for his military atchievements.

Y. R. XXXII. ON the death of Tullus, the direction

jVc. Of affa'rs, according to the mode adopted from the

6s*. beginning, fell into the" hands of the fenate; they

nominated an interrex, who prefided at the election,

when the people created Ancus Marcius king, and

the fenate approved of their choice. Ancus Mar­

cius was the grandfon of Numa Pompilius, by his

daughter. As foon as he was in pofieffion of the

throne, reflecting on the glory which his grandfa­

ther had acquired, and confidering that the late

ireign, though highly honourable in other refpecl:s,

yet, in one particular, had been very deficient, the

affairs of religion having been either quite neglecl:ed

or improperly managed, he judged it to be a matter

of the utmoft confequence, to provide that the public

•worfhip fhould be performed in the manner infti-

tuted by Numa, and ordered the pontiff to make

a tranfcript of every particular r.Ite, from the com­

mentaries of that king, on white tables, and to ex-

pofe it to the view of the public. From thefe pro-'

. ceedings, not only his fubjeccts, whofe wifhes tended

to peace, but the neighbouring ftates alfo, conceived

6 hopes

