O F R O M E. 395

voice called out, "Will ye fufFer yourfelves to be B O o K

"driven from your ground, and retreat from an un- t ^'^

"armed enemy, vanquimed with fmoke, like a Y.R. ;i9.

'' fwarm of bees? Will ye not extinguifh thofe fires B.

"with the fword? Or will ye not each in his poft,

'c if we muft fight with fire, and not with arms, feizc

"on thofe fame brands, and throw them back on

"the foe? Advance; recollec t the honour of the

"Roman name, your own bravery, and that of your

"fathers: turn this conflagration on the city of

't your enemy, and with its own flames demolifh

"Fidenae, which ye could never reclaim by your

'' kindnefs. This is what the blood of your am-

.*' bafladors and colonifts, and the defolation of your

"frontiers ought to fuggeft." At the command of

the dictator, the whole line advanced; the firebrands

which had been thrown, were caught up; others

were wrefted away by force, and thus the troops on

both fides were armed with fire. The mafter of the

horfe too, on his part, introduced among the cavalry

a new mode of fighting: he ordered his men to take

off the bridles from their horfes, and he himfelf clap­

ping fpurs to his own, fprung forward before the

reft, and was carried headlong by his unbridled horfe

into the midft of the flames. In like manner, the

other horfes, being fpurred on and freed from all re-

itraint, carried their riders with full fpeed againft the

enemy. The clouds of duft intermixed with the

fmoke, excluded the light from the eyes both of men

and horfes; and that appearance which had ftruck

terror into the men, had no fuch efFect on the horfes.

The cavalry therefore, wherever they penetrated,

bore down every thing with irrefiftible force. A

fhout was now heard from a new quarter, which

having furprifed and attracted the attention of both

armies, the dictator called out aloud, that his lieu­

tenant-general Quintius and his party had attacked

the enemy's rear; and then, raifing the fhout anew,

advanced on the enemy with redoubled vigour. The

Etrurians

