O F R O M E.

own plans, thofe of the public being deplored as B O O K

defperate. In the mean time, the Flamen Quirina- . -w-_ji

lis, and the Veftal virgins, laying afide all concern v.R. 365.

for their own affairs, and consulting together which B. c. J8'.

of the facred things they fhould carry with them,

and which they fhould leave behind, for they had

not ftrength fufficient to carry them all, and what

place they could beft depend on, for preferving them

in fafe cuftody, judged it the moft eligible method

to inclofe them in cafks, and to bury them under

ground, in the chapel next to the dwelling-houfe of

the Flamen Quirinalis, where at prefent it is reckoned

profane even to fpit. The reft they carried, diftrr-

buting the burthens among themfelves, along the

road which leads over the Sublician bridge, to the

Janiculum. On the afcent of that hill, Lucius Al-

binius a Roman plebeian, obferving them, as he was

conveying in a waggon his wife and children, among

the other crowd of thofe who being unfit for war

were retiring from the city, and retaining, even in

his prefent calamitous ftate, a regard to the dif-

tinction between things' divine and human, he

thought it would betray a want of the refpecT: due

to religion, if the public priefts of the Roman peo­

ple were to go on foot, and thus to carry the facred

things, whilft he and his family were feen mounted

in a carriage; ordering his wife and children then to

alight, he put the virgins and the facred things into

the waggon, and conveyed them to Caere, whither

the priefts had determined to go.

XLI. MEANWHILE at Rome, when every difpb-

fition for the defence of the citadel had been com­

pleted, as far as was pofiible in fuch a conjuncture,

the crowd of the aged withdrew to their houfes, and

there, with a firmnefs of mind not to be fhaken by

the approach of death, waited the coming of the

enemy: fuch of them as had held curule offices,

choofing to die in that garb which difplayed the em­

blems of their former fortune, of their honours, or

of

