THE HISTORY, Sec.

a matter in difputc, whereon they were to decide

__ as judges. Elpecially when, as the cafe ftood,

Y.K, 309. " although it were allowable for a judge to fhew re-

B.c. 44.3. tt gard to nis own emolument, yet the utmoft ad-

"vantage that could accrue from the feizure of the

"lands, would by no means counterbalance the lofs

"which they muft fuftain in the alienation of the

'" affections of the allies, by fuch an act of injuftice:

"for the lofs of reputation and the efteem of man-

"kind are of importance beyond what can be efti-

"mated. Muft the deputies carry home this ac-

"count? Muft this be made known to the world?

*' Muft the allies, muft the enemy hear this? What  
"grief would it give to the former, what joy to the

"latter! Did they imagine, that the neighbouring

"ftates would impute this proceeding to Scaptius,

"an old bablcr in the afiemblies? This indeed

"would fcrve, inftead of a ftatue, to dignify the

"Scaptian name; but the Roman people would in-

'' cur the imputation of corrupt chicanery and frau-

"dulent ufurpation of the claims of others. For

"what judge, in a caufe between private perfons,

"ever acted in this manner, adjudging to himfelf

-" the property in difpute? Surely, even Scaptius  
"himfelf, dead as he was to all fenfe of fhame,

"would not act in fuch a manner." Thus the

confuls, thus the fenators exclajmed; but covet-

ouihefs, and Scaptius, the inftigator of that covet-

oufnefs, had greater influence. The tribes be­

ing called, gave their judgment: that the land in

queftion was the property of the Roman people. It

is not denied, that it might with juftice have been fo

determined, had the matter been tried before other

judges: but, as the affair was circumftanced, the in­

famy of the fentence was in no degree lefiened by

the equity of their title; nor did it appear to the

Aricians and Ardeans themfelves in more fcandalous

and provoking colours than it did to the Roman fe-

nate. The remainder of the year pafied without any

commotion either at home or abroad.

