i8a THE HISTORY

Jj o o K " commonwealth and of the fenate, if not all the

. -r-_f " tribunes, yet as many at leaft as they could."

Y.R. 174. Convinced of the propriety of Appius's advice, the

B. C.478. patricians in general addrefied the tribunes with ci­

vility and kindnefsj and thofe of confular dignity

employed whatever perfonal influence they had over

each of them; and thus, partly by conciliating their

regard, and partly by the weight of their influence,

they prevailed on the tribunes to let their powers be

directed to the advantage of the ftate: and the con-

fuls, being fupported by four tribunes, againft one

oppofer of the public intereft, completed the levy.

They then marched their army againft. the Veienti-

ans, to whom auxiliaries had flocked from all parts

of Etruria, induced to take arms, not fo much by

affection to the Veientians, as by the hopes which

they had conceived, that the Roman ftate might be

brought to ruin by inteftine difcord. Accordingly,

in the afiemblies of each of the ftates of Etruria, the

leading men argued warmly, that " the power of

"the Romans would be everlafting, unlefs civil dif-

"fenfipn armed them with rage againft each other.

"This was the only infection, the only poifbn that

u operated on powerful ftates, io as to fet limits to

"the duration of great empires. This evil, whofe

"progrefs had been long retarded, partly by the

«c wife management of the patricians, and partly by

"the patient conduct of the commons, had now

"proceeded to extremity: out of the one, were

"formed two diftinct ftates, each of which had its

. "own magiftrates, and its own laws: at firft, though

"they ufed to give a loofe to their rancorous ani-

"mofities, on occaiion when troops were to be le-

"vied, yet thefe very men, as long as war conti.

"nued, paid obedience to their officers; and while

"military difcipltne remained in force, whatever

'' might be the ftate of affairs in the city, ruin might

"be deferred: but now, the Roman foldier carried

"with him to the camp, the cuftom of refufing

"obedience

