1*8 THE HISTORY

contnU-

ally in the porch of your pavilion; this is the kind

Y. R.S4.6. " of war in which we, Roman youths, engage againft

B. C. 506. " yOu . ftar not an armv m the fjel^ nor in battle .

"the affair will reft between your fingle perfon, and

"each of us, feparately." The king, inflamed with

rage, and, at the fame time, terrified at the danger,

having, with fevere menaces, ordered fires to be

kindled round him, unlefs he inftantly explained

what thofe plots were, with which he threatened him

in thofe ambiguous expreffions, " Behold," faid he,

"and perceive what little account is made of the

"body, by thofe who have in view the attainment

"of great glory:" and thrufting his right hand into

a chafing.difh of coals which had been kindled for

the purpofe of a facrifice, held it there to burn, as if

he were void of all fenfe of feeling: on which the

'king thunderftruck in a manner, by fuch aftonifhing

behaviour, leaped from his feat, ordered the youth

to be removed from the altars, and faid to him,

"Retire, in fafety, for the treatment which you in-

"tended for me, was mild in comparifon of that

"which you have practifed on yourfelf. I fhould

"wifh increafe and fuccefs to your bravery, if that

"bravery were exerted on the fide of my own cbun-

"try. However, I difmifs you untouched and un-

"hurt; and difcharge you from the penalties,

"which, by the laws of war, I might 'inflict."

Mucius then, as if to make a return for this act of

favour, told him," Since I find you difpofed to ho-

"nour bravery, that you may obtain from me, by

. " kindnefs, what you could not by threats, know,

"that three hundred of us, the principal youths in

"Rome, have bound ourfelves to each other by an

"oath, to attack you in this manner; my lot hap-

"pened to be firft; the others will be with you,

"each in his turn, according as the lot fhall fet him

"fore moft," until fortune fliall afford an opportunity

"of liiccceding againft you."

XIII. Mucius,

