49* THE HISTORY

B OvO K the field, and their being routed by an eneifty re-

i _.J_ _f markable for cowardice and running away. On

Y.R. 361. which the whole army cried out together, that they

B.C. 391. deferved to hear fuch reproaches, and that they ac­

knowledged the fhamefulnefs of their behaviour;

but that they were at the fame time determined to

make amends for it, and that the enemy's joy on the

occafion mould be but of fhort duration. They re-

quefted earneftly that he would lead them thence di­

rectly to the camp of the enemy, which lay in the

plain within their view, offering to fubmit to any

punifhment if they did not take it before night. Af­

ter commending their refolution, he ordered them

to refrefh themfelves, and to be in readinefs at the

fourth watch: the enemy on the other fide, withde-

fign to prevent the Romans from flying from the

hill by night through the road which led to Verrugo,

were there ready to receive them, and the battle be­

gan before day. However the moon was up through

the" whole night, and the fight was managed with as

little confufion as it could have been by day. But

the fhout reaching Verrugo, where it was imagined

that the Roman camp had been attacked, the troops

were feized with fuch terror, that in fpite, of the in-

treaties of ./Emilius, and all his endeavours to detain

them, they fled to Tufculum in the utmoft diforder.

From thence a report was carried to Rome, that

Poftumius and his army were cut to pieces. How­

ever, as foon as day-light had removed the danger

of falling into ambufcades, in cafe of a hafty purfuit,

riding through the ranks, and demanding the per­

formance of their promifes, he infufed into the men

fuch a degree of ardour, that the ^Equans could no

longer withftand their efforts, but betook themfelves

to flight, when a Daughter of them enfued (as in a

cafe where anger was more concerned than courage)

that ended in the entire deftruction of their army;

and the afflicting news from Tufculum which had

caufed a great, though groundlefs, alarm in the city,

were.

