$to THE HISTORY

BOOK dignified with triumphal honours and confulfhips,

^-^L . openly declared, that " they would meet death along

Y.R. 365. " with them, and would not burthen the fcanty

B.C.387." ftores of the fighting men, with bodies incapable

"of carrying arms, and of protecting their country."

Such were the confolations addrefied to each other

by the aged who were deftined to death.

XL. THEIR exhortations were then turned to the

band of young men, whom they efcorted to the Ca­

pitol and citadel, commending to their valour and

youthful vigour the remaining fortune of their city,

which, through the courfe of three hundred and fixty

years, had ever been victorious in all its wars. When

thofe who carried with them every hope and every

refource, parted with the others, who had deter­

mined not to furvive the capture and deftruction of

the city, as the cafe itfelf and the view which it ex­

hibited, were fufficient to call forth the tendereft

feelings of pity, being then joined with the lamen­

tations of the women who ran up and down in

diftraction, now following one party, then the other,

afking their hufbands and their fons, to what fate

they would confign them? all together formed fuch a,

picture of human woe as could admit of no aggra­

vation. A great part, however, of the women fol­

lowed their relations into the citadel, no one either

hindering or inviting them; becaufe, though the

meafure of lefiening the number of ufelefs perfons,

in a fiege, would doubtlefs be an ufeful one, yet it

was a mtafure of extreme inhumanity. The reft of

the multitude, confifting chiefly of plebeians, for

whom there was neither room en fo fmall a hill, nor

a pofl'ibility of lupport in fo great a fcarcity of corn,

pouring out of the city in one continued train, re­

paired to the Janiculum. From thence fome dif-

perfed through the country, and others made their

way to the neighbouring cities, without any leader,.

or any concert, each purfuing his own hopes and his

own

