i84 THE HISTORY

BOOK " inaction, among men who had arms in their

. -^-j_j " hands:" throwing out, befides, many reproaches,'

Y.R.174. fome true, and fome falfe, on the novelty of their

B.C. 478. origin, and of their race. Such invectives, though

uttered with great vociferation, clofe to the very

rampart and the gates, gave the confuls no manner

of uneafinefs: but the minds of the uninformed

multitude were ftrongly agitated, at one time by in­

dignation, at another by fhame, and diverted from

reflecting on dorneftic quarrels: they could not bear

the thoughts of fuffering the enemy to infult t.hem

unrevenged, neither could they wifh fuccefs either to

the confuls, or the patricians: thus there was a.

ftruggle in their breafts, between their animofity

againft foreigners, and that which inflamed them

againft their countrymen: the former at length pre­

vailed, in confequence of the haughty and infolent

feoffs of the enemy: they afiembled in crowds at

the Praetorium *, demanding the fight, and requir­

ing the fignal to be given. The confuls held a con-

fultation together, as if deliberating on the demand,

and conferred for a confiderable time: they wifhed

to fight; but it was neceflary to reftrain and conceal

that wifh, in order, by oppofition and delay, to add

to the alacrity which had now fprung up in the minds

of the troops: they returned for anlwer, that " the

"meafure was premature: it was not yet a proper

'' time for fighting. That they muft keep within

'' the camp." They then iffued orders, that " all

"mould refrain from fighting; declaring, that if any

"one fhould engage without orders, they would

"punifh him as an enemy." After the troops were

thus difmifled, their ardour for fighting increafed,

in proportion to the averfion, which they fuppoled,

in the confuls: befides, the enemy approached with

much greater boldnefs, as foon as it became known

the confuls had determined not to come to an,

• The general's quarter*,

engage*

