8a THE HISTORY

BOOK Tarquinius was the fon or grandfon of Tarquinius

I. Prifcus, is not clear; following, however, the autho­

rity of the greater number, I have chofen to call

him his Ion. He had a brother Aruns Tarquinius,

a youth of a mild difpofition: to thefe two, as has

already been mentioned, were married the two

Tullias, the king's daughters, who were alfo of

widely different tempers. It happened, luckily, that

the two violent difpofitions were not united in wed­

lock, owing, I prefume, to the good fortune of the

Koman people, that the reign of Servius being

lengthened, the manners of the people might be fully

formed. The haughty Tullia was highly chagrined, at

finding in her hufband no principle either of ambi­

tion, or enterprize ; fhe turned, therefore, her whole

regard towards the other Tarquinius; him me ad­

mired, him fhe called a man, and a true defcendant

of the royal blood; her fifter fhe defpifed, who,

having got a man for her hufband, fhewed nothing

of that fpirit of enterprize which became a woman.

Similarity of difpofition quickly produced an inti­

macy between them, as is generally the cafe; evil is

fittef t to confort with its like. But it was the wo­

man who fet on foot the fcene of univerfal confufion

which followed. In the many private converfations

•which fhe ufed to hold with her fifter's hufband, fhe

refrained not from throwing out the moft violent re­

proaches againft her own, to his brother, and againit

her fifter, to that fifter's hufband; affirming, that

"it were better that both he and lhe were un-

•" married, than to be fo unfuitably matched; that,

"through the ftupidity of others, they were con-

"demned to a life of inactivity. If the gods had

"granted her fuch a hufband, as fhe deferved,

"quickly would be feen in her own houfe, that

"crown which was now upon her father's head."

She loon infpired the young man with notions as def-

perate as her own. Aiuns Tarquinius, and the

younger Tullia, dying almoft immediately after,

and

