£ao. THE ( HISTORY

B OvO K tne tracks of country which ftretchfrom each fide.of

t_,.-J-_.i the mountain, to the {wo feas, having founded twelve

Y.R. 364. cities on each fide, firft on the hither fide towards the

B. C. 388. }ower fea, and afterwards fending to the other fide of

the Apennines as many colonies as there were capital

cities in them other country; and thefe acquired pof-

feffion of the whole region beyond the Po, all the way

to the Alps, except the corner of the Venetians who

dwell round the extreme point of the Adriatic. The

Alpine nations alfo, without doubt, derived their

origin from them, particularly the Rhetians, who

were rendered favage merely by their fituation, fb

as to retain no mark of their original, except the ac­

cent of their language, and not even that without

corruption.

XXXIV. CONCERNING the paffage of the Gauls

into Italy, what we have learned is this: when Tar-

quinius Prifcus reigned at Rome, the fupreme go­

vernment of the Celts, who compofed one third part

of Gaul, lay in the hands of the Biturigians: thefe

gave a king to the Celtic nation, Ambigatus, a

man very eminently diftinguifhed by his own merit,

and by the extraordinary degree of profperity which

attended him, both in his own private concerns, and

in thofe of the public; for under his government

Gaul was fo fruitful, and fo numeroufly peopled,

that it feemed fcarcely practicable to retain fuch an

enormous multitude under the direction of govern­

ment. Being far advanced in years, and wifbing to

exonerate his realm of a crowd with which it was

overburthened, he declared his intention offending

away his fifter's fons, Bellovefus and Sigovefus, two

fpirited young men, to whatever fettlements the gods

fhould point out by their auguries; and that they

ihould carry with them any number of men, which

they themfelves fhould choofe; fo that no nation

which lay in their way fiioukl be able to obftruct

their courfe. Sigoveius was then directed by the

oracle

