394 TH.JL HISTORY

BOOK though more indebted for it to an accidental advan-

i_-^l^_i tagc, than to their prowefs in fight, the dictator, after

Y.K. 319. waiting a fhort time until he received information

B.C.415. from hjs fcouts that Quintius had reached an emi­

nence which ftood near the citadel of Fidenae, put

bis troops in motion, and led on his line of infantry

in order of battle in their quickeft pace againft the;

• enemy. The mafter of the horfe he commanded,

not to enter on action without orders, telling him that

he would give a fignal when there fhould be occafion

for the aid of the cavalry, and defiring him to fhew

then by his behaviour, that he ftill bore in mind his

fight with their king, the magnificent offering which

he had made, and the refpect which he owed to Ro­

mulus and Jupiter Feretrius. The legions began the

conflict with furious impetuofity. The Romans,

inflamed with keen animofity, gratified their rancour

both with deeds and words, upbraiding the Fidena-

tians with impiety, the Veientians as robbers, calling

them truce-breakers, polluted with the horrid mur­

der of ambaffadors, ftained with the blood of their

own brethren of the colony, perfidious allies, and,

daftardly foes.

XXXIII. THEIR very firft onfet had made an im-

preflion on the enemy, when, on a fudden, the gates

of Fidenae flying open, a ftrange kind of army lallied

forth, unknown and unheard of before. An immenfe

multitude armed with fire, all in a blaze with burn­

ing firebrands, as if hurried on by frantic rage, rufhed

on againft the •enemy. This very extraordinary

mode of fighting filled the Romans for fome time

with terror j on which the dictator, who was active­

ly employed in animating the fight, having called up

the mafter of the horfe with the cavalry, and allb

Quintius from the mountains, haftened himfelf to

the left wing, which being terrified- by the. conflagra­

tion, as'it might more, properly be called than a

battle, had retired from the, flames, and with.a loud

voice

