484 THEHISTORY

BOOK acres and feven-twelfths to each man. This dona-

._J_yl,__, tion now began to be looked on with fcorn, becaufe

Y.R. 360. they confidered the offer as intended to pacify them,

B. C. 391. on the difappointment of higher expectations: for

"why," faid they, " fhould the commons be fent

"into exile among the Volfcians, when the beauti-

"ful city of Veii lay within view, and the territory

"belonging to it, more fertile and more extenfivc

"than the territory of Rome?" The city too, they

extolled as preferable even to the city of Rome,

both in point of fituation, and the magnificerrce of

its edifices and inclofures, both public and private.

Nay, they went fo far as to propofe the fcheme which

after the taking of Rome by the Gauls was more

generally adopted, of removing to Veii. But their

plan now was, that half of the commons, and half

of the fenate fhould fix their habitations at Veii; and

thus two cities compofing one commonwealth might

be inhabited by the Roman people. The nobles

oppofed thefe meafures with fuch warmth, as to de­

clare, that they would fooner die in the fight of the

Roman people, than any of thofe matters mould be

put to the vote: for, " when one city at prefent

"fupplied fuch abundance of diffenfions, what would

'' be the cafe with two? Was it poflTible that any

"one could prefer a vanquifhed, to a victorious city,

"and let Veii, after being captured, enjoy a greater

"degree of profperity than ever it had in its moft

"flourifhing days? In fhort, they might be forfaken

"in their native country by their fellow-citizens,

"but no force fhould ever compel them to forfake

"their native country and fellow-citizens, and to

"follow Titus Sicinius, (for he was the plebeian

"tribune who had brought forward the propofition,)

"as a founder to Veii, abandoning the divine Ro-

'' mulus, the fon of a god, the parent and founder

"of the city of Rome." And thefe difputes pro­

ceeded to a fhameful height: for the patricians had

drawn over half of the plebeian tribunes to their fen-

time nts j

