HISTORY

BOOK tius Rutilus, Lucius Sergius Fidenas, and Sexttis ju-

. _' , lius lulus. The fhews, to which they had come with

Y.R. 331. the concurrent approbation of their feveral ftates,

B.C.4.11. were rendered more agreeable to the ftrangers by the

courtefy of their hofts. After the conclufion of the

games, the tribunes of the commbns began their fe-

ditious harangues, upbraiding the multitude, that

"they were fo benumbed with awe of thofe very

"perfons, \vho were the objects of their hatred, as

"to fit down liftlefs in a ftate of endlefs Qavery;

"and not only wanted fpirit to afpire to the recove-

"ry of their hopes of fharing in the confulfhip; but

"even, in the election of military tribunes, which lay

"open to both patricians and plebeians, they mewed

"no regard to themfelves or their party. They

"ought therefore to ceafe wondering, that no one

"bufkd himfelf in the fervice of the commons:

"people expended their labour and danger on ob-

"jects from whence honour and emolument might

. "be expected j and there was nothing which men

'' would not undertake, if, for great attempts, great

"rewards were propofed. But furely it could nei-

"ther be required, nor expected, that any tribune

"fhould rufh blindfold into difputes, the danger of

"which was great, the £fpf£ nothing: in confe-

"quence of which, he knew, with certainty, that the

"pat*icians1 Pgainft whom his efforts were directed,

"would perfecute him with inexpiable rancour; and

"the commons, on whole fide he contended, would

"never think themfelves the more obliged to him.

"By great honours, men's minds were elevated to

"greatnefs: no plebeian would think meanly of

"himfclf, when he ceafed to be condemned by

"others. The experiment ought at length to be

"made, on one, or another, whether there were any

"plebeian capable of fuftaining a high dignity, or

"whether it were next to a miracle, and a prodigy,

"that there fhould exiit a man of plebeian extrac-

"tion endowed with fortitude and induftry. By the

"moft

