THE HISTORY

B o o K on the latter of whom they repofed by far the

. _*- . greater part of their hopes j nor did he difappoint

Y.R. 163. their expectations, but gave a convincing proof that

B. c. 4*9.the Roman commonwealth was more indebted for

its power to its generals, than to its troops. March­

ing to Circeii, he firft expelled the Roman colon-

ifts from thence, and delivered the city, after re-

ftoring it to freedom, into the hands of the Vol-

fcians: turning thence acrofs the country towards

the Latine road, he deprived the Romans of their

late acquifitions, Satricum, Longula, Polufca, and

Corioli. He then retook Lavinium, and afterwards

took Corbio, Vitellia, Trebia, Lavici, and Pedum,

one after another. From Pedum, laftly, he led his

forces towards the city, and pitching his camp at the

Cluilian trenches, five miles from the city, fent from

thence parties to ravage the lands of the Romans j

appointing perfons among the plunderers, to take

care that the lands of the patricians fhould be left

unmolefted; either becaufe his anger was levelled

principally againft the pkbeians, or with the de-

fign of caufing thereby a difienfion between the pa­

tricians and commons; which would have been the

confequence, fo powerfully did the tribunes, by

their inveclives againft the patricians, excite the

refentment of the commons, which was but too

violent before, but that, however full their minds

were of mutual diftruft and rancour, their dread of

a foreign enemy, the ftrongeft tie of concord, obliged

them to unite: in one point only they difagreed; the

fenate and confuls placing their hopes entirely in

Y. R.166. arms, the commons preferring all other meafures to

B. €.486. wan gy tjiis time, Spurius Nautius and Sextus

Furius were confuls. While they were employed

in reviewing the legions, and pofting troops on the

walls, and in other places, where it was thought

proper to fix guards, and watches, a vaft multitude

of people afiembling, and infifting on peace, terrified

them, at firft, by their feditious clamours, and, at

length, compelled them to afiemble the fenate, and

there

