2j* THE HIS TORY

BOOK writers, that the people of Antium revoked this

. _^ _. year, that Lucius Cornelius, conful, conduced the

Y.R. 195. war againft them, and took their city. I cannot

B.C.457. venture to affirm this as certain, becaufc in the

earlier writers there is no mention of fuch a tranf-

action.

XXIV. No fooner was this war brought to a

conclufion, than a tribunitian war at home alarmed

the fenate. The tribunes exclaimed, that " the de-

"taining the troops abroad was a mere artifice, cal-

"culated to fruftrate the proceedings refpecting the

"law. But that they were determined, neverthe-

"lefs, to go through with the bufinefs which they

"had undertaken." However, Publius Lucretius,

praefect of the city, managed matters fo, that the

proceedings of the tribunes were poftponed until the

arrival of the confuls. There arole alfo a newcaufe

of commotion: Aulus Cornelius and Quintus Ser-

vilius, quaeftors, commenced a profecution againft

Marcus Volfcius, for having manifeftly given falfc

evidence againft Caefo: for a difcovery had been

made, fupported by many proofs, both that the bro­

ther of Volfcius, from the time when he was firft

taken ill, had not only never appeared in public, but

that he never rofe from his fick bed, where he died

of a lingering diforder, which lafted many months;

and alfo, that, at the time when the witnefs had

charged the fact to have been committed, Caefo had

not been feen at Rome. Thofe who had ferved in

the army with him alfo affirmed that he, at that

time, regularly attended in his poft along with them,

without having once obtained leave of abfence.

Many in private ftations challenged Volfcius, in

their own frames, to abide the decifion of the judge *,

content

* As the prxtors could not attend the trfal of every caufe, they al­  
ways had a lift of pufons properly qualified, called ' judiees kltai,'

out oi \vhofe number, Us occafion required, they delegated judges to

act in their ftead. Thefe felcft judges were chofcn in an afiembly of

the

