OF ROME. 351

tolinus, declared themfelves averfe to the fhedding B O O K.

of blood, and offering violence to thofe officers, . _w-_f

whom, by the treaty concluded with the commons, Y.R. 3.o.

they had acknowledged as facred and inviolable. B'c.+**'

The refult of thefe consultations was, that they fhould

allow military tribunes, with confular power, to be

elected out of the patricians and plebeians without

diftinction; and that, with refpect to the election of

confuls, no change mould be made; and with this

.the tribunes were fatisfied, and the commons alfo.

An afiembly was now proclaimed for the election of

three tribunes with confular power; and, as foon as

this. proclamation was ifllied, immediately every one,

who had, either by word or deed, been a promoter

of the fedition, particularly thofe who had held the

office of tribune, began to folicit votes, and to buftle

through the. Forum as candidates; fo that the patri­

cians were deterred, at firft, by defpair of attaining

that dignity, while the minds of the commons were

in fuch a ferment; and, afterwards, by the indigna­

tion which they felt at the thoughts of holding the

office in conjunction with fuch colleagues. At laft,

however, overcome by the preffing inftances of the

leading patricians, fome of them declared themfelves

candidates, left they might feem to have voluntarily

furrendered the adminiftration of public affairs. The

iflue of that election afforded a proof, that men's fen-

timents during the heat of a conteft for liberty and

,dignity, are very different from thofe which they

feel, after the conteft has been ended, and when the

judgment is unbiafied. For the people, fatisfied

with the admiffion of the right of the plebeians to

ftand candidates, elected every one of the tribunes

from among the patricians. Never was there found,

even in a fingle individual, fuch moderation, difin-

.tereftednefs, and elevation of mind, as was dif.

played on that occafion by the whole body of the

people.

VII. IN

