OF R O M E.

miration both of his countrymen and the enemy.

There was a facrifice always folemnized by the Fa­

bian family at ftated times, on the Quirinal hill; to Y.R.'365.

perform which, Caius Fabius Dorfo having comeB.c.387'

down from the Capitol, d re fied in the form called

the Gabine cincture, and carrying in his hands the

facred utenfils requifite f<>r the ceremony, pafied out

through the midftof the enemy's pofts, without be­

ing moved in the leaf t by any of' their calls or

threats; made his way to the Quirinal hill, and after

duly performing there the Ibleinn rites, returned by

the fame way, preferving the fame firmnefs in his

countenance and gait, confident of the protection of

the gods, whofe worfhip, even the fear of death had

not power to make him negletft, and came back to.

his friends in the Capitol, while the Gauls were

either held motionlefs with aftonifhment at his amaz­

ing confidence, or moved by confiderations of reli­

gion, of which. that nation is by no means regard-

lefs. Meanwhile, thofe at Veii found not only their

courage, but their. ftrength alfo increafing daily.

And as not only fuch of the Romans repaired thither,

who, in conlcquence either of the defeat in the field,

or of the difafter of the city being taken, had been

difperfed in various parts, but volunteers alfo flowed

in from Latium, with a view to fhare in the fpoil, it

now feemed high time to attempt the recovery of

their native city, and refcue it out of the hands of

the enemy. But this ftrong body wanted a head:

the fpot where they ftood reminded them of Ca-

millus, a great number of the foldiers having fought

with fuccefs under his banners and aufpices. Be­

tides, ^Caedicius declared, that he would not take

any part which might afford occafion to any, either

god or man, to take away, his corrjuiand from him;

but rather, mindful of his own. rank, would himfelf

infift on the appointment: of a general. With uni-

verfal confent it was refolved, that Camillus ftiould

be invited from Ardea j but that firft the fenate at

i, L 4 Rome

