*, O ? \ R O M E. 345

"VK are nbC admitted to infpecl: the records *, or B O O K

'' the annals f of the pontiffs, are we ignorant of the . -T

"things which even every foreigner knows? That Y.R.

'' the confuls were fubftituted in the place of the

'' kings ; and confequently have no kind of privilege

"or dignity which was not pofieffed before by the

*' kings? Do ye fuppofe that we never heard it  
•' mentioned, that Numa Pompilius, not only no

"patrician, but not even a citizen of Rome, was in-

'• vited hither from the country of the Sabines and

'' made king at Rome, by the order of the people,

"with the approbation of the fenate? That after-

"wards Lucius Tarquinius, of a race which, fo far

"from being Roman,was not even Italian, the fon of

"Demaratus a Corinthian, having come hither a

"ftranger from Tarquinii, was made king, though

"the fons of Ancus were alive ? That after him Ser-

'' vius Tullius, the fon of a captive woman of Cor-

.'' niculum, his father not known, and his mother

•' in fervitude, obtained the crown, through his

'' abilities and merit? Need I fpeak of Titus Tatius,

•' the Sabine, whom Romulus himfelf, the founder

"of this city, admitted into partnerfhip in the

'' throne ? The confequence was, while no objection

"was made to any family, in which confpicuous

"merit appeared, the Roman empire continually

M increafed. It well becomes you to mew difguft,

'' now, at a plebeian conful; though our anceftors

"difdained not to call foreigners to the throne, nor,

*' even after the cxpulfion of the kings, ever fhut the  
"gates of the' city againft foreign merit. It is well

"known, that, fince the expulfion of the kings, we

"admitted the Claudian family from among the

*' Sabines, not only into the number of citizens, but  
1 • •

* The records, in which the names of the roagiftratei, in fucceflion,  
and the moft memor,blc events were recorded.

•f. TheannaU were a compendious regiftry of events, as they occur*

red, made by the pontiffs, who likewife hail the care of the records,

and L..pt both card'.illy fhut up iiom the inlpedion of the plebeians.

"even

