OF ROME. 117

"which they themfelves had fuftained of old, for B ° O K

"their legions fo often flaughtered, and their lands ,

"taken from them." Thefe arguments had the Y.R

defired effect on the Veientians, every one of whom B'C.

earneftly, and with menaces, declared that they

ought now at leaft, with a Roman at their head, to

efface the memory of their difgraces, and reclaim,

by arms, what they had loft. The people of Tar-

quinii were moved by his name, and his relation to

tliemfelves: they thought it redounded to their ho­

nour, that their countrymen fhould reign at Rome.

Thus two armies of two ftates followed Tarquinius

to demand his reftoration, and profecute war againft

the Romans. When they advanced into the Ro­

man territories, the confuls marched out to meet the

enemy. Valerius led the infantry, in order of battle;

Brutus, with the cavalry, marched at fome diftance

before them, in order to procure intelligence. In

like manner, the vanguard of the enemy was com-

pofed of cavalry, under the command of Aruns Tar­

quinius, the king's fon; the king himfclf followed

•with the legions. Aruns, perceiving at a diftance,

by the lictors, that a conful was there, and after­

wards, on a nearer approach, plainly diftinguifhing

Brutus by his face, became inflamed with rage, and

cried out, " That is the man who has driven us as

"exiles from our country j fee how he marches in

"ftate, decorated with our enfigns: ye gods, aven-

"gers of kings, afiift me!" He then fpurred on

his horfe, and drove furioufly againft the conful.

Brutus perceived that the attack was meant for him;

and, as it was, at that time, reckoned not improper

for generals rhemfeJves to engage in fight, he eagerly

offered himfeif to the combat; and they advanced

againft each other with fuch furious animofity, nei­

ther thinking of guarding his own perfon, but folely

intent on wounding his enemy, that, in the violence

of the conflict, each of them received his antagonift's

fpear in his body, through his buckler, and being

13 entangled

