i8<5 THE HISTORY

B o o K a man, on that day, either plebeian or patrician, who

e^yl.j did not difplay an uncommon degree of valour: the

Y.R. 174. Fabian name, and Fabian race, fhone forth with pe-

$.C. 478. culiarluftre: they were determined to recover, in

that battle, the affection of the commons, which,

during the many quarrels of the parties at home, had

been withdrawn from them. The line was formed,

nor did their Veientian enemy or the Etrurian le­

gions decline the combat.

XLVI. THESE expected, almoft as a matter of

certainty, that the Romans would fhew no more wil-

lingnefs to fight againft them, than they had againft

the ,Equans.: nay, confidering the high ferment of

their paflions, and that, in the prefent cafe, the iflue

of a battle was uncertain, they did not defpair pf ob­

taining fome more important advantage. In this

they were entirely difappointed, for in no former

war did the Romans enter the field, inflamed with

keener animofity; fo highly were they exafperated

by the taunts of the enemy on one fide, and the de­

lay of the confuls on the other. The Etrurians had

fcarcely time to form their ranks, before they found

themfelves engaged in clofe fight, hand to hand wjth

fwords, the moft defperate method of deciding 3

battle, the javelins having in the firft hurry been

thrown at random, rather than aimed at the enemy,

Among the foremoft, the Fabian family, particular­

ly, attracted the notice of their countrymen, and en­

couraged them by their example: as one ofthefe,

Quintus Fabius, who had been conful two years be­

fore, advanced before the reft againft a thick body

of the Veientians, a Tufcan, who aflumed refolution

from a confidence in his ftrength, and fkill in arms,

came up to him unobferved, while he was bufily en­

gaged with a number of foes, and thruft him through

the breaft with his fword; on the weapon's being

drawn out of the wound, Fabius fell to the'ground.

Both armies felt the fall of this one man, and the

Romans

