THE HISTORY

K" t'1'8' ^or w^at' un^e^s for reminding them there-

r _ by that we are members of the fame community

Y.R. 310. " with themfelves; and that, though we poffefs not

B.C. 441. 't the fame degree Of power, we are yet inhabitants

"of the fame country. By the one, we require the

"liberty of intermarrying with them, a liberty ufu-

"ally granted to people of the neighbouring ftates

"and to foreigners: for we have granted, even to

•' vanquifhed enemies, the right of citizenmip,whick

"is of more importance than that of intermarriage.

•'; By *he other, we offer no innovation, we only

"reclaim, and enforce, a right inherent in the peo-

"ple; that the Roman people fhould commit the

"high offices of the ftate to fuch perfons as they

"think proper. And what is there in this, that can

"juftify their difturbing heaven and earth? Their

"treatment of me juft now, in the fenate, very lit-

"tle fhort of perfoftal violence? Their open decla-

"rations that they will have recourfe to force?

"And their threatening to infult an office which is

"facred and inviolable? If the Roman people are

"allowed to give their fuffrages with freedom,

'' and to intruft the confulfhip to fuch perfons as

"they think proper; and if a plebeian, how wor-

"thy foever of the higheft ftation, is not precluded

"from every hope of attaining that ftation, can the

"city no longer fubfift? Muft the downfall of the

"empire enfue ? And does the queftion, whether a

"plebeian may be eleded conful, carry the fame

"import, as if a perfon fpoke of a flave, or the iflue

V of a flave, for the confulfhip? Do ye not feel in

'' what a defpicable light ye are held? Were it in

"their power, they would hinder you from fharing

." even the light of the fun. . That ye breathe, that

"yc enjoy the faculty of fpeech, that ye wear the

"human fhape, are fubjects of mortification to

'' them. But then, they tell you, that, truly, it is

'' contrary to the rules of religion that a plebeian

** fhoiild be made qonful. For heaven's fake, though  
'"we

