O F R O M E. 19

°

the city crowded with houfes, they were aflonffl'.ed B O O K

at the rapid increafe of the Roman power in fo fhort

a time. i/When the fhew began, and every perlbn's

thoughts and eyes were attentively engaged on it,

then, according to the preconcerted plan, the vio- ROE

knee began; and, on a fignal given, the Roman 4.

youth ran different ways to carry off the young wo- B. c.

men. J">SQme the young men bore away, as they 74'

happened to meet with them, without waiting to

make a choice; but others of extraordinary beauty,

being defigned for fome of the principal among the

fenators, were conveyed to their houfes by plebeians

employed for that purpofe.\3lt is laid, that one

highly diftinguifhed above the reft in appearance

.and beauty, w.as carried off by the party of one

Talaflius; and thai in anfwer to many who eagerly

Inquired fo whom they were carrying her, they,

,every now and then, to prevent any one laying vio-

Jent hands on her, cried out, that they were carrying .

her to Talaffius: this circumfta.ice gave rife to the

ufe of thai word at weddings. 1*{The terror occa-

fioned by this outrage put an end to the fports, and

the parents of the young women retired full of

grief, inveighing againft fuch a violation of the

Taws of hofpitahty, and appealing to the god, to

whofe folemn feftival and games they had come, re,-

Jying on the refpect due to religion, and on the/aith

of nations, and had been tb cruelly deceived. K Nor

did the women who were feifed entertain better

hopes with regard to themfelves, or a leis degree of

indignation ^however Romulus went about to them

in perfon, and told them, that " this proceeding

"had been occafioned by the haughtinefs of their

"parents, who refufed to allow their neighbours to

"marry among themjflthat, notwithstanding this,

"they thould be united to the men in wedlock, in

"the common enjoyment of all property, and of

"their common children; a bond of union than

"which the human heart feels none more endearing.

e 2 "He

