O F R O M E, 491

Liparenfian pirates, not far from the Sicilian ftreight, BOOK

were taken and carried to Liparae. It was the cuf- . __-

torn of this ftate, to make a general divifion of all Y.R.

booty acquired, as if piracy were the public act of B.c.

the government. It happened that the office of chief

magiftrate was filled by one Timafuheus, a man more

like the Romans than his own countrymen, who, be­

ing touched himfelf with reverence for the character

of ambafladors, for the offering, for the god to whom

it was fent, and the caufe for which it was prefented,

impreffed the multitude likewife, who almoft in all

cafes refemble their ruler, with proper fentiments of

religion on the occafion; and, after entertaining the

ambafladors at the public expence, convoyed them

with fome of his own fhips to Delphi, and from

thence conducted them in fafety to Rome. By de­

cree of fenate a league of hofpitality was formed with

him, and prefents were made him by order of the

ftate. During this year, the war with the Jiquans

was attended with advantages pretty equal on both

fides; fo that it was a matter of doubt, both at

Rome, and even among the troops themfelves,

whether they were victorious or vanquimed. The

Roman commanders were Caius vEmilius and Spu-

rius Poftumius, two of the military tribunes. At

firft they acted in conjunction, but after having de­

feated the enemy in the field, they came to a deter­

mination that ^Emilius, with a fufficient force, mould

keep pofieflion of Verrugo, and that Poftumius'

mould lay wafte the country. In performance of

this, the latter, fince the late fuccefs, thinking left

caution requifite, and marching in an unguarded

manner, was attacked by the .fl£quans, who threw

his troops into confufion, and drove them to the next

hills. The panic fpread from thence even to Ver­

rugo, to the other part of the army pofted there.

Poftumius having withdrawn his men to a place of

fafety, called them to an afiembly, where he upbraid­

ed them with their fright, and with having fled from,

th.e

