I3<5 THE^ HISTORY

BOO Kthey renewed their operations againft Pometia, with

. _^L . redoubled fury, and augmented ftrength; and when

Y.R.ZJX. they had a-new completed their military works, the

B. c. 500. foyers being juft on the point of fcaling the walls,

the garrifon capitulated. However, although the ci­

ty had furrendered, the chiefs of the Auruncians were

from all parts dragged to execution, with the fame de­

gree of cruelty, as if it had been taken by aflault: the

other members of the colony were fold by auction:

the town was demolifhed, and the land fet up to fale.

The confuls obtained a triumph, rather in confidera-

tion of their having gratified the people's refentment

by fevere revenge, than of the magnitude of the war

which they had brought to a conclufion.

B.'c!^! XVIII. THE following year the confuls were

Poftumus Cominius and Titus Lartius. In that year

fome Sabine youths having, through wantonnefs, ufed

violence to fome courtezans at Rpme, during the ce­

lebration of the public games, and a mob affembling,

a fcuffle enfued, which might almoft be called a bat­

tle; and, from this trifling caufe, matters feemed to

have taken a tendency towards a renewal of hof-

'tilities. Befides the apprehenfion of a war with the

Sabines, there was another affair which created much

uneafineft; undoubted intelligence was received, that

thirty ftates had already formed a confpiracy, at the

inftigation of Octavius Mamilius. While the ftate

remained in this perplexity, looking forward with

anxious apprehenfion to the ifluc of fuch a perilous

conjuncture, mention was made, for the firft time, of

creating a dictator*. But in what year, or who the

• The dictator was an officer endued with abfolute authority over

all orders auil bodies of men whatever; A ml from whom there was, in

the early times ct the republic, no appeal. He could not hold the

cflice longer than fix months, nor go out of Italy, nor could lie march

on horlcback without leave previously obtained from the people. It

'became the practice, that one of the confute, in the night, within the

tcrritoiy of the'republic, named the dictator; and it was required that

tin; nomination Aioulil be confirmed bjr aufjiicts.

confuls

