OF ROME. 753

t

*' arms, at the lake Regillus." The tribunes then BOOK  
began to cavil, and alleged, that " the people were , -r- •

"abfolved of that obligation, becaufe Quintius was Y.R. 194.

"in a private ftation, at the time when the oath B.c. 45*•

"was taken." But that difregard of the gods,

which prevails in the prefent age, had not then

taken place; nor did every one, by his own inter­

pretations, accommodate oaths, and the laws, to his

particular views, but rather adapted his practice to

them. The tribunes, therefore, nnding no hope of

fucceeding in their oppofition, on that ground, en­

deavoured to delay the marching of the troops; and

in this they were the more earneft, becaufe a report

had fpread, that orders had been given for the au­

gurs alfo to attend at the lake Regillus, and that a

place mould be coniecrated by augury, in which the

people might tranfact buQnefs with the benefit of

aufpices, in order that any meafures enacted at Rome

through means of the violence of the tribunes, might

be repealed in an affembly held there. Eve.ry one,

it was faid, would vote there, juft as the confuls

chofe; for at any greater diftance from the city, than

that of a mile, there was no appeal: and even mould

the tribunes come thither, they would, among th«

crowd of the other citizens, be fubject to the con-

fular authority. This alarmed them. But what dif.

turbed their minds with the ftrongeft apprehenfions

was, that Quintius ufed frequently to (ay, jhat " he

"would not hold an election of confuls: that the

'c diftemper of the ftate was not fuch as could be

"ftopped by the ufual remedies: that the common-

"wealth ftood in need of a dictator, in order that

"any perfon who mould ftir one ftep towards raifing

"disturbances in the Hate, might feel, that the

"power of that magiftrate was above an appeal."

XXI. THE fenate was fitting in the Capitol; thi­

ther came the tribunes, attended by the commons,(

who were full of perplexity and fear: the populace,

with

