412 THE HISTORY

BOOK relations had been difappointed of the office by his

^_ ^-, unfair conduct. But as an attack could not be made

Y.R.335. on him, becaufe he was fecured, both by innocence,

B.C. 4'7. and by the office which he held at the time, they

turned their refentment againft Caius Sempronius,

uncle to Atratinus; and, aided by Carnuleius, one of

their colleagues, entered a profecution againft him

on account of the difgrace fuftained in the Volfcian

war. By the fame tribunes mention was frequently

introduced, in the fenate, of the diftribution of lands,

which fcheme Caius Sempronius had always moft

vigoroufly oppofed: for they forefaw, as it fell out,

that' on the one hand, fhould he forfake that caufe,

he would be lefs warmly defended by the patricians;

and, on the other, if he fhould perfevere, at the time

when his trial was approaching, he would give of­

fence to the commons. He chofe to face the tor­

rent of popular difpleafure, and rather to injure his

own caufe, than to be wanting to that of the public;

and therefore, Handing firm in the fame opinjon, he

declared, that " no fuch largefs mould be made,

"which would only tend to aggrandize the three

"tribunes; affirming, that the object of their pur-

"fuits wa.s not to procure lands for the commons,

"but ill-will againft him. That, for his own part,

"he would undergo the ftorm with determined re-

"folution; and, with regard to the fenate, it was

"their duty, not to fet fo high a value on him, or on

"any other citizen, as through tendernefs to an in-

'1 dividual, to give room for an injury to the pub-

"lie." When the day arrived, he pleaded his own

caufe, with the fame degree of intrepidity; and, not-

withftanding the patricians tried every expedient "to

foften the commons, he was condemned in a fine of

fifteen thoufand afes*. The fame year Poftumia,

a veftal virgin, was brought to trial for breach of

chaftity. She was free from the guilt, but took tou

* 48!. 8s. gd.

little

