OF ROME. 437.

ckr was fuddenly proclaimed, that no one mould B 9. O K

be injured except thofe who were in arms, which •- r-_•

induced all the furviving multitude to lay down Y.R. 3*5.

their arms. Of thefe, there were taken alive, BiC.4*3.

to. the number of two thoufand five hundred.

Fabius would not fuffer his foldiers to meddle

with the reft of the fpoil, until his colleagues

arrived, faying, that thofe armies had alfo a mare

in the taking of Anxur, who had diverted the other

troops of the Volfcians from the defence of the

place. On their arrival the three armies plundered

the city, which a long courfe of profperity had

tilled with opulence; and this liberality of the

commanders firft began to reconcile the commons to

the patricians: which end was foon after farther

promoted; the principal nobility, with a generofity

towards the multitude the moft feafonable that ever

was fhewn, procuring a decree of the fenate before

fuch a fcheme fhould be mentioned by the tribunes

or commons, that the foldiers fhould receive pay out

of the public treafury *, whereas hitherto every one

had difcharged that duty at his own expence.

LX. No meafure, we are told, was ever received

by the commons with fuch tranfports of joy: they

ran in crowds to the fenate-houfc, caught the hands

of the fenators as they came out, declaring that they

were fathers in reality, and acknowledging that their

conduct had been fuch, that no man, whilft he had

any fhare of ftrength remaining, would fpare his per-

fon, or his blood, in the caule of a country fo liberal

to its citizens. Whilft they were delighted with the

comfortable profpect of their private property at all

events refting unimpaired, during fuch time as their

perfons mould be configned over to the common-

* The foot foldiers only. The horfe did not receive pay until three  
rears after. The pay of a foot foldier, in the time of the fecond Pu.

h'ck war, was three afet; too fmall, if they had not received ansllow.

anct of corn and lbii,etiu:i:i of clothes.

F F .3 . wealtny

