OF ROME./ 501

oracle to the Hercinian foreft: to Bellovefus theB

gods fhewed a much more delightful route into Ita-

ly. He carried with him from the Biturigians, the Y.R.

Arvernians, the Senonians, the JEduans, the Ambar-8.c.

rians, the Carnutians, and the Aulcrcians, all their

fuperfluous numbers; and fetting out, at the head of

an immenfe body of horfe and foot, arrived in the

country of the Tricaftinians. The Alps then ftood

in his way, which I do not wonder at thefe people

confidering as impaflable, having never before been

climbed over through any path, at leaf t as far as we

have learned from any tradition handed down to us,

unlefs we choofe to believe the fables told of Hercu­

les. Whilft the height of the mountains kept the

Gauls there, penned up as it were, and they were

looking about for foms path by which they might

gain a paflage into another world, between thofc

lofry fummits which joined the fky, an ominous inci­

dent alfo gave them fome delay; for an account was

brought to them, that fome Grangers, who had come

in fearch of lands, were attacked by the nation of the

Salyans: thefe were the Maffilians who hzd come by

fea from Phocaea *. The Gauis, confidering this as

an omen of their own fortune, gave them their af-

fiftance, in fortifying the ground, which they had

firft feized on their landing, covered with wide ex­

tended woods. They themfelves climbed over the

pathlefs Alps, through the foreft of Taurinum,

routed the Tufcans in battle, not far from the river •

Ticinus; and, hearing that the di ft riot in which they

had pofted themfelves, was called Infubria, the

fame name by which one of the cantons of the

Infubrian ./Eduans was diftinguifhed, they embraced

• A city of Afia Minor, bn'lt by a colony of Athenians. Being

belVjged and hard prefled by Haqiagus, an officer or Cyrus king of

iVi li i, the inhabitants relieved to abandon the town, and leek another

refidence. Accordingly, afier uttering heavy imuiecations on themfclvet,

if they fbould ever return, they carried their eltVfts on board their fhips,

and, failing [o the coali of Provence, founded the city oi Mai.fellies.

K K 3 the

