OF R (XM £

troops entirely from the Roman territories, which BOOK

is fkid to have incenfed the Volfcians fo highly . _'J

agatnft him, that he perifhed under the effects of Y R.

their refentment, by what kind of death writers do B.

not agree; in the account given by Fabius, the mod

ancient writer by far, I find, that he lived even to

old age; he mentions poutively, that, when he be­

came far advanced in years, he ufed frequently to

utter this remark, that " the evils of exile bore

"much heavier on the aged." The men of Rome

were not fparing in beftowing on the women the ho­

nours which they had merited; fo diftant were the

manners of that age from the practice of detracting

from the merits of others: they even erected and

dedicated a temple to Female Fortune, as a lafting

monument of their meritorious conduct. The Vol­

fcians afterwards, in conjunction with the ^Equans,

made another inroad into the Roman territories; but

the /Equans foon became diflatisfied at being com­

manded by Attius Tullus; and in confequence of

the difpute, whether the Volfcians or the ./Equans

mould give a general to the combined army, a le-

paration enfued, and foon after a furious battle.

There the good fortune of the Roman people

wafted the two armies of ics enemies, in a conteft

no lefs bloody than obftinate. The confuls of the Y. R.i6r.

next year were Titus Sicinius and Caius Aquillius. B.C.4ls.

The Volfcians were allotted, as a province, to Si­

cinius; the Hernicians, for they alfo were in arms,

to Aquillius. The Hernicians were fubdued in that

year. The operations againft the Volfcians ended

without any advantage being gained on either fide.

XLI. THE next confuls elected were Spurius Gaf- Y. R. iss.

fius and Proculus Virginius. A league was made B'C. *8*'

with the Hernicians. Two-thirds of their lands

were taken from them, one-half of which the conful

Cafiius intended to diftribute among the Latines, the

other half among the commons. To this donation

'• he

