OF ROME. 119

minds of the populace, from having enjoyed a high BOOK

degree of popularity, became an object not only of. , **',_,

jealoufy, but of fufpicion, attended with a charge of Y.R. 145.

an atrocious nature: it was given out that he afpired B.c. s°j.

at the fovereignty, becaufe he had not fubftituted a

colleague in the room of Brutus; and befides, was

building a houfe on the fummit of mount Velia,

which, in fuch a lofty and ftrong'fituation, would be ,

an impregnable fortrefs. The conful's mind was

deeply affected with concern and indignation, at

finding that fuch reports were circulated and be­

lieved; he therefore fummoned the people to an af-

fembly, and ordering the fafces to be lowered *,

mounted the roftrum. It was a fight highly pleafing

to the multitude, to find the enfigns of fovereignty

lowered to them, and an acknowledgment thus

openly given, that the majefty and power of the

people were fuperiorto thofe of the conful. Atten­

tion being ordered, the conful extolled the good for­

tune of his colleague, who, "after having accom-

"plifhed the deliverance of his country, and being

"raifed to the higheft poft of honour, met with

"death, while fighting in defence of the republic,

"when his glory had arrived at full maturity, but

"had not yet been converted into jealoufy: whereas

"he himfelf, having furvived his glory, was become

"an object of calumny and jealoufy; and from the

"character of deliverer of his country, had funk to

"a level with the Aquillii and Vitellii. Will no de-

"gree of merit then," faid he, " ever gain your

't confidence, fo far as to be fecure from the attacks

"of fufpicion? Could I have the leaft apprehenfion

"that I, the bittereft enemy to kings, mould un-

"dergo the charge of aiming at kingly power?

"Suppofing that I dwelt in the very citadel, and in

"the Capitol, could I believe that I was an object

• At the fame time, he took the axes out of the fafces, and they

were never, afterwards, carried in the fafcei of the tunl'uis within the

ciiy.

14 "of

