400 THEHISTOR Y

BOOK tribunes. The plebeian tribunes had no room for

,___ "_., contention, either with thofe who had procured the

decree of the fenate, during their abfence ; nor with

Appius, as the bufinefs was already concluded.

Y.R. 331. XXXVII. THE confuls elected were Caius Sem-

'4*°' pronius Atratinus, and Quintus Fabius Vibulanus.

An event, which is related to have happened in this

year, though in a foreign country, deferves to be re­

corded. Vulturnum, a city of the Etrurians, now

Capua, was feized by the Samnites, and called Capua,

from Capys their leader, or, which is more probable,

from its champaign grounds. The manner in which

they made themfelves mafters of it was this: they

had, fome time before, when the Etrurians had been

greatly harafied in war, been admitted to a fhare of

this city and its lands; thefe new fettlers, afterwards,

taking the opportunity of a feftival, attacked and

maflacred, in the night, the old inhabitants, heavy

with fleep and food. After this tranfaction, the con­

fuls, whom we have mentioned, entered on office on

the ides of December: by this time, not only thofe

employed on that bufinefs, had reported, that the

Volfcians were ready to commence hoftilities j but

alfo ambafiadors from the Latines, and Hernicians,

had brought information, that" never at any former

"time had the Volfcians exerted more diligence

"and care, either in the choice of commanders, or

"the enlifting of troops: that it was a common ex-

"preffion among them, that they muf t either lay

"afide for ever all thoughts of war and arms, and

'' fubmit to the yoke, or they muft prove themfelves

"not inferior to their competitors for empire, either

'• in courage, perfeverance, or military difcipline."

The intelligence was not without foundation: yet

the fenate were not affected by tt, as might have been

expected j and Caius Sempronius, to whom that pro­

vince fell by lot, acted with careleflhefs and negli­

gence in every particular, relying on fortune, as if k

were

