O F R O M E. 297

pofed it to the view of the people, deploring, the B o o K

villainy of Appius, the fatal beauty of the maiden, ( f t'__^j

and the neceffity which had urged the father. The y.R. joj.

matrons who followed joined their exclamations : B. C. 4.47.

"Were thefe the confequences of rearing children?

"were thefe the rewards of chaftity?" with other

mournful reflections, fuch as are fuggefted by grief

to women, and which, from the greater fenfibility of

their tender minds, are always the moft affe&ing.

The difcourfe of the men, and particularly of Icilius,

turned entirely on their being deprived of the pro­

tection of tribunes, and appeals to the people, and

on the indignities thrown upon the public.

XLIX. THE paffions of the multitude were

ftrongly excited, partly by the atrocioufnefs of the

villainy, partly By their hopes that the occafion

might be improved to the recovery of liberty. Ap­

pius now ordered Icilius to be called before him j

then, on his refufing to attend, to be feized: at laft,

when the beadles were not fuffered to come near

him, he himfelf, with a band of young patricians,

pufhing through the crowd, ordered him to be taken

into confinement. By this time, there had collected

round Icilius, not only the multitude, but perfons

fit to head that multitude, Lucius Valerius and Mar­

cus Horatius, who, driving back his lictor, told

Appius, that " if he meant to proceed in a legal

"v/ay, they would be fecurity for Icilius, againft

"any charge which he, as a private citizen, mould

"bring. If he fhould attempt to make ufe of force,

"in that point too they would not be his inferiors."

A furious fcuffle enfued. The decemvir's lictor at­

tacked Valerius and Horatius. The fafces were

broken by the multitude. Appius then mounted

the tribunal, whither he was followed by Horatius

and Valerius. To them the aflfembly paid attention,

but drowned the decemvir's voice with noife. Va­

lerius now aflumed authority to order the lictors to

depart

