3'58 THEHISTORY

BOOK out cenfures in prefence of the people, at one rime

. -r'_j on Minucius, at another on Servilius; and to cbm-

Y.R. 316. plain of the unmerited death of Maelius. By fuch

B.c.436. methods they accomplifhed their purpofe fo far as to

procure an order, that military tribunes fhould be

elected inftead of confuls; not doubring, but in the.

filling up of fix places, for fo many were then allow­

ed to be elected, ibme plebeians, who fhould pro.'

fefs a refolution to revenge the death of Maelius,

•would be appointed among the reft. The commons,

though kept in continual agitation during that year,

by many and various commotions, elected not more

than three tribunes with confular power, and even

chofe among thefe Lucius Quintius the fon of Cin-

cinnatus, whofe conduct in the dictatorfhip thofc.

men wifhed to render odigus, and thence to gain

occafion of new difturbances: prior to Quintius, was

voted in Mamercus .^Emilius, a man who ftood in

the firft rank of merit: in the third place, they

elected Lucius Icilius.

Y.R. 317. XVII. WHILE thefe were in office, Fidenae, a

B.C.435. Roman colony, revolted to the Veientians, and their

king Lars Tolumnius. To their revolt a more hein­

ous crime was added; for, in purfuance of an order

from Tolumnius, they put to death Caius Fulcinius,

Cloelius Tullus, Spurius Ancius, and Lucius Rof-

cius, Koman ambafladors, who came to inquire into

the reafons of this change of conduct. Some pal­

liate the guilt of the king, alleging, that an ambi­

guous expreffion of his, on a fuccefsful throw at dice,

being mifapprehended by the Fidenatians, as an or­

der for their execution, occafioned the death of the

ambaffadors: but this Teems an incredible tale; for

it cannot be fuppofed that his thoughts would be fo

intently employed upon his game, as that he mould

be regardlefs of a circumftance of fo much confe-

quence, as the arrival of his new allies, the Fidena­

tians, who were come to confult him upon the per­

petration

