O F Jl O M E, 187

Romans were in confequenee of it beginning to give BOOK

ground, when Marcus Fabius the conful leaped . _ '_ _j

over the body where it lay, and oppofing his buckler Y.R. 1-4.

to the enemy, called out, " Soldiers, is this what ye B.

't fwore, that ye would return to the camp, in flight?

't Are ye fo much more afraid of the moft daftardly

"enemy, than of Jupiter and Mars, by whom ye

f1 fwore: but for my part, though bound by no

"oath, I will either return victorious, or die here,

"fighting befide thee, Quintus Fabius," On this,

Caefo Fabius, conful of the former year, laid to the

conful, " Brother, do you expect by words to pre-

"vail on them to fight? The gods by whom they

"have fworn will prevail on rhein. Let us, as be-

"comes our noble birth, as is worthy of the Fabian

"name, animate the men by deeds of valour, ra-

"ther than by exhortations." The two Fabii then

rufhed forward to the front with their prefented

Jpears, and drew the whole line along with them.

XLVII. By thefe means, the battle was renewed

on that fide; nor, in the other wing, was Cneius

Manlius, the conful, lefs ftrenuous in his efforts

againft the enemy. Here too a like courfe of events

took place: for as, in the other wing, the foldiers

followed Quintus Fabius with alacrity, fo did they

here follow" the conful Manlius, while he prefied,

and almoft routed the enemy: and when he was

compelled by a fevere wound, to retire from the

fight, fuppofing him flain, they began to fhrink;

and would have given way entirely, had not the other

conful, riding up to the place, at full fpeed, with

fome troops of horfe, revived their drooping cou­

rage; calling out, that his colleague was alive, and

that he was come to their fupport, having defeated

the enemy in the other wing: Manlius allb fhewed

himfelf, in order to encourage them to return to the

fight. The fight of the two confuls rekindled the

Courage of the foldiers, and by this time too, the

11 enemy's

