THE HISTORY

BOOK" the pardon of one individual, rather than througfi

.J^Vj " hatred towards one, reject the prayers of a multi-

Y.R. joe." tude: declaring, that he himfelf, in his prefent

V.c. 4*6." conduct, was actuated, merely, by a regard to the

"race and to the name : for he had not renewed any

"friendly intercourfe with the perfon for whofe

*c wretched fituation he wifhed to find a remedy;  
"that, by fortitude, liberty had been recovered;

"and by clemency, harmony might be eftablifhed

•' among the feveral orders of the ftatc." He

brought feveral to incline to his fide, rather in con-

fideration of his own laudable attachment to his fa­

mily, than of the merits of his caufe, whofe intcrcft

he efpoufed. On the other hand, Virginius be-

fought them, " rather to beftow their companion on

'' him and his daughter; and not to liften to the

*' prayers of the Claudian family, who feemed to  
*' think they had a natural right to tyrannize over  
"the commons; but to thofe of the near relations

"of Virginia, their three tribunes; who, having

"been elected for the protection of the commons,

"now, in their own caufe, implored from the com-

'' mons favour and protection." The tears of the

latter feemed better entitled to pity. Wherefore

Appius, precluded from all hope, voluntarily put an

end to hrs life, before the day arrived to which the

trial had been adjourned. Immediately after, Pub-

lius Numitorius arraigned Spurius Oppius^ who

ftood next in the way of the public indignation, as

having been prefent in the city when the unjuft fen-

tence was pronounced by his colleague. However,

an act of injuftice, committed by himfelf, drew on

Oppius greater weight of public refentment, than

his not having prevented the other. A witnefs was

produced, who reckoned up twenry-feven campaigns,

which he had ferved in the army : during which fer-

vice he proved that he had been eight times parti­

cularly diftinguifhed by honourable rewards j thefe

rewards he produced, to the view of the people;

and

