OF ROME. 30?

feceffion; then Cains Sjcinius, a defcendant of that B O O K

man who is recorded as the firft tribune of the com- . -T-_f

rnons, elected on the facred mount; Marcus Duilius, Y.R. 305.

who had diftinguifhed himfelf by his conduct in the B.c. *+7'

tribunemip, before the creation of the decemvirs,

and who, during the contefts with the decemvirs, had

not failed to exert himfelf in fupport of the caufe of

the commons. Then were elected, rather on ac­

count of hopes entertained of their future condudt,

than of their previous deferts, Marcus Titinius,

Marcus Pomponius, Caius Apronius, Publius

Villius, and Catus Oppius. As foon as he entered

on the office of tribune, Lucius Icilius inftantly pro-

pofed to the commons, and the commons ordered,

that no perfon mould furFer on account of the fecef­

fion from the decemvirs. Immediately after, Duilius

carried a propofition for electing confuls, with pri­

vilege of appeal. All this was tranfacted in an af-

fembly of the commons in the Flaminian meadows,

now called the Flaminian circus.

LV. AFTER this, under the direction of an inter- J.£. ?°5.

rex, confuls were elected. Thefe were Lucius Va- ' '**'

lerius and Marcus Horatius, who entered immedi- ,

ately upon the exercife of their office. Their con-

fulate was popular, and though unattended by any

actual ill-treatment of the patricians, yet incurred

their difpleafure; for they imagined that every fecu-

rity added to the liberty of the commons, was a

diminution of their own power. Firft of all,

as if it were a point in controverfy, whether the pa­

tricians were bound by regulations, enacted in an a£.

fembly of the commons, they pafied a law in an af-

fembly of the centuries, " that whatever was ordered

"by the commons collectively, fhould bind the whole

"people." A law which gave the keeneft edge to

fuch propofitions as might be introduced by the

tribunes. Another law^ introduced by a conful, con­

cerning the right of appeal, a fingular fecurity to li-

x 2 berty,

