OF ROME. , 269

he razed to the ground, in revenge for the treachery B O O K

practifed tliere againft the garrifon.

XXXI. MARCUS Valerius and Spurius Virginius ^'p'

were next elefted confuls. Quiet prevailed both at

home and abroad. The price of proviQons was high,

in confcquence of an extraordinary fall of rain. A

law pafTed for difpofing of the Aventine as public

property. The fame tribunes of the people were

continued in office. Thefe, during the following

year, which had for confuls Titus Romilius and Y.R.

Cains Vcturius, warmly recommended the law in all B.c'

their harangues. "They were afhamed," they faid,

"of the uiclels addition made to their number, if

"that affair were to lie, during the courle of their

"two years, in the fame hopelels ftate, in which it

<c had lain during the whole courfe of the laft five."

While they were moft earneftly engaged in this pur-

luit, mefiengers arrived, in a fright, from Tufculum,

with information that the ^Equans were in the Tuf-

culan territory. The recent fervices of that people

made the tribunes afhamed of throwing any delay in

the way of affiftance being given them. Both the

confuls were fent with an army, and found the ene­

my in their ufual poft, in the diftricct of Algidum.

There they fought; above feven thoufand of the

enemy were flain, the reft difperfed, and vaft booty

was acquired. This the confuls fold on account of.

the emptinefs of the treafury; which proceeding ex­

cited a general difTatisf'action among the foldiery, and

alfo afforded grounds to the tribunes for bringing an

accufation againft the confuls, before the commons.

Accordingly, as foon as they went out of office,

Spurius Tarpeius and Aulus Alterius having fuc- y.R.100

ceeded them, a charge was inftitutcd againft Romi- B.C.45*,

lius by Caius Claudius Cicero, tribune of the people,

and againft Veturius, by Lucius Allienus plebeian'

aedile. To the great mortification of the patricians

they were both condemned, Romilius to pay ten

thoufand

