OF ROME. 385

troops, but the dictator alfb. The conjuncture re- B O O K

quiring inftant exertion, the conful fhewed no defi- . L -,

ciency either of fpirit or of judgment. One part of Y.R. 314..

the troops reinforced the guards at the gates, the B. Ct 4i8<1

other manned the rampart all round. In the other

camp where the dictator commanded, as there was

lefs tumult, fo it was eafier to perceive what was ne-

ceffary to be done : difpatching inftantly a reinforce­

ment to the conful's camp, under the command of

SpuriusPoftumiusAlbus, lieutenant general, he him-

felf, with a body of forces, making a fmall circuit,

proceeded to a place quite retired from the hurry of

action, from whence he propofed to make an unex­

pected attack on the enemy's rear. To Quintus

Sulpicrus, lieutenant. general, he gave the charge of

the camp, to Marcus Fabius, lieutenant-general,

he afligned the cavalry, with orders that thofe troops,

which it would be hardly poffible to manage, in the

confufion of an action by night, mould not ftir un­

til day.light. Every meafure, which any other ge­

neral, however fkilful and active, could at fuch a

juncture order and execute, he ordered and executed

with perfect regularity. But it was a fingular in-

ftance of judgment and intrepidity, and intitled to

more than ordinary praife, that, hot content with de-

fenfive plans, he difpatched Marcus Geganius, with

fome chofen cohorts, to attack that camp of the

enemy, from which, according to the intelligence of

his fcouts, they had marched out the greater num­

ber of troops. Falling upon men whofe whole

attention was engrofied by the danger of their friends,

while they were free from any apprehenfion for them-

felves, and had neglected pofting watches or ad­

vanced guards, he made himielf mafter of the camp,

fooner almoft than the enemy knew that it was at­

tacked. A fignal being then given by fmoke, as had

been concerted, the dictator perceiving it, cried out,

that the enemy's camp was taken, and ordered the

news to be conveyed to all the troops.

VOL.I. cc' XXVIII.

