THE HISTORY

BOOK too violent to be controlled, he ordered one of the

y _ .1 _. principal ringleaders of the mob to be apprehended:

Y.R.I59. when the lictors laid hold of him, he appealed; but

J>. C. 493. the conliils would not have allowed the appeal, there

being no doubt what the fentence of the people

•would be, had not his obftinacy been, with difficulty,

overcome by the advice and influence of the nobili­

ty, father than by the clamours of the people; fo

firmly did he withftand the indignation of the multi­

tude. From this time, the evil daily gained ground,

Shewing itfelf not only in open expreflions of difcon-

tent, but, what was much more pernicious, in fecret

'meetings and private cabals. At length thele con-

ftils, fo odious to the people, went out of office,

Appius in high favour with the patricians, Servilius

'with neither party.

V.R.i6o. XXVIII. NEXT entered on the confulfhip, Aulus

3. C.49I. virginins and. Titus Vetufius. The people now,

not being able to judge what fort of coniuls they

•were to have, took care to form nightly meetings,

forne on the Elquiline, others on the Aventine

mount, in order that their proceedings might not

be confufed, by their being obliged to adopt mea-

fures haftily in the Forum, and to act, on every oc-

cafion, at random, and without a plan. The confuls,

confidering this as a very dangerous proceeding,

•which it really was, propofed it to the confideration

of the fenate, but were not allowed, after propofing

'it, to take the votes regularly, fuch a tumult arofe

on the mention of it among the fenators, who ex-

•claimed, and exprefied the higheft indignation at the

confuls attempting to throw on the fenate, the odium

•of an affair which ought to have been quelled by the

•confular authority. They told them, that" if there

'• really had been magiftrates in the commonwealth,

"there would have been no council at Rome, but

"the public one. At prefent the .government was

"divided and difperfcd into a thoufand fenate-

'' houfes,

