2<J4 THE HISTORY

B OJ'? K ^"or ^erv'ce, ft>ou'ld drefs victuals for the foldiers who

• __'^J lived near them, while they were preparing their

Y.R. 196. arms, and procuring paiifades. Immediately, the

B.t\4j6. yOu;ig n:en ran different ways to look for palifades;

wherever each could find them fooneft, he rook

them ; none of them were hindered, and they all at­

tended punctually according to the dictator's order.

The troops being then formed in fuch order as was

•not only proper for a march, but for an engagement

alfo, if occafion fliould require it, the dictator fetout

at the head of the legions, and the mafter of the horfe

at the head of his cavalry. In both bodies fuch ex­

hortations were ufed, as the juncture required; that

"they fhould quicken their pace; that there was a

"neceflky for expedition, in order to reach the

"enemy in the night; that the Roman conful and

"his army were befieged j that this was the third

"day of their being invefted; that no one could tell

"what any one night or day might produce; that

"the ifilie of the greateft affairs often depended on a ,

"moment of time." The men too, to gratify their

leaders, called to each other, " flandard bearer, ad-

"vance quicker; foldicrs, follow." At midnight,

they arrived at Algidum, and, when they found

themfclves near the enemy, halted.

XXVIII. THE dictator then, having ro'de about,

and examined, as well as he could in the night,

the fituation and form of the enemy's camp,

commanded the tribunes of the foldiers to give

orders, that the b:iggage fhould be thrown toge­

ther in one place; and then that the foldiers, with

their arms and palifedes, fhould return into the

ranks: thefe orders were executed; and then, in

the fame order in which they had marched, he

drew the whole army in a long column round the

camp of the enemy, and ordered that on the fignal

being given, they mould all raife a fhout, and that

on the fhout being raifed, every man fhould throw

up a trench in front of his poft3 and fix his palifades.

As

