3'° THE HISTORY

B Oiu K" a ^rcc Perf°n to flavery, I order that you be taken

. . - *A_j" into cuftody." Neither in the prote&ion of the

Y.R. 306. tribunes, nor in a fentence of the people, could Ap-

B. C.446.

bunes for aid, and when that was difregarded, and he

was feized by the bailiff, cried out, " I appeal."

This expreflion, the peculiar fafeguard of liberty,

uttered from that mouth, which had ib lately threat­

ened the fubveriion of liberty, caufed a general

filence; whilft all with earneftnefs obferved one to

ajiother, that *' at length it appeared that there were

"gods, and that they did not difregard the affairs of

"mankind. That the punifhments which attended

c? pride and cruelty, though they might come late,

"were not light. That he now pleaded for the

*' right of appeal, who had abolimed that right: he  
"implored the protection of the people, who had

"trodden under foot all the people's rights ; and he,

"who had fo lately doomed a free perfon to flavery,

"was himfelf refufed the privilege of liberty, ancj

"dragged to prifon." Amidft thefe murmurs of

the anembly, Appius's voice was alfo heard implor­

ing the protection of the people. He enumerated

"the fervices of his anceftors to the ftate, both ia

"peace and war; his own unfortunate zeal for the

"intereft of the Roman commons, when, for the

'' fake of obtaining equitable laws, he refigned the

"conlulfhip, to the high difpleafure of the patrici-

"ans: mentioning his own laws; and that while

"they yet remained in force, the framer of them was

"dragged to prifon. But the peculiar advantages,

"or diladvantages attending his particular cafe, he

"would then endeavour to fet in a proper light,

"when he fhould be allowed to make his defence.

"At prefent, by the common right of every mem-

"ber of the ftate, he, a Roman citizen, accufed of

"an offence, demanded liberty of fpeaking in his.

'f own defence, and the benefit of a trial before the

"Roman people. That his apprehenfions from the

"popular

