O F R O M E. 307

•were given up to be plundered. Next day the die- BOOK

tator affigned by lot one captive to each horfcman L-r-_f

and centurion, and two to fuch as had diftinguifhed Y.R. •519.

themfelves by extraordinary behaviour, and fold the B. c. **'•

reft by aucHon: then he led back to Rome his vic­

torious army, enriched with abundance of fpoil; and

ordering the mafter of the horfe to refign his office,

he immediately refigned his own, on the fixteenth

day of his holding it; giving up the government in

a ftate of tranquillity, which he had received in a

ftate of war and of danger. Some annals have re­

ported, that there was alfo a naval engagement with

the Veientians, at Fidenae, a fact equally impractica-

ble and incredible; the river, even at prefent, being

not broad enough for the purpofe, and at that time,

as we learn from old writers, confiderably narrower.

This we can no otherwife account for, than by fup-

pofing, that they magnified the importance of a

fcuffle which took place, perhaps, between a few

mips, in difputing the paffage of the river, and

thereon grounded thofe empty pretenfions to a na­

val vicctory.

XXXV. THE enfuing year had military tribunes, Y.R. j?o.

with confular power,. rAiilus Sempronius Atratinus, B.c.4iz'

Lucius Quintals Cinclririatus, Lucius Furius Medul-

linus, and Lucius Horatius Barbatus. A truce, for

twenty years, was granted to the Veientians; and

one for three years to the y^Equans, although thefe had

petitioned for a longer term. At home, there was

no difturbance from feditions. The year following,

though not diftinguifhed either by war abroad, or

fedition at home, was rendered remarkable by the ce­

lebration of the games, which had been vowed on

occafion of the war, through the fplendid manner in

which they were exhibited by the military tribunes,

and alfo through the extraordinary concourfe of the

neighbouring people. The tribunes, with confular Y.R. J1T.

power, were Appius Claudius Craffus, Spurius Nau- B. c. +IU

tius

