OF ROME. 141

Iccond of the fo'diers who mould enter the enemy's 6 o o K

camp; and fo great was the ardour of the Romans, ^-J*l^_j

that they never remitted the impetuofity of the Y.R. *;;.

charge, by which they had broken the enemy's B.C. *97.

line, until they made themfelves mafters of the

camp. Such was the engagement at the lake Re-

gillus. The dictator and mafter of the horfe, on

their return to the city, were honoured with a

triumph.

XXI. DURING the three enfuing years, there was

neither war, nor yet a fecurity of peace. The con- ^.j*'*'8.

fuls were, Qmntus Clcelius and Titus Lartius: then ' '**6'

Aulus Sempronius and Marcus Minutius, in whofe £.l\. 157.

conluiate the temple of Saturn was dedicated, and " .49S"

the feftival called Saturnalia inftituted. After them,

Aulus Poftumius and Titus Virginius were made Y.R. 1s«r

confuls. 1 find it afierted by fome writers, that the B'C'49*"

battle at the lake Regillus was not fought until this

year, and that Aulus Poftumius, becaufe the fidelity

of his colleague was doubtful, abdicated the conful-

fhip, and was then made dictator: fuch perplexing

miftakes, with regard to dates, occur from the ma-

giftrates being ranged in different order, by different

writers, that it is impofiible, at this diftance of time,

when not only the facts, but the authors who relate

them, are involved in the obfcurity of antiquity, to

trace out a regular feries of the conluls as they fuc-

ceeded each other, or of the tranfa.flions as they oc­

curred in each particular year. Appius Claudius Y.R. 1j9.

and Publius Servilius were next appointed to the B.c.49i.

confulfhip. This year was rendered remarkable by

the news of Tarquinius's death; he died at Cumce,

whither, on the reduction of the power of the La-

tines, he had retired for refuge, to the tyrant Arif-

todemus: by this news, both the Patricians and the

commons were highly elated; but the former fuf-

fcred their exultation on the occafion to carry them

to unwarrantable lengths; and the latter, v/ho, until

that

