OF ROME. lof

as his province. The fame harfh fe verity, which BOOK

Appius had fhewn at home, he practifed at the head .^-^^-f

of the army abroad, and even with lefs referve, as Y.R. 18j,

he .was out of the reach of any control from the tri- B. c.+6>.

bunes; he detefted the commons to a degree of

rancour,. even beyond what he inherited from his fa­

ther; he confidered himfelfas vanquifhed by theinj

and that when he had been fet up as the only perfon,

who, in the character of conful, was qualified to"

oppofe the tribunitian power, that law had been car­

ried, which the former confuls had been able to pre­

vent, though they made not fuch ftrenuous exer­

tions, nor did the patricians expect fo much from

them. The anger and indignation, hereby excited,

inftigated his refentful temper to wreak on the army

every kind of feverity, which the command put irt

his power: but no degree of violence was able to

fubdue the temper of the troops, fuch an uncon­

querable fpirit of oppofition had they imbibed. In

tvery part of their bufinefs they (hewed indolence

and carelefsnefs, negligence and ftubbornnefs; nei­

ther fhame nor fear had any effect on them: if he

chofe that the army mould proceed with more expe­

dition, they marched flower on purpole; if he came

to encourage them to haften their work, every one

relaxed the diligence, which, of himlclf, he had

ufed before; when he was prefent, they caft down

their eyes; as he paffed by, they muttered curfes

againft him; fo that even his mind, which feemed

invulnerable by any effect of popular diflikc, was

fometimes affected with difagreeable emotions. Af­

ter trying every kind of harfh treatment without ef­

fect, he renounced all intercourfe with the foldiers,

declaring, that the army was corrupted by the cen­

turions, whom, in a gibing manner, he fometimes

called plebeian tribunes, and Volcroes.

LIX. NOT one of theie circumftances. was m>-'

known to the Volfciana, who, fur that rcafbn, preffed

- forward

