O F R O M E. 33I

<c Still the necefllty of fighting, which ye fo ftudi- BOOK

"oufly avoid, purfues you. Was it too great a . _j]I' _j

"hardfhip to march out againft the ^quans and Y.R. 309.

"Volfcians? The war is at your gates. If not re- B.c. 443.

"pelled from thence, it will fhortly be within the

"walls. It will fcale the citadel and the Capitol,

." and will purfue you, even into your houfes. A

"year ago, the fenate ordered a levy to be made,

"and an army to be led into Algidum. Yet we fit

"at home in liftlefs inactivity, delighted with the

"prefent interval of peace, fcolding each other like

"women, and never perceiving, that, after that fhort

"fufpenfion, wars double in number muft return

"upon us. 1 know that I might find more agree-

"able topics to dwell upon; but even though my

"own difpofition did not prompt me, neceffity

"compels me, to fpeak what is true, inftead of what

"is agreeable. I fincerely wifh, Romans, to give

"you pleafure j but I feel wifhes, much more ar-

"dent, to promote your fafety, let your fentiments

"refpecting me, afterwards be what they may. It

"refults from the nature of the human mind, that he

"who addrefies the public with a view to his own

"intereft, renders himfelf more generally agreeable,

"than one whofe mind fees no other object but the

"advantage of the public. But perhaps ye ima-

"gine that it is out of regard to your intereft, that

"thofe public fycophants, thofe artful flatterers of

"the commons, who neither fuffer you to carry

"arms, nor to live in peace, excite and ftimulate

"your pafiions. When they have once raifed you

"to a ferment, the confequence, to them, is, either

"honour or profit. And becaufe they fee, that,

'' while concord prevails between the orders of the

"ftate, they are of no confequence on any fide,

"they wifh to be leaders of a bad caufe, rather than

"of none, of tumults even, and feditions. Which

'C kind of proceedings, if ye can at length be pre-

"vailed on to renounce; and, if ye are willing, in~

"ftead

