O F R O M E. 48$

*' had delivered Falerii into the hands of the Ro- B O O K  
"mans, by putting into their power thofe boys, i -^1 .

"whofe parents were there at the head of affairs." Y.R. 361.

On hearing which, Camillas told him, " Neither B.c.«l-

"the people, nor the commander, to whom thou haft

"come, thou wretch, with thy villainous offer, is;

"like unto thyfelf. Between us and the Falifcians

"there fubfifts not that kind of fociety which is

"formed by human compact, but that which nature

"having implanted in both, does, and ever will

"fubfift. War has its laws, as well as peace j and

"we have leafned in waging it, to be as obfervant

"of thofc laws, as we are brave. We carry arms,

"not againft perfons of that age, who, even in the

"ftorming of towns, are exempted from injury, but

"againft men who have arms in their hands, as well

"as we, and who without being either injured or

"provoked by us, made an attack on a Roman camp

"at Veii. Thofe thou haft conquered as far as in

"thee lay, by an act of unexampled villainy. I

"fhall conquer them as I conquered Veii, by Ro-

"man methods, by valour, by labour, and by arms."

Then, ordering him to be ftripped naked, and his

hands to be tied behind his back, he delivered him

to the boys to be conducted back to Falerii, and gave

them rods with which they mould fcourge the trai­

tor, and drive him into the city. Such a fpectacle

firft attracting a concourfe of the people, and the

fenate being afterwards fummoned by the magiftrates

on the extraordinary cafe, fo great an alteration was

hereby effected in their fentiments, that they, who a

ftiort time before were fo outrageous in their hatred

and anger, that they would almoft have chofen the

cataftrophe of the Veientians, rather than the peace

obtained by the Capenatians, thefe fame perfons now,

through every rank in the ftate, univerfally called out

for peace. The faith of the Romans, and the juftice.

of their general, were extolled by every mouth in,

the Forum, and in the fenate-houfe: and in compli-'

ancc

