O F R O M E. J4|

feizing the Vcrlfcians, they conduced them to Romr, BOOK

and there delivered them to the confuls, with inform- ^^ "^

ation, that the Volfcians and Hernicians were pre- Y.R. xjj.

paring to make war on the Romans. The affair being B. C. 493.

laid before the fenate, the conduct of the Latines was

fo acceptable to the fenators, that they reftored to

them fix thoufand of the prifoners; and made an

order, befides, that the new magiftrates mould pro­

ceed in the bufinefs relative to an alliance, a point,

which had been almoft abfolutely refuted them.

The Latines then highly applauded themfelves for

the part which they had acted, and the friends of

peaceful meafures were held in high eftimation: they

(ent to the Capitol, a golden crown, as a prefent to

Jupiter, and, together with the ambafladors and the

prefent, came a great multitude of attendants, con-

fifting of the prifoners who had been fent back to

their friends: thefe proceeded to the feveral houfes

of the perfons, with whom each of them had been in

fervitude, returned thanks for their generous beha­

viour and treatment of them, during the time of

their calamity, and formed mutual connections of

hofpitality. Never, at any former time, was the

Latine nation more clofely united to the Roman go­

vernment, by ties both of a public and private na­

ture.

XXIII. BUT, befides being immediately threat­

ened with a Volfcian war, the ftate itfelf was torn in

pieces by inteftine animofities, between the Patri­

cians and commons, on account principally of per-

lons confined for debt *: thefe complained loudly,

* If a debtor did not difcharge his debt, within thirty days after it  
was demanded, he was fummoned before the praetor, who gave him

up into the hands of the creditor. He was kept in chains by him tor

fixty days . and then, on ihree fucceflive market daya, was brought

to the prztor's tribunal, where a crier proclaimed the debt, and,

fcmetimes, wealthy perfons redeemed the poor, by difcharging their

debts; but, if that did not happen, the creditor, after tha third mar.

kel day, had a right to Jell him, or keep hn..i ;i flave in his own liuuft.

This flavery was afterwards charged mto public imprilbnment.

that

