OF ROME. is

for their cities fprung out of the earth. He opened B O O K

a fanctuary, in the place where the indofure now is,

on the road down from the Capitol, called The Pafs

of* the Two Groves. Hither fled, from the neigh­

bouring ftates, crowds of alt forts, without diftinc.-

tion, whether freemen or flaves, led by a fondnefs

for novelty; and this was the firft thing that gave

folid ftrength to the growing greatnefs of the city. .

Having reafon now to be pretty well fatisfied with

his ftrength, he next made provifion that this ftrength.

fhould be regulated by wifdom; and for that pur-

pofe, he created an hundred fenators *, either be-

caufe that number was fufficient, or becaufe there.

were no more than an hundred citizens who could

prove their defcent from refpecctable fathers. They

were certainly ftyled Fathers from their honourable

office, and their defendants Patricians.

IX. THE Roman ftate had now attained fuch *

degree of power, that it was a match in arms for any

of the neighbouring nations; but, by reafon of the

Scarcity of women, its greatnefs was not likely to

}aft longer than one age of man, as they had neither

hopes of offspring among themfelves, nor had yet

contracted any intermarriages with their neighbours,

Romulus, therefore, by advice of the fenate, lent

ambafladors round to all the adjoining ftates, fo-

Jiciting their alliance, and permiflion for his new

fubjects to marry among them: he intimated to

them, that " cities, like every thing elfe, rife from

"low beginnings; that, in time, thofe which are

"fupported by their own merit, and the favour of

"the gods, procure to themfelves great power^

"and a great name; and that he had full aflurance

* This expreflion muft be under flood in a qualified fenfe, in the  
fame manner as when a magidi ire, prefiding at an election, is faitl to

el'£l fuch and fuch perfons. Romulus nominated one fenator; each

tribe, and each curia, clioi'e three; and thus the number was made

up.

VOL. I. C"

