OF ROME. 47*

tributcd to the foldiers. The iflue of the other wars, B OvO K

particularly that of Veii, ftill remained doubtful. . -r-_'

And now the Romans, defpairing of fuccefs through Y.R. 358.

human aid, began to look for fuccour towards the B.c.

fetes, and the gods, when the deputies arrived from

Delphi, bringing with them the decifion of the

oracle, which correfponded with the anfwer of the

captive prophet. "Roman, beware left the Alban

"water be confined in the lake; beware left thou

"fuffer it to flow into the fca in a ftream of its own.

"Thou fhalt form for it a paflage, and fcatter it

"over the fields; and, by difperfing it in a multi-

"tude of channels, confume it. Then prefs thou

'' boldly on the walls of the enemy; affured, that

"over the city which thou befiegeft through fo

"many years, conqueft is granted by thefe orders

"of the fates, which are now difclofed. The war

'* concluded, do thou, pofleffcd of victory, bring

'' ample offerings to my temples, and renewing the

'' religious rites of thy country, the obfervation of

"which has been neglected, perform them in the

'* ulual manner,"

XVII. THE captive prophet, upon this, began

to be held in very high efteem, and the military

tribunes, Cornelius and Poftumius, thenceforward

confulted with him concerning the expiauon of the

Alban prodigy, and the proper method of appeafing

the gods. It was at length difcovered what was that

neglect of ceremonies, and omiflion of cuftomary

rites, for which they were blamed by the gods. It

was, in fact, nothing elfe than that the tmgiftrates,.

their election being defective, had not, with due re­

gularity, directed the Latine feftival *, and the an-

niverfary

.

* The Roman!, T.atin;i, and fome ft ucs of the Hernlcians and  
Volfci.ins, met annually on the Alban mount to celebrate this fef-

tival, in commemoration of the treaty made with ihofe flute* by Tar*

quin the Proud. It was attended by the deputiei of forty.feven flatet,

*v!ijo, under the direfliuo of, the Roman conful, or other chief magif.'

H ii 4 tsite,

