O F R O M E. v 319

VII. THE commonwealth in this forlorn ftate, B O O K

Vithout a head, without ftrength, was protected from ._ I!-f

deftruction by the fortune of the city, and the care YR. >9i.

of its guardian deities, who infpired the Volfcians B.c. +6l.

and ^Equans with the fpirit of banditti, rather than

of warriors; for fo far were they from conceiving

any hope, either of maftering, or even of approach­

ing the walls of Rome; and fuch an effect had the

diftant view of the houfes and adjacent hills, to di­

vert their thoughts from the attempt, that murmurs

fpread through all the camp, each afking others,

"why they fhould throw away their time without

"employment, and without booty, in a wafte and

"defert country, among the putrid carcafes of men

"and cattle; when they might repair to places that

"had felt no diftrefs; to the territory of Tufculurn,

"where every kind of opulence abounded?" and

accordingly, they haftily put themfelves in motion,

and croffing the country, pafied on through the ter­

ritory of Lavici, to the Tufculan hills; and to that

quarter was the whole ftorm and violence of the war

directed. Meanwhile, the Hernicians and Latines,

prompted not only by compaffion, but alfo bv the

fhame which they muft incur, if they neither gave

oppofition to the common enemy, marching to at^

tack the city of Rome, nor even when their allies . .

were befieged, afforded them any afliftance, united

their forces, and proceeded to Rome. Not finding

the enemy there, and purfuing their tracks, and fuch

intelligence as they could procure, they met them

coming down from the heights of Tufcuium to the

Alban vale. There an engagement enfued, in which

they were by no means a match for the enemy, and

the fidelity of the allies proved, for the prefent, un­

fortunate to them. The mortality occafioned by the

diftemper at Rome, was not lefs, than what the fword

caufcd among the allies. The only furviving

conful died. Many other illuftrious perfons alfo

died: Marcus Valerius and Titus Virginius Rutj­

