s82 T H E H I S T O R Y

B o o K no lefs boldnefs, calling them " ten Tarquinii, and

. -^-^ " putting them in mind, that the Valerii and Horatii

Y.R. 305." were among the fortmoft in effecting the expulfion

B.C.447. tt of t|ie kings. Nor was it the title merely, which

'' had then given people fo much offence; for ic

"was one which was properly applied to Jupiter,

-" one which had been applied to Romulus, the  
"founder of the city, and to the princes his fuc-

"ccffors; and which was ftill retained in the reli-

"gious inftitutions, and even confidered as material

"to the performance of the facred rites. It was the

"haughtinefs, the violence of the king, which then

"filled them with abhorrence; and if thefe were not

"to be borne, in a perfon who was, at the time, a

"king, and the fon of a king, who would bear them

"in fo many private citizens? Let them take care,

"left by forbidding men to Jpeak with freedom, in

"the fenate-houfe, they might oblige them to utter

'' their fentiments in another place. Nor did he fee <

"how he, in his private capacity, had lefs right to

"call the people to an aflembly, than they, to con-

"vene the fenate. Let them try, whenever they

"chofe, how much more forcibly a fenfe of injuries

'f would operate in vindication of liberty, than am-

'c bition in retaining illegal authority. They had

"propofed the Sabine war as the bufinefs to be

"confidcred: as if the Roman people had any

"more important war on their hands, than againft

"thofe, who, having been created for the purpofe

"of framing laws, had left no law remaining in the

"ftate; who had abolifhed elections; abolifhed an-

"nual magiftrates; abolifhed the regular changing

"of the chief magiftrate, the only means of prc-

"ferving the balance of liberty; who, ftanding in

"the rank of private citizens, kept poffeffipn of the

"fafces, and of regal fovereignty. After the expul-

"fion of the kings, there were patrician magiftrates;

"afterwards, on the feceffion of the commons, ple-

"beian magiftrates were created. Of which party

"were

