THE HISTORY

B o o K of their merit, put on the moft fplendid robes worn,

t. -/-_' when they draw the chariots of the gods in procef-

Y.K. 365. fion, or ride in triumph; and, in this drefs, feated

B.C.387. themfelves in their ivory chairs at the fronts of their

houfes. Some fay that they devoted themfelves for

the fafety of their country and their fellow-citizens;

and that they fung a hymn upon the occafion, Mar­

cus Fabius, the chief pontiff, dictating the form of

words to them. On the fide of the Gauls, as the keen-

nefs of their rage, excited by the fight, had abated

during the night; and, as they had neither met .any

dangerous oppofition in the field, nor were now tak­

ing the city by ftorm or force j they marched next

day, without any anger or any heat of pafiion, into

the city, through the Colline gate, which ftood

open, and advanced to the Forum, cafting round

their eyes on the temples of the gods, and on the

citadel, the only fpot which retained the appearance

of war. From thence, leaving a fmall guard to

prevent any attack from the citadel or Capitol, while

they were fcattered about, they difperfed in queft of

plunder. Not meeting a human being in the flreets,

part of them rufhed in a body to the houfes that

flood neareft j part fought the moft diftant, as ex­

pecting to find them untouched and abounding with

fpoil. Afterwards, being frightened from thence,

by the very folitude, and fearing left fome fccret de-

fign of the enemy might be put in execution againft

them, while they were thus difperfed, they formed

themfelves into bodies, and returned again to the

Forum, and places adjoining /to it; where finding

the houfes of the plebeians fhut up, and the palaces

of the nobles ftanding open, they fhewed rather

greater backwardnefs to attack thefe that were open,

than fuch as were fhut. With fuch a degree of ve­

neration did they behold men fitting in the porches

of the houfes, who, befide their ornaments and ap­

parel, more fplendid than became mortals, bore the

neareft refemblance to gods, in the majefty difplayed

in their looks, and the gravity of their countenances.

I?

