i-& THE HISTORY

B o^o K Volfcians and ^Equans were vanquifhed in that year,

• -y-^j defrauded the troops of the booty: the whole of what

Y.R..z69. was taken from the enemy, the conful Fabius fold,

B.C.483. and lodged the produce of it in the treafury. The

name of Fabius was odious to the commons, on ac­

count of the laft conful j yet the patricians had influ-

K'c' 2vj' cnce enough to procure the election of Caefo Fabius

to the confulthip, with Lucius .flimilius. This far­

ther exafpcrated the commons, who, by raifing a

fedition at home, encouraged foreign enemies to

attack them: the war put a ftop to inteftinc difien-

fions. The patricians and plebeians united, and

under the'conduct of /Emilius, with little lofs to

themfelves, overthrew in battle the Volfcians and

.fliquans, who had revived hoftilities. On this oc-

cation, the enemy loft greater numbers during their

retreat, than in the battle; for, after they were

broken, they were purfued by the cavalry to a great

diftance. .In the fame year, on the ides of July, the

temple of Caftor was dedicated: it had been vowed,

during the Latine war, by Poftumius the dictator,

and his fon, being appointed duumvir for the pur-

pofe, performed the dedication. This year alfo

the minds of the people were tempted to new exer­

tions, by the charms of the agrarian law. The

tribunes wilhed to enhance the popularity of their

office, by promoting that popular law. The patri­

cians, convinced that the multitude were, of them-

fctves, without any inftigation, too much inclined to

defperate meafures, looked with horror on fuch

largefies, as incitements to acts of temerity; and they

found in the confuls, leaders as active as they could

wifh, in oppofing thofe proceedings: their party

conlcquently prevailed; and that, not only for the

prefent, but they were able to appoint as confuls for

B c *!' t'ie aPProacn'ng 7ear Marcus Fabius, brother to

'"""* '' Carfo, and Lucius Verus, who was ftill more odious

to the plebeians, on account of his having been the

profccutor of Spurius Caffius. In that year, there

. . was

