OF ROME. . 497

lion with the Salpinians, they made incurfions on the B O, O K

lands of the Romans. War was then proclaimed . _^'_ _f

againft thofe two nations. Cains Julius died in the Y.R. 363.

office of cenfor, and Marcus Cornelius was fubfti- B. c. 38».

tuted in his room; which proceeding came after­

wards to be confidered as difpleafing to the gods,

becaufe in that luftrum Rome was taken. Nor fince

that time is a cenfor ever fubftituted in the room of

one dying. The confuls being feized by the diftem-

pcr, it was reiblved that an interregnum fhould be

conftituted, and aufpices taken a-new.

XXXII. IN purfuance therefore of a decree of Y.R. 364.

R f* 9X8

the fenate, the confuls having refigned their office,"

Marcus Furius Camillus was created interrex, who

appointed Publius Cornelius Scipio interrex, and he,

afterwards, Lucius Valerius.Potitus. By him were

elected fix military tribunes with confular power, to

the end that in cafe any of them mould be difabled

by bad health, the commonwealth might ftill have a

fufficient number of magiftrates. Thefe were Lu­

cius Lucretius, Servius Sulpicius, Marcus .flimilius,

Lucius Furius Medullinus a feventh time, Agrippa

Furius, and Cains /Emilius a fecond time, who en­

tered into office on the calends of July. Of thefe

Lucius Lucretius and Caius ^Emilius had the Volfi-

nians as their province; Agrippa Furius and Servi­

us Sulpicius the Salpinians. The firft battle happen­

ed with the Volfinians. This war, formidable in ap­

pearance, from the great number of the enemy, was

terminated without any difficulty: at the firft onfet,

their army was put to flight, and eight thoufand of

their foldiers being furrounded by the cavalry, laid

down their arms, and iurrendered. The account

which they received of that battle, made the Salpini­

ans determine not to hazard an engagement; their

troops fecured themfelves in the towns. The Ro­

mans, meeting no oppofition, carried off the fpoil

from all parts, both of the Volfinian and Salpinian

. VOL. i, K K territories,

