720 THE HISTORY

$ oo K ill-treatment, and an army was fent to Algidum

t J.'1^ . againft the Romans. When the news of thefe tranf-

Y.R. 189. actions was brought to Rome, the indignity of the

B. C'.463. aftair, rather than the danger, called out the other

conful from the city, and the two confular armies ad­

vanced to the enemy in order of battle, prepared for

an immediate engagement. But this happening

pretty late in the day, a perfon called out from one

of the enemy's pofts, "Romans, this is making an

"oftentatious parade, not waging war: ye draw up

"your forces for battle, when night is at hand. We

"require a greater length of day-light to decide the

"conteft which is to come on: return into the field

"to-morrow at fun-rife; ye fhall have an oppor-

"tunity of fighting, doubt it not." The foldiers

were led back into camp until the next day, highly

irritated by thofe expreffions, and thinking the ap­

proaching night too long, which was to occafion a

delay to the combat: the intervening time they

employed in refrefhing themfelves with food and

fleep. Next morning, as foon as it was light, the

Roman army were the firft, by a confiderable time,

to take their poft in the field. At length, the

/Equans alfo came forward. The battle was fought

with great fury on both fides, for the Romans were

itimulated both by anger and hatred, and the ./Equans,

confcious that the dangers to which they were ex-

pofed were the confequence of their own crimes,

and defpairing of ever being treated with confidence

in future, felt a necefiity of trying the moft deiperate

exertions. However, they were net able to with-

ftand the Roman troops. They were driven from

the field, and retreated to their own territories;

where the outrageous multitude, not at all the more

difpofed to peace, cenfured their leaders for having

hazarded fuccefs in a pitched battle in the field; a

manner of fighting in which the Romans pofiefied

fuperior frill. The Equans, they faid, were better

fitted for predatory expeditions; and there was bet­

ter

