324 THE HISTORY

BOOK" Valcrii and Horatii for confuls, who would poft-

t.» A".! __." pone their own intereft to the liberty of the com-

Y.R. 306. " mons." By a concurrence of circumftances, for-

B.c. 446. tunate at the juncture, the office of prefiding at the

election fell mof t luckily to the lot of Marcus Duili-

us, a man of prudence, and who clearly perceived

what a heavy load of public difpleafure they would

probably have to fuftain, if they fhould be continued

in office. He declared, that he would admit no vote

for any of the former tribunes; while his colleagues

ftrenuoufly infifted, that he fhould leave the tribes at

liberty to vote as they thought proper; or elfe,

fhould give up his turn of prefiding ro his colleagues,

who would hold the election, according to the laws,

rather than according to the pleafure of the patri-

•cians. Duilius, on finding a conteft thus forced up­

on him, called the con fills to his feat, and afked

them what was their intention with refpect to the

election of confuls? To which they anfwered, that

they intended to appoint new confuls. Having thus

gained popular fupporters of his unpopular meafure,

he advanced together with them into the afiembly.

The confuls being there produced before the peo­

ple, and afked, in what manner they would act, mould

the Roman people, out of gratitude for having, by

their means, recovered their liberty, and for their me­

ritorious and fuccefsful fervices in war, appoint them

a fecond time to the confulfhip, declared the fame

refolution as before. On which, after many eulogi-

ums paid to the confuls, for perfevering in a' line of

conduct quite different from that of the decemvirs,

he proceeded to the election j and when five tribunes

of the commons were elected, the other candidates

not being able to make up the reqaifite number of

tribes, on account of the eagernefs with which the

nine tribunes openly pufhed for the office, he dif-

mified the afiembly, and did not calt one afterwards

for an election. He faid, that he had fulfilled the

law; which, without any where fpecifying the num­

ber

