'O F R O M E.

to transfer all the blame of that event from himfelf B O O K

on his colleague, who was already condemned; and, .^^--^

as he had conducted bufinefs with fuccefs, both in Y.R. 331.

the country of the Volfcians when conful, under the B'c.*10'

aufpices of the dictator Poftumius Tubertus; and

alfo, at Fidena?, when lieutenant-general to another

dictator, Mamercus ./Emilius, all the tribes acquitted

him. It is faid, that his caufe was much indebted to

the memory of his father Cincinnatus, a man held in

high veneration; and likewife to Quintius Capitoli-

nus, who, being now extremely old, begged with

humble fupplications, that they would not fuffer him

who had fo fhort a time to live, to carry fuch difmal

, tidings to Cincinnatus.

XLII. THE commons created Sextus Tempani- £•£• 3J3.

us, Aulus Sellius, Lucius Antiftius, and Sextus Pom-

pilius, in their abfence, plebeian tribunes; thefe being

the perfons whom, by the advice of Tempanius, the

horfemen had appointed to command them as cen­

turions. The fenate, finding that, through the gene­

ral averfion to Sempronius, the name of conful was

become difpleafing, ordered military tribunes, with

confular power, to be chofen. Accordingly there

were elected Lucius Manlius Capitolinus, Quintus

Antonius Merenda, and Lucius Papirius Mugillanus.

No fooner had the year begun, than Lucius Horten-

fius, a plebeian tribune, commenced a profecution *

againft Caius Sempronius, conful of the preceding

year.

* A profecution, before the people, was a rery tedious bufinefs, and  
afforded the perfon acculed many chances of efcaping, even though he

fhould not be able to prove his innocence: he might prevail on the

profecutor to relinquifh the charge, or on a plebeian tribune tu inter*

pofc, or on the augurs to report ill omens on the day of the aflembly

for the decifion; or, at the worlt, he might go into voluntary exile;

4 vertere folurn exilii gratia.' A magiftrate, who intended to impeach

a perfon before the people, mounted theroftrurn, and gave notice, that,

on fuch a day, he intended to accufe that perfon of fuch a crime; on

which the party he accufed was obliged to give bail for his appearance,

which if he failed to do, he was thrown into piifon. On the day ap­

pointed, the people being affcmbled, by centuries if the crime charged \

D D 4. WM

