43o THE HISTORY

BOOK lus, augurs; Servius Sulpicius, principal curio ; and,

,___.r!Ll_ii among perfons of inferior note, the virulence of the

Y.R. 191. diforder fpread its ravages wide. The fenate, un-

£.0.461. ab}e to difcoyer a profpect of relief in any human

means, directed tne people to vows and to the dei­

ties :. all were ordered to go, with their wives and

children, to offer fupplications, and implore the fa­

vour of the gods; and the people being thus called

out by public authority, to perform what each man

was ftrongly urged to by his own private cala­

mities, they quickly filled all the places of worfhip.

In every temple, the proftrate matrons fweeping the

ground with their hair, implored a remiffion of the

difpleafure of heaven, and deliverance from the

peftilence.

VIII. FROM that time, whether it was owing to

the gods having become propitious, or to the more

unhealthy fcafon of the year being now paft, thole

who had got through the diforder began to find their

health confirmed gradually. And now, people's at­

tention being turned to the bufinefs of the public,

after feveral interregna had expired, Publius Valeri­

us Publicola, on the third day after he had entered on

the office of interrex, had confuls elected, Lucius Lu-

Y.R.spi. cretins Tricipitinus and Titus Veturius, or Vetufius,

.••<.• 460. Geminus. Thefe aflumed their office on the third of

the ides of Auguft, at which time the ftate had re­

covered its ftrength fo far, as to be able not only to

repel an attack, but to act offenfively on occafion.

Wherefore, on the Hernicians fending information,

fhat the enemy had made an irruption into their

frontiers, they cheerfully promifed to affift them.

Two confular armies were raifed. Veturius was fent

fo carry on an offenfive war againft the Volfcians.

Tricipitinus being appointed to protect the territories

of the allies from the iricurfions of the enemy, pro­

ceeded no farther than the country of the Hernici­

ans. Veturius, in the firft engagement, routed and

difperfrd

