ii8 THE HISTORY

BOOK entangled together by the two fpears, they both fell

^- _**! _, lifelefs from their horfes. At the fame time, the reft

Y.K. 14.5. of the cavalry began to engage, and were fhortly af-

B. C. 507. ter joined by the infantry: a battle then enfued, in

which victory feemed alternately to incline to either

party, the advantage on both fides being neary equal.:

the right wings of both armies got the better, and

the left were worfted: the Veientians, acenftomed

to be vanquifhed by the Roman troops, were routed

and difperfed: the Tarquinians, a new enemy, not

only kept their ground, but even, on their fidex

made the Romans give way.

i

VII. Though fuch was the iflue of the battle, yet

fo great terror took pofieflion of Tarquinius and the

Etrurians, that, giving up the enterprife as imprac­

ticable, both armies, the Veientian and the Tar-

quinian, retired by night to their refpective coun­

tries. To the accounts of this battle, writers have

added miracles; that, during the filence of the fol­

lowing night, a loud voice was uttered from the Ar-

fian wood, which was believed to be the voice of

Sylvanus, in thefe words: " The number of the

"Etrurians who fell in the engagement was the

"greater by one. The Romans have the victory.'*

• The Romans certainly departed from the field as

conquerors, the Etrurians as vanquifhed: for when

day appeared, and not one of the enemy was to be

feen, the ccnful, Publius Valerius, collected the

fpoils, and returned in triumph to Rome. He ce­

lebrated the funeral of his colleague with the utmoft

degree of magnificence, which thofe times could

afford; but a much higher mark of honour to the

deceafed, was the grief exprelfed by the public, fin-

gularly remarkable in this particular, that the ma­

trons mourned for him as for a parent, during a

whole year, in gratitude for his vigorous exertions

in avenging the caufe of violated chaftity. In a little

time, the conful who furvived, fo changeable are the

minds

