O F R O M E. 347

"for compiling laws, we ourfelves have, within BOOK

"the laft ten years, both, created, and abolifhed. l__^'J

«'• Who is not convinced that in a city, founded for Y.R. 3,o.

"eternal duration, and growing up to an immenfe B.c. 441.

*' magnitude, many new offices, both civil and reli-  
"gious, many new rights, both of families and indi-

"viduals, muft neceflarily be inftituted. This very

'' rule prohibiting the intermarriage of patricians

'c and plebeians, was it not enacted by the decem-

'c virs, within thefe few years, with the utmoft in-

tc juftice towards the plebeians, on a principle highly

'' detrimental to the public? Can there be any in-

"fult greater or more flagrant, than that one half of

"the ftate, as if it were contaminated, mould be

tc held unworthy of intermarrying with the other?

C' What elfe is this than, within the fame walls, to

"fuffer all the evils of ruftication or of exile? They

"are anxious to prevent our being united to them,

•c by any affinity or confanguinity j to prevent our

"blood from being mingled with theirs. What! If

'c this would be a ftain on that nobility of yours,

"which the greater number.of you, the progeny of

"Albans and Sabines, pofiefs not, in right of birth

"or of blood, but of cooptation into the body of

'c the patricians; having been clected, either by the

"kings, or after their expulfion, by order of the

"people, could ye not preferve its purity by regu-

'' lations among yourfelves? By neither taking ple-

"beian wives, nor fuffering your daughters and

"fifters to marry out of the patrician line ? No ple-

"beian will offer violence to a patrician maiden j

"fuch outrageous luft. is to be found only among pa-

"tricians. None of them would compel any man

'' againft his will to enter into a marriage contracl:.

"But it is the prohibition of it by a law, the inter-

"marriage of patricians and plebeians being inter-

"dicted; this is what'the commons muft confider as

"an infult. For why do ye not procure a law to be

'' pafled, that the rich fhall not intermarry with the

"poor?

