312 THE HISTORY

BOOK " the Roman people, torn a free-born maid from the

. *_T_L-f st embraces of her father, as if fhe had been a cap-

Y.R. 306. " tive taken in war, and given her as a prefent to

B. c. 446. ti one of his clients, the pandar of his fecret plea-

'c fures; where, by a cruel decree, and a decifion

"dictated by the blackeft villainy, he armed the.

"hand of a father againft his child; where, more

"ftrongly affected by the djfappointment of his luft,

"than by her untimely death, he had ordered the

"uncle, and fpoufe, of the maid, while employed in

"raifing her lifelefs body, to be dragged to prifon.

"The prifon was built for him as well as for others,

"though he ufed to call it the manfion of the Ro-

"man commons. Wherefore, though he fhould

"appeal ever fo often, he would as often infift on

'' his abiding the decifion of a judge, on the charge

'' pf his having fentenced a free perfon to flavery.

"And if he declined appearing before a judge,

"would now order him, as convicted, to be carried

'? into confinement." Accordingly he was thrown

into prifon, a ftep, which, though difapproved by

rone, yet gave occafion to much ferious reflection i

the commons themfelyes confidering their own pri足

vileges as carried rather too far, in the punifhment

inflicted on a perfon of fuch qonfequence. The tri足

bune deferred'his trial to a diftant day. Meanwhile,

ambafladors came to Rome from the Latines and

Hernicians, with congratulations on the re-eftablifh-

nient of concord between the patricians and com足

mons, and, as an offering on that account to Jupiter

fupremely good and great, carried to the Capitol a

golden crown, of fmall weight, as riches at that time

id not abound, and the worfhjp of the gods was

performed with greater piety, than magnificence,

The fame perfons alfo brought information that the

^Equans and Volfcians were preparing for war with

the utmoft vigour. The confuls were therefore or足

dered to divide the provinces between them: the

Sabines fell to Horatius, the vEquans and Volfcians

