THE HISTORY

t'ie YOling woman as his flave, and not

rait to any demand which fhould be made, of her"

Y.R. 305. being.left at liberty until thedecifion of the fuit, think-

B. c. 447. ing tfat the abfence of the damfel's father left the

. fltteft opportunity for the injury which he meditated.

As the young woman came into the Forum, for the

fchools of learning were held there in fheds, this

minifler of the decemvir's luft laid his hand on her,

and affirming that " fhe was a flave, and born of a

"woman who was his flave," ordered her to follow

him; threatening, if fhe refufed, to drag her away

by force. While the girl ftood motionlefs through

fright and aftonifhment, a crowd was collected by

the cries of her nurfe, who implored the protection.

of the citizens. The popular names of her father

Virginius, and her fpoufe Icilius, were heard on

every fide. Their acquaintances were engaged in

favour of the maiden, by their regard for them; and

the multitude in general, by the heinoufnefs of the

• proceeding. She was now fecured from force, when

the claimant faid, "there was no occafion for raifing

"a mob, he was proceeding by law, not by force,"

and fummoned the maiden to a court of juftice. She

being advifed, by thofe who appeared in her favoury

to follow him, they arrived at the tribunal of Ap-

pius. The claimant rehearfed the concerted farce,,

before the judge, who was well acquainted with it>.

having been himlelf the contriver of the plot; alleged

that " the girl was born in his houfe, and had beea.

"clandeftinely removed from thence to the houfe

"of Virginius, who pretended to be her father ;.

'* that of this he had fufficient evidence,, and would

"prove it even to the latisfaction of Virgin'ius

"himff If, the principat fufterer in the cafe; and it

"was reafonable," he added,. " that in the mean-

"time, the lervant fhould remain in the cufhody of

"her inafter." The advocates for the young wo­

man pleading, that Virginius was abfent on bufinefs

of the ftate, and would attend in two days time,. if

.1 he

