328 THE HISTORY

B o o K LXVII. THERE, as we are told, he fpoke to this

. -T_ _j purpofe; *c Although unconfcious of any mifconduct

Y.R. 309. " on my. part, yet it is with the utmoft fhame, Ro-

B.C.443. 't mans, that I am come here, to meet you, in af-

ti fembly. That ye fhould be witnelTes of fuch an

"event, that it mould be handed down, on record,

"to pofterity; that, in the fourth confulate of Titus

"Quintius, the .fliquans and Volfcians, who, a

"fhort time ago, were barely a match for the Her-

t' nicians, mould have marched in arms, without mo-

"leftation, to the walls of the city of Rome! Could

"I have forefeen that this ignominy was referved

'' for this particular year, though fuch is the general

'•' ftate of manners for a long time paft, fuch the

^ condition of affairs, that my mind could prefage

"no good, I would yet have avoided this honoura-

"ble poft, by exile or by death, if there had been

*c no other way of efcaping it. Gould Rome then  
"have been taken in my confulfhip, if thofe arms,

c< that were at our gates, had been in the hands of

"men of courage? I had enjoyed enough of ho-

"nours, more than enough ot life: I ought not to

"have outlived my third confulfhip. But, of whom

'c have thofe moft daftardly enemies dared to fhew

'' fuch contempt; of us confuls? or of you Ro-

«c mans? If the fault lies in us, deprive us of the

'' command, as unworthy of it, and if that be not

"enough, inflicT: fome farther punifhment upon us:

"if in you, may no divine, or human, being punifh

f your tranfgrefiions, only may ye yourfelves gain

'c a proper fenfe of them. They have not been ac-

Cc tuated by contempt of you, as fuppofing you void

"of fpirit, nor by confidence in their own valour.

*c After being fo often routed and put to flight,  
<' beaten .out of their camps, ftripped of their terri-

f tories, and fent under the yoke, they well know

"both themfelves and you. Party difienfions are

"the bane of this city; the ftruggles between the

"patricians and the plebeians, while neither we fix

"due

