356 THE HISTORY

BOOK bitious of fecuring the more fplendid match for her

v -^-' daughter, while the guardians, actuated even in a

Y.R. 311. matter of that fort, by a fpirit of party, exerted them-

B. C. 440. felves In favour of the perfon of their own rank.

Not being able to come to any conclufion on the

point, in domeftic conferences, they had recourfe to

a court of juftice, where the magiftrates having heard

the claims of the mother and of the guardians, de­

creed, that fhe mould marry according to the direc­

tion .of her parent: but this was prevented by vio­

lence; for the guardians, after haranguing openly in

the Forum, among people of their own faction, on

the iniquity of the decree, collected a party in arms,

and forcibly carried off the maiden from her mother's

houfe: the nobles, more highly incenfed againft

them than ever, united in a body, and in military ar­

ray followed their young friend, who was rendered

furious by this outrage. A defperate battle was

fought, in which the commons were worfted; and,

being incapable of imitating, in any particular, the

commons of Rome, they marched out of the city

in arms, feized on a neighbouring hill, and from

thence made excurfions with fire and fword on the

lands of the nobles. Even the city itfelf, which had

hitherto efcaped the effects of their difpute, they pre-

• pared to befiege, having, by the hopes of plunder,

allured a great number of the artizans to come out

and join them: nor is there any mocking form or

calamity of war which was not experienced on the

occafion, as if the whole Hate were infected with the

mad rage of two youths, who fought the accomplifh-

ment of that fatal match through the means of their

country's ruin. Both parties, thinking that they had

not enough of hoftilities, and fighting, among them-

felves, the nobles called upon the Romans to relieve

their city from a fiege j the commons, the Volfcians,

to join them in the ftorming of Ardea. The Vol­

fcians, under the command of Cluilius an JEquan,

* arrived firft at Ardea, and drew a line of circumval­  

lation

