O F R O M E. 473

"any of their young men chofe to go to that war, BOOK

"they would not hinder them." The arrival of ,__Tl_j

thefe was announced at Rome, as of a formidable Y.R. 358.

number of enemies; and, through the apprehenfions B. c

which this excited for the public fafety, the violence

of their inteftine quarrels of courfe began to fub*

fide.

XVIII. WITHOUT caufing any difpleafure to the

patricians, the prerogative tribe *, at the elecction,

chofe for military tribune Publius Licinius Calvus,

although he had not declared himfelf a candidate; this

honour was done him, becaufe in his former admini-

ftration he had approved himfeif a man of modera­

tion; but he was now far declined in extreme old

age. It was obferved, that thofe who had been his

colleagues, in that year, were re-elected in order;

Lucius Titinius, Publius Maenius, Publius Maelius,

Cneius Genutius and Lucius Atilius. Before tiiefe

were proclaimed to the tribes, who were to vote in the

ordinary courfe, Publius Licinius Calvus, with per-

miffion of the interrex, fpoke to this effect: "I con-

"fider it, Romans, as an omen of concord, a thing

'c efientially requifite to the ftate, at the prefent

"juncture, that, from the remembrance of our for-

"mer adminiftration, ye are defirous of re.electing

"the fame colleagues, improved by experience.

"As to me, ye no longer fee me, the fame, but the

"fhadow and the name of Publius Licinius. The

"powers of my body are decayed, my fenfes of

"fight and hearing are grown dull, my memory

"faulters, and the vigour of my mind is blunted,

"Behold here a youth," purfued he, holding his

• The prerogative tribe was that to which the lot fell to vote firft,

at the election of magiftrates. Anciently, the cepturies were called to

give their votes according to the order eftablifhed among them by Ser-

viiu Tullius, firlt, the ' eqiiites,' then the centuries of the firft clad,

tec. It was afterwarcit (at what time is not known) determined by

Jpt ' fortitio' in what order they fhoukl vote.

fon,

