OF ROME. '359

pctration of a murder, which would violate all the B o o lc

laws of nations; or that, in fuch an affair, he fhould . _^__,

feel no compunction. It is much more probable, Y.R. 317.

that his view was, to involve them in fuch guilt, as BtC. 4JJ'

to cut off all hope of reconciliation with the Ro­

mans. Statues of the ambafladors flain at Fidena

e

were erected near the roftrum, at the public ex*

pence. A defperate ftruggle was now/ to be ex-

pelted with the Veientians and Fidenatians.; as, be-

fides the circumftance of their fituation, contiguous •*

to the frontiers, they hadftained the commencement

of the war with an action fo abominable. The com.t

mons, therefore, and their tribunes, feeing the ne-

cefilty of attending to the general welfare, and fuf-

fering other matters to pafs ia quiet, there was

no oppofition to the election of confuls, who were

Marcus Geganius Macerinus a third time, and Lu- Y.R. 318.

cius Sergius Fidenas, fo called, I fuppofe, from his B'Ci «*•

fervices in the fucceeding war. For he was the firft

who engaged in battle with the king of the Veien­

tians, on this fide of the Anio, in which he got the

better; but he gained not an unbloody victory, fo

that people's grief for the lofs of their countrymen,

exceeded their joy'for the defeat of the enemy; and

the fenate, as in a cafe particularly alarming, or*

dered Mamercus ^milius to be named dictator.

He chole his mafter of the horfe from among his

colleagues of the former year, in the office of mili­

tary tribunes with confular power, Lucius Quintius

Cincinnatus, a young man worthy of the father from

whom he fprung. To the troops levied by the con­

fuls, were added a number of veteran centurions,

Ikilled in the bufinefs of war, and the number of

men loft in the laft battle was replaced. The dicta-

tor ordered Quintius Capttolinus and Marcus Fabiiis

Vibulanus to attend him in quality of lieutenant ge*

neral. The appointment of a magiftrate with ex­

traordinary power, and the character of the perfon

appointed being felly foited to thofe powers, both

VOL. i. B B together

