THEH1STORY

BOOK which themfelves were expofed ; and, at length, car-

^_ - -_j r'ed their point, that the fenate fhould pafs a decree

Y.R. 346. for the election of military tribunes. This however

B.C. 406. was accompanied with an exprefs ftipulation, that no

, perfon fhould be admitted as a candidate who was in

that year a plebeian tribune; and that no plebeian

tribune fhould be re-cholen for the year following:

the fenate, in this, pointing undoubtedly at the Icilii,

whom they accufed of aiming at the confular tribune-

fliip, as a reward for their feditious condudt in the

plebeian. After this, the levy and other preparations

for war, went forward, with the general concurrence

of all ranks. The diverfity of the accounts given

by writers renders it uncertain, whether both confuls

inarched to the citadel of Carventa, or whether one

remained at home to hold the elections; but thofe

facts, in which they do not difagree, we may receive

as certain; that, after having carried on the attack

for a long time, without effect, the army retired

from the citadel of Carventa; that, by the fame ar足

my, Verrugo, in the country of the Volfcians, was

retaken, great devaftation made, and immenfe booty

captured, in the territories both of the ./Equans and

Volfcians.

Y.R. 347. LVI. AT Rome, as the commons gained the vic-

B.C. 405. tory, fo far as to procure the kind of election which

they preferred, fo, in the iflue of the election, the

patricians were victorious: for, contrary to the ex足

pectation of all, three patricians were chofen mili足

tary tribunes with confular power; Caius Julius

lulus, Publius Cornelius Coffus, and Caius Servi-

lius Ahala. It is faid that an artifice was practifed

by the patricians on the occafion, and the Icilii

charged them with it at the time; that'by inter足

mixing a number of unworthy candidates, with the

deferving, they turned away the people's thoughts

from the plebeian candidates, through the difguft

excited by the remarkable mcanneft of fome of the

number.

