OF ROME. 317

the victory in their favour, detached feveral parties BOOK

to make depredations, fome againft the Hernicians,. n'

others againft the Latines; leaving rather a guard to Y.R.

the camp, than fuch a force as could contend with B.c.

the enemy: which, as foon as the conful underftood,

he retorted on them the menaces which they had ufed

to him before, and drawing up his troops, advanced

to provoke the enemy to battle: and when con-

fidering what a great part of their force was abfent,

they declined the fight, the Romans inftantly aflumed

frem courage, and looked upon thofe troops as al­

ready vanquifhed, who, through fear, kept within

their rampart. After ftanding the whole day in rea-

dinefs for action, they retired at the approach of

night. The Romans, on their part, full of confi­

dence, employed the night in refrefhing themfelves.

The enemy, very differently affected, difpatched

mefiengers in the utmoft hurry to every quarter, to

call in the plundering parties: fuch as were in the

neareft places, returned with fpeed; thofe who had

gone to a greater diftance could not be found. As

foon as day appeared, the Romans marched out of

their camp, refolved to aflault the enemy's rampart,

if they fhould refufe to fight; and, when a great part

of the day had pafied, and no motion was made by

the enemy, the conful ordered the troops to advance.

On the army beginning to move, it fired the indig­

nation of the ./Equans and Volfcians, to think that

victorious troops were to be defended by a rampart,

rather than by valour and arms: wherefore, they alfb

earneftly demanded the fignal for battle, in which

they were gratified by their leaders. And now, half

of them had got out of the gates, and the reft fol­

lowed in regular order, marching down each to his

own poft, when the Roman conful, before the ene­

my's line could be completed, and ftrengthened

with their whole force, advanced to the engage­

ment; fell on them, before either the whole were

drawn out of the camp, or thofe who were, had com­

pleted

