O F R O M E. 425

which diverted men's thoughts from the Forum, and BOOK

political difputes, to their own houfes, and the care . _ '_j

of their perlbnal fafety. It is believed, that the dif- Y.K. 343.

order was lefs fatal, in its effects, than the fedition B.C.409.

would have proved, the ftate being delivered, from

it, with the lofs of very few lives, though the fick-

nels had been exceedingly general. This year of Y.R. 344.

peftilence was fucceeded by one of fcarcity, owing B.c.4°9.

to the neglect of agriculture, ufual in fuch cafes.

Marcus Papirius Atratinus and Caius Nautius Rutilus

were confuls. Famine would now have produced

more difmal effects than the peftilence, had not a

fupply been procured to the market by difpatching

envoys round all the nations bordering on the Tuf-

can fea, and on the Tiber, to purchafe corn.. The

Samnites, who were then in pofieflion of Capua and

Cumae, in a haughty manner prohibited the envoys

to trade there: they met with a different reception

from the tyrants of Sicily, who kindly afforded

them every affiftance. The largeft fupplies were

brought down by the Tiber, through the very active

zeal of the Etrurians. In confequence of the fick-

nefs, the confuls were at a lofs for men to tranfact

the bufinefs of the ftate, fo that, not finding more

than one fenator for each embaffy, they were obliged

to join two knights to each of them. Except from

the ficknefs and the fcarcity, there happened no­

thing during thofe two years, either at home or

abroad, to give them any trouble. But no fooner

did thofe caufes of uneafinefs difappe.ar, than all the

evils which had hitherto fo frequently difturbed the

quiet of the ftate, ftarted up together, inteftine dif-

cord and foreign wars. s

LIII. IN the fucceeding confulate of Mamercus Y.R. 34J

.ffimilius and Caius Valerius Potitus, the ^Squans B. C.407.

made preparations for war; and the Volfcians, though

they took not arms by public authority, fupplied

them with volunteers who ferved for pay. On the

report

