OF ROME. 247

"a caufe, to have run to the Capitol, to have re- B ?rio K

"ftored to liberty and peace that moft auguft refi- i -T'

"dence of the fupremely good and great Jupiter? Y.R.

"O father Romulus, grant to thine offspring that B.C.

"fpirit of thine, by which thou formerly reco-"

"veredft the citadel from thefe fame Sabines, when

"they had got pofiefiion of it by means of gold.

"Diredb them to purfue the fame path, in which

"thou ledft the way, and which thine army follow-

"ed. Lo, I as conful, will be the firft to follow

"thee and thy footfteps, as far as a mortal can follow

•" a divinity." The conclufion of his fpeech was,

that" he now took up arms, and fummoned every

"citizen of Rome to arms. If any one mould at.

'' tempt to prevent the execution of this order, he

"would never," he faid, "confider the extent of

"the conl'ular authority, nor of the tribunitian

"power, nor the devoting laws; but, be he who he

"might, or where he might, whether in the Capitol,

"or in the Forum, he would treat him as an enemy.

"Let the tribunes give orders for arming againft

"Publius Valerius the conful, fince they had for-

"bidden it againft Appius Herdonius, and he

"would not hefitate to ufe the fame treatment to

"tribunes, which the founder of his family had the

"fpirit to fhew to kings." Every one expected the

utmoft degree of violence, and that the enemy

would be gratified with the fight of a civil war

among the Romans. Yet neither could the law

be carried, nor the conful march to the Capitol;

night coming on, put a ftop to the contefts; for the

tribunes, dreading the armed attendants of the con-

fuls, retired as it grew dark. And as foon as .the

fomentcrs of fedition had withdrawn, the patricians

went about among the commons, and introducing

themfelves into their circles of converfation, threw

out difcourfes adapted to the juncture, advifed them

to " confider well into what hazards they were bring-

't ing the commonwealth i" telling them, that "the

R 4 '' contelt

