OF ROME. i8£

•which it occafioned, was greatly damped, by theB O O K

death of two fuch illuftrious perfons: for which rea- _j_^l^J.

fon the conful, when the fenate were proceeding to Y.R. 174.

vote him a triumph, told them, that " if the army Bi c.+"s'

'c could triumph without their general, he would

"readily conlent to it, on accouht of their extraor-

f' dinary good behaviour in that war: but as to him-

"felf, while his own family was overwhelmed with

"grief, for the death of his brother Quintus Fabius,

"and the commonwealth bewailed the lofs of a pa-

•'' rent, as it were, in that of one of its confuls, he

"would not accept of the laurel, blafted both by

f' public and private mourning." A triumph re-

fufed on fuch grounds, redounded more to his ho­

nour, than if he had actually enjoyed it: fo true it is>

that fame prudently declined, often returns with dou­

ble lultre. He then celebrated the two funerals of

his colleague, and his brother, one after the other,

and took upon himfelf the office of pronouncing the

panegyric of both; in the performance of which, he

attributed to them, the merit of his own perform­

ances, in fuch a manner, as me wed him to be entitled

to the greateft mare of any. Not lofing fight of the

defign whicli he had conceived at the beginning of

his confulate, of recovering the affection of the com­

mons, he diftributed the wounded foldiers among

the patricians, to be taken care of, until they were

cured. The greateft number were given to the

Fabii, and by no others were they treated with more

attention. Henceforward the Fabii grew high in .

the favour of the people, and that without practifing

any management unfalutary to the ftate.

XLVIII. WITH the fame view, Caefo Fabius, Y.R.x7j.

whofe election to the confulfhip, with Titus Virgini- ' "47?"

us, was owing as much to the favourable fupport of

the commons, as to that of the patricians, would en­

ter on no bufinefs, either of wars or levies, or any

other matter, until the hopes of concord, which had

already

