OF ROME.

XXIII. DURING thefe tranfactiona at Anrium, B o? K

the ^Equans,'fending forward the main ftrength of, -^ _f

their youth, furprized the citadel of Tufculum by Y.R. i9S.

night; and, with the reft of their army, fat down, B.C.457...

at a little diftance from the.walls of that town, for

the purpofe of dividing the force of their enemies.

Intelligence of this being carried to Rome, and from

Rome to the camp at Antium, the Romans were not

lefs deeply affected, than if they had been told that

the Capitol was taken. Their' obligations to the

Tufculans were fo recent, and the very fimilarity of

the danger feemed to demand a requital, in kind, of

the aid which they had received. Fabius, negledHng

every other bufinefs, having haftiiy conveyed the

fpoils from the camp to Antium, and left a fmall

garrifbn there, haftened to Tufculum by forced

marches; the foldiers were allowed .to carry nothing

but their arms, and what food they had ready

dreffed; the conful Cornelius fent fupplies of pro-

vifion from Rome. The troops found employment

at Tufculum for feveral months; .with one half of

the army, the conful befieged the camp of the

^Equans; the other he gave to the Tufculans to

effe£t the recovery of the citadel. They never

could have made their way into it by force; famine

compelled the enemy to give it up: when they were

reduced to that extremity, the Tufculans fent them

all under the yoke, unarmed and naked. As they

were attempting, by an ignominious (light, to make

their efcape, the Roman conful overtook them at

Algidum, and put every man of them to the fword.

After this fuccefs, he led back his army to a place

called Columen, where he pitched his camp. The

other conful alfo, the city being no longer in danger,

after the defeat of the enemy, marched out from

Rome. Thus the two confuls entering the enemy's

territories, on different fides, vied eagerly \vith each

other in making depredations, the one on the Vol-

fcians, the other en the ./Equans. 1 find, in many

vor.. i. s writers,

