O F R O M E. 233

who inveighed againft the propofition, and the author BOOK

of it, with fuch vehemence, as to omit no kind of t '__,

threats, or means of intimidation, which coutd have v.R. 191.

been applied, had both the confuls provoked to the B.c. +*°.

higheit, ftood befide the tribune. He urged, that

"this man had lain in ambufh, and, watching his

"opportunity, had made an atfault on the common-

"wealth. If the gods, in their anger, had,fent a

"tribune like him, during the laft year, while fick-

"nefs and war raged together, his defigns could not

"have been prevented. When both the confuls were

ti dead, and the enfeebled ftate lay overwhelmed in

"univerfal anarchy and confufion, he would have

"introduced laws for abolifhing the confular govern-

"ment out of the commonwealth, and would have

"become a leader to the Volfcians and .fliquans,

"in an attack upon the city. And after all, where

'c was the occafion for fuch a law? If a conful gave

"an inftance of arbitrary or cruel treatment towards

"any of the citizens, was it not in that man's power

"to bring him to trial? to profecutc him, where his

".judges would be thofe very perfons, againft one of

"whom the injury was committed? His manner of

"acting tended to render, not the confular govern-

"ment, but the office of tribune, odious and into-

"lerable; becaufe, from being in a ftate of peace

"and amity with the patricians, he was forcing it

"back into the old evil practices. Nor did he

"mean to befeech him to defift from proceeding as

"he had begun. Of you, the other tribunes," faid

Fabius, « we requeft, that ye will, firftof all, confi-

"der, that your office was inftituted for the pro-

"tedtion of individuals, not for the deftruction of

"the whole community; that ye were created tri-

"bunes of the commons, not foes of the patricians.

"It reflects as much difhonour on you, as it does

"concern on us, that the commonwealth mould be

'' invaded in the abfence of its chief magiftrates.

"Take

