O F R O M E. 335

bers, and killed, with their javelins, both the men BOOK

and horfes. They met no more obftruction from . -^ _j

the cavalry. And now falling on the line of infantry, Y.R. 309.

they difpatched an account of their fuccefs to the con- B. c. *+l.

fuls, before whom the enemy's line was beginning to

give ground. The news gave frefh fpirit to the Ro足

mans, to purfue their advantage j while it difmayed

the ^quans, who were already wavering: victory

began to declare againft them, firft, in the centre,

where the charge of the cavalry had difordered their

ranks: their left wing next began to give ground to

the conful Quintius: the greateft ftruggle was made

by their right: there, Agrippa, full of the ardour in-

fpired by youth and vigour, when he faw every part

of the line more fuccelsful than his own, fnatched

ibme of the enfigns from the ftandard-bearers, and

carried them forward himfelf: fome of them, he even

threw into the thick of the enemy; and the dread of

the difgrace to which this might expofe them, fo ani足

mated the foldiers, that they rufhed on againft the

enemy. This rendered the victory equally decifivc

in every quarter. At this juncture, a meflage was

brought to him from Quintius, that he had defeated

the enemy, and was ready to attack their camp; but

did not choofe to break intd it, until he fhould under-

ftand that the battle was over on the left wing alfo;

and defiring, that if he had completed the difcomhv

ture of the enemy, he would march up his troops to

join him, that the whole army might all together take

pofieffion of the booty. Agrippa, now victorious,

met his victorious colleague with mutual congratu足

lations; and, in conjunction with him, advanced to

the enemy's camp; where, meeting very few to op-

pofe them, and thefe being inftantly routed, they

forced their way through the fortifications without

difficulty; and the troops having here acquired an

immenfe booty, befides recovering their own effects

which had been loft in the plundering of the coun足

try, were then led home. I do not find, either that

the

