THE HISTORY

^iey relate, tnat Aulus Ppftumius bc-

^ headed his fon, after a fuccefsful exploit, becaufe he

Y.R. 314. had left his poft without orders, tempted by a fa-

£.C.41s. vourable opportunity of fighting to advantage.

While we feel a reluctance againft giving credit to

this ftory, we are alfo at liberty to reject it, there

being a variety of opinions on the fubject: and there

is this argument againft it, that fuch orders have

been denominated Manlian, not Poftumian; whereas

the perfon who firft fet an example of fuch feverity

would have acquired the diftinguifhing title of cru­

elty. Befides, the furname of Imperiofus has been

impofed on Manlius, and Poftumius has not been

diftinguifhed by any difagreeable appellation. The

conful Caius Julius, in the abience of his colleague,

without cafting lots for the employment, dedicated

the temple of Apollo ; at which Quintius, being of­

fended, on his return to the city, after difbanding the

army, made a complaint to the fenate, but without

any effect. To the great events of this year was add­

ed a circumftance, which, at that time, did not ap­

pear to have any relation to the interefts of Rome:

the Carthaginians who were to become fuch formi­

dable enemies, then for the firft time, on occafion of

fome inteftine broils among the Sicilians, tranfported

troops into Sicily in aid of one of the parties.

Y.R. 315. XXX. IN the city, endeavours were ufed by the

•'.• 417. ^1.^,^5 of the commons to procure an election of

military tribunes with confular power, but they were

not able to effect it. Lucius Papirius Craflus and

Lucius Julius were made confuls. Ambaffadors from

the ^Equans having requefted of the fenate that a

treaty of peace might be concluded, it was required

of them, that inftead of a treaty they fhould make a

. furrender of themfelves. In the end they obtained

a truce for eight years. The affairs of the Volfcians,

befide the lols fuftained at Algidum, were involved

in altercations and feditions by means of an obftinate

contention

