OF ROME. 10^'

in refcuing it from oppreffion, was not greater than BOOK

that which he afterwards difplayed, in the character ,__^_i_/

of its guardian. Firft of all, while the people were Y.R. 145.

in raptures at their new acquifition of freedom, left B. c. s°7.

they might afterwards be perverted by the impor­

tunities or prefents of the princes, he bound them

by an oath, that they would never fuffer any man to

aflume the authority of king at Rome. Next, in

order that the fulnefs of their body might give the

greater weight to the fenate, he filled up the num­

ber of the fenators, which had been diminifhed by

the king's murders, to the amount of three hundred,

electing into that body the principal men of equef-

trian rank; and hence the practice is faid to have

taken its rife, of fummoning to the fenate thofe who

are Fathers, and thofe who are Confcripti; for they

called thofe who were elected into this new fenate

Confcripti. This had a wonderful effedt towards

producing concord in the ftate, and in attaching the

affection of the commons to the Patricians,

•

II. PEOPLE then turned their attention to matters

of religion; and becaufe fome public religious rites

had been ufually performed by the kings in. perfon,

in order that there mould be no want of a king, in

any particular, they appointed a king of the facri-

fices. This office they made fubject to the jurif-

diction of the pontiff, fearing left honour, being

joined to the title, might in fome mape be injurious

to liberty, which was then the firft object of their

concern: I know not whether they did not carry

to excefs their great anxiety to raife bulwarks to it,

on all fides, even in points of the moft trivial confe-

quence; for the name of one of the confuls, though

there was no other caufe of diflike, became a fubject

of jealoufy to the people. It was alleged, that " the

"Tarquinii had been too long accuftomed to the

"pofieffion of fovereign power: Prifcus firft be-

'' gan; next indeed reigned Servius Tullius; yet

"though

