OF ROM E. 427

they retook the citadel with great fpirit, driving out BOOK

the troops which defended it. Numbers having. l^ _,

carelefsly ftraggled from the garrifon, in fearch of y.R. 545.

plunder, had left the place expofed to be attacked 8.0.407.

with fuccefs. The plunder was confiderable; be-

caufe the whole of what they collected, in their con足

tinual depredations, had been ftored up there, as in

& place of fafety. This the conful ordered the

quaeftors to fell by auction, and to carry the produce

into the treafury, declaring that when the foldiers

fhould appear not to have declined the fervice, they

Jhould then fhare in the fpoil. This added fuel to

the anger of the commons, and the foldiery, againft

the conful, infomuch that when, in purfuance of a

decree of the fenate, he entered the city in ovation,

in the couplets of rude verles, thrown out with mi足

litary licence, wherein the conful was reflected on

with feverity, the name of Maenius was extolled with

praifes, and on every mention of the tribune the at足

tachment of the furrounding populace manifefted

itfelf in expreffions of approbation and applaufe,

which vied with the verfes of the foldiers. This

circumftance more than the wanton raillery of the

foldiery againft the conful, which was in fome mea- .

fure cuftomary, gave great uneafinefs to the fenate;

fo that, not doubting but Maenius would be honoured

with a place among the military tribunes, if he were

to be a candidate, they put it out of his reach by ap足

pointing an election of confuls.

4

LIV. THE confuls elected were Cneius Corne- Y.R.^C,

lius Coflus and Lucius Furius Medullinus a fecond B.C.406.

time. The commons were never more highly dif-

pleafed, at not being allowed to elect tribunes. Ac

the election of quaeftors, they both difcovered this

difpleafure, and at the fame time took their revenge,

by electing then, for the firft time, plebeian quaeftors:

in the election of the four, there was room left only

for one patrician, who was Caefo Fabius Ambuftus;

the

