OF ROME. S3*

difperfed his enemy. While Lucretius lay encamped BOOK

amongtheI Iernicians,aparty ofplunderers,unobferved . _^_' _,

by him^marchH o^er the Prarfeftine mountains, and Y.R. 191.

from thence defcended into the plains. Thefe laid P.^1 *6*'

wafte all the country about Praenefte, and Gabii, and

from the latter turned their courfe towards the high

grounds of Tufculum. Even the city of Rome was

very much alarmed, more fo by the unexpectednefs

of the affair, tfian that they wanted ftrength to

defend themfelves. Quintus Fabius had the com­

mand in the city. He armed the young men, pofted

guards, and foon put every thing into a ftate of fafety

and tranquillity. The enemy therefore, not daring

to approach the city, but haftily carrying off what­

ever they could find in the adjacent places, fet out on

their return, making a long circuit, and while their

caution relaxed, in proportion as they removed to

a greater diftance from the city of ftieir enemy, they

fell in with the conful I ucretius, who, having pro-^

cured intelligence of all their motions, lay in their

way with his troops drawn up, and impatient for the

combat. The latter therefore, with premeditated

refolution, attacked the others, who were terrified

and thrown into diforder by this fudden appearance

of danger, and though confiderably fewer in number,

eafily routed their great body and put them to flight;

and, having driven them into deep vallies, from

which it was difficult to efcape, furrounded them.

On this occafion the Volfcian race was almoft ut­

terly extinguifhed. I find in fome hiftories, that there

fell, in the field, and the purfuit, thirteen thoufand,

four hundred and feventy j that one thoufand

two hundred and fifty were made prifoners; and thac

twenty feven military ftandards were brought home

from thence. However, though, in thole accounts,

the numbers may be fomewhat exaggerated, the

flaughter certainly was very great. The victorious'

conful, poflefied of an immcnfe booty, returned to

q.4 hU

