0 F R O M E. 35

"will that this Numa Pompilius, whofe head I B o o K

"shold, mould be king of Rome, difplay to us, we ._J-y.^J

"befeech thec, clear tokens of the fame, within

"thofe limits which I have marked out." He then

named the particular aufpices, which he wifhed

fhould be fent; and, thefe having appeared, Numa

was declared king, and came down from the confe-

crated ftand.

,

/..

XIX. BEING thus put in pofiefHon of the king-

•dom, and confidering that the city was but of more

Handing, and had been founded by means of vio­

lence and arms, he formed a defign of founding it

anew, upon principles ofjuftice, laws, and morals;

and, knowing that the minds of the people, render­

ed ferocious by a military life, would never.accom-

modate themfelves to the practice of thefe, during

the continuance of war, he fefolved, by a difufe of

arms, to mollify the fiercenefs of their temper: with

this. view, he built a temple to Janus *, near the

foot of the hill Argiletum f, which was to notify a

ftate either of war or of peace: when open, it'de-

noted that the ftate was engaged in war; when fhut,

that there was peace with all the furrounding nations.

Since the reign of Numa, it has been fhut but twice;

once, in the confulate of Titus Manlius, upon the

conclufion of the firft Punic war: the happinefs of

feeing it fhut the fecond time, the gods granted to

our own times, when, after the battle of Actium, the

emperor Caefar Auguftuseftablifhcd univerfil peace,

on land and fea. This he then fhutj a::d having, by

• Janns is the moft antient kfng in Inly, cfwh^m any knowledge

has been handed down to poftu.iy: he was the fir'.l who introduced

civilization, and the wilful aits, among the wild inhabitants of that

country. He is reprefenteil with two t:tces, as knowing both the pill

and the future; fometimes wiih four; in whivh l.nter t'orm, one of

the many temples dedicated to him at Rome, was nvclcJ; Invii.g tour

equal ficies, on each lide one door :inil ihres wiivl;,ws; the tour 'loor1

were emblematical of the feafons; the twelve wir.do'A.s, of the months;

auil the whole, of the year.

f A fmall hill, to the czft of the Palatine.

B 2 treaties

