54 THEHISTORY

i

B o o K ed by the cords. From fuch a fhocking fpecT:acle the

.v _ '_j eyes of all were turned away with horror. This was

the firft, and the laft, inftance among the Romans,

of any punifhmerit inflicted without regard to the

laws of humanity. In every other cafe, we may

juftly boaft, that no nation in the world has mewn

more mildnefs in the infliction of punifhment.

Y. R. XXIX. DURING thefe proceedings, the cavalry

B*7;, had been fent forward to Alba, to remove the mul-

665.' titude to Rome. The legions were now led thither,

to demolifh the city. As foon as they entered the

gates, there enfued not a tumult, or panick, as is

ufual in cities taken by ftorm, where the gates being

burft open, or the walls levelled by the ram, or the

citadel being taken by force, the fhouts of the ene­

my, and the troops running furioufly through the

city, throw all into confufion with fire and fword j

But gloomy filence, and dumb forrow, fo ftupified

all the minds of the inhabitants, that, not confidering,

in their diftraction, what they fhould leave behind, or

what they fhould carry with them, but incapable of

forming any plan, they fometimes ftood at their

doors, making inquiries of each other, fometimes

wandered through their own houfes, which they were

now to fee for the laft rime. But now, when the

horfemen, with fhouts, urged them to depart, and

the cram of the houfes, which the troops were de-

molifhing in the outer parts of the city, aflailed

their ears, and the duft, raifed in diftant places, had

filled all parts, enveloping them as with a cloud;

each of them haftily fnatching up whatever he could,

and leaving behind his guardian deity, his houfehold

gods, and the houfe wherein he had been born and

educated, they began their departure, and foon filled

the roads with one continued troop of emigrants,

the fight of each other continually renewing their

tears, through the mutual commiferation which it

'excited in every breaft, and their ears being- availed

with

