O F R O M E. 3.21

alacrity, he aflured them, that, " with the good fa- B O O K

"vour of fortune, he would comply with their de- • -^' _j

"fire, and \vould next day lead them to the field." Y.R. 306.

The remainder of that day was fpent in putting B.c.4*6.

their arms in order. On the following, as foon as

the Sabines perceived that the Romans were forming

their line of battle, they alfo marched out, having

for a long time ardently wifhed for an opportunity

of fighting. The battle was fuch as might be ex­

pected, between armies both of whom were aflured

of their own courage; the one animated by a long

and uninterrupted career of glory, the other lately

elevated by unufual fuccefs. The Sabines added to

their ftrength the advantage of a ftratagem; for, af­

ter forming a line equal to that of the enemy, they

kept two thoufand men in referve, who were to

make a pufh during the heat of the engagement on.

the left wing of the Romans. When thefe, by at­

tacking their flank, were likely to overpower that

wing, which was thus, in a manner, furrounded, the

cavalry of two legions, amounting to about fix hun­

dred, leaped from their horfes, and ruming forward

to the front of their party, who were giving way,

ftopped the progrefs of the enemy, and at the fame

time roufed the courage of the infantry, both by

taking an equal fhare of the danger, and by exciting

their emulation; for they reflected, that it would be

iliameful that the horfe mould incur double danger,

by difcharging both their own duty and that of others;

and that the foot fhould not be equal to the horfe,

even when they were difmounted.

I

LXIIL THEY prefied forward therefore to the

fight, which on their part had been fufpended, and

endeavoured to recover the ground which they had

loft. In a moment the fight was not only reftored to

an equality, but that wing of the Sabines compelled

to give way. The hcrfemcn then, covered between

the ranks of the foot, retired to their horfes, and

vot. i. Y galloped

