392 T H E H I S T O R Y

BOOK had in one battle defeated three Roman generals;

• -^ . and though they could not thereby prevail on the

Y.R. 319. general confederacy to embark publicly in their

B.C. 413. caufe, yet they procured from all parts a number of

volunteers allured by the hopes of plunder. The Fi-

denatians were the only ftate which refolved to renew

hoftilities; and, as if there were fome kind of impiety

in commencing war, otherwife, than with fome atro­

cious deed, ftaining their arms now with the blood

of the new colonifts, as they had formerly done with

that of the ambafladors, they joined themfelves to the

Veientians. The leaders of the two nations then

confulted together, whether they fhould choofe Veii,

or Fidenae, for the feat of the war: Fidenae appear­

ed the more convenient. The Veientians therefore

croffing the Tiber, removed the war to Fidenfe. At

Rome the alarm was exceffive: the troops were re­

called from Veii, very much difpirited by their de­

feat, and encamped before the Colline gate: others

were armed and pofted on the walls. Bufinefs was

ftopped in the courts of juftice, the fhops were fhut

up, and every thing bore the appearance of a camp,

rather than of a city.

XXXII. THE dictator then,fending criers through

the ftreets, called the alarmed people to an affembly,

and rebuked them fharply " for fuffering their cou-

"rage to depend fo entirely on every trifling inci-

"dent in the courfe of fortune, as that on meeting'

"with an inconfiderable lofs, and that not owing to

"the bravery of the enemy, or to want of courage

"in the Roman army, but to a difagreement be-

"tween their commanders, they mould be feJ2ed

"with dread of their enemies of Veii, whom they

"had fix times vanquifhed, and of Fidenae, a town

"as often taken as attacked. He reminded them,

"that both the Romans and the enemies were the

"fame that they had been for fo many centuries paft;

"their courage the fame; their ftrength of body the

"fame;

