OF R O M E.

had pafied through the higheft dignities with fingular B O O K

honour, finding the intelligence which arrived grow . -t-_j

more and more alarming, and that the confuls would Y.R. 314.

not be directed by the fenate, cxprefied himfelfthus: B.4"41*'

"Tribunes of the commons, matters having come

'' to extremity, the fenate appeals to you, that, in

"the prefent alarming ftate of public affairs, ye

," may, by the authority vefted in you, oblige the

"confuls to name a dictator." This application

feemed to the tribunes to afford them a good oppor­

tunity of extending their power; wherefore, after

retiring together, they declared, by the authority of

their body, that " it was their determination that

"the confuls mould follow the directions of the fc-

"nate, and that if they perfifted in their oppofition

"to the fentiments of that moft illuftrious body,

"they would order them to be carried to prifon."

The confuls were better pleafed to be overcome by

the tribunes than by the fenate, at the fame time re-

monftrating, that " the prerogatives of the chief

"magiftracy were betrayed by the fenators, and the

"confulfhip fubjugated to the tribunitian power. If

"the confuls were liable to be over-ruled by a tri-

"bune, by virtue of his office, in any particular,

"they were liable alfo to be fent to prifon. And

"what greater hardfhip could any private perfon

"apprehend?" It fell by lot, for even on that

point the colleagues could not agree, to Titus Quin-

tius to name the dictator, and he named Aulus Pof-

tumius Tubertus, his own father-in-law, a man of

remarkable ftrictnefs in command. Lucius Julius

was by him nominated rnafter of the horfe. At the

fame time, a proclamation was iflued for a vacation

from civil bufirtefs, and that nothing mould be at­

tended to, in any part of the city, but preparations

for the war. The examination of the cafes of thofe

who claimed immunity from fervice, was deferred ,

until the conclufion of the war, which induced even

thofe, whole claims were doubtful, to give in their

6 • names.

