OF ROME.

therefore requefted afliftance from the Volfcians of B o o K

Ecetra, who gladly complied with the requeft; and . - -_f

fo inveterate was the hatred which thofe ftates bore Y.R. iqo.

towards the Romans, that they eagerly vied with B.c.46>.

each other, in making the moft vigorous prepara足

tions for war. This coming to the knowledge of the

Hernicians, they gave notice to the Romans, that

the people of Ecetra had revolted to the .^Equans.

The colony of Antium was alfo fufpected, becaufc,

on that town being taken, a great multitude had fled

thence for refuge to the ^iquans; and while the war

with that people lafted, theli; proved the moft vali足

ant foldiers in their army. Afterwards, when the

,/Equans were driven into their towns, this rabble

withdrawing privately, and returning to Antium,

feduced the colonifts there, from their allegiance to

the Romans, which, even before that time, was not

much to be relied on. Before the bufmefs was yet

ripe, on the firft information being laid before the

fenate of their intention to revolt, directions were

given to the confuls to fend for the heads of the

colony, and enquire into the truth of the matter:

thele having readily attended, and being introduced

to the fenate by the confuls, anfwered the queftions

put to them in fuch a manner, that the fufpicions

againft them were ftronger when they were dif-

mifled, than when they came. War was then con-

fidered as inevitable. Spurius Furius, one of the

confuls, co whofe lot that province had fallen, march足

ing againft the ^Equans, found the enemy in the

country of the Hernicians, employed in collecting

plunder j and, being ignorant of their numbers, be-

caufe they had never been feen all together, he rafhly

hazarded an engagement, though his army was very

unequal to the forces of the enemy. At the firit

onfet, he was driven from his ground, and obliged

to retreat to his camp; nor did the danger end

there: in the courfe of the next night, and the fol足

lowing day, his carup was furrouudcd on all fides,

and

