OF ROME.

w felve"S over the face of the country. When gorged

"by food, and greedy draughts of wine, as foon as _ _ ^

"night comes on, they ftretch themfelves promifcu- Y.R. 3*5.

'' oufly, like brutes, near ftreams of water, without in- B'

"trenchment, and without either guards or advanced

"pofts; ufingat prefent, in confcquence of fuccefs,

"ftill lcG' caution than ufual. If it is your widi to de-

"fend your own walls, and not to fuflFer all this part

ct of the world to become a province of Gaul, take

"arms unanimoufly at the h'rft watch. Follow me,

cc to kill, not to fight. If I do not deliver them into

Ir your hands, overpowered with flcep, to be fiaugh-

<' tcred like cattle, I am content to meet the fame iflufi

"of my affairs at Ardea which I found at Rome."

XLV. EVERY one who heard him, whether par­

tial ot impartial, had long been pofiefird with an

opinion, that there was not any where in that age a

man of equ^l. talents for war. The meeting then

being difmifled, they took forne refrediment, and

waited with impatience for the fignal being given.

As foon as that was done, during the ftillnefs of the

beginning of the night, they attended Camillus at

the gates: they had not marched far from the city,

'when they found the camp of the Gauls, as had been

foretold, unguarded and neglected on every fide,

and, raifing a fbout, attacked it. There was no

•fight any where, but flaughter every where: being

naked, and relaxed with fleep, they were eafily cut

to pieces. However, thofe who lay mod remote,

being routed from their beds, and not knowing how

or by whom the tumult was occafloned, were by

their fears directed to flight, and fome of them even

mto the midf t of the enemy, before they perceived

their miftake. A great number, flying into the ter­

ritory of Antium, were attacked on their ftraggling

march by the inhabitants of that city, furroundcd and

cut off. A like carnage was made of the Tufcans

in the territory of Veii: for they were fo far from

L L 3 feeling

