340 THE HISTORY

BOOK hints which were, at firft, occafionally fuggefted by

._. .^' . the tribunes, that liberty ought to be granted of

Y.R. 310. choofing one of the confuls from among the com-

B.c.44i. monS, Were afterwards improved, to fuch a degree,

that the other nine tribunes propofed a law, that the

people fhould have power of electing confuls, either

from among the commons, or the patricians, as they

mould think fit. The patricians were of opinion,

that if this took place, the fupreme authority would

not only be fhared with the very lowcft ranks, but

entirely removed out of the hands of the nobility into

thofe of the plebeians. With great joy therefore

they received intelligence, that the people of Ardtfa,

in refentment of the injustice of the fentence which

had deprived them of the land, had revolted; that

the Veientians were laying wafte the Roman fron­

tiers, and that the Volfcians and .SDquans exprefied

great difcontent on account of the fortifying of Ver-

rugo, preferring even a war, which promifed not

fuccefs, to an ignominious peace. Thefe tidings

being brought, with exaggerations, the fenate, in

order to filence the intrigues of ,the tribunes during

the buftle of fo many wars, ordered a levy to be

held, and preparations for war and action to be made

with the utmoft diligence, even with more difpatch,

if poflible, than had been ufed in the confulate of

Titus Quintius. On which Caius Canuleius de­

clared aloud in the fenate, that" it was vain for the

"confuls to think of diverting the attention of the

"commons, from the new laws, by holding out

"objects of terror to their view j and that, while

"he was alive, they fhould never hold a levy, until

"the people had firft ratified the laws propofed by

"him and his colleagues," and then he inftantly

called an affembly.

II. WHILST the confuls were employed in roufing

the indignation of the fenate againft the tribune, the

tribune was as bufy in exciting the people againft the

confuls.

