«4 THE HISTORY

B ?irO K anc^ attacked fO vigoroufty, that there was rtb poffi-

, -T-.-f bility even of fending a meffenger from thence to

Y.R. 190. Rome. The Hernicians brought an account both

B.C. 46*. Of the defeat, and of the conful, and the army being

befieged, which ftruck the fenate with fuch difmay,

that, by a decree, in that form, which has been al­

ways deemed to be appropriated to cafes of extreme

exigency, the other conful Poftumius was charged

to " take care, that the commonwealth fhould re-

"ceive no detriment." It was judged moft expedU

cnt, that the conful himfelf fhould remain at Rome,

in order to enlift all who were able to bear arms;

and that Titus Quintius fhould be fent as proconful

to the relief of the camp, with an army compofed

of the allies; to complete the number of which, the

Latines, Hernicians, and the colony at Antium,

were ordered to fupply Quintius with fubitary fol-

diers; this was the appellation then given to auxili­

aries called out on a fudden emergency.

V. FOR fome time there was a great variety of

movements, and many attempts made, both on one

fide and on the other; for the enemy, relying on

their fuperiority in number, endeavoured to weaken

the force of the Romans, by obliging them to divide

it into many parts, in hopes that it would prove in-

fufficient to withftand them on every different quar­

ter. At the fame time that the fiege of the camp

•was carried on, a part of their forces was fent to ra­

vage the lands of the Romans, and attempt the city

itfelf, if a favourable occafion fhould offer. Luciua

Valerius was left to guard the city, and the conful

Poftumius was fent to protect the frontiers from the

enemy's incurfions. No degree of vigilance and

activity was left unemployed in any particular:

watches were ftationed in the city, out-pofts before

the gates, and guards along the walls j and, as was

neceflary in a time of fuch general confufion, a ceffa-

tion of civil bufmefs was oblerved for feveral days.

Mean­

