OF ROME. ,4J

frefh ftnpes: on this fight, after fuch a relation, a B o o K

great uproar arofej and the tumult was no longer . _*1 .

confined to the Forum, but fpread through every Y.R. IJ9.

part of the city: thofe who were then in confine- B.C.493,

ment, and thofe who had been releafed from it,

forced their way into the public ftreet, and implored

the protection of their fellow-citizens: there was no

fpot which did not afford a voluntary affociate to add

to the infurrection; from all quarters they ran in bo­

dies, through every ftreet, with great clamour, into

the Forum: in no fmall danger were any of the fe-

nators who happened to be in the Forum at that

time, and fell in the way of this mob: they would

certainly have proceeded to violence, had not the con-

fuls, Publius Servilius and Appius Claudius, haftily

interpofed, to fupprefs the tumult: to them the mul­

titude turned their applications; mewed their chains,

and other marks of wretchednefs; faid, this was

what they had deferved; and, upbraiding them with

their former fervices in war, in various engagements,

infifted, with menaces, rather than fupplications, that

they mould afiemble the fenate; they then placed .

themfelves round the fenate-houfe, that they might

act as witneffes, and directors of the councils of go­

vernment. A very fmall number of the fenators,

whom chance threw in the way, and thefe againft

their will, attended the confuls: fear kept the reft

at a diftance, not only from the fenate-houfe, but

even from the Forum, fo that no bufinefs could be

done, by rcafon of the thinnefs of the fenate. The

populace then conceived an opinion, that there was

a defign to elude their demands, and throw delays

in the way of their bufinefs; that the abfence of fuch

of the fenators as did not attend, was occafioned not

by chance, nor by fear, but by their wifhes to ob-

ftruct the bufinefs j that the confuls themfelve*

fhewed a backwardnefs, and that their miferies were

manifeftly made, a matter of mpckery. The affair

vot, i. L had

