4<Jo T H E H I S T O R Y

BOOK 5ng at leaft the authority of the Trebonian law, by

, .J-_. the aiTumption of Caius Lacerius and Marcus Acu-

Y.R. 3'A. tius as plebeian tribunes; and this was effected, cvi-

B. c. 398. dently, by the influence of the patricians.

XL IT fo happened, that this year Caius Tre-

bonius was a plebeian tribune: and he confidered

it as a duty incumbent on his name and family, to

patronize the Trebonian law. He therefore com­

plained loudly, that " a. meafure which had beenat-

"tempted by fome patricians, and in which they

"were baffled at their firft fetting out, had been

"violently carried by the military tribunes:—that

'•' the Trebonian law had been fubverted, and ple-

"beian tribunes elected, not in conformity to the

"fuffragc of the people, but to the mandate of the

"patricians. And the matter was brought to this

"iffue, that people muft be content to fee the office

"of plebeian tribune filled either by patricians or by

"the dependants of patricians :—that all the advan-

"tages of the devoting laws were wrefted from

"rhem, and the tribunitian power forcibly trans-

"ferred to other hands." And he infifted, that

"this muft have been effected, either by fomc

"fraudulent artifices of the patricians, or by the

"villainy and treachery of his colleagues." The

public being inflamed with an high degree of refent-

ment, not only againft the patricians, but the tri­

bunes of the people alfo; as well thofe who had been

elected, as thofe who had elected them; three of

that body, Publius Curatius, Marcus Metilius, and

Marcus Minucius, greatly alarmed for their own in-

terefts, made an attack on Sergius and Virginius,

military tribunes of the former year, and, by a pro-

fecutiori which they commenced, turned off upon

them the anger of the commons, and the refentment

of the public. They defired people to " take no*

"tice, that fuch as felt themfelves aggrieved by the

"levy, by the tax, by long fervice in the army, and

"the

