a6z THE HISTORY

BOOK cefS, nor fbowed the fame ability in the conduct of

. ', his bufinefs: for, having encamped at a little dif-

Y.R. 196. tance from the enemy, without having felt any

B.C. 456. confiderable lofs, he kept his men, through fear,

confined within the trenches: when the enemy per­

ceived this, they aflumed new boldnefs from the

other's fears, and made an aflault on the camp by

night; but rinding, that, by open force, they were

not likely to fucceed, they began, next day, to in-

clofe it by lines of circumvallation: before this work

could be completed, and the pafies thereby entirely

fhut up, five horfemen were difpatched, who, mak­

ing their way between the enemy's pofts, brought

intelligence to Rome, that the conful and his army

were befieged. Nothing could have happened fo

unexpected, or fo contrary to people's hopes; and

the fright and confirmation, in confequence of it,

were not Iefs than if the enemy were laying fiege to

the city, inftead of the camp. They fent for the

conful Nautius, and not fuppofing him capable of

affording them fufncient protection, refolved that a

dictator fhould be appointed to extricate them from

this diftrefs, and Lucius Quintius Cincinnatus was

accordingly appointed, with unanimous approbation.

Here, they may receive inftruction, who defpife

every qualification which man can poflcfs, in com-

parifon with riches; and who think, that high ho­

nours and diftinguifhed merit muft neceflarily be

confined to thoie who enjoy an abundant affluence

of wealth. Lucius Quintius, the fole hope of the

people, and of the empire of Rome, cultivated a

farm of four acres, on the other fide of the Tiber,

now called the Quintian meadows, oppofite to the

very fpot where the dock-yard rknds. There, he

was found by the deputies, either leaning on a Hake,

in a ditch which he was making, or ploughing; in

fome work of hufbandry he was certainly employed.

After mutual falutations, and wifhes " that it might

"be happy both to him and the commonwealth,"

he

