38<5 THE HISTORY

B Q o K XXVIII. Bv this time day appeared, and every

,____V _, thing lay open to view. Fabius had already charg-

Y.R. 31+. ed with the cavalry, and the conful had fallicd from

U.0.418. tlie camp on the enemy, who were now much dif-

concerted, when the dictator on another fide, having

attacked their referve and fecond line, threw his vic­

torious troops, both horfe and foot, in the way of all

their efforts, as they turned themfelves about to the

diffonant fhouts, and the various fudden aflaults. Be­

ing thus hemmed in on every fide, they would, to a

man, have undergone the punifhment due to their

infraction of the peace, had not Vectius Meffius, a

Volfcian, a man more renowned for his deeds than

hisdefcent, upbraiding his men as they were forming

themfelves in a circle, called out with a loud voice,

"Do ye intend to offer yourfelves to the weapons

"of the enemy here, where ye can neither make

"defence ncr obtain revenge? To what purpofe

"then have ye arms in your hands ? Or why did ye

"undertake an offenfiye war, ever turbulent in peace

"and daftardly in arms? What hopes do ye propofe

"in flanding here? Do ye expect that fome god wilt

"protect you, and carry you off from hence ? With

'" the (word the way muft be opened. Come on, ye

'" who wifh to fee your houfes and your parents,

"your wives and children, follow me, wherever ye

•" fee me lead the way. There is neither wall nor

1t rampart, nothing to obftruct you, but men in

"arms, with which ye are as well furnifhed as they.

"Equal in bravery, ye are fuperior to them in

"point of neccfiity, the ultimate and moft forcible

"of weapons." No fooner had he uttered thefe.

words, than he put them in execution, and the reft

ralling the mout anew, and following him, made a

violent pufh on that part where Poftumius Albus

had drawn up his forces in their way, and made the

'conqueror give ground, until the dictator came up,

juft as his men were on the point of retreating.

Thus the whole weight of the battle was turned to

8 that

