TH.t HISTORY

bore no lefs hatred toward the commons; and,

though they did not approve the proceedings of ths

Y.R. 304. former, thought the latter fuffered no more than they

B.C. 448. haddefervedj and they had no inclination to a flift

men, who, through their intemperate eagernefs in

purfuit of liberty, had fallen into flavery. On the

contrary, they heaped injuries on them, in hopes,

that, being thoroughly difgufted with the prefent,

they might come to long for the reftoration of the

former ftate of affairs, and the government of two

confuls. The greater part of the year was now paft,

and the two tables of laws had been added to the ten

of the former year; nor was there any other circum-

ftance, if thefe laws were once ratified in afiembly of

the centuries, which could make the prefent form

of government neceffary to the commonwealth.

People were in continual expectation of an afiembly

being called for the election of confuls, and the

thoughts of the commons were folely employed in

devifing a reftoration of that bulwark of liberty, the

tribunitian office, which had been laid afide fo long.

While, in the mean time, not the leaft mention was

made of an election, and the decemvirs, who, at

firft, had exhibited themfclves to the commons, for

the purpofe of gaining their favour, furrounded by

men who had been tribunes, now collected about

them crowds of young patricians. Troops of thefe

encompafied every tribunal; they feized, and drove

about at will, the commons and their effects; the

moft powerful being fure of fuccefs, in pofieffing

himfelf of any man's property, in which he faw any

thing defirable. At length, people found, that even

their perfons were not fecure from injury: fome were

beaten with rods; others felt the ftroke of the axe j

and, that this cruelty might have fome view to pro­

fit, a grant of his effects followed the execution of

the owner. The young nobility, corrupted by

fuch bribes, not only declined making oppofition

fo the injufticej but openly derrjonftrated that they

preferred

