OF ROME. 19?

LIT. TOGETHER with peace, plenty returned to B OrO K

the city, corn being brought from Campania,; and u-yl^j

every one, as foon as he was freed from the dread of Y.R. 1?«.

impending famine, producing the ftores which he '"•47+.

had concealed. In this flate of plenty and cafe, the

people began again to grow licentious, and not find­

ing abroad any caufe of complaint, fought for it, as

ufual, at home. The tribunes put the minds of the

commons in a ferment, adminiftering to them their

ufual poifon, the agrarian law; roufed their refent-

ment againft the patricians, who oppofed it; and,

not only, againft that body in general, but againft

particular members of it. Quintus Confidius, and

Titus Genucius, the propofers of the agrarian law,

lodged an accufation againft Titus Menenius: the

charge brought againft him was, the lofs of the fort

of Cremera, when he, the confi.il, was encamped in

a fixed poft at no great diftance. Him they crufh-

ed, although the patricians ftruggled for him with no

lefs zeal, than they had fhewn for Coriolanus, and

though his father Agrippa's title to the favour of the

public was not yet forgotten. The tribunes went

no farther than to impofe a fine, though they had

carried on the profecution as for a capital offence.

On his being found guilty, they fixed his fine at two

thoufand afes *. This proved fatal to him; we are

told that he could not bear the ignominy, and anguifli

of mind, which it occafioned, and that this threw

him into a diforder which put an end to his life.

Another was foon after brought to trial, Spurius Ser-

vilius, againft whom, as foon as he went out of the

confulftiip, in the beginning of the year in which Y.R. 179.

Cains Nautius and Publius Valerius were confiils, a B.C'*7J'

profecution was commenced by two tribunes, Lu­

cius Caedicius and Titus Statius: he did not, like

Menenius, meet the attacks of the tribunes with

fupplications from himfclf and the patricians, but

•si.

o 3 with

