OF ROME.

greater height in the camp. On no one point did

their fentiments agree, each contended ftrenuoufly __

for his own opinion; endeavoured to have his own Y.R. ;?7.

plans and his own commands only put in execution; B.C.

fhewed a contempt of the other; and met with the like

contempt in return: until at length, on the remon-

ftrances of the lieutenant-generals, they came to a

compromife, that they fhould enjoy the fupreme

command alternately, xeach for a day. When thefe

proceedings were reported at Rome, Quintus Servi-

lius, whofe wifdom was matured, by uge and expe­

rience, is faid to have prayed to the immortal gods,

that the difcord of the tribunes might not prove more

detrimental to the commonwealth than it had done ar.

Veii; and to have urged his fon earneftly to enlift fol-

diers and prepare arms, as if he forefaw, with certain­

ty, fome impending misfortune. Nor was he a falfe

prophet: for under the conduct of Lucius Sergius,

whofe day of command it was, the troops were fud-

denly attacked by the /Equans, in difadvantageous

ground, adjoining the enemy's camp; into which

they had been decoyed by vain hopes of maftering

the camp; the enemy, counterfeiting fear, having

retreated to their rampart. They were driven, in

great diforder, down a declivity in the rear, and,

while they tumbled one on another rather than fled,

vaft numbers were overpowered and flain. With

difficulty they defended the camp for that day, and.

on the following, the enemy having invefted it on

feveral fides, they abandoned it in fhameful flight,

through the oppofite gate. The generals, lieute^.

nant-generals, and fuch part of the body of the army

as followed the colours, took the route to Tufculum:

the reft, difperfing up and down, made their way to

Rome, by many different roads, bringing exagge­

rated accounts of the difafter which had happened.

This unfortunate affair caufed the lefs confternation,

becaufe it was not unexpected, and becaufe there

was a reinforcement of troops already prepared by

the

