272 , THE HISTORY

BOOK practice of intrufting the confular power and title to

^III'_, two perfons. The decemvirs created were, Appius

Y.R. so?. Claudius, Tims Genucius, Publius Seftius, Lucius

B.C.449. Veturius, Cains Julius, Aulus Manlius, Servius Sul-

picius, Publius Curiatius, Titus Romilius, and Spu-

rius Poftumius. Claudius and Genucius, being con-

fuls elect for that year, this honour was conferred on

them as a compeniation for the other; and on Seftius,

one of the confuls of the former year, becaufe he

had propofed this bufinefs to the iirnate, againft the

will of his colleague. Next to thefe, were confi-

d.cred the three who had gone ambafladors to Athens,

that the honour might fcrve as a recompence for fuch

a diflant embafly/ and, at the fame time, it was fup-

pofed, that they, having acquired a knowledge of the

laws of foreign countries, would be ufeful in digeft-

ing the new propofed regulations. The others filled

up the number. It is faid, that in choofing thefe laft,

they pitched upon perfons far advanced in years,

with intent, that there mould be the lefs warmth in

any oppofition which they might give to the deter­

minations of the others. The direction of the whole

bufinefs of government was lodged in the hands of

Appius Claudius, through the favour of the com­

mons; for he had alTumed a demeanor fo entirely

new, that from a harm and fevere profccutor of the

commons, he became, on a fudden, a zealous pro­

moter of their interefts, and an eager candidate for >

popular applaufe. Each of them adminiftered juftice

to the people one day in ten; on that day, the

twelve fafces attended the one who prefided in the

court of juftice j his. nine colleagues were attended

each by one beadle; and, while perfect harmony fub-

fifted amongthemfelves,althoughfuch union between

governors is fometimes found prejudicial to the go­

verned, they obferved the ftricteft equity towards

others. It will be fufficient to produce a fingle fpe-

cimen of their conduct, as a proof of their mode­

ration; though, by the terms of their appointment,

there

