3r7<S T H E H I S T O R Y

? O O K tained his confcnt, named the dictator that night.

• .-w' _, He appointed Pcftumius CEbutius Elva his matter

Y. R. 310. of the horfe.

B.C. 43 *.

XXII. THE dictator ifltied an order that all fhould

appear, at the firft light, outfide the Colline gate.

Every one, whofe ftrength enabled him to carry

arms, attended accordingly. The enfigns were

brought out of the treafury, and carried to the dic­

tator. In the meantime, the enemy withdrew to the

higher grounds: thither the dictator followed, and

coming to a general engagement near Nomentum,

» defeated the Etrurian legions, drove them from

thence into the city of Fidenae, and inclofed them

with lines of circurnvallation. But neither could the

city be taken by ftorm, by reafon of its high fitiia-

tjon apd the ftrength of its works, nor could a block­

ade turn to any effecl:, becaufe they had fuch abund­

ant ftores of corn lajd up in their magazines, as were

not merely fufficient for necefiary confumption, but

even afforded a plenty, The dictator, therefore,

having no hopes either of taking it by alFault, or of

reducing it to a furrender, and being thoroughly ac­

quainted with a place fo near home, refolved to

carry a mine into the citadel, on the oppofite fide of

the city j which, being the beft fecured by its natural

ftrength, was the leaft attended to. He hiinfclf car­

ried on his approaches to the .walls, in the parts moft

diftant from this; and, having formed his troops

into four divifions, who were to relieve each other

fiicce.filvely in the action, by continuing the fight

night and day, without intermiffion, he fo engaged

the attention of the enemy, that they never per­

ceived the work which was carrying on, until, away

bcino dug from the camp through the mountain, a

paffage was opened up into the citadel, and the Etru­

rians, whofc thoughts were diverted from their real

danger by fiilfe alarms, difcovered, from the (houts

of the enemy over their heads, that their city was

uLen.

