OF ROME. 479

by their own prophets, and likewife by foreign ora- BOOK

cles; that the gods had been already invited to a . -^--/

fhare in their fpoil; that fome of them, liftening to v R. 359.

the vows by which they had been folicited to forfakc B.c. 3»J.

their city, began to look towards the temples of the

enemy, and new habitations, and that this was the

laft day of their exiftence; fearing nothing lefs,

than their walls being already undermined, and the

citadel filled with enemies, ran brifkly in arms to the

walls, wondering what could be the reafon, that when

for fo many days not one Roman had ftirred from

their pofts, they mould now run up to the walls with­

out apprehenfion, as if ftruck with a fudden fit of

madnefs. A fabulous account has been given of an

incident happening at this juncture, that while the

king of the Veientians was offering facrifice, the

words of the arufpex were heard in the mine, de­

nouncing, that whoever mould cut up the entrails of

that victim, fhould obtain the victory; and that this

incited the Roman foldiers to burfi open the mine,

feize the entrails, and carry them to the dictator.

But in matters of fuch remote antiquity, I think it

enough, if relations which carry a refemblance of

truth, be received as true; ftories of this kind,,

better calculated for the extravagant exhibitions of

the ftage, which delights in the marvellous, than for'

gaining belief, it is needlefs either to affirm or refute.

The mine at this time full of chofen men, fuddenly

difcharged its armed bands in the temple, of Juno,

which ftood in the citadel of Veii, fome of whom at­

tacked the rear of the enemy on the walls, fome tore

open the bars of the gates, fome let fire to the houfes,

from the roofs of which ftones and tiles were thrown

by the women and flaves. Every place was filled

with confufed clamour, compofed of the terrifying

fhouts of the atfailants, and the cries of the affright-

adjoined to the lamentations of the women and chil­

dren. Thofe who defended the walls were in an

inftant beaten off, and the gates forced open, where

iome entering in bodies, others fcaling the deferred

