OF ROME. 411

"permitting military tribunes to be appointed in- B O O K

"ftead of confuls, and the tribunes of the "corn- t ^L_,

"mons ceafing to proteft againft the four quaeftors Y.R. 334.

"being chofen out of the patricians and plebeians,in- B.c. *'8'

"difcriminately, by the free fuffrages of the people."

XLIV. THE eledion of tribunes was firft held, Y.R. m,.

and there were elected tribunes, with confular power, B. c'+1'.

Lucius Quintius Cincinnatus a third time, Lu­

cius Furius Medullinus a fecond time, Marcus

Manlius and Aulus Sempronius Atratinus, all patri­

cians. The laft-named tribune prefided at the elec­

tion of quaeftors, when there appeared among feveral

other plebeian candidates, a fon of Antiftius, a ple­

beian tribune, and a brother of Sextus Pompilius,

another of the plebeian tribunes: but neither their

power nor intereft were able to prevent the people

from choofing rather to raife thofe to the rank of

nobility, whofe fathers and grandfathers they had

feen in the confulfhip. This enraged all the tri­

bunes tomadnefs, efpecially Pompilius and Antiftius,

who were incenfed at the difappointment of their re­

lations. "What could be the meaning of this," they

faid, " that neither their fervices, nor the injurious

"behaviour of the patricians, nor even the pleafure

"of exercifing a newly acquired right, though a

"power was now granted which had hitherto been

"refufed, had been fufficient to procure, for any one

"plebeian, the office of military tribune, or even

"that of quaeftor? The prayers of a father in be-

'' half Of his fon, thofe of one brother in behalf of

"another, thofe of perfons invefted with the tri-

"buneftVip of the commons, that facred and invio-

"lable power created for the protection of liberty,

"had all proved ineffectual. There muft certair.iy

"have been fome fraudulent practices in the cafe,

"and Aulus Sempronius muft have ufed more arti-

"fice in the election than was confiftent with ho-.

"nour.;" and they complained loudly, that their

relations

