/ rtvtje^

OF ROME. / 89

private difcourfe. "Could any injjfance be given BOOK

"of greater pride, than his trifli/g thus with the

"whole nation of the Latines? &.fter their chiefs

"had been brought together by his fummons, at fo

"great a diftance from home, the very perfon who

"called the meeting did not attend. :Hc~was cer-

"tainly making trial of their patience, intending, if

"they fubmitted to the yoke, to^cruJh.lJie.m, when ^ ^^

"they could not refift. .For who did not fee

"plainly, that he was aiming at fovereignty over

"the Latines? and if his own countrymen had

"reafon to be pleafed at their having entrufted

"him with that power j or if, in reality, it had

"been entrufted to him, and not forcibly icized on

"through parricide, then the Latines ought alfo to

"entruft him with it; nay, not even in that cafe,

"becaufe he was' a foreigner. '15tTf^'- if''his own

"countrymen repined at his government, cxpofed

"as they were to murders, banifhment, and confif-

"cations without end, what better profpect could

"the Latines entertain ?'^f they liftened to him, they'

"would depart each to his own home, and would

"pay no more regard to the day of aflfembly, than

"was fhewn by the perfon who appointed it."

WVhilft this man, who was in his own difpofition fe-

ditious and turbulent, and had by thefc means ac­

quired fome degree of power at home, was ha- J. , ^

ranguing in thefe terms, and others of the fame pup".*^ .f

port, Tarquinius came into the afiembly. <This pun

an end to his difcourfe. ".Every one turned away

from him to falute Tarquinius, .who, being advifed

by his friends to make an apology for having come

at that time of the day, when filence was made, told

them, that "he had been chofcn arbiter between a

"father and fon, and had been detained, by the

"pains which he was obliged to take to bring about

"a reconciliation between them; and that, as that

"bufinefs had confumed the day, he would, on the

"following day, lay before them what he had to

"pro-

