•i. .-O F R O ME. ... 523

from the heat and fuffbcation, that they died in B O o K

numbers,'diforders fpreading as among a herd of ,'

cattle. And now growing weary of the trouble of Y.R. 36S.

burying each feparatdy, they gathered the bodies in B.c. 387.

heaps pramifcuoufly,and burned them, and this ren­

dered the place remarkable by the name of the Gal­

lic piles. A truce was now made with the Romans,

and conferences held with permiflion of the com­

manders. ^In which, when the Gauls frequently

made mention of the famine to which the others were

reduced, and thence inferred the neceffity of their

liu.rendering, it is faid, that in order to remove this

opinion, bread was thrown from the Capitol in feve-

ral places into the advanced pofts of the Gauls. But

now the famine could neither be difi'embled nor en­

dured any "longer. Wherefore, whilft the dilator

•was employed in perfon in levying forces at Ardea,

in fending his mafter of the horle Lucius Valerius

to bring up the troops from Vcii, and in making

fuch preparations and arrangements as would enable

him to attack the enemy on equal terms, the garri-

fon of the Capitol, worn down with the fatigue of

guards and watches, though they had ftood fu-

perior to all human evils, yet famine being one

which nature would not allow to be overcome, look­

ing out day after day for the appearance of fome

affiftance from the dictator, at laft, not only provi-

fions, but hope now failing, their arms in the courfe

of relieving the guards almoft weighing down their

feeble bodies, infifted that either a furrender fhould

be made, or the enemy bought off, on fuch terms

as could be obtained: for the Gauls had given plain

intimations, that, for a fmall compenfation, they

might be induced to relinquifh the fiege. The fe-

nate then met, and the military tribunes were corp-

miffioned to conclude a capitulation. The bufinefs

was afterwards tranfacted in a conference between

Quintus Sulpicius a military tribune, and Brennus

the

