5o8 THE HISTORY

BOOK tain, all took the way to Rome, and without even

»_.^1^ (hutting the gates of the city, continued their flight

Y.R. 365. into the citadel.

B, c.js7.

XXXIX. ON the other hand, the attainment, al-

moft miraculous, of fuch a fpeedy victory, aftonifhed

the Gauls. At firft, they ftood motionlefs through

apprehenfion for their own fafety, fcarcely knowing

what had happened; then, they dreaded fome ftra-

tagem; at length, they collected the fpoils of the

flain, and piled the arms in heaps, according to their

practice. And now, feeing no fign of an enemy any

where, they at laft began to march forward, and a

little before fun-fet arrived near the city of Rome,

where receiving intelligence by fome horfemen who

had advanced before, that the gates were open with­

out any troops pofted to defend them, nor any fol-

diers on the walls, this fecond miracle, not lefs un­

accountable than the former, induced them to halt:

and, apprehending danger from the darknefs of the

night, and their ignorance of the fituation of the

city, they took poft between Rome and the Anio,

fending fcouts about the walls, and the feveral gates,

to difcover what plans the enemy would purfue in

this defperate ftate of their affairs. The Roman

foldiers, both the living and the flain, were all la­

mented as loft; the greater part of them having

gone from the field of battle to Veii, and no one

fuppofing that any furvived, except thofe who had

come home to Rome. So that the city was almoft

entirely filled with lamentations. Then on the ar­

rival of intelligence, that the enemy were at hand,

the apprehenfions excited by the public danger flifted

all private forrow; foon after, the barbarians pa-

troling about the walls in troops, they heard their

yells and the diflbnant clangour of their martial in-

itruments. During the whole interval, between this

and the next morning, their minds were held in the

moft anxious fulpenfe, every moment expecting an

affault

