O F R O M E. 393

"fame; and the fame the arms which they wore. BOOK

'' That he himfelf alfo was the fame dictator, Ma- . ™^_t

"mercus ^milius, who formerly at Fidenee routed Y.R. 319.

"the armies of the Veientians and Fidenatians, when B.c.41j.

"they had the additional fupport of the Falifcians;

"and his mafter of the horfe was the fame Aulus

"Cornelius, who in a former war, when he ranked

"as military tribune, flew Lars Tolumnius, the king

"of thefe Veientians, in the fight of both armies,

"and carried his fpolia opima to the temple of Ju-

"piter Feretrius. He exhorted them therefore to

"take arms, reflecting that on their fide were tri-

"umphs, on their fide fpoils, on their lide victory;

"on the fide of the enemy, the guilt of violating

"the laws of nations by the murder of ambafiadors,

"the maflacre of the Fidenatian colonifts in time of

"peace, the infraction of truces, and a feventh un-

"fuccefsful revolt: afluring them, he was fully con-

"fident, that when they fhould have once encamped

"within reach of the ,foe, the joy of thofe enemies,

"fo deeply plunged in guilt, for the late difgrace of

"the Roman army, would foon be at an end; and alfo

"that a demonftration would be given to the Ro-

"man people, how much better thefe perfons me-

"rited of the commonwealth, who nominated him

"dictator a third time, than thofe, who, out of ma-

"lice, on account of his having fnatched arbitrary

"power out of the hands of the cenfors, threw a

"blot on his fecond fuccefsful dictatorfhip." Hav­

ing afterwards offered up vows to the gods, he foon

began his march, and pitched his camp fifteen hun­

dred paces on this fide of FidenJE, having his right

covered by mountains, and his left by the river Ti­

ber. He ordered Titus Quintius Pennus, lieutenant-

general, to take pofieffion of the mountains, and to

poft himfelf, privately, on whatever eminence ftood

behind the enemy's rear. Next day, when the Etru­

rians had marched out to the field, full of confidence

in confequence of their fucceis on the former day,

though

