OF ROME.

hians mould Force in along with them, they clofed B OvO K

the gates, and fhut out the hindmoit of their own ._-r'--.

inen. Thefe were the tranfactions of that year. Y.R. 35*.

BiC. 3»6.

XIV. AND now approached the election of mi­

litary tribunes, which engrofied almoft a greater

fhare of the attention of the patricians^ than even

the bufinefs of the war: for they faw that the fbve-

reign power was not only fhared with the commons,

but almoft entirely loft to thcrhfelves. They

therefore, by concert, engaged men of the moft il-

juftrious characters to ftand candidates, fuch as they

believed people would be afhamed to pafs by; the

others} neverthelefs, put in practice every expedient^

as if they had all been candidates) and endeavoured

to draw to their fide, not only men, but the gods,

reprefenting the election held two years before in a

light offenfive to religion: that " in the former of

"thofe years, a winter came on with intolerable fe-

il verity, fuch as bore every appearance of a pro-

"digy fent from the gods. In the following; no

"longer portents but events enfued; a peftilence

"fell on both country and city, manifeftly difplay-

"ing the wrath of the gods; whom, as was difco-

'* vered in the bociks of the fates, it was neceflary to

"appeafe, in order to avert that plague. It ap-

*' peared to the gods as an affront, that, in an election  
"held under their aufpiees; .honours mould be pro-

"ftituted, and the diftinctions of birth confounded."

The people being deeply ftruck, both by the high

dignity of the candidates, and allb by a fenfe of re­

ligion, chofe all the military tribunes with confular

power from among the patricians, the greater part

of them men who had been moft highly diftinguifhed

by public honours; Lucius Valerius Potitus a fifth Y.R. 357.

time, Marcus Valerius Maximus, Marcus Furius B.C. 2yi.

Camillas a third time^ Lucius Furius Medullinus a

third time, Quihtus Servilius Fidenas a fecond time,

Qnintus Sulpicios Camerinus a fecond time. During

H H 2 their

