O F R O M E. 191

after fhould wear off. And befides, it was evident BOOK

that the Sabines, ever hoftile, and all Etruria, would . _^-,

foon be in motion. But the Veientians kept the Y.R. i7S.

Romans in continual uneafinefs, by frequent intults, B.c.*77.

rather than by any enrerprife which threatened dan­

ger, and this was fuch a bufinefs as would neither

allow them to neglect it, at any time, nor to turn

their attention to other matters. While affairs were

in this ftate, the Fabian family addrefied the fenate j

the conful, in the name of the whole, fpeaking in this

manner: " Confcript fathers, ye know that the Vei-

"entian war requires rather a conftant, than a ftrong

"force, on the frontiers: let your care be directed

"to other wars: commit to the Fabii that againft

"the Veientians: we pledge ourfelves, that the

"majefty of the Roman name fhall be fafe on that

"fide: that war, as our own, as the particular pro-

"vince of our family, we propofe to wage at our

C' own private expence. The ftate fhall not be

"troubled either for men or money to fupport it."

The warmcft thanks were given to them, and the

conful coming out of the fenate, returned to his

houfe, accompanied by the Fabii in a body, who

Jiad ftood in the porch of the fenate-houfc, waiting

the fenate's determination. They received orders

to attend next day, in arms, at the conful's gate, and

then retired to their refpective homes.

XLIX. THE report of this fpread immediately

over the whole city, and all extolled the Fabii with

the moft exalted encomiums; that " a fingle family

"had undertaken to fuftain the burthen of the ftate;

"that the Veientian war was become a private con-

"cern, a private quarrel. If there were two other

"families of equal ftrength in the city, one of them

"might claim the Volfcians for their mare, the other

"the .ffiquans; thus all the neighbouring ftates

"might be fubdued, and the Roman people, in the

"mean time, enjoy perfect tranquillity." Next day

the

