THE HISTORY

difmay. Their camp was taken, and fhe fpoil

_- given up by Camillus to the quaeftors, to the great

Y.R. 361. diflatisfaction of the foldiers: but fuch was the influ-

B. C. 391. ence of his ftrictnefs in difcipline, that the fame pro­

priety of condudt which excited their refentment,

raifed alfo their admiration. The town was then in-

vefted, the approaches carried on, fometimes occa-

fional attacks of the townfmen on the Roman pofts*

and trifling fkirmifhes enfued; thus time was fpent

without either party gaining a profpect of fuccefs, and

as the befieged were more plentifully fupplied than

the befiegers, with corn and all other neceflaries,

from magazines which they had formed fome time

before, to judge from appearances, the affair would

have been as laborious and as tedious as that at Veii,

had not fortune, together with an inftance of me­

ritorious conduct, which in refpect of military mat­

ters he had already fufficiently difplayed, procured to

the Roman commander a fpeedy victory.

XXVII. IT was the cuftom among the Falifcians

to employ the fame perfon as mafter and private tutor

to their children; and, as it continues to be the prac­

tice to this day in Greece, feveral were intrufted at

the fame time to the care of one man. The teacher

who was fuppofed to pofiefs the greateft fhare of

knowledge, had of courfe the inftruction of the chil­

dren of the firft rank: this man, having made it a

cuftom in time of peace, to carry the boys out of the

city for the fake of exercife and play, and having ne­

ver difcontinued the practice fince the war began,

now drew them away from the gate, fometimes in

fhorter, fometimes in longer excurfions, and when

he found an opportunity, advancing farther than

ufual, by introducing a variety of plays and conver-

fations, he led them on between the advanced guards

of the enemy, and then through the Roman carnp,

into his tent to Camillus; and there, to this atrocious

act, added a fpeech ftill more atrocious; that ". he

"had

