OF ROME. 4-1

"which is ufually called forth, even by fport and BOOK

"amufement? Do we fuppofe the bodies of our , _Y'_

"foldiers fb effeminate, their minds fo feeble, that Y.R. 351.

"they cannot for one winter endure the fatigue of a B. c.4oo.

"camp, and abfence from home? That, like thofe

"who carry on war by fea, they regulate their ope-

"rations by taking advantage of the weather, and

"obferving the leafons of the year? That they are

"incapable of enduring either heat or cold? I a.m

"convinced they would blufh, if fuch things were

"laid to their charge, and would infift that both

"their minds and bodies were poffeffed, of manly

"firmnefs: that they were able to perform the du-

"ties of war, as well in winter, as in fummer: that

"they never had commiffioned the tribunes to pa-

"tronize floth and effeminacy; and remembered

"very well, that it was not under their own roofs,

"nor in the fhade, that their anceftors eftablifhed

"that very office. Such fentiments are worthy of

"the valour of your foldiers, fuch are worthy of the

"Roman name; not to confider merely the city of

"Veii, nor the prefent war, in which ye are employ-

"ed, but to feck a reputation which may laft during . .

"other wars, and among all other nations. Do ye

"look on the difference between the characters

"which will be applied to you, according to your

"condudt in this affair, as a matter of trivial im-

"portance ? Whether the neighbouring nationsdeem

"the Romans to be foldiefs of fuch a kind, that any

"town which can withftand their firft aflault, and

"that of very, fhort continuance, has nothing farther

"to apprehend; or, whether our name be terrible

"on this account, that neither the fatigue of a tedious

"fiege, nor the feverity of winter, can remove a

"Roman army from a place, which it has once in-

"vefted; that it knows no other termination of

"war, than victory; and that its operations are not

"more diftinguifhed by brifknefs of action, than by

"fteady perfeverance? a qualification which, as it

G G 2 "is

