474 f THE HISTORY

BOOK fo,^ " the reprefentation and image of him whomj

,__vX-j " ye formerly made a military tribune, the firft

Y.R. 3<;8. " plebeian that was ever fo honoured. Him, form.'

B.C.39*. " ed under my own difcipline, I prefent and dedi-

"eate to the commonwealth, as a fubftitutc in my

"ftead. And I befeech you, Romans, that the

"honour which, of your own motion, ye offered

"to me, ye will vouchfafe to grant to his petition,

"and to my prayers, which I add in his behalf."

This requeft of the father was complied'with, and

V.n. 559. his fon Publius Licinius was declared military tribune

Ji.C. 393. witn confular power, together with thole whom we

mentioned before. The military tribunes, Titinius

and Genucius, marched againft the Falifcians and

Capenatians, and acting with more courage than

conduct, fell into an ambufn. Genucius atoned for

his rafhnefs by an honourable death, falling among

the foremoft, in the front of the ftandards. Ti­

tinius, after rallying his men, who had been thrown

into the utmoft diforder, and leading them to a rift

ing ground, formed them again in order of battle;

but did not venture to come down and meet the

enemy. The difgrace was greater than the lofs, and

had like to have proved the caufe of grievous mis­

fortunes, fo great was the alarm which It excited no.t

only at Rome, where it was highly exaggerat.ed by1.

report, but allb in die camp at Veii. Here the fol-

diers were, with difficulty, reftrained from flight, on

a rumour having fpread through the camp, that the

generals and the army had been cut to pieces; and:

that the Capenatians and Falifcians, fiufhed with

victory, and all the youth of Etruria, were at no

great difbance from their pofts. Accounts Hill more

dreadful had gained credit at Rome: that the camp

at Veii was already attacked, that part of the en«S

mv were already on their march to the city, pre-

pared for an aflault. The men ran in crowds to the

walls, and the matrons, called out from their houfcs,

by th'.' public diftraction, offered foppfications foe

protection,

