THE HISTORY

K war on Account of a peftilence, and a fcarcity of thtf

- _ fruits of the earth; fo that feveral annals, as if they  
Y.R. 318. had no other tranfactions but thofe of mourning to

B.C. 43*. relate, mention nothing more than the names of the

confuls. Coflus, indeed, is mentioned as military

tribune, with confular power, in the third year be­

fore his confulate; and in the fame year as mafter of

the horfe, in which poft he fought another remark­

able battle with cavalry. In refpect to this there is .

room for conjecture: but in my judgment, un­

grounded furmifes may be applied to the fupport of

any opinion whatfoever; whereas the perfon con­

cerned in the fight, on placing the recent fpoils in the

facred repofitory, having in a manner before his eyes

Jupiter, to whom they were contecrated, and Ro­

mulus, as witnefies, who, in cafe of falfifying the

infcription, were not to be treated with contempt,

entitled himfelf Aulus Cornelius Coflus, conful.

YR. jig. XXI. DURING the next year, wherein Marcus

B.C.433. Cornelius Maluginenfis and Lucius Papirius Crafius

were confuls, armies were led into the territories of

the Veientians and of the Falifcians, numbers of

men and cattle were carried oft" as fpoil, but the

enemy did not fhew themfelves, nor give any op­

portunity of fighting. However, no attempt was

made on their towns, the people at Rome being at­

tacked by a peftilential diforder. Endeavours were

alfo ufed at home to excite difturbances, but with­

out effect, by Spurius Marlins a plebeian tribune,

who, imagining that, by the popularity of his name, ,

he fhould be able to raifc fome commotion, had

commenced a profecution againft Minucius; and

alfo propofcd a law for confifcating the effects of

Servilius Ahala, alleging that Maelius had been in-

fidioufly crufiied under falfe charges by Minucius;

and objecting to Servilius his having put to death a

citizen who was under no legal fentence. Thefe

charges, however, when canyafied before the peo­

ple,

