148 THE fc.lSTORY

BOOK troops, and none, during the Volfcian war, difplayed

. J*l . a greater fhare of bravery and activity. The conful

y.R. 159. led out his army againft the enemy, and pitched his

B.C.493. camp at a fmall diftance from theirs.

XXV. THE following night, the Volfcians, ex-

•• jfccting great advantages from the difientions of the

Romans, approached their camp, in hopes that,

during the night, fome might defert, or betray their

pofts. They were perceived by the centinels, the

troops were called up, and, the fignal being given,

they ran to arms; and by thefe means fruftrated the

attempt of the Volfcians: the remainder of the night

was dedicated to repofe by both parties. Next day,

at the firft dawn, the Volfcians, having filled up the

trenches, aflaulted the rampart, and were proceed­

ing to demolim the fortifications on every fide,

when the conful, having delayed for fome time, in

order to try the temper of his men, though called

on from all fides, and particularly by the debtors, to

give the fignal, at length, on finding their ardour fo

great, gave the fignal for fallying, and fent forth his

troops, eager for the fight: at the firft onfet, the

enemy were immediately routed, and their rear ha-

raffed in their retreat, as far as the infantry were able

to purfue; and the cavalry, not fufiering them to

recover from their confirmation, drove them all the

Way to their camp: in a little time, the camp itfelf

was furrounded by the legions; and the Volfcians

not 'having courage enough left.to make a fland

there,. ic was taken and plundered. Next day, the

legions were led to Suefla Pometia, whither the

enemy had retreated, and in a few days the town

was taken, and given up to the troops to be plun­

dered.: by thefe means, the needy foldiers were in

forrft meafure relieved. The conful, having ac­

quired great glory, led back his victorious army to

Rome. As he was preparing for his departure,

ambafiadors came to him from the Volfcians of

6 Ecetra,

