O F R O M E. 509

aflault to be made on the city. At the enemy's firft B O O K

approach, they iuppofed that they would begin the , '_ _,.

affault, as foon as they fhould arrive at the city, Y.R. 365.

imagining that they would have remained at tneB'c.J87.

Allia, if this were not their intention. Then, about

fun-fet, they fuppoled it would begin before night,

becaufe there was not much of the day remaining;

then that the defign was put off until night, in order

to ftrike the greater terror. At laft, the approach of

light funk them in difmay, and the evil itfelf which

they dreaded, clofed this fcene of unremitted ap-

prehenfion, the enemy marching into the gates in

hoftile array. During that night however, and alfo

the following day, the ftate preferved a character,

very different from that which fuch a daftardly flight

at the Allia had indicated: for there being no room

to hope, that the city could pofiibly be defend­

ed by the fmall number of troops remaining, a re-

folution was taken, that the young men who were fit

to bear arms, and the abler part of the fenate, with

their wives and children, mould go up into the

citadel and the Capitol; and having collected

ftores of arms and corn, mould, in that ftrong poft,

maintain the defence of the gods, of the inhabit­

ants, and of the name of Rome. That the Fla-

men Quirinalis, and the veftal prieftefles, fhould

carry away, far from flaughter and conflagration,

all that appertained to the gods of the ftate;

and that their worfhip mould not be intermitted,

until there mould be no one left to perform it. "If.

"the citadel, and the Capitol, the manfion of the

"gods; if the fenate, the fource of public cown-

"lei; if the youth of military age, fhould fur-

"vive the ruin which impended over the city, they

"deemed the lofs of the aged light, as of a crowd

"left behind in the city, with a certain profpect of

'' perifhing." And that fuch of this multitude as

confifted of plebeians, might bear their doom with

the greater refignation, the aged nobles, formerly.

dignified

