442 T H E H I S T O R Y

methods. The Romans augmented the nmn-

T _ her of their military tribunes with confular power,

Y.R. 351. electing eight, a number greater than had hitherto

B. c. $00. ^en known. Thefe were Manins .'Emilius Ma-

mercinus a fecond time, Lucius Valerius Potitus a

third time, Appius Claudius Craflus, Marcus Quin-

tilius Varus, Lucius Julius lulus, Marcus Poftumius,

Marcus Furius Camillus, Marcus Poftufflius Albi-

nus. The Veientians, on the other hand, difgufted

at the annual intrigues of candidates, which were

fometimes the cauie of violent difienfions, elected a

king. This ftep gave great offence to all the ftates

of Etruria, as, befides their abhorrence of kingly go­

vernment, they held the perfon eleftcd in no kfs de-

teftarion. He, oat of the infolence of wealth, and

arrogance of his temper, had, before this, ren­

dered himfelf obnoxious to the nation, by violently

breaking off the performance of certain annual

games, the omiffion of which was deemed zn impi­

ety: for, inftigated by pique, beeaufe another can­

didate for the office of prieft had been preferred be­

fore him, by the fuffrages of the twelve ftates, in

the middle of the folemnity, he abruptly carried away

the performers, of whom a great part were his flaves.

That nation, therefore, devoted beyond all others to

religious performances, the more fo, bccaufe they

excelled in the condudt of them, pafied a decree,

by which all aid was refufed to the Veientians, fo

long as they fhould continue under the government

of a king. At Veii, all mention of this decree was

fupprefled by people's dread of the king, who

treated any perfon, reported to have mentioned luch

a matter, as a leader of fedition, not as the author of

an idle rumour. Although the Romans received in­

telligence that all was quiet in Etrurb, yet, being

alfc> informed that this bufinefs was agitated in every

one of their meetings, they formed their fortifications

in fuch a manner as gave them fecurity on both

fides. Some they raifed on the fide next the town,

againft

