• OF ROME.. 421

the town: then he began a contention with his coun- BOOK

trymen, inftead of the ^iquans, and having pro- . '^

claimed, during the aflault, that the plunder mould Y.R. 34T.

be given to the foldiers, when he got pofieifion of B.C. 411.

the town, he broke his word. This, I am inclined

to believe, was the caufe of the anger of the army

againft him, rather than their finding lefs booty than

the tribune had reprefented, in a new colony, and a

town which had been facked a fhort time before.

Their anger was farther inflamed on his return to

the city, whither he had been fummoned by his col­

leagues, on account of feditions raifed by the ple­

beian tribunes, by an exprefiion which he was heard

to utter in an afiembly of the people, which fhewed

great weaknefs, or rather a degree of infanity. On

Sextius, the plebeian tribune, propofing an agrarian

law, and at the fame time declaring that lie would

alfo propofe the fending of a colony to Volae, be-

caufe thofe men deferved to enjoy the city and lands

of Volae, who had gained pofieffion of them by their

arms, he exclaimed, "Woe to my foldiers, at leaft,

"if they are not quiet." Which words gave not

greater offence to the afiembly, than they did foon

after to the patricians, when they heard them j and

the plebeian tribune, a keen man, and not deftitute

of eloquence, having found among his adverfaries

this haughty temper and ungoverned tongue, which,

by provoking and teafing, he might drive into fuch

expreflions as would excite general indignation, not

only againft his particular perfon, but again!! the

whole body and their caufe, drew none of the col­

lege of military tribunes into difputes, more fre­

quently than Poftumius. But now, on fuch a bar-'

barous and inhuman expreffion, he remarked, " Do

"ye hear him, citizens! denouncing woe to foldiers

"as he would to flaves? and yet this brute will be

"judged by you more deferving of that high office

"than thole who iend you into colonies, and enrich

*' you with lands and cities; who provide a fettle-

E E 3 "menr.

