288 THE HISTORY

BOOK, pafied an order, that watches mould be held in the

.^-y-_, city; commanded all, who were of an age to bear

Y. R. 505. arms, to mount guard on the walls, and to form out-

B.c_447. p0fl.s before the gates; decreed a fupply of arms to

be carried to Tufculum; that the decemvirs mould

come down from the citadel of Tufculum, and keep

their troops encamped; that the other camp mould

be removed from Fidenae, into the country of the

Sabines, to the end that the enemy, feeling them-

felves attacked at home, might be deterred from any

defign of attacking the city.

XLIII. To the calamities, inflicted by the ene­

my, the decemvirs added two moft flagitious decc's1

. one at home, and the other in the army. In the

army, which acted againft the Sabines, a perfon,

called Lucius Siccius, taking advantage of the ge-

, neral averfion to the decemvirs, and having fre­

quently, in private converfation with the common

foldiers, made mention of a feceffion, and of elect­

ing tribunes, they fent him on a party of obferva-

• tion, to choofe ground for a camp, and gave in-

ftructions to the foldiers whom they fent to attend

him on the expedition, that they fhould fall upon

him in fome convenient place, and put him to death.

He did not fall unrevenged. For, though fur-

rounded on all fides, he ftood on his defence; and,

being pofiefied of extraordinary perfonal ftrength,

and of fpirit equal to his ftrength, he flew feveral of

the aflaflins. The reft gave our, in the camp, that

they had fallen into an ambufh, and that Siccius was

loft, after fighting with great bravery, and fome of

the foldiers with him. At firft this ftory was be­

lieved: but afterwards, a cohort, which went, with

permiffion of the decemvirs, to bury thole who had

fallen, obferving that none of the bodies there were

ftripped j that Siccius, with his arms, lay in the

middle, while the faces of all the other bodies were

turned towards him; that none of the bodies be­

longed

