ie» THE HISTORY

BOOK mediate death threatening her: Tarquinius then ac-

knowledged his p'aflion, intreated, mixed threats

with intreaties, and ufcd every argument likely to

have effect on a woman's mind: but finding her in­

flexible, and not to be moved, even by the fear of

death, he added to that fear, the dread of difhonour,

telling her, that after killing her, he would murder

a flave, and lay him naked by her fide, that fhe might

be faid to have been flain in bafe adultery. The

fhocking apprehenfidns, conveyed by this menace,

overpowering her refolution in defending her chafti-

ty, his luft became victorious; and Tarquinius de­

parted, applauding hirnfelf for this triumph over a

lady's honour. But Lucretia, plunged by fuch a

dreadful difafter into the deepeft diftrefs of woe, dif-

patched a mefiengcr to Rorge to her father, with

erders to proceed to Ardea to her hufband, and to

defire them to come to her, each with one faithful

friend; to tell them, that there was a neceflity for

their doing fo, and that fpeedily; that a dreadful

affair had happened. Spurius Lucretius came with

Publius Valerius, the fonof Volefus ; Collatinus with

Lucius Junius Brutus, in company with whom he

happened to be returning to Rome, when he was met

by his wife's mel'enger. They found Lucretia fit­

ting in her chamber, melancholy and dejected: on

.the arrival of her friends, fhe burft into tears, and

on her hufband's afking, " Is all well?" "Far

." from it," laid fhe, " for how can it be well with

"a woman who has loft her chaftily? Collatfnus,

rc the irnprefnon of another man is in your bed:

'" yet my perlbn only has been violated, my mind is

'" guiltlefs, as rhy death will teftify. But give me

"your right hands and pledge your honour, that the

"adulterer fhall not efcape unpunifhed. H« is

"Sextus Tarquinius, who, under the appearance of

"a gutft, difguifing an eneijiy, obtained here, laft

"night, by armed violence, a triumph deadly to

'"me, and to himfclf alfo, if ye be men." They

all

