io8 TfcE HISTORY

BOOK forward their operations more vigoroufly, in hopes

.- n' . that the Roman army would be animated with the

Y.R. 1*3. fame fpirit of oppofition againft Appius, which they

B. C. 469. had formerly displayed againft Fabius, when con-

ful; and in fact, in Appius's cafe, it mewed itfelf

with a much greater degree of inveteracy, than in

that of Fabius; for they were not only unwilling to

conquer, like Fabius's troops, but even chofe to be

conquered. When led out to the field, they fled

fhamefully to their camp, nor made a halt, until

they faw the Volfcians advancing to the rampart, and

committing great flaughter on the rear of the army.

The neceffity of repelling the victorious enemy from

the rampart, then prevailed on them to fight, which,

however, they did in fuch a manner, as made it

evident, that they acted only becaufe Roman fol-

.diers would not luffer their camp to be taken: in

other refpects, they rejoiced at their own lofies and

difgrace. All this had fo little effect towards foften-

ing the ftubborn fiercenefs of Appius, that he re-

folved to exhibit farther examples of feverity; but

when he had fummoned an afiembly for the purpofe,

the lieutenant generals and tribunes gathered haftily

about him, and cautioned him " not to hazard a

"trial, of the extent of an authority, whofe whole

"efficacy depended on the will of thofe who were

"to obey it: informed him, that the foldiers in ge-

"neral declared that they would not attend the af-

".fembly; and that, in every quarter, they were

"heard loudly demanding that the camp mould be

"removed out of the Volician territories j they re-

"minded him that the victorious army had, juft

"now, approached almoft dole to the gates and to

"the rampart; and that if he perfifted, there was

"not only reafon to apprehend, but every certain

"indication before their eyes, of a moft grievous

"calamity enfuing." At length, yielding to per-

fuafion, as.nothing but a delay of punifhment could

be the confequence, he prorogued the ail'embly;

gave

