O F R O M E. 281

among the commons; of the fenators, there was BOOK

hardly one in the Forum, very few in the city. . -T-_f

Difgufted with the times, they had retired to their Y.R. 3o5.

country feats; and, being deprived of their fhare in B.c.4*7-

the adminiftration of the public bufinefs, attended

folely to their private affairs; thinking, that, by re­

moving to a diftance from the meeting and converle

of their tyrannic mafters, they had got fo far out of

the reach of ill treatment. On their not meeting

according to fummons, apparitors were difpatched

to all their houfes, to levy the penalties, and at the

fame time to difcover whether their non-attendance

was owing to defign; and thefe brought back an ac­

count that the members of the fenate were in the _

country. This gave lefs pain to the decemvirs, than

if they had heard that they were in town, and refufed

to obey their commands. They then gave orders,

that every one of them fhould be fummoned, and

proclaimed a meeting of the fenate, on the day fol­

lowing, when the members affembled, in much

greater numbers than they themfelves had hoped.

This raifed a fufpicion in the minds of the com­

mons, that the fenators had deferted the caufe of li­

berty, fince they had paid obedience, as to a legal

fummons, to the order of men whofe office had ex­

pired, and who, "except fo far as force prevailed,

were nothing more than private citizens. i

XXXIX. BUT, by all accounts, they fhewed

more obedience in coming to the houfe, than fervi-

lity in delivering their opinions. It is related, that

after Appius Claudius had propofed the bufinefs to

be confidered, before the opinions were demanded

in order, Lucius Valerius Potitus occafioned a great

ferment, by infifting on being allowed to fpeak on

the ftate of the commonwealth; and, when the de­

cemvirs endeavoured to prevent him, declaring, that

he would go out and apply to the commons: and

that Marcus Horatius Barbatus entered the lifts, with

no

