O F R O M E.

LI. WHEN the deputies were difmified, Virginius BOOK

reminded the foldiers, " how much they had been .__^_L_^f

"embarraffed juft now in a.cafe of no extraordinary Y.R. 305.

"difficulty, in confequence of their being a multi- B. c. *4"•

"tude without a head; and that the an Twer given,

"though not inexpedient, was the refult rather of

c' an accidental concurrence, than of a concerted

"plan: he recommended to them, therefore, to

"clect ten perfons, who mould prefide in the di-

"rection of their affairs, and, in the ftyle of mili-

"tary dignity, be called tribunes of the foldiers."

This honour being offered, in the firft place, to him-

felf, he faid, " Refcrve, to a juncture more happy,

"both to you and me, fuch expreflions of your

"good opinion of me. It is neither poffible for

'' me, while my daughter is unrevenged, to reap

C' fatisfadion from any honour, nor is it expedient

"for you, in the prefent difordered ftate of the

"commonwealth, to have thofe at your head who

"are moft obnoxious to party malice. If I can be

"of any fervice, my remaining in a private capa-

'' city will in no degree prevent it." They accord­

ingly elected ten military tribunes. Nor was the

army in the country of the Sabines inactive. There

alfo, at the inftance of Icilius and Numitorius, a fe-

cefiion from the decemvirs was made; men's minds

being no lefs ftrongly agitated by having the mur­

der of Siccius recalled to their memory, than by the

recent account of the barbarous attempt againft the

chaftity of Virginia. When Icilius heard that tri­

bunes of the foldiers had been elected on the Aven-

tine, fearing left the affembly of election in the city

might follow the lead of the military afiembly, and

elect the fame perfons tribunes of the commons,

being well verfed in popular intrigues, and aiming

himfelf at that office, he took care that, before they

proceeded to the city, the fame number with equal

powers mould be electcd by the party with him.

They entered the city in military array through the

Collinc

