THEHISTORY

BOOK" feftly difplayed at this time in favour of the Ro-

^_ - L_ . " man affairs, that I fhould think all difpofition to>

yjL 365. " be negligent in paying due honour to the gods ef-

U.C. 3*7. « fectually removed from the minds of men. For,

'' take a review of the tranfacctions of thefe latter

"years, in order, whether profperous or adverfe,

"and ye will find that in every inftance profperity

"conmintly attended obedience to the gods, and

"adverfity the neglect of them. To begin with the

"war of Veil: for what a number of years, and

'' with what an immennty of labour, was it carried

"on? Yet it could not be brought to a conclu-

"fion, until, in obedience to the admonition of the

"gods, the water was difcharge<l from the Alban

"lake: what! did this unparalleled train of mif-

"fortunes, which ruined our city, commence until

"the voice feut from heaven, concerning the ap-

"proach of the Gauls, had been treated with ne-

"glect; until the laws of nations had been violated

"by our ambaffadors; and until we, with the fame

"difregard .to the gods, pafied over that crime

"w.hich we were bound to punifh? Vanquifhed,

"therefore, made captives, and ranfomed, we have

"fuffered fuch punifhments at the hands of gods

"and men, as render us a warning to the whole

"world. After this, our misfortunes .again re-

•' minded us of our duty to the gods. We fled for

"refuge to the gods into the Capitol, to the manfion

"of Jupiter, fupremely good and great. The fa-

"cred utenfils, amidft the ruin of our own pro-

"perries, we partly Concealed in the earth, partly

"conveyed out of the enemy's fight, to the neigh-

"bouring cities. Abandoned by gods and men,

"yet we did not intermit the worfhip of the gods*

"The confequence was, they reftored us to our

*c country, to victory, and to our former renown in  
'' war, which we had forfeited; and, on the heads

'' of the enemy, who, blinded by avarice, broke

"the faith, of a treaty in reipect to the weight of

"the

