I94 T H £ H I S T O R Y

B o o Kthat time, the mof t powerful in Etruria. This, aC

.___.^_f firft, ftung the Veientians with grief and indignation*

Y.R. ^^(,. afterwards, they formed a defign, fuggefted by the

B.C. 476. prefent circumftances, of enfnaring, by a ftratagem,

their enemy, elated with fuccefs; and they even ob.

ferved, with plealure, the confidence of the Fabii

daily increafing, from a fcries of fuccefsful attempts:

in pursuance of this defign, cattle were frequently

driven in the way of the plundering parties, as if they

had come there by chance j the fields were delerted

by the flight of the peafants, and the bodies of troops,

fent to repel the invaders, retreated with pretended,

oftener than real, fear. The Fabii had now con­

tracted fuch a contempt of the enemy, that they

thought their own arms invincible, and not to be

withftood in any place, or on any occafion. This

preemption carried them fo far, that on feeing, from

(premera, fomc cattle at a diftance, though a long

tiraci: of country lay between, yet as but few of the ene­

my's troops appeared, they ran down to feize them,

and prefied forward with fuch carelefs hafte, as to

pafs by the enemy's troops, who lay in ambufh, on

each fide of the very road, through which they

marched, without difcovering them: they then dif-

perfed themlelves on all fides to collect the cattle,

which ran up and down, as WES natural on being

tightened; when, fuddenly, the enemy rofe from

their concealments, and appeared not only in front,

but on every fide of them. The lhout, which was

carried entirely round, firft ftruck them with terror,

and, in a little time, they were affailed by weapons

oaall fides. As the Etrurians clofed in upon them,

they were obliged, hemmed in, as they were, by one

continued line of troops, to contract the circle which

they had formed, into a narrower compafs; which

circumftance fhewed plainly, both the fmallnefs of

their number, and the great fuperiority of the Etru­

rians, whole ranks were multiplied as the fpace grew

narrower. They then changed .their method of

.fighting,

