O F R O M E. 37,

"mould not laft longer than a year and a half." BOOK

Next day, he got the law pafied with the univerfal t ^' ^

approbation of the people; and then faid, " To Y.R. 3u.

"convince you by my conduct, Romans, how much B. c. 431.

"I difapprove of long continuance in office, I here

"refign the dictatorfhip." Having thus put an

end to one office, and limits to another, he was,

upon his refignation, efcorted by the people to his

houfe, with the warmeft expreffions of gratitude and

affedtion. The cenfors, highly offended at his hav­

ing impofed a reftriction on a public office of the

Roman ftate, degraded Mamercus into a lower tribe*,

and, increafing his taxes eight-fold, disfranchifed

him f. We are told, that he bore this treatment

with great magnanimity, regarding the caufe of the

difgrace rather than the dilgrace itfelf: and that the

principal patricians, though they had been averfe to

a diminution of the privileges of the cenforlhip, were,

neverthelefs, highly difpleafed at this inftance of

harfl^ feverity in the cenfors: every one perceiving,

that he muft be oftener and for a longer time fubje&

to others in the office of cenfor, than he could hold

the office himfelf. The people's indignation cer­

tainly rofe to fuch a height, that no other per-

fon's influence but that of Mamercus himfelf could

• The Hi vi lion of the people into tribes* mada by Romulus, re.

garded the ftock, or origin, of the conftituent members; the fublc-

quent one, by Serviui, was merely local, and a tribe then fignificd

nothing more than a certain fpace of ground with its inhabitants: but

as the tribes increafcd in number, which they did at laft to thirty.five,

this kind of divilion was kt afide, and a tribe became, not a quarter

of the city, but a fraternity of citizens, connected by a participation

in the common rights of the tribe, without any reference to their placet

of refidence. The ruftic tribes were always reckoned more honour­

able than the city tribes, becaufe the bulinefs of agriculture was held

in the higheft ethmation, and becaufe the lowrft of the people were en­

rolled in the latter. The difference of rank, among the ruftic tribes,

depended, partly, on their antiquity, and, partly, on the number of

illuftrious families contained in each. In many cafes, the tribes took

their names from fome of thofe diliinguifhed famllitt.

f A.I .u .uiu facere, lignifies to lirip a perfon of all the privileges qf

* citizen, on which he became ' civil aerarins/ a citizen fo far only a*  
he paid uxer.

have

