OF ROME. 129

Mucius, who afterwards got the furname B O O K

of Scaevola, ^or the left-handed, from the lofs of his . -^-_j

right hand, being thus difmified, was followed to Y.R. 146.

Rome by ambaffadors from Porfena. He had been BiCi i°s.

fo deeply affeded by the danger to which he had

been expofed, in the firft attempt, from which no­

thing had protedled him, but the miftake of the af-

failant; and by the confideration that he was to un­

dergo the fame hazard, as many times as the number

of the other confpirators amounted to, that he thought

proper, of his own accord, to offer terms of accom­

modation to the Romans. During the negotiation,

mention was made, to no purpofe, of the reftoration

of the Tarquinian family to the throne ; and this

propofal he made, rather becaufe he had not been •

able to refufe it to the Tarquinii, than from enter­

taining the flighteft expectation of its being accepted

by the Romans. He carried the point, refpecting

the giving up of the lands taken from the Veientians,

and compelled the Romans to fubmit to give hoft-

ages, if they wifhed to fee his forces withdrawn from

the Janiculum. Peace being concluded on thefe

terms, Porfena withdrew his troops from the Jani­

culum, and retired out of the Roman territories.

To Caius Mucius, as a reward of his valour, the fe-

nate gave a tradT: of ground on the other fide of the

Tiber, which was afterwards called the Mucian

meadows; and, fuch honour being paid to courage,

excited even the other fexto merit public diftinctions.

A young lady called Clcelia, one of the hoftages, the

camp of the Etrurians happening to be pitched at a

fmall diftance from the banks of the Tiber, evaded

the vigilance of the guards, and, at the head of a band

of young ladies, fwam acrofs the Tiber, through a

mower of darts difcharged at them by the enemy,

and reftored them all, in fafety, to their friends at

Rome. When the king was informed of this, be­

ing at firft highly incenfed, he fent envoys to Rome,

. to infift on the reftoration of the hoftage Clcelia; as

VOL. i. .K. to

