O F R O M E. 485

timents j fo that no other circumftance obliged the BOOK

commons to refrain from violence, but that after a ^_-v!_._f

clamour had been fet up as the prelude to a riot, the Y.R. 360.

principal members of the fenate, throwing themfelves B.Ci 391'

foremeft in the way of the crowd, defired that they

might be the perfons attacked, ftruck, and put to

death: and the populace not only abftained from'

offering violence to their age, their dignity, and

honourable characters, but refpect for them re-

ftrained their rage even from any fuch attempts on

others.

XXV. CAMILLUS on every occafion, and in every

place, publicly afierted, that " there was nothing

"furprizing in all thefe commotions; that the ftate

"was actually gone mad j for though it was bound

"by avow, yet it beftowed more concern on every

"other kind of bufinefs, than on acquitting itfelf of

"the obligation. He would lay nothing of the con-

"tribution of an alms in reality, rather than of a

"tenth. However, as each man had bound himfelf

"in his private capacity, the public was fet free.

"But his confcience would not fuJter him to be filent

"on another head, that the tenth of that part only

"of the fpoil was fet apart, which confiiied of move-'

"able effects, and no mention was made of the city,

"or of the lands, which as well as the reft were

"comprehended in the vow." The fenate, finding

it difficult to form a determination on this point, re­

ferred it to the pontiffs in conjunction with Camillusj

and that body gave their opinion, that whatfoever

had been the property of the Veientians before the

littering of the vow, and after the vow was made,

came into the power of the Roman people; of that

the tenth part was facred to Apollo. Thus the city

and the land were brought into the eftimate. The

money was ifllied from the trealury, and the confular

military tribunes were commiflioned to lay it out in

the purchafe of gold. A fuSHcient quantity of this'

i i 3 metal

