198 THE HISTORY

BOOK with the utmoft confidence, infpired by innocence,

. ^' . and by the juftice of his claim to the favour of th$

Y.R. 179. public: he was charged with mifcondui5t in the bat-

B. c.473. £]e witn tne Etrurians at the Janiculum; but being

a man of an intrepid fpirit, as he had done formerly

in the cafe of public peril, fo now in one that threat­

ened himfelf, he difpelled the danger by facing it

with boldnefs: in a fpeech full of undaunted forti­

tude, he retorted on both tribunes and commorty<.and

upbraided them with the condemnation and death

of Titus Meneriius, the fon of that man, to whpfe

good offices the commons ftood indebted for the

reftoration of their privileges, for thofe very laws

and magiftrates, which enabled them now to let loofe

their paflions, in this unreafonable manner. His

colleague Virginius too, being produced as a wit-

nefs, greatly affifted his caufe, by attributing to

him a fhare of his own merit; but what did him the

moft efiential fervice was, the fentence paffcd on

Menenius; fo great a change had taken place in the

minds of the people.

LIII. No fooner had thefe domedic difputes fub-

fidcd, than a new war broke out with the Veientians,

with whom the Sabines had united thfir forces.

After auxiliaries had been brought from the Latines

and Hernicians, the confi.il Valerius, being fent with

an army to Veii, inftantly attacked the Sabine camp,

which they had pitched under the walls of their allies,

and occafioned fuch confirmation, that while, with­

out collecting' into a body, they ran different ways in

fmull parties, to repel the enemy's aflaulr, the gate,

firlt attacked, was taken j and afterwards, within the

rampart, there was rather a carnage than a battle.

From the camp the alarm tpread into the city, and

the Veientians ran to arms in as great a panic as if

Veil were taken: forrje went to fupport the Sabines,

others fell upon the Romans, whole whole force and

attention were employed on the camp; and for a lit­

tle

