OF ROME. 453

"enjoy rank and pay from that date." A certain B o^p K

ftipend was alfo afligned to the horfemen. This was . -T--/

the firft inftance of the cavalry ferving on their own Y.R. 351.

horfes. This army of volunteers, being led to Veii, B. c.400.

not only reftored the works which had been de-

ftroyed, but erected new ones. Greater care than

ever was ufed, in fending them fupplies from the

city, that no kind of accommodation mould be

wanting to troops who merited fo highly.

VIII. THE enfuing year had military tribunes Y.R. jjj.

with confular power, Caius Servilius Ahala a third BiC. »9.

time, Quintus Servilius, Lucius Virginius, Quintus

Sulpicius, Aulus Manlius a fecond time, Manius

Sergius a fecond time. In their tribunate, whilft

all men's attention was directed to the Veientian

war, the fecurity of the garrilbn at Anxur was ne­

glected, the foldiers obtaining leave of abfence, and

the Volfcian traders being freely admitted: the con-

fequence of which was, that the guards at the gates

were fuddenly overpowered, and the place taken by

furprize. The number of foldiers flain was the lefs,

becaufe, except the fick, they were all employed like

futtlers, in trafficking about the country and the

neighbouring cities. Nor did better fuccefs at­

tend the operations before Veu, which were then the .

grand object which engrofied all the public folici-

tude; for the Roman commanders mewed aftronger

difpofition to quarrel among themfelves, than to act

with fpirit againft the enemy. And befides, the

power of their adverfaries received an addition, by

the unexpected arrival of the Capenatians and

Falifcians. Thefe two ftates of Etruria, contiguous

in fuuation to Veii, judged that, fhould that city be

conquered, they fhould be the next expofed to the

attacks of the Romans. The Falifcians were farther

induced, by a reafon particularly affecting them­

felves, to enter into the quarrel, as having formerly

piade themfelves a party in the war of'the Fidena-

c c 4 tians:

