THE HISTORY

mode he was to worfhip the gods, being in

T_c' himfelf a heterogeneous compofition, halfpatrici-

y.R. 310." an and half plebeian? And, not content with the

B. c. 44.1. '< confufion which this would create in every affair,.

"divine and human, thofe incendiaries of the po-

"pulace were now preparing to invade the conful-

"lhip itfelf. At firft they had ventured no farther

'' than to found people's fentiments in converiation,

"on a plan of one of the confuls being elected from

•' among the commons; now, they publicly pro-

"pofed a law, that the people might appoint con-

"fuls, either from among the patricians, or from

"among the plebeians, as they mould think fit; and

"there could be no doubt that they would appoint

"from among the commons the moft feditious that

." could be found. The Canuleii and Icilii therefore

'c would be confuls. But might Jupiter fupremely

"good and great forbid, that the imperial majefty

"of the fovereign power fhould fink fo low as that,

't and for their parts, they would rather die a thou-

'c fand deaths, than fuffer fuch difgracc to be incur-

'' red. They were confident, that could their an-

"ceftors have forefeen, that, in confequence of their

"unlimited conceffions, the commons, inftead of

." coming to better temper towards them, would

"become more intractable; and, as faftas they ob-

"tained their demands, advancing others more un-

"reafonable and exorbitant, they would have ftrug-

"gled at firft with any difficulties whatever, rather

"than have allowed fuch terms to be impofed on

'' them. Becaufe a conceffion was, at that time,

'' made to them with refpect to tribunes, it was for

•' that reafon made a fecond time. This would be

'•' the cafe for ever. Tribunes of the commons,

"and a fenate, could not fubfift together, in the

"fame ftate: either the office of the former,

"or the order of the latter, muft be abolifhed, and

"it was better late than never, to endeavour to put

'• a ftop to their prefumption and temerity. Muft

"they

