0 F R O M E.

at the river Cremera, which they judged to be a pro- BOOK

per fituation for fecuring a poft by fortifications. , J"'

Lucius vEmilius and Caius Servilius were foon after y.R. 1,(5.

elected confuls. And as long as the operations of B.C. 476.

the war were confined to predatory expeditions, the

Fabii were not only fufficiently able to defend their

poft, but by their excurfions, along the common

boundaries, they both effectually fecured their own

frontiers, and fpread danger and devaftation in thofe

of the enemy, through the whole tract, as far as the

Etrurian territories join the Roman. Their mutual

depredations were foon after difcontinued, though but

for a fhort time, for the Veientians having collected

a reinforcement from Etruria, laid fiege to the poft

at the Cremera; and the Roman legions, led thither

by the conful Lacius .ffimilius, fought a clofe en­

gagement with the Etrurians in the field, in which,

however, the Veientians had fcarcely time to form

their troops; for in the midft of the hurry, while

they were taking their pofts under their feveral ban­

ners, and placing bodies of referve, a brigade of Ro­

man cavalry charged them fuddenly on the flank,

in fuch manner as to put it out of their power either

to make a regular onfet, or even to Hand their

ground: being thus compelled to retreat to the Red

Rocks, where they had their camp, they humbly

fued for peace: yet after it had been granted, they

renounced it, before the Roman guard was with­

drawn from the Cremera; fuch was their natural in-

conftancy.

L. THE conteft, then again, lay between the

Fabii and the Veientian ftate, unfupported by any

additional forces on either fide. There pafied be­

tween them not only incurfions into each other's

territories, and fudden attacks on the parties employ­

ed in thofe incurfions, but feveral pitched battles, in

the open field; in which a fingle family of the Ro­

man people often obtained victory over a ftate, ac

VOL. i. o thac

