188 THE, HISTO.RY

B oi o K enemy's line was confiderably weakened; far, con*

. _^ fiding in the fuperiority of their numbers, they had

Y.R. 174. drawn off a part, and fent them to attack the camp:

it. C. 47*. tliefe met but little refinance in the aflault, but waft­

ed time afterwards, being more intent on plunder,

than on fighting; and, in the mean time, the Roman

Triarii *, who had not been able to prevent their

breaking in at firft, difpatched to the confuls an ac­

count of their filiation, returned in a compact body

to the Praetorium, and without waiting for aid, of

themfelves renewed the combat. At the fame time,

the conful Manlius having rode back to the camp,

pofted troops at all the gates, and blocked up every

paflage by which the enemy could retreat. The

defperate fituatinn in which the Etrurians then faw

themfelves, infpired them not only with boldnefs,

but with fury; fo that, after they had made feveral

fruitlefs efforts, attempting every place where they

faw any profpect of gaining a paflage, one band of

their young men made an attack on the conful him-

felf, whom they diftinguifhed by his armour: his at­

tendants covered him from the firft difcharge of their

weapons; but could not long withftand their force:

the conful, receiving a mortal wound, fell, and his

attendants were entirely difperfed. This added new

confidence to the Etrurians, and fo difpirited the

Romans, that they fled, in difmay, through all parts

of the camp; and they would probably have been

utterly ruined, had not the lieutenant generals,

haftily removing the conful's body, opened a paflage

for the enemy, through one of the gates: through

this they rufhed out; and, as they were retreating in

the utmoft diforder, fell m with the other conful,

•who was flufhed with fuccefs. In this fecond en­

counter many were cut off", and the reft fled differ­

ent ways. The victory was complete, but the joy,

• The Triarii were veteran foldiers, of approved valour: they

formed the thud line, hence ilicir name.

which

