O F R O M E. t$9

delivered from their anxiety, refpecting the iffue of B O O K

their domeftic affairs; with fuch powerful influence, . -r-_f

and with fuch art alfo, .had the lenders of money Y.R. 16o.

concerted their meafures, that they were able to dif- Bt c.49i.

appoint not only the commons, but even the dicta足

tor himfelf: for Valerius, on the return of the con-

ful Vetufius, took care that the firft bufinefs which

came before the fenate fhould be that of the people,

who had returned home victorious j and propofed

the queftion, what did they think proper to be done

with refpect to the perfons confined for debt? and

when they refufed to take the matter into confidera-

tion, he faid, " My endeavours to reftore concord

"among you, I fee, are difpleafing to you: believe

"me when I folemnly declare, that the time will

"fhortly come when you will wifh, that the com-

"mons of Rome had juft fuch patrons as I am: as

"to myfelf, I will neither be the means of farther

"difappointments to the hopes of my countrymen,

"nor will I hold the office of dictator without effect:

'' inteftine dtfcord and foreign wars made it neceffa-

"ry for the commonwealth to have fuch a magif-

". trate: peace has been procured abroad, at home

"it is not fuffered to take place: it is my determi-

"nation then, in time of fedition, to appear in the

"character of a private citizen, rather than that of

"dictator." Then withdrawing from the fenate -

houfe, he abdicated the dictatorfhip. The cafe ap足

peared to the commons, as if he had refigned his

office out of refentment of the treatment fhewn to

them, and therefore, as if he had fulfilled his en足

gagements, it not having been his fault that they

were not fulfilled, they attended him, as he re足

tired to his houfe, with approbation and applaufe.

XXXII. THE fenate were then fcized with ap-

prehenfions, that if the citizens fhould be difcharged

from the army, their fecret cabals and confpiracies

would be renewed ; wherefore, fuppofing that, though

the

