O f R O M E. 249

"figrjs that lurked under the law propofed by the BOOK

"tribunes, mindful of his anceftors, mindful of his , _I_^

"furname, by which, attention to promote the inte- Y.R.

"reft of the people was handed down to him, as an Bi t<.

•c inheritance from his anceftors, he would give no

"obftruction to the afiernbly of the people." Led

by him, notwithftanding that the tribunes in vain

cried out loudly againft it, they directed their march

up the fteep of the Capitol. They were joined by

the troops of Tufculum; and citizens and allies vied

with each other, for the glory of recovering the ci­

tadel; each leader encouraging his own men. The-,

enemy, on this, were greatly terrified, having no reli­

ance on any thing but the ftrength of the place;

and while they were thus difconcerted, the Romans

and allies pufhed forward to the aflault. They had

already broken into the porch of the temple, when

Publius Valerius leading on the attack, was flain, at

the head of his men. Publius Volumnius, formerly

conful, faw him fall, and charging thofe about him

to cover the body, Turned forward to take the place

and the office of the conful. The ardour and ea-

gernefs of the foldiers were fuch, as hindered their

perceiving fo great a lofs, and they gained the

victory, before they knew that they were fighting

without their leader. Many of the exiles defiled the

temple with their blood, many were taken alive;

Herdonius was flain. Thus was the Capitol reco­

vered. Punifhments were inflicted on the prifoners,

fuitable to their feveral conditions either of freemen

or flaves. Thanks were given to the Tufcuhns.

The Capitol was cleanfed and purified. It is iaid,

that the plebeians threw into the conful's houfe a

<|uadrans each, that his funeral might be folemnized

with the greater fplendour.

XIX. PEACE being re.eftablimed, the tribunes

earneftly preffed the fenate to fulfil the promife of

Publius Valerius, and prefied Claudius to acquit the

fhade

