22 THEHISTORT

BOOK been only two inftances of the grand fpoils being otr*

tained; fo rare was the attainment of that high

honour.

XI. WHILE the Romans were there employed in

this manner, the army of the Antemnatians, taking

advantage of the opportunity which the country be­

ing left without troops afforded them, made an hof-

tile incurfion into the Roman territories; whereupon

a Roman legion*, haftily led out againft them, fur-

pvife them, while they firaggled through the coun­

try. They were routed therefore at the firft onlet

and fhout, and their town was taken. J While Ro­

mulus exulted in this lecond victory, his confort,

Herfilia, teafed by the intreaties of the ravifhed wo­

men, earneftly petitioned him that he would fhew

favour to their parents, and admit them into the

number ot his citizens, a meafurt which could not

fail of forming an union fatisfactory to all parties.

Thisrcqudl was eafily obtained. He then marched

againft the Crulhiminians, who were carrying on

hoftiiities: with thefe he had ftill leis trouble, be-

caufe they had been difpirited by the defeats of their

allies. Colonies were lent to both places, but

greater numbers were found willing to give in their

names for Cruftuminum, on account of the fertility

of the foil. There were frequent migrations alfo

from thole countries to Rome, chiefly of the parents

Y. R. and relations of the ravifhed women. The laft war,

on.this occafion, was begun by the Sabines; and it

was by far the moft formidable, for none of their

operatiens were directed by rage or pafllon, nor did

they dilclofe their intentions until they began to act'.

Tliey employed ftratagem too, in aid of prudence.

i

* So en!led from Icgf re, to choofV, lo felrfl. Thelfgion cortfflcJ,  
at this tune, of 3000 toot and 500 hoilc. The nuinl,ei afterwarilt

was gcreially 4000 fuot ami 300 horle; and lomelitnts angmentcd to

6000 toot and 400 hoilc. It was divided into ic cohuili, 30 com­

paines, and. 60 ccmuiit'.

The

