OF ROME. 449

ct thy tribunes have, all on a fudden, grown fo care- B O O K

"ful, after having attempted to wreft their pay out i—yl—j

"of their hands? How do they ftand? They have Y.R. 351.

"formed a rampart and a trench, both works ofB. C. *°°'

"immenfe labour, through fo great an extent of

"ground: they have erected forts, at firft only a

"few, afterwards a great number, when the army

"was augmented; and they have raifed defences,

"not only on the fide next to the city, but alfo op-

"pofite Etruria, againft any fuccours which fhoulct

"arrive from thence. Why need I mention towers,

"covered approaches, and the like; together with

"all the various machines ufed in attacking towns?

"Now, that fuch a quantity of labour has been ex-

"pended, and that they have juft come to the finifh-

"ing of the work, do ye think it would be prudent

"to abandon all thefe preparations, that, the next

"fummer, they may be obliged to undergo again the

t' fame courfe of toil and labour in forming theie

"a-new? How much lefs difficulty would it coft, to

"fupport the works already formed, to prefs forward

"and perfevere, and thus get rid of the trouble?

." For there is no doubt that the bufinefs will be foon

"accomplimed, if it is pufhed forward by an uni-

"form courfe of exertions; and, if we do not our-

'' felves defer the attainment of our own hopes, by

"thus interrupting and fufpending our proceedings.

"What I have faid, regards only the labour, and

"the lofs of time. But let me afk farther, can we

"difregard the danger which we incur by procrafU-

"nation; while we fee fo frequent meetings held by

"the Etrurians on the fubject offending aid to Veii?

"As matters ftand, at prefent, they are difpleafed

"and angry with that people; declare that they will

"not fend them aid; and, for any concern which

"they take in the affair, we are at liberty to take

"Veii. But who can promife that if we fufpend

"our operations, they will be in the fame temper

"hereafter? For, if you allow any relaxation, more

VOL..i. GO '" refpectable,

