O F R O M E. 429

fuls, which was not yet laid open to both. On the8 O <? K

other hand, the Icilii infifted that military tribunes._J.^~_,

fhould be elected, and fome fhare in the pofts of ho- Y.k. 3'.6.

nour at length imparted to the commons. B. L.. +°6*

LV. THE confuls had no bufinefs on their hands,

by an oppofuion to which, they could extort a com­

pliance with their wi/hes: when at a moment fur-

prifingly feafonable for their purpofe, news was

brought that the Volfdans and .fliquans had

marched beyond their own frontiers, to ravage the

lands of the Latines and Hernicians. To oppose

whom, when the confuls began to levy troops, the

tribunes exerted themfelves ftrenuoufly to hinder

them; affirming that this was an advantageous op­

portunity, prefented by fortune to them and to the

commons. There were three of them, all men

of the moft active talents, and of a family of diftinc-

tion among the plebeians. Two of thefe chofe each

a conful, whofe motions he was to watch with unre­

mitting afliduity; the third had the charge afUgned

him, of fometimes rcftraining, fometimes fpiriting up

the commons by his harangues. Thus neither could

the conluls accomplifh the levy, nor the tribunes the

election which they wifhed. After fome time, for­

tune inclining to the fide of the commons, exprefies

arrived that the ^Equans had attacked the citadel of

Carventa, while the folciers of the garrifon were

draggling abroad in fearch of plunder, and had put

to death the few who were left to guard it; that fe-

veral were flain, as they were haftily returning to the

citadel, and others while they were difperfed through

the country. This incident, while it prejudiced the

ftate, added force to the project of the tribunes.

For, though aflailed by every argument to induce

them to defift, at leaft in the prefent fituation of af­

fairs, from obftructing the bufinefs of the war, they

.would not give way either to the ftorm which threat­

ened the public, or to the torrent of difplealure to which

