O F R O M E. 263

he was requefted to " put on his gown, and hear a B O O K

"meflage from the fenate." Surprized, and afk- •__ _T_ _j

ing if " all was well?" he bade his wife Racilia Y.R. 196.

bring out his gown, quickly, from the cottage j Bt c. *s6'

when he had put it on, after wiping off the fweat

and duft, he came forward towards them; then the

deputies congratulated him, and faluted him dicta­

tor j requefted his prefence in the city, and informed

him of the alarming fituation of the army: a vefiel

had bee A prepared for Quintius by order of govern­

ment, and, on his landing at the other fide, he was

received by his three fons, who came out to meet

him; then by his other relations and friends, and

afterwards by the greater part of the patricians.

Surrounded by this numerous attendance, and the

lictors marching before him, he was conducted to

his refidence. The plebeians, too, ran together from

all quartersj but they were far from beholding

Quintius with equal pleafure, for they thought the

powers annexed to that office too unlimited, and the

man himfelf more arbitrary, even than the office.

During that night, no farther fteps were taken than

to poft watches in the city.

XXVII. NEXT day, the dictator coming into the

Forum before it was light, named Lucius Tarqui-

tius mafter of the horfe; he was of a patrician fa­

mily, but though, by reafon of the narrownefs of

his circumftances, he had ferved among the foot,

yet he was accounted by many degrees the firft, in

military merit, among all the young men of Rome.

Attended by his mafter of the horfe, he came to the

afiembly of the people, proclaimed a ceflation of

civil bufinefs, ordered the mops to be fhnt in all

parts of the city, and that no one mould attend to

any private affairs; then iflued orders that all who

were of the military age mould attend, under arms,

in the field of Mars, before fun-fet, with victuals

for five days, ready drefied, and twelve palifades

each j and that thofe whofe age rendered them unfit

s 4 for

