O F R O M E. 373

him as equal to Romulus. With the ufual form of B O O K

dedication he prefented and hung up the fpoils in the . _T_L •

temple of Jupiter Fcretrius, near the fpoils dedi- Y.R. 318.

cated by Romulus, which were the firft denominated B.Ct +J41

opima, and the only ones then exifting. He drew

off the people's attention from the chariot of the dic­

tator to himfelf, and enjoyed almoft folely the ho­

nour of that day's folemnity. The dictator, by or­

der of the people, depofited in the Capitol, as an

offering to Jupiter, a golden crown of a pound

weight, at the expence of the public. Following

all the authors who have written before me, I have

reprefented Aulus Cornelius Coffus as a military tri­

bune, when he carried the fecond fpolia opima into

the temple of Jupiter Feretrius: but, befides that

thofe fpoils only are properly deemed opima, which

one general has taken from another, and we know

no general but the perfon under whofe aufpices the

war is carried on, the infcription itfelf, wriften on the

fpoils, proves againft them and me, that Coffus was

conful when he took them. Having once heard

Auguftus Caefar, the founder or reftorer of all our

temples, on entering the temple of Jupiter Feretrius,

which from a ruin he had rebuilt, aver, that he him­

felf had read this infcribed on the linen breaftplate,

I thought it would be next to facrilege, to rob Col-

fus of fuch a teftimony refperting his fpoils, as that

of Caefar, to whom the temple itfelf owed its being.

Whether the miflake is chargeable on both the very

antient annals and the books of the magiftrates, writ­

ten on linen and depofued in the temple of Moneta,

and continually cited as authority by Licinius Ma-

ccr, which have Aulus Cornelius Coflus, conful,

with Titus Quintius Penius in the ninth year after

this, every one may form his own judgment. For,

that fo celebrated a battle could not be transferred

to that year, there is this farther proof; that, for

three years before and after the conlulmip of Aulus

Cornelius, there was an almoft entire ccffation from

B B 3 war

