i6S THE HISTORY

B o o K XXXVI. IT happened that preparations were

±^~^j then making at Rome for a repetition of the great

Y.R. 163. games. The reafon of repeating them was this:

B. C. 489. on tne morning Of the day when the games were to

have been celebrated, before the fhews began, fome

mafter of a family, after lafhing a flave loaded with a

neck-yoke, had driven him acrofs the middle of the

circus; the games afterwards began, as if this affair

i had no relation to religion. Some mort time after,

Titus Atinius, a plebeian, had a dream; he imagined

Jupiter to have laid to him, that " the dancer, who

"performed before the games, had been difpleafing

"to him, and unlefs thofe games were repeated,

"and that in a magnificent manner, the city would

"be in danger; and ordered him to go and tell this

"to the confuls." Although the man's mind was

under the influence of a confiderable degree of fuper-

ftition, yet the awe which he felt of the high dignity

of the magiftrates, and his own apprehenfions left he

fhould be treated by them, and the public, as an ob-

iedt of ridicule, overcame that dread: this delay coft

him dear; for, within a few days he loft his fon:

and, left the caufe of that fudden difafter mould be

doubtful, while he was overwhelmed with grief for

his lols, the fame phantom appeared to him in his

fleep, and feemed to afk him," whether he had got-

"ten a fufficient reward for his contempt of the

"deity?" telling him that " a ftill greater yet;

"awaited him, unlefs he went immediately, and de-

lt livered the meflage to the confuls." This made

a deeper impreffion on his mind, and yet he ftill he-

fitated and delayed, until at length he was attacked.

by a grievous diforder, a ftroke of the palfy: then,

at laft, he fubmitted to the admonitions of the divine

difpleafure: and, wearied out by his paft fufferings,

and the apprehenfion of others which threatened

him, he called a council of his intimate friends ; and,

after he had acquainted them with the feveral things

which,

