OF ROME. $07

chiefly to guard againft; and fuppofmg, that the B o o K

eminence had been feized with defign, that when . __' _j

the Gauls thould be engaged in front with the line Y.R. }6S.

of the legions, that referved body might make an P. ?• &•

attack on their rear and flank, turned his force

againft the refervc, not doubting, that if he could

diflodge them from their poft, his troops, fo much

fuperior in number, would find an eafy victory in the

plain : thus not only fortune, but judgment alfo ftood

on the fide of the barbarians. In the oppofite army

there appeared nothing like Romans, either among

the commanders, or the foldiers. Terror and dif-

may had taken pofieffion of their minds, and fuch a

total unconcern for the reft of mankind, that greater

numbers by far fled to Veii, a city of their enemy,

though the Tiber lay acrofs the way, than by the

direct road to Rome, to their wires and children.

The fituation of the ground for fome time defended

the referve: but thofe who compofed the reft of the

line, no fooner heard the fhout, thofe who ftood near-

eft on their flank, and thofe at a diftance on their

rear, than, not only without attempting to fight, but

without even returning the fhout, frefh as they were

and unhurt, they ran away from an untried enemy,

at whom they fcarce ventured to look. No lives

were loft in the fight; but their rear was cut to

pieces while they crowded on one another, in fuch

hurry and confufion, as retarded their flight. Great

flaughter was made on the bank of the Tiber, whi­

ther the whole left wing, after throwing away their

arms, had directed their flight; and great numbers

who knew not how to fwim, or were not very ftrong,

being burthened with their coats of mail and other

defenfive armour, were fwallowed up in the current.

However the greateft part efcaped fafe to Veii, from

whence they neither fent any reinforcement to Rome,

nor even a courier to give notice of their defeat.

Thofe of the right wing which had been pofted at a

diftance from the river, near the foot of the moun­

tain,

