244 THE HISTORY

B o o K A number of exiles and flaves, amounting to fonr

. ^' . thoufand five hundred, under the command of Ap-

Y.R. 194. pius Herdonius a Sabine, feized on the Capitol and

B. c. 458. eitadel by night, and put to death all thofe in the cr-

tadel, who refufed to joiir the confpiracy, and take

arms along with them. Some, during this tumult,

ran down to the Forurn with all the precipitate haftc

which their fright infpired, and the eries of, " to

"arms," and " the enemy are in the city," re-

founded alternately. The confuls were afraid ei­

ther to arm the commons, or to let them remain

without arms, not knowing what this danger was,

•which had fo fuddenly aflailed the city; whether it

was occafioned by foreign or domeftic forces; whe­

ther by the difafft'ftion of the commons, or the trea­

chery of the flaves. They exerted themfelves to

quiet the.tumults, and, not unfrequently, their very

endeavours to quiet them ferved but to exafperate

them the more: for it was impoffible, in fuch a ftate

of terror and confirmation, to make the populace

obey command. They gave them arms notwith-

ftanding, but not to all without diflinction, only to

fuch as they could fafely rely on in all emergencies,

not yet knowing with what enemy they had to con­

tend. The reft of the night they fpent in polting

guards, in proper places, all over the city, flill re­

maining in anxious fufpence, unable to find out who

the enemy were, or what their number. Day-light

then arriving, made a difcovery of.the enemy, and

of their leader: Appius Herdonius from the Capitol

invited the flaves to liberty, telling them, that " he

"had undertaken the caufe of' all the unfortunate*

'' with intent of reftoring.to their country thofe who

"had been unjuftly driven into banifhment, and of

"delivering thofe who groaned under the grievous

"yoke of flavery. He rather wifhed that this

"might be accomplifhed by the voluntary act of

•" the Roman people: but if that was not to be

"hoped, he would roufe the Volfcians and JEquans

"HI

