26o THE HIS TORY

BOOK the tenth from the founding of the city. The num-

._-T- -' ber of citizens rated, was one hundred and thirty-

Y.R. 195. two thoufand four hundred and nine. The coniuls

B.C.457. acquired great glory this year, both at home and

in war: for they eftablifhed peace abroad, and, at

home, though the ftate enjoyed not perfect concord,

• yet the diffenfions wefe Icis violent than at other

times.

Y.R. 196. XXV. Lucius Minucius and Cains Nautius, who

B. c. 456. wtrc next elected confuls, found on their hands the

two caufes in dilpute, which lay over from the laft

year. The confuls ;,bfrrudr.ed the palh;ig of the law,

and the tribunes the trial of Volfcius, with equal de­

grees of activity. But the new quaeftors were pof-

feficd of greater power and influence. Together

with Marcus Valerius, fon of Manius Valerius,

grandfon of Volefus, Titus Quintius Capitolinus, ,

who had been thrice conful, was qusjftor. Although

Ca:ib could not be thereby reftorcd to the Quintian

family, and, in him, the moft valuable of its young

men, to the ftate, yet with an animofity dictated by

juftice and duty, he profecuted the falle witnefs, by

whofe means an innocent perlbn had been deprived

of the liberty of making his defence. The tribunes,

and particularly Virginius, endeavouring to procure

the puffing of their law, the confuls were allowed the

fpace of two months to examine it, on condition,

that when they mould have informed the people of

the dangerous defigns which were concealed under

the propofitions which it contained, they would then

allow them to give their votes on it. This refpite of

proceedings being acceded to, rendered matters

quiet in the city. But the /Equans did not allow

them long to enjoy reft; for, violating the league

which had been made the preceding year with the •

Romans, they conferred the chief command on

Gracchus Clcelius, a man at that time of by far the

greateft confequence among them; and, headed by

. . him, .

