OF ROME. 181

would think they had been vanquifhed, retired to &O _°

their camp, execrating, at one time, the general, at .'

another, the exertions of the cavalry. Nor did the Y.R

general lay himfelf out to find any remedy for fuch a B.c.

peftilent example, fhewing by one inftance among

many, that men ofthe moft tranfcendent abilities arc

more apt to be deficient in the art of governing their

own countrymen, than in that of conquering an ene­

my. The conful returned to Rome, having reaped

little frefh glory from the war, but having irritated

and exafperated, to a high degree, the hatred ofthe

fokliers againft him. The patricians, notwithftand-

ing, had influence enough to continue the confulfhip

in the Fabian family: they elected Marcus Fabius Y.R. -74..

to that office, and Cneius Manlius was appointed his B. c.478.

colleague,

XLIV. THIS year alfb produced a tribune hardy •

enough to make another attempt at carrying the agra­

rian law. This was Titus Pontificius, who purlucd the

fame method, as if it had fucceeded, with Spurius Li-

cinius, and for fome time obftructcd the levy: the

patricians being hereby again perplexed, Appius

Claud. us afierted, that " the plan adopted lait year

"had effectually fubdued the tribunitian power, for

"the prefent, by the very act, and, to all future

"times, by the example, which it had elUblifhed .t

"fince it was difcovered, how that power might be

"deprived of efficacy, through the very means fup-

"plied by its own ftrength; for there would, at all

"times, be one among them, defirous of procuring

"to himfelf a fuperiority over his colleague, and, at

"the fame time, the favour of the better part of the

"community, by promoting the good of the pub-

"lie: they would even find more than one tribune,

'c if more were neceflary, ready to fupport the con-

"fuls, though one would be fufficient againft all the

"reft: only let the confuls, and principal fena;ors,

"exert themfclves, to fecurc in the intereft of the

N 3

