380 THE .Hl'ST'OR Y

BOOK have deterred them from offering violence to the

iv. r

cenlors.

Y.R. 5t1. XXV. THE plebeian tribunes, by conftantly ha-

B.C. 430. ranging the people againft the election of confuls,

prevailed at laft, after bringing the affair almoft to

an interregnum, that military tribunes with confular

power fhould be elected. In the prize of victory

which they aimed at, the getting a plebeian elected,

they were entirely difappointed. The perfons elect -

ed were all patricians, Marcus Fabius Vibulanus,

Marcus Foflius, and Lucius Sergius Fidenas. Dur足

ing that year, the peftilence kept other matters quiet.

For the reftoration of health to the people, a temple

was vowed to Apollo, and the decemvirs, by di足

rection of the books, performed many rites, for the

purpofe of appeafing the wrath of the gods, and

averting the peftilence. The mortality notwith-

ftanding was great, men and cattle periming toge足

ther, both in the city and the country. Dreading

a famine, in .confequence of the death of the huf-

bandmen, they fent for corn to Etruria; and the

Pomptine diftritSt, to Cumae, and at laft to Sicily

alfo. No mention was made of electing confuls.

Military tribunes with confular power were elected,

YR all patricians, Lucius Pinarius Mamercinus, Lucius

B.V.4ijj.' Furius Medullinus, and Spurius Poftumius Albus.

In this year, the violence of the diforder abated, nor

were there any apprehenfions of a fcarcity of corn,

care having been taken to provide againft it. Schemes

for exciting wars were agitated in the meetings of the

^Equans and Volfcians, and in Etruria at the temple

of Voltumna. Here the bufinefs was adjourned for

a year, and a decree pafied forbidding any affembly

to be held before that time, while the nation of the

Veientians in vain complained, that thp fame mis足

fortunes hung over Veii, which had deftroyed Fi-

denie. Meanwhile, at. Rome, the leaders of the

commons, who had now, for a long time, in vain,

purfued

