OF ROME, 433

*c protefted againft: the fenate paffing a decree, he B O O K.  
<c would confider a vote of that body as fufficient '^

"authority*." By which conduct, having, defervedly, Y.R. 3*7.

obtained the praifes and favour of all, after he had B. Ct 4*5.

nominated Publius Cornelius dictator, he was him-

felf appointed by him mafter of the horfe, and af­

forded an example to fuch as obferved his cafe, and

that of his colleagues, that honours and public fa­

vour fometimes offer themfclves more readily to

thofe who fhew no ambition for them. The war

produced no memorable event. In one" battle,

and that gained without difficulty, the enemy were , •

vanquifhed at Antium. The victorious army

laid the lands of the Volfcians entirely wafte.

Their fort, at the lake Fucinus, was taken by ftorm,

and in it three thoufand men made prifoners; the reft

of the Volfcians were driven into the towns, without

making any attempt to defend the country. The

dictator having conducted the war in fuch a manner

as.fhewed only that he was not negligent of fortune's'

favours, returned to the city with a greater fhare of

fuc'cefs than of glory, and refigned his office. The

military tribunes, without making any mention of an

election of confuls, I fuppofe through pique for the

appointment of a dictator, ifTued a proclamation for

the election of military tribunes. The perplexity of

the patricians became now greater than ever, when

they faw their caufe betrayed by men of their own

order. In like manner as they had therefore done

the year before, by fctting up as candidates the moft

unworthy of the plebeians, they created a difguft

againft all, even the deferving; and then, by engag­

ing thofe patricians wh<> were moft eminently dif-

tinguifhed by the fplendor of their character, and by

jheir intereft, to Hand forth as candidates, they fe~

• Many circumftances might prevent the fenate's |,afling a decree)

in fuch cales the opinion of the maimuy was recorded, and wat carted

• .ustii., aufteritas.' It mfght U: referred to the people for con.

Jirmation.

VOL. i. ft <ured

