OF ROME. 133

'C is your fixed and unalterable refolution, I will nei- BOOK

"ther teize you by a repetition of fruitlefs applica- ,_^.!-^

"tions, on the fame fubject, nor will I difappoint Y.R. 1*7.

"the Tarquinii, by giving hopes of affiftance, which B.c. $°s.

"they muft not expect from me. Let them, whe-

"ther they look for war or for quiet, feek fome

"' other refidence in their exile, that there may fub-

"lift no caufe of jealoufy, to difturb, henceforward,

"the good underftanding, which I wim to maintain-

"between you and me." To thefe exprefiions he

added acts ftill more friendly; the hoftages, which

remained in his pofieffion, he reftored, and gave

back the Veientian land, of which the Romans had

been deprived by the treaty at the Janiculum. Tar-

quinius, finding all hopes of his reftoration cut off,

retired for refuge to Tufculum, to his father-in-law,

Mamilius Octavius. Thus peace and confidence

were firmly eftablifhed between the Romans and

Porfena.

XVI. THE next confuls were Marcus Valerius Y.R. 149.

and Publius Poftumius. During this year, war was B.c' i33'

carried on, with fuccefs, againft the Sabines, and the

confuls had the honour of a triumph. The Sabines,

afterwards, preparing to renew the war, in a more

formidable manner, to oppofe them, and, at the

fame time, to guard againft any fudden danger which

might arifefrom the fide of Tufculum, where, though

war was not openly declared, there was reafon to

apprehend that it was intended, Publius Valerius, a Y.R. zjo.

fourth time, and Titus Lucretius, a fecond time, were Bt v. 501.

chofcn confuls. A fedition, which broke out among

the Sabines, between the advocates for peace and

thofe for war, was the means of transferring a con-

fiderable part of their ftrength to the fide of the Ro­

mans. For Atta Claufus, called afterwards at

Rome Appius Ciaudius, being zealous in favour of

peaceful meafures, but overpowered by the turbulent

promcfcers of war, and unable to make head againft

K 3 their

