OF ROME. 237.

"fore, that they might now ftand up with lafety in B O O K'

"defence of their liberty." Such was the language t-_^_J.

of the tribunes. Y.K. 19.,.

B. c. 4.59.

XI. BUT, on the other fide, the confuls, fixing

their chairs within view of them, began to proceed

in the levy; thither the tribunes haftened, and drew

the afiembly with them. A few were cited by way

of experiment, and immediately outrages commenc足

ed. Whenever a lirtor, by the conful's command,

laid hold of any perfon, a tribune ordered him to be

fet at liberty. Nor did either party confine them-

felves within the limits of that authority, to which

their office entitled them j every ftep taken was to

be fupported by force and ftrength of hands. The

fame line of conduct, which the tribunes had obferv-

ed, in obftructing the levy, was followed by the

confuls, in their oppofition to the law, which was

brought forward, on every day whereon an afiembly

could be held. The riot was begun by the patricians

refufing to withdraw, after the tribunes had ordered

the people to proceed to the place of voting. The

elder citizens hardly ever attended the proceedings

on this affair, becaufo they were not to be regulated

by prudence, but abandoned to the direction of rafh-

nefs and violence; and the confuls generally kept

out of the way, left, in fuch general confufion, they

fhould expoie their dignity to infult. There was

a young man called Cjcib Quintius, full of prefump-

tion, on account both of the nobility of his defcent,

and his peribnal fize and ftrength; to thefe qualifica足

tions beftowed by the gods, he had added many war足

like accomplifhments, and a confiderable degree of

eloquence in the Forum, infomuch that no perfon in

the ftate was deemed to poffefs greater abilities, ei足

ther for acting or fpeaking: this man having placed

himfelf in the midft of the body of the patricians,

confpicuous in ftature above the reft, and as if he

carried in his eloquence and perfonal ftrength, every

power

