OF ROME.' 37T.

on the right wing againft the Falifcians; Quinttus B O O K

Capitolinus on the left againft the Veientians; and . _-JL-j

the mafter of the horfe, with the cavalry, advanced" Y.R. 318;

in the centre. For a fhort time, all was filence and B.C.

quiet; the Etrurians being refolved not to engage

unlefs they were compelled, and the dictator keep­

ing his eyes fixed on a Roman fort in the rear, until

a fignal which had been concerted mould be raifed

by the augurs, as foon as the birds gave a favoura­

ble omen; on perceiving which, he ordered the

cavalry firft to charge the enemy with a loud fhout:

the line of infantry following, began the conflict with

great fury. The Etrurian legions coiald not in any

quarter withftand the attack of the Romans: the

cavalry made the greateft refiftance; and the king

himfelf, diftinguimed in valour far beyond all the

cavalry, by frequent charges on the Romans, while

they were purfuing in diforder, in all parts of the

field, prolonged the conteft.

XIX. THERE was, at that time, among the Ro­

man cavalry, a military tribune called Aulus Corne­

lius Coflus, remarkable for the extraordinary beauty

of his perfon, as well as for his fpirit and bodily

ftrength, and attention to the honour of his family,

which, having defcended to him with a great degree

of luftre, he conveyed to his pofterity with a large

increafe, and with additional fplendor: perceiving

that wherever Tolumnius directed his courfe, the

troops of Roman cavalry fhrunk from his charge,

and knowing him by the diftinction of his royal ap­

parel, as he flew through every part of the army, he

cried out, " Is this he who breaks the bands of hu.

"man fociety, and violates the laws of nations?

"This victim will I quickly flay, provided it is the

'* will of the gods that any thing fhould remain fa-

"cred on earth, and will offer him to the manes of

"the amb'afladors." With thefe words, he clapped

fpurs to his horfe, and with his fpear prefented,

» B a . tingling

