THEHISTORT

Of that, not a fod mould be affigned to any

__ man until every one of the Rutulians fhould have re-

Y.R. 313. ceived his mare: by thefe means the land returned

B. C. 439. to the Ardeans. The commiflioncrs appointed to con­

duct the colony to Ardea, were Agrippa Menenius,

Titus Cbelius Siculus, and Marcus ^Ebutius Elva;

•who, in the execution of their very unpopular em­

ployment, having given offence to the commons, by

afligning to the allies that land which the Roman

people had by their fentence pronounced to be their

own; and, not being much favoured even by the

principal patricians, becaufe they had fhewn no de­

ference to the influence of any of them, were by the

tribunes cited before the people, to anfwer a charge

of mifconduct; but they evaded all vexatious at­

tacks, by enrolling themfelves. as fettlers, and re­

maining in that colony, which 'would ever bear tefti-

mony to their juftice and integrity,

Y.R. 3^. XII. TRANQUILLITY continued at home and

'*3 ' abroad during both this and the following year, in

which Caius Furius Pacilus, .and Marcus Papilius

Craflus were confuls. The games vowed by the de­

cemvirs in purfuance of a decree of the fenate, on

occafion of the feceflion of the commons from the

patricians, were this year performed. An occafjon

of fedition was fought in vain by Petilius; who,

though he was elected tribune of the commons, a

fecond time, merely out of people's reliance on the

ftrength of his declarations, that he would effec"fc

thofe very purpofes, yet he was neither able to carry

the point, that the confuls fhould propofe to the fenate

a diftribution of lands to be made to the commons;

nor, when, after a great ftruggle, he had prevailed

fo far as that the fenate mould be conlulted, whether

it was their pleafure that confuis mould be ele&ed, or

tribunes, was he able to prevent an order for the elec~

tion of confuls; and the tribune made himfelf ftill

more ridiculous to all, by threatening to hinder a levy

J6F

