* THE HISTORY

X

BOOK family claim as the founder of their name. This

i Afcanius, wherefoever, and of whatfoever mother

born, certainly the fon of /Eneas, nnding the num­

ber of inhabitants in Lavinium too great, left that

city, then in a flourifhing and opulent ftate, confi-

dering the circumftances of thofe times, to his mo­

ther, or ftepmother, and built on the Alban mount

a new one for himfclf, which, from its fituation being

ftretched along the hill, was called Alba Longa *.

| Between the building of Lavinium, and the tranf-

planting the colony to Alba Longa, the interval was

only about thirty years jlyet fo rapidly had this peo­

ple increafed in power, efpecially after the defeat of

the Etrurians, that, not even on the death of ./Eneas,

nor afterwards, during the regency of a woman, and

the firft eflays of a youthful reign, did either Mezen-

tius and the Etrurians, or any other of the border­

ing nations, dare to attempt hoftilities againft them.

| A peace was agreed upon, in which it was ftipulated

that fhe river Albula, now called the Tiber, mould

be the boundary between the Etrurians and Latines.

I Afcanius's fon, called Sylvius, from his having by

fome accident been born in the woods, fucceeded

him in the kingdom. | He begat ^Eneas Sylvius,

who afterwards begat Latinus Sylvius. jThis prince

planted feveral colonies, who have obtained the

name of Ancient Latines. fThe furname of Sylvius

was henceforward given to all thofe who reigned at

Alba, t Of Latinus was born Alba; of Alba, Atys;

of Atys, Capysj ofCapys, Capetus; of Capetus, Ti-

berinus; who, being drowned in endeavouring to crofs

the river Albula, gave to that river the name fo ce­

lebrated among his poRerity. JAgrippa, fon of Ti-

bcrinus, reigned next; after Agrippa, Romulus^

Sylvius. receivtd the kingdom from his father^ and

Jbelrf|j Cruel: by lightning,'..^demifed it to Aventinus,

fwho, being buried on that hill which is now a part ot"

• It was called Alba, from a white fow with a litter of thirty young

ones, found there by .^Encas.

the

