OF ROME. 409

"in command, he has rendered himfelf fo dear to B o o K

TV

"his foldiers." Nor was the dutiful attachment of ,_'

the four tribunes more pleafing to the patricians and Y.R. 335..

to the commons, than was the temper of Hortenfius, B.c. 4*9.

complying fo readily with intreaties founded on

juftice. Fortune no longer indulged the /Equans,

who had embraced the doubtful fuccefs of the Vol-

fcians as their own.

XLIII. IN the year following, which had for con- Y.R. 334.

fuls Numerius Fabius Vibulanus and Titus Quintius B.c.4."f.

Capitolinus, fon of Capitolinus, nothing memorable

was performed againft them under the conduct of

Fabius, to whom that province fell by lot. The

vEquans, on their juft fhewing their fpiritlefs army,

were driven off the field in a fhameful flight, with­

out affording the conful much honour, for which rea-

fon he was refufed a triumph; however, as he had

effaced the ignominy of the misfortune under Sem-

pronius, he was permitted to enter the city in ova­

tion. As the war was brought to a conclufion, with

lefs difficulty than had been apprehended, fo the city,

from a ftate of tranquillity, was unexpectedly in­

volved in a fcene of turbulent difienfions between

the patricians and plebeians. This was the effect of

a plan for doubling the number of quaeftors: for the

confuls having propofed, that, in addition to the two

city-quaeftors, two others mould always attend the

confuls, to difcharge the bufinefs relative to the ar­

my, and the meafure having been moft warmly ap- \

proved by the patricians, the tribunes contended, in

oppofition to the confuls, that half the number of

quaftors mould be taken from among the commons,

for hitherto patricians only had been elected: againft

which fcheme both confuls and patricians ftruggled

at firft with their utrnoft power; and, having after­

wards offered a concefiion, that according to the

practice in the election of tribunes with confular

power, the people fhould have equal freedom of

fuffragc

