O F R O M E. 389

.xontention between the advocates for peace, and3 O o K

thofe for war. The Romans enjoyed tranquillity on. _^.' __f

all fides. The confuls having obtained information Y.R. 3Z5.

from one of the tribunes, who betrayed the fecret,B'c'+17.

that thofe officers intended to promote a law con­

cerning the commutation of fines*, which would be

highly acceptable to the people, they themfelves

took the lead in propofing it. The next confuls Y.R. 31s.

were Lucius Sergius Fidenas, a fecond time, andB.c.416.

Hoftus Lucretius Triciptinus, in whofe confulate

nothing worth mention occurred. They were fuc- Y.R. 317.

ceeded by Aulus Cornelius Cofius and Titus Quin-B'C.*1S'

tius Pennus, a fecond time. The Veientians made

inroads on the Roman territories, and a report pre­

vailing, that fome of the youth of Fidenas were con­

cerned in thofe depredations, the cognizance of that

rnatterwas committed to Lucius Sergius, QuintiusSer-

vilius, and Mamercus ^Emilius. Some of them, who

could not give fatisfactory reafons for their being ab-

fent from Fidenx, at the time, were fent into banim-

ment to Oftia. A number of new fettlers were add­

ed to the colony, to whom were afligned the lands

of thofe who had fallen in war. There was very

great diftrefs that year, occafioned by drought; for

befides a want of rain, the earth deftitute of its natu­

ral moifture, fcarce enabled the rivers to continue

their courfe j in fome places, the want of water was

fuch, that the cattle died of thirft, in heaps, about

the fprings and rivulets, which had ceafed to flow;

in others, they were cut off by the mange, and their

diforders began to fprcad by infection to the human

fpecies. At firft they fell heavy on the hulbandmen

and flaves, foon after the city was filled with them:

\ * The fines impofed in early times were certain numbers of fheep or

o<" :i j afterwards it was ordered by law that thefe fine* might he ap.

;'i ,11. il, anil the value paid in money. Another law fixed a certain

rare at which the cattle fhould be eliimated, 100 afes for auox, 10 tor

a &ttf.

'c c 3 and

