O F R O M E. 483

might be fet apart for that religious purpofe. AtB O O K

length, recourfe wa§ had to a method which fecmed. _T_1 _,

leaft troublefome, that every man who wifhed to Y.R. 359.

acquit himfelf and his family of the obligation of the B.Ct 3»i.

vow, making his own eftimate of his fhare of the

fpoil, mould pay into the treafury the tenth part of

the value, in order that a golden offering might be

made, worthy of the grandeur of the temple, the di­

vinity of the god, and the dignity of the Roman

people: this contribution alfo helped to alienate the

affection of the commons from Camiilus. During

thefe tranfactions, ambaffadors had come from the

Volfcians and JEquanS to fue for peace, and peace

was granted them rather out of a defire that the ftate,

wearied with fo tedious a war, might enjoy fome re-

pofe, than in confideration of the defert of the per-

fons petitioning.

XXIV. THE year which followed the taking of J;J;j£;

Veil had fix military tribunes, with confular power,

the two Publii Cornelii, Coflus, and Scipio, Marcus

Valerius Maximus a fecond time, Caefo Fabius Am-

buftus a third time, Lucius Furius Medullinus a

fifth time, and Quintus Servilius a third time. The

war with the Falifcians fell by lot to the Cornelii j

that with the Capenatians to Valerius and Servilius.

Thefe latter made no attempt on the towns, either

by affault or fiege, but fpread devaftation over the

lands, and carried off as fpoil every thing found in

the country; not a fruit-tree, nor any ufeful vege-

table, was left in the whole territory. Thefe loffes

reduced the people of Capena to fubmiflion, and on

their filing for peace, it was granted. The war with

the Falifcians ftill continued. Meanwhile fcditipns

multiplied at Rome, and in order to afluage their . ,

violence it was refolved, that a colony mould be fent

off to the country of the Volfcians, for which three

thoufand Roman citizens fhould be enrolled, and the

triumvirs, appointed to conduct it, diftributed three

112 acres

