O F R O M E.

an antagonift to the tribunes, to check their corrupt B

profufion. Together with Camillus were elected

military tribunes with confular power, Lucius Furius Y.R.

Medullinus a fixth time, Caius ^Emilius, Lucius

Valerius Poplicola, Spurius Poftumius and Publius

Cornelius a fecond time. In the beginning of the

year, the plebeian tribunes declined proceeding in

the bufinefs, until Marcus Furius Camillus fhould

fet out againft the Falifcians; for he had been ap­

pointed to the command in that war. In confe-

quence of this delay, the ardour of the purfuit was

cooled, and Camillus, whom they had chiefly dread­

ed as an opponent, found an increafe of glory in the

country of the Falifcians: for the enemy at firft con­

fining themfelves within their walls, which appeared

to be the fafeft plan, by ravaging the country and

burning the houies, he compelled them to come

forth from the city. But ftill their fears prevented

them from advancing to any confiderable length.

At the diftance of about a mile from the city, they

pitched their camp, for the fecurity of which they

confided entirely in the difficulty of the approaches,

all the roads on every fide being rough and craggy,

in fome parts narrow, in others fteep: but Camillus,

following the directions of a prifoner taken in the

country, who acted as his guide, decamped in the

latter end of the night, and, at'break of day, fhewed

himfclf on ground much higher than theirs. The

Romans were formed into three divifions, each of

which, in turn, worked on the fortifications of the

camp, while the reft of the troops ftood in reaclinefs

for battle. The enemy then making an attempt to

• interrupt his works, he routed and put them to flight;

and with fuch confternation were the Falifcians.

ftruck, that in the precipitancy of their flight, they

pafied by their own camp, which lay nearer in their

way, and pufhed forward to the city. Great num­

bers were flain and wounded before they reached the

gates, through which they rufhed in great confufion

i i 4 an4

