O F R O M E. 79

bear arms. To accommodate fo great a multitude, BOOK

it was found neceffary to enlarge the city in propor­

tion '• he added to it, therefore, two hills, the Quiri-

nal, and Vinimal, and immediately adjoining the

latter extended the limits of the Elquiliae, and there

fixed his own refidence, in order to bring the place

into repute. He furrounded the city vviih a ram­

part, trenches, and a wall, and thus extended the

Pomcerium. Thofe who confider merely the ety­

mology of the word, explain Pomcerium, as denoting

a fpace on the outfide of the wall, Poftmcerium:

but it is rather a fpace on each fide of the wall,

which the Etrurians, formerly, on the founding of

cities, confecrated with the ceremonies ufed by au­

gurs, in the direction, wherein they intended the

wall fhould run, of a certain breadth on both fides

of itt jvith the intention, that, on the infide, no build­

ings mould be erected clofe to the walls, though

now they are, in many places, joined to them ; and

alfo, that, on the outfide, a certain fpace of ground

ftiould lie open and unoccupied. 1 This fpace, which

it was unlawful either to inhabit, or to till, the

Romans called Pomcerium, not becaufe it was on

the outfide of the wall, any more than becaufe the

wall was on the outfide of it: and always, on occa-

fion of an addition being made to the city, as far as

they intended that the walls mould advance out­

ward, fo far thefe facred limits were extended.

XLV. HAVING increafed the power of the ftate

by this enlargement of the city, and made every in­

ternal regulation that. appeared beft adapted to the

exigencies both of war and peace, the king, who

wifhed that the acquifition of power mould not al­

ways depend on the mere force of arms, laid a

.fcheme for extending his dominion, by the wifdom

of his counfels, and railing, at the fame, time, a con-

• fpicuous ornament to the city. The temple of Dia­

na atEphefus was at that time univerfally celebrated,

. • 10 and

