f«l THE HISTORY

BOOK commons created, Caius Licinius, and Lucius AN

,_J_T1._. binius; and thefe created three colleagues to them-

Y. R. 260. felves, among whom was Sicinius, the advifer of the

B. c.491. feceflion; but who the other two were, is not

agreed: fome fay, that there were only two tribunes

created on the facred mount, and that the devoting

Y.R. 161. law * was palTed there. During the feceffion of the

B. c. 491. comrnons, Spurius Caflius and Poftumus Cominius

entered on the confulfhip. In their confulatc the

treaty with the Latines was concluded; for the pur-

pofe of ratifying this, one of the confuls remained

at Rome, and the other, being lent with an army

againft the Volfcians, defeated and put to flight the

Volfcians of Antiumj and, having driven them into

the town of Longula, purfued the blow, and made

,himfeif mafter of the town. He afterwards took

Polufca, another town belonging to the fame people;

then with all his force attacked Corioli. There was

then in the camp, among others of the young nobi­

lity, Caius Marcius, a youth of quick judgment and

• Which declared, that any perfon who ftould violale the perfon or

piivileges of a plebeian tribune, ihould b' devoted to Cerei, with his

property; and any one might put him to death with imponity. Thefe

tribune*, at their firft inftitution, could not properly be called rnagif-

tratcs, having no particular tribunal, nor any jurifdiilion over their

fellow citizens. Drcflfed like private men, and attended only by one

officer, or beadle, called Viator, they fat on a bench without the fenate,

into which they were not admitted, except when the confuls required

tlieir attendance, to gire their opinion on fome affair which concerned

the inten it of the plebeian3. Their fule function was to protect t!ie

plebeians, by irrterpofing in cafe of any grievance or rmpofition at­

tempted by their lupeiiors, and their power extended no farther than

one mile round the city. Yet they afterwards found means, under va­

rious pretence1, and by iilmcft imperceptible degrees, to draw to them>

fciviis, and to the commons, the larger fhare or the power of govern­

ment; introducing a great degiee of democracy into the polity of the

it.nr, which, fmce the expulfion of the kings, had been a kind of ari.

tfociacy. They were not allowed' to be able in from the city one whole

day, except during the Latine fcftivaU, and were obliged to keep their

doors open, night and day, to admit complainants. At the fame

time, were efefted two other plebeian officers, called aftiftants to the

tribunes; Imi being afterwards charged with the care of the public

buildings, anil the cognfzance of a like nature, which had before be-

iongtd to the confuls, they got the title ^Edilcs; (ab sdibus curan-

•!:s,} from infpc&mg the public edifices,

, lively

