OF ROME. 491

toe got notice, and that it was unreafonable that a B oO K

fuit concerning his child .fhould proceed in his ab- . ^' _f

fence, demanded that Appius fhould adjourn all pro- Y.R. 305.

ceedings in the caufe, until the father's arrival; that, B. c. ++7.

in conformity to the law which he himfelf had framed,

he fhould leave her in the meantime, in the enjoy­

ment of her liberty; and not fuffer a young woman

of ripe age to encounter the hazard of her reputation,

before the cafe of her freedom was determined.

XLV. APPIUS prefaced his decree with obferv-

ing, that " the very law, which Virginius's friends

"' held out as the foundation of their demand, was a

"proof how much he was inclined to favour liberty:

*c however, that law could afford no firm fecurity to  
'' liberty, if it were not invariable in the tenor of its

"operation,without regard either to caufes or perfons.

'' In the cafe of thofe who, from fervitude, claimed

<c a right to freedom, the privilege mentioned was

"' allowed, becaufe any citizen can adt in their be-

"half j but in the cafe of her, who was in the hands

c' of her father, there was no other perfon to whom

*c the owner mould yield the cuftody of her. It  
"was, therefore, his determination, that the father

*c fhould be fent for; that, in the meantime, the  
"claimant fhould fuffer no lofs of his right, but

"fhould take the maiden into his cuftody, and give

"fecurity for her appearance, on the arrival of the

"perfon who was alleged to be her father." Whilft

all murmured againft the injuftice of this decree, but

not one had courage to oppofe it, Publius Numi-

torius, the maiden's uncle, and Icilius, her betrothed

fpoufe, arrived at the fpot. The crowd having

readily made way for them, becaufe the multitude

were of opinion, that, if any thing could ftop the

proceedings of Appius, it would be the interference

of Icilius, the lictor called out, that " fentehce was

"pa/Ted;" and, on Icilius making loud remon-

ftrances, ordered him to retire. Even a cool tem-

v 2 per

