OF ROME. 417

camp had been taken and plundered, the di&ator BOOK

giving up the fpoil to the foldiers, the horfemen, who , '_,

had purfued the enemy in their flight from the camp, Y R. 337.

returned with intelligence, that after their defeat all B.c. **s'

the Lavicanians, and a great part of the ^Equans,

had retreated to Lavici; on which the army was

next day conducted thither, and the town being in­

vefted on every fide, was taken by ftorm and plun­

dered. The dictator, having led home his victorious

army to Rome, refigned his office, on the eighth ,

day after his appointment j and the fenate, feizing

the opportunity, before the tribunes of the commons

fhould raife feditions about lands, by introducing a

propofal for a diftribution of the territory of Lavici,

voted, in full affembly, that a colony mould be con-

ducted to Lavici. One thoufand five hundred co-

lonifts, fent from the city, received each two acres.

During two years after the taking of Lavici, in the Y.R. 338.

firft of which Agrippa Menenius Lanatus, Lucius B.C.4H.

Servilius Structus, Publius Lucretius Tricipitinus,

all thefe a fecond time, and Spurius Rutilus Craflus

were military tribunes with confular power; and in

the following, Aulus Sempronius Atratinus a third Y.R. 339.

time, and Marcus Papirius Mugillanus and Spurius B.c.4'3'

Nautius Rutilus both a fecond time. There was

tranquillity with refpecT: to affairs abroad, but at home

difienfions occafioned by agrarian laws.

t %

XLVIII? THE incendiaries of the populace-were

the Spurii, tribunes of the commons, Maecilius a

fourth time, and Maetilius a third, both elected in

their abfence. A very violent conteft between the

patricians and plebeians was now expected on the

fubject of the agrarian laws; for thefe tribunes had

publicly propofed a law, that the lands, taken from

their enemies, fhould be diftributed in fuch a man­

ner, that every man might have a fhare: had this

propofal pafied into a law, the property of a great

part of the nobles would have been confifcated; for

VOL. r. £ E fcarcely

