THEHISTORY

ROOK who wifted the fafety of the commonwealth, fhould

. \-_r leap down from their horfes, and, his order being

Y.R. jj1. obeyed by the horfemen of every troop, as if it had

B-C. 410. been delivered by the conful, he faid, " unlefs this

"cohort, by the power of its arms, can ftop the pro-

"grefs of the enemy, there is an end of the empire.

"Follow my fpear, as your ftandard: fhew, both to

"Romans and Volfcians, that as no horfemen are

"equal to you when ye are mounted, fo no footmen

"are equal to you when ye difmount." This ex­

hortation being received with a fhout of applaufe, he

advanced, holding his fpear aloft: wherever they di­

rected their march, they forced their way in fpite of

oppofition; and, advancing their targets, pufhed on

to the place where they faw the diftrefs of their friends

the greateft. The fight was reftored in every part

as far as their onfef reached; and there was no doubt,

that if it had been poffible for fb fmall a number to

have managed the whole bufinefs of the field, the

enemy would have turned their backs.

XXXIX. FINDING that nothing could withftand

them any where, the Volfcian commander gave di­

rections, that an opening fhould be made for thefe tar-

geteers, this ftrange cohort of enemies, until the vio­

lence of their charge fhould carry them fo far, that

they might be fhut out from their friends: which

being executed, the horfemen on their part were in­

tercepted, in fuch a manner, that it was impoffible

for them to force a paffage back through the way by

which they had come, the enemy having collected

their thickeft numbers in the place through which

they had made their way. The conful and Roman

. legions on the other fide, not feeing, any where, that

body which juft now had afforded protection to the

whole army, left fo many men, of fuch confummate

valour, fhould be furrounded and overpowered by the

enemy, refolved at all hazards to pufli forward. The

Voffcians. forming two fronts, withftood, on one fide,

the

