THE HISTORY

BOOK w'ith loud clamours, implored the protection,

,___^I__, time, of the confuls, at another of the fenate; yet

Y.R. 194. they could not prevail on the conful to recede from

B.C.45*. his refolution, until the tribunes promifed that they

would be directed by the fenate. The conful then

laid before the fenate the demand of the tribunes and

commons, and it was decreed, that " the tribunes

"fhould not introduce the law during that year;

"and that, on the other hand, the confuls fhould

"not lead out the troops from the city. For the

"time to come, it was the judgment of the fenate,

"that re.electing the fame magiftrates, and re-ap-

"pointing the fame tribunes, was injurious to the

"intereft of the commonwealth." The confuls

conformed to the decifions of the fenate; but the

tribunes, notwithftanding the remonftrances of the

conliils, were re-appointed. The fenate likewife,

not to yield to the commons in any particular, on

their fide, wifhed to re-elect Lucius Quintius conful.

On no occafion during the whole year, did the con­

ful exert himfelf with more warmth. "Can I won-

"der," faid he, " confcript fathers, if your autho-

"rity is lightly regarded among the commons? ye

"yourfelves deprive it of its weight. For inftance,

"becaufe the commons have broken through a de*

"cree of the fenate, with refpect to the re.election"

"of magiftrates, ye wifh to break through it alfo,

"left ye fhould fall fhort of the populace in heady

"raflinefs; as if fuperiority of power in the ftate

"confifted in fuperior degrees of inconftancy and

"irregularity; for it is, certainly, an inftance of

"greater inconftancy and irregularity, for us to

"counteract our own decrees and refolutions, than

"thofe of others. Go on, confcript fathers, to

"imitate the inconfiderate multitude j and ye, who

"ought to fhew an example to the reft, rather fol-

"low the fteps of others in a wrong courfe, than

"guide them by your example into the right one.

"But let me not imitate the tribunes, nor fuffer

"myfelf

