322 THE HISTORY

B Oi? K galloped acrofs to the other wing; they carried with

. _TI _j them an account of this fuccefs; and, at the fame

Y.R. 306, time, made a charge on the enemy, difheartened by

B. c. 446. tne defeat of the ftrohger wing of their army. None

difplayed, in that battle, more confpicuous bravery.

The conful's attention was every where employed.

He commended the brave, and reproved the remifs.

Thefe immediately on being rebuked, exerted them-

felves like men of fpirit; fhame ftimulating them as

powerfully, as commendation had done the others.

The mout being raifed anew, and all uniting their

efforts, they drove the enemy from their ground,

and then the force of the Romans could no longer

be refifted. The Sabines were difperfed all over

the country, and left their camp a prey to the enemy.

There the Romans recovered not the effects of their

allies, as was the cafe in Algidum, but their own,

'which they had loft, in the devaftation of the coun­

try. For this double victory obtained in two bat­

tles, in different places, the fenate, fo unwilling were

they to gratify the confuls, decreed a fupplication,

in their name, of one day only. The people, how-

. ever, went in great numbers, on the fecond day alfb,

to offer thankigivings, and this irregular, and popu­

lar fupplication, was celebrated with rather greater

zeal than the other. The confuls by concert came

to the city within a day of each other, and called out

the fenate to the field of Mars; where, while they

were relating the fervices which they had performed,

the principal fenators began to complain, that the

fcnate was, purpolely, held in the midft of the fol-

diers, to keep them in terror. The confuls therefore,

to take away all grounds for fuch a charge, removed

the fenate into the Flaminian meadows, to a place

where the temple of Apollo now ftands, called, even

at that time, the Circus of Apollo. Here, a vaft

majority of the fenators concurring in refufing a tri-

«mph, Lucius Icilius? tribune of the commons, pro-

pofed to the people, the ordering a triumph to the

10 confuls,

