66 THE HISTORY

# o o K" laws an(| Roman cuftoms, under fuch a mafter as

v - t'-,-'" ought to be wifhed for, king Ancus himfelf:—

"that in duty and obedience to the king, he had

"vied with all men; in kindnefs towards others,

"with the king himfelf." As thefe affertions were

no more than the truth, the people unanimoufly con-

y. R. fented that he mould be elected king. And this

ij«. was the reafon that this man, of extraordinary merit

S6^c' in other refpects, retained, through the whole courfe

. of his reign, the fame affectation of popularity which

he had ufed in fuing for the crown. For the pur-

pofe of ftrengthening his own authority, as well as

of increafing the power of the commonwealth, he

added an hundred to the number of the fenate, who

afterwards were entitled, "minorum gentium,"

/. e. of the younger families, and neceflarily confti-

tuted a party in favour of the king, by whofe kind­

nefs they had been brought into the fenate. His

firft war was with the Latines, from whom he took

the city Appiolae by ftorm; and having brought

from thence a greater quantity of booty than had

been expected, from a war of lo little confequence,

he exhibited games, in a more expenfive, and

. fplendid manner, than any of the former kings.

On that occafion, the ground was firft marked out

for the Circus, which is now called " maximus,"

(the principal,) in which certain divifions were let

apart for the fenators, and knights, where each

were to build feats for themfelves, which were called

Fori (benches). They fat, during the exhibition,

on feats fupported by pieces of timber, twelve feet

high from the ground: the games conGfted of horfe-

races, and the performances of wreftlers, collected

moftly from Etruria. From that time, thefe games

continued to be celebrated annually, being termed

the Roman, and, fometimes, the great games.

By the fame king, lots for building were afljgned

to private perfons, round the Forum, where porti­

coes and fhops were erected. • .

XXXVI, HE

