OF ROME. 439.

thofe of military age, fcorning the fupport of the B O O K.

tribunes, they began at once to vie with each other .^_^-j

in paying the tax. The law being then pafftd,, for Y.R. 349.

declaring war againft the Veientians, a numerous B.t;. *°3'

army, compofed chiefly of volunteers, followed the

new military tribunes, with conlular power, to Veii.

LXI. THESE tribunes were Titus Quintius Capi- Y R 35°.

tolinus, Publius Quintius Cincinnatus, Caius Julius ''4°*'

lulus a fecond time, Aulus Manlius, Lucius Furius

Medullinus a fecond time, and Manius .flimilius

Mamercinus. By thefe Veii was firft invefted. A

little before this fiege began, a full meeting of the

Etrurians being held at the temple of Voltumna, the

queftion whether the Veientians fhould be fupported

by the joint concurrence of the whole confederacy,

was left undecided. During the following year the

fiege was profecuted with lefs vigour, becaufe fame

of the tribunes and their troops were called away to

oppofe the Volfcians. The military tribunes, with Y.R. 351.

confular power, of this y<ar were, Caius Valerius B.c. +81.

Potitus a third time, Manius Sergius Fidenas, Pub­

lius Cornelius Maluginenfis, Cneius Cornelius Caflus,

Caefo Fabius Ambuftus, Spurius Nautius Rutilus, a

fecond time. A pitched battle was fought with the

Volfcians, between Ferentinum and Eccetra, in

which the Romans had the advantage. Siege was

then laid by the tribunes to Artena, a town of the

Volfcians. After fome time, the enemy having at­

tempted a fally, and being driven back into the town, , .

the Romans got an opportunity of forcing their way

in, and made themfclves mafters of every place, ex­

cept the citadeL This fortrels was naturally very

ftrong, and a body of armed men had thrown them-

felves into it. Under its wall great numbers were

flain and made prifoners. The citadel was then be.

fieged, but it neither could be taken by ftorm, be­

caufe it had a garrifon fufficient for the fize of the

place, nor did it afford any hope of a furfender, be.

F F 4 caufc,

