io8 THE HISTORY

B o o K. the haughty infolence of the late king: for the

,_-*'- __, former kings governed in fuch a manner, that all of

Y.R. 145. them, in fucceffion, might defervedly be reckoned

B.C. s°7. as founders, of the feveral parts, at leaft, of the city,

which they added to it, to accommodate the addi­

tional numbers of inhabitants, whom they themfelves

introduced. Nor can it be doubted, that the fame

Brutus, who juftly merited fo great glory, for having

expelled that haughty king, would have hurt the

public intereft moft materially, had he, through an

over-hafty zeal for liberty, wrefted the government

from any one of the former princes. For what muft

have been the confequence, if that rabble of fhep-

herds and vagabonds, fugitives from their own coun­

tries, having, under the fanction of an inviolable

afylum, obtained liberty, or at leaft impunity; and,

uncontrolled by dread of kingly power, had once

been fet in commotion by tribunitian ftorms, and

had, in a city where they were ftrangers, engaged in

contefts with the Patricians, before the pledges of

wives and children, and an affection for the foil it-

felf, which in length of time is acquired from habit,

had united their minds in focial concord? The

ftate, as yet but> a tender fhoot, had been torn in

pieces by difcord; whereas the tranquil moderation

of the government cherifhed it, and, by due nourifh-

ment, brought it forward to luch a ftate, that, its

powers being ripened, it was capable of producing

the glorious fruit of liberty. The origin of liberty

is to be dated from that period, rather on account of

the confular government being limited to'one year,

than of any diminution made of the authority which

had been pofiefled by the kings. The firft conluls

enjoyed all their privileges, and all their enfigns of

authority; in this refpect, only, care was taken, not

to double the objects of terror by giving the fafces

to both the confuls. Brutus, with the content of his

colleague, was firft honoured with the fafces, and the

zeal which he had fhewn as the champion of liberty

in

