j86 T H E H I S T O R Y

on Valerius infifting that he would not be filenced by

_ a private citizen, ordered a lictor to advance to him:

Y.R. 305. Valerius, from the door of the fenate-houfe, implored

. <•:. 447. the protection of the citizens; Lucius Cornelius

embracing Appius, through concern for an objecc

t

different from what he pretended, put a flop to the

conteft, and procured Valerius permifTion to fay

what he chofe: this producing nothing beyond

words, in favour of liberty, the decemvirs carried

their point; and even the confulars and elder patri­

cians, from inveterate hatred to the tribunitian of­

fice, which they fuppofed the commons longed for,

with much more eagernefs, than for the confular

government, would have been rather better pleafcd,

that the decemvirs themfelves fhculd, at fome future

time, voluntarily refign their office, than that, through

means of the indignation of the public agair.ft them,

the commons fhould rife again to confequence j

hoping that if, by gentle management, the govern­

ment fhould be brought back to confuls, without the

turbulent interpofition of the populace, .they might

either by the intervention of wars, or by tne mode­

ration of the confuls in the exercife of their authority,

bring the commons to forget their tribunes. No

objection being made by the patricians, a levy was

proclaimed, and the young men, there beuig no

appeal from the prefent government, anfwered to

their names. When the legions were filled up, the

decemvirs fettled among themfelves, who mould go

out with the troops, and who command the feveral

armies. The leading men among the decemvirs

were Quintus Fabius and Appius Claudius. It was

evident that the re would be a greater war at home

than abroad. The violence of Appius was thought

better calculated for fupprefiing commotions in the

city, and the difpofuion of Fabius was confidered as

rather inconftant in good purfuits, than ftrermous in

bad; for this man, hitherto highly diftinguifhcd both

in civil and military conduct, was fo entirely changed

by

