416 THE HISTORY

B o o K the military tribune, to which, in this diforder of

t ^'^ their affairs, they could look for fecurity. By his

Y.R. 337. orders alfo, after the confufion in the city had been

B.C.415. quieted, by means of the inferior magiftrates, fcouts

were inftantly difpatched for intelligence, who

brought accounts, that the generals and the army

were at Tufculum, and that the enemy had not re­

moved their camp. But what chiefly contributed to

raife people's fpirits was, that in purfuance of a de­

cree of the fenate, Quintus Servilius Prifcus was

nominated dictator, a man whofe extenfive judg­

ment in affairs of the public, the ftate had expe­

rienced, as well on many former occafions as in the

iflue of that campaign; he alone having, before the

misfortune happened, exprefled apprehenfions of

danger from the difputes of the tribunes. He ap­

pointed for his mafter of the horfe the tribune by

whom he had been nominated dictator, his own fon,

according to fome accounts; but other writers men­

tion Servilius Ahala as mafter of the horfe that year.

Then, putting himfelf at the head of the new-raifcd

troops, and fending orders to thofe at Tufculum to

join him, he marched againft the enemy, and chofc

ground for his camp within two miles of theirs.

XLVII. THE negligence and the vanity infpired

by fuccefs, which were formerly manifefted in the

Roman commanders, had now transferred them-

felves to the ^Equans. Accordingly, in the firft en­

gagement, which immediately enfued, the dictator,

after difordering the enemy's van by a charge of the

cavalry, having ordered the battalions of the legions

to advance with fpeed, and having flain one of his

ftandard-bearers, who mewed fome backwardnefs,

fuch ardour for the fight was difplayed by his men,

that the ^Equans could not fupport the mock of their

onfet. Vanquifhed in the field, they fled precipitately

to their camp, the taking of which coft even lefs

time and trouble than the battle had done. After the

camp

