OF ROME. 311

*c popular rage were not fo great, as to deprive him B OjO K  
'c of all hope from the equity and companion of his *, -t '_,

"countrymen. JJuf if he was led to prifon without Y.R. 306.

"being heard in his deferrce, he again called on the B. c.*46.

"tribunes of the commons, and warned them, not

"to follow the example of thoie who were the ob-

•" jects of their hatred. But fhould the tribunes ac-

•" knowledge themfelves to have combined in the

<c fame kind of confederacy, for abolifhing the right

•" of calling for their protection, which they charged

"the decemvirs with having formed, then, he faid,

"he appealed to the people, and implored the be-

•" nefit of the laws concerning appeals, pafied that

*' very year at the inftance of the confuls and of the  
*' tribunes. For who was to appeal, if that privi-  
"lege was refufed to a perfon on whom no fentence

"was pafied, and who had not been heard in his de-

"fence? What plebeian or perfon in a low ftation

"could expect to find protection in the laws, if Ap-

*' pius Claudius found none? His cafe would afford  
'" a proof, whether, by the new laws, tyranny or li-

"berty was eftablifhed; and whether appeals to the

"tribunes, and people, againft the injuftice of ma-

"giftrates, were effectually granted, or only held out

** in fhew, .to amufe the people with empty words."

LVII. ViRGiNiu;S, on the other hand, affirmed,

<hat Appius Claudius was the only perfon who was

not entitled to any of the privileges of the laws, nor

of civil, nor even of human fociety: de fired peo­

ple to " look at the tribunal, that fortrefs, where

*' every kind of wickednefs had found impunity;  
"where that perpetual decemvir, venting his fury on

"the goods, the perfons, and lives of the citizens,

"threatening all with his rods and axes, fhewing an

"utter contempt both of gods and raeo, encpm-

"pafied with executioners, not lidors, changing at

"length his purfuits from rapines and murders, to

*' the gratifications of luft, had, before the eyes of  
x 4 "the.

