O F R O M E. 235

unattended by the troops. In the following year, BOOK

the law of Te.rentillus, fupported by the coneyr.. l J1^ _,

rence of the whole college of tribunes, again af- Y.R. 193.

failed the confuls. Thefe were Publius Volumnius B.C. 459.

and Servius Sulpicius. In that year, the iky ap­

peared on fire, and a violent earthquake happened.

That an ox fpoke, an incident to which in the laft

year credit had been refufed, was now believed.

Among other prodigies, a mower of flefh fell,

which, as was reported, was in a great meafure in­

tercepted in its fall, by a vaft number of birds flying

about the place, and what efcaped them, lay fcatter-

ed on the ground for feveral days, without being

changed in fmell. The books * were confulted by

the Duumviri prefiding over facred rites, and it was

predicted that dangers impended from a concourfe

of foreigners; that an attack was to be made on the

higher parts of the city, and lives loft in confe-

quence; among other things, warning was given,

that all feditious practices mould be avoided. This

the tribunes cried out againft, as a forgery, contrived

for the purpofe of hindering the puffing of their law;

and matters were tending to a defperate conteft;

when, lo! that things might revolve in the fame »

circle every year, the Hernicians brought an ac­

count, that the Volfcians and ./Equans, notwith-

ftanding the diminution of ftrength which they had

* Thefe were the famous fibylline books, purchafed, it wa' faid, by  
Tarquinius Superbus, hum an old wumxn whom nobody knew, and

who was never afterwards Teen again. Thefe hooks, which were fup.

pofed to contain prophetic information of the fate and fortune of the

Roman itate, were carefully repofited in a flone elicit, in a vault under

the Capitol, and two officers chofen from the order of patricians, called

duunviri facroru*i, appointed to take care of ihem. The number of thefe

was afterwards increafed to tea, half of whom were plebeians; then

to fifteen, upon which occafion they were called Quindeccmviri; which

name they retamed when afterwards augmented to fixty. Upon occa.

lior.s of extreme danger, of pcftilence, or the appearance of any extra­

ordinary prodigies, thefe officers were ordered by the fenate to confult,

or to pretend to confult, the books, and they reported what expia­

tions, and othtr rites were ncctiTary to avert the impending evil.

fuffered,

