O F R O M E. 413

clearing the way on all fides, and by the centurions, BOOK

their indignation burft out with fuch fury, that the . - .' _f

military tribune was overwhelmed with ftones by his Y.R. 341.

own troops. When this deed of fuch a heinous na- B.c. *"•"

ture was reported at Rome, and the military tribunes

endeavoured to procure a decree of the fenate, for

an inquiry into the death of their colleague, the ple­

beian tribunes interpofed their proteft. But this dif-

pute was a branch of a conteft of another kind; for

the patricians had been feized with apprehenGons

that the commons, actuated by refentment and dread

of the inquiries, would clecct military tribunes out of

their own body; therefore they laboured with all

their might for an election of confuls. The plebeian

tribunes, not fuffering the decree of the fenate to

pafs, and alfo protefting againft the election of con­

fuls, the affair was brought to an interregnum. The

patricians then obtained the victory.

LI. QUINTUS Fabius Vibulanus, interrex, pre-Y.R.34.1.

Tiding in the afiembly, Marcus Cornelius Coffus and B. c.4'1.

Lucius Furius Medullinus were chofen confuls. In

the beginning of their year of office, the fenate

paffed a decree, that the tribunes fhould, without

delay, propofe to the commons an inquiry into the

murder of Poftumius, and that the commons mould

appoint whomfoever they fhould think proper to

conduct the inquiry. The employment was, by a

vote of the commons, which was approved by the

people at large, committed to the confuls; who,

notwithftanding they proceeded in the bufineis with

the utmoft moderation and lenity, pafiing fentence

of punifhment only on a few, who, as there is good

reafon to believe, put an end to their own lives; yet

could not prevent the commons from conceiving the

higheft difpleafure, and from obferving that " any

"conftitutions, enacted for their advantage, lay fo

"long dormant and unexecuted; whereas a law pafled,

"in the meantime, configning their pcrfons and lives

E E 4 "tO

