OF ROME.

tle time the latter were put to a ftand and diforder- "BOOK

.ed j but foon forming two fronts, they faced the ene- ._-t-_'^f

my on both fides; and, at the fame time, the cavalry, Y.R. 1?$.

being ordered by the conful to charge, routed andB.C"*73'

difperfed the Etrurians. Thus were overcome in the

fame hour, two armies of the two greateft, and molj:

powerful, of the neighbouring ftates. During thefe

tranfactions at Veil, the Volfcians and .ffiquans ha4

encamped in the Latine territories, and laid wafte

the country. The Latines themfelves, being joined

by the Hernicians, without the aid either of Rorna^

general, or troops, beat them out of their camp,

and there, befides recovering their own effects, .gof

•pofieflion of immenfe booty. The conful Caius

Nautius was, however, fent againft the Volfcians

from Rome, where, I fuppofe, it was confidered as

improper, that the allies mould get a cuftom of car­

rying on wars, with their own forces, and under their

own direction, without a Roman general and troops.

There is no kind of feverity or indignity which was

not practifed on the Volfcians, yet they could not be

forced to come to an engagement in the field.

. LIV. THE next confuls were Lucius Furius and Y.R. 1?o.

Aulus Manlius. The Veientians fell to the lot of2.C'4?1'

Manlius as his province; but the war there did not

continue. At their requeft a truce for forty years

was granted them, and they were obliged to furnifli

corn, and to pay the foldiers. No fooner was peace

reftored abroad, than difcord immediately began at t

home. The commons were fet in a flame by the

inftigations of the tribunes, on their conftant fubjecV,

the agrarian law, which the confuls, not deterred by

the condemnation of Menenius, or the danger incur­

red by Servilius, oppofed with all their might. On

this account, as foon as they went out of office, Ti­

tus Genucius, tribune of the commons, laid hold of

them. They were fucceeded in the confulmip by Y.R. iiu

Lucius ^Emilius and Opiter Virginius. In fome'B'c.471«

o 4 annals.

