18 THE HISTORY

BOOK" both that the gods favoured the founding of Rome,

"and that the people would not be deficient in merit!

"Wherefore, as men, they ought to fhew no reluc^

"tance to mix their blood and race with men." In,

no one place were his ambaffadors favourably heard;

fuch contempt of them did people entertain, and, at

the fame time, fuch apprehehfions of danger to

themfelves and their pofterity, from fo great a

power growing up in the midft of them. By the

greater part, they were difmifled with the queftion,

"whether they had opened an afylum for womerj

"alfo, for that would be the only way to procure

"fuitable matches for them?" This was highly re-

•Tented by the Roman youth, infomuch that the bufi-

nefs appeared evidently to point towards violence.

7Romulus, in order to afford them a convenient time

and place for a defign of that fort, diffcmbling his

difpleafure, prepared, with that intent, to celebrate

iblemn games in honour of the equeftrian Neptune*,

to which he gave the name of Conlualia. j' He then

ordered the intended celebration to be proclaimed

among the neighbouring nations, and the people

exerted themfelves in making the rhoft magnificent

preparations that their knowlege and abilities al­

lowed, in order to engage attention and raife ex­

pectation. *} Great numbers of'people aflembled, in­

duced, in forne meafure, by a denre of feeing the

hew city, efpecially thofe whofe countries lay neareft,

the Caninenfians, Cruftuminians, and Antemna-

tians, efpecially the whole multitude of the Sabines

came with their wives and children. / They were

hofpitably invited to the different hoiifes; and when

they viewed the fituation, and the fortifications, and'

• • , , •*

* So called, from his having produced the firft lioife from the earth  
by a ftroke of liis trident. Romulus called hiili Cotifut,' The god of

cuunfel, as having fuggeHfd the fcheme of feizing tlie women. The

paincs, which he calltd Conlualia, were afterwards t:i(ned the Ro­

man, or the p..'tat games, and were after celebrattd at Rome; they

Ijfied, at firlt, one dny, then two, three, and, at length, nine days. j

the,

