OF ROME.

on his arrival (hould enter the city in triumph, with- BOOK

out changing his order of march. The generals of .J?",

the enemy were led before his chariot, the miJitary Y.R. Z96.

enfigns carried before him, and his army followed, B.c. «*-

laden with fpoil. It is faid that tables were laid out

with provifions before every houfe, and that the

troops, partaking of the entertainment, finging the

triumphal hymn, and throwing out their cuftomary

jefts, followed the chariot like revellers at a feaft.

The fame day, the freedom of the ftate was, with

univerfal approbation, conferred on Lucius Mami-

lius of Tufcdum. The dictator would have imme­

diately refigned his office, but was induced to hold

it fome time longer on account of the affembly for

the trial of Volfcius, the falfe witnefs. Their dread

of the dictator prevented the tribunes from obftruct-

ing it, and Volfcius being condemned, departed into

exile at Lanuvium. Quintius on the fixteenth day

refigned the dictatorfhip, which he had received for'

the term of fixth months. About the fame 'time,

the conful Nautius fought, with great fuccefs, againft

the Sabines at Eretum. This additional blow the

Sabines fuffered befides the devaftation of their coun­

try. Fabius Quintus was fent to Algidum in the

room of Minucius. Toward the end of the year,

the tribunes began to agitate the affair of the law;

but as two armies were then abroad, the patricians

carried the point, that no bufinefs fhould be pro-

pofed to the people. The commons prevailed fo

far as to appoint the fame tribunes the fifth time.

It was reported that wolves had been feen in the Ca­

pitol, and were driven away by dogs j and, on ac­

count of that prodigy, the Capitol was purified: fuch

were the tranfactions of that year.

XXX. QUINTUS Minucius and Caius Horatius Y.R. '97.

Pulvillus fucceeded to the confulfhip. In the be- B.C. 4ii.

ginning of this year, while the public quiet was un-

ciifturbed by any foreign enemy, the fame tribunes

and

