O F R O M E, 445

III. ENDOWED by nature with good abilities, and BOOK

pofiefied alfo of experience, from long practice, he ._ "_._^

fpoke on this ocafion in the following manner: "If Y.R. 351.

"it ever was a matter of doubt, citizens, whether B.C, 400.

"the motives which led the plebeian tribunes to fo-

"ment fedition, on every occafion, regarded your

"interefts, or their own, I am confident that, in the

"courfe of this year, every fuch doubt muft have

"vanifhed; and while I rejoice at your being at

"length undeceived in refpect of a miftake of long

"continuance, I cannot, at the fame time, refrain

"from congratulating you, and, on your account,

"the commonwealth, that the delufion has been re-

"moved by a train of profperous events, rather than

"by any other means. Is there a perfon living, who

"is not convinced that the plebeian tribunes were

"never fo highly difpleafed and provoked, by any

"inftance of the ill treatment felt by you, if any fuch

"ever really exifted, as by the generofity of the pa-

"tricians toward the commons, in eftablifbing pay

"for the army ? What other event do ye think they

"either dreaded then, with fo much anxiety; or

"with, .fo ardently, at prefent to obviate, as an

"union between the orders, which in their opinion

"would prove the fubverfion of the tribunitian

"power? Thus, in fact, as labourers in the field

f' of iniquity^ they are at a lofs for employment; and

"even vvifh, that there may be always fome difeafed

"part in the commonwealth, for the cure of which

"they may be employed by you. For whether,

"tribunes, are ye at prefent defending the com-

"inons, or making an attack on them? Whether

"are ye adverfaries of the foldiery, or patrons of

"their caufe. Unlefs, perhaps, ye fay thus, what-

." ever the patricians do, we disapprove, whether

"it be favourable or prejudicial to the coin-

f' mons; and, juft as mafters forbid their flaves to

"have any dealings with thofe belonging to others,

•*' and think proper to cut off the commerce between

"them

