THE HISTORY

BOOK Quintus Servilius were appointed to the confulfhip\

. _ 1 . Thefe experienced a year fimilar to the preceding;

Y.R. *ss. the beginning of it, filled with civil broils, which

B.C.466. were afterwards repretfed by tKe breaking out of

foreign wars. The Sabines, marching acrofs the

plains of Cruftuminum, with great rapidity, carried

fire and fword through all the country on the banks

of the Anio; and though afterwards, when they had

advanced almoft to the Colline gate, and the walls

of the city, they met with a repulfe, yet they car­

ried off a vaft booty both of men and cattle. The

conful Servilius marched in purfuit of them, with

defign to bring them to an engagement: but, not

being able to overtake their main body, in the

champaign country, he fprcad devaluation to fuch

an extent, as to leave nothing unmolefted any where,

and returned with a quantity of fpoil, exceeding, by

many degrees, what the enemy had carried off. In

the campaign againft the Volfcians alfo, the arms of

the ftate were remarkably fuccefsful, through the

condudt, both of the general and of the foldiers:

firft, they fought a pitched battle, on equal ground,

with great lofs of blood on both fides; and the Ro­

mans, whofe fmall number made them feel the lofs

more fenfibly, would have quitted the field, had not

the conful, by a happy feint, re-animated the troops,

calling out, that the enemy were flying on the other

wing: they then returned to the charge, and the

opinion that victory was on their fide, was the means

of their obtaining it in reality. The conful fearing,

left if he preffed the enemy too far, he might have

the battle to fight over again, gave the fignal for

retreat. After this, an interval of fome few days

palTed, during which both parties repofed, as if they

had tacitly agreed to a fufpenfion of arms; and, in

the mean time, vaft multitudes from every ftate of

the Volfcians and ./Equans flocked into their camp,

not doubting but that the Romans, when informed

of their numbers, would make their retreat by nighr.

About

