".•OF ROME. • 163

lively courage, who was afterwards furnamed Corlo- BOOK

lanus: the Roman army, while engaged in the fiege . *-.'-_f

of Corioli, applying their whole attention to the gar- Y.R. a6i.

rifon, which they kept fhut up in the town, without B.c. +91•

any fear of an attack from without, were affaulted on

a fudden, by the Volfcian legions, who had marched

thither from Antium, and at the fame time the ene­

my fallied out from the town: Marcius happened to

be then on guard, and being fupported by a chofen

body of men, he not only repelled the attack of the

party who had fallied out of the town, but broke in

furioufly through the open gate; and, putting all to

the fword, in that part of the city, laid hold of the .

firft fire which he found, and threw it on the houfes

adjoining the wall; on which the fhouts of the towns­

men mingling with the cries of the women and chil­

dren, occafioned by the firft fright, ferved both to add

courage to the Romans, and to difpirit the VolfcianS;

as they perceived that the town was taken which

they had come to relieve. By this means the Vol-

fcians of Antium were defeated, and the town of Co­

rioli taken; and fo entirely did the glory of Mareius

eclipfe the fame of the conful, that, were it not that

the treaty with the Latines, being engraved on a

brazen pillar, remained to teftify that it was ratified

by Spurius Caffius alone, the other conful being

abfent, it would not have been remembered that

Poftumus Cominius conduced the war againft the

Volfcians. This year died Menenius Agrippa, a

man through the whole courfe of his life equally

beloved by the patricians and the plebeians; and,

after the feceffion, ft'tll more endeared to the latter.

This man, who, in the character of mediator and um­

pire, had re-eftablifhed concord among his country­

men, the ambaffador of the fenate to the plebeians,

the perfon who brought back the Roman commons

to the city, was not pofiefled of property fufficient

for the expence of a funeral. He was buried at the

t'__. M 2, charge

