OF ROME.

by each of them in particular, and alfo by the whole B O O K

fenate, they prevailed on fix to promife their pro- . -^-^

lefts. Accordingly, on the day following, when the Y.K. 339.

fenate was confulted, as had been preconcerted, con- B.C. *IJ'

?erning the fedition which Maecilius and Maetilius

were exciting, by the propofal of a largefs of moft

pernicious tendency, the fpeeches of the principal

patricians, ran all in the fame ftrain, each declaring

that, for his part, " he could neither devife any fa-

'* tisfactory mode of proceeding, nor could he fee a

?' remedy any where, unlefs it were found in the

"protection of the tribunes. To that office the

"commonwealth, embarrafied with' difficulties, in

t' like manner as a private perfon in diftrefs, had

"now recourfe for aid: and that it would be highly

t' honourable to themfelves, and to their office, if

"they fhewed that the tribunefhip poffefied not

"greater power to harafs the fenate, and excite

"difcord between the orders in the ftate, than to

"oppofe ill.defigning colleagues." The voices of

the whole fenate were then heard together, appeals

to the tribunes coming from every corner of the

houfe; and, in fome time, filence being made, thofe

who had been prepared through the influence of the

principal nobility gave notice, "that the propofal of a

"law, publifhed by their colleagues, which, in the

"judgmentof the fenate, tended to the diflblution of

t' the commonwealth, they would oppofe with their

"protefts." The thanks of the fenate were given to

trie proteftors: but the authors of the propofal, hav­

ing called an afiembly of the people, abufed their

colleagues as traitors to the interefts of the commons,

and flaves to the confulars; and, after, uttering other

titter invectiyes againft them, dropped the profecu-

tion of their fcheme.

XLIX. THE two perpetual enemies of the Rp- Y.tt. 340.

mans would have given them employment during H.c.+i1.

the following y^^r, in which Publius Cornelius Cpf-

£ £ 2 fuS,

