O fr R O M E. 399

"moft vigorous exertions, and after a violent ftrug- BOOK

"gle, the point had been gained, that military tri- , -,-_,•

*' bunes with confular power might be chofen from y.R. 331.

"among the commons. Men of approved merit, B.c.*«.

's both in the civil and military line, had ftood can-

"didares. During the firft years they were hooted'

"at, rejected, and ridiculed by the patricians: of*

"kte, they had defifted from expofing themfelves

"to infult. For his part, he could fee no reafon

"why the law itfe.lf mould not be repealed, which

"granted permifllon for that which was never to

"happen: for they would have lefs caufe to blufh

"at the injuftice of the law, than at their being

"pafied by on account of their own want of

"merit."

XXXVI. DISCOURSES of this fort being liftened

to with approbation, induced feveral to offer them-

fclves as candidates for the" military tribunefhip, eacli

profefling intentions of introducing when in office

fome meafure, or regulation, advantageous to the

commons. Hopes were hel'd forth of a diftribution

of the public lands, of colonies to'be fettled, and of

money to be raifed, for paying the troops, by a tax

impofed on the proprietors of.lands. The military

tribunes foon after laid hold of an opportunity, when

moft people had retired from the city, liaving pre-

v'ioufly given private notice to the fenators to attend

on a certain day, to procure a decree of the fenate,

in the abfence of the plebeian tribunes, that whereas

it was reported, that the Volfcians had marched from

home with intent to plunder the country of the Her-

nicians, the military tribunes mould therefore go to

the fpot, and infpecct into the matter, and that an*

afiembly mould be, held for the election of con-

fuls. At their departure, they left Appius Claudius,

fon of the decemvir, praefect of the city, a young

man of activity; and .who had, even from his cradle,

imbibed a hatred towards the commons and their

tribunes.

