496 THEHISTORY

BOOR the people were imprefied with an opinion that re-

._-^' _' ligion was concerned in the cafe, and the tribes, by a

Y.R. 361. majority of one, rejected the law. The patricians

JB. C. 390. were f0 highly gratified by this fucccfs, that next day,

the confuls holding a meeting for the purpofe, a de­

cree of fenate was pafied, that a diftribution fhould

be made to the commons of the Veientian lands, in

the proportion of feven acres to each, and that this

diftribution mould be extended not only to the fa­

thers of families, but to every perfon in their houfcs

of free condition, that they might have fatisfaction in

rearing children with the hope of fuch an eftablifh-

ment.

Y.R. 36j. XXXI. THIS generofity had fuch a conciliatory

• • 38?. effect on tne minds of the commons, that no oppo-

fhion was made to the election of confuls. Lucius

Valerius Potitus and Marcus Manlius, afterwards

furnamed Capitolinus, were appointed to that office.

In their confulate were celebrated the great games

•which Marcus Furius when dictator had vowed, on

occafion of the war with the Veientians. In this

year alfo, the temple of imperial Juno, vowed by

the fame dictator, during the fame war, was dedi­

cated, and it is mentioned that the matrons difplayed

an extraordinary degree of zeal in their attendance

on the dedication. In the campaign againft the

./Equans, the feat whereof was at Algidum, nothing

memorable occurred; the enemy fcarcely waiting for

the engagement to begin, before they betook them-

felves to flight. To Valerius, becaufe he continued

the purfuit and flaughter with greater earneftnefs, a

triumph was decreed j to Manlius an ovation. This

year there fprung up a new enemy, the Volfinfans,

againft whom no army could be fent on account of a

famine and peftilence which raged in the Roman

territories, in confequence of extraordinary drought

and heat. On thefe circumftances the Volfinians

prefumed with fuch confidence, that, forming a junc­

tion

