OF ROME. 177

hymen, and, hoping to recover their eftcem by B O O K

another donative, propofed an order that the money . ~^ _j.

received for the Sicilian corn fhould be refunded to Y.R. 168.

the people; but this the commons rejected with as B'c.484'

much difdain, as if he were avowedly bartering for

arbitrary power; fo ftrongly were they influenced

by their inveterate fufpicions of his ambition* that

they fpurned at all his prefents, as if they were in a

ftate of affluence; and no fooner did he go out of

office, than he was condemned and executedt as we

are informed by undoubted authority. Some fay

that it was his father who inflicted this punifhment

on him; that having, at home, held an inquiry into

his conduct; he fcourged him, and put him to death*

and confecrated the allowance fettled on his fon*, to

Ceres; that out of this a ftatue was erected; with this

infcription, " Given from the Caffian family." I

find in ibme writers, and it is the more credible ac­

count, that he was profecuted for treafon by the

quaeftors Caeio Fabius and Lucius Valerius j that

he was condemned on a trial before the people, and

his houie razed by a public decree: it ftodd on the

fpot which is now the area before the temple of

Tellus. However, whether the trial was private or

public, he was condemned in the confulate of Ser- g •£• 1*'•

vius Cornelius and Quintus Fabius.

XLIL THE anger which the people had conceiv­

ed againft Caffius, was not of long continuance.

The alluring profpects, held out by the agrarian

law, were fufficient, of themfelvesj now the propofer

of it was removed out of the way, to make a lively

impreffion on their minds; and their eagernefs, in

purfuit of them, was inflamed, by an act of unrea-

ibnable parfimony in the patricians, who* when the

* By the Roman law, a father had full and abfolote power, even to  
life and death, over his children, who were in a ftate of abfolute tll-

very; even what property '.hey might acquire, belonged not to therti,

but to their father.

.VOL. i. N Volfcians

