"O F R O M E;

higfieft and the loweft, that while the patri- BOOK

cians approved of his ftricctnefs in the execution of •y___v^_J

his office, the commons were highly fatisfied with his Y.R. j«.

lenity. Even againft the fchemes of the tribunes, B. C.440.

he carried more of his meafures, by means of the

refpect univerfally paid to him, than by exertions of

authority. Five confulfhips adminiftered with the

fame tenour of conduct, and every part of his life

being fuited to the confular dignity, attracted to his

perfon almoft a greater degree of veneration, than

was paid even to the high office which he bore.

There was therefore no mention of military tribunes

in this confulate.

XI. THERE were chofen, to fircceed them, Mar- Y.R 3,3.

£us Fabius Vebulanus and Poftumius /Ebutius Cor- B.C.4jj.

jiicen. Thefe confuls were emulous of the high re­

nown, which they obferved their predeceflbrs had

attained, by their fervices at home and abroad; that

•year having been rendered exceedingly remarkable

among all the neighbouring ftates, both friends and

.enemies, by the very zealous fupport afforded to the

Ardeans in their extreme diftrefs; they exerted

•themfelves then the more earneftly, with the view of

rrafing entirely from the minds of men the infamy.

of the former lentence of the people; and fought to

procure a decree of the fenate, that, whereas the

people of the Ardeans had by inteftine war been re­

duced to an inconliderable number, therefore a co­

lony mould be conducted thither, to ferve as a bar­

rier againft the Volfcians. Thefe were the expref-

fions made ufe of in the tables exhibited to public

'.view, in order to conceal from the tribunes and com­

mons the defign which they had formed of refcinding

the fentence. But they had agreed among them­

felves, to enrol for the colony a much greater num­

ber of Rutulians than of Romans; and then, that no

other land mould be diftributed, but that which had

been fraudulently obtained by the infamous fentence;

A A 4 and

