OF ROME. 34t

confuls. The latter afierted that " the outrageous BOOK

"proceedings of the tribunes could not be any .-_vl ->

•' longer endured: that matters were now come to Y.R. 3i0.

c' a crifis, there being more dangerous hoftilitiesB. c. *4*•

'' excited at home than abroad: that for this the

"commons were not more to be blamed than the

"fenate, nor the tribunes, more than the confuls.

"In any ftate, whatever practices meet with re­

't wards, thefe are always purfued to the greateft

"degree of proficiency, and thefe are the incite-

"ments which call forth merit, both in peace and

"war. Now, at Rome, there was nothing fo highly

"rewarded, as fedition; this was in every inftance

"attended with honours both to individuals and to

"collective bodies. They ought therefore carefully

'' to confider, in what condition they had received

"the majefty of the fenate from their fathers, and

"in what condition they were likely to hand it

"down to their children; whether they could make

"the fame boaft which the commons might, with

'' refpect to their privileges, that it was improved

"both in degree and in fplendor. No end appeared

*' of thefe proceedings, nor would, fo long as the  
"fomentors of fedition were rewarded with ho -

"nours, in proportion to the fuccefs of their fedi-

'' tious projects. What were the new and impor-

"tant fchemes which Caius Canuleius had fet on

"foot? No lefs than the proftitution of the privi-

"leges of nobility, and the confounding the rights

"of aufpices, both public and private'; that nothing

"might be left pure and unpolluted; and tha,ty

"every diftinction being removed, no perfon might

"know what he himfelf was, nor to what order he

"belonged. For what other tendency had fucn

'' promifcuous intermarriages, than to produce an

"irregular intercourfe between patricians and ple-

"beians, not very different from that. between

"brutes? So that one of their offspring fhould not

V be able to tell, of what blood he was, or in

z 3 "what

