248 THEHISTORY

BOOK" conteft was not between the patricians and plebeians,

,_ -J-^i" but whether the patricians and plebeians together,

Y.R. 194." the fortreis of the city, the temples of the gods, and

B.C. 458. ti the guardian deities of the ftate, and of private fa-

"milies, fhould all be given up into the hands of the

"enemy." While thefe meafures were employed in

the Forum to appeafe the difienfions, the confuls had

gone to vifit the gates and walls, left the Sabines or

Veientians might make any hoftile attempt.

XVIII. THE fame night, mefiengers arrived at

Tufculum, with accounts of the citadel being taken,

the Capitol feized, and of the other difturbances

which had taken place in the city. Lucius Mamilius

•was at that time dictator at TufcalurtK He inftantly

afiembled the fenate, and introducing the mefiengers^

•warmly recommended, that "they fhould not wait

'' until ambafladors fhould arrive from Rome to re*

"queft affiftance; that the danger itfelf and diftrefs

"of their allies, the gods, who witnefied their al-

"liance, and the faith of treaties, demanded it. That

"the gods would never afford them fo good an op-

"portunity, of engaging the gratitude of fo pow-

"erful a ftate, and fo near a neighbour." It was

immediately refolved, that affiftance fhould be fent»

the youth were inrolled, and armed. Coming to

Rome at the firft light, they were, at a diftance, taken

for enemies j people imagined that they were

the .fllquans or the Volfcians, who were coming:

but this groundlefs alarm being removed, they were

received into the city, and marched down in a body

to the Forum, where Publius Valerius, having left

his colleague, to fecure the gates, was employed, at

• the time, in drawing up the people in order of battle.

They had been prevailed on by the confidence which

they placed in his promifes, when he aflured them,

that, "as foon as the Capitol fhould be recovered,

." and peace reftored in the city, if they would fuffer

"themfclves to be convinced of the dangerous de­

"figns

