"O F R O M E. 243

bufinefs in the Forum, and allowed even the tri- BOOK

T TT

bunes themfelves to hold meetings for any other ^^J^^^j

purpofes without interruption; fhewing no kind of Y.R. i9V

rudenefs to any, either in public or private; except B.C.419.

when the bufinefs of the law began to be agitated.

On other occafions, the behaviour of the young pa足

tricians was popular, and the tribunes not only exe足

cuted the reft of their bufinefs without difturbance,

but were even re-elected for the following year with足

out one offenfive expreffion, much lefs any violence

being ufed. By thus foothing and managing the

commons, they rendered them, by degrees, more

tractable, and by thefe methods the palfing of the

law was evaded during that whole year.

XV. THE fucceeding confuls, Caius Claudius, Y.R.ig*.

fon of Appius, and Publius Valerius, received theB.c'*s8.

commonwealth in a ftate of great tranquillity. The

new year had brought no change in affairs. The

thoughts of every member of the ftate were occu足

pied, either in wifhes for the pafiing of the law, or in

apprehenfions of being obliged to fubmit to it. The

more the younger patricians endeavoured to infinu-

ate themfelves into the favour of the commons, the

more earneftly did the tribunes ftrive to counteract

them; exciting, by injurious fuggeftions, fufpicions

to their prejudice, in the minds of the populace;

averting that there was a confpiracy formed; that

Caefo was at Rome; that plans had been concerted

for putting the tribunes to death, and maflacring

the commons: that the elder patricians had engaged

the younger to abolifh the office of tribune out of the

commonwealth, and to reduce the ftate to the fame

form, which had fubfifted, before the feceffion to the

facred mount. While fears were entertained of an

attack from the Volfcians and .ffiquans, which had

now become a ftated matter, and occurred regularly

almoft every year, a new danger, which had never

been thought of, made its appearance nearer home.

R a A num-

