O F R O M E. 4P3

the conful; and the legions, on the other, prefied on B o o K

Tempanius and the horfemen, who, after many fruit- , - ' __,

lefs attempts to break through to their friends., took Y.R. 331.

pofieflion of an eminence,and there, forming a circle, B. c. *10'

defended themfelves, not without taking vengeance

on the affailants. Nor was the fight ended when

night came on. The conful kept the enemy em­

ployed, never relaxing his efforts as long as any light'

remained. The darknefs at length feparated them,

leaving the victory undecided: and fuch a pantck

feized both camps, from the uncertainty in which

they were with refpect to the iflue, that both armies,

as if they had been vanquifhed, retreated into the

neareft mountains, leaving behind their wounded,

and a great part of their baggage. The eminence,

however, was kept befieged until after midnight;

when, intelligence being brought thither to the be-

fiegers, that their camp was deferted, they, fuppofing

that their friends had been defeated, fled alfo, each

wherever his fears carried him in the dark. Tem­

panius, apprehending an ambufh, kept his men quiet

until day-light appeared; and then, going out him

felfwith a fmall party, to make obfervations, and

difcovering on enquiry, from the wounded men of

the enemy, that the camp of the Volfcians was aban­

doned, he called down his men from the eminence

with great joy, and made his way into the Roman,

camp: here, finding every place wafte and deferted,

and in the fame difgraceful ftate in which he had

feen the poft of the enemy, before the difcovery of

their miftake fhould bring back the Volfcians, he

took with him as 'many of the wounded as he could;

and, not knowing what route the conful had taken,

proceeded by the fhorteft roads to the city.

XL. NEWS had already arrived there of the lofs of

the battle, and of the camp being abandoned; and

great lamentations had been made, for the horfemen

jbove all, the public grief being not inferior to that

D D 2 9f

