Q F R O M E. 225

Meanwhile, ft the camp, the conful Furius, after B O® K

having endured the fiege for fome time, without • -w - _f

rnaking any effort, burft forth, from the Decuman V.R. 190.

gate *, on the enemy, when they leaf t expedited him j B. c.*5l1

and though he might have purfued their flying troops

with advantage, yet, fearing left an attack might be

made on the camp from the oppofite fide, he halted.

Another Furius, who was a lieutenant-general, and

brother to the conful, haftily pufhed forward too far;

and fo eagerly intent was he on the purfuit, that he

neither perceived his own party retreating, nor the

enemy intercepting him behind: being thus fhut out

from affiftance, and having often in vain eflayed,

by every kind of effort, to open himfelf a pafifage to

the camp, he fell, fighting with great bravery. The

conful on the other hand, hearing that his brother .

was furrounded, turned back on the enemy, and

while, forgetting all caution, he rufhed too precipi­

tately into the thick of the fight, he received a wound,

and was, not without difficulty, carried off by his at­

tendants: this both damped the courage of his own

men, and rendered the enemy more daring; and fo

highly were the latter elated by the death of the lieu­

tenant-general, and the conful's being wounded,

that no force could afterwards w;th(tand them, fo as

to prevent their driving the Romans back to their

camp, and compelling them to fubmit again to a

iiege, with ftrength and hopes both confiderably

diminifhed; they were even in danger of utter de-

ftruction, had not Titus Quintius with foreign forces,

the troops fupplied by the Latines and Hernicians,

<ome to their relief: he attacked the vEquans on

their rear, whilir, their attention was employed on

the Roman camp, and they were infultingly exhibit­

ing to view the head of the lieutenant-general; and

• The Decuman gate was in the rear of the encampment. For i

the order and dilpofinon ol a Roman camp, lee Adams's Komun A:i.

tiquitiet.

VOL. i. Q. a fally

