OF ROME. 453

"no longer to obey their officers, fince liberty, ac-B o o K

"cording to the prefent notion of it at Rome, con- . .-'__f

"fifts in cafting off all reverence for the fcnate, for Y.R. 3S1.

"the magiftrates, for the laws, for the practices of B.C. *co.

"our anceftors, for the inftitutions of our fathers,

"and for military difcipline."

VII. APPIUS was now fully equal to a contention

with the plebeian tribunes, even in the aTTemblies of

the people, when a misfortune fuffered before Veii,

by an effect which no one could have expected,

threw the fuperiority at once on his fide, and pro­

duced both an unufual harmony between the orders

of the ftate, and a general ardour to pufh on the fiege

of Veii with greater vigour. For when the trenches

had been advanced almoft to the very town, and the

machines werejuft ready to be applied to the wills,

the troops, employing greater afliduiry in forming

their works by day, than in guarding them by ni^ht,

one of the gates was thrown open on a fudJcu, .i.id a

vaft multitude, armed chiefly with torches, Lliied

forth, and fet fire to them on all fides; lb that the

flames deftroyed in an inftant both the ramnart and

the machines, the conftruction of which had coft ib

much time; and great numbers of men, attempting,

.in vain, to fave them, perifhed by the fword and the

flames. When news of this difafter arrived at Rome,

it diffiifed a general fadnefs through all ranks of men,

and filled the fenate alfo with anxiety and itrong ap-

prehenfions, left they mould find it impoffible to

withftand any longer the machinations of the fcdi-

tious, either in the city, or the camp, and left the tri­

bunes of the commons mould infuit over the com­

monwealth, as if it lay vanquifhed at their feet. At

this juncture, thofe perfons who poffeiled equeftrian

fortunes, and had not had horfes affign.M them by the

public, after previoufly confulting together, went in a

body to the fenate, and having obtained permiflion to

Jpeak, declared their refolution to ferve in the army,

c c 3 on

