47® THE HISTORY

B QVO K confular power came into office. Thefe were Lu-

. -/r,__t cius Julius lulus, and Lucius Furius Medullinus a

Y,R. 158. fourth time, Lucius Sergius Fidenas, Aulus Poftu-

B. C. 394. mius Regillenfis, Publius Cornelius Maluginenfis,

and Aulus Manlius. This year there ftarted up a

new enemy, the Tarquinians; who, feeing the Ro­

mans embroiled in fo many wars at once, againft

the Volfcians at Anxur, where the garrifon was be-

fieged, at Lavici againft the ./Equans, who were bc-

fieging the colony there j and alfo againft the Veien-

tians and the Falifcians, and the Capenatians, and their

affairs within their walls not lefs embarrafied by dif-

fenfions, and thinking this a favourable ieafon to

attack them with effect, fent their light-armed co­

horts to make depredations on the Roman terri­

tories, concluding that the Romans would either

fufifer that affront to pafs unrevenged, rather than

burthen themfelves with an additional war, or if they

refented it, would fend out an army neither numer­

ous nor ftrong. The Romans felt greater indigna­

tion at the Affront, than concern for the lofs fuftain-

cd by the inroads of the Tarquinians. They, there­

fore, undertook the bufinefs without either much,

preparation or long delay. Aulus Poftumius and

Lucius Julius having collected a body of troops, not

by a regular levy, for in that they were prevented

by the tribunes of the commons, but moftly volun­

teers, whom by perfualions they had prevailed on to

follow them, directed their march by crofs roads

through the territory of Caere, and came upon the

Tarquinians unawares, as they were returning from

their depredations, heavily laden with fpoil: they

flew great numbers of their men, got pofieffion of

all their baggage; and, having retaken the fpoils

of their lands, returned to Rome. The fpace of

two days was allowed to the owners to reclaim their

property; on the third, what remained unclaimed,

the greateft part of which had been the enemy's own

property, was fold by auction, and the produce dif-

tributed;

