O F R O M E. 99.

at that time, and feas ftill more unknown. Titus B QrQ K

and Aruns fct out, and, as a companion, was fent

with them, Lucius Junius Brutus, fon to Tar-

quinia, the king's fifter, a young man of a capa­

city widely different from the aflumed appearance

which he had put on. Having heard,that the prin­

cipal men in the ftate, and, among the reft, his

'brother, had been put to death by his uncle, he re-

folved that the king mould find nothing in his ca­

pacity, which he need dread, nor in his fortune, which

he need covet; and he determined to find fecurity in

contempt, fmce, in juftice, there was no protection.

He took care, therefore, to fafhion his behaviour to

the refemblance of foolifhnefs, and fubmitted him-

felf and his fortune to the king's rapacity. Nor did

he fhew any diflike to the furnamc of Brutus, con­

tent that, under the cover of that appellation, the

genius, which was to be the deliverer of the Roman

people, fhould tie concealed, and wait the proper

feafon for exertion. He was, at this timt^ carried

to Delphi by the Tarquinii, rather as a fubject: of

Jport, than as a companion; and is faid to have

brought as an offering to Apollo, a golden wand in-

clofed in a ftaff of cornel-wood, hollowed for the

purpofe, an emblem figurative of the ftate of his

own capacity. When they arrived there, and exe­

cuted their father's commiflion, the young men felt

a wifh to enquire, to which of them the kingdom of

Rome was to come; and we are told, that thefe

words were uttered from the bottom of the cave,

"Young men, which ever of you mall firft kifs

"your mother, he fliall pofiefs the fovereign power

"at Rome." The Tarquinii ordered that this

matter fliould be kept fecret, with the utrnoft care;

that Sextus, who had been left behind at Rome,

might remain ignorant of the anfwer, and entitled to

no chance for the kingdom. They themfelves had

recourfe to lots, to determine which of them mould

iirft kifs their mother, on their return to Rome

H 2 Brutus

