OF ROME. 53;

*' to you in war. And this being the cafe, in the B o o K  
"name of folly, where can be the wifdom in people . _-\ _,

'' who have experienced fuch a lot, making trial of Y.R. 365,

ct a change, when, though your valour might ac- B.C. 31^.

<* company you in your removal to another place,

£t the fortune of this fpot certainly could not be

"transferred? Here is the Capitol, where a

"human head being formerly found, it was fore-

"told that in that fpot fhould be the capital of the

"world, and the feat of fovereign empire. Here,

"when the Capitol was to be cleared by the rites

(' of augury, Juventas and Terminus, to the exceed-

t' ing great joy of our fathers, fuffered not them-

f felves to be moved. Here is the fire of Vefta,

*' here the Ancilia, fent down from heaven, here  
"all the gods, and they propitious to your ftay."

Camillus is faid to have affected them much, both

by other parts of his difcourfe, and particularly by

that which related to religious matters. But the

affair remained in fufpenfe, until an accidental ex-

preflion, fcafonably uttered, determined it. For io

a ihort time after this, the fenate fitting on this bu-

nefs in the Curia Hoftilia, it happened that fome

cohorts, returning from relieving the guards, pafied

through the Forum in their march, when a centurion

jn the Comitium called out, "Standard-bearer, fix

"your ftandard, It is bef t for us to ftay here." On

hearing which exprefiion, the fenate coming forth

from the Curia, called out with one voice, that

." they embraced the omen;" and the furrounding

crowd of commons joined their approbation. The

propofed law being then rejected, they fet about re­

building the city in all parts at once. Tiles were

fuppljed at the public expence, and liberty granted

to hew ftones and fell timber, wherever each perfon

chofe, fecurity being taken for their completing

the buildings within the year. Their hafte took

£way all attention to the regulation of the courfe of

the ftreey; for fctting aljde all regard to diftinction

of

