i74 THEHISTORf

BOOK- diftinguifhed above the reft by an extraordinary de.t

. -*1_• gree of fadnefs, as fhe ftood between her daughter-

Y.R. 166. in-law, and grandchildren, faid to him, " unlefs my

U.u. 486. " eyes deceive me, your mother with your wife and

"children are coming." Coriolanus, in a tranfport

of amazement, and almoft diftracted, fpringing from

his feat to embrace his mother as fhe advanced, the

woman, inftead of intreaties, addrefled him with angry

reproofs: " Let me know," faid me, "before I re- •

"ceive your embrace, whether I am come to an

"enemy, or to a fonj whether I am in your camp

K a prifoner, or a mother. Was it for this, that

'e my long and unhappy old age has been Iengthen-

•' ed out, that I might behold you an exile, and af-

"terwards an enemy; could you lay wafte this landj

•' which gave you birth and education? whatever

"degree of anger, whatever thiruSof vengeance,

"might have occupied your mind, on your march;

"did you not, on entering its borders, feel your

"paflion lubfide? When you came within fight of

"Rome, did it not recur to you,—within thofe walls

"are my houfe and guardian gods, my mother, my

"wife, my children? Had I never been a mother,

"then Rome would not have been now befieged:

"had I not a fon, I might have died free, and left

"my country free; but, for my part, there is no

"fuffering to which I can be expofed, that will not

"reflect more difhonour on you, than mifery on

"me; and be my lot as wretched as it may, I am

." not to endure it long; let thefe claim your rc-

"gard, who, if you peruft, can have no other prof-

"peet, but either untimely death, or lafting fla-

"very." His wife and children then embraced

him; and the whole crowd of women, uttering

bitter lamentations, and deploring their own and

their country's fate, at length got the better of his

obftinacy: fo that, after embracing and difmiffing

his family, he removed his camp to a greater dif-

lance from the city: foon after, he drew off the

troops

