THE HISTORY

hoftilities, and filled the prifon with the principal

_ citizens; fhew an equal degree of valour, and

Y.R. 509. " march out through the Efquiline gate; or, if ye

B.C. 443. 't nave not courage for that, view from the walls

"your lands defolated with fire and fword, the plun-

"der carried off, and the burning houfes fmoking

"all around. But ye will fay, it is the public intercft

"that fuffers by thefe means, by the country being

"wafted with fire, the city befieged, and the enemy

"enjoying the honour of the war. Be it fo; but I

"will afk, in what fituation are your private affairs?

"Soon will every one of you hear from the coun-

"try accounts of his own lofies: and what means

"have ye, at home, of procuring a compenfation

"for them? Will the tribunes bring back and re-

"ftore what ye have loft? Talk, and words, they

"will load you with, until ye are tired, and accufa-

"tions againft the principal citizens, and laws heaped

"upon laws, and public afiemblies: but, from thefc

"aflemblies, never did one of you return home with

"an increafe of fubftance or fortune. Let me fee

"one of you, who ever carried home aught to his

"wife and children, except hatreds, quarrels, ani-

"mofities, public and private; from the ill effects

"of which ye have always been fcreened, not by

"your own merit and innocence, but by the protec-

•' rion of others. But, I will affirm, that, when ye

"ufed to make your campaigns, under the command

'' of us confuls, not of your tribunes, in the camp,

"not in the Forum; when your fhout ufed to ftrike

"terror into the enemy in the field, not into the

"Roman nobles in an affembly; after enriching

"yourfelves with plunder, taking poffeflion of the

"enemy's lands, and acquiring a plentiful ftock of

"wealth and of glory, both to the public and to

"yourfelves; then ye returned home in triumph to

"your families; now, ye fuffer the enemy to depart

'' laden with your property. Continue immoveably

"tied to your afiemblies, and live in the Forum.

"Still

