. .OF ROME. 251

"nouncing himfelf an enemy, gave out public or- BOOK

"ders, in a manner, that ye mould take arms. The

"other, denying that there were enemies to be op- Y.R. 194..

"pofed, took.the arms outof your hands,andexpofed B. ^. *$*•

"you defencelefs to your flaves and exiles. And

"did ye, notwithftanding, (I wifh to fpeak without

"offence to Caius Claudius or the decafed Publius

"Valerius) lead your troops to an attack on the Ca-

"pitoline hill, before ye had expelled thefe enemies

"from the Forum? It is fcandalous in the fight of

"gods and men, that when an enemy was in the ci-

"tadel, in the Capitol, and a leader of exiles and

"flaves, profaning every thing facred, took up his

"habitation in the fhrine of Jupiter fuprcmely good

"and great, arms were taken up at Tufculum fooner

"than at Rome. It was doubtful, whether Lucius

"Mamilius, a Tufculan general, or Publius Valerius

"and Caius Claudius, confuls, fhould have the ho-

"nour of recovering the Roman citadel. And we

"who, heretofore, would not fuffer the Latines to

"touch arms, not even in their own defence, when

"they had the enemy within their territories, fhould

"have been taken and deftroyed, had not thefe La-

"tines, of their own accord, taken arms. Is this,

"tribunes, affording protection to the commons, to

"expofe them unarmed to be flaughtered by the

"enemy? Surely, if any, even the loweft perfon

"among thefe commons of yours, whom from being

"a part ye have broken off, as it were, from the

"body of the people, and made a country of your

'" own, and a republic peculiar to yourfclves; if

f any one of thefe fhould inform you that his houfe

>' was furrounded by an armed band of flaves, yc

"would think that ye ought to go to his afliftance.

"And was the fupremely good and great Jupiter,

"when hemmed round by the arms of exiles and

"flaves,unworthy of any human aid ? Yet thefe men

"expect to be held facred and inviolable, who ef-

"teem not the gods themfelves as either facred or

"inviolable.

