THEHISTORY

B oo K in the field, a general and army fo cordially united,

^lJL_j fuffered them to carry their depredations through

Y.R. 483. every part of the country; and in no former war

B.C.*69. was a greater abundance of booty carried off from

thence, all which was diftributed among the foldiers.

Their behaviour was alfo rewarded with praifes, in

which the minds of foldiers find as much delight as

in gain. The troops returned from thence in better

temper towards their general, and, on the general's

account, towards the patricians alfo; declaring, that

the fenate had given to them a parent, to the other

army a mafter. This year, during which they ex­

perienced a variety of fortune in their military ope­

rations, and furious difienfions both at home and

abroad, was particularly diftinguimed by the affem-

blies of the people voting by tribes, a matter which

derived its feeming importance rather from the ho­

nour of the victory obtained by one party over the

other, than from any real advantage accruing from

it. For the mare of power, which was either gained

by the commons, or taken from the patricians, was

trifling, in proportion to the great degree of dignity

of which the afiemblies themfelves were deprived,

by the exclufion of the patricians.

y.R. 184. LXI. THE following year, the confnlate of Lu-

B. c. 468. ciu3 Valerius and Tiberius /F.milius, was difturbed

by more violent commotions, both in confequence

of the ftruggles between the different orders of the

ftate, concerning the agrarian law, and alfo of the

trial of Appius Claudius; who, having taken a moft

active part, in oppofition to the law, and fupportcd

the caufe of thole who were in pofiefiion of the pub­

lic lands, as if he were a third conful, and thought

it his duty, had a criminal profecution inftituted

againft him, by Marcus Duilius and Caius Sicinius.

Never hitherto had a perfon, fo odious to the com­

mons, been brought to trial before the people, over-

. whelmed as he was with hatred, on his father's ac­

count.

