THE HIS TORY

i? K" Take mea^ures w'tn your colleague, that he may

_^_. " adjourn this bufinefs without farther proceedings,

Y.R. 191. " until the arrival of the confuls; ye will not hereby

B.C. 46°. " leflen your rights, but ye will lefien the odium

"which fuch proceedings muft excite. Even the

"^Equans and Volfcians, when the confuls were

"carried off laft year by the ficknefs, refrained from

"adding to our afflictions, by a cruel and implaca-

"ble profecution of a war." The tribunes accord­

ingly made application to Terentillus, and the bufi-

nefs being fufpended, in appearance, but, in reality,

fupprefled,the confuls were immediately called home.

X. LUCRETIUS returned with a very great quan­

tity of fpoil, and glory much greater. And to the

glory which he had acquired, he added on his arrival,

by expofing all the fpoii in the field of Mars, in order

that every one fhould have an opportunity, during

three days, to recognize and carry home his own

property. The remainder, the owners of which did

not appear, was fold. All men agreed in opinion,

that a triumph was due to the conful; but the confi-

deration of that matter was poftponed, becaule the

tribune had renewed his attempts to carry his law;

and this was deemed by the conful an affair.of more

importance. The bufinefs was canvafied during fe-

veral days, both in the fenate, and the afiembly of

the people: at length, the tribune yielded to the

weight of the conful's authority, and defifted. Then

was paid to the conful and his army, the honour

which they fo juftly merited. He triumphed over

the Volfcians and ^Equans, his own legions attend­

ing him in the proceffion. To the other conful, was

granted the honour o*f entering the city in ovation*,

• The ovation was an Inferior kind of triumph, in which the vic­

torious general entered the city, crowned with myrtle, not with Inn.

Ye!; and tnftead of bullocks, as in the triumph, facrificed a flieep,

mii; hence the name.

unattended

