THE HISTORY

XXVII. THE peace with Alba was not oflong

continuance. The diflatisfaction of the multitude,

on account of the power and fortune of the ftatc

having been hazarded on three champions, pervert­

ed the unfteady mind of the dictator; and as his

defigns, though honourable, had not been crowned

with fuccefs, he endeavoured, by others of a differ­

ent kind, to recover the efteem of his countrymen.

With this view, therefore, as formerly, in time of war,

he had fought peace, fo now, when peace was efta-

blifhed, he as ardently wifhed for' war: but, perceiv­

ing that his own ftate pofiefied more courage than

ftrength, he perfuaded other nations to make war,

openly, by order of their governments, referving to

his own people, the part of effecting their purpofes,

by treachery, under the mafk of allies. The Fide-

natians, a Roman colony, being aflured of the con­

currence of the Veientians, and receiving from the

Albans a pofitive engagement to defert to their fide,

were prevailed on to take arms and declare war.

Fidenae having thus openly revolted, Tullus, after

fummoning Mettius and his army from Alba, march­

ed againft the enemy, and pafling the Anio, pitched

his camp at the conflux of the rivers. Between that

place, and Fidenae, the Veientians had crofied the

Tiber, and, in the line of battle, they compofed the

right wing near the river, the Fidenatians being poft-

ed on the left towards the mountains. Tullus drew

up his own men facing the Veientians, and pofted

the Albans oppofite to the troops of the Fidenati­

ans. The Alban had not more refolution than fide­

lity, fo that, not daring either to keep his ground,

or openly to defert, he filed off flowly toward the

mountains. When he thought he had proceeded to

a fufficient diftance, he ordered the whole line to

halt, and being ftill irrefolute, in order to wafte time,

he employed himfelf in forming the ranks: his

fcheme was to join his forces to whichever of the

parties fortune fhould favour with vidlory. At firft,

the

