OF ROME. . 381

purfued the hopes of attaining higher dignity, during 3 OO K

this interval of tranquillity abroad, called the people . '_j

together in the houfes of the tribunes, and there Y.R. 313.

concerted their plans in fecret. They complained B'Ct419'

that "they were treated with fuch contempt by the

"commons, that, notwithftanding military tribunes

"with confular power had been elected for fo many , .• T •.

"years, no plebeian had ever yet been allowed to

"attain that honour. Their anceftors, they faid,

"had fhewn great forefight in providing that the

"plebeian magiftracies fhould not lie open to any

"patrician, otherwife they would have had patri-

"cians tribunes of the commons; fo defpicable are

"we even in the eyes of our own party, and not lefs

"contemned by the commons than by the patricians

"themfelves." Others took off the blame from

the commons, and threw it on the patricians: " It

"was through their arts and intrigues," they faid,

"that the accefs to honours was barred againft the

"plebeians. If the commons were allowed time to

"breathe from their intreaties mixed with menaces,

"they would come to an election with a due regard

"to the intereft of their own party, and as they had

"already fecured protection to themfelves, would

"aflume alfo the adminiftration of the government."

It was refolved, that, for the purpofe of abolifhing

the practice of thofe intrigues, the tribunes mould

propofe a law, that no perfon mould be allowed, on

applying for an office, to add any white to his gar­

ment *. This may appear at prefent a trivial mat­

ter, fcarcely fit to be ferioufly mentioned, yet it then

kindled a very hot contention between the patricians

and plebeians. The tribunes, however, got the bet­

ter, and carried the law; and as it was evident that

• Tu rub it with chalk, in order to incrtafr its whitenefo, and ren­

der themlcliTs more conspicuous. It was the practice ot thofe who

folicited any public office, thus to make their garments more white,

'Candida..'.: ,' hence they were called ' tancl:'l.i:i,' candidates, a word'

dill in ufe.

the

