OF ROME.

gave orders that the troops mould be in readinefs to B O ° K

march next day; and, at the firft dawn, gave, by ^.^

found of trumpet, the fignal for fetting out. When Y.R.

the troops had fcarcely got clear of the camp, and

while they were juft forming in order of march, the

Volfcians, as if they had been fummoned by the

fame fignal, made an attack on their rear; and, the

alarm fpreading from thence to the van, caufed fuch.

confternation, as threw both the battalions and ranks

into confufion, fo that neither could orders be heard,

nor a line formed: no one now thought of any

thing but flight; and in fuch precipitation did they

make their way through fcattered bodies and arms,

that the enemy ceafed to purfue, fooner than the

Romans to fly. In vain did the conful follow his

men, calling on them to halt; but, when he had at

length collected them together, after their hafty dif-

perfion, he encamped in a peaceful part of the coun­

try; and there, having fummoned an afiembly, after

uttering fevere and juft reproaches againft the army,

as betrayers of military difcipline, and deferters from

their ftandards, afking each where were their ftand-

ards? where were their arms? he beat with rods,

and beheaded, the foldiers who had thrown away

their arms, the ftandard-bearers who had loft their

ftandards, and alfo fuch of the centurions, and of the

privates entitled to double allowance, as had quitted

their ranks; of the reft of the multitude every tenth

man was drawn by lot and punifhed.

LX. IN a very different manner were matters

conduced in the country of the Jiquans. There

feemed a mutual conteft carried on between the

conful and his troops, who mould exceed the other

In civility and good offices. Quintius was naturally

of a milder difpofition, and befides, the ill confe-

quenccs attending the harfh feverity of his colleague,

made him feel the greater fatisfaction in indulging

his own temper. The ^Equans, not daring to meet,

VOL. I. I' ill'

