THE HISTORY

BOOK reduced by the peftilence, the anfwer which they re-"

^_JT-y_ . ceived, demonftrated a great dejection of fpirits:

Y.R. 19i. that" the Hernicians themfelves, with the affiftance

B.C. 461. " of the Latines, muft provide for their own fafety.

"That the city of Rome, through the fudden anger

"of the gods, was depopulated by ficknefs. If they

"fhould find any refpite from that calamity, they

"would, as they had done the year before, and on

"all occafions, give affiftance to their allies." Thus

the ambaflfadors departed, carrying home more for-

rcwful intelligence even than what they had brought;

as they now found themfelves obliged, with their

own fingle ftrength, to fupport a war, to which they

had hardly been equal, even when aflifled. by the

power of Rome. The enemy remained not long in

the country of the Heroicians, but proceeded thence,

with hoftile intentions, into the Roman territory;

which, without the injuries of war, was now become

a defert; and, without meeting there one human

being even unarmed, finding every place through

which they pafled deftitute, not only of troops, but

of the culture of the hufbandman, they came as far as

the third ftone on the Gabian road. By this time JEbu-

rius the Roman conful was dead, and his colleague

Servilius fo ill, that there was very little hope of his

recovery; moft of the leading men were feized by

the diftemper, as were the greater part of the patri足

cians, and almoft every one of military age; fo that

they wanted ftrength, not only to form the expedi足

tions which were requifite, in a conjuncture fo alarm足

ing, but even to mount the guards, where no exer足

tion was neceflary. The duty of the watches was

performed by fuch of the fenators in perfon, as by

their age and ftrength were qualified for it; the care

of pofting, and vifiting, thefe, was intrufted to the

plebeian ^Ediles; on them devolved the whole ad-

miniftration of affairs, and the dignity of the con-

fular authority.

VII. THE

