OF ROME. . 471

ofit, or the difpleafure of the fenators as being pro- B O ° K

fufely lavifh, he difpatched a letter to the fenate, ,_J_VL1_J

that " through the favour of the immortal gods, hisv.lt. 359.

"own conduct, and the perfevering courage of the B.c.

"troops, Veii would immediately be in the power

'' of the Roman people, and requefted their direc-

"tions with regard to the fpoil." Two opinions

divided the fenate j one was that of old Publius Li-

cinius, who being the firft called upon by his fon,

as we are told, propofed a refolution, that public

notice fhould be given to the people by proclama­

tion, that whofoever chofe to mare in the fpoil

fhould go to the camp to Veii. The other that of

Appius Claudius, who cenfured fu'ch profufion as

unprecedented, extravagant, partial, and productive

of ill confequences, if people fhould once conceive

an opinion that it would be criminal to depofit in the

treafury, when exhaufted by wars, the money taken

from the enemy: and he recommended it to them to

make that a fund for the payment of the foldier's wages,

to the end that the commons might be eafed of part of

the tax. For " every man's family," he faid, " would

"feel its mare of fuch a bounty in equal proportion,,

"and the hands of the idle city rabble, ever greedy

." of rapine, would not then fnatch away the prizes,

"due to men who had fhewed their bravery in war:

•5 it being generally the cafe, that the man who is

"moft ready, on every occafion, to undertake the

"largeft fhare of toil and danger, is the leaft active

"in plundering." Licinius, on the other hand, ar­

gued, that in that cafe, the money would be an eter­

nal caufe of jealoufy and ill-humour, would afford^

grounds for invidious reprefentations to the com­

mons, and, in confequence, for feditions, and the

enacting of new laws. "It was therefore more to

"be dcfired," he faid, " that the affe&ion of the.

"commons might be conciliated by a bounty of

"that kind; that this refource fhould be afforded

"them, after .they had been exhaufted and entirely

"drained,

