OF ROME. 227.

tion was iflued for a folemn feftival, to be obferved B O O K

for three days, during which all the temples were . -r-_i

filled with crowds, both of men and women, fuppli- Y.R. 19o.

eating the favour of the gods. The cohorts of the B.c. 461<

Latines and Hernicians were then difmificd by the

fenate to their refpective homes, with thanks for

their fpirited behaviour. During the campaign, a

thoufand men, who came from Antium after the bat-'

tle, too late to be of any fcrvice, were fent off in a

manner little lefs than ignominious.

VI. THE elections were then held, and Lucius Y.R. '9i.

/Ebutius and Publius Servilius being chofen confuls, B.C. *6l%

entered on their office, on the calends of Auguft,

which was at that time confidered as the beginning

of the year with refpecct to them. This was a feafon

of great diftrefs j for, during this year, a peftilential

diforder fpread itfelf, not only through the city, but

over the country, affecting both men and cattle with

equal malignity; the violence of the diforder was

encreafed by admitting into the city the cattle, and

the inhabitants of the country, who fled thither for

fhcker from the enemy's ravages: fuch a confufed

collection of animals of every different kind, fuffb-

cated the citizens by the unufual fte"nch, while the

country people, crowded together in narrow apart­

ments, fuffered no lefs from the heat, the want of

reft, and their attendance on each other; befides,

even contadl ferved to propagate the infection.

While they could fcarcely fupport the weight of the

cala/nities under which they laboured, ambafladors

from the Hernicians fuddenly arrived with intelli­

gence, that the ./Equans and Volfcians in conjunction,

had pitched their camp in their territory, and from

thence were ravaging the country with very nume­

rous forces. Befides the proof, which the thinnefs of

the fenate afforded to the observation of the allies,

of the low ftate to which the commonwealth was

reduced

