2i8 THE HISTORY

BOO K ^commons: now, therefore, on his being a fecond

1 -T--• time invefted with that office, thofe, who expected

Y.R.i«7. the lands, conceived fanguine hopes of the law

B.C. 465; pafftng. The tribunes, fuppofing that an affair for

which fuch ftruggles had often been made, in oppo-

fition to both the confuls, might probably be ac-

complifhed now, when one of thofe magiftrates was

an advocate for it, fet the bufinefs on foot; and the

conful continued in the fame lentiments. Tlie pof-

feflbrs of the lands, and moft of the patricians, com­

plaining loudly that a perfon at the head of the ftate

aimed to diftinguifh himfelf, by intrigues more be­

coming tribunes, and courted popularity, by mak­

ing donations out of other people's property, re­

moved the odium of the whole tranfadlion from the

tribunes to the conful. A defperate conteft would

have enfued, had not Fabius ftruck out an expedient

to prevent it, by a plan difagreeable to neither

party; which was, that, as a confiderable tract of

land had been taken from the Volfcians, in the pre­

ceding year, under the conduct and aufpices of Titus

Quintius, a colony mould be led off to Antium, a

town at no great diftance, convenient in every re-

ipect, and a lea-port; by thefe means, the com­

mons might come in for lands, without any com­

plaints from the prefent poffeflors, and harmony

might be preferved in the ftate. This propofition

was approved of, and he had cotnmiffioners, called

triumvirs, appointed to diftribute the lands; thefe

were Titus Quintius, A. Virginia*, and Publius Fu-

rius; and fuch as chofe to accept of thofe lands, were

ordered to give in their names. The gratification of

their wifhes, as is generally the cafe, inftantly begat

difguft; and fo few gave in their names, that, to fill

up the colony, they were obliged to take in a number

of the Volfcians. The reft of the populace chofe ra­

ther to profecute claims of land at Rome, than to

receive .immediate pofieffion of it elfewhere. The

,/Equans fued to Quintus Fabius for peace, for he had

gone againft them with an army; yet they themfelves

broke

