O F R O M E. 3<s7

*'• deemed not more criminal than it was monftrous: B o o K  
"nor was it fufficiently expiated by his blood; it was ^

"Farther neceffary that the roof, the walls, within Y.R.

"which fuch a defperate defign had been conceived, B.c.

"mould be levelled to the ground; and that his ef-

"fccts fhould be confifcated, being contaminated by

"the intention of making them the price of the li-

"berty of the public ; and that therefore, he ordered

"the quaeftors to fell thofe effects, and depofit the

"produce in the public treafury."

XVI. HE then ordered his houfe to be immedi­

ately rafed, and that the vacant fpace mould remain

as a monument of the fuppreflion of that abominable

enterprize. This was called ^EquimEelium. Lucius

Minucius was honoured with a prefent of an ox, with

its horns gilded, and a ftatue, on the outfide of the

gate Trigemina; and this with the approbation of

the commons, for he diftributed among them the

corn collected by Mfelius, at the rate of an as for

each peck. In fb'me authors, 1 find, that this Mi­

nucius had changed fides from the patricians to the

commons, and that having been chofen by the ple­

beian tribunes, as an eleventh member of their body,

he quieted the commotion which arole on the death

of Maelius. But it is hardly credible, that the patri­

cians fuffered the number of tribunes to be augment­

ed, and that the precedent mould have been introduced

particularly in favour of a man of patrician rank; and

that the commons did not afterwards maintain, or

even attempt to maintain, a privilege once conceded

to them. But what above all evinces the falfehood

of that infcription on his ftatue, is, that, a few years

before this, provifion had been made by a law, that

the tribunes mould not have power to aflume col­

leagues in their office. Of the college of tribunes

Quintus Caecilius, Quintus Junius, and Sextus Titi-

nius alone had neither been concerned in the law for

conferring honours on Minucius, nor ceafed to throw

out

