TH£ HISTORY

BOOK lero to the tribunefhip; and the patricians, judging

^J/l . that tliis bufinefs would not end without the fevereft

y. R.*8j. ftruggle, procured the confulfhip for Appius Clau-

H.C. 469. dius, fon of Appius, who both hated, and was hated

by the commons, in confequence of the contentions

between them and his father. Thus Quintius was

given him for colleague. The law was the firft

bufinefs agitated in the beginning of the year; and

though Volero was the inventor of the plan, yet

Laetorius his colleague, as he joined in it later, fo

was he the more eager in promoting it: his renown

in war infpired him with confidence, for there was

no one of that age poffefied of more pcrfonal prow-

efs. Volero contented himfelf with arguing in fa­

vour of the law, and avoided all abufe againft the

confuls; but Laetorius began with fevere invectives

againft Appius and his family, charging them with

having always fhewn a difpofition in the higheft de­

gree overbearing and cruel towards the commons:

afierting, that the patricians had elected him not for

a conful, but an executioner, to torment and torture

the plebeians: being however a rough foldier, un-

fkilled in the art of ipeaking, he was at a lofs for

expreffions fuited to the unreftrained freedom and

boldnels of his thoughts; and finding himlelf unable

to proceed in his difcourfe, he faid, " Citizens, fincc

"I cannot fpeak with the fame readinefs with which.

"I can perform what I have fpoken, I requeft your

'c attendance to-morrow. Fither I will lofe my life,

"here in your prefence, or I will carrv the law."

Next day the tribunes took pofieflion of the tem­

ple; and the confuls and nobles placed themfelves

among the crowd, in. order to oppofe the law : Lae..

torius ordered all perfons to retire, except thofe who

•were to vote; but the younger nobility kept their

places, and paid no regard to the officer; on which,

Laetorius ordered fom£ of them to be taken into

cuftody. The conful Appius infifted, that " a tri-

*' bune had no authority over any but the plebei-

<c ansj

