OF ROME, 51*

firft fent forward a perfon unarmed to make trial BOOK!

of the way, handing their arms to thofe before them; t 1 ^

when any difficulty occurred, fupporting and fup- Y.R. 365.

ported in turns, and drawing each other up accord- B. c. IS7'

ing as the ground required;, they climbed to the

fummit in fiich filence, that they not only efcaped

the notice of the guards, but did not even alarm the

dogs, animals particularly watchful with regard to

any noife at night. They were not unperceived

however by fome geefe, which being facred to Juno

the people fpared, even in the prefent great fcarcity"

of food, which circumftance proved their preferva-

rion. For by the cackling of thefe creatures, and

the clapping of their wings, Marcus Manlius was

roufed from fleep, a man of diftinguimed character

in war, who had been confi.il the third year before,

and matching up his arms, and at the fame time call­

ing the reft to arms, he haftened to the fpot. Where,

.while the reft ran about in confufion, he by aftrokc

with the bofs of his fhield tumbled down a Gaul

who had already got footing on the fummit j and

this man's weight, as he fell, throwing down thofe

who were next, he flew feveral others, who, in their

confirmation, threw away their arms, and caught

hold with their hands of the rocks, to which they

clung. By this time others had affembled at the

place, who by throwing javelins and ftones beat

down the enemy, fo that the whole band, unable to

keep their footing, were hurled down the precipice;

in promifcuous ruin. The alarm then fubfiding, th£

remainder of the night was given to repofe, fuch 39

could be enjoyed after fuch perturbation of mind,

when the danger, though pan:, kept up the agitation

of people's minds. As foon as day appeared, the

foldiers, being fummoned, by found of trumpet, to.

attend the tribunes in afiembly, when due recom-

pence was to be made both to merit and demerit,

Manlius was firft of all commended for the bravery'

which he had difplayed, and was prefented with gifts,

not

