294 THE HISTORY

BOOK the fame time filling his eyes, " I am thankful for

i -TA__f" yOur goodnefs; to-morrow I will ufe your aflrft-

•Y.R. 305. " ance; at prefent, I have fureties enough." Vir-

B.C. 447. ginia Was then admitted to bail on the fecurity of her

relations. Appius, after remaining there for a fhort

time, left he fhould feem to have fat merely for the

fake of that bufinefs, and finding that no one applied

to him, people's anxiety about that particular affair

hindering them to attend to others, retired to his

houfe, and wrote to his colleagues to the camp not

to give leave of abfence to Virginius, and even to

keep him in confinement. This wicked fcheme, as

it deferved, was too late to fucceed, for Virginius,

having already got leave of abfence, had fet out at

the firft watch; fo that the letter about detaining

him, which was delivered in the morning, produced.

no effect.

XLVII. IN the city, the whole multitude of the

•citizens were afiembled in the Forum at the firft

light, full of anxious expectation; Virginius, clad

in mourning, and accompanied by a vaft number of

advocates, led his daughter into the Forum, habited

in weeds, denoting her diftrefs, and attended by

a number of matrons.' There he began to folicit

each man's favour; and not only requefted their aid,

as a boon granted to his prayers, but demanded it

as his dvie, reminding them, that " he ftood daily in

"the field of battle, in defence of their wives and

"children; nor was there any man who had given

"mere proof of valour and intrepidity in a6Hon than

't he had done. Yet what did this avail, if, while

," the city was feeure from danger, their children

-" were expofed to calamities as grievous as could  
"be dreaded, if it were taken by an enemy?" With

•fuch difcourfes, uttered in a manner as if he were

addrefling a public afiembly, he applied to each of

the people. Icilius addrefied them with like argu­

ments; and the female attendants^ by thsir filent

tears,

