t?ft T II E H I S T O R Y

B o o K the Fabii took arms, and afiembled in the place ap"-

^_-rl _. pointed. The conful, coming forth, in his military

Y.R.Z75. robe *, law his whole family in the court-yard, drawn

B.C.477. Up in orcler Of march, and being received into the

centre, ordered them to fet forward. Never did an

army, either fmaller in number, or more highly

diftinguifhed in fame, and the general admiration of

all men, march through the city. Three hundred

and fix foldiers, all of them patricians, all of one

race; not one of whom would be judged unfit for

fupreme command by the fenate, when beft filled,

at any time whatever, proceeded on their way;

threatening deftruction to the ftate of the Veientians,

by the prowefs of one family. A crowd attended

them, compofed, partly, of their own connections,

their relations and particular acquaintances, who held

no moderation either in their hopes or anxieties,

nor conceived any profpects but fuch as were bound-

kfs; and partly, of fuch as were attracted by zeal

for the public intereft, all enraptured with efteem

and admiration. They bade " the heroes to pro-

"ceed; to proceed with happy fortune, and to ob-

"tain fucceis proportioned to the merit of their un-

"dertaking;" defiring them to expect afterwards,

"confulfhips, triumphs, every reward, every ho-

"nour' which was in the power of the public to be-

"ftow." As they pafied by the Gapirol, the cita­

del, and other facrfd places, whatever deities occur­

red to the people's fight or thoughts, to them" they

offered up their prayers, that they would " crown

"that band with fuccefs and profperity, and foon

"reftore them in fafcty to their country and their

"parents." Bur their prayers were fruitlefs. Paff-

ing along the unfortunate ftreet, and through the

right-hand poftern of the Carmental gate, they arrived

* Before n conful fct out on any rxp^uition, lie ofFtred f.iciifices aftJ  
prayers in ilie Capitol; and then, laying aliHe Ills confular gown<

marcheil out of the city, dre/recl in a iiulitaiy robs of ftate, called^

Paludumentum.

at

