O F R O M E. 363

execution, was the caufe of their being entirely dif- BOOK

concerted. To the confulfhip was deified, Titus: '_ _•;

Quintius Cincinnatusa fixth time, a man not at all Y.R. 316.

calculated to encourage the views of one who aimed B'c' *3<**

at innovations: his colleague was Agrippa Meneni-

us, furnamed Lanatus, Minucius too, was either

re-eleccted prefident of the market, or was originally

appointed for an unlimited term, as long as occafion

Should require; for there is nothing certain on this

head, only that his name, as prefident, was entered in

the linen books among the other magiftrates for both

years. This Minucius tranfacting, in a public cha­

racter, the fame kind of bufinefs, which Maelius had

undertaken in a private capacity, the houfes of both.

were confequently frequented by the fame fort of

people; which circumftance, having led to a difco-

very of the defigns of the latter, Minucius laid the

information before the fenate: that " a collection

"of arms was made in the dwelling of Maelius;

"that he held afiemblies in his houfe; and that

"there remained not a doubt of his having formed

"a defign to poffefs himfelf of abfolute power: that

"the time for the execution of his fcheme was not

"yet fixed, but every other particular had been let-

'c tled: that tribunes had been corrupted, by bribes,

". to betray the public liberty; and that the leaders

'' of the multitude had their feveral parts alfigned

'c them. That he had deferred laying this matter

'' before them, rather longer than was confiftent

"with fafety, left he might offer any information

'" which was ill-grounded, or uncertain." On hear­

ing this, the principal patricians highly blamed the

confuls of the former year, for fuffering fuch. largefies,

and fuch meetings of the commons, in a private

houfe; and alfo, the new confuls for lying by until

the prefident of the market reported to the fenate an

affair of fuch importance, which it was the duty of a

conful both to difcover and to punifli. To this

Quintius replied, that " it was unfair to blame the

"confuls,

