OF ROME. 333

'' and his colleague, to exert thernfelves in behalf5 o o K.

"of the commonwealth. The tribunes they in- ._ "l^

"treated, to unite cordially with the confuls in re- Y.R. 309.

"pelling the enemy from the walls of the city, and8'

.'' to bring the commons to fubmit, at this perilous

"juncture, to the direction of the fenate. Their

c' common country, they told them, at that crifis,

"when the lands were laid wafte, and the city be-

"fieged, called on them as tribunes, and implored

"their protection." With univerfal approbation, a

levy of troops was decreed and held. The confuls

gave public notice in afiembly, that " they had not

"time now to confider excufes, but that all the

"young men muft attend next day at the firft light,

"in the field of Mars: that, when the war mould

"be brought to a conclufion, they would appoint a

"time for confidering excufes, and he whofe excufe

"was difapproved of,fhould be treated as a deferter."

All the young men attended on the following day.

The cohorts chofe each its own centurions, and two

fenators were appointed to command each cohort.

We are told, that all thefe meafures were executed

with fuch expedition, that the ftandards brought out

from the treafury on that fame day by the quaeftors,

and carried down to the field of Mars, began to

move from thence at the fourth hour; and that this-

new-raifed army, with a few cohorts of veterans,

who followed as volunteers, halted at the tenth flone.

The following day brought them within view of the

enemy, and they pitched their camp clofe to theirs,

near Corbio. On the third day, both fides being

hurried on by violent pafiions; the Romans by de-

fire of revenge, and the others by confcioufnefs of

guilt, and defpair of pardon, after fo many rebel­

lions, they came to an engagement without delay.

LXX. IN the Roman army, although the two

confuls were invefted with equal powers, yet they

adopted a meafure exceedingly advantageous in all

important.

