THE HISTORY

BOCK their tribunate, nothing very memorable was donr

._.!,_, at Veil: the forces were wholly employed in wafting

Y.R. 357. the country: two commanders of confummate abi-

».c. 395. iit|es did nothing more than carry off vaft quantities

of f'poil, Potitus from Falerii, and Camillus from

Capena, leaving nothing undeftroyed that could be

injured either by fword or fire.

XV. IN the meantime, many prodigies were re­

ported to have happened, the greater part of which

met with little credit, and were difregarded; partly,

becaufe the accounts refted on the teftimony of fingle

perfons; and partly, becaufe, while they were at

war with the Etrurians, they could not procure aruf-

pices to perform the expiations. One of them at­

tracted univerfal attention; the lake in the Alban

foreft fwelled to an unufual height, without any rain

or other caufe, which could account for the fact

•without a miracle. Commiflloners were lent to the

. oracle at Delphi, to inquire what the gods portended

by this prodigy; but an interpreter of the will of

the fates was thrown in their way nearer home: a

certain aged Vcientian, who, rmidft the feoffs thrown

out by the Roman and Etrurian foldiers, from the

fuit-pofts and guards, pronounced, in the manner of

one delivering a prophefy, that " the Roman would

'•" never be mafter of Veii, until the water were dif-

"charged from the Alban lake." This, at firft,

was difrtgarded, as thrown out at random; after­

wards it became the fubject of converfation: at

kngth one of the Roman foldiers on guard afked a,

townfman on the neareft poft, as from the long con­

tinuance of the war they had come into the practke

of converting with each other, who that perfon was,

•who threw out thofe ambiguous expreflions concern­

ing the Alban lake; and, on hearing that he was an

arufpex, the man, 'whofe mind was not without a

tindture of religion, pretending that he wifhed to

confult him, if he could fpare time, on the expia­

tion

