THE HISTORY

B o o K tians: wherefore, after having, by reciprocal em-

. - '-_i baffles, ratified their engagements with an oath, they

Y.R. 353. advanced with their forces to Veii, at a moment

B.C. 399. W}K11 no one thought of their coming. They hap­

pened to attack the camp on that quarter, where

Manius Sergius, military tribune, commanded, and

they caufed a violent alarm; for the Romans ima­

gined that all Etruria had been fet in motion, and

had come out in a mafs againft them. The fame

opinion roufed to action the Veientians in the city.

Thus the camp was attacked on both fides; and the

troops, in oppofing the attempts of the enemy, be­

ing obliged to wheel round their battalions from one

fide to another, could neither effectually confine the

Veientians within their fortifications, nor repel the

afiauh from their own works, and defend themfelves

sgair.ft the enemy, on the outer fide. Their only

hope was, that they might be reinforced _from the

greater camp, and then the feveral different legions

would fupport the different parts of the fight, Tome

cgainft the Capenatians and Falifcians, others againft

the fallies from the town. But that camp was com­

manded by Virginius, between whom and Sergius

fubfifted a mutual perfonal hatred: on being inform­

ed that moft of the forts were attacked, the fortifi­

cations fcaled, and that the enemy poured in on both

fides, he kept his men within his own camp, under

arms, faying, that if there were need of a reinforce­

ment, his colleague would fend to him. His arro­

gance was equalled by the obftinacy of the other,

who, fooner than he fhould appear to have afked any

affifb.n.ce from a perfon with whom he was at enmi­

ty, chofe to be conquered by the enemy, rather than

to conquer by the help of his countryman. His

troops, inclofcd on,either fide, fuffered great flaugh-

ter for a long time; at laft, abandoning the works, a

very fVnall part of them made their way to the prin­

cipal camp; the greater number, with Sergius him-

• felfj proceeded to Rome; here, as he threw the

, entire

