OF ROME. 113

to the conful Brutus, and there were two fons born BOOK.

of that marriage, now grown up, Titus and Tibe- . - --f

rius: thefe were led in, by their uncles, to take part Y.R. 145.

in the defign; and feveral others of the young nobi- B.c. s°7.

lity were drawn into the confpiracy, whofe names,

at this diftance of time, are unknown. In the mean­

while, the opinion of thofe, who advifed the giving

up of the effects, having prevailed in the fenate, this

afforded the ambaffadors a pretext for delaying in

the city, becaufe they had been allowed time by the

confuls, to procure carriages for the conveyance of

the effects of the princes; and all this time they fpent

in confutations with the confpirators, and had, by

preffing inftances, prevailed upon them, to give

them letters for the Tarquinii; for, "without thefe,

"how could they be fo fully aflured, as an affair of

"that high importance required, that this report of

"the ambafladors was not groundlefs?" Thefe let­

ters, given as a pledge of their fincerity, proved the

means of detecting the plot: for the day before that

on which they were to return to the Tarquinii, the

ambalfadors happening to fup with the Vhellii, and

the confpirators having here in private had much

converfation, as was natural, on the fubject of their'

new enterprife, their difcourfe was overheard by one

of the flaves, who had, before this, difcovered than

fuch a defign was in agitation, but waited for this

opportunity, until the letters mould be given to the

ambaffadors; becaufe thefe, being feized, would fur-

nifh full proof of the tranfaction. As foon as he

found that they were delivered, he made adifcovery

of the affair to the confuls. The confuis, fetting

out from home directly, and apprehending the am-

baflkdors and confpirators in the faift, effectually

crufhed the affair without any tumult; taking par­

ticular care, with regard to the letters, that they

fhould not efcape them. They inftantly threw the

traitors into chains, but hefitated for fome time with

regard to proceeding againft the ambaffadors*; and

VOL. i. i though,

