OF ROME. 461

"the diftance of the feat of war; fuch as lamented BOOK

"the lofs fuftained at Veil; fuch as had their houfes . -/

c' in mourning for the lofs of children; brethren, Y n.

"kinfmen, and relations; all thefe had now, by

"their means, both the right and the power affbrd-

"ed them, of avenging the public and private ca-

"lamities on the two perfons who were the guilty

"caufes of them. For to Sergius and Virginius

"were owing," they afierted, " the caufes of all

"their misfortunes. And that was not more fully

"evinced by the charge of the profecutor, than by

"the acknowledgment of the defendants; who, be-

"ing equally confcious of guilt, each imputed it to

"the other; Virginius charging Sergius with cow-

"ardice; Sergius, Virginius with treachery. The

'' abfurdity of whofe conduct was fo incredible, that

'c there was a much higher degree of probability that.

"the whole affair was tranfacted by concert, and

"according to a wicked defign of the whole body

"of patricians; who, for the purpofe of protracting

"the war., firft gave the Veientians an opportunity

"to burn the works, and now, had delivered up an

"army to the fword of the enemy, and furrendered

"a Roman camp to the Falifcians. The manage -

"ment of all affairs was directed to one end, that

"the young men mould grow old before Veil; and

"that the tribunes mould be thereby deprived of

"the power of taking the fenfe of the people, either

"concerning the lands, or any other advantages of

"the commons; of having their plans fupported by

".a numerous attendance of citizens, or of making

"head againft the confpiracy of the patricians.

"That the caufe of the defendants had been already

"prejudged by the fenate, by the Roman people,

"and by their own colleagues. For, by a decree

"of the fenate, they had been removed from the

"adminiftration of government j and, refufing to

"refign their office, had been conftrained to fub-

"mit, by their colleagues, who threatened them

"wi:h

