tw THEHISTORY

BOOK ftyle: the privileges of all ranks being now reduced

^-^-_. to one level, thefe grew uneafy at the reftraint here-

Y.K.H.S. by laid on their irregularities, and complained hea-

B.c. 507. yily among themfelves, that the liberty of others had

impofed flavery on them. '" A king was a human

"being; from him might a requeft be obtained,

"whether right or wrong; with him there was

"room for favour, and for acts of kindnefs; he

'' could be angry, and he could forgive; he knew

(< a diftinction between a friend and an enemy. But

"the law was a deaf inexorable being, calculated

"rather for the fecurity and advantage of the poor,

"than of the rich; and admitted of no relaxation or

"indulgence, if its bounds were tranfgrefied. Men

"being liable to fo many miftakes, to have no other

"fecurity but innocence, is a hazardous fituation."

While their minds were in this difcontented ftate,

ambafiadors arrived from the Tarquinii, who, with­

out any mention of their reftoiration, demanded only

their effects: the fenate, having granted them an

audience, continued their deliberations on the fub-

ject for feveral days, being apprehenfive that a re-

fufal to give, them up, would afford a plaufible rea-

fon for a war, and the giving them up, a fund in

aid of it. Meanwhile the ambafTadors were bufily

employed in fchemes of another nature: whilft they

openly demanded the effects, they were fecretly

forming a plan for recovering the throne, and ad-

dreffing themfelves to the young nobles, feemingly

on the bufinefs which they were fuppofed to have in

charge, they made trial of their difpofitions. To

thofe who lent a favourable ear to their propofals,

they delivered letters from the Tarquinii, and con­

certed meafures with them for receiving thofe princes

privately into the city by night.

IV. THE bufinefs was firft intrufted to the bro~

thers of the name of Vitellii, and thofe of the name

of Aquillii j a lifter of the Vitellii had been married

to

