OF ROME.

citizens alfo were compelled to give in their names, BOOK

to ferve as a garrifon to the city. Now, in propor- L-^L__,

tion as the number of foldiers was augmented, fo Y.R. 3S^

much the more money became neceflary for their B. C. ss«.

pay, and this was made up by a tax, which was very

unwillingly paid by thofe who remained at home,

becaufe, as the guard of the city lay upon them, they

muft alfo perform military duty, and give up their

labour to the public. Thefe circumftances, grievous

in themfelves, were fet forth in more provoking co­

lours, in the feditious harangues of the plebeian tri­

bunes, who infifted, that " the eftablifhment of pay

"to the foldiers was intended for the purpofe of

"ruining one half of the commons, by the fatigues

"of war, and the other half, by a tax. That one

"war had now been protracted to the fifth year; and

"was conducted, without fuccefs, defignedly, in or-

'r der that it might afford them the longer employ-

"ment. Befides, armies had been enlifted at one

"levy for four different wars, and even boys and old

'' men dragged from their homes. That no dif-

"tinction was now made between fummer and win.?

"ter, left any refpite fhould be allowed to the

"wretched commons; who, now, as the finiming

*c ftroke, had been made fubjedr. to a tax; fo that  
"when they mould return, with their bodies wafted

"through toils, wounds, and even age, and find

"every thing at home in diforder, from the long

"abfence of the owners, they mould be obliged, out

"of their ruined property, to refund, in a manifold

"proportion, to the ftate, the money which they had

"received as pay, as if it had been taken up at ufuri-

"ous intereft." Between the levy, and the tax, and

men's thoughts being occupied by more important

concerns, the number of plebeian tribunes could not

be filled up on the day of election. A violent effort

was afterwards made to have patricians aflfumed into

the vacant places, and that being found impracticable,

another plan was adopted, for the purpofe of weaken-

• ing

