JS4 THE HISTORY

BOOK Moneta. Tranquillity prevailed, not only at home,

L_^_L_. but abroad, notwithftanding fo many alarms given,

by the neighbouring ftates.

Y.R. 311. VIII. WHETHER this year had tribunes only, or

'confuls fubftituted in their room, the fucceeding year

undoubtedly had confuls, Marcus Geganius Macert-

nus a fecond time, and Titus Quintals Capitolinus a

fifth time, being invefted with that honour. This

fame year produced the firft inftitution of the cenfor-

fbip, an office which fprung from an ineonfiderable

origin, but grew up afterwards to fuch a height of

importance, that it became pofieffed of the entire

regulation of the morals and difcipline of the Ro­

man people. The fenate, the centuries of the

knights, and the diftribution of honour and ignomi­

ny, were all under the fupreme jurifdiction of thefe

magiftrates. The difcrimination of public from pri .

vate property in lands or houfes, and the entire re­

venue bf the Roman people, were finally adjufted by

their fovereign decifion. What gave rife to the in­

ftitution was, that as the people had not, for many

years paft, undergone a furvey, the cenfus could

neither be longer deferred, nor could the confuls find

Icifure to perform it, while they were threatened with

war by fo many different ftates. An obfcrvation

was made in the fenate, that a bufinefs, fo laborious,

and ill-fuited to the office of conful, would require

officers to be appointed for that particular purpofe,

to whole management fhould be committed the bufi­

nefs of the public fecretaries, the fuperintendance

and cuftody of the records, and the adjuftment of

the form of proceeding in the cenfus. This propo-

fal, though deemed of little confequence, yet, as it

tended to increafe the number of patrician magiftrates

in the commonwealth, the fenate, on their part, re­

ceived with great pleafure; forefeeing alfo, I fup-

pofe, what really happened, that the influence of

thofe who fhould be raifed to that poft, wpuld derive

additional

