O F R O M E.

(C

of their running together, the crowd grew ftill, and

filence took place, he related every circumftance in _

order as it pafied. Then raifing his hands towards Y.R. 305.

heaven, befought his fellow-foldiers " not to impute

"to him the guilt which belonged to Appius Claudi-

"us, nor to abhor him as the murderer of his child.

"Declaring, that the life of his daughter was dearer

to him than his own, could fhe have lived with

honour and in liberty. When he faw her dragged

'' as a flave to violation, he thought it better that

"his child fhould be loft by death than by difho-

"nour. Actuated by companion, he had fallen

"under the appearance of cruelty: nor would he

"have furvived his daughter, had he not looked to

"the aid of his fellow-foldiers, with hopes of re-

"venging her death: for they alfo had daughters,

"fifters, wives; and the luft of Appius Claudius

"was not extinguiftied by the death of his daughter,

"but would be encouraged, by impunity, to rage

"with lefs reftraint. They had now warning given

"them, in the calamity of another, to guard them-

"felves againft the like injury. As to what con-

"cerned himfelf, his wife had been torn from him

"by fate; his daughter, bccaufe fhe could not

'c longer preferve her chaftity, had fallen by an un-

"fortunate but honourable death. There was now

'' in his houfe no object forAppius's luftj and from

"any other kind of violence which he could offer

'' he would defend his own perfon, with the fame

"fpirit with which he had refcued that of hisdaugh-

"ter. Let others take care of themfelves and of

"their children." To thefe reprefentations, uttered

by Virginius in a loud voice, the multitude replied,

•with fhouts, that they would not be backward in

vindicating either his grief or their own liberty. At

the fame time, the gown-men intermixed with the

crowd of foldiers, relating with forrow the fame cir-

cumftances, and obferving.how much more fhock.r

>ng they appeared to the fight than on hearing, ac­

quainting

