202 THE HISTORY

B o o K" jf people had but the fpirit to defpife them; but

i _!*L_. " every one magnified thofe matters, and made them

V.R. 181. " objects of terror to himfelf." While they thus

M.C'47i. fpurred on each other with fuch difcourfes as

thefe, it happened that a lidlor was fent by the con-

ful to a plebeian of the name of Volero Publilrus,

who had infifted, that, having been a centurion, he

could not be compelled to enlift as a common fol-

dier. Volero appealed to the tribunes; but none of

them fupporting him, the confuls ordered the man ta

be ftripped, and the rods to be got ready: " I ap-

"peal to the people," faid Volero, c1 fince the

"tribunes choofe rather that a Roman citizen

"fhould be beaten with rods before their eyes,

"than themfelves fhould be murdered in their beds

"by your faction." The more vehemently he ex­

claimed, the more violently did the lictor proceed

in tearing off his clothes, and ftripping him. Then

Volero, who was a man of great bodily ftrength,

and aided alfo by thofe who took part with him,

drove away the lictor, and retired into the thickeft

part of the crowd, where he heard the loudeft ex-

preflions of indignation, at the treatment which he

received; at the fame time crying aloud," I appeal,

"and implore the protection of the commons.

"Support me, citizens; fupport me, fellow ibldiers.

"/ You have nothing to expect from the tribunes,

"who themfelves ftand in need of your fupport."

The people, inflamed with paflion, prepared them­

felves as for a battle: and there was every appear­

ance of the conteft proceeding to fuch extremity, as,

that no regard whatever would be paid, either to

public or private rights. The confuis, having un­

dertaken to face this violent ftorm, quickly experi­

enced that dignity, unfupported by ttrength, is not

exempt from danger. Their lictors were abufed,

the fafces broken, and themfelves forced to take re­

fuge in the fenate-houfe, uncertain how far Volero

would puth his victory. In fame time after, the tu -

mule

