464 THEHISTORT

BOOK tax to be paid, and confequently no remittances were

,^_ -T'-_J made to the generals for the payment of the troops,

Y.K. 35+. and the foldiers clamoroufly demanded their pay,

B.C.398. there was the greateft danger that the contagion of

fedition might fpread from the city, and the camp

allb be involved in confufion. Though the com­

mons were ib much incenfed againft the patricians,

and the plebeian tribunes afierted, that now the time

* was come for cftablifhing liberty, and transferring  
the fupreme dignity from fuch as Sergius and Vir-

ginius, to men of plebeian rank, men of fortitude and

induftry, yet they proceeded no farther in gratifica­

tion of their paffion, than the election of one ple-

y.T;. ;;'. K.ian, Publius Licinius Calvus, to the office of mi-

''" 3j';'' Jitary tribune with confular power, for the purpofe

of eftablifhing their right by a precedent. The

others elected were patricians, Publius Maenius,

Lucius Titinius, Publius Maelius, Lucius Furius

Medullinus, and Lucius Publilius Volfcus. The

commons themfelves were furprifed at their having

carried fuch an important point, no lefs than the

man himfelf who had been elected, a perfon who had

no poft of honour before, although afenatorof long

Handing, and now far advanced in years. Nor does

it fufficiently appear why he was chofen, in preference

toothers, to tafte the firft fweets of this new dignity.

Some are of opinion, that he was elected to fo high

a ftation by the influence of his brother Cneius Cor­

nelius, who had been military tribune the preceding

year, and had given triple pay to the cavalry.

Others, that it was owing to a feafonable difcourfe,

made by himfelf, recommending harmony between

the orders of the ftate, which was equally accepta­

ble to the patricians and plebeians. The plebeian

tribunes, filled with exultation by this victory in the

election, remitted their oppofition with refpect to the

tax, which was the principal obftruction to the pub­

lic bufinefs. It was then paid in without murmur­

ing, and lent to the army.

XIII. IN

