326 THE HISTORY.

B o o K at the "fame time preferving unhurt the dignity of .

^-^L_, the patricians. Wifhing to give time for the mat-

Y.R. 308. ter to cool, they reftrained the commons from rifing

B.C. 444. in fedition by a proclamation for a levy of troops, to

act againft the ^)quans and Volfcians. Giving, as a

fufficient reafon, that while harmony prevailed in the

city, every thing abroad was alfo in quiet, but when足

ever civil difcord broke out, their foreign enemies

aflumed new courage. This care to preferve peace

abroad, proved the caufe of domeftic concord. But

each of the orders always took an improper advan足

tage of moderation in the other. As foon as the

commons grew quiet, the younger patricians began

to infult them. When the tribunes attempted to

protect the weaker party 3 even at firft, they were of

little ufe; afterwards, they themfelves fhared the ill.

treatment, particularly in the laft months, becaufe

the combinations, then formed among the more

powerful, encouraged them to ufe thofe officers ill,

and the vigour of every magiftracy generally relaxes

fomewhat in the latter part of the year. And now

the commons began to think that they had nothing

to hope from their tribunes, unlefs they got fuch as

Icilius, for thofe whom they had for two years paft

were but nominal tribunes. On the other fide the

elder patricians, although they were convinced that

the younger part of their body carried their pre-

fumption too far, yet were better pleafed, if the

bounds of moderation were to be exceeded, that their

own party mould poffefs a redundancy of fpirit, than

their adverfaries. So difficult it is to preferve mo足

deration in the afierting of liberty, while, under the

pretence of a defire to balance rights, each elevates

himfelf in fuch a manner, as to deprefs another; for

men are apt, by the very meafures which they adopt

to free themfelves from fear, to become the objects

of fear to others; and to faften upon them the bur足

then of injufticc, which they have thrown off from

their

