36z THEHISTORY

* *ivO K Port'on Of f°Od; inflicted cenfures on the dealers

'_,_T.l._, in corn, and expofed them to the rage of the people;

Y.R. 315. and this ftrict fcrutiny ferved rather to make known

B.c.437. t^e greatnefs of the fcarcity, than to remedy it.

So that many of the commons abandoning them-

felves to defpair, rather than drag on their lives irt

torment, covered their heads, and threw themfelves

into the Tiber.

XIII. WHILE things were in this fituation, Spuri-

us Maelius, a man of equeftrian rank, and poflcflVd

of extraordinary wealth, for thofe times, engaged in

a plan, which though ufcful for the preftnt, was per­

nicious in its tendency; and was in fact fuggefted by

defigns ftill more pernicious: for having by means of

his connexions and dependents bought in a quantity

of corn from Etruria, (which very proceeding, I

fuppofe, obftructed the endeavours of the magiftrates

to lower the price of provifions,) he began the prac­

tice of beftowing largefies of corn; and, having

gained the hearts of the commons by this munifi­

cence, became now the object of general attention;

afluming thence a degree of conlequence, beyond

what belonged to a private citizen, wherever he

went, he drew them after him in crowds; and they,

by the favour which they exprefied towards him,.

encouraged him to hope for the confulfhip, with a

certain profpect of fuccefs. As men's defires are

never fatiated, while fortune gives room to hope for

more, he began to aim at higher and lefs juftifiable

objects. And fince, even the confulmip muft be ob­

tained by violent efforts, in oppofition to the incli­

nations of the patricians, he directed his views to re­

gal power; that, he thought, was the only prize wor­

thy the grandeur of his views, and, of a conteft, at­

tended with fuch difficulties as would coft infinite

labour to furmount. The election of confuls drew

. nigh; and the circumftance of its coming on before

his fchcmes were fufficiently digefted, and ripe for

execution,

