34 THEHISTORY

B o o K common language could they have communicated?

L._^'- . or with what fafety could a fingle man have made

his way thither, through fo many nations differing in

their language and manners? I therefore rather be­

lieve, that his mind was, by nature, furnifhed with

virtuou:; difpofitions, and that the inftructions which

he received were, notfo much, in foreign learning, as

in the coarie and fevere difcipline of the Sabines,

than whom no race of men were lefs corrupted by

refinements. On hearing the name of Numa Pom-

pilius, although the Roman fathers faw that the ba­

lance of power would incline to .the Sabines, if the

king were chofen from among them, yet, no one

prefumingto prefer himfelf, or any other of his own

party, or, in fhort, any one of the fathers, or ci­

tizens, to him, they all, to a man, concurred in

voting that the kingdom fhould be conferred on

Y. R. Numa Pompilius. When he arrived, in conlc-

B39c. quence of their invitation, he ordered, that, as Ro-

7.13. mulus, on the founding of the city, had obtained the

.. fpvereign power by an augury, fo the gods fhould

be confulted, in like manner, concerning himfelf.

Accordingly, being conducted into the citadel by an

augur, to which profefEon was annexed, for ever

after, by public authority, the honour of perform­

ing that folemn office, he fat down on a ftone with

his face turned towards the South: the augur took

his feat at his left hand, with his head covered, hold­

ing in his right hand a crooked wand free from knots,

•which they called lituus; then, taking a view to­

wards the city, and the adjacent country, after offer­

ing prayers to the gods, he marked out the regions

of the f ky from Haft to Weft; the parts toward the

Sooth, he called the right, thofe toward the North,

the left; and, in front of him, he marked, in his

mind, a boundary at the greateft diftance that his

eye could reach. Then, ihifting the lituus into his

left hand, and laying his right on Numa's head, he

grayed in this manner: " Father Jupiter, if it is thy

"will

