O F R O M E. 431

number. Information was now received that the Vol- BOOK

fcians and^ffiiquans, actuated by hopes which they con- . - _._f

ceived, from having been able to keep pofieflion of Y.R. 347.

the citadel of Carventa, or by anger, for the lofs of B.C.+oj.

the garrifon of Verrugo, had in conjunction com­

menced hoftilities, with the utmoft force which they

could mufter, and that the Antians were the chief

promoters of this meafure. That their ambafladors

had gone about among the ftates of both thofe na­

tions, upbraiding their fpiritlefs conduct. That they

had the year before lain hid behind walls, and fuf-

fered the Romans to carry their depredations

through every part of their country, and the garrifon

of Verrugo to be overpowered. That now, not on­

ly armed troops, but colonies alfo, were fent into

their territories; and that the Romans not only kept

pofieffion of their property, and diftributed it among

themfelves, but even made a prefent to the Hernici-

ans of Terentinum, a diftrict of which they had been

ftripped. People's minds being inflamed by thefc

reprefentations, wherever they came great numbers

of the young men were enlifted. Thus the youth of

all the feveral nations were drawn together to

Antium, and there pitching their camp, they waited

for the enemy. Thefe violent proceedings being

reported at Rome, and exaggerated beyond the truth,

the fenate inftandy ordered a dictator to be nomi­

nated, their ultimate refource in all perilous con­

junctures. We are told that this meafure gave great

offence to Julius and Cornelius, and was not accom-

plifiied without a great deal of ill temper. The

principal patricians, after many fruitlefs complaints

againft the military tribunes, for refufing to be di­

rected by the fenate, at laft, went fo far, as to ap­

peal to the tribunes of the commons, reprefenting,

that compullbry meafures had been ufed by that bo­

dy even to conluls in a fimilar cafe. The plebeian

tribunes, overjoyed at this difienfion among the pa­

tricians, made anfwer, that " there was no i'upport to

"be

