4og THE HISTORY

BOOK year. His four colleagues, in the fight of the Ro~

i T- .^-P man people, befought him not to involve in vexa-

Y.R.jiv tion an unoffending general, in whofe cafe nothing

p. 0.4.19, but fortune could be blamed: Hortenfius took of­

fence at this, thinking it meant a trial of his perfc-

yerance; and that the accufed depended not on the

jntreaties of the tribunes, which were thrown out

only for the f'ike of appearance, but on their protec­

tion. Turning firft therefore to him, he afked,

"Where were the haughty airs of the patrician?

'' Where was the fpirit upheld in confidence by con-

'' Jtious innocence, that a man of confular dignity

<' took fhelter under the fhade of tribunes?" Then

to his colleagues; " As to you, what is your inten-

'' tion, in cafe I perfift in the profecution? Do ye

"mean to rob the people of their jurifdiction, and

't to overturn the power of the tribunes?" To this

they replied; " that with refpect both to Semproni-

"us, and to all others, the Roman people pofiefied

"fupreme authority j neither was it in their power,

te nor in their wifhes, to obftruct the jurifdiction of

"the people; but if their prayers in behalf of their

"general, who was to them as a parent, fhould have

"no effect, they were determined to change their

(' apparel along with him." Hortenfius then de­

clared, " the commons of Rome fhall not fee their

"tribunes in the garb of culprits: I have nothing

"farther to fay to Sempronius, fince, by his conduct

•was capital, by tribe* if flneable, the pcrfon accufrd was fum.noned by

tJie ctier, and if he Hid not appear, was p'milhed a,t the ple.ifure of the

profecutor. If lie appeared, the accuU r moiiuied the roftrum, and be­

gan his charge, which he carried on through that and two other days,

allowing an interval of one day between each. On rhe third day he

D)»de a recapitulation of the charge, and mentioned the punifhment

/prcified in the law for fuch an offence. I his was exprtfled in writing,

and exhibited to public view during three market-days. 'I his pro­

ceeding was termed ' rogatio' in refpeci ol the people, and ' irrogatio'

in refpeft of the accnfed. On the day after the third market-day, the

jKeufcr iinifhi'il the iiufmrfs of the profeciition, and concluded with

giving noijre of the day on which ilie aflembly ihould meet to paft

judgment. The accnfed was tlien at liberty to make bit defence, ei-

jbtr by biinfelf, or by advocates.

"in

