3A. THE HISTORY

B O o K diverfity in their views, yet all concurred in wifhing

i^-r-.__. for a king, for they had not yet rafted the fweets of

liberty. The fenate now began to fear, left as, the fen1

timents of many of the neighbouring ftates were very

unfriendly towards them, feme foreign power might

attack them, while the ftate was cieftitute of a go­

vernment, and the army deftitute of a commander.

Every one therefore was defirous that there fhould

be fome head, but no one party could be brought to

think of giving way to another. In this difficulty,

the fenators fhared the government among them-

felves; forming, out of their number, which con-

Cfted of an hundred, ten decades, with one prefi-

dent in each, who were to have the direction of

public affairs. Each ten governed jointly; the pre-

fident alone had the Li&ors and other badges of

fbvereignty. The time of each holding the go.,

vernment was limited to five days, and the admi-

niftration went to them all in rotation. In this

manner a year paffed without a king; and that in-

Y. R. terval, from this circumftance, was called an Inter­

file. regnum; which term is ftill applied to fimilar

714. interruptions of the regular government. By this

time, the commons began to murmur, alleging thap

flavery was multiplied on them; that they had an

hundred mafters fet over them inftead of one; and it

became evident that they would no longer be i^itisfi-

£d without a king, or without one chofen by them-

• felves. The fenators, perceiving that fuch fchemes

were in agitation, judged it prudent to make a volun­

tary offer of what they could not much longer retain:

yet while they gratified the people in furrendering

to them the fovereign power, they took care not to

give up a larger fhare of privilege than they ftill

kept in their own hands; for they pafft'd a decree,

that, when the people fhould elec t a king, that

election fhould be valid, provided the iVnate ap­

proved their choice. And, to this day, the fame

right is claimed with refpect to the enacting of laws,

and

