268 THEHISTORY

B o o fc and the fame law occafioned feditions at home; and

. '_, thefe would have proceeded to ftill greater lengths,

V.R. i?7. fo highly were people's pafilons inflamed, but that, as

B.C.455. if it had been concerted for the purpofe, news was

brought, that by an attack of the ,fcquans, in the

night, the garrifon at Corbio was cut off. The con-

fuls called the fenate together, and were ordered to

make a hafty levy of troops, and lead them to Al-

gidum. The conteft about the law was now laid

afide, and a new ftruggle began about the levy; in

which the confular authority was in danger of being

overpowered, by the force of the tribunitian privi足

leges, when their fears were more effectually rouled

by another alarm, of the Sabine army having come

down into the Roman territories to plunder, and

thence advanced to the city. This ftruck fuch ter足

ror, that the tribunes fuffered the troops to be en-

lifted, yet not without a ftipulation, that fmce they

had been baffled for five years, and their office, as

it ftood, was but a fmall protection to the commons,

there mould for the future be ten tribunes of the peo足

ple appointed: neceflity extorted this concefiion from

the fenate. They only made one exception; that the

people fhould nor, hereafter, re-elect the fame tri足

bunes. An afiembly was inftantly held for the

ejection of the tribunes, left, if the war was once

ended, they might be difappointed in that, as in

other matters. In the thirty-fixth year, from the firft

creation of the tribunes of the people, the number

ten were tle&ed, two out of each of the clalTes; and

it was eftablifhed as a rule, that they fhould from

thenceforth be elected in the fame manner. The

levy being then made, Minucius marched againft the

Sabines, but did not come up with them. Horatius,

after the .ffiquans had put the garrifon of Corbio'

to the fword, and had alfo taken Ortona, brought

them to an engagement in the diftrict of A'.gidum,

killed a great number, and drove them not only out

* of that dillric~t, but from Corbio and Ortona. Corbio

he

