48(5 THEHISTORY

B OvO K metal could not be procured ; on which the matrons,

. -r'-_' after holding fome meetings to deliberate on the fub-

Y.R. 360. jeft, with unanimous confenr, engaged to fupply the

B.C. 391. military tribunes with gold, and actually carried all

their ornaments into the treafury. Nothing ever

happened which gave greater pleafure to the fenate,

and it is faid, that in return for this generofity, the

matrons were honoured with the privilege of ufing

covered chariots, when going to public worfliip or

games, and open chaifes on any day whether fdlival

or common. The gold being received from each

by weight, and a valuation being made, in order that

the price might be repaid, it was refolyed that a

golden bowl thould be made thereof, to be carried

$o Delphi as an offering to Apollo. No fooner

were men's minds difengaged from religious con­

cerns, than the plebeian tribunes renewed their fe-

ditious practices, ftimulating the refentment of the

populace againftall the nobility, but efpecially againft

Camillus; alleging that, " by his confutations and

"confecrations, he had reduced the fpoils of Veil

"to nothing;" daringly abufing the nobles, in their

abfence; and, on their appearing, as they fometimes

threw themfelves in the way of their fury, fhewing

them fome refpect. When they perceived that the

bufinefs would be protracled. beyond the prefent

year, they re-elected for the year following fuch

tribunes of the commons, as had promoted the paff-

ing of the law, and the patricians exerted themfelves

to effect the fame with refpect to fuch of them as

had protefted againft it. By thcie means the fame

perfons moftly were re-elected plebeian tribunes.

J;J; ]£; XXVI. AT the election of military tribunes, the

patricians, by ftraining their intereft to tlie utmoft,

prevailed to have Marcus Furius Camillus chofen.

They pretended, that on account of the wars, in

which they were engaged, they vyithed to have him

as a commander: but, in fact, they wanted him as

an

