O F R O M E.

over the markets, fhould inftirute a college of mer- BOOK

chants, and join the pontiff in the performance of. -w-_r

the ceremonies ufual on fuch occafions. The people Y.R. 159.

gave the honour of the dedication to Marcus Laeto- *•c.

rius, a centurion of the firft rank, fhewing plainly

that they acted thus, not merely out of refpedr. to

the perfon, on whom they conferred an office of

higher dignity than became his ftation, but with de-

fign to affront the coniuls. This threw the patrici­

ans, and one of the conluls particularly, into a rage;

but the commons had now affumed a greater degree

of courage, and began to prolecute theirmeafuresin

a very different method, from that in which they had

fet out: having given up all hopes of protection,

from the confuls and the fenate, whenever they faw

a debtor led to the court, they flew together from all

quarters; fo that neither could the fentence of the

conful be heard amidft their noife and clamours, nor

when it was pronounced did any one obey it; all

was managed by force; and the whole dread and

danger, with refpefr. to their freedom, was transferred

from the debtors to the creditors, who, ftanding

fmgle, were abufed by the multitude, under the"very

eye of the conful. To add to the perplexity of the

fenate, the alarm was fpread of an attack being in­

tended by the Sabines; and, orders being iffued for

levying troops, not a man gave in his name; mean­

while Appius in a rage inveighed bitterly againft the

criminal lenity of his colleague, that, by his popular

filence, he was betraying the commonwealth; and

that, befides refufing to enforce the laws with refpecl

to creditors, he neglected alfo to execute the decree

of the fenate, for levying troops. He declared that

"the intereft of the commonwealth was not yet en..

"tirely deferted, nor the confular office yet ftripped

"of its authority; that he himfelf would ftand forth

"fingly, and vindicate his own dignity, and that of

"the fenate." Though furrounded by the multi­

tude which aflembled daily, and were of a temper

). 4 tOO

