$9* THfi HISTORY

BOOK per would have been inflamed by fuch grofs ill-

s^ _!_ , treatment; Icilius faid, " Appius, you muft drive

Y.R. 305. " me hence with the fword, before you mall ac-

B.C..H7. " complifh, in filence, what you wifh to be con-

"cealed. This young woman I intend to wed, and

"expect to find in her a lawful and a chafte wife.

"Call together then even all the lictors of your

'' colleagues, order the rods and axes to be got

"ready. The fpoufe of Icilius fhall not remain in

"any other place than her father's houie. Though

"you have taken from us the protection of tribunes,

"and an appeal to the Roman people, the two bul-

"warks which fecured our liberty, yet there has

"been no grant made, to your luft, of abfolute do-

C' minion over our wives and daughters. Vejit your

"fury on our perfons and our lives ; let chaftity, at

"leaft, find fafety. If any violence is offered to

*' her, 1 fhall appeal for fuccour to the citizens now  
"prefent, in behalf of my fpoufe j Virginius will

"appeal to the foldiers in behalf of his only daugh-

"ter; and all of us to the gods, and to all man-

"kind: nor fhall you ever carry that fentence

"into effect, while we have life to prevent it. I

_". charge you, Appius, confide,r again and again to

"what lengths you are proceeding: let Virginius,

"when he comes, determine what meafures he will

"purlue in regard to his daughter; only of this I

"would have him allured, that if he fubmits to this

'c man's claim of obtaining the cuftody of her, he

"muft feek another match for his daughter: as for

'' me, in vindication of the liberty of my fpoufe,

"I will forfeit my life fooner than my honour."

XLVI. THE pafilons of the multitude were now

raifed, and there was every fign of a violent conteft

cnfuing. The lictors had gathered round Icilius, but

proceeded, however, no farther than threats, when

Appius faid, " that the defence of Virginia was not

'' the motive which actuated Icilius; but, turbulent

"by

