ii<S THE HISTORY

BOOK was taken from him, 'his name having been Vindi-

. _"'. . cilis: after him, it obtained, as a rule, that who-

Y R. 1*i;. ever was made free in that manner, fhould be con-

u.e. 507. Udered as admitted a citizen.

VI. TARQUINIUS, on being informed of thefe

tranfactions, became inflamed, not only with grief

for the difappointment of fuch promifing hopes, but

with hatred and refentment; and, finding every pafs

fhut againft fecret plots, determined to have recourfe

to open war; and, to that end, went round all the

cities of Etruria, in the character of a fuppliant, ad-

drtffing himfelf particularly to the people of Veii

and Tarquinii, intreating them, "not to fuffer him,

"who was fprung from themfelves, and of the fame

"blood; who was lately pofiefied of fo great a

"kingdom, now exiled and in want, to perifh be-

"fore their eyes, together with the young men his

"fons. Others had been invited from foreign

"countries to Rome, to fill the throne; but he,

"when in poiTeffion of the government, and while

"he was employing his arms in extending the li-

"mits of the Roman empire, was expelled by a

"villanous confpiracy of men who were moft

"clofely connected with him; who, becaufe no one

"of their number was qualified to hold the reins of

"government, had forcibly fhared the feveral parts

"of it among them, and had given up his property

"to be plundered by the populace, to the intent

"that all might be equally guilty. He only wifhed

"to be reftored to his own country and crown, and

"tb be avenged on his ungrateful fubjects. He

"befought them to fupport and aflift him, and, at

"the fame time, to take revenge for the injuries

enfranchifement, tlie owner having previoufly given him a flight blow,

ami let him go out of his hands. The prxtor then gave the rod to a

lidlor, who hkewife ftruck the (x.rfon manumitted. He was then re-

gifteied as a freeman, and affumed the cap, the fymbol of liberty, with,

much ceremony, in the temple of Feronia.

"which

