296 THE HISTORY

? op K" Roman people were witnefies, but alfo from ccr-

t_j-r_-," tain proofs, he had learned that, during the whole

Y.R. 305." night, cabals had been held, for the purpofe of

B. C. 447. i' ftirring up fedition. Wherefore, being aware of

*c the difputes likely to enfue, he had come down  
"with a band of men in arms, not with a defign of

'c injuring any perfon who fhould demean himfelf,

'' but of quietly punifhing, in a manner fuited to the

"ffiajefty of government, fuch as fhould prefume to

"difturb the tranquillity of the ftate. It will, there-

'' fore, (faid he,) be your better way to remain quiet.

"Go, lictor, remove the crowd, and make way

"for the owner to feize his tlave." When, burtt-

ing with paflion, he had thundered out thefe words,

the multitude of themfelves voluntarily feparated,

'and the maiden ftood forfaken, a prey to injuftice.

Virginius then, feeing no profpect of afliftance from

any quarter, faid, "Appius, I entreat you, firft,

"to make allowance for a father's grief, if I have

-f made ufe of too harfh expreflions towards you;  
"and next, to allow me here, in the prefence of

"the maiden, to inquire of her nurfe the truth of

"this affair j that, if I have been falfely called her

"father, I may depart hence with the more refigna-

"tion." Permiffion being granted, he drew the

jnaiden and her nurfe afide, to the fheds near the

temple of Cloacina, now called the new fheds, and

there, fnatching a knife from a butcher, plunged it

into his daughter's breaft, with thefe words: " In

f this manner, my child, the only one in my power,

"do I fecure your liberty." Then looking back

on Appius, " With this blood, Appius," faid he,

'' I devote thee and thine head to perdition." Ap­

pius, alarmed by the cry raifed at fuch a horrid

deed, ordered Virginius to be feized. But he,

clearing a paffage with the weapon wherever he went,

• and protected alfo by a multitude of young men who

efcorted him, made his way to the gate. Icilius

and Numitorius raifed up the lifclcls body, and ex-

6 poledf

