6 F R O M E. 475

protection in all the temples, befeeching the gods B OvO K

to repel deftruction from the Roman walls, from the . -„'-_r

honfes of the city, and the temples, and to turn back Y.R. 359.

fiich terrors on Veii, if the facred rites had been rer B'c.35i.

newed, and the prodigies expiated in due manner.

XIX. THE games and the Latine feftival had

now been performed a.new, the water from the

Alban lake * difcharged on the fields, and the fates

demanded the ruin of Veii. Accordingly a general,

felected by the fates, both for the deftruction of that

city, and the prefervation of his native counuy,

Marcus Furius Camillus, was nominated dictator,

and he appointed Publius Cornelius Scipio his mat­

ter of the horfe. The change of the commander

at once produced a change in every particular: men

felt themfcives infpired with different hopes and dif­

ferent fpirits: even the fortune of the city feemed

to have undergone a change. He firft of all put in

force the rules of military difcipline againft fuch as

had fled from Veii, on the alarm excited there, and

took effectual care that the enemy fhould not be the

principal object of the foldicr's fear?. Then having,

by proclamation, appointed a certain day for hold­

ing a levy of troops, he made, in the meantime,

a hafty excurfion in perfon to Veii, in order to con­

firm the courage of the foldiers. From thence he

•returned to Rome to enlift the new army, and not a

man declined the fervice. Young men came even

from foreign ftates, Latines and Hernicians, offer­

ing their fervice in the war: to whom the dictator

returned thanks in the fenate. And now, having

completed all neceflary preparations for the cam­

paign, he vowed, in purfuance of a decree of the

fenate, that he would, an the capture of Veii, ce-

• The rem.iins of the fewer, a ftupemlous work, by which the wa­

ter was difiharged, Hill I'ubfift, at (lie bottom of the hill on which

,1 ivis Caftel (tiair.l. 1:'... •, the elegant cuuntry retirement of the pope.

leb,rat.c

