THE HISTORY

B c o K anc] not only men's bodies were afflicted by the con-

^_ ._,T- _. tagion, but fuperftitions of various kinds, and moftly

Y K. in. of foreign growth, took pofieflion alfo of their

U. C. 415. minds; while thofe who converted to their own gain

the weaknefs of minds enflaved by fuperftition,

through their pretences to the art of divination, intro足

duced into people's families new modes of worfhip,

until, at length, the principal men of the ftatc were

touched with fhame for the difhonour brought on

the public, feeing in every ftreet and chapel foreign

and unaccuftomed ce remonies of expiation practifed,

for obtaining the favour of the gods. A charge was

then given to the aecliles, to fee that no other gods

fhoukl be worshipped, than thofe acknowledged by

the Romans; nor they, in any other modes than

thofe eftablifhed by the cuftom of the country. The

profccution of their refentment againft the Veien-

tians, was deferred to the enfuing year, wherein

y.R. 31!!. Caius Servilius Ahala and Lucius Papirius Mugilla-

B. c. 414. nus werc confuls: even then, an immediate decla足

ration of war and the march of the army were pre足

vented by fuperftition. It was deemed neceflary

that the heralds fhould firft be fent to demand refti-

tution. There had been open war, and battles

fought, with the Veientians, not long before, at No-

mentum and Fidenae, fince which not a peace, but a

truce, had been concluded, the term of which had

not yet expired, and they, before its expiration, had

renewed holulities. Neverthclefs, the heralds were

fent, and when, after taking the cuftomary oath, they

demanded reftitution, no attention was paid to them.

Then arofe a difpute whether the war mould be de足

clared, by order of the people, or whether a decree

of the fenate were fufficient. The tribunes by

threatening openly, that they would hinder any levy

of foidicrs, carried the point that the confuls fhould

take the fenfe of the people concerning the war. All

the centuries voted for it. In another particular too

the

