O F R O M E. j 2$

of their family, abridging themfelves of their own BOOK

proper fupport. . JJ; __,

Y. R.z46.

XI. PORSENA, difappointed of fuccefs in this firft B.c. so<s.

effort, changed his plan from an aflault to a block­

ade; and, leaving a force fufficient to fecure the Ja..

niculum, encamped his main body in the plain along

the bank of the Tiber, and collected fhips from all

quarters, both to guard the paffage, that no corn

ihould be conveyed to Rome, and alfo to enable his

troops to crofs over the river, in different places, as

occafion offered, to lay wafte the country. In a fhort

time he extended his depredations fo fuccefsfully,

through every part of the Roman territories, that

people were obliged to convey not only their other

effects, but even their cattle, into the city, nor would

any one venture to drive them out of the gates.

The Etrurians were permitted to acc t in this uncon­

trolled manner, not fo much through fear, as delign;

for Valerius the conful, intent on gaining an oppor­

tunity of making an unexpected attack on a large

number of them, at a time when they were unpre­

pared, purpofely overlooked trifling advantages, re-

ferving his force for a fevere revenge on a more im­

portant occafion. With this view, in order to allure

the plunderers, he gave orders to his men that next

day a great many of them mould drive out fome cat­

tle through the Efquiline gate, whifh was at the

oppofite fide from the enemy; judging that thefe

would foon get information of it, becaufe, during

the blockade, and the fcarcity of provifions, many

of the flaves turned traitors and deferted. Accord­

ingly they were informed of it by a deferter, and

pafied over the river in much greater numbers than

ufual, in hopes of getting poiJefiion of the entire

booty. Publius Valerius then ordered Titus Her-

mimus, .with a frnall body of men, to lie concealed

near the two mile ftone on the Gabian road; Spuii-

us Lartius, with a body of light armed troops, to

Hand

