OF ROME. xai

his confulate was not fignalized by any important BOOK

tranfacSHon. The temple of Jupiter in the Capitol . 1 _,

had not yet been .dedicated; the confuls Valerius and Y. 14.145.

Horatius caft lots which fhould perform the dedica- B. c. S°T'

rion, and it fell to Horatius. Publicola fet out to

conduct the war againft the Veientians. The friends

of Valerius fhewed more difplealure,than theocc'afion

merited, at the dedication of a temple fo celebrated

being given to Horatius. Having endeavoured, by

every means, to prevent its taking place, and all their

attempts having failed of fuccefs, when the conful

had already laid his hand on the door-poft, and was

employed in offering prayers to the gods, they haftily

addrefied him with the fhocking intelligence, that his

fon was dead, and infifted that his family being thus

defiled, he could not dedicate the temple. Whether

he doubted the truth of the intelligence, or whether

it was owing to great firmnefs of mind, we are not in­

formed with certainty, nor is it eafy to conjecture;

but he was no farther diverted from the bulinefs he

was engaged in, by that information, than juft to give

orders that the body fhould be buried; and, ftill

holding the poft, he finifhed his prayer, and dedicated

the temple. Such were the tranfactions at home and

abroad, which occurred during the ftrft year after the

cxpulfion of the royat family. The next confuls ap- y. R^Z.

p'ointed were, Publius Valerius, a fecond time, and B. c. j16.

Titus Lucretius.

IX. MEANWHILE, the Tarquinii had carried their

complaints to Lars Porfena, king of Clufium j and

there, mixing admonitions with intreaties, they at

one time befought him that he would not fuffer

them, who derived their origin from Etruria, and

were of the fame blood and name, to fpend their

lives in poverty and exile; then warned him " not

"to let this new practice of dethroning kings pro-

"ceed without chaftifement; reminding him, that

"liberty had in itfelf diffident fweets to allure others

"to

