276 T»£ HISTORY

BOOK Marcus Cornelius Maluginenfis, Marcus Sergius,

. -^-, Lucius Minucius, Quintus Fabius Vibulanus, Quin-

Y.R. 303. tus Paetilius,Titus Antonius Merenda, Casfo Duilius,

B.C. 449. Spurius Oppius Cornicen, and Manius Rabuleius.

XXXVI. Now the mafit, which Appias had af-

fumed, fell off, and he began to live according to his

natural difpofition; and to form his new colleagues

early to his own plan of proceeding, before they

fhould enter on the adminiftration of their office.

They held daily cabals, remote from witnefies;

wherein, being furnifhed with plans of tyranny, di-

gefted among themfelves, without the knowledge of

any, they no longer difiembled their arrogance; be­

came difficult of accefs, morofe to fuch as addreffed

Y.R. 304. them, and continued this behaviour until the ides of

B. c. 448. May. The ides of May were then the ufual time

for entering on office. At the very beginning then

of their magiftracy, they diftinguifhed the firft day

of their adminiftration by an exhibition which excited

the greateft alarm: for whereas the former decem­

virs had obferved a rule, that only one fhould have

the fafces, and that this emblem of royalty fhould go

in rotation through them all, to each in his turn, they

unexpectedly made their appearance, attended each

by twelve fafces. One hundred and twenty lictors

filled the Forum, and carried axes bound up with

the fafces. The decemvirs alleging that, as, by the

terms of their appointment, there lay no appeal from

them, there could be no reafon why the axe fhould be

taken away. They difplayed an appearance of ten

kings, and thus multiplied terrors, not only among

the loweft clafs, but among the principal patricians;

every one being perfuaded, that they wanted only a

pretext to begin the work of death, fo that fhould

anyone, either in the fenate, or in a meeting of the

people, utter an expreffion favourable to liberty, the

rods and axes would inftantly be got ready, to ftrike

terror into the reft. For, bcfides that there was no.

hope

