Ot ROME. 67

XXXVI. HB intended alfo to have furrounded B o o K.

the city with a ftone wall; but a war with the Sa- 1-._^_

bines interrupted his defigns. And fo fuddenly did

this break out, that the enemy pafied the Anio, be­

fore the Roman troops could march out to me'et

them, and flop their progrefs. This produced a

great alarm at Rome, and, in the firft engagement,

the victory remained undecided, after great'flaugh­

ter on both fides. The enemy afterwards having

retired to their camp, and allowed the Romans time

to prepare for the war anew, Tarquinius, obferving

that the principal defect of his army was the want

of cavalry, refolved to add other centuries to the

Ramnenfes, Titienfes, and Luceres, inftituted by

Romulus, and to leave them diftinguifhed by his

own name. As Romulus, when he firft formed this

inftitution, had made ufe of augury, Accius Naevius,

a celebrated augur at that time, infifted that no alte­

ration or addition could be made to it, without the

fanction of the birds. The king was highly dif-

pleafed at this, and, in ridicule of the art, faid, as we

are told, " Come, you diviner, difcover, by your

"augury, whether what I am now thinking of can be

"accomplifhed." The other having tried the matter

according to the rules of augury, and declared that it

could be accomplifhed, " Well," faid he, " what I

"was thinking of was, whether you could cut a

"whetftone in two with a razor. Take thefe, then,

"and perform what your birds portend to be prac-

C' ticable." On which, as the ftory goes, he, with­

out any difficulty, cut the whetftone. There was a

ftatue of Accius, with a fillet on his head, in the

place where the transaction happened, in the Comi-

tium* or place of afiembly, juft on the fteps, at the

left-hand fide of the fenate-houfe. It is alfo faid,

that the whetftone was fixed in the fame place, there

to remain, as a monument of this miracle, to pofte-

• The Comitium was a part of the Roman Forum, where, in early

times, afierabtiet of tht people were h'ld, <nd th; aflemblies of the

Curiae always.

f a rity.

