OF ROME. 71

alarmed; and that when fome of the fervants brought BOOK

water to extinguifh it, the queen prevented them;

and, having quieted the uproar, forbad the boy to be

difturbed until he awoke of his own accord. In a

fhort time, on his awaking, the flame difappeared.

Then Tanaquil, calling her hufband afide, to a pri足

vate place, faid to him, " Do you fee this boy,

"whom we educate in fuch an humble ftyle? Be

"aflured that he will hereafter prove a light to

"difpel a gloom which will lie heavy on our affairs,

"and will be the fupport of our palace in diftrefs.

"Let us therefore, with every degree of attention

"that we can beftow, nourifa this plant, which is,

"hereafter, to become the greatelt ornament to

"our family, and ourftate." From that time they

treated the boy as if he were their own child, and

had him inftructed in all thofe liberal arts, by which

the mind is qualified to fupport high rank with dig足

nity. That is eafily brought to pafs which is pleaf-

ing to the gods. The youth proved to be of a dif-

pofuion truly royal, ib that when Tarquinius came

to look for a fon-in-law, there was not one among

the Roman youth who could be fet in competition

with him, in any kind of merit j and to him Tarqui-

nius betrothed his daughter. This extraordinary

honour conferred on him, whatever might be the

reafon for it, will not let us believe that he was

born of a flave, and had himfelf been a Have in his

childhood: I am rather inclined to be of their opi足

nion, who fay, that, when Corniculum was taken, the

Wife of Servius Tullius, the principal man in that

city, being pregnant when her hufband was flain,

and being known among the reft of the prifoners,

and, on account of her high rank, exempted from

fervitude by the Roman queen, was delivered of a

fon at Rome, in the houie of Tarquinius Prifcus:

that, in confequence of fuch kind treatment, an in足

timacy grew between the ladies, and that the boy

alfo being brought up in the houfe, from his infancy,

. . F 4 vyas

