514 THE HISTORY

BOOK fons, f0 much more defervingof commiferation than

. ^' _j any others who were ever befieged; as by the fiege

y.U. 165. which they fuftained they were held excluded from

B. C. 387. ti^i,. native cjty, whilft they faw every thing which

they held dear in the power of their enemy. Nor

was the night, which fucceeded liich a fhocking

day, attended with more tranquillity. The morning

after this reftlefs night rofe with an afpecT: equally

difmal; nor did any portion of their time relieve

therri, from the fight of a conftant fuccefiionof new

difafters. Loaded and overwhelmed with fuch a

multiplicity of evils, they notwithftanding remitted

nought of their firmnefs of refolution; determined,

though they mould fee every thing in flames, and le­

velled with the duft, to defend by their bravery the

hill which they occupied, fmall and ill provided as it

was, yet being the only refuge of their liberry. And as

the fame events now recurred every day, they be­

came lb habituated, as it were, to difafters, that, ab-

ftra&ing their thoughts from all feeling of their cir-

cumftances, they regarded their arms, and the

fwords in their hands, as now their only hopes.

XLIII. ON the other fide, the Gauls,.having

for feveral days only waged an ineffectual war againft

the buildings, when they perceived that among the

fires and ruins of the city nothing now remained

but a band of armed enemies, who were neither ter­

rified in the leaft by fo many difafters, nor likely to

condefccnd to treat of a capitulation, unlefs force

were applied, reiolved to have recourfe to extremi­

ties, and make an alTault on the citadel. On a fig-

nal given, ut the h'rft light, their whole multitude was

jTiarfhalled in the Forum, from whence, after raif*

ing the fhout, and forming a teftudo *, they advan­

ced to the attack. The Romans in their defence did

• Forming therafelvec into a com part lirtily, with tlieir (hieUU joined

together, and held over their kcatU to piotcct them from the miflile

WUIJHUIS of the enemy.

- .i .' nothing

