T H E H I S T O R Y

BOOK» fclves of fpirit. But I confider it as impious to

1_ _ y_•_ , " ac t in oppofition to the authority of the fenate;

Y.K. 353." wherefore on the one hand, I define that ye may

B. C. 399. " defift from fceking in our difputes for an oppor-

"tunity of doing mifchief; and on the other hand,

"either my colleagues fhall act according to the

"will of the fenate, or if they perfift any farther in

"oppofition, I will inftantly nominate a dictator,

"who will compel them to retire from office."

This difcourfe being received with univerfal appro­

bation, and the fenators rejoicing that another power

had been thought of, which, by its fuperior authority,

might reduce the magiftrates to order, without the

terrors of the tribunitian office, thofe magiftrates

yielded to the univerfal defire of the public, and held

an election of military tribunes, who were to enter

into office on the calends of October: and before

that day, they diverted themfelves of the ma-

giftracy.

Y.R. 354. X. THIS military tribunate with confular power,

''39 'of Lucius Valerius Potitus a fourth time, Marcus

Furius Camillus a fecond, Manius ^milius Mamer-

cinus a third, Cneius Cornelius Coflus a fecond, Caz-

fo Fabius Ambuftus and Lucius Julius lulus, was

occupied by a multiplicity of bufinefs both civil and

military: for the operations of war were to be car­

ried on in many different places at once, at Veii,

and at Capena j atFalerii, and among the Volfcians

for the recovery of Anxur from the enemy. Then

at Rome, there was great uneafinefs, occafioned by

the levying of troops, and at the fame time by the

paying in of the tax. There was alfo a ftruggle

about the appointment of the plebeian tribunes; and

befides, the trials of two of thofe, who had lately

been invefted with confular power, excited no trifling

difturbance. The military tribunes applied them­

felves, firft of all, to the raifing of troops, and not

only the younger men were enlUied, but the elder

citizens,

