THE HISTORY

BOOK (hade of his colleague of breach of faith, and fuffer

. _TJ __, the bufinefs of the law to proceed. The conful de-

Y.R. 194.. clared, that he would not fuffer the bufinefs of the

B.C. *s«. law to proceed, until he mould have a colleague ap­

pointed in the room of the deceafed. The difputes

on this fubject lafted until the affembly was held for

fubftituting a conful. In the month of December,

in confequence of very zealous efforts of the patri­

cians, Lucius Quintius Cincinnatus, father of Caefo,

was elected conful, to enter on his office without

delay. The commons were quite difmayed, on

finding, that they were to have for conful a perfon

highly incenfcd againft them, and whofe power was

Strengthened by th« fupport of the patricians, by his

own merit, and by three fons, no one of whom was

inferior to Caefo, in greatnefs of fpirit, while they

excelled him in prudence and moderation on proper

occafions. When he came into office, in the fre­

quent harangues which he made from the tribunal,

he mewed not more vehemence in his cenfures of

the commons, than in his reproofs to the fenate,

"through the indolence of which body," he faid,

"the tribunes, now become perpetual, by means of

'' their harangues and profecutions, exercifed fove-

"reign authority, as if they were not in a republic

"of Roman citizens, but in an ill-regulated family.

"That together with his fon Cxfo, fortitude, con-

"ftancy, and every qualification that gives ornament

4C to youth either in war or peace, had been driven

"out and banifhed from the city of Rome; while

"talkative, feditious men, fowcrs of difienfion,

"twice, and even thrice, re-elected tribunes, fpent

"their lives in the moft pernicious practices, and in

"the exercife of regal tyranny. Did that Aulus

"Virginius, faid he, becaufe he was not in the Ca-

'' pitol, deferve lefs fevere punifhment than Appius

"Herdonius ? More, he fwore, undoubtedly, if we

'c will judge fairly of the matter. Herdonius, though

"nothing elfe could be laid in his favogr, by an-

"nouncing

