m THE HISTORY

BOOK" to follow the example, unlefs kings would (hew

'_.-T'. . " the.fame degree of vigour, in fupport of kingly

Y.R. 146. " power, which the people exerted to wreft it from

B. C. jc&. " them: the higheft ranks would be reduced to a

"level with the loweft: there would be no digni-

"ty, no pre-eminence among the feveral members

"of fociety: there would foon be an end of regal

"power, an inftitution which among gods and men

"was held in the higheft degree of eftimation."

Porfena5 confidering it as highly conducive to the

honour of Etruria, that there fhould be a king at

Rome, and alfo that that king fhould be of Etruri­

an race, led an army to Rome, determined to fup­

port his pretenfions by force of arms. Never on

• any former occafion were the fenate ftruck with

fuch terror, fo powerful was the ftate of Clufium

at that time, and fo great the name of Porfena: nor

were they in dread of their enemies only, but alfo of

their own countrymen; left the Roman populace,

overcome by their fears, might admit the kings into

the city, and, for the fake of peace, fubmit to flavery.

The fenate, therefore, at this feafon practifed many

conciliatory meafures toward the commons: their

firft care was applied to the markets, and people

were fent, fome to the Volfcians, others to Cumae,

to purchafe corn; the privilege alfo of felling falt,

becaufe the price had been raifed to an extravagant

height, was taken out of the hands of private peribns,

and placed entirely under the management of go­

vernment; the commons were alfo exempted from

port duties, and taxes; that the public expences

might fall upon the rich, who were equal to the bur­

then, the poor paying tax fufficient if they educated

their children. This indulgent care fhewn by the

fenate, preferved fuch harmony in the ftate, even

during the people's fevere fufferings afterwards, from

fiege, and famine, that the name of king was not

more abhorred by the higheft, than by the loweft;

nor did any fingle perfon, in after times, ever ac­

quire

