O F R O M E. 275

vtfted with, the office: he afperfed the characters of B o o K

the candidates of high rank, and extolled the moft . -r- ^t

infignificant, and the loweft: furrounded by the Y.R. 303.

Icilii and Duilii', who had been tribunes, he buftled B.c. 44?•

about the Forum, and through their means recom­

mended himfelf to the commons; until even his col-

leagues, who, to that time, had been entirely attached

to him, looked on him with amazement, wondering ,

what his intentions could be. They were convinced,

that there was no fincerity in his profeflions; that

fuch affability, in one of fuch a haughty mind, could

not be without fome interefted views; that his low­

ering himfelf to the common level, in this extraordi­

nary manner, and mixing on an equal footing with

the private citizens, did not look like hafte to quit

the office, but rather like feeking for means to be

continued in it: not daring, however, openly to op-

pofe his wifhes, they endeavoured to baffle his ef­

forts., by a feeming defire to gratify him; and agreed

among themfelves to appoint him, as the youngeft

of their body, to the office of prefiding at the elec­

tion. This was an artifice, to prevent his returning

himfelf, which no one had ever done, except in the %

cafe of tribunes of the people; and, even there, it

was deemed a moft pernicious precedent. How­

ever, he declared, that, with the good favour of for­

tune, he would prefide at the election; and he laid

hold of the intended obftruction to his defign, as the

lucky means of effecting its accomplifhment; and

having, by means of a coalition which he formed,

foiled the pretenfions of the two Quiptii, Capitolinus

and Cincinnati^; of his own uncle Cains Claudius,

a moft.fteady fupporter of the caufe of the nobility;

and of other citizens of the fame high rank, he raifed

to the decemvirate perfons of very inferior condi­

tion in life; and, among the firft, himfelf: an adt

highly difapproved of by. all men of good minds,r.v ..

and which no one had believed that he would dare

to be guilty of. Together with him were elected

T 2 Marcus

