504 THEHISTORY

BOOK their right on the points of their fwords, and that all

t '- . things were the property of the brave. And thus,

Y.R. 364. with minds inflamed on both fides, they haftily fepa-

B.C. 388. rated to prepare for battle, which began without

delay. Here, fate now prefling the city of Rome,

the ambafladors, contrary to the law of nations, took

a part in the action; a fadl: which could not be con­

cealed, for three of the noblcft and braveft of the

Roman youth fought in the van of the Etrurian ar­

my; and the valour of thefe foreigners was emi­

nently conlpicuous. Befides, Quintus Fabius rode

forward beyond the line, and Hew a general of the

Gauls, who was making a furious charge againft the

very ftandards of the Etrurians, running him through

the fide with his fpear; he was known by the Gauls,

while he was ftripping him of his fpoils; on which

notice was conveyed round through the whole army,

that he was one of the Roman ambafladors. Drop­

ping therefore their refentment againft the Clufians,

they founded a retreat, threatening to wreak their

vengeance on the Romans. Some adviled that they

fhould march inftantly to Rome. But^the opinion

of the elders prevailed j that ambafladors mould firft

be fent to complain of the ill treatment which they

had received, and to demand that the Fabii mould

be delivered into their hands as a fatisfaction for

their having violated the law of nations. When the

ambafladors of the Gauls had explained thofe mat­

ters according to their commiffion, the, fenatc were

highly difpleafed at the behaviour of the Fabii, and

thought the demand of the barbarians juft: but in

the cafe of nobles, of fuch exalted rank, partial

favour prevented their paffing a decree conformable

to their judgment. Left, therefore, they might be

chargeable with any misfortune which might per­

haps be fuftained in a war with the Gauls, they re­

ferred the determination, on the demands of the

Gauls, to the afiembly of the people: where, ib

prevalent was the influence of intcreft and wealth,

that

