/ OF ROME. gr

fign:—that he had no doubt but, if the intellt- BOOK

gence was true, he would, early next morning,

when the afiembly met, come thjtherjin arms,

attended by an armed force. \ He was told","

number of fwords had been carried to

't his houfc'whether that were falfe or not, might

'' be llTftilliily knuwiijand he requefted that they - ^(

'' would go with him directty to Turnus." ^TEey ~ ^

faw fome grounds of fufpicion, in the violent temper

of Turnus; his difcourfe yefterday, and the delay of

Tarquinius; and it feemed not impofiible that the

maflacre might have been deferred on that account.

They went, therefore, with minds inclined to be.'

lieve the report, but at the fame time determined,

unlefs the fwords were difcovered, to confider all the

reft as groundlefs. When they came to the fpot,

.i.t guards were placed round Turnus, who was roufed

. -/ from fleep; and the fervants, who, out of affection

to their mafter, prepared to ufe force, being fecured,

the fwords, which had been concealed, were drawn

out from every part of the lodging, and then the

affair appeared manifeft. Turnus was thrown into

chains, and a great tumult enfuing, an afiembly of

the Latines was immediately fummoned. Therer

on the fwords being placed in the midft of them, to

fuch a pitch of fury was their rage inflamed, that, not

allowing him to make a defence, and ufing an ex­

traordinary method of execution, they threw him

down into the refervoir of the water of Ferentina,

where a hurdle being placed over him, and a heap

of Hones raifed on that, herwas drowned.

r-^> *W*i>A£^ -•.•ftk*":-.^

LJI. TAROJTINIUS, having then re-affembled the

Latines, and highly commended them, for having

inflicted on Turnus, as one convicted of parricide,

the punifhment which he had merited by his attempt

to overturn the government, fpoke to this purpofe:

'?' That he might, without doubt, take upon himfelf

f' to act, in virtue of a right long fince eftablifhed,

"becaufc

