THE HISTORY

tluant't:y Of blood had they remaining which could

- "be fbed for the commonwealth ?" As they had by  
Y.R. 349. .thefe fuggeftions, thrown out in public afiemblies,

B.C.403, rcndereti the commons averfe to the war, the deter­

mination on the propofition was adjourned to another

time, becaufe it was manifeft, that if it came before

them, during the prelent ill-humour, it would cer­

tainly be reje&ed.

L.IX. IT wasrefolved, that, in the mean ume, the

military tribunes fhould lead an army into the terri­

tories of the Volfcians. Cneius Cornelius alone was

left at Rome. The three tribunes, finding that the

Volfcians had not formed a camp any where, and that

they were refolved not to hazard a battle, divided

their forces into three parts, and fet out towards dif­

ferent quarters to wafte the enemy's country. Va­

lerius directed his march to Antium, Cornelius to

Eccetra, and wherever they came, they made ex-

tenfive depredations both on the lands and houfes, in

order to divide the forces of the Volfcians. Fabius

marched, without any plundering, to attack Anxur,

'which was the principal object in view. Anxur

is the city which we now call Tarracinae, fituated on

a declivity adjoining a morafs. On this fide, Fabius

made a feint of attacking it, but fent round four

cohorts under Caius Servilius Ahala, who, having

feized on the eminence which commands the city,

from this higher ground aflailed the walls, with great

Ihouting and tumult, on a fide where there was no

guard to defend them. Thofe, who were employed

in defending the lower part of the city againft Fa­

bius, being ftunned with amazement at this tumult,

gave him an opportunity of applying the fcaling lad­

ders. Every place was quickly filled with the enemy,

and a dreadful flaughter continued a long time with-

'out diftinction of thofe who fled and thole who made

refiftance, of the armed and unarmed. The van-

quifhed therefore were undn; a neceffity of fighting,

there being no hope for fuch as retired, until an or­

der

