. ROME. .

Hjert. The Gauls, alarmed at this unexpected event, B O Q ^

took up' arms, arjd with more rage than, conduct._1-vl_ .

rufhed upon the Romans. Fortune had now chang- Y.R. 36$.

ed fides; and both divine favour and human wif- B.c:»*?r

dom aided the Roman caufe. At the firft onfet,

therefore, the Gauls were put to the rout, with OP

greater difficulty than theyhad met, when they gaine4

the victory at the Allia. They were afterwards defeat*

ed, under the conduct and aufpices of the fame Ca-

millus, in a more regular engagement at the eighth

ftone on the Gabine road, where they rallied after

their flight. Here the (laughter was immenfe; their

camp was taken, and not even a fingle perfon left to

carry the news of the defeat. The dictator, having

thus recovered his country from the enemy, returned

to the city in triumph, and among the rough jokes

which the foldjers throw out on fuch occafions, re­

ceived the appellauons of a Romulus, and the father

of his country, and a fecond founder of the city,

praifes not unmerited. His country thus faved by

arms, he evidently faved a fecond time in peace,

when he hindered the people to remove to Veii,

a fcheme prefled by the tribunes with greater ear-

neftnefs after the burning of the city, and which

the commons, of themfelves, were then more in­

clined to purfue; and for that reafon he did not re-

fign the dictatorfhip immediately after his triumph*

being entreated by the fenate not to leave the com­

monwealth in that uncertain ftate.

L. THE firft bufinefs which he laid before the"'

1 fenate was that which refpected the immortal gods j

for he was remarkably attentive to all matters in

which reljgion was concerned. He procured a de-

tree of fenate, that "all the temples having been in

A' pofieffion of the enemy Jhould be reftored, their

*'• bounds traced, and expiation made for them, and  
"that the form of expiation lhould be fought in

"the books by the duumvirs. That a league of

i' "hofpitality

