T H E H I S T O R Y

BOOK walls, the town was filled with the enemy, and a fight

^^1^ commenced in every quarter. After great flaughter

Y.R. 359. had been made, the ardour of the combatants at

B.C. 393. length began to abate, and the dictator, proclaiming

orders by the heralds, that no injury fhould be done

to the unarmed, put an end to the effufion of

blood. The townfmen then began to lay down their

arms and furrender, and the foldiers,with permifiion

of the dictator, difperfed in fearch of booty. When

the fpoil was collected before his eyes, far exceeding

both in quantity and in the value of the effects, all his

calculations and hopes, the dictator is faid to have

raifed his hands towards heaven, and prayed, "that

"if any gods or men looked on his fuccefs and that

"of the Roman people as exceffive, fuch jea-

"loufy might be appeafed by fome calamity pecu-

"liar to himfelf alone, rather than by the flighteft

"detriment to the Roman people." It is recorded,

that as he turned himfelf about, during this addrefs

to the gods, he ftumbled and fell; and this was con-

fidered afterwards, by fuch as judged of the matter by

the events which followed, to be an omen portending

Camillus's own condemnation, and the difafter of

the city of Rome being taken, which happened a

few years after. The lubduing of the enemy, and

the plundering of this very opulent city, employed

that whole day.

XXII. NEXT day the dictator fold the inhabitants

of free condition by auction: the money arifing from

the fale was all that was applied to the ufe of the

public, and even that was relented by the commons.

As to what fpoil they brought home with them, they

did not think themfelves under any obligation, either

to the general, who, with defign to procure their

countenance to his own parfimony, had referred to

the fenate, a bufinefs which properly belonged to his

own jurifdiction, or to the fenate either, but to the

Licinian family, of which the fon had laid the affair

before the fenate, and the father ,firft propofed the

13 * popular

