424 THE HISTORY

K " to forfeiture, was inftantly enforced, and that with

_ fuch full effect." This would have been a moft

Y.R.J4Z. feafonable time, after the punifhment of the mutiny,

B.C.410. to have foothed their minds with fuch a healing mea-

fure as the diftribution of the lands of Vote; as it

would have diminifhed their eagernefs in the purfuit

of an agrarian law, which tended to expel the pa-

, tricians from the public lands, the pofieflion of which

they had unjuftly acquired. But as matters were

managed, the ill-treatment fhewn them, in this very

inftance, was an additional fource of vexation, as

the nobility not only perfifted with obftinacy to re­

tain pofielTion of thofe public lands, which they held

by force, but even refufed to diftribute to the com­

mons tfye vacant lands lately taken from the enemy,

which would, like the reft, in a fhort time become

the prey of a few. This year, the legions were

led out by the conful Furius againft the Volfcians,

who were ravaging the country of the Hernicians;

and not finding the enemy there, they proceeded to

and took Fererutnum, whither a great multitude of

the Volfcians had retreated. The quantity of the

fpojl was lefs than they had expected, becaufe the

Volfcians, feeing fmall hopes of holding out, had

carried off their effects by night, and abandoned the

town; which, being left almoft without an inhabit­

ant, fell next day into the hands of the enemy. The

lands were given to the Hernicians.

y.R. 345. LII. THAT year, through the moderation of the

B. c. 409. tribunes, pafied in domeftic quiet; but the fucceed-

ing" one, wherein Quintus Fabius Ambuftus and

Caius Furius Pacilus were confuls, was ufhered in

with the turbulent operations of Lucius Icilius a

plebeian tribune. Whilft, in the very beginning of

the year, he was employed in exciting fedition by

the publication of agrarian laws, as if that were a

talk incumbent on his name and family, a peftilence

broke out, more alarming, however, than deadly,

which

