OF ROME.

was another conteft with the tribunes; the law was BOO K

now confidered as a vain project, and the propofers , _ - j

of it difregarded as claiming merit from holding out Y.R. 171.

to people's view, advantages which were not attain- B.C.***.

able. The name of Fabius was now held in the

higheft eftimation after three fucceffive confulates,

all of which had been uniformly diftinguifhed by

conttfts with the tribunes; and, for that reafon, this

dignity was continued in the fame family, for a con-

fiderable time, from a general perfuafion, that it

could not be placed in better hands. Soon after this,

war was undertaken againft the Veientians. The

Volfcians alfo revived hoftilities. But for fecurity

againft foreign enemies, the ftrength of the Romans

was more than fufficient; and they perverted it to a

bad purpofe, to the fupport of quarrels among them-

felves. To add to the general difquiet, feveral

prodigies appeared; the fky, almoft daily, exhibiting

threatening portents, both in the city and in the

country: the foothfayers, employed both by the

ftate, and by private perfons, after confulting both

entrails, and birds, declared that no other caufe of

the difpleafure of the deity exifted, than that the

worfhip of the gods was not duly performed. All

their apprehenfions however ended in this, that Op-

pia, a veftal, was convicted of a breach of chaftity,

and fuffered punifhment.

XLIII. QUINT us Fabius, a fecond time, and Y.R. «?*•

Caius Julius, then fucceeded to the confulfhip. B'c.48°'

During this year, the domeftic difienfions abated not

of their acrimony, and the war abroad wore a more

dangerous afpect. The ^Equans took up arms. The

Veientians even carried their depredations into the

territories of the Romans. And as thefe wars appear­

ed every day more alarming, Casfo Fabius and Spu- Y.R.t7j

fins Furius were made confuls, The ./Equans laid 8.0.4.79!

fiege to Ortona, a Latine city. The Veientians now,

fatiated with booty, threatened to befiege Rome it-

N a felf;

