BOOK" ployed to ftop his proceedings. Nor wotifd It

^_I^'-f " have been proper to treat him as a citizen, for.

Y.R. 316. " though born in a free ftate, under the dominion of

B.C.4j6. " the laws divine and human, in a city from which

"he knew that kings had been expelled; and that

"in the fame year the offspring of the king's fifter,

"and the fons of the conful the deliverer of his coun-

"try, on difcovery of their engaging in a plot for

"re-admitting the kings into the city, were by their

"father publicly beheaded; from which, Collatinus

"Tarquinius, conful, was ordered, through the ge-

"neral deteftation of the name, after refigning his

"office, to retire into exile j in which Spurius Caf-

"fius was, feveral years after, capitally punifhed, forf

'e having formed a defign of afluming regal power >

"in which, not long ago, the decemvirs on account

"of their regal tyranny, had been punifhed with

*' confifcations, exile, and death; in that very city  
"Spurius Mcdius had conceived hopes of pofiefling

"himfelf of regal power. And who was this man?

"Although no nobility, no honours, no merits, lay

"open to any man the way to tyranny; yet ftill the

"Claudii and Caffii, when they raifed their views to

"an unlawful height, were elated by confulfhips, by

"decemvirates, by honours conferred on themfelves

"and their anceftors, and by the fplendor of their fa-

"milies. But Spurius Maelius, to whom a plebeian tri-

"bunefhip fhould have been an object rather ofwifh-

"cs.than of hope, a wealthy corn-merchant, had con-

"ceived hopes of purchafing the liberty of his coun-

"try men, for two pounds of corn; and had fuppofed,

"that a people victorious over all their neighbours,

"could be inveigled into flavery by having food

"thrown to them. So that a perfon, whofe eleva-

"tion to the rank of fenator, the ftate could have

"hardly digefted, they would patiently endure as

"their king, pofieffing the enfigns and the authority

"of Romulus their founder, who had defcended

•"• from, and returned to the gods. This muft be

8 "deemed

