THE HISTORY

5n any other place than the Capitol. What dial!

_ I fay of the eternal fire of Vefta; and of the

Y.R. 365. " ftatue, that pledge of empire, which iskept under

B.C. 387." the fafeguard of her temple? What, O Mars

"Gradivus, and thou, father Quirinus, ofthyAn-

"cilia *? Is it right that thofe facred things, coeval

"with the city, nay fome of them more ancient

"than the origin of the city itfelf, fbould all be

'c abandoned to profanation? Now, obferve the

"difference between us and our anceftors. They

'' handed down to us certain facred rites to be per-

'' formed on the Alban, and on the Lavinian mounts.

"Was it then deemed offenfive to the gods, that

"facred rites fbould be brought to us to Rome,

''• from cities of our enemies; and fhall we, with-

"out impiety, remove them from hence to an

"enemy's city, to Veii? Recollect, I befeech you,

"how often facred rites" are performed anew, becauffc

"fome particular ceremony of our country has been

"omitted through negligence or accident. In a

'' late inftanee, what other matter, after the prodigy

"of the Alban lake, proved a remedy for the dif-

"trefies brought on the commonwealth by the

"war of Veii, but the repetition of the facred rites,

"and the renewal of the aufpices? But befides, as

'' if zealoufiy attached to our old religious inftitu-

** tions, vie have both tranfported foreign deities  
"to Rome, and have inftituted new ones. It was

'' but the other day that imperial Juno was removed

(t hither from Veii; and with what a crowded at-

1' tendance was the day of her dedication on the

'' Aventine celebrated? And how was it diftin-

1c guifhedby the extraordinary zeal of the matrons?

* Ancile, 9 ftielJ, fupjwftd to l,e of the goJ Mar?, faid to have  
fallen from heaven in the reign pf Niima. It was repolited in the

fanftuary, apd kelit with giea't care by tfce pricfts of Mars, called

Salii. Being ccntidered ,ns a I'ymbol ot the perpetual duration of the

rmpne, to jut.vent ,is being ttulen, eleveii cilhci* weie marie, exactly

rcieinbling it, and luiil upwitli it.

"We

