THEHISTORY

BOOK with extraordinary fiicccfs; for on the road, through

. -*-_f which he knew they were to come, he attacked

Y.R. a8?. them, while they were heavy kden with booty, which

B.C.463. fo embarrafied their motions, as to render them

unfit for action, and took fevere revenge for the

devaluations which they had committed. His plan

fucceeded fo effectually, that few made their efcape,

and the whole of the booty was recovered. On this

the conful Quintius returned to the city, and put an

end to the ceflation of bufinefs, when it had conti­

nued four days. The general furvey was then held,

and the luftrum was clofed by Quintius *: the num­

ber of citizens rated in the furvey, was one hundred

and twenty.four thoufand, two hundred and fourteen,

befides the orphans of both lexes. Nothing memo­

rable pafled afterwards in the country of the ^Equans:

they took fhcker in their towns, abandoning their

effects to fire and devaftation. The conful, after

having repeatedly carried hoftilities and depreda­

tions through every part of the enemy's country,

returned to Rome, with great glory, and abundance

of fpoil.

Y.R. 190. IV. THE next confuls were Aulus Poftumius

B.C.46*. Albus and Spurius Furius Fufus. The Furii, fome

writers have called Fufii: this I mention as a cau­

tion, left any fhould think there was a difference in

the perfons, when it is only in the names. There

was no doubt entertained, but that one of the confuls

•would march an army againft the Jliquans; thefe

* The luftrum was a period of five yean, at the expiration of  
which a general review of the people was held, and their number, ftate

and cireuinftances enquired into. The fenate alfo was reviewed by

one of the cenfors: and if any one, by his behaviour, had rendered

himfelf unworthy of a place in that body, or had funk his fortune be­

low the requifite qualification, his name was pafted over by the cenfor,

in reading the roll of fenators; and, thus, he was held to be excluded

from the fenate. When the bufinefs was done, the cenfor, to whofe

lot it fell, an'iidit luflrua, clofed the lultrum, by offering a Jblemn fa-

crifice in the Campus Martius.

c therefore

