.' O F R 0 M E. 375

ple, were found' entitled to as little credit as the pro- B o o K

moter of them. But they found greater caufe for. -r--t

anxiety, in the increafing violence of the peftilence, Y.R. 319.

attended with other alarming occurrences and pro-B.c'**3.

digies; particularly in the accounts which were re­

ceived, of many houfes in the country being thrown

down by frequent earthquakes. A general fuppli-

cation to the gods was therefore performed by the

people, who repeated it in form after the decemvirs*.

The diforder increafing during the following year, Y. R. jio.

in which Caius Julius, a fecond time, and LuciusB. c. 43*'

Virginius were confuls, occafioned fuch dreadful ap-

prehenfions of total defolation, both in the city and *

the country, that not only an entire ftop was put to

predatory excurfions from the Roman territories, but

every thought of offenfive operations laid afide, both

by patricians and commons. The Fidenatians, who

had at firft fhut themfelves up within their towns or

forts, or among the mountains, now ventured to

come down into the lands of the Romans, and com­

mit depredations. Then the army of the Veien-

tians being called to their aid, (for the Falifcians

could not be prevailed on, either by the calamities of

the Romans, or the intreaties of their allies, to re­

new hoftilities,) the two nations crofled the Anio,

and difplayed their enfigns at a little diftance from

the Colline gate. This occafioned great confterna-

tion, as well in the city as in the country. The con-

ful Julius drew up the troops on the rampart and the

walls, whilft Virginius held a confultation of the fe-

nate in the temple of Quirinus. Here it was re-

folved to create dictator Quintus Servilius, to whom

fome gave the furname of Prifcus, others that of

Structus. Virginius delayed no longer than till he

had conferred with his colleague, and having, ob-

• In the performance of fuch rites, the flighted miftake of a word

or fyllable was deemed highly inaulpicious; to prevent which, the

regular form of words was pronounced by a pricft, and repeated after

him by the peifons cfficiating.

B B 4 tained

