THEHISTORT

B OvO K tne omcn which the place preferred, and founded

.._-T_-J there a city which they called Mediolanum.

Y.R.364.

B. C. 388. XXXV. IN fome time after, another body, com-

pofed of the Cenomanians, under the conduct of

Elitovius, following the tracks of the former, made

their way over the Alps, through the fame foreft,

Bellovefus favouring their march, and fettled them-

felves where the cities Brixia and Verona now ftand,

places then pofiefied by the Libuans. After thefe,

came the Salluvians, who fixed their abode near the

ancient canton of the Ligurians, called Laevi, who

inhabited the banks of the Ticinus. The next who

came over were the Boians and Lingonians, through

the Penine pafs, who, finding all the fpace between

the Alps and the Po already occupied, paffed over

the Po on rafts, and drove out of the country, not

only the Etrurians, but the Umbrians alfo. They

confined themfelves however within the Apennines.

After them the Senonians, the lateft of thefe emi­

grants, pofiefied themfelves of the track which

reaches from the river Utens to the JECis. This

latter people, I find, it was, who came to Clufium,

and from thence to Rome. But whether alone, oraf-

fifted by all the nations of Cifalpine Gauls, is not

known with certainty. The Clufians, on obferving

the great multitude, the appearance of the men

different from any which they had feen before, and

the kind of arms which they carried, were terrified

at the approach of this ftrange enemy; and having

heard that the legions of the Etrurians had been often

defeated by them, on both fides of the Po, although

they had no claim on the Romans, either in right

of alliance or friendfhip, except that they had not

protected their relations the Veientians in oppofition

to the Roman people, yet they fent ambafFadors to

.Rome, to folicit aid from the fenate; which requeft

for aid was not complied with. The three Fabii,

fons of Ambuftus, were fen: ambafiadors to mediate

with

