OF ROME. 137

confuls were, who could not be confided in, becaufe BOOK

they were of the Tarquinian faction, for that alfo is . J/' ^

related, or who was the firft perfon created dictator, Y.R. 15,.

we have no certain information. In the moft ancient B.c. 499.

writers however, I find it afierted, that the firft dicta­

tor created was Titus Lartius, and that Spurius

Caffius was appointed mafter of the horfe. They

chofe men of confglar dignity, as ordered by the law

enacted concerning the creating of a dictator. For

this reafon, I am the more induced to believe, that

Lartius, who was of confular dignity, rather than

Manius Valerius, fon of Marcus, and grandfon of

Volefus, who had not yet been conful, was placed

over the confuls, as their director and mafter; as,

even if it had been thought proper, that the dictator

fhould be chofen out of that particular family, they

would much rather have elected the father, Marcus

Valerius, a man of approved merit, and of confular

dignity. On this firft creation .of a dictator at

Rome, the populace, feeing the axes carried before

him, were ftruck with fuch terror, as made them

more attentive to obedience of orders; for they

could not now, as under confuls who were equal in

authority, hope for protection, from one of them,

againft the other; neither was there any appeal, nor

any other means, whatever, of impunity, but prompt

obedience. Even the Sabines were alarmed at the

appointment of a dictator by the Romans, the more

fo, becaufe they fuppofed that it was to act againft

fhem that he had been appointed; they therefore

fene ambafladors to treat of an accommodation;

who, requefting of the dictator and fcnate, that they

would pardon the mifconduct of thoughtlefs young

men, were anfwered, that pardon might be granted

to young men, but not to the old, who made it their

conftant practice to kindle one war after another.

However, a negotiation was entered into for an ac­

commodation, and it would have been concluded, if ,

fhe Sabines had beep fatisfied to rejmburfe the cofts

expended

