5i<S THE HISTORY

SOCK the Gauls was approaching, and that the people cf

Ardea in confternation were met in counfeF on the

On which, as if moved by divine infpira-

tion, he advanced into the midft of their afiembly,

having hitherto been accuftomed to abfent hirnfelf

from fuch sheetings, and faid, " People of Ardea,

'' my friends of old, of late my fellow-citizens alfo,

"a relation encouraged by your kindnefg, and;

"formed by my fortune; let not any of you imagine,

'' that my coming hither is owing to my having for-

'c gotten my fituation; but the prefent cafe, andthe

"common danger, render it neceflary that every

"one fhould contribute to the public every kind

Nl of affifbnce in his power. And when fhall J re-

"pay fo great obligations as I owe you, if I am now

"remifs? On .what occafion can I ever be fervice-

"able to you, if not in war? By my knowledge in

"that line, I fuppwted a character in my native

"country, and having never been overcome by an

"enemy in war, I was banifhed in time of peace

"by my ungrateful countrymen. To you, men of

"Ardea, fortune has prtfented an opportunity of

"making a recompence for all the valuable favours

"which the Roman people have formerly conferred

"on you. How great thefe have been, ye your-

"felves remember j nor need I, who know you to

"be grateful, remind you of them. At the fame time

"you may acquire, for this your city, a high degree

*1 of military renown, by actingagainft the common  
'' enemy. The nation, which is now approaching,

"in a diforderly march, is one to whom nature ha£

"given minds and bodies of greater fize than

"ftrength: for which reafon, they bring to every con-

"ttft more of terror, than of real vigour. The dif-

"after of Rome may ferve as a proof of this; tliey

"took the city, when every avenue lay open; but full

'c a fmall band in the citadel and Capitol are able to

'c withftand them. Already tired of the. flow pro-

"ceedings of the fiege, they retire and fpread them-

"felvc$

