37* THE HISTORY

BOOK fingling him out for an antagonift, rufhed againft

. _^J . him. Having unhorfed him with a ftroke, and

.y.R. 318. preffing him down with his fpear, he inftantly fprung

B.C. 434. down himfelf on the ground; where, as the king at­

tempted to rife, he ftruck him back with the bofs of

his fiiield, and with repeated thrufts of his fpear

pinned him to the earth. He then ftripped off the

fpoils from the lifelefs body, and having cut off the

head, and carrying it about on the point of his fpear,

as a trophy of the victory, he put the enemy to rout,

through the difmay which ftruck them on the death

of their king. Their body of cavalry likewife, which

alone had kept the victory in fufpenfe, was defeated

with die reft. The dictator purfued clofe on the

flying legions, and drove them to their camp with

great flaughter. The greater number of the Fidena--

tjans, through their knowledge of the country, made

their efcape into the mountains. Coflus, having

crofied the Tiber, with the cavalry, brought to the

city an immenfe booty from the lands of the Veien-

tians. During this battle, there was another fight at

the Roman camp, againft the party which Tolum-

nius, as was mentioned above, had lent againft it:

Fabius yibulanus, manning the rampart all round,

ftood at firft on the defenfivej then, when the ene­

my were earneftly engaged againft the rampart, fally-

ing out with the veterans, from the principal gate on

the right, he made a fudden attack on them, which

ftruck fuch terror, that though the flaughter was lefs,

they being fewer in number, yet the rout was not

lefs diforderly than that of their grand army.

XX* CROWNED with fuccefs in every quarter, the

dictator, in purfuance of a decree of the ienate and

an order of the people, returned into the city in tri­

umph. By far the moft diftinguifhed object in this.

procefiion was Coflus, carrying the fpolia opima

(grand fpoils) of the king whom he had (lain, while

the foldiers chanted their uncouth verfes, extolling

him

