O P R 0 M E. aoj

*c an&; for he was not a magiftrate of the people at B O O K  
"large, but of the commons; that even he himfelf . -/_ -'

"could not, conformably to ancient ufage, of his Y.R. 18.,.

"own authority, compel people to withdraw, the B. c. *'91

"words in ufe being, If ye think proper, Romans*

"retire," It was eafy for him to difconcert Laeto-

rius in arguing, even thus contemptuoufly, about his

authority; the tribune therefore, inflamed with an­

ger, lent one of his officers to the conful,. and the

conful fent a lictor to the tribune, calling out that he

was but a private perfon without command and with­

out magiftracy; nor would the tribune have efcaped

ill-treatment, had not the whole afiembly joined,

with great warmth, in taking his part againft the

conful, and at the fame time, the alarm having fpread

among the populace, brought a great concourfe

from all parts of the city to the Forum. Appius,

notwithftanding, inflexibly withftood the violence of

the ftorm; and the difpute muft have terminated in

blood; had not Quintius the other conful, giving it

in charge to the confulars to take away his colleague

from the Forum by force, if they could not do "it.

other wife,- now foothed the enraged plebeians with

intreaties, then begged of the tribunes to difmifs the

afiembly, to "give time for their anger to cool,"

telling them, that " delay would not diminifh aught

"of their power, but would afford them the advan-.

"tage of uniting prudence with that power j that

"the patricians would ftill be under the direction

"of the people, and the conful under that of the

"patricians."

LVII. WITH great difficulty, the commons were

pacified by Quintius; and with much greater, was

the other conlul quieted by the patricians; and the.

afiembly of the people being at length difmified, the.

confuls convened the fenate. There, fear and an­

ger, prevailing by turns, produced for fome time a

variety of opinions; but having gained time for re-s

3 . flection,

