OF HOME.

"emolument, in general, without the expence of

"' labour. Toil and pleafure, in their natures op- _

"pofite, are yet linked together in a kind of Y.R. 3$*.

"natural connection. Formerly, the foldier deem- B.c.

"ed it a hardfhip to give up his labour to the

'' commonwealth, and to bear his own expences.

"At the fame time, he found pleafure in having it

u in his power, for a part of the year, to rill his

"own ground, and to acquire the means of fup-

"porting himfelf and his family, at home, and in

"the field. At prefent, he has a fource of plea-

"fure in the profits conferred on him by the com-

. " monwealth, and he receives his pay with joy.

"Let him, therefore, bear with refignation his

u being detained a little longer from his home, and

"from his family affairs, which are not now buiv

"thened with his expences. Suppofe the com-

"monwealth called him to a ftatement of accounts,

"might it not juftly fay, you receive pay by the

"year, give me your labour by the year. Do you

"think it juft, that for half a-year's fervice, you

"fhould receive a whole year's pay? It is difa-

"greeable to me, citizens, to dwell on this topic;

"for this kind of dealing fuits only thofe who em-

"ploy mercenary foldiers; but we wifh to deal, as

"with our fellow-citizens; and think it but rea-

"fonable, that we mould be dealt with, as their na-

'« tive country. Either the war ought not to have

"been undertaken, or it ought to be conducted

"in a manner fuited to the dignity of the Roman

'' people, and to be brought to a conclufion as foon

"as poifi'ble. Now it will certainly be brought to

"a conclufion, if we prefs forward the fiege, if we

"do not retire, until we have attained the object of

"our hopes, in the capture of Veii. In truth, if

t; there were no other motive, the very difcredit of

"acting otherwife ought to bind us to perfeverance.

*1 In former times, a city was held befieged for ten  
"years on account of one woman, by the united

"force

