5*6 THE Hi STORY

B o o K " hofpitality fhould be formed by public authority

^-TL.-' " with the people of Caere, becaufe they had af-

y.R. 365. " forded a reception to the facred utenfils, and to

B. c. 387. K t|ie priefts of the Roman people; and that to the

'c kindnefs of that people it was owing, that the

"worfhip of the immortal gods had not been in-

"termitted; that Capitoline games fhould be ex-

"" hibited in honour of Jupiter, fupremely good and

"great, for having, in time of danger, protected

"his own manfion, and the citadel of the Roman

"people; and that a certain number, for the due

"performance thereof, fhould be incorporated by

"the dictator, out of thole who refided in the Ca-

"pitot and citadel." Mention was alfo intro­

duced of expiating the voice which had been heard

by night, giving notice of the calamity before the

Gallic war, and which had been neglected; and

an order was made that a temple fhould be erected

to Aius Locutius, in the new ftreet. The gold,

•which had been refcued from the Gauls, and alfo

•what had been, during the hurry of the alarm, car­

ried from the other temples into the recefs of Jupi­

ter's temple, was all together judged to be facred,

and ordered to be depofited under the throne of Ju­

piter, becaufe people' could not recollect to what

temples it ought to be returned. The ftate had,

before this, manifefted a high regard to religion, in

accepting a contribution of gold from the matrons,

when the public fund was found inefficient to make

up the.fum ftipulated to be paid to the Gauls, rather

'than meddle with the facred gold. To the matrons

public thanks were given, and alfo the privilege of

having funeral orations delivered in honour of them

on their death, as the men had. When he had

finifhed fuch bufinefs as refpected the gods, and

fuch as could be determined by the authority of the.

fenate, as thej tribunes never ceafed teafing the

commons in their harangues to abandon the ruins,

and remove to Veii, a city ready for their reception;

being

