OF ROME. . 353

ct fenate had ever been fincerely difpoled to preventB 0 O K

C' any injury being offered to them; and were not. __' j

"lefs fo, now, to prevent the continuance of the Y.R. 3n.

"one, which had been done." On which the am- B'c. 4*1.

bafladors declaring, that they would take the fenfe of

their countrymen anew, before they formed any re-

folution, they were difmified with exprefilons of

friendfhip. The commonwealth being now without

any curule magiftrate, the patricians affembled and

created an interrex, and the interregnum was pro­

longed for a great many days, by a contention whe­

ther confuls or military tribunes mould be appointed.

The interrex and the fenate warmly promoted the

election of confuls; the plebeian tribunes and the

commons, the election of military tribunes. The

patricians at length prevailed, for the commons who

had no intention of conferring either the one office

or the other on any but patricians, defifted from

their fruitlefs oppofition: and befides, the leaders of

the commons were better pleafed with an election

where they were not to appear as candidates, than

with one where they would be pafied over as unwor­

thy. The plebeian tribunes wifhed alfo to pafs as a

compliment to the principal patricians, their declining , '.

to prefs the difpute to a d«cifion. Titus Quintius

Barbatus, the interrex, elected confuls Lucius Papi-

rius Mugilanus, and Lucius Sempronius Atratinus.

In their confulate, the treaty with the Ardeans was

renewed; and this ferves as a record to prove, that

there were thofe confuls in that year, though they

are not to be found, either in the old annals, or in

the books of the magiftrates; I fuppofe that becaufe

in the beginning of the year, there were military tri­

bunes, that therefore though thefe confuls were after­

wards fubftituted in their room, yet the names of the

confuls were omitted, as if the others had continued

in office through the whole of the year. Licinius

Macer affirms, that they were found both in the Ar-

dean treaty, and in the linen books in the temple of

VOL. i. A A Moneta.

