424 THE HISTORY

B.O o K cured every one of the places, fo as not to

. -r^_' room for any plebeian. There were four eleiSted,

YsR. 348. all of whom had already difcharged that office, Lu-

B. 0.404. cius Furius Medullinus, Caius Valerius Potitus, Nu-

merius Fabius Vibulanus, and Caius Servilius Ahah:

the laft being continued in office, by re-election, as

well on account of his other deferts, as in confequence

of the popularity which he had recently acquired by

his fingular moderation.

LVIfl. IN that year, the term of the truce with

the Veientian nation being expired, ambafiadors and

heralds were employed to make a demand of fatis-

faction for injuries, who, on coming to the frontiers,

were met by an embaffy from the Veientians. Thefe

requefted that the others would not proceed to Veii,

until they fhould firft have accefs to the Roman fe-

nate. From the fenate thty obtained, that, in con-

fideration of the Veientians being diftrefied by intcf-

tine difienfions, fatisfaction fhould not be demanded:

fo far were they from feeking in the troubles of

others, an occafion of advancing their own interefts.

In another quarter, in the country of the Volfcians,

a difafter was felt in the garrifon ,at Verrugo being

loft. On which occafion fo much depended on time,

that though the troops befieged there by the Volfci­

ans, had fent for affiftance, and might have been

luccoured, if expedition had been ufed, the army

fent to their relief, came only in time to deftroy the

enemy, who, juft after putting the garrifon to the

iword, were difperfed in fearch of plunder. The

blame of iuch dilatory conduct was not to be im­

puted to the tribunes, fo much as to the fenate; who,

becaufe they were told that a very vigorous refiftance

was made, never confidered, that there are certain

limits to human ftrength, beyond which no degree

of .bravery can proceed. Thefe very gallant fol-

diers, however, were not without revenge, both be­

fore and after their death. In the following year,

5 • Pubh'us

