THE HISTORY

B o^o K to the refl. l:e fhewed little concern. But his paflion,

i^^^y in a little time, being converted into admiration, he

Y.R. 146. fpoke of her exploit as fuperior to thofe of Codes

B. C, jo6. and jv[ucius. anc| declared, that, as, in cafe the

hoftage fhould not be given up, he would confider

the treaty as broken off; fo, iffhe fhould be furren-

dered, he would fend her back to her friends in fafe-

ty. Both parties behaved with honour; the Ro­

mans, on their fide, returned the pledge of peace,

agreeably to the treaty, and with the Etrurian king

merit found, not fecurity only, but honours. After

beftowing high compliments on the lady, he told

her, that he made her a prefent of half of the hof-

tages, with full liberty to choofe fuch as fhe liked.

When they were all drawn out before her, fhe is faid

to have chofen the very young boys, which was not

only confonant to maiden delicacy, but, in the uni-

verfal opinion of the hoftages themfelves, highly rea-

fonable, that thofe who were of fuch an age as was

moft liable to injury, fhould, in preference, be deli­

vered out of the hands of enemies. Peace being

thus re.eftablifhed, the Romans rewarded this in-

ftance of intrepidity, fo uncommon in the female fex,

with a mark of honour as uncommon: and an equef-

trian ftatue, erected at the h/ad of the facred ftreet,

where the lady was reprefented fitting on an horfe.

XIV. VERY inconfiftent with this peaceful man­

ner, in which the Etrurian king retired from the

city, is the practice handed down from early times,

and continued, among other cuftomary ufages, even

in our own days, of proclaiming at public fales, that

they are felling the goods of king Porfena: which,

cuftom muft neceflarily either have taken its rifer

originally, during the war, and have been continued

after in time of peace; or, it muft be derived from

a milder fource, than feems to be imported by the

expreffion, which intimates as if the goods for fale

were taken from an enemy. Of the fcveral accounts

6 which

