O F R O M E. 259

content to fubmit to the penalty, if they fliould failB

in proof. And as he did not dare to ftand the trial, ^

all thefe circumftances concurring together, made Y.R. 195.

people entertain no more doubt of the condemnation B.c'«7.

of VoHcius, than they had of Caefo's, after Volfcius

had given his teftimony. The bufinefs, however,

was put a ftop to by the tribunes, who declared, that

they would not fuffcr the quaeftors to hold an afiem-

bly on the bufinefs of the profecution, until one was

firft held on that of the law; and thus both affairs

were deferred to the arrival of the confuls. When

thefe entered the city in triumph, with their victo­

rious army, filence being obferved with refpect to

the law, people from thence imagined that the tri­

bunes were ttruck with fear; but they, dire&ing

their views to the tribunefhip, for the fourth time,

it being now the latter end of the year, had changed

the direction of their efforts, from the promoting of

the law, to canvaffing for the election. And al­

though the confuls ftruggled againft the continuing

of that office in the fame hands, with no lefs earneft-

nefs than if the act had been propofed for the purpofe

of lefiening their own dignity, yet the tribunes got

the better in the conteft. The fame year, on their

petition, peace was granted to the ^Equans. The

furvey which had been begun in the former year,

was now finifhed, and the luftrum clofed, which was •

the tribes, five out of each tribe; and the prxtor, according to the

importance or the difficulty of the caufe in difputc, appointed one or

more of them to try it. This office was, at firft, confined to the fe-

nalors; but was, afterward*, transferred to the knights; and was, at

different times, held fometimes, by one of thtfe bodies, fometimes by

tin: other, and fometimes, in cummon between them both. The ufual

method of proceeding was this; the plaintiff either named the judge,

before whom he rummoned the defendant to appear, which was termed

'ferre judicem;' or he left the nomination to the defendant, ' ut ju-

• dicemdiceret,'and when they had agreed on the judge, 'quum judicem

'conveniflet,' they prefented a joint petition to the prretor, praying

that he would appoint, ' ut daret," that pcrlbn to try the caufc; and,

at the fame uiia, they bound themfelvet to pay a certain fum of mo­

ney, the plaintiff, ' ni ita effet,' if he fhouid not eftablilh hit charge j

the defendant, if he fhould not acquit himfelf.

s a the

