OF ROME. ,

preferred the indulgence of their own licentiouf- BOOK

nefs, to the eftablifhment of the general liberty. •_-,- -i

XXXVIII. THE ides of May came. The of- Y.R. 30?.

fices of the ftate not having been filled up by elec- B.t-. **7'

tion, men, invefted with no public character, made

their appearance as decemvirs, retaining ftill the

fame fpirit to enforce their authority, and the fame

emblems of dignity, to fupport the fplendor of their

office. This"appeared arbitrary government beyond

difpute, and men deplored the lofs of liberty as irre­

coverable. No one champion ftood forth in its

caufe, nor was there a profpect of any fuch appear­

ing: and they not only funk into defpondence, but

began to be defpifed by the neighbouring nations,

who thought it would reflect fhame on themfelves,

if a ftate which had forfeited its own liberty, mould

be allowed to retain its dominion over others. The

Sabines with a numerous army made an irruption

into.the Roman territories; and, having fpread de-

vaftation through a great part of the country, and

collected, without lofs, a greae booty qf men and

cattle, they recalled their troops from the various

parts in which they were difperfed, and pitched their

camp at Eretum, grounding their hopes on the dif-

fenfions at Rome, which they trufted would prevent

the raifing of troops. Befides the couriers that ar­

rived, the country people, flying into the city, caufed

a general alarm. The decemvirs held a confuta­

tion on the meafures neceflary to be taken; and,

while they were left dettitute of fupport on every'

fide, being equally detefted by the patricians and the

commons, another circumftance occurred which ag­

gravated their fears, by prefenting an additional

danger to their view: the /Equans on the oppofite

fide had encamped in the diitrict of Algidum, and

ambalTadors, who came from Tulculum to requeit

afiiftance, brought accounts, that their lands wt re ra­

vaged by detachments from thence. The ucccjivirs

T . were

