47* THE HISTORY

B OvO K nirerfary folemnities on the Alban mount. The

. _/,-! only mode of expiation in this cafe was, that the

"V.R. 358. military tribunes mould refign the government, the

BiC. 394. aufpices be taken anew, and an interregnum ap­

pointed. ' All which was performed, purfuant to a

decree of the fenate. There were three interreges

in fucceflion: Lucius Valerius, Quintus Servilius

Fidenas, and Marcus Furius Camillus. In the mean­

time the city was a fcene of unceafing confufion and

diforder, the plebeian tribunes refufing to let the

elections proceed, unlefs a previous ftipulation were

agreed to, that the greater number of the military

tribunes mould be chofen out of the commons.

During thefe tranfactions, a general afiembly of

Etruria was held at the temple of Voltumna, and

the Capenatians and Falifcians demanding that all

the ftates of Etruria fhould unite unanimouny in the

defign of raifing the fiege of Veii, the anfwer re­

turned was, that " they had formerly given a re-

"fufal of the fame requeft to the Veientians, be-

"caufe thefe ought not to apply for fuccour, where,

"in a cafe of fuch confequence, they had not ap-

"plied for advice. That at prefent, though they

"of themfelves would not, yet the fituation of their

"affairs compelled them to refufe it: efpeciallv, as

"in that part of Etruria, the Gauls, a race of men

'e with whom they were unacquainted, had lately

"become their neighbours, with whom they were

"not on a footing, either of fecure peace, orofde-

"termined war. Neverthelefs, in confideration of

"the blood, the name, and the prefent dangers of

"their kinlmen, they would go fo for, as that if

irate, offered joint fnrrifices to Jupiter, whom they termed i latialis.'

Jn particular, they odVifd a whiie bull, of wliich the deputies of each

. ftate received a piece. The public feftivals, 'feriae,' were of four

kimis; ' ftativa;,' iminoveahle; 'conceptivae,' or ' indiflx,' move.

able; 'imperativae,1 commande'l on particular occafions; and ' nun-

• din*,' lor holding innrkets; fo called, hccaufe the time waj fixed

by proclamation: iliey were genemlly celebrated by ihe confuU, be­

fore their departure for their provinces.

"any

