#50 THEHISTORY

BOOK from thence came to a general engagement, which,

. __^ __, without farther conteft, put an end to the war.

Y.R. 1J9.

B.C.49J. XXVII. WHEN the Auruncians were defeated,

the Romans, having vanquifhed fo many different

enemies, within the fpace of a few days, expected

the fulfilment of the promifes made them by the

confuls, and confirmed by the engagements of the

fenate j but Appius, inftigated both by his own na­

tural haughtinefs, and a defire to undermine the cre­

dit of his colleague, ifiued his decrees on fuits between

debtor and creditor, with the utmoft pofilble feveri-

ty j in confequence of which, both thofe who had

,' formerly been in confinement, were delivered up to

their creditors, and others alfo were taken into cuf-

tody. When this happened to be the cafe of any of

the foldiers, he appealed to the other confulj a

crowd gathered about Servilius, reminded him of his

promifes, upbraided him with their fervices in war,

and the fears which they had received; infifted that

he fhould lay the affair before the fenate; and that,

as conful, he mould fupport his countrymen, as ge­

neral, his foldiers. The conful was affected by thefe

remonftrances; but circumftances obliged him to

decline interfering, not only his colleague, but the

•whole faction of the nobles, having gone fo violently

into oppofite meafures: by thus acting a middle

part, he neither avoided the hatred of the commons,

nor procured the efteem of the patricians. The

latter, confidering him as deftitute of the firmnefs

becoming his office, and as too fond of popular ap-

plaufe, while the former looked upon him as a de­

ceiver; and it fhortly appeared that he was become

no lefs odious, than Appius. A conteft happened

between the confuls, tyhich of them fhould dedicate

the temple of Mercury: the fenate refufed to decide

the matter, and referred it to the people, pafling a

vote that to whichever of them the dedication fhould

be granted by the people, the &me fhould prefide

over

