336 THE HISTORY

B o o K the confuls fued for a triumph, or that it was beftow-

t^11 - . ed on them by the fenate : neither is there any reafon

Y. R. 309. affigned why they either did not wifh, or might not

B. C.443. hope, to obtain that honour. It might probably be,

as far as I can conjecture at this diftance of time,

that as a triumph had been refufed by the fenate to

the confuls Valerius and Horatius, who befides

having vanquifhed the Volfcians and ./Equans, had

acquired the glory of fubduing the Sabines, the con­

fuls were afhamed to demand a triumph, for fervices

•which amounted only to the half of theirs; left, even

if they mould obtain it, there might be room to ima­

gine, that the compliment was paid to the perfons,

rather than to their deferts.

LXXI. THIS honourable victory obtained over

their enemies, the people difgraced at home, by a

fcandalous decifion of a difpute concerning the boun­

daries of their allies. The people of Aricia, and

thofe of Ardea, had often difputed in arms the right

t of property to a certain diftrict of land, and, wearied

by many lofles on both fides, referred the affair to

the arbitration of the Roman people. Both parties

attended to fupport their claims, and an afiembly of

the people was held, by the magiftrates, at their re-

queft; here the matter was debated, with great ve­

hemence; and, after the witneffes had been pro­

duced, when the tribes ought to have been called,

and the people proceed to give their fuffrages, there

arofe one Publius Scaptius, a plebeian, a very old

man, who faid, " Confuls, if I may be permitted to

"fpeak on a matter which concerns the intereft of

"the commonwealth, I will not fuffer the people

"to proceed in a miftake, with refpect to this

• " caufe." The confuls faying, that he was not

worthy of attention, and mould not be heard, he ex­

claimed, that the caufe of the public was betrayed;

and on their ordering him to be removed, called on

the tribunes for protection. The tribunes, as in

almoft

