THE HISTORY

^ withdrew from Regillu'm to Rome, ac-

I companied by a numerous body of adherents*. Thefe

Y.R. 150. were admitted to the. rights of citizens, and had land

B1C. 501. afflgned them beyond the Anio. They have been call­

ed the old Claudian Tribe, to diftinguifh them from

the new members, who, coming from the fame part

of the country, were afterwards added to that tribe.

Appius was elected into the fenate, and loon acquired

a reputation among the moft eminent. The confuls,

in profecution of the war, marched their army into

the Sabine territories; and, after reducing the pow­

er of the enemy, by wafting their lands, and after­

wards in battle, to fuch a degree, that there was no

room to apprehend a renewal of hoftilities in that

quarter, for a long time to come, returned in tri-

Y.R. 151. umph to Rome. In the enfuing year, when Agrippa

ipl'Menenius and Publius Poflumius were confuls, died

Publius Valerius, a man univerfally allowed to have

excelled all others, in fuperior talents both for war

and peace, full of glory, but in fuch flender circum-

ftances, that he left not fufficient to defray the charges

of his funeral, He was buried at the expence of the

public, and the matrons went into mourning for him,

as they had done for Brutus. During the fame year,

two of the Latine colonies, Pometia and Cora, re­

volted to the Auruncians, and war was undertaken

againft that people; a very numerous army, with

which they boldly attempted to oppofe the confuls,

who were entering their borders, was entirely routed,

and the Auruncians compelled to make their laft

Hand at Pometia: nor was the carnage lefs after the

battle was over, than during its continuance; there

were greater numbers flain than taken, and thofe who

were made prifoners, were in general put to death;

nay, in the violence of their rage, which ought to be

confined to foes jn arms, the enemy fpared not even

the hoftages, three hundred of whom had been for­

* Nut left than five thoufam! families accompanied him.

mcrly

