THE HISTORY

B o 0 K a fally being made from the camp at the fame time,

.. - T ' _f on a fignal given by him at fome diftance, a great

Y.R. 190. number of the enemy were furrounded and cut off.

8.0.461. of the .fliquans who were employed in the Roman

territories the number flain was lefs, but their defeat

and difperfion were more complete; being divided

into feparate parties, and bufied in collecting plun­

der, they were attacked by Poftumius in feveral dif­

ferent places, where he had pofted troops in conve­

nient fituations; when, not knowing what courfe to

take, and, purfuing their flight in great diforder, they

fell in with Quintius, who, after his victory, was re­

turning home with the wounded conful. Then did

the confular army, exerting themfelves in battle

with extraordinary alacrity, take full vengeance for

the conful's wound, and for the lofs of the lieutenant-

general and the cohorts. Many heavy lofies were

fuftairred on both fides, in the courfe of that cam­

paign: but it is difficult, at this diftance of time, to

affign with any degree of certainty, the precife num­

ber of thofe who were engaged, and of thofc who

fell; yet Valerius Antias undertakes to eftimate

them, affirming that, of the Romans, there fell in

the country of the Hernicians five thoufand three

hundred j that, of the plundering parties of the

./Equans, who fpread themfelves over the Roman

territories in fearch of fpoil, two thoufand four hun­

dred were flain by the conful Aulus Poftumius; that

the other body of them, who, while they were carry­

ing off the fpoil, fell in with Quintius, efcaped not

without a much greater lofs, there being flain of

thefe, four thoufand; and going with nicety into the

exact number, he adds two hundred and thirty.

After this, the troops returned home to Rome, and

the order for ceflation of civil bufinefs was difcharg-

ed. The fky appeared as on fire in many- places,

"'and other portents, either occurred to people's fight,

or were formed by terror in their imaginations. To

avert the evils, which thefe foreboded, a proclama­

tion

