OF ROME. 465

XIII. IN the country of the Volfcians, Anxur was BOOK

quietly re.taken, through the neglect of the guards . -^___.

on a feftival day. This year was remarkable for a Y.R. jJ5.

cold winter and great falls of fnow, fo that the roads B'c. M.

Were impaiTable, and the navigation of the Tiber

ftmt up. There was no change in the price of pro-

vifions, confiderable (tores having been previoufly

collected. As Publius Licinius had obtained his of­

fice without any riotous proceeding, to the great joy

of the commons, and the no lefs mortification of the

patricians, fo the fame regularity was preferved through

the whole courfe of his adminiftration. Hence

the people became enraptured with the thoughts of

choofing plebeians at the next election of military YR -

tribunes. Of the patrician candidates, Marcus Ve- B. C. 354.

turius alone carried his election. The centuries al-

moft unanimoufly appointed the following plebeians

military tribunes with confular power: Marcus Pom-

ponius, Caius Duilius, Volero Publilius, Cneius

Genutius, and Lucius Atilius. The fevere winter,

whether from the ill temperature of the air, caufed

by the fudden tranfition from one extreme to the

other, or from tbme other caufe, was fucceeded by

a fickly fummer, fatal to all kinds of animals; 2nd

neither the caufe nor end of the incurable virulence

of the difbrder being difcoverable, the Sibylline

books were confuked, in purluance of a decree of

the fenate. The decemvirs who had the direction

of religious matters, then firft introduced the lecti-

. fternium * in the city of Rome, and decking out three

couches, with the utmoft magnificence which' thofe

times could afford, implored thus the favour of

Apollo, Latojia, and Diana; and of Hercules, Mer-

• From 'leflus' a bed, or rather couch, and 'ftcr.io' to fpread.

Upon couches of ihis kind the Romans reclined at their meals, hut

'efueciaily at entertainments. Upon this occafion thefc coud..es were

brought out into the Iheels, and being decorated in the muft magni­

ficent manner, the Ibtues of the gods and goddcHts were laid upon

them, and fumptuou* banquets jjlaccd befoic tliun. Ot thclc repatts

all comeK were allowed to partake.

VOL. i. H H cury,

