O F R O M E. 393

mult fubfiding, they afiembled the fenate, and com- BOOK

plained to them of the ill-treatment which they had .^*-_i

fuffered, of the violence of the commons, and the Y.R. *8i.

audacious behaviour of Volero: and, where, though B.c. V1*

many harm methods of proceeding were propofed,

the opinion of the elder members prevailed j who

recommended to the fenate, not to let their con-

duet be as ftrongly marked, by paflionate refent-

ment, as that of the commons was by inconfiderate

violence.

LVI. THE commons, intereftingthemfelves warm­

ly in favour of Volero, chofe him at the next elec­

tion tribune for the year: the confuls being Lucius Y.R. iSi.

Pinarius and Publius Furius. And now, contrary to B'C. 4'70'

the expectation of all men, who luppoied that he

would give a loofe to the reins ot the tribunitian

power, in haraffing the confuls of the preceding

year; poftponing his own refentment to the public

intereft, without uttering even a word to offend the

confuls, he propofed a law to the people, that ple­

beian magiftrates mould be elected in affemblies

where the votes were given by tribes. This, though

covered under an appearance which, at firft view,

mewed no evil tendency, was confidered as a matter

of no trivial confequence; as it would entirely de­

prive the patricians of the power of electing fuch

tribunes as they liked, by means of the votes of

their dependents. To prevent this propofition,

which was highly pleafing to the commons, from

pafling into a law, the patricians ftrained every nerve;

and though neither the influence of the confuls, nor

of the principal patricians, could prevail on any one

of the college of tribunes to proteft againft it,

that being the only power that could effectually ftifle

itj yet, as it was in itfelf an affair of great weight,

and required long and laborious exertions, the obfta-

cles thrown in its way were fufficient to delay it until

the following year. The commons re-eledted Vo­

lero

