OF ROME. 481

popular refolution. When the wealth, belonging to B o o K

the inhabitants, had been carried away from Veii, . -/-_;

they then began to remove the treafures of the gods, Y.R. 359.

and the gods themfelves, but with the demeanour of B.Ct 3?J.

worfhippers rather than of ravifhers: for certain

young men felected out of the whole army, to whom

was affigned the charge of conveying imperial Juno

to Rome, after thoroughly wafhing their bodies, and

clothing themfelves in white garments, entered her

temple with tokens of adoration, and approached her,

when they firft laid hands upon her, with religious

awe, becaufe, according to the Etrurian rules, no

perfon but a prieft of a particular family, had been

ufually allowed to touch that ftatue. Afterwards one

of them, either prompted by divine infpiration, or in

a fit of youthful jocularity, faying, "Juno, art thou

"willing to go to Rome," the reft cried out at once,

that the goddefs had afiented. To this fable an ad­

dition was afterwards made, that fhe was heard to ut­

ter the words, " I am willing." However we are

informed, that fhe was raifed from the place whereon

fhe ftood by machines, with flight efforts, and was

found light and eafy to be removed, as if fhe came

with them with her own confent; that fhe was brought

fafe to the Aventine, her eternal feat, to which the

vows of the Roman dictator had invited her, where

the fame Camillas who had vowed it afterwards de­

dicated her temple. Thus fell Veii, the moft power­

ful city of the Etrurian nation, even in its final over­

throw demonftrating its greatnefs) for, after having

withftood a fiege during ten fummers and winters,

without intermifnon, after inflicting on its enemy

lofies confiderably greater than itfelf had fels; even

now, even when fate at laft urged its doom, yet ftill

it was vanquifhed not by force, but by the art of

engineers.

i

XXIII. WHEN the news arrived at Rome that

Veii was taken, notwithftanding that the prodigies

VOL. i. ii had

