OF ROME.

additional authority and dignity on the office Itfelf. B O O

And, on the other fide, the tribunes, looking on the i 1

employment rather as neceflary, which was the cafe Y.R. 31

at the time, than as attended with any extraordinary B.c. **

luftre, did not choofe to oppofe it, left they fhould

feem, through perverfenefs, to carry on their oppo-

fition even in trifles. The leading men in the ftate

/hewing a diflike of the office, the people by their

fuffrages conferred the employment of performing

the cenfus on Papirius and Sempronius, the perfons

whofe confulate is doubted, in order to.recompencc

them, by that office, for having enjoyed the conful-

fhip only for a part of the ufual period. From the

bufinefs of their office they were called Cenfors.

IX. DURING thefe tranfactions at Rome, ambaf-

fadors came from Ardea, imploring, in regard of the

alliance fubfifting between them from the earlieft

times, and of the treaty lately renewed, relief for

their city, now on the brink of ruin. For the peace

with Rome, which they had, by the foundef t policy,

preferved, they were prevented from enjoying by in-

leftine war, the caufe and origin of which is faid to

have arifen from a.ftruggle between factions, which

have proved, and will ever continue to prove, a more

deadly caufe of downfall to moft ftates, than either i

foreign wars, or famine, or peftilence, or any other of

thofe evils, which men are apt to confider as the fe-

vereft of public calamities, and the effects of the di­

vine vengeance. Two ydung men courted a maiden

of a plebeian family, highly diftinguifaed for beauty:

one of them on a level with the maid, in point of

birth, and favoured by her guardians, who were them-

felves of the fame rank; the other of noble birth,

captivated merely by her beauty. The pretenfions

of the latter were fupported by the intereft of the

nobles, which proved the means of introducing party

difputes into the damfel's family; for the nobleman's

wifhes were feconded by her mother, who was am-

A A 2 bilious

