. T H E HI S T O R Y

BO o K protection from the rage of. the oppofite party;

,_ 1^.1 _f warning them at the fame time, not to fuffer the

Y.R. 305. commons, by the fpilling of their blood, to come

B. c. 447. into tne practice of infliding punifhment on patri足

cians.

LIII. VALERIUS and Horatius were then deputed

to invite the commons to return, on fuch conditions

as they mould judge proper, and to adjuft all matters

in difpute. They were ordered alfo to take mea-

fures, for fecuring the decemvirs from the rage and

violence 6f the populace. On their arrival at the

camp, they were received by the commons with ex-

ceflive joy, as having evidently proved themfelves

the patrons of liberty, both at the commencement of

the difturbances, and on the determination of the

bufinefs. 'For this, they received thanks on their

coming, Icilius addrefling them in the name of the

multitude. The fame perfon, when they began, to"

treat about conditions, on the deputies inquiring

what were the demands of the commons, propofed,

in purfuance of a plan which had been already ad-

jufted before the arrival of the deputies, fuch terms

as plainly evinced, that they grounded their expec足

tations on the equity of their caufe, rather than on

their ftrength: for they only required the reftitution

of the tribunitian office, and the privilege of appeal,

by which the rights of the commons had been guard足

ed, before the creation of decemvirs; and, that no

one fhould fuffer for having inftigated the foldiery, or

the commons, to procure the reftoration of liberty,

by a feceflion. They were intemperate, only, in

their demand refpecting the punifhmentof the decem足

virs: for they expected that they mould be delivered

into their hands, and they threatened to burn them

alive. In reply, the deputies faid, " fuch of your

"demands, as have been the refult of deliberation,

*c are fo equitable, that they ought to be voluntarily  
"offered to you: for the objec t of them is the at-

"tainment

