4<Sd THE HISTORY

/'

BOOK cury, and Neptune, for the fpace of eight days. Thtf

. -r'-__. fame folemn rites were performed by private pcrfons.

Y.R. 356. We are told, that the doors were thrown open in

B.C. 396. every part of the city; that every thing was expofed

in public to be ufed in common; that pafiengers,

whether known or unknown, wereuniverfally invited

to lodgings; and even that people at variance, re­

fraining from animofity and ill language, converfcd

together with complaifance and kindnefs. During

thofe days too, fuch as were in confinement were fct

at liberty; and afterwards, people were deterred,

by a religious fcruple, from confining thofe pcrfons

to whom the gods had brought fuch deliverance.

Meanwhile dangers multiplied at Veii, to which

point the operations of three different wars were

concentred; for the Capenatians and Falifcians

coming up unexpectedly to the relief of the town,

the troops were obliged, in the fame manner as for­

merly, to make head againft three different armies,

on different fides, through the whole extent of their

works. What contributed to their fafety beyond

every thing elfe, was the recollection of the fentence

palTed on Sergius and Virginius: fo that a reinforce­

ment was quickly led round from the principal camp,

where the delay had been made in the former cafe,

and thefe fell upon the rear of the Capenatians, while

their front was engaged againft the rampart of the

Romans. The fight no fooner began here, than it

.ftruck terror into the Falifcians alfo, and a feaibnable

'fally, made from the camp while they were thusdif-

ordered, obliged them to turn their backs. The

victors then, purfuing them in their retreat, made

•vaft flaughter among them j and, in a thort time

after, a party, which had been employed in ravag-

•ing the territory of Capena, accidentally meeting

them, as they fled in confufion, entirely cut off thofe

who had furvived the fight. Great numbers of the

Veientians alfo, in rheir retreat to the city, were

flain before the. g..ites; for, dreading left the Ro­

mans

