O £ R O M E. 49p

with certainty on human affairs, would have erfectu- BOOK

ally faved Rome from falling into the hands of an . v'.

enemy, the deftined ruin now approached the city y.R. 364.

with hafty fteps: ambafladors arrived from the peo- B. C. 388.

ple of Clufium, foliciung aid againft the Gauls.

According to fome reports, that nation was allured

to crofs the Alps, by the delightfulnefs of the pro­

ductions of the foil, and efpecially by the deliciouf-

nefs of the wine, a matter then new to them; they

took pofieffion of lands formerly cultivated by the

Etrurians, and A runs of Clufium carried wine into

Gaul for the purpofe of enticing that people, that

he might, by their means, gratify his refentment for

his wife's being debauched by Lucumo, whofe guar­

dian he himfelf had been; a young man of over­

grown power, on whom it would have been impofli-

ble to inflict punifhment without having recourfe to

foreign afliftance. He acted as their guide, in

paffing the Alps, and advifed them to lay fiege to

Clufium. I do not indeed take upon me to deny,

that the Gauls were conducted to Clufium by Aruns,

or fome other Clufian, but that thofe who laid fiege

to Clufium, were not the firft who croffed the Alps,

is certain; for the Gauls crofied over into Italy, two

hundred years before they befieged Clufium, and

took the city of Rome. Nor were thefe the firft of

the Etrurians with whom they waged war; for long

before this, the Gallic armies fought many battles

with thofe who dwelt between the Apennines and the

Alps. The Tufcans, before the growth of the Ro­

man empire, pofiefied very extenfive fway both by

land and fea: how great their power was in the up­

per and lower feas, by which Italy is almoft fur-

rounded, as an ifland, the names of thofe feas de-

monftrate ; one being called, by the Italian nations,

the Tufcan, the general appellation of that people;

the other, the Adriatic, from Adria, a colony of.

Tufcans. The Greeks alfo call thofe feas the Tyrr­

henian and Adriatic. This people inhabited both

K K 2 the

