334 THE HISTORY

BOOK important exigencies: the fupreme command was,

L _LITJ . with the confent of Agrippa, lodged in the hands of

Y.R. 309. his colleague, who being thus raifed to a fuperiority,

B.C. 443. made the politeft return for the other's cheerful con-

defcenfion to act in a fubordinate capacity; making

him a fharer in all his counfels and honours, and

treating him in every refpect as his equal, though

under his command. In the line of bajtle, Quintius

commanded the right wing, Agrippa the left; the

care of the centre they entrufted to Spurius Poftu-

mius Albus, lieutenant general; and gave the com­

mand of the cavalry to another lieutenant general,

Servius Sulpicius. The infantry, in the right wing,

fought with extraordinary valour, and met with a

ftout refiftanqe from the Volfcians. Servius Sulpi­

cius, with the cavalry, broke the centre of the ene­

my's line, and when he might have returned to his

own fide, by the fame way, he thought it more ad-

vifeable to make an attack on the rear of the enemy,

before they could recover from the diforder into

which their ranks had been thrown. By his charge

on their rear, the fnemy, being aflailed on both

fides, muft have been inftantly difperfed, had not the

cavalry of the Volfcians and ^Equans, throwing them-

felves in his way, given him employment, for a con-

fiderable time, oppofing him with forces of the fame

kind with his own. On this, Sulpicius told his men,

that there was no time to hefitate; and called out

that they were lurrounded, and cut off from their

friends, if they did not unite their moft vigorous ef­

forts, and rout the enemy's cavalry: nor was it

enough to drive them off" the ground, without dif-

abling them ; they muft kill both the horfes and their

riders, left any fhould return to the engagement and

renew the fight. The enemy, he faid, were not

able to withftand them, to whom a compact body of

infantry had been obliged to give way. His orders

were obeyed with alacrity. By one charge they rout­

ed the whole body of cavalry, difmounted vaft num­

bers,

