OF ROME. 303

wives and children attended their fteps, afking, in B o o K

melancholy accents, to whofe care they were to be . I11! _,.

left, in fuch a city, where neither chaftity nor li- Y.R. 305.

berty was fafe? So general a defertion, beyondB.c. +«r-

what was ever known, leaving every part of Rome

empty, not a creature being feen in the Forum, ex­

cept a few very old men, particularly when the fe-

nators were called into their houfe, the Forum ap­

pearing entirely forfaken, many others, befides Ho-

ratius and Valerius, began now to exclaim, "Con-

"fcript fathers! how long will ye delay? If the

"decemvirs will not defift from their obftinacy,

"will ye fuffer every thing to fink into ruin ami

"deftruction? And ye, decemvirsr what is this

"authority which ye fa pofitively refufe to part

"with? Do ye intend to adminifter juftice to bare

"walls and empty houfes? Are ye not afhamed,

"that the number of your liclors mould exceed that

"of all the other citizens in the Forum? What do

"ye propofe to do, mould the enemy advance to>

'' the ehy? What, if the commons, finding that

"we are not moved by their feceflion, mould pre-

".fently come in arms? Do ye choofe that your

"command mould be terminated by the fall of the

"city? The cafe ftands thus; either we muft lofc

"the commons, or they muft have their tribunes.

"We would fooner part with our patrician rnagif-

"trates, than they with the plebeian. That office,

"when it was a thing unknown and untried, they

"extorted from owr fathers; and it is much more

*< improbable that, after having tafted the fweets at"  
*' it, they will put up with ks lofs, efpecially as we  
"do not exercife authority with fuch moderation,

"as to prevent their ftanding in need of protection."

Affailed by fuch arguments from every quarter, and

overpowered by the united opinions of all, the de­

cemvirs declared, that fince it was judged neceflfary,

they would'fubmit to the orders of the fenate. This*

only they requefted, that they would afford them

8 pro-

