3o8 THEHISTORY

BOOK berty, which had been fubverted by the power

._ ---• granted to the decemvirs, they not only revived, but

y.R. 3o6. guarded for the time to come,by enacting a new law:

B.C.446. " That no perfon fhould ever elect any magiftrate,

"from whom there fhould not be a right of appeal;

"and that if any mould clect fuch, then it mould be

"lawful and right to put fuch perfon to dead),

"and the killing of him mould not be accounted a

"capital offence." And when they had provided

fufficient barriers for the commons, by the right of

appeal on one fide, and the aid of the tribunes on

the other, they renewed to the tribunes themfclves

the privilege of being deemed facred and inviolable,

a matter which now had been almoft forgotten, re­

viving for the purpole certain ceremonies which had

been long difufed. And they not only rendered

them inviolable, by this religious inftitution, but by

a law, enacting, that " whoever mould offer injury to

"the tribunes of the commons, the aediles, or the

"judges, his perfon mould be devoted to Jupiter,

"and his property confifcated at the temple of Ceres»

"Liber and Libera." Lawyers deny, that, by this

law, any one is rendered facred and inviolable; but

jay, that the perfon who offers injury to any of thofe,

is deemed to be devoted. Accordingly an aedile is

fometimes feized, and put in confinement by fupe-

rior magiftrates; which, though it is not a legal pro­

ceeding, as offering injury to a perfon exempted by

this law, is yet a proof j that an a:dile is not deemed

, facred and inviolable. The tribunes, they allege, be­

came facred and inviolable, in conlequence of the old

oath taken by the commons, when they firft created

that ofTice. Some expofitors have fuppofed, that, by

this lloratian law, the fame exemptions were ex­

tended to the confuls alfo, the confuls being termed

judges; and to the prattors, as being elected, under

the fame aufpices, with the confuls. But that ekpo-

fition is refuted by this argument, that in thofe times,

it was not the cuftom, as it has been fmce, to call

aeon-

