. OF ROME. 161

the camp, is fiid to have related to them the follow- B O O K

ing fable, delivered in antiquated language, and an .L_- r-_,

uncouth ftile:—" At a time when the members of Y.R. 16o.

"the human body did not, as at prefent, all unite B.c.49i.

"in one plan, but each member had its own fcheme,

"and its own language j the other parts were pro-

"voked at feeing that the fruits of all their care, of

"all their toil and fervice, were applied to the ufe of'

"the belly; and that the belly meanwhile remain-

"ed at its eafe, and did nothing but enjoy the plea-

"fares provided for it: on this they confpired to-

"gether, that the hand fhould not bring food to the

"mouth, nor the mouth receive it if offered, nor

"the teeth chew it: while they wifhed, by thefe

"angry meafures, to fubdue the belly, through hun-

"ger, the members themfelves, and the whole body,.

"were, together with it, reduced to the laft ftage of

"decay: from thence it appeared that the office of

"the belly itfelf was not confined to a flothful indo-

^ lence, that it not only received nourifhment, but

"fupplied it to the others, conveying to every part

u of the body, that blood, on which depend our life

"and vigour, by diftributing it equally through the

"veins, after having brought it to perfection by di-

"geftion of the food." Applying this to the pre­

fent cafe, and mewing what fimilitude there was be­

tween the difienfion of the members, and the refent..

ment of the commons againft the patricians, he

made a confiderable impreffion on the people's

minds.

XXXIII. A NEGOCIATION was then opened for

a reconciliation j and an accommodation was effecl:-

ed, on the terms, that the plebeians mould have

magiftrates of their own, invefted with inviolable

privileges, who might have power to afford them

protection againft the confuls; and that it fhould

not be lawful for any of the patricians to hold that.

office. Accordingly,.there were two tribunes of the

VOL. i. M commons

