O F R O M E. .1<Ji

/

of troops, at a time when, all their neighbours re- B o o K.

maining in quiet, there was no occafion either for . ^'^

•war, or for any preparation for it. This time of Y.R. 3is.

tranquillity was fucceeded by a bufy year, wherein B.c. «7.

Proculus Geganius Macerinus and Lucius Menenius

Lanatus were confuls; a year remarkable for a vari­

ety of dangers and difafters j for feditions, for fa­

mine, and for the people having almoft bowed their

necks to the yoke of arbitrary government, feduced

by allurements of largefies. One calamity they were

exempt from, foreign war: had this aggravation

been added to their condition, the aid of all the gods

could fcarcely have preferved them. Their misfor­

tunes began with a famine; whether owing to the

leafon being unfavourable to the productions of the

earth; or, the culture of the ground being neglected,

while the people were captivated by the pleafures of

the city, and the aflemblies; for both caufes are men­

tioned. The patricians laid the blame on the idle-

nefs of the commons: the tribunes fometimes on the

evil defigns, fometimes on the negligence of the

confuls. At length the plebeians prevailed, the fe-

nate giving no oppofition, that Lucius Minucius

mould be created prefident of the market, who

proved in the courfe of that employment, more fuc-

cefsful in guarding the public liberty, than in the im­

mediate bufmefs of his own department. Although

in the end, he obtained both the honour of having re­

lieved the fcarcity of provifions, and alfo the gratitude

of the public for that important fervice: finding no

effectual relief to the markets from feveral embaffies

which he fcnt, by land and fea, to all the neighbour­

ing nations, to no purpofe, except that fome corn was

brought, in no great quantity, from Etruria, he had

recourfe to the expedient of dealing out, in mares,

the fcanty flock of provifions; and, at the fame time,

compelled people to difcover their ftores of corn,

and to fell whatever they had beyond a month's al­

lowance; he robbed the flaves of half of their daily.

portion

