•3t6 THE HISTORY

HOOK " berty, that no inftance of mifconduct will hence-

. -^-^j" forth occur, which can require the interpolation of

V.R. 306. " the tribunitian power." This moderation of the

!».€. 446. tribune firft diffipated the fears of the patricians; and,

at the fame time, increaled their ill-will towards the

conluls; for they had been fo entirely devoted to

the intereft of the commons, that even a plebeian

magiftrate had fhewn more readinefs to confult the

liberty and .fafety of the patricians, than they, who

•were themfelves patricians; and their enemies were

weary of inflicting punifhments on them, before the

confuls fhewed any intention of oppofing the vio­

lence of their meafures; and many faid, that the

fenate had betrayed a want of firmnefs, in giving

their approbation to the laws which they propofed;

in fact, there was not a doubt, but, in this troubled

itate of the public affairs, they had yielded to the

times.

LX. AFTER all bufinefs in the city was adjufled,

and the rights of the commons Hrmly eftablifhed, the

confuls departed to their refpective provinces. Va­

lerius prudently delayed engaging with the armies of

the jiEquans and Volicjans, who had by this time

formed a junction in the diftricV. of Algidum: had he

attempted to bring the matter to an immediate deci-

fion, fuch was the temper of mind, both of the Ro­

mans, and of their enemies, in confequence of the

misfortunes which had attended the aufpjces of the

decemvirs, that, I know not whether the conteft

would not have coft him a heavy lofs. Pitching his

camp at the diftance of a mile from the enemy, he

kept his men quiet. The enemy filled the middle

fpace, between the two camps, with their troops, in

order of battle, and gave feveral challenges to fight,

to which no Roman returned an anfwer. Fatigued

at length with Handing, and waiting in vain for an en­

gagement, the ^quans and Volfpians confidering

this as almoft equivalent to an acknowledgment of

the

