420 THE HISTORY

BOOK fuS, Caius Valerius Potitus, Quintus Quintius Cirt-

cinnatus, and Numerius Fabius Vibulanus were mi-

litary tribunes with confular power, had not the re-

ligious fcruples of their leaders deferred the military

operations of the Veientians, in confequence of their

lands having fuffered feverely, principally in the de-

ftruction of their country-feats, by an inundation of

the Tiber. At the fame time, the /Equans, by the

lofs which they had fuftained three years before,

were deterred from affording aid to the Volani, one

of the ftates of their kindred. Thefe had made in­

roads on the contiguous dittrict of Lavici, and com­

mitted hoftilities on the new colony: in which un-

juft proceeding they had hoped to have been fup-

ported by the concurrence of all the ^Equans; but,

being forfaken by their confederates, without per­

forming any action worth mentioning, they were

ftripped, in one flight battle and a fiege, both of

their lands and their city. An attempt made by

Lucius Sextius, plebeian tribune, to get a law pafied

that a colony fhould be lent to Vote, in like man­

ner as to Lavici, was crufhed by the protefts of his

colleagues; who declared openly that they would

not furTer any order of the commons to be pafied,

Y.R. 3.41. unlefs it were approved by the fenate. Next year

B.t.'. 4". the ,^quans, having recovered Volae, and fent a

colony thither, ftrengthened the town with addi­

tional fortifications, the military tribunes with con­

fular power, at Rome, being Cneius Cornelius Cof-

fus, Lucius Valerius Potitus, Quintus Fabius Vi­

bulanus a fecond time, and Marcus Poftumius

Regillenfis. The conduft of the war with the

./Equans was intrufted to the laft-mentioned, a man

of a depraved mind; which, however, did not ap­

pear fo much in his management of the war, as in

his behaviour after gaining fuccefs. For having,

with great activity, levied an army and marched to

Volae, after breaking the fpirits of the ^quans in

flight engagements, he at length .forced his.way into

the

