OF ROME. 387

that quarter., One iingle man, Mefluis, fupported BOOK

the fortune of the enemy, while many wounds were t ™' ^

deceived, and great Slaughter was made, on both V.R. ,14.

fides. By this time the Roman generals them- B.c.+is.

felves were not unhurt in the fight: one of them,

Poftumius, retired from the field, having his fkull

fractured by the ftroke of a ftone; but neither could

the dictator be prevailed on, by a wound in his

fhoulder, nor Fabius, by having his thigh almoft

pinned to his horfe, nor the conful by his arm being

cut off, to withdraw from this perilous conflict.

XXIX. MESSIUS, at the head of a band of the

braveft youths, charged the enemy with fuch impe-

tuofity, that he forced his way through heaps of

flaughtered foes to the camp of the Volfcians, which

was ftill in their pofleffion, and the whole body of

the army followed the fame route. The conful, pur-

fuing their difordered troops to the very rampart,

nflaulted the camp itfclf, and the dictator brought up

his forces with the fame purpofe on the other fide.

There was no lefs bravery fhewn on both fides in

this aflault, than had been in the battle. We are

told that the conful even threw a ftandard within the

rampart, to make the foldiers pufh on with more

brifknefs, and that the firft irnpreffion was made in

recovering that ftandard. The dictator, on the other

Cde, having levelled the rampart, had now carried

the fight into the camp, on which the enemy every

where began to throw down their arms, and fpr-

render; and on giving up themfelves and their camp,

they were all, except the members of their fenate,

cxpofed to fale. Part of the fpoil was reftored to

the Latines and Hernicians, who claimed it as their

property ; the reft, the dictator fold by auction; and,

having left the conful to command in the camp, after

making his entry into the city in triumph, he re-

figned the dictatorfhip. Some hiftorians have

thrown a gloom on the memory of this glorious dic-

c c 2 tatorfhip;

