OF ROME.

merly put into their hands. During this year alfo B O O K

there was a triumph at Rome. •, ^' _f

Y.R. 15i.

XVII. THE fucceeding confuls, Opiter Virginius B. C. s°°.

and Spurius Caffius, attacked Pometia,at firft by ftorm,

afterwards by regular approaches*. The Auruncians,

actuated rather by implacable hatred, than by any

hope of fuccefs, and without waiting for a favourable

opportunity, refolved to make an attack on them;

and, fallying out, greater numbers of them armed

with fire, than with fwords, they filled every place with

(laughter and conflagration; and, befides burning the

machines, and killing and wounding great numbers

of their enemies, were very near killing one of the

confuls, which of them, writers do not inform us,

who was grievoufly wounded, and thrown from his

horfe. The troops, thus foiled in their enterprize,

returned to Rome, leaving the conful, whofe reco­

very was doubtful, together with a great number of*

wounded. After a fhort interval, juft fufficient for

the curing of their wounds, and recruiting the army,

* Orig. V"t, JtinJe vir.eis, aliifyai eperitut. The great difficulty  
of IT.!;:!!.in,:n confifti in the impuflibility of finding con'efponding

terms. The modern art of war differs, fo entirely, from the ancient,

owing to the various improvements that have been introduced into that

iltiti uctue fcicnce, during a period or more than two thoufaml year*,

and principally to the invention of gunpowder, that the ancient modes

of attack and defence, as well ai the various military machines, are

pot only now dilufecl, but even no equivalent terms can, in any of

the modern languages, be found for them. Thus, in the above paf.

Cage, wherein the tranflator has taken the liberty, rather of defcribing

the operation, than tranfhting the original, the word miua occurs:

this, as Vegetius informs us, was a machine conftructed of timbers,

ftrongly framed together, mounted on wheeU and coveied with hurdles,

over which was put a quantity of earth; the aflailants, thus protected

againlt the miflile weapons of the enemy, moved forward th* machine;

and, under cover of it, endeavoured to beat down, or undermine, the

walls. The tranflator here begs leave, once for all, to obfervt, that

he will often take the liberty, he has done in this place, of dropping

terms, which cannot be translated; and which, if left untranflated in

the text, could convey no idea whatever to the Englifh reader ; endea.

vouring however, he hopes not unfuccefsfiilly, by a (hurt defcription, or

ilight circumlocution, to make his author's meaning fufficiently in­

telligible.

K. 4 • they

