358 T H E H I S T O R Y

B o o K 'c peace." The Volfcians, refolving to make triaj

. ^' of the fmal! remains of hope, which they could place

Y.R. 311. in their arms, as they were utterly deftitute of every

^•c'«*°'other, came to an engagement; in which, befides

other difadvantages, the ground rendered it difficult

for them to fight, and ftill more fo to retreat.

When, finding themfelves repuifed on all fides with

much flaughter, from fighting they had recourfe to

intreaties; and, having delivered up their general,

and furrendered their arms, they were fent under the

yoke, each with a fingle garment, loaded with igno­

miny and fufterings; and, having afterwards halted^

near the city of Tufculum, the inhabitants of that city,

out of the inveterate hatred which they bore them,

attacked them unprepared, and unarmed as they

were, and executed fevere vengeance on them; fcarce

leaving a fufficient number to carry home the news

of their deftru&ion. The Roman general re-eftab-

lifhed tranquillity in the affairs of Ardea, which had

been throwp into great confufion by the fedition, be­

heading the principal authors of the difturbances, and

confifcating their effects to the public treafury of the

Ardeans. Thefe now confidered the injuftice of the

former fentence againft them, as fufficiently repaired

by fuch an important aft of kindnefs: the fenate,

however, were of opinion that fomething ftill re­

mained to be done, to abolilh every monument of

that inftance of the people's avarice. The conful

returned into the city in triumph, Cluilius the gene­

ral of the Volfcians being led before his chariot, and

the fpoils borne before him, of which he had ftripped

the enemy when he difarmed, and fent them under

the yoke. The other coniul Quintius had the fin-

£iihr felicity of acquiring by his adminiftration in the

civil department, a fhare of glory equal to what his

colleague had acquired by nis military atchieve­

ments: for fo fteadily did he direct his endeavours

for the prefervation of internal peace and harmony>

difpenfing juftice tempered with moderation, equally

to

