OF ROME. 115.

And the execution was the more remarkable on this BOOK

account, that his office of conful, impofed on a fa- L **- ji

ther the fevere duty of inflicting punifhment on his Y.R. ,4S.

own Ions; and that he, who ought not to have been B. C. 507.

prefent as a fpectator, was yet the very perfon whom

fortune pitched on to exa£b the penalty of their of­

fence. The youths, all of the firft diftinction, ftoocl

tied to ftakes, but the fons of the conful entirely en­

gaged the eyes of all the fpectators, as if the others

were perfons unknown; and people felt compaflion,

not only for their punifhment, but even for the

crime by which they had brought it on themfelves:

to think that "they could, during that year parti-

"cularly, have been induced to entertain a defign

"of betraying their country, juft delivered from ty-

"ranny, their father its deliverer, the confulfhip,

"which had commenced in the Junian family, the

"Patricians, commons, whatever men and gods,

"Rome held in higheft veneration, into the hands

xc of one who was formerly a tyrannical king, now

"an enraged exile." The confuls mounted their

throne, and the lictors were fent to perform the exe­

cution: after ftripping them naked, they beat them

with rods, and beheaded them; whilft, through the

whole procefs of the affair, the father, his looks,

and his countenance, afforded an extraordinary fpec-

tacle, the feelings of the father often forcing their

way through the character of the magiftrate enfor­

cing the execution of the laws. After the criminals

were punifhed, in order to exhibit a ftriking exam­

ple for the prevention of crimes, in their treatment

of the feveral parties, they gave, as a reward to the

difcoverer, a fum of money out of the treafury, his

freedom, and the rights of a citizen. This man is

faid to be the firft who was made free by the Vin-

dicta*. Some think ^that the term " Vindicta"

was

* The vindidla was a roJ, or y1and, with which the conful, in early  
times, afterwards the city praetor, ftruck the flave prdentedtg b m Cos

1 I W..1....I..

