OF ROME. 127

the city would afford plaufible grounds, he applied BOOK

to the fenate, and told them, " Fathers, I intend . _ ^^__f

"to crofs the Tiber, and to enter, if I can, the ene- Y.R. 14.6.

"my's camp, not to feek for plunder, or to revenge B.c. SQS'

"their depredations in kind; the blow which I me-

"ditate, with the aid of the gods, is of more impor-

"tance." The fenate gave their approbation, and

he fet out with a fword concealed under his garment.

When he came into the camp, he took his place clofe

to the king's tribunal, where a very great crowd was

afiembled. It happened that, at this time, the fol-

diers were receiving their pay, and a fecretary, fit­

ting befide the king, and drefied nearly in the fame

manner, acted a principal part in the bufinefs, and

to him the fbldiers generally addreffed themfelves.

Mucius, not daring to enquire which was Porfena,

left his not knowing the king fhoukl difcover what

he was, fortune blindly directing the ftroke where it

was not intended, flew the fecretary, inftead of the

king. Then endeavouring to make his efcape

through a paflage, which with his bloody weapon

he cleared for himfelf among the difmayed crowd, a,

concourfe of the foldiers being attracted by the noife,

he was feized by the king's life.guards, and dragged

back. Standing there fingle, among a crowd ofene-

mies, before the king's tribunal, even in this fituation,

in the midft of fortune's feveref t threats, fhewing

himfelf more capable of infpiring terror, than of feel­

ing it, he fpoke to this effect, " I am a Roman ci-

"tizen, my name is Caius Mucius. As an enemy,

"I intended to have flain an enemy, nor is my refo-

"lution lefs firmly prepared to fuffer death,, than to

"inflict it. It is the part of a Roman both to act,

"and to fuffer, with fortitude : nor am I the only one

"who have harboured fuch defigns againft you.

"There is a long lift, after me, of candidates for the

"fame glorious diftinction. Prepare therefore, if

"you choofe, for a conteft of this fort, wherein

"you muft every hour engage at the hazard of your

