OF ROME.1 265

As foon as thefe orders were communicated and the B O O K

fignal given, the foldiers performed what they were . -r--f

commanded: the fhout refounded on every fide of Y.R. 196.

the enemy, and reaching beyond their camp, was B'c. 456.

heard in that of the conful, exciting terror in the

one, and the greateft joy in the other. The Ro­

mans obferving to each other with exultation, that

this was the fbout of their countrymen, and that

affiftance was at hand, took courage, and from their

watch-guards and outpofts threatened the enemy.

The conful declared, that " they ought not to lofe

"time, for that fhout was a fignal, not only, that

"their friends were arrived, but that they had entered

*' upon action; and they might take it for granted,  
'' that the camp of the enemy was by this time at-

"tacked on the outfide." He therefore ordered his

men to take arms, and follow him; thefe falling

on the enemy before it was light, gave notice by

a fhout to the dictator's legions, that on their fide

alfo the action was begun. The TEquans were now.

preparing meafures to hinder themfelves from being

furrounded with works; when being attacked by the

enemy within, they were obliged, left a paffage

might be forced through the midft of their camp,

to turn their attention from thofe employed in the

works, to the others on the infide,who alTailed them

with arms, and thus left the former at leifure, through

the remainder of the night, to finifh the works, and

the fight with the conful continued until day appear­

ed. At the break of day, they were entirely en-

compafied by the dictator's works, and while they

were hardly able to fupport the fight againft one ar­

my, their trenches were affaulted by Quintius's

troops, who inftantly, on completing their work, had

returned to their arms. Thus they found themfelves

obliged to encounter a new enemy, and the former

never flackened the vigour of their attack. Being

fo clofcly preffed bv danger op every fide, inftead of

fighting, they had recourfe to entreaties, befeeching

the

