a5 f HE HISTORY

* O O.K eftablifhihg the feat of empire at Rome. By tills  
acceffion the number of citizens was doubled; and^

as fomfc compliment to the Sabines/ the united peo­

ple were called Quirites, from the town of Cures;

To perpetuate the remembrance of that battle, the

place where his horfe, emerging from die deep of the

lake, firft brought Curtius to a fhallow, was called,

the Curtian lake *. This happy re-eftablifhment of

peace, after a war fo diftreffing, rendered the Sabine

women ftill dearer both to their hufbands and pa­

rents, and above all to Romulus himfelf, fo that*

when he divided the people into thirty Curias f, he

"gave thefe the names of the women. But as the

number" of the women was undoubtedly greater

than this, whether thofe who were to give their

names to the Curias were felected on account of

their age, or their own dignity, or that of their huf­

bands, or by lot, we are not informed. At the

fame time alfo, three centuries of knights were en-

dolled; .the Ramnenfes, fo called from Romulus;

the Tiuenfes, frpm [Titus Tatius; and the Luceres^

the reafon of whofe name and origin is unknown.

Thenceforward the two. kings reigned together, not

only with equal power, but with concord.

XIV. SEVERAL years after, fome relations of

king Tatius offered violence to the ambaffadors of

the Laurentians; for which violation of the law of

nations, the latter demanded fatisfaclion: but Tatius

• This name it retained long after it was filled up, and became a

part of th' Forum.

f He divided the city into three tribes: the Rarantnfej, fo called

from Romulus, l,eing his original followers; the Titienfts, fromTiiin

Tatius, compoled of the Sabines 5 and the Luceres, of thofc who had"

afiembled in the Lucus, or fanctuary, or afterwards joined the Ro­

mans. Each trilie lie divided into ten curias, or wards. Each cuiia

had its own prieft, called curio, and its own place of worlhip, where,

on certain ftated days, lacrifices were offered to particular deities ; and

the people of the curia feaftfd together. The centuries of knights

were named alter the tribes out of which they were taken.

paid

