154 v THE HISTORY

B o o K out: " Confcript fathers, left ye fhould hereafter

. '." fay that ye were not forewarned, know, that adan-

Y.R. 160." gerous fedition is ready to break out. We de-

B, C.4ji." mand that thofe who are the moft forward to cen-

"fure us for inactivity, may afiift us by their pre-

"fence, while we hold the levy. We will proceed

"in the bufinefs in fuch a manner as fhall be ap-

"proved by the moft ftrenuous advocates for vigo-

"rous meafures, fince fuch is your pleafure." They

then went back to the tribunal, and ordered, pur-

pofely, one of thofe, who were within view, to be

cited: finding that he ftood mute, and that a num足

ber of people had formed in a circle round him, to

prevent any force being ufed againft him, the con-

fuls fent a lictor to him, who being driven back,

thofe of the fenators who attended the confuls, ex足

claiming againft the infolence of fuch behaviour,

flew down from the tribunal to affift the lictor:

the populace then, quitting the lictor, to whom they

had offered no other violence than that of hindering

him from making the feifure, directed their force

againft the fenators; but the confuls interpofing

quickly, put an end to the fcuffle, in which, as nei足

ther ftones nor weapons had been ufed, there was

more clamour and rage than mifchief. The fenate,

called together in a tumultuous manner, proceeded

in a manner ftill more tumultuous; thofe who had

been beaten demanding an inquiry into the affair;

the moft violent of them endeavouring to carry their

point by clamour and noife, rather than by vote: at

length, when their rage had fomewhat fubfided, the

confuls, reproaching them with being equally difor-

derly in the fenate-houfe as in the Forum, began to

colled the votes, in order. There were three differ足

ent opinions; Publius Virginius thought that " the

"cafe did not extend to the whole body of the com-

"mons, and that thofe only were to be confidered,

"who, relying on the promifes of the conful Publi-

"us Servilius, had feryed in the Volfcian, Auruncian,

'c. and

