^36 THEH1STORY

BOOK fuftered, were recruiting their armies; that their

%-.- .A _j chief dependance was upon Antium; tliat the people

Y.R. '9j. of that colony held meetings openly at Ecetra; that

B.C. 459. they WCTe t|ie flj.fl. movers of the war, and compofed

the greateft part of the forces. As foon as this in­

telligence was communicated to the fenate, an order

was palFed for levying troops, and the confuls were

directed to divide the management of the war be­

tween them, fo that one fhould have the Volfcians,

as his province, the other the ^Eqiuins. The tri­

bunes exclaimed loudly to their faces, in the Forum,

that " this Volfcian war was but a concerted farce;

"that the Hernicians had been inftructed how to

"aft their part in it; that now the Roman peo-

"ple were not deprived of liberty by manly efforts,

"but cheated out of it by cunning. That becaufe

"it was incredible, that the Volfcians and /Equans,"

"who were almoft exterminated, could of them-

"felves commence hoftilities, new enemies had

"been fought for, and flanders thrown on a loyal

"colony clofely connected with Rome; that the

"war was proclaimed, indeed, againft the unoffend-

"ing people of Antium, but waged againft the

'' commons of Rome, whom they intended to lead

"ont of the city, with precipitate hade, loaded with

"arms, thus wreaking their vengeance on the tri-

"bunes, by the expuliion and banifhment of the ci-

"tizens. That by thefe means,.and let not people

"think there was any other defie;n, all efforts in fa-

"vour of the law would be effectually overpowered,

"if they did not, before matters proceeded farther,

"while they were yet at home, and retained the

"garb of citizens, adopt fuch meafures, as would

"prevent their being driven out of pofieffion of the

"city, and obliged to fubmit to the yoke. If they

"had fpirit, they fhould not want lupport; the tri-

"bunes were all unanimous in their favour; there

"was no danger, no realbn of apprehenfion from

"abroad. The gods had taken care the year be-

"fore,

