OF ROME. Jit

count, bcfides the load which his own conduft had BOOK

drawn on him j and hardly ever did the patricians. ^.

exert fuch ftrenuous efforts, in favour of any other, Y R.

feeing this champion of the fenate, the afiertor ofB. c<

its dignity, their bulwark againft all the outrageous

attempts, both of tribunes and commons, expofed

to the rage of the populace, only for having in the

conteft exceeded, in fome degree, the bounds of mo­

deration. Appius Claudius himfelf was the only

one, among the patricians, who looked with fcorn

on the tribunes and commons, and even on his own

trial. Neither the threats of the commons, nor the

intreaties of the fenate, could ever prevail on him

either to change his garb *, or ufe a fuppliant ad-

drefs, or, even to foften and relax, in any degree,

the ufual harfhnefs of his language, when he was to

plead his caufe before the people. He ftill pre-

ierved the fame expreffion of countenance, the fame

ftubborn fiercenefs in his looks, and the lame ve­

hemence in his difcourfe; fo that a great many of the

commons felt no lefs dread of Appius, while he

ftood a culprit at their bar, than they had done

when he was conful. He pleaded once in his de­

fence, and that with all the haughtinefs which he

could fhew, if he were the accufer, juft as li£ ufed

to behave on every other occafton j and, by his in­

trepidity, fo aftonifhed the tribunes and commons,

that, of their own choice, they adjourned the trial

to another day, and afterwards fuffered the bufinefs

to cool. The day of adjournment was not very dif-

tant, yet, before it arrived, he was fcized with a

diforder and died. The tribunes endeavoured to

prevent his being honoured with a funeral panegy­

ric, but the commons would not allow that che laft

day of fo great a man mould be defrauded of the

ufual honours. They liftened to the cr.comiurns

* It was ufual for perfont, under aceufation, toput on a mouniinf  
d«fi, and to let their hair and bearc? grow.

p 2 pro-

