<Sa THEHISTORY

BovO K had been expiated, that the anfwers of the prophets

. -,'--• and the relponfes of the Pythian oracle were known

Y.R. 359. to all, and that they had ufed the moft effectual means

B. C. 393. which human wifdom could fuggeft, for infuring

fuccefs, in giving the command to Marcus Furius,

the greateft general of the age; yet, as they had for

fo many years experienced fuch a variety of fortune

in that war, and had fuftained fo many lofies, their

joy was as unbounded as if they had entertained no

hopes of that event. And before the fenate pafied

any decree to the purpofe, every temple was filled

with the Roman matrons returning thanks to the

gods. The fenate ordered fupplicatibns, for the

fpace of four days, a longer term than had ever been

appointed in the cafe of any former war. The dicta­

tor alfo on his arrival was more numeroufly attended

than any general had ever been before; all ranks

pouring out to meet him, and the honours, conferred

on him in his triumph, far furpafied the compliments

• ufually paid on fuch occafions. He himfelf was the

moft confpicuous object of all, riding through the

city in a chariot drawn by white horfes, which was

deemed unbecoming, not to fay, a member of a

commonwealth, but a human being; people deem­

ing it an affront to religion, that the dictator fhould

emulate the equipage of Jupiter and Apollo; and

on account, chiefly, of that fingle circumftance, his

.triumph was more fplendid than pleafing. He then

contracted for the building of a temple to imperial

Juno on the Aventine, and dedicated that of mother

Matuta: after performing thefe fervices to the gods,

and to mankind, he laid down his office of dictator.

The offering to be made to Apollo came then un­

der confide ration, and Camillus declaring that he had

vowed the tenth part of the fpoil to that ufe, and the

pontiffs having given their opinion that the people

ought to difcharge that vow, it was found difficult

to ftrike out a proper mode of ordering the people

to refund the fpoil, in order that the due proportion

might

