OF ROME.

cc foldiers retained the fame abilities after the expul- BOOK

"fion of the decemvirs, which they had poffefied, ni. __,

"before their appointment; and that the valour of Y.R. 50*.

"the Roman people was not diminifhed by the B.c. **'•

"eftablifhment oflawswhich equalized their rights."

After fpeaking to this purpofe among the battalions

of the infantry, he flew from thence to the cavalry.

"Come on, young men," faid he, "fhew that

"ye excel the infantry in valour, as ye excel them

"in honour and in rank. The infantry at the firft

"onfet have made the enemy give way; before they

"recover the fhock, give the reins to your horfes,

"and drive them out of the field; they will not

"fupport your charge, and even now, they rather

"hefitate than refift." They fpurred on their

horfes, and drove furioufly againft the enemy, who

were already difordered by. the attack of the foot;

and after they had broken through the ranks, and

pufhed on to the rear of their line, a part of them,

wheeling round in the open fpace, cut off the ene­

my's retreat to their camp, towards which the greater

number of them now began to fly on all fides j and,

by riding on before them, compelled them, through

fear, to take another courfe. The line of infantry,

and the conful himfelf, with the main body of the .

army, rufhed into the camp, and made themfelves

mafters of it, killing a vaft number, and getting

pofiefllon of booty ftill greater in proportion. The

news of this victory was carried both to the city, and

to the other camp in the country of the Sabines: in,

the city it excited only general joy; in the camp it

fired the minds of the foldiers with emulation of the

glory their fellow foldiers had acquired. Hbratius

had already, by inuring them to excurfions, and try­

ing them in fkirmiLhes, accuftomed them, rather to

place confidence in themfelves, than to think of the

ignominy which had been incurred under the com­

mand of the decemvirs; and thefe flight engage­

ments had ftrengthened their hopes with regard to a

general

