O F R O M E. 457,

entire blame on his colleague, it was determined, BOOK.

that Virginius fhould be called home from the camp, . __Y'J

and that in the mean time the lieutenant.generals Y.R. 353.

fhould hold the command. The affair was taken B.c. 399.

into confideration by the fenate, where the difpute

between the colleagues was carried on with mutual

recriminations. Few of the members regarded the

interefts of the commonwealth, each adhered to one,

or the other, juft as he happened to be prejudiced

by private regard, or intereft.

IX. THE principal fenators were of opinion,

that, whether the mifconduct, or the misfortune of

the commanders, had been the caufe of fuch an ig­

nominious overthrow, they ought not to wait for

the regular time of ele6Hon, but to create immedi­

ately new military tribunes, who fhould enter into

office on the calends of October. While the mem­

bers were proceeding to fhew their afient to this

opinion, the other military tribunes offered no ob­

jection; but Sergius and Virginius, to whofe be­

haviour it was evidently owing that men wifhed to

get rid of the magiftrates of that year, at firft, depre­

cated the ignominy which would hereby be thrown

upon them, and afterwards protefted againft the

pafling of the decree, and declared that they would

not retire from office before the ides of December,

the ufual day for magiftrates entering into office.

On this the tribunes of the commons, who, during

the general harmony and the profperity of public

affairs, had unwillingly kept filence, at once afluming

confidence, threatened the military tribunes, that,

unlefs they fubmitted to the direction of the fenate,

they would order them to be carried to prifon.

Then Caius Servilius Ahala, one of the military tri­

bunes, faid, "As to your part, tribunes of the peo-

"ple, and your menaces, I alTure you I would with.

"great pleafure put it to the proof, whether your

"threats arc more deftitute of authority, or your-

"felves

