3o6 T H £ H I S T O R Y

BOOK" I myfelf no longer demur to refign the office of

,__^J.__r" decemvir." A decree of the fcna.te was then made,

Y.R. 305. that "the decemvirs fhould, without delay, refigi>

B. c. 447. " tlieir oflice. That Quintos Furius chief pontiff

"fhould hold an election of plebeian tribunes, and

"that no one fhould fuffer, on account of the fece£.

"fion of the foldiers and commons." As foon as

thefe decrees were finifhed, the fenate was difmified,

and the decemvirs coming forth to the comitmm,,

made a refignation of their office, to the extreme joy

of all. News of this was carried to the commons.

Whatever people there were remaining in the city,

efcorted th« deputies. This cavalcade was met by

another crowd from the camp, exulting with joy;

and they mutually congratulated each other, on the

re-eftablifhmcnt of liberty and concord in the ftate.

The deputies acidreffed the affembly thus: "Be it

"advantageous, fortunate, and happy to you, and

"to the commonwealth. Return into your native

"city, to your houfehold gods, your wives and chil-

"dren: the fame moderation, with which ye have

"behaved here, where, notwithftanding the great

"confumption of neceflaries in fo large a multitude,

"no man's field lias been injured, that carry with

"you into the city. Go to the Aventine, from

*' whence ye removed. In that aufpicious place,  
"where ye took the firft ftep towards liberty, ye fhalj

"elect tribunes of the commons: the chief pontiff

"will attend to prefide in the afiembly." Great

were the applaufes given, and the cheerfulleft ap­

probation was fhewn of every thing which was done.

They then haftity raifed the ftandards; and, as they

marched towards Rome, vied with fuch as they met

in expreffions of joy. They proceeded under arms,

in filence, through the city to the Aventine. There,

the chief pontiff holding an aflembly, they inftantly

elected tribunes of the commons; firft of all, Lucius

Virginius; then Lucius Icilius, and Pubiius Nomito-

rius, the uncle of Virginia, the firft advifers of the

11 leceffiqn i

