38z THE HISTORY

B o o K the commons, in their prefcnt ftate of ill-humour,

^-^A_f would give their fupport to perfons of their own

y.R. 313. party, in order to put this out of their power, a de-

B.c. 419. cree of the fenate was pafled, that the election fhould

be held for confuls.

V.R. 314. XXVI. THE reafon afljgned was, intelligence

B.C.418. received from the Latines and Hernicians of the

./Equans and Volfcians having fuddenly commenced

hoftilities. Titus Quintius Cincinnatus, who had

aHb the lurname of Pennus, fon of Lucius, and Caius

Julius Mento were made confuls. Nor were they

kept in fufpenfe with refpect to the danger appre­

hended from their enemies. The ^Equans and Vol­

fcians having held a levy of troops under their de­

voting law, which is their moft powerful inftrument

for forcing men into the fervice, marched a nume­

rous body of forces from each nation to Algidum,

where they met, and formed feparate camps; the

generals taking extraordinary pains, beyond what

had ever been practifed before, in fortifying their

pofts, and exercifing their men; which rendered the

accounts brought to Rome ftill more alarming. The

fenate refolved that a dictator fhouki be appointed,

becaufe though thefe were nations often vanquifhed,

yet, in the prefent revival of hoftilities, they had

exerted more vigorous efforts than they had ever

done before; and no fmall number of the Roman

youth had been cut off by the ficknefs. Above all,

they were alarmed by the perverfenefs of the confuls,

the difagreement between themfelves, and the op-

pofition which they gave each other in every mea-

fure. Some writers lay, that thefe confuls were de­

feated in a battle at Algidum, and that that was the

reafon for appointing a di&ator. Thus much is

certain, that though they differed in every thing elfe,

they perfectly agreed in the one point, that of op-

pofing the will of the fenate, and refufing to name a

dictator, until Quintus Servilius Prifcus, a man who

had

