88 THEHISTORY

B o o K would expofe that body to the greater contempt;

and that they would fhew the lefs refentment, at

their not being confulted on any bufinefs: for he

was the firft of the kings who difcontinued the prac­

tice of his predeceffbrs, of confulting the fenate

upon every occafion. In the adminiftration of

public affairs, he advifed with none, but his own

private family. War, peace, treaties, alliances, he

of himfelf, with fuch advifers as he chofe, declared,

contracted, and diffolved, without any order, ei­

ther of the people, or of the fenate. He took par­

ticular pain's to attach the nation of the Latines to

his intereft, availing himfelf of foreign aid, the more

effectually to enfurc his fafety at home: and he

formed with their chiefs, not only connections of

hofpitality, but affinities: to Octavius Mamilius of

Tufculum he gave his daughter in marriage. Ma­

milius was of the moft illuftrious family, by far,

of any among the Latines, being defcended, if we

may give credit to fame, from Ulyffes and the

goddefs Circe. By this match he engaged the fup-

port of his numerous friends and relations.

• t rM-v^.fc"' A.^.f,~'*^.'*~"**'

L. TARQUINIUS now pofleffed great influence

among the Latine chiefs, when he iflued orders,

that they mould alTemble on a certain day, at the

grove of Ferentina,. acquainting them, that he

wifhed to confer with them on fome matters of com-

7 * W~-t* t m on concern. They accordingly affembled in great

j tA numbers, at the dawn of.day./.v'Tarquinius himfelf

obferved indeed the day, but did noTcome until a

little before fun-let. Meanwhile, many topics were

difcufied, and various opinions uttered in the affem-

bly, during the courfe of the whole day. Turnus

Herdonius, of Aricia, inveighed violently againft

Tarquinius for not attending. "It was no wonder,"

he faid, " that the furname of proud had been be-

"ftowed on him at Rome j"/or, at this time, they

generally gave him that appellation, though only in

f private

