OF ROME. 295

tears, affected them more deeply than any words B o o K

could do. Appius, whofe mind was hardened againft .- .T..'-f

all fuch occurrences, violent madnefs, rather than ¥.^..305.

love, having perverted his underftanding, afcended B. c. 447'

the tribunal; and when the claimant had juft begun

to urge, that, " through partiality, he had refuted

*' yefterday to pronounce judgment in the caufe;"  
Appius, without allowing him to proceed in ftating

fris claim, or giving Virginius an opportunity of an-

fwering, delivered his fentence. The dif'courfe with

which he introduced his decree fome antient writers

have fet down, perhaps with truth; but as I no

'where find any one that feems likely to have been

oifed on occafion of fuch an iniquitous decifion, I

think it beft to reprefent the plain fadTr, of which

there is no doubt: he decreed, that fhe mould be

held in bondage until the final decifion. At firft,

all were ftruck motionlefs with aftonifhment and fur-

prife at fuch an atrocious proceeding. Silence then

prevailed for forne time: afterwards, when Marcus

Claudius went to ferze the maiden, where fhe ftood

in the midft of the matrons, and was oppofed by the

women with lamentable cries of grief, Virginius, ,

ftretching forth his hands in a menacing attitude

towards Appius, faid, "Appius, I betrothed my

f' daughter to Icilius, not to thee; and I have edu-

"cated her for a wife, not for a harlot. Do you

'' intend that men mall indulge their luft promifcu-

"oufly like cattle and wild beads? Whether thefe

•" men here will endure fuch things I know noti but

"thofe who carry arms, I hope, never will." The

claimant of the maiden being forced back, by the

crowd of women and advocates who ftood round

filence was commanded by the crier.

XLVIII. THE decemvir, whofe mind was warped

by his ungovernable luft, declared, that " not only

"from the abufive language of Icilius yefterday,

"and the violence of Virginius, of which the.whole

u 4 "Roman

