OF ROME. 435

Publius and Cneius Cornelius Coflus, Numefius Fa- B O O &

blus Ambuftus, and Lucius Valerius Potitus being • -,-_/

military tribunes with confular power* war was com- Y.R. 349.

menced againft the Veientians* in refentment of an B.C.403.

infolent anfwer of their fenate; who, when the arn-

bafladors demanded fatisfa&ion, ordered them to be

told* that if they did not fpeedily quit the city, they

would give them the fatisfaction which Lars To-

lumnius had given. The fenate being highly offend­

ed at this, decreed, that the military tribunes fliould,

on the firft day when it could be done, propofe to

the people the proclaiming war againft the Veienti-

ans. As foon as that propofal was made public, the

young men openly exprerfed their difcontent. The

war" with the Vo'lfcians," they faid, "was not yet

"at an end; it was not long fince two garrifons

"were utterly deftroyed, and one of the forts was

"with difficulty retained. Not a year pafied, iu

"which they were not obliged to meet an enemy

"in the field, and, as if this drudgery was thought

"tpo little, a new war was now fet on foot againft a

"neighbouring, and moft powerful nation, who

"would foon roisfe all Etruria to arms." Thefe

difcontents, fuggeftcd by their own thoughts, were

farther aggravated by the plebeian tribunes, who af­

firmed, that " the war of greateft moment fubfifting,

"was that between the patricians and plebeians.

'' That the latter were defignedly haraffed by mili-

"tary ftfrvice, and expofed to the deftructive wea'-

"pons of enemies. They were kept at a diftance

"from the city, and in a ftate of banifhment, left,

"fhould they enjoy reft at home, they might tura

*l their thoughts towards liberty, and the eftablifti-  
"ment of colonies, and form plans, either for ob-

"taining pofieflion of the public lands, or afiertinjg

"their right of giving their fuffrages with free-

"dom." Then taking hold of the veterans, they

recounted the years each of them had ferved, their

wounds and fears, afking" where was there room,.

•" on their bodies to receive new wounds? what

ft 2 "quantity

