OF ROME. 241

f nraged, that they could hardly be reftrained from BOOK

falling on Caefo, and putting him to death. Virgi- ^- .!_,

nius ordered his perfon to be feized, and carried to Y.R. 193.

prifon r the patricians oppofed force to force. Titus B.c. **'•

Quintius exclaimed, that " a perfon formally ac-

"cufed of a capital crime, whofe trial \vas fhortly

"to come on, ought not, before trial, and without

"fentence parTed, to fuffer violence'." The tribune

declared, that " he had no intention of inflicting

"punifhment on him, before condemnation, but

"that he would keep him in cuftody, until the day

"of trial, that the Roman people might have it in

"their power to punifh the perfon who had been

\c guilty of murder." The other tribunes being ap­

pealed to, refolved on a middle courfe, and thereby

avoided every impeachment of their right to give

protection: they forbade his being put in confine­

ment, and declared it as their determination, that

the accufed mould give bail for his appearance, and

that a fum of money mould be fecured to the peo­

ple, in cafe of his failing to appear. The fum in

which it was reafonable that the fureties mould be

bound, came then to be difcuffed; it was referred to

the determination of the fenate; and, until the fena-

lors fhould corne to a refolution, the accufed was de­

tained in the public aflembly. It was determined

that he fhould find fureties, and that each furety

fhould be bound to the amount of three thoufand

afes *: the number of fureties to be furnifhed was

left to the decifion of the tribunes; they fixed it

at ten, and on ;that number of fureties being

given, the profaSutor confented that the accufed

fhould be admitted to bail. He was the firft who

gave bail, in this manner, where the penalty was to be

applied to the ufe of the public. Being difmiffed

from the Forum, he went the night following into

exile among the Etrurians. On the day appointed

for his trial, although it was pleaded in his favour,

• 9]. 1js. td.

VOL, i, R that

