no THE HISTORY

B O O K" though that interruption occurred, Tarquinius

._ ' ." Superbus never loft fight of the crown, fo as to

Y.R. 145." confider it the right of another; but, by violent

B.c. 507. t' and flagitious means, reclaimed it, as the inherit-

"ance of his family. Now, that Superbus had

"been expelled, the government was in the hands

"of Collatinus; the Tarquinii knew not how to

"live in a private ftation; the very name itielf was

'' difpleafing, and dangerous to liberty." Thefe

difcourfes were, at firft, gradually circulated through

every part of the city, for the purpofe of trying the

difpofition of the people. After the fufpicions of

the commons had, by thefe fuggeftions, been fuffi-

ciently excited, Brutus called them together: when

they were affembled, after firft reciting the oath

which the people had taken, that " they would ne-

"ver fuffer a king at Rome, or any thing elfe that

"might be dangerous to liberty;" he told them,

that "they muft fupport this refolution with their

"utmoft power; and that no circumftance, of any

"tendency that way, ought to be overlooked: that

"from his regard to the perfon alluded to, he men-

"tioned the matter unwillingly; nor would he have

"mentioned it at all, did not his afte&ion for the

"commonwealth outweigh all other confiderations.

"The Roman people did not think that they had

"recovered entire liberty: the regal family, the re-

"gal name remained, not only in the city, but in

"the government: this was a circumftance, not

"merely unpropitious, but dangerous, to liberty.

"Do you, Lucius Tarquinius, of your own accord,

"remove from us this apprehenfion: we remem-

"ber, we acknowledge that you expelled the

"princes: complete your kindnefs: carry hence

"their name. Your countrymen, on my recom-

"mendation, will not only give you up your pro-

"perty, but if you have occafion for more, will

"make liberal additions to it. Depart in friend-

"fhip. Deliver the ftate from this, it may be

"ground­

