,56 THE HISTORY

BOOK refts, things which ever did, and ever will, impede

*L ^ the public councils, Appius prevailed, and was him-  
Y.R. 16o. felf very near being created diflator; which pro-

B.c.49i. ceeding, beyond any other, would have highly dif-

gufted the commons, at a very critical juncture,

when the Voifcians, the JEquans, and the Sabines

happened to be all in arms at the fame time. But

the confuls and the elder part of the fenate took care

that a command in itfdf .uncontrolable, fhould be

intrufted to a perfon of a mild difpofhicn; and ac­

cordingly they chofe for dictator Manius Valerius,

ion of Volefus. Although the commons faw that

the dictator was created in oppofition to them, yet,

as by his brother's law, they enjoyed the privilege of

appeal, they dreaded nothing harih or overbearing

from that family. Their hopes were farther encou­

raged by an edict which the dictator publifhed, of the

iame tenor 'in general with the edict of the conful

Servilius; but as they thought that they had now fe-

curer grounds of confidence, both in the man himfelf,

and in the power with which he was invefted, they

•defifted from the conteft, and gave in their names.

Ten legions were completed, a force greater than

had ever been raifed before; ofthefe, three were

affigned to each of the confuls, the other four were

commanded by the dictator. War could now be

up longer deferred: the JEquans had invaded the

territories of the Latines; and thefe by their ambaf-

fadors petitioned the fenate, that they would either

fend troops to protect them, or permit them to take

arms themfelves, to defend their frontiers: it was

judged the lafer method to defend the Latines with­

out their own afliftance, than to allow them to handle

arms again: the conful Vetrifius was fent thither,

and he put an end to the depredations. The ^quans

retired from the plains, and provided for their fafety

on the tops of the mountains, relying more on the

iituation than on their arms. The other conful

who marched againft the Voifcians, not choofing

that

