6 F R O M E, r9i-

fighting, and, inftcad of making head on ^11 fides, B O O'K

bent their whole force towards one point; where, v_-yl ,

forming in the fiiape of a wedge, and exerting every Y.R. 17.'..

effort of their bodies and arms, they at length forced B. Ct *7".

a paflage. Their courfe led to a hill of moderate

acclivity; there, firft, they halted ; and then the ad­

vantage of the ground affording them a little time to

breathe, and to recover from the confirmation into

which they had been thrown, they afterwards even

repulfed an attack of the enemy; and this little band'

would, with the aid of the ground, have come off

victorious, had not a body of Veientians, lent round

fhe ridge of the hill, made their way to the fummit:

by this means the enemy became again fuperior;

the Fabii were all cut off, to a man, and their fort

taken. It is agreed on all hands, that the three hun­

dred and fix perifhed; and that only one fingle

perfon, then quite a youth, was left, as a ftock for

the propagation of the Fabian race; and who was,

afterwards, on many emergencies, both in peace and.

war, to prove the firmeft fupport of the ftatt.

LI. AT the time when this difafter happened, v. R.I??.

Caius Horatius and Titus Menenius were in the con- •"•c. +7:,.

iblfhip. Menenius was immediately lent againft die

Etrurians, elated with their victory. He alfo was

worfted in battle, and the enemy took poffefiion of

the Janiculum. Nor would the city, which befides

the war, was diftrefied alfo by fcarcity, have efcuped

a fiege, the Etrurians having parted the Tiber, had

not the conful Horatius been recalled from the coun­

try of the Volfcians. And fo near did the enemy

approach to the walls, that the firft engagement was

at the temple of Hope, in which no advantage was

gained on either fide; and the fecond, at the Colline

gate, in which the Romans obtained fome fmall ad­

vantage i and this, though far from decifive, yet by

reftoring to the foldiers their former courage, qua­

lified them the better to contend with the enemy in

o 2 future.

