O F R O M E. 293

"by nature, and breathing, at that inftant, the fpirit 9 O O &

"of the tribunefhip, he was feeking an occafion of • -^L^j

"fedition: he would not, however, for that day, Y.R. 305.

"give him matter to work on: but, in order to B.

"convince him at once that this indulgence was,

"granted, not to his petulance, but to the abfent

"Virginius, to the name of father, and to liberty,

"he would not on that day decide the caufe, nor

"interpofe any decree, he would even requeft of

"Marcus Claudius to depart fomewhat from his

"right, and fuffer the maiden to be bailed until the

"next day. But if, on the next day, the father did

"not attend, he now gave notice to Icilius, and to

"perfons like Icilius, that, as its founder, he would

"not fail to fupport his own law; nor, as decemvir,

"to fhew a proper degree of refolution: nor mould

"call together the lictors of his colleagues, to check

"the efforts of the fomenters of fedition, he would

"be content with his own lictors." The execution

of his iniquitous defign being thus deferred, the ad­

vocates of the girl having retired by themfelves, re-

folved, firft of all, that the brother of Icilius and

the fon of Numitorius, active young men, fhould fet

off from thence directly to the gate, and with all

poffible hafte, call home Virginius from the camp,

acquainting him that " the fafety of the maiden de-

"pended on his being prefent in time next day, to

<c protect her from injury." They fet out the in­

ftant they received their directions, and with all the

ipeed their horfes could make, carried the account

to her father. IR the meantime, the claimant of the

maiden urged Icilius to profefs himfelf a defendant

in the caufe, and to produce fureties; and Icilius,

who delayed on purpofe, in order that the mefien-

gers difpatched to the camp might gain the longer

time for their journey, telling him that he was pre­

paring to do fo, the whole multitude on this held up

their hands, and every one fhewed himfelf ready to

be furety for Icilius. To them he replied^ tears at

u 3 " th?

