OT R O M E. 305

"tainment of a fecurity for liberty, not for un- B O O K

"bounded licence to violate the rights of others., JL ^

"But the dictates of your refentment, we muft ra- Y.R. 305.

"ther pardon than indulge: for, through your detef- B.c. **?•

"tation of cruelty, ye are preciptating yourfelves

"into the very vice which ye abhor; and before ye

"can well be faid to be free yourfelves, ye wifh to

"act the tyrant over your adverfaries. Is our ftate

"never to enjoy reft from punifhments, either in-

"flicted by the patricians on the Roman commons,

"or by the commons on the patricians? Ye ftand io

"need of a fhield, rather than of a fword. It is

"abundantly fufficient to humble a man fo far as that

"he mall live on an equal footing with the reft of

u his countrymen, neither offering nor enduring in-

"jury. Befides, fhould ye ever choofe to render

't yourfelves objects of terror, when ye fhall have re-

"covered your magiftrates, and your laws, and fhall

"have the power, in your hands, of deciding on our

"lives and fortunes, then, ye will determine accord-

t' ing to the merit of each cafe; at prefent it is fuf-

"ficient to require the reftoration of liberty."

LIV. HAVING, with univerfal confent, received

permiffion to act as they thought proper, the depu­

ties aflured the commons, that they would fpeedily

bring back a final fettlement of the bufinefs; and, re­

turning, reported to the fenate the meflage from the

commons. On which the other decemvirs, finding

that, beyond their hopes, no mention was made of

any punimment on them, made no objection to any

thing. Appius, ftern in his nature, confcious that he

was the object of particular deteftation, and mea-

luring the rancour of others towards him, by his own

towards them, faid, "I am not blind to the fate

"which hangs over me. I fee that violent proceed-

"ings againft us are deferred until our arms are

O O

"furrendered into the hands of our adverfaries.

"Blood muft be offered to the rage of the populace.

VOL. i.. x "I my­

