OF ROME. i f<*5

that, even after it had abated, they could not entirely BOOK

rid their minds of the terror which it had occafioned. . -w'-_t

Befides, the Romans not only augmented the num- Y.R. 16*.

bers of their colony at Velitrae, but fent a new colo- B.t.49|>'

ny into the mountains of Norba, to ferve as a bar­

rier in the Pomptine territory. In the fucceeding

confulate of Marcus Minucius, and Aulus Semproni- Y.R. 161.

us, a great quantity of corn was brought from Sicily, B. c'+*9.

and it was debated in the fenate, at what price it

fhould be given to the commons: many were of

opinion, that now was the time to humble the com­

mons, and to recover thofe rights, which, by the fe-'

ceffion and violence, had been extorted from the

patricians; Marcius Coriolanus particularly, an

avowed enemy of the power of the tribunes, faid,

"If they wifh to have provifions at the ufual price,

"let them reftore to the patricians their former

"rights: why am I obliged, after .being fent under

"the yoke, after being ranfomed, as it were, from

"robbers, to behold plebeian magiftrates, to behold

"Sicinius invefted with power and authority? Shall

"I fubmit to fuch indignities longer than neceffity

"compels me? Shall I, who could not endure

"Tarquinius on the throne, endure Sicinius? Let

"him now fecede, let him call away the commons:

"the road is open to the facred mount, and to other

"hills: let them carry off the corn from our lands,

"as they did two years ago: let them make the beft

"of the prefent ftate of the market, which they

"have occafioned by their own madnefs. I affirm

"with confidence, that when they are brought to

"reafon by their prefent Jufferings, they will them-

"felves become tillers of the lands, rather than take

"arms and fecede, to prevent their being tilled/'

Whether fuch a meafure were expedient, is not now

eafy to fay; but, in my opinion, it was very prac­

ticable for the patricians, by infifting on terms for

lowering the price of provifions, to have freed them-

M 3 felves

