O'F ROME. 337

'slrhoft: every cafe, they are rather ruled by, than B ° O K

rule the multitude, to gratify the populace, who ^ _^L-f

wifhed to hear him, gave liberty to Scaptius to fay Y.R. 3o9.

•what he pleafed. He then" began with informing

them, that " he was now in his eighty-third year,

"and that he had ferved as a foldier in the very

"'diftrict indifpute, and was hot young at that time,

"that being his twentieth campaign, when th'e

"operations againft Corioli were carried on. He

"could, 'therefore, fpeak with knowledge of rm

"affair, which, though after fuch a length of tims

"it was generally forgotten, was deeply fixed in his

"memory. The lands in difpute, he faid, had be-

"longed to the territory of Corioli, and when Co-

"rioli was taken, became, by the right of war,. the

"public property of the Roman people. He won-

"dered by what precedent the Ardeans and Ari-

'" cians could juftify their expectations, of furrep-

"titioufly wrefting from the Roman ftate, by mak-

"ing it an arbiter inftead of proprietor, its right to

"a tract, to which, while the ftate of Corioli fub-

"fifted, they had never advanced any kind of claim.

"For his part, he had but a fhort time to live; yet,

'' he could not prevail on himfelf, old as he was,

"to decline afierting by his voice, the only means

c' then in his power, a tide to thofe lands, which,

•" by his vigorous exertions as a foldier, he had con-

"tributed to acquire : and he warmly recommended

"it to the people, not to be led by improper no-

"tions of delicacy, to pafs a fentence iubverfive of

"their own rights."

LXXII. The confuls, when they perceived that

Scaptius was heard, not only with filence, but with

approbation, appealed to gods and men againft the

infamy of the proceeding; and, fending for the prin­

cipal fenators, went round with them to the tribes,

befeeching them " not to be guilty of a crime of the

"worft kind, which would afford a precedent ftill

'( more pernicious, by converting to their own ufc

VOL. r. z "a matter

