QUICKSILVER. 59

ous vapour into the lungs, while, at the same time, they are able

to see through them. Minium is employed in books for writing

the more conspicuous letters; this is also done in inscriptions or

monuments, whether of gold or of marble.

41. OF HYDRARGYRUM.

There has been invented from the inferior kind of minium,8 an

artificial quicksilver, to be used instead of the native kind. It is

made in two ways; either by triturating minium with vinegar in a

copper mortar, or by placing it in an iron shell or earthern dish

covered with a head, over which a quantity of clay has been

spread.9 A fire is then kindled under the dish, and kept up by

bellows; the moisture which exudes from the head is wiped off,

and will be found to resemble silver in colour, and water in fluidity.

It is easily divided into globules, which run together into a liquid

which slips through the fingers.1 And because it is certain that

this is poisonous, I conceive that all the accounts which we possess

of the use of minium as a medicine are not to be trusted, except

perhaps its application to the head or the abdomen for the purpose

of stopping haemorrhages, provided it does not penetrate into the

bowels or touch the wound: I, for my part, think it ought not to

be used on any other occasion.

s "Ex secondario." Our author must have been misinformed on this

point, as the substance which he describes as the inferior minium is not an

oxide of mercury. The editors and translators, presuming, as it would ap­

pear, that Pliny was a complete chemist and mineralogist, have taken much

pains to amend or explain this passage; see note in the French trans, t. x.

p. 636, 7; and in Valpy, p. 4380.

9 We have the same process described by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 64.

"XSpapyvpog St OKtvaStrai vipapyvpog ytvtrai." "Fit ex minio,

"quod falso cinnabaris dicitur, argentum vivum. Confectionis autem

"modus hie est. In fictilem patinam ferream habentem concham minium

"conjicitur. Calice dien luto circumlito, fictilis cooperitur patina ilia;

*' accensisque sub eas carbonibus, qute calici fuligo inhiesit, derasa, refri-  
"gerataque, argentum vivum est."

1 The process for obtaining quicksilver from its oxide is detailed by

Vitruvius; he also states, at some length, the properties of the quicksilver

so procured; among other particulars he remarks that four sextarii weighed

100 lb.; vii. 8. This estimate is not very far from the truth; if we sup­

pose the sextarius to have been equal to 1J pint, the above mentioned

quantity of mercury will weigh about 589,000 grs. equal to a little more than

103 lbs. See Wurm, sec. 66. p. 116 .. 0.

