silver. 49

Copper and iron are fused the best by pine wood; in Egypt,

papyrus is used; while gold is fused by chaff'3. Lime and the

Thracian stone4 are made hot by water, and quenched by oil.

Fire generally is best extinguished by vinegar, birdlime, and egg.

Earth is very slightly combustible; charcoal that has been extin­

guished, and is again inflamed, burns with greater force.

31. OF SILVER.

We must now proceed to silver, the metal which, next to gold,

has been the greatest cause of madness. It is never procured ex­

cept from mines, and it is found in situations, where there was no

indication of its presence, there being no sparkling fragments to

be seen, as is the case with gold. The earth is, in some cases, of

a red colour, in others of an ash grey. It cannot be refined, ex­

cept by black lead or the ore of lead; that which is generally

found near the vein of silver is called Galena.5 By the action of

fire, a portion of the ore falls to the bottom in the form of lead,

while the pure silver floats upon the surface, like oil on water. It

is found in almost all the provinces, but the finest comes from

Spain. It occurs in barren land, generally in mountains, and

where there is one vein, another is found at no great distance.

This indeed is the case with all other bodies of this class, whence

the Greeks seem to have derived the term metal.6 It is remark­

able that the mines which were opened in Spain by Hannibal still

p. 450; while stannum is described as a mixture of plumbum nigrum and

silver; ibid. lib. i. p. 187. He points out three species of lead; album or

candidum, nigrum, and cinereum, "quod bisemutum nominant nostri;"

ibid. p. 186 and 339. We have an example of the application of the word

Kaaairipos to tin by Herodotus, lib. iii. sec. 115.

3 See note 3 p. 35.

4 The Thracian stone is described by Dioscorides as possessing this pro­

perty, and is also said to contain bitumen and sulphur; v. 100. The same

circumstance is referred to by Aristotle, in his treatise, De Mirab. Aus.

cap. 41 et 125. Theophrastus does not mention the Thracian stone by

name, but he speaks of a combustible stone from Bena, a town of Thrace;

Op. p. 393, and De Lap. sec. 23. See the remarks of Salmasius, Exer.

Plin. p. 179.

5 The author informs us, lib. xxxiv. that by galena he designates " vena

argenti phumbique communis." This term is now applied to the compound

of lead and sulphur.

6 Mtra akkaiv or aWa.

V.

