50 QUICKSILVER.

remain, and retain the names given them by their discoverers.7

One of these, now called Bebulo, yielded Hannibal 300 weight

daily; it runs into the mountain for 1500 paces; and through this

space the Aquitani draw off the water night and day, measuring

their time by the burning of their lamps, and discharge a stream

as large as a river. When a vein of silver is found at the surface,

it is called Crudaria.» The antients continued to dig down until

they came to a stratum of Alumen;9 beyond this they made no

farther search. But a vein of white copper 1 having been lately

found below the alumen, the miners are induced to go still lower.

The vapour which arises from silver mines is injurious to all ani­

mals, and especially to dogs. Both gold and silver are the more

beautiful the softer they are. It is generally thought to be re­

markable that silver should leave a black streak behind it

32. OF QUICKSILVER.

There is in these veins a stone, which discharges a substance

that always remains fluid, called Quicksilver, but which is death

to every thing.* It corrodes and destroys the vessels in which it

is Jcept, oozing through them with its baneful poison. All things,

except 'gold, float in it; that substance alone is attracted to it.

On this account it is very useful in refining gold, separating it from

all the impurities, by repeatedly shaking it in earthen vessels which

contain pieces of leather. The quicksilver is then separated from

the gold by pressing the prepared skins, through which it exudes

like perspiration, leaving the pure gold behind. For the same

reason, in gilding bronzes,3 if quicksilver be rubbed over them,

the gold leaves will adhere firmly to the bronze. But by the light

? Aristotle speaks of the great quantity of silver brought from Spain by

the Phoenicians; De Mirab. Aus. cap. 127. We have likewise an account

of the silver mines of Spain in Diodorus Siculus, lib. v. sec. 35, 6.

s The French translator informs us that cruda ria are two Castilian

words, signifying veine crue; t. x. note in p. 616.

9 Alumen is treated of in lib. xxxv. sec. 52; also by Dioscorides, lib. v.

cap. 77. The word appears to have been applied both to the aluminous

ores and to the salt obtained from them; although it was probably in an

impure state.

1 Probably arsenicated copper.

• Here is probably intended to be a kind of pun between the words " ar-

gentum vivum" and " venenum.'

• " Mia."

