THE EQUESTRIAN ORDER. 25

This distinction, however, took place at a late period. For we

find that the heralds (praecones)8 commonly used this particular

kind of wide purple tunic, as was the case with the father of Lu-

cilius .(Elius Stilo, who, on this account, was named Prasconicus.

The rings, therefore, formed a third order, which was intermediate

between the people and the partricians; the name, which was for­

merly bestowed in consequence of the possession of a military

horse, being now given as an indication of wealth. But this

change did not take place until the time of the late Emperor Au­

gustus,9 who, when he arranged the seats of the Judges, found

that the greater part of them wore iron rings; and these were not

called knights, but judges. The name of knight was still attached

to those who composed the troops of cavalry. At first there were

only four orders of judges, and there was scarcely a thousand in

each order, the inhabitants of the provinces not being yet admitted

into the office; and it still remains a practice, that none of the

newly made citizens should be admitted among them.

The orders themselves were distinguished by different names,

as the Tribunes of the Treasury, the Select, and the Judges, pro­

perly so called. Besides these there were the Nine Hundred,

chosen from all the orders, for the purpose of guarding the boxes

that contained the suffrages of the general assemblies; and this

last order was also divided, in consequence of the pride of indivi­

duals in assuming particular names, one person styling himself a

member of the Nine Hundred, another one of the Select, and

another one of the Tribunes.

8. OF THE EQUESTRIAN ORDER.

/

At length, in the 9th year of the Emperor Tiberius, the whole

of the equestrian order was reduced to an equality of rank: it was

decided who were entitled to wear rings in the consulship of C.

Asinius Publio and C. Antistius Vetus, in the year of the city

575. We may well wonder at the very slight cause which pro­

duced this change. C. Sulpitius Galba, wishing to acquire some

youthful fame in the eyes of the prince, formed a plan for inflic-

ing penalties on the keepers of taverns, and complained in the

senate that the persons who were liable to this punishment defended

* For an account of the office of the Praeco, see Adam, p. 177, 8.  
» "Divus Augustus."

