60 TOUCHSTONES.

42. OF GILDING SILVER.

Silver is now almost the only metal which is gilt by means of

quicksilver, although it ought to be also employed in the gilding

of copper. But the same kind of cunning, which is so very in­

genious in every department of life, has discovered some cheaper

material, as I have mentioned above.*

43. OF TOUCHSTONES FOR GOLD.

In speaking of gold and silver it is necessary to take notice of

what is styled the touchstone, formerly found only in the river

Tmolus, according to the account of Theophrastus, but now found

in many situations; some call it the Heraclian stone, others the

Lydian.3 They are of moderate size, not exceeding four inches

in length, and two in breadth. The side which has been exposed

to the sun is thought to be better than that which has lain upon the

earth. Those who are practised in the use of these stones, when

they have rasped off a fragment of ore from the vein for the pur­

pose of experiment, can immediately say how much gold, or sil­

ver, or copper it contains, being able from their wonderful skill to

ascertain the quantity with great minuteness.

44. SPECIES OF SILVER AND TESTS.

There are two different kinds of silver. A small portion of the

metal in question being placed on heated iron bars, if it remains

white it is considered pure; the next best kind becomes red;

when it becomes black, it is very bad. But fraud is often prac­

tised in this experiment. The bars are kept in the urine of men,

and hence when the specimen is heated its colour is affected, and

• Sec. 32.

» The Basanitc of Kirwan, i. 307; the Lydian stone of Jameson, L 107;

the Pierre de Lydie of Brochant, i. 286, the Lapis Lydius of Aikin, ii. 3,

and Thomson, iii. 302. It is mentioned by Theophrastus, Opera, p. 397, 8;

De Lap. sec. 78. Salmasius, in reference to the subject, accuses Pliny of

having fallen into a gross error in confounding the Heraclean with the

Lydian stone; Exer. Plin. p. 776.; it appears, however, that, in this in­

stance, this learned critic has committed an oversight; for Theophrastus

expressly informs us, that the touchstone was called indifferently by either

of these names; Op. p. 392; De Lap. sec. 10.

