MIRRORS. 61

it acquires a false whiteness. There is another method of testing

polished silver by observing, when it is breathed upon, whether

the moisture quickly evaporates.

45. OF MIRRORS.

It was generally supposed, that the finest kind of silver only

could be spread out into leaves, or made into mirrors; but this art

is also injured by fraud. The property of reflecting the image of

objects is very wonderful, evidently depending on the air rever­

berating and again entering the eye. It is owing to the same

power in the mirrors, that when their thickness is much worn away

by polishing, and the surface in some degree depressed, the size

of the image is immensely dilated. So different is the effect ac­

cording as the mirror throws back the image, or receives it into

its substance. Drinking vessels are likewise so formed, by having,

as it were, a number of mirrors carved within them, that a single

individual looking into them sees a multitude of persons. There

are some mirrors so contrived as to distort the objects; as the con­

secrated mirrors in the temple at Smyrna; it depends on the form

which is given them. The most important point is whether they

are concave like a cup, or like a Thracian shield, whether the

middle is depressed or elevated, placed transversely or obliquely,

directed upwards or straight forwards; the figure of the surface

that reflects the the objects bending, as it were, the forms * that

proceed from them. For the image is nothing more than the

brightness of the matter which receives the forms regularly ar­

ranged. And that I may state in this place all that is known re­

specting mirrors, the best that our ancestors had were made at

Brundisium, of a mixture of stannum5 and copper. The silver

4 " Umbrae." "Umbras vocant simulacra rerum ipsa a nostris corporibus-

missa, et profusa in corpvis lseve, et splendidum et densum. Epicuri haec

sententia est de ratione speculorum." Note in Valpy, p. 4383. It may be

remarked, however, that the word umbra is never used in this sense by

Lucretius; he employs the term simulacrum; see his fourth book, 1. 34, 97,

126, et alibi. The Epicurean doctrine of the simulacra,

"Quae quasi membranae summo de corpore rerum

"Direptte volitant, ultro citroque per auras:"

is very amply explained by Creech, in his notes. See also Enfield's Philo­

sophy, i. 468, 9.

5 For stannum, see remarks in note 3, p. 48.

r

