6 DEDICATION.

what obscure, because he was anxious that his works should

please his friends, the Veranioli and the Fabulli. At the same

time this my importunity may effect, what you complained of my

not having done in another too forward epistle of mine; it will

put upon record, and let all the world know, on what terms of

equality you live with us. You, who have had the honour of a

triumph, and of the censorship, have been six times consul, and

have shared in the tribunate; and, what is still more honourable,

whilst you held them in conjunction with your father, you have

presided over the equestrian order, and have been the prefect of

the praetorians: 5 all this you have done for the service of the

republic, and at the same time, have regarded me as a fellow-

soldier and a messmate.

Nor has the extent of your prosperity produced any change in

you, except that it has given you the power of doing good to the

utmost of your wishes. And whilst all these circumstances

increase the veneration which other persons feel for you, with

respect to myself, they have made me so bold as to wish to

become more familiar. You must, therefore, place this to your

own account, and blame yourself for any fault of this kind that I

may commit. But although I have laid aside my blushes,6 I

have not gained my object; for you still awe me, and keep me at

a distance, by the majesty of your understanding. In no one does

the force of eloquence and of tribunitian oratory blaze out more

powerfully! With what glowing language do you thunder forth

the praises of your father! How dearly do you love your brother!

How admirable is your talent for poetry! What a fertility of

genius do you possess, so as to enable you to imitate your bro­

ther! But who is there that is bold enough to form an estimate on

these points, if he is to be judged by you, and more especially, if

you are challenged to do so? For the case of those who merely

publish their works is very different from that of those who

expressly dedicate them to you. In the former case I might say,

5 The narrative of Suetonius may serve to illustrate the observation of

Pliny; "Triumphavit (Titus) cum patre, censuramque gessit una. Eidem

collega et in tribunicia potestate, et in septem consularibus fuit. Recep-

taque ad se prope omnium officiorum cura, cum patris nomine et epistolas

ipse dictaret, et edicta conscriberet, orationesque in Senatu recitaret etiam

quaestoris vice, prefecturam quoque prtetorii suscepit, nunquam ad id tempus,

nisi ab Equite Romano, administratum:" Valpy's ed. p. 946.

6 " Perfricui faciem;" see note in Valpy, p. 176.

