34 VALUE OF GOLD.

18. WHEN THE CEILINGS 7 WEEF. FIRST GILT.8

The ceilings which now, even in private houses, are covered

with gold, were first gilt in the Capitol, after the destruction of

Carthage, during the censorship of L. Mummius. The practice

was afterwards adopted with respect to the ceilings, and the walls

of houses, so that these latter were ornamented with gold like ves­

sels; there were, however, various opinions entertained at the

time, respecting Catulus, the person who first gilt the brazen tiles

of the Capitol.

19, FROM WHAT CAUSES OUR ESTIMATION OF GOLD IS PRINCIPALLY

DERIVED.

I have given an account of the first discovery of gold, as well

as of the other metals, in the 7th book.' I do not suppose that

this metal became so much esteemed in consequence of its colour,

for that of silver is more brilliant, and more like the light of day,

and therefore more suitable for military ensigns, since its splendour

would cause it to be seen at a greater distance. They are obvi-

'"Laquearia" or "Lacunaria." The first of these words is used in the

title of the section, the second in the text itself; hence, it appears, that
they

were employed indiscriminately; see also the note in Valpy, p. 4612. They

mean the spaces left between the beams in the ceilings, technically called

coffers; as well as in other parts of buildings; Vitruvius, iv. 8; vi. 6;

vii. 2. Baldus, in his Lexicon Vitruvianum, under the word Lacunar, re­

marks, "Lacunaria contignationes sunt." Newton, Trans, of Vitruvius,

note in p. 73, describes the Lacunaria to be "coffers or pannels usually

formed in the soffites of the corona or architrave, as well as in the
ceilings,

&c." It appears, however, to have been used to signify the ceiling gene­

rally; as by Cicero, " .... fulgentem gladium e lacunari — demitti jussit."

Tus. Quest, v. 21; and by Horace, "Non ebur neque aureum mea renidet

in domo lacunar." Od. ii. 18. 1, 2, by Juvenal, "doctus spectare lacunar,"

i. 56, and by Persius, "Et magis aureis pendens laquearibus ensis," iii. 40.

It may, therefore, not improbably, be used in this general sense by our

author. Rhode supposes that it was employed in this sense by Vitruvius, in -

the passage in vii. 2; see lexicon, in loco.

8 We learn from various passages in the Old Testament, that certain parts

of Solomon's Temple were covered with gold; see 1 Kings, vi. 21, 2;

1 Chron. xxix. 4; 2 Chron. iii. 7, 8, 9.

» Lib. 7. §. 57. p. 1424; "Auri metalla et conflaturam, Cadmus Phoenix

ad Pangseum montem (invenit) &c."

