10 DEDICATION.

health, and contenting myself with this reward, that while we are

musing on these subjects (according to the remark of Varro), we

are adding to the length of our lives; for life properly exists in

being awake.

In consideration of these circumstances and these difficulties, I

dare promise nothing; but you have done me the most essential

service, in permitting me to inscribe my work to you. Nor does

this merely give a sanction to it, but it determines its value; for

things are often conceived to be of great value, solely because they

are consecrated in temples.

I have given a full account of all your family—your father,

yourself, and your brother, in a history of our own times, begin­

ning where Aufidius Bassus concludes. You will ask, Where it is?

It has been long completed, and its accuracy confirmed,1* other­

wise I had determined to commit the charge of it to my heirs, lest

I should have been suspected, during my life-time, of having

been unduly influenced by ambition. By this means I confer an

obligation on those who occupy the same ground with myself; and

also on posterity, who, I am aware, will contend with me as I have

done with my predecessors.

You may judge of my disposition from my having inserted in

my book the names of the authors that I have consulted. For I

conceive it to be courteous, and to indicate an ingenuous modesty,

to acknowledge the source whence we have derived assistance, and

not act as most of those have done whom I have examined. For

I must inform you, that in consulting various authors, I have dis­

covered that some of the most grave, and of the latest writers,

have transcribed word for word from former works, without making

any acknowledgment. Not avowedly rivalling them, in the manner

of Virgil, or with the candour of Cicero, who, in his treatise "De

Republica," professes to be the companion of Plato, and in his

Essay on consolation for his Daughter, calls himself the follower

of Crantor, and of Panaecius in his Offices,16 volumes, which you

well know, ought not merely to be always in our hands, but to be

learned by heart. For it is indeed the mark of a perverted mind

1s " Jam pridem peracta sancitur."

16 The following is probably the passage in the Offices, to which Pliny

refers :—" Panaetius igitur, qui sine controversia de officiis accuratissirrie

disputavit, quemque nos, correctione quadam adhibita, potissimum secuti

sumus,...." Lib. iii. sec. 2.

