GOLD RINGS. 19

long period, even a Roman senator did not wear a gold ring. If

rings were given publicly to those only who were sent as ambassa足

dors to foreign nations, it was done, I suppose, because it indi足

cated to the foreigners that they were of the highest rank. And

it was not customary for any person to wear them, except those to

whom they were publicly presented on this account; and it was in

this manner that they commonly rode in triumph. Even when the

Etrurian crown, which was of gold, was carried over the head of the

general, still the ring on his finger was made of iron, so that he

who was borne in triumph, was upon a par with the slave that car足

ried the crown. In this manner Caius Marius triumphed over

Jugurtha, and it is said that it was not until his third consulship

that he wore a golden ring. And those, who in consequence of

having served the office of ambassador had received gold rings,

only used them in public; in their own houses they still wore iron

rings. It is in pursuance of the same custom, that even at this

time, an iron ring is sent as a present to a bride, and that without

any gem attached to it.

I do not find that rings were in use in the time of the Trojan war.6

Homer certainly never mentions them: when he speaks of letters

that were written on tablets, and garments, and gold and silver

vessels being laid up in chests, he always describes them as secured

by knots, not marked by rings. And when he describes the heroes

casting lots,7 in reply to the challenge, he does not mention that

they did it by means of their rings. When also he enumerates

the articles that were manufactured by Vulcan, he mentions

clasps, and other female ornaments, as ear-rings, but says nothing

of rings for the fingers. And whoever it was that first adopted

marking wine-vessels, and to which rings were attached; but, in this case,

the rings appear to have served merely as the handles.

6 It is supposed that the " signet" of Judah, to which allusion is made in

Gen. xxxviii. 18, was a ring: in this case it was employed to identify his

person, equivalent to a sign manual. In the apologue of the Prodigal Son,

the father commands his servants to put a ring on the son's ringer, as an

ornamental badge of distinction. The Egyptians used rings in very early

times: Fharoah put his ring on Joseph's finger, Gen. xli. 42; this, proba足

bly, was a seal-ring. Moses directed that onyx stones should be engraved

like " the engraving of a signet," Exod. xxviii. 11. Seal-rings appear to

have been commonly used by the Greeks in Solon's time.

7 II. vii. 176, et seq. It is said that each of the candidates marked his

"K\>ipog," and threw it into the helmet of Agamemnon. In Matt, xxviii. 35,

the soldiers are represented as " BaXXovvrce icXijpov."

c 2

