DEDICATION. 2

given so much in detail, that we quite loathe them. It is, indeed,

no easy task to give novelty to what is old, and authority to what

is new; brightness to what is become tarnished, and light to what

is obscure; to render what is slighted acceptable, and what is

doubtful worthy of our confidence; to give to all a natural

manner, and to each its peculiar nature. It is sufficiently honour­

able and glorious to have been willing even to make the attempt,

although it should prove unavailing. And, indeed, I am of opinion

that the studies of those are more especially worthy of our regard,

who, after having overcome all difficulties, prefer the useful office

of assisting others, to the mere gratification of giving pleasure;

and this is what I have already done in some of my former works.

I confess it surprises me, that T. Livius, so celebrated an author

as he is, in one of the books of his history of the city from its

origin, should begin with this remark, " I have now obtained a

sufficient reputation, so that I might put an end to my work, did

not my restless mind require to be supported by employment."

Certainly he ought to have composed this work, not for his own

glory, but for that of the Roman name, and of the people who

were the conquerors of all other nations. It would have been

more meritorious to have persevered in his labours from his love

of the work, than from the gratification which it afforded himself,

and to have accomplished it, not for his own sake, but for that of

the Roman people.

I have included in thirty-six u books 20,000 topics, all worthy

of attention, (for, as Domitius Piso says, we ought to make not

merely books, but valuable collections) gained by the perusal of

about 2,000 volumes, few only of which are in the hands of the

studious, on account of the obscurity of the subjects, procured by

the careful examination of 100 select authors; and to these I

have made considerable additions of things, which were either not

known to my predecessors, or which have been lately discovered.

Nor can I doubt but that there still remain many things which I

, have omitted. For I am a mere mortal, and one that has many oc­

cupations. I have been therefore obliged to compose this work at

interrupted intervals, indeed during the night, so that you will

find I have not been idle even during this period. The day I de­

vote to you, exactly portioning out my sleep to the necessity of my

14 "Quem primum historic PlinianiE librum vocamus, nunc ipse non

numerat:" note in Valpy, p. 181.

