GOLDEN STATUES. 43

of Minerva, in which Helen consecrated a goblet made of this

kind of metal; the story says that it was the size of one of her

breasts. It is the nature of Electrum to be more brilliant than silver

by lamp-light. The native Electrum has also the property of de­

tecting poison; if a cup of this metal contains poison, a number of

coloured circles, like the rainbow, make their appearance, and there

is, at the same time, a hissing noise; so that we are made sensible

of the presence of poison in two ways.

24. THE FIEST GOLDEN STATUES.

The first golden statue that was made without any cavity in the

inside (and this was before any bronze statues were formed of the

kind which they call Holosphyraton5) is said to have been placed

in the temple of Anaitis, (I have mentioned above in what part of

the world this name is used?) a deity considered peculiarly sacred

by those nations. The statue was broken in pieces during the

expedition of Anthony against the Parthians. A speech is re­

ported to have been made concerning it by one of the veterans of

Bononia, at an entertainment which he gave to the late emperor

Augustus. When he was asked, whether it was true, that he who

violated this divinity expired, after having lost his sight and the

use of his limbs, he replied, that Augustus was then supping off

her leg, for that he was the individual in question, and that it was

from this plunder that he derived his fortune. Gorgias, the

Leontine, was the first person who had his own statue made of

solid gold; he placed it in the temple of Delphi about the 70th

Olympiad. So great was the emolument derived from teaching

rhetoric!

25. THE EIGHT MEDICINES MADE OF GOLD.

Gold is in many ways useful as a medicine. It is applied to

wounds, and also to children, to protect them from any noxious

charms to which they may have been exposed. It has, however,

itself a noxious influence, when laid upon any thing, as upon

chickens or young cattle. The remedy in this case is to wash the

6 OXooQvparog, solidus, malleo confectus, probably in opposition to

those that were cast in a mould.

7 The author here probably refers to the following passage in book v.

sec. 20; " Fluit (Euphrates) Derxenem primum, mox Anaiticam, &c."

