GOXD RINGS. 21

After an interval of 307 years, when the temple of the Capitol

and all the other temples were destroyed by fire, C. Marius the,

younger took to Praeneste 13,000 lbs. weight; the same sum was

brought back to Rome by Sylla, at his triumph, together with

6,000 lbs. weight of silver. The day before he had conveyed to

Rome 15,000 lbs. weight of gold, together with 115,000 lbs.

weight of silver, being the produce of all his other victories.

6. OF THE EIGHTS ATTACHED TO GOLD EINGS.

It was not until the time of Cn. Flavius, the son of Annius,

that rings became more generally used. For he, having published

the calendar, which the people had been perpetually requesting

a few of the chief men to do,1 obtained so great a degree of favour

with the lower classes, that although he was no more than the son

of a freedman, and had himself been the secretary of Appius

Caecus (by whom he was encouraged to undertake the business,

being guided by his sagacity, and to publish the result) he was

created curule jEdile, together with L. Anicius of Praeneste, who,

a few years before, had been in arms against Rome, passing by

Pcetilius and Domitius, whose fathers had been consuls. And

in addition to this, Flavius was also created a tribune of the

people. At this, the senate were so indignant, that we are told, in

the old annals, that they cast off their rings. Many persons

suppose, but erroneously, that the knights did the same thing;

for what we are told is, that they also threw off their badges, from

which they receive the appellation of knights.2 It is, however,

adult males, and would therefore form only a small part of the whole popu­

lation.

1 This was so much wished for by the people, because it contained an ac­

count of the days on which the courts were open, and business of all kinds

was transacted, as well as of the holidays and festivals. These seem to

have been previously regulated by the Pontifices, and, it may be presumed,

not unfrequently in an arbitrary manner, so as to serve the purposes of the

Patricians.

»".... phalera posita." This, we may presume, was some trapping be­

longing to the horses, or at least, something significant of their possessing

horses. It appears, indeed, that the rank of knight entitled the individual

to wear a gold ring, but that besides this, they possessed something speci­

fically distinctive of their order. Livy, in his account of this transaction,

says, "Plerique nobilium annulos aureos et phaleras deponerent," lib. ix.

cap. 46; thus denoting the "phalerse'' as something different from rings.

