4 PREFACE.

Feeling these difficulties, and aware of the quantity of

time and labour that must necessarily be devoted to such

an undertaking, even in the most favourable circum­

stances, I have resolved to lay before the public the fol­

lowing specimen of the manner in which I propose to

execute the translation, in order that they may judge of

my competency to the undertaking, and that I may be

able to profit by any remarks that are made on this

portion of the work in the farther prosecution of it.

I have selected the 33d book, in addition to the 1st, as

one with which I was previously familiar, and which, I

think, may be considered as exhibiting a fair specimen of

the merits of the original.1

Upper Bedford Place,

Sept. 23, 1828.

1 The editions of Pliny which I have used are that of Dalecamp, fol.

Franc. 1599; of De Laet, 12mo. Elz. L. B. 1635; the Var. of Gronovius,

8vo. L. B. 1669; and that of Valpy, 8vo. Lond. 1826, which may be

considered as combining the editions of Harduin and Brotier; I have

generally followed the text of this edition. I have frequently found

advantage in referring to the translation of Holland, a writer highly

commendable for his diligence, but whose style, which must have been,

at all times, harsh and paraphrastical, is now completely antiquated.

His translation was published in 1635; he appears to have followed the

text of Dalecamp. The French translation of Pinet, published in 1566,

allowing for the period when it was written, is a work of much merit;

but it has been superseded by the elaborate translation executed by

Poinsinet de Sivri, in conjunction with other learned individuals, which

was published between the years 1771 and 1782. The text of Harduin

has been employed in this work. The sense of the author is given with

correctness and elegance, but I conceive that the translator has failed in

conveying an idea of the style of the original. Something may pro­

bably depend on the idiom of the French language, which does not

easily admit of the concise abruptness, which is so characteristic of

Pliny. I conceive it to be the duty of a translator to transfuse into his

version, as far as it can be accomplished, not merely the ideas of the

author, but the language in which they are cloathed.

