SILVER STATUES.

of silver, from their having been so commonly made of gold. And

in our own time, we have the example of Arellius Fuse us, (he

who was degraded from the equestrian order in consequence of his

being followed by a number of young men) who had his rings

made of silver. But to what purpose do I collect facts of this de­

scription, when the hilts of the soldiers1 swords are carved in sil­

ver, ivory being quite despised, and when their sheaths and belts

absolutely rattle with silver chains and plates. Even the young

pages wear a ring of silver,3 and the women cannot wash their feet

except in silver vessels; and the same material is used both to

hold our food, and for the most degrading purposes. Could Fa-

bricius see these things, the baths of the women paved with silver,

so that there is not even a spot left to set the foot on, the women

also bathing along with the men; could Fabricius, I say, who

forbad even the bravest generals to possess more than a plate and

a salt-cellar of silver, see what ought to be kept as a reward for

valour, converted to such purposes! But, alas for our manners,

we are now ashamed of Fabricius!

55. DISTINGUISHED WORKS, AND WORKMEN, IN SILVER. 4

It is remarkable that no one has distinguished himself in the

engraving of gold, while so many have in silver. Mentor,4 whom I

mentioned above, was the most celebrated. There were four pair of

vases entirely executed by him, but none of them are said now

to exist, in consequence of the Temple of Ephesus and the Ca­

pitol having been burned down. Varro says that he had a bronze

statue made by this artist. Those who stand next to him are

Acragus, Boethus, and Mys. There are works of all these now

at Rhodes; the Minerva of Boethus at Lindus, a statue by Acra­

gus in the temple of father Bacchus, and in the city of Rhodes

the female Bacchante and the Centaur, carved on goblets; in the

same temple are the Silenus and the Cupids of Mys. The hunt,

executed on a goblet by Acragus, is very celebrated. The next

after them in reputation are Calamis and Antipater, and also Stra-

tonicus, whose figure of a satyr, oppressed by sleep, is more pro­

perly said to be laid upon the jar, than carved on it. After these

s " Ad transitum virilitatis custodiantur argento;" See Celsus, lib. vii.

cap. '25, sec. 3.

4 Mentor and Praxitiles are among the artists mentioned by Martial in

the epigram referred to above, p. 64-.

