CINNABAR. 57

39. MODE OF USING CINNABAR AND MINIUM IN PICTURES.

The ancients painted those pictures with cinnabar which are

now called monochromata1. They painted them also with the

minium of Ephesus; but this custom was abandoned, in conse­

quence of the great care which it required in its preparation. Be­

sides these substances were both of them thought too corrosive;

on this account they substituted for them Rubrica and Sinopis *,

of which I shall speak in the proper place. Cinnabar is adul­

terated with goat's blood, and with the triturated fruit of the

service tree. The price of it, when pure, is fifty sesterces the

pound.

40. SPECIES OF MINIUM: MEDICINES FEOM IT.

We are informed by Juba, that minium is also procured in

Carmania; and by Timagines, that it is also found in ^Ethiopia.

But it is not brought to us from either of these places, nor indeed

scarcely from any place except Spain. The most celebrated kind

comes from the district of the Sisapo, in Bretica; this mine of

minium is a source of considerable revenue to the Romans, and is

guarded with very great care. The substance is not allowed to be

purified or roasted on the spot, but is brought to Rome sealed up,

to the amount of 10,000 lbs. weight annually; it is then washed

at Rome. The price of it is fixed by an express statute not to

exceed seventy sesterces the pound; but it is adulterated in various

ways, by which the company defraud the public. For there ia

another kind of minium that is found in all silver, and in many

lead ores, which is formed by calcining the stone that is mixed

with the veins; not that out of which quicksilver exudes, (for

this is converted into quicksilver by being calcined), but from

other minerals which are found along with it. Those minerals

which are barren in lead are recognized by their peculiar colour,

not becoming red unless by calcination, after which they are

1 Painted in one colour only; they are treated of in lib. xxxv. sec. 5,

& alibi.

* For a farther account of Sinopis, see lib. xxxv. sec. 13; it appears  
to have been a species of brown or yellow ochre. See Theophrastus,

De Lapid. sec. 2t; also Agricola, De Re Met. p. 462.

