38 WORKING OF GOLD MINES.

and barren mountains of Spain, which produce nothing else, are

forced to be fruitful in this good thing. The ore which is dug out

of the open pits is called Canalicium by some, and by others Ca-

naliense;5 it is imbedded in marble,6 but it does not sparkle, as is

the case in the Oriental sapphire7 and the Thebaic stone,8 and in

many other gems; it rather appears to surround the particles of

the marble. The channels in which these veins are found, pass

in all directions along the sides of the trenches, whence their name

is derived; the earth is propped up by wooden pillars. What is

dug up is pounded, washed, roasted, ground to powder, and beaten

in mortars. The part that comes out of the furnace is called sil­

ver; while the impure dross which is thrown out of the stove, from

whatever metal it is derived, is called scoria." The scoria of gold

is pounded, and is again subjected to the furnace. The smelting

pots are made of Tasconium;1 this is a white earth, considerably

resembling clay; no other substance will resist the blast, the heat

of the furnace, and the burning fuel.

The third method of procuring gold almost surpasses the labours

of the giants. Shafts2 are driven of considerable length, and the

mountains are excavated by the light of lamps. The labourers

are relieved at regular intervals; but for many months they never

see the light of day. Shafts of this kind are called Arrugiae.1 It

5 Channelled, from canalis.

6 " Marmoris glareae;" the word marmor must here be applied to quartz

or some other primitive rock, which is the ordinary matrix of gold.

'In describing the sapphire, he says, "aurum punctis collucet coeruliis;"

lib. xxxvii. sec. 39.

» The Thebaic stone is said to be " interstinctus aureis guttis;" lib. xxxvi.

sec. 13.

9 As the term scoria is here used, it will include both the extraneous

substances that are separated from the metal by smelting, and any part of

the metal that becomes oxidized during the process.

^ 1 The French translator informs us that Tascos is an old Castilian word

signifying impurity; t. x. note in p. 587, 8.

* "Cuniculi." We hay e a very interesting account, by Diodorus Siculus,  
of the gold mines on the confines of Egypt, ^Ethiopia, and Arabia; Kb. iii.

sec. 12.. 4,; the descriptions of Diodorus and of Pliny mutually illustrate

each other.

a We are told by Harduin, see note in Valpy, p. 4354, that the word

arrugiw occurs in the Aulularia of Plautus; but on referring to the

comedy it appears to be found only in the "supposita," added by the

editor; see p. 173. The French translator informs us that arrugia is still

applied in Spain to a deep mine; t. x. p. 588.

