56 CINNABAR.

38. OF CINNABAH.6

I am not surprised at the high estimation in which this colour

has been held. Even in the time of the Trojans, Rubrica1 was

much valued, according to the testimony of Homer, who praises

the ships that were painted with it,8 although, on most occasions,

he is very sparing of his remarks on paintings and pigments.

Minium is called by the Greeks, Milton, and by some persons

Cinnabar. Hence arises the mistake respecting the substance

which is called Cinnabar by the Indians; for they give this name

to the blood of the dragon, when it is crushed by the weight of the

elephant dying on it, in the way which I have described above,9

the blood of the two animals being mixed together. There is no

other pigment which gives the proper blood-colour in painting.

Cinnabar is of great use, both as an antidote and a medicine; but,

by Jove! the physicians, instead of the proper Cinnabar, actually

use this which is made from Minium, and which is itself a poison,

as I shall show hereafter.

0 Dioscorides gives an account of cinnabar, in lib. v. cap. 63. p. 668; he

was not aware of its relation to minium. Agricola was acquainted with

this relation, and with the true nature of cinnabar, as a compound of mer­

cury and sulphur; De Re Met. p. 460,1; he calls it "Miniumfactitium;"

De Nat. Foss. lib. ix. p. 358, 9. The ancients appear to have had no cor­

rect idea of the relation of these substances to each other.

? For a farther account of Rubrica see lib. xxxv. sec. 14. It is described

by Dioscorides under the name of piXrov; v. 65, 6; where we have an ac­

count of both the native and the artificial species; the latter is said to be

produced by calcining ochre. The same statement is made by Agricola,

De Re Met. p. 461; he gives a full description of Rubrica in the treatise

De Nat. Foss. lib. ii. p. 204; it appears to be a kind of red ochre. Vitru-

vius classes Rubrica with Si], as species of ochres; vii. 7.

"In the line supposed to be referred to in this place, II. ii. 637, Homer

simply mentions the fact, that the ships of Ulysses were "fuXroTrapijoi,"

without any expression of praise or admiration. There is, however, reason

to suppose that by itiXrov the ancients meant a species of red ochre; The-

ophrastus classes it with w^pa, as substances of an earthy nature; De

Lap. sec. 71; Op. p. 396, 7.

9 Lib. viii. sec. 12. This tale is repeated by Solinus, as is ordinarily the

case with all the improbable stories that are referred to by Pliny. Speaking

of the contest of the dragon and the elephant, Solinus says, "Itaque cum

"ebiberunt (dracones) sanguinem, dum ruunt belluae, dracones obruuntur.

Sic utrinque fusus cum terram imbuit, fitque pigmentum quiquid soli

tinxerit, quod cinnabari vocant." cap. 26. See also Salmasius, in Exerc.

Plin. p. 140.

