SILVER VESSELS.

52. WHEN DISHES WEKE MADE OF AN IMMODERATE SIZE; WHEN

TYMPANA WERE FIRST MADE.

It was a little before this time that dishes were made, each con­

taining 100 lbs. weight of silver, of which it appears there were more

than five hundred in Rome, and it seems that many persons were

proscribed on this very account, by the knavery of people who

longed for them. What a scandal does it bring upon our annals to

ascribe the civil war to such vices! But in our times we are still

bolder. In the reign of Claudius, one of his servants, Drusillus,

surnamed Rotundus, who was his treasurer in the province of

Northern Spain, had a dish of 500 lbs. weight, so that it was

necessary to have a manufactory erected for the express purpose

of making it; and there were eight others belonging to the same

set, amounting in the whole to 850 lbs. weight. We may ask,

how many of his fellow servants would it require to carry these

dishes, and how many guests would they entertain? Corn. Nepos

informs us, that before the victory of Sylla, there were only two sil­

ver supper couches in all Rome. Fenestrella, who died in the last

year of the Emperor Tiberius, says, that it was within his memory

that silver was first employed to ornament the stands,9 and also

that tortoise-shell1 came into use. A little before his time they

were made of common wood, round, and solid, and not much

larger than tables; when he was a boy they were made square

and more compact, and began to be covered with maple or citron

wood; after a while silver was put on the corners and lines of

them, and also along the joints. When he was a young man

what had formerly been called platters and trenchers began to be

called plates and dishes.1

53. IMMODERATE QUANTITIES OF SILVER.

And men were not only mad after the silver itself, but almost

still more so, after the manner of working it; and this indeed was

9 " Repositoria."

1 " Testudinea." In lib. ix. sec. 13, the author observes, "Testudinum

putamina secare in laminas, lectosque et repositoria his vestire."

• Tympana, and magides; staterae and lances, are the terms employed by

the author. We have no corresponding terms in our language, and it is

perhaps impossible to discover to what forms of dishes they were applied by

the Romans. We meet indeed with one of the names in Varro; "Ma-

gidam aut Langulam, alteram a magnitudine, alteram ab latitudine finx-

erunt." De Ling. Lat. t. i. p. 34.

