GOLD COIN. 31

diminished by the emperors: they were the smallest in the time of

Nero, when there were 45 to the pound.

14. AN ACCOUNT OF THE EAGER DESIRE FOR GOLD.

Money was the origin of avarice, after usury had been dis­

covered, and the mode of becoming rich without labour. By de­

grees not merely avarice, but the thirst of gold itself was inflamed

to such a degree, that Septimuleius, when he had cut off the head

of his friend C. Gracchus, carried it to Opimius, and claimed his

reward of its weight in gold, after having poured lead into the

mouth; thus, in addition to his crime of parricide, being guilty

of defrauding the republic. But, not to speak of individuals, the

Roman name generally became so infamous in this respect, that

king Mithridates poured gold into the mouth of the general

Aquilius when he took him prisoner. These are the fruits of the

lust of gain. It is disgusting to observe the number of new terms

derived from the Greek language, which are applied to the different

kinds of silver vessels, some of them covered with gold on the

outside and gilt within, and to see for what whimsical purposes

they are used, both those that are gilt, and those that are of solid

gold; and especially when we know that Spartacus forbid any one in

his camp to have either gold or silver in his possession. So much

more good sense is there in our run-away slaves! Messala, the

orator, informs us, that Anthony, the triumvir, employed gold for

the most mean uses; and what was still more disgusting, that the

same was done by Cleopatra. It was considered an instance of

very great luxury among foreigners, that king Philip, when he

slept, had always a golden cup under his pillow, and Agno, the

Teian, the praefect of Alexander the Great, used golden clasps

for his slippers. But among ourselves, in spite of what seems the

order of nature, Anthony employed gold for the most degrading

of purposes, an act which might be protested against even by

Spartacus.

15. WHO POSSESSED THE GREATEST QUANTITY OF GOLD AND

SILVER.

I wonder indeed that the Romans, when they exacted tribute

from those whom they had conquered, always demanded silver and

not gold. Thus when Carthage was conquered, after the defeat

of Hannibal, the people were sentenced to pay 12,000 lbs. of silver

