40 WOUKING OF GOLD MINES.

called Corrugi,5 as I suppose from the word corrivatio, i. e. drawing

the river into one channel. This is indeed a most laborious un­

dertaking. It is necessary that the level should be so adjusted as

to produce a sufficient current for the stream, and for this purpose

the water is brought from the highest point that is practicable.

If it has to pass across a valley, it is necessary to build a canal

over it. In some places the passage is obstructed by rocks, which

they cut through; and a space is thus formed through which

wooden troughs are carried. The man who cuts through the rock

is suspended by ropes, so that those who see him at a distance

might suppose him to be some species, not indeed of wild beast,

but of bird. While they are hanging in this manner they take

the level of the ground, and mark out the line in which the water­

course is to be carried; for there is no space left on which they

can rest their feet. They remove all the rubbish with their hands,

and carry it away in baskets. This kind of earth they call Urium;6

they therefore avoid the urium, and, as far as is practicable, con­

duct the water-course through the hard rock or solid stone. When

they have brought the water to the brow of the hill, they dig large

ponds, 200 feet in length and breadth, and ten in depth; in these

they generally leave five sluices, three feet square; when the pond

is filled, they open the gates, and the torrent rushes down with so

much violence, as to drive before it all the masses of stone that

stand in its way.

And there is another laborious process to be gone through in

the lower ground. Trenches are dug, through which the water

may flow: they are called Agangae,7 and furze is laid at intervals

above their sides. This is a shrub somewhat like rosemary,

which, from its roughness, serves to detain the gold. The sides

of these trenches are enclosed with planks, and where the ground

is uneven, they are raised upon arches, so that the stream is made

to flow from the land to the sea. These works have contributed

to advance the prosperity of Spain.8 The ore which is procured

5 The French translator informs us, that corrugo is derived from an old

Castilian word which signifies a furrow; t. x. p. 590.

? The French translator states that urium is derived from the Celtic

word Our,water, because this kind of earth absorbs water; t. x. note in p.
592.

7 Or "Agandas," derived from the Castilian words aqua and andar, signify­

ing water-courses; see French translation, t. x. note in p. 592.

*■ "His de causis jam promovit Hispania." This is explained by the  
editor of the Regent's edition, "Propius mari admovit puteos suos, fossas,

