30 GOLD COIN.

copper, a quinarius at five, and a sesterce at two and a half. The

standard pound of copper was diminished in the first Punic war,

when the republic was not able to bear its expenses; it was then

ordered that the As should consist of one-sixth of a pound only.

By this measure there was a gain of five parts out of six, and the

debt was consequently expunged. The device on this coin was

a double Janus on the one side, and a prow of a ship on the other;

there was a ship on the triens and the quadrans ; the quadrans had

been previously called teruncius, from its consisting of three ounces.

At a later period, when Hannibal was pressing upon M. Minucius,

in the dictatorship of Q. Fabius Maximus, the value of the As was

reduced to one ounce; it was also ordered that the denarius should

pass for sixteen Ases, a quinarius for eight, and a sesterce for four;

by this means the republic made a profit of fifty per cent. In

paying the soldiers, however, the denarius was always considered

equivalent to ten Ases. The device on the silver coins was a

chariot with two and with four horses; they were hence called

bigati and quadrigati. At length, by the Papirian law, the As

was reduced to half an ounce. When Liv. Drusus was tribune

of the people, one-eighth part of copper was mixed with the silver.9

The coin which is now called victoriatus was struck in obedience

to the Clodian law. It was previously brought from Illyricum as

an article of commerce; it obtained its name in consequence of its

having the figure of victory on it. Gold was coined sixty-two years

later than silver; a scripulum * of gold was valued at 20 sesterces;

so that according to the ratio which at that time subsisted between

the sesterces and the pound, a pound of gold would contain 900

sesterces. Afterwards it was thought proper to make 40 denarii

to the pound of gold,2 and by degrees their weight was still farther

t Dr. Thomson found that the denarius coined in the time of the republic

was composed of pure silver, but that a denarius of the emperor Domitian

contained 19.2 per cent of copper; Nich. Journ. xiv. 405, 6.

1 The scripulum was the l-288th part of the as or libra, corresponding

exactly with the modern scruple; see Wurm, p. 9.

» It would appear that the Romans proceeded upon very arbitrary prin­

ciples in their mode of estimating the value of their current coins, with re­

spect to the comparative value of the metals, as well as of the same metals

at different periods; 900 sesterces are equal to 7l. 10s.; while 40 denarii
are

equal only to 1/. 5s. 10d.; see Adam, p. 492 et seq. Herodotus informs

us, that in his time, the value of gold was thirteen times that of silver;
iii. 95.

In this country the value of gold is a little more than fifteen times that of

silver. See Wurm, sec. 25, for the comparative value of gold and silver

among the Romans.

