GOLD RINGS. 23

Luxury, in this, as in every other case, produced various

changes, by adding gems of exquisite brilliancy, and by loading

the fingers with quite a large fortune, as I shall mention in the

book on gems; afterwards by chasing various figures on the rings,

so that they were sometimes valued for the material, and at other

times for the workmanship. There were indeed some gems, which

it would have been thought absolute sacrilege to use as seals, and

in order to shew that they were not intended to be employed in

this way, they were set plain. There are also some persons, who

will not have gold at the part which touches the finger, consider­

ing gold of less value than many of the stones that are in use.

There are on the contrary, others who do not admit of the use

of any gems, but seal with the gold itself; a custom first adopted

in the time of the emperor Claudius Cassar. In these days there

are slaves who have the iron ring surrounded with gold, while

others have the ring entirely of gold. The name given to these rings

shows that this licence originated in Samothrace.

It was at first the custom to wear rings upon one finger only,

that next to the little finger; as we see it in the statues of Numa

and Servius Tullius. They were then put on the finger next to

the thumb, even in the statues of the gods, and afterwards it was

thought proper to give them also to the little finger. The Gauls

and the Britons are said to have used the middle finger. At present

this finger alone is exempted, while all the rest are loaded, even

each of the smaller joints having little rings put on them. There

are some persons who heap three rings on the little finger alone,

while there are others who put only one upon it, thus marking this

as the marking finger.5 The seal itself, however, being carefully

preserved, was brought out as if from a sacred place, like some­

thing very rare, and not to be debased by common use, and the

circumstance of having a single ring only on the little finger, was

made an ostentatious mark of the possession of a store of other

valuable articles. Some persons now make a boast of the weight

of their rings; by others it is considered a kind of labour to

carry more rings than one. Others again, from their anxiety

for their gems, think it safer to have them set in some sub­

stance lighter than gold, as less likely to be injured by a fall.

Others inclose poison under the gems, as was the case with that

first of Grecian orators, Demosthenes; and thus employ their

5 "Quo signantem signant."

