CHRYSOCOLLA. 45

pumice. The best kind is found in the copper mines.s and the

next to it in those of silver; it is also found in lead mines, but

this is not so good as that from gold. It may be formed artifi­

cially in all these situations, but this kind is inferior to what is

produced naturally. To form it artificially, water is let into the

mines during the winter, indeed, until the month of June; this is

then evaporated during June and July. Hence it appears evi­

dent, that chrysocolla is nothing more than a mouldering vein.*

The artificial chrysocolla differs much from the native in its hard­

ness; in this state it is styled Lutea, but it receives its colour

from the plant of the same name; 5 for it resembles flax or wool

in the circumstance of readily receiving various dyes. In pre­

paring it, it is first beaten in a mortar and then passed through a

fine sieve; it is afterwards ground, and is again passed through

a still finer sieve; what will not pass through is pounded and

ground a second time. The powder is always digested in pots,

and macerated with vinegar, until it is completely softened; it is

once more pounded, and is afterwards lixiviated in certain vessels

called Conchs, and is finally dried. It is then dyed by means of

fiiXrog, taxpa, & Kvavog, as what is found in gold, silver, and copper mines,

De Lapid. sec. 47 & 90. Dioscorides describes it in lib. v. cap. 50. Vitru-

vius states that it is found in copper mines, vii. 9. Celsus enumerates it

among the substances " quae rodant," but without any description; lib. v.

cap. 6. Agricola enumerates Chrysocolla among the " succi concreti"

which are mixed with metals, classing it with aerugo, ferrugo, and cceru-

leum; De Nat. Foss. lib. i. p. 185. It is more fully described in lib. iii.

p. 221, and is said to be found in metallic veins "potissimum serariae;" in

the Dialogue De Re Met. p. 452, it is called a species of green earth. Upon

the whole there appears sufficient reason to suppose that the Chrysocolla

of the ancients was essentially an oxide or carbonate of iron, mixed with a

certain proportion of oxide or carbonate of copper; it may be supposed to

have been generally yellow, but to have had occasionally a blue or green

tinge, according to the nature of its constituents. We have a long disser­

tation by M. Guettard, in the notes to the French translation, t. x. p. 600 &

seq.; he calls it verd de montagne, and considers it to be the same sub­

stance which is now procured from the copper mines of Hungary.

3 "iErariis metallis;" the word metallum was employed, by the an­

cients, sometimes to designate a metal, sometimes the ore of a metal, and

sometimes, as in this case, the mine from which the ore is extracted.

4 "Vena putris."

5 Supposed to be Weld, the Reseda Luteola of Linnseus. The yellow

colour of the plant, combining with the blue of the chrysocolla, would pro­

duce the green which was so much valued.

