O DEDICATION.

has the power of making whomever he may select an absolute

judge in his own cause, and hence it is termed an appeal.11

I am well aware that, placed as you are in the very highest

station, and gifted with the most splendid eloquence and the most

accomplished mind, even those who come to pay their respects to

you, do it with a kind of veneration: on this account I ought to

be careful that what is dedicated to you should be worthy of you.

But the country people, and indeed some whole nations, offer milk

to. the Gods,12 and those who cannot procure frankincense substi­

tute in its place salted cakes; for the Gods are not dissatisfied

when they are worshipped by every one to the best of his ability.

But my temerity will appear the greater by the consideration,

that these little volumes, which I dedicate to you, are of such

inferior importance. For they do not allow of the display of

genius, nor indeed is mine one of the highest order; they admit

of no excursions, nor orations, nor discussions, nor of any wonder­

ful adventures, nor any variety of transactions, nor, from the

barrenness of the matter, of any thing particularly pleasant in the

narration, or agreeable to the reader. The nature of things, and

life as it actually exists, are described in them; and often the lowest

department of it; so that, in very many cases, I am obliged to

use rude and foreign, or even barbarous, terms, and these often

require to be formally introduced by a kind of preface. And

besides this, my road is not a beaten track, nor one which the

mind is much disposed to travel over. There is no one among us

who has ever attempted it, nor is there any one individual among

the Greeks who has treated of all the topics. Most of us seek for

nothing but amusement in our studies, while others are fond of

subjects that are of excessive subtilty, and completely involved in

obscurity. My object is to treat of all those things which the

Greeks include in the Encyclopedia,'3 which however are either

•jot generally known, or are rendered dubious from our ingenious

eonceits. And there are other matters, which many writers have

""Provocatio;" calling forth.

"See the authors referred to in the note in Valpy, p. 180; to which the

ollowing passages may be added from Tibullus:—

"Et placidum soleo spargere lacte Palem." Lib. i. El. 1. 36.

"Lacte madens illic suberat Pan ilicis umbra," ii. 5. 27.

and an additional one from the Fasti of Ovid:—

"Lac dabat ilia Deo." v. 121.

""Orbem doctrince sic Graci vocant:" note in Valpy, p. 130.

