VALUE OF GOLD.

ously mistaken who suppose that the colour of gold pleases us, be­

cause it is like that of the fixed stars, for we do not find this to be

the case with respect to gems, or other similar articles. Nor do

we prefer it to other metals in consequence of its weight, or the

ease with which it is worked, because, in both these points, it

yields to lead, but because it is the only substance which is not

destroyed by fire, remaining uninjured even in conflagrations and

in funeral piles. Indeed, the oftener it is exposed to fire the more

it is improved; and in order to try the purity of gold, we observe

whether, after being exposed to the fire, it becomes red, and glows

like the fire itself; this process is called the test;1 and the great

proof of the goodness of gold is the difficulty with which it is con­

sumed. It is very remarkable, that while it is not affected by the

most violent charcoal fire, it is very readily fused by chaff ;* and

that in order to purify it, it is necessary to heat it with lead. A

better reason for its high price is, that it is so little liable to be

worn by use, while with silver, copper, and lead, lines may be

drawn, and the hands are soiled with the matter which is rubbed

off them. Nor is any substance capable of being beat out into

finer leaves, or divided into smaller parts, so that an ounce of it is

capable of being extended out into 750 leaves or more, each of them

four fingers wide in both directions. The thickest of these are

called Praenestine, still retaining this name, from their having been

used to gild the statue of Fortune, which is at Praeneste. The

leaves, which are the next to these in thickness, are called

Quaestorian.

In Spain, the very small masses of gold are called Stigiles; this

metal, more frequently than all the others, being found either in

a mass or in small fibres. And while the other metals require to

be reduced by fire, this is found in a perfect form, and possesses,

1 "Obrussa;" there is much uncertainty concerning both the orthography

and derivation of this word. It is used metaphorically by Cicero, "et

adhibenda, tanquam obrussa, ratio ;" Brutus, sec. 74, p. 496; and by Seneca,

"Sic verus ille animus, et in alienum non venturus arbitrium, probatur:

hsec ejus obrussa est." Epist. xii. sub init. p. 407. Aericola informs us

that gold which had been purified by fusion was called " obryzum:" De

Nat. Foss. lib. viii. p. 331.

J Diodorus Siculus, in giving an account of the mode in which the Egyptian

gold ore is refined, says that it is put into an earthen crucible, together

with a quantity'of salt, lead, (poXt/Moc), tin, (icaooiTtpoQ), and the bran of

barley (KpiQivov wnvpov); lib. iii. sec. 14.

d2

