26 THE EftUESTRIAX ORDER.

themselves by the privilege of their rings. On this account it

was decreed, that no one should enjoy that right who was not

himself free-born, and whose father and paternal grandfather had

not possessed a property which was rated at 400 sestertia,1 and who,

according to the Julian law, were entitled to sit on one of the four­

teen first benches at the theatre. But afterwards that badge be­

gan to be wished for by every one indiscriminately; and, on account

of the disturbances that hence ensued, it was that the Emperor

Caius formed a fifth order of judges. And so much emulation was

excited from this cause, that the benches which could not be filled

in the time of the late Emperor Augustus, cannot now contain all

the members, and that freedmen jump directly from the state of

slavery to the wearing of these ornaments, a thing that was never

done before, since the wearing of the iron rings was understood to

be the privilege of the knights and judges. The use of rings

became so promiscuous, that in the censorship of Claudius Caesar,

Flavius Proculus, one of the knights, indited 400 persons on this

very account. So that while the order of knighthood was kept

distinct from the free-born citizens, it was thrown open to the

slaves.

The Gracchi first formed a distinct order under the title of

judges, from their factious desire of acquiring popularity, for the

purpose of bringing contempt upon the senate. This popular

spirit being subdued, after various revolutions, the authority which

was connected with the name at length devolved upon the farm­

ers of the revenue,1 and these, for some time, were a kind of third

estate. Cicero finally established the title of the equestrian order

in his consulship, during the affair of Cataline, giving out that he

proceeded from it, and endeavoured to increase its power by his

individual popularity. From this period it clearly became the third

body in the republic, and the equestrian order began to be added

to the senate and the Roman people. On this account it is even

now written after the people, as being the one which was added

the last in point of time.

1 A sestertium is equal to 1000 sestertii; the sestertium denotes a sum,

the sestertius a coin; the English word sesterce is applied to the coin; its

value was nearly two-pence of our money, or one penny three farthings, and

a sestertium, 81. Is. 6 jrf. The sum mentioned in the text would be 3,229/.

3s. 4,d. See Wurm, de Pond. Num. &c. Rom. et Grsec. p. 24.

2 Adam, p. 27, remarks on the different estimation in which the " Publi-

cani" were held in the city and in the provinces.

