62 EGYPTIAN SILVER.

mirrors are, however, now preferred. These were first made by

Praxiteles, about the time of Pompey the Great. Of late years it

has been thought that they give a truer image of the object when

gold is applied to the back of the mirror.

46. OF EGYPTIAN SILVER.

The Egyptians also colour their silver that they may behold

their god Anubis on their vessels; they do not engrave but paint

their silver. This practice was afterwards applied to triumphal

statues; and it is remarkable that their cost is increased by

what diminishes their splendour. It is done in this manner.

They mix with the silver one-third part of the thinnest Cyprian

copper, which is called Coronarium, with a quantity of sulphur

equal to the silver. These are fused together in an earthern pot,

lined all round with clay; the process is continued until the

covering of the pot opens of itself.6 Silver is also blackened by

being coated with coagulated egg, but this may be afterwards

rubbed off by vinegar and chalk.

Anthony, the triumvir, mixed iron with the denarii; the coin is

now debased by copper. Sometimes the coin is made short of its

proper weight; this ought to be such, that eighty-four denarii are

made out of one pound of metal. The plan of fixing a legal

standard for the coin which was formed by Marius Gratidianus

was so popular among the people, that statues of him were placed

in every street. It is, however, remarkable, that this very plan

should have become the means of practising fraud; for we find

that a specimen of a base denarius is highly valued, and that

there are persons who will give several genuine denarii for a

counterfeit one.

47, OF IMMODERATE SUMS OF MONEY; WHAT INDIVIDUALS

WERE THE MOST WEALTHY.

There were no fortunes among the ancients larger than

100,000 sesterces; but in our times this sum is so much multi­

plied, that we hear of ten times 100,000,7 or even more. This

6 The effect of this process would be to form a sulphuret of silver.

7 The sums mentioned in the text are 807/. 5*. Wd. and 10,350/. re­

spectively.

