70 CffiEULEUM.

pictures; but for painting of pannels,' the gritty species alone is

used, because the grit which is in it resists the acrid nature of the

lime. It is dug out of the hills about twenty miles from the city.

It is afterwards calcined, and is so adulterated that it is sold for

the pressed kind. But that it is counterfeit, and has been calcined,

is evident from its acrid nature; for we find that it falls into pow足

der. Polygnotus and Micon were the first painters who used Sil;

they, however, used the Attic kind only. In the following age

this kind was used to produce the lights, the Syrican and the

Lydian being for the shades. The Lydian was procured at Sardis,

but is no longer used.

57. OF CCBBULEUM.1

Coeruleum is a kind of sand. Formerly there were three kinds

of it: the Egyptian, which is the most esteemed; the Scythian,

which is easily mixed up, and when it is triturated produces four

shades of colour, some lighter and others darker; but the Cyprian

is preferred to this. Besides these, there is that from Puteoli and

from Spain, which is prepared there artificially from sand. They

are all coloured by being boiled with a certain plant, the juice of

which they imbibe: the process is the same with that which is

employed for making chrysocolla. From Coeruleum is produced

9 " Abacus j" this term seems to be applied by Vitmvius to various parts

of architecture; in lib. iii. cap. 3, and in iv. 1 and 7, it is supposed to
desig足

nate the flat stone that is placed over the capital of a column; while in vii.
3

and 4, it means a pannel or entablature; see the lexicon to Rhode's Vitruvius,

and the note in Newton's trans, p. 160 and 162; he remarks that the general

signification of the term is a flat tabulated surface.

1 Dioscorides describes " nvavog," translated by Virgilius Coeruleum, as

being found in the copper mines of Cyprus, and formed in caverns on the

sea shore; lib. v. cap. 60. See also Vitruvius, vii. 9 and 11; Rhode in his

Lexicon, and Newton, p. 172, note, suppose it to be smalt, or the oxide of

cobalt; but there is reason to suppose that the ancients were not acquainted

with this substance. Theophrastus speaks of Kvavog, as a substance of a

sandy nature, and mentions both the native and the artificial species; Op.

p. 399. It was probably a carbonate of copper, the azure or mountain

blue of the moderns; see Kirwan's Min. i. 129.. 1; Jameson's Min. ii.

218..6; Brochant, Min. ii. 190..6; and Aikins'Diet. i. 321. Theophras足

tus also applies the word Kvavog to a kind of gem; Op. p. 395; perhaps

Lapis Lazuli. The word kvovoq appears likewise to have been occasionally

employed to signify a species of metal; Homer speaks of ni\ag Kvavog as en足

tering into the composition of the breast-plate of Agamemnon, II. xi. lin. 24;

