SILVER STATUES. 67

the case informer times, so to form some apology for our own age;

C. Gracchus possessed Delphian vessels, which cost 5,000 sesterces

the pound; and Lucius Cassius had two cups, engraven by the

artist Mentor, which cost 100,000 sesterces; but he confessed that

he was ashamed ever to use them. It is also well known that he

had vessels which cost 600,000 sesterces the pound. It was the

conquest of Asia which introduced luxury into Italy; for we are

told, that Lucius Scipio brought over at his triumph 1,450 lbs.

weight of chased silver, besides 1,500 lbs. weight of gold vessels;

this was in the 565th year since the foundation of the city. This

same Asia, when it was presented to us as a gift, inflicted still

greater injury upon our morals, and the inheritance, of which we

came into possession at the death of king Attalus, was still of less

use than that victory. For then all sense of shame was entirely

destroyed by the eagerness for purchasing the articles at the sale of

the royal effects; this was in the 662d year of the city; so that

in the space of fifty-seven years, the people had learned not only

to admire, but even to covet foreign wealth. And this feeling re­

ceived a prodigious impulse by the conquest of Achaia, during

which interval, i. e. in the 608th year of the city, that nothing

might be wanting, there was a great influx of statues and

pictures. Luxury was also much increased by the reduction of

Carthage; so that it seemed as if the fates conspired to give us

both the means and the will to pursue all kinds of vice. But in­

deed some of our ancestors had endeavoured to gain credit by this

kind of conduct. C. Marius, after the victory over the Cimbri,

is said to have drunk out of a great tankard, in order that he

might be like father Bacchus; and this is the man who was ori­

ginally a ploughman at Arpinum, and was afterwards taken out

of the ranks and made a general!

54. OF SILVER STATUES.

It is an erroneous opinion that silver was first used for statues

in the time of the late Emperor Augustus, by way of paying court

to him. For we find, that in the triumph of Pompey the Great,

there was a silver statue of Pharnaces sent to Rome, the first of

that name who reigned in Pontus, and of Mithridates, the son of

Eupator; there were likewise chariots, both of gold and of silver.

In some cases, silver has come after gold, as in the ankle-rings,

worn by the women of the lower orders, which they preferred, being

f3

