44 CHRYSOCOLLA.

gold with water, and then to sprinkle the water upon the things

that we wish to purify. If gold be roasted with twice its weight

of salt, three of misy,8 and again with two of salt, and one of a

stone which they call Schiston, the noxious part of it will pass into

the substances that are calcined along with it in the earthen ves­

sels, while the metal remains pure and entire. The ashes that

are left in the earthen pot, when made into a paste with water,

are useful for removing eruptions from the face; it must be

washed off with bean-meal.9 It also relieves fistulae, and what arc

called haemorrhoids. When mixed with pounded pumice, it cures

putrid and foetid ulcers; boiled with honey and melanthium,1 and

rubbed on the navel, it opens the body gently. M. Varro as­

serts that warts are removed by gold.

26. OF CHRYSOCOLLA.2

Chrysocolla is a liquid substance, found in the pits that have

been described above, which flows through the veins of gold, and

hardens by the cold of winter, until it acquires the solidity of

8 "Miseos;" Misy is described by our author in book xxxiv. § 31; also

by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 71; it is frequently mentioned by Agricola;

De Nat. Foss. lib. iii. p. 219, & alibi. It appears to have been an impure

vitriol.

9 "Lomentum;" said to be meal made from the lotos.

1 Melanthion is described at large in book xx. sec 71, as " Gith ex Grsecis,

alii Melanthium, &c." and is referred to in various other passages. It

has been supposed to be coriander, but the following passage from Columella,

x. 244, 5. seems to prove that this is not the case;

"famosaque tunc coriandra

Nascuntur, gracilique melantia grata cumino."

Hermolaus, the commentator on Dioscorides, refers to it under the appel­

lation of "Gith quasi Nigellam;" lib. i. sec. 47. Celsus enumerates Git

among the medicines "quae calefaciunt;" lib. ii. cap. 33; and in lib. iv.

cap. 20, classes it with castoreum and anethum. It is mentioned by Scrib.

Largus, sec. 69, 0, & 131, 141; from the substances with which it is asso­

ciated it may be concluded that it was some heating or stimulating seed,

perhaps a species of pepper.

* Chrysocolla has been commonly translated Borax; but, as it appears,  
incorrectly. Our author speaks of the same substance in lib. xxxv. sec.

12 & 18, as a species of pigment. See also the present book, sec. 57, and

Salmasius, Exerc. Plin. p. 811. Aristotle says that the best Chrysocolla is

found near gold; De Mirab. Aus. cap. SO; Theophrastus describes it as of a

sandy nature, Op. p* 396. 7, and classes it with aptnviKOv, aavSapaKa,

