DEDICATION. 11

and an unhappy disposition, to prefer being caught in a theft to

returning what we have borrowed, especially when we have realized

a capital after paying ample interest for it.17

The Greeks were wonderfully happy in their titles. One work

they called Kvptov, which means the Honeycomb; another Kijpaj

A/xaXfeaj, or Cornu copiae, so that you might expect to get even

a draught of pigeon's milk from it.18 Then they have their

Flowers, their Muses, Magazines, Manuals, Gardens, Pictures,

and Sketches," all of them titles for which a man might be

tempted even to forfeit his bail. But when you enter upon

the works, oh ye Gods and Goddesses! how full of emptiness!

Our duller countrymen have simply their Antiquities, or their

Examples, or their Arts. I think one of the most humorous

has his Lamp Studies,20 a term employed by Bibaculus; a

name, which he richly deserved.*1 Varro, indeed, is not much

behind him, when he calls some of his satires A Trick and

a Half, and Turning the Tables.** Diodorus was the first

among the Greeks, who laid aside this trifling manner, and named

his history The Library." Apion, the grammarian, indeed—

he whom Tiberius Caesar called the trumpet of the world, but

who should rather seem to be the drum of common report **—sup­

posed that every one to whom he inscribed any work would thence

acquire immortality. I do not regret not having given my work

a more fanciful title.

That I may not, however, appear so completely to inveigh

against the Greeks, I should wish to be considered under the

same point of view with those inventors of the arts of painting and

sculpture, of whom you will find an account in these volumes,

'" "Cum prasertim sors fiat ex usura."

18 " Lac gallinaceum;" "Proverbium de re singulari et admodum rara;"

see note in Valpy, p. 184.

19 The titles in the original are given in Greek; I have inserted in the

text the words whicli the most nearly resemble them, and which have been

employed by modern authors.

50 "Lucubratio."

al The pun in the original cannot be preserved in the translation; the

English reader may conceive the name Bibaculus to correspond to our

surname Jolly.

M "Sesculysses" and "Floxtabula;" literally Ulysses and a half and

Bend table.

*3 "Bij3\ioeijK»j."

54 " Cymbalum mundi" and "publica; famse tympanum."

