CHRYSOCOLLA.

nium.3 These substances combine readily with the Chrysocolla,

and, at the same time, give a smoothness to its colour. The Pa-

rastonium, which is of a fatty and very smooth consistence, is

sprinkled over the Atramentum, lest the whiteness of the Parae-

tonium should injure the lustre of the chrysocolla. The species

called Lutea, is supposed to be named from the plant, which is

itself sometimes rubbed with Cceruleum,4 and used instead of the

chrysocolla, but the green thus produced is a very bad and a most

deceitful colour.

28. THE SIX MEDICINES MADE FROM CHRYSOCOLLA.

Chrysocolla is used in medicine to cleanse wounds, mixed up

with oil and wax; being itself a dry substance, it causes them to

dry and contract. It is also given in sore throats, and in asthma,

combined with honey. It acts as an emetic; it is used in eye-

salves, to remove scars or specks from the cornea; also in green

plaisters, for the purpose of relieving pains or healing scars. The

kind of Chrysocolla which is not called Orobitis, the physicians

name Acesis.5

29. OF THE CHRYSOCOLLA OF THE GOLDSMITHS, OR SANTERNA.

Chrysocolla is also used by the goldsmiths for soldering their

gold; it is from this property that the name Chrysocolla6 is

applied to all the species. For this purpose it is digested with

verdigris, and the urine of children, together with natron.? It is

for the purpose of a varnish; see lib. xxxv. sec. 12 & 36. Vitruvius gives

an account of the mode of making writing ink, " atramentum librarium,"

by mixing the soet of resin with gum; he informs us that atramentum was

also used as a pigment for walls; vii. 10.

s "Parsetonium" is enumerated among the pigments, as one of the "colores

"austeri," in lib. xxxv. sec. 12, and in sec. 18, is described as "spumam

"... maris solidatam cum limo." We may suppose it to have been a mecha­

nical mixture of various earthy and saline bodies, which possessed an

absorbent quality. It is mentioned by Vitruvius, vii. 7, among the earthy

pigments. It was probably procured from Paretonium in Marmorica.

4 Coeruleum is described in sec. 57.

5 Ab aKtofiai; equivalent to Cure-all.

6 XpvooKoWa, Auri glutinum.

7 "Nitrum," the word used in the text signified among the ancients the

native subcarbonate of soda, not the nitrate of potash, as among modern

chemists; Pliny describes it in lib. xxxi. sec. 46.

