18 SOLD RINGS.

yet this was probably intended to signify rather a chain than an

ornament. And as for the ring of Midas, by the turning of which

the wearer was rendered invisible, who does not admit, that this is

still more fabulous? Gold obtained its very high estimation from

being worn on the hand, and always on the sinister hand;1 not

however by the Romans, who used a ring of iron, as an indication

of their warlike spirit.

I cannot exactly say what was the fact with respect to the

ltoman kings. There is nothing of the kind on the statue of

Romulus in the capitol, nor on any other, except those of Numa

and Servius Tullius; not even on that of L. Brutus. I wonder

much that this should be the case with respect to the Tarquins,

who came from Greece, from which country the use of these rings

was derived; although now indeed they use iron rings at Lace-

daemon. It appears, however, that Tarquinius Priscus was the

first who presented his son with a golden bulla,2 upon his killing

an enemy in battle, while he still wore the praetexta;3 whence

this custom of wearing the bulla was continued, so that the chil­

dren of those who had the rank of knight were allowed to have

that badge of distinction, while the others wore a leathern belt.*

It therefore appears the more remarkable that the statue of

Tarquin should be without a ring.

I find that there has been much uncertainty respecting the name

of this article; the Greeks derive it from the finger, (ActxrvXioi)

our ancestors styled it Unguium, while latterly both the Greeks

and ourselves have called it Symbolum.5 It is certain that, for a

1 "Sinistra ;•* the play upon this word, which the Author intended to

convey, cannot be fully transferred into tha English language.

a On the subject of Bullae, see Montfaucon, vol. iii. part 1. book 2. ch. 10.

pi. 12. fig. 7...18, and pi. 13. fig. 5; also Adam, p. 414.

3 The toga praetexta was worn by the young men of Rome until they

were 17 years of age; Adam, ubi supra.

4 "Lorum" belt, signifying nodus, or signum de loro, according to

Juvenal, v. 16S.

s Badge, signet; these were probably like what we now call seal-rings.

We have a copious set of references in Adam, p. 428, 9: it does not, how­

ever, I think, appear certain that in all these cases, for example, in
Plautus,

Bacch.2.3.29, the "symbolum" was attached to aring. See also Montfaucon,

vol. iii. part 2. book 1. ch. 11, 12, pi. 13. He describes Annuli signatorii,
as

one species of rings. The ancient gems were some of them cut in relief, and

others engraven en creux; the former were used for the purpose of personal

ornament, or for being deposited in cabinets, while the latter were set in

rings. Besides the seals attached to finger-rings, there were large seals, for

