WORKING OF GOLD MINES. 39

sometimes happens that the clefts suddenly slip down, and over­

whelm the workmen: it may indeed be considered as a less dan­

gerous employment to dive for pearls in the depths of the ocean;

so much more hurtful to us have we made the land than the water.

To prevent these accidents, there are a number of arches left in

the mountains. Masses of very hard stone4 are occasionally met

with in both kinds of mines; these they break down with fire and

vinegar. But more frequently in the shafts, where the smoke

and vapour would produce suffocation, they cleave the rock in

large masses of 150 lbs. each, and these they convey on their

shoulders, and pass them on in regular order, from one to another,

according as they are stationed; all this is done in the dark, those

alone who stand the last in the line seeing the light. If this hard

rock is of very considerable length, the trench is carried by the

side of it, and goes round it. The labour, however, is thought to

be less in cutting through flint rock than some other substances:

there is an earth composed of a kind of clay mixed with gravel;

it is called white earth, and it is almost impossible to quarry it;

they attack it with iron wedges, and mallets of the same material.

Nothing it is thought can be harder than this substance, unless

indeed the insatiable thirst of gold be esteemed the hardest of all

things. When they have completed their workings, they then

break down the supports, beginning at the last. A man, who is

constantly stationed on the top of the hill for this purpose, watches

the first sign of the ground being about to give way; he imme­

diately calls out to the men to leave the mine, and goes himself

away as speedily as possible. The mountain breaks down, and

falls asunder with a crash which is inconceivable, and is accompa­

nied by a prodigious rush of air. They survey the ruins of nature

as if they had conquered her. But they have not yet procured

the gold; when the ore is dug up, they do not know its nature.

The hope only of obtaining what they so earnestly desire, is cause

enough for them to undertake all this labour and expense.

Another operation still remains to be performed, which is equally

laborious, and even more expensive; this consists in conveying

water along the ridges of the hills, perhaps for a hundred miles,

in order to wash these ruins of the mountains. These streams arc

4 "Silices;" this term is not to be understood as restricted to flint, accord­

ing to the modern use of the term, but to be applied to any rock which was

very hard and difficult to work.

