DEDICATION. 7

"Emperor ! why do you read these things? They are written only

for the common people, for farmers or mechanics, or for those who?

have nothing else to do; why do you trouble yourself with them?"

Indeed, when I undertook this work, I did not expect that you

would sit in judgment on me;' I considered your situation much

too elevated for you to descend to such an office. Besides we

possess the right of openly rejecting the opinion of men of learn­

ing. M. Tullius himself, whose genius is beyond all competition,

uses this privilege, and, remarkable as it may appear, employs an

advocate in his own defence. "I do not write for very learned

people; I do not wish my works to be read by Manius Persius,

but by Junius Congus."8 And if Lucilius, who first introduced

the satirical style,' applied such a remark to himself, and if

Cicero thought proper to borrow it, and that more especially in

his treatise "De Republica;" how much more reason have I to do

so, who have such a judge to defend myself against? And by this

very dedication I have deprived myself of the benefit of chal­

lenge ;IO for it is a very different thing whether a person has a

judge given him by lot, or whether he voluntarily selects one; and

we always make more preparation for an invited guest, than for

one that comes in unexpectedly.

When the candidates for office, during the heat of the canvass,

deposited the fine in the hands of Cato, that determined opposer

of bribery, rejoicing as he did in his being rejected from what he

considered to be foolish honours, they professed to do this out of

respect to his integrity; the greatest glory which a man could

attain. It was on this occasion that M. Cicero uttered the noble

ejaculation; "How happy are you, Marcus Porcius, of whom no

one dares to ask what is dishonourable!" When L. Scipio Asiati-

cus appealed to the tribunes, among whom was Gracchus, he

expressed full confidence that he should obtain an acquittal, even

from a judge who was his enemy. Thus it appears that every one

7 "Non eras in hoc albo;" see note inValpy, p. 177. A passage in

Quintilian, lib. xii. cap. 4. p. 688, may serve to illustrate this use of the

term album;" quorum alii se ad album ac rubricas transtule-

runt...."

8 Cicero refers to this remark of Lucilius's in two of his other works,

although with a variation in the expression and in the individuals specified;

De Orat. lib. ii. sec. 6, and De Fin. lib. i. sec. 3.

9 "Qui primus condidit styli nasum."

1° " Sed haec ego mihi nunc patrocinia ademi nuncupatioue."

