FINDING OF GOLD. 37

21. OF THE FINDING OF GOLD.

Gold is found in our part of the world, not to mention that

from India, which is dug up by ants, or that among the Scythians

by griffins.7 We procure it in three ways: first in the sand from

the beds of rivers,8 as is the case with the Tagus in Spain, the

Po in Italy, the Hebrus in Thrace, the Pactolus in Asia Minor, and

the Ganges in India.' Nor is there any gold more pure than this;

its passage down the river, and the friction completely polishes it.

Another source is the earth dug out of open pits,1 and lastly, the

breaking down1 of the mountains: I shall give an account of each

of these modes. In searching for gold, they first remove the Se-

gullum,3 for so the substance is called which is regarded as an in足

dication of its presence. A channel is formed, in which the sand

is washed, and the quality of the sand is determined by ascertain足

ing the nature of the sediment. Sometimes, by extraordinary

good fortune, a vein is found near the surface, as was lately the

case in Dalmatia, during the time of Nero, which yielded at the

rate of 50 lbs. weight per day. If the earth contains gold, a kind

of gum called Talutatium" is found just below the sod. The dry

7 A farther detail of the circumstances here alluded to may be found in

book xi. sec. 36, and book vii. sec. 2. Pliny probably took his account from

Herodotus, book iii. sec. 102, and sec. 166. Agricola has attempted to

explain the origin of these stories; De Vet. et Nov. Met. lib. i. p. 393;

also De Nat. Foss. lib. viii. p. 330. We have much curious information

respecting gold mines and the mode of working them in this author, espe足

cially in the 8th book of his treatise De Nat. Foss. and in the 2d book of

his treatise De Vet. et Nov. Metallis.

8 "Ramentum."

9 We learn from Aristotle that gold was found in the soil of Pceonia and

Pieria, and in the river Ozus in Bactria; De Mirab. Aus. cap. 45... 8.

Diodorus Siculus informs us that it was abundant in the rivers of Gaul;

lib. iii. sec. 27.- --

1 "Puteorum-scrobes." r'

2 " Fragmenta."

3 We are informed in the French translation, that Segullo is an old

Spanish word, which is still in use among the Castillians; t. x. note in p.

584, 5.

'4 In most of the technical mining terms that occur in this chapter, there

are considerable variations in the MSS.; in the present case we have in

some copies "alutationem," in others "alutatium." The French trans足

lator lenders the word " toute usuelle;" t. x. note in p. 588.

