58 CINNABAR.

ground to powder.3 This is the second rate kind of minium,

which indeed is known to very few, and which is much less valu­

able than the native species. And this is the substance which is

employed by our public companies to adulterate genuine minium.

In this way they make Syricum, by a process which I shall

describe it in its proper place.* It is evident, by reckoning the

cost of the article, that in painting with minium the ground is

often laid with syricum. Another dishonest custom which painters

practise is to wash the brushes when they are loaded with paint;

this settles to the bottom of the water, and is pilfered by the work­

men. Pure minium ought to have the rich colour of crimson.

When the inferior kind is laid upon walls, in consequence of their

moisture, the colour becomes very much less brilliant; yet this is

supposed to be a species of metallic rust. In the Sisaponensian

minium mines the ore is calcined without silver, like gold. It is

tested by heated gold; the factitious kind is rendered black, while

the colour of the genuine kind is not affected. I find that it is

also adulterated by lime. If there be no gold at hand, a plate of

heated iron may be substituted for the gold. Exposure to the

light, either of the sun or of the moon, is injurious to the colour;

the remedy is to cover the wall, when it is become dry, with a

mixture of Punic wax and oil, which is to be laid on while hot

with hair brushes.

It is to be heated again by burning gall nuts,5 until the surface

melts; it is then smoothed down with tapers,6 and afterwards rubbed

with clean linen cloths, as marbles are cleaned and polished.7 The

workmen who prepare minium in the manufactories, bind bladders

loosely over the face, to prevent them from taking the poison-

3 Theophrastus speaks of a native and an artificial minium; the latter

would appear to be merely a pulverized red earth; Op. p. 399; De Lapid.

sec. 103.

4 Lib. xxxv. sec 24. The only account we have of it is, that it is formed

by a mixture of " Sinopis" and " Sandyx," which appear to be species of

ochres.

5 "Admotis gallse carbonibus;" the galls would act in no other way than

as a convenient mode of applying heat.

6 "Candelis subigitur;" it seems difficult to determine what was the com­

position of the candeta, and what was the object of this part of the process.

'This process is described by Vitruvius; the painted surface is covered

with a mixture of wax and oil, this is melted by burning coals, and rubbed

with a roll of linen cloth, the application of the candela is omitted; lib.
vii.

cap. 9; Newton's Trans, p. 169.

