20 GOLD RINGS.

the custom, seems to have done it secretly, putting the ring on the

left hand, as it were concealing it; for if it had been clearly

regarded as an honour, it would have been more conspicuous on

the right hand. It may indeed be said, that they were worn on

the left hand, in order that the right might be left more at liberty

for the use of offensive weapons; yet we may remark, that the free

use of the left hand, with which the shield is held, is as necessary

as the right. We learn also from Homer, that men wore orna­

ments of gold in their hair: it does not appear whether this custom

originated with the women.

5. OF THE QUANTITY OF GOLD AMONG THE ANCIENTS.

For a long time the quantity of gold in Rome was but very

small. It is certain, that when peace was purchased from the

Gauls, after they had captured the city, no more than 1,000 lbs.

weight of gold could be raised. I am indeed not ignorant of the

fact, that M. Crassus, in his and Pompey's second consulship, em­

bezzled 2,000 lbs. weight of gold, which he took from the throne

of Jupiter Capitolinus, where it had been deposited by Camillus,8

and from this circumstance many persons have supposed, that

2,000 lbs. weight had been collected by him at the time. But the

additional quantity was the booty of the Gauls, part of which they

had taken from the temples of the captive city. What happened

to Torquatus proves that the Gauls made use of gold when they

went to battle. We may then conclude, that the ransom offered

to the Gauls, and what belonged to the temples, made up the sum

in question, and no more. And this indeed appears to have been

the meaning of the oracle, when it said, that Jupiter Capitolinus

had rendered back double the sum that had been entrusted to him.

I may also mention by the way, since I am to resume the subject

of. rings, that the keeper of this treasure being seized, broke the

stone of his ring in his mouth, and immediately expired, so that

all farther discovery was rendered impossible. It appears, there­

fore, that the quantity of gold in Rome was no more than 2,000

lbs. weight, in the year of the city 364, and when, according to

the census, the number of the free-born citizens 9 was 152,573.

• See Livy, v. SO; where we are informed that the treasure was first de­

posited in the cella, and was afterwards removed to the sella of Jupiter; see

note in Valpy's edit. p. 919. Pliny employs the term solium.

» "Capita libera;" the number in the text refers only to the free-bom

