CINNABAR. 55

36. OF MINIUM ; S HOW SACRED IT WAS CONSIDERED AMONG

THE ANCIENTS.

Minium is also found in veins of silver ore; a substance, which,

both in our own times is in high estimation as a pigment, and was

formerly considered by the Romans, not only as most highly va­

luable, but even as sacred.

Verrius enumerates certain writers of unquestionable veracity,

who inform us, that on festivals the face of the statue of Jupiter

was smeared with minium, as were all the bodies of those who rode

in triumph; and this was the case with Camillus. In consequence

of this superstition it is that, at this day, minium is added to the

unguents which are employed in the triumphal entertainments,

and that the first duty of the censors is to have the minium ap­

plied to the statue of Jupiter. I cannot but wonder what was the

origin of this custom. We learn, indeed, that at this day the

same substance is in request among the .Ethiopians, and that all

their nobility, and the statues of their gods, are coloured with it.

It therefore behoves us to make all possible inquiry respecting it.

37. OF ITS DISCOVERY AND ORIGIN.

Theophrastus informs us, that ninety years before Praxibulus

was chief magistrate of Athens (which answers to the 394th year of

our city,) minium was discovered by Callias, the Athenian, while

he was endeavouring to procure gold, by calcining the red sand

which is found in the silver ores; this is said to have been its ori­

gin. It had been previously found in Spain, but in a hard and

gritty state; also among the Colchians, in a certain inaccessible

rock, from which it was detached by darts. This, however, was a

bastard kind; the best was obtained above Ephesus, in the Cil-

bianian country. The sand has a scarlet colour; it is rubbed

down, the powder is washed, and the part which subsides is washed

a second time. The difference between the modes in which it is

prepared is, that some persons procure the minium by one wash­

ing only, while others use more water, and obtain the best kind by

a subsequent washing.

5 By the term minium Pliny designated the sulphuret of mercury, cin­

nabar, or native vermillion, not the red oxide of lead, according to the

modern use of the word. Agricola employs it in the same way with Pliny;

De Nat. Foss. lib. x. and De Re Met. p. *68 .. 0.

