46 CHRYSOCOLLA.

alum schist,6 and the plant mentioned above. It must be dyed

before it can dye.r It is of importance that it should be bibulous,

and easy to work. If it has not quickly taken the the proper

colour, they add schytanum and turbiston,8 names which they

gave to two substances which cause it to imbibe the colour.

27. ITS USE IN PAINTING.

When it is dyed in this manner, the painters call it Orobitis; 9

and there are two kinds of it,—the yellow, which is made into a

powder," and the liquid, which is formed by dissolving the grains

in a fluid. Both these kinds are made in Cyprus. The most

approved comes from Armenia, the next best from Macedonia,

but it is the most plentiful in Spain. That is the most valued

which produces a colour as nearly as possible similar to the bright

green of young corn. The arena of the circus was covered with

chrysocolla, at the games which were exhibited by the Emperor

Nero, when he proposed himself to drive his chariot in a dress of

the same colour. The workmen, who are not well acquainted

with the substance, divide it into three species; the rough kind,

which is valued at seven denarii the pound, the middle kind at

five, and the powder, which is also called the vegetable spe­

cies, at three. Painters, before they use the pulverized chry­

socolla, lay under it a ground-work of Atramentum2 and Paraeto-

6 "Alumen schistum;" this is described lib. xxxv. sec. 52.

'** Pingiturque antequam pingat."

• It appears impossible to ascertain the orthography or the derivation of

these words, nor can we form any conjecture what substances they were

intended to designate.

• From its being formed into masses or small grains like the seeds of the

orobus or vetch.

'"Quae servatur in lomentum;" this phrase may perhaps mean, that the

substance in question was mixed with some kind of powder, for the purpose

of making what we call an opake or body colour. The term lomentum is

supposed to be immediately derived from \tnopai, lavo; it occurs again in

sec. 57.

• "Atramentum" is generally translated ink, and it appears that the an­

cients applied the term to the fluid which was used for writing. Their

writing-ink was not, however, like that of the moderns, composed of the

gallate of iron, but more like what we term Indian ink, consisting of a

carbonaceous substance suspended in a viscid fluid. But we learn from our

author, that besides its more general acceptation, the word atramentum

was also applied to a certain pigment, and to something which was used

