42 ELECTRUM.

ground, and is of the colour of gold, but it is brittle like Lapis

Specularis.1 The emperor Caius, who was most greedy of gold,

was anxious to make trial of it, and ordered a great quantity of

it to be smelted. And he certainly procured gold of excellent

quality, but in so small a proportion, that he incurred a heavy

loss from the undertaking, to which he was impelled by his avarice;

although fourteen pounds weight of the Orpiment had been ac­

tually converted into gold. The process has never been attempted

by any one since.

23. OF ELECTEUM.

In all gold there is a portion of silver; the quantity differs, in

some cases amounting to one-ninth, in others to one-eighth of the

whole. There is an ore found in Gaul called Albucrarense, which

contains only l-36th part, so much does it excel the others in

value. When one-fifth of the whole is silver it is called Electrum,3

this kind of alloy is found in the ore called Canaliense.4 Electrum

is also made artificially, by adding gold to silver, but if the pro­

portion of silver be more than one-fifth, the compound will not

bear the hammer. Homer gives his testimony to the value which

was formerly set upon Electrum, when he informs us that the

palace of Menelaus was resplendent with gold, silver, electrum,

and ivory.5 Lindos, a town of the island of Rhodes, has a temple

mentum as "quod apatviKov a Graecis nominatur." Nearly the same words

are employed by Vitruvius, lib. vii. cap. 7, and by Agricola, De Nat.

Foss. lib. iii. p. 225; but in this and other passages these authors appear to

refer to the sulphuret of arsenic. In his Dialogue De Re Met. p. 456, he

distinctly mentions white arsenic, and designates auripigmentum as yellow

arsenic.

* This is the Foliated Gypsum, or Selinhe, of the modern mineralogists;  
SeeKirwin'sMin. 123,4; Jameson,i.567 .. 0; Brochant, i. 606..9; Aikins'

Diet. i. 546, 7. It is described by Agricola, De Re Met. p. 456, 7. Pliny

treats of it farther in lib. xxxvi. sec. 45.

J Agricola says that the name of electrum was given to an alloy, "ubi

quinta argenti portio inest in quatuor auri portionibus;" De Nat. Foss.

lib. viii. p. 343. The term has been retained by the modern chemists and

applied to the argentiferous ore of gold; the proportion of its ingredients

is, however, very different from that stated by Pliny and Agricola;

Klaproth found it to consist of 64 parts gold to 36 silver.

4 See p. 38.

s Odyssey, lib. iv. v. 73. Sophocles speaks of "aapittav ijXticrpoi/" in

connexion with the other precious metals; Antigone, 1037, 8.

