16 INTRODUCTION.

regions, as if the part which we cultivate was not sufficiently boun­

tiful and fertile. But all this time we take very little pains in

searching for remedies; for how few persons there are who dig

into the earth for the purpose of procuring medicines. She has,

indeed, with her accustomed kindness and liberality, given us on

the surface whatever is necessary for this purpose. It is what she

has concealed from us, what is sunk below the surface, and is of

slow growth, that urges us downwards, and drives us to the lower

regions. When the mind ranges abroad, we are led to inquire

what will be the end of this rage for exhausting the earth, and

how far avarice will finally penetrate. How innocent, how happy,

how truly delightful would life be, if we were anxious to obtain

nothing but what is to be procured above ground, and only pos­

sessed what lies ready to our hands!

2. OF GOLD.

Gold is dug up from the earth, and near it is found chryso-

colla,3 which, from its position, may seem more valuable than it

actually is. It was not enough for us to have discovered one

plague for our lives, but that we must likewise set a price upon the

dross of gold.4 While avarice was searching for silver, it was

thought a great advantage to have discovered minium,5 and to

find out a use for this red earth. What a spirit of prodigality!

In how many ways have we increased the value of things! We

employ the art of painting for this purpose, and we have ren­

dered even gold and silver more costly by chasing it. Man has

learned how to rival nature. Art has been promoted even by the

incitements to vice; our drinking vessels are so ornamented as to

administer to our lusts.6 These things were, however, after

some time, thrown aside and despised; gold and silver became

too common. From this same earth we also procure murr-

hine 7 and crystalline vessels, and these are valued the more on

3 ChrysocoUa is more fully described in sec. 26.

4 "Auri sanies."

5 Minium is described in sec 36.

6 It would appear that the author here refers both to the art of chasing;

i. e. forming figures in relief on the metal, and also to the custom of giving

particular forms to the vessels. This is evident from Juvenal; Sat. ii.

1.95.

1 Murrhina are described in book xxxvii. sec. 8; they were probably

onyxes or opals; perhaps the term was not confined to these substances,

