12 DEDICATION.

4

whose works, although they are so perfect that we are never satis­

fied with admiring them, are inscribed with a temporary title,1*

such as "Apelles, or Polycletus, was doing this;" implying, that

the art was in its infancy, and still imperfect, and that the artist

might benefit by the criticisms that were made on his work, and

alter any part that required it, if he had not been prevented by

death. It is also a great mark of their modesty, that they inscribed

all -their works as if they were the last which they had executed,

and as still in hand at the time of their death. I think there are

but three works of art, which are inscribed positively with the words

"such a one executed this;" of these I shall give an account in

the proper place. In these cases it appears that the artist felt the

most perfect satisfaction with his work, and hence these pieces

were the most eagerly sought after.

I, indeed, freely admit that much may be added to my works;

not only to this, but to all which I have published. By this

admission I hope to escape from the carping critics,*6 and I have

the more reason to say this, because I hear that there are certain

Stoics and Dialecticians, and also Epicureans, (from the Gramma­

rians I expected as much,) who are big with something against

the little work I published on Grammar, and that they have been

carrying these abortions for ten years together—a longer preg­

nancy this than the elephant's. But I well know that even a

woman once wrote against Theophrastus, a man so eminent in

eloquence that he obtained the title of the Divine, and that thence

originated the proverb of, choosing a tree to hang oneself.27

I cannot refrain from quoting the words of Cato the censor,

which are so pertinent to this point. It appears from them, that

even Cato, who wrote commentaries on military discipline, and

who had learned the military art under Africanus, or rather under

Hannibal (for he could not endure Africanus, who, when he was

his general, had borne away the triumph from him), that Cato, I

say, was open to the attacks of such as caught at reputation for

themselves by detracting from the merits of others. What then

"s "Pendenti titulo;" see note in Valpy, p. 187.

56 "Homeromastigse."

a7 "Suspendio jam quserere mortem oportere homines viteque renunciare

cum tantum licentise, vel feminse, vel imperiti homines summit, ut in doc-

tissimos scribant;" note in Valpy, p. 188. We learn from Cicero, De Nat.

Deor. lib. i. sec. 33, that the name of this female was Leentium; ".... sed

meretricula etiam Leontium, contra Theophrastum scribere ausa sit?"

