DEDICATION. 13

does he say in his book?" I know that when I shall publish what

I have written, there will be many who will do all they can to

depreciate it, and especially such as are themselves void of all

merit; but I let their harangues glide by me." Nor was the

remark of Plancus a bad one, when Asinius Pollio was said to be

preparing an oration against him, which was to be published either

by himself or his children, after the death of Plancus, in order

that he might not be able to answer it. "It is only ghosts that

fight with the dead." This remark gave such a blow to the

oration, that in the opinion of the learned generally nothing was

ever thought more scandalous. Feeling myself therefore secure

against these slanderers vile,*8 a name elegantly composed by

Cato, to express their slanderous and vile disposition, (for what

other object have they, but to wrangle and breed quarrels ?) I

will proceed y ith my projected work.

And because the public good requires that you should be spared

as much as possible from all trouble, I have subjoined to this

epistle the contents of each of the following books, >s and have

used my best endeavours to prevent your being obliged to read

them all through. And this, which was done for your benefit,

will also serve the same purpose for others, so that any one may

search for what he wishes, and may know where to find it. This

has been done before among us by Valerius Soranus, in his book

which he entitled " On Mysteries."30

The 1st book is the Preface of the Work, dedicated to Titus

Vespasian Caesar.

The 2d is on the World, the Elements, and the Heavenly

Bodies.

The 3d is on the 1st and 2d of the Great Bays of Europe.

The 4th is on the 3d Bay of Europe.

In the 5th Africa is described.

The 6th contains the Description of Asia.

The 7th is on Man, and the Inventions of Man.

The 8th on the different kinds of Land Animals.

»» "Vitiligatores."

a» The table of contents, which occupies no less than 130 pages in Valpy's

edition, is omitted, on the present occasion, in consequence of its length.

In this specimen I have thought it sufficient to add the general subjects

of the books only.

3° " EltOltTlStOV."

