4tt SOLDERING.

to be pounded with a copper pestle and mortar; it is then called

Santerna.8 It is the gold which contains an alloy of silver that is

soldered in this way. They judge of its nature by observing

whether it becomes bright when the Santerna is applied to it; if

it is alloyed with copper, it seems to shrink, it looks dull, and is

not easily soldered. In order to solder this kind of metal, a por­

tion of gold, with one-seventh part of silver, is added to the com­

pound mentioned above, and rubbed with it.

30. THE WONDERS OF NATURE IN SOLDERING AND COMPLETING

METALLIC SUBSTANCES.

It may be proper to notice in this place the other kinds of

solder, that we may become fully acquainted with the wonders of

nature. The solder for gold has been already described. Clay 9

is the solder for iron; cadmia1 for masses of copper; and alum for

copper-plates; resin for lead and for marble; black lead is soldered

by white lead, and pieces of white lead are united together by oil.

Stannum 2 is soldered by copper filings, and silver by stannum.

* The pro.cess is described by Dioscorides as a method of preparing ver­  
digris, so as to produce a solder for gold; " Eotiv Si tic KoXKtotriv ■"

lib. v. cap. 47. "Est prseter hanc etiam serugo alia, quae ab inducentibus

"aurum operibus suis in mortario pistilloque ex Cyprio sere et pueri urina

"fit, qua aurum inducunt." The process is again mentioned by Pliny,

lib. xxxiv. sec. 28, as a method of preparing a kind of verdigris that was

used for soldering gold. Agricola, in describing the factitious chrysocolla,

chiefly follows Pliny and Dioscorides; De Nat. Foss. lib. iii. p. 222.

9 "Argilla," this term frequently occurs in Pliny, and appears to be equi­

valent to the term clay, signifying the various species of plastic earths and

marls, essentially composed of alumine and silex, and generally containing

oxide of iron.

1 Cadmia is described more fully in the next book, sec. 2, et alibi; it ap­

pears to have been an ore of zinc, probably calamine; see also Diosco­

rides, v. 42.

a "Plumbum album," and " plumbum nigrum," are described in the next

book, sec. 47. By plumbum nigrum the author appears to mean metallic

lead. There are various circumstances mentioned with respect to plum­

bum album, which would lead to the opinion that he applied this term to

tin. He frequently uses the word Stannum, but never speaks of the two

as synonimous, of which an instance occurs in the very next sentence;

see also lib. xxxiv. sec. 47, 48. Agricola distinctly applies the term plum­

bum candidum to tin, and informs us that it was called by the Greeks

Kairirirfpos, DeNat. Foss. lib. viii. p. 339; see also the dialogue, De Re
Met.

