GOLD RINGS. 17

account of their very brittleness. For it was regarded as a proof

of opulence, and as quite the glory of luxury, to possess what is

liable, at any time, to be totally destroyed. Nor was even this

thought sufficient; we drink out of a cluster of gems, and we cover

our cups with emeralds ;8 we are anxious to get possession of India

in order to indulge our passion for drinking, and the gold is become

only a secondary consideration.

3. WHAT IS THE CHIEF RECOMMENDATION OF GOLD.

Oh! that the sacred thirst of gold, as some very famous

authors have termed it, could be entirely banished from the

earth! It has always been loaded with reproaches by the best

men, and was discovered for the destruction of life. How much

happier a period was it when articles were bartered for each other,

as was the case in the time of the Trojan war, if we are to credit

Homer. For in this way, as I suppose, was the traffic carried on,

by which they procured their subsistence. He mentions that

some exchanged ox-hides, and others iron, or the booty which

they had taken in battle; yet, it appears, that he himself esteemed

gold very highly, as he informs us, that Glaucus exchanged his

arms, which were made of gold, and were considered worth one

hundred oxen, for Diomed's, which were worth only nine. Pro­

ceeding upon the same system of barter, it appears, that even at

Rome, in former times, the fines were levied in cattle.9

4. OF THE ORIGIN OF GOLD RINGS.

The man who first put gold upon his fingers committed the

greatest crime: we are not however informed who first did this.

For what is said with respect to Prometheus, I regard as fabulous.

The ancients indeed generally represent him with an iron ring;

but signified any translucent mineral, that exhibited a variety of colours.

See Montfaucon's Antiq. vol. iii. part 1. book 4. chap. 9. Salmasius ridicules

the idea of their being onyxes, and conceives that the vessels were made of

porcelain; Exer. Plin. p. 144.

• The "Smaragdus" is described in book xxxvii. sec. 13; probably the

Beryl of the moderns.

» We may suppose that this was the reason why the figure of an ox, or

other animal was stamped on the earliest Roman coins; see Montfaucon,

vol. iii. part 1. book, 4. ch. 9. pi. 27. fig. 17, 18, 19; also Adam's Roman

Antiquities, p. 491.

c

