52 SILVER.

bite of dogs. It is very useful in burns, mixed with fat, litharge,8

white lead,' and wax. It is roasted in furnaces, surrounded with

balls of ox dung; it is then quenched in woman's milk, and ground

in mortars with rain water. It is then poured, while turbid, into

a copper vessel, and purified with natron. The dross consists

principally of lead, and every thing which subsides in the mortar

is thrown away. The vessel into which the turbid fluid had been

poured is left for the space of a night covered with a linen cloth;

on the following day all the fluid part is poured off, and removed

by a sponge. That which subsides from the fluid is named the

flower; it is dried in the sun, covered by a linen cloth, care

being taken that it should not be rendered hard. It is then again

rubbed in the mortar, and is divided into pastils. It is above all

things necessary not to roast it too much, lest it be converted into

lead: some persons do not use dung, but fat, in this process;

others again, after it has been pounded, put it into sacks made of

three folds of linen, and plunge them into water; they throw away

the dregs, and pouring off what passes through the linen, they

collect the substance, which subsides from the water; this they

make up into plaisters and applications for the eyes.

35. OF THE SCORIA OF SILVER; MEDICINES FROM IT.

The Scoria of silver is called by the Greeks helcysma;1 it has

an astringent and refrigerant virtue. It is put into plaisters like

Molybdena,* (a substance which I shall speak of in the account

* "Spuma argenti." This substance is described by Dioscorides, lib; v.  
cap. 54, under the name of AtQapyvpog, i. e. the calx of silver. Agricola

was acquainted with its real nature, as produced from the lead which is

mixed with the silver, when a mixture of the two metals is exposed to a

high temperature; De Nat. Foss. lib. ix. p. 354.

9 " Cerussa." The nature and manufacture of this substance are described

in book xxxiv. sec. 54; it appears to have been similar to our ceruse, the

carbonate of lead of the modern chemists. This process is described more at

length by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 57.

1 Supposed to be derived from cXkuu, traho, perhaps signifying what is

drawn from off the melted metal. For the meaning of the word scoria, see

sec. 21.

a Lib. xxxiv. sec. 53; the author employs this term as synonimous with

Galena; see also Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 54. The word appears to have

been generally employed by the ancients to designate a sulphuret or oxide of

lead. The modern chemists have applied the term moh/bdena to a distinct

metal. Agricola says, what the Latins call plumbago, the Greek call noXvfi-

Saiva, lib. x. p. 335; it appears to be an oxide of lead.

