64 SILVER VESSELS.

lot of slaves, or which even kings themselves have not been able

to attain!

48. WHEN THE ROMANS FIRST GAVE LARGESSES.

The Roman people began to give largesses in the consulship of

Sp. Postumius and Q. Martius. Money was then so plentiful,

that a sum was given to L. Scipio, with which he instituted

public games. With respect to the copper sextans, which was

collected for the funeral of Agrippa Menenius, I do not regard it

as a largess, but as done in honour of him, and what was rendered

necessary by his poverty.

49. OF LUXURY IN SILVER VESSELS.

The wonderful fickleness of the human mind is perpetually

varying the forms of our silver vessels, never long together approv­

ing of any one kind; now adopting the Firmian pattern, now the

Clodian, nowtheGratian; for we give the names of the silversmiths

to our sideboards.' Next we search after chased vessels,4 with de­

signs engraven on them. We likewise place our dishes upon stands,s

and we cut away their sides in order that they may hold the pro­

visions, and they are considered the more valuable the more they

aTe filed away. Calvus, the orator, complained that our cooking

utensils were made of silver; but we have ornamented even our

chariots with chased silver; and, in our own times, Poppasa, the

wife of the Emperor Nero, had the shoes of her favourite mules

made of gold.

50. EXAMPLES OF ANCIENT FRUGALITY IN THE USE OF SILVER.

The second Africanus left his heir only 32 lbs. weight of silver.

The same individual, when he triumphed over the Carthaginians,

transmitted to the treasury 4,380 lbs. weight of silver. This was

the total amount of silver possessed by Carthage, that rival of the

whole earth; but in these days how many services for the table

have exceeded this sum! After the destruction of Numantium,

3 Martial gives us a curious list of the different kinds of silver vessels
that

were the most esteemed when he wrote; Epig. iv. 38.

* " Anaglypta," avayXvirra, coelata.

5 " Repositoria;" "supports pour les plats;" French trans, t. x. p. 619.

