OEPIMENT. 41

in the mode that was first mentioned, with such immense labour,

is washed in this water, lest it should fill up the pits. The gold

which is procured from the Arrugige is not smelted, being found

in the metallic state. Lumps of it are met with in this situation,

and also in the trenches, of more than ten pounds each; the

Spaniards call them Palacae, others call them Palacurnae; when

very small they are called Balucae.9 The furze, after being dried,

is burnt, and the ashes are washed; a sod being laid under it on

which the gold may settle. Some writers have asserted, that in

this way 20,000 lbs. weight are procured every year from Asturia,

Gallaecia, and Lusitania; Asturia, however, produces the greatest

proportion of it; and it is said, that in no part of the world have

the mines been equally productive for so long a period. I have

already mentioned, that in consequence of an ancient prohibition

of the senate, mines have never been sunk in Italy, otherwise no

country would have been richer in metals. A prohibitory law is

likewise extant respecting the gold mine of the Ictimuli, in the

country of the Vercellenses, which orders that those who farm this

mine should be allowed to employ uo more than 5,000 men.

22. ORPIMENT. * -

Gold is also obtained from Orpiment, a substance which is got

in Syria for the use of painters: it lies near the surface of the

et canales." The French translation is as follows; "Les sedimens de ces.

"eaux ont deja recule sensiblement les limites du continent de l'Espagne."

9 For some remarks on these terms, see the note in Valpy, p. 4357, 8.

Strabo has the following observation; "Ev Et roig iptiyfiaoi .... fwepag

KaOapaiuiq StoptvaQ." "Csterum inter auri ramenta aiunt inventas aliquando

"selibres glebas, quas ipsi palas (iroXac) nominant, exigua purgationc

"indigentes." lib. iii. p. 216.

1 "Auripigmentum." This appears to be orpiment, the sulphuret of

arsenic; the word occurs in only one other passage of Pliny, lib. xxxv. sec.

12, where he is enumerating the " colores austeri qui nascuntur." It is not

mentioned in the section which treats on arsenic, our author perhaps not

being aware of its connexion with the substance; see lib. xxxiv. sec. 56.

The word auripigmentum is not, I believe, to be found in the text of

Dioscorides, although Virgilius and his commentators generally have trans­

lated the Greek word apatviKov by the Latin word auripigmentum, while it

appears that the substance which is described by Dioscorides under the

title of apaivnov is not the white oxide but the sulphuret of arsenic; see

lib. v. cap. 75. p. 671, 5. Celsus, lib. v. cup. 5. sec. 1, speaks of auripig­

