GOLD COIN. 29

that those alone to whom his freedmen had given access to his

apartments, were permitted to have the likeness of the Emperor

engraven on their gold rings; a regulation which was the cause

of many accusations. But the auspicious elevation of Vespasian

put a stop to all these evils, by making the Emperor accessible to

every one. Enough, however, has now been said respecting gold

rings, and the uses to which they have been applied.

13. OF GOLD MONEY. WHEN GOLD AND SILVER WERE FIRST

COINED. WHAT WAS THE CUSTOM WITH RESPECT TO COPPER

BEFORE THEY WERE COINED; AND WHAT WAS THE GREATEST

aUANTITY OF MONEY AT THE FIRST CENSUS. HOW FREQUENTLY,

AND AT WHAT PERIODS, AUTHORITY WAS GIVEN FOR COINING

MONEY.

The next crime was committed by the person who first coined

gold into money; but who it was that did this is not known. The

Romans certainly did not use even silver in the form of coin, pre­

vious to their victory over king Pyrrhus. The As was, in the first

instance, valued at a pound weight of copper; and hence its present

appellation of a pound, (libella), and of two pounds, (dupondius),

for two Ases. Hence also fines were reckoned at a certain weight

of copper; and from the same origin the terms "expensa," "im-

"pensa," and "dependere," are derived. Hence also the pay of

the soldiers is called a stipend, implying that it was ascertained by

weight; and for the same reason stewards and paymasters are

termed "dispensatores," and "libripendes ;"6 and it is upon the

same principle that the balance is introduced in all contracts for

conveying property. Servius, the king, was the first person who

coined copper. Timaeus informs us, that before this time, they

used it at Rome uncoined. It had the figure of an ox, (pecus),

stamped upon it; and hence it was denominated "pecunia."

The largest income 7 in that reign was 110,000 Ases; and hence

this was fixed upon as the standard for the first class of citizens.

Silver was coined in the year of the city 485, in the consulship

of L. Agulnius and C. Fabius, which was five years before the

first Punic war. A denarius8 was valued at ten pounds weights of

e All these words are derived from " pendo," to weigh. We have not

unfrequent allusions to the practice of weighing sums of money in the Old

Testament, as in Jerem. xxxii.

7 " Census;" income as ascertained by the census.

• A denarius was a silver coin of the value of 7%d. See Varro, De Ling.

Lat. p. 47, 8.

