28 GOLD ORNAMENTS.

12. OF THE OTHER USES OF GOLD BY WOMEN.

Gold was never used in the sacred rites, except for gilding the

horns of the victims that were offered in sacrifice, and that only

for the larger ones. But among the soldiery, the luxury of em­

ploying gold increased so much, that we have letters of Brutus,

written during the campaign of Pharsalia, in which he complains

grievously that the tribunes wore gold clasps for their cloaks.

But, by Jove! what would you have said, Brutus, had you seen

the gold which the women wear on their feet? And I consider

that individual guilty of a great crime who first brought gold into

repute, by having it made into rings. This also led to the custom

of men wearing ornaments of gold about their arms, which, as it

was introduced by the Dardans, were called Dardanian; as, for

the same reason, bracelets* are named, one species Celticae, and

another Celtibericae. We may indeed allow women to wear gold

on their arms, and on every one of their fingers, on their necks,

in their ears, and their curls. Let them have chains crossed over

their waists, and have ponderous jewels set in gold hanging from

their necks, so that they may be conscious of wearing them even

in their sleep; but should we, therefore, permit them to wear it

on their feet, as if for the express purpose of creating a third order

among females, which might correspond to that of knights among

men, and which would be intermediate between women of rank

and those of the lowest class. We should leave ornaments of this

kind for our pages, and employ them to set off the beauty of our

children. The men indeed now begin to wear on their fingers

the figure of Harpocrates,5 or of some of the Egyptian deities.

There was another unusual restriction when Claudius was Emperor,

4 Viriole and viree;" said to be bracelets containing green stones.

5 Harpocrates is characterized as the god of silence, and represented with

his finger on his lip, according to the description of Ovid; "Quique premit

vocem, digitoque silentia suadet;" Met. ix. 691. We have a full account

of him by Montfaucon, vol. ii. part 2. c. 12, 3, accompanied by a number of

engravings, pi. 40, 1. It is observed that many of the figures have a re­

lation to the emblems of the sun; and a treatise was written by Cuper, the

principal object of which is to prove that the figure of Harpocrates is to

be considered as "non silentium tantum digito suadens, verum, solis ima-

ginem referens." See also the remark of Winckleman, Cat. des Pierres

gravees du Baron Stosch, p. 20. It does not appear why Harpocrates was

selected as an ornament for rings; perhaps he was mentioned by Pliny as

the first name that occurred *o him.

