32 SILVER PAGEANTS.

annually for fifty years, but no gold; yet we cannot suppose there

was any scarcity of it in the world. Midas and Croesus had,

before this time, been in possession of immense quantities. And

Cyrus, when he conquered Asia, found 34,000 lbs. weight of it,

besides golden vessels and various articles of wrought gold; among

other things, a plane tree, and a vine made of gold.3 From this

victory he obtained 500,000 talents of silver, and also the vase of

Semiramis, which was said to weigh fifteen talents. We are in­

formed, by Varro, that the Egyptian talent is equal to 80 lbs. It

was before this time, that Salauces reigned in Colchos, and also

Esubopes, who is said to have got possession of a tract of virgin

soil, in the country of the Suani, a country which had long been

famous for its golden fleeces, from which he is reported to have

dug up a very great quantity both of silver and gold. We are

told that the arched roof of his palace was made of gold, and that

the beams, columns, and pilasters,4 were made of silver: this was

the case after he had conquered Sesostris, the King of Egypt,

who was so haughty, that he is said every year to have selected,

by lot, certain kings, out of those whom he had subdued, and that

he was in the habit of yoking them to his chariot, and in this

manner rode in triumph.

16. WHEN THE FIRST PAGEANT OF SILVER WAS BROUGHT ON

THE STAGE, AND WHEN ON THE ARENA.

Even we ourselves have done things which will be scarcely

credited by posterity. Caesar, he who was afterwards dictator,

during his aedileship, when he exhibited funeral games in honour

of his father, was the first who had all the apparatus of the

amphitheatre made of silver, those who were condemned to the

combat using then, for the first time, silver spears, a practice

3 This probably refers to the golden plane tree and vine, which Pythius

of Lydia is said to have presented to Darius. See Herodotus, book vii.

sec. 27; also, sec. 47, of this book.

* "Parastaticse." It may be doubted whether the ancients had any thing  
which exactly corresponds to our pilaster; the word occurs in Vitruvius,

ix. 9, "in columna aut parastatice;" the term "parastate," which is found

in some of the MS., would appear to refer to another part of the building.

Parastatae is met with, v. 1; and is supposed by Rode to be synonymous

with pilastre; see lexicon in loco; Newton retains the Latin term in his

translation, p. 74.

