SILVER PAGEANTS. 33

which is now imitated even by the small towns. C. Antonius

exhibited games with a scene of silver.s L. Murana, and the

Emperor Caius brought into the Circus a pageant, in which there

were 124,000 lbs. weight of silver. Claudius, his successor, when

he triumphed over Britain, among the crowns which he exhibited

on that occasion, had one of 7>000 lbs. weight, which was pre­

sented to him by the people of the Hither Spain, and another of

900 lbs. by Gallia Comata, as appears by the inscription. His

successor Nero, in order to shew his wealth to Tiridates, king

of Armenia, in one day covered the whole of Pompey's theatre

with gold. But what was this in comparison with his golden

house, which, as it were, surrounded the whole city!

17. AT WHAT PERIOD THERE WAS THE GREATEST QUANTITY OF

GOLD AND SILVER IN THE TREASURY OF THE ROMAN PEOPLE.

In the consulship of Sex. Julius and L. Aurelius, seven years

before the third Punic war, there was in the Roman treasury

16,810 lbs.6 weight of gold, 22,070 of silver, and of coined money

6,285,400 lbs. In the consulship of Sex. Julius, and L. Marcius,

that is at the commencement of the Social war, there wasl,620,820 lbs.

weight of gold. C. Cassar, at his entrance into the city in his

Civil war, took out of the treasury 25,000 ingots of gold, 35,000

ingots of silver, and of coined money 430,000 sesterces; nor was

there any period in which the republic was more wealthy. iEmilius

Paulus, after he had conquered King Perseus, out of the Mace­

donian booty which he had obtained, brought into the treasury

2,000,300 sesterces, and from this time the Romans ceased to

pay taxes.

5 " Scena argentea;" the scena in the Roman theatre appears not to

have been simply a painting, as in modern times, but, at least in many cases,

a kind of model of the place or object intended to be represented. The term

is frequently employed by Vitruvius, in his description of the Roman theatres,

v. 6, 7, 8. In one passage it would appear to be used for the stage, or for

that part of it where the actors stood; "quod omnes artifices in scena" (or

according to some MSS. scenam) "dant operam;" cap. vi. Newton

translates it, " for all the performers act on the scene (or stage);" p. 105.

6 In all the large sums that are mentioned, there is so much variation in

the MSS., and so much apparent irregularity in the mode of notation, that

I confess, myself, unable to attain any certainty respecting them: I have,

in almost all cases, followed the estimates of Harduin.

D

