ANTIMONY. 51

colour we discover whether the leaves have been applied single or

are very thin; in order to prevent this, they fraudulently mix it

with the white of egg, and afterwards with hydrargyrum: of this I

shall give an account in its proper place.4 Quicksilver has not

been procured in considerable quantity by any other means than

by the ore mentioned above.

33. OF STIMI, STIBIUM, ALABASTRUM, LARBAS0M, OK

PLATYOPHTHALMUM.

In the same silver ores there is also found a mineral, which we

may properly call a white and shining, but not a transparent, foam;

it is named by some Stimmi, by others Stibium, Alabastrum, or

Larbason. There are two species of it, male and female. The

female is most approved; the male is coarse and rough, and less

heavy, less shining, and more sandy. The female, on the con­

trary, is brilliant, friable, and breaks into long fissures rather

than into rounded masses.'

34. THE MEDICINES FROM IT.

It possesses an astringent and refrigerant virtue; but its prin­

cipal use is as an application for the eyes; on this account it is

generally called platyophthalmum,6 since it dilates the eyes of

females when it enters into their eye-salves, i A powder composed

of antimony and frankincense, mixed with gum, dries up the

humours, and heals the ulcers of the eyes; it also stops the flow­

ing of blood from the brain. It is still more efficacious in recent

wounds, and, when mixed with flour, in old wounds made by the

* Sec. 41. The author makes a distinction between argentum vivum and  
hydrargyrum, the first being native quicksilver, the latter quicksilver
reduced

from its ore.

5 See Dioscorides, lib. iii. cap. S3.

8 XlXarvoipOaXiiov, amplos oculos faciens.

7 " Calliblephari;" these were not properly medical preparations, but sub­

stances which were supposed to increase the beauty of the eyes, as it would

appear, by tinging the lids and lashes. We learn from Shaw, Travels, p.

229, that the women of Barbary tinge their eye-lids with a black substance

which he calls " the powder of lead ore." See also Russell's Aleppo, note

22, v.i.p. 336; where we learn that the women use for this purpose a black

powder which is called Kohol, and is said to be a kind of lead ore brought

from Persia. There are some remarks on this custom in Hacmer's Obser­

vations, vol. ii. p. 405. obs. IS, chap. 10. It is also noticed as being now

practised in Turkey, by Lady M. W. Montague; Works, vol. ii. p. 12?.

e2

