54 SILVEH.

itself; the second is the refuse, after it is purified. Some persons

reckon two kinds of foam only, which they call lithus and peu-

mene;9 the third kind, molybdena, will be mentioned when I

treat of lead. To render this foam fit for use, it is broken into

pieces the size of a walnut,1 and is again roasted, the flame being

urged by bellows, in order to separate the charcoal and the ashes;

it is then washed and at the same time quenched in vinegar or in

wine.1 If it be the species called argyritis, in order to give it the

proper whiteness, we are directed to break it into pieces the size of

a bean, and then to boil it in water in an earthen vessel, together

with a quantity of new wheat, or barley, tied up in linen until it

is purified; it is then pounded in a mortar for six days, being

washed three times each day with cold water, and lastly with hot

water, adding to each pound of the foam an obolus of rock salt.3

During the last day they digest it in a leaden vessel. Some persons

boil it with white beans and barley water, and dry it in the sun;

others with white wool and beans, and continue the process until

the wool is no longer blackened by it. Then they add the rock

salt, the water being changed from time to time, and they dry it

for forty days in the warmest summer weather. They also boil it

in a pig's stomach4 with water, afterwards rub it with natron, and

then pound it in mortars with salt as directed above. Others

again there are who do not boil it, but rub it with salt, and wash it

with water. It is used for eye-salves, and it is employed by

females, in the form of ointment, to remove pimples and spots of

the skin; and to wash the hair. Its virtues are to dry, to soften,

to cool, to temper, to purge, to fill up ulcers, and to remove

tumours. When made into plaisters with rue, myrtle, and vine­

gar, it relieves erysipelas; and, when mixed with myrtle and wax,

it removes chilblains.

9 The MSS. differ in the spelling of the words; they are probably derived

from AiOoc and Uvtvpa, and refer to the mechanical texture of the substance.

1 This reading I conceive to be sanctioned by the passage from Diosco-

rides quoted below.

1 This operation is described by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 56, p. 662;

"Kavaue airoriBtao. Coquendi argenti spuma hoc modo est: in

"frustra juglandis nucis magnitudine earn dividito, in carbonibus ponito,

"follibusque usque dum ignita condeat, ventilato. Auferto deinde inhse-

"rentes illi sordes omnes, purgatamque reponito."

3 "Sal fossile."

4 " In ventre suillo;" this may perhaps refer not to the actual stomach

of an animal, but to some vessel of the form of a stomach.

