24 THE JUDGES.

rings as instruments of death. And indeed the most criminal

frauds that are committed in our days are effected by rings.

What a happy life did our ancestors lead, and what a state of

innocence was theirs, in which nothing was ever sealed! But we

are now obliged to seal even our meat and drink, to prevent its

being stolen.6 This we gain by the legion of slaves, and the

crowd of foreigners, we have about us; so that in consequence of

the number of our servants, we are obliged to have a person to

tell us their names. Our ancestors had only one servant each,

who took the name of his master, and was called Marcius's boy,

or Lucius's boy, &c. and they ate the same food with their master,

so there was no occasion to have any thing locked up. But now

we procure dainties, as if for the very purpose of being pilfered,

and, at the same time, persons who may pilfer them; and it is not

enough to have our keys sealed, for the rings themselves are taken

from the fingers of the owners when they are asleep, or lying on

their death-beds. I do not know at what period it was that the

most important transactions of life began to be carried on by

means of this instrument. We have an example of the importance

that was attached to it by foreigners, in the case of Polycrates, the

tyrant of Samos, whose favourite ring being thrown into the sea,

was recovered from a fish that they caught; now he was put to

death about the 230th year of our city. But the use of rings

must have become more generally known at the same time with

usury; in proof of this we may cite the custom of the common

people, who, whenever they make a bargain, draw the ring from

the finger, as being the most expeditious mode of making the

contract; so that we may positively affirm that money was first

in use among us, and afterwards rings. But I shall speak of

money presently.

7, OF THE OKDERS OF JUDGES.'

Rings, when once they became remarkable, served to distinguish

the equestrian order from the people at large, in the same way that

the tunic distinguished the senate from those who wore rings.

0 This refers to the custom of putting seals upon the store-rooms, cellars,

wine-vaults, &c.; they may be considered as equivalent to the locks of

modern times.

7 " DecurisE;" see Adam, p. 259.

