22 COLD RINGS.

stated in certain annals, that it was the noblility alone who threw

off their rings, and not the whole senate. This transaction took

place in the consulship of P. Sempronius and P. Sulpitius. Fla-

vius vowed that he would erect a temple to Concord if he could

reconcile the privileged orders to the people. And because the

public money could not be decreed for this purpose, he employed

the fines which were levied on usurers, and with these he built a

small brazen temple in the Graecostasis,3 which was then above

the court-house; and it was engraven on a bronze tablet, that this

temple was consecrated 204 years after the Capitol. It was,

therefore, 449 years after the foundation of the city that this

event occurred, and that we have the first trace of the use of rings.

In the second Punic war, we have another notice of their very

general use; for, unless this had been the case, the three bushels

could not have been sent to Carthage by Hannibal. The quar­

rel between Caepio and Drusus began in consequence of the pub­

lic sale of a ring; whence sprung the social war, and the ruin of

the commonwealth. Gold rings were not, however, worn at that

time by all the senators, for it is in the memory of our grand­

fathers, that many, even of those who had filled the office of

praetor, wore iron rings during all their lives, as was the case with

Calpurnius and Manilius, which latter, according to the account

of Fenestella, was the lieutenant-general of C. Marius in the

Jugurthine war; and the same thing is said by many concerning

L. Fusidius, he to whom Scaurus dedicated the account of his

own life. It was an established custom in the family of the

Quintii that not even the women should wear gold; and the

greater part, both of nations and individuals, even of those who

live under our empire, have no rings at all. Neither the Orientals

nor the Egyptians employ seals, being satisfied with merely sign­

ing their names.*

The French translator employs the term " collier," and Durand, in the trans­

lation, or rather paraphrase, of this part of Pliny, which forms the com­

mencement of his "Histoire Naturelle de l'Or et de 1'Argent," calls it

"un ornement de cou;" but I am not aware of any foundation for this ap­

plication of the word.

3 This, we are informed, was a public hotel, where formerly the Greek

Ambassadors were received, and which was afterwards appropriated to the

reception of ambassadors generally. See Varro de Ling. Lat. p. 43.

4 This remark, among many others, proves that the principal use of the

rings was as seals or signets.

