SILVER VESSELS. Go

the same Africanus, at his triumph, distributed to his soldiers

seven denarii a-piece. Men worthy indeed of such a general, to

be satisfied with this! His brother, Allobrogicus, was the first

who had as much as 1,000 lbs. weight; and Livius Drusus, when

he was tribune of the people, 10,000 lbs. At this day it appears

incredible, that an individual, after having had the honour of a

triumph, should have been reproved in his old age by the censors,

because he possessed 5 lbs. weight of silver. And likewise that

Catus JSlius, when the ambassadors of the iEtolians came to him,

and found him dining off earthen ware, would not receive the silver

vessels that were presented to him, and never, to the last day of his

life, possessed any silver utensils, except two cups, which L. Pau-

Ius, his father-in-law, gave him on account of his valour, when he

conquered King Perseus. It was a saying of the Carthaginian

ambassadors, that no people are kinder to each other than the

Romans; for they used the same service of plate at all the dif­

ferent houses. And we know for a certainty, that Pompeius Pau-

linus, the son of a Roman knight of Aries, and a person of a very

honourable family,6 was banished to a barbarous country, because

he had in his army 12 lbs. weight of silver.

51. WHEN SILVER WAS FIRST ADDED TO COUCHES.

The couches 7 of the women have been, for some time past, en­

tirely covered with silver, and this is the case sometimes with the

couches which are used at meals.8 Cavilius Pollio is said to have

been the first who introduced this custom, not entirely covering

them, after the Delian mode, but according to the Carthaginian.

He also employed gold for the same purpose; and it was not long

after this time that silver couches were used, like those from Delos.

But all this was expiated by the civil war of Sylla.

6 " Paternaque gente pellitum;" whose family were privileged to wear a

particular dress. This expression has been supposed to be illustrated by a

line in Claudian,

"Crinigeri sedere patres, pellita Getarum

"Curia." De Bell. Get. 481, 2.

»" Lecti."

s " Triclinia.'' This word is applied sometimes to the couches used at

meals, so named because they held three persons each, and sometimes to

the room in which the meals were taken. In Vitruvius, vi. 5 and 8, it re-

it refers to the room, in vi. 6. it refers to the couches. Newton, Trans,
note,

p. 137, remarks, " the triclinium or triclinia (as in the eighth chapter fol­

lowing) was the dining room; the word is sometimes used for the dining

table, and surrounding couches on which they lay to eat."

F

