CffiRULEUM. 71

what we call Lomentum;1 it is made by washing or triturating

the Coeruleum, and is somewhat lighter coloured: its price is ten

denarii the pound; Cceruleum is eight. It is used for painting on

chalk,3 but it will not bear quicklime. Another kind has been

lately introduced, which, from the name of the maker, is called

Vestorianum; it is formed from the lighter part of the Egyptian,

and costs eleven denarii the pound. It is applied to the same use

as that from Puteoli, and likewise for windows; it is called Cyanon.

We have lately begun to bring a species from India, which is

eight denarii the pound; its principal use in painting is to mark

the lines which separate the shadows from the lighter parts. There

is a very inferior kind, which is called ground Lomentum, worth

five ases only. To try the purity of Cceruleum we throw it on

burning coals, and observe whether it inflames; a counterfeit kind

is made from a decoction of dried violets, adding the expressed

juice to Eretrian chalk.

58. MEDICINES FROM CffiRULEUM.

Its medical virtue is to cleanse ulcers; it is also an ingredient

in plaisters and caustics. Sil is triturated with great difficulty;

its effect is to produce a slight irritation and astringency, by means

of which it fills up ulcers; but in order that it may produce these

effects, it is necessary for it to be calcined in earthen vessels.

I am aware that the prices which I have mentioned differ in

different places, and that they vary almost every year, according

to the state of commerce, and the circumstances of the merchants,

or in consequence of the price being raised by the artifices of any-

great monopolizer. I well recollect how, when Nero was Emperor,

Demetrius was accused by all the druggists4 of Capua before the

consuls. It was, however, necessary that I should state what are

the ordinary prices at Rome, in order to establish a general rule

respecting them.

and Aristotle expressly designates it " to ptraWov," in his treatise "De

Mirab. Aus." cap. 59; we appear to have no means of ascertaining what

metal was referred to in these cases. See the note of Beckmann on this

passage, p. 123.

* Washed or purified; from Atuaiiai, see note (4) p. 44.

3 " Usus in creta;" or mixed with chalk, so as to make a body colour.

4 " A tota Seplasia." The French translator calls them "les parfumeurs

de Rome;" t. x. p. 667. See note in Valpy, p. 4406.

