SIT.. 69

comes Tauriscus of Cyzicum; Ariston and Eunicus of Mytilene,

and Hecataeus, are also much admired; and about the age of

Pompey the Great, we have Praxitiles, Posidonius the Ephesian,

and Ledus Stratiates, who executed battles, and men in armour;

and Zopyrus, who engraved the magistrates of the Areopagus and

the judgment of Orestes on two goblets, which were valued at

12,000 sesterces. Then there is Pytheus, two ounces of whose

work sold for 10,000 sesterces; the subject was Ulysses and

Diomed carrying off the Palladium, intended to be attached to a

jar.5 The same artist likewise made little figures, which he calls

Magiriscia,6 and which were carved on small cups, and so deli­

cately wrought that it was impossible to take models of them with­

out injuring them. Teucer also, who made figures on medallions, 7

gained considerable credit. But this art was so suddenly lost,

that these works are now valued solely for their antiquity, the

figures having been so rubbed down, that they are scarcely visible.

Silver is affected by mineral waters, and even by the saline vapours

that arise from them, as is observed to be the case in the middle

of Spain.

56. OF SIL ; 8 WHO FIItST FAINTED WITH SIL, AND IN WHAT

MANNER.

Certain pigments are also found connected with the gold and

silver ores, viz. Sil and Cceruleum. Sil is properly a kind of mud;

the best kind is said to come from Attica; it costs two denarii the

pound. The next in value is the gritty kind, which is half the

price of the first: the third is the dense kind, which some call

Syricum, as coming from the isle of Syros. This kind had been

previously brought from Achaia, and is used for the shades of

pictures; its price is two sesterces the pound. The bright kind,

which comes from Gaul, is sold at two ases less than the former.

This kind, and that from Attica, are used for giving the lights to

» " In phialse emblemate;" the emblemala appear to have been ornamented

metallic plates, which were occasionally attached to vessels or other
articles,

and removed at pleasure; see Adam, p. US, and the authorities there re­

ferred to.

6 Said to be the diminutive from Mayetpoc, coquus.

1 " Teucer crustarius."

s Sil appears to have been a kind of ochre; see lib. xxxv. sec. 17, 20. Sec

also Vitruvius, vii. 7.

