PRIVATE WEALTH. 63

has been brought about by usury, and by coining; and hence is

derived the term aes alienum,8 debt. Then certain persons assumed

the surname of Dives; but let it be known, that he who first took

this name had compounded with his creditors. A member of the

family, M. Crassus, said that he did not consider any one wealthy

who could not pay the yearly expense of a legion. His estates

were worth 2,000,000 sesterces;9 next to Sylla he was consi足

dered the most wealthy of the Romans. But this was not enough

for him; he thirsted for the gold of the Parthians; and let it

never be forgotten, that he obtained what he so earnestly wished;

for it is proper that we observe the consequence of this insatiable

desire of wealth. We have, however, in later times, known many,

even among the freedmen, who have been richer. There were

three at one time, when Claudius was emperor; Pallas, Callistus,

and Narcissus. But to omit these, as still in possession of their

wealth, in the consulship of C. Asinius Galbus, and C. Martius

Censorinus, C. Caecilius Claudius Isodorus declared by his will,

dated 6th kal. of February, that notwithstanding he had lost

much in the civil wars, he had still left 4,116 slaves, 3,600 yoke

of oxen, 357,000 head of cattle of other kinds, and in money

600,000 sesterces.1 He directed that 11,000 sesterces should be

spent on his funeral. These men, no doubt, heaped together un足

bounded wealth; yet what a small part was this of what Ptolemy

possessed? Who, as Varro informs us, when Pompey was engaged

in the Jewish war, supported by his own funds 8,000 horsemen,

and entertained 1,000 guests, each of them being furnished with

gold cups, and these being changed at each course of the enter足

tainment. And what a small proportion would this bear to the

wealth of Pythius, the Bithynian (not to speak of kings), who

presented Darius with the golden plane tree and the noble vine,

and feasted all the army of Xerxes, amounting to 788,000 men;

promising also that he would provide five months' pay and provi足

sions for them, on condition that one of his five sons might be

spared to him to comfort his old age.1 Yet even he would not

appear rich when compared with king Croesus. But, good God!

what madness it is to be anxious to acquire what either falls to the

8 Alienated copper; thus, as it were, estimating their property by copper.

9 If we estimate a sestertium, or 1000 sestertii, at 61. Is. 5%d., Crassus's

property mentioned in the text will be 1,614,583/. 6s. Sd. See Adam, p. 497.

1 Estimated at 484,375/.

1 See Herodotus, lib. vii. sec. 27.

