36 GILDING.

from the first, the complete metallic state.3 This is found native,

while the others, which I shall presently describe, are, as it were,

compelled to become metals. It is more especially free from the

liability to rust or corrode, or to any change, which may either

injure its purity or diminish its weight. It is proof both against

salt and vinegar, bodies which act the most powerfully on various

substances; and what is a still more remarkable property, it may

be spun or woven like wool, without any wool being mixed with it.

We are informed by Verrius, that Tarquinius Priscus rode in tri­

umph in a tunic of gold; and we have seen Agrippina, the wife of

the Emperor Claudius, when he exhibited the spectacle of a naval

combat, sitting by him covered with a robe, made entirely of woven

gold, without any other material. In what are called the Attalic

stuffs, the gold is woven with some other substance. This art was

the invention of one of the kings of Asia.

20. THE METHOD OF GILDING.

Marble, and those substances which cannot be made red hot,4

are gilt by first smearing them with the white of egg; on wood, a

kind of glue is applied, which is called Leucophoron: what this

substance is, and in what manner it acts, I shall explain in the

proper place.5 It used to be prescribed by law in gilding copper,

to employ either native quicksilver, or that which is reduced from

the ore; but respecting these, as I shall mention when I give an

account of their nature, frauds have been devised. The copper is

in the first place very much hammered, and is plunged, while hot,

into a mixture of salt, vinegar, and alum. After it has been

scowered with sand, they judge, by its brightness, whether it has

been sufficiently acted on; when, if necessary, it is again subjected

to the furnace, and afterwards has thin leaves of gold attached to

it, by means of a mixture of pumice, alum, and quicksilver. Alum

has the same effect as lead in purifying gold.6

3 It was probably this native gold which Aristotle calls " xpva0v awvpov,"

as not requiring the aid of fire for its reduction; De Mirab. Aus. cap. 45.

4 "Candefieri;" literally made white; we may consider the term as im­

plying a high temperature generally.

5 Lib. xxxv. sec. 17.

B For an ample account of the process of gilding see the art. "Gilding"

in Aikins' Diet, which will materially illustrate the account in the .text.

