SILVBR. 53

of lead) more especially for the purpose of cicatrizing wounds; it

is used for tenesmus and dysentery, infused with the oil of myrtle,

in glisters. It also enters into the composition of the medi­

cines called cerates,5 which are applied to fungous ulcers, that

have been produced either by friction, or by open sores of the

head.

There is also produced from the same metal the substance

which is called the foam of silver; * there are three species of it;

the best, which is called Chrysitis; the second, which is called

Argyritis; and the third, Molybditis; J all these colours are gene­

rally found in the same mass.6 The most valuable is the Athe­

nian, the next the Spanish. Chrysitis is made from the entire ore

itself; Argyritis from metallic silver; while Molybditis is pre­

pared by fusing lead, as is done at Puteoli, whence it derives its

name.7 All the kinds are formed by fusing the material, and suf­

fering it to flow from an upper vessel into one placed below, from

which it is taken up by iron rods,8 and moved about in the flame

itself, in order that the substance may be rendered light. It is,

as the name imports, the foam of the metal while effervescing, and

it differs from dross in the same way that froth does from dregs.

The first is what the substance throws off, while it is purifying

3 "Liparse." From Anrog, Adeps. Celsus describes them as being " lenia

emplastra," and containing wax and lead; lib. v. cap. 19, 20, 25.

4 See note in last page.

5 XpvaiTig, auri colorem exhibens; Apyupiric, argenti colorem exhibens;

Mo\v(3SiTis, plumbeus. These are compounds of lead and oxygen, varying

in the proportion of the constituents, and, in the last substance, also com­

bined with a portion of metallic lead. We must suppose that the silver which

was employed in the production of these oxides was alloyed with a quantity

of lead.

6 " In iisdem tubulis;" in the notes we hare the following explanation

given of those words; see Valpy, p. 471. "Fusores hodie panes vocant,

seu massas offasque: tubulos antiqui. Vide formam tubulorum expressam in

icone apud Agricolam de Re Metall. lib. x. p. 384." Upon referring to this

figure (ed. Basil. 1561) the tubuli appear to be small hollow cylinders,
closed

at one end, which were taken up on iron rods, called veruculi, mentioned

below; the tubulus was then dipped into the metal as it flowed from the

furnace, and a portion which adhered was thus exposed to the air and

oxidized.

'Probabiy Puteolanum ; one of the purple colours was called Puteolanum,

from its being procured near Puteoli; lib. xxxv. sec. 26.

8 Veruculi.

