AN. 63.] 49ft ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

violence and disorder. And there were no

fewer than a thousand Jews, of the best

esteem among them, who confirmed this ac­

cusation; which confirmation was procured

by Antipater. But Aristobulus alledged

against him, that it was Hyrcanus's own tem­

per, which was inactive, and on that account

contemptible, which caused him to be de­

prived of the government: and that for him­

self he was necessitated to take it upon him;

lest it should be transferred to others. And

that as to his *title of king, it was no other

than what his father had taken before him.

He also called for witnesses of what he said,

some persons who were both young and in­

solent; whose purple garments, fine heads of

hair, and other ornaments, were detested by

the court, and which they appeared in, not

as though they were to plead their cause in

a court of justice; but as if they were march­

ing in a pompous procession.

When Pompey had heard the causes of

these two, and had condemned Aristobulus

for his violent procedure; he spake civilly to

them, and dismissed them with an assurance

that when he came again into their country

he would settle all their affairs; after he had

first taken a view of the affairs of the Naba-

teans. In the mean time he ordered them to

be quiet; and treated Aristobulus civilly;

lest he should make the nation revolt, and

hinder his return. This, however, Aristobu­

lus did: for without expecting any farther

determination, which Pompey had promised

them, he went to the city Delius, and thence

marched into Judea.

At this behaviour Pompey was angry: and

taking with him that army which he was

leading against the Nabateans, and the aux­

iliaries that came from Damascus, and the

other parts of Syria; with the other Roman

legions which he had with him; he made an

expedition against Aristobulus. But as he

passed by Pella, and Scythopolis, he came

to Coreae; which is the first entrance into

Judea when one passes over the midland

countries. There he came to a most beau­

tiful fortress, (that was built on the top of

the mountain called Alexandrium,) whither

Aristobulus had fled; and thence Pompey

sent his commands to him, that he should

come to him. Accordingly, at the persuasions

of many, that he would not make war with

the Romans, he came down. And when he

had disputed with his brother about his rights

to the government, he went up again to the

citadel; as Pompey gave him leave to do.

And this he did two or three times: flatter­

ing himself with the hopes of having the

kingdom granted to him. So that he still

pretended he would obey Pompey in what­

soever he commanded: although at the same

time he retired to his fortress; that he might

not depress himself too low; and that he

might be prepared for a war, in case it should

})rove as he feared, that Pompey would trans­

fer the government to Hyrcanus. But when

Pompey enjoined Aristobulus to deliver up

the fortresses he held; and to send an injunc­

tion to their governors, under his own hand,

for that purpose: (for they had been forbid­

den to deliver them up upon any other com­

mands:) he submitted to do so; but still he

retired in displeasure to Jerusalem, and made

preparation for war. A little after this, cer­

tain persons came out of Pontus, and inform­

ed Pompey, as he was on the way, and con­

ducting his army against Aristobulus, that

Mithridates was slain by his son Pharnaces.

CHAP. IV.

OF THE IMPRISONMENT OP ARISTOBULUS, AND THE SIEGE

AND REDUCTION OF JERUSALEM BY FOMPKY.

WHEN Pompey thad pitched his camp

at Jericho, (where J the palm-tree

grows, and that balsam which is an ointment

of all the most precious: which, upon an in­

cision made in the wood with a sharp stone,

distils out like a juice:) he marched in the

* See the note, Book XIII. chap. 10.

t An. 63.

t These express testimonies of Josephus's here, and

VIII. 6, and XV. 4. that the only balsam gardens, and the

best palm-trees were, at least in his days, near Jericho

and Engaddi; about the north part of the Dead Sea:

(whereabout also Alexander the Great saw the balsam

drop, Thund. Legion, page 38, 56,) shew the mistake of

those that understand Eusebius and Jerom, as if one of

VOL. I.—NOS. 41 & 42.

those gardens were at the south part of that sea, at Zoar

or Segor. Whereas they must either mean another Zoar

or Segor, which was between Jericho and Engaddi, agree­

ably to Josephus; which yet they do not appear to do:

or else they directly contradict Josephus; ana were there­

in greatly mistaken. I mean this, unless that balsam, and

the best palm-trees, grew much more southward in Judea

in the time of Eusebius and Jerom than they did in the

days of Josephus.

4K

