aw. 896.] 323 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tion into that country which belonged to his

kingdom: at which news he was affrighted,

and called the people of Jerusalem to a con­

gregation in the temple.* And standing over

against the temple itself, he called upon God

to afford him power to inflict punishment

upon those invaders; for that those who built

his temple had prayed that he would protect

that city, and take vengeance on those that

were so bold as to come against it. When he

nad prayed thus, he was affected even to

tears; and the whole multitude, together

with their wives and children, made their

supplications also. Hereupon a certain pro­

phet, Jahaziel by name, came into the midst

of the assembly, and cried out, both to the

multitude and to the king, that God heard

their prayers, and promised to fight against

their enemies. He also gave order, that the

king should draw his forces out the next day;

for that he should find them between Jeru­

salem, and the ascent of Engedi; at a place

called Eminence;f and that he should not

engage their forces, but only stand still, and

see how God would fight against them. When

the prophet had said this, both the king and

the multitude fell upon their faces, and gave

thanks to God, and worshipped him, and the

Levites continued singing hymns to God, with

their instruments of music.

As soon as it was day, and the king was

come into that wilderness which was under

the city of Tekoa, he said to the multitude,

that they ought to give implicit credit to what

the prophet had said; and not to set them­

selves in array for fighting; but to set the

priests, with their trumpets, and the Levites,

with the singers of hymns, to give thanks to

God, as having already delivered the country

from its enemies. This opinion of the king

pleased the people, and they did as he de­

sired. So God caused a terror and commo­

tion to arise among the Ammonites;J who

thought one another to be enemies, and slew

one another; insomuch that not one man out

of so great an army escaped. And when

Jehoshaphat looked upon that valley wherein

their enemies had been encamped, and saw

it full of dead men, he rejoiced at this surpri­

sing assistance of God; who by his own

power, and without their labour, had given

them the victory. He also permitted his

army to take the prey of the enemies' camp,

and to spoil their dead bodies; and indeed

so they did for three days together, till they

were weary; so great was the number of

the slain. And on the fourth day, all the

people were gathered together unto a certain

hollow place, or valley, and blessed God

for his power and assistance; from which the

place was called the valley of Berachah or

Blessing.||

When the king had brought his army back

to Jerusalem, he celebrated festivals and

offered sacrifices for many days. And indeed

after the destruction of his enemies, and when

it came to the ears of the foreign nations, they

were all greatly affrighted; as supposing that

God would openly fight for him hereafter.

So Jehoshaphat from that time lived in great

glory and splendour, on account of his righte­

ousness and his piety towards God. He was

also in friendship with Ahab's son,§ who was

king of Israel; and he joined with him in the

building of ships that'were to sail to Pontus

and the commercial cities of Thrace;** but

* 2 Chron. xx. 3, 4.

t The cliff of Ziz, 2 Chron. xx. 16.

j The words in the text are, The Lord set ambushment

against the children of Amnion, Moab, and mount Seir,

which were come against Judah, and they were smitten,

2 Chron. xx. 22. And there are two ways wherein the

slaughter may be supposed to have happened: either,

1st. By the ministry of God's angels, who might appear

in the shape of men, and putting on the appearance of

Moabites or Ammonites, might smite some part of the

army privately, and they supposing this to be done by

their neighbours, might turn about and fall upon them

like enemies, and so break forth into mutual slaughters.

Or 2d. By some jealousies and animosities among them­

selves, which by degrees brake forth, first into secret

ambushments, which one party laid for another, and then

into open hostilities and outrages to their total destruction.

TOL. I.—NOS. 27 & 28.

So easy a thing it is for God to defeat his enemies, who

can, when he pleases, infatuate their designs, or arm their

own passions and mistakes against them. Pool's Annota­

tion on 2 Chron. xx. 22. B.

II 2 Chron. xx. 26.

§ This certainly was a great weakness in him, to make

friendship with the son, when he had been so sharply re­

proved for joining with his father Ahab, especially since

the son was as great an idolater as his father; but unto

this he was betrayed by the affinity that was between

them; and though he did not join with him in war, but

only in trade, yet God was nevertheless displeased with

him; which shews how dangerous a thing it is to have

too near a familiarity or commerce with idolaters, or any

other very wicked men. Patrick's Commentary. B.

** What are here Pontus and Thrace, as the places  
whither Jehoshaphat's fleet sailed, are in our other copies

3L

