AN. 140.] 475 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

count of Trypho; Cleopatra sent to him, and

invited him to marry her, and to take the

kingdom. The reasons why she made this

invitation, were, that her friends persuaded

her to it; and that she was afraid for herself,

in case some of the people of Seleucia should

deliver up the city to Trypho.

As Antiochus was now come to Seleucia,

and his forces increased every day, he

marched to fight Trypho; and having de­

feated him, he ejected him out of the Upper

Syria into Phoenicia; and pursued him thi­

ther, and besieged him in Dora; which was

a fortress hard to be taken, whither he had

fled. He also sent ambassadors to Simon,

the Jewish high-priest, about a league of

friendship and mutual assistance. Who rea­

dily accepted of the invitation; and sent to

Antiochus great suras of money; and pro­

visions, for those that besieged Dora; and

thereby supplied them very plentifully. So

that for a little while he was looked upon as

one of his most intimate friends. But still

Trypho fled from Dora to *Apamia; where

he was taken during the siege, and put to

death; when he had reigned fthree years.

However, Antiochus forgot the kind assist­

ance that Simon had afforded him in his ne­

cessity; by reason of his covetous and wicked

disposition; and committed an army of sol­

diers to his friend Cendebeus; and sent him

at once to ravage Judea, and to sieze Simon.

When Simon heard of Antiochus's breaking

his league with him, although he were now

in years, yet, provoked with the unjust treat­

ment he had met with from Antiochus, and

taking a resolution brisker than his age could

well bear, he went like a young man to act

as general of his army. He also sent his

sons before, among the most hardy of his

soldiers; and he himself marched on with

his army another way; and laid many of his

men in ambushes, in the narrow valleys, be­

tween the mountains. Nor did he fail of suc­

cess in any one of his attempts; but was too

hard for his enemies in every one of them.

So he led the rest of his life in peace; and

also made a league with the Romans.

Now he was the ruler of the Jews in all

Jcight years: but his death was at length

caused at a banquet by the treachery of his

son-in-law, Ptolemy; who caught also his

wife and two of his sons, and kept them in

bonds. He also sent some to kill John, the

third son; whose name was Hyrcanus. But

the young man, perceiving them coming,||

avoided the danger he was in, and hastened

into the city Jerusalem; as relying on the

good will of the multitude; because of the

benefits they had received from his father,

and because of the hatred the same multitude

bore to Ptolemy. So that when Ptolemy was

endeavouring to enter the city by another

gate, they drove him away; as having already

admitted Hyrcanus.

CHAP. VIII.

HYRCANUS RECEIVES THE HIGH-PRIESTHOOD, AND EJECTS

PTOLEMY OUT OF THE COUNTRY. ANTIOCHUS MAKES

WAR AGAINST HYRCANUS, AND AFTERWARD MAKES A

LEAGUE WITH HIM.

PTOLEMY§ retired to one of the for­

tresses that was above Jericho, which

was called Dagon. But Hyrcanus took the

high-priesthood, that had been his father's

before, and propitiated God by sacrifices; he

then made an expedition against Ptolemy;

and when he made his attacks upon the

place, in other points he was too hard for

him; but was rendered weaker than he by

the commiseration he had for his mother

and brethren; and by that only. For Ptolemy

brought them upon the wall, and tormented

them in the sight of all, and threatened that

he would throw them down headlong, unless

Hyrcanus would raise the siege. And as he

thought that so far as he relaxed as to the

siege and taking of the place, so much favour

did he shew to those that were dearest to

him, by preventing their misery; his zeal

about it was cooled. However, his mother

* Orthosia, 1 Mace. xv. 37.

t An. 142, 141, 140, B. C.

J From an. 143 to an. 135 B. C.

II Here Josephus begins to follow, and to abridge the

next sacred Hebrew book, styled in the end of the first

book of Maccabees, The Chronicles of John Hyrcanus's

High-Priesthood; but in some of the Greek copies the

fourth book of Maccabees. A Greek version of this chro-

voL. I.—xos. 39 & 40.

nicle was extant in the days of Santes Pagninus, and

Sixtus Senensis, at Lyons; though it seems to have been

there burnt, and to be now utterly lost. See Sixtus Se-

nensis's account of it, of its many Hebraisms, and its great

agreement with Josephus's abridgment; in the Authentic

Records, part I. page 206, 207, 208.

§ An. 136.

1G

