102 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

same oblations that private men do; except

they so far differ, that they are to bring for

sacrifices a bull, or a kid of the goats, both

males.

Now the law requires, both in private and

public sacrifices, that the finest flour be also

brought; for a lamb, the measure of one tenth

deal; for a ram, two; and for a bull, three.

This they consecrate upon the altar, when it

is mingled with oil: for oil is also brought by

those that sacrifice; for a bull, the half of a

hin; for a ram, a third part of the same man­

ner; and one quarter of it for a lamb. They

bring the same quantity of oil which they do

of wine, and they pour the wine about the

altar; but if any one does not offer a com­

plete sacrifice of animals, but brings fine flour

only for a vow, he throws a handful upon the

altar, as its first fruits; while the priests take

the rest for their food; either boiled, or min­

gled with oil, but made into cakes of bread:

but whatsoever it be, that a priest himself

offers, it must of necessity be all burnt. Now

the law forbids us to sacrifice any animal at

the same time with its dam; and in other

cases, not till the eighth day after its birth.

Other sacrifices are also appointed for es­

caping distempers, or for other occasions; in

which meat-offerings are consumed, together

with the animals that are sacrificed; of which

it is not lawful to leave any part till the next

day, only the priests are to take their own

share.

CHAP. X.

CONCERNING THE FESTIVALS, AND HOW EACH DAY OF SUCH

FESTIVAL IS TO BE OBSERVED.

THE .law requires, that out of the public

expenses a lamb of the first year be

killed every day, at the beginning and ending

of the day;* but on the seventh day, which

is called the Sabbath, they kill two, and sa­

crifice them in the same manner. On the new

moon they both perform the daily sacrifices,

and slay two bulls, with seven lambs of the

first year, and a kid of the goats also, for the

expiation of sins, that is, if they have sinned

through ignorance.

On the seventh month, which the Macedo-

nians call Hyperberetaeus, they make an ad­

dition to those already mentioned, and sacri­

fice a bull, a ram, seven lambs,f and a kid of

the goats for sins.

The tenthJ day of the same lunar month

they fast till the evening; and this day they

sacrifice a bull, two rams, seven lambs, and a

kid of the goats for sins; and besides these,

they bring two kids of the goats, one of which

is sent alive out of the limits of the camp into

the wilderness, for the scape-goat, and to be

an expiation of the sins of the whole multi­

tude; but the other is brought into a place of

great cleanness, within the limits of the camp,

and is there burnt, with its skin, without any

sort of cleansing. With this goat is burnt a

bull not brought by the people, but by the

high-priest, at his own charge, which, when

it is slain, he brings of the blood into the holy

place, together with the blood of the kid of

the goats, and sprinkles the ceiling with his

finger seven times, as also its pavement, and

as often towards the most holy place, and

about the golden altar. He also at last brings

it into the open court, and sprinkles it about

the great altar. Besides this, they set the ex­

tremities, and the kidneys, and the fat, with

the lobe of the liver upon the altar, and the

high-priest presents a ram to God as a burnt-

offering, j

On the fifteenth|| day of the same month,

when the season of the year is changing for

winter, the law enjoins us to pitch tabernacles

in every one of our houses, but so that we

preserve ourselves from the cold of that time

of the year; as also that when we should ar­

rive at our own country, we should come to

that city which we should have then for our

metropolis, because of the temple therein to

be built: and keep a festival for eight days,

and offer burnt-offerings, and sacrifice thank-

offerings; that we should then carry in our

hands a branch of myrtle, and,willow, and a

bough of the palm-tree, with the addition of

the pomecitron; that the burnt-offering on the

first of those days was to be a sacrifice of

thirteen bulls, fourteen lambs, and fifteen

rams, with the addition of a kid of the goats,

as an expiation for sins; that on the following

days the same number of lambs, and of rams,

* Exod. xxix. 38.  
t Numb. xxix. 2.

Numb, xxviii. 3.

t Levit. xxiii. 27.

II Numb. xxix. 12.

