an. 1264.] 169 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

people went out, and Gaal with them, at the

head of his soldiery, bo they gathered their

fruit with safety; and when they were at

supper in several companies, they then ven­

tured to curse Abimelech openly,* and the

magistrates laid ambushes in places about

the city, and caught many of Abimelech's

followers, and destroyed them.

Now there was one Zebul, a magistrate of

the Shechemites, that had entertained Abim­

elech. He sent messengers, and informed

him how much Gaal had irritated the people

against him, and excited him to lay ambushes

before the city; for that he would persuade

Gaal to go out against him; which would

leave it in his power to be revenged on him;

and when that was once done, he would bring

him to be reconciled to the city. So Abime­

lech laid ambushes, and himself laid with

them. Now Gaal abode in the suburbs, tak­

ing little care of himself; and Zebul was

with him. Now as Gaal saw the armed men

coming on, he said to Zebul, that some armed

men were coming; but the other replied,

they were only shadows of huge stones;f and,

when they were come nearer, Gaal perceived

what was the reality, and said they were not

shadows, but men lying in ambush. Then

said Zebul, "Didst not thou reproach Abim­

elech for cowardice? why dost thou not then

* Judg. ix. 27.

t Our translation of the Book of Judges from the He­

brew, represents Zebul as saying to Gaal, upon his being

alarmed at seeing troops of men making to him, Thou seest

the shadazes of the mountains as if they were men, ch. ix.

ver. 36. Whereas Josephus represents him as telling

him, he mistook the shadow of the rocks for men. A

commentator might be at a loss to account for this change,

that had not read Deubdan's representation of some part

of the Holy Land, in which he tells us, that in those places

there are many detached rocks scattered up and down,

some growing out of the ground, (Voyage, p. 98,) .nd

others are fragments broken off from rorky precipices, the

shadow of which it appears Josephus thought might be

most naturally imagined to look like troops of men at a

distance, rather than the shadow of the mountains. Har-

mer's Observations, vol. I. p. 98. Clarke's Edition. B.

t In the text the expression is, Then God sent an evil

spirit, or spirit of discord, between Abimelech and the men

of Shecliem, Judg. ix. 23. which, in Scripture, is an un­

usual form of speech, and denotes not any positive action,

but a permission only, or, at most, a direction from God.

It is observed, however, that this manner of expression

may possibly have given rise to some notions in the theo­

logy of the Heathens, when they suppose, that the furies

appointed by the gods to sow the seeds of discord among

men:

shew how very courageous thou art thyself,

and go and light him?" So Gaal being in

disorder, joined battle with Abimelech, and

some of his men fell; whereupon he fled into

the city, and took his men with him. But

Zebul managed his matters so in the city, that

he procured them to expel Gaal out of the

city; and this by accusing him of cowardice

in this action with the soldiers of Abimelech.:}:

But Abimelech, when he had learned that the

Shechemites were again coming out to gather

their grapes, placed ambushes before the

city; and when they were come out, the third

part of his army took possession of the gates

to hinder the citizens from returning, whilst

the rest pursued those that were scattered

abroad; and so there was slaughter every

where; and when he had overthrown the city

to the very foundations, (for it was not able

to bear a siege) and had sown its ruins with

salt,|| he proceeded on with his army, till all

the Shechemites were slain. As for those

that were scattered about the country, and so

escaped the danger, they were gathered toge­

ther unto a certain strong rock, and settled

themselves upon it, and prepared to build a

wall about: but when Abimelech knew their

intentions, he prevented them; and came

upon them with his forces; and laid fnggots

of dry wood round the place, he himself

.1

Luctificam Alecto, dirarum ab sede sororum

Infernisque ciet tenebris; cui tristia bella,

Iraeque, insidiaeque, et crimina noxia cordi.

And a little lower,

Disjice compositam pacem, sere crimina belli:

Anna velit, poscatque simul, rapiatque juventus.

Virg. JEn. 7. B

II The effect of salt, where it abounds, on vegetation,

is described by burning, Dent. xxix. 23. Thus Volney,

speaking of the borders of the Asphaltic Lake, or Dead

Sea, says, "the true cause of the absence of vegetables

and animals, is the acrid saltness of its waters, which is

infinitely greater than that of the sea. The land sur­

rounding the lake being equally impregnated with that

saltness refuses to produce plants: the air itself, which is

by evaporation loaded with it, and which moreover re­

ceives vapours of sulphur and bitumen, cannot suit vege­

tation: whence the dead appearance which reigns round

the lake." Voyage en Syrie, tom. i. p. 282. Tims also

Virgil. Georg. lib. ii. 238. Hence the ancient custom of

sowing an enemy's city, when taken, with salt, in token

of perpetual desolation. Judg. ix. 45. And thus in after-

times, Ann. 1162, the city of Milan was burnt, razed,

sown with salt, and ploughed by the exasperated emperor

Frederic Barbarossa. Complete System of Georg. vol. I.

p. 822, B.

