an. 586.] 378 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

one of a very eminent family, and exceed­

ingly skilful in the language of his country.

When Nebuzaradan had done thus, he made

haste to Babylon. But as to those that fled

away during the siege of Jerusalem, and

had been scattered over the country; when

they heard that the Babylonians were gone

away, and had left a remnant in the land of

Jerusalem, and those such as were to culti­

vate the same; they came together from all

parts to Gedaliah to Mispah. Now the ru­

lers that were over them, were Johanan, the

son of Kareah; and Jezaniah, and Seraiah,

and others beside them. Now there was of

the royal family one Ishmael, a wicked man,

and very crafty; who, during the siege of

Jerusalem, fled to Baalis, the king of the

Ammonites, and abode with him during that

time. And Gedaliah persuaded them, now

they were there, to stay with him, and have

no fear of the Babylonians; for that if they

would cultivate the country, they should suf­

fer no harm. This he assured them of by

oath, and said, that they should have him for

their patron; and, that if any disturbance

should arise, they should find him ready to

defend them. He also advised them to dwell

in any city, as every one of them pleased;

and to send men along with his own servants,

and rebuild their houses upon the old founda­

tions, and dwell there. And he admonished

them beforehand, that they should make pre­

paration while the season lasted, of corn and

wine, and oil; to subsist during the winter.

When he had thus discoursed to them, he

dismissed them; that every one might dwell

in what part of the country he pleased.

When this report was spread abroad as

far as the nations that bordered on Judea,

that Gedaliah kindly entertained those that

came to him, after they had fled away, upon

condition that they should pay tribute to the

king of Babylon; they also came readily to

Gedaliah, and inhabited the country. And

when Johanan, and the rulers that were with

him, observed the country, and the humanity

of Gedaliah, they were exceedingly in love

with him, and told him, that Baalis, the

king of the Ammonites, had sent Ishmael to

kill him by treachery, and secretly; that he

might have the dominion over the Israelites,

as being of the royal family; and they said,

that he might deliver himself from his trea­

cherous design, if he would give them leave

to slay Ishmael, and nobody should know it.

For they told him they were afraid, that

when he was killed by the other, the entire

ruin of the remaining strength of the Israel­

ites would ensue. But he professed, that he

did not believe what they said, when they

told him of such a treacherous design in a

man that had been well treated by him;

disciple to go along with them, where the prophet died,

and Baruch soon after made his escape to his brethren in

Babylon, where, according to the tradition of the Rab­

bins, he likewise died in the twelfth year of his captivity.'

But of what authority the book, which goes under his

name, is, or by whom it was written, and whether any

thing related therein be historically true, or the whole

of it a fiction, is altogether uncertain. Grotius, in his

Commentary upon it, thinks it an entire fiction of some

Hellenistical Jew, under the name of Baruch. And St.

Jerom, long before him, (in the preface to his Exposition

of Jeremiah,) tells us, that the reason why he did not

make a comment on this book, though, in the edition of

the Septuagint, it be joined with Jeremiah, was, because it

was not deemed canonical among the Hebrews, and con­

tains an epistle which falsely bears the name of Jeremiah.

This epistle is annexed to the book, and, in the common

division of it, makes the last chapter. But the main sub­

ject of the book itself is likewise an epistle, either sent, or

feigned to be sent, by king Jehoiakim, and the Jews who

were in captivity with him in Babylon, to their brethren

the Jews who were still left in Judah and Jerusalem:

wherein they recommend to their prayers the emperor

Nebuchadnezzar and his children, that, under his domi­

nion, they may lead quiet and peaceable lives; wherein

they confess their sins, and ask pardon for what is past,

take notice of the threats of the prophets, which they had

so long despised, and acknowledge the righteousness of

God in what he had brought upon them: wherein they

remind them of the advantage which the Jews had in their

knowledge of the law of God, and of true wisdom, above

all other nations, and thereupon exhorted them to reform

their manners, and forsake their evil customs, which would

be the only means to bring about their deliverance from

the captivity under which they groaned. The whole is

introduced with an historical preface, wherein it is related,

that Baruch, being then at Babylon, did, in the name of

the captive king, and his people, draw up the same epistle,

and afterwards read it to them for their approbation; and

that, together with it, they sent a collection of money to

the high-priest at Jerusalem, for the maintenance of the

daily sacrifices. This is the substance of the book itself:

and, in the letter annexed to it, which goes under Jere­

miah's name, the vanity of the Babylonish idols and idol­

atry is set forth at large, and with liveliness enough. Of

the whole there are but three copies; one in Greek, and

the other two in Syriac, whereof one agreeth with the

Greek, though the other very much differs from it: but

in what language it was originally written, or whether one

of these be not the original, or which of them may be so,

it is next to impossible to tell. Prideaux's Connection,

anno 595, and Calmet's Preface stir Baruch. B.

