an. 1492.] 145 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

camp. And when they had done this for six

days, on the seventh Joshua gathered the

armed men, and all the people together, and

told them the city should now be taken; since

God would on that day give it them, by the

falling down of the walls; and this of their own

accord and without their labour. However,

he charged them to kill every one whom they

should take; and not to abstain from the

slaughter of their enemies, either for weari­

ness or for pity; and not to fall on the spoil

and be thereby diverted from pursuing their

enemies as they ran away; but to destroy all

the animals, and to take nothing for their own

peculiar advantage. He commanded them

also to bring together all the silver and gold,

that it might be set apart as first-fruits unto

God, out of this glorious exploit, as having

gotten them from the first city they took; only

that they should save Rahab and her kindred

alive, because of the oath which the spies

had sworn to her.

When he had said this, and had set his

army in order, he brought it against the

city; so they went round the city again, the

ark going before them, and the priests en­

couraging the people to be zealous in the

work; and when they had gone round it

seven times, and had stood a little, the wall

fell down; while no instruments of war, nor

any other force was applied to it by the He­

brews.

So they entered into Jericho, and slew all

the men that were therein, while they were

affrighted at the surprising overthrow of the

walls, and their courage was become useless,

and they were not able to defend themselves;

so they were slain, and their throats cut, some

in the ways, and others as caught in their

houses; nothing afforded them assistance, but

they all perished, even to the women and the

children, and the city was filled with dead

bodies, and not one person escaped. They

also burnt the whole city, and the country

about it, but they saved alive Rahab, with

her family, who had fled to her inn; and when

she was brought to him, Joshua owned that

they owed her thanks for her preservation of

the spies. He also said he would not appear

to be behind her in his benefaction to her,

and therefore he gave her certain lands im­

mediately, and held her in great esteem ever

afterwards.

If any part of the city escaped the fire, he

overthrew it from its foundation, and de­

nounced a curse* against its inhabitants, if

any one should desire to rebuild it; how upon

his laying the foundations of the walls he

should be deprived of his eldest son, and upon

finishing it he should lose his youngest son;f

but what happened hereuponJ we shall speak

of hereafter.

Now there was an immense quantity of sil­

ver and gold, and besides those of brass also,

that was heaped together out of the city when

it was taken; no one transgressing the decree,

nor purloining for their own peculiar advan­

tage; which spoils Joshua delivered to the

* Upon occasion of this devoting of Jericho to destruc­  
tion, and the exemplary punishment of Achar, who broke

that cherem or anathema, and of the punishment of the

future breaker of it, Hiel, 1 Kings xvi. 34. as also of the

punishment of Saul for breaking the like cherem or ana­

thema against the Amalekites, 1 Sam. xv. we may observe

what was the true meaning of that law, Levit. xxvii. 28.

None devoted, which shall be devoted of men, shall be

redeemed, but shall surely be put to death, i. e. When­

ever any of the Jews' public enemies had been for their

wickedness solemnly devoted to destruction, according to

the divine command, as were generally the seven wicked

nations of Canaan, and those sinners the Amalekites,

1 Sam. xv. 18. (see the note on IV. 7.) it was utterly un­

lawful to permit those enemies to be redeemed, but they

were to be all utterly destroyed. See also Numb. xxi. 2,

3. The words of Joshua's execration are these:—Cursed

be the man before the Lord, that raiseth up, and buildeth this

city Jericho; he shall lay the foundation thereof in his first­

born, and in his youngest son shall he set up the gates of it,

Josh, vi- 26. "This anathema (says Maimonides) was

pronounced, that the miracle of the subversion of Jericho

might be kept in perpetual memory; for whosoever saw

the walls sunk deep in the earth, (as he understands it.)

would clearly discern, that this was not the form of a

building destroyed by men, but miraculously thrown

down by God." Hiel, however, in the reign of Abab,'

either not remembering, or not believing this denuncia­

tion, was so taken with the beauty of its situation, that he

rebuilt Jericho, and, as the sacred history informs us, laid

the foundation thereof in Ahiram, his first-born, and set up

the gates thereof in his youngest son Segub, according to the

word of the Lord, which he spake to Joshua, the son of Nun,

1 Kings xvi. 34. However, after that Hiel had ventured

to rebuild it, no scruple was made of inhabiting it; for it

afterwards became famous upon many accounts. Here

the prophet sweetened the waters of the spring that sup­

plied it, and the neighbouring countries. Here Herod

built a sumptuous palace; it was the dwelling-place of

Zaccheus, and was honoured with the presence of Christ,

who vouchsafed likewise to work some miracles here.

Univer. Hist. lib. 1. c. 7. B.

t Josh. vi. 26.

J This is now wanting in Josephus.

