178 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

her mother-in-law, went out to glean; that

they might get a stock of corn for their

food. Now it happened that she came into

Booz's field; and after some time Booz

came thither, and when he saw the damsel,

he enquired of his servant that was set over

the reapers concerning the girl. The ser­

vant had a little before enquired about all

her circumstances, and told them to his

master. Booz then kindly embraced her;

both on account of her affection to her moth­

er-in-law, and her remembrance of that son

of her's, to whom she had been married,

and wished that she might experience a

prosperous condition. So he desired her

not to glean, but to reap what she was able;

and gave her leave to carry it home. He

also gave it in charge to that servant who

was over the reapers, not to hinder her

when she took it away, and bade him give

her her dinner and make her drink, when

he did the like to the reapers. Now what

corn Ruth received of him, she kept for her

mother-in-law, and carried it to her in the

evening. And Naomi had kept for her a

part of such food as her neighbours had

plentifully bestowed upon her. Ruth also

told her mother-in-law what Booz had said;

and when the other had informed her that

he was near of kin to them, and perhaps

was so pious a man as to make some pro­

vision for them, she went out again on the

days following to gather the gleanings, with

Booz's maid-servant.

It was not many days before Booz, after

the barley was winnowed, slept in his thresh­

ing floor. When Naomi was informed of

this circumstance, she contrived that Ruth

should lie down by him, for she thought that

it might be for their advantage that he

should discourse with the girl. Accordingly

she sent the damsel to sleep at his feet, who

went as she bade her; for she did not think

it consistent with her duty to contradict any

command of her mother-in-law. And at first

* Roth iii. 13.

t It is not easy to give an account of the origin of this

custom, but the reason of it is plain; it being a natural

signification that he resigned his interest in the land, by

giving him his shoe, wherewith he used to walk in it, that

he might enter into and take possession of it himself.

The Targum instead of the shoe hath right hand glove;

it being then the custom, perhaps, to give that in room of

the shoe.

"X

she lay concealed from Booz, as he was fast

asleep; but when he awaked about midnight,

and perceived a woman lying by him, he

asked who she was? and when she had told

him her name, and desired that he, whom

she owned for her lord, would excuse her,

he said no more; but in the morning, before

the servants began to set about their work,

he waked her, and bid her take as much

barley as she could carry, and go to her

mother-in-law, before any body should see

that she had lain down by him; because it

was but prudent to avoid any reproach that

might arise on that account, especially when

there had been nothing done that was ill;

but, as to the main point she aimed at, the

matter should rest here; "He that is nearer

of kin than 1 am shall be asked whether he

wish to take thee to wife? if he says he does,

thou shalt follow him; but if he refuse, I

will marry thee, according to the law."*

When she had informed the mother-in-law

of this, they were very glad of it; out of the

hope they had that Booz would make pro­

vision for them. Now about noon Booz

went down into the city, and gathered the

senate together; and when he had sent for

Ruth, he called for her kinsman also. And

when he was come, he asked him whether

he did not retain the inheritance of Elim-

elech, and his sons? he confessed that he

did retain it, as he was permitted to do by

the laws, because he was their nearest kins­

man. Then said Booz, "Thou must not

remember the laws in part; but do every

thing according to them. For the wife of

Mahlon is come hither; whom thou must

marry according to the law, in case thou

wilt retain their fields." So the man yielded

up both the fields and the wife to Booz, who

was himself of kin to those that were dead;

as alleging that he had a wife already, and

children also. So Booz called the senate to

witness, and bid the woman to loose his

shoe,f and spit in his face, according to the

In latter times the Jews delivered a handkerchief for

the same purpose. So R. Solomon Jarchi says, we ac­

quire, or buy, now, by a handkerchief or veil, instead of a

shoe. The giving of a glove was, in the middle ages, a

ceremony of investiture in bestowing lands and dignities.

In A. D. 1002, two bishops were put in possession of

their sees, each by receiving a glove So in England,

in the reign of Edward the Second, the deprivation rf

gloves was a ceremony of degradation.—With regard to

