344 [BOOK IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

of the life of Amaziah; because of his inno­

vations in religion, and his contempt of God;

when he had lived fifty-four years, and had

reigned twenty-nine.* He was succeeded by

his son, whose name was Uzziah.

CHAP. X.

OF THE AFFAIRS OF JEROBOAM, KINO OF ISRAEL; JONAH

THE PROPHET; ZECHARIAH, THE SON OF JEROBOAM J

AND UZZIAH, KING OF JERUSALEM.

v

IN the fifteenth year of the reign of Ama­

ziah, Jeroboam, the son of Joash, reigned

over Israel,f in Samaria. The king was

guilty of contumely against God,J and be­

came very wicked in worshipping of idols,

and in many absurd and impious underta­

kings, by which he occasioned ten thousand

misfortunes to the people of Israel. Now one

Jonah, a prophet, foretold to him, that he

should make war with the Syrians, and con­

quer their army, and enlarge the bounds of

his kingdom on the northern parts, to the city

Hamath; and on the southern, to the lake

Asphaltites; for the bounds of the Canaanites

originally were these, as Joshua their general

had determined them. So Jeroboam made

an expedition against the Syrians, and over­

run all their country, as Jonah had foretold.

Now I cannot but think it necessary to de­

scribe the actions of this prophet, so far as I

have found them written down in the He­

brew books. Jonah|| had been commanded

by God to go to the kingdom of Nineveh;

and to publish in that city, how it should lose

the dominion it had over the nations. But he

went not, out of fear; nay,' he ran away from

God to the city§ Joppa;** and finding a ship

there, he went into it, and sailed to Tarsus

* From an. 840 to an. 811.

t 2 Kings xiv. 22.

J What I have above noted concerning Jehoash, seems

to have been true also concerning his son Jeroboam II.

viz. that although he began wickedly, as Josephus agrees

with our other copies; and, as Josephus adds, was the

cause of a vast number of misfortunes to the Israelites, in

those his first years, (the particulars of which are unhap­

pily wanting both in Josephus and in all our copies;) so

does it seem that he was afterward reclaimed, and became

a good king; and so was encouraged by the prophet

Jonah, and had great successes afterward; when God

saved the Israelites by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of

Joash, 2 Kings xiv. 27. which encouragement by Jonah,

and great successes, are equally observable in Josephus,

and in other copies.

II The only mention we have of this prophet (whom

the Jews will have to be the son of the widow of Zare-

phath, whom Elijah raised from the dead, but without

any foundation of reason) is in this passage, and the ac­

count of this famous mission to Nineveh. What the pro­

phecies were, whereby he encouraged Jeroboam to pro­

claim war against the king of Syria, we have no where

recorded; but as we have not every thing which the

prophets did write, so several prophets, we must know,

did not commit their predictions to writing. From this

place, however, we may observe, that God was very

merciful to the Israelites, (though they were certainly a

very wicked people,) in continuing a race of prophets

among them, even after Elisha was dead. (Patrick's

Commentary.) It is a very common opinion among the

Jews, as we said, that Jonah was the son of the widow of

Zarephath; and this opinion they found upon the words

of the mother, when she received her son alive from the

prophet's hand. By this I know, that the word of the

Lord in thy mouth is truth, 1 Kings xvii. 24. for there­

fore, say they, was the child called the son of Amittai;

because Amittai signifies truth: a weak reason, and such

as is plainly repugnant to the testimony of Scripture. For

this we know for certain, that Jonah lived in the reigns of

Joash, and Jeroboam the second, kings of Israel, and

therefore could not be the son of the widow of Zarephath,

since the former of these two princes did not begin to

reign till sixty years after the translation of Elijah. Others

pretend that he was son to the Shunamite woman, whom

the prophet Elisha raised from the dead; but Shunam and

Gath-hepher (where we are certain Jonah was born) were

two quite different places, the former in the tribe of Issa-

char, the other in that of Zabulon; and therefore, we may

conclude, that Amittai was the proper name of Jonah's

father, who lived in a little canton of the tribe of Zabulon,

called Hepher, orHopher, wherein was the town of Goth,

which is generally believed to be the same with Jotapata,

so fiimous for the siege which Josephus there maintained

against the Roman army, a little before the destruction of

Jerusalem. Cahnefs Preface sur Jonas, and his Dictionary,

under the word. B.

§ Jonah i. 3.

** Joppa is a seaport town in Palestine, upon the  
Mediterranean, and was formerly the only port which the

Jews had upon that coast, whither all the materials that

were sent from Tyre, towards the building of Solomon's

temple, were brought and landed. The town itself is

very ancient; for profane authors reckon it was built

before the flood, and derives the name of it from Joppa,

the daughter of Elolas, and the wife of Cepheus, who

was the founder of it. Others arc rather inclined to be­

lieve, that it was built by Japhet, and from him had the

name of Japho, which was afterwards moulded into Joppa?

but is now generally called Jaffa, which comes nearer to

the first appellation. The town is situated in a fine plain,

between Jamnia to the south; Caesirea of Palestine to the

north; and Rama, or Ramula to the east; but, at pre­

sent, is in a poor and mean condition; nor is its port by

any means good, by reason of the rocks which project

into the sea. The chief thing for which this place was

famous, in ancient Pagan history, is the exposition of

Andromeda, the daughter of Cepheus, king of Egypt,

who, for her mother's pride, was bound to a rock, in

order to be devoured by a sea-monster, but was delivered

