AN. 521.] 391 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

for his great men, his princes, and toparchs

of Persia and Media; and set himself down

in the place where he used to give audience;

and bade each of his body guards to declare

what they thought proper concerning the pro­

posed questions, in the hearing of them all.

Accordingly the first of them began to

speak of the strength of wine; and demon­

strated it thus: "When," said he, "I am to

give my opinion of wine, O ye men, I find

that it exceeds every thing by the following

indications. It deceives the mind of those

that drink it, and reduces that of the king to

the same state with that of the orphan, and

he who stands in need of a tutor; and erects

that of the slave to the boldness of him that

js free, and that of the needy becomes like

that of the rich man. For it changes and re­

news the souls of men, when it gets into them:

and it quenches the sorrow of those that are

under calamities, and makes men forget the

debts they owe to others, and makes them

think themselves to be of alLmen the richest;

it makes them talk of no small things, but of

talents, and such other names, as become

wealthy men only. Nay, more, it makes

them insensible of their commanders, and

of their kings, and takes away the remem­

brance of their friends and companions.

For it arms men even against those that are

dearest to them, and makes them appear the

greatest strangers to them. And when they

are become sober, and they have slept out

their wine in the night, they arise without

knowing any thing they have done in their

cups. I take these for signs of power, and

by them discover that wine is the strongest,

and most insuperable of all things."

As soon as the first had given the afore­

mentioned demonstrations of the strength of

wine; the next to him began to speak about

the strength of a king, and demonstrated that

he was the strongest of all, and more power­

ful than any thing else, that appears to have

any force or wisdom. "They are men," said

he, "who govern all things: they force the

earth and the sea to become profitable to

them, in what they desire: and over these

men do kings rule: and over them they have

authority. Now those who rule over that

animal which is of all the strongest, and

most powerful, must needs deserve to be

esteemed insuperable jn po^er and force.

For example, when kings command their

subjects to make wars and undergo dangers,

they are hearkened to: and when they send

them against their enemies, their power is

so great, that they are obeyed. They com­

mand men to level mountains, and to pull

down walls and towers: nay, when they are

commanded to be killed, and to kill, they

submit to it; that they may not appear to

transgress the king's commands. And when

they have conquered, they bring what they

have gained in the war to the king. Those

also who are not soldiers, but cultivate the

ground, after they have endured the labour,

and all the inconveniences of such works of

husbandry, and have reaped and gathered in

their fruits, they bring tributes to the king.

And whatsoever it is which the king says

or commands, it is done of necessity, and

that without any delay. While he, in the

mean time, is satiated with all sorts of food

and pleasure, and sleeps in quiet. He is

guarded by such as watch; and such as are,

as it were, fixed down to the place through

fear. For no one dares leave him, even

when he is asleep; nor does any one go

away and take care of his own affairs; but

he esteems this one thing to be the only

work of necessity, to guard the king; and

accordingly to this he wholly addicts himself.

How then can it be otherwise, but that the

king exceeds all in strength, ^ hile so great

a multitude obey his injunctions?"

Now when this man had held his peace,

the third of them, who was Zorobabel, be­

gan to speak concerning women and truth.

"Wine," said he, "is strong; as is the king

also, whom all men obey; but women are

superior to them in power. For it was a

woman who brought the king into the world;

and those who plant the vines, and make the

wine, they are women who bear them, and

bring them up. Nor indeed is there any

thing which we do not receive from them.

For these women weave garments for us;

and our household affairs are by their means

taken care of, and preserved in safety. Nor

can we live separate from women.. And

when we have got a great deal of gold and

silver, and any other thing that is of fjreat

value, and see a beautiful woman, we leave

all these things; and with open mou'.h fix

our eyes upon her countenauce; and are

