an. 453.] 411 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now while his friends were talking one to

another, Esther's eunuchs hastened Hainan

away, to come to supper. But one of the eu­

nuchs, named Sabuchadas, saw the gallows

that was fixed in Haman's house, and inquired

of one of his servants for what purpose they

had prepared it? So he knew that it was for

the queen's uncle: because Haman was about

to petition the king that he might be punished.

But at present he held his peace. Now when

the king, with Haman, were at the banquet,

he desired the queen to tell him what gift

she desired to obtain; and assured her, that

she should have whatsoever she had a mind

to. She then lamented the danger her peo­

ple were in; and said, that she and her nation

were given up to be destroyed: and that she,

on that account, made this petition. That

she would not have troubled him if he had

only given order that they should be sold into

servitude: for such a misfortune would not

have been intolerable. But she desired that

they might be delivered from such a destruc­

tion. And when the king inquired of her

who was the author of this misery to them?

she only accused Haman: and convicted him,

that he had been the wicked instrument of

this; and had formed this plot against them.

When the king was hereupon in disorder,

and was gone hastily out of the banquet into

the gardens, Haman began to intercede with

Esther; and to beseech her to forgive him,

as to what he had offended; for he perceived

that he was in a very bad case. And as he

had fallen upon the queen's bed,* and was

making supplication to her, the king came

in: and being still more provoked at what he

saw, "O thou wretch!" said he, "thou vilest

of all mankind! dost thou aim to force my

wife?" And when Haman was astonished at

this, and not able to speak one word more,

Sabuchadas the eunuch came in, and accused

Haman; and said, he found a gallows fifty

cubits high at his house prepared for Mor-

decai: for that the servant told him so much,

upon his inquiry, when he was sent to him to

call him to supper. When the king heard

this, he determined that Haman should be

punished after no other manner than that

which had been devised by him against

Mordecai. So he gave order immediately,

that he should be hung upon that gallows,

and be put to death after that manner.f

And from hence I cannot forbear to admire

God; and to learn hence his wisdom and his

justice: and not only in punishing the wick­

edness of Haman, but in so disposing it, that

he should undergo the very same punish­

ment which he had contrived for another.

As also because thereby he teaches others

this lesson, that what mischiefs any one pre­

pares against another, he, without knowing

of it, first contrives it against himself.

Wherefore Haman, who had immoderately

abused the honour he had from the king, was

destroyed after this manner: and the king

granted his estate to the queen. He also

called for Mordacai, (for Esther had informed

him that she was related to him:) and gave

him that ring which he had before given to

Haman. The queen also gave Haman's es­

tate to Mordecai; and prayed the king to de­

liver the nation of the Jews from the fear of

death; and shewed him what had been writ­

ten over all the country by Haman, the son of

Amedatha. For that if her country were

destroyed, and her countrymen were to perish

she could not bear to live any longer. So the

king promised that he would not do any thing

that should be disagreeable to her, nor con­

tradict what she desired: but he bade her

write what she pleased about the Jews, in the

king's name, and seal it with his seal; and

send it to all his kingdom; for that those who

read epistles whose authority was secured by

having the king's seal to them, would no way

contradict what was written therein. So he

commanded the king's scribes to be sent for,

and to write to the nations, on the Jews' be­

half: and to his lieutenants, and governors,

that were over his hundred and twenty-seven

provinces, from India to Ethiopia. Now the

contents of the epistle were these: {"The

great king Artaxerxes to our rulers, and those

* It was a custom of the Persians, as well as other na­  
tions, to sit, or rather to lie upon beds, when they eat or

drank; and therefore, when Haman fell down as a suppli­

cant at the feet of Esther, and, as the manner was among

the Greeks and Romans, and not improbably among the

Persians, embraced her knees, the king might pretend that

voL. I.—NOS. 35 & 36.

he was offering violence to the queen's chastity. Not that

he believed that this was his intention, but, in his furious

passion, he turned every thing to the worst sense, and made

use of it to aggravate his crime. Patrick's Commentary. B.

t Esther vii. 10.

X The true reason why king Artaxerxes did not here

3Y

