ah. 27a] 423 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was dead, and had left a young son, who was

called Onias, Simon's brother Eleazar, of

whom we are speaking, took the high-priest­

hood. And he it was to whom Ptolemy

wrote, and that in the manner following:—

"King Ptolemy to Eleazar the high-priest

sendeth greeting. There are many Jews who

dwell now in my kingdom, whom the Persians,

when they were in power, carried captives.

These were honoured by my father: some of

them he placed in the army, and gave them

greater pay than ordinary; to others of them,

when they came with him into Egypt, he com­

mitted his garrisons, and the guarding of

them, that they might be a terror to the

Egyptians. And when I had taken the go­

vernment, I treated all men with humanity;

and especially those that are thy fellow-citi­

zens. Of whom I have set free above a hun­

dred thousand, that were slaves; and paid

the price of their redemption to their mas­

ters, out of my own revenues; and those that

are of a fit age I have admitted into the num­

ber of my soldiers. And for such as are ca­

pable of being faithful to me, and proper for

ray court, I have put them in such a post: as

thinking this kindness done to them to be a

very great and acceptable gift, which I de­

vote to God for his providence over me. And

as I am desirous to do what will be grateful

to these, and to all the other Jews in the ha­

bitable earth, I have determined to procure an

interpretation of your law, and to have it

translated out of Hebrew into Greek, and to

be deposited in my library. Thou wilt there­

fore do well to choose out and send to me

men of a good character, who are now el­

ders in age, and six hi number, out of every

tribe. These, by their age, must be skilful

in the laws; and of abilities to make an ac­

curate interpretation of them. And when

this shall be finished, I shall think that I have

done a work glorious to myself. And I have

sent to thee Andreas, the captain of my guard,

and Aristeus, men whom I have in very great

esteem; by whom 1 have sent those first

fruits -which I have dedicated to the temple,

and to the sacrifices, and to other uses to the

value of a hundred talents. And if thou wilt

* When we have, here and presently, mention made  
of Philadelphus's queen and Bister, Arsinoe, we are to

remember, with Spanheim, that Arsinoe was both his

gxster and his wife; according to the whole custom of

send to let me know what thou wouldest have

farther, thou wilt do a thing acceptable to

me."

When this epistle was brought to Eleazar,

he wrote an answer to it, with all the respect

possible: "Eleazar, the high-priest, to king

Ptolemy, sendeth greeting. If thou, and thy

*queen Arsinoe, and thy children be well, we  
are entirely satisfied. When we received

thy epistle, we greatly rejoiced at thy inten­

tions. And when the multitude were gather­

ed together, we read it to them: and thereby

made them sensible of the piety thou hast

towards God. We also shewed them twenty

vials of gold, and thirty of silver; and the

five large basons, and the table for the shew-

bread: as also the hundred talents for the

sacrifices, and for the making what shall be

needful at the temple. Which thing Andreas

and Aristeus, those most honoured friends of

thine, have brought us. And truly they are

persons of an excellent character, and of

great learning, and worthy of thy virtue.

Know then, that we will gratify thee in what

is for thy advantage, though we do what we

used not to do before. For we ought to

make a return for the numerous acts of kind­

ness which thou hast done to our country­

men. We immediately therefore offered

sacrifices for thee, and thy sister, with thy

children and friends; and the multitude

made prayers that thy affairs may be to thy

mind; and that thy kingdom may be preserv­

ed in peace; and that the translation of our

law may come to the conclusion thou desirest,

and be for thy advantage. We have also

chosen six elders out of every tribe; whom

we have sent, and the law with them. It will

be thy part, out of thy piety and justice, to

send back the law, when it hath been trans­

lated; and to return those to us that bring it

in safety. Farewell."

This was the reply which the high-priest

made. But it does not seem necessary to set

down the names of the seventy-two elders,

who were sent by Eleazar, and carried the

law; which yet were subjoined at the end of

the epistle. However, I think it not improper

to give an account of those very valuable and

Persia, and of Egypt at this very time; nay of the Assy-

rians long afterward. See XX. 2. Whence wc have,

upon the coins of Philadelphus, this known inscription

©fwv 'AfcXuiv. or the divine brother and sister.

