an. 839.] 341 ANNUITIES OF THE JEWS.

dedicated in the temple, and sent them to

the king of Syria, and procured so much by

them that he was not besieged, nor his king­

dom quite endangered: but Hazael was in­

duced by the greatness of the sum of money

not to bring his army against Jerusalem.*

Yet Jehoash fell into a severe distemper,

and was set upon by his friends, in order to

revenge the death of Zachariah the son of

Jehoiada. These laid snares for the king,

and slew him. He was buried in Jerusalem,

but not in the royal sepulchres of his fore­

fathers, because of his impiety. He lived

forty-seven years; and Amaziah his son suc­

ceeded him in the kingdom.f

In the Jtwenty-first year of the reign of

Jehoash, Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, took

the government of the Israelites in Samaria,

and held it seventeen years. He did not

properly imitate his father; but was guilty

of as wicked practices as those that first had

God in contempt. But the king of Syria

brought him low, and by an expedition

against him did so greatly reduce his forces,

that there remained no more of so great an

army than ten thousand men, and fifty horse­

men. He also took away from him many of

his great cities, and destroyed his army.

And these were the things that the people of

Israel suffered according to the prophecy of

Elisha, when he foretold that Hazael should

kill his master, and reign over the Syrians

and Damascens. But when Jehoahaz was

under such unavoidable miseries, he had re­

course to prayer and supplication to God;

and besought him to deliver him out of the

hands of Hazael, and not overlook him, and

give him up into his hands. Accordingly

God accepted of his repentance; and, being

desirous rather to admonish those that might

repent, than to determine that they should

be utterly destroyed, he granted him deliver­

ance from war and dangers. So the country

having obtained peace, returned to its former

condition, and flourished as before.

After the death of Jehoahaz,|| his son Joash

took the kingdom, in the thirty-seventh year

of Jehoash, king of the tribe of Judah; and

he retained the government sixteen years.

He was a good man,§ and in his disposition

not at all like to his father. Now at this

time it was that the king of Israel went to

visit Elisha the prophet, who was already

very old, and was now fallen into a disease,

and when the king found him very near

death, he began to weep in his sight, and

lament, calling him his father, and his

weapons; because it was by this means that

he never made use of his weapons against

his enemies: but overcame them by his

prophecies, without fighting. And that he

was now departing this life, and leaving him

to the Syrians, who were already armed;

and to other enemies that were under their

power. So he said it was not safe for him

to live any longer; but that it would be well

for him to hasten to his end, and depart out

of this life with him. As the king was thus

bemoaning himself, Elisha comforted him, and

desired him to bend a bow that was brought

him; and when the king had fitted the bow

for shooting, Elisha took hold of his hands,

and bade him shoot. And when he had shot

three arrows, and then left off, Elisha said,

"If thou hadst shot more arrows, thou hadst

cut the kingdom of Syria up by the roots;

but since thou hast been satisfied with

shooting three times only, thou shalt fight

and beat the Syrians no more times than

three; that thou mayest recover that country

* 2 Kings xii. 18.  
t 2 Kings xii. 21.

I The twenty-third, Hebrew and Septuagint.

II An. 842.

§ This character of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, that

he was a good man; and in his disposition not at all like

his father, seems a direct contradiction to our ordinary

copies; which says, 2 Kings xiii. 11. that he did evil in

the sight of the Lord, and that he departed not from all

the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made Israel

to sin. Which copies are here the truest, it is difficult to

determine. If Josephus's be true, this Joash is the single

instance of a good king over the ten tribes. If the other

be true, we have not one such example. The account

that follows, in all copies, of the prophet Elisha's con-

cern for him, and his concern for Elisha, greatly favour

Josephus's copies: and suppose this king to have been

then a good man, and no idolater; with whom God's

prophets used not to be so familiar. Upon the whole,

since it appears, even by Josephus's own account, that

Amaziah the good king of Judah, while he was a good

king, was forbidden to make use of the 10,000 auxiliaries

he had hired of this Joash, king of Israel: as if he and

they were idolaters ; -IX. 9. 2 Chron. xxv. 5—9. it is

most likely, that these different characters of Joash suited

the different parts of his reign: and that according'to our

common copies, he was at first a wicked king; and after­

wards was reclaimed, and became a good one, according

to Josephus.

3N2

