76854

(y.i)

THE

EDITOR'S PREFACE.

T.

HE credibility of Scripture History has been established by a combination of
evidence,

altogether incontrovertible. This is the more remarkable and satisfactory, as
the Bible con­

tains not only the most ancient records, but exclusively makes known to us the
origin of all

things, and the transactions of those ages, which will in vain be sought for
elsewhere, or

found involved only in fable.

That, however, some difficulties should occur in perusing such venerable
documents, may

easily and reasonably be conceived; but they are not such as affect their
authenticity, or even

weaken their evidence. It is not impracticable to solve or remove most of
them; and the ob­

scurity which remains after the fruitless efforts of sober criticism, may
fairly be imputed to

the want of information, of which the distance of place and time has deprived
us. A re­

markable consistency and harmony characterises the historical parts of the
Bible;—delivered

down to us as they have been in separate books, and written by various
inspired penmen, the

slightest comparison will serve to force upon our minds the conviction that
they are genuine,

as far, at least, as veracity may be inferred from an agreement of the various
branches of a

subject. «

There are different modes of ascertaining the integrity of the canon of
scripture: learned

men have with great success performed this task—evidence to confirm the claim
of the in­

spired writers to the characters they assume, has been adduced and admitted.
Testimony

of an external nature has, likewise, been brought forward, to corroborate the
general contents

of the Bible, or its particular parts and facts. Tradition furnishes us with
some proof, though

prudence requires a careful investigation of its documents, and a cautious
admission of them;

but, however they may be exaggerated or obscured, they must have had some
foundation,

which, if it can be traced, will deserve attention, from its correspondence to
the great original.

In some instances it is so very remarkable and striking, that the boldest
scepticism cannot

well refuse and discard its aid.

B

voL. I. No. I.

