an. 1064.] 257 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

three days, that he might deliver to him his

entire army; and might send him to fight

against Sheba, the son of Bichri. Now while

Amasa was gone out, and made some delay

in gathering the army together, and so was

not yet returned; on the third day the king

said to Joab,* "It is not fit we should make

any delay in this affair of Sheba, lest he get

a numerous army about him, and be the

occasion of greater mischief, and hurt our

affairs more than did Absalom himself. Do

not thou, therefore, wait any longer, but

take such forces as thou hast at hand, and

that old fbody of six hundred men, and

thy brother Abishai with thee; and pursue

after our enemy, and endeavour to fight

him wheresoever thou canst overtake him.

Make haste to prevent him; lest he seize

upon some fenced cities, and cause us great

labour and pains before we take him."

So Joab resolved to make no delay; but

taking with him his brother, and those six

hundred men, and giving orders that the rest

of the army which was at Jerusalem should

follow him, he marched with great speed

against Sheba. And when he was come to

Gibeon, which is a village forty furlongs dis­

tant from Jerusalem; Amasa brought a great

army with him, and met Joab. Now Joab

was girded with a sword, and had his breast­

plate on; and when Amasa came near him to

salute him, he took particular care that his

sword should fall out, as it were of its own

accord. So he took it up from the ground,

and while he approached Amasa, who was

then near him, as though he would kiss him,

he took hold of Amasa's beard}: with his other

hand, smote him in his belly when he did not

foresee it, and slew him.|| This impious and

altogether profane action Joab§ did to a good

young man, and his kinsman, and one that had

done him no injury; and this out of jealousy

that he would obtain the chief command of

the army, and be equal in dignity with him­

self about the king. And for the same cause

it was that he killed Abner. But as to that

former wicked action, the death of his brother

Asahel, which he seemed to revenge, afforded

him a decent pretence, and made that crime

a pardonable one; but in this murder of

Amasa there was no such covering for it.

Now when Joab had killed this general, he

pursued after Sheba, having left the dead

body in the care of a person who was ordered

to proclaim aloud to the army, that Amasa

was justly slain, and deservedly punished.—

"But," said he, "if you be for the king, fol­

low Joab, his general; and Abishai, Joab's

brother." But because the body lay in the

road, and all the multitude came running

to it; and, as is usual with the multitude,

stood wondering a great while at it; he that

guarded it removed it thence, and carried it

to a certain place that was very remote from

the road, and there laid it, and covered it

with his garment. When this was done all

the people followed Joab. Now as he pur­

sued Sheba through all the country of Israel,

one told him, that he was in a strong city

called Abel-bethmaachah. Hereupon Joab

went thither, and set about it with his army,

and cast up a bank round it, arid ordered the

soldiers to undermine the walls and to over­

throw them. And since the people of the

city did not admit him, he was greatly dis­

pleased at them.

Now there was a woman of small account,**

and yet both wise and intelligent, who seeing

* Abishai, 2 Sam. xx. 6. But I prefer Josephus's  
copy.

t Cherethites and Pelethites. Heb. and Septuagint,

2 Sam. xx. 7.

J It was an ancient custom among the Grecians, to

take the person, to whom they had any address to make,

by the dim, or beard: Antiquis Graeciae in supplicando

mentem attingere moverat, says Pliny, lib. II, c. 45; and

even to this day, the Turks, in their salutations, do very

frequently take one another by the beard, (vide Theve-

not's Travels, c. 22.) The Arabians have a great regard

to the beard. The wives kiss their husbands, and the

children their father's beards, when they come to salute

them: and, when two friends meet together, their custom

is, in the course of their compliments., to interchange

kisses in this manner, (vide Darvieus Coutumes des

Arabes, c. 7,) as the like custom is still preserved among

the eastern people, the Indians, who take one another by

the chin, when they would give a hearty salute, and say

Bobba, i. e. Father; or Bii, Brother, as the author of the

Voyage to the East-Indies relates. Vide Peter de Falles's

Travels. B.

II 2 Sam. xx. 10.

§ So insolent was Joab become, upon the presumption

that David durst not punish him, that as he ventured

upon the bloody fact, so he imagined, that though the

sieht of Amasa's dead body might stop the march of those

that came by it, yet upon its being given out that he was

again become their general, their love for him was such,

that they would not scruple to follow him. Patrick's

Commentary. B.

** It seems not unlikely, that this woman was a go­  

