530 [book ht. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS,

selves; and had great plenty of provisions.

He also went thence, and resolved to destroy

those robbers that dwelt in the caves, and

did much mischief in the country. So he

sent a troop of horsemen, and three compa­

nies of armed footmen, against them. They

were very near a village called Arbela. And

on the fortieth day after he came himself,

with his whole army. And as the enemy

sallied out boldly upon him, the left wing of

his army gave way. But appearing with a

body of men, put those to flight who were

already conquerors, and recalled his men

that ran away. He also pressed upon his

enemies, and pursued them as far as the river

Jordan, though they ran away by different

roads. So he brought over to him all Gali­

lee, excepting those that dwelt in the caves;

and distributed money to every one of his

soldiers, giving them a hundred and fifty

drachmae apiece, and much more to their

captains; and sent them into winter quarters.

At which time Silo came to him, and his com­

manders with him, because Antigonus would

not give them provisions any longer; for he

supplied them for no more than one month.

Nay he had sent to all the country about, and

ordered them to carry off the provisions that

were there, and retire to the mountains, that

the Romans might have no provisions to live

upon, and so might perish by famine. But

Herod committed the care of that matter to

Pheroras, his youngest brother, and ordered

him to repair Alexandrium. Accordingly he

quickly made the soldiers abound with great

plenty of provisions, and rebuilt Alexandrium,

which had been before desolate.

About this time it was that Antony con­

tinued some time at Athens; and Ventidius,

who was now in Syria, sent for Silo, and com­

manded him to assist Herod in the first place

to finish the present war, and then to send for

their confederates, for the war they them­

selves were engaged in. But as for Herod,

he went in haste against the robbers that

were in the caves, and sent Silo away to Ven­

tidius while he marched against them. These

caves were in mountains that were exceeding

abrupt; and in their middle were no other

than precipices, with certain entrances into

the caves; and those caves were encom­

passed with sharp rocks. And in these did

the robbers lie concealed, with all their fa­

milies about them. But the king caused cer­

tain chests to be made, in order to destroy

them, and to be hung down, bound about

with iron chains, by an engine, from the top

of the mountains. It being not possible to

get up to them by reason of the sharp ascent

of the mountains; nor to creep down to them

from above. Now these chests were filled

with armed men, who had long hooks in their

hands, by which they might pull out such as

resisted them, and then tumble them down,

and kill them by so doing. But the letting

the chests down proved to be a matter of

great danger, because of the vast depth they

were to be letdown; although they had their

provisions in the chests themselves. But

when the chests were let down, and not one

of those in the mouths of the caves durst

come near them, but lay still out of fear, some

of the armed men girt on their armour, and

by both of their hands took hold of the chain

by which the chests were let down, and went

into the mouths of the caves, because they

fretted that such delay was made, by the rob­

bers not daring to come out of the caves.

And when they were at any of these mouths,

they first killed many of those that were in

the mouths with their darts; and afterward

pulled those to them that resisted them, with

their hooks, and tumbled them down the pre­

cipices, and afterwards went into the caves,

and killed many more; and then went into

their chests again, and lay still there. But

upon this, terror seized the rest, when they

heard the lamentations that were made; and

they despaired of escaping. However, when

the night came on, that put an end to the

whole work. And as the king proclaimed

pardon by a herald to such as delivered

themselves up to him. many accepted of the

offer. The same method of assault was made

use of the next day: and they went farther,

and got out in baskets to fight them, and

fought them at their doors, and sent fire

among them, and set their caves on fire; for

there was a great deal of combustible matter

within them. Now there was one old man

who was caught within one of these caves,

with a wife and seven children; these prayed

him to give them leave to go out, and yield

themselves up to the enemy: but he stood at

the cave's mouth, and always slew that child

of his who went out, until he had destroyed

