an. 226.] 431 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tion out of Babylon into Phrygia. The epistle

was this:

XING ANTIOCHUS, TO ZEUXIS HIS FATHER, SEND-

ETH GREETING.

"If thou be in good health, it is well: for I

am also in health. Having been informed

that a sedition is arisen in Lydia and Phrygia,

I thought that matter required great care.

And upon advising with my friends what was

fit to be done, it hath been thought proper to

remove two thousand families of Jews, with

their effects, out of Mesopotamia and Baby­

lon, unto the castles and places that lie most

convenient. For I am persuaded that they

will be well disposed guardians of our pos­

sessions; because of their piety towards God;

and because I know that my predecessors

have borne witness to them, that they are

faithful, and with alacrity perform what they

are desired. I will therefore, though it be a

laborious work, that thou remove these Jews:

under a promise that they shall be permitted

to use their own laws. And when thou shalt

have brought them to the aforementioned

{daces, thou shalt give every one of their

amilies a place for building their houses, and

a portion of land for their husbandry, and for

the plantation of their vines: and thou shalt

discharge them from paying taxes of the

fruits of the earth, for ten years. And let

them have a proper quantity of wheat for the

maintenance of their servants, until they re­

ceive bread-corn out of the earth. And let

a sufficient share be given to such as minister

to them in the necessaries of life: that by

enjoying the effects of our humanity, they

may shew themselves the more willing and

ready about our affairs. Take care also of

that nation, as far as thou art able; that they

may not have any disturbance given them by

any one."'"

Now these testimonials which I have'pro-

duced, are sufficient to declare the friend­

ship that Antiochus the Great bare to the

Jews.

CHAP. IV.

OF A LEAGUE BETWEEN ANTIOCHUS AND PTOLEMY J THE

OFFENCE GIVEN TO PTOLEMY EUERGETES BY 0NIAS J

THE PRUDENT CONDUCT OF JOSEPH J AND THE AFFAIRS

OF HIS SON HYRCANU8.

AFTER this, Antiochus made a friend­

ship and a league with Ptolemy; and

gave him his daughter Cleopatra to wife,*

and yielded up to him Coelesyria, Samaria,

Judea, and Phoenicia, by way of dowry. And

upon the division of the taxes between the

two kings, all the principal men farmed the

taxes of their several countries; and, collect­

ing the sum that was settled for them, paid

the same to the two kings. Now at this time

the Samaritans were in a nourishing con­

dition, and much distressed the Jews: cut­

ting off part of their land, and carrying off

slaves. This happened when Onias was

high-priest. For after Eleazar's death, hia

uncle Manasseh took the priesthood: and

after he had ended his life, Onias received

that dignity. He was the son of Simon, who

was called the Just; which Simon was the

brother of Eleazar, as I fsaid before. This

Onias was one of a little soul, and a great

lover of money: and for that reason, because

he did not pay that tax of twenty talents of

silver, which his forefathers paid to these

kings, out of their own estates, he provoked

king Ptolemy Euergetes to anger; who was

the father of Philopator. This Euergetes

sent an ambassador to Jerusalem, and com­

plained that Onias did not pay his taxes; and

threatened that if he did not receive them,

he would seize upon their land, and send

soldiers to live upon it. When the Jews heard

this message of the king's, they were con­

founded. But so sordidly covetous was Onias,

that nothing of this nature made him ashamed.

There was now one Joseph,J young in age

but of great reputation among the people of

Jerusalem, for gravity, prudence, and justice.

His father's name was Tobias, and his mother

was the sister of Onias, the high-priest: who

informed him of the coming of the ambas­

sador: for he was then sojourning at a vil­

lage named Phicol,|| where he was born,

* Spanheim notes here, that thh marriage of Ptolemy  
jyith Cleopatra is related by Appian, in bis Syriaca, p. 88.

t Chap. Ill,

t About an. 226.

ft The name of this place, Phicol, is the very same

with that of the chief captain of Abimelech's host in the

