it*. 584] 421 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Jews are now slaves in thy kingdom? Do

thou then what will be agreeable to thy mag­

nanimity, and to thy good nature: free them

from the miserable condition they are in; be­

cause that God who supporteth the kingdom,

was the author of their laws: as I have learn­

ed by particular inquiry. For both these

people, and we also, worship the same God;

the framer of all things. We call him, and

that truly by the name of Zriva, or Life,* be­

cause he breathes life into all men. Where­

fore do thou restore these men to their own

country; and give them permission to live in

it; and this do to the honour of God; because

these men pay a peculiar excellent wor­

ship to him. And know this farther, that

(hough I be not of kin to them by birth,

nor one of the same country with them, yet

do I desire these favours to be done them:

since all men are the workmanship of God;

and I am sensible that he is well pleased with

those that do good. I therefore put up this

petition to thee, to do good to them."

When Aristeus was saying thus, the king

looked upon him with a cheerful countenance,

and said, "How many thousands dost thou

suppose there are of such as want to be made

free?" To which Andreas replied, as he

stood by, and said, " A few more than a hun­

dred thousand." The king made answer,

"And is this a small gift that thou askest,

Aristeus?" But Sosibius, and the rest that

stood by, said, he ought to offer such a thank-

offering as was worthy of his greatness of soul,

to that God who had given him his kingdom.

With this answer he was much pleased; and

gave order that when they paid the soldiers

their wages, they should lay down a "fhundred

and twenty drachmae for every one of the

slaves. And he promised to publish a mag­

nificent decree, about what they requested:

which should confirm what Aristeus had pro­

posed, and especially what God willed should

be done; whereby he said he would not only

set those free who had been led away captive

* Of Jupiter. *

t Although this number, 120 drachmae of Alexandria,

or 60 Jewish shekels, be here three times repeated, and

that in all Josephus's copies Greek and Latin: yet since

all the copies of Aristeus whence Josephus took his rela­

tion have this sum several times, and still has no more

than 20 drachma?, or 10 Jewish shekels; and since the

sum of the talents, to be set down presently, which is lit­

tle above 460, for somewhat more than 100,000 slaves,

by his father, and his army; but those who

were in his kingdom before; and those also,

if any such there were, who had been brought

away since. And when they said that their

redemption money would amount to above

four hundred talents, he granted it. A copy

of which decree I have determined to pre­

serve, that the magnanimity of this king may

be made known. Its contents were as fol*

lows:—

"Let all those who were soldiers, under

our father; and who, when they over-ran Sy­

ria and Phoenicia, and laid waste Judea, took

the Jews captives, and made them slaves, and

brought them into our cities, and into this

country, and then sold them; as also those

that were in my kingdom before them; and

if there be any that have lately been brought

thither, be made free by those who possess

them; and let them accept of a hundred and

twenty drachmae for every slave. And let

the soldiers receive this redemption money

with their pay; but the rest out of the king's

treasury. For I suppose that they were made

captives without our father's consent, and

against equity; and that their country was

harassed by the insolence of the soldiers;

and that, by removing them into Egypt, the

soldiers have made a great profit by them

Out of regard therefore to justice, and out of

pity to those who have been tyrannized over,

contrary to equity, I enjoin those that have

such Jews in their service to set them at

liberty; upon receipt of the beforemention-

ed sum; and that no one use any deceit about

them, but obey what is here commanded.

And I will that they give in their name within

three days, after the publication of this edict,

to such as are appointed to execute the same;

and to produce the slaves before them. For

I think it will be for the advantage of my af­

fairs. And let every one that will, inform

against those that do not obey this decree:

and I will, that their estates be confiscated

into the king's treasury."

and is nearly the same in Josephus and Aristeus, does

better agree to 20 than 123 drachmae; and since the value

of a slave of old was, at the utmost, but 30 shekels, or 60

drachmas, see Ex. xxi. 32. while in the present circum­

stances of these Jewish slaves, and those so very nume­

rous, Philadelphus would rather redeem them at a cheaper

than a dearer rate; there is great reason to prefer Aris-

teus's copies before Josephus's.

3Z2

