an. 1466.] 157 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to their political government. Whereupon

God was provoked to anger, and put them in

mind, first how contrary to his directions they

had spared the Canaanites; and, after that,

how those Canaanites, as opportunity served,

used them very barbarously. But the Israel­

ites, though they were in heaviness at these

admonitions from God, yet were they still

very unwilling to go to war. And since they

got large tributes from the Canaanites, and

were indisposed for taking pains by their

luxury, they suffered their aristocracy to be

corrupted also, and did not ordain themselves

a senate, nor any such magistrates as their

laws had formerly required. But they were

very much given to cultivating their fields,

in order to get wealth; which great indolence

of theirs brought a terrible sedition upon

them; and they proceeded so far as to fight

one against another, from the following occa­

sion.

There* was a Levite,f a man of a vulgar

family, that belonged to the tribe of Ephraim,

and dwelt therein. This man married a wife

from Bethlehem, which is a place belonging

to the tribe of Judah. Now he was very fond

of his wife, and overcome with her beauty;

but he did not meet with a return of affection,

for she was averse to him; which did more

inflame his passion for her. So they quar­

relled one with another perpetually; and at

last the woman was so disgusted at these

quarrels, that she left her husband, and went

to her parents, in the fourth month. The

husband being very uneasy at her departure,

went to his father and mother-in-law, made

up their quarrels, and lived with them there

four days, as being kindly treated. On the

fifth day he resolved to go home, and went

aw>y in the evening; for his wife's parents

were loth to part with their daughter, and

delayed the time till the day was gone. Now

they had one servant that followed them, and

an ass on which the woman rode; and when

they were near Jerusalem, having gone al-

readyJ thirty furlongs, the servant advised

them to take up their lodgings somewhere,

lest some misfortune should befal them, if

they travelled in the night, especially since

they were not far off enemies; that season

often giving reason for suspicion of dangers

from even such as are friends. But the hus­

band was not pleased with this advice, nor

was he willing to take up his lodging among

strangers; for the city belonged to the Ca­

naanites; but desired rather to go twenty

furlongs farther, and so take their lodging in

some Israelite city. Accordingly he came to

Gibeah, a city of the tribe of Benjamin, when

it was just dark; and while no one that lived

in the market-place invited him to lodge with

him, there came an old man out of the field;

one that was indeed of the tribe of Ephraim,

but resided in Gibeah, and asked him, who

he was? for what reason he came thither so

late? and why he was looking out for pro­

visions for supper when it was dark? to which

he replied that he was a Levite, and was

bringing his wife from her parents, and was

going home; but he told him his habitation

was in the tribe of Ephraim. So the old man,

as well because of their kindred, as because

they lived in the same tribe; and also because

they had thus accidentally met together, took

him to lodge with him. Now certain young

men, of the inhabitants of Gibeah, having

seen the woman in the market-place, and ad­

miring her beauty, when they understood that

she lodged with the old man, came to the

doors, as contemning the weakness and few­

ness of the old man's family. And when the

old man desired them to go away, and not to

offer any violence or abuse there; they de­

sired him to yield them up the strange wo-

.uan, and then he should have no harm done

to him. And when the old man alleged,

that the Levite was of his kindred; and that

they would be guilty of horrid wickedness if

* Josephus's early date of this history, before the be­  
ginning of the Judges, or when there was no king in Israel,

Judges xix. 1. is strongly confirmed by the large number

of Benjamites, both in the days of Asa and Jehoshaphat;

2 Chron. xtv. 8. and xvi. 17. who yet were here reduced

to 6O0 men. Nor can those numbers be at all supposed

genuine, if they were reduced so late as the end of the

Judges, where our other copies place this reduction.

t About An. 1460 B. C.

J Reland, in his Palestina, tom. II. p. 810. finds a con-

tradiction in Josephus, as to the distance of Gibeah of Saul

in the tribe ofBenjamin, from Jerusalem, 30 furlongs here:

but of the War, V. 2. 20 furlongs, and no more. Yet is

there no necessity of making these two places to contra­

dict each other. These 20 furlongs only they had now to

go to Gibeah indeed; but it was not from Jerusalem, but

from the place where they now were; which might easily

be eight or ten furlongs from Jerusalem in the way to

Gibeah. So that here does not appear any real contra­

diction at all.

Nn2

