278 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

if any one would know the certainty about

them, he may desire of the keepers of the

public records of Tyre to shew him them,

and he will find what is there set down to

agree with what we have said. I have said

so much out of a desire that my readers may

know, that we speak nothing but the truth;

and do not compose a history out of some

plausible relations, which deceive men and

please them at the same time; nor attempt to

avoid examination; nor desire men to be­

lieve us immediately. Nor are we at liberty

to depart from speaking the truth, which is

the proper commendation of an historian,

and yet be blameless. But we insist upon

no admission of what we say, unless we be

able to maintain its truth by demonstration

and the strongest vouchers.

Now king Solomon, as soon as this epistle

of the king of Tyre was brought him, com­

mended the readiness and good will he de­

clared therein; and repayed him in what he

desired, and sent him annually twenty thou­

sand cori of wheat; and as many baths of oil.

Now the bath is equal to seventy-two sexta-

ries. He also sent him the same measure of

wine. So the friendship between Hiram and

Solomon hereby increased more and more;

and they swore to continue it for ever. And

the king appointed a tribute to be laid on all

the people, of thirty thousand labourers;

whose work he rendered easy by prudently

dividing it amongst them. For he made ten

thousand cut timber in mount Lebanon, for

one month, and then come home, and rest

two months, until the time when the other

twenty thousand had finished their task at

the appointed time. And so afterwards it

came to pass, that the first ten thousand re-

turned to their work every fourth month.

And it was Adoram* who was over this tri­

bute. There were also of the strangers left

by David, who were to carry the stones and

other materials, seventy thousand; and of

those that cut the stones, eighty thousand.

Of these, three thousand and three hundred

were rulers over the rest. He also enjoined

them to cut out large stones for the founda­

tions of the temple, and that they should fit

and unite them together in the mountain, and

so bring them to the city. This was done not

only by our own workmen, but by those

whom Hiram sent also.

CHAP. III.

OF THE BUILDING OF THE TEMPLE.

SOLOMON began to build the temple in

the fourth year of his reign,f on the

second month, which the Macedonians call

Artemisius, and the Hebrews, Jar, five hun­

dred and ninety-two years after the Exodus

out of Egypt; but one thousand and twenty-

two years from Abraham's coming out of

Mesopotamia, into Canaan, and after the

deluge one Jthousand four hundred and forty

years; and from Adam the first man who was

created, until Solomon built the temple, there

had passed in all ||three thousand one hun­

dred and two years. Now that year on which

the temple began to be built, was already the

twelfth year of the reign of Hiram; but from

the building of Tyre, to the building of the

temple, there had passed two hundred and

forty years.

Now, therefore, the king laid the founda­

tion of the temple§ very deep in the ground,**

* Adoniram, 1 Kings i. 14.

t It may be asked why Solomon did not begin the

building of the temple sooner, and even in the first year

of his reign, since his father had left him a plan, and all

things necessary for the undertaking! Abarbinel's an­

swer is,—That Solomon would not make use of what his

father had prepared, but was resolved to build this temple

all at his proper cost and charge. He therefore put into

the treasure of the Lord's house all that David had dedi­

cated to the work; and, to gather together as much gold

and silver as was necessary to defray so vast an expense,

four years can be accounted no unreasonable time. Nay,

even suppose that he had made use of the treasure which

his father had amassed, yet, if the materials that his father

had provided lav at a considerable distance, and were left

rude and unf i^bioned, it would cost all this time to form

them into the exact symmetry, wherein the Scripture re­

presents them, before they were brought together, espe­

cially considering, that the very stones which made the

foundation, were very probably vast blocks of marble, or

porphyry, 1 Kings v. 17. and all polished in the most ex­

quisite manner. Patrick's Commentary, and Pool's An­

notations. B.

X 1989.

II 3545.

§ Of the temple of Solomon, here described by Jose-

phus, in tins and the following parts of this chapter, see

my description of the temples belonging to this work,

chap. 13. In which yet, after all my pains, some diffi­

culties still remain not fully accounted for; especially as

to the description and contents of the ten lavers. Of

which, somewhat more presently, as also of a few other

difficulties not there always taken notice of.

** The temple itself was indeed but a small edifice

