nu vn.] 427 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

• acclamation Wak made by the whole com­

pany: and when that was over, they fell to

eating their supper, and to the enjoyment of

what was set before them. And at a little

interval afterward, when the king thought a

sufficient time had elapsed, he began to talk

philosophically to them, and he asked every

one of them a philosophical question;* and

such a one as might give light in those in­

quiries. And when they had explained all

the problems that had been proposed by the

king, about every point, he was pleased with

their answers. This took up the twelve

days in which they were treated. And he

that pleases may learn the particular ques­

tions in that book of Aristeus's, which he

wrote on this very occasion.

And while not the king only, but the phi­

losopher Menedemus also, admired them,

and said, that "All things were governed by

Providence; and that it was probable, that

thence it was that such force and beauty

was discovered in these men's words," they

then left off asking any more such questions.

But the king said, he had gained very great

advantages by their coming; for that he had

received this profit from them, that he had

learned how he ought to rule his subjects.

And Jie gave order that they should have

every one three talents given them; and that

those that were to conduct them to their

lodging should do it. Accordingly, when

three days were over, Demetrius took them,

and went over the causeway seven furlongs

long. It was a bank in the sea, to an island.

And when they had gone over the bridge,

he proceeded to the northern parts, and

shewed them where they should meet, which

was in a house that was built near the shore;

and was a quiet place, and fit for their dis­

coursing together about their work. When

he had brought them thither, he intreated

them, now they had all things about them

which they wanted for the interpretation of

their law, that they would suffer nothing to

interrupt them in their work. Accordingly

they made an accurate interpretation, with

great zeal, and great pains. And this they

continued to do till the ninth hour of the day.

After which time they relaxed and took care

of their body; while their food was provided

for them in great plenty; besides which,

Dorotheus, at the king's command, brought

them a great deal of what was provided for

the king himself. But in the morning they

came to the court, and saluted Ptolemy;

and then went away to their former place:

where, when they had fwashed their hands,

and purified themselves, they betook them­

selves to the interpretation of the laws. Now

when the law was transcribed, and the la­

bour of interpretation was over, which came

to its conclusion in seventy-two days; Deme­

trius gathered all the Jews together to the

place where the laws were translated, and

where the interpreters were; and read them

over. The multitude did also approve of

those elders that were the interpreters of

the law. They also commended Demetrius,

for his proposal, as the inwntor of what was

greatly for their happiness; and desired that

he would give leave to their rulers also to

read the law. Moreover, they all, both the

priests, and the most ancient of the elders,

and the principal men of their common-weal,

made it their request, that since the inter­

pretation was happily finished, it might con­

tinue in the state it now was, and might not

be altered. And when they all commended

that determination of theirs, they enjoined,

that if any one observed either any thing

superfluous, or any thing omitted, that he

would take a view of it again, and have it

laid before them, and corrected; which was

a wise action of them, that when the thing

was judged to have been well done, it might

continue for ever.

So the king rejoiced, when he saw that hia

design was brought to perfection, to so great

advantage. And he was chiefly delighted

with hearing the laws read to him; and was

astonished at the deep meaning and wisdom

of the legislator. And he began to ask of De­

metrius, how it came to pass, that when this

legislation was so wonderful, no one either of

the poets, or of the historians had made men­

* They were rather political questions and answers;  
tending to the good and religious government of mankind.

t This purification of the interpreters, by washing in

the sea, before they prayed to God, every morning, and

before they set about translating, may be compared with

voL. I.—NOS. 35 il 36.

the like practice of Peter the apostle, in the recognitions

of Clement IV. 3. V. 36. VIII. 1. and with the places of

the Proseucha?, or of prayer, which were sometimes built

near the sea or rivers also. Of which matter, see XIV.

10. and Acts xvi. 13, 16.

4A

