142 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK V.

Containing an Interval of Four Hundred and Seventy-six Years.

FROM THE DEATH OF MOSES TO THE DEATH OF ELI.

CHAP. I.

OF THE WAR CARRIED ON BY JOSHUA AGAINST TJIE CA-

NAANITES, AND THE SIGNAL SUCCESSES OF THE HEBREWS.

WHEN Moses had been taken from

among men, in the manner already

described, and when all the solemnities be­

longing to the mourning for him were finished,

Joshua commanded the multitude to get

themselves ready for an expedition. He also

sent spies to Jericho,* to discover what forces

they had, and what were their intentions.

But he put his camp in order, as intending

to pass over Jordan at a proper season. And

calling to him the rulers of the tribe of Reu-

bel, and the governors of ^he tribe of Gad,

and the half tribe of Manasseh, (for half of this

tribe had been permitted to have their habi­

tation in the country of the Amorites, which

was thet seventh part of the land of Canaan;)

he put them in mind what they had promised

Moses, and exhorted them that for the sake

of the care that Moses had taken of them,

who had never been weary of taking pains

for them, no not when he was dying; and for

the sake of the public welfare, they would

prepare themselves, and readily perform what

they had promised. So he took fifty thousand

of them, and marched with them, from Abila

to Jordan, sixty furlongs.

* Josh. ii. 1. Jericho was a city of Canaan, which  
afterwards fell to the lot of the tribe of Benjamin, about

seven leagues distant from Jerusalem, and two from Jor­

dan. Moses calls it likewise the city of palm-tftes, Deut.

xxxiv. 3. because there were great numbers of them in

the plains of Jericho; and not only of palm-trees, but as

Josephus tells us, (Antiq. lib. 4. c. 5.) balsam-trees like­

wise, which produced the precious liquor in such high

esteem among the ancients. The plain of Jericho was

watered with a rivulet, which was formerly salt and bitter,

but was afterward sweetened by the prophet Elisha, 2

Kings ii. 21, 22; whereupon the adjacent country, which

was watered by it, became not only one of the most agree­

able, but most fertile spots in all that country. As to the

cityitself, after it was destroyed by Joshua, it was in the

days of Ahab, king of Israel, rebuilt by Hiel the Bethelite,

1 Kings xvi. 24. and in the times of the last kings of Ju-

dea, yielded to none except Jerusalem. For it was adorned

with a royal palace, wherein Herod the Great died; with

an hippodromus, or place where the Jewish nobility

learned to ride the great horse, and other arts of chivalry,

with an amphitheatre, and other magnificent buildings ; but

during the siege of Jerusalem, the treachery of its inhab­

itants provoked the Romans to destroy it. After the siege

was over, there was another city built, but not upon the

same place where the two former stood, for the ruins of

them are seen to this day. Of what account and bigness

it was we have no certain information; but some later

travellers inform us, that at present it is no more than a

poor nasty village of the Arabs. Well's Geog. of the

Old and jvea; Testament; and MaundreWs Journey from

Aleppo. B.

f The Amorites were one of the seven nations of Ca­

naan. Hence Reland is willing to suppose, that Josephus

did not here mean that their land beyond Jordan was a

seventh part of the whole land of Canaan, but meant the

Amorites as a seventh nation. His reason is, that Jose­

phus, as well as our Bible, generally distinguish the land

beyond Jordan, from the land of Canaan. Nor can it be

denied, that in strictness they were different. Yet after

two tribes and a half of the twelve tribes came to inherit

it, it might in a general way be included under the land of

Canaan, Palestine, or Judea. Of which we have a clear

example before us in Josephus, whose words evidently

imply that, taking the whole land of Canaan, or that in­

habited by all the twelve tribes together, and parting it

into seven parts; the part beyond Jordan was in quantity

of ground one seventh of the whole. And this agrees

with Reland's map of that country. Although this land

beyond Jordan was so peculiarly fruitful, and good for

pasturage, as the two tribes and a half took notice. Numb,

xxxii. 1, 4, 16. that it maintained about a fifth part of the

whole people.

