AN. 469 144.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and Europe, and to the governors of the

cities, that they might safely conduct them

to their own country. Accordingly, as they

returned, they came to Sparta; and delivered

the epistle which they had received of Jona­

than to them. A copy of which here follows:

"Jonathan the high-priest of the Jewish

nation, and the senate, and body of the peo­

ple of the Jews, to the Ephori, and senate,

and people of the Lacedaemonians, send

greeting. If you be well, and both your

public and private affairs be agreeable to

your mind, it is according to our wishes. We

are well also.* When in former times an

epistle was brought to Onias, who was then

our high-priest, from Areus, who at that time

was your king, by Demoteles, concerning the

kindred that was between us and you, a copy

of which is here subjoined; we both joyfully

received the epistle, and were well pleased

with Demoteles, and Areus. Although we

did not need such a demonstration; because

fwe were satisfied about it, from the sacred

writings; yet did not we think fit first to be­

gin the claim of this relation to you; lest we

should seem too early in taking to ourselves

the glory which is now given us by you. It is

a long time since this relation of ours to you

hath been renewed: and when we, upon holy

and festival days, offer sacrifices to God, we

pray to him for your preservation and victory.

As to ourselves, although we have had many

wars that have compassed us round, by rea­

son of the covetousness of our neighbours,

yet did not we determine to be troublesome

either to you, or to others that were related

to us. But since we have now overcome our

* See Book XII. chap. 4.

t This clause is otherwise rendered in the first book of

Maccabees xii. 9. "For that we have the holy books

of Scripture in our hands to comfort us." The Hebrew

original being lost, we cannot certainly judge which was

the truest version. Only the coherence favours Josephus.

But if this were the Jews' meaning, that they were satis­

fied out of their Bible, that the Jews and Lacedaemonians

were of kin; that part of their Bible is now lost; for we

find no such assertion in our present copies.

J Those that suppose Josephus to contradict himself in

hil three several accounts of the notions of the Pharisees;

this here, and that earlier one, which is the largest. Of the

War, II. 8. and that later, Antiq. XVIII. I. as if he some­

times said they introduced an absolute fatality, and denied

all freedom of human actions, is almost wholly groundless.

He ever, (as the learned Casaubon here truly observes ;)

asserting that the Pharisees were between the Essenes and

enemies, and have occasion to send Nume-

nius, the son of Antiochus, and Antipater,

the son of Jason, who are both honourable

men belonging to our senate, to the Romans,

we give them this epistle to you also: that

they might renew that friendship which is

between us. You will therefore do well to

write to us, and send an account of what you

stand in need of from us: since we are in all

things disposed to act according to your de­

sires." So the Lacedaemonians received the

ambassadors kindly; and made a decree for

friendship and mutual assistance, and sent it

to them.

At this time there were three sects among

the Jews, who had different opinions concern­

ing human actions. The one was called the

sect of the Pharisees; another the sect of

theSadducees; and the other the sect of the

Essenes. Now the JPharisees say that some

actions, but not all, are the works of fate:

and some of them are in our own power;

and that they are liable to fate, but are not

caused by it. But the sect of the Essenes

affirm, that fate governs all things; and that

nothing befalls men but what is according to

its determination. And for theSadducees,they

say there is no such thing as fate, and that the

events of human affairs are not at its disposal:

but they suppose that all our actions are in

our own power; so that we are ourselves the

causes of what is good, and receive what is

evil from our own folly. However, I have

given a more exact account of these opinions,

in the second book of the Jewish War.

Now the generals of Demetrius being will­

ing to recover the defeat they had sustained,

Sadducees, and did only so far ascribe all to fate or Divine

Providence, as was consistent with the freedom of human

actions. However, their perplexed way of talking about

fate or Providence, as overruling all things, made it com­

monly thought they were willing to excuse their sins by

ascribing them to fate; as in the Apostolical Constitutions,

VI. 6. and Jerom advers. Pelag. 10. Perhaps under the

same general name some difference of opinions in this

point might be propagated: as is very common in all par­

ties: especially in points of metaphysical subtility. How­

ever our Josephus, who in his heart was a great admirer

of the piety of the Essenes, was in practice a Pharisee;

as he himself informs us, in his own life. And his account

of this doctrine of the Pharisees is certainly agreeable to

his own opinion: who ever both fully allowed the free­

dom of human actions; and yet strongly believed the pow­

erful interposition of Divine Providence. See concerning

this matter a remarkable clause, Antiq. XVI. 11.

4 F2

