ait. 1493.1 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWR

tilings, and a memorial for myself, when you

shall be in the fruition of great plenty and

prosperity. Let me, therefore, suggest to you

by what means you may be happy, and may

leave an eternal prosperous possession to

your children after you; and then let me go

out of the world. And I cannot but deserve

to be believed by you, both on account of the

great things I have already done for you, and

because, when souls are about to leave the

body, they speak with the sincere.st freedom.

O* children of Israel! there is but one source

of happiness for all mankind, the favour of

God: for he alone is able to give good things

to those that deserve them, and to deprive

those of them that sin against him. If you

behave yourselves according to his will, and

according to what I, who well understand his

mind, do advise, you will both be esteemed

blessed, and will be admired by all men, and

will never come into misfortunes, nor cease

to be happy; you will then preserve the pos­

session of the good things you already have,

and will quickly obtain those that you at pre­

sent are in want of. Only be obedient to

those whom God would have you to follow.

Nor prefer any other constitution of govern­

ment before the laws now given you; neither

disregard that way of Divine worship which

you now have, nor change it for any other

form. And if you do this, you will be most

courageous of all men, in undergoing the fa­

tigues of war; and will not be easily con­

quered by any of your enemies. For while

God is present to assist you, it is to be ex­

pected that you will be able to despise the

opposition of all mankind. And great rewards

of virtue are proposed to you, if you preserve

that virtue through your whole lives. Itself

is indeed the principal and the first reward;

and after that he bestows abundance of

others. So that your exercise of virtue to­

wards other men, will make your own lives

happy, and render you more glorious than

foreigners can be; and procure you an un­

disputed reputation with posterity. These

blessings you will be able to obtain, in case

you hearken to and observe those laws

which, by divine revelation, I have ordained

for you; that is, in case you meditate upon

the wisdom that is in them. I am now going

from you, rejoicing in the good things you

enjoy; and I recommend you to the wise con­

duct of your law, to the becoming order of

your polity, and to the virtues of your com­

manders; who will take care of what is for

your advantage. And that God, who has

been till now your leader, and by whose good

will 1 have myself been useful to you, will not

put a period now to his providence over you:

but as long as you desire to have him your

protector, in your pursuits after virtue, so long-

will you enjoy his care over you. Your high-

priest also, Eleazar, as well as Joshua, with

the senate, and chief of your tribes, will go

before you, and suggest the best advices to

you; by following which advices you will

continue to be happy: to them, therefore, do

you give ear without reluctance; as sensible,

that all such that know well how to be go­

verned, will also know how to govern, if they

be promoted to that authority themselves.

And do not you esteem liberty to consist in

opposing such directions as your governors

think fit to give you for your practice; as at

present, indeed, you place your liberty in

nothing else but abusing your benefactors:

which error if you can avoid for the time to

come, your affairs will be in a better condi­

tion than they have hitherto been. Nor do

you ever indulge such a degree of passion in

these matters, as you have oftentimes done

when you have been very angry at me: for

you know that I have been oftener in danger

of death from you, than from our enemies.

What I now put you in mind is not done in

order to reproach you: for I do not think it

proper, now I am going out of the world, to

bring this to your remembrance, in order to

leave you offended at me; since at the time

when I underwent those hardships, I was not

angry at you; but I do it in order to make

you wiser hereafter, and to teach you that

this will be for your security; I mean that

you never be injurious to those that preside

over you, even when you are become rich; as

you will be to a great degree when you have

passed over Jordan, and are in possession of

* Josephus, in this one sentence, sums up his notion of  
Moses's very long and serious exhortations in the book of

Deuteronomy. And his words are so true, and of such

importance, that they deserve to be had in constant re-

membrance both by Jews and Christians: "O children of

Israel! there is but one source of happiness for all man­

kind, the favour of God."

