THE

ANTIQUITIES

OF

sEnra »B1?B^

BOOK I.

Containing an interval of 3833 Years from the Creation to the Death of Isaac.

CHAP. I.

* OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE WORLD AND THE  
DISPOSITION OF THE ELEMENTS.

IN the beginning God created the heaven

and the earth.f But when the earth did

not come into sight, but was covered with

thick darkness, and a wind moved upon its

surface, God commanded that there should

be light, and when that was made, he consi­

dered the whole mass, and separated the light

and the darkness; and the name he gave to

one was night, and the other he called day;

and he named the beginning of light, and

the time of rest, the evening and the morning.

And this was indeed the first day. But Moses

said it was one day,J the cause of which I am

able to give even now; but because I have

promised to give such reasons for all things

in a treatise by itself, I shall put off its expo­

sition till that time. After this, on the second

day, he placed the heaven over the whole

world, and separated it from the other parts:

and he determined it should stand by itself.

He also placed a crystalline firmament round

* Note, that this and the other titles of chapters are  
wanting in the best MSS. &

t See Gen. i. 1. et sequel.

\ One is put for the first, not only here in the Hebrew

and Numb. xxix. 1. Dan. ix. 1. but elsewhere in Josephus,

voL. I. No. I.

it; and put it together in a manner agreeable

to the earth: and fitted it for giving moisture

and rain, and for affording the advantage of

dews. On the third day he appointed the dry

land to appear, with the sea round about it;

and on the same day he made the plants and

the seeds to spring out of the earth. On the

fourth day he adorned the heaven with the

sun, the moon, and the stars, and appointed

them their motions and courses, that the vicis­

situdes of the seasons might be clearly signi­

fied. And on the fifth day he produced the

living creatures, both those that swim, and

those that fly: the former in the sea, the lat­

ter. in the air. He also sorted them as to so­

ciety, and that their kinds might increase and

multiply. On the sixth day he created the

four-rooted beasts, and made them male and

female. On the same day he also formed man.

Accordingly Moses says, that in six days the

world, and all that is therein, was made; and

that the seventh day was a rest, and a release

from the labour of such operations, whence

it is that we celebrate a rest from our labours

on that day, and call it the Sabbath, which

word denotes rest in the Hebrew tongue.

VIII. 5. XVIII. 4. and in the Greek, Matt, xxvin. 1. John

xx. 19. 1. 1 Cor. xvi.2. as Ainsworth observes on this

text. It is also in Philo, and among the Egyptians and

Chaldeans, and even in Diodorus Siculus.

D

