274 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in those things wherein he excelled. When

Solomon heard this from God, he leaped out

of his bed; and when he had worshipped him

he returned to Jerusalem; and after he had

offered great sacrifices before the tabernacle,

he feasted all his own family.*

In those days a cause came before him in

judgment, which it was very difficult to find

any end of. And I think it necessary to ex­

plain the fact about which the contest was,

that such as peruse my writings may know

what difficult cause Solomon was to deter­

mine; and those that are concerned in such

matters may take this sagacity of the king's

for a pattern, that they may the more easily

give sentence about such questions. There

were two womervt who were harlots in the

course of their lives, that came to him; of

whom she that seemed to be injured began

to speak first, and said, "O king! I and this

other woman dwell together in one room.

Now it came to pass, that we both bore a son

at the same hour of the same day, and on the

third day this woman overlaid her son, and

killed it; and then took my son out of my

bosom, and removed him to herself; and as I

was asleep, she laid her dead son in my arms.

Now when, in the morning, I was desirous

to give the breast to the child, I did not find

my own; but saw this woman's dead child

* 1 Kings iii. 15.

t These two women are said in the text to be harlots;

but the Hebrew word, as we took notice in the case of

Rahab, may equally signify a hostess, or one who kept a

house of public entertainment; and that it is so to be taken

here we have these reasons to presume: that as all public

prostitution was severely forbidden by the law, Deut. xxiii.

17. women of this infamous character durst not have pre­

sented themselves before so just and so wise a king: that

women of this lewd behaviour seldom do become mothers

of children, and when they chance to have any, are not

so solicitous for their preservation, but rather rejoice

when they have got rid of them. There is no reason to

suppose then, that these women were common harlots;

and yet it is generally thought, that they were both un­

married persons, and guilty of fornication, because no

mention is made of their husbands, whose office it was, if

they had any, to contest the matter for their wives. Pool's

Annotations, and Calmtfs Commentary. B.

I Solomon knew at once that the only sign that would

discover the truth, would be her affection, and compas­

sion, and tenderness for her child; and therefore in order

to distinguish between the two, his business was to make

trial of this; and if we suppose, that when he commanded

the child to be divided, he spake with a sedate counte­

nance, and seeming earnestness, as the true mother's pe­

tition to the king makes it apparent that he did, then we

lying by me; for I examined it attentively,

and found it so to be. Hence it was that I

demanded my son; and when 1 could not

obtain him, I have recourse, my lord, to thy

assistance. For since we were alone, and

there was nobody there that could convict

her, or affright her, she cares for nothing;

but perseveres in an obstinate denial of the

fact.

When this woman had spoken, the king

asked the other, what she had to say in con­

tradiction to that story? And when she had

denied that she had done what was charged

upon her, and said that it was her child that

was living, and that it was her antagonist's

child that was dead; and when no one could

devise what judgment could be given, and

the whole court were blind in their under­

standing, and could not tell how to find out

this riddle; the king invented the following

method of discovering it. He bade them

bring in both the dead and the living child;

and commanded one of his guards to fetch a

sword, and to cut both the children into two

pieces, that each of the women might have

half the living and half the dead child. Here­

upon all the people privately laughed at the

king, as no more than a youth. But in the

mean time the real mother of the living child

cried out,J that he should not do so, but de-

may suppose farther, not only the two women, but all

the people present, with horror and admiration, expecting

the execution of the thing; which, when it ended in so

just a decision, quite contrary to what they looked for,

raised joy in every breast, and gave a more advantageous

commendation to the judge: and yet Abarbinel, the Jewish

commentator, thinks, that all this was no great proof of

Solomon's extraordinary wisdom, nor could it beget that ,

fear or reverence which the text says, 1 Kings iii. 28. *

it procured to his person. His opinion therefore is, that

Solomon made a discovery of the truth antecedent to this

experiment, that by observing the countenance, the man­

ner of speech, and all the motions of the women, he dis­

cerned the secret of their heart, and penetrated to the

bottom of the business; and that his commanding the child

to be divided afterwards, was only to notify to the company,

what he before had discovered. However this be, it may

not be improper, upon this occasion, to mention an instance

or two out of profane history, of a singular address, though

much inferior to this, in discovering such secrets as seemed

to be past finding out. To this purpose, Suetonius, in

his life of Claudian, chap. 15, tell us, how that emperor

discovered a woman to be the mother of a young man,

whom she would not own for her son, by commanding her

to be married to him; for the horror of committing incest

obliged her to declare the truth; and, in like manner,

Diodorus Siculus relates, how Ariopharnes, king of the

