456 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

presently fled into that wilderness, which was

nearest to the city. And when they were

come to the lake called Asphar, they abode

there. But when Bacchides was sensible

that they were in a low state, and were in

that place, he hastened to fall upon them

with all his forces: and pitching his camp

beyond Jordan he recruited his army. But

when Jonathan knew that Bacchides was

coming upon him, he sent his brother John,

who was also called Gaddis, to the Nabatean

Arabs, that he might deposit his baggage

with them, until the battle with Bacchides

should be over. For they were the Jews'

friends. But the sons of Ambri laid an am­

bush for John from the city Medaba, and

seized upon him, and upon those that were

with him, and plundered all that they had

with them. They also slew John and all his

companions. However they were sufficiently

punished for what they now did by John's

brethren, as we shall relate presently.

When Bacchides knew that Jonathan had

pitched his camp among the lakes of Jordan,

he observed when their sabbath day came,

and then assaulted him: as supposing that

he would not fight, because of the law for

resting on that day. But he exhorted his

companions to fight; and told them, that

their lives were at stake, since they were

encompassed by the river, and by their ene­

mies, and had no way to escape: for that

their enemies pressed upon them before, and

the river was behind them. So after he had

prayed to God to give them the victory, he

joined battle with the enemy, and overthrew

many: and as he saw Bacchides coming up

boldly to him, he stretched out his right hand

to smite him: but the other foreseeing and

avoiding his stroke, Jonathan, with his com­

panions, leaped into the river and swam over

it; and by that means escaped beyond Jor­

dan: while the enemy did not pass over that

river: but Bacchides returned presently to

the citadel at Jerusalem; having lost about

two *thousand of his army. He also fortified

many cities of Judea, whose walls had been

demolished, Jericho, Emmaus, Bethoron,

Bethel, Timna, Pharatho, Tecoa, and Gaza-

ra; and built towers in every one of these

cities, and encompassed them with strong

walls, that were very large also: and put

garrisons into them, that they might issue out

of them, and do mischief to the Jews. He

also fortified the citadel of Jerusalem more

than all the rest. Moreover he took the sons

of the principal Jews as pledges; and shut

them up in the citadel, and in that manner

guarded it.

About the same time one came to Jonathan,

and to his brother Simon, and told them, that

the sons of Ambri were celebrating a mar­

riage, and bringing the bride, who was the

daughter of one of the illustrious men among

the Arabians, from the city Gabatha; and

that the damsel was to be conducted with

pomp, and splendour, and much riches. So

Jonathan and Simon thinking this appeared

to be the fittest time for them to avenge the

death of their brother; and that they had

forces sufficient for receiving satisfaction from

them for his death, they made haste to Me­

daba; and lay in wait among the mountains

for the coming of their enemies. And as

soon as they saw them conducting the virgin,

and her bridegroom, and such a great com­

pany of their friends with them, as was to be

expected at this wedding, they sallied out of

their ambush, and slew them all; and took

their ornaments, and all the prey that then

followed them; and so returned, and received

this satisfaction for their brother John from

the sons of Ambri. For as well those sons

themselves, as their friends, and wives, and

children that followed them, perished; being

in number about four hundred.

Simon and Jonathan then returned to the

lakes of the river, and abode there. But

Bacchides, when he had secured all Judea

with his garrisons, returned to the king. And

then it was that the affairs of Judea were

quiet for two year9.t But when the desert­

ers, and the wicked saw that Jonathan and

those that were with him lived in the country

very quietly, by reason of the peace, they

sent to king Demetrius; and excited him to

send Bacchides to seize upon Jonathan:

which they said, was to be done without any

trouble, and in one night's time: and that if

they fell upon them before they were aware,

they might slay them all. So the king sent

Bacchides: who when he was come into Ju­

* One thousand, 1 Mace. ix. 43.

t An. 159, and 158, B. C.

X

