an. 1076.] 241 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

should remember this accident, and not come

near the enemy's wall; for that the best me­

thod of making war with success, was to call

to mind the accidents of former wars; and

what good or bad success had attended them

in the like dangerous cases; that so they might

imitate the one and avoid the other." But

when the king was in this disposition, the

messenger told him that Uriah was slain also;

whereupon he was pacified. So he bade the

messenger go back to Joab, and tell him that

this misfortune was no other than what was

common among mankind; and that such was

the nature, and such the accidents of war,

that sometimes the enemy would have suc­

cess therein, and sometimes others: but he

ordered him to go on still in his care about

the siege, that no ill accident might befall

him in it hereafter; that they should raise

bulwarks, and use machines in besieging the

city: and when they had got it to overturn

its very foundation, and to destroy all the in-

habitants. Accordingly the messenger car­

ried the king's message with which he was

charged, and made haste to Joab. Bath­

sheba, the wife of Uriah, when she was in­

formed of the death of her husband, mourned

for him many days. But when her mourning*

was over, and the tears which she shed lor

Uriah were dried up, the king took her to

wife, and a son was born to him by her.

With this marriage God was not well

pleased;f but was angry at David. And he

appeared to Nathan the prophet in his sleep,

and complained of the king. Now Nathan.!

was a prudent man; and considering that

kings when they fall into a passion, are guided

more by that passion than by justice, he re­

solved to conceal the threatenings that pro­

ceeded from God, and made a good-natured

discourse to him; and this after the following

manner,|| desiring that the king would give

him his opinion in the following case:§—

"There were," said he, "two men, inhabiting

* How long widows were to mourn for their husbands,  
there is no express precept in the law; but the usual time

for common mourners was no more than seven days; and

we cannot suppose that Bathsheba was much longer, con­

sidering the reason we have to apply to her the words of

Lucan:

Lachrymas non sponte cadentes

Kffudit, geinitusque expressit pectore laeto. B.

t According to the Jewish doctors, it was utterly un­

lawful for any to marry another man's wife in case he had

delilcd her before. The canonical law declares such

marriages null and void, as are contracted between an

adulterous man, and a woman that was partner with him

in the crime; and though the law of Moses does not ex­

pressly forbid them, yet we may not thence infer that

they were permitted among the Jews. For these rea­

sons, some have thought, that this marriage of David and

Bathsheba was null and invalid; but others, upon better

grounds, have supposed, that though there were many cri­

minal circumstances attending it, yet these did not vacate

its effect, and, in short, though it ought not to have been

done, yet, being done, the marriage was good, and the

children, which were afterwards born, were legitimate:

CalmeCs and Patrick's Commentaries. B.

| We learn little more of this great man in the sacred

writings, but that he was David's prophet, intimate coun­

sellor, and historiographer. Josephus says of him, that

he was a polite and a prudent man, one who knew how to

temper the severity of wisdom with sweetness of man­

ners. And Grotius compares him to Manius Lepidus, of

whom Tacitus says, that he had a talent of turning away

Tiberus's mind from those cruel purposes, to which the

vile flattery of others inclined him, and was, at the same

time, in equal favour and authority with him. Nathan

certainly knew the art of reproving kings with authority,

and yet without giving offence. So far from that, he grew

in his prince's favour and estimation, as long as he lived;

insomuch, that David (as tradition tells us) called one son

after his name, and committed another (even his beloved

Solomon) to his care and tuition; The History of the Life

of King David, vol. iii. B.

|| 2 Sam. xii. 1—15.

§ There is a passage of Seneca, (Epist. 59.) where he

treats of the style fit for philosophic writing, which suits

so well with this parable of Nathan's, that I choose to give

it in his own words, as a fit preamble to the short comment

which follows of it. "Invenio, inquit, imagines, quibus si

quis nobis uti vetat, et poetis illas, solis judicat esse con-

cessas neminem mihi videtur ex antiquis legisse apnd quos

nondum captabatur plausibilis oratio. Illi, qui simpliciter,

et demonstrandsB rei causa loquebantur, parabolis refertt

sunt, quas existimo necessarias non ex eadem causa qua

poetis, sed ut imbecillitatis nostra; adminicula sint, et ut

discentem et audientem in rem prassentem addueant:" For

parables, like histories, wherein we have no concern, are

heard with more attention, and are so contrived as to give

no offence, even though they provoke the man to whom-

they are addressed to condemn himself. "There were

two men in one city, the one rich, and the other poor:

And the rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds;"

as David had many wives and concubines, with whom he

might have been well satisfied, without violating another

man's bed; "but the poor had nothing, save one little ewe

lamb, which he had bought and nourished up." Bath­

sheba, very likely, was the only wife that Uriah had, with

whom he was highly pleased and delighted, and she very

probably with him, till David's temptations had perverted

her mind. "And it grew up together with him, and with

his children; it did eat of his own meat, and drank of his

own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a

daughter." Nathan, in his resemblance, cannot be said

to have surpassed the truth, considering how fond many

persons were anciently, not only of lambs, but of several

other creatures, which they suffered to eat with them at

their tables, and lie with them in their beds; and Uiut

