444 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

And this was the speech which Judas made

to encourage them. But when the enemy

sent Gorgias, with five thousand foot, and one

thousand horse, that he might fall upon Judas

by night; and had for that purpose, certain

of the runagate Jews as guides; the son of

Mattathias perceived it, and resolved to fall

upon those enemies that were in their camp,

now their forces were divided. When they

had therefore supped in good time, and had

left many fires in their camp, he marched all

night to those enemies that were at Emmaus.

So that when Gorgias found no enemy in

their camp, but suspected they were retired,

and had hidden themselves among the moun­

tains, he resolved to go and seek them, where­

soever they were. But about break of day

Judas appeared to those enemies that were

at Emmaus, with only three thousand men,

and those ill armed, by reason of their pov­

erty. And when he saw the enemy skilfully

fortified in their camp, he encouraged the

Jews, and told them, that they ought to fight,

though it were with their naked bodies; for

that God had sometimes of old given such

men strength, and against such as were more

in number, and were armed also; out of re­

gard to their great courage. So he command­

ed the trumpeters to sound for the battle.

And by thus falling upon the enemies when

they did not expect it, and thereby astonish­

ing and disturbing their minds, he slew many

of those that resisted him; and went on pur­

suing the rest as far as Gadara, and the plains

of Idumea, and Ashdod, and Jamnia. And

of these there fell about three thousand. Yet

did Judas exhort his soldiers not to be too

desirous of the spoils: for that still they must

have a battle with Gorgias, and the forces

that were with him: but that when they had

once overcome them, then they might secure­

ly plunder the camp; because these were the

only enemies remaining, and they expected

no others. And just as he was speaking to

his soldiers, Gorgias's men looked down into

that army, which they left in their camp, and

saw that it was overthrown, and the camp

burnt: for the smoke that arose from it shew­

ed them, even when they were a great way

off, what had happened. When therefore

those that were with Gorgias understood that

things were in this posture, and perceived

that those that were with Judas were ready

to fight them, they also were affrighted, and

put to flight. But then Judas, as though he

had already beaten Gorgias's soldiers with­

out fighting, returned and seized on the

spoils. He took a great quantity of gold,

and silver, and purple, and blue; and then

returned home with joy, and singing hymns

to God for their good success. For this vic­

tory greatly contributed to the recovery of

their liberty.*

Lysias was confounded at the defeat of the

army, which he had sent; and the next year

he assembled sixty thousand chosen men.

He also took five thousand horsemen, and

fell upon Judea: and he went up to the hill

country, at Bethsur,f a village of Judea, and

pitched his camp there: where Judas met

him, with ten thousand men. And when he

saw the great number of his enemies, he

prayed to God, that he would assist him; and

joined battle with the first of the enemy that

appeared, and slew about five thousand of

them; and became thereby terrible to the

rest. Nay indeed Lysias observing the great

spirit of the Jews, how they were prepared

to die, rather than lose their liberty; and be­

ing afraid of their desperate way of fighting,

as if it were real strength; he took the rest

of the army back with him, and returned to

Antioch: where he enlisted foreigners into

the service, and prepared to fall upon Judea

with a greater army.

When therefore the generals of Antiochus's

armies had been defeated so often, Judas as­

sembled the people, and told them, that after

these many victories which God had given

them, they ought to go up to Jerusalem, and

purify the temple, and offer the appointed

sacrifices.J But as soon as he, with the whole

multitude, was come to Jerusalem, and found

the temple deserted, and its gates burnt

down, and plants growing in the temple of

their own accord, on account of its desertion;

he and those that were with him began to

lament, and were quite confounded at the

* 1 Mace. iv. 24.

t It had been fortified by kingRehoboam, 2 Chron. xi. 7.

and was, at this time, a very important fortress, as being

one of the keys of Judea on the south side of Idumea

Universal History, lib. 2, c. 11. B.

I See 1 Mace. iv. 36—65.

