264 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

when they should be free from all their mis­

fortunes; for that by this means they should

enjoy, instead of them, peace and a happy

settlement; with which blessings God re­

wards such men as are religious and righ­

teous. He also gave orders, that when the

temple should be built, they should put the

ark therein, with the holy vessels; and he

assured them, that they ought to have had a

temple long ago, if their fathers had not been

negligent of God's commands; who had given

it in charge, that when they had got the pos­

session of this land, they should build him a

temple. Thus did David discourse to the

governors, and to his son.

David was now in years, and his body by

length of time was become cold and be­

numbed; insomuch that he could get no

heat by covering himself with many clothes.

And when the physicians came together,

they agreed that a beautiful virgin,* chosen

out of the whole country, should sleep by

the king's side; and that this damsel would

communicate heat to him, and be a remedy

against his numbness. Now there was found

in the city one woman of superior beauty;

her name was Abishag, who sleeping with

the king, did communicate warmth to him.

But of this woman we shall speak more

presently. '••'-*c£?J

Now the fourth son of David was a beau­

tiful young man, and tall; born to him off

Haggith, his wife. He was named Adonijah,

and was in his disposition like to Absalom,

and exalted himself, as hoping to be king,

and told his friends, that he ought to take

the government upon him. He also prepared

many chariots and horses, and fifty men to

run before him.J When his father saw this,

he did not reprove him, nor restrain him from

his purpose, nor did he go so far as to ask

wherefore he did so. Now Adonijah had for

his assistants Joab, the captain of the army,

and Abiathar the high-priest. And the only

persons that opposed him were Zadok the

high-priest, and the prophet Nathan, and Be-

naiah, who was captain of the guards, and

Shimei, David's friend, with all the other

most mighty men. Now Adonijah had pre­

pared a supper out of the city, near the foun­

tain that was in the king's paradise, and had

invited all his brethren, except Solomon; and

had taken with him Joab, the captain of the

army, and Abiathar, and the rulers of the

tribe of Judah: but had not invited to this

feast, Zadok the high priest, Nathan the pro­

phet, nor Benaiah, the captain of the guards,

nor any of those of the contrary party. This

matter was told by Nathan to Bathsheba,

Solomon's mother; that Adonijah was king,

and that David knew nothing of it; and he

advised her to save herself, and her son

Solomon, and to go by herself to David, and

say to him, that he had indeed sworn that

Solomon should reign after him; but that, in

the mean time Adonijah had already taken

the kingdom. He said, that he, the prophet

himself, would come after her, and, when she

had spoken thus to the king, would confirm

what she had said. Accordingly Bathsheba

agreed with Nathan, and went in to the king,

and worshipped him; and when she had de­

sired leave to speak with him, she told him

all things in the manner that Nathan had

suggested to her; and related what a supper

Adonijah had made, and who they were

whom he had invited, as his intimate friends.

She also said, that all the people had their

eyes upon him, to know whom he would

choose for their king. She desired him also

to consider, how, after his departure, Ado­

nijah, if he were king, would slay her and

her son Solomon.

Now as Bathsheba was speaking, the

keepers of the king's chambers tol^ him,

that Nathan desired to see him. And ygheii

* It is the observation of Galen, in his fifth book Of the  
Powers of Simple Medicines, that nothing so effectually

procures heat and health as the application of any thing

young to the stomach: the advice of David's physicians

therefore was not amiss; but it had been sinful advice,

and such as he could not have followed, had not this

young woman, whom he took to bed with him, been his

concubinary wife. In those days such wives were al­

lowable: and that she served him in this capacity, is very

manifest from the account we have of her in Scripture,

for whereas it is said, that the king knew her not, this cer-

tainly implies, that he might have had carnal knowl«dge

of her without sin or scandal; whereas it is said, that**

lay in his bosom, this phrase every where in Scripts

denotes what was the sole privilege of a wife, concubi,e>

Gen. xvi. 5. Deut. xiii. 6. Nor can we imagine v&J

Adonijah's desiring her in marriage had been so hein^s

a crime in Solomon's account, had she not been the kir'g s

wife, and he, by this means, had designed to revive^ ^

pretensions to the crown. Pool's Annotations. B.

t 2 Sam. iii. 4.

J About an. 1058

