AN. H08.J 197 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

«It is not without some cause, that God re­

fuses to answer what we inquire of him; who

yet a little while ago declared to us all that

we desired beforehand, and even prevented

us in his answer. To be sure there is some

sin against him that is concealed from us,

which is the occasion of his silence. Now I

swear by himself, that though he that com­

mitted this sin should prove to be my own son

Jonathan, I will slay him; and by that means

will appease the anger of God against us;

and that in the very same manner as if I were

to punish a stranger, and one not at all related

to me for the same offence."* So when the

multitude cried out to him so to do, he pre­

sently set all the rest on one side, and he and

his son stood on the other side, and he sought

to discover the offender by lot. Now the lot

appeared to fall upon Jonathan himself. So

when he was asked by his father what sin he

had been guilty of? and what he was con­

scious of in the course of his life that might

be esteemed instances of guilt or profaneness?

his answer was this, "O father! I have done

nothing more than that yesterday, without

knowing of the curse and the oath thou hadst

denounced, while I was in pursuit of the

enemy, I tasted of a honey-comb." Saul im­

mediately swore that he would slay him, and

prefer the observation of his oath before all

the ties of birth and of nature. But Jonathan

was not dismayed at this threatening; but

offering himself to it generously, and undaunt­

edly, he said, "Nor do I desire you, father,

to spare me. Death will be to me very ac­

ceptable, when it proceeds from thy piety,

and after a glorious victory; for it is the

freatest consolation to me, that I leave the

[ebrews victorious over the Philistines."

Hereupon all the people were greatly afflicted

for Jonathan; and they sware that they would

not see him die, who was the author of their

victory. By which means they snatched him

out of the danger he was in from his father's

curse; while they made their prayers to God,

also for the young man, that he would remit

his sin.

So Saul having slain about sixty thousand

of the enemy, returned to his own city, and

reigned happily. And he also fought against

the neighbouring nations, and subdued the

Ammonites, Moabites, Edomites, and Amale-

kites; as also the king of Zobah. He had

three male children, Jonathan, Ishui, and

Melchi-shua, with Merah and Michal, his

daughters. He had also Abner, his uncle's

son, for the captain of his host; that uncle's

name was Ner. Now Ner and Kish the fa­

ther of Saul were brothers. Saul had also a

great many chariots and horsemen; and

against whomsoever he made war, he re­

turned conqueror, and advanced the affairs of

the Hebrews to a great degree of success and

prosperity, and made them superior to other

nations. And he made such of the young

men as were remarkable for tallness and

comeliness his body guards.

chap, vn,

op saul's war with the amalekites, and his conquest

OF THEM.

NOW Samuel came unto Saul,f and said

unto him, that he was sent by God to

put him in mind, that God had preferred him

before all others, and ordained him king; and

he therefore ought to be obedient to him, and

to submit to his authority; as considering, that

though he had the dominion over the other

tribes, yet that God had the dominion over

him, and over all things. That accordingly

God said to him, "Because the Amalekites

did the Hebrews a great deal of mischief

while they were in the wilderness, and when,

upon their coming out of Egypt, they were

making their way to that country which is

now their own, I enjoin thee to punish the

Amalekites, by making war upon them; and

when thou hast subdued them, to leave none

of them alive; but to pursue them through

every age, and to slay them; beginning with

the women and the infants; and to require

this as a punishment to be inflicted on them

for the mischief they did to our forefathers.

To spare nothing, neither asses, nor other

beasts; nor to reserve any of them for your

own advantage and possession; but to devote

them universally to God, and, in obedience

to the commands of Moses, to blot out the

name of J Amalek entirely."

* 1 Sam. xiv. 39.  
t About an. 1106.

X The reason of this severity is distinctly given, 1 Sam.

xv. 18. Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amale­

kites. Nor indeed do we ever meet with these Amale­

kites, but as very cruel and bloody people; and particu-

Ss2

