AN. 1512.] 115 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

that any such accident had happened. Thus

did these men perish,* and became a demon-

tration of the power of God. And truly, any

one would lament them, not only on account

of this calamity that befel them, which yet

deserves our commiseration; but also because

their kindred were pleased with their suffer­

ings; for they forgot the relation they bare to

them; and at the sight of this sad accident,

approved of the judgment given against them:

and because they looked upon the people

about Dathan as pestilent men, they thought

they perished as such, and did not grieve for

them.

Moses now called for those that contended

about the priesthood, that trial might be made

who should be priest, and that he whose sacri­

fice God was best pleased with, might be or­

dained to that function. So the two hundred

and fifty men approached, who indeed were

honoured by the people, not only on account

of their ancestors, but also on account of their

own power, in which they excelled the others.

Aaron and Corah also came forth; and they

all offered incense, in those censers which

they brought with them, before the taber­

nacle. Hereupon, so great a fire shone out, as

no one ever saw in any that is made by the

hand of man; neither in those eruptions out

of the earth, that are caused by subterrane­

ous burnings; nor in such fires as arise of

their own accord in the woods, when the agi­

tation is caused by the trees rubbing one

against another; but this fire was very bright,

and had a terrible flame, such as is kindled at

the command of God; by whose irruption on

them, all the company, and Corah himself,

weref destroyed so entirely, that their very

bodies left no remains. Aaron alone was pre­

served, and not at all hurt by the fire; be­

cause it was God that sent the fire to burn

those only who ought to be burned. Here­

upon Moses, after these men were destroyed,

was desirous that the memory of this judgment

might be delivered down to posterity, and

that future ages might be acquainted with it;

and he commanded Eleazar, the son of Aaron,

to put their censers near the brazen altar,

that they might be a memorial to posterity of

* Numb. xvi. 33.

t It appears here, from the Samaritan Pentateuch, and

'j» effect from the Psalmist, as also from the Apostolical

Constitutions, from Clement's first Epistle to the Corin-

voi>. I.—No. 10.

what these men suffered, for supposing that

the power of God might be eluded. And thus

Aaron was no longer esteemed to have the

priesthood by the favour of Moses, but by the

public judgment of God, and he and his child­

ren peaceably enjoyed that honour afterward.

CHAP. IV.

OF WHAT HAPPENED TO THE HEBREWS DURIN6 THIRTT-

EICHT YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS.

THE sedition, however, was so far from

ceasing upon this destruction, that it

grew much stronger,J and became more in

tolerable. And the occasion of its growing

worse was of that nature, as made it likely the

calamity would last for a long time. For the

men believing already that nothing is done

without the providence of God, would have

it, that these things came thus to pass not

without God's favour to Moses. They there­

fore laid the blame upon him, that God was

so angry; and that this happened not so much

because of the wickedness of those that were

punished, as because Moses procured the

punishment: and that these men had been

destroyed without any sin of theirs, only be­

cause they were zealous about the divine

worship: as also that he who had been the

cause of this diminution of the people, by de­

stroying so many men, and those the most ex­

cellent of them all; besides his escaping any

punishment himself, had now given the priest­

hood to his brother so firmly, that nobody

could any longer dispute it with him; for no

one else could now put in for it, since he must

have seen those that first did so, to have mise­

rably perished. Nay, besides this, the kindred

of those that were destroyed, made great en­

treaties to the multitude to abate the arro­

gance of Moses, because it would be safest

for them so to do.

Moses, upon his hearing that the people

were tumultuous, was afraid they would at­

tempt some other innovation; and that some

great and sad calamity would be the conse­

quence. So he called the multitude to a con­

gregation, and patiently heard what apology

they made for themselves, without opposing

thians, from Ignatius's Epistle to the Magnesians, and from

Eusebius, that Corah was not swallowed up with the

Reubenites, but burnt with the Levites, of his own tribe.

J Numb. xvi. 41.

Gg

