474 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he persuaded them to have it so demolished;

and this by putting them in mind what mise­

ries they had suffered by its garrison, and the

Jewish deserters; and what miseries they

might hereafter suffer in case any foreigner

should obtain the kingdom, and put a gar­

rison into that citadel. This speech induced

the multitude to a compliance; because he

exhorted them to nothing but what was for

their own good. So they all applied them­

selves to the work, and levelled the moun­

tain; and in that work, spent both day and

night, without any intermission; which cost

them three* whole years before it was re­

moved, and brought to a level with the plain

of the rest of the city. After which the temple

was the highest of all the buildings; now the

citadel, as well as the mountain whereon it

stood, were demolished. And these actions

were thus performed under Simon.

CHAP. VII.

of simon's alliance with antiochus pius; and his

wars against trypho, and against cendebeus, the

general of antiochus's army. also of his assassi­

nation by his son-in-law, ptolemy.

NOWf after Demetrius had been carried

into captivity, Trypho his governor,J

destroyed Antiochus, the son of Alexander,

who was also called j|the God; and this when

he had reigned four years. Though he caused

it to be reported that he died under the

hands of the surgeons. He then sent his

friends, and those that were most intimate

with him to the soldiers; and promised that

he would give them a great deal of money if

they would make him king. He intimated

to them that Demetrius was taken captive by

the Parthians; and that Demetrius's brother

Antiochus, if he came to be king, would do

them a great deal of mischief, in way of re­

venge for their revolting from his brother.

So the soldiers, in expectation of the wealth

they should get by bestowing the kingdom on

Trypho, made him their ruler. However,

when Trypho had gained the management of

affairs he demonstrated his disposition to be

wicked. For while he was a private person

he cultivated a familiarity with the multitude,

and pretended to great moderation; and so

drew them on artfully to whatsoever he

pleased. But when he had once taken the

kingdom, he laid aside any farther dissimu­

lation, and appeared in his true colours.

This behaviour made his enemies superior

to him; for the soldiery hated him, and re­

volted from him to Cleopatra, the wife of

Demetrius; who was then shut up in Se-

leucia, with her children. But as Antiochus,

the son of Demetrius, who was called Soter,

was not admitted by any of the cities on ac-

* An. 142, 141, 140, B. C.

t It must here be diligently noted that Josephus's copy

of the first book of Maccabees, which he had so carefully

followed, and faithfully abridged as fir as the 50th verse

of the 13th chapter; seems there to have ended. What

few things there are afterward common to both, might

probably be learned by him from some other more im­

perfect records. However, we must exactly observe

here, what the remaining part of that book of the Macca­

bees informs us of; and what Josephus would never have

omitted, had this copy contained so much; that this Simon

the Great, the Maccabee, made a league with Antiochus

Soter, the son of Demetrius Soter, and brother to the other

Demetrius, who was now a captive in Parthia; that upon

his coming to the crown, about the 140th year before the

Christian era, he granted great privileges to the Jewish

'nation, and to Simon their high-priest and ethnarch, which

privileges Simon seems to have taken of his own accord

about three years before. In particular he gave him

leave to coin money for his country, with his own stamp;

and as concerning Jerusalem, and the sanctuary, that they

should be free; or as the vulgar Latin hath it, holy and

free, 1 Mace. xv. 6, 7. which I take to be the truer read­

ing; as being the very words of his father's concession

offered to Jonathan several years before, x. 31. Antiq.

XIII. 2. Now what makes this date, and these grants,

greatly remarkable, is the state of the remaining genuine

shekels of the Jews with Samaritan characters; which

seem to have been (most of them at least,) coined in the

four first years of this Simon the Asmonean; and having

upon them these words on one side, "Jerusalem the

holy;" and on the reverse, " In the year of freedom 1 or

2 or 3 4." Which shekels therefore are original monu­

ments of these times, and undeniable marks of the troth

of the history in these chapters; though it be in a great

measure omitted by Josephus. See Essay on the Old

Testament, p. 157, 158. The reason why I rather sup­

pose that his copy of the Maccabees wanted these chap­

ters; than that his own copies are here imperfect, is this,

that all their contents are not here omitted; though much

the greatest part be. See a pattern of these genuine she­

kels, with the inscriptions in Samaritan letters, at the bot­

tom of my Description of the Temples.

I How Trypho killed this Antiochus, the Epitome of

Livy informs us, chap. 55. viz. that he corrupted his phy­

sicians, or surgeons; who falsely pretending to the people

that he was perishing with the stone, as they cut him for

it, killed him; which exactly agrees with Josephus.

|| That this Antiochus, the son of Alexander Balas, was

called the God, is evident from his coins: which Spanheim

assures us bear this inscription, "King Antiochus, the

God, Epiphanes, the victorious."

