44 [BOOK. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK II.

Containing an Interval of 220 Years.

FROM THE DEATH OF ISAAC TO THE EXODUS OUT OF EGYPT.

CHAP. I.

OF THE DIVISION OF HABITATION BY ESAU AND JACOB BY

WHICH THE FORMER POSSESSED IDUMEA, AND THE LATTER

CANAAN.

AFTER the death of Isaac, his sons

divided their habitations respectively.

Nor did they retain what they had before:

but Esau departed from the city of Hebron,

and left it to his brother, and dwelt in Seir,

and ruled over Idumea. He called the

country by that name from himself; for he

was named Adom, on the following occasion:

He once returned from the toil of hunting,

very hungry, when he was a child in age,

and met with his brother, when he was get足

ting ready lentile-pottage for his dinner; it

was of a very red colour, on which account

he the more earnestly longed for it, and de足

sired some of it to eat. But Jacob took ad足

vantage of his brother's hunger, and forced

him to give up his birth-right; and he being

pinched with famine, resigned it up to him,

under an oath. Whence it came, that on

account of the redness of the pottage, he was,

in way of jest by his contemporaries, called

Adom; for the Hebrews call what is red,

Adom; and this was the name given to this

country. But the Greeks gave it a more

agreeable pronunciation, and named it Idu足

mea.

He became the father of five sons, of whom

Jaus, Jolomus, and Coreus were by one wife,

whose name was Alibama; but of the rest

Aliphaz was born to him by Ada, and Raguel

by Basemath: and these were the sons of

Esau. Aliphaz had five legitimate sons;

Theman, Homer, Sapphus, Gotham, and Ka-

naz: for Amalek was not legitimate, but by a

concubine, whose name was Thamna. These

dwelt in that part of Idumea which was

called Gebelatis, and that denominated from

Amalek, Amalekites; for Idumea was a large

country, and preserved the name of the

whole: while in its several parts it kept the

names of its peculiar inhabitants.

CHAP. II.

OF JOSEPH, THE YOUNGEST OF JACOB'S SONS, AND THE ENVY

OF HIS BRETHREN.

IT happened that Jacob attained so great

'happiness as rarely any other person has

arrived at; he was richer than the rest of the

inhabitants of that country, and was at once

envied and admired for such virtuous sons;

for they were deficient in nothing, but were

of great strength, both for labouring with their

hands, and enduring of toil, and shrewd also

in understanding. And God exercised such

a providence over him, and such a care of

his happiness, as to bring him the greatest

blessings, even out of what appeared to be

the most sorrowful condition: and to make

him the cause of our forefathers' departure

out of Egypt; him, I say, and his posterity.

The occasion was this: when Jacob had this

son Joseph born to him by Rachel, his father

loved him above the rest of his sons, both

because of the beauty of his body, and the

virtues of his mind; for he excelled the rest

