an. 538.] 385 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

they had filled themselves, he gave farther

order that Daniel's enemies should be cast

into the den; that he might learn whether

the lions, now they were* full, would touch

them or not.* And it appeared plainly to

Darius, after the princes had been cast to the

wild beasts, that it was God who preserved

Daniel. tFor the lions spared none of them;

but tore them all to pieces, as if they had

been very hungry and wanted food. I sup­

pose therefore it was not their hunger, which

had been a little before satisfied with abun­

dance of flesh, but the wickedness of these

men that provoked them to destroy the

princes. For if it so please God, that wick­

edness might by even those irrational crea­

tures, be esteemed a plain foundation for

their punishment.

When therefore those that had intended

thus to destroy Daniel by treachery, were

themselves destroyed, king Darius sent letters

over all his country, and praised that God

whom Daniel worshipped; and said, that he

was the only true God, and had power. He

also held Daniel in very great esteem; and

made him the principal of his friends. Now

when Daniel was become so illustrious and

famous, on account of the opinion men had

that he was beloved of God, he built a Jtower

at Ecbatana in Media. It was a most ele­

gant building, and wonderfully made, and it

is still remaining, and preserved to this day.

And to such as see it, it appears to have been

lately built, and to have been no older than

that very day when any one looks upon it;

it is ||so fresh and beautiful, and no way

grown old in so long a time. For buildings

suffer the same as men do, they grow old, as

well as they, and by numbers of years their

strength is dissolved, and their beauty

withered. Now they bury the kings of Media,

of Persia, and Parthia in this tower, to this

day, and he who was intrusted with the care

of it, was a Jewish priest; which thing is also

observed to this day. But it is proper to

give an account of what this man did; for he

was so happy, as to have strange revelations

made to him, and those as to one of the

greatest of the prophets; insomuch that

while he was alive, he had the esteem and

applause both of kings and of the multitude;

and now he is dead he retains a remembrance

that will never fail. For the several books

that he wrote and left behind him, are still

read by us, till this time; and from them we

believe that he conversed with God; for he

not only prophesied of future events, as did

the other prophets; but he also determined

the time of their accomplishment. And while

prophets used to foretell misfortunes, and on

that account were disagreeable both to the

kings and the multitude; Daniel was to them

a prophet of good things, and this to such a

degree, that, by the agreeable nature of his

predictions, he procured the good will of all

men; and by the accomplishment of them he

procured the belief of their truth, and the

opinion of a sort of divinity for himself among

the multitude. He also wrote and left be­

hind him what evinced the accuracy and

undeniable veracity of his predictions. For

he saith, that when he was in Susa the metro­

polis of Persia, and went out into the field

with his companions, there was on the sudden

a motion and concussion of the earth; and

that he was left alone by himself, his friends

* The lex talionis condemned all calumniators to the  
same sort of punishment which they intended to have

brought upon others; and in this case, among the Per­

sians, it was a frequent thing to include all the family in

the penalty inflicted on the father; but, abominandae leges

(says Ammianus Marcellinus) per quas, ob novara unius,

omnis propinquitas perit. Calmed Comtnentary. B.

t It is no way improbable that Daniel's enemies might

suggest this reason to the king, why the lions did not

meddle with him; and that they might suspect the king's

kindness to Daniel had procured these lions to be so filled

beforehand; and that thence it was that he encouraged

Daniel to submit to this experiment, in hope of coming

off safe! and that this was the true reason of making so

terrible an experiment upon those his enemies and all

their families. Daniel vi. 24. Though our other copies

do not directly take notice of it.

% Of this Baris or tower, built by Daniel, whether it

were at Ecbatana in Media, as Josephus's present copies

have it; or at Susa in Persia, as Jerome quotes it from

his copies of Josephus, is hard to determine. Dean Pri-

deaux thinks Jerome's to be the true reading; and that

this tower was at Susa. Connex. part 1. at the year 634.

I! What Josephus here says, that the stones of the se­

pulchres of the kings of Persia at this Baris, or those per­

haps of the same sort that are now commonly called the

ruins of Persepolis, continued so entire and unaltered in

his days, as if they were lately put there, " 1," says Re-

land, " here can shew to be true, as to those stones of the

Persian king's mausoleum which Corn. Brunius brake off

and gave me." He ascribed this to the hardness of the

stones; which scarcely yields to iron tools; and proves

frequently too hard for cutting by the chisel, but often­

times breaks the chisel to pieces. See the like as to the

Armenian buildings of Semiramis, in Moses Chorenensis,

page 46.

