an. 4484.] 13 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the living creatures had one language £- at

that time, the serpent, which then lived to­

gether with Adam and his wife, shewed an en­

vious disposition at his supposal of their living

happily, and in obedience to the commands

of God; and imagining that when they dis­

obeyed they would fall into calamities, he per­

suaded the woman, out of a malicious inten­

tion, to taste of the tree of knowledge, tell­

ing them, that in that tree was the knowledge

of good and evil, which knowledge when they

should obtain they would lead a happy life:

nay, a life not inferior to that of a god;£ by

which means he overcame the woman, and

Sersuaded her to despise the command of

rod. Now, when she had tasted of that tree,

and was pleased with its fruit, she persuaded

Adam to make use of it also. Upon this they

perceived that they were become nakedJ to

one another; and being ashamed thus to ap­

pear abroad, they invented somewhat to co­

ver them, for the fruit sharpened their under­

standing; and they covered themselves with

fig-leaves, and tying these before them, out

of modesty, they thought they were happier

than they were before, as they hadclis-

covered what they were in want of. But when

God came into the garden,|| Adam, who was

wont before to come and converse with him,

being conscious of his wicked behaviour,

went out of the way. This behaviour sur­

prised God: and he asked what was the

cause of his procedure; and why he, that be­

fore delighted in that conversation, did now

fly from, and avoid it? When he made no

reply, as conscious to himself that he had

transgressed the command of God, God said

"I had before determined about you both,

how you might lead a happy life, without any

affliction, care, or vexation of soul; and that

all things which might contribute to your en­

joyment and pleasure should grow up by my

providence, of their own accord, without your

labour and pains taking: which state of labour

would soon bring on old age, and death would

not be at any remote distance. But now thou

hast abused my good-will, and hast disobeyed

my commands; for thy silence is not the sign

ot thy virtue, but of thy evil conscience."

However, Adam excused his sin, and intreated

God not to be angry with him; and laid the

blame of what was done upon his wife, and

said, that he was deceived by her, and thence

became an offender; while she again accused

the serpent. But God allotted him punish­

ment, because he weakly submitted to the

counsel of his wife; and said, the ground

should not henceforth yield its fruits of its own

accord, but that when it should be harassed

by their labour, it would bring forth some of

its fruits, and refuse to bring forth others. He

also made Eve liable to the inconveniency

of breeding, and the sharp pains of bringing

forth children ; and this because she persuad­

ed Adam with the same arguments where­

with the serpent had persuaded her, and had

thereby brought him into a calamitous condi­

tion. He also deprived the serpent of speech,

out of indignation at his malicious disposition

towards Adam. Besides this, he inserted poi­

son under his tongue, and made him an enemy

to men; and suggested to them that they

should direct their strokes against his head,

that being the place wherein lay his mischiev-

* Hence it appears, that Josephus thought several at  
least of the brute animals, particularly the serpent, could

speak before the fall: and I think few of the more perfect

kinds of those animals want the organs of speech at this

day. Many inducements there are also to a notion, that

the present state they are in is not their original state, and

that their capacities have been once much greater than

we now see them.

t Gen. iii. 5.

J Those who take the word naked in a literal sense, sup­

pose that upon the fall, the air, and other elements, imme­

diately became intemperate and disorderly; so that our

first parents soon knew, or felt, that they were naked, be­

cause the sun scorched them, they became wet with the

rain and the cold pierced them. Others take the expres­

sion in a figurative sense, to denote the commission of

such sins as man in his senses may well be ashamed of.

To this purpose they have observed, that when Moses re­

turned from the Mount, and found that the people had

made and consecrated a golden image, the expression

in scripture is, the people were naked, they were be­

come vile and reprobate sinners, (for so the word yufjwos

signifies in the New Testament, Rev. xvi. 15,) for

Aaron had made them naked unto their shame, among

their enemies, Exod. xxxii. 25. See Nicholas conference,

vol. LB.

II Our first parents were conscious of the approach of

God to them in the garden by the voice which they heard

as usual from the divine presence. The word voice may

be rendered noise; and since God's usual way of noti­

fying his presence afterwards was either by a still small

voice, or noise, 1 Kings xix. 12. or by a noise like that oj

great waters, Ezek. i. 24, or like the rustling of wind in the

trees, 2 Sam. v. 24. we may reasonably suppose, that it

was either a soft gentle noise, like a breeze of wind

among the trees of Paradise, or a louder one like the mur­

muring of some large river, which gave Adam notice of

God's approach. B.

