542 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mons; for he had no possible way to avoid it.

So he left his *uncle Joseph procurator for

his government, and for the public affairs;

and gave him a private charge, that if

Antony should kill him, he also should kill

Mariamne immediately. For that he had a

tender affection for her, and was afraid of

the injury that should be offered him, if,

after his death, she for her beauty, should be

engaged to some other man. But his inti­

mation was nothing but this, at the bottom;

that Antony had fallen in love with her,

when he had formerly heard somewhat of

her beauty. So when Herod had given Jo­

seph this charge, and had no sure hopes

of escaping with his life; he went away to

Antony.

But as Joseph was administering the pub­

lic affairs of the kingdom, and for that reason

was very frequently with Mariamne; both

because his business required it, and because

of the respects he ought to pay to the queen;

he frequently entered into conversation about

Herod's kindness, and great affection towards

her: and when the women, especially Alexan­

dra, used to turn his discourses into raillery,

Joseph was so over desirous to demonstrate

the king's inclinations, that he proceeded so

far as to mention the charge he had received:

and thence drew his demonstration, thpf He­

rod was not able to live without her; and that

if he should come to any ill end^Jre could not

endure a separation from heiyeven after he

was dead. The women, however, as was

natural, did not take this to be an instance

of Herod's strong affection, but of his severe

usage of them; that they could not escape

destruction, nor a tyrannical death, even

when he was dead himself. And this saying

of Joseph's was a foundation for the women's

severe suspicions about him afterwards.

At this time a report went about the city

Jerusalem, among Herod's enemies, that An­

tony had tortured Herod, and put him to

death. This report, as is natural, disturbed

those that were about the palace; but chiefly

the women. Upon which Alexandra endea­

voured to persuade Joseph to go out of the

palace, and flee away with them to the en­

signs of the Roman legion; which then lay

encamped about the city, as a guard to the

* Of the four Josephs in these histories, see the note

kingdom, under the command of Julius. For

that, by this means, if any disturbance should

happen about the palace, they should be in

greater security; as having the Romans fa­

vourable to them. And that besides, they

hoped to obtain the highest authority, if An­

tony did but once see Mariamne: by whose

means they should recover the kingdom,

and want nothing which was reasonable for

them to hope for, because of their royal ex­

traction.

But as they were in the midst of these de­

liberations, letters were brought from Herod,

about all his affairs; and proved contrary to

the report, and of what they before expected.

For when he was come to Antony, he soon

recovered his interest with him, by the pre­

sents which he had carried with him from

Jerusalem: and he soon induced him, upon

discoursing with him, to leave off his indig­

nation at him. So that Cleopatra's persua­

sions had less force, than the arguments and

presents he brought, to regain his friendship.

For Antony said, that it was not good to re­

quire an account of a king, as to the affairs

of his,jg^»«TmiTe«t. Far at this rate he

coiikMSe no king at all: but thai ihose

wno had given him that authority ought to

permit him to make use of it. He also told

Cleopatra, that it would be best for her not

to meddle with the acts of the king's govern­

ment. Herod wrote an account of these

things; and enlarged upon the other honours

which he had received from Antony. How

he sat by him at his hearing causes, and

took his diet with him every day; and that

he enjoyed those favours from him, notwith­

standing the reproaches that Cleopatra so

severely laid against him, who, having a

great desire of his country, and earnestly

entreating Antony that the kingdom might

be given to her, laboured with her utmost

diligence to remove him out of the way.

But that he still found Antony just to him;

and had no longer any apprehensions of hard

treatment from him. And that he was soon

to set out upon his return, with a firmer addi­

tional assurance of his favour to him, in his

reigning and managing public affairs; and

that there was no longer any hope for Cleo­

patra's covetous temper; since Antony had

On the War, Book I. chap. 28.

