258 [BOOK VJI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

her native city lying at the last extremity,

ascended upon the wall, and by means of the

armed men, called for Joab; and when he

came to her, she said, "God ordained kings

and generals of armies that they might cut off

the enemies of the Hebrews, and introduce

an universal peace among them; but thou art

endeavouring to overthrow and depopulate a

city of the Israelites, which hath been guilty

of no offence." But he replied, "God con­

tinue to be merciful unto me; I am disposed

to avoid killing any one of the people, much

less would I destroy such a city as this: and,

if they will deliver me up Sheba, the son of

Bichri, who hath rebelled against the king, I

will raise the siege, and withdraw my army

from the place." Now as soon as the woman

heard what Joab said, she desired him to

intermit the siege a little while; for that he

should have the head of his enemy thrown

out to him presently. So she went down to

the citizens, and said to them, "Will you be

so wicked as to perish miserably, with your

children and wives, for the sake of a vile fel­

low; and one whom nobody knows? And will

you have him for your king instead of David,

who has been so great a benefactor to you,

and oppose your city alone to such a mighty

and strong army?" So she prevailed with

them, and they cut off the head of Sheba, and

threw it into Joab's army. When this was

done the king's general sounded a retreat,

and raised the siege.* And when he was

come to Jerusalem he was again appointed

to be general of all the people. The king

also constituted Benaiah captain of the

guards,! and of the six hundred men: and

set Adoiam over the tribute, and }Sabathes

and Achilaus over the records. He also

made Sheva die scribe, and appointed Zadok

and Abiathar to be the high-priests.

CHAP. XII.

OF THE DELIVERANCE OF THE HEBREWS FROH A FAMINE,

WHEN THE GIBEONITES HAD CAUSED PUNISHMENT TO BE

INFLICTED FOR THOSE OF THEM THAT HAD BEEN SLAIN;

AND OF THE GREAT ACTIONS l'ERFORMED AGAINST THK

PHILISTINES BY DAVID AND HIS ADHERENTS.

AFTER this,J| when the country was

greatly afflicted with a famine, David

besought God to have mercy on the people,

and to discover to him what was the cause of

it, and how a remedy might be found for that

distemper. The prophets§ answered, that

God would have the Gibeonites avenged,

whom Saul was so wicked as to betray to

slaughter; and had not observed the oath

which Joshua the general, and the senate,

had sworn to them: and that if the king

would permit such vengeance to be taken

for those that were slain as the Gibeonites

should desire, God would be reconciled to

them, and free the multitude from their mise­

ries. As soon therefore as David understood

this, he sent for the Gibeonites, and asked

verness in this city; for though that office was most com­

monly occupied by men, yet there want not instances of

women, (as in the case of Deborah, Judg. iv. 4, and Queen

Athaiiah, 2 Kings xi,) who have been employed in the

administration of civil affairs. If she was invested with

any such authority, she was the properest person to de­

sire a parley with the general; and good reason she had

to desire it, because she knew the present temper and

fear of the citizens and soldiers, viz. that considering the

imminent danger they were in, they were generally de­

sirous of peace, and restrained from it only by Sheba's

power and authority. Pool's Annotations. In the be­

ginning of this woman's speech to Joab, there is some­

thing that seems both abrupt and obscure. They were

wont to speak in old time, saying, They should surely

ask counsel at Abel, and so they ended the matter, 2 Sam.

xx. 18: according to this translation, the sense of the

word is,—" This city, which thou art about to destroy, is

no mean and contemptible one, but so honourable and

considerable for its wisdom, and the wise people in it,

that when any difference did arise among any of the

neighbouring places, they used proverbially to say, We

will ask the opinion and advice of the men of Abel about

it, and we will stand to their arbitration; and so all parties

were satisfied, and disputes ended." So that her words,

according to this sense, are a high commendation of the

city of Abel, for its being a place, (time out of mind,)

very eminent for the wisdom and prudence of its inhabit­

ants. But there is another translation in the margin ol

our Bible, which seems to be more natural, and makes

the woman speak in this manner:—M When the people

saw thee lay siege to the city, they said, Surely he will.

ask, if we will have peace; for the law prescribes-, that

he should offer peace to strangers, much more then to

Ismelitish cities; and if he would once do this,. we should

soon bring things to an amicable agreement; for we are

peaceable people, and faithful to our prince." So that,

according to this interpretation, the woman both modestly

reproved Joab for the neglect of his duty, and artfully

engaged him in the performance of it. Patrick's Com­

mentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.

* 2 Sam. xx. 22.

t Cherethites and Pelethites, 2 Sam. xx. 23.

I Jehoshaphat, the son of Aliud, Heb. and Septuagint,

2 Sam. xx. 24.

|| About an. 1062 B. C.

§ Perhaps the two high-priests, Zadok and Abiathar.

