146 {book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

priests, to be laid up among their treasures;

and thus did Jericho perish.

But there was one Achar,* the son of Char-

mi, the son of Zebedias, of the tribe of Judah,

who, finding a royal garment woven entirely

of gold ;f and a piece of gold that weighed

two hundred shekels,:f and thinking it a very

hard case that what spoils he, by running

some hazard, had found, he must give away,

and offer them to God, who stood in no need

of them, made a deep ditch in his tent, and

laid them up therein, as supposing he should

not only be concealed from his fellow sol­

diers, but from God also.

Now the place where Joshua pitched his

camp was called Gilgal,|| which denotes

liberty;^ for since they had now passed over

the river Jordan, they looked upon them­

selves as freed from the miseries which they

had undergone from the Egyptians, and in

the wilderness.

A few days after the calamity that befel

Jericho, Joshua sent three thousand armed

men to take Ai, a city situate above Jericho,

but upon the fight of the people of Ai with

them, they were driven back, and lost thirty-

six of their men.** When this was told the

Israelites, it made them very sad, and ex­

ceeding disconsolate; not so much because

of the relation the men that were destroyed

bare to them, though those that were de­

stroyed were all good men, and deserved

their esteem, as by the despair it occasioned;

for while they believed that they were al­

ready in effect in the possession of the land,

and should bring back the army out of the

battle without loss, as God had promised

beforehand, they now saw unexpectedly their

enemies bold with success; so they put sack­

cloth over their garments, and continued in

tears and lamentation all the day, without the

least enquiry after food, but laid what had

happened greatly to heart.

When Joshua saw the army so much af­

flicted, and possessed with forebodings of evil,

as to their whole expedition; he used free­

dom with God, and said, "We are not come

thus far out of any rashness of our own, as

though we thought ourselves able to subdue

this land with our own weapons, but at the

instigation of Moses thy servant, because thou

hast promised us by many signs, that thou

wouldst give us this land for a possession, and

that thou wouldst make our army always su­

perior in war to our enemies, and accordingly

some success has already attended upon us,

agreeably to thy promises; but because we

have now unexpectedly been foiled, and have

lost some men out of our army, we are grieved

at it, as fearing what thou hast promised us,

and what Moses foretold us cannot be de­

pended on; and our future expectation trou­

bles us the more, because we have met with

such a disaster in this first attempt. But do

thou, O Lord, free us from these suspicions,

for thou art able to find a cure for these dis-

* That the name of this thief was not Achan, as in the  
common copies, but Achar, as here in Josephus, and in

the Apostolic Constitutions, VII. 2. and elsewhere, is evi­

dent by the allusion to that name in the curse of Joshua,

"Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble

thee." Where the Hebrew words allude only to the

name Achar, but not to Achan; accordingly this valley of

Achar or Achor, was and is a known place, a little north

of Gilgal, so called from the days of Joshua to this day.

See Josh. vii. 24, 26. Is. lxv. 10. Hos. ii. 15. and Dr. Ber­

nard's notes here.

t In the original, this robe is called a garment ofShinar,

i. e. of Babylon; and the general opinion is, that the rich­

ness and excellency of it consisted not so much in the stuff

whereof it was made, as in the colour whereof it was

dyed, which most suppose to have been scarlet, a colour

in high esteem among the ancients, and for which the Ba­

bylonians were justly famous. Bochart, however, main­

tains, that the colour of this robe was various, and not all

of one sort; that the scarlet colour the Babylonians first

received from Tyre, but the party-colour, whether so

woven or wrought with the needle, was of their own in­

vention, for which he produces many passages out of

Heathen authors. Such as

Non ego praetulerim Babylonica picta superbe

Texta, Semiramia quaj variantur acu.

Mart. Ep. lib. 8.

Ha?c mihi Memphitis tellus dat munera, victa est

Pectine Niliaco jam Babylonis acus. Ibid. lib. 14.

with many more citations out of several other writers.

However this be, it is certain, that the robe could not fail

to be a very rich and splendid one, and therefore capti­

vated either Achar's pride, or rather covetousness; since

his purpose seems to have been, not so much to wear it

himself, as to sell it for a large price. Bochart's Phaleg.

lib. I.e. 9. Saurin, lib. 3. dissertation 3. B.

J Here Dr. Bernard justly observes, that a few words

are dropped out of Josephus's copies, on account of the

repetition of the word shekels, and that it ought to be read

thus, A piece of gold that weighed 60 shekels, and one of

silver, that weighed 200 shekels, as in our other copies.

Josh. vii. 21.

B Josh. v. 9.

§ I agree with Dr. Bernard, and approve of Josephus's

interpretation of Gilgal, for liberty.

** Josh. vii. 5.

