262 OOOT-ftl. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ordered him to answer quickly, that he

might declare what he had chosen to God;

the king reasoned with himself that in case

he should ask for famine, he would appear

to do it for others, and without danger to

himself; since he had a great deal of corn

hoarded up; that in case he should choose

to be overcome by his enemies for three

months, he would appear to have chosen war,

because he had valiant men and strong holds;

and that therefore he feared nothing there­

from; so he chose that affliction which is

common to kings, and to their subjects; and

in which the fear was equal on all sides; and

said that it was much better to fall into the

hands of God, than into those of his enemies.

When the prophet had heard this, he de­

clared it to God; who thereupon sent a pes­

tilence and a mortality upon the Hebrews.

Now the miserable disease was one indeed;

but it carried them off by ten thousand causes

and occasions, which those that were afflicted,

could not understand; for one died upon the

neck of another; and the terrible malady

seized them before they were aware, and

brought them to their end suddenly. Some

gave up the ghost immediately, with very

great pains and bitter grief; and some were

worn away by their distempers, and had

nothing remaining to be buried; but as soon

as ever they fell, were entirely macerated:

some were choked, and greatly lamented

their case, as being also stricken with a

sudden darkness; and some there were who,

as they were burying a relation, fell down

dead,* without finishing the rites of the

funeral. Now there perished of this disease,

which began with the morning, and lasted

till the hour of dinner, seventy thousand.f

Nay, the angel stretched out his hand over

Jerusalem, as sending this terrible judgment

upon it. But David had put on sackcloth,

and lay upon the ground intreating God, and

begging that the distemper might now cease;

and that he would be satisfied with those that

* Whence Josephus took these distinct and melancholy  
accounts of the particular symptoms, and miserable

methods of dying in this terrible pestilence, we cannot

now tell; our other copies affording us no such account.

t 2 Sam. xxiv. 15.

t Six hundred shekels of gold, 1 Chron. xxi. 26.

11 The mountain of the house, or mount Moriah, by

Mr. Maundrell's measures, page 105, was about five hun­

dred and seventy-one cubits wide, and about nine hun-

had already perished. And when the king

looked up into the air, and saw the angel

carried along thereby unto Jerusalem, with

his sword drawn, he said to God, that he

might justly be punished, who was their

shepherd; but that the sheep ought to be

preserved, as not having sinned at all; and

he implored God that he would send his

wrath upon him, and upon all his family; but

spare the people.

When God heard his supplication, he

caused the pestilence to cease; and sent

Gad the prophet to him, and commanded

him to go up immediately to the threshing

floor of Araunah the Jebusite; and build an

altar there to God, and offer sacrifices. When

David heard that, he did not neglect his duty,

but made haste to the place appointed him.

Now Araunah was threshing wheat; and

when he saw the king, and all his servants

coming to him, he ran to him and worshipped

him. He was by his lineage a Jebusite, but

a particular friend of David's, and for that

cause it was, that when he overthrew the city,

he did him no harm; as we have already in­

formed the reader. Now Araunah inquired,

"Wherefore is my lord come to his servant?"

He answered, to buy of him the threshing

floor; that he might therein build an altar to

God, and offer a sacrifice. Araunah replied,

that he freely gave him both the threshing

floor, and the ploughs, and the oxen for a

burnt-offering; and he besought God gra­

ciously to accept his sacrifice. The king

said, that he took his generosity and magna­

nimity kindly, and accepted his good will;

but he desired him to take the price of them

all; for that it was not just to offer a sacrifice

that cost nothing. And When Araunah said

he might do as he pleased, he bought the

threshing floorJ for ||nfty shekels. And when

he had built an altar, he performed divine

service, and brought a burnt-offering, and

offered peace-offerings. With these God was

pacified, and became gracious to them again.

dred and eighty cubits long=thirty-five acres, which if it

all belonged to Araunah, might well be worth those six

hundred shekels of gold or 1251. which we have 1 Chron.

xxi. 25. and a small part of it with the oxen and instru­

ments, would be much more worth than those fifty shekels

of silver=5l. 18s. which we have 2 Sam. xxiv. 24. and

here. So that the larger number in the Chronicles is, in

all probability, the true number-

