228 [book vir. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Joab's; which, as he said himself, was in way

of punishment for his brother Asahel, whom

Abner smote and slew as he was pursuing

after him in the battle of Hebron; but as the

truth was, out of fear of his losing his com­

mand of the army, and his dignity with the

king; and lest he should be deprived of those

advantages, and Abner should obtain the

first rank in David's court. By these exam­

ples any one may learn, how many and how

great instances of wickedness men will ven­

ture upon, for the sake of getting money and

authority; and that they may not fail of either

of them. For as when they are desirous of

obtaining the same, they acquire them by

ten thousand evil practices; so when they

are afraid of losing them, they get them con­

firmed by practices much worse than the

former. As if no other calamity so terrible

could befall them, as the failure of acquiring

so exalted an authority, or as the loss of it,

after its acquisition and long enjoyment. And

since this last would be the heaviest of all

afflictions, they all of them contrive and ven­

ture upon the most difficult actions, out of

fear of losing the same. But let it suffice

that I have made these short reflections upon

that subject.

When David heard that Abner was slain,

it grieved his soul, and he called all men to

witness, with stretching out his hand to God,

and crying out, that he was not a partaker in

the murder of Abner, and that his death was

not procured by his command or approbation.

He also wished the heaviest curses might fall

upon him that slew him, and upon his whole

house, and he devoted those that had assisted

him in this murder to the same penalties on

its account. For he took care not to appear

to have had any hand in this murder, contrary

to the assurances he had given, and the oaths

he had taken to Abner. However, he com­

manded all the people to weep and lament

this man, and to honour his dead body with

the usual solemnities; that is, by rending their

garments, and putting on sackcloth; and that

this should be the habit in which they should

go before the bier. He also followed it him­

self, with the elders, and those that were

rulers; lamenting Abner, and by his tears

demonstrating his good will to him while he

was alive, and his sorrow for him now he was

dead; and that he was not taken off with his

consent. So he buried him at Hebron, in a

magnificent manner, and indited funeral ele­

gies for him: he also stood first over the

monument weeping, and caused others to do

the same. Nay, so deeply did the death of

Abner disorder him, that his companions

could by no means persuade him to take any

food: but he affirmed with an oath that he

would taste nothing till the sun was set. This

procedure gained him the good will of the

multitude; for such as had an affection for

Abner were highly gratified with the respect

he paid him, when he was dead; and the

observance of that faith he had plighted to

him; which was shewn in his vouchsafing him

all the usual ceremonies, as if he had been

his kinsman and friend, and not suffering him

to be neglected and injured with a dishonour­

able burial, as if he had been his enemy.

Insomuch that the entire nation rejoiced at

the king's gentleness and mildness of dispo­

sition; every one being ready to suppose that

the king would have taken the same care of

them, in the like circumstances, which they

saw he shewed in the burial of Abner. And

indeed David principally intended to gain a

good reputation; and therefore he took care

to do what was proper in this case; whence

none had any suspicion that he was the author

of Abner's death. He also said to the multi­

tude, that he was greatly troubled at the

death of so good a man, and that the affairs

of the Hebrews had suffered great detriment

by being deprived of him, who was of so great

abilities to preserve them by his excellent

advice, and by the strength of his hands in

war. "But," added he, " that God, who hath >

a regard to all men's actions, will not suffer

this man (Joab) to go off unrevenged. But

know ye, that I am not able to do any thing

to these sons of Zeruiah, Joab and Abishai,

who have more power than I have. But God

will requite their insolent attempts upon their

own heads."* And this was the fatal con­

clusion of the life of Abner.

CHAP. II.

OF THE MURDER OF ISHBOSKETH, BY THE TREACHERY OF

HIS FRIENDS, AND OF DAVID'S ACCESSION TO THE WHOLE

KIN'iDOM.

w

HEN Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, had

heard of the death of Abner, he took

* 2 Sam. iii. 39.

