64 [book h. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

save their male children alive, they and their

families should be destroyed. This was a

severe affliction, indeed, to those that suffered

it, not only as they were deprived of their

sons, and while they were the parents them­

selves they were obliged to be subservient to

the destruction of their own children, but as

it was to be supposed to tend to the extirpa­

tion of their nation; while upon the destruc­

tion of their children, and their own gradual

dissolution, the calamity would become very

hard and inconsolable. Such was the ill

state they were in; but no one can overthrow

the purposes of God, though he contrive ten

thousand subtile devices for that end; for this

child, whom the sacred scribe foretold, was

brought up, and concealed from the obser­

vers appointed by the king; and he that fore­

told him did not mistake in the consequences

of his preservation, which were brought to

pass under a singular manner:—

A man, whose name was Amram, one of

the nobler sort of the Hebrews, was afraid of

his whole nation lest it should fail, by the

want of young men to be brought up here-

aftef, and was very uneasy at ity his wife

being then with child, and he knew not what

to do; hereupon he betook himself to prayer

to God, and intreated him to have compassion

on those men who had no ways transgressed

the laws of his worship, and to afford them

deliverance' from the miseries they at that

time endured, and to render abortive their

enemies' hope of the destruction of their na­

tion. Accordingly God had mercy on him,

and was moved bv his supplication; he stood

by him in his sleep, and exhorted him not to

despair of his future favours. He said farther,

that he did not forget their piety towards

him, and would always reward them for it;

as he had formerly granted his favour to their

forefathers, and made them increase from a

few to so great a multitude. He reminded

him, that when Abraham was come alone out

of Mesopotamia into Canaan, he had been

made happy, not only in other respects, butJ

that when his wife was at first barren, sh#:

was afterward by him enabled to conceive'

seed, and bare him sons; thatheleft tolshmael,1'

and to his posterity, the country of Arabia:

occasion told a lie; but there is no reason for such a sup­

position, though possibly they might conceal some part of

the truth, which is not unlawful, but highly commendable,

when it is to preserve the innocent; for many of the He­

brew women might be such as are here described, though

not every one of them. The answer of the midwives

therefore is so far from being a sneaking lie to save their

lives, that it is a bold confession of their faith and piety,

to the hazard of them, viz. that they saw so plain an evi­

dence of the wonderful hand of God, in that extraordinary

vigour in the travail of the women, that do what Pharaoh

would, they durst not, would not, strive against it, be­

cause they would not strive against God. Lightfoot's Ser­

mons on 2 Sam. xix. 29. The making the midwives houses,

is, by most interpreters ascribed to God, and the thing is

supposed to have been done in a metaphorical sense, i.. e.

God gave them a numerous offspring or family, and a very

lasting succession or posterity. For there are five things,

say they, which go to complete the greatness or eminence

of a family, as such; its largeness, its wealth, its honours,

its power, and its duration. And therefore since the mid-

wives hazarded their own lives to save those of the He­

brew children, and to preserve the Israelites a numerous

progeny and posterity, the God of Israel, in return, not

only made their own lives long and prosperous, but gave

them very numerous families, and an enduring posterity, in

whom they Taught be said to live after death, even from

generation to generation. But all this is a very forced

construction, and what the original words will by no means

bear. We should therefore rather think, these houses

were built, not for; the midwives, but for the Israelites,

and that it was hot God, but Pharaoh, who built them. The

case seems to be this :—Pharaoh had charged the- mid-

wives to kill the male children that were born of the He­

brew women; the midwives feared God, omitted to do •

what the king had commanded them, pretending in excuse'

for their omission, that the Hebrew women were gen'-'

erally delivered before' they could get to them. Pharaoh'

hereupon resolving to prevent their increase, gave charge

to his people to have all the male children of the He­

brews thrown into the river; biit his command could not

be strictly executed, whilst the Israelites lived up and

down the fields in tents, which was their ancient and cus­

tomary way of living; for they would shift here and there,

and lodge the women in childbed out of the way, to save

their children. Pharaoh therefore built them houses, and

obliged them to a more settled habitation, that the people

whom he had set over them, might know where to find

every family, andto take an account of all the children that

should be b6rn. So that this was a very cunning contri­

vance of Pharaoh, in order to have his charge more strictly

and effectually executed than it could otherwise have, been

done; and was a particular too remarkable not to be in­

serted in Moses's account of this affair. The only seem­

ing difficulty is, to reconcile the words to the text in what

has been here advanced; but this will be none at nil, if the

words be rightly translated, and the verses rightly distin­

guished in this manner. Exod. i. 20. And God dwelt with'^

the midwives, and the people multiplied, and waxed very^,

mighty, and this happened, (or Was so, or came to pass,) f

because the midwives feared God, ver. 21, 22. And'PKa-:

rdoh built them (i. e. Israelites) houses, and charged allhtii''

people, saying, every son that is born, ye shall cast itUo the

rivers, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Skuckford's

Connection, vol.ii.'l. 7. B.

