as. 1748.] 57 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to have such a strange notion of my kindness

to you, and of God's providence, as impu­

dently to do thus to your benefactor, who in

such an hospitable manner had entertained

you?" Hereupon they gave up themselves

to be punished, in order to save Benjamin;

and called to mind what wicked enterprise

they had been guilty of against Joseph. They

also pronounced him more happy than them­

selves, if he were dead, in being freed from

the miseries of this life; and if he were alive,

that he enjoyed the pleasure of seeing God's

vengeance upon them. They said farther,

that they were the plague of their father;

since they should now add to his former grief

for Joseph, this other affliction for Benjamin.

Reubel also was very severe upon this occa­

sion. But Joseph dismissed them; for he

said, they had been guilty of no offence, and

that he would content himself with the lad's

punishment; for he said it was not proper to

let him go free, for the sake of those who had

not offended; nor was it just to punish them

together with him, who had been guilty of

stealing. When he promised to give them

leave to go away in safety, they were under

great consternation, and were able to say

nothing on this sad occasion; but Judas, who

had persuaded their father to send the lad

from him, being otherwise also a very bold

and active man, determined to hazard him­

self for the preservation of his brother.

** It is true," said he, " O governor, that we  
have been very wicked with regard to thee,

and on that account deserve punishment;

even all of us may justly be punished, although

the theft were not committed by all, but only

by one of us, and he the youngest also. But

yet, there remains some hope for us, who

otherwise must be under despair on his ac­

count, and this from thy goodness, which

promises us a deliverance out of our present

danger. And now, I beg thou wilt not look at

us, or at that crime we have been guilty of,

but at thy own excellent nature; and take

advice of thine own virtue, instead of that

wrath which those that otherwise are of a low

character indulge, as they do their strength:

and that not only on great but also on very

trifling occasions. Overcome, sir, that pas­

sion; and be not subdued by it, nor suffer it

to slay those that do not otherwise presume

upon their own safety, but are desirous to

accept of it from thee. For this is not the

first time that thou wilt bestow it on us; but

before when we came to buy corn, thou

affordest us great plenty of food, and gavest

us leave to carry home to our family, as much

as has preserved them from perishing by

famine. Nor is there any difference between

not over looking men that were perishing for

want of necessaries, and not punishing those

that seem to be offenders, and have been so

unfortunate as to lose the advantage of that

glorious benefaction which they received

from thee. This will be an instance of equal

favour, though bestowed after a different man­

ner. For thou wilt save those this way, whom

thou didst feed the other: and thou wilt

hereby preserve alive, by thy own bounty,

those souls, which thou didst not suffer to be

distressed by famine. It being indeed at once

a wonderful and a great thing, to sustain our

lives by corn, and to bestow on us that par­

don, whereby, now we are distressed, we may

continue those lives. And I am ready to sup­

pose that God is willing to afford thee this

opportunity of shewing thy virtuous disposi­

tion, by bringing us into this calamity, that it

might appear thou canst forgive the injuries

that are done to thyself, and mayest be es­

teemed-kind to others, besides those, who,

on other accounts, stand in need of thy assist­

ance; since it is indeed a right thing to do

well to those who are in distress for want of

food; but still a more glorious thing to save

those who deserve to be punished, when it is

on account of heinous offences against thyself.

For if it be a thing deserving commendation

to forgive such as have been guilty of small

offences, that tend to a person's loss, and this

be praise-worthy in him that overlooks such

offences; to restrain a man's passion, as to

the crimes which are capital to the guilty, is

to be like the most excellent nature of God

himself. And truly, as for myself, had it not

been that we had a father, who had disco­

vered, on occasion of the death of Joseph,

how miserably he is always afflicted at the

loss of his sons, I had not spoken on account

of the saving our own lives: I mean any farther

than as that would be an excellent character

formerly, in the person of Judas, and in the way of oratory,

that lay by him; and which he thought fit to insert on this

occasion. See two more such speeches or declamations.

VI. 14.

