AN. 521 43^ ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

count his adversaries could not so much as

obtain a hearing. This favour Herod had

gained by money: but still, when Antony was

come to Ephesus, Hyrcanus, the high-priest,

and our nation, sent an ambassage to him:

which carried a crown of gold with them;

and desired that he would write to the gov­

ernors of the provinces, to set those Jews

free, who had been carried captive by Cas­

sius; and this without their having fought

against him: and to restore them that coun­

try, which in the days of Cassius had been

taken from them. Antony thought the Jews'

desires were just: and wrote immediately to

Hyrcanus, and to the Jews. He also sent, at

the same time, a decree to the Tyrians; the

contents of which were to the same purpose.

"Marcus Antonius, imperator, to Hyrcanus,

the high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews,

sendeth greeting. If you be in health, it is

well: I am also in health, with the army.

Lysimachus, the son of Pausanius, and Jose-

phus, the son of Menneus, and Alexander, the

son of Theodorus, your ambassadors, met me

at Ephesus; and have renewed that ambas­

sage which they had formerly been upon at

Rome; and have diligently acquitted them­

selves of the present ambassage, which thou

and thy nation have entrusted to them; and

have fully declared the good will thou hast

for us. I am therefore satisfied, both by your

actions, and your words, that "you are well

disposed to us: and I understand that your

conduct of life is constant, and religious. So

I reckon upon you as our own. But when

those that were adversaries to you, and to the

Roman people, and abstained neither from

cities, nor temples; and did not observe the

agreement they had confirmed by oath; it

was not only on account of our own contest

with them, but on account of all mankind in

common, that we have taken vengeance on

those who have been the authors of great in­

justice towards men, and of great wickedness

towards the gods. For the sake of which

we suppose it was that the *sun turned

away his light from us; as unwilling to view

the horrid crime they were guilty of in the

case of Caesar. We have also overcome their

conspiracies, which threatened the gods them­

selves, which Macedonia received: as it is a

climate peculiarly proper for impious and in­

solent attempts: and we have overcome that

confused rabble, half mad with spite against

us, which they got together at Philippi, in

Macedonia; when they seized on the places

that were proper for their purpose, and. as it

were, walled them round with mountains to

the very sea; and where the passage was

open only through a single gate. This vic­

tory we gained, because the gods had con­

demned these men for their wicked enter­

prises. Now Brutus, when he had fled as far

as Philippi, was shut up by us: and became a

partaker of the same perdition with Cassius.

And now these have received their punish­

ment, we suppose that we may enjoy peace

for the time to come: and that Asia may be

at rest from war. We therefore make that

peace which God hath given us common to

our confederates also: insomuch that the

body of Asia is now recovered out of that

distemper it was under, by the means of our

victory. I therefore, bearing in mind both

thee and your nation, shall take care of what

may be for your advantage. I have also sent

epistles in writing to the several cities: that

if any persons, whether freemen or bondmen,

have been sold funder the spear by Caius

Cassius, or his subordinate officers, they may

be set free. And I will that you kindly make

use of the favours which I and Dolabella

have granted you. I also forbid the Tyrians

to use any violence with you; and for what

places of the Jews they now possess, 1 order

them to restore them. I have withal accept­

ed of the crown which thou sentest me."

"Marcus Antonius, imperator, to the ma­

gistrates, senate, and people of Tyre, sendeth

greeting. The ambassadors of Hyrcanus,

high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews, appear­

ed1 before me at Ephesus, and told me, that

you are in possession of part of their country;

which you entered upon under the govern­

sephus himself in the history Of the War, I. 12. directs

us to read, IraXiav, Italy. For thither went Octavius

Caesar, after he and Antony had beaten Brutus and Cassius

at Philippi. Whence Antony went into Asia, as Josephus

agrees with them.

* This clause plainly alludes to that well known, but

unusual and very long darkness of the sun, which hap­

pened upon the murder of Julius Caesar, by Brutus and

Cassius: which is taken great notice of by Virgil, Pliny,

and other Roman authors. See Virgil's Georgics 1. just

before the end; and Pliny's Natural History, II. 30.

t Publicly.

