an. 599.] 367 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the kingdom by Jehoiachin, whose mother

was Nehusta; a citizen of Jerusalem. He

reigned three months and ten days.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE DEPOSITION OF JEHOIACHIN BY THE BABYLONIANS;

THE SUCCESSION OF ZEDEKIAH J AND IMPRISONMENT OF

THE PROPHET JEREMIAH.

AFTER the king of Babylon had given

the kingdom to Jehoiachin, he re­

pented of what he had done; fearing lest he

might excite a revolt, to revenge the death

of his father.* He therefore sent an army,

and besieged Jehoiachin in Jerusalem.f But

because he was of a gentle and just disposi­

tion,J ne did not desire to see the city en­

dangered on his account; but he took his

mother, and kindred, and delivered them to

the commanders sent by the king of Babylon,

and accepted of their oaths, that neither

should they nor the city suffer any harm.

This agreement, however, was not observed

for a single year; for the king of Babylon

gave orders to his generals to take all that

were in the city captives; both the youth,

and the handicraft men, and bring them

bound to him: their number was ten thou­

sand, eight hundred, and thirty-two; as also

Jehoiachin, and his mother and friends. And

when these were brought to him, he kept

them in custody, and appointed Jehoiachin's

uncle, Zedekiah, to be king; and made him

take an oath, that he would certainly keep

the kingdom for him, and make no innovation,

nor have any league of friendship with the

Egyptians.

Now Zedekiah was twenty-one years old

when he took the government; and had the

same mother with his brother Jehoiakim;

but he was a despiser of justice, and of his

duty. And those of the same age with him

were wicked about him; and the whole mul­

titude did what unjust and insolent things

they pleased. For this reason the prophet

Jeremiah came often to him, and insisted,

that he must leave off his impieties and trans­

gressions; and take care of what was right;

and neither give ear to the rulers-, among

whom were wicked men; nor give credit to

their false prophets, who deluded them, as if

the king of Babylon would make no more

war against them; and as if the Egyptians

would make war against him, and conquer

him; since what they said was not true, and

the events would not prove such as they ex­

pected. Now as to Zedekiah himself, while

he heard the prophet speak, he believed

him, and agreed to every thing as true; and

supposed it was for his advantage. But then

his friends perverted him, and dissuaded him

from what the prophet advised, and obliged

him to do what they pleased.|| Ezekiel also

foretold in Babylon what calamities were

* It is very probable that Nebuchadnezzar heard that  
he had entered into a confederacy with the king of Egypt,

as his successor did; and therefore sent an army against

him, in the very beginning of his reign, to lay siege to

Jerusalem, against which he intended to come himself:

but the Jews have a conceit, that Nebuchadnezzar's

counsellors represented to him, how unadvisedly he acted

in making him king whose father had been in rebellion

against him, and that upon their representation, he re­

solved to depose him. From an ill dog there never comes

a good whelp, was the proverb, they say, which the

counsellors made use of on this occasion; and to make

this more feasible to the father and son, they generally

apply that passage in Ezekiel, " She took another of her

whelps, and made him a young lion, and he went up and

down among the lions. He became a young lion, and

learned to catch the prey, and devour men.—Then the

nations set against him on every side, from the provinces,

they spread their net over him, and he was taken in their

pit," chap. xix. 6. &c. Calmet's and Patrick's Com­

mentaries. B.

t 2 Kings xxiv. 10.

J Josephus's character of this Jehoiachin here, seems

contrary to that in 2 Kings xxiv. 19. 2 Chron. xxxvi. 9.

and Jer. xxii. 28. And yet Josephus's account is con-

firmed by himself elsewhere, Of the War, IV. 9. both

which places agree, that he was so mild, and so disposed

to spare his people, that he gave up the city Jerusalem

into the hands of the Babylonians, upon their oath to do

the people no harm without opposition: which good will

to his people he greatly celebrates in the place last quoted.

Perhaps Josephus chose to omit his idolatrous conduct in

so short a reign; and to celebrate this humane disposition

only, without any contradiction of his copy to ours. Corn-

pure his character of Zedekiah at first, with that a little

after.

II The words in the text according to our translation,

are—The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded

Seraiah the son of Neriah, &c. when he went with Zede­

kiah, the king of Judah, into Babylon, in the fourth year

of his reign. And this Seraiah was a quiet prince, Jer. li.

59. and from hence some Hebrew interpreters infer, that

Zedekiah went to Babylon in the fourth year of his reign

to make his court, and cultivate the good graces of his

patron and paramount Nebuchadnezzar. But this opinion,

though followed by several, has no foundation in any

other part of Scripture; and the passage now before us,

may, according to the original, be very properly rendered

in this wise.—The word which Jeremiah commanded

Seraiah, when he went to Babylon upon an embassy from

