422 [BOOK XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When this decree was read to the king, that

first contained the rest that is here inserted,

and omitted only those Jews that had former­

ly been brought, and those brought after­

wards: which had not been distinctly men­

tioned: so he added these clauses out of his

humanity, and with great generosity. He also

gave order that the payment, which was like­

ly to be made in a hurry, should be divided

among the king's ministers, and among the

officers of his treasury. When this was over,

what the king had decreed was brought to a

conclusion in seven days' time: the number

of the talents paid for the captives being

above four hundred and sixty: and this, be­

cause their masters required the hundred

and twenty drachmae for the children also:

the king having, in effect, commanded, that

these should be paid for, when he said in

his decree, that they should receive the

aforementioned sum for every slave.

When this had been done after so magnifi­

cent a manner according to the king's incli­

nation, he gave order to Demetrius to give

him in writing his sentiments concerning the

transcribing of the Jewish books. For no

part of the administration is done rashly by

these kings; but all things are managed with'

great circumspection. On which account I

have subjoined a copy of these epistles, and

set down the multitude of the vessels sent as

gifts, to Jerusalem: and the construction of

every one; that the exactness of the artifi­

cer's workmanship, as it appeared to those

that saw them, and which workman made

every vessel, may be made manifest: and this

on account of the excellency of the vessels

themselves. Now the copy of the epistle was

to this purpose:

"DEMETRIUS TO THE GREAT KING.

"When thou, O king, gavest me a charge

concerning the collection of books that were

wanting to fill your library: and concerning

the care that ought to be taken about such as

are imperfect; I have used the utmost dili­

gence about these matters. And I let you

know, that we want the books of the Jewish

legislation, with some others. For they are

and being in

written in Hebrew characters:

1 * We have a very great encomium of this Simon the

Just, the son of Gnias I. in the fiftieth chapter of Eccle-

the language of that nation are to us unknown.

It hath also happened to them, that they have

been transcribed more carelessly than they

ought to have been; because they have not

had hitherto royal care taken about them.

Now it is necessary that thou shouldst have

accurate copies of them. And indeed this

legislation is full of hidden wisdom, and en­

tirely blameless; as being the legislation of

God. For which cause it is, as Hecateus

of Abdora says, that the poets and historians

make no mention of it, nor of those men who

lead their lives according to it: since it is

a holy law, and ought not to be published

by profane mouths. If then it please thee,

O king, thou mayest write to the high-priest

of the Jews, to send six of the elders out of

every tribe; and those such as are most skil­

ful in the laws: that by their means we may

learn the clear and agreeing sense of these

books, and may obtain an accurate inter­

pretation of their contents: and so may have

such a collection of these as may be suitable

to thy desire."

When this epistle was sent to the king, he

commanded that an epistle should be drawn

up for Eleazar the Jewish high-priest, con­

cerning these matters: and that they should

inform him of the release of the Jews that

had been in slavery among them. He also

sent fifty talents of gold for the making of

large basons, and vials, and cups; and an

immense quantity of precious stones. He

also gave order to those who had the custo­

dy of the chests that contained those stones,

to give the artificers leave to choose out what

sorts of them they pleased: at the same time

appointing that a hundred talents in money

should be sent to the temple, for sacrifices,

and for other uses. Now I will give a de­

scription of these vessels, and the manner of

their construction; but not till after I have

set down a copy of the epistle which was

written to Eleazar, the high-priest; who had

obtained that dignity on the following occa­

sion. When Onias, the high-priest, was dead,

his son Simon became his successor. He

was called * Simon the Just; because of both

his piety towards God, and his kind disposi­

tion to those of his own nation. When he

siasticus, through the whole chapter. Nor is it improper

to consult that chapter itself upon this occasion.

