ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book II.

thee of the dominion, I gave it thee; and by

my kindness it was that when thou was sent

into Mesopotamia alone, thou obtainedst good

wives, and returnedst with many children,

and much wealth. Thy whole fomily, also,

has been preserved by my providence; and

it was I who conducted Joseph thy eon, whom

thou gavest up for lost, to the enjoyment of

great prosperity. I also made him lord of

Egypt, so that he differs but little from a king.

Accordingly I come now as a guide to thee

in this journey, and foretel to thee that thou

shalt die in the arms of Joseph, and that thy

posterity shall be many ages in authority and

glory; and I will settle them in the land

which I have promised them." h

Encouraged by this dream, Jacob went on

more cheerfully for Egypt, with his sons, and

all belonging to them. Now they were in all

seventy. I once indeed thought it best not

to set down the names of this family; espe­

cially because of their difficult pronuncia­

tion by the Greeks. But upon the whole, I

think it necessary to mention those names;

that I may confute such as believe that we

came originally not out of Mesopotamia, but

are Egyptians.

Now Jacob had twelve sons. Of these Jo­

seph was come thither before: we will there­

fore set down the names of Jacob's children

and grand-children. Reuben had four sons;

Anoch, Phallu, Assaron, and Charmi. Simeon

had six; Jamuel, Jamin, Avod, Jachin, Soar,

and Saul. Levi had three sons; Gersom,

Caath, and Merari. Judas had three sons;

Sala, Pharez, and Zerab; and by Pharez, two

grand-children; Esrom and Amur. Isachar

had four sons; Thola, Phua, Jasub, and Sa-

maron. Zabulon had with him three sons;

Sarad, Helon, and Jalel. So far is the pos*

terity of Leah, with whom went her daughter

Dinah. These are thirty-three. Rachel had

two sons; one of whom, Joseph, had two sons

also; Manasseh and Ephraim. The other,

Benjamin, had ten sons; Bolau, Bacchar,

Asabel, Geras, Naaman, Jes, Ros, Momphis,

Opphis, and Arad. These fourteen added to

the thirty-three before enumerated, amount

to forty-seven: and this was the legitimate

posterity of Jacob. He had beside by Bilha,

the handmaid of Rachael, Dan and Naphthali,

which last had four sons, that followed him;

Jesel, Guni, Issari, and Sellim. Dan had an

only begotten son, Usi. If these be added to

those above-mentioned, they complete the

number fifty-four. Gad and Aser were the

sons of Zilpha, who was the handmaid of

Leah. Gad had these seven sons; Saphoniah,

Augis, Sunis, Azabon, Aerin, Ereod, and

Ariel. Aser had a daughter, Sarah, and six

male children, whose names were Jomne, Isus,

Isoui, Baris, Abar, and Melchiel. If we add

these, which are sixteen, to the fifty-four, the

afore-mentioned number, seventy, is com­

pleted, Jacob* himself not being included.

When Joseph understood that his father

was coming, for Judas his brother arrived

before him, and announced his approach, he

went out to meet him, and they met together

at Heroopolis. But Jacob almost fainted

away at this great and unexpected joy; how­

ever, Joseph revived him, though unable

himself to refrain being affected in the same

manner. Yet he was not wholly overcome

with his passion, as his father was. After

this he desired Jacob to travel on slowly,

whilst he himself took five of his brethren

with him, and hastened to the king, to tell

him that Jacob and his family were come.

This was a joyful hearing to Pharaoh, who

bid Joseph tell him what sort of life his bre­

thren loved to lead, that he might give them

permission to follow the same. He said, they

were good shepherds, and had been used to

follow no other employment: by which he pro­

vided for them, that they should not be sepa­

rated, but live in the same place, and take care

of their father; as also hereby he provided,

that they might be acceptable to the Egyp­

tians, by doing nothing that would be common

to them with the Egyptians; for the Egyp­

tians are prohibitedt from feeding sheep.

* All the Greek copies of Josephus have the negative  
particle here, that Jacob himself was not reckoned one

of the seventy souls that cane into Egypt. But the old

Latin copies want it, and directly assure us he was one of

them. It is, therefore, hardly certain which of these was

Josephus's true reading: since the number of seventy is

made up without him, if we reckon Leah for one; but if

she be not reckoned, Jacob himself must be one, to com­

plete the number.

N. B. The LXXII. add Machir, and Gilead, and Sate

taam, and Taom, and Edem, who were bom in Egypt, and

so have in all seventy-five souls: as Act. vii. 14.

t Josephus thought that the Egyptians hated or despised

the employment of a shepherd in the days of Joseph.

