214 fBOOK VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

For that, although he were wickedly dis­

posed, yet was it not lawful to touch his life.

But when Saul had left the cave, David cried

aloud, and desired Saul to hear him. Here­

upon the king turned his face, and David,

according to custom, prostrated himself be­

fore the king, and said, "O king! thou

oughtest not to hearken to wicked men, nor

to such as forge calumnies, nor gratify them

so far as to believe what they say, nor to

entertain suspicions of such as are thy best

friends; but to judge of the disposition of all

men by their actions. For calumny deludes

men; but their own actions are a clear de­

monstration of their kindness. Words indeed,

in their own nature, may be either true or

false; but actions expose intentions nakedly

to our view. By these, therefore, it would be

well for thee to believe me, as to my regard

to thee and to thy house, and not to believe

those who frame such accusations against me

as never came into my mind; nor are possible

to be executed; and to this farther by pur­

suing after my life, and have no concern either

day or night, but how to murder me; which

thing I think thou dost unjustly prosecute.

For how is it, that thou hast embraced this

false opinion, as if I had a desire to kill thee?

or how canst thou escape the crime of im­

piety towards God, when thou wishest thou

couldst kill, and deemest thine adversary, a

man, who had it in his power this day to

avenge himself, and to punish thee, but would

not do it, nor make use of such an oppor­

tunity; which if it had fallen out to thee

which David perceiving, and knowing all the passages of

the place, might go some secret way, and cut off some

small part of it. Nor could the noise which David's motion

made be well heard by Saul, because it must have been

drowned by a much greater noise which Saul's army,

waiting for him at the month of the cave, may be supposed

to make. Poole's Annotations. B.

* Whence this determination of the ancients is derived,  
I cannot tell.

t 1 Sam. xxiv. 22.

I An. 1098 B. C.

II The Jews are of opinion that Samuel died only four

months before Saul; but by the generality of Christian

chronologers, he is supposed to have died about two years

before the death of that prince, and in the ninety-eighth

year of his age, twenty of which had been spent in the

government of Israel, (though Sir John Marsham will have

it no more than sixteen,) before Saul's inauguration, after

which he lived about eighteen. He was at first interred

at Ramah; but in the time of the Emperor Arcadius, his

body was transported from Palestine to Constantinople,

against me, thou hadst not let it slip? For

when 1 cut off the skirt of thy garment, I

could have done the same to thy head." So

he shewed him the piece of his garment, and

thereby made him agree to what he said to

be true: and added, "I certainly have ab­

stained from taking a just revenge upon thee;

yet art not thou ashamed to prosecute me

with unjust hatred. May God do justice,

and determine about each of our dispositions."

Saul was amazed at the strange deliverance

he had received; and being greatly affected

with the moderation and disposition of the

young man, he groaned; and when David

had done the same, the king answered, " 1

have the justest occasion to groan; for thou

hast been the author of good to me; as I have

been the author of calamity to thee. And

thou hast demonstrated this day, that thou

possessest the righteousness of the ancients,*

who determined, that men ought to save their

enemies, though they caught them in a desert

place. I am now persuaded, that God re­

serves the kingdom for thee; and that thou

wilt obtain the dominion over all the Hebrews.

Give me then assurances upon oath, that thou

wilt not root out my family; nor, out of re­

membrance of what evil I have done thee,

destroy my posterity; but save and preserve

my house." So David sware as he desired,

and sent Saul back to his own kingdom. But

he, and those that were with him, went up to

the straits of Masteroth.f

About this timeJ Samuel the prophet died.||

He was a man whom the Hebrews honoured

and (as St. Jerom informs us) received both by the clergy

and laity with a joy unspeakable, and honours almost in­

finite. He was indeed, while he lived, an excellent

governor, and through his whole administration, above

vanity, corruption, or any private views. Those that at­

tend to his life may observe, that he was modest without

meanness, mild without weakness, firm without obstinacy,

and severe without harshness; or as the author of Eccle-

siasticus has recorded his actions, and consecrated this

eulogy, to his memory: "Samuel, the prophet of the

Lord," says he, "beloved of the Lord, established a

kingdom, and anointed princes over his people. Py the

law of the Lord he judged the congreti-ntion, and the Lord

had respect unto Jacob. By bis faithfulness he was found

a true prophet, and by bis word be was known to be

faithful in vision. He called upon the mighty God when

his enemies pressed upon him on every side, when he

offered the sucking lamb; and the Lord thundered from

heaven, and with a great noise made his voice to be heard.

He destroyed the rulers of the Syrians, and all the princes

of the Philistines. Before his long sleep, he made pro

