318 [book via. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

doing he would please God: but when he

would not do so, he foretold to him, that

since he disobeyed the commands of God,

he should meet with a lion, and be destroyed

by him. When that sad accident had be­

fallen the man, the prophet came again to

another, and gave him the same injunction.

So he smote him, and wounded his skull.

Upon which he bound up his head, and

came to the king, and told him, that he had

been a soldier of his, and had the custody

of one of the prisoners committed to him by

an officer, and that the prisoner being run

away, he was in danger of losing his own

life, by the means of that officer; who had

threatened him, that if the prisoner escaped

he would kill him. And when Ahab had

said, that he would justly die; he took off

the binding about his head, and was known

by the king to be Micaiah the prophet: who

made use of this artifice as a prelude to his

following words. For he said, that God

would punish him, who had suffered Ben-

hadad, a blasphemer against him, to escape

punishment; that he would so bring it

about, that he should die by the other's

means, and his people by the other's army.*

Ahab was very angry at th*1 prophet, and

gave command that he snould be put in

prison, and there kept. But for himself he

was in confusion at the words of Micaiah,

and returned to his own house. f

CHAP. XV.

OF JEHOSHAPHAT, KINO OF JERUSALEM ; ALSO OF AH AB's EXPE­

DITION AGAINST THE SYRIANS, AND HIS DEFEAT AND DEATH.

I NOW return to Jehoshaphat, king of Je­

rusalem; who augmented his kingdom,:}:

and set garrisons in the cities of the country

belonging to his subjects; and put no less

garrisons into those cities which were taken

out of the tribe of Ephraim, by his grand­

father Abijah, when Jeroboam reigned over

the ten tribes, than he did in the other. But

then he had God favourable and assisting to

him; as being both righteous and religious,

and seeking to do somewhat every day that

should be agreeable and acceptable to God.

The neighbouring kings also honoured him

with presents, till the riches that he had

acquired were immensely great, and the

glory he had gained was of a most exalted

nature.

Now, in the third year of his reign, he

called together the rulers of the country,

and the priests; and commanded them to

go round the land, and teach all the people

that were under him, city by city, the laws

of Moses; and to keep them, and to be dili­

gent in the worship of God. With this the

whole multitude was pleased, that they

were not so eagerly set upon, or affected

with any thing so much as the observance

of the laws. The neighbouring nations also

continued to love Jehoshaphat, and to be at

peace with him. The Philistines paid their

appointed tribute; and the Arabians supplied

him with three hundred and sixty lambs,||

and as many kids of the goats.

He also fortified the great cities, which

were many in number, and of great conse­

quence: and he prepared a mighty army of

soldiers, and weapons against their enemies.

Now the army of men that wore their ar­

mour, was three hundred thousand of the

tribe of Judah: of whom Adnah was the

slaughter by a lion had lately come to pass, was no

other than Micaiah, the son of Imlah; who as he now

denounced God's judgments on disobedient Ahab, seems

directly to have been that very prophet, whom the same

Ahab in 1 Kings xxii. 8—18. complains of, as one whom

he hated; because he did not prophesy good concerning

him, but evil; and who, in that chapter, openly repeats

his denunciations against him; all which came to pass

accordingly. Nor is there reason to doubt but this and

the former were the very same prophet. The other

ancient Jews agreeing herein with Josephus; as bishop

Patrick assures us, on 1 Kings xx. 28. This is one of

those very many instances, in which the excellency of

Josephus's Temple copy, above all our other copies,

most evidently appears.

* What is most remarkable in this history, and in many  
histories on other occasions in the Old Testament, is that

during the Jewish theocracy, God acted entirely as the

supreme king of Israel, and the supreme general of their

armies, and always expected that the Israelites should

be in such absolute subjection to him, their supreme

and heavenly king, and general of their armies, as sub­

jects and soldiers are to their earthly kings and generate;

and that usually without knowing the particular reasons

of their injunctions. See Dr. Harris's Queries, 8—22,

after his comment on Isa. liii. My Commentary on the

book of Job, and my Scripture Politics, page 4—7, where

he will see that the particular Jewish theocracy did not

commence till the rest of the idolatrous and wicked

world had rejected that general theocracy, which till

then extended over all mankind.

t 1 Kings xx. 43.

j About an. 914.

II Seven thousand and seven hundred, Hebrew and

Septuagint. 2 Chron. xvii. 1I,

