an. 820.] 345 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in *Cilicia. And upon the rise of a most ter­

rible stoxm,f which was so great that the ship

was in danger of sinking, the mariners, the

master, and the pilot himself, made prayers

and vows, in case they escaped the sea. But

Jonah lay still and covered in the ship,

without imitating any thing which the others

did. But as the waves grew greater, and the

sea became more violent by the winds, they

suspected, as is usual in such cases, that

some one of the persons that sailed with them

was the occasion of this storm; and agreed

to discover by lots which of them it was.

When they had cast lots4 the lot fell upon

the prophet. And when they asked him,

whence he came, and what he had done? he

replied that he was a Hebrew by nation,

and a prophet of Almighty God; and he per­

suaded them to cast him into the sea, if they

would escape the danger they were in; for

that he was the occasion of the storm. Now,

at the first they durst not do so; as esteeming

it a wicked tiling to cast a man who was a

stranger, and who had committed his life to

them, into such manifest destruction. But at

last, when their ship was just going to be

wrecked; and when they were animated to

do it by the prophet himself, and by the fear

concerning their own safety, they cast him

into the sea; upon which the storm immedi­

ately subsided. It is also related that Jonah

was swallowed by a whale; and that when

he had been there three days, and as many

nights, he was vomited out upon the Euxine

sea, without having sustained any injury.

And there, on his prayer to God, he ob­

tained pardon for his sins, and went to

the city of Nineveh: where he stood so as

to be heard; and preached, that in a very

little time they should lose the dominion of

Asia. And when he had published this, he

returned. Now I have given this account

about him, as I have found it written in our

books. ||

by the valour and bravery of Perseus, who afterwards

married her. For in the times of Mela and Pliny, there

were some marks remaining (as they themselves testify

nempe, Mela, lib. i. c. 11. Pliny, lib. 5. c. 13. Joseph.

De Bello Jud. lib. iii. c. 15.) of the chain wherewith this

royal virgin was bound to the rock which projects into the

sea. But all this is mere fiction, 6rst founded upon the

adventure of Jonah, who set sail from this port, and then

improved with the accession of some particular circum­

stances. Calmcfs Commentaire svr Jonas, c. i. v. 3. B.

* When Jonah- is said in our Bibles to have gone to  
Tarshish, Jonah i. 3. Josephus understood it, that he

went to Tarshish, in Cilicia, or to the Mediterranean Sea

upon which Tarsus lay. So that he does not appear to

have read the text, 1 Kings xxii. 48. as our .copies do,

that ships of Tarshish could lie at Ezion Geber, upon the

Red Sea. See the note on IX. 1. But as to Josephus's

assertion, that Jonah's fish" was carried by the strength of

the current upon a storm, as far as the Euxine Sea; it is

no way impossible. And since the storm might have

driven the ship, while Jonah was in it, near to that Euxine

Sea; and since in three more days, while he was in the

fish's beHy, that current might bring him to the Assyrian

coast; and since withal that coast could bring htm nearer

to Nineveh than could any coast of the Mediterranean, it

is by no mean? an improbable determination in Josephu?.

t The Jewish doctors, who ate great lovers of prodi­

gies, are not even satisfied with what they meet with in

this history of Jonah, hut have over and above added, that

as soon as the ship, wherein he was embarked, was under

sail, it, all on a sudden, stood stockstill, so that it could

be made to move neither backward nor forward, notwith­

standing all the pains that the mariners took in rowing.

But others, with more probability, say, that while all the

rest of the ships were quiet and unmolested, the storm

fell upon none but that wherein Jonah was, which made

the seamen think that there was something miraculous in

it; and thereupon called upon the company that sailed

with them, to come and cast lots, (as the superstitious

custom among the Heathens was, whenever they were in

any great distress ;) that accordingly they cast lots three

different times, which still fell upon Jonah; and that they

let him down several times with a rope, without plunging

him into the sea, and as often as they did it, found the

storm abate, and whenever they pulled him up again,

found it increase; so, that at last, they were forced to

commit him to the mercy of the waves. All which are

circumstances which the Scripture account neither favours

nor contradicts. Calmet's Commentary. B.

J This ancient piece of religion, of supposing there

was great sin, where there was great misery; and of

casting lots to discover great sinners, not only among the

Israelites, but among these Heathen mariners, seems a

remarkable vestige of the ancient tradition, which pre­

vailed of old over all mankind, that Providence used to

interpose visibly in all human affairs, and never to bring,

or at least not long to continue, notorious judgments, but

for notorious sins; which the most ancient book of Job

shews to have been the state of mankind for about the

former 3000 years of the world, till the days of Job and

Moses.

II The book of Jonah ends as abruptly as it begins. It

begins with a conjunctive copulative, And the word of the

Lord came upon Jonah, (so it should be read) which has

made some commentators think, that it was but an appendix

to some of his other writings; and it ends without giving

us any manner of account, either whot became of the

Ninevites, or of Jonah himself, after this expedition. It

is likely indeed, from the compassionate expressions

which God makes use of towards the Ninevites, that, for

that time, he reversed their doom; and it is not improba­

ble that Jonah, when he had executed his commission,

and been satisfied by God concerning his merciful proce­

dure, returned into Judea; but the author of the Lives

