an. 1532.J 81 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

water changed for the better; he bid the

strongest men among them that stood there,

to draw up water; and told them that when

the greatest part was drawn up, the remain­

der would be potable.* So they laboured at

it till the water was so agitated and purged

as to be fit to drink.

Removing from thence, they came to Elim,f

which place looked well at a distance, for

there was a grove of palm-trees, but when

they came nearer, it appeared to be a bad

place, for the palm-trees were no more than

seventy, and they were ill-grown, and creep­

ing trees, by the want of water, for the coun­

try about was all parched, and no moisture

sufficient to water them, and make them hope­

ful and useful, was derived to them from the

fountains, which were twelve in number;

they were rather a few moist places, than

springs, which not breaking out of the ground,

nor running over, could not sufficiently water

the trees. And when they dug into the sand,

they met with no water, and if they took a

few drops of it into their hands, they found

it to be useless on account of its mud. The

trees also were too weak to bear fruit, for

want of being sufficiently cherished and enli­

vened by the water. So they laid the blame

on their conductor, and made heavy com­

plaints against him; and said, that this their

miserable state, and the experience they had

of adversity, were owing to him: for that they

had then journeyed thirty days, and had

spent all the provisions they had brought

with them, and meeting with no relief, they

were in a very desponding condition. Thus

by fixing their attention upon nothing but

their present misfortunes, they were hindered

from remembering what deliverances they

had received from God, and those by the

virtue and wisdom of Moses also; so they

-were very angry at their conductor, and

were zealous to stone him, as the direct oc­

casion of their present miseries.

But while the multitude were irritated and

bitterly set against him, Moses cheerfully re­

lied upon God, and upon his consciousness

of the care he had taken of his own people,

and he came into the midst of them, even

while they clamoured against him, and had

stones in their hands, in order to despatch

him. Now he was of an agreeable presence,

and very able to persuade the people by hi9

speeches: accordingly he began to mitigate

their anger, and exhorted them not to be over

mindful of their present adversities, lest they

should thereby suffer the benefits that had

formerly been bestowed on them, to slip out

of their memories; and he desired them by

no means on account of their present uneasi­

ness, to cast those great and wonderful fa­

vours and gifts, which they had obtained of

God, out of their minds: but to expect deli­

verance out of their present troubles, which

they could not free themselves from; and this

by the means of that Divine providence which

watched over them: as it was probable that

God merely tried their virtue, and exercised

their patience by these adversities, that it

might appear what fortitude they had, and

what memory they retained of his former

wonderful works in their favour: and whether

they would not think of them upon occasion

of the miseries they now felt. He told them,

it appeared they were not really good men

either in patience, or in remembering what

had been successfully done for them, some­

times by contemning God, and his commands,

when, by those commands, they left the land

of Egypt; and sometimes by behaving them­

selves ill towards him who was the servant of

God, and this when he had never deceived

them, either in what he said, or had ordered

them to do by God's command. He also re­

* The additions here to Moses's account of the sweet­  
ening the waters at Marah, seem derived from some an­

cient profane author, and he such an author also, as looks

less authentic than are usually followed by Josephus.

Philo has not a syllable of these additions; nor any other

ancient writer that we know of. Had Josephus written his

Antiquities for the use of the Jews, he would hardly have

jriven them these very improb-ible circumstances; but

writing to Gentiles, that they might not complain of his

omission of any accounts of such miracles derived from

Gentiles, he did not think proper to conceal what he had

met with there about this matter. Which procedure is

perfectly agreeable to the character and usage of Josephus

upon many occasions. This is, however, barely conjectu­

ral; and since Josephus never tells us when his own copy,

taken out of the temple, had such additions; or when any

ancient notes supplied them; or indeed when they were

derived from Jewish, and when from Gentile antiquities,

we can go no farther than bare conjecture in such cases.

Only the notions of Jews were generally so different from

those of Gentiles, that we may sometimes make no impro­

bable guesses to which sort such additions belong. See

also somewhat like these additions in Josephus's account

of Elisha's making sweet the bitter and barren spring neax

Jericho. Of the War, IV, 8.

t Exod. xv. 27.

