AN. 26.] 559 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

persons that were the most eminent in these

sorts of exercises were gotten together. For

there were very great rewards for victory

proposed, not only to those that performed

their exercises naked; but to those that per­

formed as musicians also, and were called

Thymelici. And he spared no pains to in­

duce all persons, the most famous for such

exercises, to come to this contest for victory.

He also proposed no small rewards to those

who ran for the prizes in chariot races; when

they were drawn by four, three, or two pair

of horses. He also imitated every thing,

though ever so costly, or magnificent, in other

nations; out of an ambition that he might

give the most public demonstrations of his

grandeur. Inscriptions also of the great ac­

tions of Caesar, and trophies of those nations

which he had conquered in his wars, and all

made of the purest gold and silver, encom­

passed the theatre. Nor was there any thing

that could be subservient to his design, whe­

ther it were precious garments, or precious

stones set in order, which was not also ex­

posed to sight in these games. He had also

made a preparation of wild beasts, in great

abundance; and of such other animals as

were either of uncommon strength, or of such

a sort as were rarely seen. These were

prepared either to fight with one another; or

that men who were condemned to death were

to fight with them. And truly foreigners

were greatly surprised and delighted at the

vastness of the expenses here exhibited; and

at the great dangers that were here seen.

But to natural Jews this was no better than

a dissolution of those customs for which they

had so great a veneration.* It appeared also

no better than an instance of barefaced im­

piety, to throw men to wild beasts, for the

purpose of affording delight to the spectators.

And it appeared an instance of no less im­

piety to change their own laws, for such

foreign exercises. But, above all the rest, the

trophies gave most distaste to the Jews: for

as they imagined them to be images, included

within the armour that hung round about

* These grand plays, and shews, and Thymelici, or  
music meetings; and chariot races, when the chariots

were drawn by four, three, or two pair of horses, &c.

instituted by Herod in his theatres, were still, as we see

here, considered by the sober Jews as heathenish sports,

and tending to corrupt the manners of the Jewish nation;

them, they were greatly displeased; because

it was not the custom of their country to pay

honour to such images.

Herod was perfectly acquainted with the

disturbance they were under: and as he

thought it unseasonable to use violence, he

spake to some of them by way of consolation,

and in order to free them from that supersti­

tious fear they were under. Yet could not

he satisfy them; but they cried out with one

accord, out of their great uneasiness at the

offences they thought he had been guilty of,

that although they should think of bearing all

the rest, yet would they never bear images of

men in their city; meaning the trophies: be­

cause this was disagreeable to the laws of

their country. Now when Herod saw that

they would not easily change their resolution,

unless they received satisfaction in this point,

he called to him the most eminent men among

them, and brought them upon the theatre,

and shewed them the trophies; and asked

what sort of things they took these trophies

to be? And when they cried out, that they

were the images of men; he gave order that

they should be stripped of the outward orna­

ments which were about them, and shewed

them the naked pieces of wood: which

pieces of wood, now without any ornaments,

became matter of great sport and laughter

to them; because they had before always

had the ornaments of images themselves in

derision.

When therefore Herod had thus dissipated

the vehemency of passion under which the

multitude had been; the greatest part of the

people were disposed to change their con­

duct, and not to be displeased at him any

longer. But still some 01 them retained their

displeasure against him, for his introduction

of new customs: and esteemed the violation

of the laws of their country as likely to be

the origin of very great mischiefs. So that

they deemed it an instance of piety rather to

hazard themselves, to be put to death, than

to seem as if they took no notice of Herod;

who, upon the change he had made in their

and to bring them into love with Paganish idolatry, and

Paganish conduct of life; to the dissolution of the law

of Moses; and accordingly were severely condemned

by them; as appears here and every where else in Jo

sephus.

