116 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

.them; and, lest he should embitter the multi-

,tude, he only desired the heads of the tribes

to bring their rods,* with the names of their

tribes inscribed upon them; and he should

receive the priesthood in whose rod God

should give a sign. This was agreed to; so

the rest brought their rods, as did Aaron also;

who had written the tribe of Levi on his rod.

These rods Moses laid up in the tabernacle of

God. On the next day he brought out the

rods, which were known from one another by

those who brought them; they having dis­

tinctly noted them, as had the multitude also;

and as to the rest, in the same form Moses

had received them, in that they saw them

still: but they also saw buds and branches

grown out of Aaron's rod, with ripe almonds

upon them; the rod having been cut out of

that tree. The people were so amazed at

this strange sight, that though Moses and

Aaron were before under some degree of

hatred, they now laid that hatred aside, and

began to admire the judgment of God con­

cerning them. So that hereafter they ap­

plauded what God had decreed, and per­

mitted Aaron to enjoy the priesthood peace­

ably. And thus God ordained him priest

three several times, and he retained that ho­

nour without farther disturbance. And hereby

this sedition of the Hebrews, which had lasted

a great while, was at length composed.

And now Moses, because the tribe of Levi

was made free from war and warlike expedi­

tions, and was set'apart for the Divine wor­

ship; lest they should want, and seek after

the necessaries of life, and so neglect the

temple, commanded the Hebrews, according

to the will of God, that when they should

gain the possession of the land of Canaan,

they should assign forty-eight good cities to

the Levites, and permit them to enjoy their

suburbs, as far as the limit of two thousand

cubits would extend from the walls of the city.

And besides this, he appointed that the people

should pay the tithe of their annual fruits of

the earth, both to the Levites, and to the

priests. And this is what that tribe receives

of the multitude. But I think it necessary to

set down what is paid by all, peculiarly to the

priests.

* Concerning these twelve rods of the twelve tribes of  
Israel, see St. Clement's account, much larger than that

in our Bible. 1 Epist. § 43.

Accordingly he commanded the Levites to

yield up to the priests thirteen of their forty-

eight cities; and to set apart for them the

tenth part of the tithe which they every year

receive of the people; as also that it was but

just to offer to God the first fruits of the entire

product of the ground; and that they should

offer the first-born of those four-footed beasts

that are appointed for sacrifices, if it be a

male, to the priests, to be slain, that they and

their entire families may eat them in the holy

city; but that the owners of those first-born,

which are not appointed for sacrifices, in the

laws of our country, should bring a shekel

and a half in their stead; but for the first-born

of a man, five shekels: that they should also

have the first-fruits out of the shearing of the

sheep; and that when any baked bread-corn,

and made loaves of it, they should give some­

what of what they baked to them. More­

over, when any have made a sacred vow; I

mean those that are called Nazarites,f that

suffer their hair to grow long, and use no

wine: when they consecrate their hair, and

offer it for a sacrifice, they are to allot that

hair to the priests, to be thrown into the fire.

Such, also, as dedicate themselves to God, as

a corban, which denotes what the Greeks call

a gift, when they are desirous of being freed

from that ministration, are to lay down money

for the priests; thirty shekels if it be a woman,

and fifty if it be a man; but if any be too poor

to pay the appointed sum, it shall be lawful

for the priest to determine the sum, as they

think fit. And if any slay a beast at home,

for a private festival, but not for a religious

one, they are obliged to bring the maw, and

the cheek, or breast, and the right shoulder

of the sacrifice, to the priests. With these

Moses contrived" that the priests should be

plentifully maintained; besides what they had

out of these offerings for sins, which the people

gave them, as I have set it down in the fore­

going book. He also ordered, that out of

every thing allotted for the priests, their ser­

vants, their sons, their daughters, and their

wives, should partake as well as themselves:

excepting what came to them out of the sa­

crifices that were offered for sins. For of

those none of the family of the priests might

t Grotius observes, that the Greeks, as well as the

Jews, sometimes consecrated the hair of their heads to th -*

gods. On Numb vi. 18.

