224 [BOOK VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW&

BOOK VII.

Containing an Interval of Forty Years.

FROM THE DEATH OF SAUL TO THE DEATH OF DAYID.

CHAP. I.

of david's conduct ok receiving the news of saul's

DEATH, AND OF THE CIVIL WAR WHICH ENSUED BETWEEN

THE ADHERENTS OF DAVID AND ISHBOSHETH, IN WHICH

ASAHEL AND ABNER WERE SLAIN.

THIS battle happened on the same day

whereupon David was come back to

Ziklag, after he had overcome the Amalekites.

Now when he had been already two days at

Ziklag, there came to him the man who slew

Saul; he had escaped out of the battle which

the Israelites had with the Philistines; and

had his clothes rent, and ashes upon his

head. And when he made his obeisance to

David, he inquired of him whence he came?

He replied, from the battle of the Israelites;

and informed him, that the result of it was

unfortunate; many ten thousands of the Is­

raelites having been cut off, and Saul, toge­

ther with his sons, slain. He also said, that

he could well give him this information, be­

cause he was present at the victory gained

over the Hebrews; and was with the king

when he fled. Nor did he deny that he had

himself slain the king, when he was ready to

be taken by the enemy, and himself exhorted

him to that act; because when he was fallen

on his sword his wounds had made him so

weak, that he was not able to kill himself.

He also produced demonstrations that the

king was slain; which were the golden brace­

lets that had been on the king's arms and his

* 2 Sam. i. 13, lb.

t Though David, after Saul's demise, had a right to the

kingdom by virtue of God's designation; yet as God had

no where declared, at what time he was make use of this

right he would not enter into possession, nor take the

crown, which he had taken away from Saul's

dead body; and had brought them to him.

So David having no longer any room to ques­

tion the truth of what he said, but seeing

most evident marks that Saul was dead, he

rent his garment, and continued all that day

with his companions in weeping, and lamen­

tation. This grief was augmented by the con­

sideration of Jonathan, the son of Saul, who

had been his most faithful friend, and the

occasion of his deliverance. He also evinced

such great virtue, and such great kindness

for Saul, as not only to take his death to

heart, though he had been frequently in

danger of losing his life by his means, but to

punish him that slew him. For when David

had said to him, that he was become his own

accuser, as the very man who had slain the

king; and when he had understood that he

was the son of an Amalekite, he commanded

him to be slain.* He also committed to wri­

ting some lamentations and funeral com­

mendations of Saul and Jonathan; which

have continued to my own age.

When David had paid these honours to the

king, he left off his mourning, and inquired

of God by the prophet,t which of the cities

of the tribe of Judah, he would bestow upon

him to dwell in? God answered that he be­

stowed upon him Hebron:J so he left Ziklag,

and came to Hebron; and took with him his

two wives, and his armed men. Whereupon

all the people of the aforementioned tribe

administration of public affairs upon him. without having

first consulted him". Patrick's Comment. B.

J Hebron was situated in the midst of the tribe of Judah;

as it was a very ancient city, the metropolis of the

whole tribe, and the possession of those priestly families

X

