an. 334.] 417 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

renounced Darius; and, taking with him seven

thousand of his own subjects, he came to

Alexander. And finding him beginning the

siege of Tyre, he said to him, that he de­

livered up to him these men, who came out of

places under his dominion; and gladly ac­

cepted of him for his lord, instead of Darius.

So when Alexander had received him kindly,

Sanballat thereupon took courage, and spake

to him about his present affair. He told him,

that he had a son-in-law, Manasseh, who was

brother to the high-priest Jaddua; and that

there were many others of his own nation now

with him, that were desirous to have a temple

built in the places subject to him: that it

would be for the king's advantage to have

the strength of the Jews divided into two

parts; lest the nation being of one mind and

united, upon any attempt for innovation,

might prove troublesome to kings; as it had

formerly proved to the kings of Assyria.

Hereupon Alexander gave the desired per­

mission to Sanballat; who used the utmost

diligence, and built the temple, and made

Manasseh the priest: and deemed it a great

reward, that his daughter's children should

have that dignity. But when the seven

months of the siege of Tyre were over, and

the two months of the siege of Gaza, San­

ballat died. Now Alexander, when he had

taken Gaza, made haste to go up to Jerusa­

lem. And Jaddua the high-priest, when he

heard that, was in an agony, and under ter­

ror; as not knowing how he should meet the

Macedonians; since the king was displeased

at his disobedience. He therefore ordained

that the people should make supplications,

and should join with him in offering sacrifice

to God; whom he besought to protect that

nation, and to deliver them from the perils

that were coming upon them. God however

warned him in a dream, which came upon

him after he had offered sacrifice, that he

should take courage, and adorn the city, and

open the gates; that the rest should appear

in white garments; but that he and the priests

should meet the king in the habits proper to

their order; without the dread of any ill

consequences; which the providence of God

would prevent. When Jaddua rose from his

sleep, he greatly rejoiced; and declared to

all the warning he had received from God:

and having acted entirely according to his

dream, he awaited the coming of the king.

When he understood that Alexander was

not far from the city, he went out in proces­

sion, with the priests, and the multitude of

the citizens. The procession was venerable,

and the manner of it different from that of

other nations. It reached to a place called

Sapha; which name, translated into Greek,

signifies a prospect; for you have thence a

prospect both of Jerusalem and of the tem­

ple: and when the Phoenicians and the Chal-

dees* that followed him, thought they should

have liberty to plunder the city, and torment

the high-priest to death; which the king's

displeasure fairly promised them, the very

reverse happened. For when the multitude

appeared at a distance in white garments,

while the priests stood clothed with fine linen,

and the high-priest in purple and scarlet

clothing, with his mitre on his head; having

the golden plate whereon the name of God

was engraven; Alexander approached by

himself, and adored that name, and first sa­

luted the high-priest. The Jews also did

altogether salute Alexander, and encompass

him about. Hereupon the kings of Syria,

and the rest were surprised at what Alexan­

der had done, and supposed him disordered

in his mind. However, Parmenio alone went

up to him, and asked him how it came to

pass, that when all others adored him, he

should adore the high-priest of the Jews?

To whom he replied, "I did not adore him,

but that God who hath honoured him with

his high-priesthood. For I saw this person

in a dream, in this very habit, when I was at

Dios in Macedonia. Who, when I was con­

sidering with myself, how I might obtain the

dominion of Asia, exhorted me to make no

delay; but boldly to pass over the sea thither:

for that he would conduct my army, and

would give me the dominion over the Persians.

Whence it is that having seen no other in that

habit, and now seeing this person in it, and

remembering that vision, and the exhortation

which I had in my dream, I believe that I

bring this army under the divine conduct, and

shall therewith conquer Darius, and destroy

the power of the Persians; and that all things

will succeed according to what is in my own

mind."

When he had said this to Parmenio, and

* Cutheans.

