An. 29.] 555 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

by way of reproach, that he had caused*

her father and her brother to be slain. And

when he took this injury very unkindly, and

was ready to use violence to her, in a pre­

cipitate manner, the king's sister Salome,

observing that he was more than ordinarily

disturbed, sent in to the king his cup-bearer,

who had been prepared long beforehand for

such a design; and bade him tell the king,

how Mariamne had persuaded him to give

his assistance in preparing a love potion

for him: and if he appeared to be greatly

concerned, and should ask, what that love

potion was? to tell him, that she had the

potion; and that he was desired only to give

it him. But that in case he did not appear

to be much concerned at this potion, to let

the thing drop; and that if he did so, no

harm should thereby come to him. When

she had given him these instructions, she

sent him in at this time to make such a

speech. So he went in, after a composed

manner, to gain credit to what he should

say; and yet somewhat hastily; and said,

that Mariamne had given him presents, and

persuaded him to give him a love potion.

And when this moved the king, he said,

that this love potion was a composition that

she had given him; whose effects he did not

know; which was the reason of his resolving

to give him this information, as the safest

course he could take, both for himself and

for the king. When Herod heard what he

said, and was in an ill disposition before,

his indignation grew more violent; and he

ordered that eunuch of Mariamne's, who

was most faithful to her, to be brought to the

torture, about this potion; as well knowing

it was not possible that any thing could be

done without him. And when the man was

under the utmost agonies, he could say no­

thing concerning the thing he was tortured

about; but so far he knew, that Mariamne's

hatred against him was occasioned by some­

what that Sohemus had said to her. Now

as he was saying this, Herod cried out aloud,

and said, that Sohemus, who had been at

all other times most faithful to him and to

his government, would not have betrayed

what injunctions he had given him, unless

he had had a nearer conversation than ordi­

nary with Mariamne. So he gave order that

Sohemus should be seized on, and slain im­

mediately. But he allowed his wife to take

her trial; and he assembled those that were

most faithful to him; and laid an elaborate

accusation against her, for this love potion,

and composition; which had been charged

upon her by way of calumny. However, he

kept no temper in what he said, and was in

too great a passion for judging well about

this matter. Accordingly when the court was

at length satisfied that he was so resolved,

they passed the sentence of death upon her.

But when the sentence was passed, this

temper was suggested by himself, and by

some others of the court; that she should not

be thus hastily put to death; but be laid in

prison in one of the fortresses belonging to

the kingdom. Salome and her party, how­

ever, laboured hard to have the woman put

to death; and they prevailed with the king

to do so, and advised this out of caution,

lest the multitude should be tumultuous, if

she were suffered to live. And thus was

Mariamne led to execution.

When Alexandra observed how things

went, and that there were small hopes that

she should escape the like treatment from

Herod, she changed her behaviour, to quite

the reverse of what might have been ex­

pected from her former boldness; and this

after a very indecent manner. For out of

her desire to shew how entirely ignorant she

was of the crimes laid against Mariamne,

she leaped out of her place, and approached

her daughter in the hearing of all the peo­

ple; and cried out, that she had been an ill

woman, and ungrateful to her husband; and

that her punishment came justly upon her,

for her insolent behaviour; for that she had

not made proper returns to him who had

been their common benefactor. And when

she had for some time acted after this hypo­

critical manner, and been so outrageous as

to tear her hair; this indecent and dissem­

bling behaviour, as was to be expected, was

greatly condemned by the rest of the spec­

* Whereas Mariamne is here represented as reproaching

Herod with the murder of her father Alexander, as well

as her brother Aristobulus: while it was her grandfather

Hyrcanus, and not her father Alexander, whom he caused

voL. I.—NOS. 47 & 48.

to be slain (as Josephus himself informs us, chap. 6.) we

must either take Zonaras's reading, which is here grand­

father rightly; or else we must, as before, chap. 1. allow a

slip of Josephus's pen or memory, in the place before ub

4R

