AN. 62.] 501 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

those sacrifices, if any melancholy accident

happened, by the stones that were thrown

among them. For although the city was ta­

ken on *the third month, on the day of the

fast, upon the hundred and seventy-ninth

Olympiad: when Caius Antonius and Marcus

Tullius Cicero were consuls; and the enemy

then fell upon them, and cut the throats of

those that were in the temple; yet could not

those that offered the sacrifices be compelled

to run away; neither by the fear they were

in of their own lives, nor by the number that

were already slain. As thinking it better to

suffer whatever came upon them, at their

very altars, than to omit any thing that their

laws required of them. And that this is not

a mere boast, or an encomium to manifest a

degree of our piety that was false; I appeal

to those that have written of the acts of

Pompey: and among them to fStrabo, and

Nicolaus of Damascus; and besides these to

Titus Livius, the writer of the Roman histo­

ry; who all bear witness to this thing.J

But when the battering engine was brought

near, the greatest of the towers was shaken

by it, and fell down; and brake down a part

of the fortifications. So the enemy poured

in apace: and Cornelius Faustus, the son of

Sylla, with his soldiers, first of all ascended

the wall; and next to him Furius, the cen­

turion, with those that followed, on the other

part: while Fobius, who was also a centu­

rion, ascended it in the middle with a strong

body of men after him. And now all was

full of slaughter: some of the Jews being

slain by the Romans, and some by one an­

other. Nay, some there were who threw

themselves down the precipices, or set fire

* That is, on the 23d of Sivan, the annual fast for the  
defection and idolatry of Jeroboam, who made Israel to

sin. See Harm, of the Evang. page 152, 153. Or pos­

sibly some other fast might fall in that month before,

and in the days of Josephus.

t To these testimonies of Strabo, Nicolaus of Damas­

cus, and Titus Livius; Hudson and Spanheim desire us

to add, Tacitus Histor. V. 9. but that is, for the taking of

Jerusalem by Pompey only. And since almost all that

Tacitus knew in earnest about the Jews, was by him di­

rectly taken out of Josephus, it is not necessary that he

should be often quoted as a distinct authority from him.

Only we may here observe, by the way, that our Josephus

never quotes any Latin author, but Titus Livius; and him

in this place only.

\ It deserves here to be noted, that this Pharisaical su­

perstitious notion, that offensive fighting was unlawful to

to their houses, and burnt them; as not able

to bear the miseries they were under. Of

the Jews there fell twelve thousand; but of

the Romans very few. Absalom, who was at

once both uncle and father-in-law to Aristo-

bulus, was taken captive. And no small

enormities were committed about the temple:

which, in former ages, had been inaccessible,

and seen by none. For Pompey went into

it, and not a few of those that were with him

also; and saw all which it was unlawful for

any other men to see, but only for the high-

priests. There were in that temple the

golden table, the holy candlestick, and the

pouring vessels; and a great quantity of spi­

ces: and besides these there were among the

treasures two thousand talents of sacred

money. Yet ||did Pompey touch nothing of

all this; on account of his regard to religion:

and in this point also he acted in a manner

that was worthy of his virtue. The next day

he gave order to those that had the charge

of the temple to cleanse it, and to bring what

offerings the law required to God; and re­

stored the high-priesthood toHyrcanus: both

because he had been useful to him in other

respects; and because he hindered the Jews

in the country from giving Aristobulus any

assistance in his war against him. He also

cut off those that had been the authors of

that war; and bestowed proper rewards on

Faustus, and those others that mounted the

wall with such alacrity; and he made Jeru­

salem tributary to the Romans; and took

away those cities of Coelesyria which the in­

habitants of Judea had subdued; and put

them under the government of the Roman

president; and confined the whole nation,

Jews, even under the utmost necessity, on the Sabbath

day; of which we hear nothing before the times of the

Maccabees, was the proper occasion of Jerusalem's being

taken by Pompey, by Sosius, and by Titus: as appears

from the places already quoted in the note on XIII. 8,

and partly by Ptolemy Logi, also XI. 1, which scrupulous

superstition, as to the observance of such a rigorous rest

upon the Sabbath day, our Saviour always opposed; when

the Pharisaical Jews insisted on it; as is evident in many

places in the New Testament. Though he still intimated

how pernicious that superstition might prove to them, in

their flight from the Romans. Matt. Xxiv. 20.

I! This is fully confirmed by the testimony of Cicero;

who says, in his oration for Flacus, that "Cneius

Pompeius, when he was conqueror, and had taken Je­

rusalem, did not touch any thing belonging to that

temple."

4K2

