156 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

be taken without great difficulty, through the

strength of its walls and the nature of the

place.

For this reason they removed their camp

to Hebron; and when they had taken it, they

slew all the inhabitants. There were till

then left the race of giants;* who had bodies

so large, and countenances so entirely dif­

ferent from other men, that they were sur­

prising to the sight, and terrible to the hear­

ing. The bones of these men are shewn to

this very day, unlike to any credible relations

of other men. Now they gave this city to the

Levites, as an extraordinary reward, with

the suburbs of two thousand cubits. But the

land thereto belonging they gave as a free

gift to Caleb, according to the injunctions of

Moses. This Caleb was one of the spies

which Moses sent into the land of Canaan;

they also gave land for habitation to the pos­

terity of Jethro, the Midianite, who was the

father-in-law to Moses. For they had left

their own country and followed them, and

accompanied them in the wilderness.

Now the tribes of Judah and Simeon took

the cities which were in the mountainous part

of Canaan, as also Ascalon and Ashdod, of

those that lay near the sea. But Gaza and

Ekron escaped them; for they, lying in a flat

country, and having a great number of cha­

riots, sorely galled those that attacked them.

So these tribes when they were grown very

rich by this war, retired to their own cities,

and laid aside their weapons of war.

But the Benjamites, to Whom belonged Je­

rusalem, permitted its inhabitants to pay tri­

bute; so they all left off, the one to kill, and

the other to expose themselves to danger, and

had time to cultivate the ground. The rest

of the tribes imitated that of Benjamin, and

did the same; and contenting themselves with

the tributes that were paid them, permitted

the Canaanites to live in peace.

However, the tribe of Ephraim, when they

besieged Bethel, made no advance; nor per­

formed any thing worthy of the time they

spent, and of the pains they took about that

siege. Yet did they persist in it, still sitting

down before the city; though they endured

great trouble thereby. But, after some time,

they caught one of the citizens, that came to

them to get necessaries; and they gave him

some assurances, that if he would deliver up

the city they would preserve him and his

kindred. So he sware that, upon those terms,

he would put the place into their hands.

Accordingly, he was preserved with his fa­

mily, whue the Israelites slew all the other

inhabitants, and retained the city for them­

selves.

After this the Israelites grew effeminate as

to fighting any more against their enemies;

but applied themselves to the cultivation of

the land; which producing great plenty and

riches, they neglected the regular disposition

of their settlement, and indulged themselves

in luxury and pleasures. Nor were they any

longer careful to hear the laws that belonged

nary voice from between the cherubim, when he had his

breast-plate, or Urim and Thummim on, before or in the

most holy place of the temple; which was no other than

the oracle of Urim and Thummim. Of which above, in

the note on Antiq. III. 8.

** This great number of Reguli, or small kings over  
whom Adonibezek had tyrannized, and for which he was

punished according to the Lex Talionis; as well as the

thirty-one kings of Canaan, subdued by Joshua, and named

in one chapter, Josh. xii. and thirty-two kings, or royal

auxiliaries, to Benhadad king of Syria, 1 Kings xx. 1.

Antiq. VIII. 14. intimate to us, what was the ancient form

of government among several nations, before the monar­

chies began; viz. That every city or large town, with its

neighbouring villages, was a distinct government by itself.

Which is the more remarkable, because this was certainly

the form of ecclesiastical government that was settled by

the apostles, and preserved throughout the Christian

church, in the first age of Christianity. Mr. Addison is

of opinion, that it would be for the good of mankind, to

have all the mighty empires and monarchies of the world

cantoned out into petty states and principalities; that, like

so many large families, might lie under the observation of

their proper governors; so that the care of the prince

might extend itself to every individual person under his

protection; though he despairs of such a scheme being

brought about; and thinks that if it were, it would quickly

be destroyed. Remarks on Italy, 4to. p. 151. Nor is it

unfit to be observed here, that the Armenian records,

though they give us the history of thirty-nine of their

ancientest heroes or governors, after the flood, before the

days of Sardana lus, had no proper king till the 40th

Pararus. See Mora's Chorenensis, p. 55, and the note

there. And the Almighty God does not approve of such

absolute or tyrannical monarchies, and one may learn, that

reads Deut. xvii. 14—20. and 1 Sam. viii. 1—22. xii.

1—26. Although if such kings are set up, as own him

for their supreme King; and aim to govern according to

his laws, he hath admitted of them, and protected them,

and their subjects, in all generations.

tt Judg. i. 7.

* Of the old giants, their several species, statures, and  
remaining bones, see Authent. Rec. Part I. p. 260—293.

and Part II. 872—938. at large.

>

