an. 570.] 379 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When Nebuchadnezzar heard this, and

recollected his dream, he was astonished at

the nature of Daniel:* and fell upon his face,

and saluted Daniel in the manner that men

worship God; and gave command that he

should be sacrificed to as a god. He also

imposed the name of his own god Baltasar

upon him, and made him and his kinsmen,

rulers of the whole kingdom. These kins­

men, however, happened to fall into danger

by the envy and malice of their enemies: for

they offended the king upon the following

occasion. The king made an image of gold,

whose height was sixty cubits, and its breadth

six cubits; and set it in the great plain of

Babylon;! and when he was going to dedi­

cate the image, he invited all the principal

men that were under his dominion, and com­

manded, that when they should hear the

sound of the trumpet, they should then fall

down and worship the image; and he threat­

ened that those who did not do so, should be

cast into a fiery furnace.J When therefore

all the rest, upon hearing the sound of the

* Nebuchadnezzar seems, in a sudden transport, to  
have looked upon Daniel as having something more than

human in him, just as the barbarians thought of St. Paul,

Acts xxviii. 6. and therefore it is said, that he fell on his

face and worshipped him; because the doing of reve­

rence, by way of prostration, is not only an act of worship

paid to God, but frequently given to kings and great men

in the Old Testament, according to the custom of eastern

countries, 2 Sam. ix. 6. and sometimes even to prophets, on

account of the sanctity of their office, 1 Kings xviii. 7. nor

was it usually refused by them, except such circumstances

were added to it, as made it look like divine worship, and

then it was always rejected, as in the case of St. Peter,

Acts x. 26. Lowtk's Commentary on Daniel ii. 43. B.

t Grotius is of opinion that the image which Nebuchad­

nezzar set up was the figure of his father Nebopolassar,

whom, by this means, he intended to deify; but others

think, that it was his own statue which he erected, to

gain the adorations of his people in this form. We can­

not, however, in what we find Nebuchadnezzar saying to

Daniel's friends, perceive that he any where upbraids

them with contempt offered to his person, or his statue,

bat only that they would not serve his gods, nor worship

the image which he had set up, Daniel iii. 14. And

therefore others have imagined, that this was neither his

own nor his father's statue, but that of Jupiter, which was

afterward found in the temple of Belus, when Xerxes

plundered it of its immense riches, among which were

several images of massy gold, but one more especially fifty

feet high, which might be the same that Nebuchadnezzar

consecrated in the plains of Dura. For though that is

said to have been sixty cubits, i. e. ninety feet high, yet

we may suppose that it stood upon a pedestal of forty feet

high, and so the image and the pedestal together, might

make ninety, (vide vol. i. page 310, in the notes,) other-

VOL. I.—NOS. 31 & 32.

trumpet, worshipped the image; Daniel's

kitismen did not do it, because they would

not transgress the laws of their country. So

these men were convicted, and cast imme­

diately into the fire; but were saved by

Divine Providence, and after a surprising

manner escaped death: for the fire did not

touch them. And I suppose it touched them

not, as if it reasoned with itself, that they

were cast into it without any fault of theirs;

and that therefore it was too weak to burn the

young men when they were in it. This was

done by the power of God, who made their

bodies so far superior to the fire, that it could

not consume them. This it was which recom­

mended them to the king as righteous men,

and men beloved of God: on which account

they continued in great esteem with him.

A little after this, the king saw in his sleep

another vision: intimating that he should fall

from his dominion, and feed among the wild

beasts;|| and that when he had lived in this

manner in the desert for seven years,§ he

should recover his dominion again. When

wise there would be no proportion between its height and

its breadth, according to the description we have of it in

Daniel iii. 1. Prideaux's Connection, anno 573. B.

J This kind of punishment was pretty common in these

parts of the world, so that some will have it, that Abra­

ham, before he departed from Chaldea, was made to

undergo it, but escaped by a miraculous preservation,

founding their opinion on Gen. xi. 31. Of this furnace, in

particular, it is related, that the king's servants having re­

ceived the command to heat it seven times hotter, ceased

not to make the oven hot with rosin, pitch, tow, and small

wood; so that the flame streamed forth above the furnace

forty and nine cubits; and passed through and burnt the

Chaldeans it found about the furnace. The Song of the

Three Holy Children, ver. 23, &c. B.

|| God delayed the execution of his threats against this

prince, and gave him a whole year's reprieve, chap. iv.

29. to see if he would repent, and turn unto him; but

perceiving that he still persisted in his crimes, as soon as

the measure of his iniquity was full, he smote and re­

duced him to the condition of a beast. This is Theodoret's

notion of the matter; but St. Jerome rather thinks, that

this king being terrified with the threats, and touched with

the exhortations of the prophet, began to set about his re­

formation, and by acts of charity and mercy, to reconcile

himself to God, for which he obtained a delay of his

punishment for a year's space; but that instead of perse­

vering in these good purposes, he suffered himself to fall

into pride, upon the contemplation of the mighty works

he had done, and so, by his vanity, lost what he had

gained by his charity. Bonum misericordiae perdidit malo

superbiae. Calmet't Commentary. B.

§ Since Josephus here explains the seven prophetic

times which were to pass over Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel

iv. 16. to be seven years, we thence learn how he most

3S

.

