aN. 898.] 317 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

they should beat them. They also gave him

this farther advice; to send home those kings

whom he had brought as his auxiliaries; but

to retain their army, and to set captains over

it, instead of the kings; and to raise an army

out of their country, and let them be in the

place of the former who perished in the

battle, together with horses and chariots. So

he judged their counsel to be good, and acted

according to it in the management of his army.

At the beginning of the spring Benhadad

took his army with him, and led it against

the Hebrews; and when he was come to a

certain city called Aphek, he pitched his

camp in the great plain. Ahab also went to

meet him with his army, and encamped over

against him: although his army were a very

small one, if it were compared with his

enemies. But the prophet came again to

him, and told him, that God would give him

the victory; that he might demonstrate his

own power to be not only on the mountains,

but on the plains also: which it seems was

contrary to the opinion of the Syrians. So

they lay quiet in the camp seven days; but

on the last of those days, when the enemy

came out and put themselves in array, in

order to fight, Ahab also brought out his

army: and when the battle was joined, and

they fought stoutly, he put the enemy to

flight, and pursued them, and pressed upon

them, and slew them. Nay, they were de足

stroyed by their own chariots, and by one

another. And even the few who escaped to

their own city Aphek, were also killed by

the walls falling upon them, being in number

twenty-seven thousand.* Now there was

slain in this battle a hundred thousand more.

But Benhadad, the king of the Syrians, fled

away, with certain others of his most faithful

servants, and hid himself in a cellar under

ground. And when these told him that the

kings of Israel were humane and merciful

men; and that they might make use of the

usual manner of supplication, and obtain de足

liverance from Ahab, in case he would give

them leave to go to him, he gave them leave

accordingly. So they came to Ahab, clothed

in sackcloth, and with ropes about their

heads:f for this was the ancient manner of

supplication among the Syrians: and said,

that Benhadad desired he would save him,

and that he would ever be a servant to him

for that favour. Ahab replied, he was glad

he was alive, and not hurt in the battle.

And he further promised him the same

honour and kindness that a man would shew

to his brother. So they received assurances

upon oath from him, that when he came to

him he should receive no harm; and then

went and brought him out of the cellar

wherein he was hid, and brought him to

Ahab, as he sat in his chariot. So Ben足

hadad worshipped him. And Ahab gave

him his hand, and made him come up to him

in his chariot, and kissed him, and bade him

be of good cheer, and not to expect that

any mischief should be done to him. So

Benhadad returned him thanks, and pro足

fessed that he would remember his kindness

all the days of his life; and promised he

would restore those cities of the Israelites

which the former kings had taken from

them; and grant that he should have leave

to come to Damascus, as his forefathers had

come to Samaria. So they confirmed their

covenants by oaths, and Ahab made him

many presents, and sent him back to his

own kingdom. And this was the conclusion

of the war that Benhadad made against Ahab

and the Israelites.

But a certain prophet whose name was

Micaiah,J came to one of the Israelites, and

bade him smite him on the head; for by so

* Josephus's number, two myriads and seven thousand,  
agrees here with that in our other copies; as those that

were slain by the fulling down of the walls of Aphek.

But I suspected at first that this number in Josephus's

present copies could not be his original number, because

he calls them a few: which could hardly be said of so

many as 27,000, and because of the improbability of the

fall of a particular wall killing so many. Yet when I

consider that Josephus's next words, how the rest which

were slain in the battle were ten other myriads ; that 27,000

are but a few in comparison of 100,000; and that it was

not a wall, as in our English version, but the wall, or the

entire walls of the city that fell down, as in all the origi-

nals, I lay aside that suspicion; and firmly believe that

Josephus himself hath, with the rest, given us the just

number, 27,000. The Aphek is by Josephus justly called

the Syrians' city: as probably one of them which our

Bible, and Josephus speak of presently; and which this

Benhadad's predecessors had taken from the Israelites,

and was now to be restored.

t This manner of supplication for men's lives among

the Syrians, with ropes or halters about their heads or

necks, is, I suppose, no strange thing in later ages, even

in our own country.

J It is here very remarkable, that in Josephus's copy

this prophet, whose denunciation of a disobedient person's

3K2

