an. 1620.] 63 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW&

plained on what account it was that they left

Egypt.

CHAP. IX.

OF THE AFFLICTIONS THAT BEFEL THE HEBREWS IN EGYPT,

DURING FOUR HONORED YEARS..*

NOW it happened that the Egyptians

grew delicate and indolent, and gave

themselves up to pleasure, and in particular

to the love of gain. They also became very

ill affected towards the Hebrews, as touched

with envy at their prosperity; for when they

saw how the nation of the Israelites flourished,

and were become eminent already in plenty

of wealth, which they had acquired by their

virtue and natural love of labour, they thought

their increase was to their own detriment;

and having in length of time forgotten the

benefits they had received from Joseph, par­

ticularly the crown being now come into

another family,t they became very abusive to

the Israelites, and contrived many ways of

afflicting them, for they enjoined them to cut

a great number of channels for the river, and

to build wallsJ for their cities and ramparts,

that they might restrain the river, and hinder

its waters from stagnating, upon its running

over its own banks; they set them also to

build pyramids,|| and by all this wore them

out, and forced them to learn all sorts of me­

chanical arts, and to accustom themselves to

* As to the affliction of Abraham's posterity for 400  
years, see I. 10. and as to what cities they built in Egypt

under Pharaoh Sesostris, and of Pharaoh Sesostris's drown­

ing in the Red Sea, see Essay on the Old Test . Append.

page 139—162.

t Exodus, i. 8.

J It is a common opinion, that the word pyramid is de­

rived from the Greek Pyr or Pur, Fire; and that these

structures were so called from their shape, which ascended

from abroad basis, and ended in a point, like a flame of

fire. Others, whose opinion Vossius seems to approve,

say that the name comes from the word Pyroi, which, in

the same language, signifies wheat, because they suppose

them to have been the granaries of the ancient Egyptian

kings. But a late writer, versed in the Coptic tongue, has

given us another etymology from that language, wherein

Pouro signifies a king, and Misi, a race, or generation; and

the reason why the Pyramids had this name given them,

was, as he tells us, because they were erected to preserve

the memory of the .princes (who were their founders) and

their families. . WiUdtui's Dxssert. de ling. Copt. p. 108.

II Of this building of the pyramids of Egypt by the

Israelites, see Perizonius Orig. Egyptiac. c. 21. It is not

impossible they might build one or more of the small ones,

but the large ones seem much later. See my Chronolo-

TOL. I. No. 6.

hard labour: and four hundred years did they

spend under these afflictions, for they strove

one against another which should get the

mastery; the Egyptians desiring to destroy

the Israelites by these labours, and the Israel­

ites desiring to hold out to the end under

them.

While the affairs of the Hebrews were in

this condition, there was this occasion offered

itself to the Egyptians, which made them

more solicitous for the extinction of our na­

tion. One of these sacred scribes,§ who are

very sagacious in foretelling future events

truly, told the king, that about this time a

child would be born to the Israelites; who, if

he were reared, would bring the Egyptian

dominion low, and would raise the Israelites;

that he would excel all men in virtue, and

obtain a glory that would be remembered

through all ages; which thing was so feared

by the king, that, according to this man's

opinion, he commanded that every male child,

which was born to the Israelites, should be

cast into the river, and destroyed; that be­

sides this, the Egyptian** midwives should

watch the labours oi the Hebrew women, and

observe what was born; for those were the

women who were enjoined to do the office of

midwives to them, and by reason of their re­

lation to the king would not transgress his

commands.tt He enjoined, also, that if any

parents should disobey him, and venture to

gical Table, and Authent. Rec. Part II. page 885, 886,

887. Only if they be all built of stone, this does not so

well agree with the Israelites' labours, which are said to

have been in brick, and not in stone, as Mr. Sandys ob­

serves in his Travels, page 127, 128.

§ Dr. Bernard informs us here, that instead of this single

priest, or prophet of the Egyptians, without a name in

Josephus, the Targum of Jonathan names the two famous

antagonists of Moses, Jannes and Jambres. Nor is it at all

unlikely, that it might be one of these who foreboded so

much misery to the Egyptians, and so much happiness to

the Israelites, from the rearing of Moses.

** Josephus is clear that these midwives were Egyp­  
tians, and not Israelites, as in our other copies, which is

very probable, it being not easily to be supposed that Pha­

raoh could trust the Israelite midwives to execute so bar­

barous a command against their own nation. Consult,

therefore, and correct hence our ordinary copies, Exod.

i. 15—22; and, indeed, Josephus seems to have had much

completer copies of the Pentateuch, or other authentic

records now lost, about the birth and actions of Moses, than

either our Hebrew, Samaritan, or Greek Bibles afford us,

which enabled him to speak so largely and particularly

about him.

tt It is generally supposed that the midwives upon this

R

