ah. 54.] 505 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was busy in gathering money, and was in

fear for the entire ornaments of the temple,

he gave him this beam of gold, as a ransom

for the whole; but not till he had given his

oath that he would remove nothing else out

of the temple, but be satisfied with this only

which he should give him; being worth many

thousand shekels. Now this beam was con­

tained in a wooden beam that was hollow;

but was known to no others, but Eleazar

alone. Yet did Crassus take away this beam,

upon the condition of touching nothing else

that belonged to the temple; and then brake

his oath, and carried away all the gold that

was in the temple.

And let no one wonder that there was so

much wealth in our temple; since all the

Jews throughout the habitable earth, and

those that *worshipped God; nay, even those

of Asia and Europe sent their contributions

to it; and this from very ancient times. Nor

is the largeness of these sums without its at­

testation; nor is that greatness owing to our

vanity, as raising it without ground to so

great a height. But there are many witnesses

to it, and particularly Strabo of Cappadocia;

who says thus—" Mithridates sent to Cos,

and took the money which queen Cleopatra

had deposited there; as also eight hundred

talents belonging to the Jews." Now we

have no public money but what appertains

to God. And it is evident, that the Asiatic

Jews removed this money out of fear of

Mithridates. For it is not probable that

those of Judea, who had a strong city and

temple, should send their money to Cos. Nor

is it likely that the Jews who are inhabitants

of Alexandriaf should do so neither; since

they were in no fear of Mithridates. And

Strabo himself bears witness to the same

thing, in another place; and at the same time

that Sylla passed over into Greece, in order

to fight against Mithridates, he sent Lucullus

to put an end to a sedition that our nation, of

whom the habitable earth is full, had raised

in Cyrene. Where he speaks thus: "There

were four classes of men among those of Cy­

rene; that of citizens; that of husbandmen;

* The proselytes.

t Spanheim here takes notice of a great deal of other

evidence for the privileges the Jews had at the city Alex­

andria. See his note on this place.

+ Thia citation, I suppose, is wanting. However, see

the third of strangers; and the fourth of Jews.

Now these Jews are already gotten into all

cities; and it is difficult to find a place in the

habitable earth that hath not admitted this

tribe of men, and is not possessed by it. And

it hath come to pass that Egypt and Cyrener

as having the same governors, and a great

number of other nations, imitate their way

of living; and maintain great bodies of these

Jews in a peculiar manner; and grow up to

greater prosperity with them; and make use

of the same laws with that nation. Accord­

ingly the Jews have places assigned them in

Egypt, wherein they inhabit; besides what

is peculiarly allotted to this nation at Alex­

andria; which is a large part of that city.

There is also an ethnarch allowed them, who

governs the nation, and distributes justice to

them; and takes care of their contracts, and

of the laws to them belonging; as if he were

the ruler of a free republic. In Egypt there­

fore this nation is powerful; because the Jews

were originally Egyptians; and because the

land wherein they inhabit, since they went

thence, is near to Egypt. They also removed

into Cyrene, because that this land adjoined

to the government of Egypt, as well as does

Judea; or rather was formerly under the

same government.

When Crassus had settled all things as he

pleased, he marched into Parthia; where

both himself, and all his army perished; as

hath been Jrelated elsewhere. But Cassiusy

as he fled from Rome to Syria, took posses­

sion of it; and was an impediment to the Par-

thians; who, by their victory over Crassus,

made incursions upon it. And as he cam&

back to Tyre, he went up into Judea alsor

and fell upon Taricheoe, and presently took

it, and carried about thirty thousand Jews

captives, and slew Pitholaus, who succeeded"

Anstobulus in his seditious practices; and

that by the persuasion of Antipater; who

proved to have great interest in him, and

was at that time in great repute with the Idu-

means also; for he married a wife, who was

the daughter of one of their eminent men,

and her name was ||Cypros: by whom he

Of the War, Book 1. chap. 8.

II Dr. Hudson observes, that the name of this wife of

Antipater in Josephus, was Cypres, as a Hebrew termi­

nation; but not Cypris, the Greek name for Venus, as

some critics were induced to correct it

