an. 1532.J 75 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

more plague he would compel the Egyptians

to let the Hebrews go, he commanded Moses

to tell the people, that they should have a

sacrifice ready; and that they should prepare

themselves on the tenth day of the month

Xanthicus, against the fourteenth; which

month is called by the Egyptians Pharmuthi,

and Nisan by the Hebrews; but the Mace­

donians call it Xanthicus. And that he should

carry away the Hebrews, with all they had.

Accordingly Moses having got the Hebrews

ready for their departure, and having gather­

ed the people into tribes, kept them together

in one place. But when the fourteenth day

was come, and all were ready to depart, they

offered sacrifice, and purified their houses

with the blood; using bunches of hyssop for

that purpose: and when they had supped,

they burnt the remainder of the flesh as just

ready to depart. Whence it is, that we do

still offer this sacrifice in like manner, and

call this festival Pasch; which signifies the

feast of the Passover; because on that day

God passed us over, and sent the plague upon

the Egyptians. For the destruction of the

first-born came upon the Egyptians that night;

so that many of the Egyptians who lived near

the king's palace, persuaded Pharaoh to let

the Hebrews go. Accordingly he called for

Moses, and bid them be gone; as supposing

that if once the Hebrews were gone out of

the country, Egypt should be freed from its

miseries. They also honoured the Hebrews

with gifts,* some in order to get them to de­

part quickly, and others on account of their

neighbourhood, and the friendship they had

with them.

CHAP. XV.

OF THE DEPARTURE OF THE HF.BREWS FROM EGYPT, UNDER

THE COSDUCT OF MOSES.

HUS the Hebrews went out of Egypt,

while the Egyptians wept, and repented

T

* These large presents made to the Israelites, of vessels  
of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, were, as Jose-

phustruly calls them, gifts, really given them; not lent

them, as our English falsely renders them. They were

spoils required, not borrowed of them ; Gen. xv. 14. Exod.

iii. 29. xi. 2. Ps. cv. 37. as the same version falsely ren­

ders the Hebrew word here used. Exod. xii. 35, 36.

God had ordered the Jews to demand these as their pay

and reward, during their long and bitter slavery in Egypt;

as atonements for the lives of the Egyptians; and as the

condition of the Jews' departure, and the Egyptian deliver­

ance from these terrible judgments; which had they not

now ceased, they had soon been all dead men, as they

voL. I.—No. 7.

they had treated them so hardly. Now they

took their journey by Letopolis, a place at

that time deserted, but where Babylon was

built afterward, when Cambyses ravaged

Egypt. But as they went away hastily, on

the third day they came to a place called

Baalzephou, on the Red Sea; and when they

had no food out of the land, because it was a

desert, they eat of loaves kneaded of flour,

only warmed by a gentle heat; and this food

they made use of thirty days: for what they

brought with them out of Egypt, would not

suffice them any longer time; and this only

while they dispensed it to each person to use

so much only as would serve for necessity,

but not for satiety. Whence it is, that in

memory of the want we were then in, we

keep a feast for eight days, which is called

the feast of Unleavened-bread. Now the

entire multitude of those that went out, in­

cluding the women and children, was not

easy to be numbered; but those that were of

an age fit for war, were six hundred thousand.

They left Egypt in the month of Xanthicus,

on the fifteenth day of the lunar month: four

hundred and thirty years after our forefather

Abraham came into Canaan. But two hun­

dred and fifteen yearst only after Jacob re­

moved into Egypt; it was the eightieth year

of the age of Moses, and of that of Aaron

three more. They also carried out the bones

of Joseph with them, as he charged his sons

to do.

The Egyptians, however, soon repented

that the Hebrews were gone;J and the king

also was greatly concerned that this had been

procured by the magical arts of Moses; so

they resolved to go after them. Accordingly

they took their weapons, and other warlike

furniture, and pursued after them, in order to

bring them back, if once they overtook them;

because they would have no pretence to pray

themselves confess, xii. 23. Nor was there any sense in

borrowing or lending, when the Israelites were finally de­

parting out of the land.

t Why our Mazorete copy so groundlessly abridges this

account in Exod. xii. 40. as to ascribe four hundred and

thirty years to the sole peregrination of the Israelites in

Egypt: when it is clear, even by that Mazorete chrono­

logy elsewhere; as well as from the express text itself in

the Samaritan, Septuagint, and Josephus, that they so­

journed in Egypt but half that time, and that by conse­

quence the other half of their peregrination was in the

land of Canaan, before they came into Egypt, is hard to say.

| Exod. xiv. 5.

u

