32 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them a burying-place, which piece of ground

Abraham bought, for four hundred shekels,

of Ephron, an inhabitant of Hebron: and

both Abraham and his descendants built

themselves sepulchres in that place.

CHAP. XV.

OF THE RATION OF THE TROGLODYTES, WHO WERE DERIVED

FROM ABRAHAM BY KF.TUJUH.

ABRAHAM after this married Keturah,

by whom six sons were born to him,

men of courage, and of sagacious minds.

Zambran, and Jazar, and Madan, and Ma-

dian, and Josabak and Sous. Now the sons

of Sous were Sabathan and Dadan. The sons

of Dadan were Latusim, Assur, and Luom.

The sons of Madian were Ephas, Ophren,

Anoch, Ebidas, and Eldas. Now Abraham

contrived to settle all these sons and grand­

sons in colonies, and they took possession of

Troglodytis, and the country of Arabia the

Happy, as far as it reaches to the Red Sea.

It is related of Ophren, that he made war

against Lybia, and took it; and that his grand-

Children, when they inhabited it, called it

from his name Africa: and indeed Alexander

Polyhistor gives his attestation to what I here

say when he speaks thus: "Cleodemus, the

prophet, who was also called Malchus, who

wrote a history of the Jews in agreement with

the history of Moses, their legislator, relates

that there were many sons born to Abraham

by Keturah. He even names three of them.

Apher, and Surim, and Japhran: that from

Surim was the land of Assyria denominated;

and that from the other two, Apher and Ja-

* An. 1897.

t The present mode of swearing among the Moham­

medan Arabs, that live in tents as the patriarchs did, ac­

cording to de la Roque, (Voy. dans la Pal. p. 162.) is by

laying their hands on the Koran. They cause those who

iwear to wash their hands before they give them the

book; they put their left hand underneath, and the right

over it. Whether, among the patriarchs one hand was

under, and the other upon the thigh, is not certain; pos­

sibly Abraham's servant might swear with one hand under

his master's thigh, and the other stretched out to Heaven.

As the posterity of the patriarchs are described as coming

out of the thigh, it has been supposed, this ceremony had

some relation to their believing the promise of God, to

bless all the nations of the earth, by means of one that was

to descend from Abraham. B.

Harmer, vol. iv. p. 477.

J Homer mentions the same custom of women's being

employed in drawing water among the Phaecians and

phran, the country of Africa took its name;

because these men were auxiliaries to Her­

cules, when he fought against Libya and

Antseus; and that Hercules married Aphra's

daughter, and of her begat a son Diodorus;

and that Sophon was his son, from whom the

barbarous people called Sophacians were

denominated."

CHAP. XVI.

of Isaac's marriage.

NOW when Abraham, the father of Isaac,

had resolved to take Rebeka, who was

grand-daughter to his brother Nahor, for a

wife to his son Isaac, who was then about

forty* years old, he sent the eldest of his

servants to betroth her; after he had obliged

him to give him the strongest assurances of

his fidelity, after the following manner. They

put each other's hands under each other's

thighs,f and called upon God as the witness

of what was to be done. He also sent such

presents to those that were there as were in

esteem, on account that they either rarely, or

never were seen in that country. This ser­

vant got thither not under a considerable

time; for it requires much time to pass

through Mesopotamia, in which it is tedious

travelling both in winter, for the depth of the

clay, and in summer, for want of water; and

besides this, for the robberies there com­

mitted, which are not to be avoided by tra­

vellers, but by the utmost caution. However,

the servant came to Haran; and when he was

in the suburbs, he met a considerable number

of maidens going to the water;J he therefore

LcEstrygonians. (Od. vii. 20. et x. 105.) Dr. Shaw,

speaking of the occupation of the Moorish women in Bar-

bary, says, "to finish the day, at the time of the evening,

even at the time that the women go out to draw water,

they are still to fit themselves with a pitcher or goat-skin,

and tying their sucking children behind them, trudge it in

this manner two or three miles to fetch water." Travels,

p. 421.

The same custom prevailed in ancient Greece. Homer

represents Minerva meeting Ulysses as the sun was going

down, under the form of a Phaecian virgin carrying a

pitcher of water, that being the time when the maidens

went out to draw water.

When near the fam'd Phwcian wall he drew,

The beauteous city op'ning to his view,

His step a virgin met, and stood before;

A polish'd urn the seeming virgin bore.

Odyst. b. vii. 25. Pope.

