AN. 20.] 561 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in Galilee, called *Gaba; with Hesebonitis

in Perea. And these were the places which

he particularly built. While he was always

inventing somewhat farther for his own se­

curity; and encompassing the whole nation

with guards, that they might by no means

get from under his power, nor fall into tu­

mults; which they did continually upon any

small commotion; and that if they did make

any commotions, he might know of it; while

some of his spies might be upon them from

the neighbourhood, and might both be able

to know what they were attempting, and to

prevent it. And when he went about build­

ing the walls of Samaria, he contrived to

bring thither many of those that had been

assisting to him in his wars; and many of

the people in that neighbourhood, whom he

made fellow citizens with the rest. This he

did out of an ambitious desire of building a

temple; and out of a desire to make the city

more eminent than it had been before; but

principally because he contrived that it

might at once be for his own security, and

a monument of his magnificence. He also

changed its name; and called it fSebaste;

and parted the adjoining country, which was

excellent in its kind, among the inhabitants

of Samaria, that they might be in a happy

condition, upon their first coming to inhabit.

Besides this he encompassed the city with a

wall, of great strength; and made use of

the acclivity of the place for making his for­

tifications stronger. Nor was the compass

of the place made now so small as it had

been before; but was such as rendered it

not inferior to the most famous cities. For

it was twenty furlongs in circumference.

Now within and about the middle of it, he

built a sacred place, of a furlong and a half

in circuit, and adorned it with all sorts of

decorations; and therein erected a temple,

which was illustrious on account of both its

largeness and beauty. And as to the several

parts of the city, he adorned them with deco­

rations of all sorts also; and made the walls

very strong for his own security, and made it,

for the greatest part, a citadel: and as to the

elegance of the buildings, it was taken care

of also; that he might leave monuments of

his taste and beneficence to future ages.

CHAP. IX.

of the famine that happened in judf.a and syria;

herod's marriage with simon's daughter; and

the rebuilding of cfsarea, and other grecian

CITIES.

NOW on this year, which was the thir­

teenth of the reign of Herod, very

great calamities came upon the country.

Whether they were derived from the anger

of God, or Jwhether this misery return

again naturally in certain periods of time.

For in the first place there were perpetual

droughts; and for that reason the ground

was barren, and did not bring forth the same

quantity of fruits that it used to produce.

And after this barrenness of the soil, that

change of food which the want of corn occa­

sioned, produced distempers in the bodies

of men; and a pestilential disease prevailed;

one misery following upon the back of ano­

ther. And these circumstances that they

were destitute both of methods of cure, and

of food, made the pestilential distemper,

which began after a violent manner, the

more lasting. The destruction of men also

after such a manner deprived those that had

survived of all their courage; because they

had no way to provide remedies sufficient

for the distresses they were in. When there­

fore the fruits of that year were spoiled, and

whatsoever they had previously laid up was

spent, there was no foundation of hope for

relief remaining; but the misery, contrary

to what they expected, still increased upon

them. And this not only on that year, while

they had nothing for themselves left at the

end of it: but what seed they had sown

perished also; by reason of the ground not

yielding its fruits on the ||second year. This

* Perhaps Gamala.

t Augusta, in honour of Augustus Caesar.

^ Here we have an eminent example of the language

of Josephus in his writing to Gentiles different from that

when he wrote to the Jews. In his writing to whom he

still derives all such judgments from the anger of God.

But because he knew many of the Gentiles thought they

might naturally come in certain periods, he complies

with them in the following sentence. See the note On

the War, I. 33.

II This famine for two years, that affected Judea and

Syria, the 13th and 14th years of Herod: which are the

24th and 23d years before the Christian Era; seems to

have been more terrible, during this time, than was that

in the days of Jacob, Gen. xli. xlii. And what makes

the comparison the more remarkable is this: that now, as

