160 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

However, when they were a great way from

the city, the Hebrews turned back to fight

them, and gave the preconcerted signal to

those that lay in ambush; who rose up, and

with a great noise fell upon the enemy. Now,

as soon as they perceived themselves to be

deceived, they knew not what to do; and

when they were driven into a certain hollow

place, which was in a valley, they were shot

at by those that encompassed them, till they

were all destroyed, excepting six hundred,

which formed themselves into a close body of

men, and forced their passage through the

midst of their enemies, and tied to the neigh­

bouring mountains; but the rest, being about

twenty-five thousand, were slain. Then did

the Israelites burn Gibeah, and slew the

women, and the males that were under age.

They did the same also to the other cities of

the Benjamites. And indeed they were en­

raged to that degree, that they sent twelve

thousand men out of the army, and gave them

orders to destroy Jabesh Gilead; because

they did not join with them in fighting against

the Benjamites. Accordingly those that were

sent slew the men of war, with their children

and wives, excepting four hundred virgins.

To such a degree had they proceeded in their

anger, because they not only had the suffer­

ing of the Levite's wife to avenge, but the

slaughter of their own soldiers.

However, they afterward were sorry for

the calamity they had brought upon the Ben­

jamites, and appointed a fast upon that ac­

count; although they supposed those men

had suffered justly for their offence against

the laws. So they recalled, by their ambas­

sadors, those six hundred which had es­

caped. These had seated themselves on a

certain rock called Rimmon, which was in

the wilderness. So the ambassadors lamented

not only the disaster that had befallen the

Benjamites, but themselves also, by this de­

struction of their kindred; and persuaded

them to take it patiently, and to come and

unite with them; and not, so far as in them

lay, to give their suffrage to the utter destruc-

tion of the tribe of Benjamin; and said to

them, " We give you leave to take the whole

land of Benjamin to yourselves, and as much

prey as you are able to carry away with you."

So these men with sorrow confessed, that

what had been done was according to the

decree of God, and had happened for their

own wickedness, and assented to those that

invited them, and came down to their own

tribe. The Israelites also gave them the four

hundred virgins of Jabesh Gilead* for wives.

But as to the remaining two hundred, they

deliberated how they might obtain wives for

them. And whereas they had before the war

taken an oath, that no one would give his

daughter to wife to any Benjamite; some ad­

vised them to have no regard to what they

had sworn; because the oath had not been

taken advisedly and judiciously, but in a pas­

sion; and thought that they should do nothing

against God, if they were able to save a whole

tribe, which was in danger of perishing; and

that perjury was only a sad dangerous thing,

not when it is committed out of necessity, but

with a wicked intention. But when the senate

were affrighted at the very name of perjury,

a certain person told them, that he could

shew them a way whereby they might pro­

cure wives for the Benjamites, and yet keep

their oath. And on their asking what his

proposal was, he said, "Three times in a

year, when we meet in Shiloh, our wives and

our daughters accompany us. Let then the

Benjamites be allowed to steal away, and

marry such women as they can catch; while

we will neither incite nor forbid them. And

when their parents take it ill, and desire us

to inflict punishment upon them, we will tell

them, that they were themselves the cause of

what had happened, by neglecting to guard

their daughters; and that they ought not to

be over angry at the Benjamites, since that

anger had been permitted to rise up too high

already." So the Israelites were persuaded

to follow this advice; and decreed, that the

Benjamites should be allowed thus to steal

themselves wives. So when the festivalf was

* Judg. xxi. 14.

t All the three great festivals were to be observed in

the place where God settled his habitation, which was now

at Shiloh; and therefore some are of opinion, that the

feast here mentioned, was one of these; particularly, they

think it was the feast of tabernacles, because this was a

season of great joy, for having newly gathered their vin­

tage, and the only season wherein the Jewish virgins were

allowed to dance. At this time they dwelt in booths too,

behind which the Benjamites (as they fancy) might very

conveniently conceal themselves, and so watch an oppor­

tunity of carrying away the virgins. But what seems to

