AW. 255 1064.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When the ambassadors came to David, he

went to Jerusalem: and the tribe of Judah

was the first that came to meet him at the

river Jordan,* and Shimei, the son of Gera,

came with a thousand men, which he brought

with him out of the tribe of Benjamin; and

Ziba, the freed man of Saul, with his sons,

fifteen in number; and with his twenty ser­

vants. All these, as well as the tribe of Ju­

dah, laid a bridge of boats over the river,

that the king and those that were with him,

might with ease pass over it. Now as soon as

he was come to Jordan, the tribe of Judah

saluted him. Shimei also came upon the

bridge, and took hold of his feet, and prayed

him to forgive him what he had offended, and

not to be too bitter against him; nor to think

fit to make him the first example of severity

under his new authority; but to consider

that he had repented of his failure of duty,

and had taken care to come first of all to him.

While he was thus intreating the king, and

moving him to compassion, Abishai, Joab's

brother, said, "Shall not this man die for

that he hath cursed the king whom God

hath appointed to reign over us?" But

David turned himself, and said, "Will ye

never leave off^ ye sons of Zeruiah? Do

not, 1 pray, raise new troubles and sedi­

tions among us, now the former are over;

for I would not have you ignorant, that I this

day begin my reign; and therefore swear to

remit to all offenders their punishments, and

not to animadvert on any one that has sin­

ned. Be thou, therefore, O Shimei, of good

courage; and do not at all fear being put to

death."f So he worshipped him, and went

on before him.

Mephibosheth also, Saul's grandson, met

David, clothed in a mean garment,}: and

having his hair thick and neglected; for after

David was fled away, he was in such grief,

that he had not polled his head, nor had he

washed his clothes; as dooming himself to

undergo such hardships upon occasion of the

change of the king's affairs. Now he had

been unjustly calumniated to the king by

Ziba, his steward. When he had saluted

the king, and worshipped him, the king

began to ask him, why he did not go out of

Jerusalem with him, and accompany him

during his flight? He replied, that this

piece of injustice was owing to Ziba, be­

cause when he was ordered to get things

ready for his going out with him, he took no

care of it: but regarded him no more than if

he had been a slave. "And indeed," said

he, "had I had my feet sound and strong, I

had not deserted thee; for I could then have

made use of them in my flight. But this is

not all the injury that Ziba has done me, as

to my duty to thee, my lord and master; but

he hath calumniated me besides, and told

lies about me of his own invention. But

I know thy mind will not admit of such

calumnies, but is righteously disposed, and

a lover of truth; which it is also the will of

God should prevail. For when thou wast in

the greatest danger of suffering by my grand­

father; and when, on that account, our whole

family might justly have been destroyed, thou

wast moderate and merciful, and didst then

especially forget all those injuries; when, if

thou hadst remembered them, thou hadst the

power of punishing us for them. But thou

hast judged me to be thy friend; and hast

set me every day at thine own table; nor

have I wanted any thing which one of thine

own kinsmen, of greatest esteem with thee,

could have expected." When he had said

this, David resolved neither Jjto punish Me­

phibosheth, nor to condemn Ziba, as having

* 2 Sam. xix. 15.

t 2 Sam. xix. 23.

J The words in the text are, that He had neither dressed

his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes,

from the day that the king departed, 2 Sam. xix. 24.

These were some of the instances wherein the Jews were

wont to express their mourning; and they are here men­

tioned by the historian, as evidence of the falsehood of

Ziba's information against his master, since no one, who

nesdected himself to this degree, could be supposed am­

bitious of a crown. Not dressing his feet, may signify,

either not cutting his toe-nails, or his not washing his

feet, which the Jews were accustomed very frequently to

do, because of the bad smell which was natural to them,

as well as the Arabians, and some other nations; and

therefore his omission of this could not but make him

offensive to himself. Not trimming his beard was letting

its hair grow negligently, and without any order. For

the manner of the Jews was, to cut the hair from the lip

upwards, and what grew likewise on the cheek; but what

was on the chin, and so backwards to the ear, that they

suffered to grow; and not washing his clothes must denote

his putting on no clean linen, but wearing the same shirt

all the while. Calmef s and Patrick's Commentaries. B.

II By David's disposal of half Mephibosheth's estate to

Ziba, one would imagine that he was still dissatisfied and

doubtful whether Mephibosheth's story were entirely

true. Nor does David now invite him to diet with him,

