178 [book xm. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

whatsoever his army wanted in great plenty,

and marched along with him when he made

an expedition against the Parthians. Of

which Nicolaus of Damascus is a witness for

us: who in his history writes thus, "When

Antiochus had erected a trophy at the river

Lycus, upon his conquest of Indates, the ge­

neral of the Parthians, he stayed there two

days. It was at the desire of Hyrcanus, the

Jew: because it was such a festival derived

to them from their forefathers, whereon the

law of the Jews did not allow them to travel."

And he did not speak falsely in saying so:

for that festival, which we call Pentecost,

did then fall out to be the next day to the

sabbath. Nor is it *lawful for us to journey

either on a sabbath day, or on a festival.

But when Antiochus joined battle with Ar-

saces, king of Parthia, he lost a great part of

his army; and was himself slain. And his

brother Demetrius succeeded in the kingdom

of Syria, by the permission of Arsaces; who

freed him from his captivity, at the same

time that Antiochus attacked Parthia.

CHAP. IX.

OF THE EXPEDITION OF HYRCANUS AGAINST SVRIA; AND

HIS CONCLUSION OF A LEAOUE WITH THE ROMANS.

ALSO OF THE DEATH OF KING DEMETRIUS AND ALEX­

ANDER.

HEN Hyrcanus fheard of the death of

Antiochus, he presently made an ex

w

pedition against Jthe cities of Syria; hoping

to find them destitute of fighting men, and

of such as were able to defend them. How­

ever, it was not till the sixth month that he

took Medaba, and that not without the great

distress of his army. After this he took Sa-

mega, and the neighbouring places. And

besides these, Shechem, and Gerizzim, and

the nation of the Cutheans, who dwelt at the

temple which resembled that temple which

was at Jerusalem; and which Alexander per­

mitted Sanballat, the general of his army, to

build, for the sake of Manasseh, who was son-

in-law to Jaddua, the high-priest; as we have

||formerly related. Which temple was now

deserted, §two hundred years after it was

built. Hyrcanus also took Dora, and Ma-

rissa, cities of Idumea; and subdued all the

Idumeans; and permitted them to stay in

that country, if they would adopt the rite of

circumcision, and make use of the laws of the

Jews. And they were so desirous of living in

the country of their forefathers, that they**

submitted. At which time therefore this be­

fell them, that they were hereafter no other

than Jews.

But Hyrcanus, the high-priest, was de­

sirous to renew that league of friendship

they had with the Romans. Accordingly he

sentff an ambassage to them. And when the

senate had received their epistle, they made

a league of friendship with them, after the

manner following:—

* The Jews were not to march or journey on the sab­  
bath, or on such a great festival as was equivalent to

the sabbath, any farther than a sabbath day's journey, or

2000 cubits. See the Note on XX. 8.

t An. 130.

J Those within the limits of Judea.

II See Book XI. chap. 8.

§ It was exactly 202 years, viz. from an. 332 to an.

130 B. C.

** This account of the Idumeans admitting circumci­  
sion, and the entire Jewish law, from this time, or from

the days of Hyrcanus, is confirmed by their subsequent

history. See XIV. 8. XV. 7. XVII. 12. Of the War,

II. 3. IV. 4. This, in the opinion of Josephus, made

them proselytes of juslice, or entire Jews; as here and

elsewhere, XIV. 8. So Dio, XXXVII. page 41. How­

ever, Anti^onus the enemy of Herod, though Herod were

derived from surh a proselyte of justice for several gene­

rations, will allow him to be no more than a half Jew.

XIV. 15. But still take out of Dean Prideaux, at the

year 129, the words of Ammonius, which fully confirm

this account of the Idumeans in Josephus. "The Jews,"

says he, "are such by nature, and from the beginning:

ivhile the Idumeans were not Jews from the beginning,

but Phoenicians and Syrians; but being afterward sub­

dued by the Jews, and compelled to be circumcised, and

to unite into one nation, and to be subject to the same

laws, they were called Jews." Dio also says, as the Dean

there quotes him, from Book XXXVI. page 37, "That

country is called Judea, and the people Jews. And this

name is given also to as many others as embrace their

religion, though of other nations." But then upon what

foundation so good a governor as Hyrcanus took upon

him to compel these Idumeans either to become Jews or

to leave their country, deserves great consideration. I

suppose it was because they had long ago been driven

out of the land of Edom, and had seized on and pos­

sessed the tribe of Simeon, and all the southern parts ot"

the tribe of Judah; which was the peculiar inheritance ot"

the worshippers of the true God, without idolatry: as the

reader may learn from Reland, Palestin. part I. page I54,

305, and from Prideaux at the years 740 and 165. Nor do

I remember that ever the like violence was used by him or

his predecessors, with any country, which was not a part

of that promised land: though the other kings after him

intended it to all their conquests in or out of that promised

land. See Prideaux at the year 10G, and Antiq. XIII. 15.

tt An. 128.

