ait. 1449.] 161 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

coming on, these two hundred Benjamites lay

in ambush before the city, by two or three

together; and waited for the coming of the

virgins in the vineyards, and other places

where they could lie concealed. Accordingly

the virgins came along, playing, and sus­

pected nothing of what was coming upon

them, and walked after an unguarded man­

ner. So those that lay scattered in the road,

rose up, and caught hold of them. By this

means these Benjamites got them wives, and

applied themselves to agriculture, and took

good care to recover their former happy state.

And thus was this tribe, after they had been

in danger of entirely perishing, saved by the

wisdom of the Israelites. And accordingly

it flourished, and soon increased to be a mul­

titude, and came to enjoy all other degrees

of happiness. And such was the conclusion

of this war.

CHAP. III.

OF THE MISFORTUNES BROUGHT UPON THE ISRAELITES BV

THEIR INDOLENCE AND REMISSNESS; THEIR OPPRESSION

BV THE ASSYRIANS, AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT DELIVER­

ANCE BV OTHNIEL, WHO RULED OVER THEM FORTY YEARS.

NOW it happened,* that the tribe of Dan

suffered in the like manner with the

tribe of Benjamin, and on the following occa­

sion. When the Israelites had already left

off the exercise of their arms of war, and were

intent upon their husbandry, the Canaanites

despised them, and brought together an army.

Not because they expected to suffer from

them, but because they had a mind to have a

sure prospect of treating the Hebrews ill

when they pleased; and might thereby, for

the time to come, dwell in their own cities

more securely. They prepared, therefore,

their chariots, and gathered their soldiers

together. Their cities also combined, and

drew over to them Ascalon and Ekron, which

were within the tribe of Judah, and many

more of those that lay in the plain. They

also forced the Danites to fly into the moun­

tainous country, and left them not the least

portion of the plain country to set their foot

on. Since then these Danites were not able

to fight them, and had not land enough for

their own support; they sent five of their men

into the midland country, to see for a land to

which they might remove their habitation.

So these men went as far as the neighbour­

hood of mount Libanus, and the fountains of

the lesser Jordan, at the great plain of Sidon,

a day's journey from the city. And when

they had taken a view of the land, and found

it to be exceeding fruitful, they acquainted

their tribe with it. Whereupon they made

an expedition with an army; and built there

the city of Dan, of the same name with the

son of Jacob, and of the same name of their

own tribe.

The Israelites now grew so indolent,f that

misfortunes came heavier upon them; which

also proceeded in part from their contempt

of the Divine worship. For when they had

once fallen off from the regularity of their

political government, they indulged them­

selves farther in living according to their own

will; till they were full of the evil doings that

were common among the Canaanites. God

therefore was angry with them, and they for­

feited by their luxury that happy state which

they had obtained by innumerable lahpurs.

For when Chushan, king of the Assyrians, had

made war against them, they lost many of

their soldiers in the battle; and when they

were hesieged they were taken by force.

Nay, there were some who, out of fear, vo­

luntarily submitted to him; and though the

tribute laid upon them was more than they

could bear, yet did they pay it; and under­

went all sort of oppression^ for eight years

After which time they were delivered in the

following manner:

There was one whose name was Othniel,|

the son of Kenaz, of the tribe of Judah; ar

active man, and of great courage. He had

make against this opinion is, that at any of these public fes­

tivals, the concourse of people would have been too great

for a design of this nature to be put into execution, since

the violence which must, of course, have heen offered to

the young women, would hardly have met with a general

connivance. It is much more probable, therefore, that

this was some festival peculiar to the people of Shiloh,

which the Benjamites perhaps might know nothing of, and

were therefore put in mind of it by the elders of the con-

gregation. Josephus tells us, that it was celebrated thricf

every year; and on this festival it might be a custom foi

the voung women to go out into the fields, and there dance

by themselves, which might give their ravishers the very

opportunity they wanted. Le Clerc's Commentary. B,

* About An."l455B. C.

t An. 1449.

I From 1449 to 1441 B. C.

II Judg. iii. 9.

