ax. 168.] 439 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the finest buildings: and when he had over­

thrown the city walls, he built *a citadel in

the lower part of the city, for the place was

high, and overlooked the temple. On which

account he fortified it with high walls and

towers, and put into it a garrison of Mace­

donians. However, in that citadel dwelt

the impious and wicked part of the Jewish

multitude: from whom it proved that the

citizens suffered many and sore calamities.

And when the king had built an idol altar

upon God's altar, he slew swine upon it, and

so offered a sacrifice neither according to

the law, nor the Jewish religious worship in

that country. He also compelled them to

forsake the worship which they paid their

own God, and to adore those whom he took

to be gods, and made them build temples,

and raise idol altars in every city and vil­

lage, and offer swine upon them every day.

He also commanded them not to circumcise

their sons; and threatened to punish any

that should be found to have transgressed

his injunction. He also appointed overseers,

who should compel them to do what he com­

manded. And indeed many Jews there were

who complied with the king's commands, ei­

ther voluntarily or out of fear of the penalty

that was denounced. But the best men, and

those of the noblest spirits, did not regard

him; but continued to pay a greater respect

to the customs of their country, than concern

as to the punishment which he threatened to

the disobedient. On this account they every

day underwent great miseries and bitter tor­

ments: for they were whipped with rods, and

their bodies were torn to pieces, and were

crucified, while they were still alive. They

also strangled those women and their sons

whom they had circumcised, as the king had

appointed; hanging their sons about their

necks as they were upon the crosses. And

if there were any sacred book or law found,

it was destroyed; and those with whom they

were found miserably perished also.

When the Samaritans saw the Jews under

these sufferings, they no longer confessed

that they were of their kindred; nor that

the temple on mount Gerizzim belonged to

Almighty God. But they now said, that they

were a colony of Medes and Persians. And

indeed they were a colony of theirs. So

they sent ambassadors to Antiochus, and an

epistle; whose contents are these:—

"To king Antiochus Epiphanes, the god:

a memorial from the Sidonians, who live at

Shechem. Our forefathers, upon certain fre­

quent tplagues, and as following a certain

ancient superstition, had a custom of observ­

ing:): that day which by the Jews is called the

Sabbath. And when they had erected a tem­

ple at the mountain called Gerizzim, though

without a name, they offered upon it the pro­

per sacrifices. Now upon the just treatment

of these wicked Jews; those that manage

thy affairs, supposing that we were of kin to

them, and practised as they do, make us

liable to the same accusations, although we

be originally Sidonians, as is evident from

the public records. We therefore beseech

thee, our benefactor and saviour, to give or­

der to Apollonius, the governor of this part

of the country, and Nicanor, the procurator

of thy affairs, to give us no disturbance, nor

to lay to our charge what the Jews are ac­

cused for, since we are aliens from their

nation, and from their customs; but let our

temple, which at present hath no name at all,

be named the Temple of Jupiter Hellenius.

If this were once done, we should be no longer

disturbed; but should be more intent on our

occupations with quietness; and so bring in

a greater revenue to thee."

When the Samaritans had petitioned for

this, the king sent them back the following

answer in an epistle:—

"King Antiochus to Nicanor. The Sido­

nians, who live at Shechem, have sent me

the memorial enclosed. When therefore we

were advising with our friends about it, the

* This citadel, of which we have such frequent men­  
tion in the following history, both in the Maccabees, and

in Josephus, seems to have been a castle built on a hill,

lower than mount Sion, though upon its skirts, and

higher than mount Moriah, but between them both:

which hill the enemies of the Jews now got possession of,

and built on it this citadel, and fortified it; till a good

while afterward, the Jews regained it, demolished it, and

levelled the hill itself with the common ground, that their

enemies might no more recover it, and thence might

overlook the temple, and do them such mischief m they

had long undergone from it, XIII. 6.

t See the note in Book IX. chap. XIV.

\ This allegation of the Samaritans is remarkable; that

though they were not Jews, yet did they, from ancient

times, observe the Sabbath day; and, as they elsewhere

pretend, the Sabbatic year also. XI. 8.

