266 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

own homes. Adonijah also, as afraid of the

king for what he had done, became a sup­

plicant to God, and took hold of the horns of

the altar, which were prominent.* It was

also told Solomon, that he had so done; and

that he desired to receive assurances from

him, that he would not remember the injury

he had done: and not inflict any severe

punishment for it. Solomon answered very

mildly and prudently, that he forgave him

this his offence; but said withal, that if he

were found in any attempt for new innova­

tions, he would be the author of his own

Eunishment. So he sent to him, and raised

im up from the place of his supplication.

And when he was come to the king, and had

worshipped him; the king bade him go away

to his own house, and have no suspicion of

any harm, and desired him to shew himself a

worthy man, as what would tend to his own

advantage.

But David being desirous of ordaining his

son king of all the people, called together

their rulers to Jerusalem, with the priests

and the Levites. And having first numbered

the Levites, he found them to be thirty-eight

thousand, from thirty years old to fifty. Out

of which he appointed twenty-three thousand

to take care of the building of the temple;

and out of the same, six thousand to be judges

of the people and scribes; four thousand for

porters to the house of God, and as many

for singers, to sing to the instruments which

David had prepared. He divided them also

into courses; and when he had separated the

priests from them, he found of these priests

twenty-four courses; sixteen of the house of

Eleazar, and eight of that of Ithamar; and

he ordained that one course should minister

to God eight days, from sabbath to sabbath.

And thus were the courses distributed by lot,

in the presence of David, and Zadok, and

Abiathar, the high-priests, and of all the

rulers. And that course which came up first

was written down as the first; and accordingly

the second, and so on to the twenty-fourth.

And this partition hath remained to this day.

He also made twenty-four parts of the tribe

of Levi, and when they cast lots, they came

up in the same manner for their courses of

eight days. He also honoured the posterity

of Moses, and made them the keepers of the

treasures of God, and of the donations which

the kings dedicated. He also ordained, that

all the tribe of Levi, as well as the priests,

should serve God night and day, as Moses

had enjoined them.

After this he divided the army into twelve

parts, with their leaders, and captains of hun­

dreds and commanders. Now every part had

twenty-four thousand: which were ordered to

wait on Solomon, by thirty days at a time,

from the first day till the last, with the cap­

tains of thousands, and captains of hundreds.

He also set rulers over every part, such as he

knew to be good and righteous men. He set

others also to take care of the treasures, aud

of the villages, and of the fields, and of the

beasts. When David had ordered all these

offices after the manner before mentioned, he

called the rulers of the Hebrews, and their

heads of tribes, and the officers over the seve­

ral divisions, and those that were appointed

over every work, and every possession; and,

standing upon a high pulpit, he said to the

multitude: "My brethren, and my people, I

would have you know, that I intended to build

a house for God; and prepared a large quan­

* There is no precept in the law to make the altar  
a privileged place: but, in conformity to the customs

of other nations, the Jews seem to have done it. Other

nations had certainly this custom, as appears from that

passage in Virgil:

Talibus orabat dictis, arasque tenebat. JEneid. 6.

And it seems not unlikely, that as the people, when they

came into the land of Canaan, had cities appointed by

God, whereunto the manslayer might fly; so while they

continued in the wilderness, the camp of the Levites

might serve for the same purpose. Nay, from the words

in Exodus xxi. 14. where God orders the wilful murderer

to be taken from his altar, that he may die, it seems un­

questionably true, that, even in the land of Canaan, the

aitar continued a sanctuary for those who fled unto it; but

then the question is, to what altar Adonijah fled 1 Whe­

ther to the brazen one, which Moses made, and which

was now at Gibeon, or that which his father had lately

erected in the threshing-floor of Araunah? It is expressly

said, 1 Kings i. 50. that he caught hold of the horns of

the altar; but we can hardly suppose, say some, that the

altar in the threshing-floor, which was run up in such

haste with stones and turf, was made in that figure. But

what should hinder us from supposing, that as David had

built a place for the reception of the ark of the covenant

on Mount Sion, he had likewise built there an altar for the

oblation of the daily sacrifices, in the exact form of the

original one that was then at Gibeon, and that it was to

this altar, and neither of the others, that Adonijah betook

himself for refuge. Le Gere's, Patrick's, and Calmet's

Commentaries. 6.

