360 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

words Hezekiah was troubled, and said, he

was himself unwilling that his nation should

fall into such calamities; yet since it was not

possible to alter what God had determined,

he prayed that there might be peace while

he* lived.f Berosus also makes mention of

this Baladan, king of Babylon. Now as to

this prophet, Isaiah, he was by the confession

of all, a divine and wonderful man in speak­

ing truth; and out of the assurance that he

had never written what was false, he wrote

down all the prophecies, and left them be­

hind him in books; that their accomplish­

ment might be judged of from the events by

posterity. Nor did this prophet do so alone;

but the others, which wereJ twelve in num­

ber, did the same. And whatever is done

among us, whether it be good, or whether it

be bad, comes to pass according to the pro­

phecies.

CHAP. HI.

OF THE IMPIETY OF MANASSEH, HEZEKIAH'S SUCCESSOR;

HIS PENITENCE IN CAPTIVITY, AND HIS RESTORATION TO

HIS KINGDOM.

WHEN the king Hezekiah had sur­

vived the interval of time already

mentioned, and had dwelt all that time in

peace, he died: having completed fifty-four

years of his life, and reigned ||twenty-nine.

But when his son Manasseh, whose mother's

name was Hephzibah of Jerusalem, had

taken the kingdom, he departed from the

conduct of his father; and fell into a course

of life quite contrary thereto; and shewed

himself in his manners most wicked in all re­

spects, omitting no sort of impiety; but imi­

tating those transgressions of the Israelites,

by the commission of which against God they

had been destroyed. For he was so hardy

as to defile the temple of God, and the city,

and the whole country. For by setting out

from a contempt of God, he barbarously slew

all the righteous men that were among the

Hebrews. Nor would he spare the pro-

phets:§ for he every day slew some of them:

till Jerusalem was deluged with blood.** So

God was angry at these proceedings, and

sent prophets to the king, and to the multi­

tude; by whom he threatened the very same

calamities to them, which their brethren the

Israelites, upon the like affronts offered to

God, were now under. But these men would

not believe their words; by which belief they

might have reaped the advantage of escaping

all those miseries: yet did they in earnest

learn, that what the prophets had told them

was true.

Now while they persevered in the same

course of life, God raised up war against

them, from the king of Babylon and Chaldea;

who sent an army against Judea, and laid

waste the country; and caught Manasseh by

* 2 Kings xx. 19.

t The words in the text are,—Then said Hezekiah

unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the Lord, which thou

hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good, if peace and

truth be in my days? 2 Kings xx. 19. The prophet had

told him, that the very people whom he had been so

highly complimenting would carry his posterity into cap­

tivity; and to return him such an answer as this, shews

not all the concern which a good prince ought to have

for his people and posterity. It shews, indeed, as if he

cared not what became of them, so long as he was per­

mitted to live easy and happy. The words in the original

are to this effect. "That which thou hast told me from

God, is good; I will submit to it: But shall peace and

truth, i. e. solid and lasting peace, continue for my time?

May I flatter myself with so much happiness? And will

God be so gracious as not to revoke the grant which he

hath made me of a longer continuance here? He is just,

no doubt, in every thing he sends upon us; but, do these

threats relate to me, or my posterity only? Well were

it for me, if'he would suspend the execution of his wrath

for the little time that I have to live." This is the natural

sense of Hezekiah's answer; and accordingly Josephus

makes him say, " That though I am much afflicted at the

thoughts of the misery that will befall my family, yet,

since it is God's pleasure that it should be so, I have

no more to beg of Heaven, than that I may enjoy the

small remainder of my miserable life in peace." Jewish

Antiq. lib. 10. c. 3. and Calmefs Commentary. B.

I See Essay on the Old Testament, Supplement, page

27, 28.

H From an. 728 to an. 699. B. C.

§ The prophets who are supposed to have been living

in this king's reign, were Hoshea, Joel, Nahum, Habak-

kuk, some say Obadiah; and who was the greatest pro­

phet of them all, Isaiah. In the late reign he was in

great esteem at court, and being himself of the blood

royal, and as some say, the king's father-in-law, he

thought it more incumbent upon him to endeavour to re­

claim him from his degenerate wicked courses. But this

so exasperated him against Isaiah, that instead of hearken­

ing to his remonstrances, he caused him to be appre­

hended, and to make his torture both more lingering;,

and more exquisite, had him sawn asunder, with a

wooden saw, to which the author of the epistle to the

Hebrews, chap. xi. 27. may be thought to allude.

Calmefs Commentary, and Ilozeel's History in the

notes. B.

** 2 Kings xxi. 16.

