520 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

there:) but in reality to the commanders of

the army, whom he persuaded to go out

against Malichus with their daggers. So they

went out, and met him near the city, upon the

sea shore, and stabbed him. Hyrcanus was

so astonished that his speech failed him: and

when, after some difficulty, he had recovered

himself, he asked Herod, what the matter

could be? and who it was that slew Mali­

chus? And when he said, that it was done

by the command of Cassius, he commended

the action: for that Malichus was a very

wicked man, and one that conspired against

his own country. And this was the punish­

ment that was inflicted on Malichus, for what

he wickedly did to Antipater.

But when Cassius was marched out of Sy­

ria, disturbances arose in Judea: for Felix,

who was left at Jerusalem with an army,

made a sudden attempt against Phasaelus;

and the people themselves rose in arms. But

Herod went to Fabius, the prefect of Damas­

cus, and was desirous to run to his brother's

assistance; but was hindered by a distemper

that seized upon him; till Phasaelus by him­

self had been too hard for Felix, and had

shut him up in the tower; and there on cer­

tain conditions dismissed him. Phasaelus

also complained of Hyrcanus; that although

he had received many benefits from them, yet

did he support their enemies. For Malichus's

brother had caused many places to revolt, and

kept garrisons in them: and particularly Mas-

sada, the strongest fortress of them all. In

the mean time Herod recovered of his disease,

and came, and took from Felix all the places

he had gotten; and, upon certain conditions,

dismissed him also.

CHAP. XII.

HEROD EJECTS ANTIGONUS, THE SON OF ARISTOBULUS, OUT

OF JUDEX; AND GAINS THE FRIENDSHIP OF ANTONY, BY

SENDING HIM MUCH MONEY. ANTONY WRITES TO THE

TYRIANS ON BEHALF OF THE JEWS.

OW *Ptolemy, the son of Menneus,

brought back into Judea Antigonus,

N

the son of Aristobulus; who had already

raised an army, and had, by money, made

Fabius his friend; and this because he was

of kin to him. Marion also gave him assist­

ance. He had been left by Cassius to tyran­

nize over Tyre; for this Cassius was a man

that seized on Syria, and then kept it under,

in the way of a tyrant. Marion also marched

into Galilee, which lay in his neighbourhood,

and took three of its fortresses, and put gar­

risons into them, to keep them. But when

Herod came, he took all from him. But the

Tyrian garrison he dismissed in a very civil

manner; nay, to some of the soldiers he made

presents, out of his good will to that city.

When he had despatched these affairs, and

was gone to meet Antigonus, he joined battle

with nim, and defeated him; and drove him

out of Judea, when he was just come to its

borders. But when he was come to Jerusa­

lem, Hyrcanus and the people put garlands

about his head. For he had already con­

tracted an affinity with the family of Hyrca­

nus, by having espoused a descendant of his;

and for that reason Herod took the greater

care of him: as being to marry the daughter

of Alexander, the son of Aristobulus, and the

grand-daughter of Hyrcanus: by which wife

he became the father of three male, and two

female children. He had also married before

this another wife, out of a lower family of his

own nation; whose name was Doris: by

whom he had his eldest son Antipater.

Now Antonius and Cresar had beaten Cas­

sius near Philippi; as others have related.

But after the victory Caesar went into tGaul;

and Antony marched for Asia. When he

was arrived at Bithynia, he had ambassadors

that met him from all parts. The principal

men also of the Jews came thither, to accuse

Phasaelus and Herod: and they said, that

Hyrcanus had indeed the appearance oi

reigning, but that these men had all the

power. But Antony paid great respect to

Herod, who was come to him to make his

defence against his accusers. On which ac­

* In this and the following chapters, the reader will  
easily remark, how truly Gronovius observes, in his notes

on the Roman decrees in favour of the Jews, that their

rights and privileges were commonly purchased of the

Romans with money. Many examples of this sort, both

as to the Romans, and others in authority, will occur in

our Josephus, both now and hereafter; and need not be

taken particular notice of on the several occasions in

these notes. Accordingly the chief captain confesses to

St. Paul, that "with a great sum he had obtained his free­

dom," Acts Kii. 28. As had St. Paul's ancestors, very

probably, purchased the like freedom, for their family, by

money; as the same author justly conclude* also.

t For TaXXiaf, or Gaul, the Roman historians, and Jo-

