aN. 453.] 409 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

say thus much, the king was in great agony

and disorder, and encouraged Esther to be

of good cheer, and to expect better fortune:

since he was ready, if occasion should re­

quire it, to grant to her the half of his king­

dom. Accordingly Esther desired that he

and his friend Haman would come to her to

a banquet: for she said she had prepared a

supper for him. Accordingly, he consented;

and when they were there, as they were

drinking, he bade Esther tell him what she

desired; for that she should not be disap-

{lointed, though she should desire the half of

lis kingdom. But she put off the discovery of

her petition till the next day: if he would come

again, together with Haman, to her banquet.*

Now when the king had promised so to do,

Haman went away very joyful; because he

alone had the honour of supping with the

king, at Esther's banquet; and because no

one else partook of the same honour with

kings but himself. Yet when he saw Morde-

cai in the court, he was very much displeased;

for he paid him no manner of respect when

he saw him. So he went home, and called

for his wife Zeresh, and his friends; and

when they were come, he shewed them what

honour he had enjoyed not only from the

king, but from the queen also. For as he

alone had that day supped with her, together

with the king, so was he also invited again

for the next day. "Yet," said he, "I am not

pleased to see Mordecai the Jew in the

court." Hereupon his wife Zeresh advised

him to give order, that a gallows should be

made, fifty cubits high, and that in the mor­

ning he should ask it of the king, that Mor­

decai might be hanged thereon. So he com­

mended her advice, and gave order to his

servants to prepare the gallows, and to place

it in the court, for the punishment of Morde­

cai thereon: which was accordingly pre­

pared. But God laughed to scorn the wick­

ed expectations of Haman: for that night he

took away the king's sleep; and as the king

was not willing to lose the time of his lying

awake, but to spend it in something that

might be of advantage to his kingdom, he

commanded the scribe to bring him the

chronicles of the former kings, and the re­

cords of his own actions. And when he had

brought them, and was reading them, one

was found to have received a country on ac­

count of his excellent management on a cer­

tain occasion; and the name of the country

was set down. Another was found to have

had a present made him on account of his

fidelity. Then the scribe came to Bigthan

and Teresh, the eunuchs, who had formed a

conspiracy against the king; which Mordecai

had discovered. And when the scribe said

no more but that; and was going on to an­

other history, the king stopped him; and in­

quired, if it were not added that Mordecai

had a reward given him? And when he said

there was no such addition, he bade him

leave oflf: and he inquired of those that were

appointed for that purpose, what hour of the

night it was? And when he was informed

that it was already day, he gave order, that

if they found any one of his friends already

come, and standing before the court they

should tell him. Now it happened that Ha­

man was found there, for he was come soon­

er than ordinary to petition the king to have

Mordecai put to death.f And when the ser­

vants said, that Haman was before the court,

he bade them call him in. And when he was

come in, he said, "Because I know that thou

art a sincere friend, I desire thee to give me

advice, how I may honour one that I greatly

love, and that after a manner suitable to my

magnificence." Now Haman reasoned with

himself, that what opinion he should give, it

would be for himself, since it was he alone

who was beloved by the king. So he gave

that advice which he thought of all other the

best. For he said, "If thou would est truly

that was proper and peculiar to the king; and the queen's

touching, or, as some say, kissing it, was a token of her

subjection, and thankfulness for his favour. B.

* Esther v. 8.

t It may seem a little strange, that so proud a man

as Haman was, should not be prompted immediately to

avenge himself on Mordecai for his contemptuous usage

of him, since he had enough about him, no doubt, who,

upon the least intimation of his pleasure, would have done

it; and since he, who had interest enough with his prince

to procure a decree for the destruction of a whole nation,

might easily have obtained a pardon for having killed one

obscure and infamous member of it. But herein did the

wise and powerful providence of God appear, that it dis­

posed Haman's heart, contrary to his own inclination and

interest, instead of employing his power against his ene­

my, to put fetters, as it were, upon his own hands. PnrJ^

Annotations. B.

