336 [book rx. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

place; for that, as they sat behind Ahab's

chariot, they heard the prophet say so; and

it was now come to pass according to his

prophecy. Upon the fall of Joram, Ahaziah

was afraid of his own life, and turned his

chariot into another road; supposing he

should not he seen by Jehu. But he fol­

lowed after him, and overtook him at a cer­

tain acclivity, and drew his bow, and

wounded him. So he left his chariot, and

got upon his horse, and fled from Jehu to

Megiddo; and though he was under cure, in

a little time he died of that wound; and was

carried to Jerusalem and buried there; after

he had reigned one year, and had proved a

more unrighteous man than his father.

When Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel

adorned herself,* and stood upon a tower,

and said, "He was a fine servant that had

killed his master." And when he looked up

to her, he asked who she was, and com­

manded her to come down to him. At last

he ordered the eunuchsf to throw her down

from the tower: and being thrown down,J

she sprinkled the walls with her blood, and

was trodden upon by the horses, and so died.

When this was done, Jehu came to the palace

with his friends, and took some refreshment

after his journey. He also bade his servants

take up Jezebel and bury her, because of the

nobility of her blood; for she was descended

from kings.|| But those that were appointed

to bury her, found nothing remaining but the

extreme parts of her body, for all the rest

were eaten by dogs. When Jehu heard this,

he admired the prophecy of Elijah, which§

foretold that she should perish in this manner

at Jezreel.

Now Ahab had seventy sons brought up in

Samaria. So Jehu sent two epistles,** the

one to them that brought up the children, the

other to the rulers of Samaria; desiring them

to set up the most valiant of Ahab's sons for

king; for that they had abundance of chariots,

and horses, and armour, and a great army,

and fenced cities; and that by so doing they

might avenge the murder of their master.

This he wrote to try the intentions of those

of Samaria. Now when the rulers, and those

that had brought up the children had read

* The words in the original import, She put her eyes  
in paint, i. e. she used stibium or antimony pulverised, to

make her eyes and eyebrows look black and large, which,

in several countries, was accounted a great beauty. The

use of paint has been of ancient date, and the art of

blacking the hair, and beautifying the face may be in­

dulged by the vanity of the female sex; but it raises one's

indignation to read of a Sardanapalus painting his eyes and

eyebrows; of the ancient Greeks running into the same

custom; and much more of the martial Romans; but

there were fops in all nations then as well as now.

Ille supercilium madida fuligine, tinctum

Obliqua producit acu, pingitque trementes

Attollens oculos. Juv. Sat. 2. B.

t According to the custom of the eastern nations, the

business of this sort of people was to attend upon queens

in their chambers, who, by their great fidelity and obse­

quiousness, gained generally the esteem, and were ad­

mitted to the confidence of those they served, and from

thence into places very often of great trust and profit. It

is remarked, however, of Jezebel's eunuchs, that they

were far from being faithful to her, to let us see how

suddenly courtiers are wont to change with the fortune of

their masters. Patrick's Commentary. B.

\ Some of the Jewish doctors look upon this as a

punishment, according to the lex talionis; for as she had

done, so she suffered. She had caused Naboth to be

Stoned, and now she is condemned to be stoned herself.

For there were two wavg of stoning, either by throwing

stones at malefactors till they had knocked them down

and killed them; or by throwing them down upon the

stones from a high place, and so dashing them to pieces.

Patrick's Commentary. B.

II She was the daughter of Eth-baal king of Tyre; the

wife of Ahab, and mother of Joram, kings of Israel; the

mother-in-law of Jehoram king of Judah; and the aunt

of Ahaziah, who was likewise king of Judah. Calmet's

Commentary. B.

§ See Book VIII. chap. 13.

** The words in the original, which our translation has  
followed, are, Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria,

unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to them that

brought up Ahab's children, 2 Kings x. 1. But then the

question is, How the rulers of Jezreel came to be at

Samaria? Some have imagined indeed a mistake in the

transcriber, and that, instead of Jezreel, the word should

be Israel, which is no great variation: but why may we

not suppose, that, upon hearing how Jehu had slain

Joram, the great men of his court might take the children,

and, for fear that they should fall into his hands, flee with

them into Samaria, as the capital, and strongest place in

the kingdom, where they might think of defending them­

selves against his usurpation, and (as his letters seem to

import) of filling, with one of Ahab's family, the vacant

throne. It was customary for princes of the blood, in

those days, to be brought up in the families of the prime

nobility of the nation; and therefore, whatever persons of

this quality had these princes under their care, and saw

the revolution that was like to happen, they might think

it the most advisable way to hasten with them to Samaria,

as a place of the most security; or, for this very reason.

Joram. when he went against Ramoth Gilead, might have

sent them thither, that they might be under cover from

any ill accident that might possibly happen in his war

with the king of Syria. Patrick's Commentary, and PooPs

Annotations. B.

