AN.1532.J 99 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

so unexpectedly befel them; but Moses in-

treated their brethren and their father not to

be troubled for them; to prefer their honour

of God before their grief about them; for

Aaron had already put on his sacred garments.

Moses refused all that honour which he saw

the multitude ready to bestow upon him, and

attended to nothing but the service of God.

He went no more up to mount Sinai; but he

went into the tabernacle, and brought back

answers from God to what he prayed for.

His habit was also that of a private man; and

in all other circumstances he behaved him­

self like one of the common people, and was

desirous to appear without distinguishing

himself from the multitude, but would have

it known that he did nothing but to take care

of them. He also set down in writing the

form of their government, and those laws, by

* These answers by the oracle of Urimand Thummim,  
which words signify light and perfection, or, astheLXXII.

renders them, Aiikugis xai AXrjdsia, revelation and truth;

and denote nothing faither, that I see, but the shining

stones themselves, which were used in this method of illu­

mination, in revealing the will of God, after a perfect and

true manner, to his people Israel: I say, these answers

were not made by the shining of the precious stones, after

an awkward manner, in the high-priest's breast-plate, as

the modern Rabbins vainly suppose, and as the learned

interpret Philo and Josephus, but without any sufficient

foundation, so far as I see; for certainly the shining of the

stones might precede or accompany the oracle, without

itself delivering that oracle; see Antiq. VI. 6; but rather

by an audible voice from the mercy-seat, between the

cherubim. See Prid. Connect, at the year 534, at large.

This oracle had been silent, as Josephus here informs us,

'200 years before he wrote his Antiquities, or ever since

the days of John Hyrcanus, the last good high-priest of the

family of the Maccabees. Now it is worth our observa­

tion, that the oracle before us, was that by which God ap­

peared to be present with, and gave directions to his

people Israel, as their king, all the while they submitted

to him in that capacity, and did not set over them such in­

dependent kings as governed according to their own wills

and political maxims, instead of divine directions; accord­

ingly we met with this oracle, besides angelic, and pro­

phetic admonitions all along, from the days of Moses and

Joshua to the anointing of Saul, the first of the succession

of kings. Numb, xxvii. 21, Judg. i. 1, xviii. 5, 6, xx. 18,

23, 26, 27, 1 Sam. i. 14, iii. per tot. iv. per tot. Nay, till

Saul's rejection of the divine commands in the war with

Amalek, when he took upon him to act as he thought fit

himself, 1 Sam. xiv. 18, 19, 36, 37. Then this oracle

left Saul entirely, (which indeed he had seldom consulted

before; see 1 Sam. xvi. 35, 1. Chron. xiii. 3, Joseph.

Antiq. VII. 4,) and accompanied David, who was anointed

to succeed him, and who consulted God by it frequently,

and complied with its directions constantly. See 1 Sam.

xxii. 13, 15, xxiii. 9, 10, xxx. 7, 8, 2 Sam. ii. l,v. 19,23,

xxi. 1, 1 Chron, xiv. 10, 14, Joseph. Antiq. VI. 12, VII.

▼oi>- ',—no. 9.

obedience to which they would lead their

lives so as to please God, and so as to have

no quarrels one among another. However,

the laws he ordained were such as God sug­

gested to him; so I shall now discourse con­

cerning that form of government and those

laws.

I will now treat of what I before omitted,

the garment of the high-priest: for Moses

left no room for the evil practices of false

prophets; but, if some of that sort should at­

tempt to abuse the Divine authority, he left

it to God to be present at his sacrifices when

he pleased, and when he pleased to be ab­

sent. And he was willing this should be known

not to the Hebrews only, but to those foreign­

ers also who were there. For as to those

sardonyxes* which the high-priest bare on his

shoulders, the one of them shined out when

4. Saul, indeed, long after his rejection by God, and

when God had given him up to destruction for his disobe­

dience, did once afterwards endeavour to consult God

when it was too late; but God would not then answer him,

neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets; 1

Sam. xxvii. 6. Nor did any of David's successors, the

kings of Judah, that we know of, consult God by this ora­

cle till the Babylonish captivity, when those kings were

at an end, they taking upon them, I suppose, too much of

despotic power and royalty, and too little owning the God

of Israel for the supreme King of Israel, though a few of

them consulted the prophets sometimes, and were an­

swered by them. At the return of the two tribes, with­

out the return of the kingly government, the restoration

of this oracle was expected: Neh. vii. 65, 1 Esd. v. 40,

: 1 Mac. iv. 46, and indeed it may seem to have been re­

stored for some time after the Babylonish captivity, at

least in the days of that excellent high-priest, John Hyr­

canus, whom Josephus esteemed as a king, a priest, and a

prophet, and who, he says, foretold several things that

came to pass accordingly; but about the time of his death,

he here implies, that this oracle quite ceased, and not be­

fore, the following high-priests, now putting diadems on

their heads, and ruling according to their own will, and by

their own authority, like the other kings of the pagan

countries about them, so that while the God of Israel was

allowed to be the supreme King of Israel, and his direc­

tions to be their authentic guides, God gave them such

directions as their supreme king and governor, and they

were properly under a theocracy, this oracle of Urim, but

no longer; see Dr. Bernard's notes here; though I con­

fess I cannot but esteem the high-priest Jaddus's divine

dream, Antiq. XI. 8, and the high-priest Caiaphas's most

remarkable prophecy, John xi. 47—52, as two small re­

mains, or specimens, of this ancient oracle, which properly

belonged to the Jewish priests; nor, perhaps, ought we

entirely to forget that eminent prophetic dream of our

Josephus himself, (one next to the high-priest, as of the

family of the Asmoneans or Maccabees, by his mother's

side, and by his father of the first of the twenty-four

classes of the" priests,) as to the succession of Vespasian

Cc

