AN. 1531.] 113 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

one should have it for all time to come, and

had made it secure and firm to him, to have

refused it. However, he himself will judge

again, who it shall be whom he would have

to offer sacrifices to him, and to have the di­

rection of matters of religion. For it is ab­

surd that Corah, who is ambitious of this ho­

nour, should deprive God of the power of

giving it to whom he pleases. Put an end,

therefore, to your sedition and disturbance

on this account, and to-morrow morning let

every one who desires the priesthood bring a

censer from home, and come hither with in­

cense and fire.* And do thou, O Corah,

leave the judgment to God; and await to see

on what side he will give his determination

upon this occasion. But do not thou make

thyself greater than God. Do thou also come,

that this contest about this honourable em­

ployment may receive determination. And

suppose we may admit Aaron without of-

ence, to offer himself to this scrutiny; since

le is of the same lineage with thyself; and

las done nothing in his priesthood that can

be liable to exception. Come ye therefore

together, and offer your incense in public be­

fore all the people: and when you offer it,

he whose sacrifice God shall accept shall be

ordained to the priesthood, and shall be clear

of the present calumny on Aaron, as if I had

granted him that favour because he was my

brother."

CHAP. Ill

OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THOSE WHO FOMENTED THE SE­

DITION J AND OF THE DIVINE APPROVAL OF AARON'S

PRIESTHOOD.

WHEN Moses had said this, the multi­

tude left off the turbulent behaviour

they had indulged, and the suspicion they had

entertained of Moses; and commended what

he had said: for those proposals were good,

and were so esteemed of the people. At that

time therefore they dissolved the assembly.

But on the next day they came to the congre­

gation, in order to be present at the sacrifice,

and at the determination that was to be made

between the candidates for the priesthood.

Now this congregation proved a turbulent

one, and the multitude were "in great sus-

* Numb. xiv. 6,7.

pense in expectation of what was to be done.

And some of them would have been pleased

if Moses had been convicted of evil practices:

but the wiser sort desired that they might be

delivered from the present disorder and dis­

turbance; for they were afraid that if this

sedition went on, the good order of their

settlement would be destroyed. But the

whole body of people do naturally delight

in clamours against their governors; and, by

changing their opinions upon the harangues

of every speaker, disturb the public tran­

quility. And now Moses sent messengers for

Abiram and Dathan; and ordered them to

come to the assembly, and wait there for the

holy offices that were to be performed. But

they answered the messengers, that they

would not obey his summons; nay, would not

overlook Moses's behaviour, who was grow­

ing too great for them by evil practices. Now

when Moses heard this answer, he desired

the heads of the people to follow him, and he

went to the faction of Dathan, not fearing to

go to these insolent people; so they made no

opposition, but went along with him. But Da­

than and his associates, when they understood

that Moses, and the principal of the people,

were coming to them, came out with their

wives and children, and stood before their

tents; and looked to see what Moses would

do. They had also their servants at hand to

defend them, in case Moses should use force.

But he came near, and lifted up his hands

to heaven, and cried out with a loud voice,

in order to be heard by the whole multitude;

and said, " O Lord of the creatures that are

in the heaven, in the earth, and in the sea: for

thou art the most authentic witness to what I

have done, that it has all been done by thy

appointment; and that it was thou that afford-

est us assistance when we attempted any

thing, and shewed mercy to the Hebrews in

all their distresses. Do thou come now, and

hear all I say; for no action nor thought es­

capes thy knowledge; so that thou wilt not

disdain to speak what is true, for my vindica­

tion; without any regard to the ungrateful

imputations of these men. As for what was

done before I was born, thou knowest best:

as not learning them by report, but seeing

them, and being present with them when they

were done. But for what has been done of

late, and which these men, although they

