Ik [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ous designs towards men, and it being easiest

to take vengeance of him that way; and when

he had deprived him of the use of his Jget, he

made him to go rolling along, and dragging

himself upon the ground; and when God had

appointed these penalties for them, he re­

moved Adam and Eve out of the garden* into

another place.

CHAP. II.

OF THE POSTERITY OF ADAM, AND THE TEN GENERATIONS

FROM HIM TO THE DELUGE.

ADAM and Eve had two sons,f the elder

of them was named Cain, which name,

when interpreted, signifies a possession. The

younger was Abel, which signifies sorrow.

They also hadjlaughters. Now the two bre­

thren were pleased with different courses of

life: for Abel the brother was a lover of

righteousness, and believing that GocTwas

present at all his actions, he excelled in vir­

tue, and his employment was that of a shep­

herd. But Cain was not only very wicked in

other respects, but was wholly intent upon

getting, and he first contrived to plough the

ground. He slew his brother on the following

occasion :—they had resolved to sacrifice to

God; now Cain brought the fruits of the earth,

and of his husbandry: but Abel brought milk,

and the first fruits of his flocks. But GodJ

was more delighted with the latter oblation,

when he was honoured with what grew natu­

rally of its own accord, than he was with what

was the invention of a covetous man, and got­

ten by forcing the ground. Cain, therefore,

was very angry that Abel was preferred by

God before him, and he slew his brother, and

hid his dead body, thinking to escape dis­

covery. But God knowing what had been done,

came to Cain and asked him, What was be­

come of his brother? because he had not seen

him many days, whereas he used to observe

them conversing together at other times. But

Cain was in doubt with himself, and knew not

what answer to give to God. At first he said,

that he was himself at a loss about his bro­

ther's disappearing; but when he was pro- j

voked by God, who pressed him vehemently,'

as resolving to know what the matter was, he

replied, "He was not his brother's guardian

or keeper, nor was he an observer of what he

did." But in return God convicted Cain, as

having been the murderer of his brother, and

said, " I wonder at thee, that thou knowest

not what is become of a man whom thou thy­

self has destroyed." God however did not

inflict the punishment of death upon him, on

account of his offering sacrifice, and thereby

making supplication to him not to be extreme

in his wrath to him: but he made him ac­

cursed and threatened his posterity in the

seventh generation. He also cast him, together

with his .wife, out of that land; and when he

was afraid, that in wandering about he should

fall among wild beasts, and by that means

perish, God told him not to entertain such a

melancholy suspicion,|| but to go over all the

earth without fear of what mischief he might

suffer from wild beasts; and setting a mark

upon him that he might be known, he com­

manded him to depart.§

When Cain had travelled over many coun­

tries, he, with his wife, built a city, named

Nod,** which is a place so called, and there

* Gen. iii. 23.

t Gen. iv. et sequel.

J St. John's account of the reason why God accepted

the sacrifice of Abel, and rejected that of Cain; as also

why Cain slew Abel, on account of his acceptance with

God, is much better than this of Josephus; I mean, be­

cause " Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother.

And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works

were evil, and his brother's righteous." 1 John iii. 22.

Josephus's reasons seems to be no better than a Phari­

saical notion or tradition.

|| The punishment of Cain was doubtless a severe one,

but not more so than his aggravated guilt demanded. Re­

ferring to it, Moses represents him as saying, My punish­

ment is greater than I can bear, Gen. iv. 13. but as the

Hebrew words signifies iniquity rather than punishment,

and the verb signifies to be forgiven, as well as to bear, it

seems to agree better with the context, to render the

verse positively, my iniquity is too great to be forgiven; or

by way of interrogation, is my iniquity too great to be for­

given? A learned annotator has observed that as there are

seven abominations in the heart of him that loveth not his

brother, Prov. xxvi. 25. there were the like number of

transgressions in Cain's conduct. 1. He sacrificed with­

out faith. 2. He was displeased that God respected him

not. 3. He hearkened not to God's admonition. 4. He

spake dissemblingly to his brother. 5. He killed him in

the field. 6. He denied that he knew where he was.

7. He neither hoped or asked for mercy from God, but

despaired, and so fell into the condemnation of the devil.

Jiinsworth's Jlnnot. B.

§ Of this punishment of Cain in the seventh generation,

and of the punishment of Lamech in the seventy-seventh

generation, as also of the mark set upon Cain and his pos­

terity, see Literal Accomplishment of Scripture Prophe­

cies, Supplement at large, page 106—134.

** Gen. iv. 16.

