An. 1507.] 167 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ter made; and as the report of Gideon's vic­

tory came to the Israelites, they took their

weapons and pursued their enemies, and

overtook them in a certain valley, encom­

passed with torrents, a place which these

could not get over, so they encompassed

them, and slew them all, with their kings,

Oreb and Zeeb;* but the remaining captains

led those soldiers that were left, which were

about eighteen thousand, and pitched their

camp a great way off the Israelites. How­

ever, Gideon pursued them with all his army,

and joining battle with them, cut off the

whole enemies' army, and took the other

leaders, Zebah and Zalmunna, and made

them captives. Now there were slain in this

battle of the Midianites, and of their auxil­

iaries the Arabians, about a hundred and

twenty thousand; and the Hebrews took a

great prey, gold, and silver, and garments,

and camels, and asses: and when Gideon was

come to his own country of Ophrah, he slew

the kings of the Midianites.

The tribe of Ephraim, however, was so dis­

pleased at the good success of Gideon, that

they resolved to make war against him; ac­

cusing him because he did not tell them of

his expedition against their enemies.f But

Gideon, as a man of temper, and that excelled

. in every virtue, pleaded that it was not the

result of his own authority or reasoning that

made him attack the enemy without them;

but that it was the command of God; and

that still the victory belonged to them, as

well as to those that were in the army; and

by this method of cooling their passions, he

"brought more advantage to the Hebrews,

than by the success he had against their ene­

mies, for he thereby delivered them from a

sedition which was arising among them. Yet

did this tribe afterwards suffer the punish­

ment of this their injurious treatment of

Gideon, of which we will give an account in

due time.

Hereupon Gideon would have resigned the

government, but being over-persuaded re­

tained it forty years;J and distributed justice

to them as the people came to him in their

differences; and what he determined was es­

teemed valid by all; and when he died he

was buried in his own country of Ophrah.

CHAP. VII.

..-'•'-•

OF THE JTTDGES WHO SUCCEEDED GIDEON, AND THEIR WARi

WITH THE ADJOINING NATIONS.

NOW Gideon had seventy sons that were

legitimate, for he had many wives; but

he had also by his concubine Drumah, one

that was spurious, whose name was Abiine-

lech,[| who, after his father's death, retired to

Shecnem, to his mother's relations, for they

were of that place; and when he had got

money of such of them as were eminent for

many instances of injustice, he came with

them to his father's house, and slew all his

brethren, except Jotham, for he had the good

fortune to escape and be preserved. But

Abimelech made tho government tyrannical,

and constituted himself a lord, to do what he

pleased, instead of obeying the laws; and he

acted most rigidly against those that were the

patrons of justice.

Now when, on a certain time,§ there was a

public festival at Shechem, and all the multi­

tude was there gathered together, Jotham his

brother, whose escape we before related,

went up to mount Gerizzim, which hangs over

* Jndg. vii. 25. As the language of the Ishmaelites,  
the Midianites, and the Amalekites, who dwelt in Arabia,

was originally the same, because they all descended from

Abraham their common father; so we may infer, that

there was little or no difference in them at this time.

Oreb, in the Hebrew, signifies a crow, and Zeeb, a wolf;

and these are no improper words to represent the saga-

ciousness and fierceness which should be in two such

great commanders. Nor was it an uncommon thing for

great families in ancient times to derive their names from

such like creatures, (hence the Corvini, Gracchi, Aquilini,

&c. among the Romans,) either as omens, or monuments

of their undaunted courage and dexterity in military

achievements. But after all it seems every whit as pro­

bable, that these were only nick names, which the Israel­

ites gave these two princes of Midian, to denote their

fierceness and rapaciousness of prey. Bedford's Scripture

Chronology, lib. v. c. 3. and Le Clerc's Commentary, B.

t Judg. viii. 1.

J From an. 1307 to an. 1267.

II What the names of his other sons were, we have no

mention made in sacred writ; but the name of this one is

particularly set down, because the following story de­

pends upon it; and not only so, but his mother perhaps

might give him this name, which signifies, my father a

king, out of pride and arrogance, that she might be looked

upon as the wife of one who was thought to deserve a

kingdom, though he did not accept it: and it is not im­

probable, that the very sense of this might be one means

to inflame the mind of her son afterwards, to affect the

royal dignity. Patrick's Commentary, B.

§ An. 1267

