an. 893.] 329 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ram, and exhorted him to take care of that

place; for that therein were some Syrians

lying in ambush to kill him. So the king

did as the prophet exhorted him, and avoid­

ed going a hunting. And when Benhadad

missed of the success of his lying in ambush,

he was angry with his own servants; as if

they had betrayed his concealment to Jo-

ram, and he sent for them, and said, they

were the betrayers of his secret counsels;

and he threatened that he would put them

to death: since such their practice was evi­

dent, because he had intrusted this secret

to none but them; and yet it was made

known to his enemy. But one that was

E resent said, that he should not mistake

imself, nor suspect that they had discovered

to his enemy his sending men to kill him;

but that he ought to know that it was

Elisha the prophet who discovered all to

him, and laid open all his counsels. So he

gave order that they should send some to

learn in what city Elisha dwelt. Accordingly

those that were sent brought word that he

was in Dothan. Wherefore Benhadad sent

to that city a great army with horses and

chariots, to take Elisha. So they encom­

passed the city round about by night, and

kept him therein confined. But when the

prophet's servant in the morning perceived

this, and that his enemies sought to take

Elisha, he came running, and crying after a

disordered manner to him, and told him of it.

But he encouraged him, and bade him not be

afraid, but to despise the enemy, and trust in

the assistance of God; and he besought God

to manifest to his servant his power and pre­

sence, so far as was possible, in order to the

inspiring him with hope and courage. Ac­

cordingly God heard the prayer of the pro­

phet, and made the servant see a multitude

of chariots and horses encompassing Elisha,

till he laid aside his fear, and his courage re­

vived, at the sight of what he supposed was

come to their assistance. After this Elisha

did farther intreat God, that he would dim

the eyes of their enemies, and*cast a mist

before them, whereby they might not discern

him. When this was done he went into the

midst of his enemies, and asked them, who it

was that they came to seek? And when they

replied, the prophet Elisha, he promised he

would deliver him to them, if they would

follow him to the city where he was. So

these men were so darkened by God in their

sight and in their mind, that they followed

him very diligently. And when Elisha had

brought them to Samaria, he ordered Joram

the king to shut the gates, and to place his

own army round about them; and prayed to

God to clear the eyes of these their enemies*

and take the mist from before them. Ac­

cordingly when they were freed from (he

obscurity they had been in, they saw them­

selves in the midst of their enemies. And

as the Syrians were strangely amazed and

distressed, as was but reasonable, at an ac­

tion so divine and surprising, and as king

Joram asked the prophet, if he would give

him leave to shoot at them: Elisha forbade

them so to do; and said, that it was just to

kill those that were taken in battle; but

that these men had done no harm; but,

without knowing it, were come thither by

the divine power. So that his counsel was

to treat them in a hospitable manner at his

table; and then send them away, without

hurting them. Wherefore Joram obeyed the

prophet: and when he had feasted the Sy­

rians in a splendid and magnificent manner,

he let them go to Benhadad their king.t

Now when these men were come back,

and had shewed Benhadad how strange an

accident had befallen them: and how they

had experienced the God of Israel's power,

he wondered at it: as also at that prophet

with whom God was so evidently present.

So he determined to make no more secret

attempts upon the king of Israel, out of fear

of Elisha: but resolved to make open war

with them; as supposing he could be too

hard for his enemies by the multitude of his

army and his power. So he made an ex­

pedition with a great army against Joram;

who, not thinking himself a match for him,

shut himself up in Samaria, and depended

* 1 Kings vi. 20.

t Upon occasion of this stratagem of Elisha's in Jose-

phus, we may take notice, that although Josephus was

one of the greatest lovers of truth in the world, yet, in

a just war, he seems to have had no manner of scruple

upon him by all such stratagems possible to deceive

public enemies. See this Josephus's account of Jere­

miah's imposition on the great men of the Jews in some­

what a like case, X. 7. See him also, VII. 9. And see

our own Bible, 2 Sam. xvi. 16, &c. and xvii. 1—16, 20.

