:J28 [book IX ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Ahab's steward came to him, and said, he

was not ignorant how her husband had pre­

served the prophets, that were to be slain

by Jezebel, the wife of Ahab: for she said

that he hid a hundred of them; and had

borrowed money for their maintenance; and

that after her husband's death, she and her

children were carried away to be made

slaves,* by the creditors, and she desired of

him to have mercy upon her, on account of

what her husband did; and afford her some

assistance. And when he asked her what

she had in the house? she said, Nothing but

a very small quantity of oil in a cruse. So the

prophet bade her go away, and borrow a

great many empty vessels of her neighbours;

the good steward of Abab, as Joscphus affirms, is con­

firmed, as Dr. Hudson informs us, by the Chaldee Pa-

raphrast, and by the Rabbins, and others besides. Nor

is that unlikely, which Josephus here adds, that these

debts were contracted by her husband for the support of

those hundred of the Lord's prophets whom he main­

tained by fifty in a cave in the days of Ahab and Jezebel,

1 Kings xviii. 4, which circumstance rendered it highly

fit that the prophet Elisha should provide her a remedy,

and enable her to redeem herself and her sons from that

slavery which insolvent debtors were liable to, by the

law of Moses, Lev. xxv. 39, Matt, xviii. 25, and which

he did accordingly, with God's help, at the expense of

a miracle.

* The Jewish law looked upon children as the proper  
goods of their parents, who had power to sell them for

seven years, as their creditors had to compel them to do

it in order to pay their debt; and from the Jews this

custom was propagated to the Athenians, and from them

to the Romans. The Romans indeed had the most abso­

lute control over their children. By the decree of Ro­

mulus they could imprison, beat, kill, or sell them for

slaves. But Numa Pompilius first moderated this, and

the emperor Dioclesian made a law, that no free person

should be sold upon account of debt. The ancient Athe­

nians had the like jurisdiction over their children; but

Solon reformed this cruel custom; as indeed it seemed

a little hard, that the children of a poor man, who have

no manner of inheritance left them, should be compelled

into slavery, in order to pay their deceased father's debts:

and yet this was the custom, as appears from this passage,

wherein the prophet does not pretend to reprove the cre­

ditor, but only puts the woman in a method to pay him.

Calmtt,s and he Clere's Commentaries. B.

t Dr. Hudson, with very good reason, slispects that

there is no small defect in our present copies of Josephus,

just before the beginning of this paragraph, and that

chiefly as to that distinct account which he had given us

reason to expect in the preceding one, and to which he

seems to refer, chap. viii. concerning the glorious miracles

which Elisha wrought; which indeed in our Bibles are

not a few, 2 Kings iv—ix. but of which we have several

omitted in Josephus's present copies. Nor does the fol­

lowing incoherence here, which requires Joram to beware

of that place, as 2 Kings vi. 10. whereas no certain place

and, when she had shut her chamber door,

to pour the oil into them all: for that God

would fill them. And when the woman had

done what she was commanded, and bade

her children bring every one of the vessels,

and all were filled, she came to the prophet,

and told him they were full. Upon which

he advised her to go and sell the oil, and

S>ay the creditors what was owing to them:

or that there would be some surplus of

the price of oil; which she might make

use of for the maintenance of her children.

And thus did Elisha discharge the woman's

debts, and free her from the vexation of her

creditors.

Elishaf also sent a hasty message to Jo-

had, in his present copies, been mentioned before, at all

agree with the foregoing coherence, and context, as

it does in our other copies. One of those histories,

omitted at present, was evidently in his Bible. I mean

that of curing Naaman's leprosy, 2 Kings v. for he

plainly alludes to it, 111. 11. where he observes, that

"There were lepers in many nations, who yet have been

in honour; and not only free from reproach, and avoid­

ance; but who have been great captaius of armies, and

been intrusted with high offices in the commonwealth,

and have had the privilege of entering into holy places

and temples." But what makes me most to regret the

want of that history in our present copies of Josephus, is

this, that we have here, as it is commonly understood,

one of the greatest difficulties in all the Bible, I mean

that in 2 Kings v. 18, 19. where Naaman, after he had

been miraculously cured by a prophet of the true God,

and had thereupon promised, that he would thenceforth

offer neither burnt-offering nor sacrifices unto other gods,

but unto the Lord; adds, "In this thing the Lord pardon

thy servant, that when my master goeth into the house

of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my

hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon; when

I bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, the

Lord pardon thy servant in this thing." And Elisha said

unto him, "Go in peace." This looks like a prophet's

permission for being partaker in idolatry itself, out of

compliance with an idolatrous court. The Septuagint in

our ordinary copies, plainly understood it so, by using

the verb bowing down, in the future tense; although

Theodoret cites it as in the past tense. And the great

Bochart has shewn, that in the original, it more properly

belongs to the times past, Op. page 892, 894, 898. and

only contains his desire of pardon for what he had for­

merly done, while he was a gross idolater; and not of

being indulged in any such thing for the time to come.

The permission of which seems utterly inconsistent with

both the Old ai*New Testament. It is therefore a great

pity that Josephus's copies should be defective in so re­

markable a place. Nor is it very unlikely, that what

Josephus promised to speak of afterward, V. 1. concerning

the curse on the rebuilder of Jericho, but is not now

found in his present books, was contained in what is here

wanting upon occasion of Elisha's miracle there, 2 Kings

ii. 18—22.

