An. 22.] 565 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

a temple, that was seen a great way off,

by those that were sailing for that haven,

and had in it two statues, the one of Rome,

the other of Caesar. As the city itself was

called Caesarea: which was also built of fine

materials, and was of a fine structure. Nay,

the very subterranean vaults and cellars had

no less of architecture bestowed on them,

than had the building above ground. Some

of these vaults carried things at even dis­

tances, to the haven, and to the sea; but

one of them ran obliquely, and bound all

the rest together; that both the rain and the

filth of the streets were together carried off

with ease, and the sea itself, upon the flux

of the tide from without, came into the city,

and washed it all clean. Herod also built

therein a theatre of stone: and on the south

quarter, behind the port, he erected an am­

phitheatre, capable of holding a vast num­

ber of men, and conveniently situated for a

prospect of the sea. So this city was thus

finished in *twelve years; during which

time the king did not fail both to go on

with the work, and to pay the charges that

were necessary.

CHAP. X.

OF ZENODORUS AND THE TRACHONITES; AND THE ACCUSA­

TION BROUGHT AGAINST HEROD BY THE GADARENES.

ALSO OF THE PHARISEES, THE ESSENES, AND MANAHEM.

WHEN Herod had rebuilt Sebaste, or

Samaria, he resolved to send his

sons Alexander and Aristobulus to Rome, to

enjoy the company of Caesar. Accordingly

when they came thither, they were enter­

tained at the house of tPollio, who was very

fond of Herod's friendship; and they had

leave to lodge in Caesar's own palace; for he

received these sons of Herod with all hu­

manity, and gave Herod permission to give

his kingdom to which of his sons he pleased:

and, besides all this, he bestowed on him

* Caesarea being here said to be rebuilt, and adorned  
in twelve years; and soon afterwards in ten years, XVI.

5. there must be a mistake in one of the places, as to the

true number: but in which of them it is hard positively to

determine. I prefer the latter reading: because in the

13th and 14th years of Herod's reign was the terrible

famine in Judea: which would prevent any fulness of

his treasury for some years: because then it will begin in

his 18th year, when we know he had recovered himself

enough to set about rebuilding the temple.

Trachon, and Batanea, and Auranitis, on the

following occasion. One JZenodorus had

hired what was called the house of Lysanias.

But he was not satisfied with its revenues,

he became a partner with the robbers who

inhabited the Trachones; and so procured

himself a larger income. For the inhabi­

tants of those places lived in a mad way,

and pillaged the country of the Damascenes;

while Zenodorus did not restrain them, but

partook of the prey they acquired. Now as

the neighbouring people were hereby great

sufferers, they complained to Varro, who

was then president of Syria, and entreated

him to write to Caesar about this injustice of

Zenodorus. When these matters were laid

before Caesar, he wrote back to Varro to

destroy those nests of robbers, and to give

the land to Herod; that by his care the

neighbouring countries might be no longer

disturbed with these doings of the Tracho-

nites. For it was not an easy thing to re­

strain them: since this way of robbery had

been their usual practice, and they had no

other way to get their living; because they

had neither any city of their own, nor lands

in their possession; but only some recepta­

cles and dens in the earth; and there they

and their cattle lived in common together.

However, they had made contrivances to

get pools of water, and laid up corn in gra­

naries for themselves; and were able to

make great resistance, by issuing out sud­

denly against any that attacked them. For

the entrances of their caves were narrow;

in which but one could come at a time: and

the places within incredibly large, and made

very wide. But the ground over their habi­

tations was not very high, but rather on a

plain: while the rocks are altogether hard,

and difficult to be entered upon; unless any

one gets into the plain road, by the guidance

of another. For these roads are not straight,

but have several revolutions. But when

t This Pollio, with whom Herod's sons lived at Rome,

was not Pollio, the Pharisee, already mentioned by Jose-

phus, chap. 1, and again presently after this, chap. 10,

but Asinius Pollio, the Roman.

| The character of this Zenodorus is so like that of a

famous robber, of the same name in Strabo, and that about

this very country, about this time also, that I think Dr.

Hudson hardly needed to have put a perhaps to his de­

termination that they were the same. See Strabo, XVI.

page 756.

if

4S2

