132 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Nor do the laws neglect smaller matters: but

provide that even those be managed after an

Unblameahle manner.

Let not those that reap, and gather in the

corn that is reaped, gather in the gleanings

also; but let them rather leave some handfuls

for those that are in want of the necessaries

of life; that it may be a support, and a supply

to them, in order to their subsistence. In like

mariner when they gather their grapes, let

them leave some smaller bunches for the

poor; and let them pass over some of the fruits

of the olive trees,* when they gather them;

and leave them to be partaken by those that

have none of their own. For the advantages

arising from the exact collection of all will

not be so considerable to the owners, as will

arise from the gratitude of the poor. And

God will provide that thejand shall more wil­

lingly produce what shall be for the nourish­

ment of its fruits, in case you do not merely

take care of your own advantage, but have

regard to the support of others also. Nor are

you to muzzle the mouths of the oxen, when

they tread the ears of corn, in the threshing

floor:f for it is not just to restrain our fellow

labouring animals, and those that work in

order to its production, of this fruit of their

labours. Nor are you to prohibit those that

pass by at the time when your fruits are ripe,

to touch them; but to give them leave to fill

themselves full of what you have; and this

whether they be of your own country, or

strangers; as being glad of the opportunity

of giving them some part of your fruits when

they are ripe. But let it not be esteemed

lawful for them to carry any a way 4 Nor let

those that gather the grapes, and carry them

to the wine-presses, restrain those whom they

meet from eating of them. For it is unjust

out of envy to hinder those that desire it, to

partake of the good things that come into the

world according to God's will; and this while

the season is at the height, and is hastening

away, as it pleases God. Nay, if some out of

bashfulness are unwilling to touch these fruits,

let them be encouraged to take of them; I

mean those that are Israelites, as if they were

themselves the owners and lords, on account

of the kindred there is between them. Nay,

let them desire men that come from other

countries, to partake of these tokens of friend­

ship, which God has given in their proper

season. For that is not to be deemed as idly

spent, which any one out of kindness commu­

nicates to another. Since God bestows plenty

of good things on men, not only for themselves

to reap the advantage, but also to give to

others in a way of generosity; and he is de­

sirous, by this means, to make known to others

his peculiar kindness to the people of Israel,

and how freely he communicates happiness

to them, while they abundantly communicate

out of their great superfluities to even these

foreigners also. But for him that acts con­

trary to this law, let him be beaten|| with

forty stripes save one, by the public execu­

tioner; let him undergo this punishment,

which is a most ignominious one for a free

man; and this because he was such a slave

to gain, as to lay a plot upon his own dignity

For it is proper for you who have had the ex­

perience of the afflictions of Egypt, and of

those in the wilderness, to make provision for

those that are in the like circumstance: and

while you have now obtained plenty your­

selves, through the mercy and providence of

God, to distribute of the same plenty to such

as stand in need of it.

Besides those two tithes, which I have

already said you are to pay every year, one

to the Levites, the other for the festivals; you

are to bring every third year a third tithe, to

be distributed to those that want them;§ to

women also that are widows, and to children

that are orphans:** but as to the fruits, let

them carry that which is ripe first of all unto

the temple: and when they have blessed God

for that land which bare them, and which he

had given them for a possession: when they

have also offered those sacrifices which the

law has commanded them to bring, let them

* Deut. xxiv. 20.  
t Deut. xxv. 4.

I Deut. xxiii. 24.

II This penalty of forty stripes save one, was five times

inflicted on St. Paul by the Jews. 2 Cor. xi. 34.

§ Tosephus's plain and express interpretation of this

law of Moses, Deut. xiv. 28, 29, &c. that the Jews were

bound every third year to pay three tithes, that to the

Levites; that for sacrifices at Jerusalem; and this for the

indigent, the widow, :rnd the orphans, is fully confirmed

by the practice of good old Tobit, even when he was a

captive at Assyria, against the opinion of the Uabbin».

Tobit i. 6, 7, 8*.

** Deut. xxvi. 12.

