AN. 44.] 513 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

second year of that sabbatical period, the

fourth part of what was sown. And besides

this, they are to pay the same tithes to Hyr-

canus and his sons which they paid to their

forefathers. And that no one, neither presi­

dent, lieutenant nor ambassador, raise aux­

iliaries within the bounds of Judea. Nor may

soldiers exact money of them for winter quar­

ters, or under any other pretence; but they

are to be free from all sorts of injuries. And

whatsoever they shall hereafter have, and are

in possession of, or have bought, they shall

retain. It is also our pleasure that the city

Joppa, which the Jews had originally, when

they made a league of friendship with the

Romans, shall belong to them, as it formerly

did; and that Hyrcanus, the son of Alexan­

der, and his sons have, as tribute of that city

from those that occupy the land, for the

country, and for what they export every year

to Sidon, twenty thousand six hundred and

seventy-five modii every year; the seventh

year which they call the sabbath year, ex­

cepted: whereupon they neither plough, nor

receive the product of their trees. It is also

the pleasure of the senate, that as to the vil­

lages which are in the great plain, which

Hyrcanus and his forefathers formerly pos­

sessed, Hyrcanus and the Jews have them

with the same privileges with which they

formerly had them also: and that the same

original ordinances remain still in force which

concern the Jews, with regard to their high-

priests; and that they enjoy the same bene­

fits which they have had formerly by the

concession of the people, and of the senate:

and let them enjoy the like privileges in

Lydda. It is also the pleasure of the senate,

that Hyrcanus the ethnarch, and the Jews,

retain those places, countries, and villages,

which belonged to the kings of Syria and

Phoenicia, the confederates of the Romans,

and which they had bestowed on them, as

their free gifts: it is also granted to Hyrcanus,

and to his sons, and to the ambassadors by

them sent to us; that in the fights between

single gladiators, and in those with beasts,

they shall sit among the senators, to see those

shows. And that when they desire an audi-

* Dr. Hudson justly supposes, that these Roman impe-  
rators or generals of armies, who gave testimony to Hyr-

canus's and the Jews' fidelity and good will to the Ro­

mans, before the senate and people of Rome, were prin-

ence, they shall be introduced into the senate,

by the dictator, or by the general of the horse.

And when they have introduced them, their

answers shall be returned in ten days at the

farthest, after the decree of the senate is

made about their affairs."

"Caius Caesar, imperator, dictator the

fourth time, and consul the fifth time, de­

clared to be perpetual dictator; made this

speech, concerning the priests and privileges

of Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander, the high-

priest and ethnarch of the Jews. Since those

*imperators that have been in the provinces  
before me have borne witness to Hyrcanus

the high-priest of the Jews, and to the Jews

themselves, and this before the senate and

people of Rome; when the people and senate

returned their thanks to them: it is good that

we also now remember the same, and pro­

vide that a requital be made to Hyrcanus, to

the nation of the Jews, and to the sons of

Hyrcanus, by the senate and people of Rome;

and that suitably to the good will they have

shewn us, and to the benefits they have be­

stowed upon us."

"Julius Caius, the praetor and consul of

Rome, to the magistrates, senate, and people,

of the Parians, sendeth greeting. The Jews

of Delos, and some other Jews that sojourn

there, in the presence of your ambassadors,

signified to us, that by a decree of yours you

forbid them to make use of the customs of

their forefathers, and their way of sacred wor­

ship. Now it does not please me that such

decrees should be made against our friends

and confederates: whereby they are forbid­

den to live according to their own customs,

or to bring in contributions for common sup­

pers, and holy festivals; while they are not

forbidden so to do even at Rome itself. For

even Caius Caesar, our imperator, and consul,

in that decree, wherein he forbade the Bac­

chanal rioters to meet in the city, did yet

permit these Jews and these only, both to

bring in their contributions, and to make

their common suppers. Accordingly when I

forbid other Bacchanal rioters, I permit these

Jews to gather themselves together, accord­

ing to the customs and laws of their forefa-

cipally Pompey, Scaurus, and Gabinius. Of all whom

Josephus had already given us the history, so far as the

Jews were concerned with them.

