aN. H92.J 149 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to be destroyed by these Canaanites, but to

suppose that they should be saved by those

that came for the destruction of the Canaan­

ites, because of the league of friendship that

was between them. Accordingly Joshua has­

tened with his whole army to assist them, and,

marching day and night, in the morning he

fell upon the enemies as they were going up

* Josh. x. 11.

t This miracle is thus related in holy writ: "Joshua

said, in the sight of all Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon

Gibeon, and thou Moon in the valley of Ajalon; and the

sua stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people had

avenged themselves of their enemies. Is not this written

in the book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst

of heaven, and hastened not to go down about a whole

day; and there was no day like that, before it or after it,

that the Lord hearkened unto the voice of a man; for the

Lord fought for Israel." (Josh. x. 12, &c.) Now, for

the better understanding of these words, we must ob­

serve,—

I. That nothing is more common in Scripture, than to

express things, not according to the strict rules of philoso­

phy, but according to their appearances, and the vulgar

apprehension concerning them. The sun and moon, for

instance, are called two great lights; (Gen. i. 16.) but

however that title may agree with the sun, it is plain, that

the moon is but a small body, the least that has yet been

discovered in the planetary system, and that it has no light

at all, but what it borrows, and reflects from the rays of

the sun; and yet, because it is placed near us, it appears

to us larger than other heavenly luminaries, and from that

appearance the holy Scriptures give it such an appellation.

And in like manner, because the sun seems to us to

move, and the earth to be at rest, the Scriptures speak a

great deal of the pillars, and basis, and foundations, of the

earth, and of the sun's, rejoicing, like a giant, to run its

race, (Psalm xix. 5.) and of his arising, and going do-am,

and hasting to the place where it arose, <$-c. (Eccles. i. 6.)

Whereas it is certain, that if the sun were made to revolve

round about the earth, the general law of nature would

thereby be violated; the harmony and proportion of the

heavenly bodies destroyed; and no small confusion and

disorder brought into the frame of the universe; but, on

the contrary, if the earth turned upon its own axis every

day, be made to go round the sun in the space of a year,

it will then perform its circulation, according to the same

law which the other planets observe; and, without the

least exception, there will be a most beautiful order and

harmony of motions every where preserved through the

whole frame of nature. As therefore the Scriptures were

designed to teach us the art of holy living, and not to in­

struct us in the rudiments of natural knowledge, it can be

deemed no diminution either to their perfection, or divine

authority, that they generally speak according to the com­

mon appearance of things, and not according to their reality

or philosophic truth. The plain matter of fact is, that in

the early ages, both before, and long after the days of

Joshua, the most learned astronomers had no notion of the

improvements which our modern professors have since

-attained to. They never once dreamed of the earth's ro­  
tation upon its own axis ; but according to common appear­

ance, were fully persuaded, that the sun and moon, had

to the siege, and when he had discomfited

them, he followed and pursued them down

the descent of the hills. The place is called

Beth-horon, where he also understood that

God assisted him, which he declared by thun­

der and thunderbolts, as also by the falling of

hail* larger than usual. Moreover it hap­

pened that the day was lengthened,f that the

their respective courses. Upon this supposition they

formed their schemes, and thought themselves able to an­

swer every phenomenon by them. And therefore, if God

had prompted Joshua to desire the prolongation of the day

in a manner more agreeable to our new astronomy, or to

record the miracle in terms more suitable to it, this would

have been a plain contrariety to all the rules of science

then in use. The people who heard him utter the words,

Earth, rest upon thy axis, would have thought him dis­

tracted, and those who read his account of what had hap­

pened, if related in suitable expressions, would have de­

cried it as false in fact, or passed it by with contempt and

disregard, as a wild fancy or blunder of his own. |

II. In relation to the places over which the two hea­

venly bodies were to stand, the sun over Gibeon and the

moon over the valley Ajalon. we must observe, that (even

upon the supposition of the sun's motion) the Jewisn ge­

neral cannot be thought to speak in a proper and philo­

sophical sense. For since the sun is almost a million of

times bigger than the earth, and 95 millions of miles dis­

tant from it, to justify the strict sense of the words, a line

drawn from the centre of the sun to that of the earth, must

exactly pass by Gibeon, which we know it cannot do, be­

cause no part of the Holy Land lies within the tropics; and

therefore we must conclude, that Joshua here speaks ac­

cording to the outward appearance of things, which makes

the sense of his words plain and intelligible. |

Wherever we are, (if so be we are not hindered by ob­

jects immediately surrounding us,) we can cast our eyes

upon part of the surface of the earth, and at the same time

take into our prospect some small extent of the firmament

of heaven, which seems, as it were, to cover the other;

and each celestial body which we perceive in this extent

above, appears to us to be directly over such and such

part of the earth, as we alternately turn our eyes to: and

it is thus, that the sun, when Joshua spake, seemed to

him, and to those that were with him, to he over Gibeon,

and the moon to be over the valley of Ajalon. This valley,

in all likelihood, took its name from some adjacent town;

but then, as there are three Ajalons mentioned in scrip­

ture, one in the tribe of Ephraim, (1 Chron. vi. 69.)

another in Zabulon, (Judg. xii. 12.) and another in Dan,

(Josh. xix. 42.) it is reasonable to think, that the place

here spoken ofwas in Dan, the most remote province in

Gibeon; for we must suppose that these two places were

at some considerable distance, otherwise Joshua could not

see the sun and moon both appear at the same time, as it

is probable they were both in his eye, when he uttered

these words.

III. In relation to the time when this miracle began,

and how long it lasted, the Scripture's expression is, that

the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not to

go down about a whole day; which words can import no

less, than that the sun stood still in the meridian, or much

about noon, and that in this position it continued for th -

Mm2

