AN. 261 1059.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he was unarmed, kill him with his own

spear, which he threw at him; for he caught

him by force, and took away his weapons,

while he was alive and fighting, and slew

him with his own weapons.

One may also add this to the aforemen­

tioned actions of the same man, either as the

principal of them in alacrity, or as resem­

bling the rest. When God sent a snow, a

lion slipped, and fell into a certain pit; and

because the pit's mouth was narrow, it was

evident he would perish, being inclosed with

the snow. So when he saw no way to get

out and save himself, he roared. When Be-

naiah heard the wild beast, he went towards

him, and coming at the noise he made, he

went down into the mouth of the pit, and

smote him,* as he struggled, with a stake that

lay there, and immediately slew him. The

other thirty-three were also like these in

valour. ,,

,, f^-'s

CHAP. XIII

OF THE ENUMERATION OF THE PEOPLE BY DAVID S COM­

MAND; AND THE SUBSEQUENT EFFECTS OF THE DIVINE

DISPLEASURE.

NOWf king David was desirous to know

how many ten thousands there were

of the people; but J forgot the command of

Moses, who told them beforehand, that if the

multitude were numbered they should pay

half a shekel to God for every head. Accord­

ingly the king commanded Joab, the captain

of his host, to go and number the whole mul-

titude. But when he said there was no ne­

cessity for such a numeration, he was not

persuaded to countermand it, but enjoined

him to make no delay, but to go about the

numbering of the Hebrews immediately. So

Joab took with him the heads of the tribes,

and the scribes; and went over the country

of the Israelites; and took notice how nu­

merous the multitude were, and returned to

Jerusalem to the king, after nine months and

twenty days. And he gave in to the king the

number of the people, without the tribe of

Benjamin; for he had not yet numbered that

tribe, nor the tribe of Levi; for the king re­

pented of his having sinned against God.

Now the number of the rest of the Israelites

was nine hundred thousand men, who were

able to bear arms and go to war.|| But the

tribe of Judah, by itself, was four hundred

thousand.§

Now when the prophets had signified to

David that God was angry at him, he began

to intreat he would be merciful to him, and

forgive his sin. But God sent Nathan the

prophet to propose to him the choice of three

things. "Whether he would have famine

come upon the country for seven years? or

would have a war, and be subdued three

months by his enemies? or whether God

should send a pestilence and a distemper

upon the Hebrews, for three days? But as

he was fallen to a fatal choice of great mise­

ries, he was in trouble and sorely confounded.

And when the prophet had said, that he must

of necessity make this choice, and had

* 2 Sam. xxiii. 20.

t About an. 1058.

J The words of God by Moses, Exod. xxx. 12, suffi­

ciently justify the reason here given by Josephus for the

great plague mentioned in this chapter. "When thou

takest the sum of the children of Israel, after their number,

then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto

the Lord, when thou numberest them; that there be no

plague amongst them when thou numberest them." Nor

indeed could David's, or the Sanhedrim's neglect of exe­

cuting this law at this enumeration excuse the people;

who ought still to have brought their bounden oblation of

half a shekel a piece with them, when they came to be

numbered. And I am inclinable to suppose that the great

reason why nations art so constantly punished by and with

wicked kings and governors, is this: that they almost con­

stantly comply with them in their neglect of, or disobe­

dience to, the divine laws; and suffer those divine laws to

go into disuse, or contempt, in order to please those wicked

ikings and governors, and that they submit to several

wicked political laws and commands of those kings and

governors, instead of the righteous laws of God, which all

mankind ought ever to obey, let their kings and governors

say what they please to the contrary, this preference of

human, before divine laws, seeming to me the principal

character of idolatrous or antichristian nations. Accord­

ingly Josephus well observes IV. 8. that it was the duty

of the people of Israel to take care that their kings, when

they should have them, did not exceed their proper limits

of power, and prove ungovernable by the laws of God;

which would certainly be a most pernicious thing to their

divine settlement. Nor do I think that negligence pe­

culiar to the Jews: those nations which are called Chris­

tian are sometimes indeed very solicitous to restrain their

kings and governors from breaking the human laws of their

several kingdoms; but without the like care for re­

straining them from breaking the laws of God. "Whe­

ther it be right in the sight of God, to hearken unto men

more than to God, judge ye." Acts iv. 19. "We ought

to obey God rather than men." v. 29.

II Eight hundred thousand, 2 Sam. xxiv. 9.

§ Five hundred thousand.

3C2

