202 [book ti. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

about him weapons suitable to the largeness

of his body; for he had a breast-plate on that

weighed five thousand shekels. He had also

a helmet, and greaves of brass as large as

you would naturally suppose might cover the

limbs of so vast a body. His spear was also

such as was not carried like a light thing in

his right hand; but he carried it as lying on

his shoulders. He had also a lance of six

hundred shekels, and many followed him to

carry his armour. Wherefore this Goliath

stood between the two armies, as they were

in battle array; and sent out a loud voice,

and said to Saul and to the Hebrews: "I will

free you from fighting and from dangers. For

what necessity is there that your army should

fall, and be afflicted? Give me a man of you

that will fight with me; and he that conquers

shall have the reward of the conqueror, and

determine the war; for these shall serve those

others to whom the conqueror shall belong.

And certainly it is much better and more

prudent to gain what you desire by the hazard

of one man, than of all."* When he had said

this, he retired to his own camp. But the

next day he came again, and used the same

words; and did not leave off for forty days

together to challenge the enemy in the same

words, till Saul and his army were therewith

terrified; while they put themselves in array

as if they would fight, but did not come to an

engagement.

Now while this war between the Hebrews

and the Philistines was going on, Saul sent

away David to his father Jesse, and con­

tented himself with those three sons of his,

whom he had sent to his assistance, and to be

partners in the dangers of the war. And

at first, David returned to feed his flocks; but

after no long time he came to the camp of

the Hebrews, being sent by his father to

carry provisions to his brethren,f and to

know what they were doing; while Goliath

came again, and challenged them, and re­

proached them, that they had no man of

valour among them that durst come down and

fight him. Now as David was talking with

his brethren about the business for which his

father had sent him, he heard the Philistine

reproaching and abusing the army, and had

indignation at it; and said to his brethren,

"I am ready to fight a single combat with

this adversary." Hereupon Eliab, and his

elder brother, reproved him, and said, that

he spake too rashly and improperly for one

of his age; and bade him go to his flocks,

and to his father. So he was abashed at his

brother's words, and went away; but still

spake to some of the soldiers, that he was

willing to fight with him that challenged

them. And when they had informed Saul

what was the resolution of the young man,

the king sent for him to come to him. And

when the king asked what he had to say, he

their behalf, when he gives us an account of some bones

of a prodigious size which were found in Hebron; as

Acosta, in his history of the Indies, lib. 1. c. 10. makes

mention of bones of an incredible bigness, and of a race of

giants of such a height, that an ordinary man could scarce

reach their knees. Le Gere's and Patrick's Comment.

Calmet's Dictionary, under the word Goliath, and Dis. of

the Giants. B.

* The words in which Goliath's challenge is expressed,  
are these, Why are you come out to set your battle in array?

Am I not a Philistine, and you servants to Saul? Choose

you a man for you, and let him come down to me: If he be

able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your

servants; but if J prevail against him and kill him, then ye

shall be our servants, and serve us. 1 Sam. xviii. 8. Anti­

quity furnishes us with examples of several such like

zombats, as Goliath here proposes, but with none more

remarkable, than that between the Horatii and Curiatii,

related by Livy, lib. 1. c. 23. "In which case (as Gro-

tius expresses himself, Be jure belli et pads, lib. 2. c. 23.)

though the champions perhaps cannot, with all the inno­

cence imaginable, engage in the combat, yet their re­

spective states may, at least, allow of it, as a less evil; as

an expedient whereby a decision is made, without the effu­

sion of much blood, or any considerable loss on either side,

which of the two nations shall have the dominion over the

other. Strabo (says he) makes mention of this as an

ancient custom among the Greeks; and iEneas appeals to

the Latins, whether it is not highly just and equitable, that

he and Tumus should determine the controversy between

them even in this manner." But whether there was any

combat stipulated to be decisive of the quarrel between

the two contending nations, it is certain that this speech of

Goliath's was a mere bravado, proceeding from a high

opinion he had of his own matchless strength, as if he had

been the whole support of the nation, which was to stand

or fall together with him. For that he had no authority

from the prince of the Philistines to make any such decla­

ration, is evident from the event: since so far were the

Philistines from yielding themselves slaves to the He­

brews, upon the death of this champion, that thry made

the best of their way into their own country, and there

defended themselves, and fought many battles with them

afterwards. Saurin's Dissert, vol. 4. Dissert. 32, and

Patrick's and Le Clerc's Comrrent. B.

t In those days it was customary for men to serve their

king and country in the wars at their own expense; and

therefore Jesse sent a supply of provisions to such of his

sons as were in the service; but since he had other sons

at home, while David was chiefly in (he fields, it seems to

be by a divine direction that he sent him from the sheep

upon this errand. B.

