aN. 1099-1 213 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

a certain place called the New Place,* be­

longing to Ziph. Where Jonathan the son

of Saul came to him, and saluted him, and

exhorted him to be of good courage, and to

hope well as to his future condition, and not

to despond at his present circumstances; for

that he should be king, and have all the forces

of the Hebrews under him; but told him,

that such happiness uses to come with great

labour and pains. They also took oaths, that

they would all their lives long continue in

good will and fidelity one to another: and

David called God to witness, as to what exe­

cration he had made upon himself, if he

should transgress his covenant, and should

change to a contrary behaviour. So Jona­

than left him there, having rendered his cares

and fear somewhat lighter, and returned

home. Now the men of Ziph, to gratify Saul,

informed him that David abode with them;

and assured him that if he would come to

them, they would deliver him up; for that if

the king would seize on the straits of Ziph,

David could not escape to any other people.

So the king commended them, and confessed

that he had reason to thank them, because

they had given him information of his enemy:

and he promised that it should not be long

ere he would requite their kindness. He

also sent men to seek for David, and to search

the wilderness wherein he was, resolving to

follow them in person. Accordingly they

went before the king, to search for David;

and used endeavours not only to shew their

food will to Saul, by informing him where

is enemy was, but to evince the same more

plainly , by delivering him up into his power.

But a failure attended the unjust and wicked

desires of these men, who, while they under­

went no hazard by not discovering such an

ambition of revealing this to Saul, yet did

they falsely accuse, and promise to deliver

up a man beloved of God, and one that was

unjustly sought for to be put to death, and

who might otherwise have lain concealed;

and this out of flattery and expectation of

gain from the king. For when David was

apprised of the malignant intentions of the

men of Ziph, and of the approach of Saul,

he left the straits of that country, and fled to

the great rock that was in the wilderness of

Maon.

Hereupon Saul hastened to pursue him

thither. For as he was marching, he learned

that David was gone away from the straits

of Ziph; and Saul removed to the other

side of the rock. But the report that the

Philistines had again made an incursion into

the country of the Hebrews, called Saul ano­

ther way, from the pursuit of David, when

he was ready to be caught; for he returned

back again to oppose those Philistines, who

were naturally their enemies; as judging it

more necessary to avenge himself of them,

than to continue the pursuit of a single enemy,

and to overlook the ravage that was made in

the land.

By this means David unexpectedly escaped

out of the danger he was in, and came to the

straits of Engedi. And when Saul had driven

the Philistines out of the land, there came

some messengers who told him, that David

abode within the bounds of Engedi. So he

took three thousand chosen men, that were

armed, and hastened towards him. And when

he was not far from those places, he saw a

deep and hollow cave by the way side. It

was open to a great length and breadth; and

there it was that David, with his four hundred

men, were concealed. Saul, having occasion

to enter here alone, was seen by one of Da­

vid's companions, and he that saw him said,

that David had now, by God's providence, an

opportunity of avenging himself of his adver­

sary, and advised him to cut off his head, and

so deliver himself out of that tedious wander­

ing condition, and the distress he was in.

David accordingly arose up, and cut off the

skirt of Saul's garment; but he soon repented

of what he had done; and said it was not right

to kill him that was his master, and one whom

God had thought worthy of the kingdom.f

* The name of this place, Kaivij, or the New Place, as  
it is both in the Septuagint and Josephus, 1 Sam. xxii. 15.

is justly supposed by Dr. Hudson to have risen from a

different reading of the Hebrew word: Bahadesa, in the

new place, instead of that in our present Hebrew, Baho-

resa, in the wood. Which was the original reading can

hardly now be determined. Only two of the best copies

may well be preferred to one copy, which is not so good.

t If it be asked, how David could do this without Saul's

perceiving it? the answer might be, that this possibly

might be some upper loose garments, which Saul might

put off, and lay aside at some distance from him, upon this

occasion; and that as there were several rooms, or par­

ticular cells in these large caverns, which might have se­

cret passages from one to another, Saul, at the mouth of

one of these cells, might lay down his upper garment,

U u 2

