an. J052.] 279 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and the materials were strong stones, and

such as would resist the force of time; these

were to unite themselves with the earth, and

become a basis for a sure foundation for that

edifice which was to be erected; they were

to be so strong, in order to sustain with ease

those vast superstructures, and precious or­

naments, whose own weight was to be not

less than the weight of those high and heavy

buildings which the king designed to be very

ornamental and magnificent. They erected

its entire body quite up to the roof, of white

stone. Its height was sixty cubits, its length

was the same, and its breadth twenty. There

was another building, erected over it equal

to it in its measures. So that the entire alti­

tude of the temple, was a hundred and twenty

cubits. Its front was to the east. As to the

porch, they built it before the temple. Its

length was twenty cubits, and it was so or­

dered that it might agree with the breadth

of the house; and it had twelve cubits in

latitude, and its height was raised as high as

a hundred and twenty cubits. He also built

round about the temple thirty small rooms,

which might include the whole temple, by

their closeness to each other, and by their

number, and outward position round it. He

also made passages through them, that they

might be come into one through another.

Every one of these rooms* had five cubits in

breadth, and the same in length, but in height

twenty. Above these were other rooms, and

others above them equal both in their mea­

sures and number; so that these reached to

a height equal to the lower part of the house;

for the upper part had no buildings about it.

The roof that was over the house was of

cedar: and each of these rooms had a roof of

its own that was not connected with the other

rooms: but for the other parts, there was a

covered roof common to them all, and built

with very long beams that passed through the

rest, and through the whole building; that so

the middle walls being strengthened by the

same beams of timber, might be thereby made

firmer. But as for that part of the roof that

was under the beams, it was made of the

same materials, and was all made smooth,

and had ornaments proper for roofs, and

plates of gold nailed upon them. And as he

inclosed the walls with boards of cedar, so

he fixed on them plates of gold, which had

sculptures upon them: so that the whole

temple dazzled the eyes of such as entered,

by the splendour of the gold that was on

every side. Now the whole structure of the

temple was made with great skill, of polished

stones, and those laid together so very

smoothly and harmoniously, that there ap­

peared to the spectators no sign of any

hammer, or other instrument of architecture;f

but as if, without any use of them, the entire

materials had naturally united themselves

together; that the agreement of one part

with another seemed rather to have been

natural, than to have arisen from the force

of tools upon them. The king also had a

fine contrivance for an ascent to the upper

room over the temple; and that was by steps

in the thickness of its wall. For it had no

large door on the east end as the lower house

had; but the entrances were by the sides,

through very small doors. He also overlaid

the temple both within and without with

boards of cedar, that were kept close toge­

ther by thick chains: so that this contrivance

was in the nature of a support to the building.

Now when the king had divided the temple

into two parts,:}; he made the inner house of

but the many courte and offices that were about it made the

whole a vast pile, and the exqnisiteness of the art, and

the fewness of the artists that could be employed about it,

made a longer time requisite. It must be owned however,

that, considering all things, Solomon made an extraordi­

nary despatch; for, if the building of Diana's temple at

Ephesus employed all Asia for the space of two hundred

years, and no less than three hundred and sixty thousand

men, for twenty years together, were taken up in erecting

one pyramid, (as Pliny, lib. 36. c. 12. affirms,) no rea­

sonable man can wonder, that this temple was seven years

and a half in building. Pool's Annotations, and Calmefs

Commentary. B.

* These small rooms, or side chambers about the lower  
itixty cubits of the holy house, seem to have been, by

Josephus's description, in the three stories one above

another, no less than twenty cubits high a piece. Other­

wise there must have been a large interval between one,

and the other that was over it; and this with double floors,

the one of six cubits distance from the floor beneath it, as

1 Kings vi. 5. in the Septuagint, and the other of no less

than twenty cubits.

t See 1 Kings vi. 7.

J These several parts of the temple the Greeks are

very careful to distinguish by different names. What was

properly the temple, they called "o vows; and the courts

and other parts of the temple, to ispov. Thus when

Zar.harias is said to have gone into the temple to burn in­

cense, Luke i. 9. (which was done in the sanctum,) the

word is vows; but when it is said, that Anna the prophetess

