AS. 59 1747.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tion for the preservation of the life of Ben­

jamin.

Joseph being now overcome with his affec­

tion, and no longer able to personate an angry

man, commanded all that were present to

depart, that he might make himself known to

his brethren, when they were alone.* And

when the rest were gone out, he discovered

himself, and said, "I commend you for your

virtue, and for your kindness to your brother;

I find you better men than I could have ex-

fiected from what you contrived about me.

ndeed I did all this to try your love to your

brother. So I believe you were not wicked

by nature, in what you did in my case: but

that all has happened according to God's will;

who has thereby procured our enjoyment of

what good things we have; and if he continue

in a favourable disposition, of what we hope

for hereafter. Since, therefore, I know that

our father is safe, and well, beyond expecta­

tion; and I see you so well disposed towards

your brother, I will no longer remember what

guilt you seem to have had about me; but

rather return you my thanks, that you have

concurred with the intentions of God to bring

things to their present state. I would have

you also forget the same, since that impru­

dence of yours is come to such a happy con­

clusion, rather than to be uneasy and blush at

those your offences. Do not therefore, let

your evil intentions, when you condemned

me, and that bitter remorse which might fol­

low, be a grief to you now: because those

intentions were frustrated. Go your way, re­

joicing in what has happened by the divine

providence, and inform your father of it, lest

he should be spent with tears for you, and de­

prive me of the most agreeable part of my

felicity; I mean lest he should die before he

comes into my sight, and enjoys the good

things that we now have. Take therefore,

with you our father, and your wives and chil­

dren, and all your kindred, and remove your

habitation hither; for it is not proper that the

persons dearest to me should live remote from

me, now my affairs are so prosperous; espe­

cially when they must endure five more years

of famine." When Joseph had said this, he

embraced his brethren, who were in tears and

sorrow; but the* generous kindness of their

* Gen. xIt. 1.

vor,. i.—no. 5.

brother seemed to leave among them no room

for fear, lest they should be punished on ac­

count of what they had consulted and acted

against him. And they were then feasting.

Now the king, as soon as he heard that Jo­

seph's brethren were come to him, was ex­

ceeding glad of it, as if it had been part of

his own good fortune; and gave them wag­

gons full of corn, and gold, and silver, to be

conveyed to their father. Now when they

had received more of their brother; part to

be carried to their father, and part as free gifts

to every one of themselves, Benjamin having

still more than the rest, they departed.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE REMOVAL OF JACOB AND ALL HIS FAMILY INTO EGYTT,

ON ACCOUNT OF THE FAMINE.

AS soon as Jacob came to know by his

sons' returning home, in what state Jo­

seph was; that he had not only escaped death,

but that he lived in splendour and happiness,

and ruled over Egypt, jointly with the king;

and had intrusted to his care almost all his

affairs, he did not think any thing he was told

to be incredible, considering the greatness of

the works of God, and his kindness to him:

although that kindness had, for some time

past, been intermitted. So he immediately

and zealously set out upon his journey to him.

When he came to the well of the oath,

Beersheba, he offered sacrifice to God,f and

being afraid that the happiness there was in

Egypt might tempt his posterity to fall in love

with it, and settle in it, and no more think of

removing into the land of Canaan, and pos­

sessing it as God had promised them; also,

being afraid, lest if this descent into Egypt

were made without the will of God, his family

might be destroyed there, and out of fear lest

he should depart this life before he came to

the sight of Joseph, he fell asleep, revolving

these doubts in his mind.

But God stood by him, and called to him

twice by his name: and when he asked who

he was? God said, "Is it not just that thou

Jacob shouldest be acquainted with that God

who has ever been a protector and a helper

to thy forefathers, and after them to thyself.

For when thy father would have deprived

t Gen. xlvii. 1.

