aN. 4456.] 15 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he settled his abode: where he also had

children. However, he did not accept of his

punishment in order to amendment, but to in­

crease his wickedness; for he only aimed to

procure every thing that was for his own

bodily pleasure, though it obliged him to be

injurious to his neighbours. He augmented his

household substance with much wealth by ra­

pine and violence; he excited his acquaint­

ance to procure pleasure and spoils by rob­

bery; and became a great leader of men into

wicked courses. He also introduced a change

in that way of simplicity wherein men lived

before, and was the author of measures and

weights. And whereas they lived innocently

and generously while they knew nothing of

such arts, he changed the world into cunning

and craftiness. He first of all set boundaries

about lands; he built a city, and fortified it

with walls; and he compelled his family to

come together to it: and called that city

Enoch, after the name of his eldest* son. Now

Jared was the son of Enoch, whose son was

Malaliel, whose son was Mathusela, whose son

was Lamech, who had seventy-seven children

by two wives, Silla and Ada. Of those chil­

dren by Ada, one was Jubal: he erected tents,

and loved the life of a shepherd. But Jubal,

who was born of the same mother with him,

exercised himself in music,f and invented the

psaltery and the harp. Tubal, one of his

children by the other wife, exceeded all men

in strength, and was very expert and famous

in martial performances; he procured what

tended to the pleasures of the body by that

method, and first invented the art of making

brass; Lamech also was the father of a daugh­

ter whose name was Naamah. And because

he was so skilful in matters of divine revela­

tion, that he knew he was to be punished for

Cain's murder of his brother, he made that

known to his wives. Nay, even while Adam

* Gen. iv. 17.

t From this Jubal not improbably came Jobel, the

trumpet of Jobel, or Jubilee: that large and loud musical

instrument used in proclaiming the liberty at the Year of

Jubilee.

J The number of Adam's children, as says the old tra­

dition, was thirty-three sons, and twenty-three daughters.

II What is here said of Seth and his posterity, that they

were very good and virtuous, and at the same time very

happy, without any considerable misfortunes for seven ge­

nerations, is exactly agreeable to the state of the world,

and the conduct of Providence in all the first ages.

§ Of Josephus's mistake here, when h* took Seth the

TOL. I.—No. 2.

was alive, the posterity of Cain became ex­

ceeding wicked; every one successively dy­

ing one after another more wicked than the

former. They were intolerable in war, and

vehement in robberies, and if any one were

slow to murder people, yet was he bold in

his profligate behaviour in acting unjustly

and doing injuries for gain.

Now Adam, who was the first man, and

made out of the earth (for our discourse must

now be about him,) after Abel was slain, and

Cain fled away on account of his murder, was

solicitous for posterity, and had a vehement

desire for children, he being two hundred and

thirty years old, after which time he livecL^

other seven hundred, and then died. He haer^

indeed,J many other children, but Seth in

particular. As for the rest it would be tedious

to name them: I will therefore only endea­

vour to give an account of those that pro­

ceeded from Seth. Now this Seth, when he

was brought up, and came to those years in

which he could discern what was good, be­

came a virtuous man; and as he was himself

of an excellent character, so did he leave ||

children behind him who imitated his virtues.

All these proved to be of good dispositions;

they also inhabited the same country without

dissensions, and in happy condition, without

any misfortunes falling upon them, till they

died. They also were the inventors of that

peculiar sort of wisdom which is concerned

with the heavenly bodies, and their order.

And that their inventions might not be lost

before they were sufficiently known, upon

Adam's prediction that the world was to be .

destroyed at one time by the force of fire, f

and at another time by the violence and

quantity of water, they made two pillars :§

the one of brick, the other of stone; they in­

scribed their discoveries on them both, that in

case the pillar of brick should be destroyed

son of Adam, for Seth or Sesostris King of Egypt, the

erector of these pillars, in the land of Siriad, see Essay ori

the Old Testament, Appendix, page 159—160. Although

the main of this relation might be true, and Adam might

foretel a conflagration and a deluge, which all antiquity wit­

nesses to be an ancient tradition; and, Seth's posterity

might engrave their inventions in astronomy on two such

pillars; yet it is no way credible that they could survive

the deluge, which buried all such pillars and edifices far

under ground, in the sediment of its waters; especially

since the like pillars of the Egyptian Seth or Sesostris were

extant, after the flood, in the land of Siriad, and perhaps

in the days of Josephua also.

E

}H~*

