an. 906.] 311 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Ahab, according to God's will, to inform him

that rain was coming. Now the famine had

seized upon the whole country; and there

was a great want of what was necessary for

sustenance; insomuch that it was not only

men that wanted it, but the earth itself also;

which did not produce enough for the horses,

and the other beasts, of what was useful for

them to feed on, by reason of the drought.

So the king called for Obadiah,* who was

steward over his cattle, and said to him, that

he would have him go to the fountains of

water, and to the brooks; that if any her­

bage could be found for them he might mow

it down, and reserve it for the beasts. And

when he had sent persons all over the thabi-

table earth to discover the prophet Elijah,

and they could not find him, he bade Oba­

diah accompany him. So it was resolved

they should make a progress, and divide

the ways between them; and Obadiah and

the king went the one way, and the other

another. Now it had happened, that at the

same time when Queen Jezebel slew the

prophets, that this Obadiah had concealed a

hundred prophets, and had fed them with

bread and water.J But when Obadiah was

alone, and absent from the king, the prophet

Elijah met him, and asked him who he was?

And when he had learned it from him, he

worshipped him. Elijah then bade him go

to the king, and tell him, that he was ready

to wait on him. But Obadiah replied, "What

evil have I done to thee, that thou sendest

me to one who seeketh to kill thee; and hath

sought over all the earth for thee? Or art

thou so ignorant as not to know, that the

king hath left no place untouched, into which

he hath not sent persons to bring thee back,

in order if they could take thee, to have put

thee to death?" He also acknowledged he

was afraid lest God should appear to him

again, and he should go away into another

place; and that when the king should send

him for Elijah, and he should not be able to

find him, he should be put to death. He de­

sired him, therefore, to take care of his pre­

servation, and told him how diligently he

had provided for those of his own profession,

and had saved a hundred prophets, when

Jezebel slew the rest of them, and had kept

them concealed; and that they had been

sustained by him. But Elijah bade him fear

nothing, but go to the king, assuring him upon

oath, that he would certainly shew himself

to Ahab that very day.

So when Obadiah had informed the king

that Elijah was there, Ahab met him, and

asked him in anger, "Tf he were the man that

afflicted the people of the Hebrews, and was

the occasion of the drought that they lay

under?" but Elijah, without any flattery,

said, that Ahab was himself the man, and his

house, which brought such sad afflictions

upon them; and that by introducing strange

gods into their country, and worshipping

them; and by leaving their own, who was the

only true God; and naving no manner of re­

gard to him. However, he bade him go his

way, and gather together all the people to

Mount Carmel, with his own prophets and

those of his wife; telling him how many there

were of them; as also the prophets of the

groves, about four hundred in number. And

as all the men whom Ahab sent for ran away

to the aforenamed mountain, the prophet

Elijah stood in the midst of them, and said:

"How long will ye live thus in uncertainty of

mind and opinion?" he also exhorted them,

that in case they esteemed their own God to

be the true and the only Deity, they would

follow him and his commandments; but in

case they esteemed him to be nothing, but

had an opinion of the strange gods, and that

they ought to worship them, his counsel was

that they should follow them. And when

* There are some Jewish doctors who think that this  
Obadiah was the same with him whose writings we have

among the twelve minor prophets. They pretend that he

was married to that woman of Shunem, where Elisha used

to lodge; that he was a disciple of the prophet Elijah, and

the last of the three captains whom king Ahnziah sent to

apprehend him; and that for this reason he had compas­

sion on hira, though he had destroyed the others that came

before him, with fire from heaven, 2 Kings i. 9. &c. but

all these things are pure apocrypha. Obadiah himself, in

his discourse with Elijah, sufficiently tells us who he was,

viz. a person truly religious, who worshipped God alone,

had a singular affection for his servants; enough, one

would think, to have made Ahab discard, if not persecute

him, had he not found him so highly useful in the manage­

ment of his domestic affairs, as to connive at his not wor­

shipping Baal, or the calves; especially as we read nothing

of his going up to Jerusalem, which was a defect that God

might perhaps think proper to dispense with. Calmet's

and Patrick's Commentaries. B.

t Josephus here seems to mean, that this drought

affected all the habitable earth.

1 t Kings xviii. 4.

