70 . [book ft. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to God against them, since they had already

been permitted to go out . And they thought

they should easily overcome them, as they

had no armour, and would be weary with

their journey. So they made haste in their

pursuit, and enquired of every one they met,

which way they were gone? And indeed

that land was difficult to be travelled over,

not only by armies, but single persons. Now

Moses led the Hebrews this way, that in case

the Egyptians should repent, and be desirous

to pursue after them, they might undergo the

Eunishment of their wickedness, and of the

reach of those promises they had made to

them: he also chose this route on account of

the Philistines, who had quarrelled with

them, and hated them of old; that by all

means they might not know of their depar­

ture, for their country is near that of Egypt:

and thence it was that Moses led them not

along the road that tended to the land of the

Philistines, but he was desirous that they

should go through the desert; and so, after a

long journey, and after many afflictions, they

might enter upon the land of Canaan. Ano­

ther reason was, that God had commanded

him to bring the people to mount Sinai; that

there they might offer him sacrifices.

Now, when the Egyptians had overtaken

the Hebrews, they prepared to fight them,

and by their multitude they drove them into

a narrow place: for the number that pursued

after them was six hundred chariots, with

fifty thousand horsemen, and two hundred

thousand footmen, all armed. They also

seized on the passages, by which they ima­

gined the Hebrews might fly, shutting them*

up between inaccessible mountains and the

sea, for there was on each side a ridge of

mountains that terminated at the sea, which

was impassable by reason of their roughness,

and obstructed their flight; wherefore they

there pressed upon the Hebrews, with their

army, where the ridges of the mountains were

close with the sea, which army they placed

at the defiles of the mountains, that so they

might deprive them of any passage into the

plain.

When the Hebrews, therefore, were neither

able to bear up, being thus, as it were, be­

sieged, because they wanted provisions, nor

saw any possible way of escaping; and i!

they should have thought of fighting, they

had no weapons; they expected an universal

destruction, unless they delivered themselves

up voluntarily to the Egyptians: so they laid

the blame on Moses, and f forgot all the signs

that had been wrought by God for the reco­

very of their freedom, and this so far, that

their incredulity prompted them to throw

stones at the prophet, while he encouraged

them, and promised them deliverance, and

they resolved that they would deliver them­

selves up to the Egyptians; so there was sor­

row and lamentation among the women and

children, who had nothing but destruction

before their eyes, while they were encom­

passed with mountains, the sea, and the ene­

mies, and discerned no way of flying from

them.

But Moses, though the multitude looked

fiercely at him, did not relinquish the care ot

them, but despised all dangers, out of his

trust in God, who, as he had afforded them

the several steps already taken for the reco­

very of their liberty, which he had foretold,

* Take the main part of Reland's excellent note here,  
which greatly illustrates Josephus and the Scriptures in

this history, with the small map thereunto belonging, as

follows:—" A traveller," says Reland, " whose name was

Eneman, when he returned out of Egypt, told me, that he

went the same way from Egypt to mount Sinai, which he

supposed the Israelites of old travelled, and that he found

several mountainous tracts that ran down towards the Red

Sea, as he delineated them to me. See A, B, C. He

thought the Israelites had proceeded as far as the desert of

Etham, (see Exod. xiii. 20.) when they were commanded

by God to return back, (see Exod. xiv. 2.) and to pitch

their camp between Migdol and the sea; and that when

-they were not able to fly, unless by sea, they were in the  
place here denoted by the letter B, where they were shut

in on each side by mountains, and that on the part where

stands D was the army of Pharaoh. He also thought we

might evidently learn hence how it might be said that the

Israelites were in Etham before they crossed the sea, and

yet might be said to have come into Etham, after they had

passed over the sea. Besides, he gave me an account how

he passed over the river in a boat near the city Suez,

which he said must needs be the Heroopolis of the an­

cients, since that city could not be situated any where else

in that neighbourhood."

As to the famous passage produced here by Dr. Ber­

nard, out of Herodotus, as the most ancient heathen tes­

timony of the Israelites coming from the Red Sea into

Palestine, Bishop Cumberland has shewn that it belongs to

the old Canaanite, or Phoenician shepherds, and their re­

tiring out of Egypt into Canaan, or Phoenicia, long before

the days of Moses.

t Exod. xiv. 11.

