AN. 41.] 525 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

youngest brother, and all their servants, and

the rest of the multitude that was with him;

and without the enemies' privity pursued his

way to Idumea. Nor could any enemy of his,

who then saw him in this case, be so hard­

hearted, but would have commiserated his

fortune; while the women drew along their

infant children, and left their own country,

and their friends in prison, with tears in their

eyes, and sad lamentations; and in expecta­

tion of nothing but what was of a melancholy

nature.

Herod, however, raised his mind above the

miserable state he was in, and was of good

courage in the midst of his misfortunes; and,

as he passed along, bade them every one be

of good cheer, and not to give themselves up

to sorrow, because that would hinder them

in their flight, which was now the only hope

of safety they had. Accordingly they tried

to bear with patience the calamity they were

under, as he exhorted them to do. Yet was

he once almost going to kill himself, upon the

overthrow of a waggon, and the danger his

mother was then in of being killed: and this

on two accounts; because of his great con­

cern for her, and because he was afraid lest,

by this delay, the enemy should overtake him

in the pursuit. But as he was drawing his

sword, and going to kill himself therewith,

those that were present restrained him, and

told him, that he ought not to desert them,

and leave them a prey to their enemies; for

that it was not the part of a brave man to free

himself from the distresses he was in, and to

overlook his friends that were in the same

distresses also: so that he was compelled to

let that horrid attempt alone, partly out of

shame at what they said to him, and partly

out of regard to the great number of those

that would not permit him to do what he in­

tended. So he encouraged his mother, and

took all the care of her the time would allow,

and proceeded with the utmost haste to the

fortress of Massada. And though he had

many skirmishes with such of the Parthians

as attacked and pursued him, he was con­

queror in them all.

Nor indeed was he free from the Jews all

along, as he was in his flight. For by that

time he was gotten sixty furlongs out of the

city, and was upon the road, they fell upon

him, and fought hand to hand with him: but

he put them to flight, and overcame them:

not like one that was in distress, and in ne­

cessity, but like one that was excellently pre­

pared for war, and had what he wanted in

great plenty. And on this very place where

he now overcame the Jews, he, some time

afterward, built a most excellent palace, and

a city round about it, and called it Herodium.

And when he was come to Idumea, at a place

called Thressa, his brother Joseph met him:

and he then held a council to take advice

about his affairs, and what was fit to be done

in his circumstances, since he had a great

multitude that followed him, besides his mer­

cenary soldiers, and the place Massada, whi­

ther he proposed to retreat, was too small to

contain so great a multitude. So he sent

away the greater part of his company, being

above nine thousand, and bade them go, some

one way, and some another, and so save

themselves in Idumea, and gave them what

would buy them provisions in their journey;

but he took with him those that were least

encumbered, and were most intimate with

him, and came to the fortress, and placed

there his wives, and his followers, being about

eight hundred in number; there being in the

place a sufficient quantity of corn, and water,

and other necessaries; and went directly for

Petra, in Arabia. But when it was day, the

Parthians plundered all Jerusalem, and the

palace; and abstained from nothing but Hyr-

canus's money, which was three hundred

talents. A great deal of Herod's money es­

caped; and principally all he had been so

provident as to send to Idumea beforehand.

Nor indeed did what was in the city suffice

the Parthians: but they went out into the

country, and plundered it, and demolished

the city Marissa.

Thus was Antigonus brought back into

Judea by the king of the Parthians; and re­

ceived Hyrcanus and Phasaelus for his pri­

soners. But he was greatly cast down be­

cause the women had escaped; whom he

had intended to have given the enemy; as

having promised they should have them, with

the money, for their reward. But being afraid

that Hyrcanus, who was under the guard of

the Parthians, might have his kingdom re­

stored to him by the multitude, he cut offhis^

ears; and thereby took care that the high-

priesthood should never come to him any.

4N2

•v.v,

'^

