268 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

upon his father's throne, they were obedient

from that day.

CHAP. XV.

OF THE CHARGE WHICH DAVID GAVE TO HIS SON SOLOMON,

AT THE APPROACH OF HIS DEATH, AND OF THE MATERIALS

HE LEFT HIM FOR BUILDING A TEMPLE.

A LITTLE afterward *David fell into a

distemper, by reason of his age; and

perceiving that he was near to death, he

called his son Solomon, and discoursed to

him thus: "I am now, O my son! going to

my grave, and to my fathers; which is the

common way which all men that now are, or

that shall be hereafter, must go. From which

way it is no longer possible to return, and to

know any thing that is done in this world. I

therefore exhort thee, while I am still alive,

though already very near to death, in the

same manner as I have formerly said in my

advice to thee; to be righteous towards thy

subjects, and religious towards God, who

hath given thee thy kingdom; to observe his

commands, and his laws, which he hath sent

us by Moses; and neither do thou out of fa­

vour nor flattery, allow any lust or passion to

weigh with thee, to disregard them; for if

thou transgressest his law, thou wilt lose the

favour of God, and thou wilt turn away his

providence from thee in all things. But if

thou behave thyself so as I exhort thee, thou

wilt preserve our kingdom to our family, and

no other house will bear rule over the He­

brews, but we ourselves for all ages. Be

thou also mindful of the transgression of

Joab,f the captain of the host, who hath slain

two generals out of envy, and those righteous

and good men; Abner the son of Ner, and

Amasa the son of Jether; whose death do thou

avenge, as shall seem good to thee; since

Joab hath been too hard for me, and more

potent than myself; and so hath escaped

punishment hitherto. I also commit to thee

the son of Barzillai, the Gileadite, whom, in

order to gratify me, thou shalt have in great

honour, and take great care of. For we have

not done good to him first; but we only repay

that debt which we owe his father, for what

he did to me in my flight. There is also

Shimei the son of Gera, of the tribe of Ben­

jamin, who after he had cast many reproaches

upon me, when, in my flight, I was going to

Mahanaim, met me at Jordan, and received

assurances that he should then suffer nothing.

Do thou now seek out for some just occasion,

and punish him."

When David had given these admonitions

to his son respecting public affairs, and about

those whom he knew to deserve punishment,

he died; having lived seventy years,J and

reigned seven years and six months in He­

bron, over the tribe of Judah; and thirty-

three years in Jerusalem, over all the country.

This man was of an excellent character, and

was endowed with all virtues that were de­

sirable in a king, and in one that had the

preservation of so many tribes committed to

him. For he was a man of valour, in a very

extraordinary degree; and went readily and

first of all into dangers, when he was to fight

for his subjects; as exciting the soldiers to

action by his own labours, and fighting for

them; and not by commanding them in a des­

potic way. He was also of very great abili­

ties in apprehension of present and future

circumstances, when he was to manage any

affairs. He was prudent, moderate, and kind

* An. 1056.

t David is here greatly blamed by some, for recom­

mending Joab and Shimei to be punished by Solomon, if

he could find a proper occasion, after he bad borne with

the first a long while; and seemed to have pardoned the

other entirely; which Solomon executed accordingly.—

Yet do I not discern any fault either in David or Solomon

in these cases. Joab's murder3 of Abner and Amasa were

very barbarous, and could not properly be forgiven either

by David or Solomon. For a dispensing power in kings

for the crime of wilful murder, is warranted by no law of

God, nay is directly against it every where. Nor is it in

the power of men to grant such a prerogative to any of

their kings. Though Joab was so nearly related to David,

and so potent in the army under a warlike administration,

that David durst not himself put him to death; as he says

here, and 2 Sam. iii. 39. and xix. 7. Shimei's cursing the

Lord's anointed, and this without any just cause, was the

highest act of treason against God, and his anointed king,

and justly deserved death. And though David could for­

give treason against himself, yet had he done no more in

the case of Shimei than promised him, that he would not

then, on the day of his return and re-inauguration, or

upon that occasion, himself put him to death, 2 Sam. xix.

22. and he swore to him no farther, verse 23. as the words

are in Josephus, than that he would Dot then put him to

death; which he performed. Nor was Solomon under

any obligation to spare such a traitor.

J From an. 1126 to 1056 B. C.

