an. 1769.] 51 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

/

interpretation of his dreams; but when they

fesitated about them the king was so much

the more disturbed. And now it was that the

memory of Joseph's skill came into the mind

of the king's cup-bearer, when he saw the

confusion Pharaoh was in; so he came and

mentioned Joseph to him, as also the vision

he had seen in prison, and how the event

proved as he had said; as also that the chief

baker was crucified on the very same day; and

that this also happened to him according to

the interpretation of Joseph: that Joseph

himself was laid in bonds by Potiphar as a

slave, but he said he was one of the noblest

of the stock of the Hebrews, and that his

father lived in great splendour. "If, there­

fore," said he, " thou wilt send for him, and

not despise him on account of his misfortunes,

thou wilt learn what thy dreams signify."

The king, thereby, commanded that they

should bring Joseph into his presence; and

those who received the command came and

brought him with them, having taken care of

his habit, that it might be decent, as the king

had enjoined them to do.

The king took him by the hand, and said,

"O young man, for my servant bears witness

that thou art at present the best and most

skilful person I can consult with; vouchsafe

me the same favours which thou bestowed

on this servant of mine, and tell me what

events are predicted by the visions of my

dreams: and I desire thee to suppress nothing

out of fear, nor to flatter me with lying words,

or with what may please me, although the

truth should be of a melancholy nature. It

seemed to me that as I walked by the river,

I saw kine fat and very large, seven in num­

ber, going from the river to the marshes; and

other kine of the same number like them met

pretations of his dreams, made use of some, at least, if not

all, these arts; and the jr.wish doctors would make lis be­

lieve, that after several attempts of divers kinds, they came

at last to this exposition, that Pharaoh's daughters (for they

suppose him to have seven) should die, and that he should

have seven others born to him in their stead: but this

being not at all satisfactory to their master, put the cup­

bearer in mind of Joseph's great abilities that way. Le

Qerc's and Patrick's Commentary. B. .

* In Barhary one stalk of wheat, or barley, will some­  
times bear two ears, while each of these ears will ai often

shoot out into a number of less ones, thereby affording a

most plentiful increase. May not these large prolific ears,

when seven are said to come upon one stalk, explain what

voL. I.—No. 5.

them out of the marshes, exceeding lean and

ill-favoured; which ate up the fat and large

kine, and yet were no better than before, and

not less miserably pinched with famine

After I had seen this vision I awoke out ol

my sleep; but being in disorder, and con­

sidering with myself what this appearance

should be, I fell asleep again, and saw another

dream much more wonderful than the fore­

going, which did still more affright and dis­

turb me.* I saw seven ears of corn growing

out of one root, having their heads borne

down by the weight of the grains, and bend­

ing down with the fruit, which was now ripe,

and fit for reaping: and near these I saw

seven other ears of corn, meagre and weak

for want of rain, which fell to eating and con­

suming those that were fit for reaping, and

put me into great astonishment."

Joseph replied; "This dream, O king,

although seen under two forms, signifies one

and the same event of things; for when thou

sawest the kine, which is an animal made for

the plough and for labour, devoured by the

poorer kine; and the cars of corn eaten up

by the smaller ears, they foretel a famine,

and want of the fruits of the earth for the

same number of years, and equal with those

when Egypt was in a happy state; and this

so far, that the plenty of these years will be

spent in the same number of years of scarcity,

and that scarcity of necessary provisions will

be very difficult to be corrected: as a sign

whereof the ill-favoured kine, when they had

devoured the better sort, could not be satis­

fied. But still God foreshows what is to come

upon men, not to grieve them, but that when

they know it beforehand, they may, by pru­

dence, make the actual experience of what is

foretold the more tolerable. If thou there-

is further mentioned of the seven fruitful years in Egypt,

that is, that the earth brought forth by handfuls?

This latter passage may, indeed, mean, that the earth

brought forth handfuls of stalks from single grains, and not

handfuls of ears from single stalks, agreeably to the follow

ing passage from Dr. Shaw: "In Barbary it is common to

see one grain produce ten or fifteen stalks. Even some

grains of the munvaany wheat, which I brought with me

to Oxford, and sowed in the physic garden, threw out each

of them fiftv. Bnt Muzeratty, one of the late kaleefas, or

viceroys, of the province of Tlemsan, brought once with

him to Algiers a root that yielded fourscore: telling us,

that the prince of the western pilgrims sent once to the

bashaw of Cairo one that yielded six score. Pliny mentions

some that bore three or four hundred." B.

o

