AN. 34.] 543 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

given her Coelesyria, instead of what she de­

sired: by which means he had at once pa­

cified her, and got clear of the entreaties

which she had made him, to have Judea

bestowed upon her.

When these letters were brought, the wo­

men laid aside their intention of fleeing to

the Romans which they had thought of while

Herod was supposed to be dead. Yet was

not that purpose of theirs a secret. But

when the king had conducted Antony on his

way against the Parthians, and returning

to Judea; both his sister Salome, and his

mother, informed him of Alexandra's inten­

tions. Salome also added somewhat farther

against Joseph, though it were no more than

a calumny: that he had often had a criminal

conversation with Mariamne. The reason

of her saying so was, that she had for a long

time borne her ill will: for when they had

differences with one another, Mariamne took

great freedoms, and reproached the rest

with the meanness of their birth. Herod

whose affection to Mariamne was always

very warm, was presently disturbed at this;

and could not bear the torments of jealousy;

but was still restrained from doing any rash

thing, by the love he had for her. Yet did

his vehement affection and jealousy together

make him ask Mariamne by herself, about

this matter of Joseph. But she denied it

upon her oath, and said all that an innocent

woman could possibly say in her own de­

fence: so that by little and little the king

was prevailed upon to drop the suspicion;

and left off his anger at her: and being over­

come with his passion for his wife, he made

an apology to her for having seemed to be­

lieve what he had heard about her; and re­

turned her a great many acknowledgments

of her modest behaviour: and professed the

extraordinary affection and kindness he had

for her. Till at last, as is usual between

lovers, they both burst into tears, and em­

braced each other with a most tender affec­

tion. But as the king gave more and more

assurances of his belief of her fidelity, and

endeavoured to draw her to a like confi­

dence in him, Mariamne said, "Yet was not

that command thou gavest, that if any harm

* This slaughter of Arsinoe by Mark Antony, when she  
had fled for refuge to this asylum, the temple of Diana,

is confirmed by Appian V. page 676. Only he says, that

came to thee from Antony, I, who had been

no occasion of it, should perish with thee, a

sign of thy love to me."

When these words were fallen from her,

the king was shocked at them; and presently

let her go out of his arms, and cried out, and

tore his hair with his own hands, and said,

that he had now an evident demonstration

that Joseph had had criminal conversation

with his wife: for that he would never have

uttered what he had told him by himself,

unless there had been a great familiarity,

and such firm confidence, between them.

And while he was in this passion, he had

like to have killed his wife: but being still

overcome by his love to her, he restrained

his passion: though not without a lasting

grief, and disquietness of mind. However,

he gave order to slay Joseph, without per­

mitting him to come into his sight. And as

for Alexandra, he bound her, and kept her

in custody, as the cause of all this mischief.

CHAP. IV.

of cleopatra's avarice and cruelties; her arrival

in judea, and the attentions she received from

HEROD.

AT this time the affairs of Syria were in

confusion by Cleopatra's constant per­

suasions to Antony to make an attempt on

every body's dominions. For she persuaded

him to take those dominions from their se­

veral princes, and bestow them upon her.

And she had a great influence upon him; by

reason of his being enslaved to her by his

affections. She was also by nature very

covetous, and hesitated not to commit any

wickedness. She had already poisoned her

brother; because she knew that he was to

be king of Egypt: and this when he was but

fifteen years old. And she caused her sister

Arsinoe to be *slain by the means of An­

tony; when she was a supplicant at Diana's

temple at Ephesus. For if there were but

any hopes of getting money, she would vio­

late both temples and sepulchres. Nor was

there any holy place that was esteemed the

most inviolable, from which she would not

fetch the ornaments it had in it: nor any

it was at her temple at Miletus; and Josephus here at her

temple at Ephesus. Which was the truth cannot. I sup­

pose, be now determined.

