476 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

spread out her hands, and begged of him,

that he would not grow remiss on her ac­

count; but indulge his indignation so much

the more; and that he would do his utmost

to take the place quickly, in order to get

their enemy under his power; and then to

avenge upon him what he had done to those

that were dearest to himself. For that death

to her would be sweet, though attended with

torment; if that enemy of theirs might but be

brought to punishment for his wicked deal­

ings to them. Now when his mother said so,

he resolved to take the fortress immediately:

but when he saw her beaten, and torn to

pieces, his courage failed him; and he could

not but sympathize with what his mother

suffered, and was thereby overcome. And as

the siege was drawn out into length by these

means, that year on which the Jews use to

rest came on; for the Jews observe this rest

every seventh year, as they do every seventh

day. So Ptolemy, being* for this cause re­

leased from the war, slew the brethren of

Hyrcanus, and his mother. And when he

had so done, he fled to Zeno, surnamed Co-

tylas; who was then tyrant of the city Phila­

delphia.

But Antiochus, being very uneasy at the

miseries that Simon had brought upon him,

invaded Judea, in the fourth year of his reign;

and the first year of the principality of Hyr­

canus, in the fhundred and sixty-second

Olympiad. And when he had burnt the

country, he shut up Hyrcanus in the city;

which he encompassed round with seven

encampments; but did nothing at the first;

because of the strength of the walls, and the

valour of the besieged; although they were

once in want of water; which yet they were

delivered from by a copious shower of rain,

which fell at the Jsetting of the Pleiades.

However, about the north part of the wall,

where it happened the city was upon a level

with the outward ground, the king raised a

hundred towers of three stories high, and

placed bodies of soldiers upon them; and as

he made his attacks every day, he cut a

double ditch, deep, and broad; and confined

the inhabitants within it, as within a wall.

But the besieged contrived to make frequent

sallies; and if the enemy were not any where

upon their guard, they fell upon them, and

did them a great deal of mischief; and if

they perceived them, they then retired into

the city with ease. But because Hyrcanus

discerned the inconvenience of so great a

number of men in the city; while the pro­

visions were the sooner spent by them, and

yet, as is natural to suppose, those great

numbers did nothing; he separated the use­

less part, and excluded them out of the city;

and retained that part only which were in

the flower of their age, and fit for war. How­

ever, Antiochus would not let those that were

excluded go away. Who therefore wandering

about between the walls, and consuming

away by famine, died miserably. But when

the feast of the tabernacles was at hand,

those that were within commiserated their

condition, and received them in again. And

when Hyrcanus sent to Antiochus, and de­

sired there might be a truce for seven days,

because of the festival; he gave way to this

piety towards God, and made that truce ac­

cordingly. And besides that, he sent in a

magnificent sacrifice, bulls with their ||homs

* Hence we learn that, in the days of this excellent  
high-priest, John Hyrcanus, the observance of the sab­

batic year, as Josephus supposed, required a rest from

war; as did that of the weekly sabbath from work. I

mean this, unless in the case of necessity, when the Jews

were attacked by their enemies; in which case indeed,

and in which alone, they allowed defensive fighting to be

lawful, even on the sabbath day; as we see in several

places of Josephus, Antiq. XII. 6. XIII. 1. XIV. 4.

XVHI. 9. Of the War, I. 7. IV. 2. But then it must be

noted, that this rest from war no way appears in the first

book of Maccabees, chap. xvi. but the direct contrary.

Though indeed the Jews, in the days of Antiochus Epi-

phanes, did not venture upon fighting on the sabbath day,

even in the defence of their own lives; till the Asmo-

neans or Maccabees decreed so to do. 1 Mace. ii. 32—-41.

Antiq. XII. 6.

| Josephus's copies, both Greek and Latin, have here

a gross mistake; when they say, that this first year of

John Hyrcanus, which we have just now seen to have

been a sabbatic year, was in the 162d Olympiad, whereas

it was certainly the second year of the 161st. See the

like before, XII. 7.

J This heliacal setting of the Pleiades, or seven stars,

was in the days of Hyrcanus and Josephus, early in the

spring, about February, the time of the latter rain in Ju­

dea. And this so far as I remember, is the only astrono­

mical character of time, besides one eclipse of the moon,

in the reign of Herod, that we meet with in all Josephus.

The Jews being little accustomed to astronomical obser­

vations: any farther than for the use of their calendar;

and utterly forbidden those astrological uses which the

Heathens commonly made of them.

|| Dr. Hudson tells us here, that the custom of gilding

the horns of those oxen that were to be sacrificed, is a

known thing, both in the poets and orators.

