AN. 163.] 449 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

such as were going up to the temple, in order

to offer their sacrifices: for this citadel ad­

joined to and overlooked the temple. When

these misfortunes had often happened to

them, Judas resolved to destroy that garri­

son. Accordingly he got all the people to­

gether, and vigorously besieged those that

were in the citadel. This was in the hun­

dred and fiftieth year of the dominion of the

Seleucidae. So he made engines of war,

and erected bulwarks; and very zealously

pressed on to take the citadel. But there

were not a few of the runagates who were in

the place, that went out by night, into the

country, and got together some other wicked

men like themselves; and went to Antiochus

the king, and desired of him, that he would

not suffer them to be neglected under the

great hardships that lay upon them, from

those of their own nation: and this because

their sufferings were occasioned on his fa­

ther's account; while they left the religious

worship of their fathers, and preferred that

which he had commanded them to follow:

that there was danger lest the citadel and

those that were appointed to garrison it by

the king, should be taken by Judas, and those

that were with him; unless he would send

them succours. When Antiochus, who was

but *a child, heard this, he was angry, and

sent for his captains, and his friends; and

gave order that they should get an army of

mercenaries together, with such men also, of

his own kingdom, as were of an age fit for

war. Accordingly an army was collected of

about a hundred thousand footmen, twenty

thousand horsemen, and thirty-two ele­

phants.

So the king took this army, and marched

hastily out 01 Antioch, with Lysias, who had

the command of the whole; and came to Idu-

mea, and thence went up to Bethsura, a city

that was strong, and not to be taken without

freat difficulty: he sat about this city, and

esieged it. And while the inhabitants of

Bethsura courageously opposed him, and sal­

lied out upon him, and burnt his engines of

war; a great deal of time was spent in the

siege. But when Judas heard of the king's

coming, he raised the siege of the citadel, and

met the king, and pitched his camp in certain

straits, at a place called Bethzachariah, at

the distance of seventy furlongs from the

enemy. But the king soon drew his forces

from Bethsura, and brought them to those

straits. And as soon as it was day he put

his men in battle array, and made his ele­

phants follow one another through the nar­

row passes: because they could not be set

sideways one by another. Now round about

every elephant there were a thousand foot­

men, and five hundred horsemen. The ele­

phants also had high towers upon their

backs, and archers in them. And he also

made the rest of his army to go up the moun­

tains, and put his friends before the rest;

and gave orders for the army to shout aloud:

and so he attacked the enemy. He also

exposed to sight their golden and brazen

shields: so that a glorious splendour was

sent from them; and when they shouted the

mountains echoed again. When Judas saw

this, he was not terrified; but received the

enemy with great courage, and slew about

six hundred of the first ranks. But when his,

brother Eleazar, whom they called Auran,

saw the tallest of all the elephants armed

with royal breast-plates, and supposed that

the king was upon him, he attacked him

with great quickness and bravery. He also

slew many of those that were about the ele­

phant, and scattered the rest; and then went

under the belly of the elephant, and smote

him, and slew him. So the elephant fell

upon Eleazar; and by his weight crushed

him to death.f And thus did this man come

to his end, when he had first courageously

destroyed many of his enemies.

But Judas, seeing the strength of the ene­

my, retired to Jerusalem, and prepared to

endure a siege. As for Antiochus, he sent

part of his army to Bethsura, to besiege it;

and with the rest of his army he came against

Jerusalem. But the inhabitants of Bethsura

were terrified at his strength; and seeing

that their provisions grew scarce, they de-

much more authentic history in 1 Mace. vi. 28, &c.

agrees with him, we have no reason to suppose him

therein mistaken.

* Dr. Hudson observes here, that Jason of Cyrene,  
as epitomized in the second book of the Maccabees,

chap. xiii. tells this story very differently from Josephus.

But then, since, as I have lately remarked, Josephus

never appears to have seen those books; and since that

t- 1 Mace. vi. 46.

