AN. 31 1912.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

I might have thee for my son; when thou wast

come into the world, there was nothing that

could contribute to thy support for which I

was not greatly solicitous; nor any thing

wherein I thought myself happier than to see

thee grown up to man's estate; and that I

might leave thee, at my death, the successor

to my dominion; but since it was by God's

will that I became thy father, and is now his

will that I relinquish thee, bear this conse­

cration to God with a generous mind; for I

resign thee up to God, who hath thought fit

now to. require this testimony of honour to

himself on account of the favours he hath

conferred on me, in being to me a supporter

and defender. Accordingly thou, my son,

wilt now die, not in any common way of going

out of the world, but sent to God, the father

of all men, before hand, by thy own father, in

the nature of a sacrifice. I suppose he thinks

thee worthy to leave this world, neither by

disease, by war, nor any other severe way

by which death usually comes upon men, but

so that he will receive thy soul with prayers

and holy offices of religion, and will place

thee near to himself, and thou wilt there be

to me a succourer and supporter in my old

age, on which account I principally brought

thee up; and thou wilt thereby procure me

God for my comforter instead of thyself."

Now Isaac was of such a generous dispo­

sition as became the son of such a father,

and was pleased with this discourse, and

said that he was not worthy to be born at

first, if he should reject the determination of

God and of his father, and should not resign

himself up readily to both their pleasures;

since it would have been unjust if he had not

obeyed, even if his father alone had so re­

solved: so he went immediately to the altar

to be sacrificed; and the deed had been

* It seems both here, and in God's parallel blessing to  
Jacob, c. 19. that Josephus had yet no notion of the hidden

meaning of that most important and most eminent promise,

In thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed;

he saith not of seeds, as of many, but as of one; and to

thy seed, which is Christ, Gal. iii. 16. Nor is it any

wonder, he being,' I think, as yet not a Christian: and

had he been a Christian, yet since he was till the latter

part of his life no more than an Ebonite Christian, who

above all the apostles rejected and despised St. Paul, it

would be no great wonder if he did not now follow his

interpretation. In the mean time we have in effect. St.

Paul's exposition in the testament of Reuben in Authent.

Rec. part I. page 302, who charges his sons " To worship

VOL. L—No. 3.

done if God had not opposed it, for he called

loudly to Abraham by his name, and forbade

him to slay his son, and said it was not out of

a desire of human blood that he was com­

manded to slay his son, nor was he willing

that he should be taken away from him whom

he had made his father, but to try the temper

of his mind, whether he would be obedient

to such a command: since, therefore, he now

was satisfied as to the surprising readiness

he shewed in his piety, he was delighted in

having bestowed such blessings upon him,

and that he would not be wanting in all sort

of concern about him; and that his son

should live to a very great age, that he should

live a happy life, and bequeath a large prin­

cipality to his children, who should be good

and legitimate. He foretold also that his

family should increase into many nations,*

and that those patriarchs should leave behind

them an everlasting name; that they should

obtain the possession of the land of Canaan,

and be envied by all men. When God had

said this, he produced to them a ram,f which

did not appear before, for the sacrifice; so

Abraham and Isaac receiving each other un­

expectedly, and having obtained the pro­

mises of such great blessings, embraced one

another; and when they had sacrificed, they

returned to Sarah, and lived happily together,

God affording them his assistance in all

things they desired.

CHAP. XIV.

OF THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF SARAH, ABRAHAM'S WIFE.

NOW SarahJ died a little while after­

ward, having lived one hundred and

twenty-seven years. They buried her in

Hebron, the Canaanites publicly allowing

the seed of Judah, who should die for them in visible and

invisible wars, and should be among them an eternal king."

Nor is that observation of a learned foreigner of my

acquaintance to be despised, who takes notice, that as

seeds in the plural must signify posterity, so seed in the

singular may signify either posterity, or a single person;

and that in this promise of all nations being happy in the

seed of Abraham, or Isaac, or Jacob, &c. it is always

used in the singular; to which I shall add, that it is some­

times, as it were, paraphrased by the son of Abraham, the

son of David, &.c. which is capable of no such ambiguity.

See Boyle's Lectures, page 247—272.

t Gen. xxii. 13.

I Gen. xxiii. 1. 2. An. 1900.

I

