A*. 899.] 315 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

say to him, that he had slain the true owner

of that field unjustly.

And as soon as he came to him, and the

king had said, that he might do with him what

he pleased, (for he thought it a reproach to

him to be thus caught in his sin,) Elijah said,

that in the very place in which the dead body

of Naboth was eaten up by the dogs, both

his own blood, and that of his wife, should

be shed; and that all his family should perish,

because he had been so insolently wicked,

and had slain a citizen unjustly, and contrary

to the laws of his country. Hereupon Ahab

began to be sorry for the things he had done,

and to repent of them; and he put on sack­

cloth, and went barefoot,* and would not

touch any food: he also confessed his sins,

and endeavoured thus to appease God. But

God said to the prophet, while Ahab was

living he would put off the punishment of his

family, because he repented of those insolent

crimes he had been guilty of; but that still

he would fulfil his threatening under his son:f

and this message the prophet delivered to

the king.

CHAP. XIV

OF THE EXPEDITION OF HADAD, KING OF DAMASCUS AND

STRIA, AGAINST AHAB.

WHEN the affairs of Ahab were in this

situation, the son of Benhadad, who

was king of the Syrians and Damascus, got

together an army out of all his country, and

procured thirty-two kings beyond Euphrates

to be his auxiliaries. So he made an expe­

dition against Ahab. But because Ahab's

army was not like that of Benhadad's, he did

not set it in array to fight him; but having

shut up every thing that was in the country

in the strongest cities he had, he abode in

Samaria himself: for the walls about it were

very strong, and it appeared not easily to be

taken in other respects also. So the king of

Syria took his army with him, and came to

Samaria, and placed his army round about

the city, and besieged it. He also sent a

herald to Ahab, and desired he would admit

the ambassadors he would send him; by

whom he would let him know his pleasure.

So upon the king of Israel's permission for

him to send, those ambassadors came, and

by their king's command spake thus: that

Ahab's riches, and his children, and his

wives, were Benhadad's: and if he would

make an agreement, and give him leave to

take as much of what he had as he pleased,

he would withdraw his army, and leave off

the siege. Upon this Ahab made the am­

bassadors to go back, and tell their king,

that both he himself, and all that he had,

were his possessions. And when these am­

bassadors had told this to Benhadad, he

sent to him again, and desired, since he con­

fessed that all he had was his, that he would

admit those servants of his which he would

send the next day: and he commanded him

to deliver to those whom he should send,

whatever upon their searching his palace,

and the houses of his friends, and kindred,

they should find to be excellent in its kind:

but that what did not please them they

should leave him. At this second ambas-

sage, Ahab was surprised, and gathered to­

gether the multitude to a congregation, and

said: "For myself, I am ready, for your

safety and peace, to give up my own wives

and children to the enemy, and to yield to

him all my own possessions: for that was

what the Syrian king required at his first

ambassage. But now he desires to send his

servants to search all your houses; and in

them to leave nothing that is excellent in

its kind; seeking an occasion of fighting

against me; as knowing that I would not

spare what is mine own for your sakes; but

taking a handle from the disagreeable terms

he offers concerning you, to bring a war

upon us. However, 1 will do what you

shall resolve is fit to be done." Hereupon

the multitude advised him to hearken to

none of Benhadad's proposals, but to despise

him, and to be in readiness to fight. Ac­

cordingly he dismissed the ambassadors with

this answer, that he still continued in the

mind to comply with what terms their master

at first desired, for the safety of the citizens;

* "The Jews weep to this day," says Jerom, here  
recited by Reland, "and roll themselves upon sackcloth,

in ashes barefoot, upon such occasions." To which Span-

heim adds, "that after the same manner Berenice, when

voL. I.—NOS. 27 & 28.

life was in danger, stood at the tribunal of Floras barefoot."

Of the War, II. 15. See the like of David, 2 Sam. xv

50. Antiq. VII.

t 1 Kings xxi. 29.

3K

