AN. 31.] 545 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

vantage to be expected from such an under­

taking, if any such could be supposed in this

case, it would appear to deserve condemna­

tion, on account of the insolence he must take

upon him in doing it. These considerations

made it very plain, that in so doing he would

find his government filled with mischiefs, both

great and lasting, both to himself and his pos­

terity: whereas it was still in his power to re­

ject that wickedness she would persuade him

to, and to come off honourably at the same

time. So by thus representing to Herod the

hazard he must, in all probability, run by this

undertaking, they restrained him from it. He

therefore treated Cleopatra kindly, and made

her presents, and conducted her on her way

to Egypt.

But Antony subdued Armenia, and sent

Artabazes, the son of Tigranes, in bonds, with

his children, and procurators, to Egypt; and

made a present of them, and of all the royal

ornaments which he had taken out of that

kingdom, to Cleopatra. And Artaxias the

eldest of his sons, who had escaped at that

time, took the kingdom of Armenia. He

was, indeed, ejected by Archelaus, and Nero

Caesar, when they restored Tigranes his

younger brother to that kingdom: but this

happened a considerable time afterward.

But as to the tributes which Herod was to

ay Cleopatra for that country which Antony

ad given her, he acted fairly with her, as

deeming it not safe for him to afford any

cause for Cleopatra to hate him. As for the

king of Arabia, whose tribute Herod had un­

dertaken to pay her; for some time indeed

he paid him as much as came to two hundred

talents. But he afterward became very slow

in his payments; and could hardly be brought

to pay some parts of it; and was not willing

to pay even them without some deductions.

CHAP. V.

HEROD MAKES WAR WITH THE KING OF ARABIA, AND AFTER

SEVERAL ENGAGEMENTS, SUBDUES HIM; AND IS CHOSEN

BY THE ARABS TO BE GOVERNOR OF THAT NATION.

ALSO, CONCERNING A GREAT EARTHQUAKE.

HEREUPON Herod held himself ready

to go against the king of Arabia; be­

cause of his ingratitude; and because, after

all, he would do nothing that was just to him.

Although Herod made the Roman war an oc-

E

casion of delaying his own. For the battle

at Actium was now expected; which hap­

pened in the second year of the hundred and

eighty and seventh Olympiad: where Caesar

and Antony were to fight for the supreme

power of the world. But Herod having en­

joyed a country that was very fruitful, and

that now for a long time; and having received

great taxes, and raised great armies there­

with; got together a body of men, and care­

fully furnished them with all necessaries, and

designed them as auxiliaries for Antony. But

Antony said he had no want of his assistance.

But he commanded him to punish the king of

Arabia; for he had heard, both from him,

and from Cleopatra, how perfidious he was:

for Cleopatra thought it for her own advan­

tage, that these two kings should do one

another as great mischief as possible. Upon

this message from Antony, Herod returned

back; but kept his army with him, in order

to invade Arabia. So when his army of horse­

men and footmen was ready, he marched to

Diospolis. Thither the Arabians came also

to meet them; for they were not unapprised

of this war that was coming upon them. And

after a great battle had been fought, the Jews

had the victory. But afterward there were

gotten together another numerous army of

the Arabians, at Cana, a place of Coelesyria.

Herod was informed of this beforehand: so

he came against them, with the greatest part

of his forces. And when he was come near

to Cana, he resolved to encamp himself, and

he cast up a bulwark; that he might take a

proper season for attacking the enemy. But

as he was giving those orders, the multitude

of the Jews cried out, that he should make

no delay, but lead them against the Arabians.

On this occasion they were in high spirits, as

believing they were in very good order; and

those especially were so that had been in the

former battle, and had been conquerors; and

had not permitted their enemies so much as

to come to a close fight with them. And

when they were so tumultuous, and shewed

such great alacrity, the king resolved to make

use of that zeal the multitude then exhibited.

And when he had assured them he would not i

be behindhand with them in courage, he led

them on, and stood before them in his ar­

mour: all the regiments following him in

their several ranks. Hereupon a consterna-

