/)38 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

■!

and many presents with him: and desired

him, in the most obliging way, that he would

be no hindrance to his gratitude toward his

benefactor. But this zeal of Herod's did

not flow from that principle: but because

he had been made governor of that country

without having any just claim to it, he was

afraid afterward of a change in his condi­

tion: and so made what haste he could to

get Hyrcanus into his power: or indeed to

put him quite out of the way. Which last

thing he effected.

Accordingly, when Hyrcanus came, full of

assurance, by the permission of the king of

Parthia, and at the expense of the Jews, who

supplied him with money: Herod received

him with all possible respect, and gave him

the upper place at public meetings, and set

him above all the rest at feasts: and thereby

deceived him. He called him his father; and

endeavoured, by all the ways possible, that he

might have no suspicion of any treacherous

design against him. He also did other things

in order to secure his government: which yet

occasioned a sedition in his own family. For

being cautious how he made any *illustrious

person the high-priest of God, he sent for an

obscure priest out of Babylon, whose name

was Ananelus, and bestowed the high-priest­

hood upon him.

However, Alexandra, the daughter of Hyr­

canus, and wife of Alexander, the son of

Aristobulus the king, who had also brought

Alexander two children, could not bear this

indignity. Now this son was one of the

greatest comeliness, and was called Aristo­

bulus: and the daughter Mariamne was mar­

ried to Herod, and eminent for her beauty

also. This Alexandra was much disturbed,

and took the indignity offered to her son

exceeding ill: that while he was alive, any

one else should be sent for to have the dig­

nity of the high-priesthood conferred upon

him. Accordingly she wrote to Cleopatra,

(a musician assisting her in taking care to

have her letters carried;) to desire her in­

tercession with Antony, in order to gain the

high-priesthood for her son.

But as Antony was slow in granting this

request, his friend fDellius came into Judea

upon some affairs; and when he saw Aristo­

bulus, he stood in admiration at the tallness

and handsomeness of the child; and no less at

Mariamne the king's wife: and was open in

his commendations of Alexandra, as the

mother of most beautiful children. And when

she came to discourse with him, he persuaded

her to get pictures drawn of them both, and

to send them to Antony: for that when he

saw them, he would deny her nothing that

she should ask. Accordingly Alexandra was

elevated with these words of his, and sent

the pictures to Antony. Dellius also talked

extravagantly, and said, that these children

seemed not derived from men, but from some

god. His design in doing so was to entice

Antony into lewd pleasures with them. He

was ashamed to send for the damsel, as being

the wife of Herod; and avoided it, because

of the reproaches he should have from Cleo­

patra on that account: but he sent, in the

most decent manner he could, for the young

man: but added this withal, "Unless he

thought it hard upon him so to do." When

this letter was brought to Herod, he did not

think it safe to send one so handsome as was

Aristobulus, in the prime of his life; (for he

was sixteen years of age, and of so noble a

family:) and particularly not to Antony, the

principal man among the Romans, and the

one that would abuse him in his amours; and

besides, one that openly indulged himself in

such pleasures as his power allowed him,

without control. He therefore wrote back

to him, that "If this boy should only go out

of the country, all would be in a state of war

and uproar; because the Jews were in hopes

of a change in the government; and to have

another king over them."

When Herod had thus excused himself to

* Here we have an eminent example of Herod's  
worldly and profane politics; when, by the abuse of his

unlawful and usurped power, to make whom he pleased

high-priest, in the person of Ananelus, he occasioned such

disturbances in his kingdom, and in his own family, as

suffered him to enjoy no lasting peace or tranquillity ever

afterward. And such is frequently the effect of profane

court politics about matters of religion in other ages and

nations. The Old Testament is full of the miseries of

the people of the Jews derived from such court politics:

especially in, and after the days of Jeroboam, the son of

Nebat, who made Israel to sin; who gave the most per­

nicious example of it; who brought on the grossest cor­

ruption of religion by it; and the punishment of whose

family for it was most remarkable. The case is too well

known to require particular citations.

t Of this wicked Dellius, see the note On the War,

I. 15.

