Air. 1099.] 211 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the kingdom; and farther, why didst thou de­

liver oracles to him concerning futurity? for

thou couldst not be unacquainted that he

had fled away from me; and that he hated

my family." But the high-priest did not at­

tempt to deny what he had done, but con­

fessed boldly that he had supplied him with

those things; not to gratify David, but Saul

himself; and he said, " I did not know that he

was thy adversary, but a servant of thine,

who was very faithful to thee; and a captain

over a thousand of thy soldiers; and what is

more than these, thy son-in-law. Men do not

choose to confer such favours on their adver­

saries; but on those who are esteemed to

bear the highest good will and respect to

them. Nor is this the first time that I pro­

phesied for him; but have done it at other

times, as well as now. And when he told me

that he was sent by thee to perform some­

thing in great haste; if I had furnished him

with nothing that he desired, I should have

thought it was rather in contradiction to thee,

than to him. Wherefore do not thou enter­

tain any ill opinion of me, nor do thou have a

suspicion of what I then thought an act of

humanity, from what is now told thee of

David's attempts against thee; for I did to

him as to thy friend, and son-in-law, and cap­

tain of a thousand; and not as to thine adver­

sary."

The high-priest's defence, however, had

no effect upon Saul, for his fear was so pre­

valent, that he could not give credit to any

apology that was very just. So he commanded

his armed men to kill him, and all his kindred.

But as they durst not touch the high-priest,

but were more afraid of disobeying God than

the king; he ordered Doeg the Syrian to kill

* Eighty-five, Hebrew. Three hundred and five,  
Septuagint.

t Nob was not a city allotted to the priests; nor had

the prophets, that we know of, any particular cities allotted

to them. It seems the tabernacle was now at Nob; and

probably a school of the prophets was here also. It was

full two days journey on foot from Jerusalem. The num­

ber of priests here slain, in Josephus, is 385, and but 85,

in our Hebrew copies; yet are they 305 in the Septuagint.

I prefer Josephus's number: the Hebrew having, I sup­

pose, only dropped the hundreds, the other the tens. This

city Nob seems to have been the chief, or perhaps the

only seat of the family of Ithamar; which here perished,

according to God's former terrible threatenings to Eli,

1 Sam. ii. 27—36. iii. 11—18.

J 1 Sam. xxii. 20.

voL. I.—NOS. 17 & 18.

them. Accordingly he took to his assistance

such wicked men as were like himself, and

slew Ahimelech and his family; which were

in all three hundred and eighty-five.* Saul

also sent men to Nob,f the city of the priests,

and slew all that were there, without sparing

either women or children, or any other age,

and burnt it. Only there was one son of

Ahimelech, whose name was Abiathar, who

escaped.J However, these things came to

pass as God had foretold to Eli the high-

priest; when he said that his posterity should

be destroyed, on account of the transgressions

of his two sons.

Now Saul,|| by perpetrating so barbarous

a crime, and murdering the whole pontifical

family, by having no pity for the infants, nor

reverence for the aged; and by the over­

throwing the city also which God had chosen

for the property and support of the priests

and prophets which were there; and had

ordained as the only city allotted for the edu­

cation of such men; gives all to understand

and consider the disposition of men: that

while they are private persons, and in a low

condition, because it is not in their power to

indulge, nor to venture upon what they wish

for, they are equitable and moderate, and

pursue nothing but what is just; and bend

their whole minds and labours that way; then

it is that they have this belief about God, that

he is present to all the actions of their lives,

and that he does not only see the actions that

are done, but clearly knows those thoughts,

also whence their actions arise. But when

once they are advanced into power and au­

thority, they put offall such notions; and, as

if they were no other than actors upon a

theatre, they lay aside their disguised parts

II We have here an admirable reflection of Josephus's,

concerning the general wickedness of men in great au­

thority, and the danger they are in of rejecting that regard

to justice and humanity; to divine providence and the

fear of God, which they either really had, or pretended to

have while they were in a lower condition. It can never

be too often perused by kings and great men; nor by those

who expect to obtain such elevated dignities among man­

kind. See the like reflections of our Josephus's, VII. 1.

at the end, and VIII. 10. at the beginning, also XIII. 7.

about the middle. They are to the like purport with one

branch of Agur's prayer: "One thing have I required of

thee ; deny me not before I die: give me not riches, lest I

be full, and deny thee, and say, who is the Lord?" Prov.

xxx. 7, 8, 9.

Uu

