52 [book n. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

fore carefully dispose of the plentiful crops

which will come m the former years, thou

wilt procure that the future calamity will not

be felt by the Egyptians."

Hereupon the king wondered at the dis­

cretion and wisdom of Joseph; and asked

him by what means he might so dispense the

plentiful crops in the happy years, as to make

the miserable crops more tolerable: Joseph

then added this advice; to spare the good

crops, and not permit the Egyptians to spend

them luxuriously; but to reserve what they

would have spent in luxury beyond their

necessity against the time of want. He also

exhorted him to take the corn of the husband­

men, and give them only so much as might

suffice for their food. Accordingly Pharaoh,

being surprised at Joseph, not only for his

interpretation of the dream, but for the coun­

sel he had given, entrusted him with dis­

pensing the corn; with the power to do what

he thought would be for the benefit of the

Eeople of Egypt, and for the benefit of the

jng: as believing that he who first disced

vered this method of acting would prove the

best overseer of it. Joseph having this power

given him by the king,* with leave to make

use of his seal, and to wear purple,t drove in

his chariot through all the land of Egypt ;$

and took the corn|| of the husbandmen, allot-

ting as much to every one as would be suffi­

cient for seed and for food; but without d#-

covering to any one the reason why he did so.

CHAP. VI.

OF THE ARRIVAL OP JOSEPH S BRETHREN IN EGYPT, AND

HIS CONDUCT TOWARDS THEM.

JOSEPH was now grown up to thirty years

of age, and enjoyed great honours from

the king; who called him Psothom Phanech,

out of regard to his prodigious degree of wis­

dom; for that name denotes a revealer of

secrets. He also married a wife of very high

quality: she was the daughter of Petephres,§

one of the priests of Heliopolis, and her name

was Asenath. By her he had children before

the scarcity came on, Manasseh, the elder,

which signifies forgetful; because his present

happiness made him forget his former misfor­

tunes. And Ephraim, the younger, which

signifies restored; because he was restored

to the freedom of his forefathers.

Now after Egypt had happily passed over

seven years, according to Joseph's interpre­

tation of the dreams, the famine came upon

them on the eighth year: and because this

misfortune fell upon them when they had no

sense** of it before-hand, they were all sorely

afflicted by it, and came running to the king's

* Joseph had his name changed on this occasion. It  
was an ancient custom among eastern princes, upon their

promotion of any favourite, to give him a new name. Nebu­

chadnezzar, we read, "Dan. i. 7. imposed new names upon

DanieJ, and his companions in Babylon; and to this very

day Mo<rul never advances a man, but he gives him a new

name, and that significative of something belonging to him;

but here the question is, what is the meaning of the name

which Pharaoh gave Joseph? In the Hebrew text it is

Zaphnah paaneah, but in the Egyptian and Greek Penta­

teuch it is Pson-thonphanech. The oriental versions,

however, are pretty unanimous in rendering it, a revealer

of secrets; but there are some reasons why this should

not be its true interpretation. For the time that Pharaoh

gave the patriarch this name, was when he advanced him

from the condition of an imprisoned slave to that of a ruler

throughout all the land of Egypt! and therefore, it is

reasonable to suppose that he gave it in commemoration

of such promotion, rather than of his expounding dreams:

because to have called him an interpreter of dreams only,

had been degrading him to the level of magicians. Now

if Pharaoh gave him this name in memory of his promo­

tion, it was very likely that this name was strictly and

properly Egyptian, (otherwise the common people could

not have understood it,) though Moses, in his recording it,

might endeayour to accommodate to the Hebrew idiom;

and if it was Egyptian, the word in that language signifies

what we call a prime minister: or strictly the first, or

prince of the lords. Biblintheca Bibl. occas.annot. 41. B.

t To be arrayed in a rich dress, and to ride in great

pomp and ceremony, were the ancient modes of investing

with the highest degree of subordinate power in Egypt;

and with a small variation still remain so. The history of

the revolt of Ali Bey, (p. 43.) informs us, that on the

election of a new sheik bellet, the pasha who approves of

him invests him with a valuable fur, treats him with sher­

bet, and when the sheik bellet departs, the pasha presents

him with a horse richly caparisoned.

Harmer, vol. iii. p. 308. B.

t Gen. xlv. 42—3.

I! That is, bought it for Pharaoh at a very low price.

§ This Potiphar, or as in Josephus, Petephres, who

was now a priest of On or Heliopolis, is the same name in

Josephus, and perhaps in Moses also, with him who is be­

fore called the Head Cook or Captain of the Guard; and

to whom Joseph was sold. See Gen. xxxvii. 36. xxxix.

1. with xli. 50. They are also affirmed to be one and the

same person in the Testament of Joseph, for he is there

said to have married the daughter of his master and mis­

tress. Nor is this a notion peculiar to that Testament;

but as Dr. Bernard confesses, common to Josephus, to the

Septuagint interpreters; and toother learned Jews of old

time.

** This intire ignorance of the Egyptians of these years

