AN. 1052.] 275 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

liver that child to the other woman as her

own; ibr she would be satisfied with the life

of the child, and with the sight of it, although

it were esteemed the other's child. But the

other woman was ready to see the child di­

vided, and was even desirous that the first

woman should be tormented. When the

king understood that both their words pro­

ceeded from the truth of their passions, he

adjudged the child to her who cried out for

its preservation; for that she was the real

mother; and he condemned the other as a

wicked woman, who had not only killed her

own child, but was willing to see her friend's

child destroyed also. Now the multitude

looked on this determination as a great de­

monstration of the king's sagacity and wis­

dom; and after that day attended to him, as

to one that had a divine mind.*

Now the captainsf of Solomon's armies,

and officers appointed over the whole coun­

try, were these. Over the lot of Ephraim was

Ures; over the toparchy of Bethlehem was

Dioclerus. Abinadab, who married Solo­

mon's daughter, had the region of Dora, and

the sea coast under him. The great plain

was under Benaiah the son of Achilus, who

also governed all the country as far as Jor­

dan. Gabaris ruled over Gilead, and Gaula-

nitis; and had under him the sixty great and

fenced cities of Og. Achinadab managed

the affairs of all Galilee, as far as Sid on;

and had himself also married a daughter of

Solomon, whose name was Basima. Bana-

cates had the sea coast about Arce; as had

Shaphat, mount Tabor and Carmel, and the

Tbracians, being appointed to arbitrate between three

men, who all pretended to be song of the king of the

Cimmerians, and claimed the succession, found out the

true son and heir, by ordering them to shoot each man

his arrow into the dead king's body, which one of them

refusing to do, was deemed the true claimant. Pool's

Annotations, Patrick''» and Calmefs Commentaries. B.

* 1 Kings iii. 28.

t Mr. Reland has treated of these prefects of provinces,

and of their provinces, more exactly than any other: and

has compared our copies of 1 Kings iv. with Josephus

very carefully; to whom I refer the learned reader. Pa-

lestina, tom. I. lib. I. chap. 29. Only we must note, that

Josephus has but ten prefects, and that his names are dif­

ferent from those in our copies.

J It may not be amiss to compare the daily furniture

of Solomon's table, here set down, and 1 Kings iv. 22, 23.

with the like daily furniture of Nehemiah, the governor's

table, after the Jews were come back from Babylon; and

to remember withal, that Nehemiah was now building

VOL. I.—NOS. 23 & 24.

lower Galilee, as far as the river Jordan; one

man was appointed over all this country.

Shimei was intrusted with the lot of Benja­

min; and Gabares had the country beyond

Jordan; over whom there was again one

governor appointed. Now the people of the

Hebrews, and particularly the tribe of Judah,

received a wonderful increase, when they

betook themselves to husbandry, and the

cultivation of their grounds. For as they en­

joyed peace, and had besides an unbounded

fruition of the most desirable liberty, every

one was busy in augmenting the product of

their own lands, and making them worth

more than they had formerly been.

The king had also other rulers, who were

over the land of Syria, and of the Philistines,

which reached from the river Euphrates to

Egypt; and these collected his tributes of the

nations. Now these contributed to the king's

table, and to his supper every day thirty cori

of fine flour,} and sixty of meal; as also ten

fat oxen, twenty oxen out of the pastures, and

a hundred fat lambs; all these were besides

what were taken by hunting, harts, buffaloes,

birds, and fishes, which were brought to the

king by foreigners every day. Solomon had

also so great a number of chariots, that - the

stalls of his horses for these chariots were

forty thousand;! and besides these he had

twelve thousand horsemen: one half of which

waited upon the king in Jerusalem, and were

dispersed abroad, and dwelt in the royal vil­

lages. But the same officers who provided

for the king's expenses, supplied also the

fodder for the horses, and still carried it

the walls of Jerusalem, and maintained more than usual

above one hundred and fifty considerable men every day;

and that, because the nation was then very poor, at his

own charges also; without laying any burden upon the

people. "Now that which was prepared for me daily

was one ox, and six choice sheep. Also fowls were pre­

pared for me. And once in ten days a store of all sorts of

wine; and yet for all this 1 required not the bread of the

governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this peo­

ple." Nehem. v. 18. See the whole context, v. 14, 19.

Nor did the governor's usual allowance of forty shekels

of silver a day, v. 15, amount to 51. a day; nor to 1800/.

a year. Nor does it indeed appear that under the judges,

or under Samuel the prophet, there was any such public

allowance to those governors at all. Those great charges

upon the public for maintaining courts came in with kings,

as God had foretold. 1 Sam. viii. 11—18.

II Four thousand, 2 Chron. ix. 25, which I suppose to

be the true number.

3 E

