504 [book xiy. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

but were defeated in the battle, and put to

flight. About five thousand were slain on

this occasion, and the rest being dispersed,

tried, as well as they were able, to save them­

selves. However, Arislobulus had with him

still above a thousand men; and with them

he fled to Macherus, and fortified the place:

and though he had had ill success, he still

had some hope of his affairs. But when he

had struggled against the siege for two days'

time, and had received many wounds, he was

brought as a captive to Gabinius, with his

son Antigonus; who also fled with him from

Rome. And this was the fortune of Aristo-

bulus, who was sent back again to Rome;

and was there retained in bonds; having

been both king and high-priest for three

years, and six months; and was indeed an

eminent person, and one of a great soul.

However, the senate let his children go;

upon Gabinius's writing to them, that he

promised their mother so much, when she

delivered up the fortresses to him. And ac­

cordingly they returned into Judea.

Now when Gabinius was making an expc'

dition against the Parthians, and had already

passed over Euphrates, he changed his mind,

and resolved to return into Egypt; in order

to *restore Ptolemy to his kingdom. Anti-

pater supplied his army, which he sent against

Archelaus, with corn, and weapons, and

money. He also made those Jews, who were

above Pelusium, his friends and confederates;

and had been the guardians of the passes

that led into Egypt. But when he came back

out of Egypt, he found Syria in disorder with

seditions and troubles; for Alexander, the

son of Aristobulus, having seized on the go­

vernment a second time by force, made many

Jews revolt to him; and so he marched over

the country with a great army, and slew all

the Romans he could meet with; and pro­

ceeded to besiege the mountain called Geriz-

zim, whither they had retreated.

But when Gabinius found Syria in such a

state, he sent Anti pater, who was a prudent

man, to those that were seditious; to try

whether he could cure them of their madness,

and persuade them to return to a better

mind. And when he came to them, he in-

* This history is best illustrated by Dr. Hudson out of  
Livy, Epit. cv. who says, that " A. Gabinius, the procon­

sul, restored Ptolemy to his kingdom of Egypt; and

duced many of them to do what they ought.

But he could not restrain Alexander: for he

had an army of thirty thousand Jews, and

met Gabinius; and joining battle with him

was beaten, and lost ten thousand of his men

about mount Tabor.

So Gabinius settled the affairs which be­

longed to the city Jerusalem, as was agree­

able to Antipater's inclination; and" went

against the Nabateans, and overcame them

in battle. He also sent away in a friendly

manner Mithridates and Orsanes, who were

Parthian deserters, and came to him; though

the report went abroad, that they had run

away from him. And when Gabinius had

performed great and glorious actions, in his

management of the affairs of war, he returned

to Rome and delivered the government to

Crassus. Now Nicolaus of Damascus, and

Strabo of Cappadocia, both describe the ex­

peditions of rompey and Gabinius against the

Jews: while neither of them say any thing

new, which is not in the other.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE PILLAGING OF THE TEMPLE BY CRASSUS, PREVIOUS

TO HIS EXPEDITION AGAINST THE PARTHIANS; IN WHICH

HE PERISHED WITH HIS ARMY; OF THE EXPLOITS OF

CASSIUS; AND OF THE DEATH OF ARISTOBULUS AND HIS

SON ALEXANDER.

NOW fCrassus, as he was going upon his

expedition against the Parthians, came

upon Judea, and carried off the money that

was in the temple, which Pompey had left;

being two thousand talents; and was dis­

posed to spoil it of all the gold belonging to

it, which was eight thousand talents. He

also took a beam which was made of solid

beaten gold, of the weight of three hundred

minse; each of which weighed two pounds

and a half. It was the priest who was guar­

dian of the sacred treasures, and whose name

was Eleazar, that gave him this beam; not

out of a wicked design, for he was a good

and a righteous man; but being intrusted

with the custody of the veils belonging to the

temple, which were of admirable beauty, and

of very costly workmanship, and hung clown

from this beam, when he saw that Crassus

ejected Archelaus, whom they had set up for king," fee.

See Prideaux, at the years 64 and 65.

t An. 54 B. C.

