AK. 1108.] 195 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

■as*

panies, and took as many roads, and laid

waste the country of the Hebrews;* while

Saul and his son Jonathan saw what was

done, but were not able to defend the land;

as having no more than six hundred men with

'them. But as he, and his son, and Ahiah the

high-priest, who was of the posterity of Eli,

were sitting upon a pretty high hill, and

seeing the land laid waste, they were greatly

disturbed at it. Now Saul's son agreed with

his armour-bearer, that they would go pri­

vately to the enemies' camp, and make a

tumult, and a disturbance among them. And

when the armour-bearer had readily pro­

mised to follow, whithersoever he should lead

him, though he should be obliged to die in

the attempt, Jonathan made use of the young

man's assistance, and descended from the hill,

and went to their enemies. Now the enemies'

camp was upon a precipice, which had three

tops, that ended in a small but sharp and long

extremity; while there was a rock that sur­

rounded them, like lines made to prevent the

attacks of an enemy. There it happened,

that the out-guards of the camp were neg­

lected; because of the natural security of the

place, and because they thought it altogether

impossible, not only to ascend up to the camp

on that quarter, but so much as to come near

it. As soon therefore as they came to the

camp, Jonathan encouraged his armour-

bearer, and said to him, "Let us attack our

enemies; and if when they see us, they bid us

come up to them; take that for a signal of

victory. But if they say nothing, as not in­

tending to invite us to come up, let us re­

turn back again."f So when they were ap­

proaching to the camp, just after break of

day, and the Philistines saw them, they said

to one another, "The Hebrews come out of

their dens and caves:" and they said to Jona­

than, and to his armour-bearer, "Come on,

ascend up to us, that we may inflict a just

punishment upon you for your rash attempt."

So Saul's son accepted that invitation; as

indicative of victory, and immediately came

out of the place whence they were seen by

their enemies: so he changed his place, and

came to the rock, which had none to guard it,

because of its own strength. From thence

they crept up with great labour and difficulty,

and overcame by force the nature of the

place, till they were able to fight with their

enemies. So they fell upon them,}: as they

were asleep, and slew about twenty of them;

and thereby filled them with disorder, and

surprise; insomuch that some of them threw

away their armour, and fled; but the greatest

part not knowing one another, because they

were of different nations, suspected each

other to be enemies; (for they did not ima­

gine that there were only two of' the Hebrews

that came up,) and so they fought one against

another. And some of them died in the battle,

and some as they were flying away were

thrown headlong from the rock.||

a matter, in so short a time, to recover a trade that was

lost; especially among a people that had no iron-mines,

and were so wholly addicted to the feeding of cattle, that

they made no account of any mechanical art. In the fa­

mous victory which they gained over Sisera, we are told,

that there was not a shield or spear seen among fifty

thousand men of Israel, Judg. v. 8. but notwithstanding

this, they had bows and arrows, and slings, which the men

of Gibeah could manage to a wonderful advantage, Judg.

xx. 16. And besides these, the Israelites, upon this oc­

casion, might convert their instruments of husbandry, their

hatchets, their spades, their forks, their mattocks, &c. into

instruments of war; a much better shift than what we

read of some, who, in ancient times, had no other arms

than clubs and sharpened stakes, hardened in the fire.

Non jam certamine agresti

Stipitibus duris agitur, sudibnsque praeustis.

Virgil, Jlneid, 7. B.

* About an. 1108.

t 1 Sam. xiv. 9, 10.

J This action of Jonathan's, considered in itself, was

doubtless a very rash attempt, and contrary to the laws

of war, which prohibit all under command (as he was)

voL. U—NOS. 17 & 18.

from engaging the enemy, or entering upon any enter­

prise, without the general's order: but what may very

justly be said in excuse of it is,—That he had a divine

incitation to it, which he might probably feel upon the

sight of the Philistines appearing as if they intended to

assault Gibeah, and upon the information which he might

receive of the great spoil which the three parties made of

the poor people in the country. Patrick's Comment. B.

|| How two men could put the whole army into such a

consternation, may seem somewhat extraordinary; but it

should be considered, that Jonathan and his armour-

bearer, climbing up a way that was never attempted be­

fore, might come upon them unawares, and surprise them:

that this action might happen, as Josephus thinks, early in

the morning, when a great part of the Philistines' army

was asleep; that even, had they been all awake, Jonathan

might have so posted himself, (as Horatius Codes did on

a bridge,) so as to be able to maintain his pass against all

the force of the enemy; that those who made at him, (as

only one perhaps could at a time,) he with one stroke

might lay flat on the ground, and his armour-bearer imme­

diately despatch them; that the rest, seeing tbem act thug

intrepidly, might take them for two scouts, or van-couriers

only of a great army that was coming up, and ready to fall

Ss

