AM. 1741.] 61 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When Jacob was come to the king, and

had saluted him, and wished all prosperity to

his government, Pharaoh asked how old he

was? Upon whose answer, that he was a

hundred and thirty years old, he admired

Jacob on account of the length of his life.

And when he had added, that still he had

not lived so long as his fore-fathers, he gave

him leave to live with his children in Heli-

opolis; for in that city the king's shepherds

had their pasturage.

The famine now increased among the

Egyptians, and this heavy judgment grew

more oppressive to them, because neither did

the river overflow the ground, for it did not

rise to its former height; nor did God send

rain* upon it . Nor did they, indeed, make

the least provisions for themselves, so igno­

rant were they what was to be done. But

Joseph sold them corn for their money; and

when their money failed them, they bought

corn with their cattle and their slaves; and if

any of them had a small piece of land, they

gave up that to purchase them food. By which

means the king became the owner of all their

substance; and they were removed some to

one place, and some to another; that so the

possession of their country might be firmly

assured to the king; excepting the lands of

the priests; for their country continued still

in their own possession. And indeed this

sore famine made their minds as well as their

bodies slaves; and at length compelled them

to procure a sufficiency of food by such dis­

honourable means. But when this misery

ceased, and the river overflowed the ground,

and the earth brought forth its fruits plenti­

fully, Joseph came to every city, and gathered

the people thereto belonging together, and

gave them back entirely the land which, by

their own consent, the king might have pos-

Whereas Bishop Cumberland has shewn, that they rather

hated such Phoenician or Canaanite shepherds as had long

enslaved the Egyptians of old time. See his Sanchoniath,

page 361—362.

* Reland here puts the question, how Josephus could"  
complain of its not raining in Egypt during this famine,

while the ancients affirm that it never does naturally rain

there? His answer is, that when the ancients deny that

it rains in Egypt, they only mean the upper Egypt, above

the Delta, which is called Egypt in the strictest sense;

hut that in Delta, and consequently in the lower Egypt

adjoining to it, it did not hold, and still does rain sometimes.

See the note on III. 1.

t Josephus suppose* that Joseph now restored the

sessed alone, and alone enjoyed the fruits of

it. He also exhorted them to look on it as

their own possession; to resume their labours

of husbandry with cheerfulness; and to pay

as a tribute to the crown, the fifth party of

the fruits of the land which the king, when it

was his own, restored to them. 1 hese men

rejoiced upon their becoming unexpectedly

owners of their land, and diligently observed

what was enjoined them. And by this means

Joseph procured to himself a greater autho­

rity among the Egyptians, and a greater love

to the king from them. Now this law, that

they should pay the fifth part of their fruits

as tribute, continued until the time of their

later kings.

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE DEATH OF JACOB AND JOSEPH.

WHEN Jacob had lived seventeen years

in Egypt, he fell into a disease, and

died in the presence of his sons; but not till

he had made his prayers for their prosperity;

and had foretold prophetically how every one

of them was to dwell in the land of Canaan.

But this happened many years afterwards.

He also enlargedJ upon the praises of Joseph;

how he had not remembered the evil doings

of his brethren to their disadvantage: nay,

on the contrary, was kind to them; bestowing

upon them so many benefits, as seldom are

bestowed on men's own benefactors. He

then commanded his own sons that they

should admit Joseph's sons, Ephraim and

Manasseh, into their number; and divide the

land of Canaan in common with them; con­

cerning whom we shall treat hereafter. How­

ever, he made it his request, that he might

be buried at Hebron. So he died; when he

had lived a hundred and forty-seven years ;||

Egyptians their lands again, upon the payment of a fifth

part as tribute. It seems to me rather that the land was

now considered as Pharaoh's; and this fifth part as its

rent, to be paid to him, as he was their landlord, and they

his tenants; and that the lands were not properly restored,

and this fifth part reserved as a tribute only, till the days

of Sesostris.

J As to this encomium upon Joseph, as preparatory to

Jacob's adopting Ephraim and Manasseh into his own

family, and to be admitted into his two tribes, which Jose­

phus here mentions; all our copies of Gen. omit it, c

xlviii. nor do we know whence he took it; or whether it

be his own embellishment.

I I Gen xlvii 28.

