554 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ill, and yet was so unable to bear it, on ac­

count of the fondness he had for her, that he

could not continue long in any one mind;

but sometimes was angry at her, and some­

times reconciled to ner: but by always

changing one passion for another, he was

still in great uncertainty. And thus was he

entangled between hatred and love; and

was frequently disposed to inflict punish­

ment on her, for her insolence towards him:

but being deeply in love with her, he was

not able to get quit of this woman. In

short, as he would gladly have her punished,

so was he afraid lest, ere he were aware,

he should, by putting her to death, bring a

heavier punishment upon himself at the

same time.

When Herod's sister and mother per­

ceived that he was in this temper, with re­

gard to Mariamne, they thought they had

now an excellent opportunity of exercising

their hatred against her: and provoked

Herod, by telling him such long stories and

calumnies about her, as might at once excite

his hatred and his jealousy. Now though

he willingly listened to their words, yet had

not he courage enough to do any thing to

her, as if he believed them. But still he

became worse disposed to her: and these

ill passions were more and more inflamed

on both sides: while she did not hide her

disposition towards him; and he turned his

love to her, into wrath against her. But

when he was just going to put this matter

past all remedy, he heard the news, that

Caesar was the victor in the war; and that

Antony and Cleopatra were both dead; and

that he had conquered Egypt. Hereupon

he made haste to go to meet Caesar; and

left the affairs of his family in their present

state. However Mariamne recommended

Sohemus to him, as he was setting out on

his journey; and professed that she owed

him thanks for the care he had taken of

her; and asked of the king for him a place

in the government: upon which an honour­

able employment was bestowed upon him

accordingly.

Now when Herod was come into Egypt,

he was introduced to Caesar with great free­

dom; as already a friend of his; and re­

ceived very great favours from him. For

he made him a present of those four hun­

dred *Galatians, who had been Cleopatra's

guards: and restored that country to him

again, which, by her means, had been taken

away from him. He also added to his king­

dom, Gadara, and Hippos, and Samaria: and.

besides those, the maritime cities, Gaza, and

Athedon, and Joppa, and Strato's tower.

Upon these new acquisitions, he grew more

magnificent; and conducted Caesar as far as

Antioch. But upon his return, as much as

his prosperity was augmented by the foreign

additions that had been made him, so much

the greater were the distresses that came

upon him in his own family; and chiefly in

the affair of his wife: wherein he formerly

appeared to have been most of all fortunate.

For the affection he had for Mariamne was

no way inferior to the affections of such as

are on that account celebrated in history;

and this very justly. As for her, she was in

other respects a chaste woman, and faithful

to him: yet was she somewhat rough by na­

ture, and treated her husband imperiously;

because she saw he was so fond of her, as

to be enslaved by her. She did not also

consider seasonably with herself, that she

lived under a monarchy, and that she was

at another's disposal: and accordingly would

often behave herself after a saucy manner

to him. Which yet he usually put off in a

jesting way; and bore with moderation, and

good temper. She would also expose his

mother and sister openly, on account of the

meanness of their birth: and would speak

unkindly of them. Insomuch that there was

before this a disagreement and unpardonable

hatred among the women; and it was now

come to greater reproaches of one another

than formerly. Which suspicions increased,

and lasted a whole year after Herod returned

from Caesar. However, these misfortunes,

which had been kept under some decency

for a great while, burst out at once upon

such an occasion as was now offered. For

as the king was one day, about noon, Jain

down on his bed to rest him; he called for

Mariamne, out of the great affection he had

always for her. She came in accordingly;

but would not lie down by him. And when

he was very desirous of her company, she

shewed her contempt of him: and added,

* Gauls.

