an. 1493.] 125 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

own predictions; there being *no one that

could be a witness against him, and accuse

him for so doing, he stiil gave his attestation

to Balaam, and did him the honour to make

mention of him on this account.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE PUNISHMENT INFLICTED ON THE MIDIANITES BT

THE HEBREWS: THE APPOINTMENT OF MOSES'S SUCCES­

SOR; GRANT OF AMORITE LANDS, &C.

MOSES, for the causes aforementioned,

sent against the land of Midian an

army of twelve thousand* men; taking an

equal number out of every tribe; and ap­

pointing for their commander Phineas, who

had guarded the laws of the Hebrews, and

had inflicted punishment upon Zimri, when

he had transgressed them.

Now the Midianites perceived beforehand,

how the Hebrews were coming, and would

suddenly be upon them. So they assembled

their army, and fortified the entrances into

their country; and there awaited the enemy's

approach. When they were come, and had

joined battle with them, an innumerable mul­

titude of the Midianites fell; among whom

were their five kings; Evi, Zur, Reba, Hur,

and Rekem; the latter of whom was of the

same name with the capital city of all Ara­

bia, which is till now so called by the whole

Arabian nation, Arecem, from the name of

the king that built it; but is by the Greeks

called Petra. Now when the enemies were

discomfited, the Hebrews spoiled their coun­

try, and took a great prey, and destroyed the

men that were its inhabitants, together with

the women: only they preserved the virgins

* Numb. xxxi. 5.

t The slaughter of all the Midianite women, that had

prostituted themselves to the lewd Israelites; and the

preservation of those that had not been guilty therein;

which latter were no fewer than 32,000, both here, and

Numb. xxxi. 15, 16, 17, 35, and both by the particular

command of God, are highly remarkable; and shew that

even in nations doomed to destruction for their wicked­

ness, the innocent were sometimes particularly and pro­

videntially taken care of, and delivered from that destruc­

tion. Which directly implies, that it was the wickedness

of the nations of Canaan, and nothing else, that occasioned

their excision. See Gen. xv. 16. 1 Sam. xv. 18, 33. In

the first of which places, the reason of the delay of the

punishment of the Araorites is given; because their ini­

quity was not yet full. In the second, Saul is ordered to

go and destroy the sinners, the Amalekites; plainly im-

as Moses had commanded Phineas; who in­

deed came back, bringing with its victorious

army fifty-two thousand beeves, seventy-five

thousand six hundred sheep, and sixty thou­

sand asses, with an immense quantity of gold

and silver furniture, which the Midianites

made use of in their houses; for they were

so wealthy, that they were very luxurious.

There were also led captive aboutf thirty-

two thousand virgins. So Moses divided the

prey into parts, and gave one fiftieth part to

Eleazar, and to the priests; and another

fiftieth part to the Levites; and distributed

the rest of the prey among the people. After

which they lived happily, as having obtained

an abundance of good things by their valour;

and there being no misfortune that attended

them or hindered their enjoyment of that

happiness.

Moses being now grown old, appointed

Joshua for his successor}: both to receive di­

rections from God, as a prophet, and for a

commander of the army, if they should at any

time stand in need of such a one. And this

was done by the command of God: that to

him the care of the public should be com­

mitted. Now Joshua had been instructed in

all those kinds of learning which concerned

the laws, and God himself; and Moses had

been his instructor.

At this time the two tribes of Gad, and

Reubel, and the half tribe of Manassehi.

abounded in a multitude of cattle, as well as

in all other kinds of prosperity; whence they

had a meeting, and besought Moses to give

them, as their peculiar portion, that land of

the Amorites which they had taken by right

of war; because it was fruitful, and for feed-

plying, that they were therefore to be destroyed because

they were sinners, and not otherwise. In the third, the

reason is given, why king Agag was not to be spared; viz.

because of his former cruelty. As thy sword hath made

the Hebrew women childless; so shall thy mother be made

childless among women, by the Hebrews. The Apostles

also, or their amanuensis Clement, gives this reason of the

necessity of the coming of Christ, that men had formerly

perverted both the positive law, and that of nature: and

had cast out of their minds the memory of the flood, the

burning of Sodom, the plagues of the Egyptians, and the

slaughter of the inhabitants of Palestine, as signs of the

most amazing impenitence and insensibility under the

punishment of horrid wickedness. Constitut. Apoit. viii

12, page 402.

J Numb, xxvii. 22. Deut. xxxiv. 9.

.y

11 2

