k«. 37.] 537 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

of Cappadocia attests to what I have said;

when he thus speaks: "Antony ordered An-

tigonus the Jew to be brought to Antioch,

and there to be beheaded. And this Antony

seems to have been the very first man who

beheaded a king; as supposing he could no

other way bend the minds of the Jews, so as

to receive Herod, whom he had made king

in his stead. For by no torments could they

be forced to call him king: so great a fondness

they retained for their former king. So he

thought that this dishonourable death would

diminish the value they had for Antigonus's

memory; and at the same time would dimi­

nish their hatred to Herod."

CHAP. II.

OF THE LIBERATION OF HYRCANUS BY THE PARTHIANS;

AND OF THE ACTIONS OF ALEXANDRA, WHEN SHE HEARD

THAT ANANELUS WAS MADE HIGH-PRIEST.

NOW after Herod was in possession of

the kingdom, Hyrcanus, the high-priest,

who was then a captive among the Parthians,

came to him again, and was set free from his

captivity, in the following manner. Barza-

pharnes and Pacorus, the generals of the Par­

thians, took Hyrcanus, who was first made

high-priest, and afterward king: and Herod's

brother, Phasaelus, captives; and were car­

rying them away into Parthia. Phasaelus in­

deed could not bear the reproach of being in

bonds; and thinking that death, with glory,

was better than any life whatsoever, he be­

came his own executioner; as I have *for-

merly related.

But when Hyrcanus was brought into Par­

thia, the king Phraates treated him after a

very gentle manner; as having already learn­

ed of what an illustrious family he was. On

which account he set him free from his bonds;

and gave him a habitation at fBabylon;

where there were Jews in great numbers.

The Jews honoured Hyrcanus as their high-

formal sentence in Judicature, this sentence was executed

upon him in the same manner as upon a common crimi­

nal by the rods and axe of the victor, which the Romans

never before subjected any crowned head to. Prideaux's

Connection, part II. book 7. B.

priest, and king; as did all the Jewish nation

that dwelt as far as Euphrates. This respect

was very much to his satisfaction. But when

he was informed that Herod had received the

kingdom, new hopes came upon him; as hav

ing been himself from the beginning of a kind

disposition towards him; and expecting that

Herod would bear in mind what favour he had

received from him; when he was upon his

trial, and when he was in danger that a capi­

tal sentence would be pronounced against

him, he delivered him from that danger, and

from all punishment. Accordingly he talked

of that matter with the Jews that came often

to him, with great affection. But they en­

deavoured to retain him among them, and de­

sired that he would stay with them; remind­

ing him of the kind offices and honours they

did him; and that those honours they paid

him were not inferior to what they could pay

to either their high-priests, or their kings.

And what was a greater motive to determine

him, they said, was this, that he could not

have those dignities in Judea; because of

that maim in his body, which had been in­

flicted on him by Antigonus: and that kings

do not use to requite men for those kindnesses

which they received when they were private

persons; the height of their fortune making

usually no small changes in them.

Now although they suggested these argu­

ments to him for his own advantage, yet did

Hyrcanus still desire to depart. Herod also

wrote to him, and persuaded him to desire of

Phraates, and the Jews that were there, that

they should not grudge him the royal autho­

rity; which he should have jointly with him­

self. For that now was the proper time for

himself to make him amends for the favours

he had received from him; as having been

brought up by him, and saved by him also;

as well as for Hyrcanus to receive it. And as

he wrote thus to Hyrcanus, so did he send

also Saramallas, his ambassador, to Phraates,

* See Book XIV. chap. 13.

t The city here called Babylon by Josephus, seems to

be one which was built by some of the Seleucidae, upon

the Tigris; which long after the utter desolation of old

Babylon was commonly so called; and, I suppose, not far

from Seleucia. Just as the latter adjoining city Bagdat

had been, and is often called by the same old name of

Babylon till this very day. And a plain reason occurs

here, which shews that Josephus meant no other than a

city built on the Tigris; and this from his own way of

speaking immediately; that not only the Jews at this Ba­

bylon, but over all the country, as far as Euphrates, paid

this honour to Hyrcanus. Which surely implies, that this

Babylon did not lie upon Euphrates; as the old Babylon

certainly did. See Prideaux at the year 239, at large.

