iv EDITOR'S PREFACE.

But a still more important and useful guide in exploring the path of scripture
history, is the

light shed upon it by the study of Jewish and Oriental Antiquities. The
subject is copious,

but amply repays the attention it demands. Of course, in the former branch of
it, Jewish

writers deserve our primary notice, because it may reasonably be presumed that
they are bet­

ter acquainted with the affairs of their own nation than other persons. They
are accustomed,

indeed, to blend in their accounts the mention of circumstances which
judicious readers

will not receive; but this does not detract from the value of the sound
information which

they communicate. Our business in this case is to separate the dross from the
pure metal:

and while we reject the one, to value the other. Among the most ancient,
authentic, and

interesting authors of this denomination, Josephus may certainly be placed.
His works have

always been highly esteemed, and were considered by the early Christian
writers as pecu­

liarly valuable: what he has recorded is in general harmonious with the
scripture history,

though, in some instances, he either enlarges upon or deviates from it. I
shall endeavour,

therefore, to ascertain the weight of his testimony, and to shew in what
degree of esteem he

ought to be held. This cannot be done with more accuracy and certainty than in
the words

of the learned Dr. Lardner, Jewish Testimonies, chap. iii. and iv.

"When Jotapata, in which Josephus was shut up, was besieged and taken by
Vespasian,

strict search was made for him, for if that general was once taken, Vespasian
reckoned that

the greatest part of the war would be over. However, he had hid himself in a
deep cavern,

the opening of which was not easily discerned above ground. Here he met with
forty per­

sons of eminence, who had concealed themselves, and had with them provisions
enough for

several days. On the third day the Roman soldiers seized a woman that had been
with them.

She made a discovery of the place where they were: whereupon Vespasian sent
two tribunes,

inviting him to come up, with assurances that his life should be preserved.
Josephus, how­

ever, refused. Vespasian therefore sent a third tribune, named Nicanor, well
known to

Josephus, with the like assurance. Josephus, after some hesitation, was then
willing to sur­

render himself. But the men who were with him exclaimed against it, and were
for killing

him and themselves, rather than come alive into the hands of the Romans.
Hereupon he

made a long speech to them, shewing that it was not lawful for them to kill
themselves, and

that it was rather a proof of pusillanimity than courage: but all without
effect. He then pro­

posed an expedient; which was, that they should cast lots, two by two, who
should die first.

He who had the second lot should kill the first, and the next him, and so on,
and the last

should kill himself. It happened that Josephus and another were preserved to
the last lot.

When all the rest were killed, he without much difficulty persuaded that other
person to

yield up himself to the Romans. So they two escaped with their lives. This has
been judged

to be a remarkable providence, by which Josephus was preserved to write the
history, of which we are

now able to make so good a use.

"Though the Jewish people never had any great respect for the writings of
Josephus,

yet they have been much esteemed, and often quoted, by Christian, and other
writers, in early and latter

times.

"The works of Josephus, notwithstanding many things in them liable to
exception, which

may be observed by careful and impartial readers, are very valuable. In his
larger work, the

Jewish Antiquities, he confirms the truth of the history of the Old Testament;
and, as in several of

the last books of that work, he has brought down the Jewish history from the
ceasing of pro­

