.322 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

merit of our adversaries. Since therefore we

have undertaken a war for obtaining the go­

vernment; and have taken care to do what

was agreeable to piety and justice: and have

brought to punishment those that had neither

any remembrance of the kindnesses they

had received, nor had kept their oaths; I

will that you be at peace with those that are

our confederates: as also that what you have

taken by the means of our adversaries shall

not be reckoned your own, but be returned

to those from whom you took them. For

none of them took their provinces or their

armies by the gift of the senate; but they

seized them by force, and bestowed them by

violence upon such as became useful to them

in their unjust proceedings. Since therefore

those men have received the punishment due

to them, we desire that our confederates may

retain whatsoever it was that they formerly

possessed, without disturbance: and that you

restore all the places which belonged to

Hyrcanus, the ethnarch of the Jews, which

you have had, though it were but one day

before Caius Cassius began an unjustifiable

war against us, and entered into our province.

Nor do you use any force against him, in or­

der to weaken him, that he may not be able

to dispose of that which is his own. But if

you have any contest with him about your

respective rights, it shall be lawful for you to

plead your cause, when we come upon the

places concerned. For we shall alike pre­

serve the rights, and hear all the causes, of

our confederates."

"Marcus Antonius, imperator, to the ma­

gistrates, senate, and people of Tyre, sendeth

greeting. I have sent you my decree; of

which 1 will that you take care that it be

engraven on the public tables, in Roman and

Greek letters; and that it stand engraven in

the most illustrious places; that it may be

read by all. Marcus Antonius, imperator,

one of the triumvirate over the public affairs,

made this declaration. Since Caius Cassius,

in the revolt he hath made, hath pillaged that

province, which belonged not to him, and

was held by garrisons there encamped; while

they were our confederates; and hath spoiled

that nation of the Jews that was in friendship

with the Roman people as in war: and since

we have overcome his madness by arms, we

now correct by our decrees and judicial de­

terminations what he hath laid waste: that

those things may be restored to our confede­

rates. And as for what hath been sold of the

Jewish possessions, whether they be bodies

or possessions, let them be released: the

bodies into that state oi' freedom they were

originally in; and the possessions to their

former owners. I also will that he who shall

not comply with this decree of miue, shall

be punished for his disobedience. And if

such a one be caught, I will take care that

the offender suffer condign punishment."

The same thing did Antony write to the

Sidonians, the Antiochians, and the Aradians.

We have produced these decrees, therefore,

as marks for futurity of the truth of what we

have said, that the Romans had a great con­

cern about our nation.

CHAP. XIII.

HEROD AND PHASAELUS ARE MADE TETRARCHS, AFTER

HAVING BEEN ACCUSED TO NO PURPOSE: THE PAR-

THIANS BRING ANTIGONUS INTO JUDEA, AND TARE

HYRCANUS AND PHASAELUS CAPTIVES: HEROD SAVES

HIMSELF BY FLIGHT.

WHEN Antony came into *Syria, he

fell in love with queen Cleopatra,

who met him in Cilicia. There came now

also a hundred of the most potent of the

Jews to accuse Herod, and those about him;

and set men of the greatest eloquence among

them to speak. But Messala contradicted

l hem on behalf of the young men: and this in

the presence of Hyrcanus, who was tHerod's

father-in-law already. When Antony had

heard on both sides, at Daphne, he asked

Hyrcanus, who they were that governed the

nation best? He replied, Herod, and his

friends. Hereupon Antony, by reason of the

old friendship he had made with his father,

Antipater, when he was with Gabinius, made

both Herod and Phasaelus tetrarchs, and

committed the public affairs of the Jews to

* An. 41.

t We may here observe that espousals alone were of

old esteemed a sufficient foundation for affinity. Hyrcanus

being here called father-in-law to Herod, because his

grand-daughter Mariamne was betrothed to him; although

the marriage was not completed till four years afterward.

Thus does Virgil style Chorebus the son-in-law to Prk-

mus, before he had actually married his daughter: Ened.

II. v. 344. See the notes here; see also Matth. i. 16.

with Grotius's note upon that place

