440 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

messengers sent by them represented to us,

that they are no way concerned with accusa­

tions which belong to the Jews; but choose

to live after the customs of the Greeks. Ac­

cordingly we declare them free from such

accusations: and order that, agreeable to

their petition, their temple be named *the

Temple of Jupiter Hellenius." He also

sent the like epistle to Apollonius, the go­

vernor of that part of the country, in the

forty-si xthf year, and the eighteenth day of

the month Hecatombeon.

CHAP. VI.

OF THE EXPLOITS OF MATTATHIAS, GRANDSON TO ASMO-

NEUS J HIS DEATH, AND THE SUCCESSION OF JUDAS.

NOW at this time there was one Matta­

thias,J who dwelt at Modin, the son of

John, the son of Simeon, the son of Asmo-

neus; a priest of the order of Joarib,|| and

a citizen of Jerusalem. He had five sons:

John, who was called Gaddis; Simon, who

was called Matthes; Judas, surnamed §Mac-

cabeus; Eleazar, who was called Auran;

and Jonathan, who was called Apphus.

Now this Mattathias lamented to his chil­

dren the sad state of their affairs, and the

ravage made in the city, and the plundering

of the temple, and the calamities the multi-

* This title of Jupiter, Zsug 'EXXrjvi©-, or Grecian  
Jupiter, is mentioned in the coins of Syracuse, and by

Aristophanes, and by Pindar also: as Spanheim here

informs us.

t Instead of the 46th year in the copies, we ought no

doubt, to read here the 146th year: i. e. of the Seleu-

cidae: to which this rescript naturally belongs. But how

Hecatombeon, an Attic or Athenian name of a month,

comes into a Syromacedonian rescript, we cannot tell.

Nobody can think it original. Nor ought we to suppose

it so written by Josephus: who does not use to corrupt

his ancient monuments so absurdly. But how it ought to

be corrected does not appear.

X See 1 Mace. ii. 1—14.

II This was the first of the twenty-four courses of the

priests that served in the temple, 1 Chron. xxiv. 7. and

because Mattathias undertook to determine for the neces­

sity of fighting on the sabbath, in case they were as­

saulted by the enemy, some have from hence inferred, that

the people had made choice of him for their high-priest:

but, besides that, this decision is not sufficient to prove

this, and that it no where appears, that he ever per­

formed the office of high-priest, but only put himself at

the head of a poor distressed people, as being a person

of the greatest power and authority among them, it is

certain that both Menelaus and Alcimus were then alive;

and though they were wicked men, and intruders into

the office, yet they were nominated by king Antiochus,

tude were under; and he told them, that it

was better for them to die for the laws of

their country, than to live so ingloriously as

they then did.

When those that were appointed by the

king were come to Modin, that they might

compel the Jews to do what they ordered,

and to enjoin those that were there to offer

sacrifice, as the king had commanded, they

desired that Mattathias, a person of the

greatest character among them, both on

other accounts, and particularly on account

of such a numerous, and so deserving a fa­

mily of children, would begin the sacrifice;

because his fellow-citizens would follow his

example, and because such a procedure

would make him honoured by the king.

But Mattathias boldly replied he would not

do it; and that if all the other nations would

obey the commands of Antiochus, either out

of fear, or to please him; yet would not he

nor his sons forsake the religious worship of

their country. But as soon as he had ended

his speech, there came one of the Jews into

the midst of them, and sacrificed, as Antio­

chus had commanded: at which Mattathias

had great indignation, and ran upon him vio­

lently, with his sons, who had swords with

them; and slew both the man himself that

sacrificed, and Apelles the king's general,

(who then assumed the right of nomination,) and so were

looked upon as high-priests. Calmet's Dictionary, under

the word Mattathias. B.

§ That this appellation of Maccabee, was not first of

all given to Judas Maccabeus, nor was derived from any

initial letters of the Hebrew words on his banner, Mi

Kamoka Be Elim, Jehovah? Who is like unto thee among

the gods, O Jehovah? Exod. xv. 11. as the modern Rab­

bins vainly pretend, see Authentic Records, part I. page

205, 206. Only we may note, that the original name of

these Maccabees, and their posterity, was Asmoneans,

which was derived from Asmoneus, the great grandfather

of Mattathias, as Josephus here informs us.

Dean Prideaux observes, that abbreviations of this

and several other kinds, were very frequent among

the Jews, and that the Romans bore upon their ensigns

the letters S. P. Q,. R. Senatus Populusque Romanus; but

still (he adds) it must be owned, that Judas was called

by this name, 1 Mace. ii. 4—66. before ever he set up

this standard; and therefore others choose rather to de­

rive it from the Hebrew words Mak-ke baiah, i. e. a con­

queror in the Lord, which explication both the double

of which occurs in the word Maccabee, and his father's

account of Judas, viz. that he had been mighty and

strong even from his youth, seem to favour. Prideaux's

Connection, anno 167, and Calmet's Commentary on

1 Mace. ii. 4. B.

