7« [book n. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

'Now while the Hebrews made no stay, but

went on earnestly, as led by God's presence,

the Egyptians supposed, at first, that they

were distracted, and were going rashly upon

manifest destruction; but when they saw that

they were gone a great way without any

harm, and that no obstacle or difficulty fell

in their journey, they made haste to pursue

them; and, hoping that the sea would be

calm for them also, they put their cavalry

foremost, and went down into the sea. Now

the Hebrews, while these were putting on

their armour, were before-hand with them,

and got first over to the land on the other side,

without any hurt, whence the others were en­

couraged, and more courageously pursued

them, as hoping no harm would come to them

neither: but the Egyptians were not aware

that they went into a road made for the He­

brews, and not for others; that this road was

made for the deliverance of those in danger,

but not for those that were earnest to make

use of it for the other's destruction. As soon,

therefore, as the whole Egyptian army was

within it, the sea flowed to its own place, and

came down with a torrent raised by storms

of wind,* and encompassed the Egyptians

Showers of rain also came down from the

sky, and dreadful thunder and lightning, with

flashes of fire. Thunderbolts also were darted

upon them: nor was there any thing which

God sends upon men as indications of his

Wrath, which did not happen at this time;

for a dark and dismal night oppressed them,

and thus did all these men perish, so that

there was not one man left to be a messenger

of this calamity to the rest of the Egyptians.t

The Hebrews were not able to contain

themselves for joy at their wonderful deliver­

ance, and destruction of their enemies: now

indeed, supposing themselves firmly deliv­

ered, when those that would have forced them

into slavery were destroyed, and when they

found they had God so evidently for their

protector: and how having escaped the dan­

ger they were in, after this manner, and see­

ing their enemies punished in such a way as

is never recorded of any other men, they

were all the night employed in singing of

hymns, and in mirth. MosesJ also composed

Chaisem, i. e. the sea of Clysona, from a town situate on

its western coast, much about that place where the Israel­

ites passed over from the Egyptian to the Arabian shore.

But as the word Clysona may denote a drowning or over­

flowing with water, it is not improbable that the town built

in this place, as well as this part of the sea, might have

such a name given it, in memory of the fate of the Egyp­

tians, who were drowned herein. Well's Geography of the

Old Testament, vol. ii. B.

J Exod. xiv. 29. "The waters were a wall unto them

on their right hand and on their left." Diodorus Siculus

relates that the Ichthyophagi, who lived near the Red Sea,

had a tradition handed down to them through a long line

of ancestors, that the whole bay was once laid bare to the

very bottom, the waters retiring to the opposite shore, and

that they afterwards returned to their accustomed chan­

nel with a most tremendous revulsion. (Bib. Hist. lib. iii.

p. 174.) Even to this day the inhabitants of the neigh­

bourhood of Corondel preserve the remembrance of a

mighty army having been once drowned in the bay, which

Ptolomy calls Clysma. (Shaw's Travels, p. 349.) The

very country where the event is said to have happened,

in some degree bears testimony to the accuracy of the

Mosaical narrative. The scriptural Etham is still called

Etti; the wilderness of Shur, the Mountain of Sinai, and

the country of Paran, are still known by the same names.

(Niebuhr's Travels, vol. i. p. 189, 191.) Marah's Elath,

and Midian, are still familiar to the ears of the Arabs.

The grove of Elim yet remains, and its twelve fountains

have neither increased nor diminished in number since

the days of Moses. B.

II Exod. xiv. 21.

* These storms of wind, thunder, and lightning, at this  
drowning of Pharaoh's army, are almost wanting in our

copies of Exodus, but fully extant in that of David, Ps.

lxxvii. 16, 17, 18.

T Exod. xiv. 28.

J What some have here objected against this passage of

the Israelites over the Red Sea, in this .one night, from

the common maps, viz. that this sea being here about

thirty miles broad, so great an army could not pass over it

in so short a time, is a great mistake. Mons. Thevenot,

an eye witness, informs us, that this sea, for about five

days' journey, is no where more than eight or nine miles

across; and in one place but four or five miles, according

to De Lisle's map, which is made from the best autho­

rities.

What has been farther objected against this passage of

the Israelites, and drowning of the Egyptians, being mira­

culous also, viz. That Moses might carry the Israelites

over at a low tide, without any miracle; while yet the

Egyptians, not knowing the tide so well as he, might be

drowned upon the return of the tide, is truly absurd. Yet

does Artapanus, an ancient heathen historian, inform us,

that this was what the more ignorant Memphites, who

lived at a great distance, pretended, though he confesses,

that the more learned Heliopolitans, who lived much

nearer, owned the destruction of the Egyptians, and the

deliverance of the Israelites to have been miraculous.

And De Castro, a mathematician, who surveyed this sea

with great exactness, informs us, that there is no great

flux or reflux in this part of the Red Sea, to give a colour

to the hypothesis; nay, that the elevation of the tide there

is little above half the height of a man. So vain and

groundless are these and the like evasions and subterfuges

of our modern sceptics and unbelievers! and so certainly do

thorough enquiries, and authentic evidence, disprove and

confute such evasions and subterfuges upon all occasions'.

