368 {book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

coming upon the people: which when he

heard he sent accounts of them unto Jeru­

salem. But Zedekiah did not believe their

prophecies, for the following reason. It hap­

pened that the two prophets agreed with

one another in what they said as to all other

things; that the city should be taken, and

Zedekiah himself should be taken captive.

But Ezekiel disagreed with him, and said,

that Zedekiah should not see Babylon: while

Jeremiah said, that the king of Babylon

should carry him away thither in bonds.*

And because they did not both say the same

thing as to this circumstance, he disbelieved

what they both appeared to agree in; and

condemned them as not speaking truth

therein; although all the things predicted

did come to pass according to their prophe­

cies; as we shall shew upon a fitter oppor­

tunity.

Now when Zedekiah had preserved his

league with the Babylonians for eight years,f

he broke it, and revolted to the Egyptians;

in hopes, by their assistance, of overcoming

the Babylonians. When the king of Babylon

knew this, he made war against him, laid his

country waste, and took his fortified towns;

and came to the city Jerusalem itself to be­

siege it. But when the king of Egypt heard

what circumstances Zedekiah, his ally, was

in, he took a great army with him, and came

into Judea; as if he would raise the siege.

Upon which the king of Babylon departed

from Jerusalem, and met the Egyptians; and

joined battle with them, and defeated them:

and when he had put them to flight, he pur­

sued them, and drove them out of all Syria.

Now as soon as the king of Babylon was de­

parted from Jerusalem, the false prophets

deceived Zedekiah, and said, that the king

of Babylon would not make any more war

Zedekiah. The chief business of this embassy was to re­

quest of Nebuchadnezzar, a restitution of the sacred ves­

sels of the temple which he had taken away, when he

carried Jehoiachin captive into Babylon. Our translation,

however, is not at all significant in this place, when it

styles this Seraiah a quiet prince. The Septuagint has

very properly rendered the words ap^uv Supuv (the

prince of the presents,) which some apply to the pre­

sents which king Zedekiah made to the temple, and others

to the things they daily supplied for sacrifices; but the

most natural sense in this place is, that he was charged

with the presents and tribute which Zedekiah was obliged

to send to Nebuchadnezzar; that his business was, to

present them to the empep<»". and imnn that occasion, to

against him or his people; nor remove them

out of their own country into Babylon; and

that those then in captivity would return, with

all those vessels of which the king of Baby­

lon had despoiled the temple. But Jeremiah

came among them, and prophesied what con­

tradicted those predictions, and what proved

to be true: that they did ill, and deluded the

king; that the Egyptians would be of no

advantage to them; but that the king of

Babylon would renew the war against Jeru­

salem, and besiege it again, and would de­

stroy the people by famine, and carry away

those that remain into captivity; and would

take away what they had as spoils, and would

carry off those riches that were in the temple.

Nay that besides this, he would burn it, and

utterly overthrow the city; and that they

should serve him and his posterity seventy

years. That then the Persians and thfc

Medes should put an end to their servitude,

and overthrow the Babylonians; and that the

Jews should be dismissed, and return to their

land, Jrebuild the temple, and restore Jeru­

salem.

When Jeremiah said this, the greater part

believed him; but the rulers and those that

were wicked despised him, as one disordered

in his senses. Now he had resolved to go to

his own country, which was called Anatnoth,

and was twenty furlongs distant from Jeru­

salem. But as he was going, one of the rulers

met him, and seized upon him, and accused-

him falsely; as though he were going as a,

deserter to the Babylonians. Jeremiah said

that he accused him falsely; and added, that

he was only going to his own country. But

the other would not believe him; but seized

upon him, and led him away and accused

him to the rulers; under whom he endured

all sorts of torments, and was reserved to be

solicit the restoration of the sacred vessels; upon which

account, the Vulgate has rendered the words princeps

prophetic, the chief person in the embassy, who at the

time of nudience, was to make a speech to the emperor

in his prince's name. Calmet's Commentary. B.

* See Jeremiah xxxii. 4. and Ezekiel xii. 13.

t An. 591.

X Josephus says here, that Jeremiah prophesied not

only of the return of the Jews from the Babylonian cap­

tivity, and this under the Persians and Medes, as in our

other copies; but of their rebuilding the temple, and even

the city Jerusalem, which do not appear in our copies

under his name.

