256 [book VII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

belied his master; but said to him, that as he

had before granted all his estate to Ziba,

because he did not come along with him; so

he now promised to forgive him, and ordered

that the one half of his estate should be re­

stored to him. Whereupon Mephibosheth

said, "Nay, let Ziba take all; it suffices me

that thou hast recovered thy kingdom."*

But David desired Barzillai, the Gileadite,

that great and good man, and one that had

made a plentiful provision for him at Maha-

naim, and had conducted him as far as Jor­

dan, to accompany him to Jerusalem; for he

promised that he would treat him in his old

age with all manner of respect, and would

take care of and provide for him. But Bar­

zillai was so desirous to live at home, that he

intreated him to excuse him from attendance

on him; and said, "that his age was too great

to enjoy the pleasures of a court, since he was

fourscore years old, and was making provi­

sion for his death and burial. So he desired

him to gratify him with this request, and dis­

miss him, for that he had no relish of his

meat or his drink, by reason of his age: and

that his ears were too much shut up to hear

the melody of musical instruments, such as all

those that live with kings delight in." When

he intreated for this so earnestly, the king

said, "I dismiss thee, but thou shalt grant me

thy son Chimham; and upon him will I be­

stow' all sorts of good things." So Barzillai

left his son with him, and worshipped the

king, and wished him a prosperous conclusion

of all his affairs according to his own mind,

and then returned home. But David came

to Gilgal; having about him half the people

, of Israel, and the whole tribe of Judah.

Now the principal men of the country came

to Gilgal to David, with a great multitude,

and complained of the tribe of Judah; that

they had come to him in a private manner;

whereas they ought all conjointly, and with

one and the same intention to have given

him the meeting. But the rulers of the tribe

of Judah desired them not, to be displeased,

if they had been prevented by them:—"For,"

said they, "we are David's kinsmen; and on

that account, we the rather took care of him,

and loved him, and so came first to him; yet

have we not by our early coming, received

any gifts from him; which might give you, who

came last, any uneasiness." When the rulers

of the tribe of Judah had said this, the rulers

of the other tribes were not satisfied, but said

farther, "O brethren! we cannot but wonder

at you, when you call the king your kinsman

alone; whereas he that hath received from

God the power over all of us in common,

ought to be esteemed a kinsman to us all;

for which reason the whole people have

elevent parts in him, and you but one part.

We also are elder than you.J Wherefore you

have not done justly in coming to the king in

this private and concealed manner."

While the rulers were thus disputing, a

certain wicked man, named Sheba, the son of

Bichri, of the tribe of Benjamin, stood in the

midst of the multitude, and cried aloud, "We

have no part in David, nor inheritance in the

son of Jesse." And when he had used these

words, he blew a trumpet, and declared war

against the king. And they all left David,

except the tribe of Judah,|| who staid with

him, and settled him in his royal palace at

Jerusalem. But as for his concubines, with

whom his son Absalom had accompanied, he

removed them to another house, and ordered

those that had the care of them to make a

plentiful provision for them; but he came not

near them any more. He also appointed

Amasa for the captain of his forces, and gave

him the same high office which Joab before

had; and he commanded him to gather to­

gether, out of the tribe of Judah, as great an

army as he could, and to come to him within

as he did before; but only forgives him, if he had been

at all guilty. Nor is this odd way of mourning that Me­

phibosheth made use of here, and 2 Sam. six. 24. wholly

free from suspicion and hypocrisy. If Ziba neglected or

refused to bring Mephibosheth an ass of his own, on

which he might ride to David, it is hard to suppose that

so great a man as he was should not be able to procure

some other beast for the same purpose.

* 2 Sam. xix. 30.

t I clearly prefer Josephus's reading here, when it

supposes eleven tribes, including Benjamin, to be on one

side: and the tribe of Judah alone on the other: since

Benjamin in general had been still fonder of the house of

Saul, and less firm to David hitherto than any of the

rest; and so cannot be supposed to be joined with Judah

at this time to make it double, especially when the fol­

lowing rebellion was headed by a Benjamite. See 2 Sam.

xx. 2—4.

J Reubel, Simeon, and Levi, were elder than Judah

Gen. xxix. 32—35.

|| 2 Sam. xx. 2.

