an. 29.] 553 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

friends; and put the army in array, and rode

along with Caesar, and had a hundred and

fifty men, well appointed in all respects, after

a rich and sumptuous manner, for the better

reception of him and his friends. He also

provided them with what they should want,

as they passed over the arid desert: inso­

much that they lacked neither wine, nor

water: which last the soldiers stood in the

greatest need of. And besides, he pre­

sented Caesar with eight hundred talents,

and procured to himself the good will of

them all: because he was assisting to them

in a much greater and more splendid de­

gree than the kingdom he had obtained

could afford. By this means he more and

more demonstrated to Caesar the firmness

of his friendship, and his readiness to assist

him. And what was of the greatest advan­

tage to him was, that his liberality came at

a seasonable time also. And when they re­

turned again out of Egypt, his assistances

were no way inferior to the good offices he

had formerly done them.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE EXECUTION OF SOHEMUS, AND MARIAMNE; ALEX­

ANDRA, AND COSTOBARUS J HEROD'S MOST INTIMATE

FRIENDS; AND THE SONS OF BABA.

HOWEVER, when Herod came into his

kingdom again, he found his house all

in disorder, and his wife Mariamne, and her

mother Alexandra, very uneasy; for they

naturally supposed, that they were not put

into that fortress [Alexandrium] for the se­

curity of their persons; but as into a gar­

rison for their imprisonment; and that they

had no power over any thing either of

others or of their own affairs. And Mari­

amne supposing that the king's love to her

was rather pretended, as advantageous to

himself, than real; she looked on it as falla­

cious. She also was grieved that he would

not allow her any hopes of surviving him, if

he should come to any harm himself. She

also recollected what commands he had for­

merly given to Joseph; insomuch that she

endeavoured to please her keepers, and es­

pecially Sohemus; as well apprised how all

was in his power. Sohemus was at first

faithful to Herod, and neglected none of the

things he had given him in charge: but

when the women, by kind words, and liberal

presents, had gained his affections over to

them, he was by degrees overcome, and at

length discovered to them all the king's in­

junctions: and this on that account princi­

pally, that he did not so much as hope he

would come back with the same authority

he had before. So that he thought he should

escape any danger from him, and supposed

that he did hereby much gratify the women,

who were likely not to be overlooked in the

settling of the government: nay, that they

would be able to make him ample recom­

pense: since they must either reign them­

selves, or be very near to him that should

reign. He had a farther ground of hope

also, that though Herod should have all the

success he could wish for, and should return

again, he could not contradict his wife, in

what she desired: for he knew that the

king's fondness for her was inexpressible.

These were the motives that drew Sohemus

to discover what injunctions had been given

him. So Mariamne was greatly displeased

to hear, that there was no end of the dan­

gers she was under from Herod; and was

greatly uneasy at it; and wished that he

might obtain no favours from Caesar; and

esteemed it an almost insupportable task to

live with him any longer. And this she af­

terwards openly declared, without conceal­

ing her resentments.

And now Herod sailed home with joy, at

the unexpected good success he had had:

and went first of all to his wife, and told her

the good news, as preferring her before the

rest, on account of his fondness for her, and

the intimacy there had been between them,

and saluted her. But so it happened, that

as he told her of the good success he had

had, she was so far from rejoicing, that she

rather was sorry for it. Nor was she able

to conceal her resentments: but, depending

on her dignity, and the nobility of her birth,

in return for his salutations, she gave a

groan, and declared evidently that she ra­

ther grieved than rejoiced at his success:

and this till Herod was disturbed at her, as

affording him not only marks of her suspi­

cion, but evident signs of her dissatisfaction.

This much troubled him, to see that this

surprising hatred of his wife to him was not

concealed, but open. And he took this so

