120 [book viiL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

be killed. But Zedekiah, one of those false

prophets, came near, and exhorted him not

to hearken to Micaiah, for he did not at all

speak truth. As a demonstration of which,

he instanced in what Elijah had said,* who

was a better prophet in foretelling futurities

than Micaiah; for he foretold that the dogs

should lick his blood in the city Jezreel, in

the field of Nahoth; as they licked the blood

of Naboth, who by his means was there stoned

to death by the multitude;f that therefore it

was plain that this Micaiah was a liar, as

contradicting a greater prophet than himself;

and saying, that he should be slain at three

days' journey distance. "And," said he,

"you shall soon know whether he be a true

prophet, and hath the power of the Divine

Spirit: for I will smite him, and let him then

hurt my hand, as Jadon caused the hand of

Jeroboam the king to wither, when he would

liave caught him; for I suppose thou hast

certainly heard of that accident." So when,

upon his smiting Micaiah, no harm happened

to him, Ahab took courage, and readily led

his army against the king of Syria. For, as I

suppose, Jfate was too hard for him; and

made him believe that the false prophets

spake truer than the true one; that it might

take an occasion of bringing him to his end.

However, Zedekiah made horns of iron, and

said to Ahab, that God made those horns sig­

nals; that by them he should overthrow all

Syria. But Micaiah replied, that Zedekiah,

in a few days, should go from one secret

chamber to another, to hide himself, that he

might escape the punishment of his lying.

Then did the king give order that they should

take Micaiah away, and guard him to Amon,

the governor of the city; and give him no­

thing but bread and water.||

Then Ahab and Jehoshaphat the king of

Jerusalem took their forces, and marched to

Ramoth, a city of Gilead. And when the

king of Syria heard of this expedition, he

brought out his army to oppose them; and

pitched his camp not far from Ramoth. Now

Ahab and Jehoshaphat had agreed, that Ahab

should lay aside his royal robes;§ but that

the king of Jerusalem should put on his

(Ahab's) proper habit, and stand before the

army, in order to disprove, by this artifice,

what Micaiah had foretold. But Ahab's fate

found him out, without his robes. For Ben-

hadad, the king of Assyria, had charged his

army, by the means of their commanders, to

kill nobody else; but only the king of Israel.

So when the Syrians, upon their joining battle

with the Israelites, saw Jehoshaphat stand

before the army, and conjectured that he was

Ahab, they fell Violently upon him, and en­

compassed him round. But when they were

near, and knew that it was not he, they all

returned back. And while the fight lasted

from the morning light, till late in the evening,

and the Syrians were conquerors, they killed

nobody; as their king had commanded them.

And when they sought to kill Ahab alone,

but could not find him, there was a young

nobleman belonging to king Benhadad, whose

name was Naaman; he drew his bow against

* These reasonings of Zedekiah, the false prophet, in  
order to persuade Ahab not to believe Micaiah the true

prophet, are plausible: but, being omitted in our other

copies, we cannot now tell whence Josephus had them;

whether from his own temple copy, from some other

original author, or from certain ancient notes. That some

such plausible objection was now raised against Micaiah,

is very likely; otherwise Jehoshaphat, who used to dis­

believe all such false prophets, could never have been

induced to accompany Ahab in these desperate circum­

stances.

| There is a great dispute among the learned, as to the

accomplishment of this prophecy. At first, it was, no

doubt, intended to be literally fulfilled; but upon Ahab's

repentance, as we find below, the punishment was trans­

ferred from him to his son Joram, in whom it was actually

accomplished; for his dead body was cast into the portion

of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite, for the dogs to de­

vour, 2 Kings ix. 25. Since Ahab's blood therefore was

licked by dogs, not at Jezreel, but at Samaria, it seems

necessary that we should understand the Hebrew word

which our translation renders in the place where, not as

denoting the place, but the manner in which the thing was

done; and so the sense of the passage will be—That as

dogs licked, or in like manner as dogs licked Naboth's

blood; even so shall they lick thine; observe what I say,

even thine. Pool's Annotations. B.

I Or Divine Providence.

II 1 Kings xxii. 27.

§ This reading of Josephus's, and of the Septuagint,

that Jehoshaphat put on, not his own, but Ahab's robe$.

in order to appear to be Ahab, while Ahab was without

any robes at all, and hoped thereby to escape his own evil

fate, and disprove Micaiah's prophecy against him, is ex­

ceeding probable. It gives great light also to this whole

history; and shews, that although Ahab hoped Jehosha­

phat would be mistaken for him, and run the only risk of

being slain in the battle, yet was he entirely disappointed:

while still the escape of the good man, Jehoshaphat, and

the slaughter of the bad man, Ahab, demonstrated the

great distinction that Divine Providence made betwixt

them.

