402 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to their villages and cities; as every one's

ability should require. And when lie had

added this promise, that he himself, with

his servants, would assist them, he dissolved

the assembly. So the Jews prepared for

the work.

This is the name they are called by from

the day that they came up from Babylon;

which is taken from the tribe of Judah, which

came first to these places, and thence both

they and the country gained that appella­

tion.

Now when the Ammonites, and Moabites,

and Samaritans, and all that inhabited Coele-

syria heard that the building went on apace,

they took it heinously: and proceeded to lay

snares for them, and to hinder their intentions.

They also slew many of the Jews; and sought

how they might destroy Nehemiah himself,

by hiring some of the foreigners to kill him.

They also put the Jews in fear, and disturbed

them, and spread abroad rumours, as if many

nations were ready to make an expedition

against them: by which means they were

harassed, and had almost left off the building.

But none of these things could deter Nehe­

miah from being diligent about the work. He

only set a number of men about him, as a

guard to his body: and so unweariedly per­

severed therein, and was insensible of any

trouble, out of his desire to perfect this work.

•And thus did he attentively and with great

precaution take care of his own safety: not

that he feared death; but out of this persua­

sion, that if he were dead, the walls for his

citizens would never be raised. He also gave

-orders that the builders should keep their  
ranks, and have their armour on while they

were building. Accordingly the mason had

his sword on,* as well as Tie that brought the

materials for building. He also appointed

that their shields should lie very near them;

and he placed trumpets at every five hundred

* Nehemiah iv. 18.

t It may not be improper to remark here, with what

an unusual accuracy Josephus determines these years of

Xerxes, in which the walls of Jerusalem were built; viz.

that Nehemiah came with his commission in the 25th of

Xerxes; that the walls were two years and four months

in building; and that they were finished on the 28th of

Xerxes. It may also be remarked farther, that Josephus

hardly ever mentions more than one infallible astrono­

mical character, I mean an eclipse of the moon: and this

a little before the death of Herod the Great, XVII. 6.

feet, and charged them, that if their enemies

appeared, they should give notice of it to the

people, that they might fight in their armour,

and their enemies might not fall upon them

naked. He also went about the compass of

the city by night, being never discouraged,

neither about the work itself, nor about his

own diet and sleep: for he made no use of

those things for his pleasure, but out of ne­

cessity. And this trouble he underwent ffor

two years and four months: for in so long a

time was the wall built: in the twenty-eighth

year of the reign of Xerxes^ in the ninth

month. Now when the walls were finished,

Nehemiah and the multitude offered sacrifices

to God for building of them; and they con­

tinued in feasting eight days. However, when

the nations which dwelt in Syria heard that

the building of the wall was finished, they

had indignation at it. But when Nehemiah

saw that the city was thin of people, he ex­

horted the priests and the Levites, that they

would leave the country, and remove them­

selves to the city, and there continue; and

he built them houses at his own expense: and

he commanded that part of the people which

were employed in cultivating the land, to

bring the tithes of their fruits to Jerusalem;

that the priests and Levites having whereof

they might live perpetually, 'might not leave

the divine worship. Accordingly they heark­

ened to the constitutions of Nehemiah: by

which means the city of Jerusalem came to

be fuller of people than it was before. So

when Nehemiah had done many other excel­

lent things, and things worthy of commenda­

tion, in a glorious manner, he came to a great

age, and then died. He was a man of a good

and righteous disposition, and very ambitious

to make his own people happy. And he left

the walls of Jerusalem as an eternal monu­

ment for himself. Now this was done in the

days of Xerxes.

Now on these two chronological characters, in great mea­

sure depend some of the most important points belonging

to Christianity; viz. The explication of Daniel's seventy

weeks, the duration !of our Saviour's ministry, and the

time of his death, in correspondence to those seventy

weeks. Though Josephus's own chronology was so dif­

ferent from ours, as exhibited in Ptolemy's Canon, that it

was impossible he should have regard to any such cor­

respondence.

J An. 459.

