498 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mascus again. And Aristobulus, with a great

army made war with Aretas and Hyrcanus:

and fought them at a place called Papyron,

and beat them in the battle, and slew about

six thousand of the enemy; with whom fell

Phalion also, the brother of Antipater.

CHAP. III.

ARISTOBULUS AND HYRCANUS COME TO POMPEY, IN ORDER

TO ARGUE WHO OUGHT TO HAVE THE KINGDOM J AND

UPON THE FLIGHT OF ARISTOBULUS TO THE FORTRESS

ALEXANDRIUM, POMPEY LEADS HIS ARMY AGAINST HIM J

AND ORDERS HIM TO DELIVER UP THE FORTRESSES

WHICH HE POSSESSED.

A LITTLE afterward Pompey came to

Damascus, and marched over Coele-

syria. At which time there came ambassa­

dors to him from all Syria, and Egypt, and

out of Judea also. For Aristobulus had sent

him a great present; which was a *golden

vine, of the value of five hundred talents.

Now Strabo of Cappadocia mentions this

present in these words: "There came also

an ambassage out of Egypt, and a crown of

the value of four thousand pieces of gold.

And out of Judea there came another, whe­

ther you call it a vine or a garden. They

called the thing Teg*uX»i, the delight. How­

ever, we ourselves saw that present, deposit­

ed at Rome, in the temple of Jupiter Capito-

linus; with this inscription: "The giftf of

Alexander, king of the Jews." It was valued

at five hundred talents. And the report is, that

Aristobulus, the governor of the Jews, sent it.

In a little time afterward came ambassa­

dors again to him; Antipater from Hyrcanus,

and Nicodemus from Aristobulus: which last

also accused such as had taken bribes; first

Gabinius, and then Scaurus: the one three

hundred talents, and the other four hundred.

By which procedure he made these two his

enemies, besides those he had before. And

when Pompey had ordered those that had

controversies one with another to come to

him in the beginning of the spring, he

brought his army out of their winter quar­

ters, and marched into their country of Da­

mascus. And as he went along he demolished

the citadel that was at Apamia; which An-

tiochus Cyzicenus had built: and took cog­

nizance of the country of Ptolemy Menneus;

a wicked man, and not less so than Dionysius

of Tripoli, who had been beheaded, who

was also his relation by marriage. Yet did

he buy off the punishment of his crimes for

a thousand talents: with which money Pom­

pey paid his soldiers their wages. He also

conquered the place called Lysias; of which

Silas, a Jew, was tyrant. And when he had

passed over the cities of Heliepolis and

Chalcis; and got over the mountain which is

on the limit of Coelesyria, he came from

Pella to Damascus. And there he heard the

causes of the Jew3, and of their governors

Hyrcanus and Aristobulus, who were at dif­

ference one with another: as also of the na­

tion against them both; which did not desire

to be under regal government. Because the

form of government they received from their

forefathers was that of subjection to the

priests of that God whom they worshipped:

and they complained that though these two

were the posterity of priests, yet did they

seek to change the government of their na­

tion to another form; in order to enslave

them. Hyrcanus complained, that although

he was the elder brother, he was deprived

of the prerogative of his birth by Aristobu­

lus, and held but a small part of the country

under him: Aristobulus having taken away

the rest by force. He also accused him, that

the incursions which had been made into

their neighbours' countries, and the piracies

that had been at sea, were owing to him:

and that the nation would not have revolted,

unless Aristobulus had been a man given to

* This golden vine or garden, seen by Strabo at Rome,  
has its inscription here, as if it were the gift of Alexander,

the father of Aristobulus; and not of Aristobulus himself,

to whom yet Josephus ascribes it; and in order to prove

the truth of that part of his history, introduces this testi­

mony of Strabo's. So that the ordinary copies seem to be

here either erroneous or defective; and the original read­

ing; seerns to have been either Aristobulus, instead of

Alexander, with one Greek copy; or else Aristobulus, the

son of Alexander, with the Latin copies; which last seems

to me the most probable. For as to archbishop Usher's

conjectures, that Alexander made it, and dedicated it to

God in the temple; and that thence Aristobulus took it,

and sent it to Pompey; they are both very improbable,

and no way agreeable to Josephus; who would hardly

have avoided the recording both those uncommon points

of history, had he known any thing of them. Nor would

cither the Jewish nation, or even Pompey himself, then

have approved such a flagrant instance of sacrilege. See

Dr. Hudson's note here.

t Or, of Aristobulus, the son of Alexander.

