510 [book XIY ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

only the name of a king which is given thee?

But do not thou suffer these things to be

hidden from thee: nor do not thou think to es­

cape danger by being so careless of thyself

and of thy kingdom. For Antipater and his

sons are not now stewards of thine affairs: do

not thou deceive thyself with such a notion:

they are evidently absolute lords. For Herod,

Antipater's son, hath slain Hezekias, and those

that were with him; and hath thereby trans­

gressed our law; which hath forbidden to

slay any man, even though he were a wicked

man, unless he had been first* condemned to

suffer death by the Sanhedrim. Yet hath he

been so insolent, as to do this, without any

authority from thee."

Upon Hyrcanus's hearing this, he complied

with them. The mothers also of those that

had been slain by Herod excited his indigna­

tion. For these women continued every day

in the temple, persuading the king and the

people, that Herod might undergo a trial be­

fore the Sanhedrim, for what he had done.

Hyrcanus was at length so moved by these

complaints, that he summoned Herod to take

his trial, for what was charged upon him. And

accordingly he came. But his father had

persuaded him to come, not like a private

man, but with a guard for the security of his

person; and that when he had settled the af­

fairs of Galilee in the best manner he could

for his own advantage, he should come to his

trial; but still with a body of men sufficient

for his security on his journey. Yet so that

he should not come with so great a force, as

might look like terrifying Hyrcanus; but still

such a one as might not expose him naked

and unguarded, to his enemies. However

Sextus Caesar, president of Syria, wrote to

Hyrcanus; desiring him to clear Herod, and

dismiss him at his trial; and threatening him

beforehand if he did not do it. Which epis­

tle of his was the occasion of Hyrcanus's de­

livering Herod from suffering any harm from

the Sanhedrim: for he loved him as his own

son. But when Herod stood before the San-

hedrim, with his body of men about him, he

affrighted them all: and no one of his former

accusers durst after that bring any charge

against him. But there was a deep silence;

and nobody knew what was to be done.

When affairs stood thus, one whose name

was tSameas, (a righteous man, and for that

reason, above all fear,) rose up and said:—

"O ye that are assessors with me, and 0

thou that art our king, I neither have ever

myself known such a case; nor do I suppose

that any one of you can name its parallel; that

one who is called to take his trial by us, ever

stood in such a manner before us. But every

one, whosoever he be, that comes to be tried

by this Sanhedrim, presents himself in a sub­

missive manner, and like one that is in fear

of himself; and that endeavours to move us to

compassion, with his hair dishevelled, and in

a black and mourning garment. But this

admirable man, Herod, who is accused of

murder, and called to answer so heavy an ac­

cusation, stands here clothed in purple, and

with the hair of his head finely trimmed, and

with his armed men about him; that if we

shall condemn him by our law, he may slay

us; and by overbearing justice may himself

escape death. Yet do not I make this com­

plaint against Herod himself. He is to be

sure more concerned for himself than for the

laws. But my complaint is against yourselves,

and your king, who give him a license so to

do. However, take notice, that God is great:

and this very man, whom you are going to ab­

solve and dismiss, for the sake of Hyrcanus,

will one day punish both you, and your king

also."

Nor did Sameas mistake in any part of this

prediction. For when Herod had received

the kingdom,J he slew Hyrcanus and all the

members of this Sanhedrim; excepting Sa­

meas. For he had a great honour for him, on

account of his righteousness: and because,

when the city was afterward besieged by

Herod and Sosius, he persuaded the people

to admit Herod into it; and told them, that

* It is here worthy of remark, that none could be put  
to death in Judea, but by the approbation of the Jewish

Sanhedrim; there being an excellent provision in the law

of Moses, that even in criminal causes, and particularly

where life was concerned, an appeal should lie from the

lesser councils of 7, in the other cities, to the supreme

council of 71, at Jerusalem. And this is exactly accord­

ing to our Saviour's words; when he says, "It could not

be that a prophet should perish out of Jerusalem." Luke

xiii. 33.

t This account, as Reland observes, is confirmed by

the Talmudists: who call this Sameas, Simeon the son of

Shetach. The like foreboding speech of Sulla concerning

Julius Caesar, is in Suetonius JuJ. Caes. I. as Havercamp

here takes notice.

t See Book XV. chap. 1.

