122 [BOOK IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Balaam upon his face, and foretold what ca­

lamities would befal the several kings of the

nations, and the most eminent cities; some of

which of old were not so much as inhabited;

which events have come to pass among the

several people concerned, both in the pre­

ceding ages, and in this, till my own memory,

both by sea and land. From which comple­

tion of these predictions, one may naturally

expect that the rest will have their comple­

tions in time to come.

Balak, being very angry that the Israelites

were not cursed, sent away Balaam, without

thinking him worthy of any honour. Where­

upon, when he was just upon his journey, in

order to pass the Euphrates, he sent for Ba­

lak, and tor the princes of the Midianites, and

spake thus to him: "O Balak, and you Mi­

dianites that are here present, I am obliged,

even without the will of God, to gratify you.

It is true, no entire destruction can seize upon

the nation of the Hebrews; neither by war,

nor by plague, nor by scarcity of the fruits of

the earth; nor can any other unexpected ac­

cident be to their entire ruin. For the pro­

vidence of God is concerned to preserve them

from such a misfortune; nor will it permit any

such calamity to come upon them, whereby

they may all perish. But some small misfor­

tunes, and those for some time, whereby they

may appear to be brought low, may still befal

them. But after that they will flourish again,

to the terror of those who brought those mis­

chiefs upon them. So that if you are desirous

of gaining a victory over them for a short

space of time, you will obtain it by following

my directions. Do you therefore,* set out the

comeliness of such of your daughters as are

most eminent for beauty, and proper to con­

quer the modesty of those that behold them;

and these decked and ornamented to the

highest degree you are able. Then send them

to the Israelites' camp; and give them in

charge, that when the young men of the He­

brews desire their company, they allow it

them. And when they see that they are ena­

moured of them, let them take their leave;

and if they entreat them to stay, let them not

give their consent, till they have persuaded

them to neglect their own laws, and the wor­

ship of that God who established them, and

to worship the gods of the Midianites and

Moabites: for by this means God will be in­

censed againstt them." Accordingly when

Balaam had suggested this course, he went

his way.

When the Midianites had sent their daugh­

ters, as Balaam had exhorted them, the He­

brew young men were allured by their beauty;

and besought them not to grudge them the

enjoyment of their beauty, nor to deny them

their conversation. These daughters of the

Midianites received their words gladly, and

consented to stay with them. But when they

had brought them to be perfectly enamoured,

they began to talk of departing. Then it was

that these men became greatly disconsolate at

the women's departure; and were urgent with

them not to leave them; but begged they

would continue there, and become their

wives, and promised them they should be

owned as mistresses of all they had. This

they said with an oath, calling God for the

arbitrator of what they promised; and this

with tears in their eyes, and such other marks

of concern as might show how miserable they

thought themselves without them, and so

might move their compassion. So the women,

as soon as they perceived they had made

them their slaves, and had enamoured them

with their conversation, began to speak thus

to them:

"O ye illustrious young men; we have

houses of our own at home, and great plenty

of good things there; together with the na­

tural affectionate love of our parents and

friends. Nor is it out of our want of any such

things that we are come to discourse with

you; nor did we admit of your invitation with

design to prostitute our beauty for gain: but,

offering sacrifice, he meant twice beside the first time

already mentioned, which is not yet very probable; can­

not now be certainly determined. In the mean time - all

other copies have three such attempts of Balaam to curse

them in the present history.

* Such a large and distinct account of this perversion of  
the Israelites by the Midianite women, of which our other

copies give us but short intimations, Numb. xxxi. 16.

2 Pet. ii. 15. Jude 11. Apoc. ii. 14. is preserved, as Roland

informs us, in the Samaritan chronicle, in Philo, and in

other writings of the Jews, as well as here by Josephus.

t This grand maxim, that God's people of Israel could

never be hurt, nor destroyed, but by drawing them to sin

against God; appears to be true, by the entire history of

that people, both in the Bible, and in Josephus; and is

often noticed in them both. See in particular a most re­

markable Ammonite testimony to this purpose: Judith v

5,21.

