An. 91.] 489 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tious against him. For at a festival which

was then celebrated, when he stood upon the

altar, and was going to sacrifice, the nation

rose upon him, and pelted him with citrons,

which they then had in their hands; because

the law of the Jews required, that at the feast

of tabernacles every one should have branches

of the palm and citron-tree: which things we

have* elsewhere related. They also reviled

him, as tderived from a captive; and so un­

worthy of his dignity, and of sacrificing. At

this he was in a rage, and slew about six thou­

sand of them. He also built a partition wall

of wood round the altar, and the temple; as

far as that partition; within which it was only

lawful for the priests to enter.J And by this

means he obstructed the multitude from

coming at him. He also maintained foreigners

of Pisidia and Cilicia. For as to the Syrians,

he was at war with them, and so made no use

of them. He also overcame the Arabians;

such as the Moabites, and Gileadites, and

made them bring tribute. Moreover he de­

molished Amathus: while ||Theodorus durst

not fight with him. But as he had joined

battle with Obedas, king of the Arabians, and

fell into an ambush, in places that were rug­

ged and difficult to be travelled over, he

was thrown down into a deep valley, by the

multitude of the camels, at Gadara, a village

of Gilead, and hardly escaped with his life.

From thence he fled to Jerusalem; where, be­

sides his other ill success, the nation insulted

him, and he fought against them six years, and

slew no fewer than fifty thousand of them.

And when he desired that they would desist

from their ill will to him, they hated him so

much the more, on account of what had al­

ready happened. And when he had asked

them what he ought to do? They all cried out,

that he ought to kill himself. They also sent to

Demetrius Eucerus, and desired him to make

a league of mutual defence with them.

CHAP. XIV.

OF THE AFFAIRS OF DEMETRIUS EUCERUS AND ALEXANDER;

ALSO CONCERNING THE DEATH OF DEMETRIUS.

OW Demetrius came with an army, and

took those that invited him with him;

N

* See Book III. chap. 10.

t This reproach upon Alexander, that he was sprung

from a captive, seems only the repetition of the Phari­

saical calumny upon bis father. Chap. 10.

and pitched his camp near the city Shechem.

Upon which Alexander, with his six thousand

two hundred mercenaries, and about twenty

thousand Jews, who were of his party, went

against Demetrius; who had three thousand

horsemen, and forty thousand footmen. Great

exertions were made on both sides; Deme­

trius trying to bring off the mercenaries that

were with Alexander, because they were

Greeks; and Alexander endeavouring to bring

off the Jews that were with Demetrius. How­

ever, when neither of them could persuade

them so to do, they came to a battle, in which

all Alexander's mercenaries were killed,

when they had given demonstration of their

fidelity and courage. A great number of

Demetrius's soldiers were slain also, notwith­

standing he gained the victory.

Now as Alexander fled to the mountains,

six thousand of the Jews came together to

him from Demetrius out of pity at the change

of his fortunes. Hereupon Demetrius retired

out of the country, after which the Jews fought

against Alexander: but being beaten, they

were slain in great numbers, in the several

battles which they had. And when he had

shut up the most powerful of them in the city

Bethome, he besieged them therein. And

when he had taken the city, and gotten the

men into his power, he brought them to Jeru­

salem; and committed a most barbarous ac­

tion. For as he was feasting with his concu­

bines, in the sight of all the city, he caused

about eight hundred of them to be crucified:

and while they were living he ordered the

throats of their wives and children to be cut

before their eyes. This inhuman punishment

was indeed by way of revenge for the injuries

they had done him: for he had, by their

means, come to the last degree of hazard, both

of his life, and of his kingdom: while they

were not satisfied by themselves only to fight

against him; but introduced foreigners also

for the same purpose. Nay, at length they

reduced him to that degree of necessity, that

he was compelled to deliver back to the king

of Arabia, the land of Moab and Gilead,

which he had subdued, and the places that

were in them; that they might not join with

J An. 91.

II This Theodorus was the son of Zeno; and was in

possession of Amathus.

