an. 1062.] 259 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

what it was they would hare? And when

they desired to have *seven sons of Saul de­

livered to them, to be punished, he delivered

them up; but spared Mephibo9heth, the son

of Jonathan. So when the Gibeonites had

received the men, they punished them as

they pleased. Upon which God began to

send rain, and to recover the earth to bring

forth its fruits, as usual, and to free it from

the drought; so that the country of the He­

brews flourished again.

A little afterward the king made war

against the Philistines; and when he had

joined battle with them, and put them to

flight, he was left alone, as he was in pursuit

of them: and when he was quite tired down,

he was seen by one of the enemy: his name

was fAchmon, the son of Araph, and of the

sons of the giants. He had a spear, the

handle of which weighed three hundred

shekels, a breast-plate of chain-work, and a

sword. He turned back and ran violently to

slay David, their enemy's king: for he was

quite tired out with labour. But Abishai,

Joab's brother, appeared at this juncture,

and protected the king with his shield, as he

lay down, and slew the enemy. Now the

multitude was very uneasy at these dangers

of the king, and that he was very near to be

slain. And the rulers made him swear that

he would no more go out with them to

battle, lest he should come to some great

misfortune by his courage and boldness;

and thereby deprive the people of the bene­

fits they now enjoyed by his means, and of

those that they might hereafter enjoy by his

living among them.

When the king heard that the Philistines

were assembled atJ the city Gazara, he sent

an army against them; when Sibbechai, the

Hittite, one of David's most courageous men,

behaved himself so as to deserve great com­

mendation; for he slew many of those that

boasted they were the posterity of the giants,

and vaunted themselves highly on that ac­

count; and he thereby was the occasion of

victory to the Hebrews. After this, the Phi­

listines made war again; and when David

had sent an army against them, Nephan, his

kinsman, fought in a single combat with the

stoutest of all the Philistines, and slew him,

and put the rest to flight: many of them also

were slain in the battle. Now a little while

afterward, the Philistines pitched their camp

at a city, which lay not far off the bounds of

the country of the Hebrews. They had a

man who was six cubits high; and had on

each of his feet and hands one more toe and

finger than men naturally have. Now the

person who was sent against them by David,

out of his army, was Jonathan, the son of

Shimea, who fought this man in single

combat, and slew him: and as he was the

person who gave the turn to the battle, he

gained the greatest reputation for courage

therein. This man also vaunted himself to

be of the giants. But after this fight the

Philistines made war no more against the

Israelites.

And now David, being freed from wars and

dangers, and enjoying a profound peace,||

composed songs and hymns to God, of severa

sorts of metre: some of those which he made

were trimeters, and some were pentameters:

* Those probably, who had been most active in the  
slaughter of the Gibeonites.

t Ishby the son of Ob, 2 Sam. xxi. 16.

} About an. 1059.

This shews, that in the opinion of Josephus, David

composed the Book of Psalms, not at several times be­

fore, as their present inscriptions frequently imply; but

generally at the latter end of his life, or after his wars

were over. Nor does Josephus, nor the authors of the

known books of the Old and New Testaments, nor the

Apostolical Constitutions, seem to have ascribed any of

them to any other author than to David himself. How­

ever he must observe here, that as Josephus says, Antiq.

H. 16. that the song at the Red Sea, Exod. xv. 1—21,

was composed by Moses, in the hexameter tune, or metre;

as also Antiq. IV. 8, that the song of Moses, Deut. xxxii.

1—43, was an hexameter poem; so does he say, that the

Psalms of David were of various kinds of metre; and

VOL. I.—NOS. 21 & 22.

particularly that they contained trimeters and pentame­

ters, Antiq. VII. 12, all which implies, that he thought

these Hebrew poems might be best described to the

Greeks and Romans under those names and characters of

Hexameters, Trimeters, and Pentameters. Now it ap­

pears, that the instruments of music that were originally

used, by the command of king David and Solomon, and

were carried to Babylon at the captivity of the two

tribes, were brought back after that captivity: as also

that the singers and musicians, who survived that cap­

tivity, came back with those instruments: Ezra ii. 41,

vii. 24. Nehem. vii. 44. Joseph. Antiq. XI. 3, 4, 5, and

that this music, and these instruments at the temple, could

not but be well known to Josephus, a priest belonging to

that temple; who accordingly gives us a short description

of three of the instruments: Antiq. VII. 12, and gives

us a distinct account, that such psalms and hymns were

sung in his days at that temple: Antiq. XX. 9. So that

3C

