an. 562.] 383 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to say, that there was a certain captive

who came from Judea, a Jew by birth; bijt

brought away thence by Nebuchadnezzar,

when he destroyed Jerusalem; whose name

was Daniel; a wise man, and one of great

sagacity in finding out what was impossible

for others to discover, and what was known

to God alone; and who brought to light and

answered such questions to Nebuchadnezzar,

as no one else was able to answer, when they

were consulted. She therefore desired that

he would send for him, and inquire concern­

ing the writing; and to condemn the unskil-

fulness of those that could not find their

meaning; and this although what God sig­

nified thereby should be of a melancholy

nature.

When Baltasar heard this, he called for

Daniel; and when he had expressed what he

had learned concerning him and his wisdom,

and how a divine spirit was with him, and

that he alone was fully capable of finding out

what others would never have thought of; he

desired him to declare to him what this wri­

ting meant. That if he did so, he would give

him leave to wear purple, and to put a chain

of gold about his neck, and would bestow on

him the third part of his dominion, as an ho­

norary reward of his wisdom, that thereby he

might become illustrious to those who saw

him, and who inquired upon what occasion

he obtained such honours. But Daniel de­

sired, "that he would keep his gifts to him­

self; the effect of wisdom, and of divine reve­

lation admitting of no gifts; but bestowing its

advantages on petitioners freely; but that

still he would explain the writing to him. He

said, it denoted that he should soon die; and

this because he had not learned to honour

God, and not to admit things above human

nature, by what punishments his progenitor

had undergone for the injuries he had offered

to God; and because he had quite forgotten

how Nebuchadnezzar was removed to feed

among wild beasts, for his impieties, and did

not recover his former life among men, and

his kingdom, but upon God's mercy to him,

after many supplications and prayers. Who

did thereupon praise God all the days of his

life, as one of almighty power, and who takes

care of mankind. He also reminded him

that he had greatly blasphemed against God,

and had made use of his vessels amongst his

concubines; that therefore God was angry

with him, and declared by his writing be­

forehand what a sad conclusion of his life he

should come to. And he explained the wri­

ting thus: "MANEH: this, if it be expounded

in the Greek language, may signify Apifljioj, a

number; because God hath numbered so

long a time for thy life, and for thy govern­

ment; and there remains but a small portion.

THEKEL: this signifies Era^of, a weight;

and means that God hath weighed thy king­

dom in a balance, and finds it going down

already. PHARES: this also in the Greek

tongue, denotes KXoWfMi, a fragment; God will

therefore break thy kingdom in pieces, and

divide it among the Medes and Persians."*

When Daniel had told the king that the

writing upon the wall signified these events,

Baltasar was in great sorrow and affliction,

as was to be expected when the interpreta­

tion was so heavy upon him. However he

did not refuse what he had promised Daniel,

although he were become a foreteller of mis­

fortunes; but bestowed it all upon him. As

reasoning thus, that what he was to reward

was peculiar to himself and to fate, and did

not belong to the prophet; but that it was

the part of a good and a just man to give

what he had promised, although the events

were to be of a melancholy nature. Now

after a little while, both himself, and the city

were taken by Cyrus king of Persia, who

fought against him. For it was Baltasar,

under whom Babylon was taken; when he

had reigned seventeen years. And this is

the end of the posterity of Nebuchadnezzar,

as history informs us. But when Babylon

was taken by Darius, and when he, with his

kinsman Cyrus, had put an end to the do­

minion of the Babylonians, he was sixty-two

years old. He was the son of Astyages; and

mother Nitocris appears to have been the real regent

afterwards; Baltasar being a weak and effeminate prince,

as I have already noted, and as his history shews. N. B.

It is plain that though Xenophon knew the history of

Cyrus, yet did he not know his chronology, or how long

he was in his war. He thought those wars, before the

taking of Babylon, to have been over in a very few years;

contrary to the strongest evidence elsewhere; though in

contradiction to this, he knew Cyrus to be younger than

Cyaxares, and a very old man before he died; which

agrees with the other testimonies of antiquity."

* Daniel v. 28.

