AN. 43.] 519 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and got together an army, partly of Arabs,

and partly of his own countrymen. How­

ever Malichus being one of great cunning,

denied that he had laid any snares for him;

and made his defence with an oath, both to

himself and his sons: and said that while

Phasaelus had a garrison in Jerusalem, and

Herod had the weapons of war in his custody,

he could never have a thought of any such

thing. So Antipater perceiving the distress

that Malichus was in, was reconciled to him;

and made an agreement with him. This

was when Marcus was president of Syria,

who yet perceiving that this Malichus was

making a disturbance in Judea, proceeded

so far, that he had almost killed him: but

still, at the intercession of Antipater, he

saved him.

Antipater, however, little thought that by

saving Malichus, he had preserved his own

murderer. For now Cassius and Marcus had

got together an army, and entrusted the en­

tire care of it with Herod, and made him

general of the forces of Coelesyria, and gave

him a fleet of ships, and an army of horse­

men and footmen; and promised that, after

the war was over, they would make him king

of Judea. For a war was already begun be­

tween Antony and the younger Caesar. But

as Malichus was most afraid of Antipater, he

took him out of the way: and by the offer of

money persuaded the butler of Hyrcanus,

with whom they were both to feast, to kill

him by poison.* This being done, and he

having armed men with him, settled the af­

fairs of the city. But when Antipater's sons,

Herod and Phasaelus, were acquainted with

this conspiracy against their father, and had

indignation at it, Malichus denied all; and

utterly disclaimed any knowledge of the

murder. And thus died Antipater; a man

that had distinguished himself for piety, and

justice, and love to his country. And where­

as Herod resolved immediately to revenge

his father's death, and was coming upon

Malichus with an army for that purpose; the

eldest of his sons, Phasaelus, thought it best

rather to get this man into their hands by

policy, lest they should appear to begin a

civil war in the country. So he accepted of

Malichus's defence for himself, and pretend-

* An. 43.

ed to believe him that he had no hand in the

violent death of Antipater his father: but

erected a fine monument for him. Herod

also went to Samaria; and when he found

them in great distress, he revived their spi­

rits, and composed their differences.

A short time after this, Herod, upon the

approach of a festival, came with his soldiers

into the city: whereupon Malichus was alarm­

ed, and persuaded Hyrcanus not to permit

him to come into the city. Hyrcanus com­

plied: and for a pretence of excluding him

alledged, that a rout of strangers ought not

to be admitted when the multitude were

tpurifying themselves. But Herod had little

regard to the messengers that were sent to

him, and entered the city in the night time,

and affrighted Malichus. Yet did he remit

nothing of his former dissimulation; but wept

for Antipater, and bewailed him as a friend

of his, with a loud voice. But Herod and his

friends thought it proper not openly to con­

tradict Malichus's hypocrisy; but to give

him tokens of mutual friendship, in order to

prevent his suspicion of them.

However, Herod sent an account of his

father's murder to Cassius; who knowing

what sort of man Malichus was, as to his

morals, sent him back word, that he should

revenge his father's death; and also sent pri­

vately to the commanders of his army at

Tyre, with orders to assist in the execution

of a very just design. Now when Cassius

had taken Laodicea, they all went together

to him, and carried him garlands and money,

and Herod thought that Malichus might be

punished while he was there. But he was

somewhat apprehensive of the thing, and de­

signed to make some great attempt; and be­

cause his son was then a hostage at Tyre, he

went to that city, and resolved to steal him

away privately, and to march thence into

Judea; and as Cassius was in haste to march

against Antony, he thought to bring the coun­

try to revolt, and to procure the government

for himself. But Providence opposed his

counsels; and Herod, being a shrewd man,

and perceiving what his intention was, sent

a servant thither beforehand, in appearance

indeed to get a supper ready; (for he had

said before, that he would feast them all

t See John xi. 55.

