316 [book tiu. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

but as for his second desires, he could not

submit to them.

When Benhadad heard this, he had indig­

nation, and sent ambassadors a third time;

threatening that his army should raise a

bank higher than those walls, in confidence

of whose strength Ahab despised him, and

that by only each man of his army taking a

handful of earth. Hereby making a shew of

the great number of his forces, and aiming

to affright him. Ahab, however, answered,

that he ought not to vaunt himself when he

had only put on his armour, but when he

should have conquered his enemies in the

battle.* So the ambassadors came back,

and found Benhadad at supper with his

thirty-two kings, and informed him of Ahab's

answer; in consequence of which he imme­

diately gave orders to make lines round the

city, and raise a bulwark; and to prosecute

the siege all manner of ways. Now as this

was doing, Ahab was in great agony, and all

his people with him. But he took courage,

and was freed from his fears, upon a certain

prophet's coming to him, and saying, that

God had promised to subdue so many thou­

sands of his enemies under him. And when

he had inquired by whose means the victory

was to be obtained; he said, "By the sons

of the princes; but under thy conduct, as

their leader; by reason of their unskilfulness

in war." Hereupon he called for the sons

of the princes, and found them to be two

hundred and thirty-two persons; and when

he was informed that the king of Syria had

betaken himself to feasting and repose, he

opened the gates, and sent out the princes'

sons. Now when the sentinels told Ben­

hadad of it, he sent some to meet them, and

commanded that if these men were come

out for fighting, they should bind them, and

bring them to him; and that if they came out

peaceably, they should do the same. Now

Ahab had another army ready within the

walls. But the sons of the princes fell upon

the out-guard, and slew many of them, and

pursued the rest of them to the camp. And

when the king of Israel saw that these had

the upper hand, he sent out all the rest of

his army; whicb falling suddenly upon the

Syrians, beat them: for they did not think

they would have come out. On which ac­

count it was that they assaulted them when

they were naked,f and intoxicated; inso­

much that they left all their armour behind

them when they fled out of the camp; and

the king himself escaped with difficulty, by

fleeing away on horseback. But Ahab went

a great way in pursuit of the Syrians: and

when he had spoiled their camp, which con­

tained a great deal of wealth, and a large

quantity of gold and silver, he took Ben-

hadad's chariots and horses, and returned

to the city. But as the prophet told him he

ought to have his army ready, because the

Syrian king would make another expedition

against him the next year, Ahab was busy in

making provision for it accordingly.

When Benhadad had saved himself,:): and

as much of the army as he could out of the

battle; he consulted with his friends how he

might make another expedition against the

Israelites. Now those friends advised him,

not to fight with them on the hills; because

their God was potent in such places; and

thence it had come to pass that they had

lately been beaten. But they said, that if

they joined battle with them in the plain,

* 1 Kings xx. 11.

t Mr. Reland notes here very truly, that the word

naked does not always signify entirely naked; but some­

times without men's usual armour, without their usual

robes or upper garments. As when Virgil bids the hus­

bandmen plough and sow naked. When Josephus says,

IV. 3, that God had given the Jews the security of ar­

mour, when they were naked: and when he here says

that Ahab fell on the Syrians when they were naked and

intoxicated. When, XI. 5, he says, that Nehemiah

commanded those Jews that were building the walls of

Jerusalem, to take care to have their armour on upon

occasion, that the enemy might not fall upon them naked.

I may add, that the case seems to be the same in the

Scripture, when it says, that Saul lay down naked among

the prophets, 1 Sam. xix. 24. When it says, that Isaiah

walked naked and barefoot, Isaiah xx. 2, 3. and when it

says, that Peter, before he girt his fisher's coat about

him, was naked, John xxi. 7. Nor were the naked sol­

diers others than those levis armaturx, who were free

from the heavy armour of the rest. And the like may

be supposed in several other places. What is said to

David also gives light to this; who was reproached by

Michnl for dancing before the ark, and uncovering himself

in the eyes of the handmaids, as one of the vain fellows

shamefully uncovereth himself, 2 Sam. vi. 14, 20. yet is

it there expressly said, verse 14, that David was girded

with a linen ephod: i. e. he had laid aside his robe of

state, and put on only the sacerdotal, Levitical, or sacred

garments, proper for such a solemnity. See also Antiq.

V. 3, VI. 2, and XVII. 10.

J About an. 898.

