AN. 239 1076.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sand horsemen. Now when the king of the

Hebrews understood that the Ammonites had

again gathered so great an army together, he

determined to make war with them no longer

by his generals, but passed over the river

Jordan himself, with all his army; and when

he met them he joined battle with them, and

slew forty thousand of their footmen, and

seven thousand of their horsemen. He also

wounded Shobach, the general of Chalaman's

forces, who died of that stroke. But the

people of Mesopotamia, upon such a conclu­

sion of the battle, delivered themselves up to

David, and sent him presents. Who at

winter-time returned to Jerusalem; but at

the beginning of the spring* he sent Joab,

the captain of his host, to fight against the

Ammonites; who over-ran all their country,

and laid it waste, and shut them up in their

metropolis, Rabbah, and besieged them

therein.

CHAP. VII.

of david's adultery with bathsheba, and his murder

op her husband uriah, for which he was reproved

by nathan.

BUT David fell now into a very grievous

sin, though he were otherwise naturally

a righteous and a religious man, and one that

firmly observed the laws of our fathers. For

when late in an evening he took a view round

him from the roof of his royal palace,t where

he used to walk at that hour; he saw a wo­

man washing herself in her own house.J She

was one of extraordinary beauty, and therein

surpassed all other women. Her name was

Bathsheba. So he was overcome by that wo­

man's beauty, and was not able to restrain his

desires, but sent for her,|| and lay with her.

Hereupon she conceived, and sent to the king,

that he should contrive some way for conceal­

ing her sin: for according to the laws of their

fathers, she who had been guilty of adultery

ought to be put§ to death. So the king sent

for Joab's armour-bearer, from the siege; who

was the woman's husband, and his name was

Uriah.** And when he was come, the king

inquired of him about the army, and about

the siege; and when he made answer that all

their affairs went according to their wishes,

the king took some portions of meat from his

supper, and gave them to him, and bade him

go home to his wife, and take his rest with

her. Uriah did not do so, but slept near the

king, with the rest of his armour-bearers.

When the king was informed of this, he asked

him why he did not go home to his house,

and to his wife, after so long an absence?

which is the natural custom of all men, when

they come from a long journey. He replied,

that it was not right, while his fellow-soldiers,

and the general of the army slept upon the

ground, in the camp, and in an enemy's coun­

try, that he should go and take his rest with

his wife. When he had thus replied, the king

ordered him to stay there that night; that he

might dismiss him the next day to the general.

So the king invited Uriah to supper, and after

a cunning and dexterous manner supplied him

* An. 1076.

t The manner of building, in all eastern countries,

was to have their houses flat-roofed with a terrace, and

parapet wall, for the convenience of walking in the cool

air; and as David's palace was built on one of the highest

places of Mount Sion, he might easily look down upon

the lower parts of the town, and take a view of all the

gardens that were within due distance; he Clerc's Com­

mentary. B.

| Thus Jupiter is said to have seen Proserpina washing

herself, and exposing her whole body to his view, which

inflamed his lust after her:

Aioftdvms oXov SiSog idipxSTo IlijptfsqjovsiTis.

But whether it was in her garden, or court-yard, over­

looked by the palace, or in some apartment in her house,

whose windows opened that way, that this woman bathed

herself, it is not so certain. Tradition points out the

place of a fountain still called after her name, which

would make it probable that she bathed in a garden, did

not Josephus expressly declare that it was in her own

house, as indeed the natural modesty and decency of her

sex, as well as the circumstance of the time, (for then it

was evening,) make his account more probable; nor can

it be doubted, but that the declining rays of the sun, shoot­

ing into the inmost recesses of her chamber, and throwing

a great lustre around her, might discover her very clearly

to very distant eyes, without the least suspicion on her

part, of any possibility of being seen, and consequently

with all the reserve of modesty proper to her sex; The

History of the Life of King David, vol. iii. B.

II 2 Sam. xi. 2—5.

§ Levit. xx. 10.

** Uriah, though a Hittite by nation, was proselyted to  
the Jewish religion, and so marrying with a Jewish wo­

man, lived in Jerusalem; or as he was one of the king's

life-guard, which for reasons above mentioned, seem to

have been all natives, and of the tribe of Judah, this addi­

tional name might perhaps be given him, for some gallant

action achieved against the Hittites, in the same manner

as a Roman, in after ages, came to be called Africanus,

Germanicus, Parthicus, &c. upon account of the victories

obtained over the Africans, Germans, or Parthians; Cal-

mefs Commentary. B.

