288 [book viit. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

think they were in motion. But the other

part up to the roof was plastered over, and,

as it were, embroidered with colours and

pictures. He built other edifices for plea­

sure; as also very long cloisters, and those

situate in an agreeable part of the palace;

and among them a most noble dining-room

for feastings, and full of such furniture as so

fine a room ought to have for the conveniency

of the guests, and where all the vessels were

made of gold. Now it is very hard to reckon

the magnitude, and the variety of the royal

apartments; how many rooms there were of

the largest sort, how many of a bigness infe­

rior to those, and how many that were sub­

terraneous and, invisible; the curiosity of

those that enjoyed the fresh air, and the

groves for the most delightful prospect, for

the avoiding the heat and the covering of

their bodies. In a word, Solomon made the

whole building entirely of white stone, and

cedar wood, and gold, and silver. He also

adorned the roofs and the walls with stones

set in gold, and beautified them in the same

manner as he had beautified the temple of

God with the like stones. He also made

himself a large throne of ivory,* constructed

as a seat of justice, and having six steps to it.

On every one of which stood, on each end of

the step, two lions; two other lions standing

above also, but at the sitting place of the

throne, hands came out, and received the

king; and when he sat backward, he rested

on a half bullock, that looked towards his

back, but still all was fastened together with

gold.

When Solomon had completed all this in

ftwenty years' time, because Hiram, king of

Tyre, had contributed a great deal of gold,

and more silver, to these buildings; as also

cedar wood, and pine wood; he rewarded

Hiram with rich presents; corn he sent him

also year by year, and wine, and oil; which

were the principal things he stood in need of;

because he inhabited an island, as we have

already said. And besides these, he granted

him twenty cities of GalileeJ that lay not

far from Tyre; which when Hiram went to,

and viewed, and did not like the gift, he sent

word to Solomon that he did not want such

cities as they were. And after that time

those cities were called the land of Cabul;

which name, if it be interpreted according to

the language of the Phoenicians, denotes what

does not please. Moreover the king of Tyre

Ijsent sophisms and enigmatical sayings to

Solomon, and desired he would return their

solutions. Now so sagacious and under­

standing was Solomon, that none of these

problems were too hard for him; but he con­

quered them all by his reasonings, and disco­

vered their hidden meaning, and brought it

* 1 Kings x. 18.

t From an. 1052 to 1032 B. C.

J It 13 an express injunction which God gives the Israel­

ites, that the land wherein the people had a right by

divine lot, and himself a right, as being the sole proprietor

thereof, was not to be sold or alienated for ever, Lev. xxv.

23. How then could Solomon, without violating this law,

pretend to give Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee?

Now to this some have replied, that Solomon did not give

Hiram a property and perpetual right to those cities, but

only assigned him the possession of them for a time, until

the debt which he had contracted for the several supplies

he had from him, while he was building the temple, was

satisfied. Others think that upon supposition that these

cities were inhabited by Israelites, Solomon did not give

Hiram, (as indeed he could not,) their particular posses­

sions, but only his own royalties over them, (which he

might justly do) and all the profits he received from them,

which according to the taxes then imposed, 1 Kings xii. 4.

were not inconsiderable. But there is no reason for these

far-fetched solutions, when the Scripture expressly tells

us, that these cities were not in the territories of Israel,

nor inhabited at that time by the Israelites, 2 Chron. viii.

2* They were indeed some of them conquered by the

king of Egypt, who gave them to Solomon as a portion

with his daughter, and others by Solomon himself, who,

as Seidell observes (De Jure Nat. et Gen. lib. vi. cap. 16.)

had " a right to dispose of those lands which he had con­

quered in voluntary war, without the consent of the

senate." And this may be one reason why he gave these,

rather than other cities, because these were certainly in

his own power to give, when others perhaps were not.

A learned author upon this subject, has given a quite

different turn to the sense of the passage. For his

opinion is, that Hiram did not return these cities, because

he thought them not good enough, but because he was

unwilling to receive so large a remuneration for the few

good offices he had done Solomon, and was minded rather

that his favours of this kind should be all gratuitous.

He therefore makes the word Cabul, (which is the name

that Hiram gives to the country where these cities stood,)

a title of respect, and not of contempt; for he derives it

from the Hebrew Chebes, which signifies a bond or

chain, intimating that these two neighbouring kings had

mutually bound themselves in a bond of friendship,

Solomon by giving, and Hiram by returning the cities

now under consideration. This is very pretty: but it is

carrying the point of generosity in the king of Tyre a

little too high, in my opinion, considering his acceptance

of, if not express stipulation for, such a quantity of corn

and oil, in lieu of the timber which he sent Solomon,

1 Kings v. 10. 11. Patrick's and Le Clerks Commentaries,

and Pool's Annotations. B.

I I About an. 1030.

