388 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

when Cyrus read this, and admired the di­

vine power, an earnest desire seized upon

him, to fulfil what was so written. So he

called for the most eminent Jews that were

in Babylon, and said that he gave them leave

to go back to their own country, and to re­

build* their city Jerusalem and the temple

of God, for that he would be their assistant;

and that he would write to the rulers and

fovernors that were in the neighbourhood of

udea, that they should contribute gold and

silver, for the building of the temple, and be­

sides that, beasts for their sacrifices.

When Cyrus had said this to the Israelites,

the rulers of the two tribes of Judah and Ben­

jamin, with the Levites and priests, went in

haste to Jerusalem. Yet did many of them

stay at Babylon, as not willing to leave their

possessions. And when they were come thi­

ther, all the king's friends assisted them, and

brought in, for the building of the temple^

some gold, and some silver, and some a great

many cattle and horses. So they performed

their vows to God: and offered the sacrifices

that had been accustomed of old time; I mean

this upon the rebuilding of their city, and the

revival of the ancient practices relating to

their worship. Cyrus also sent back the ves­

sels of God which king Nebuchadnezzar had

pillaged out of the temple, and had carried to

Babylon.f So he committed these things to

Mithridates the treasurer, to be sent away;

with an order to give them to Sanabasser,

that he might keep them till the temple was

built; and when it was finished, he might

deliver them to the priests and rulers of the

multitude, in order to their being restored to

the temple. Cyrus also sent the following

epistle to the governors that were in Syria:

KING CYRUS TO SISINNES AND SATHRABUZANES

SENDETH GREETING.

I have given permission to as many of the

Jews in my country as please to return to

their own country, and to rebuild their city,

and to build the temple of God at Jerusalem,

on the same place where it was before. I

have also sent my treasurer Mithridates, and

Zorobabel, the governor of the Jews, that

they may lay the foundations of the temple,

and may build it sixty cubits high, and of

the same latitude: making three edifices of

polished stones, and one of the wood of the

country; and tbe same order extends to the

altar whereon they offer sacrifices to God. I

require also that the expenses for these things

be given out of my revenues. I have also

sent the vessels which king Nebuchadnezzar

pillaged out of the temple, and have given

them to Mithridates the treasurer; and to

Zorobabel the governor of the Jews; that

they may have them carried to Jerusalem,

and may restore them to the temple of God.

Now their Jnumber is as follows: fifty char­

gers of gold, and five hundred of silver; forty

Thericlean cups of gold and five hundred of

silver; fifty basons of gold and five hundred

of silver; thirty vessels for pouring the drink-

offerings, and three hundred of silver; thirty

vials of gold, and two thousand four hundred

of silver; with a thousand other vessels. I

permit them to have the same honour which

they were used to have from their forefathers,

as also for their small cattle, and for wine,

and oil, two hundred and five thousand and

five hundred drachmae; and for wheat flour,

twenty thousand and five hundred artabae.

And I give order that these expenses shall

* This permission to build Jerusalem, and this epistle  
of Cyrus to Sisinnes and Sathrabuzanes, to the same pur­

pose, are, most unfortunately, omitted in all our other

copies, but this best and completest copy of Josephus;

and by such omission the famous prophecy of Isaiah, xliv.

28. where we are informed, that God said of, or to Cyrus

—He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure;

even saying to Jerusalem, thou shalt be built; and to the

temple, thy foundation shall be laid: could not hitherto

be demonstrated from the sacred history to have been

completely fulfilled; I mean as to that part of it which

concerned his giving a commission, for the rebuilding the

city Jerusalem, as distinct from the temple; whose re­

building is^alone permitted or directed in the decree of

Cyrus in all our copies.

t Some are of opinion, that, among the eacred things

which Cyrus ordered to be restored, the ark of the cove­

nant was one; but it no where appears, that this ark was

carried from Jerusalem to Babylon. They tell us, in­

deed, that in the second temple, sacrifices were offered,

as in the first, and all solemn days observed, especially

the great day of expiation, when the law ordained, that

the blood should be sprinkled before the mercy-seat;

and the mercy-seat, say they, was part of the ark: but

besides that the ark, without the Shechinah, or divine

glory, (which was then withdrawn,) would have been of

no great significance, the Jews universally acknowledged

that the ark was one of the five things that were wanting

in the second temple. B.

t Of the true number of golden and silver vessels, here

and elsewhere belonging to the temple of Solomon, see

the description of the temples, chap. 13.

