170 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

placed men in ambush about them, that he

might not escape without being perceived:

but Sampson, who was acquainted with their

contrivances, arose about midnight, and ran

by force upon the gates, with their posts, and

beams, and the rest of their wooden furniture;

and carried them on his shoulders, to the

mountain that is over Hebron;* and there

laid them down.

However, he at lengtht transgressed the

law of his country; and altered his own re­

gular way of living, and imitated the strange

customs of foreigners; which thing was the

beginning of his miseries. For he fell in love

with a woman that was a harlot among the

Philistines: her name was Delilah, and he

lived with her. So those that administered

the public affairs of the Philistines came to

her, and persuaded her to attempt a discovery

of that strength, by which Sampson became

unconquerable to his enemies. Accordingly

when they were drinking, and had the like

conversation together, she pretended to ad­

mire the actions he had done; and contrived

to get out of him by subtilty by what means

he so much excelled others in strength.

Sampson, in order to delude Delilah, (for he

had not yet lost his senses,) replied, that if he

were bound with seven such green withs of a

vine, as might still be wreathed, he should be

weaker than any other man. The woman

said no more then; but told this to the rulers

of the Philistines, and hid certain of their

soldiers in ambush within the house; and

when he was disordered in drink, and asleep,

she bound him, as fast as possible, with the

withs; and then, upon her awakening him,

she told him, some of the people were upon

him; but he brake the withs, and endeavoured

to defend himself, as though some of his ene­

mies were really upon him. Now this woman,

in the constant conversation Sampson had

with her, pretended, that she took it very ill

that he had such little confidence in her affec­

tion, that he would not tell her what she de­

sired; as if she would not conceal what she

knew it was for his interest to have concealed.

However, he deluded her again, and told her,

that if they bound him with seven cords, he

should lose his strength. And when, upon

doing this, she gained nothing, he told her

the third time, that his hair should be woven

into a web; but the truth was not yet disco­

vered. At length, however, Sampson, upon

Delilah's intreaty (for he was doomed to fall

into some affliction,) was desirous to please

her, and told her, that God took care of him;

and that he was born by his providence, and

therefore he suffered his hair to grow; God

having charged him never to cut it,J and

thence his strength was according to the in­

crease and continuance of his hair. When

she had learned thus much, and had deprived

him of his hair, she delivered him up to his

enemies, when he was not strong enough to

defend himself. So they put out his eyes, and

bound him,|| and had him led about among

them.

But in process of time Sampson's hair grew

again. And there was a public festival among

the Philistines, when the rulers, and those of

the most eminent characters, were feasting

together.§ Now the room wherein they were

had its roof supported by two pillars. So

* Judg. xvi. 3.

t See this justly observed in the Apostolical Constitu­

tions, VIII. 37. that Sampson's prayer was heard, but that

it was before this his transgression.

J Pliny (Nat. Hist. lib. xii. cap. 20.) has preserved the

memory of several men remarkable for their great

strength. The heathens were so well acquainted with the

circumstances of Sampson's history, that from it they

formed the fable of Nisus, the king of Megara, upon whose

hair the fortune of his kingdom depended. Patrick, in

locum. B.

II Judg. xvi. 21.

§ Some persons have asserted, that no building suffi­

ciently capacious to receive so great a number of people

could be constructed so as to rest chiefly upon two pillars.

But this is a mistake; for Pliny (Nat. Hist. lib. xxxv. cap.

15.) mentions two theatres built by C. Curio, (who was

killed in the civil wars, on Caesar's side,) which were

made of wood, and so extensive as (according to his mode

of writing) to hold all the Roman people. They were

contrived with such art, that each of them depended upon

one hinge. This caused Pliny to censure the madness of

the people, who would venture into a place for their

pleasure, where they sat tarn infida instabiliqve sede, on

such an uncertain and unstable seat; for if that hinge had

given way, there had been a greater slaughter than at the

battle of Cannae. This entirely removes any imaginary

difficulty, of this nature at least, from the history of

Sampson. "The Eastern method of building may assist

us in accounting for the particular structure of the temple,

or house, of Dagon, (Judg. xvi.) and the great number of

people that were buried in the ruins of it, by pulling down

the two principal pillars. We read (v. 27.) that about

three thousand persons were upon the roof, to behold

while Sampson made sport. Sampson must therefore have

been in a court, or area, below them, and consequently

the temple will be of the same kind with the ancient

tc/aev*] , or sacred inclosures, surrounded only in part or

