42 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

acceptable to those that received them, on

account of their rarity. Those who were sent

proceeded at certain intervals of space asun­

der, that by following thick one after another,

they might appear to be the more numerous,

that Esau might remit of his anger on ac­

count of these presents, if he were still unap-

peased. Instructions were also given to those

that were sent, to speak submissively to him.

When Jacob had made these appointments,

and night came on, he began to move with

his company: and as they were gone over a

certain river, called Jabboc, Jacob was left

behind; and meeting with an angel, he

wrestled with him, the angel beginning the

struggle; but he prevailed over the angel,

who used a voice, and spake to him in words,

exhorting him to be pleased with what had

happened to him, and not to suppose that his

victory was a trifling one, but that he had

overcome a divine angel, and to esteem the

victory as a sign of great blessings that should

come to him, and that his offspring should

never fail, and that no man should be too hard

for his power. He also commanded him to

be called Israel,* which in the Hebrew

tongue signifies one that struggled with the

divine angel. These promises were made at

the prayer of Jacob; for when he perceived

him to be the angel of God, he desired he

would signify to him what should befal him

hereafter, and when the angel had said what

is before related, he disappeared. Jacob was

pleased with these things, and named the

Slace Phanuel, which signifies the face of God.

iut when he felt pain by this struggling upon

his broad sinews, he abstained from eating

that sinew himself afterward, and for his sake

it is still not eaten by us.t

When Jacob understood that his brother

was approaching, he ordered his wives to go

before, each by herself, with the handmaids,

that they might see the actions of the men as

they were fighting, if Esau were so disposed.

He then went and bowed down to his brother

Esau, who had no evil design upon him, but

saluted him,J and asked him about the

company of the children, and of the women;

and desired, when he had understood all he

wanted to know about them, that he would

go along with him to their father; but Jacob

pretending that the cattle were weary, Esau

returned to Seir, for there was his place of

habitation, which he had named roughness,

from his own hairy roughness.

CHAP. XXI.

OF THE VIOLATION OF DINa's CHA3TIT*

AFTER this interview, Jacob came to the

place, till this day called Succoth, or

Tents, whence he went to Shechem, a city

of the Canaanites. Now as the Shechemites

were keeping a festival, Dina, who was the

only daughter of Jacob, went into the city, to

see the women of that country; but when

Shechem, the son of Hamor the king, saw

her, he defiled her by violence; and being

greatly in love with her, he desired his father

to procure the damsel for him in marriage.

To this request Hamor acceded, and came

to Jacob, desiring permission that his son

Shechem might according to law, marry

Dina; but Jacob, not knowing how to deny

the desire of one of such great dignity, and

yet not thinking it lawful to marry his daugh­

ter to a stranger, intreated leave to have a

previous consultation. So the king went

away, in hopes that Jacob would approve of

this marriage; but Jacob informed his sons of

the defilement of their sister, and of the ad­

dress of Hamor, and desired them to give him

their advice, what they should do. Upon this

the greatest part said nothing, not knowing

what advice to give; but Simeon and Levi,

the brethren of the damsel, by the same

mother, agreed between themselves upon the

action following: it being now the time of a

festival, when the Shechemites were em­

so quick, by the great numbers which they have, that they

are obliged to remove them too often, which is very de­

structive to their flocks, on account of the young ones,

which have not strength enough to follow." This cir­

cumstance shews the energy of Jacob's apology to Esau for

not attending him. Harmer's Observations, i. 126. B.

* Perhaps this may be the proper meaning of the word  
Israel by the present and the old Jerusalem analogy of the

Hebrew tongue. But it is certain that the Hellenists of

the first century, in Egypt and elsewhere, interpreted

Is-ra-el, to be a man seeing God.

t Gen. xxxii. 32.

| When Jacob and Esau met they saluted each other.

Esau ran to meet Jacob, embraced him, fell on his neck, and

kissed him, Gen. xxxiii. 4. Such persons as are intimately

acquainted, or of equal age and dignity, mutually kiss the

hand, the head, or the shoulder of each other. Shaw's

Trav. p. 237. B.

