AUTHOR'S PREFACE. k

these books to apply their minds to God; and to examine the mind of our
legislator,

whether he hath not understood his nature in a manner worthy of him, and hath
not ever

ascribed to him such operations as become his power, and hath not preserved
his writings

from those indecent fables which others have framed, although, by the great
distance of time

when he lived, he might have securely forged such falsehoods. For he lived *
two thousand

years ago. At which vast distance of ages, the poets themselves have not been
so hardy as to

fix even the generations of their gods; much less the actions of their men, or
their own laws.

As I proceed, therefore, I shall accurately describe what is contained in our
records, in

the order of time that belongs to them. For I have already promised so to do
throughout

this undertaking; and this without adding any thing to what is therein
contained, or taking

away any thing therefrom.

But because almost all our constitution depends on the wisdom of Moses our
legislator, I

I cannot avoid the saying somewhat concerning him before-hand, though I shall
do it briefly.

I mean because otherwise those that read my books may wonder how it comes to
pass, that

my discourse, which promises an account of laws and historical facts, contains
so much of

philosophy. The reader is therefore to know, that Moses deemed it exceedingly
necessary,

that he who would conduct his own life well, and give laws to others, in the
first place should

consider the divine nature; and, upon the contemplation of God's operations,
should thereby

imitate the best of all patterns, so far as it is possible for human nature to
do, and to en­

deavour to follow after it; neither could the legislator himself have a right
mind, without

such a contemplation, nor would any thing he should write tend to the
promotion of virtue

in his readers: I mean unless he be taught first of all, that God is the
father and lord of all

things, and sees all things, and that thence he bestows a happy life upon
those that follow

him; but plunges such as do not walk in the paths of virtue into inevitable
miseries. Now

when Moses was desirous to teach this lesson to his countrymen, he did not
begin the

establishment of his laws after the same manner that other legislators did: I
mean upon

contracts, and other rights between one man and another; but by raising their
minds up­

wards to regard God, and his creation of the world; and by persuading them
that men are

the most excellent of the creatures of God upon earth. Now when once he had
brought

them to submit to religion, he easily persuaded them to submit in all other
things. For as to

other legislators, they followed fables; and by their discourses transferred
the most reproach­

ful of human vices unto the gods, and so afforded wicked men the most
plausible excuses for

their crimes. But as for our legislator, when he had once demonstrated that
God was

possessed of perfect virtue, he supposed that men also ought to strive after
the participation

of it. And on those who did not so think and so believe, he inflicted the
severest punishment.

I therefore exhort my readers to examine the whole of this undertaking in that
view; for

thereby it will appear to them that there is nothing therein disagreeable
either to the

majesty of God, or to his love to mankind. For all things have here a
reference to the

* Of Josephus's chronology both here and hereafter, the reader is not to expect much account in these Notes.  
However, he is to observe, that though the numbers at the beginning of every
book are translations from the last

editions of Josephus, and so imperfect; yet all those in the margin are my own
numbers, as they are more perfectly

discovered and stated in the chronology, and my chronological table, published
A. D. 1721. Josephus often corrected

his own chronology, and for want of Ptolemy's Canon, and of the knowledge of
the years of Jubilee, which are sure

guides to me in this matter, was often mistaken ; I choose rather to give the
reader in the margin the true chronology

than to perplex him with such an one as we know to be often very erroneous.

