ak. 1099.] 215 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in an extraordinary degree; for that lament­

ation which the people made for him during

a long time, manifested his virtue, and the

affection which they bore him; as also did

the solemnity and concern that appeared

about his funeral, and about the complete

observance of all his funeral rites. They

buried him in his own city Ramah;* and

wept for him a very great number of days;

not looking on it as a sorrow for the death of

another man, but as that in which they were

individually concerned. He was a righteous

man, and gentle in his nature, and on that

account he was very dear to God. Now he

governed and presided over the people alone,

after the death of Eli the high-priest,t twelve

years; andJ eighteen years together with

Saul the king, and thus we have finished the

history of Samuel.

There was a man that was a Ziphite, of the

city Malum: who was rich, and had a vast

number of cattle; for he had a dock of three

thousand sheep, and another of a thousand

goats. Now David had charged his associates

to preserve these flocks from damage; and to

do them no mischief; neither out of covetous-

ness, nor because they were in want, nor be­

cause they were in the wilderness, and so

could not easily be discovered; but to esteem

freedom from injustice above all other mo­

tives; and to look upon the touching of what

belonged to another man as a horrible crime,

and contrary to the will of God. Such were

the instructions he gave; thinking that the

favours he granted this man were bestowed

on one that deserved to have such care taken

of his affairs. This person was Nabal; a

harsh man, and of a very wicked life; being

like a cynic in the course of his behaviour;

but still had obtained for his wife a woman of

good character, wise, and handsome. To this

Nabal, therefore, David sent ten of his at­

tendants, at the time when he sheared his

sheep; and by them saluted him, and also

wished he might do what he now did, for

many years to come; but desired him to make

him a present of what he was able to give

him; since he must have learned from his

shepherds, that he had done them no injury,

but had been their guardians a long time,

while he continued in the wilderness, and be

assured he should never repent of giving any

thing to David. When the messengers had

declared their errand to Nabal, he accosted

them after an inhuman and rough manner;

for he asked them who David was? And when

he heard that he was the son of Jesse, " Now

is the time,"' said he, " that fugitives grow in­

solent, and make a figure, and leave their

masters." When they told David this, he

was wroth; and commanded four hundred

armed men to follow him, and left two hun­

dred to take care of the stuff, (for he had

already|[ six hundred,) and went against

Nabal: he also swore that he would utterly

destroy the whole house and possessions of

Nabal, for that he was grieved, not only that

he had proved ungrateful, without making

any return for the humanity he had shewn

him; but that he had also reproached them,

and used ill language, when he had received

no cause of disgust.

Hereupon, one of those that kept the flocks

of Nabal said to his mistress, "that when

David sent to her husband, he had received

no civil answer, but on the contrary, very re­

proachful language; while yet David had

taken extraordinary care to keep his flocks

testations in the sight of the Lord, and his anointed, and

after his death he prophesied and shewed the king his

end." Eccles. xlvi. 13. &c. But besides the things that

are recorded of this prophet in the first book of Samuel,

there are some other passages concerning him in the first

book of Chronicles: as, That he enriched the tabernacle

with several spoils which he took from the enemies of

Israel during his administration, chap. xxvi. 28. That he

assisted in regulating the distribution of the Levites, which

David afterwards prescribed for the service of the temple,

chap. ix. 22. And, lastly, That he wrote the History of

David, in conjunction with the prophets Nathan and Gad:

but as he was dead before David came to the throne, this

can be meant only of the beginning of that history, which

by the other two prophets might be continued and con­

cluded. There is great probability indeed, that he com­

posed the twenty-four first chapters of the first book of

Samuel, which contain the beginning of David's life, and

several historical facts wherein he himself had a large

share; but as for the latter part of it, it was impossible for

him to write it, because, in the beginning of the 2Eth

chapter, there is no mention made of his death. B.

* 1 Sam. nr. 1.

t From an. 1128 to 1116.

j From an. 1116 to 1098.

II The number of men that came first to David are dis­

tinctly in Josephus, and in our common copies, but 400.

When he was at Keilah still but 400, both in Josephus and

the Septuagint; but 600 in our Hebrew copies. 1 Sam.

xxiii. 13. See xxx. 9, 10. Now the 600 there mentioned,

are here intimated by Josephus to have been so many, onlj

by an augmentation of 200 afterward; which I suppose js

the true solution of this seeming disagreement.

