100 [BOOK III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

God was present at their sacrifices: bright

rays darting out thence, and being seen even

by those who were most remote; which

splendour yet was not before natural to the

stone. This has appeared a wonderful thing

to such as have not so far indulged them­

selves in philosophy, as despise divine reve­

lation. Yet will I mention what is still more

wonderful; for God declared beforehand by

those twelve stones which the high-priest

bare on his breast, and which were inserted

into his breast-plate, when they should be

victorious in battle; for so great a splendour

shone forth from them before the army began

to march, that all the people were sensible

of God's being present for their assistance.

Whence it came to pass, that those Greeks

who had a veneration for our laws, because

they could not possibly contradict this, called

the breast-plate the Oracle. Now this breast-

Elate and this sardonyx left off shining two

undred years* before I composed this book;

God having been displeased at the trans­

gression of his laws. Of which things we

shall further discourse on a fitter opportunity:

but I will now go on with my proposed nar­

ration.

The tabernacle being consecrated, and a

regular order settled for the priests, the mul­

titude judged that God now dwelt among

them; and betook themselves to sacrifices,f

and praises to God, as being now delivered

from all expectation of evils; and entertain­

ing a hopeful prospect of better times here­

after. They offered also gifts to God; some

as common to the whole nation, and others

as peculiar to themselves, and these tribe by

tribe. For the heads of the tribes combined

together, two by two, and brought a waggon,

and a yoke of oxen; these amounted to six,

and these carried the tabernacle, when they

journeyed; besides which, every head of a

tribe brought a bowl, a charger, and a spoon

of ten daricks4 full of incense. Now the

charger and the bowl were of silver, and

together they weighed two hundred shekels,

but the bowl cost no more than seventy she­

kels: and these were full of fine flour min­

gled with oil, such as they used on the altar,

about the sacrifices. They brought also a

young bullock, and a ram, with a lamb of a

year old, for a whole burnt offering; as also

a goat, for the forgiveness of sins. Every one

of the heads of the tribes brought also other

sacrifices called peace offerings; for every

day two bulls, and five rams, with lambs of a

year old, and kids of the goats. These heads

of tribes were twelve days in sacrificing, one

sacrificing every day. Now Moses went no

longer up to mount Sinai; but went into the

tabernacle, and learned of God what they

were to do, and what laws shonld be made:

which laws were preferable to what have

been devised by human understanding, and

proved to be firmly observed, for all time to

come; as being believed to be the gift of

God: insomuch that the Hebrews did not

transgress any of those laws, either as tempted

in times of peace by luxury, or in times of

war by distress of affairs.

and Titus to the Roman empire, and that in the days of

Nero, and before either Galba, Otho, or Vitellus, were

thought of to succeed him. Of the War, III. 8, IV. 10,

and this confirmed by Suetonius in Vespas. § 5, and Dio

in Xiphiline, page 317. This, I think, may be considered

as the very last instance of any thing like the prophetic

Urim among the Jewish nation, and just preceded the fatal

desolation. But how it could possibly come to pass that

such great men as Sir John Marsham and Dr. Spencer

should imagine that this oracle of Urim and Thummim,

with other practices as old, or older than the law of Moses,

should have been ordained in imitation of somewhat like

them among the Egyptians, which we never heard of till

the time of Diodorus Siculus, Elian, and Maimonides, or

little earlier than the Christian era at the highest, is- almost

unaccountable. While the main business of the law of

Moses was evidently to preserve the Israelites from the

idolatrous and superstitious practices of the neighbouring

pagan nations, and while it is so undeniable that the evi­

dence for the great antiquity of Moses's law is incompara­

bly beyond that for the like of greater antiquity of such

customs in Egypt or other nations, which, indeed, is gene­

rally none at all, it is absurd to derive any of Moses's laws

from the imitation of those heathen practices. Such hy­

potheses demonstrate to us how far inclination can pre­

vail over evidence in even some of the most learned parts

of mankind. See Dr. Bernard's very valuable notes upon

this chapter, in opposition to Dr. Spencer, as they stand

at large in Havercamp's edition.

* About an. 107, two hundred years before A. D. 93,  
the thirteenth of Domitian, when Josephus published his

Antiquities.

t Of the Jewish sacrifices, the learned reader may con

suit the notes in Havercamp's edition, and Dr. Ontram's

excellent treatise De Sacrificiis. ,

I These old coins called Daricks, are, I think, first

mentioned by Xenophon in his KiJp* XlcuS. page 339, edit.

Hutch, a few years after the beginning of Cyaxares II. or

Darius the Mede, (of whose Median name Darius this

seems the only original remains in heathen antiquity,) and

those by him mentioned as vastly large, seem to have been

a kind of coronation medals of the same king's.

