902 [book VIII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now I cannot but think, that the greatness

of a kingdom, and its change into prosperity,

often becomes the occasion of mischief and

of transgression to men. For when Reho-

boam saw his kingdom so much increased,

he went out of the right way into irreligious

practices, and despised the worship of God;

till the people themselves imitated his wicked

actions. For so it usually happens, that the

manners of subjects are corrupted at the

same time with those of their governors;

which subjects then lay aside their own sober

way of living, as a reproof of their governors'

intemperate courses; and follow their wick­

edness, as if it were virtue. For it is not

possible to shew that men approve of the

actions of their kings, unless they do the

same actions with them. Agreeably whereto

it now happened to the subjects of Reho-

boam; for when he was grown impious,* and

a transgressor himself, they endeavoured not

to offend him by resolving still to be righteous.

But God sent Shishak,t king of Egypt, to

punish them for their unjust behaviour to­

wards him. Concerning whom Herodotus

was mistaken, and applied his actions to

Sesostris. For this Shishak,J in the fifth year

of the reign of Rehoboam, made an expe­

dition into Judea with many thousand men.

For he had one thousand two hundred cha­

riots, threescore thousand horsemen, and

four hundred thousand footmen. These he

brought with him; and they were the greater

part of them Libyans and Ethiopians. Now

therefore when he fell upon the country of

the Hebrews, he took the strongest cities of

Rehoboam's kingdom, without fighting; and

when he had put garrisons in them, he came

last of all to Jerusalem.||

While Rehoboam, and the multitude with

him, were shut up in Jerusalem, by the army

of Shishak; and when they besought God to

give them victory and deliverance, they could

not persuade God to espouse their cause; but

Shemaiah the prophet told them, that Uod

threatened to forsake them, as they had

themselves forsaken his worship. YV hen they

heard this, they were in great consternation,

and, seeing no way of deliverance, they all

earnestly set themselves to confess that God

might justly overlook them, since they had

been guilty of impiety towards him, and had

let his laws lie in confusion. So when God

saw them in that disposition, and that they

acknowledged their sins, he told the prophet

he would not destroy them; but that he would

make them servants to the Egyptians; that

they might learn whether they would suffer

less by serving men or God. So when Shi­

shak had taken the city without fighting, be­

cause Rehoboam was afraid, and received

him into it; he spoiled the temple, and

emptied the treasures of God, and those of

the king, and carried off' innumerable thou­

sands of gold and silver; and left nothing at

all behind him. He also took away the

bucklers of gold, and the shields, which

Solomon the king had made. Nay, he did

not leave the golden quivers which David

had taken from the king of Zobab, and had

dedicated to God. And when he had thus

done, he returned to his own kingdom. Now

Herodotus of Halicarnassus mentions this

expedition; having only mistaken the king's

name, and in saying that, he made war upon

many other nations also, and brought Syria

of Palestine into subjection; and took the

men that were therein prisoners, without

fighting. Now it is manifest that he intended

to declare our nation was subdued by him;

for he saith, that he left behind him pillars in

the land of those that delivered themselves

up to him, without fighting, and engraved

upon them symbols of their effeminacy. Now

our king Rehoboam delivered up our city

without fighting. He says withal, that " The

* An. 971.

t It may seem something strange, that Shishak, who

was so nearly allied to Rehoboam, should come up against

him, and take his royal city; but Rehoboam, we must re­

member, was not the son of Pharaoh's daughter, and

therefore no relation to Shishak. But, even had he been

never so nearly related, as kingdoms, we know, never

marry, so, it is likely that Jeroboam, who bad lived long

in Egypt, stirred him up to invade his rival, and thereby

he might establish himself in this new kingdom: and for

this reason it was, that, when the armies of Egypt had

taken the fenced cities of Jiulah, they returned, without

giving Jeroboam, or his dominions, any the least dis­

turbance. Patrick's Commentary. T$.

I That this Shishak was not the same person with th«

famous Sesostris, as some have very lately, in contradic

tion to all antiquity, supposed; and that our Josephus did

not take him to be the same, as they pretend; but that

Sesostris was many centuries earlier than Shishak, see

Authent. Records, Part II. page 1024, 1025, 1026. and

the authors there cited.

II 1 Kings xiv. 25.

