322 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK IX.

Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Fifty-seven Years.

FROM THE DEATH OF AHAB TO THE CAPTIVITY OF THE TEN TRIBES.

CHAP. I.

of jehoshaphat's pious conduct; HIS appointment of

JUDGES, AND HIS VICTORIES OVER HIS ENEMIES.

WHEN Jehoshaphat was come to Jeru­

salem, from the assistance he had

afforded Ahab, king of Israel, against the

Syrians, the prophet Jehu met him and ac­

cused him for assisting an impious prince;

and said to him, that God was displeased

with him for so doing, but that he delivered

him from the enemy, notwithstanding he had

sinned, because of his own disposition, which

was good. Hereupon the king betook him­

self to thanksgivings, and sacrifices to God;

and soon afterward went over all that country

which he ruled round about, and taught the

people to observe the laws which God gave

them by Moses, and that religious worship

that was due to him. He also appointed

judges in all the cities of his kingdom; and

charged them to have regard to nothing so

much in judging the multitude as to do jus­

tice, and not to be moved by bribes, nor by

the dignity of men eminent for either their

birth or riches; but to distribute justice

equally to all;* as knowing that God is con­

scious of every secret action. When he had

instructed them thus, and gone over every

* The charge or solemn admonition which Jehoshaphat  
gave the judges, whom he appointed in each city, runs in

these words:—Take heed what ye do, for ye judge not for

man, hut for the Lord, who is with you in the judgment:

wherefore now, let the fear of the Lord be upon you:

Take heed and do it; for there is no iniquity with the Lord

our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of gifts,

2 Chron. xix. 6, 7. It is a remarkable saying of Cicero,

that judges, being sworn to do justice, should remember,

when they come to pass sentence, "Deum habere testem:

city of the two tribes, he returned to Jeru­

salem. He there also constituted judges out

of the priests and Levites,t and principal

persons of the multitude; and admonished

them to pass all their sentences with care

and justice. And that if any of the people

of his country had differences of great conse­

quence, they would send them out of the

other cities, to these judges, who would be

obliged to give righteous sentences con­

cerning such causes, and this with the greater

care, because it is proper that the sentences

which are given in that city where the temple

of God is, and wherein the king dwells, be

given with the utmost care and equity. Now

he set over them Amariah, the priest, and

Zebadiah, of the tribe of Judah. And after

this manner it was that the king ordered these

affairs.

About the same time the Moabites and

Ammonites made an expedition against Je­

hoshaphat, and took with them a great body

of Arabians; and pitched their camp at En-

gedi, a city situate near the lake Asphaltites,

and distant three hundred furlongs from Je­

rusalem. In that place grew the best kind

of palm-trees, and the opobalsamum.J Now

Jehoshaphat heard that the enemies had

passed over the lake, and had made an irrup-

id est ut ego arbitror mentem suatn, qua nihil homini dedit

ipse Deus divinus." De Offic. lib. 3. c. 13. B.

t These judges constituted by Jehoshaphat, were a

kind of Jerusalem Sanhedrim, out of the priests, the Le-

vites, and the principal of the people; both here and

2 Chron. xix. 8. much like the old Christian Judicatures

of the bishop, the presbyters, the deacons, and the

people.

Concerning this precious balsam, see the note on

VI

h.

