AN. 135.J 477 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

gilded; with all sorts of sweet spices; and

with cups of gold and silver. So those that

were at the gates received the sacrifices from

those that brought them, and led them to the

temple; Antiochus in the mean time feasting

his army. This was quite a different con­

duct from that of Antiochus Epipbanes: who,

when he had taken the city, offered swine

upon the altar, and sprinkled the temple

with the broth of their flesh; in order to vio­

late the laws of the Jews, and the religion

they derived from their forefathers: for

which reason our nation made war with

him, and would never be reconciled to him.

But for this Antiochus, all men called him

Antiochus the Pious; for the great zeal he

had about religion.

Accordingly Hyrcanus took this modera­

tion kindly: and when he understood how re­

ligious he was towards the Deity, he sent an

ambassage to him; and desired that he would

restore the settlements they received from

their forefathers. So he rejected the counsel

of those that *would have him utterly destroy

the nation; by reason of their way of living,

which was to others unsociable; and did not

regard what they said. But being persuaded

that all they did was out of a religious mind,

he answered the ambassadors, that if the be­

sieged would deliver up their arms, and pay

tribute for Joppa and the other cities which

bordered upon Judea, and admit a garrison

of his; on these terms he would make war

against them no longer. But the Jews, al-,

though they were content with the other

conditions, did not agree to admit the gar­

rison, because they could not associate with

other people, nor converse with them. Yet

were they willing, instead of the admission

of the garrison, to give him hostages, and

five hundred talents of silver. Of which

they paid down three hundred, and sent the

hostages immediately; which king Antio­

chus accepted. One of those hostages was

Hyrcanus's brother. But still he brake down

the fortifications that encompassed the city.

And upon these conditions Antiochus raised

the siege, and departed.

Now Hyrcanus topened the sepulchre of

David; who excelled all other kings in riches,

and took out of it three thousand talents.f

He was also the first of the Jews that, rely­

ing on this wealth, maintained foreign troops.

He likewise made a league of friendship and

mutual assistance with Antiochus, and admit­

ted him into the city, and furnished him with

* This account in Josephus, that the present Antiochus  
was persuaded, though in vain, not to make peace with the

Jews, but to cut them off utterly, is fully confirmed by Dio-

doras Siculus, in Photius's extracts out of his 34th book,

f See the note on Book VII. chap. 15.

I Josephus tells us, that Hyrcanus, to find some money

for this, and other occasions of the government, broke up

the sepulchre of David, and took from thence three thou­

sand talents, and that Herod the Great did afterwards the

like, (Antiq. lib. XVII. c. 16, and lib. XVI. c. 11.) But

both these stories are highly improbable. David had now

been dead near nine hundred years, and what is told of

this treasure, supposes it to have been buried with him

all this time. It supposes, that as oft as the city of Jeru­

salem, the palace, and the temple, during the reigns of

the kings of Judah, had been plundered of all their

wealth and treasure by prevailing enemies, this dead stock

still remained safe from all rifle or violation. It supposes,

that as oft as these kings were forced to take all the trea­

sure that was found in the house of the Lord, as well as

in their own, to relieve the exigencies of the state, they

never meddled with this, that was uselessly buried with

David in his grave. It supposes, that when one of the

worst of their kings, (2 Kings xv. 8, &c. and 2 Chron.

xxviii. 28, &c.) plundered the temple of its sacred vessels,

and cut them in pieces, to melt them down into money

for his common occasions; and that when one of the

best of them, (2 Kings xviii. 15, 16,) was forced to cut

off the gold wherewith the gates and pillars of the tem­

ple were overlaid, to bribe a destroying enemy, this use-

less treasure still continued untouched. Nay, it supposes

that when Nebuchadnezzar destroyed both the city and

temple of Jerusalem; so that, for many years, they both

lay in rubbish, this treasure in David's sepulchre lay, all

the while, safe and secure under it; and that when An­

tiochus Epiphanes, in like manner, destroyed the city,

and robbed the temple of all that he could find, this trea­

sure still escaped his rapacious hands, nor was ever mo­

lested, till Hyrcanus, at this time, was forced to make

bold with it: all which suppositions seem highly impro­

bable, and beyond belief. There is this, however, to be

said in the matter, that as there certainly was a bank or

treasury in the temple, where money was laid up for the

support of the poor, for the relief of widows and father­

less children, and for the maintenance of divine service:

and where the great men, and rich men of the nation

were used to deposit their wealth, for its better security;

it is not improbable, that upon the account of the fre­

quent invasions and depredations they were liable to, this

treasure might be kept in some secret and subterraneous

place, unknown to all, but such as were at the head of

affairs; that Hyrcanus, being now under great difficulty

to raise money, might borrow it out of this bank, till bet­

ter times enabled him to repay it; and that Herod, when

he plundered it quite, might trump up this plausible

story, that it neither belonged to church, nor poor, nor

any private person, but had been deposited there by

David, and his successors, as a proper supply for the state

in times of need. Prideaux's Connection, anno 135, and

Universal History, lib. 2, c. 11. B.

4G2

