120 [BOOR If. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the ambassadors, and told them that he was

himself willing and desirous to comply with

their request, but that God was opposite to

his intentions, even that God who had raised

him to great reputation on account of the

truth of his predictions. For that this army

which they entreated him to come to curse,

was in favour of God. On which account he

advised them to go home again, and not to

persist in their enmity against the Israelites.

And when he had given them that answer, he

dismissed the ambassadors.

Now the Midianites, at the earnest en­

treaties of Balak, sent other ambassadors to

Balaam, who, desiring to gratify the men, in­

quired again of God; but he was displeased

at this second trial, and bid him by no means

to contradict the ambassadors. Balaam did

not imagine that God gave this injunction in

order to deceive him; so he went along with

the ambassadors. But when the Divine angel

met him in the way, when he was in a narrow

passage, and edged in with a wall on both

sides, the ass on which Balaam rode, under­

stood that it was a Divine spirit that met him;

and thrust Balaam to one of the walls, with­

out regard to the stripes which her master,

when he was hurt by the wall, gave her. But

when the ass, upon the angel's continuing to

distress her, and upon the stripes which were

given her, fell down; by the will of God she

made use of the voice of a man, and com­

plained of Balaam, as acting unjustly to her;

that whereas he had no fault to find with her

in her former service, he now inflicted stripes

upon her, as not understanding that she was

hindered from serving him in what he was

now going about by the providence of God.

And when he was disturbed by reason of the

voice of the ass, which was that of a man, the

angel plainly appeared to him,* and blamed

him for the stripes he had given his ass; in*

forming him, that the creature was not in fault,

but that he was himself come to obstruct his

journey, as being contrary to the will of God.

Upon this Balaam was afraid, and was pre­

paring to return back, yet God excited him to

go on his intended way; but added this in­

junction, that he should declare nothing, but

what he himself should suggest.f

When God had given him this-charge, the

prophet came to Balak; and after the king

had entertained him in a magnificent manner,

he desired him to go to one of the mountains,

to take a view of the state of the camp of the

Hebrews. Balak himself also came to the

mountain, and brought the prophet along

with him, with a royal attendance. This

mountain lay over their heads, and was dis­

tant sixty furlongs from the camp.J He then

* Numb. xxii. 31. "Then the Lord opened the eyes  
of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the Lord standing in the

way." There are several instances to be found, both in

the scriptures and in profane authors, where the eyes

have been opened by a divine power to perceive that

which they could not see by mere natural discernment.

Thus the eyes of Hagar were opened, that she might see

the fountain, Gen. xxi. 19. Homer also presents us with

an example of this kind. Minerva says to Diomed:

Yet more from mortal mists I purge thy eyes,

And set to view the warring deities. II. v. 164. Pope.

And in Virgil, Venus performs the same office to iEneas,

and shews him the gods who were engaged in the destruc­

tion of Troy.

Aspice; namque omnem, quae nunc obducta tuenti

Mortales hebetat visus tibi, ethumida circum, &c.

JEn. ii. 604.

Now cast your eyes around: while I dissolve

The mists and films that mortal eyes involve;

Purge from your sight the dross, and make you see

The shape of each avenging deity. Dryde.w

Milton seems likewise to have imitated this, when he

makes Michael open Adam's eyes to see the future revo­

lutions of the world, and the fortunes of his posterity.

then purg'd with euphrasy and rue

The visual nerve, for he had much to see,

And from the well of life three drops instill'd.

Paradise Lost, b. xi. 414. B.

t Note that Josephus never supposes Balaam to be an

idolater, nor to seek idolatrous enchantments, or to pro­

phesy falsely, but to be no other than an ill-disposed pro­

phet of the true God: and intimates that God's answer the

second time, permitting him to go, was ironical, and on

design that he should be deceived; which sort of decep­

tion, by way of punishment for former crimes, Josephus

never scruples to admit; as ever esteeming such wicked

men justly and providentially deceived. But perhaps we

had better to adhere closely to the text; which says,

Numb, xxiii. 20, 21, that God only permitted Balaam to

go along with, or in the Septuagint version, to follow, the

ambassadors, in case they came and called him; or posi­

tively insisted on his going along with them, on any terms.

Whereas Balaam seems, out of impatience, to have risen

up in the morning and saddled his ass, and rather to have

called them, than staid for their calling him. So zealous

does he seem to have been for his reward of divination,

his wages of unrighteousness. Numb. xxii. 7, 17,18, 37.

2 Pet. ii. 15. Jude 11. which reward or wages the truly

religious prophets of God never required, nor accepted;

as Josephus justly takes notice in the cases of Samuel,

Antiq. VI. 4, and Daniel, Antiq. X. 17. See also Gen.

xiv. 23, 24. 2 Kings v. 15, 16, 26. and Acts viii. 18—24.

% Balaam required seven altars to be built, and suitable

