314 [book vni. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

driving twelve yoke of oxen, he came to

him, and cast his own garment upon him.

Upon which Elisha began to prophesy; and

leaving his oxen, he followed Elijah. And

when he desired leave to salute his parents,

Elijah gave him leave so to do: and when

he had bidden them adieu, he followed him,

and became the disciple and the servant of

Elijah all the days of his life. And thus have

I related the affairs in which this prophet

was concerned.

Now* there was one Naboth,f of the city

Izar, who had a field adjoining to that of the

king's. The king would have persuaded

him to sell him that field, which lay so near

to his own lands, at what price he pleased:

that he might join them together, and make

them one farm; and if he would not accept

of money for it, he gave him leave to choose

any of his other fields in its stead. But Na-

both said he would not do so; but would

keep the possession of that land of his own,

which he had by inheritance from his father.J

Upon this the king was grieved, as if he had

received an injury, when he could not get

another man's possession; and would neither

wash himself, nor take any food. And when

Jezebel asked him, what it was that troubled

him? and why he would neither wash him-

self, nor eat? he related to her the perverse-

ness of Naboth; and how when he had made

use of gentle words to him, and such as were

beneath the royal authority, he had been

affronted, and had not obtained what he de­

sired. However, she persuaded him not to

be cast down at this accident; but to leave

off his grief, and return to the usual care of

his body: for that she would take care to

have Naboth punished. And she immedi­

ately sent letters to the rulers of the Jez-

reelites in Ahab's name; and commanded

them to fast,|| and to assemble a congrega­

tion, and to set Naboth at the head of them,

because he was of an illustrious family; and

to have three bold men ready to bear wit­

ness that he had blasphemed God and the

king;§ and then to stone him, and slay him

in that manner. Accordingly when Naboth

had been thus accused, he was stoned by the

multitude and slain. When Jezebel heard

that, she went to the king, and desired him

to take possession of Naboth's vineyard on

fqee cost. So Ahab was glad of what had

been done; and rose up immediately from

the bed whereon he lay, to go to see Na­

both's vineyard: but God had great indig­

nation at it, and sent Elijah the prophet to

the field of Naboth, to speak to Ahab, and

* About an. 899.

t The account of Ahab's coveting Naboth's vineyard,

as Abarbinel observes, is immediately set after his treat­

ment of Benhadad, to shew his extreme great wickedness

in sparing him, as Saul did Agag king of the Amalekites,

and killing Naboth, that he might get possession of his

vineyard. For this was a high aggravation of his crime,

that he basely murdered a just Israelite, and let an im­

pious enemy escape. Patrick's Commentary. B.

J As it is natural to all men to love and value the an­

cient possessions that have been in their family; so the

law of Moses prohibited the alienation of lands from one

tribe or family to another, unless a man was reduced to

poverty, in which case he might sell it to the jubilee;

but then it was to revert to him again, Lev. xxv. 15, 25,

28. Now as Naboth was in no need to sell his vineyard,

so he considered with himself, that, if merely to do the

king a pleasure, he should part with it out of his hands,

especially to be made a garden, and so annexed to the

palace, neither he nor his posterity, should ever be able

to recover it again; so that, in this act, he should both

offend God, and injure his posterity, which he, being a

pious and religious man, durst not adventure to do. Pool's

Annotations. B.

|| It was always a customary thing, upon the approach

of any great calamity, or the apprehension of any na­

tional judgment, to proclaim a fast; and Jezebel ordered

such a fast to be observed in Jezreel, the better to con­

ceal her design against Naboth. For, by this means, she

intimated to the Jezreelites, that they had some accursed

thing among them, which was ready to draw down the

vengeance of God upon their city; and that therefore it

was their business to inquire into all those sins which

provoked God to anger against them, and to purge them

out effectually. As therefore these days of fasting were

employed in punishing offenders, doing justice, and im­

ploring God's pardon, they gave the elders of the city an

occasion to convene an assembly, and the false witnesses

a fair opportunity to accuse Naboth before them. Le

Clerc's and Patrick's Commentaries. B.

§ By the law of Moses it was death to blaspheme God,

Lev. xxiv. 16 and by custom it was death to revile the

king, Exod. xxii. 28. Now, in order to make safe work,

the evidences, as they were instructed, accused Naboth

of both these crimes, that the people might be the better

satisfied to see him stoned. There is this difference,

however, to be observed between these two crimes, that,

if a man had only blasphemed God, he was to be tried

by the great court of Jerusalem, as the Hebrew doctors

tell us, and his goods came to his heirs; whereas, when

a man was executed for treason against the king, his

estate went to the exchequer, and was forfeited to him

against whom the offence was committed; and for this

reason it was, that they accused Naboth of this crime

likewise, that his estate might be confiscated; and Abab,

by that means, got possession of his vineyard. Patrick's

Commentary. B.

