ax. 453.] 407 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now when Mordecai was informed of what

was done, he rent his clothes, and put on

sackcloth, and sprinkled ashes upon his head,

and went about the city,* crying out, that a

nation that had been injurious to no man, was

to be destroyed. And he went on saying thus

as far as to the king's palace, and there he

stood. For it was not lawful for him to go

into it, in that habit. The same thing was

done by all the Jews that were in the several

cities, wherein this decree was published;

with lamentation and mourning, on account

of the calamities denounced against them.

But as soon as certain persons had told the

queen, that Mordecai stood before the court

in a mourning habit, she was disturbed at this

report; and sent out such as should change

his garments. But when he could not be in­

duced to put off his sackcloth, because the sad

occasion that forced him to put it on was not

yet ceased; she called the eunuch Aeratheus,

for he was then present; and sent him to

Mordecai, in order to learn what sad acci­

dent had befallen him, for which he was in

mourning, and would not put off that habit,

at her desire. Then did Mordecai inform the

eunuch of the occasion of his mourning, and

of the decree which was sent by the king into

all the country, and of the promise of money

whereby Haman bought the destruction of

their nation. He also gave him a copy of

what was proclaimed at Shushan, to be car­

ried to Esther: and he charged her to petition

the king about this matter, and not to think it

a dishonourable thing in her to put on a hum­

ble habit, for the safety of her nation: wherein

she might deprecate the ruin of the Jews,

who were in danger of it. For that Haman,

whose dignity was only inferior to that of the

king, had accused the Jews, and had irritated

the king against them. When she was in­

formed of this, she sent to Mordecai again, and

told him that she was not called by the king,

and that he who should presume to go in to

him without being called, would certainly be

slain;f unless it happened that the king held

out his golden sceptre to him; in which case

alone he could obtain pardon, and be entirely

preserved. Now when the eunuch carried

this message from Esther to Mordecai, he

bade him tell her, that she must not only pro­

vide for her own safety, but for the common

preservation of her nation. For that if she

now neglected this opportunity, there would

certainly arise help to them from God some

other way; but she and her father's house

would be destroyed by those whom she now

despised. But Esther sent the same eunuch

back to Mordecai, to desire him to go to Shu­

shan, and to gather the Jews that were there

together to a congregation; and to fast, and

to abstain from all sorts of food on her ac­

shan, might be concerned at this horrid decree, either

because they were related to them, or engaged with them

in worldly concerns, or perhaps out of mere humanity and

compassion to so vast a number of innocent people, now

appointed as sheep for the slaughter. They might ap­

prehend likewise, that upon the execution of the decree,

some sedition or tumult might ensue; that, in so great a

slaughter, it was hard to tell, who would escape without

oeing killed or plundered, because those who were em­

ployed in this bloody work would be more mindful to

enrich themselves than to observe their orders. Pool't An­

notations, and Patrick's and Le Clerc's Commentaries. B.

* The latter Targum, upon the book of Esther, gives  
us this account of Mordecai's behaviour upon this sad

occasion, viz. that in the midst of the streets he made his

complaint, saying, What a heavy decree is this, which the

king and Haman have passed, not against a part of us but

against us all, to root us out of the earth! Whereupon all

the Jews flocked about him, and having caused the book

of the law to be brought to the gate of Shushan, he, being

covered with sackcloth, read therein these words out of

Deut. iv. 30, 31. "When thou art in tribulation, and all

these things are come upon thee, in the latter days, if thou

turn to the Lord thy God, and shalt be obedient to his

voice, (for the Lord thy God is a merciful God,) he will

not forsake thee, nor destroy thee, nor forget the covenant

of thy fathers, which he sware unto them:" After which he

exhorted them to fasting, humiliation, and repentance, ac­

cording to the example of the Ninevites. Patrick's Com. B.

t Ever since the reign of Dejoces king of Media,

Herodotus, lib. I. informs, that, for the preservation of

royal majesty, it was enacted, "That no one should be

admitted into the king's presence; but that, if he had

any business with him, he should transact it by the inter­

course of his ministers." The custom passed from the

Medes to the Persians; and therefore we find it in the

same historian, lib. 3. that after the seven Persian princes

had killed the Magian, who had usurped the throne,

they came to this agreement, that whoever should be

elected king, should allow the others to have at all times

a ready access to his presence, which is an implication,

that they had it not before, whenever they should desire

it, except only when he was accompanied with any of

his wives. This, therefore, was the ancient law of the

country, and not procured by Haman, as some imagine;

though it cannot be denied, but that the reason of the law

at first might be, not only the preservation of the majesty

and safety of the king's person, but a contrivance likewise

of the great officers of state, that they might engross the

king to themselves, by allowing admittance to none but

whom they should think proper to introduce. Pool's

Annotations, and Le Clerc's Commentary. B,

