an. 1532.] 77 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he would not now suffer them to he suhdued

by their enemies; to be either made slaves,

or be slain by them; and standing in the

midst of them, he said, " It is not just for us to

distrust even men, when they have hitherto

well managed our affairs, as if they would not

be the same men hereafter; but it is no bet­

ter than madness, at this time, to despair of

the providence of God, by whose power all

has been performed which he promised, when

you expected no such things: I mean all that

I have been concerned in for your deliv­

erance, and escape from slavery. Nay, when

we are in the utmost distress, as you see we

now are, we ought the rather to hope that

God will succour us, by whose operation it is,

that we are now encompassed within that

narrow place, that he may deliver us out of

such difficulties as are otherwise insurmount­

able, and out of which neither you nor your

enemies expect you can be delivered, and

may at once demonstrate his own power, and

his providence over us; nor does God use to

give his help in small difficulties to those

whom he favours, but in such cases where no

one can see how any hope in man can better

their condition. Depend, therefore, upon

such a Protector as is able to make small

things great, and to shew that this mighty

force against you is nothing but weakness;

and be not affrighted at the Egyptian army;

nor do you despair of being preserved, be­

cause the sea before, and the mountains be­

hind, afford you no opportunity of flying; for

even these mountains, if God so please, may

be made plain ground for you, and the sea

become dry land."*

CHAP. XVI.

OF THE MIRACULOUS DIVISION OF THE SEA FOR THE HE­

BREWS, WHEN THEY WERE PURSUED BY THE EGYPTIANS;

AND OF THE OVERTHROW OF THEIR ENEMIES.

HEN Moses had said this, he led them

to the sea,f while the Egyptians look-

w

ed on, for they were within sight. Now these

were so distressed by the toil of their pursuit,

that they thought proper to put off fighting

till the next day; but when Moses was come

to the sea-shore, he took his rod, and made

the supplications to God, and called upon him

to be their helper and assistant: and said,

"Thou art not ignorant, O Lord, that it is

beyond human strength, and human contri­

vance, to avoid the difficulties we are now

under; but it must be thy work altogether to

procure deliverance to this army, which has

left Egypt at thy appointment. We despair

of any other assistance or contrivance, and

have recourse only to that hope we have in

thee: and if there be any method that can

promise us an escape by thy providence, we

look up to thee for it; and let it come quickly,

and manifest thy power to us, and do thou

raise up this people unto good courage, and

hope of deliverance, who are deeply sunk

into a disconsolate state of mind. We are in

a helpless place; but still it is a place that

thou possessest, for the sea is thine, and the

mountains that enclose us are thine: so that

these mountains will open themselves if thou

comraandest them; and the sea also, if thou

commandest it, will become dry land: nay,

we might escape by a flight through the air,

if thou shouldest determine we should have

that way of salvation."

When Moses had thus addressed himself to

God, he smote with his rod upon the s^a,

which parted asunder at the stroke, and, re­

ceiving those waters into itself, left the ground

dry as a road4 and a place of flight for the

Hebrews. || Now when Moses saw this ap­

pearance of God, and that the sea went out

of its own place, and left dry land, he went

first of all into it, and bid the Hebrews follow

him along that divine road, and to rejoice at

the danger their enemies, that followed them,

were in; and gave thanks to God for this

surprising deliverance which appeared from

him.

* This speech is very short in our copies. Exod. xiv.  
13, 14.

t The Red Sea, called hy the ancients Sinus Arabicus,

and now Gulfo de Mecca, is that part or branch of the

southern sea which interposes itself between Egypt on the

west; Arabia-Felix, and some parts of Petraea, on the

east: while the northern bounds of it touch upon Idumea,

or the coast of Edoro. Edom, in the Hebrew tongue, sig­

nifies Red, and was the nickname given Esau for selling his

birth-right for a mess of pottage. The country which his

posterity possessed was called after his name, and so was

the sea which adjoined to it; but the Greeks, not under­

standing the reason of the appellation, translated it into

their tongue, and called it sguSga SaXaffrfa, thence the

Latin, Mare Rubrum, and we, the Red Sea. The He»

brews call it the Sea of Suph, or Flags, by reason of the

great abundance of that kind of weed, which grows at the

bottom of it; and the Arabs at this day name it Bubr el

