146 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE CONTINUED SUCCESSES OF THE MACCABEES.

WHEN these things were over, the na­

tions round about the Jews were

very uneasy at the revival of their power;

and rose up together, and destroyed many of

them: as gaining advantage over them by

laying snares for them, and making secret

conspiracies against them.* Judas made per­

petual expeditions against these men: and

endeavoured to restrain them from those in­

cursions, and to prevent the mischiefs they

did to the Jews. So he fell upon the Idume-

ans, the posterity of Esau, at Acrabattene;

and slew a great many of them; and took

their spoils. He also shut up the sons of

Bean, that laid wait for the Jews; and he sat

down about them, and besieged them; and

burnt their towers, and destroyed the men

that were in them. After this he went thence

in haste against the Ammonites; who had a

great and a numerous army; of which Timo-

theus was the commander. And when he

had subdued them, he seized on the city Ja-

zer, and took their wives and their children

captives, and burnt the city, and then return­

ed into Judea. But when the neighbouring

nations understood that he was returned, they

assembled, in great numbers, in the land of

Gilead; and came against those Jews that

were at their borders: who then fled to the

garrison of Dathema, and sent to Judas to

inform him, that Timotheus was endeavour­

ing to take the place whither they were fled.

And as soon as these epistles were reading,

there came other messengers out of Galilee,

who informed him, that the inhabitants of

Ptolemais, and of Tyre, and Sidon, and stran­

gers of Galilee, were gotten together.

Accordingly Judas, upon considering what

was proper to be done, with relation to the

necessity both these cases required, gave or­

der, that his brother Simon should take three

thousand chosen men, and go to the assist­

ance of the Jews in Galilee: while he and

another of \m brothers, Jonathan, made haste

into the land of Gilead, with eight thousand

soldiers. And he left Joseph, the son of

Zacharias, and Azarias, to be over the rest

of the forces, and charged them to keep Ju-

* 1 Mace. v. 1, 2.

dea very carefully, and to fight no battles

with any person, until his return. According­

ly Simon went into Galilee, and tought the

enemy and put them to flight, and pursued

them to the very gates of Ptolemais; and

slew about three thousand of them; and took

the spoils of those that were slain, and those

Jews whom they had made captives, with

their baggage: and then returned home.

Now as for Judas Maccabeus, and his

brother Jonathan, they passed over the river

Jordan:f and when they had gone three days'

journey, they met with the Nabateans, who

came to meet them peaceably, and told them

how the affairs of those in the land of Gilead

stood; and how many of them were in distress,

and driven into garrisons, and into the cities of

Galilee; and exhorted him to make haste to

go against the foreigners, and to endeavour

to save his own countrymen out of their

hands. Accordingly Judas returned into the

wilderness: and in the first place fell upon

the inhabitants of Bosor; and took the city,

and beat the inhabitants, and destroyed all

the males, and all that were able to fight;

and burnt the city. Nor did he stop even

when night came on, but he journeyed in it to

the garrison where the Jews happened to be

shut up; and where Timotheus lay round the

place with his army. And Judas came upon

the city in the morning: and when he found

that the enemy were making an assault upon

the walls; and that some of them brought

ladders, on which they might get upon those

walls, and that others brought engines to bat­

ter them; he bade the trumpeter sound his

trumpet, and encouraged his soldiers to un­

dergo dangers cheerfully for the sake of his

brethren and kindred: he also parted his ar­

my into three bodies, and fell upon the backs

of their enemies. But when Timotheus's men

perceived that it was Maccabeus that was

upon them: of whose courage and good suc­

cess in war they formerly had sufficient ex­

perience; they were put to flight. But Judas

followed them with his army, and slew about

eight thousand of them. He then turned

aside to a city of the foreigners, called

Malle, and took it, and slew all the males,

and burnt the city itself. He then removed

from thence, and overthrew Casphom, and

t 1 Mace. t. 24.

