aN. 521.] 393 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

which they could possess themselves of with­

out tribute. At the same time he enjoined

the Idumeans and Samaritans, and the inha­

bitants of Coelesyria, to restore those villages

which they had taken from the Jews; and

that, besides all this, fifty talents should be

given them towards the building of the tem­

ple. He also permitted them to offer their

appointed sacrifices, and promised whatso­

ever the high-priest and the priests wanted,

and those sacred garments wherein they used

to worship God, should be made at his own

expense: and that the musical instruments

which the Levites used in singing hymns to

God should be given them. Moreover he

charged them, that portions of land should

be given to those that guarded the city and

the temple, as also a determinate sum of

money every year, for their maintenance:

and withal he sent the vessels. And all that

Cyrus intended to do before him, relating to

the restoration of Jerusalem, Darius ordained

should be done accordingly.

When Zorobabel had obtained these

grants from the king, he went out of the

palace; and, looking up to heaven, he began

to return thanks to God for the wisdom he

had given him, and the victory he had gained

thereby; even in the presence of Darius him­

self. "For," said he, "I had not been thought

worthy of these advantages, O Lord, unless

thou hadst been favourable to me." When

therefore he had returned thanks to God for

the present circumstances he was in, and had

prayed to him, to afford him the like favour

for time to come, he came to Babylon; and

brought the good news to his countrymen of

what grants he had procured for them from

the king. When they heard this, they also

gave thanks to God that he had restored

the land of their forefathers to them again.

So they betook themselves to drinking and

eating; and for seven days they kept a fes­

tival, for the rebuilding and restoration of

their city. After this they chose themselves

rulers, who should go up to Jerusalem, out

of the tribes of their forefathers, with their

wives, and children, and cattle, who travel­

led to Jerusalem with great pleasure, under

the conduct of those whom Darius sent along

with them: and they made a cheerful noise

with songs, and pipes, and cymbals, the rest

of the Jewish multitude accompanying them

with rejoicing.

And thus did these men go a certain and

determinate number out ot every family:

though i do not think it proper to recite par

ticularly the names of those families;* that

I may not take off the mind of my readers

from the connection of the historical facts,

and make it hard for them to follow the co­

herence of my narrations. But the sum of

those that went up, above the age of twelve

years, of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin,

was four fhundred and sixty-two myriads, and

eight thousand. The Levites were seventy

four; the number of women and children

mixed together, was forty thousand seven

hundred and forty-two. And besides these,

there were singers of the Levites one hun­

dred and twenty-eight; porters one hundred

and ten; and of the sacred ministers three

hundred and ninety-two. There were also

others, who said they were of the Israelites,

but were not able to shew their genealogies,

six hundred and sixty-two. Some there were

also who were expelled out of the number

and honour of the priests, as having married

wives whose genealogies they could not pro­

duce; nor were they found in the genealogies

of the Levites and priests; they were about

five hundred and twenty-five. The multitude

also of servants, followed those that went up

to Jerusalem, seven thousand three hundred

and thirty-seven. The singing men and

singing women were two hundred and forty-

five. The camels were four hundred and

thirty-five; the beasts used to the yoke were

j * See Ezra ii. 1—70. Nehemiah viii. 6—70.

t This number of 4,620,000 in Josephus's present

copies, is one of the grossest errors that is in them; and

ought to be corrected from Ezra ii. 64. 1 Esdras v. 40. and

Neh. vii. 66. who all agree the general sum was but about

42,360. It is also very plain, that Josephus thought,

when Esdras .afterward brought up another company out

of Babylon and Persia, in the days of Xerxes, they were

also, as well as these, out of the two tribes, and out of

them only; and were in all no more than a seed, and a

remnant; while an immense number of the ten tribes

never returned; but as he believed, continued them be­

yond Euphrates: chap. v. Of which multitude of Jews

beyond Euphrates he speaks frequently elsewhere.-

Though, by the way, he never takes them to be idolaters;

but looks on them still as observers of the laws of Moses.

The certain part of the people that now came up from

Babylon, at the end of this chapter, imply the same

smaller number of Jews that now came up, and will no

way agree with the 4,620,000.

