136 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

found it, and then restore it again; as not

thinking it right to make his own profit by

the loss of another. And the same rule is to

be observed in cattle found to have wandered

away into a lonely place.* If the owner be

not presently discovered, let him that is the

finder keep it with himself, and appeal to

God, that he has not purloined what belongs

to another.

It is not lawful to pass by any beast that is

in distress, when in a storm it is fallen down

in the mire, but to endeavour to preserve it;

as having a sympathy with it in its pain.t

It is also a duty to shew the roads to those

who do not know them; and not to esteem it

a matter of sport, when we hinder other's ad­

vantage, by setting them in a wrong way.

In like manner let no one revile a person

blind or dumb.J

If men strive together, and there be no in­

strument of iron, let him that is smitten be

avenged immediately, by inflicting the same

punishment on him that smote him. But if

when he is carried home, he lie sick many

days, and then die, let him that smote him

escape punishment; but if he that is smitten

escape death, and yet be at great expense

for his cure, the smiter shall pay for all that

has been expended during the time of his

sickness, and for all that he has paid the phy­

sician. I He that kicks a pregnant woman,

so that she§ miscarry, let him pay a fine of

money, as the judges shall determine; as

having diminished the multitude by the de­

struction of her offspring; and let money also

be given the woman's husband by him that

kicked her; but if she die of the stroke, let

him also be put to death; the law judging it

equitable that life should go for life.

Let no one of the Israelites keep any poi-

son,** that may cause death, or any other

harm; but if he be caught with it, let him be

put to death, and suffer the same mischief that

he would have brought upon them for whom

the poison was prepared.

He that maimeth any one, let him undergo

the same himself; and be deprived of the

same member of which he hath deprived the

other,tt unless he that is maimed will accept

of money instead of it. For the law makes

the sufferer the judge of the value of which

he has suffered, and permits him to estimate

it, unless he will be more severe.

Let him that is the owner of an ox which

pusheth with his horn, kill him; but if he push

and gore any one in the threshing floor, let

him be put to death by stoning; and let him

not be thought fit for food. But if his owner

be convicted as having known what his na­

ture was, and hath not kept him up, let him

also be put to death; as being the occasion

of the ox's having killed a man.f|; But if the

ox have killed a man-servant, or a maid-ser­

vant, let him be stoned, and let the owner of

the ox pay|||| thirty shekels to the master of

him that was slain. But if it be an ox that is

thus smitten and killed, let both the oxen,

that which smote the other, and that which

was killed, be sold; and let the owners of

them divide their price between them.

Let those that dig a well or a pit be careful

to lay planks over them, and so keep them

shut up; not in order to hinder any persons

from drawing water, but that there be no

danger of falling into them. But if any one's

beast perish by falling into such a well or pit,

thus digged, and not shut up, let the owner

pay its price to the owner of the beast.§§ Let

there be a battlement round the tops of

your houses, instead of a wall; that may

* Exod. xxiii. 5.

t Exod. xxiii. 5.

I Levit. xix. 14. Deut. xxvii. 18.

I! Exod. xxi. 19.

§ Philo and others appear to have understood this law,

Exod. xxi. 22, 23, better than Josephus; who seems to

aJ'ow, that though the infant in the mother's womb, even

after the mother were quick, and so the infant had a ra­

tional soul, were killed by the stroke upon the mother,

ye* if the mother escaped, the offender should only be

fined and not put to death. While the law seems rather

to mean, that if the infant in that case be killed, though

the mother escape, the offender must be put to death:

ani* not only when the mother is killed, as 'Josephus un­

derstood it. It seems this was the exposition of the Phari­

sees, in the days of Josephus.

** What we render a witch, according to our modern  
notions of witchcraft; Exod. xxii. 18. Philo and Jose­

phus understood of a poisoner; or one who attempted by-

secret and unlawful drugs, or philtra, to take away the

senses or the lives of men.

tt This permission of redeeming this penalty with mo­

ney is not in our other copies. Exod. xxi. 24, 25. Levit.

xxiv. 20. Deut. xix. 21.

ft Exod. xxi. 28, 29.

||l| We may here note that thirty shekels, the price our

Saviour was sold for by Judas to the Jews, Matt. xxiv. 15.

xxvii. 3. was the old value of a bought servant, or slave,

among that people.

§§ Exod. xxi. 33, 34.

