170 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

bringing some of them, and by his example

encouraging the soldiers to do the same.

And when the rock was encompassed round

about with these faggots, they set them on fire,

and threw in whatsoever by nature caught

fire the most easily. So a mighty flame was

raised, and nobody could fly away from the

rock, but every man perished, with their

wives and children; in all about fifteen hun­

dred men; and the rest were a great number

also. And such was the calamity which fell

upon the Shechemites; and men's grief on

their account had been greater than it was,

had they not brought so much mischief on a

person who had so well deserved of them;

and had they not themselves esteemed this as

a punishment for the same.

Now Abimelech, when he had affrighted

the Israelites with the miseries he had brought

upon the Shechemites, seemed openly to

affect greater authority than he now had, and

appeared to set no bounds to his violence,

unless it were with the destruction of all.

Accordingly he marched to Thebez, and took

the city suddenly, and there being a great

tower therein, whereunto the whole multi­

tude fled, he made preparation to besiege it.

Now as he was rushing with violence near

the gates, a woman threw a piece of a mill­

stone upon his head.* Upon which Abime­

lech fell down, and desired his armour-bearer

to kill him; lest his death should be thought

to be the work of a woman. So he under-

went this death,f as a punishment for the

wickedness he had perpetrated against his

brethren; and his insolent barbarity to the

Shechemites. Now the calamity that hap­

pened to those Shechemites was according to

the prediction of Jotham. However, the army

that was with Abimelech, upon his fall, was

scattered abroad, and went to their own

homes.

Now it was thatJ Jair, the Gileadite, of the

tribe of Manasseh, took the government. He

was a man happy in other respects also; but

particularly in his children; who were of a

good character. They were thirty in num­

ber; and very skilful in riding on horses, and

were intrusted with the government of the

cities of Gilead. He kept the government

twenty-two|| years, and died an old man; and

he was buried at Camot, a city of Gilead.

And now all the affairs of the Hebrews

were managed uncertainly, and tended to

disorder, and to the contempt of God, and of

the laws. So the Ammonites and Philistines

had them in contempt, and laid waste the

country with a great army; and when they

had taken all Perea, they were so insolent as

to attempt to gain possession of all the rest.

But the Hebrews being now reformed by the

calamities they had undergone, made suppli­

cations to God, and brought sacrifices to him;

beseeching him not to be too severe; but to

be moved by their prayers to leave off his

anger against them. So God became more

merciful, and was ready to assist them.

When the Ammonites had made an expe­

dition into the land of Gilead, the inhabitants

of the country met them at a certain moun­

tain; but wanted a commander. Now there

was one whose name was Jephtha, who both

on account of his father's virtue, and on ac­

count of that army which he maintained at

his own expense, was a potent man. The

Israelites therefore sent to him, and intreated

him to come to their assistance; promising

him the dominion over them all his life-time.

N

* Thus Plutarch relates, that Pyrrhus, at the siege of  
Argos, was killed by a woman throwing a tile upon his

head; but there is something more remarkable in Abime-

lech's death by a stone, because, as he slew all his bre­

thren upon one stone, for him to die by no other instru­

ment, carried some stamp of his sin upon it. The manner

of his death, however, puts me in mind of what the same

author records of the Spartan general Lysander, who fell

ingloriously under the wall of Haliartus. "Thus he died,"

says he, " but not like Cleombrotus, who was slain while he

was gloriously making head against an impetuous enemy at

Leuctra, not like Cyrus, or Epaminondas, who received a

mortal wound, while 'he was rallying his men, and secu­

ring to them the victory. These great men died in their

callings. They died the death of kings and commanders;

whereas he, like some common soldier, or one of the for­

lorn hope, cast away his life ingloriously; giving this testi-

mony to the ancient Spartans, that they did well to

avoid storming of walls; in which the stoutest man may

chance to fall by the hand, not only of an abject fellow,

but by that of a boy, or a woman, as they say Achilles was

slain, in the'gates of Troy, by the hands of the effeminate

Paris." Patrick's Commentary, and Plutarch's Comp. of

Lysander and Sylla. B.

t An. 1264.

J Our present copies of Josephus all omit Tola among

the Judges, though the other copies have him next after

Abimelech, and allot 23 years to his administration, Judg.

x. 1,2. yet do all Josephus's commentators conclude, that

in Josephus's sum of the years of the Judges, bis 23 years

are included. Whence we are to confess that somewhat

has been here lost out of his copies.

II From an. 1241 to 1219 6. C

