206 [BOOK ▼!. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and began to introduce a discourse about

David. "What unjust action, O father, either

little or great," said he, "hast thou found so

exceptionable in David, as to induce thee to

order us to slay a man, who hath been a great

advantage to thy own preservation; and of

still greater punishment to the Philistines? a

man who hath delivered the people of the

Hebrews from reproach and derision, which

they underwent for forty days together; when

he alone had courage to sustain the challenge

of the adversary; and after that brought as

many heads of our enemies as he was ap­

pointed to bring; and had, as a reward for

the same, my sister in marriage. Insomuch

that his death would be very sorrowful to us,

not only on account of his virtue, but on ac­

count of the nearness of our relation: for thy

daughter must be injured at the same time

that he is slain; and must be obliged to ex­

perience widowhood, before she can come to

enjoy any advantage from their mutual con­

versation. Consider these things, and change

thy mind to a more merciful temper, and do

not mischief to a man who, in the first place,

hath done us the great kindness of preserving

thee. For when an evil spirit and demons

had seized upon thee, he cast them out, and

procured rest to thy soul from their incursions;

and in the second place, he hath avenged us

of our enemies. For it is a base thing to forget

such benefits." So Saul was pacified with

these words; and sware to his son, that he

would do David no harm: for a righteous dis­

course proved too hard for the king's anger

and fear. So Jonathan sent for David, and

brought him good news from his father, that

he was to be preserved. He also conducted

him to his father; and David continued with

the king as formerly.*

About this time itf was, that, upon the Phi-

listines making a new expedition against the

Hebrews, Saul sent David with an army to

fight with them; and joining battle with them,

he slew many; and after his victory he re­

turned to the king. But his reception by

Saul was not as he expected upon such suc­

cess; for he was grieved at his prosperity,

because he thought he would be more dan­

gerous to him by having acted so gloriously.

But when the demoniacal spirit came upon

him, and put him into disorder, and disturbed

him, he called for David into his bed chamber,

wherein he lay; and having a spear in his

hand, he ordered him to charm him with

playing on his harp,J and with singing hymns;

which when David did, at his command, he,

with great force, threw the spear at him.

But David, being aware of it before he came,

avoided it, and fled to his own house, and

abode there all that day.||

But at night the king sent officers, and

commanded that he should be watched till

the morning, lest he should get quite away;

that he might come into the judgment hall,

and so might be delivered up, and condemned,

and slain. But when Michal, David's wife,

understood what her father designed, she

came to her husband, as having small hopes

of his deliverance; and as greatly concerned

about her own life also; for she could not

bear to live, in case she was deprived of him.

And she said," Let not the sun find thee

here when it rises; for if it do, that will be

the last time it will see thee. Fly therefore,

while the night may afford thee opportunity;

and may God lengthen it for thy sake; for if

my father find thee, thou art a dead man."

So she let him down by a cord out of the

window, and saved him. And after she had

so done, she fitted up a bed for him as if he

were sick;§ and put under the bed-clothes

* 1 Sam. xix. 7.

t About 1104 B. C.

j The power of music upon the affections is very great.

Its effect upon Saul was no more than it has produced in

many other instances. Tiraotheus the musician could ex­

cite Alexander the Great to arms with the Phrygian sound,

and allay his fury with another tone, and excite him to

merriment. So Eric, king of Denmark, by a certain mu­

sician, could be driven to such a fury, as to kill some of his

best and most trusty servants. Ath. Kiroh. Phonurg. 1. ii. s.

I. h. Vossius it Poemntum cantu et rhythmi viribiu. B.

I I 1 Sam. xix. 10.

§ A kind of net of goat's hair placed before the tera-

pbim is what is here meant. Such a net Dr. Shaw (Trav.

p. 221. 2d edit.) says is " a close curtain of gauze or fine

linen, used all over the East by the people of better

fashion, to keep out the flies." That they had such an­

ciently cannot be doubted. Thus when Judith had be­

headed Holofemes in his bed, she pulled down the mos­

quito net wherein he did lie in his drunkenness, from the

pillars, Judith xiii. 9, 15. So Horace, speaking of the Ro­

man soldiers serving under Cleopatra queen of Egypt, say*

Interque signa (turpe !) militaria

Sol aspicit Conopeum. Epod. ix. 15.

Amidst the Roman eagles Sol survey'd

(O shame 1) th' Egyptian canopy displayed.

Francis B.

^V

