AN. 459 150.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

himself for his slowness, that he had not pre­

vented Alexander, and got the good will of

Jonathan: but had given him time so to do.

However, he also wrote a letter to Jonathan,

and to the people: the contents whereof are

these:—

"King Demetrius to Jonathan, and to the

nation of the Jews, sendeth greeting. Since

you have preserved your friendship for us,

and when you have been tempted by our ene­

mies, you have not joined yourselves to them;

I both commend you for your fidelity, and ex­

hort you to continue in the same disposition:

for which you shall receive rewards from us.

For I will free you from the greatest part of

the tributes and taxes which you formerly

paid to the kings, my predecessors, and to

myself. And I do now set you free from those

tributes, which you have ever paid: and be­

sides I forgive you the tax upon salt, and *the

value upon crowns which you used to offer

to me. And instead of the third part of the

fruits of the field, and the half of the fruits of

the trees, I relinquish my part of them from

this day. And as to the poll-money, which

ought to be given me for every head of the

inhabitants of Judea, and of the three topar-

chies that adjoin to Judea; Samaria, Galilee,

and Perea, that I relinquish to you for all

time to come. I will also that the city of

Jerusalem be holy and inviolable, and free

from tithes and taxes unto its utmost bounds.

And I so far recede from my title to the

citadel, as to permit Jonathan, your high-

priest, to possess it; that he may place such

a garrison in it, as he approves of for fidelity

and good will to himself; that they may keep

it for us. I also make free all those Jews

that have been made captives and slaves in

my kingdom: and give order that the beasts

of the Jews be not pressed for our service.

And let their sabbaths, and all their festivals,

and three days before each of them, be free

from any imposition. In the same manner I

set free the Jews that are inhabitants in my

kingdom, and order that no injury be done

them. I also give leave to such of them as

are willing to enlist themselves in my army,

that they may do it, and those as far as thirty

thousand: which Jewish soldiers, whereso­

ever they go, shall have the same pay that

my own army hath. And some of them I will

place in my garrisons; and some as guards

about mine own body, and as rulers over

those that are in my court. I give them also

permission to use the laws of their forefa­

thers; and I will that they have power over

the three toparchies that are added to Judea;

and it shall be in the power of the high-priest

to take care, that no one Jew shall have any

other temple for worship, but only that at

Jerusalem. I bequeath also out of my own

revenues, yearly, for the expenses about the

sacrifices, one hundred and fifty thousand

drachmae; and what money is to spare shall

be your own. I also release to you those ten

thousand drachmae which the kings received

from the temple; because they appertain to

the priests that minister in that temple. And

whosoever shall flee to the temple at Jerusa­

lem, or to the places thereto belonging; or

who owe the king money; or are there on

any other account; let them be set free, and

let their goods be in safety. I give you leave

to repair and rebuild your temple; and that

all be done at my expense. I also allow you

to build the walls of your city; and to erect

high towers; and that they be erected at my

charge. And if there be any fortified town

that would be convenient for the Jewish

country to have very strong, let it be so

built at my expense."

This was what Demetrius promised, and

granted to the Jews, by this letter. But king

Alexander raised a great army of mercenary

soldiers, and of those that deserted to him

out of Syria; and made an expedition against

Demetrius. And when they came to a bat­

tle, the left wing of Demetrius* put those

who opposed them to flight, and pursued

them a great way, and slew many of them,

and spoiled their camp. But the right

* Take Grotius's notes here. "The Jews," says he,  
"were wont to present crowns to the kings of Syria.

Afterwards that gold, which was paid instead of those

crowns, or which was expended in making them, was

called the crown gold, and the crown tax." On 1 Mace,

x. 29.

t In the first onset, Demetrius's left wing put the op­

posite wing of the enemy to flight: but as he pursued

voL. I.—NOS. 39 & 40.

them too far, (a fault in war which has lost many victo­

ries,) by the time that they came back, the right wing,

in which Demetrius fought in person, was overborne, and

he slain in the rout: for his horse having plunged him

into a bog, they who pursued him shot at him there with

their arrows, till he died. Joseph. Antiq. lib. 13, c. 5.

Justin, lib. 35, c. 1 ; Apipn, de Syriacis; and Polybiiis.

lib. 3. B.

4E

