AN. 148.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

who coming to Jamnia with a great army,

sent to Jonathan the high-priest, and told

him, that it was not right that he alone should

live at rest, and with authority, and not be

subject to the king: that this thing had made

him a reproach among all men, that he had

not yet made him subject to the king. "Do

not thou therefore deceive thyself," said "he,

"and sit still among the mountains, and pre­

tend to have forces with thee. But if thou

hast any dependance on thy strength, come

down into the plain, and let our armies be

compared together; and the event of the bat­

tle will demonstrate which of us is the most

courageous. However, take notice, that the

most valiant men of every city are in my

army. And that these are the very men

who have always defeated thy progenitors.

But let us have the battle in such a place of

the country where we fight with weapons,

and not with stones; and where there may

be no place whither those that are beaten

may flee."

With this Jonathan was irritated: and

choosing out ten thousand of his soldiers, he

went out of Jerusalem in haste, with his bro­

ther Simon, and came to Joppa, and pitched

his camp on the outside of the city: because

the people of Joppa had shut their gates

against him. For they had a garrison in the

city put there by Apollonius. But when Jo­

nathan was preparing to besiege them, they

were afraid he would take them by force;

and therefore they opened the gates to him.

Apollonius hearing that Joppa was taken by

Jonathan, took three thousand horsemen, and

eight thousand footmen, and came to Ashdod:

and removing thence he made his journey

silently and slowly; and going up to Joppa,

he made as if he were retiring from the place,

and so drew Jonathan into the plain: as

valuing himself highly upon his horsemen,

and having his hopes of victory principally

in them. However, Jonathan sallied out,

and pursued Apollonius to Ashdod. But as

soon as Apollonius perceived that his enemy

was in the plain, he came back, and gave him

battle. Now Apollonius had laid a thousand

horsemen in ambush, in a valley, that they

might be seen by their enemies as behind

them. Jonathan, however, was under n»

consternation, on perceiving them, but or­

dering his army to stand in a square battle

array, he gave them a charge to fall on the

enemy on both sides; and set them to face

those that attacked them both before and

behind. And while the fight lasted till the

evening, he gave part of his forces to his

brother Simon, and ordered him to attack the

enemies: but for himself, he charged those

that were with him to cover themselves with

their armour, and receive the darts of the

horsemen. Accordingly the enemies' horse­

men, while they threw their darts till they

had no more left, did them no harm: for the

darts that were thrown did not enter into

their bodies; being thrown upon the shields

that were united and conjoined together: the

closeness of which easily overcame the force

of the darts, and they flew about without any

effect. But when the enemy grew remiss in

throwing their darts, from morning till late

at night; Simon perceived their weariness,

and fell upon the body of men before him.

And because his soldiers shewed great alac­

rity, he put the enemy to flight. And when

the horsemen saw that the foot ran away,

neither did they stay themselves: but they

being weary by the duration of the fight till

evening, and their hope from the infantry

being quite gone, they basely ran away, and

that in great confusion also; till they were

separated one from another, and scattered

over all the plain. Hereupon Jonathan pur­

sued them as far as Ashdod; and slew a great

many of them: and compelled the rest, in

despair of escaping, to flee to the temple of

Dagon, which was at Ashdod. But Jonathan

took the city on the first onset, and burnt it,

and the villages about it, nor did he abstain

from the temple of Dagon itself, but burnt it

also; and destroyed those that had fled to it.

Now the entire multitude of the enemies that

fell in the battle, and were consumed in the

temple, were eight thousand. When Jona­

than therefore had overcome so great an

persons in the history of the Maccabees, mentioned under

the name of Apollonius. The former of these being

governor of Samaria in the time of Antiochus Epiphanes,

1 Mace. iii. 10. was slain in battle by Judas Maccabeus;

and the latter, (who is called the son of Gennens, 2 Mace.

xii. 2.) being governor of some toparchy in Palestine,

under Antiochus Eupator, did then signalize himself by

being a great enemy to the Jews. Prideaux'i Connection,

anno 148. B.

