av. 1532.] 105 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

at all injured her husband, and to wish that

if she had violated her chastity, her right

thigh might be put out of joint, that her belly

might swell, and that she might die thus: but

that if her husband, by the violence of his

affection, and of the jealousy which arose

from it, had been rashly moved to this sus­

picion, that she might bear a male child on

the tenth month. Now when these oaths were

over, the priest wiped the name of God out

of the parchment, and wrung the water into

a vial. He also took up some dust out of the

temple, if any happened to be there, and put

a little of it into the vial, and gave it her to

drink, whereupon the woman, if she were un­

justly accused, conceived a child, and brought

it to perfection; but if she had broken her

faith of wedlock to her husband, and had

sworn falsely before God, she died in a re­

proachful manner:* her thigh fell off from

her, and her belly swelled with a dropsy:

and these are the ceremonies about sacrifices,

and about the purifications thereto belong­

ing, which Moses provided for his country­

men. He also prescribed the following laws

to them.

CHAP. XII.

OF SEVERAL LAWS INSTITUTED BY MOSES.

AS for adultery, Moses forbade it entirely,

as esteeming it a happy thing that men

should be wise in the affairs of wedlock, and

that it was profitable both to cities and fami­

lies that children should be known to be genu­

ine. He also abhorred a man's connection

with his mother, father's wife, aunt, sister, or

son's wife, as instances of abominable wick­

edness. He also forbade a man to lie with

his wife when she was defiled; and not to

come near brute beasts; nor to approve of

the lying with a male in order to hunt after

unlawful pleasures on account of beauty. To

those which were guilty of such insolent be­

haviour, he' ordained death for their punish­

ment.

/;

; »iiii ii

.* . Numb, y., 27. • .

"f These words of Josephus are. remarkable, that the

lawgiver of the Jews required of the priests a double de­

gree otf purity, in comparison of that required of the peo­

ple-, of- which he gives several instances. This was the

case also among the first Christians of the eletfgy, in com­

parison of the laity, as the apostolical constitutions and

canons every where inform us.

As for the priests, he prescribed to them

also a double degree of purity;f for he re­

strained them in the foregoing instances, and

also forbade them to marry a harlot, a slave,

or a captive, and such as got their living by

cheating trades, and by keeping inns; as also

a woman parted from her husband on any

occasion whatsoever. Nay, he did not think

it proper for the high-priest to marry even the

widow of one that was dead, though he al­

lowed that to the priests; but he permitted

him only to marry a virgin, and to retain her;

whence it is that the high-priest is not to ap­

proach one that is dead,J although the rest

are not prohibited from coming near to their

brethren, parents, or children, when they are

dead, but they are to be unblemished in all

respects. He ordered that the priests, who

had any blemish, should have his portion in­

deed among the priests; but he forbade him

to ascend the altar, or to enter into the holy

house. He also enjoined them not only to

observe purity in their sacred ministrations,

but in their daily conversation, that it might

be unblameable also; and on this account it

is, that those who wear the sacerdotal gar­

ments are without spot, and eminent for their

purity and sobriety. Nor are they permitted

to drink wine so long as they wear those gar-

ments.|| Moreover, they offer sacrifices that

are entire, and have no defect whatever.

Moses gave them all these presents, being

such as were observed during his own life

time: but though they lived now in the wil­

derness, yet did he make provision how they

might observe the same laws when they should

have taken the land of Canaan. He gave then

rest to the land from ploughing and planting

every seventh year, as he had prescribed to

them to rest from working every seventh day,

and ordered that then what grew of its own

accord out of the earth should in common

belong to all that pleased to use it, making

no distinction in that respect between their

own countrymen and foreigners; and he or­

dained that they should do the same after

t Levit. xxi. 11.

11 We must here note with Reland, that the precept

given to the priests of not drinking wine, while they wore

the s'acred: garments, is equivalent to their abstinence from

it while they ministered in the temple, because they thsn

only wore those sacred garments, which were laid up

there from one time of ministration to another.

