204 [book ti. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

brook, and had put into his shepherd's bag,

and fitted it to his sling, he slang it against

the Philistine. The stone fell upon his fore­

head, and sank into his brain, insomuch that

Goliath was stunned, and fell upon his face.

So David ran, and stood upon his adversary

as he lay down, and cut off his head with his

own sword; for he had no sword himself.

And upon the fall of Goliath, the Philistines

were beaten, and fled; for when they saw

their champion prostrate on the ground, they

were afraid of the issue of their affairs, and

resolved not to stay any longer; but com­

mitted themselves to an ignominious and in­

decent flight; and thereby endeavoured to

save themselves from the danger they were

in. But Saul, and the entire army of the He­

brews, made a shout and rushed upon them

and slew a great number of them; and pur­

sued the rest to the borders of Gath, and to

the gates of Ekron.* So that there were slain

of the Philistines thirty thousand; and twice

as many wounded. Saul then returned to

their camp, and pulled their fortification to

Eieces, and burnt it. But David carried the

ead of Goliath into his own tent, and dedi­

cated his sword to God at the tabernacle.f

CHAP. X.

of saul's envv at david's brilliant success, and of

the marriage of that conqueror with the king's

daughter.

NOW the women were an occasion of

Saul's envy and hatred to David. For

they came to meet their victorious army with

cymbals and drums, and all demonstrations

of joy, and sang thus: the wives said, "Saul

hath slain his many thousands of the Philis-

tines." The virgins replied, "David hath

slain his ten thousands.":}: Now when the

king heard them singing thus, and that tie

had himself the smallest share in their com­

mendations; and that the greater number, the

ten thousands, were ascribed to the young

man; and when he considered there was

nothing more wanting to David, after such

applause, but the kingdom; he began to be

afraid, and suspicious of David. Accordingly

he removed him from the station he was in

before; for he was his armour-bearer, which

out of fear seemed to him much too near a

station for him; and so he made him captain

over a thousand, and bestowed on him a post,

better indeed in itself, but, as he thought,

more for his own security. For he had a mind

to send him against the enemy, and into battle;

as hoping he would be slain in such danger­

ous conflicts.

But David had God going along with him

whithersoever he went; and accordingly he

greatly prospered in his undertakings, and it

was visible that he had mighty successes;

insomuch that Saul's daughter, who was still

a virgin, fell in love with him, and her affec­

tion so far prevailed over her, that it could

not be concealed; and her father became

acquainted with it. Now Saul heard this

gladly;|| as intending to make use of it for a

snare against David; and he hoped that it

would prove the cause of destruction and of

hazards to him. So he told those that in­

formed him of his daughter's affection, that he

would willingly give David the virgin in mar­

riage, and said, "I engage myself to marry

my daughter to him, if he will bring me six

hundred heads of my enemies."§ Supposing

that when a reward so ample was proposed

i

1 Sam. xviii. 7.

to the art from their infancy, by slinging from a great dis­

tance at a circular mark of a moderate circumference. By

long practice they took so nice an aim, that they were sure

to hit their enemies not only on the head, but on any part

of the face they chose. Their slings were of a different

kind from the Balearians, whom they far surpassed in dex­

terity." Polyb, p. 125. B.

* 1 Sam. xvii. 52.

t Niebuhr presents us with a very similar scene in his

Descript. de l'Arabie, p. 263; where a son of an Arab

chief kills his father's enemy and rival, and, according to

the custom of the Arabs, cuts off his head, and carries it

in triumph to his father. In a note he adds, " cutting off the

head of a slain enemy, and carrying it in triumph, is an an­

cient custom." Xenophon remarks that it was practised by

theChalybes, (Retreat of the ten thousand, lib. iv.) Hero­

dotus attributes it to the Scythians, lib. iv. cap. 60. B.

1 Sam. xviii. 20.

§ Josephus says thrice in this chapter, and twice after­

wards, chap. 11. and Book VII. chap. 1. i. e. five times in

all, that Saul required not a bare hundred of the foreskins

of the Philistines, but six hundred of their heads. The

Septuagint has one hundred foreskins; but the Syriac

and Arabic two hundred. Now that these were not fore­

skins, with other copies, but heads with Josephus's copy,

seems somewhat probable from 1 Sam. xxix. 4. where all

copies say, that it was with the heads of such Philistines

that David might reconcile himself to his master Saul.

And if Josephus's copy be right there, against all the rest;

I should also prefer it before the rest here, especially as

so often repeated in the number; six hundred instead of

one hundred in the Septuagint, or two hundred in thfe

Svrinc and Arabic.

