362 [book x. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

pened because the transgressions of the

former kings were seen no more, but quite

vanished away. For the king went about the

city, and the whole country, and cut down

the groves, which were devoted to strange

gods, and overthrew their altars; and if there

were any gifts dedicated to them by his

forefathers, he made them ignominious, and

plucked them down; and by this means he

brought the people back from their opinion

about them to the worship of God. He also

offered his accustomed sacrifices and burnt-

offerings upon the altar. Moreover he or­

dained certain judges and overseers, that they

might order the matters to them severally be­

longing, and have regard to justice above all

things, and distribute it with the same con­

cern they would have about their own souls.

He also sent over all the country, and desired

such as pleased to bring gold and silver for

the repairs of the temple, according to every

one's inclination and abilities. And when

the money was brought in, he made Maaseiah,

the governor of the city, Shaphan the scribe,

Joah the recorder, and Eliakim the high-

priest, curators of the temple, and of the

charges contributed thereto. These persons

made no delay, nor put the works off at all,

but prepared architects, and whatsoever was

proper for those repairs, and set closely

about the work. So the temple was repaired

by this means; and became a public demon­

stration of the king's piety.

In the eighteenth year of his reign,* Josiah

sent to Eliakim the high-priest, and gave

* An. 624.

t Whether it was the whole Pentateuch, or the hook

of Deuteronomy only, which the high-priest found in the

temple, it is generally agreed, that the part which Shaphan

read to the king was taken out of the book of Deutero­

nomy, and not without some probability, that the 28th,

29th, and 30th chapters, were that portion of Scripture

which the secretary who (as we are told 2 Kings xxii. 8.)

had read the book before he brought it to the king,

thought proper upon this occasion to turn to; for therein

is contained a renewal of the covenant which Moses, as

mediator, had made between God and the people of Israel

at mount Horeb; and therein are those threats and ter­

rible comminutions to the transgressors of the law, whe­

ther prince or people, which affected Josiah so much;

and which Moses had given to the Levites to put on the

side, of the covenant, that it might be there for a witness

against the transgressors of it, Dent. xxxi. 25, 26. Cal-

met's Commentary. 6.

t This is the only mention we have of this prophetess,

and certainly it makes much to her renown, that she was

order that out of what money was overplus,

he should cast cups and dishes, and vials for

ministration in the temple; and besides, that

they should bring all the gold and silver which

was among the treasures, and should expend

that in like manner, in making cups, and

other vessels. But as the high-priest was

bringing out the gold, he found the holy books

of Moses,f that were laid up in the temple;

and when he had brought them out, he gave

them to Shaphan the scribe; who when he

had read them, came to the king, and in­

formed him, that all was finished which he

had ordered to be done. He also read over

the books to him; who when he had heard

them read, rent his garment; and called for

Eliakim, the high-priest, and for Shaphan the

scribe, and for certain other of his most par­

ticular friends; and sent them to Huldah,J

the prophetess, the wife of Shallum; which

Shallum was a man of dignity, and of an emi­

nent family; and bade them go to her, and

say, that he desired she would appease God,

and endeavour to render him propitious to

them; for that there was cause to fear, lest

upon the transgression of the laws of Moses

by their forefathers, they should be in peril

of going into captivity, and of being cast out

of their own country; lest they should be in

want of all things, and so end their days

miserably. When the prophetess had heard

this, she bade the messengers go back to the

king, and say, that "God had already given

sentence against them, to destroy the people,

and cast them out of their country, and de-

consulted upon this weighty occasion, ,when both Jere­

miah and Zephaniah were at that time prophets in Judab.

But Zephaniah, perhaps at that time might not have com­

menced a prophet; because, though we are told that he

prophesied in the days of Josiah, Zeph. i. 1. yet we are

no where informed, in what part of his reign he entered

upon the prophetic office. Jeremiah too, might at that

time be absent from Jerusalem, at his house at Anathoth,

or some more remote part of the kingdom; so that, con­

sidering Josiah's haste and impatience, there might be no

other remedy at hand to apply to but this woman: Great

is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us, says

the king to his ministers, 2 Kings xxii. 13. and therefore

his intent, in sending them, might be to inquire, whether

there were any hopes of appeasing his wrath, and in what

manner it was to be done. Being therefore well assured

of this woman's fidelity, in delivering the mind and counsel

of God, the ministers who went to inquire, concluded

rightly, that it was much more considerable, what mes­

sage God sent, than, by whose hand it was that he con­

veyed it. Pool's Annotations. B.

