74 [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

fore,* nor was it like to that which falls in other

climatest in winter time, but larger than that

which falls in the middle of spring to those

that dwell in the northern and north-western

regions. This hail brake down their boughs

laden with fruit. After this a tribe of locusts

consumed the seed which was not hurt by the

hail; so that to the Egyptians all the hopes of

future fruits of the ground were entirely lost. J

One would think the aforementioned cala­

mities might have been sufficient for one that

was only foolish, without wickedness, to make

him sensible what was for his advantage. But

Pharaoh, led not so much by his folly, as by

his wickedness, even when he saw the cause

of his miseries, still contested with God, and

wilfully deserted the cause of virtue. So he

bid Moses to take the Hebrews away, with

their wives and children; but to leave their

cattle behind, since their own cattle were

destroyed. But when Moses said, that what

he desired was unjust, since they were obliged

to offer sacrifice to God of those cattle, and

the time being prolonged on this account, a

thick darknessj| without the least light, spread

itself over the Egyptians; whereby their sight

being obstructed, and their breathing hin­

dered by the thickness of the air, they died

miserably; and under a terror lest they should

be swallowed up by the dark cloud. Besides

this, when the darkness, after three days, and

as many nights, was dispatched; and when

Pharaoh did not still repent, and let the He­

brews go, Moses came to him, and said,

"How long wilt thou be disobedient to the

command of God? for he enjoins thee to let

the Hebrews go; nor is there any other way

of being freed from the calamities you are

under, unless you do so." But the king was

angry at what he said, and threatened to

strike off his head, if he came any more to

trouble him about these matters. Hereupon

Moses said, he would not speak to him about

them ;§ but that he himself, together with the

principal men among the Egyptians, should

desire the Hebrews to go away. So when

Moses had said this he went his way.

When God had signified, that with one

frost: he gave up the cattle also to the hail, and their flocks

to hot thunderbolts. Ps. lxxviii. 47, 48. And from the

plain account of Moses, where he mixes thunder, hail, and

fire together, Exod. ix. 23. the observation is obvious, that

here were no less than three of the elements in confede­

racy against Pharaoh's obstinacy; the air in the thunder;

the water in the hail; and the fire in the lightning, all

jointly demonstrating and proclaiming, that the God of

Israel was the God of nature. B.

* Exod. ix. 24.

t As to this winter or spring hail near Egypt and Judea,

see the like on thunder and lightning there in the note on

VI. 5. and Havercamp's note on III. 1.

J This is the creature which we properly call the grass­

hopper; and wonderful is the account which several

authors give of them. Thevenot, in his travels, tells us,

"That in that part of Scythia which the Cossacks now

inhabit, there are infinite numbers of them, especially in

dry seasons, which the north-east wind brings over from

Tartary, Circassia, and Mingrelia, which are seldom or

never free from them; that they fly in the air all compact

together, like avast cloud, sometimes 15 or 18 miles long,

and about 10 or 12 miles broad; so that they quite darken

the sky, and make the brightest day obscure; and that

wherever they light, they devour all the corn in less than

two hours time, and frequently make a famine in the coun­

try. These insects," says he, "live not above six months;

and when they are dead, the stench of them so corrupts

and infects the air, that it very often breeds dreadful pes­

tilences." God (as we hinted before) calls the locust, the

canker worm, caterpillar, and the palmer .worm, his great

army which he sends amongst a wicked and rebellious peo­

ple. Joel, ii. 25. And how proper the expression is, in

relation to the locust in particular, will appear from the

account which Aldrovandus and Fincelius give us of these

animals, viz. " That in the year of our Lord, 852, on in­

finite number of them was seen to fly over twenty miles

in Germany in one day, in the manner of a formed army,

divided in several squadrons, and having their quarters

apart when they rested; that the captains marched a day's

journey before the rest, and chose the most opportune

places for their camp; that they never removed until sun-

rising, at which time they went away in as much order as

any army of men could do; that at last having done great

mischief wherever they passed, (after prayers made to

God,) they were driven by a violent wind into the Belgic

ocean, and there drowned; but that, being cast by the sea

upon the shore, they covered 140 acres of land, and caused

a great pestilence in the country;" which is enough to

shew how dreadful a punishment this was, especially con­

sidering that these locusts were such as were never known

before, and yet the ordinary locust (as Aristotle and Pliny

have described it) was an animal so fierce and formidable,

that one single one would kill a serpent, by taking it fast by

the jaws, and biting it to death. Arist. Hist. Animal. 1. 6.

c. 23. Pliny's Nat. Hist. 1. 11. c. 9. and he CUrc's Com­

mentary. B.

II The Septuagint, and most translations, render it a

darkness which might be felt, i. e. consisting of black va­

pours and exhalations, so condensed, that they might be

perceived by the organs of touch. But some commentators

think, that this is carrying the sense too far; since, in such

a medium as this, mankind could not live an hour, much

less for the space of three days, as the Egyptians are said

to have done: and therefore they imagine, that instead of

a darkness that may be felt, the Hebrew phrase may signify

a darkness wherein men were groping and feeling about for

every thing they wanted. B.

§ Exod. viii. 7.

"\

