an. 1897.] 35 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

received him kindly, because Abraham had

formerly lived with him, and had been his

friend; but when he saw that God was with

Isaac, and took such great care with him, he

became envious, and drove him away. Per­

ceiving this change in Abimelech's temper,

Isaac retired to a place called the Valley,

not far from Gerar: and as he was digging a

well, the shepherds fell upon him, and began

to fight, in order to hinder the work; and

because he did not desire to contend, the

shepherds seemed to get the better of him.

So he still retired, and dug another well: and

when certain other shepherds, in the service

of Abimelech began to offer him violence, he

left that also, and still retired: thus pur­

chasing security to himself by a rational and

prudent conduct. At length the king gave

him permission to dig a well, which he named

Rehoboth; denoting a large space. But of

the former wells, one was called Escon,

which denotes strife; the other Sitenna, which

name signifies enmity.

Isaac's affairs were now in a flourishing

condition; and his power increased from his

great. riches. But Abimelech thinking Isaac

throve in opposition to him, while their living

together made them suspicious of each other:

and Isaac's retiring shewed a secret enmity

also, the king was afraid that his former

friendship would not secure him, if Isaac

should endeavour to revenge the injuries he

had formerly received: he therefore renewed

his friendship with him, in the presence of

Philoc,* one of his generals; and when he

had obtained every thing he desired, by rea­

son of Isaac's good nature, who preferred the

* While Josephus' copies, both Greek and Latin, men­  
tion this Philoc as one of Abimelech's generals, that ac­

companied him when he renewed the old league with

Isaac, which had been made long before with Abraham,

our new edition calls him Phicol by the same name with

the general at the league made with Abraham, (which old

league is not so distinctly mentioned by Josephus,) but

this conjectural reading is too uncertain to be depended

on.

t Gen. xxyi. 31.

I An. 1817.

II This supper of Savory meat, as we call it, Gen. xxvii.

4, to be caught by hunting, was evidently intended for a

festival on a sacrifice; and upon the prayers that were

frequent at sacrifices Isaac expected, as was then usual in

such eminent cases, that a divine impulse would come

upon him, in order to the solemn blessing of his son there

present, and his foretelling his future behaviour and for­

tune. Whence it must be, that when Isaac had blessed

voL. I.—No. 3.

earlier friendship Abimelech had shewed to

himself, and his father to alter his wrath

against him, he returned home. f

Now when Esau, one of the sons of Isaac,

whom the father principally loved was come

to the age of forty years he married Adah,J

the daughter of Helon; and Aholibamah, the

daughter of Esebeon, which Helon and Ese-

beon were great lords among the Canaanites;

thereby taking upon himself the authority,

and pretending to have dominion over his

own marriages, without so much as asking

the advice of his father. For had Isaac been

the arbitrator, he would not have given him

leave to marry thus, for he was not pleased

with contracting any alliance with the people

of that country; but not wishing to act harshly

by his son, in commanding him to put away

these wives, he resolved to be silent.

But when he was old, and could not see

at all, he called Esau to him, and told him,

that besides his blindness, and the disorder

in his eyes, his very old age hindered him

from his worship of God, by sacrifice: he

bade him, therefore, to go out a hunting, and

when he had caught as much venison as he

could, to prepare him a supper; || that after

this he might make supplication to God to be

to him a supporter, and an assister, during

the old time of his life: saying, that it was

uncertain when he should die, and that he

was desirous, by his prayers for him, to

procure, before-hand, God to be merciful to

him.

Accordingly Esau went out a hunting. But

Rebeka§ thinking it proper to have the sup­

plication made for obtaining the favour of

Jacob, and was afterwards made sensible of his mistake,

he did not attempt to alter it; because he knew that this

blessing came not from himself, but from God ; and that

an alteration was out of his power. A second afflatus then

came upon him, and enabled him to foretel Esau's future

behaviour and fortune also.

§ Whether Jacob or his mother Rebeka were most

blameable in this imposition upon Isaac in his old age, 1

cannot determine. However, the blessings being de­

livered as a prediction of future events, by a divine im­

pulse, and according to what Rebeka knew to be the

purpose of God, when he answered her inquiry, before

the children were born, Gen. xxv. 23, that one people

should be stronger than the other; and that the elder,

Esau, should serve the younger, Jacob. Whether Isaac

knew, or remembered this oracle, delivered in our copies,

only to Rebeka; or whether if he knew or remembered

it, he did not endeavour to alter the divine determination,

out of his fondness for his elder son, Esau, to the damage

