an. 1492.] 135 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tempt of us; reform thyself, and act more

wisely for the time to come. Considering that

God is displeased with those that are inso­

lent towards their parents; because he is

himself the Father of the whole race of man­

kind; and seems to bear part of that disho­

nour which falls upon those that have the

same name, when they do not meet with due

returns from their children. And on such the

law inflicts inexorable punishment; of which

punishment mayst thou never have the expe­

rience!" Now if the insolence of young men

be thus cured, let them escape the reproach

which their former errors deserved; for by

this means the lawgiver will appear to be

good, and parents happy, while they never

behold either a son or a daughter brought to

punishment. But if it happen that these

words, and the instructions conveyed by

them, in order to reclaim the man, appear to

be useless; then the offender renders the law

an implacable enemy to the insolence he has

offered his parents. Let him therefore be*

brought forth, by these very parents, out of

the city, with a multitude following him; and

let him be stoned ;f and when he has con­

tinued there for one whole day, that all the

people may see him, let him be buried in the

night. And thus it is that we bury all whom

the laws condemn to die, upon any account

whatsoever. Let our enemies that fall in

battle be also buried; nor let any one dead

body lie above ground, or suffer a punishment

beyond what justice requires.

Let no one lend to any of the Hebrews

upon usury, neither usury of what is eaten, or

what is drank.J For it is not just to make

advantage of the misfortunes of one of thy

own countrymen; but when thou hast admi­

nistered to his necessities, think it thy gain,

if thou obtainest his gratitude to thee; and

withal that reward, which will come to thee

from God, for thy humanity towards him.

Those who have borrowed either silver, or

any sort of fruits, whether dry or wet; (I

mean this, when the Jewish affairs shall by

the blessing of God be to their own mind;) let

the borrowers bring them again, and restore

them with pleasure to those who lent them;

* See Herod the Great insisting on the execution of this  
law, with relation to two of his own sous, before the judges

at Berytus.

t Deut. xxi. 21

laying them up, as it were, in their own trea­

suries, and justly expecting to receive them

thence, if they shall want them again. But if

they be without shame, and do not restore it,

let not the lender go to the borrower's house,))

and take a pledge himself, before judgment

be given concerning it; but let him require

the pledge, and let the debtor bring it of him­

self, without the least opposition to him that

comes upon him under the protection of the

law. And if he that gave the pledge be rich,

let the creditor retain it, till what ne lent be

paid him again; but if he be poor, let him that

takes it return it before the going down of the

sun; especially if the pledge be a garment,

that the debtor may have it for a covering in

his sleep, God himself naturally shewing

mercy to the poor. It is also not lawful to

take a mill-stone, nor any utensil thereto be­

longing, for a pledge; that the debtors may

not be deprived of instruments to get their

food withal, and lest they should be undone

by their necessity.

Let death be the punishment for stealing a

man;§ but he that hath purloined gold or

silver, let him pay double. If any one kill a

man that is stealing something out of his

house, let him be esteemed guiltless; although

the man were only breaking in at the wall.

Let him that hath stolen cattle pay fourfold

what is lost, excepting the case of an ox; for

which let the thief pay fivefold. Let him that

is so poor that he cannot pay what mulct is

laid upon him, be his servant to whom he was

adjudged to pay it.

If any one be sold to one of his own nation,

let him serve him six years; and on the se­

venth let him go free.** But if he have a son

by a woman servant, in his purchaser's house;

and if on account of his good will to his mas­

ter, and his natural affection to his wife and

children, he will be his servant still, let him

be set free only at the coming of the year of

Jubilee, which is the fiftieth year; and let him

then take away with him his wife and chil­

dren, and let them be free also.

If any one find gold or silver in the road,

let him enquire after him that lost it, and

make proclamation of the place where he

I

Deut. xxiii. 19.

Il Deut. xxiv. 10.

§ Exod. xxi. 16.

** Deut. xv. 12.

