294 [tiO'Ott VFtt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

things; and was very diligent and studious

to have things done after an elegant manner.

So he did not neglect the care of the ways;

but he laid a causeway of black stone along

the roads that led to his royal city of Jeru­

salem; both to render them easy for travel­

lers, and to manifest the grandeur of his

riches and government. He also parted his

chariots, and set them in a regular order;

that a certain number of them should be in

every city; still keeping a few about him:

and those cities he called the cities of his

chariots. And the king made silver so plen­

tiful in Jerusalem as stones in the street;

and so multiplied cedar-trees in the plains

of Judea, which did not grow there before,

that they were like the multitude of common

sycamore-trees.* He also ordained the Egyp­

tian merchants that brought him their mer­

chandise, to sell him a chariot, with a pair

of horses, for fsix hundred drachmae of silver;

and he sent them to the kings of Syria, and

to those kings that were beyond Euphrates.

But although Solomon was become the

most glorious of kings, and the best beloved

of God, and had exceeded in wisdom and

riches those that had been rulers of the He­

brews before him; yet did he not persevere

in this happy state till he died. But he for­

sook the observance of the laws of his fathers,

and came to an end no way suitable to our

foregoing history of him. He grew mad in

his love of women, and laid no restraint on

himself in his lusts. Nor was he satisfied

with the women of his own country alone;

but he married many wives out of foreign

nations;J Sidonians and Tyrians, Ammonites

and Edomites; and he transgressed the laws

of Moses, which prohibited Jews from mar­

rying any but those that were of their own

people. He also began to worship thei»

gods,|| which he did in order to the gratifica­

tion of his wives, and out of bis affection fop

them. This very thing our legislator sus*

pected, and so admonished us beforehand,

that we should not marry women of other

countries, lest we should be entangled with

foreign customs, and apostatize from our ownj

lest we should leave off to honour our own

God, and should worship their idols. But

Solomon was fallen headlong into unreason­

able pleasures, and regarded not those ad­

monitions. For when he bad married seven

hundred wives,§ the daughters of princes and

of eminent persons, and three hundred con­

cubines, and these besides the king of Egypt's

daughter;** he soon was governed by them,

till he came to imitate their practices. He

was forced to give them this demonstration

of his kindness and affection to them, to live

according to the laws of their countries^

And as he grew into years, and his reason

* 1 Kings x. 27.

t Two thousand four hundred shekels, or 2851b.

J Notwithstanding the vast multitude of wives that

Solomon had, the Scriptures make mention of no more

than three children, this son, and two daughters, that are

spoken of, 1 Kings iv. 11, 15. and, what is strange, in the

beginning of his story, it takes no notice, as usually it

does, of his mother's nation, or family, though in the con­

clusion of it, 1 Kings xiv. 21—31. it twice reminds us,

that she was an Ammonitess by birth, and that her name

was Naamah. Rehoboam was born in the first year of his

father's reign, and was therefore much about forty-one

when he entered upon the government; but he was an

unskilful and imprudent man, and therefore made a very

false step at his first accession to the throne. The author

of Ecclesiasticus gives us no advantageous character of

him. when he terms him, A man void of understanding,

wJro turned the people away with his counsel, chap, xlvii.

23. Nay, his own son makes but a faint apology for him,

when he tells the people, that he was young, (young in

understanding) and tender-hearted, and could not with­

stand his enemies, 2 Chron. xiii. 7. and therefore some

have imagined, that his father Solomon had him in his

thoughts, when he said, in his Preacher, I hated all my

labour, which I had taken under the sun, because I was to

leave it to a man that should come after me: And who

knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet

shall he have rule over all my labour, wherein I havfe

laboured: This also is vanity, chap. it. 18, 19. Calmet's

and Patrick's Commentaries. B.

II About an. 999 B. C.

§ These 700 wives, or the daughters of great men, and

the SOO concubines, the daughters of ignoble, make 1000

in all; and are, I suppose, those very 1000 women intr-

mated elsewhere by Solomon himself, when he speaks of

his not having found one good woman among that very-

number, Eccles. vii. 28.

** Pharaoh's daughter is generally supposed to have'  
been a proselyte to the Jewish religion, and therefore

Solomon, in marrying her, incurred no fault; but, in mar­

rying so many women besides, and these of a different

religion, he committed two sins against the law; one in

multiplying wives, and another, in marrying those of

strange nations, who still retained their idolatry. And

therefore, the wise son of Sirach, amidst all the encomiums

that he heaps upon Solomon, could not forget this heinous

iniquity, and terrible flaw in his character.—Thou didst

bow thy loins to women, and by thy body, thou wast

brought into subjection. Thou didst stain thine honour,

and pollute thy seed, so that thou broushtest wrath upon

thy children, and wast grieved for thy folly, Eccles. xlvii.

19, 20. Patrick's Commentary. B.

