372 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

were three in number; and the eunuch who

was over the armed men; and seven friends

of Zedekiah, and his scribe, and sixty other

rulers; all of whom, together with the vessels

which they had pillaged, he carried to the

king of Babylon, to Riblah, a city of Syria.

So the king commanded the heads of the

high-priest, and of the rulers, to be cut off

there. But he himself led all the captives,

and Zedekiah to Babylon. He also led Jo-

sedek, the high-priest, away bound. He was

the son of Seraiah, the high-priest, whom the

king of Babylon had slain in Riblah, a city of

Syria, as we have just now related.

And now, because we have enumerated the

succession of the kings, and who they were,

and how long they reigned; I think it neces­

sary to set down the names of those who suc­

ceeded one another in the high-priesthood,

under the kings. The first high-priest then

at the temple, which Solomon built, was

Zadok. After whom his son Achimas re­

ceived that dignity. After Achimas was

Azarias. His son was Joram, and Joram's

son was Isus. After him was Axioramus.

His son was Phideas, and Phideas's son was

Sudeas, and Sudeas's son was Juelus, and

Juelus's son was Jotham, and Jotham's son

was Urias, and Urias's son was Nereias, and

Nereias's son was Odeas, and his son was

Sallumus, and Sallurnus's son was Elicias,

and his son was Azarias,* and his son was

Sareas, and his son was Josedek, who was

carried captive to Babylon. All these re­

ceived the high-priesthood, by succession,

the sons from their fathers.

When the king was come to Babylon, he

kept Zedekiah in prison until he died; and

then buried him magnificently. He also de­

dicated the vessels he had pillaged out of

the temple of Jerusalem to his gods; and

planted the people in the country of Babylon;

but freed the high-priest from his bonds.

CHAP. IX.

OF THE APPOINTMENT OF GEDALIAH, AS GOVERNOR OF THE

JEWS LEFT IN JUDEA J HIS ASSASSINATION BV ISHMAEL;

THE REMOVAL OF THE PEOPLE INTO EGYPT J AND THEIR

SUBSEQUENT CAPTIVITV.

NOW the general of the army, Nebuzara-

dan, when he carried the people of the

Jews into captivity, left the poor, and those

that had deserted, in the country; and ap­

pointed for their governor one Gedaliah, the

son of Ahikam, a person of a noble family,

and of a gentle and righteous disposition. He

commanded that they should cultivate the

ground, and pay an appointed tribute to the

king. He took Jeremiah the prophet out of

prison, and would have persuaded him to go

along with him to Babylon; for that-he had

been enjoined by the king to supply him with

whatever he wanted; and if he did not like

to do so, he desired him to inform him where

he resolved to dwell; that he might signify

the same to the king. But the prophet had

no inclination to follow him, nor to dwell any

where else: but expressed a wish to live in

the ruins of his country, and in the miserable

remains of it. When the general understood

what his purpose was, he enjoined Gedaliah,

whom he had left behind, to take all possible

care of him, and to supply him with whatever

he wanted. So when he had given him rich

presents, he dismissed him.f Accordingly

Jeremiah abode in a city of that country

which was called Mispah; and desired of

Nebuzaradan that he would set at liberty

his disciple Baruch,J the son of Neriah;|J

* I have here inserted, this high-priest Azarias, though  
he be omitted in all Josephus's copies, out of the Jewish

chronicle, Seder Olam: of how little authority soever I

generally esteem such later Rabbinical historians; be­

cause we know from Josephus himself, that the number

of the high-priests belonging to this interval was eighteen.

Antiq. XX. 10. whereas his copies have here but seven­

teen. And note, that so many of these names are spelled

differently from those that occur in our Bible. 1 Chron.

vi. 15. Ezra vii.l—5. 1 Esdras vii. 1,2. that I have here,

contrary to my usual method, set them all down from

the Greek spelling in Josephus.

t Jeremiah xl. 5.

I Of this character of Baruch, the son of Neriah, and

the genuineness of his book that stands now in our Apo-

crypha, and that it is really a canonical book, and an

appendix to Jeremiah, see Authentic Records, part I.

page 1—11.

II Baruch, the son of Neriah, and grandson of Maase-

iah, was of an illustrious birth, and of the tribe of Judah.

Seraiah, his brother, had a considerable employment in

the court of king Zedekiah, but himself kept close to the

person of Jeremiah, and was his most faithful disciple,

though his adherence to his master drew upon him several

persecutions, and a great deal of bad treatment. After

the destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, Baruch

and his master were permitted to stay in the land of Ju-

dea; but when the remains of the people which were left

behind, after having slain their governor Gedaliah, were

for retiring into Egypt, they compelled Jeremiah and his

