an. 1955.] 27 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

her being in such a miserable case was, that

she had been ungrateful and arrogant towards

her mistress. He also told her, that it" she

disobeyed God, and went on still on her way,

she should perish: but if she would return

back, she should become the mother of a son,

who should reign over that country. These

admonitions she obeyed, and returned to her

master and mistress, and obtained forgive­

ness.

A little while afterwards, she gave birth to

Ismael,* which may be interpreted Heard of

God: because God heard his mother's prayer.

This son was born to Abram when he was

eighty-six years old.f But when he was

ninety-nine, God appeared to- him, and pro­

mised that he should have a son by Sarai,

and commanded that his name should be

Isaac; and shewed him that from this son

should spring great nations and kings; and

that they should obtain the land of Canaan by

war from Sidon to Egypt. But he charged,

in order to keep his posterity unmixt with

others, that they should be circumcised in the

flesh of their foreskin, and that this should be

done on the eighth day after they were born.

The reason of which circumcision I will ex­

plain in another place. And Abram enquiring

also concerning Ismael, whether he should

live or not; God signified to him that he

should live to be very old, and should be the

father of great nations. Abram therefore gave

thanks to God for these blessings; and then

he, with his son Ismael, and all his family,

were circumcised immediately: the son being

that day thirteen years of age, and Abram

ninety-nine.

CHAP. XL

OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE SODOMITE NATION, ON

ACCOUNT OF THEIR SINS.

ABOUT this time the Sodomites grew

proud on account of their riches and

great wealth: they became unjust towards

men, and impious towards God; insomuch

that they did not call to mind the advantages

they received from him: they hated strangers

and abused themselves with unnatural prac­

tices. God was therefore much displeased

* An. 1966.  
t Gen. xvi. 16.

voL. I.—No. 3.

at them, and determined as a punishment for

their pride, to overthrow their city, and lay

waste their country, till there should neither

plant nor fruit grow out of it.

When God had thus resolved concerning

the Sodomites, Abraham, as he sat by the

oak of Mambre, at the door of his tent, saw

three angels;% and thinking them to be

strangers, he rose up, and saluted them, and

desired they would accept of an entertain­

ment, and abide with him: to which when

they agreed, he ordered cakes of meal to be

made, and when he had slain a calf, he

roasted it, and brought it to them as they sat

under the oak. Now they made a shew of

eating; and besides they asked him about

his wife Sarah, where she was, and when he

said she was within, they said they should

come again hereafter, and find her become a

mother. Upon which the woman laughed,

and said, that it was impossible she should

bear children, since she was ninety years of

age, and her husband was an hundred. Then

they concealed themselves no longer, but

declared that they were angels of God; and

that one of them was sent to inform them

about the child, and two for the overthrow

of Sodom.

When Abraham heard this, he was grieved

for the Sodomites; and he rose up, and be­

sought God for them, and intreated him that

he would not destroy the righteous with the

wicked. But when God had replied, that

there was no good man among the Sodomites,

for if there were but ten such men among

them he would not punish any of them for

their sins, Abraham held his peace. And the

angels came to the city of the Sodomites, and

Lot intreated them to accept a lodging with

him ;|j for he was a very generous and hos­

pitable man, and one that had learned to

imitate the goodness of Abraham. Now when

the Sodomites saw the young men to be oi

beautiful countenances and this to an extra­

ordinary degree; and that they took up their

lodgings with Lot, they resolved to possess

those beautiful boys by force; and when Lot

exhorted them to sobriety, and not to offer

any thing immodest to the strangers, but to

have regard to their lodging in his house,

J Gen. xxviii. 2.

II Gen. xix. 2.

H

