5U [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

place so profane, but was to suffer the most

flagitious treatment possible from her covetous

humour. Yet did not all this suffice so ex­

travagant a woman, who was a slave to her

lusts. But she still imagined that she wanted

every thing she could think of; and did her

utmost to gain it. For this reason she hurried

Antony on perpetually to deprive others of

their dominions, and give them to her. And

as she went over Syria with him, she contrived

to get it into her possession. So he slew *Ly-

sanias, the son of Ptolemy, accusing him of his

bringing the Parthians upon those countries.

She also petitioned Antony to give her Judea

and Arabia; and in order thereto desired him

to take these countries away from their pre­

sent governors. As for Antony, he was so

entirely overcome by this woman, that one

would not think her conversation only could

do it, but that he was some way bewitched to

do whatsoever she would have him. Yet did

the grossest parts of her injustice make him so

ashamed, that he would not always hearken

to her, to do those flagrant enormities she

would have persuaded him to. That there­

fore he might not totally deny her; nor, by

doing every thing that she enjoined him, ap­

pear openly to be an ill man; he took some

parts of each of those countries away from

their former governors, and gave them to her.

Thus he gave her the cities that were within

the river Eleutherus, as far as Egypt; ex­

cepting Tyre and Sidon; which he knew to

have been free cities from their ancestors;

although she pressed him very often to bestow

these on her also.

When Cleopatra had obtained thus much,

and had accompanied Antony in his expedi­

tion into Armenia, as far as Euphrates; she

returned back, and came to Apamia, and Da­

mascus, and passed on to Judea. There

Herod met her, and farmed of her some parts

of Arabia, and those revenues that came to

her from the region about Jericho. This

country bears that balsam, which is the most

precious drug that is there, and grows there

alone. The place also produces many and

excellent palm-trees. When she was there,

and was very often with Herod; she endea­

voured to have criminal conversation with the

king. Nor did she affect secrecy in the in­

dulgence of such sort of pleasures. And per­

haps she had, in some measure, a passion of

love for him; or rather, what is most proba­

ble, she laid a treacherous snare for him, by

aiming to obtain such an adulterous conver­

sation from him. However, upon the whole,

she seemed overcome with love to him. Now

Herod had a great while borne no good will

to Cleopatra, as knowing that she was a

woman irksome to all; and at that time he

thought her particularly worthy of his hatred,

if this attempt proceeded out of lust: he had

also thought of preventing her intrigues, by

putting her to death, if such were her endea­

vours. However, he refused to comply with

her proposals; and called a council of his

friends to consult with them, whether he

should not kill her, now he had her in his

power? For that he should thereby deliver

all those from a multitude of evils to whom

she was already become irksome, and was

expected to be still so for the time to come;

and that this very thing would be much for

the advantage of Antony himself: since she

would certainly not be faithful to him, in case

any such necessity should come upon him as

that he should stand in need of her fidelity.

But when he thought to follow this advice. his

friends told him that it was not right to attempt

so great a thing, and run himself thereby into

the utmost danger. And they begged of him

to undertake nothing rashly: for that Antony

would never bear it, though any one should

evidently lay before his eyes that it was for

his own advantage. And that the appearance

of depriving him of her conversation by this

violent and treacherous method, would pro­

bably set his affections more on a flame than

before. Nor did it appear that he could offer

any thing of tolerable weight in his defence;

this attempt being against such a woman as

was of the highest dignity of any of her sex

at that time in the world. And as to any ad­

* This Lysanias was the son of Ptolemy Menneus, and  
was king of Chalcis and Iturea; and probably the same

person that is mentioned by Strabo, XVI. page 756. That

he was slain, is confirmed by Dio, XLIX. page 411, as

Dean Aldrich observes. Who also adds, that the slaughter

of Malichus about the same time, which Josephus joins

with this of Lysanias, in his history Of the War, I. 22.

is not mentioned either by Dio, or in the Antiquities of

Josephus himself, or any other author. So that it is

highly probable Josephus missed it here voluntarily, as

having discovered his former mistake about it.

