XJr.827.] 343 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

slew of them ten thousand, and took as many

prisoners alive, whom he brought to the

great rock, which is in Arabia, and threw

them down from it headlong. He also

brought away a great deal of prey, and vast

riches from those nations. But while Ama-

ziah was engaged in this expedition, those

Israelites whom he had hired, and then dis­

missed, were very uneasy, and taking their

dismission for an affront, as supposing that

this would not have been done to them but

out of contempt, they fell upon his kingdom,

and proceeded to spoil the country as far as

Beth-horon, and took much cattle, and slew

three thousand men.

In consequence of the victory which Araa-

ziah had gotten, and the great acts he had

done, he was puffed up; and began to over­

look God, who had given him the victory;

and proceeded to worship the gods he had

brought out of the country of the Amalekites.

So a prophet came to him, and said, he won­

dered how he could esteem them to be gods,

who had been of no advantage to their own

Seople, who paid them no honours; nor had

elivered them from his hands; but had over­

looked the destruction of many of them, and

had suffered themselves to be carried cap­

tive; for that they had been carried to Jeru­

salem in the same manner as any one might

have taken some of the enemy alive, and led

them thither. This reproof provoked the

king to anger; and he commanded the pro­

phet to hold his peace, and threatened to

Sunish him if he meddled with his conduct,

o he replied, that he should indeed hold

his peace; but foretold withal, that God

would not overlook those attempts at innova­

tion. Amaziah, however, was not able to

contain himself under that prosperity which

God had given him, although he had affronted

God thereupon; but in a vein of insolence

he wrote to Joash, king of Israel, com­

manding that he and all his people should

be obedient to him, as they had formerly

been obedient to his progenitors, David and

Solomon; and giving him to understand, that

if he would not be so wise as to do what he

commanded he must fight for his dominions.

Hereupon Joash returned this answer in

writing:

* 8 Kings xiv. 9, 10.

KING JOASH TO KING AMAZIAH.

"There was a vastly tall cyprus tree in

mount Lebanon, as also a thistle: this thistle

sent to the cypress tree, to give the cypress

tree's daughter in marriage to the thistle's

son. But as the thistle was saying this, there

came a wild beast and trod it down. And

this may be a lesson to thee, not to be so

ambitious; but to be careful, lest upon thy

good success in the fight against the Amale­

kites, thou growest so proud, as to bring

dangers upon thyself, and upon thy king­

dom."*

When Amaziah had read this letter, he

was more eager upon his expedition: which

I suppose, was by the impulse of God, that

he might be punished for his offence against

him. But as soon as he led out his army

against Joash, and they were going to join

battle, there came such a consternation upon

the army of Amaziah, as God, when he is

displeased, sends upon men; and discomfited

them, even before they came to a close fight.

Now it happened, that as they were scattered

about by the terror that was upon them,

Amaziah was left alone, and was taken pri­

soner by the enemy. Whereupon Joash

threatened to kill him, unless he would per­

suade the people of Jerusalem to open their

gates, and receive him and his army into the

city. Accordingly Amaziah was so distressed,

and in such fear of his life, that he made his

enemy to be received into the city. So Joash

overthrew a part of the wall, of the length of

one hundred cubits, and drove his chariot

through the breach into Jerusalem, and led

Amaziah captive along with him. By which

means he became master of Jerusalem, and

took away the treasures of God, and carried

off all the gold and silver that was in the

king's palace, and then freed the king from

captivity, and returned to Samaria.f Now

these things happened to the people of Jeru­

salem in the fourteenth year of the reign of

Amaziah: who after this had a conspiracy

formed against him by his friends, and fled

to the city Lachish, and was there slain by

the conspirators. So they took up his dead

body, and carried it to Jerusalem, and made

a royal funeral for him. This was the end

t 2 Kings xiv. 11

13.

