ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book I.

esteem it a piece of cowardice to submit to

God; and they built a tower, neither sparing

any pains, nor being at any degree negligent

about the work; and by reason of the multi­

tude of hands employed in it, it grew very

high sooner than any one could expect, but

the thickness of it was so great, and it was so

strongly built, that thereby its great height

seemed, upon view, to be less than it really

was. It was built of burnt brick, cemented

together with mortar, made of bitumen, that

it might not be liable to admit water. When

God saw them acting so madly, h ttcl id not re­

solve to destroy them utterly, since they were

not grown wiser by the destruction of the for­

mer sinners, but he caused a tumult among

them by producing in them divers languages,

and causing that through the multitude of

those languages, they should not be able to

understand one another. The place wherein

they built the tower is now called Babylon,

because of the confusion of that language

which they readily understood before, for the

Hebrew means by the word Babel,* con­

fusion. The Sibylf also makes mention of

the tower, and of the confusion of the lan­

guage, when she says thus:—" When all men

were of one language, some of them built an

high tower, as if they would thereby ascend

up to heaven, but the gods sent storms of

wind, and overthrew the tower, and gave

every one his peculiar language; and for this

reason it was that the city was called Baby­

lon." But as to the plain of Shinah, in the

country of Babylonia, Hestiaeus mentions it

when he says, " Such of the priests as were

saved took the sacred vessels of Jupiter Enya-

lius, and came to Shinar or Babylonia."

CHAP. V.

OF THE MANNER. IN WHICH THE POSTERITY OF NOAH SENT

OUT COLONIES, AND INHABITED THE WHOLE EARTH.

FTER this they were dispersed abroad

on account of the difference of their

languages, and went out by colonies every

where; and each colony took possession of

that land unto which God led them, so that

the whole continent was filled with them, both

the inland and maritime countries. There

were some also who passed over the sea in

ships, and inhabited the islands; and some of

those nations still retain the denominations

which were given them by their first foun­

ders, but some have lost them, and some have

only admitted certain changes in them, that

they might be more intelligible to the in­

habitants; and they were the Greeks who

became the authors of such mutations; for

when, in after ages they grew potent, they

claimed to themselves the glory of antiquity,

giving names to the nations that sounded well

in Greek, that they might be better under­

stood among themselves, and setting agreea­

ble forms of government over them, as if they

were a people derived from themselves.

CHAP. VI.

HOW EVERY NATION WAS DENOMINATED FROM THEIR FIRST

INHABITANTS.

NOW they were the grand-children of

Noah, in honour of whom names were

imposed on the nations by those that first

seized upon them. Japhet, the son of Noah,

had seven sons; they inhabited so, that be­

ginning at the mountains Taurus and Amanus,

they proceeded along Asia, as far as the river

Tanais, and along Europe to Cadiz, and

settling themselves on the lands they chose,

which none had inhabited before, they called

the nations by their own names; for Gomer

founded those whom the Greeks called Gala-

tians, but were then called Gomerites. Ma­

gog founded those that from him were named

Magogites, but who are by the Greeks called

Scythians. Now as to Javan and Madai, the

sons of Japhet: from Madai came the Ma-

deans, which are called Medes by the Greeks,

and since Hesiod says, that men's lives were once so long,

that at one hundred years of age they might be esteemed

great infants, I prefer that reading. But what a catalogue

of ancient authors are there that confirm the sacred His­

tory in one of its most difficult branches! To which had

Josephus read the Latin authors, as he did the Greek, he

might have added Varro, the most learned of the Romans

who made this enquiry, what the reason was that the an­

cients were supposed to have lived one thousand years?

* Gen. xi. 29.

t See this testimony in the original, and in English in

my Edition of the Sibylline oracles, page 11. 93, 94. but

there it is in verse, as here in prose, the reason of which

difference 1 by no means understand. But what is here

remarkable is, that Moses Chorenensis, the Armenian his­

torian, confirms this history, that God overthrew this tower

by a terrible and divine storm; and confounded the lan­

guage of the builders, and this from the earliest records

belonging to that nation.

■i

