192 [book vr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

years in all. the multitude had no settled

form of government, but were in an anarchy.

After which they returned to their former

government; they then permitting them­

selves to be judged by him who appeared

to be the best warrior and most courageous;

whence it was that they called this interval

of their government the Judges.

Then did Samuel call another assembly

also, and said to them, " I solemnly adjure

you by God Almighty, who brought those

excellent brethren, I mean Moses and

Aaron, into the world; and delivered our

fathers from the Egyptians, and from the

slavery they endured under them; that you

will not speak what you say to gratify me,

nor suppress any thing out of fear of me, nor

be overborne by any other passion; but say

what have I ever done that was cruel or

unjust? or what have I done out of lucre,

or covetousness, or to gratify others? Bear

witness against me if I have taken an ox,

or a sheep, or any such thing: which yet,

when they are taken to support men, it is

esteemed blameless. Or have I taken an

ass for mine own use, of any one, to his

grief? Lay some one such crime to my

charge, now we are in your king's presence.

But they unanimously exclaimed, that no

such thing had been done by him; but that

he had presided over the nation, after a

holy and righteous manner.

When this testimony had been given him

by them all, Samuel said, "Since you all

grant that you are not able to lay any ill

thing to my charge hitherto, come on now,

and hearken while I speak with great free­

dom to you. You have been guilty of great

impiety against God, in asking you a king.

It behoves you to remember, that our grand­

father Jacob came down into Egypt by

reason of a famine, with seventy souls only

of our family, and that their posterity mul­

tiplied there to many ten thousands, whom

the Egyptians brought into slavery, and

hard oppression; that God himself, upon

the prayers of our fathers, sent Moses

and Aaron, who were brethren, and gave

them power to deliver the multitude out

of their distress, and this without a king.

These brought us into this very land which

you now possess. And when you enjoyed

these advantages from God, you betrayed

his worship, and religion: nay, when you

were brought under the hands of your

enemies, he delivered you, first by render­

ing you superior to the Assyrians, and

their forces; he then made you to overcome

the Ammonites, and Moabites, and last of

all the Philistines. And these things have

been achieved under the conduct of Jeph-

tha and Gideon. What madness therefore

possessed you to fly from God, and to desire

to be under a king? yet have I ordained

him for king whom he chose for you. How­

ever, that I may make it plain to you that

God is angry and displeased at your choice

of regal government, I will so dispose him,

that he shall declare this very plainly to

you, by strange signals; for what none of

you ever saw here before, I mean a* winter

storm in the midst of harvest, I will intreat of

God, and will make it visible to you."f Now

as soon as he had said this, God gave such

strange signals by thunder and lightning,

and the descent of hail, as attested the truth

of all the prophet had said ;$ insomuch that

they were amazed and terrified, and con­

fessed they had sinned, and had fallen into

that sin through ignorance; and besought the

prophet, as one that was a tender and gentle

father, to render God so merciful as to for­

give this sin, which they had added to those

other offences whereby they had affronted

him, and transgressed against him. So he

promised that he would beseech God, and

persuade him to forgive them their sins.

However, he advised them to be righteous,

* Mr. Reland observes here, and proves elsewhere, in  
his note on III. 1. that although thunder and lightning with

us happen usually in summer, yet in Palestine and Syria

they are chiefly confined to winter. Josephus takes notice

of the same thing again, of the War IV. 4. See also

Antiq. II. 14.

t It is an observation of St. Jerome, that this harvest in

Judea began about the end of June, or the beginning of

July, in which season thunder and rain was never known,

but only in the spring and autumn, the one called the

former, and the other the latter rain: and therefore Samuel,

by this preamble, hit not wheat harvest to-day? chap. xii.

17. meant to signify the greatness of the miracle God was

going to work; that he could, in an instant, and in a time,

when they least of all expected it, deprive them of all the

comforts of life, as they justly deserved, for their rejecting

him and his prophet, who was so powerful with bim, as, by

his prayers, to produce such wonders. Patrick's, CalmePs,

and Le Clerr's Commentaries. B

J 1 Sam. xii. 18

