aN. 1375.] Ifi? ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them. Now the attendants of Eglon were

ignorant of what misfortune had befallen him

for a great while. But towards evening, fear­

ing some uncommon accident had happened,

they entered into his parlour, and when they

found him dead, they were in great disorder,

and knew not what to do. And before the

guards could be got together, the multitude

of the Israelites came upon them. So that

some of them were slain immediately, and

some were put to flight, and ran away toward

the country of Moab, in order to save them­

selves. Their number was above ten thou­

sand. The Israelites seized upon the ford of

Jordan, and pursued them, and slew them;

and many they killed at the ford; nor did one

of them escape out of their hands. And by

this means it was that the Hebrews freed

themselves from slavery under the Moabites.

Ehud also was on this account dignified with

the government over all the multitude, and

died after he had held the government* eighty

years. He was a man worthy of commenda­

tion, even besides what he deserved for the

aforementioned act of his. After him Sham-

gar,f the son of Anath, was elected for their

governor; but died in the first year of his

government.

: CHAP. V.

OF THE OPPRESSION OF THE HEBREWS BY THE CANAANITES

DURING TWENTY YEARS; AND THEIR EMANCIPATION BY

BARAK AND DEBORAH, WHO RULED OVER THEM FORTY

YEARS.

ND now it wasJ that the Israelites, taking

no warning by their former misfortunes

* These 80 years for the government of Ehud, are ne­  
cessary to Josephus's usual large numbers, between the

Exodus and the building of the temple, of 592 or 612

years; but not to the smaller number of 480 years,

1 Kings vi. 1. which lesser number Josephus seems some­

times to have followed. And since in the beginning of the

next chapter it is said by Josephus, that here was hardly

a breathing for the Israelites before Jabin came and en­

slaved them; it is highly probable that some of the copies

in his time had here only eight years, instead of 80; as had

that of Theophilus of Antioch, Ad Autoyle, L. III. and

this most probably from his copy of Josephus-

T Judg. iii. 31.

t An. 1375.

I! Judg. iv. 2.

§ From An. 1374 to 1354.

** The words Prophet and Prophetess are of very am­  
biguous signification in both Testaments; sometimes they

denote persons extraordinarily inspired by God, and en-

voL. I.—NOS. 13 & 14

to amend their manners, and neither wor­

shipping God, nor submitting to the lavcv

were brought under slavery again by Jabin,|j

king of the Canaanites; and that before they

had a short breathing after the slavery under

the Moabites. For this Jabin came out of

Hazor, a city that was situate over the lake

Semechonitis; and had in pay three hundred

thousand armed footmen, and ten thousand

horsemen; with no fewer than three thousand

chariots. Sisera was the commander of all

this army, and was the principal person in

the king's favour. He so sorely beat the

Israelites when they fought with him, that he

compelled them to pay tribute.

So they continued to undergo that hard­

ship for§ twenty years, as not good enough

of themselves to grow wise by their misfor­

tunes. God was willing also hereby the more'

to subdue their obstinacy and ingratitude

towards himself. So when, at length, thej

were become penitent, and were so wise as

to learn that their calamities arose from their

contempt of the laws, they besought Deborah,

a certain prophetess,** whose name, in th<-

Hebrew tongue, signifies a Bee, to pray to

God to take pity on them, and not to overlook

them now they were ruined by the Canaan­

ites. So God granted them deliverance, and

chose for their general one Barak, who was

of the tribe of Naphthali; and whose name in

the Hebrew tongue signifies Lightning.

So Deborah sent for Barak, and bid him

choose out ten thousand young men to go

against the enemy; because God had said,

that that number was sufficient, and promised

them victory. But when Barak said, he would

dued with the power of working miracles and foretelling

things to come; and sometimes they are used for persons

endued with special, though not miraculous gifts or graces,

for the better understanding and explaining the word of

God; and, of this sort, were the sons of the prophets, or

such as were brought up in the schools of the prophet*.

As, therefore, we read nothing of any miraculous action

that Deborah did, she perhaps was only a woman of emi­

nent holiness and prudence, and knowledge of the Holy

Scriptures, by which she was singularly qualified to judge

the people, i. e. to determine causes and controversies

among them, according to the word of God. For though

Jabin oppressed th?m sorely, yet it was rather by rigorous

taxations, than infringing their laws, which he still suffered

to be administered by their own officers. And of this he

might take the less notice, because the supreme judicature

was exercised by a woman, from whose power anc' au

thority, he thought there was no reason to apprehend any

danger; though this certainh gave her an opportunity cd"

Oo

