54 [book II ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

make a long lamentation for him; and we

are in affliction both by calamity of the death

of our brother, and the miserable state of our

aged father. We are now, therefore, come

to buy corn; having intrusted the care of our

father, and the provision of our family to Ben­

jamin, our youngest brother; and if thou

sendest to our house thou mayest learn whe­

ther we are guilty of the least falsehood in

what we say."

Thus did Reubel endeavour to persuade

Joseph to have a better opinion of them; but

when he had learned that Jacob was alive,

and that his brother was not destroyed by

them, he, for the present, put them in prison;

as intending to examine more into their affairs

when he should be at leisure. But on the

third day he brought them out, and said to

them, "Since you constantly affirm, that you

are not come to do any harm to the king's

affairs; that you are brethren, and sons of

the father whom you named; you will satisfy

me of the truth of what you say, if you leave

one of your company with me, who shall

suffer no injury here; and if, when you have

carried corn to your father, you will come to

me again, and bring your brother, whom you

say you left there, along with you, this shall

be esteemed an assurance of the truth of

what you have told me." Hereupon they

were in greater grief than before; they wept,

and perpetually deplored one among another

the calamity of Joseph; and said, they were

fallen into this misery as a punishment in­

flicted by God for the evil contrivances they

had against him. And Reubel reproached

them for their too late repentance, whence

no profit arose to Joseph; and earnestly ex­

horted them to bear with patience whatever

they suffered, since it was done by God in

way of punishment on his account. Thus

they spake to one another, not imagining that

Joseph understood their language. A general

sadness also seized on them at Reubel's

words, and a repentance for what they had

done; and they condemned the wickedness

they had perpetrated, for which they judged

they were justly punished by God. JNow

when Joseph saw that they were in this dis­

tress, he was so affected that he burst into

tears; but not being willing that they should

take notice of him, he retired, and after a

while came to them again; and taking

Simeon,* in order to his being a pledge for

his brethren's return; he bid them take the

corn they had bought, and go their way. He

also commanded his steward privily to put

the money which they had brought with

them for the purchase of corn, into their

sacks,f and to dismiss them therewith, who

did as he was commanded.

When Jacob's sons were come into the

land of Canaan, they told their father what

had happened to them in Egypt; and that

they were taken to have come thither as

spies upon the king; how they said they

were brethren, and had left their eleventh

brother with their father, but were not be­

lieved; and that they had left Simeon with

the governor, until Benjamin should go

thither, and be a testimonial of the truth of

what they had said. They then begged of

their father to fear nothing, but to send the

lad along with them; but Jacob was not

pleased- with any thing his sons had done,

and being grieved at the detention of

Simeon, he thought it a foolish thing to give

up Benjamin also. Neither did he yield to

Reubel's persuasion, though he said that the

grandfather might, in way of requital, kill his

own sons, in case any harm came to Benja­

min in the journey. So they were distrest

and knew not what to do. Nay, there was

another accident that still disturbed them

more: the money that was found hidden in

their sacks of corn. Yet when the corn they

had brought failed them, and when the famine

still afflicted them, and necessity forced

them, Jacob did not still resolve to send

Benjamin with his brethren; although there

* The reason why Simeon might be selected out of the  
rest for Joseph's prisoner, is plain in the Testament of

Simeon, viz. that he was one of the bitterest of all Joseph's

brethren against him.

t There are two sorts of sacks taken notice of in the

history of Joseph, which ought not to be confounded; one

for the corn, the other for the baggage. There are no

waggons almost through all Asia, as far as to the Indies,

every thing is carried upon beasts of burthen, in sacks of

wool, covered in the middle with leather, the better to

make resistance to water. Sacks of this sort are called

tambellit; they inclose in them their things done up in

large parcels. It is of this kind of sacks we are to under­

stand what is said here and all through this history, and not

of their sacks in which they carry their corn. (Chardin.)

Harmf.r, v. i. p. 429. B

