ait. 453.] 413 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

you take notice that every city and every

nation that shall disobey any thing contained

in this epistle, shall be destroyed by fire

and sword. However, let this epistle be

published through all the country that is

under our obedience; and let all the Jews,

by all means, be ready against the day be-

forementioned: that they may avenge them­

selves upon their enemies."

Accordingly the horsemen who carried the

epistle proceeded on the ways which they

were to go, with speed. But as for Morde-

cai, as soon as he had assumed the royal gar­

ment, and the crown of gold, and had put the

chain about his neck, he went forth in a pub­

lic procession. And when the Jews who were

in Shushan, saw him in so great honour with

the king, they thought his good fortune was

common to themselves also: and joy, and a

beam of salvation, encompassed the Jews:

both those that were in the cities, and those

that were in the countries, upon the publica­

tion of the king's letters: insomuch, that many

even of other nations circumcised themselves

for fear of the Jews: that they might procure

safety to themselves thereby.* For on the

thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which

according to the Hebrews is called Adar, but

according to the Macedonians Dystrus; those

that carried the king's epistle gave them no­

tice, that the same day wherein their danger

was to have been, on that very day should

they destroy their enemies. But now the

rulers of the provinces, and the tyrants, and

the kings, and the scribes, had the Jews in

esteem. For the fear they were in of Morde-

cai forced them to act with discretion. Now

when the royal decree was come to all the

country that was subject to the king, the

Jews at Shushan slew five hundred of their

enemies. And when the king had told Esther

the number of those that were slain in that

city; but did not well know what had been

done in the provinces; he asked her whether

she would have any thing farther done

against them? for that it should be done

accordingly. Upon which she desired that

the Jews might be permitted to treat their

remaining enemies in the same manner the

next day: as also that they might hang the

ten sons of Haman upon the gallows.f So

the king permitted the Jews to do so, as de­

sirous not to contradict Esther.

So they gathered themselves together again

on the fourteenth day of the month Dystrus,

and slew about three hundred of their ene­

mies; but Jtouched nothing of what riches

they had. Now there were slain by the Jews

that were in the country, and in the other

cities, seventy-five thousand of their enemies:

and these were slain on the thirteenth day of

the month; and the next day they kept as a

festival.|| In like manner the Jews that were

in Shushan gathered themselves together, and

* It might be presumed that some, out of hatred to the  
Jews, might be inclinable to obey Human's decree: for

though he himself was gone, yet it cannot be imagined,

that all the friends and creatures that he had made perished

with him. He might have a great party every where,

and some of them so furiously enraged at his fall, as

(even at the hazard of their own lives) would not fail to

shew their indignation at those who were the occasion of

it: and therefore this second decree, procured by Morde-

cai, gave them authority, if any attempt was made upon

them, either in great bodies, or small parties, not only to

defend themselves and repel them, but to make as great

a slaughter of them as they were able, and even to take

possession of their goods, as Haman had procured them

license (chap. iii. 13.) to seize the goods of the Jews.

Patrick's Commentary. B.

t It is not unlikely, that many might be enraged at

his death, and his sons, in particular, might set them­

selves at the head of those who were bold enough to

attempt the destruction of the Jews in Shushan, being

resolved to reveDge their father's death, though in so

doing they were sure to meet their own. And this seems

to suggest one reason why Esther was so solicitous to

have their dead bodies (for they were slain already) hung

upon the gallows, chap. ix. 13. even because they had

shewn more malice and indignation against the Jews, and

on the day when the cruel edict came to take place, had

made more desperate attacks upon them than any; though

the reason of the state, in this severity, might be to ex­

pose the family to the greater infamy, and to deter other

counsellors from abusing the king at any time with false

representations. For though the Jews suffered none to

hang on the tree (as they call the gallows) longer than till

the evening of the day whereon they were executed; yet

other nations let them hang until they were consumed,

(as appears from the story of the Gibeonites, 2 Sam. xxi.

9, 10.) or devoured by crows, vultures, or other ravenous

creatures; from whence that vulgar saying among the

Romans, pascere in cruce corvos, had its rise. Patrick's

Commentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.

t See 1 Sam. xv. 9, 14, 15, 19, 21.

II Pur, in the Persian language, signifies a lot, and the

feast of Purim, or lots, (which had its name from Ha­

inan's casting lots in order to divine which would be

most lucky to prefix for the murder of all the Jews in the

whole Persian dominions) is, to this very day, celebrated

by the Jews, with some peculiar ceremonies, but most of

them reducible to these three things, reading, resting,

and feasting. Before the reading, which is performed in

the synagogue, and begins in the evening, as soon as the

3Y2

