96 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ephielis, for so this calyx may be called, did

not cover the forehead; but was covered with

a* golden plate, which had inscribed upon

it the name of God, in sacred characters:

and such were the ornaments of the high-

priest.

Now here one may wonder at the ill will

which men bear to us, and which they pro­

fess to be on account of our despising that

Deity which they pretend to honour; for if

any one do but consider the fabric of the

tabernacle, and take a view of the garments

of the high-priest, and of those vessels which

we make use of in our sacred ministration, he

will find that our legislator was a divine man,

and that we are unjustly reproached by

others; for if anyone, without prejudice, and

with judgment, look upon these things, he will

find they were every one made in imitation

and representation of the universe; for when

Moses distinguished the tabernacle into three

parts,f and allowed two of them to the priests,

as a place accessible and common, he deno­

ted the land and the sea, for these are acces­

sible to all; but when he set apart the third

division for God, it was because heaven is

inaccessible to men. When he ordered twelve

loaves to be set on the table, he denoted the

year, as distinguished into so many months.

When he made the candlestick of seventy

parts, he secretly intimated the decani,! or

seventy divisions of the planets: and as to the

seven lamps upon the candlesticks, they re­

ferred to the course of the planets, of which

that is the number; and for the veils, which

were composed of four things, they declared

the four elements, for the fine linen was pro-

per to signify the earth, because the flax

grows out of the earth; the .purple signified

the sea, because that colour is dyed by the

blood of a shell-fish; the blue is fit to signify

the air; and the scarlet will naturally be an

indication of fire. Now the vestment of the

high-priest being made of linen, signified the

earth; the blue denoted the sky, being like

lightning in its pomegranates, and in the noise

of its bells resembling thunder; and the

ephod shewed that God had made the uni­

verse of four elements; and as for the gold

interwoven, I suppose it related to the splen­

dour by which all things are enlightened. He

also appointed the breast-plate to be placed

in the middle of the ephod, to resemble the

earth, for that has the very middle place in

the world; and the girdle which encomf assed

the high-priest round, signified the ocean,

which goes round about, and includes the

universe. Each of the sardonyxes declares

to us the sun and the moon; those I mean

that were in the nature of buttons on the high-

priests' shoulders. And for the twelve stones,

whether we understand by them the months,

or the like number of the signs of that circle

which the Greeks call the Zodiac, we shall

not be mistaken in their meaning. The mitre,

which was of a blue colour, seems to me to

denote heaven; for how otherwise could the

name of God be inscribed upon it? It was

also illustrated with a crown of gold, because

of that splendour with which God is pleased.

Let this explication|| suffice at present, since

the course of my narration will, on many occa­

sions, afford an opportunity of enlarging on

the virtue of our legislator.

* The reader ought to take notice, that the very Mo­  
saic «£TaXov, or golden plate, for the forehead of the

Jewish high-priest, was itself preserved, not only till the

days of Josephus, but of Origen; and that its inscription,

Holiness to the Lord, was in the Samaritan characters.

See Antiq. VIII. 3, and Reland, De Spol. Templi, page

132, 133.

t When Josephus, both here and chap. 6, supposes the

tabernacle to have been divided into three parts, he seems

to esteem the bare entrance to be a third division, dis­

tinct from the holy, and the most holy places:' and this the

rather, because in the temple afterward there was a dis­

tinct third part, which was called the porch. Otherwise

Josephus would contradict his own description of the

tabernacle, which gives us a particular account of no

more than two parts.

J These Decani, or seven times ten parts for the pla­

nets, are described in Julius Firmicus Maturnus; to whom

the reader is referred.

|| This explication of the mystical meaning of the Jew-

ish tabernacle, and its vessels, with the garments of the

high-priest, is taken out of Philo, and adapted to Gentile

philosophical notions. This may possibly be forgiven in

Jews greatly versed in heathen learning and philosophy,

as Philo had ever been, and as Josephus had long been

when he wrote these Antiquities. In the mean time it is

not to be doubted but in their education they must have

both learned more Jewish interpretations, such I mean as

we meet with in the epistle of Barnabas, in that to the He­

brews, and elsewhere among the old Jews. Accordingly,

when Josephus wrote his books of the Jewish War, for the

use of the Jews, at which time he was comparatively youflg,

and less used to Gentile books, we find one specimen of

such a Jewish interpretation: for there, VII. 5, he makes

the seven branches of the temple candlesticks, with their

seven lamps, an emblem of the seven days of creation and

rest, which are here emblems of the seven planets; nor

ought ancient Jewish emblems to be explained any other­

wise than according to ancient Jewish, and not Gentile,

notions. See of the War. I. 33.

