aw. 899.] 325 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

covery. But the God of the Hebrews ap­

peared to Elijah the prophet, and commanded

him to go and meet the messengers that were

sent; and to ask them, whether the people of

Israel had not a God of their own, that the

king sent to a foreign god to inquire about his

recovery? and to bid them return and tell

the king that he would not escape this disease.

And when Elijah had performed what God

had commanded, and the messengers had

heard what he said, they returned to the king

immediately. And when the king wondered

how they could return so soon, and asked

them the reason of it, they said, " A certain

man met us,* and forbade us to go on any

farther, but to return and tell thee, from the

command of the God of Israel, that this dis­

ease will have a bad termination."t And

when the king desired them to describe the

man who said this to them, they replied, " He

was a hairy man; and was girt about with a

girdle of leather." So the king understood

that the man described by the messengers

was Elijah. Hereupon he sent a captain to

him; with fifty soldiers, and commanded them

to bring Elijah to him. And when the cap­

tain that was sent found Elijah sitting upon

the top of a hill, he commanded him to come

down, and to come to the king; for so had he

enjoined: but that in case he refused they

would carry him by force. Elijah replied,

"That you may have a trial whether I be a

true prophet, I will pray that fireJ may fall

from heaven, and destroy both the soldiers

and thyself." So he prayed, and a whirlwind

of fire fell from heaven, and destroyed the

captain and those that were with him. And

when the king was informed of the destruction

of these men, he was very angry, and sent

another captain with the like number of

armed men that were sent before. And when

this captain also threatened the prophet,

that, unless he came down of his own accord,

he would take and carry him away; upon his

prayer against him the fire from heaven slew

this captain as well as the other. And when,

upon inquiry, the king was informed of what

happened to him, he sent out a third captain.

But when this captain, who was a wise man,

and of a mild disposition, came to the place

where Elijah happened to be, he spake civilly

to him; and said, he knew that it was without

his own consent, and only in submission to

the king's command, that he came to him; and

that those that came before, did not come

willingly, but on the same account. He

therefore desired him to have pity on those

armed men that were with him, and to come

down and follow him to the king. So Elijah

accepted of his discreet words and courteous

behaviour, and came down and followed him.

And when he came to the king he told him,

possession of it. It was situated near the Mediterranean

Sea, between Ashdod and Jamnia, in a moist and hot soil,

and was therefore very much infested with flies. Calmtfs

Dictionary, and Patrick's Commentary. B.

* The description which the messengers give of Elijah  
is,—That he was a hairy man, and girt with a girdle of

leather about his loins, 2 Kings i. 8. where his being a

hairy man, may either denote his wearing long hair on his

head, and his beard, as the ancient Greek philosophers

were wont to do, and as Lucan describes Cato,

Intensos rigidam in frontem descendere canos

Passus erat, moestamque genis,increscere barbam.

Or it may denote his habit, which was made of skins,

rough, and with their hair on, as the ancient heroes were

clothed in the skins of lions, tigers, and bears: as the

Evangelists represent the Baptist in a raiment of camel's

hair, Matt. iii. 4. as the apostle describes the prophets,

wandering about in sheep skins and goat skins, Heb. xi.

37. and as Statius dresses up old Tiresius,

longaevi vatis.opacos

Tiresiae vultus, vocemaue et vellera nota

Induitur. .

Theb. lib. 2. B.

\ 2 Kings i. 6.

| It is commonly esteemed a cruel action of Elijah,

when he called for fire from heaven, and consumed two

captains and a hundred soldiers; and this for no other

crime than obeying the orders of their king, in attempting-

to seize him. And our Saviour notices it as an instance of

greater severity than the spirit of the New Testament

allows, Luke ix. 54. But we must consider, that it is not

unlikely that these captains and soldiers believed they

were sent to fetch the prophet, that he might be put to

death, for foretelling the death of the king; and this, while

they knew him to be the prophet of the true God, the

supreme king of Israel, (for they were still under the

theocracy,) which was no less than impiety, rebellion, and

treason, in the highest degree. Nor would the command

of a subaltern, or inferior captain, contradicting the com­

mands of the general, when the captain and the soldiers

both knew it to be so, as I suppose, justify or excuse such

gross rebellion and disobedience in soldiers at this day.

Accordingly when Saul commanded his guards to slay

Ahimelech, and the priests at Nob, they knew it to be an

unlawful command, and would not obey it, 1 Sam. xxii. 17.

From which cases both officers and soldiers may learn,

that the commands of their leaders or kings cannot justify

or excuse them in doing what is wicked ia'the sight of

God, or in fighting in an unjust cause, when they know it

so to be. See the Notes on VII. 13. and Vill. 14.

3L2

