an. 1307.] 16* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mm*

the same time, the Midianites called the

Ainalekiles and Arabians to their assistance,

and made war against the Israelites, and

were too hard for those that fought against

them; and when they had burnt the fruits of

the earth, they carried off the prey. Now

when they had done this for three years, the

multitude of the Israelites retired to the

mountains, and forsook the plain country.

They also made themselves hollows under

ground, and caverns; and preserved therein

whatsoever had escaped their enemies. For

the Midianites made expeditions in harvest

time, but permitted them to plough the land

in winter; that so, when the others had taken

the pains, they might have fruits for them to

carry away. Indeed, there ensued a famine,

and a scarcity of food; upon which they be­

took themselves to their supplications to God,

and besought him to save them.*

Gideon also,f the son of Joash, one of the

principal persons of the tribe of Manasseh,

brought his sheaves of corn privately, and

threshed them at the wine-press; for he was

too fearful of the enemies to thresh them

openly in the threshing-floor. At this time

somewhat appeared to him, in the shape of a

young man, and told him, that he was a happy

man, and beloved of God. To which he im-

mediately replied, "A mighty indication of

God's favour to me^ that i am forced to use

this wine-press instead of a threshing-floor.":}:

But the appearance exhorted him to be of

good courage, and to make an attempt for the

recovery of their liberty. He answered, that

it was impossible for him to recover it, be­

cause the tribe to which he belonged was by

no means numerous; and because he was but

young himself, and too inconsiderable to think

of such great actions. But the other pro­

mised him, that God would supply what he

was defective in; and would afford the Israel­

ites victory under his conduct.

Now, therefore, as Gideon was relating this

thing to some young men, they believed him;

and immediately an army of ten thousand

men got ready for fighting. But God stood by

Gideon in his sleep, and told him, that man­

kind were too fond of themselves; and were

enemies to such as excelled in virtue. Now

that they might not pass God over, but as­

cribe the victory to him, and might not fancy

it obtained by their own power, because they

were a great army, and able of themselves to

fight their enemies, but might confess that it

was owing to his assistance, he advised him to

bring his army about noon, in the violence of

the heat, to the river,|| and to esteem those

* Judg. vi. 6.

t It is generally supposed that Gideon's father had been

a worshipper, if not a priest of Baal-; and therefore it is

not unlikely, that he had by this time been convinced by

his son, that God had given him a commission to recover

his people, and to begin with this reformation, and this

made him appear so boldly in his son's cause, because he

knew it was the cause of God. Pool's Annot. and Patrick's

Commentary. B.

\ He supposed that the dew which was distilled from

heaven, was a Divine gift, as the Scripture after testifies;

and therefore, he desired that it might be directed by God,

that though it commonly falls every where, by his extra­

ordinary providence, it might now only water his fleece.

Some are apt to think, that he chose a fleece for this pur­

pose, not only because it was ready at hand, but the better

to express how the land was shorn by the Midianites, even

as the sheep had been by him: that when he begged the

dew, as a sign of the divine favour, might fall upon the

fleece, it was to represent the kindness of God to him;

and when he begged it might fall upon the whole ground,

to represent his favour to all the people. But there is

further reason why he might desire to have the miracle

inverted. For, as it is in the very nature of the wool to

draw moisture to it, some might be apt to think, that there

was no great matter in this; and therefore he requested

of God a second miracle, which was contrary to the former.

Patrick's Commentary. B.

|| M. Le Clerc is of opinion, that the sacred historian

has omitted one circumstance, which, nevertheless, in the

very nature of the thing, is implied, viz. that Gideon,

when he led his men down to the water, did forbid them

to make use of any cup or pot, or such like thing; for lie

thinks it incongruous (as well he may) that among such a

number as ten thousand men, no one should be furnished

with some drinking vessel or other. But then, had any of

these been permitted to be used upon this occasion, the

experiment could not have been made. (Comment, on

Judg. vii. 6.) Interpreters are at a sad puzzle to conceive

for what possible reason God made a distinction between

the soldiers who lapped water in their hands, and those

that laid themselves down to drink. Some of the Jewish

doctors are of opinion, that all except three hundred, who

lapped, had been accustomed to the worship of Baal, which

they unwarily discovered by their kneeling to drink. But

this is groundless and far-fetched conceit. The notion of

those who imputed these three hundred men's lapping,

some to their sloth and idleness, and others to their timo-

rousness, and the great fear they were in of being sur­

prised by the enemy, is of no great validity. For though

God, if he thought fit, might have employed the most das­

tardly among them upon this expedition, that the glory of

the victory might entirely redound to himself; yet since we

are told all the fearful persons were dismissed before, and

since it but badly befits the character of the courageous to

be lazy, this action of lapping is rather to be accounted a

Oo2

