30 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

of a fountain hard by, and bid her take care,

and bring up the child, because she should

be very happy by the preservation of Ismael.

She then took courage upon the prospect of

what was promised her, and meeting with

some shepherds, by their care she got clear

of the distresses she had been in.

When the lad was grown up, he married a

wife, by birth an Egyptian; from whence the

mother was herself derived originally. Of

this wife were born to Ismael twelve sons;

Nabioth, Kedar, Abdeel, Mabsam, Idumas,

Masmaos, Massaos, Chodad, Theman, Jetur,

Naphesus, and Kadmas. These inhabited all

the country from Euphrates to the Red Sea,

and called it Nabatene. They are an Ara­

bian nation, and name their tribes from these,

both because of their own virtue, and because

of the dignity of Abraham their father.

CHAP. XIII.

of isaac, Abraham's legitimate son.

NOW Abraham greatly loved Isaac, as

being his only begotten,* and given to

him at the borders of old age, by the favour

of God. The child also endeared himself to

his parents still more, by the exercise of

every virtue, and adhering to his duty to his

parents, and being zealous in the worship of

God. Abraham placed also his own happi­

ness wholly in this prospect, that when he

should die he should leave his son in a safe

and secure condition, which accordingly he

obtained by the will of God; who being de­

sirous to make an experiment of Abraham's

religious disposition towards himself, ap­

peared to him, and enumerated all the bless­

ings he had bestowed on him; how he made

him superior to his enemies; and that his

son Isaac, who was the principal part of his

present happiness, was derived from him, and

he said that he required this son of his as a

sacrifice, and a holy oblation. Accordingly

he commanded him to carry him to the moun-

* Note that both here and Heb. xi. 17. Isaac is called  
Abraham's iMvoyevy, only begotten son, though he at the

same time had another son, Ismael. The Septuagint ex­

press the true meaning by rendering the text by iyartrp-h)

-the beloved son.

t Gen. xxii. 2.

\ Here is a plain error in the copies, which say that

king David afterwards built the temple on this mount

tain Moriah,f and to build an altar, and offer

him for a burnt-offering upon it; for that this

would best manifest his religious disposition

towards him, if he preferred what was

pleasing to God before the preservation of

his own son.

Now Abraham thought that it was not

right to disobey God in any thing, but that

he was obliged to serve him in every circum­

stance of life, since all creatures that live

enjoy their life by his providence, and the

kindness he bestows on them; accordingly

he concealed this command of God; and his

own intentions about the slaughter of his son

from his wife, as also from every one of his

servants, otherwise he would have been hin­

dered from his obedience to God; and he

took Isaac together with two of his servants,

and laying what things were necessary for a

sacrifice, upon an ass, he went away to the

mountain. Now the two servants went along

with him two days, but on the third day, as

soon as he saw the mountain, he left those

servants that were with him till then in the

plain, and having his son alone with him, he

came to the mountain. It was that mountain

upon which king David afterwards builtJ the

temple. Now they had brought with them

every thing necessary for a sacrifice, except­

ing the animal that was to be offered. Now

Isaac was twenty-five|| years old, and as he

was building the altar, he asked his father

what he was about to offer, since there was

no animal there for an oblation; to which it

was answered, that God would provide him­

self an oblation, he being able to make a

plentiful provision for men out of what they

have not, and to deprive others of what they

already have, when they put too much trust

therein; that, therefore, if God pleased to be

present and propitious at this sacrifice he

would provide himself with an oblation.

As soon as the altar was prepared, and

Abraham had laid on the wood, and all things

were entirely ready, he said to his son, "O son!

I poured out a vast number of prayers that

Moriah, while it was certainly no other than king Solo­

mon, who built that temple, as indeed Procopius cites it

from Josephus; only if we change ispov into /3u^hv,

temple into altar, we "eed not correct the name, for it

was David and not Solomon, who built the first altar

there, as we learn, 2 Sam. xnv. 18. &c. 1 Cbxon. rxi.

22. &c.

II An. 1922.

