260 [BOOK Y«. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he also made instruments of music, and taught

the Levites to sing hymns to God, both on

the Sabbath day, and on the other festivals.

Now the construction of the instruments

was thus: the viol was an instrument of

ten strings, played upon with a bow. The

psaltery had twelve musical notes; and was

played upon by the fingers. The cymbals

were broad and large instruments, and were

made of brass. And so much shall suffice,

respecting these instruments, that the readers

may not be wholly unacquainted with their

nature.

Now all the men that were about David

were men of courage. Those that were most

illustrious and famous of them for their ac­

tions were thirty-eight.* Of five of whom I

will only relate the performances. For these

will suffice to make manifest the virtues of the

others also: for these were powerful enough

to subdue countries, and conquer great na­

tions. First therefore was Jessai, the son of

Achimaas; who frequently leaped upon the

troops of the enemy, "and did not leave off

fighting till he overthrew fnine hundred of

them. After him was Eleazar, the son of

Dodo; who was with the king at Arasam:

this man, when once the Israelites were under

a consternation at the multitude of the Phi­

listines, and were running away, stood alone

and fell upon the enemy, and slew many of

them, till his sword clung to his hand by the

blood he had shed; and till the Israelites,

seeing the Philistines retire by his means,

came down from the mountains, and pursued

them: and at that time won a surprising

victory: while Eleazar slew the men, and

the multitude followed and spoiled the dead

bodies. The third was Sheba, the son of

Ilus. Now this man, when in the wars

against the Philistines, they pitched their

camp at a place called JLehi; and when the

Hebrews were again afraid of their army,

Josephus's authority is beyond exception in these matters.

Nor can any hypotheses of the moderns, that do not agree

with Josephus's characters, be justly supposed the true

metre of the ancient Hebrews. Nor is there, I think,

any other original authority now extant, to be opposed to

these testimonies before us. That the ancient music of

the Hebrews was very complete also, and had in it great

variety of tunes, is evident by the number of their mu­

sical instruments, and by the testimony of another most

authentic witness, Jesus the son of Sirach: Ecclus. i. 18,

who says, that at the temple, in bis days, the singers sang

and did not stay; he stood alone as an army,

and a body of men. And some of them he

overthrew, and some who were not able to

abide his strength and force he pursued.

These are the works of the hands and of

fighting, which these three performed.

Now at the time when the king was once

at Jerusalem, and the army of the Philistines

came upon him to fight him, David went up

to the top of the citadel, as we have already

said, to inquire of God, concerning the battle;

while the enemy's camp lay in the valley that

extends to the city Bethlehem, which is

Ijtwenty furlongs distant from Jerusalem.

Now David said to his companions, "We

have excellent water in my own city; espe­

cially that which is in the pit near the gate;"

wondering if any one would bring him some

of it to drink: but he said, that he had rather

have it than a great deal of money. When

these three men heard what he said, they ran

away immediately, and burst through the

midst of their enemies' camp, and came to

Bethlehem; and when they had drawn the

water, they returned again through the ene­

mies' camp to the king: insomuch that the

Philistines were so surprised at their boldness

and alacrity, that they were quiet, and did no­

thing against them; as if they despised their

small number. But when the water was

brought to the king, he would not drink it;

saying, that it was brought by the danger and

blood of men; and that it was not proper on

that account to drink it; but he poured it

out to God, and gave him thanks for the

salvation of the men. Next to these was

Abishai, Joab's brother; who in one day

slew §six hundred. The fifth was Benaiah,

by lineage a priest: for being challenged by

two eminent men in the country of Moab,

he overcame them by his valour: Moreover

there was an Egyptian, who was of a vast

bulk, and challenged him: yet did he, when

praises with their voice, with great variety of sounds was

there made sweet melody.

* Thirty-seven, Heb. and Septuagint.

t Eight hundred, 2 Sam. xxiii. 8.

J See the note on V. 8.'

II Bethlehem is here said to be but twenty furlongs

from Jerusalem, whereas it is well known to be about

forty-eight. This must be an error of the copies, not of

Josephus himself: who must have known that distance

too well, to err above one half in its measure.

§ Three hundred, Heb. and Septuagint.

