an. 1532.] 89 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

lawful for us to set them down directly, we

will declare their import.

The first commandment teaches us, that

there is but one God, and that we ought to

worship him only. The second, commands

us not to make the image of any living crea­

ture to worship it. The third, that we must

not swear by God in a false matter. The

fourth, that we must keep the seventh day, by

resting from all sort of work. The fifth, that

we must honour our parents.* The sixth,

that we must abstain from murder. The

seventh, that we must not commit adultery.

The eighth, that we must not be guilty of

theft. The ninth, that we must not bear false

witness. The tenth, that we must not admit

of the desire of any thing that is another's.f

Now when the multitude had heard God

himself giving those precepts which Moses

had discoursed of, they rejoiced at what was

said; and the congregation was dissolved.

But on the following day they came to his

tent, and desired him to bring them besides

other laws from God. Accordingly he ap­

pointed such laws, and afterward informed

them in what manner they should act in all

cases; which laws I shall mention in their

proper place: but I shall reserve most of

them for\ another work: and make there a

distinct explication of them.

When matters were brought to this state,

Moses went up again to mount Sinai, of which

he had told them beforehand. He made his

ascent in their sight; but when he had been

absent from them forty days, fear seized upon

the Hebrews, lest he should have come to

any harm. Nor was there any thing that so

much troubled them, as the idea that Moses

had perished. Now there was a variety in

their sentiments about it; some saying that

he was fallen among wild beasts; and those

that were of this opinion were chiefly such as

were ill disposed to him; but others saying

that he was departed and gone to God. The

wiser sort were led, by their reason, to em­

brace neither of those opinions with any

satisfaction; thinking that as it was a thing

that sometimes happens to men, to fall among

wild beasts and perish that way, so it was

probable enough that he might depart and

goto God, on account of his virtue; they

therefore were quiet, and expected the event;

though they were exceeding sorrowful upon

the probability that they were deprived of a

governor, and a protector; such an one, in­

deed, as they could never recover again.

Nor would this suspicion give them leave to

expect any comfortable event about this man:

nor could they prevent their trouble and me­

lancholy upon this occasion. However the

camp durst not move all this while: because

Moses had commanded them to stay there.

When forty days and as many nights were

expired, Moses came down; having tasted

nothing of food usually appointed for the

nourishment of men. His appearance filled

the army with gladness; and he declared to

them, what care God had of them, and by

what manner of conduct they might live hap­

pily: telling them that, during his absence,

God had suggested to him|| also that he would

have a tabernacle built for him, into which

he would descend when he came to them;

and how they^hould carry it about with them

when they removed: and that there should

be no longer any occasion for going up to

mount Sinai; but that he would himself come

and pitch his tabernacle amongst them, and

be present at their prayers. As also that the

tabernacle should be of such measures and

construction as he had shewed him; and that

the work must he immediately begun, and

prosecuted diligently. When he had said

this, he shewed them the two tables, with the

Ten Commandments engraven upon them,

five upon each table, and the writing was by

the hand of God.

CHAP. VI.

OF THE TABERNACLE WHICH MOSES BUILT IN THE WILDER­

NESS, FOR THE HONOUR OF COD.

N

OW the Israelites rejoiced at what they

had seen and heard of their conductor;

* As disobedience to parents is, by the law of Moses,  
threatened to be punished with death; so, on the contrary,

long life is promised to the obedient; and that in their

own country, which God had peculiarly enriched with

abundance of blessings. Heathens also gave the very

same encouragement, saying, that such children should be

dear to the gods, both living and dying. So Euripides.

It was also one of their promises, Thou shalt live long,

if thou nourish thy ancient parents. Whence children are

called by Xenophon TspoSoirxoi. Patrick, in locum. B.

t Exod. xx. I to 18.

J This other work of Josephus's, here referred to,

does not appear to have been ever published.

II It is a query whether Josephus, in all his own trans-

