AN. 389 530.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

be given them out of the tributes due from

Samaria. The priests shall also offer these

sacrifices according to the laws of Moses in

Jerusalem: and when they offer them, they

shall pray to God for the preservation of the

king, and of his family; that the kingdom of

Persia may continue. But my will is, that

those who disobey these injunctions, and

make them void, shall be hung upon a cross,

and their substance brought into the king's

treasury. And such was the import of this

epistle. Now the number of those that came

out of captivity to Jerusalem, were forty-two

thousand four hundred and sixty-two.

CHAP. II

OF THt OPPOSITION WHICH THE JEWS EXPERIENCED FROM

THE CUTHEANS, AND THE NEIGHBOURING GOVERNORS;

OF THE COMMAND OF CAMBYSES TO STOP THE BUILDING

OF THE TEMPLE.

WHEN the foundations of the temple

were laying, and when the Jews were

zealous about building it, the neighbouring

nations, and especially the Cutheans, whom

Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, had brought

out of Persia and Media, and had planted in

Samaria, when he carried the people of Is­

rael captive; besought the governors, and

those that had the care of such affairs, that

they would interrupt the Jews, both in the

rebuilding of their city, and in the building

their temple. Now as these men were cor-

rupted with money, they sold the Cutheans

their interest for rendering this building a

slow and careless work. For Cyrus, who

was busy about other wars, knew nothing of

all this; and it so happened that when he

had led his army against the *Massageta3,

he ended his life.f But when Cambyses,

the son of Cyrus, had taken the kingdom,

the governors in Syria, and Phoenicia, and

in the countries of Ammon and Moab, and

Samaria, wrote an epistle to Cambyses,

whose contents were as follows:

"To our lord Cambyses; we thy servants,

Rathumus the historiographer, and Semellius

the scribe, and the rest that are thy judges

in Syria and Phoenicia, greeting. It is fit, O

king! that thou shouldest know, that those

Jews who were carried to Babylon, are come

into our country; and are building that re­

bellious and wicked city, and its market­

places, and setting up its walls, and raising

up the temple. Know therefore, that when

these things are finished, they will not be

willing to pay tribute, nor will they submit

to thy commands; but will resist kings, and

will choose rather to rule over others, than

be ruled over themselves. We therefore

thought it proper to write to thee, O king,

while the works about the temple are going

on so fast, and not to overlook this matter;

that thou mayest search into the books of

thy fathers; for thou wilt find in them, that

the Jews have been rebels, and enemies to

'* Josephus here follows Herodotus, and those that re­

lated how Cyrus made war with the Scythians and Mas-

sagetes, near the Caspian Sea, and perished in it. Of

whom Strabo speaks, XI. page 307, to whom yet he gives

little credit. While Xenophon's account, which appears

never to have been seen by Josephus, that Cyrus died in

peace in his own country of Persia, corroborated by the

writers of the affairs of Alexander the Great; when they

agree, that he found Cyrus's sepulchre or Pasargada

near Persepolis. This account of" Xenophon's is also

strongly confirmed by the circumstances of Cambyses,

upon his succession to Cyrus; who instead of a war to

avenge his father's death upon the Scythians and Massa-

getes, and to prevent those nations from over-running his

northern provinces; which would have been the natural

consequence of his father's ill success and death there;

went immediately to an Egyptian war, long ago began

by Cyrus, according to Xenophon, page 644, and con­

quered that kingdom. Nor is there, that I ever heard

of, the least mention in the reis^i of this Cambyses of any

war against the Scythians or Massagetes that he was ever

engaged in. Nor, by the way, is this Cambyses any

other than that Artashashta, which our canonical Ezra

names in this place, iv. 5, &c.

t It is generally agreed by historians, that Cyrus was

much about seventy years old when he died; but then

they widely differ among themselves as to the manner

of his death. Some say, that he was taken in an en­

gagement, and hanged; others, that he died of a wound

which he received in his thigh; and others, that he was

killed in a battle with the people of Samos. Herodotus,

Justin, and Valerius Maximus relate, that, in his war

against the Scythians, falling into an ambush which

Queen Tomyris had laid for him, he was taken prisoner,

and, with insult enough, had his head cut off by her

order; but Xenophon's account is,—that he died peace­

ably in his bed, amidst his friends, and in his own coun­

try; as, indeed, there is little reason to think, either

that so wise a man as Cyrus should, in his advanced

years, engage in so desperate an undertaking as this

Scythian expedition is represented on all hands, or that,

had he died in Scythia, his mangled body could have

ever been got out of the hands ot these barbarians to

be buried at Pasargada in Persia, as most authors agree

it was, and where his monument was to be seen in

the time of Alexander the Great. Calmefs Dictionary,

under the word Cyrus; and Prideaux's Connection, anna

530. B.

3-T2

