324 [book re ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the ships were destroyed, by being so great

and unwieldy; and, being thus disappointed

of his profit, he was no longer concerned

about shipping. And this is the history of

Jehoshaphat, the king of Jerusalem.

CHAP. II.

OF AHAZIAR KING OF ISRAEL; AND OF THE FURTHER ACTS

OK THE PROPHET ELIJAH.

N

OW Ahaziah,* the son of Ahab, reigned

over Israel, and made his abode in

Samaria. He was a wicked man, and, in all

respects, like to both his parents; and to

Jeroboam, who first of all transgressed, and

began to deceive the people. In the second

year of his reign the king of Moab revolted

from his obedience, and left off'paying those

tributes which he had before payed to Ahab.

Now it happened that Ahaziah, as he was

coming down from the top of his house,f fell

down from it, and in his sickness sent to the

Fly,J which was the god of Ekron;|| for that

was this god's name, to inquire about his re­

Ophir and Tarshish; and the place whence it sailed is in

them Eziongeber, which lay on the Red Sea, whence it

was impossible for any ships to sail to Pontus or Thrace.

So that Josephus's copy differed here from our other

copies. But so far may we conclude, that Josephus

thought one Ophir to be somewhere in the Mediterranean,

and not in the South Sea; though perhaps there might be

another Ophir in that South Sea also; and fleets might

then sail both from Phoenicia and from the Red Sea to

fetch the gold of Ophir, I mean all this, unless what our

copies call Ophir, Josephus's temple copy called Pontus,

as the word is here rendered by him. Which is perhaps

the real truth, and clears the whole difficulty.

* An. 899.

t In the eastern countries the roofs of the houses were

flat, and surrounded with a battlement to prevent falling

from them, because it was a customary thing for people to

walk upon them, in order to take the air. Now, in this

battlement, we may suppose that there were some wooden

lattices for people to look through, of equal height with

the parapet wall, and that Ahaziah negligently leaning on

it, as it was rotten and infirm, it broke down, and let him

fall into the court or garden belonging to his house. Or

there is another way whereby he might fall. In these

flat roofs, there was generally an opening which served

instead of a sky-light to the house below; and this opening

might be done over with lattice-work, which the king, as

he was carelessly walking, might chance to step upon,

and slip through. Nor is there any absurdity in supposing

such lattice-work in a king's palace, when the world was

not arrived at that height of art and curiosity that we find

it in now. Fool's Annotations, and Calmet's Dissertation

sur les edifices des anciens Hebrew. B.

J The word signifies, The god of flies; but how this

idol came to obtain that name, it is not so easy a matter to

discover. Several are of opinion, that this god was called

Baal-semin, the lord of heaven, but that the Jews by way

of contempt, gave it the name of Baal-zebub, or the lord

of a fly, a god that was nothing worth, or, as others say,

whose temple was filled with flies; whereas the temple of

Jerusalem, notwithstanding all the sacrifices that were

daily offered, never once had a fly in it, as their doctors

relate. The sacred writings, indeed, when they speak of

the gods of the Heathens, very frequently call them, in

general, idols, vanity, abominations, &c. but they never

change their proper names into such as are of an oppro­

brious import; neither can we think it likely, that the

king of Israel would have called the god of Ekron, for

whom he had so high a veneration as to consult him in his

•ickness, by any appellation of contempt. Whoever con-

siders what troublesome and destructive creatures, espe­

cially in some hot countries, flies are known to be; in

what vast swarms they sometimes settle, and not only de­

vour all the fruits of the earth, but in many places occa­

sioned a noisome pestilence; may reasonably suppose,

that the Heathens had a proper deity to whom they paid

their addresses, either for the prevention or removal of

their sore plagues. And accordingly we are told by Pliny,

(lib. xxix. c. 6.) that when there was a plague in Africa,

occasioned by vast quantities of flies, after that the people

had sacrificed to the god Achore, (he should have said the

god of Ekron, for there is a plain affinity between their

names,) the flies all died, and the distemper was extin­

guished. Now, it was a known maxim of the Heathen

theology, that as all plagues were inflicted by some evil

daemon or other, so all evil daemons were under the re­

straint of some superior one, who is their prince and ruler.

As therefore Pluto was known to be the god of hell, and

to have all the mischievous band of spirits under his con­

trol, to him the Heathens used to pray, and offer sacri­

fices, that he might not suffer any of his inferior agents to

inflict this heavy judgment upon them. They worshipped

him, I say, not to engage him to do them any good, but to

prevail with him to do them no harm; and accordingly we

may observe, that every thing in their service was dark

and gloomy. Their offerings were in the night:

Turn Regi Stygio nocturnas inchoat aras.

Virg. JEd. 6.

Their victims were black:

Hunc casta Sibylla

Nigrantum multo pecudum te sanguine ducet.

Ibid. jEn. 6.

And the blood let out into a deep ditch:

Cultros in guttera velleris atri

Conjicit, et patulas perfundat sanguine fossas.

Ovid, Met. 1. 7.

Such good reason have we to think, that the Baal-zebub,

in Scripture called the prince of the devils, was the very

same with the Pluto whom the Heathens made the god of

hell, and worshipped in this manner. Patrick's and he

Gere's Commentaries, and Jurieu Hist, des dogmes et cvltes,

part iv. c. 3. &c. B.

II Ekron was a city and government of the Philistines,

which fell by lotto the tribe of Judah, in the first division

made by Joshua, Josh. xv. 45. but was afterwards given

up to the tribe of Dan, Josh. xix. 43. though it does not

appear from history that the Jews ever had a peaceable

