kit. 710.] 305 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK X.

Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Eighty-two Years and a half.

PROM THE CAPTIVITY OF THE TEN TRIBES TO THE FIRST OF CYRUS.

CHAP. I.

o» Sennacherib's expedition against hezekiab; THE

THREATENINGs OF RABSHAKEH J THE FAILURE OF THE

EXPEDITION, AND THE SUBSEQUENT DEATH OF SENNA­

CHERIB.

IT was now the fourteenth year of the

government of Hezekiah, king of the

two tribes, when Sennacherib, king of As­

syria, made an expedition against him, with

a great army, and took all the cities of the

tribes of Judah and Benjamin by force.*

And when he was ready to bring his army

against Jerusalem, Hezekiah sent ambassa­

dors to him, promising to submit, and to pay

what tribute ne should appoint. Hereupon

Sennacherib resolved not to proceed in the

war, but to accept of the proposals that were

made him: and if he might receive three

hundred talents of silver, and thirty talents

of gold, he promised that he would depart in

a friendly manner; and gave security upon

oath to the ambassadors that he would then

do Hezekiah no harm, but go away as he

came. So Hezekiah submitted, and emptied

his treasures, and sent the money; as sup-

C

posing he should be freed from his enemy,

and from any farther distress about his king­

dom. Accordingly the Assyrian took it, and

et had no regard to what he had promised;

ut while he himself went to the war against

the Egyptians and Ethiopians, he left his

general Rabshakeh,t and two other of his

principal commanders, with great forces to

destroy Jerusalem. The names of the two

other commanders were Tartan and Rab­

saris.!

Now as soon as they were come before the

walls, they pitched their camp, and sent mes­

sengers to Hezekiah, and desired that they

might speak with him. But he did not him­

self come out to them for fear; but sent three

of his most intimate friends: viz. Eliakim,

who was over the kingdom; Shebna, and

Joah the recorder. So these men came out,

and stood over against the commanders of

the Assyrian army, and when Rabshakeh

saw them, he bade them go and speak to

Hezekiah in the following manner: that

"Sennacherib, the ||great king, desires to

know of him, on whom it is that he relies,

and depends, in flying from his lord, and re-

* 2 Kings xviii. 13. Isaiah xxxvi. 1.

t Tartan, Rabsaris, and Rabshakeh, are not the proper

names of these men, but rather denote their employments

and offices. Tartan signifies the president of the customs,

Rabsaris, the chief eunuch, and Rabshakeh, the principal

cup-bearer; and because he spake Hebrew with some

fluency, the Rabbins are generally of opinion, that he was

either an apostate Jew, or one of the captivity of Israel.

It is certain, that he was a very eloquent man, and his

speech very excellently well calculated to raise sedition

or defection among the besieged; but that a person of his

education should be versed in the Phoenician, which is in a

manner the same with the Hebrew language, is no wonder

fOI» I.—NOS. 29 & 30.

at all. Moreover, had he been a Jew, (though an apos­

tate,) he should have known better, one would think,

than to have upbraided Hezekiah with acting according

to the law under which he lived, in destroying the groves

and altars of idols, and in requiring his subjects to worship

God in Jerusalem only, 2 Kings xviii. 22. Le Clerc's

Commentary. B.

t 2 Kings xviii. 17.

I This title of Great King, both in oar Bibles, 2 Kings

xviii. 19. Isaiah xxxiv. 4. and here in Josephus, is the

same that Herodotus gives this Sennacherib; as Spanheim

takes notice in this place.

3P

