AN. 107.] 483 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

reject them; and say, that we are to esteem

those observances to be obligatory which are

in the written word; but are not to observe

what are derived from the tradition of our

forefathers. And concerning these things it

is that great disputes and differences have

arisen among them. The Sadducees are able

to persuade none but the rich, and have not

the populace obsequious to them: but the

Pharisees have the multitude on their side.

But about these two sects, and that of the

Essenes, I have treated accurately in the

*second book of Jewish affairs.

After Hyrcanus had put an end to this se­

dition, he lived happily, and administered the

government in the best manner for tthirty-

one years; and then Jdied: leaving behind

him five sons. He was esteemed by God

worthy of three of the greatest privileges:

the government of his nation, the dignity of

the high-priesthood, and prophecy. For God

was with him, and enabled him to know fu­

turities: and to foretel this in particular, that

as to his two eldest sons, he foretold that they

would, not long continue in the government

of public affairs. Their unhappy catastrophe

will be worth our description: that we may

thence learn, how much they were inferior

to their father's happiness.

CHAP. XI.

OF THE SUCCESSION OF ARISTOBULUS TO THE GOVERN­

MENT J HIS ASSUMPTION OF REGAL HONOURS; HIS CRU­

ELTY TO HIS MOTHER AND HIS BRETHREN; AND HIS

MISERABLE DEATH.

WHEN Hyrcanus was dead, his eldest

son, Aristobulus, intending to change

the government into a kingdom, first of all

put a diadem upon his head, four hundred

and eighty-one years and three months after

the people had been delivered from the Ba­

bylonish slavery, and were returned to their

own country again. This Aristobulus loved

his next brother Antigonus, and treated him

as his equal: but the others he held in bonds.

He also cast his mother into prison; because

she disputed the government with him; for

Hyrcanus had left her to be mistress of all.

He even proceeded to that degree of barba­

rity, as to starve her to death in prison. Nay

he was alienated from his brother Antigonus

by calumnies, and added him to the rest whom

he slew; yet he seemed to have an affection

for him, and made him above the rest a part­

ner with him in the kingdom. Those calum­

nies he at first did not give credit to: partly

because he loved him, and so did not give

heed to what was said against him: and partly

because he thought the reproaches were de­

rived from the envy of the relators. But when

Antigonus was once returned from the army,

and the feast of tabernacles was at hand, it

happened that Aristobulus was fallen sick,

and that Antigonus went up most splendidly

adorned, and with his soldiers about him in

their armour, to the temple; to celebrate the

feast, and to offer up prayers for the recovery

of his brother. Now some wicked persons

who had a great mind to raise a difference

between the brethren, made use of this op­

portunity of the pompous appearance of An­

tigonus, and of the great actions which he

had done; and went to the king, and spite­

fully aggravated his pompous shew at the

feast; and pretended that all these circum­

stances were not like those of a private per­

son: that these actions were indications of

an affectation of royal authority'; and that

* See Of the War, Book II. chap. 8.

t From an. 136 to an. 107, B. C.

J Here ends the high-priesthood, and the life of this

excellent person, John Hyrcanus: and together with

him, the Holy Theocracy, or Divine Government of the

Jewish nation; and its concomitant oracle by Urim.

Now follows the profane and tyrannical Jewish monarchy;

first of the Asmoneans, or Maccabees, and then of Herod

the Great, the Idumean; till the coming of the Messiah.

See the note on HI. 8. Hear Strabo's testimony on this

occasion, XVI. page 761, 762. "Those," says he, "that

succeeded Moses continued for some time in earnest, both

in righteous actions, and in piety. But after a while,,

there were others that took upon them the high-priest­

hood; at first superstitious, and afterwards tyrannical per­

sons—Such a prophet was Moses, and those that suc­

ceeded him: beginning in a way not to be blamed; but

VOL. I.—NOS. 41 & 42.

changing for the worse. And when it openly appeared

that the governmentwas become tyrannical, Alexander was

the first that set up himself for a king, instead of a priest:

and his sons were Hyrcanus and Aristobulus." This is

in perfect agreement with Josephus: excepting (hat

Strabo omits the first king, Aristobulus; who reigning

but a single year, seems hardly to have come to his

knowledge. Nor indeed does Aristobulus, the son of

Alexander, pretend that the name of king was taken be­

fore his father Alexander took it himself, XIV. 3. See

also chap. 12, which favour Strabo also. Also indeed, if

we may judge from the very different characters of thq

Egyptian Jews under high-priests, and of the Palestine

Jews under kings, in the two next centuries; we may

well suppose, that the divine Shechinah was removed into

Egypt; and that the worshippers at the temple of Oniai

were better men than those at the temple of Jerusalem.

4H

>

