240 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

--

.with drink at supper, till he was thereby dis­

ordered. Yet did he nevertheless sleep at the

king's gates, without any inclination to go to

his wife.* Upon this the king was very angry

at him, and wrote to Joab, and commanded

him to punish Uriah; for he told him that he

had offended him, and he suggested to him

the manner in which he would have him

fmnished, that it might not be discovered that

le was himself the author of this punishment.

For he charged him to set him over against

that part of the enemy's army where the at­

tack would be most hazardous, and where he

might be deserted, and be in the greatest

jeopardy; for he bade him order his fellow-

soldiers to retire out of the fight. When he

had written thus, and sealed the letter with

his own seal, he gave it to Uriah, to carry it

to Joab. When Joab had received it, and

upon reading it understood the king's pur­

pose, he set Uriah in that place where he

knew the enemy would be most troublesome

to them; and gave him for his partners some

of the best soldiers in the army, and said, that

he would also come to their assistance with

the whole army; that, if possible, they might

break down some part of the wall, and enter

the city. And he desired him to be glad of

the opportunity of exposing himself to such

great pains; and not to be displeased at it,

since he was a valiant soldier, and had a

great reputation for his valour, both with the

king, and with his countrymen. And when

Uriah undertook the work he was set upon

with alacrity, he gave private orders to those

who were to be his companions, that when

they saw the enemy make a sally, they should

* It may be thought perhaps, that Uriah suspected  
something of his wife's adultery, and therefore, resolving

that it should be discovered, would not be persuaded to

go down to his house: but if he did, he certainly acted

the part of a trusty servant, when he would not open the

king's letter to know what was in it, though, upon sup­

position that he suspected his criminal commerce with

his wife, he had reason to expect no good. This puts

one naturally in mind of the story of Bellerophon's car­

rying letters from Proetus to his father-in-law Jobates,

king of Lycia, with an order to kill him, from whom it

came into a proverb, to carry Bellerophon's letter, or a

death warrant against one's self, according to that passage

in Plautus:

Aha! Bellerophontem jam tuus me fecit filius,

Egomet tabellas detuli ut vincirer. Bacchid.

For the fable of Uriah and Bellerophon are so very much

alike, that the fable of the latter seems to be founded

leave him. When, therefore, the Hebrews

made an attack upon the city, the Ammonites

were afraid that the enemy might prevent

them, and get up into the city; and this at

the very place whither Uriah was ordered;

so they exposed their best soldiers to be in

the fore-front, and opened their gates sud­

denly, and fell upon the enemy with great

vehemence, aftd ran violently upon them.

When those that were with Uriah saw this,

they all retreated backward, as Joab had

previously directed; but Uriah, as ashamed

to run away and leave his post, sustained the

violence of the onset, and slew many of the

enemy; but, being encompassed round, and

caught in the midst of them, he was slain ;t

and some other of his companions were slain

with him.

When this was done, Joab sent messengers

to the king, and ordered them to tell him, that

he did what he could to take the city soon:

but that, as they made an assault on the wall,

they had been forced to retire with great loss.

And bade them, if they saw the king was

angry at it, to add, that Uriah was slain also.

When the king had heard this of the messen­

gers, he said, "That they did wrong when

they assaulted the wall; whereas they ought,

by undermining, and other stratagems of war,

to endeavour the taking of the city, especially

when they had before their eyes the example

of JAbimelech, the son of Gideon, who would

needs take the tower in Thebez by force, and

was killed by a large stone thrown at him by

an old woman; and although he was a man

of great prowess, he died ignominiously by the

dangerous manner of his assault: that they

upon the story of the former. Bellerophon, who, as some

scholiasts think, should be read Boulepheron (a council-

carrier) was a stranger at the court of Proetus, as Uriah

(being a Hittite) was at the court of David. He declined

the embraces of Sthenboea, as Uriah did the bed of Bath-

sheba; and was for that reason, sent to Jobates, general

of Proetus's army, with letters, which contained a direc­

tion to put him to death, as Uriah was sent to Joab,

David's general. By Jobates he was sent, with a small

guard, upon an attack, in which it was intended he

should be slain, as Uriah was by Joab to that in which he

fell. The main of the history is the same in both; the

similitude of Jobates and Joab's name is very remarkable;

and the variation in the whole only lies in some such or­

namental embellishments, as might well be expected in a

poetical composition; Calmet's Commentary, and the His­

tory of the Life of King David. B.

t 2 Sam. xi. 17.

J Judges ix. 56—65.

