an. 589.] 371 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

who had fled out of the city with him, when

they saw their enemies near them, they

left him, and dispersed themselves some

one way, and some another: every one en­

deavouring to save himself. So the enemy

took Zedekiah alive; when he was deserted

by all but a few, with his children and his

'wives, and brought him to the king.

When he was come, Nebuchadnezzar

began to call him a wicked wretch, and a

covenant breaker; and one that had for­

gotten his former words, when he promised

to keep the country for him. He also re-

Eroached him for his ingratitude; that when

e had received the kingdom from him, who

had taken it from Jehoiachin, and given it him,

he made use of his power against him that

gave it. "But," said he, "God is great,

who hateth that conduct of thine, and hath

brought thee under us." And when he had

used these words to Zedekiah, he com­

manded his sons, and his friends to be slain;

while Zedekiah, and the rest of the cap­

tains, looked on. He then put out the eyes

of Zedekiah, and bound him, and carried

him to Babylon.* And these things hap­

pened as tJeremiah and Ezekiel had fore­

told to him, that he should be caught, and

brought before the king of Babylon, and

should speak to him face to face; and should

see his eyes with his own eyes. And thus far

did Jeremiah prophesy. He was also made

blind and brought to Babylon, but did not see

it: according to the prediction of Ezekiel.

We have said thus much, because it is

sufficient to shew the nature of God to such

as are ignorant of it; that it is various, and

acts many different ways, and that all events

happen after a regular manner, in their pro­

per season, and that it foretells what must

come to pass. It is also sufficient to shew the

ignorance and incredulity of men, whereby

they are not permitted to foresee any thing

that is future; and are without any guard,

exposed to calamities; so that it is impos­

sible for them to avoid the experience of

those calamities.

After this manner have the kings of Da­

vid's race ended their lives, being in number

twenty-one, until the last king; who alto­

gether reigned five hundred and fourteen

years, six months, and ten days. Of whom

Saul, who was the first king, retained the

government twenty years; though he was

not of the same tribe with the rest.

Now the king of Babylon sent Nebuzara-

dan, the general of his army, to Jerusalem,

to pillage the temple: who had it also in

command to burn it, and the royal palace,

and to lay the city even with the ground,

and to transplant the people into Babylon.

Accordingly he came to Jerusalem in the{

eleventh year of king Zedekiah, and pillaged

the temple, and carried out the vessels of

God, both gold and silver; and particularly

that large laver which Solomon dedicated; as

also the pillars of brass, and their chapiters,

with the golden tables, and the candlesticks.

And when he had carried these off, he set

fire to the temple in the fifth month, the first

day of the month, in the eleventh year of

the reign of Zedekiah, and in the eighteenth

year of Nebuchadnezzar. He also burnt

the king's palace, and overthrew the city.|j

Now the temple was burnt four hundred ana

seventy years, six months, and ten days after

it was first built. It was then one thousand,

sixty-two years, six months, and ten days,

from the departure from Egypt; and from

the deluge to the destruction of the temple,

the whole interval was one thousand, nine

hundred, fifty-seven years, six months, and

ten days; but from the generation of Adam,

there were three thousand, five hundred and

thirteen years, six months, and ten days.

So great was the number of years hereto

belonging. And what actions were done

during those years, we have particularly

related. But the Babylonish general now

overthrew the city, to the very foundations,

and removed the people, and took for

prisoners the high-priest, Seraiah, and

Zephaniah, the priest that was next to him;

and the rulers that guarded the temple, who

* Jeremiah xxxix. 7.

t This observation of Josephus's, about the seeming

disagreement of Jeremiah xxxii. 4. xxxiv. 3. and Eze­

kiel xii. 13. but real agreement at last, concerning the

fate of Zedekiah, is very true, and very remarkable. See

chap. 7. Nor is it at all unlikely that the courtiers and

voL. I.—N0S. 31 & 32.

false prophets might make use of this seeming contradic­

tion to dissuade Zedekiah from believing either of those

prophets; as Josephus here intimates.

J The twelfth, Hebrew and Septuagint

II 2 Kings xxv. 9.

3R

