354 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in twelve ships, and the enemies were dis­

persed, they took five hundred men prisoners.

And the reputation of all the citizens of Tyre

was thereby increased. But the king of

Assyria returned, and placed guards at their

river and aqueducts; who should hinder the

Tyrians from drawing water. This continued

for five years; and still the Tyrians sustained

the siege, and drank of the water they had

out of the wells they dug." And this is what

is written in the Tyrian archives concerning

Shalmaneser, king of Assyria.

But now the Cutheans, who removed into

Samaria, (for that is the name they have been

called by to this time; because they were

brought out of the country called Cuthah,

which is a country of Persia, and there is a

river of the same name in it,) each of them

according to their nations, which were in

number five, brought their own gods into Sa­

maria; and by worshipping them, as was the

custom of their own countries, they provoked

Almighty God to send a plague* upon them,

by which they were destroyed. And when

they found no cure for their miseries, they

learned by an oracle, that they ought to wor-

ship Almighty God, as the method for their

deliverance. So they sent ambassadors to

the king of Assyria; and desired him to send

them some of those priests of the Israelites

whom he had taken captive. And when he

thereupon sent them, and the people were

by them taught the laws, and the holy wor­

ship of God, they worshipped him in a re­

spectable manner; and the plague ceased

immediately. And indeed they continued to

make use of the same customs to this very

time; and are called in the Hebrew tongue,

Cutheans, but in the Greek tongue, Samari­

tans. And when they see the Jews in pros­

perity, they pretend that they are allied to

them, and call them kinsmen; as though they

were derived from Joseph, and had by that

means an original alliance with them. But

when they see them falling into a low con­

dition, they say they are no way related to

them; and that the Jews have no right to

expect any kindness from them; but they

declare that they are sojourners, that come

from other countries. But of these we shall

have a more seasonable opportunity to dis­

course hereafter.t

* Josephus says here, that instead of lions, as in our  
other copies, 2 Kings xvii. 26. a plague or pestilence was

sent among these Cutheans or Samaritans. He also con­

firms this afterwards, XII. 5. by an epistle of these Cu­

theans or Samaritans to Antiochus Epiphanes; which

says nothing of lions; but expressly mentions these fre­

quent plagues. So that Josephus's reading seems to be

the most accurate in this place.

t See Book XI. chap. 8. and XII. 5.

