338 [book jx. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

punish the wicked, God foretold by his pro­

phet, that his sons should reign over Israel

for *four generations.

CHAP. VII.

OF ATHALIAH's REIGN OVER JERUSALEM FOR SIX YEARS J

HER SUBSEQUENT PUNISHMENT BY .IEHOIAOA THE HIGH-

PRIEST, AND THE ACCESSION OF JEHOASH, SON OF AHA-

Z1AH.

WHEN Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab,

heard of the death of her brother

Joram, and of her son Ahaziah, and of the

royal family, she endeavoured that none of

the house of David might be left alive; but

that the family might be exterminated, that

no king might arise out of it afterward. And

she supposed her sanguinary wishes were

completely fulfilled. But one of Ahaziah's

sons escaped death after the following

manner:—Ahaziah had a sister by the same

father, whose name was Jehosheba, and she

was married to the high-priest Jehoiada.

She went into the king's palace, and found

Jehoash, for that was the little child's name,

who was not above a year old, among those

that were slain, but concealed, with his

nurse.t So she took him into a secret bed­

chamber, and shut him up there; and she

and her husband Jehoiada brought him up

privately in the temple, six years;J during

which time Athaliah reigned over Jerusalem,

and the two tribes.

Now, on the seventh year, Jehoiada com­

municated this important matter to five of the

captains of hundreds, and persuaded them to

assist in the attempts he was making against

Athaliah, and to join with him in securing the

kingdom to the child. He also received such

oaths from them as are proper to secure those

that assist one another from the fear of dis­

covery; and he was then of good hope that

they should depose Athaliah. Now those

men whom Jehoiada the priest had taken to

be his partners, went into all the country,

and gathered together the priests, and the

Levites, and the heads of the tribes out of it,

and brought them to Jerusalem, to the high-

priest. So he demanded the security of an

oath of them to keep private whatsoever he

should discover to them; which required

both their silence and their assistance. So

when they had taken an oath, and had

thereby made it safe for him to speak, he

produced the child that he had brought up,

of the family of David, and said to them,

"This is your king, of that house which yon

know God hath foretold should reign over

you for all time to come. I exhort you,

therefore, that one third part of you guard

him in the temple, and that a ||fourth guard

keep watch at all the gates, and that the next

part of you keep guard at that gate which

opens and leads to the king's palace; and let

the rest of the multitude be unarmed in the

temple; and let no armed person go into the

temple, but the priest only." He also ordered

that a part of the priests and the Levites

should be about the king himself, and be a

guard to him, with their drawn swords, and

to kill that man immediately, whoever he

might be, that should be so bold as to enter

armed into the temple; and bade them be

afraid of nobody, but persevere in guarding

the king. So these men obeyed what the

high-priest advised them to; and declared

the reality of their resolution by their actions.

Jehoiada also opened that armoury which

David had made in the temple, and distri­

buted to the captains of hundreds, as also

to the priests, and Levites, all the spears,

quivers, and other weapons, which it con­

tained; and set them armed in a circle round

about the temple, so as to touch one another's

hands; by that means excluding those from

entering that ought not to enter. So they

* This promise was fulfilled, in the persons of Jehoahaz,  
Jehoash, Jeroboam II. and Zachariah.

t Some interpreters are of opinion, that Joash was not

the real son of Ahaziah, (in whom the race of Solomon, in

a direct line, was extinct,) but properly the son of Na­

than, and only called Ahaziah's, because he succeeded

him in the throne; for had he been Ahaziah's true son,

and Athaliah's grandson, why might not she have declared

him king, and during his minority at least, taken the ad­

ministration into her own hands? But therefore she ex­

ercised her cruelty, as they say, in destroying the princes

related to Ahaziah, because she was unwilling to have the

kingdom go into another branch of David's family. But

notwithstanding these reasons, and the authority of those

who produce them, in the second books both of Kings

and Chronicles, we find this Jehoash so frequently called

the son of Ahaziah, the king's son, &c. without any

manner of restriction, that we cannot be persuaded to look

out for any other father for him. B.

t 2 Kings xi. 3.

B A third part, Hebrew and Septuagint

