AW. 205 1106.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to him, and when he should aim to get him

great glory by undertaking a thing so dan­

gerous and incredible, he would immediately

set about it, and so perish by the Philistines;

and his designs about him would succeed to

his mind, as he should be freed from him, and

get him slain, not by himself, but by another

man. So he gave order to his servants to try

how David would relish this proposal of mar­

rying the damsel. Accordingly they began to

say to him, that king Saul loved him, as well

as did all the people; and that he was de­

sirous of his affinity by marriage of this

damsel. To which he gave this answer,

"Seemeth it to you a light thing to be made

the king's son-in-law? it does not seem to me:

especially when I am one of a family that is

low, and without any glory or honour." Now

when Saul was informed by his servants what

answer David had made; he said, " Tell him,

that I do not want any money, nor dowry

from him; which would be rather to set my

daughter to sale, than to give her in mar­

riage; but I desire only such a son-in-law

as hath in him fortitude, and all other kinds

of virtue; of which I perceive David is pos­

sessed, and my desire is to receive of him, on

account of his marrying my daughter, neither

gold, nor silver, nor that he should bring such

wealth out of his father's house; but only

some revenge on the Philistines, and indeed

six hundred of their heads; than which a

more desirable, or a more glorious present

could not be brought me; and I had much

rather obtain this, than any of the accustomed

dowries for my daughter: viz. that she should

be married to a man of that character, and

to one who had a testimony as having con­

quered his enemies."

When these words of Saul were brought to

David, he was pleased with them; and sup­

posed that Saul was really desirous of this

affinity with him. So that without bearing to

deliberate any longer, or casting about in his

mind whether what was proposed was pos­

sible, or was difficult or not; he and his com­

panions immediately set upon the enemy, and

went about doing what was proposed as the

condition of the marriage. Accordingly, be­

cause it was God who made all things easy

and possible to David, he slew many of the

Philistines, and cut off the heads of six hun­

dred of them; and came to the king, and by

shewing him these heads of the Philistines,

required that he might have his daughter in

marriage. Accordingly, Saul having no way

of getting off his engagements; as thinking it

a base thing either to seem a liar when he

promised him this marriage, or to appear to

have acted treacherously by him in putting

him upon what was in a manner impossible,

in order to have him slain; he gave him his

daughter Michal in marriage.*

CHAP. XI.

op david's deliverance from saul's machinations, by

the affection of jonathan, and the contrivance

of michal.

SAUL was not disposed to persevere long

in the state wherein he was; for when he

saw that David was in great esteem both with

God, and with the multitude, he was afraid.

And being not able to conceal his fear, con­

cerning his kingdom and his life, to be de­

prived of either of which was a very great

calamity; he resolved to have David slain,

and commanded his son Jonathan, and his

most faithful servants to kill him. But Jona­

than wondered at his father's change with re­

lation to David, that it should be made to so

great a degree, from shewing him no small

good will, to contrive how to have him killed.

Now because he loved the young man, and

reverenced him for his virtue, he informed

him of the secret charge his father had given;

and what was his intentions concerning him.

However, he advised him to take care, and

be absent the next day; for that he would

salute his father; and, if he met with a favour­

able opportunity, he would discourse with

him about him, and learn the cause of his

disgust, and shew how little ground there was

for it, and that for it he ought not to kill a

man that had done so many good things for

the multitude, and had been a benefactor to

himself; on account of which he ought in

reason to obtain pardon, had he been guilty

of the greatest crimes. He also promised to

inform him of Saul's resolution. Accordingly

David complied with such advantageous ad­

vice, and kept himself out of the king's sight

On the next day Jonathan came to Saul, as

soon as he saw him in a cheerful disposition,

* 1 Sam. xviii. 27.

Tt2

