134 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

or if, when he is dead, her first husband would

marry her again, it shall not be lawful for her

to return to him. If a woman's husband die,

and leave her without children, let his brother

marry her, and let him call the son that is

born to him, by his brother's name, and edu­

cate him as the heir of his inheritance; for

this procedure will be for the benefit of the

public; because thereby families will not fail,

and the estate will continue among the kin­

dred; and this will be for the solace of wives

under their affliction, that they are to be mar­

ried to the next relations of their former hus­

bands. But if the brother will not marry her,

let the woman come before the senate, and

protest openly that his brother will not admit

her for his wife, but will injure the memory

of his deceased brother, while she is willing

to continue in the family, and to bear him

children. And when the senate have enquired

of him, for what reason it is that he is averse

to this marriage, whether he gives a bad or

good reason, the matter must come to this

issue; that the woman shall loose the sandals

of the brother, and shall spit in his face, and

say, " He deserves this reproachful treatment

as having injured the memory of the de­

ceased." And then let him go away out of

the senate, and bear this reproach upon him

all his life long; and let her marry to whom

she pleases, of such as seek her in marriage.*

But if any man take captive either a virgin,

or one that hath beenf married, and has a

mind to marry her, let him not be allowed to

bring her to his bed, or to live with her as his

wife, before she hath her head shaven, and

hath put on her mourning habit, and lamented

her relations and friends that were slain in

the battle; that by this means she may give

vent to her sorrow for them, and after that

may betake herself to feasting, and matri­

mony; for it is good for him who takes a wo­

man in order to have children by her, to be

complaisant to her inclinations, and not merely

to pursue his own pleasure, while he hath no

regard to what is agreeable to her. But when

thirty days are past, as the time of mourning,

(for so many are sufficient for prudent per­

sons for lamenting the dearest friends,) then

let them proceed to the marriage. But in

case when he hath gratified his desires, he be

too proud to retain her for his wife, let him

not have it in his power to make her a slave,

but let her go away whither she pleases, and

have that privilege of a free woman.J

As to those young men that despise their

parents, and do not pay them honour, but

offer them affronts; either because they are

ashamed of them, or think themselves wiser

than they. In the first place, let their parents

admonish them in words; (for they are by

nature of authority sufficient for becoming

their judges,) and let them say thus to them:

"That they cohabited together, not for the

sake of pleasure, nor for the augmentation of

their riches, by joining both their stocks to­

gether; but that they might have children, to

take care of them in their old age; and might

by them have what they then should want;"

and say farther to him, " When thou wast born

we took thee up with gladness; and gave God

the greatest thanks for thee; and brought thee

up with great care, and spared for nothing

that appeared useful for thy preservation, and

for thy instruction in what was most excellent.

And now, since it is reasonable to forgive the

sins of those that are young, let it suffice thee

to have given so many indications of thy con-

many other customs of that ancient people, in common with

the inhabitants of Syria, and with the Arabians in general."'

* Deut. xxv. 5. From this ancient custom the Athe-  
uians appear to have that remarkable law, that no heiress

must marry out of her kindred, but shall resign up her­

self and fortune to her nearest relations: and by the same

law the nearest relation was obliged to marry her. Pot­

ter's Gr. Ant. vol. i. p. 159.

Among the modern eastern nations we still meet with

the law, or custom, of marrying the brother's widow.

Thus Olearius (Ambassador's Travels into Persia, p. 417,

Eng. edit.) informs us concerning the Circassians: "When

a man dies without issue, his brother is obliged to marry

the widow, to raise up seed to him." Volney, (Voyage

en Syrie, tom. ii. p. 74,) observes, that "the Druzes re­

tain, to a certain degree, the custom of the Hebrews,

which directed a man to marry his brother's widow: but

this is not peculiar to them, for they have this as well as

Amongst the Arabians, if a father left one or more

widows, the sons often marry them, provided they were

not their own mothers. This usage was suppressed by

Mohammed; and before this time it was marked with a

degree of detestation. Lord Haile's (Annals of Scotland,

p. 39,) informs us, that this custom prevailed in Scotland

so late as the eleventh century: and he supposes that it

might have originated from avarice, in order to relieve

the heir from the payment of a jointure. B.

t Here it was supposed that this captive's husband, if

she were before a married woman, was dead before, or

rather was slain in this battle. Otherwise it would have

been adultery in him that married her

t Deut. xxi. 14

