aN. 2520.] 2S ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

dred and thirty-fourth year, he himself heing

begotten by Sala when he was a hundred and

thirty years old: whom Arphaxad had for his

son at the hundred and thirty-fifth year of hie

age. Arphaxad was the son of Shem, and

born twelve years after the deluge. Now

Abram had two brethren, Nahor and Ha ran;

of these, Haran left a son, Lot: as also Sarai

and Milcha, his daughters; and died among

the Chaldeans, in a city of the Chaldeans

called Ur, and his monument is shewn to this

day. These married their nieces; Nahor

married Milcha, and Abram married Sarai.

Now Terah hating Chaldea on occount of his

mourning for Haran, they all removed to

Haran of Mesopotamia, where Terah* died,

and was buried, when he had lived to be

two hundred and five years old; for the life

of man was already, by degrees, diminished,

and became shorter than before, till the birthf

of Moses, after whom the term of human life

was one hundred and twenty years, God de­

termining it to the length that Moses hap­

pened to live. Now Nahor had eight sons

by Milcha; Uz and Buz, Kemuel, Chesed,

Azau, Pheldas, Jadelph, and Bethuel. These

were all the genuine sons of Nahor; for Teba

and Gaam, and Tachas and Maaca, were

born of Reuma his concubine; but Bethuel

had a daughter Rebecca, and a son Laban.

CHAP. VII.

OF ABRAM'S REMOVAL FROM THE COUNTRY OF THE CHAL­

DEANS, TO THE LAND THEN CALLED CANAAN, BUT NOW

JUDEA.

ABRAM having no sons of his own,

adopted Lot, his brother Haran's son,

and his wife Sarai's brother: he left the land

of Chaldea^ when he was seventy-five years

old; and at the command of GodJ went into

Canaan, and therein he dwelt himself, and

left it to his posterity. He was a person of

great sagacity, both for understanding all

things, and persuading his hearers; and not

mistaken in his opinions, for which reason he

began to have higher notions of virtue than

others had; and he determined to reform

and change the opinion all men happened

* An. 1962.  
} An. 1612.

voL. I.—No. 2.

then to have concerning God; for he was the

first who ventured to publish this notion that

there was but one God, the creator of the

universe; and that as to other gods, if they

contributed to the happiness of men, that

each of them afforded it according to his ap­

pointment, and not by their own power. This

opinion was derived from the irregular phe­

nomena that were visible both at land and

sea; as well as those that happen to the sun

and moon, and all the heavenly bodies, thus:

"If," said he, "these bodies had power of

their own they would certainly take care of

their own regular motions; but since they do

not preserve such regularity, they make it

plain that so far as they operate to our ad­

vantage, they do it of their own abilities but

as they are subservient to him that commands

them; to whom alone we ought justly to offer

our honour and thanksgiving." For which

doctrines when the Chaldeans and other

people of Mesopotamia raised a tumult

against him, he thought fit to leave that coun­

try; and at the command and by the assist­

ance of God, he came and lived in the land

of Canaan.|| And when he was there settled,

he built an altar, and performed a sacrifice

to God.

Berosus mentions our father Abram with­

out naming him, when he says, " In the tenth

generation after the flood, there was among

the Chaldeans a man, righteous and great,

and skilful in the celestial science." But He-

cateus does more than barely mention him;

for he composed and left behind him a book

concerning him. And Nicolaus of Damascus,

in the fourth book of his history, says," Abram

reigned at Damascus; being a foreigner, who

came with an army out of the land above

Babylon, called the land of the Chaldeans.

But after a long time he removed from that

country also, with his people, and went into

the land then called the land of Canaan, but

now the land 6f Judea: and this when his

posterity were become a multitude; as to

which posterity of his we relate their history

in another work. Now the name of Abram is

even still famous in the country of Damas­

cus; and there is shewn a village named

from him, The Habitation of Abram."

SGen. xii. 1 mm* <

Gen. xii. 5.

