18 [boor I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to God,* and feasted with his companions.

However, the Armenians call this place

A*o€a7^&ov,t the place of descent: for the Ark

being saved in that place, its remains are

shewed by the inhabitants of this day.

Now all the writers of profane history make

f mention of this flood, and of this ark, among

whom is Berosus, the Chaldean; for when he

was describing the circumstances of the

flood, he goes on thus:

"It is said there is still some part of the

ship, in Armenia, at the mountain of the Cor-

jj dyeeans; and that some people carry off

pieces of the bitumen, which they take away,

and use, chiefly as amulets, for the averting

of mischiefs." Hieronymus the Egyptian also,

who wrote the Phoenician Antiquities; and

Manaseas, and many more make mention of

the same. Nay, Nicolaus of Damascus, in

his ninety-sixth Book, hath a particular rela­

tion about them, where he speaks thus:

"There is a great mountain in Armenia,

over Minyas, called Baris; upon which it is

reported that many who fled at the time of

the deluge were saved; and that one who

was carried in an ark, came on shore upon

the top of it, and that the remains of the

timber were a great while preserved: this

might be the man about whom Moses, the

legislator of the Jews wrote."

But as for Noah, he was afraid, since God

had determined to destroy mankind, lest he

should drown the earth every year. So he

offered burnt offerings, and besought God

that nature might hereafter go on in its former

orderly course, and that he would not bring

on so great a judgment any more, by which

the whole race of creatures might be in dan­

ger of destruction; but that, having now

punished the wicked, he would of his good­

ness spare the remainder, and such as he had

hitherto judged fit to be delivered from so

severe a calamity; for that otherwise these

last must be more miserable than the first, and

that they must be condemned to a worse con­

dition than the others, unless they be suffered

* Gen. viii. 20.

t This place of descent is the proper interpretation of

the Armenian name of this city. It is called in Ptolemy

Naxuana, and by Moses Chorenensis, the Armenian His­

torian, Idsheuan; but at the place itself Nichidsheuan,

which signifies the first place of descent; and is a lasting

monument of the preservation of Noah in the Ark upon

the top of that Mountain, at whose foot it was built, as the

to escape entirely; that as, if they be reserved

for another deluge, while they must be af­

flicted with the terror and the sight of the

deluge, and must also be destroyed by a

second. He also intreated God to accept of

his sacrifice, and to grant, that the earth

might never again undergo the like effects of

his wrath; that men might be permitted to

go on cheerfully in cultivating the same; to

build cities, and live happily in them; and

that they might not be deprived of any of

those good things which they enjoyed before

the flood; but might attain to the old age

which the ancient people had arrived at be­

fore.

When Noah had made these supplications,

God, who loved the man for his righteousness,

granted his prayers: and said, "that it was

not he who brought the destruction on a pol­

luted world, but that they underwent that

vengeance on account of their own wicked­

ness; and that he had not brought men into

the world if he had himself determined to de­

stroy them; it being an instance of greater

wisdom not to have granted them life at all,

than, after it was granted to procure their

destruction. But the injuries," said he, "•they

offered to my holiness and virtue, forced mej

to bring this punishment upon them; but I will/

leave off for the time to come to require such

punishments, the effects of so great wrath,

for their future wicked actions; and especially

on account of thy prayers. But if I shall at

any time send tempests of rain in an extra­

ordinary manner, be not affrighted at the

copiousness of the showers, for the water

shall no more overspread the earth. However

I require you to abstain from shedding the

blood of men, and to keep yourselves pure

from murder, and to punish those who com­

mit any such thing; I permit you to make use

of all the other living creatures, at your plea­

sure, and as your appetites lead you; for I

have made you lords of them all; both of

those that walk on the land, and those that

swim in the waters, and of those that fly in

first city or town after the flood. See Antiq. xx. 2, and

Moses Chorenensis, page 71—72. Who also says, page

19, that, another town was related by tradition to have

been called Seron, or the place of dispersion, on account

of the first dispersion of Xisuthrus's or Noah's sons from

thence. Whether any remains of this Ark be still pre •

served, as the people of the country suppose, I cannot cei-

tainly tell.

• •

