AH. 161.] 455 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK XIII.

Containing an Interval of Eighty-two Years.

FROM THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEUS TO THE DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA,

CHAP. I.

OB THE SUCCESSION OF JONATHAN TO THE GOVERNMENT,

AFTER THE DEATH OF HIS BROTHER JUDAS; AND OK THE

WAR WHICH HE, TOGETHER WITH HIS BROTHER SIMON,

WAGED AGAINST BACCHIDES.

BY what means the nation of the Jews

recovered their freedom, when they

had been brought into slavery by the Mace­

donians; and what struggles and conflicts

Judas, the general of their army, underwent

till he was slain, as he was fighting for them;

hath been related in the preceding book. But

after he was dead, all the wicked, and those

that transgressed the laws of their forefathers

sprang up again in Judea; and grew upon

them, and distressed them on every side. A

famine also assisted their wickedness, and

afflicted the country; till not a few, who, by

reason of their want of necessaries, and be­

cause they were not able to bear up against

the miseries that both the famine, and their

enemies brought upon them, deserted their

country, and went to the Macedonians. And

now Bacchides gathered those Jews together

who had apostatized from their neighbours:

and committed the care of the country to

them. Accordingly they caught the friends

of Judas, and those of his party, and deliver­

ed them up to Bacchides: who when he had,

in the first place, tormented them at his plea­

sure, he by that means at length killed them.

And when this calamity of the Jews was be­

come so great, as they never had experience

of the like since their return out of Babylon;

those that remained of the companions of

Judas, seeing that the nation was ready to be

destroyed after a miserable manner, came to

his brother Jonathan, and desired that he

would imitate his brother, in that care which

he took of his countrymen; for whose liberty

in general he died also; and that he would

not permit the nation to be without a go­

vernor, especially in those destructive cir­

cumstances wherein it now was. And when

Jonathan said that he was ready to die for

them, and was indeed esteemed no way infe­

rior to his brother, he was appointed to be

the general of the Jewish army.

When Bacchides heard this, and was afraid

that Jonathan might prove very troublesome

to the king and the Macedonians,* as Judas

had been before him, he sought how he might

slay him by treachery. But this intention

was known to Jonathan, and to his brother

Simon; who took all their companions, and

* Bacchides, as soon as he arrived in Judea, went after  
Jonathan; but, upon his approach, Jonathan left Simon

his brother with one part of the forces to defend the place,

whilst himself, with the other part, took the field to

harass the enemy abroad; in which capacities they both

acted so well, Jonathan, by cutting off several of their

parties, and now and then falling upon the outskirts of

their army employed in the siege; and Simon, by making

frequent sallies upon them, and burning the engines they

had brought against the place; that Bacchides, 1 Macc.

ix. 69—73. Joseph. Antiq. lib. 12. c. 1 and 2. growing

weary of this undertaking, and not a little enraged at those

who were the occasion of his return and disgrace, put

several of them to death. This opportunity Jonathan

laid hold on, and therefore sent messengers to him, to de­

sire an accommodation, which Bacchides readily came into,

so that a peace was concluded. The prisoners whom he

had in his custody were all restored, and himself took an

oath never to molest the Jews any more; which accord­

ingly he fulfilled; for as soon as the peace was ratified on

both sides he went away, and never more returned into

the country. B.

