An. 60.] 503 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

many considerable actions, and particularly

made war with Alexander; since Hyrcanus

was not yet able to oppose his power; but

was already attempting to rebuild the wall of

Jerusalem, which Pompey had overthrown;

although the Romans, who were there, re­

strained him from that design. However,

Alexander went over all the country round

about, and armed many of the Jews, and sud­

denly assembled ten thousand armed footmen,

and fifteen hundred horsemen; and fortified

Alexandrium, a fortress near to Coreae, and

Macherus, near the mountains of Arabia.

Gabinius therefore came upon him, having

sent Marcus Antonius, with other command­

ers, before. These armed such Romans as

followed them; and, together with them,

such Jews as were subject to them: whose

leaders were Pitholaus, and Malichus: they

also took with them their friends that were

with Antipater, and met Alexander; while

Gabinius himself followed with his legion.

Hereupon Alexander retired to the neigh­

bourhood of Jerusalem; where they came to

a pitched battle; in which the Romans slew

of their enemies about three thousand; and

took a like number alive.

At this time Gabinius came to Alexandrium,

and invited those that were in it to deliver it

up on certain conditions; promising that their

former offences should be forgiven. But as a

great number of the enemy had pitched their

camp before the fortress, whom the Romans

attacked, Marcus Antonius fought bravely,

and slew a great number; and seemed to

come off with the greatest honour. So Gabi-

nius left part of his army there, in order to

take the place; and he himself went into

other parts of Judea, and gave order to re­

build all the cities that he met with that had

been demolished. At which time were re­

built Samaria, Ashdod, Scythopolis, Anthe-

don, Raphia, Dora, Marissa, and Gaza; and

not a few others besides. And as the men

acted according to Gabinius's command, it

came to pass, that at this time these cities

.were securely inhabited; which had been

desolate for a long time.

When Gabinius had done thus in the coun­

try, he returned to Alexandrium: and when

he urged on the siege of the place, Alexander

sent an ambassage to him; desiring that he

would pardon his former offences; he also

delivered up the fortresses, Hyrcania, and

Macherus; and at last Alexandrium itself.

These fortresses Gabinius demolished. But

when Alexander's mother, who was on the

side of the Romans, as having her husband

and other children at Rome, came to him, he

granted her whatsoever she asked. And

when he had settled matters with her, he

brought Hyrcanus to Jerusalem, and com­

mitted the care of the temple to him. And

when he had ordained five councils, he dis­

tributed the nation into the same number of

parts. So these councils governed the people:

the first was at Jerusalem; the second at

Gadara; the third at Amathus; the fourth at

Jericho; and the fifth at Sepphoris, in Gali­

lee. So the Jews were now freed from mo­

narchical authority; and were governed by

an *aristocracy.

CHAP. VI.

ARISTOBULUS ESCAPES FROM ROME INTO JUDEA, BUT IS

DEFEATED AND RETAKEN; GABINIUS OVERCOMES ALEX­

ANDER AND THE NABATEANS IN BATTLE.

NOW Aristobulus ran away from Rome

to Judea, and set about the building

of Alexandrium; which had been recently

demolished. Hereupon Gabinius sent sol­

diers against him, under the command of Si-

senna, Antonius, and Servilius; in order to

hinder him from getting possession of the

country, and to take him again. And indeed

many of the Jews ran to Aristobulus on ac­

count of his former glory; as also they should

be glad of an innovation. Now there wa3

one Pitholaus, a lieutenant at Jerusalem, who

deserted to him, with a thousand men: al­

though a great number of those that came to

him were unarmed. And when Aristobulus

had resolved to go to Macherus, he dismissed

those people, because they were unarmed;

so they could not be useful to him in what

actions he was going about. But he took

with him eight thousand that were armed,

and marched on. And as the Romans fell

upon them severely, the Jews fought stoutly;

* Dean Prideaux well observes, that " Notwithstanding  
the clamour against Gabinius at Rome, Josephus gives him

a laudable character; as if he had acquitted himself with

honour in the charge committed to him in Judea." At the

year 65. Marg.

