AN. 217 1097.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

wicked. So he sent to Nabal's wife, and in­

vited her to come to him, to live with him,

and to be his wife. Whereupon she replied

to those that came, that she was not worthy

to touch his feet. However she came with

all her servants, and became his wife; having

received that honour on account of her wise

and righteous course of life, and also partly

on account of her beauty. Now David had

a wife before, whom he married from the city

Abesar. For as to Michal, the daughter of

king Saul, who had been David's wife, her

father had given her in marriage to Phalti,

the son of Laish, who was of the city Gallim.*

After this came certain of the Ziphites, and

told Saul, that David was come again into

their country, and that if he would afford

them his assistance, they could catch him.

So he came to them with three thousand

armed men, and upon the approach of night

he pitched his camp at a certain place called

Hachilah. But when David heard that Saul

was coming against him, he sent spies, and

bade them let him know to what part of the

country Saul was already come. And when

they told him that he was at Hachilah, he

concealed his going away from his own com­

panions, and came to Saul's camp, having

taken with him Abishai, his sister Zeruiah's

son, and Ahimelech the Hittite. Now Saul

was asleep, and the armed men, with Abner,

their commander, lay round about him in a

circle. Hereupon David entered into the

king's tent, but he did neither kill Saul,

though he knew where he lay, by the spear

that was stuck down by him,t nor did he give

leave to Abishai, who would have killed him,

and was strongly inclined so to do. For he

said it was a horrid crime to kill one that was

ordained king by God, although he were a

wicked man; for that he who gave him the

dominion, would in time inflict punishment

upon him: so he restrained his eagerness.

But that it might appear to have been in his

f)ower to have killed him when he refrained

rom it, he took his spear, and the cruse of

water which stood by Saul, without being

perceived by any in the camp, who were all

asleep, and went securely away; having per­

formed every thing among the king's attend­

ants that the opportunity afforded, and his

boldness encouraged him to do. So when he

had passed over the brook, and ascended to

the top of a hill, whence he might be suffi­

ciently heard, he cried aloud to Saul's sol­

diers, and to Abner their commander, and

awakened them out of their sleep; and called

both to him and to the people. Hereupon

the commander asked who it was that called

him? to whom David replied, " It is I, the son

of Jesse, whom thou makest a vagabond. But

what is the matter? dost thou that art a man

of so great dignity, and of the first rank in

the king's court, take so little care of thy

master's person? and is sleep of more conse­

quence to thee than his preservation? this

negligence deserves death; and punishment

ought to be inflicted on thee, who didst not

perceive when a little while ago some of us

entered into thy camp; nay, as far as to the

king himself. If thou look for the king's

spear, and his cruse of water; thou wilt learn

* 1 Sam. xxv. 44.

t Carrying a long pike before a company of Arabs is a

token that an Arab Sheekh, or prince, is there: the fixing

of it likewise near a person of authority points out his dig­

nity. Thus Josephiis, giving an account of David's en­

tering the camp of Saul, when that prince and his people

were fast asleep, informs us, that notwithstanding the op­

portunity, he did no hurt to Saul, though he well knew

where he slept, by the spear, which was fixed near him,

and that he suffered not Abishai, to slay him then, though

he would fain have done it. English readers generally

suppose that every man had his spear stuck into the

ground at his head: but Josephus supposes that circum­

stance distinguished the royal sleeping-place from that of

every body else, which it would not have done, if it had

not been something peculiar to Saul, distinguishing him

from his officers and people. It was, it should seem then,

a customary distinction in the timo of Josephus, and he

thought it also an usage is -m-ient as the time of Saul.

Perhaps too, this describing Saul, as known by the spear, I

may intimate, that he slept with his face covered, being

laid on the ground in the open air. Thus de la Roque

describes the Bedouin Arabs of the Holy Land, though in

general they live under tents, yet, sometimes, he says,

they sleep in their clothes, in summer time, on the ground,

only covering their body and face with their aba, or outer

garment. Voy. dans la Pal. c. 12. p. 176. Josephus,

then in all probability, supposes this expedition was un­

dertaken in the time of summer; and that Saul's face was

muffled up, so as rather to be known by the spear, than

by his countenance, in a night sufficiently light to have

distinguished him, had he not been so covered. It seems

indeed to be the common practice of the Eastern people

to sleep with their faces covered, according to Niebuhr;

and he supposes that Europeans would find the benefit of

it, if they would adopt the same usage, the dews and some

winds being found to be very hurtful. Descript. de

VArahie, p. 9. Harrier's Observations on Scripture, vol. i.

p. 96. Clarke's Edition. B.

