an. 38.] 535 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

fliction than a defeat, if any of those things

which it was not lawful to see should be seen

by them; used entreaties and threatenings,

and even sometimes force itself to restrain

them. He also prohibited the ravage that

was made in the city; and many times asked

Sosius, whether the Romans would empty the

city both of money and men, and leave him

king of a desert? and told him, that he es­

teemed the dominion over the whole habitable

earth, as by no means an equivalent satisfac­

tion for such a murder of his citizens. And

when Sosius said that this plunder was justly

to be permitted the soldiers, for the siege they

had undergone, he replied that he would give

every one their reward out of his own money.

And by this means he redeemed what re­

mained of the city from destruction; and he

performed what he had promised. For he

gave a noble donation to every soldier, and a

proportionable present to their commanders:

but a most royal present to Sosius himself:

till they all went away laden with money.

This *destruction befell the city of Jerusa­

lem when Marcus Agrippa and Caninius Gal-

lus were consuls of Rome;t on the hundred

and eighty-fifth Olympiad; on the third

month; on the solemnity of the fast. As if a

periodical revolution of calamities had re­

turned, since that which befell the Jews under

Pompey. For the Jews were taken by him

on the same day; and this was after twenty-

seven years' time. So when Sosius had dedi­

cated a crown of gold to God, he marched

away from Jerusalem; and carried Antigonus

with him, in bonds to Antony. But Herod

was afraid lest Antigonus should be kept in

prison only by Antony; and that when he

was carried to Rome by him, he might get his

cause to be heard by the senate; and might

demonstrate, as he was himself of the royal

blood, and Herod but a private man, that

therefore it belonged to his sons to haye the

kingdom, on account of the family they were

of, in case he had himself offended the Ro­

mans by what he had done. Out of Herod's

fear of this it was, that he, by giving Antony a

great deal of money, endeavoured to persuade

him to have Antigonus slain: which if it were

once done, he should be free from that fear.

And thus did the government of the Asmo-

neans cease; a hundred and twenty-six years

after it was set up. This family was a splen­

did and illustrious one; both on account of

the nobility of their stock, and of the dignity

of the high-priesthood; as also for the glori­

ous actions their ancestors had performed for

our nation. But these men lost the govern­

ment by their dissensions with each other;

and it then came to Herod, the son of Anti-

pater; who was of a vulgar family, and of no

eminent extraction; but one that was subject

to other kings. And this is what history tells

us was the end of the Asmonean family.

* Note here, that Josephus fully and frequently assures  
us, that there passed above three years between Herod's

first obtaining the kingdom at Rome, and his second

obtaining it upon the taking of Jerusalem, and death of

Antigonus. The present history of this interval twice

mentions the army's going into winter quarters: which

perhaps belonged to two several winters, chap. 15. And

though Josephus says nothing how long they lay in those

quarters; yet does he give such an account of the long

and studied delays of Ventidius, Silo, and Macheras, who

were to see Herod settled in his new kingdom, but seem

not to have had sufficient force for that purpose; and

were certainly all corrupted by Antigonus to make the

longest delays possible; and gives us such particular ac­

counts of the many great actions of Herod's during the

same interval, as fairly imply that interval, before Herod

went to Samosata, to have been very considerable. How­

ever, what is wanting in Josephus is fully supplied by

Moses Chorenensis, the Armenian historian, in his history

of the same interval, II. 18, 19, 50. Where he directly

assures us, that Tigranes, when king of Armenia, and the

manager of this Parthian war, reigned two years after

Herod was made king at Rome: and yet Antony did not

hear of his death, in that very neighbourhood, at Samo­

sata, till he was come thither to besiege it. After which

Herod brought him an army; which was 340 miles' march,

and through a difficult country full of enemies also: and

joined with him in the siege of Samosata, till that city was

taken. After which Herod and Sosius marched back with

their larger armies the same number of 340 miles; and

when, in a little time, they sat down to besiege Jerusalem,

they were not able to take it but by a siege of five months.

All which put together fully supplies what is wanting in

Josephus; and secures the entire chronology of these

times, beyond contradiction. But then, if we inquire into

the true occasions of this long delay in the settlement of

Herod in his new kingdom, after he had been declared

king at Rome, we shall easily find by Josephus himself,

that the Roman lieutenants, Ventidius, Silo and Mache­

ras, who were to see Herod settled in the kingdom, were

not in earnest to do it. Nor was any such design shewn

in earnest till after he had been with Antony himself, and

assisted him in the taking of Samosata. Upon which a

new general, Sosius, was sent, with a sufficient force, and

full commission to see it done effectually: and after which

it appears that the war went on in earnest continually

against Antigonus, till Jerusalem and himself were taken

by Sosius and Herod; and Herod was fully settled in the

kingdom of Judea.

t On the third year of the 185th Olympiad.

