226 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

with him pursuing Abner, when they came to

the place where Asahel lay, they stood round

about the dead body, and left off the pursuit

of the enemy. However, both Joab himself,*

and his brother Abishai, ran past the corpse,

and making their anger at the death of Asahel

an occasion of greater zeal against Abner,

they went on with incredible haste and

alacrity, and pursued Abner, to a certain

place called Ammah; it was about sunset.

Then did Joab ascend a certain hill, as he

stood at that place, having the tribe of Ben­

jamin with him, whence he took a view of

them, and of Abner also. Hereupon Abner

cried aloud, and said, that it was not fit that

they should irritate men of the same nation

to fight so bitterly one against another; that

as for Asahel his brother, he was himself in

the wrong when he would not be advised by

him not to pursue him any farther; which

was the occasion of his death. So Joab con­

sented to what he said, and accepted his

words as an excuse about Asahel; and

called his soldiers back with the sound of

the trumpet, as a signal for their retreat,

and thereby put a stop to any farther pur­

suit. After which Joab pitched his camp

there that night. But Abner marched all

night, and passed over the river Jordan, and

came to Ishbosheth, Saul's son, to Mahanaim.

On the next day Joab counted the dead

men, and took care of all their funerals.

Now there were slain of Abner's soldiers

about three hundred and sixty; but of those

of David nineteen besides Asahel, whose

body Joab and Abishai carried to Bethle­

hem. And when they had buried him in

the sepulchre of their fathers,f they came to

David to Hebron. From this time, therefore,

there began an intestine war, which lasted

a great while; in which the followers of

David grew stronger, in the dangers they

underwent, and the servants and subjects of

Saul's sons did almost every day become

weaker.

About this time,t David was become the

father of six sons, born of as many mothers.

The eldest was by Abinoam, and he was

called Amnon; the second was Daniel, by his

wife Abigail; the name of the third was Ab­

salom, by Maachah, the daughter of Talmai,

king of Geshur; the fourth he named Ado­

nijah, by his wife Haggith; the fifth was She-

phatiah, by Abitail; and the sixth he called

Ithream, by Eglah. Now while this intestine

war went on, and while the subjects of the

two kings came frequently to action, it was

Abner, general of the host of Saul's son, who

by his prudence and the great interest he

had among the multitude, made them all con­

tinue with Ishbosheth. And indeed it was a

considerable time that they continued of his

party.

But afterwards|| Abner was blamed, and

an accusation was laid against him, that he

had taken indecent liberties with Rispah,

the daughter of Aiah, and Saul'3 concubine;§

so when he was complained of by Ishbosheth

he was very uneasy, and angry at it; because

he had not justice done him by Ishbosheth,

to whom he had shewn the greatest kind­

ness. He therefore threatened that he would

transfer the kingdom to David, and demon­

strated that he did not rule over the people

beyond Jordan by his own abilities and

wisdom, but by his warlike conduct and

fidelity, in leading his army. So he sent

ambassadors to Hebron, and desired that

David would give him security upon oath,

that he would esteem him his companion

and friend; upon condition that he should

persuade the people to leave Saul's son,

and to choose him king of the whole country.

And when David had made that league

with Abner; (for he was pleased with this

message to him,) he desired that he would

* It ought here to be noted, that Joab, Abishai, and  
Asahel, were all David's nephews, the sons of his sister

Zeruiah, as 1 Chron. ii. 16. and that Amasa was also his

nephew, by his other sister Abigail, v. 17.

t 2 Sam. ii. 32.

t An. 1090.

II An. 1089.

§ What notion the world, at this time, had of marrying

any royal relirt, is evident from the case of Adonijah,

whom Solomon put to death for desiring but to ask for

Abisbag, one of David's concubines, though he had era-

ployed Bath-sheba, the king's mother, to he his inter­

cessor, and was himself his brother, 1 Kings ii. 17. It

may be said perhaps, that Adonijah was at this time as­

piring at the throne, which Solomon perceiving, took

occasion from this his request, to fall out with him, and

prevent it. But however this be, a general rule it was,

not among the Jews only, but among other nations, that

no private person should presume to marry the king's

widow; for this made him appear as a rival and competitor

for the crown. Calmet'i Comment. B.

