128 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the land of Canaan. Since when you shall

have once proceeded so far by your wealth

as to a contempt and disregard of virtue, you

will also forfeit the favour of God; and when

you-have made him your enemy, you will be

beaten in war; and will have the land which

you possess taken away again from you by

your enemies: and this with great reproaches

upon your conduct. You will be scattered

over the whole world; and will, as slaves,

entirely fill both sea and land, and when once

you have had the experience of what I now

say, you will repent, and remember the laws

you have broken, when it is too late. Whence

f would advise you, if you intend to preserve

these laws, to leave none of your enemies

alive, when you have conquered them; but to

look upon it as for your advantage to destroy

them all; lest if you permit them to live, you

imbibe their manners, and thereby corrupt

your own proper institutions. I also farther

exhort you, to overthrow their altars, and their

groves, and whatsoever temples they have

among them; and to burn all such their na­

tion and their very memory with fire. For

by this means alone the safety of your own

happy constitution can be firmly secured to

you. And in order to prevent your ignorance

of virtue, and the degeneracy of your nature

into vice, I have also ordained you laws by

divine suggestion, and a form of government;

which are so good, that if you regularly ob­

serve them, you will be esteemed of all men

most happy."

When he had spoken thus, he gave them

the laws and the constitution of government

written in a book. Upon which the people

fell into tears, and appeared already touched

with the sense that they should have a great

want of their conductor; because they re­

membered what a number of dangers he had

passed through, and what care he had taken

for their preservation; they desponded about

what would come upon them after he was

dead; supposing they should never have

another governor like him; and fearing that

God would take less care of them when Mo­

ses was gone, who used to intercede for them.

They also repented of what they had said to

him in the wilderness, when they were angry;

and so were in grief on those accounts. So

that the whole body of the people fell into

tears with such bitterness, that it was past the

power of words to comfort them in their afflic­

tion. However, Moses gave them some con­

solation; and by calling them off the thought

how worthy he was of their weeping for him,

he exhorted them to adhere to that form

of government he had given them. And

then the congregation was dissolved at that

time.

1 shall now first describe this form of go­

vernment, which was agreeable to the dignity

and virtue of Moses; and shall thereby in­

form those that peruse these Antiquities what

our original settlements were, and shall then

proceed to the remaining histories. Now

these settlements are still in writing, as he

left them; and we shall add nothing by way

of ornament, nor any thing besides what Mo­

ses left us. Only we shall so far innovate,

as to digest the several kinds of laws into a

regular system. For they were by him left

in writing, as they were accidentally scat­

tered in their delivery; and as he, upon in­

quiry, had learned them of God. On which ac­

count I have thought it necessary to premise

this observation; lest any of my own country­

men should blame me, as having been guilty

of an offence herein. Now part of our con­

stitution will include the laws that belong to

our political state: but with respect to those

laws which Moses left concerning our com­

mon conversation and intercourse with one

another, 1 have reserved that for a dis­

course concerning our manner of life, and

the occasions of those laws; which I pro­

pose to myself, with God's assistance, to

write, after I have finished the work I am

now upon.

When you have possessed yourself of the

land of Canaan, and have leisure to enjoy the

good things of it; and when you have after­

ward determined to build cities, if you will

do what is pleasing to God, you will have a

secure state of happiness. Let there be then

one city of the land of Canaan; and this

situate in the most agreeable place for its

goodness, and very eminent of itself; and let

it be that which God shall choose for himself,

by prophetic revelation. Let there also be

one temple therein, and one altar; not reared

of hewn stones, but of such as you gather

together at random; which stones, when they

are whitened over with mortar, will have a

handsome appearance, and be beautiful to

