194 [boo* vt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mash; the report being gone abroad that

they were coming down upon him to Gilgal.

Samuel replied, " iNay, certainly, if thou hadst

been a* righteous man, and hadst not diso­

beyed me, nor slighted the commands which

God suggested to me concerning the present

state of affairs, and hadst not acted more

hastily than the present circumstances re­

quired, thou wouldst have been permitted to

reign a long time, and thy posterity after

thee."t So Samuel being grieved at what

had happened, returned home. But Saul

came to the city Gibeah, with his son Jona­

than; having only six hundred men with him;

and of these the greater part had no weapons;

because of the scarcity of iron in that country,

as well as of those that could make such

weapons; for as we shewed a little before,

the Philistines had not suffered them to have

such iron, or such workmen.J Now the

Philistines divided their army into three corn-

office, and offer sacrifice without the priest, we are in

some degree able to answer that question, which I have

ever thought a very difficult one: viz. Whether if there

were a city or country of lay christians, without any cler­

gymen, it were lawful for the laity alone to baptize, ad­

minister the sacrament, &c. or indeed whether they alone

could ordain themselves either bishops, priests, or dea­

cons, for the due performance of such sacerdotal ministra­

tions; or whether they ought not rather, till they pro­

cure clergymen to come among them, to confine them­

selves within those bounds of piety and Christianity which

belong alone to the laity; such particularly as are recom­

mended in the 1st Book of the Apostolical Constitutions,

which peculiarly concern the laity, and are intimated in

Clement's undoubted Epistle, § 40. To which latter

opinion I incline.

serve the command that was given him. But

when he saw that the prophet tarried longer

than he expected, and that he was deserted

by the soldiers, he took the sacrifices, and

offered them. At this juncture he heard that

Samuel was come, and went out to meet him.

But the prophet said he had not done well in

disobeying the injunctions he had sent him;

and had not stayed till his coming; which

being appointed according to the will of God,

he had prevented him in offering those prayers

and sacrifices that he should have made for

the multitude; and that he therefore had per­

formed divine offices rashly, and in an ill

manner. Hereupon Saul made an apology

for himself, and said, that he had waited as

many days as Samuel had appointed; that

he had been so quick in offering his sacrifice,

upon account of the necessity he was in, and

because his soldiers were departing from him,

out of their fear of the enemies' camp at Mich-

appointed him; but not till the end of that day, as he ought

to have done; and Samuel appears, by delaying to come

till the full time of the evening sacrifice on that day, to

have tried him (who seems to have been already for some

time declining from his strict subordination to God, and his

prophet; to have taken life-guards for himself and his son,

which was an entirely new thing in Israel, and savoured

of a distrust of God's providence; and to have affected

more than he ought that independent authority which the

Pagan kings took to themselves:) Samuel, I say, seems

here to have tried Saul, whether he would stay till the

priest came; who alone could lawfully offer the sacrifices,

or would boldly and profanely usurp the priest's office;

which he ventured upon, was justly rejected for his pro-

faneness. See Constitut. Apost. II. 27. And indeed since

Saul had accepted kingly power, which naturally becomes

ungovernable and tyrannical, as God foretold, and the ex­

perience of all ages has shewn; the divine settlement by

Moses had soon been laid aside under the kings, had not

God, by keeping strictly to his laws, and severely execu­

ting the threatenings therein contained, restrained Saul

and other kings in some degree of obedience to himself.

Nor was even this severity sufficient to restrain most of

the future kings of Israel and Judah, from the grossest

idolatry and impiety. Of the advantage of which strictness,

in the observing divine laws, and inflicting their threat­

ened penalties, see Antiq. VI. 12. where Josephus speaks

of that matter. Though it seems at least in three in­

stances, that good men did not always immediately approve

of such divine severity. There seems to be one instance,

1 Sam. vi. 19, 20. Another, 1 Sara. xv. 11. And a third,

2 Sam. vi. 8, 9. Joseph. Antiq. VI. 7. though they all at

last acquiesced in the divine conduct, as knowing that God

is wiser than men.

* By this answer of Samuel, and that from a divine  
commission, which is fuller in 1 Sam. xiii. 14. and by that

parallel note in the Apostolical Constitutions, just quoted,

concerning the great wickedness of Saul in venturing, even

under a seeming necessity of affairs, to usurp the priest's

t 1 Sam. xiii. 13.

J The precaution which the Philistines took to hinder

the Israelites from providing themselves with weapons, is

no more than what other conquerors have done to the

nations they have vanquished. Porsenna, when he made

peace with the Romans, restrained them from the use of

all iron but what was necessary in the tillage oT their

ground. Cyrus, when he subdued the Lydians, for fear

of a revolt, took from them the use of arms, and instead

of a laborious life spent in war, suffered them to sink into

softness and luxury, so that they soon lost their ancient

valour: and (to instance in one prince more) Nebuchad­

nezzar, when ne had made himself master of Judea, took

along with him into Babylon all the craftsmen and smiths,

that the poorest of the people, which he left behind, might

be in no condition to rebel, 2 Kings xxiv. 14. The only

wonder is, why the Israelites, after they had regained

their liberty under the government of Samuel, and given

the Philistines so total an overthrow atEbcn-ezer, did not

restore those artificers, and so provide themselves with

proper arms against the next occasion? But, besides the

extreme sloth and negligence which appears in the Israel­

ites' whole conduct during this period, it was not so easy

