AN. 1148.] 183 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and together with it. However there were

those that said, they should not do so, nor

suffer themselves to be deluded, as ascribing

the cause of their miseries to it; because it

could not have such power and force upon

them. For had God had such a regard to it,

it would not have been delivered into the

hands of men. So they exhorted them to be

quiet, and to bear what had befallen them,

and to suppose there was no other cause of it

but nature, which at certain revolutions of

time produces such mutations in the bodies of

men, in the earth, in plants, and in all things

that grow out of the earth. But the counsel

that prevailed over those already described,

was that of certain men, who were believed

to have distinguished themselves in former

times fop their understanding and prudence,

and who in their present circumstances

seemed above all the rest to speak properly.

These men said, it was not right either to

send the ark away, or to retain it; but to

dedicate five golden images, one for every

city, as a thank-offering to God, on account

of his having taken care of their preservation,

and having kept them alive when their lives

were likely to be taken away by such distem­

pers as they were not able to bear up against.

They also would have them make five golden*

mice, like those that had devoured and de­

stroyed their country; to put them in a bag,

and lay them upon the ark, to make a new

cart also for it, and to yoke milchf kine to it;

but to shut up their calves, and keep them

from them, lest by following after them, they

should prove a hindrance to their dams; and

that the dams might return the faster, out of a

desire of those calves; then to drive these

milch kine that carried the ark, and to leave

it in a place where three ways meet, and to

leave the kine to go along which of those ways

they pleased; that in case they went the way

to the Hebrews, and ascended to their

country, they should suppose that the ark

was the cause of their misfortunes; but if

they turned into another road, they should

pursue after it, and conclude that it had no

such force.

So they determined that these men spake

well, and they immediately confirmed their

opinion by doing accordingly. And when

they had done as hath been already de­

scribed, they brought the cart to a place

where three ways met, and left it there. But

the kine went the right way, as if some per­

sons had driven them, while the rulers of the

Philistines followed, as desirous to know

where they would stand still, and whither

they would go. Now there was a certain

village of the tribe of Judah, called Bethshe-

mesh, and to that village did the kine go; and

though there was a great and good plain be­

fore them to proceed in, they w ent no farther,

but stopped the cart there. This was a joyful

sight to those of that village, and they were

very glad. For it being then summer time,

and all the inhabitants being in their fields,

gathering in their fruits, they left off the la­

bours of their hands for joy, as soon as they

saw the ark, and ran to the cart; and taking

the ark down, and the vessel that had the

images in it, and the mice, they set them upon

a certain rock, which was in the plain. And

when they had offered a splendid sacrifice to

God, and feasted, they offered the cart and

the kine as a burnt-offering.;}: And when the

lords of the Philistines saw this they returned

back.

But now it was that the wrath of God over­

took them, and struck

| seventy persons dead

of the village of Bethshemesh; who not being

priests, and so not worthy to touch the ark,

* Spanheim informs us, that upon the coins of Tenedos,  
and those of other cities, a field mouse is engraven;

together with Apollo Sminthous, or Apollo the driver

away of field mice; on account of his being supposed to

have freed certain tracts of ground from those mice.

Which coins shew how great a judgment such mice have

sometimes been; and how the deliverance from them was

then esteemed the effect of a divine power. Which ob­

servations arc highly suitable to this history.

f This device of the Philistines, of having a yoke of kine

to draw the cart, into which they put the ark of the He­

brews, is greatly illustrated by Sanchoniatho's account,

under his ninth generation, that Agrouerus, or Agrotes,

the husbandman, had a much worshipped statue, and a

temple, carried about with one or more yoke of oxen or

kine in Phoenicia; in the neighbourhood of these Philis­

tines. See Cumberland's Sanchoniatho, p. 27, and 247,

and Essay on the Old Test. Append, p. 172.

% 1 Sam. vi. 14.

II These 70 men, being not so much as Levites, touched

the ark in a rash or profane manner; and were slain by

the hand of God for that rashness and profaneness, ac­

cording to the divine threatenings, Numb. iv. 15, 20 ; but

how our other copies come to add such an incredible num­

ber, 50,000, in, this one town, or small city, 1 know not.

See Dr. Wall's critical notes on 1 Sam. vi. 10.

