AN. 1106.] 199 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

did not grant that forgiveness which the pro­

phet solicited; as not deeming it a fit thing to

grant forgiveness of such sins at his entrea­

ties; since injuries do not otherwise grow so

great, as by the easy tempers of those that

are injured. For while they seek after the

glory of being thought gentle and good-na­

tured, before they are aware, they produce

other sins. As soon therefore as God had re­

jected the intercession of the prophet, and it

plainly appeared he would not change his

mind; at break of day Samuel came to Saul

to Gilgal. When the king saw him, he ran

to him, and embraced him, and said, "I re­

turn thanks to God, who hath given me the

victory; for I have performed every thing

that he hath commanded." Samuel replied:

"How is it then that I hear the bleating of

the sheep, and the lowing of the greater cattle

in the camp?"* Saul made answer, that the

people had reserved them for sacrifices; but

that, as to the nation of the Amalekites, it

was entirely destroyed; as he had received

it in command to see done, and that no one

man was left; but that he had saved alive the

king alone, and brought him to him; con­

cerning whom he said they would advise

together what should be done with him.

But the prophet said, "God is not delighted

with sacrifices; but with good and righteous

men, who are such as follow his will and his

laws; and never think that any thing is well

done by them, but when they do it as God

commanded them; that he then looks upon

nimself as affronted; not when any one does

not sacrifice, but when any one appears dis­

obedient to him. But that from those that

do not obey him, nor pay him that duty

which is the true and acceptable worship, he

will not kindly accept their oblations; be

those they offer never so many and so fat, and

be the presents they make him never so orna­

mental; nay, though they were made of gold

and silver themselves. But he will reject

them, and esteem them instances of wicked­

ness, and not of piety. And that he is de­

lighted with those that still bear in mind this

one thing, how to do that, whatsoever it be,

which God pronounces or commands for

them to do; and to choose rather to die, than

to transgress any of those commands. Nor

* 1 Sam. xr. 14.

does he require so much as a sacrifice from

them; and when these sacrifice, though it be

a mean oblation, he better accepts of it, as

the honour of poverty; than such oblations

as come from the richest men that offer them

to him. Wherefore take notice, that thou art

under the wrath of God; for thou hast de­

spised and neglected what he commanded

thee. How dost thou then suppose he will

respect a sacrifice out of such things as he

has doomed to destruction? unless perhaps

thou dost imagine that it is almost all one to

offer it in sacrifice to God, as to destroy it.

Do thou therefore expect that thy kingdom

will be taken from thee, and that authority

which thou hast abused by such insolent be­

haviour, as to neglect that God who bertowed

it upon thee." Then did Saul confess that

he had acted unjustly, and did not deny that

he had sinned; because he had transgressed

the injunctions of the prophet; but he said,

that it was out of dread and fear of the

soldiers, that he did not restrain them, when

they seized on the prey. "But forgive me,"

said he, " and be merciful to me; for 1 will be

cautious how I offend for the time to come."

He also intreated the prophet to go back with

him, that he might offer his thank-offerings to

God. But Samuel went home, because he

saw that God would not be reconciled to him.

But Saul was so desirous to retain Samuel,

that he took hold of his cloak; and because

the vehemence of Samuel's departure made

the motion to be violent, the cloak was rent.

Upon which the prophet said, that after the

same manner should the kingdom be rent

from him; and that a good and a just man

should take it; that Cod persevered in what

he had decreed about him; that to be mu­

table and changeable in what is determined,

is agreeable to human passions only; but it

is not agreeable to the divine power. Here­

upon Saul said that he had been wicked; but

that what was done could not be undone.

He therefore desired him to honour him so

far, that the multitude might see that he

would accompany him in worshipping God.

So Samuel granted him that favour; and

went with him and worshipped God. Agag

also, the king of the Amalekites, was brought

to him; and when the king asked, how bitter

death was? Samuel said, As thou hast made

many of the Hebrew mothers to lament and

