mr. 1016.] 295 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

became weaker by the length of time, it was

not sufficient to recall to his mind the institu­

tions of his own country; so he still more and

more contemned his own God, and continued

to regard the gods that his marriages had in­

troduced. Nay, before this happened, he

sinned, and fell into an error about the ob­

servance of the laws, when he made* the

images of brazen oxen, that supported the

brazen sea, and the images of lions about his

own throne; for these he made, although it

was not agreeable to piety so to do. And

this he did notwithstanding that he had his

father as a most excellent and domestic pat­

tern of virtue; and knew what a glorious

character he had left behind him, because of

his piety towards God. Nor did he imitate

David, although God had twice appeared to

him in his sleep, and exhorted him so to do.

There came therefore a prophet to him, who

was sent by 'God, and told him, that his

wicked actions were not concealed from

God; and threatened him that he should not

long rejoice at what he had done; that in­

deed the kingdom should not be taken from

him, while he was alive; because God had

promised to his father David that he would

make him his successor; but that he would

take care that this should befall his son when

he was dead. Not that he would withdraw

all the people from him, but that he would

give ten tribes to a servant of his, and leave

only two tribes to David's grandson for his

sake, because he loved God; and for the

sake of the city Jerusalem, wherein he would

have a temple.

When Solomon heard this, he was grieved,

and greatly confounded, upon this change of

almost all that happiness which had made

him to be admired, into so bad a state. Nor

had there much time passed after the prophet

had foretold what was coming, before God

raised up an enemy against him, whose name

was Hadad ;f who took the following occa­

sion of his enmity to him. He was a child of

the stock of the Edomites, and of the blood

royal. And when Joab, the captain of David's

host laid waste the land of Edom, and de­

stroyed all that were men grown, and able to

bear arms, for six months time, this Hadad

fled away, and came to Pharaoh, king of

Egypt; who received him kindly, and as­

signed him a house to dwell in, and a country

to supply him with food. And when he was

grown up he loved him exceedingly; inso­

much that he gave him his wife's sister,

whose name was Tahpenes to wife, by whom

he had a son, who was brought up with the

king's children. When Hadad heard in

Egypt that both David and Joab were dead,

he came to Pharaoh, and desired that he

would permit him to go to his own country.

The king asked what it was that he wanted,

and what hardships he had met with, that he

was so desirous to leave him? and when he

was often troublesome to him, and intreated

him to dismiss him, he did not then do it.

But at the time when Solomon's affairs began

to grow worse,* on account of his aforemen­

tioned transgressions, and God's anger against

him for the same; Hadad, by Pharaoh's per­

mission, came to Edom, and when he was not

able to make the people to forsake Solomon,

(for it was kept under by many garrisons,

and an innovation was not to be made with

safety,) he removed thence and came into

* Josephus is here certainly too severe upon Solomon;  
who in making the cherubims, and these twelve brazen

oxen, seems to have done no more than imitate the pat­

terns left him by David, which were all given David by

divine inspiration. See my Description of the Temples,

chap. x. And although God gave no direction for the

lions that adorned his throne, yet does not Solomon seem

therein to have broken any law of Moses. For although

the Pharisees and later Rabbins, have extended the

second commandment, to forbid the very making of any

image, though without any intention to have it worshipped;

yet do not I suppose that Solomon so understood it, nor

that it ought to be so understood. The making any other

altar for worship, but that at the tabernacle, was equally

forbidden by Moses: Antiq. IV. 3. yet did not the two

tribes and a half offend when they made an altar for a

memorial only, Josh. xxii. Antiq. V. 1.

t Hadad was a young prince of the royal family of

idumea, who fled into Egypt when David conquered that

country. For David, having obtained a signal victory

under the conduct of Abishai, who, at that time, com­

manded in chief, sent Joab afterwards with an order to kill

all the males that should be found in the land. But Hadad

had escaped into Egypt, where, finding favour in the eyes

of the king, he married his wife's sister, and there settled.

But, after the death of David, he returned into Idumea,

and gave Solomon no small molestation. Calmet's Com­

mentary. B.

J Since the beginning of Solomon's evil life and adver­

sity was the time when Hadad, (who was born at least

twenty or thirtv years before Solomon came to the crown,

in the days of David,) began to give him disturbance, this

implies that Solomon's evil life began early, and continued

very long; which the multitude of his wives and concu­

bines does also imply, I suppose he was not fifty years

of age. j-

