398 [book xr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

dras. He was very skilful in the laws of Mo­

ses, and well acquainted with king * Xerxes.

He had determined to go up to Jerusalem,

and to take with him some of those Jews that

were in Babylon. And he desired that the

king would give him an epistle to the go­

vernors of Syria by which they might know

who he was. Accordingly the king wrote the

following epistle to those governors:—

"Xerxes, king of kings, to Ezra, the priest

and the reader of the divine law, greeting. 1

tliiuk it agreeable to that love which 1 bear

to mankind, to permit those of the Jewish na­

tion that are so disposed, as well as those of

the priests and Levites, that are in our king­

dom, to go together to Jerusalem. Accord­

ingly I have given command for that purpose.

And let every one that hath a mind, go; ac­

cording as it hath seemed good to me, and

to my seven counsellors; and this in order

to their review of the affairs of Judea, to see

whether they be agreeable to the law of God.

Let them also take with them those presents

which I and my friends have vowed; with all

that silver and gold that is found in the coun­

try of the Babylonians, as dedicated to God;

and let all this be carried to Jerusalem for

sacrifices. Let it also be lawful for thee and

thy brethren to make as many vessels of sil­

ver and gold as thou pleasest. Thou shalt

also dedicate those holy vessels which have

been given thee: and as many more as thou

hast a mind to make, and shalt take the ex­

penses out of the king's treasury. I have

moreover written to the treasurers of Syria

and Phoenicia, that they take care of those

affairs that Esdras the priest and reader of

the laws of God is sent about. And that God

may not be angry with me, or with my chil­

dren, I grant all that is necessary for sacri­

fices to God, according to the law: as far as

a hundred cori of wheat. And I enjoin you

not to lay any treacherous imposition, or any

tributes, upon their priests or Levites, sacred

singers, porters, sacred servants, or scribes

of the temple. And do thou, O Esdras, ap­

point judges according to the wisdom given

thee of God: and those such as understand

the law, that they may judge in all Syria and

Phoenicia: and do thou instruct those also

who are ignorant of it: that if any one of

thy countrymen transgress the law of God,

or that of the king, he may be punished; as

not transgressing it out of ignorance, but as

one that knows, but boldly despises and

contemns it. And such may be punished by

death, or by paying fines. Farewell."

When Esdras had received this epistle, he

was very joyful; and began to worship God,

and confessed that he had been the cause of

the king's great favour to him; and for the

same reason he gave all the thanks to God.

So he read the epistle at Babylon, to those

Jews that were there; but he kept the epistle

itself, and sent a copy of it to all those of his

own nation, that were in Media. And when

these Jews had understood what piety the

king had toward God, and what kindness he

had for Esdras, they were all greatly pleased.

Nay, many of them took their effects with

them, and came to Babylon; as very desirous

of going down to Jerusalem. But then the

entire body of the people of Israel remained

in that country. Wherefore there are but

two tribes in Asia and Europe, subject to

the Romans; while the ten tribes are beyond

Euphrates till now; and are an immense mul­

titude, and not to be estimated by numbers.

Now there came a great number of priests,

Levites, porters, sacred singers, and sacred

servants to Esdras. So he gathered those that

were in captivity together beyond Euphrates,

and stayed there three days, and ordained a

fast for them; that they might make their

prayers to God for their preservation; that

they might suffer no misfortunes by the way;

either from their enemies, or from any other

ill accident. For Esdras had said beforehand

that he had told the king how God would

preserve them; and so he had not thought fit

to request that he would send horsemen to

conduct them. So when they had finished

their prayers, they removed from Euphrates;

on the twelfth day of the first month, of the

seventh year of the reign of Xerxes; and they

came to Jerusalem on the fifth month of the

* That the histories of Ezra or Esdras the scribe, when

he came and settled the Jewish commonwealth, after their

return from the Babylonish captivity; and of Nehemiab,

when he built the walls of Jerusalem, do not belong to Ar-

. taxerxes, the son, but to Xerxes the father, as Josephus

here rightly places them, contrary to all our other copies

of Ezra and Nehemiah, is largely proved in my Literal

Accomplishment of Scripture Prophecies, Supplement,

page 59—75. As also that Daniel's famous seventy

weeks take their date, not from the seventh or twen

