AN. 1108.] 193 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and ever to remember the miseries that had

befallen them on account of their departure

from virtue; as also to remember the strange

signs that God had shewed, and the body of

laws that Moses had given them; if they had

any desire of being preserved, and made

happy with their king. But he said, if they

should grow careless of these things, great

judgments would come from God upon them,

and upon their king. And when Samuel had

thus prophesied to the Hebrews, he dismissed

them to their own homes; having confirmed

the kingdom to Saul the second time.

CHAP. VI.

OF AN EXPEDITION OF THE PHILISTINES AGAINST THE HE­

BREWS, AND ITS ILL SUCCESS.

NOW* Saul chose out of the multitude

about three thousand men, and took

two thousand of them to be his own body­

guards, and abode in the city Bethel; but he

fave the rest of them for guards to Jonathan

is son, and sent him to Gibeah, where he

besieged and took a certain garrison of the

Philistines, not far fromf Gilgal. For the

Philistines of Gibeah had beaten the Jews,

and taken their weapons away; and had put

garrisons into the strongest places of the

country, and had forbidden them to carry any

instrument of iron, or to make use of any iron

in any case whatsoever. And on account of

this prohibition it was that the husbandmen,

if they had occasion to sharpen any of their

* Josephus here omits the first words of this history;  
as does the Septuagint, 1 Sam. xiii. 1. The text runs

thus in. the present Hebrew: Saul was ... 1 years old

when he began to reign, and he reigned two years. Where

in one, if not in both places, the decads are wanting. Nor

is it fit to invent idle excuses, and far-fetched interpreta­

tions, in order to evade such difficulties; as the learned

and judicious Dr. Wall has frequently observed, in his very

valuable, but posthumous critical notes on the Old and

New Testament. If the text be at all genuine, it might

be written at first thus: Saul was 21 or 31 years old when

he began to reign, and he reigned two years.

t This was Galgal by Michmas and Bethel, not the fa­

mous Galgal, or Gilgal near Jericho.

J The words in the original, and in our translation of

the Bible, are thirty thousand; but the Syriac and Arabic

versions, (which we have thought proper to follow,) make

them no more than three thousand; and indeed whoever

considers, that Pharaoh king of Egypt when he had mus­

tered all his forces together, could bring no more than six

hundred of these chariots into the field, and all the other

princes, whose equipages are related in Scripture, much

fewer, must needs think it a thing incredible, that the

tools, whether it were the coulter, the spade,

or any other instrument of husbandry, they

came to the Philistines to do it. Now as soon

as the Philistines heard of this slaughter of

their garrison, they were in a rage about it;

and looking on this contempt as a terrible

affront offered them, they made war against

the Jews,J with three hundred thousand foot­

men, thirty thousand chariots, and six thou­

sand horses; and they pitched their camp at

the city Michmash.|| When Saul, the king of

the Hebrews, was informed of this, he went

down to the city Gilgal, and made proclama­

tion over all the country, that they should

try to regain their liberty, and called them to

the war against the Philistines, diminishing

their forces, and despising them, as not so

great, but they might hazard a battle with

them. But when the people about Saul ob­

served how numerous the Philistines were,

they were under great consternation; and

some of them hid themselves in caves, and in

dens under ground; but the greater part fled

into the land beyond Jordan, which belonged

to Gad and Reubel.

But Saul sent to the prophet, and called

him to consult with him about the war, and

the public affairs. So he commanded him to

stay there for him, and to prepare sacrifices;

for he would come to him within seven days,

that they might offer sacrifices on the seventh

day, and might then join battle with their

enemies.^ So he waited, as the prophet

commanded him to do. Yet did not he ob-

Philistines, out of their small territories, which extended

no farther than the two tribes of Simeon and Dan, along

the coasts of the Mediterranean sea, could ever be able to

raise so vast an armament; no, nor all the nations that

they could possibly call in to their assistance. For be­

sides that, in the account of all armies, the cavalry is

always more numerous than the chariots of war, (which

is different here,) the largest armies that we ever read of

were able to compass a very few of these chariots, in com­

parison of the number here specified. Mithridates, in his

vast army, had but a hundred; Darius but two; and An-

tiochus Epiphanes, (2 Mac. xiii. 2.) but three. So that

we must either say, that the transcribers made a mistake

in the Hebrew copy, or (with some other commentators,)

suppose that these thirty thousand chariots, were not

chariots of war, but most of them carriages only, for the

conveyance of the baggage belonging to such a vast mul­

titude of men, or for the deportation of the plunder they

hoped to be master of by having conquered the country,

Le Gere's Commentary, and Universal History. B.

II 1 Sam. xiii. 5.

§ Saul seems to have staid till near the time of the

evening sacrifice, on the seventh day; which Samuel had

