420 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

beaten Darius in battle; so he distributed

many of them into garrisons; and at Alexan­

dria gave them equal privileges of citizens

with the Macedonians* themselves: and re­

quired of them to take their oaths, that they"

would keep their fidelity to the posterity of

those who committed these places to their

care. Nay there were not a few other Jews,

who, of their own accord, went into Egypt:

as invited by the goodness of the soil, and by

the liberality of Ptolemy. However, there

were disorders among their posterity, with

relation to the Samaritans; on account of

their resolution to preserve that conduct of

life which was delivered to them by their

forefathers: and they thereupon contended

one with another: while those of Jerusalem

said, that their temple was holy; and resolved

to send their sacrifices thither: but the Sa­

maritans were resolved that they should be

sent to mount Gerizzim.

CHAP. II.

Or THE TRANSLATION OF THE LAWS OF THE JEWS INTO

THE CREEK TONGUE, BY ORDER OF PTOLEMY PHILADEL­

PHIA; WHO SET MANY CAPTIVES FREE; AND DEDICATED

MANY GIFTS TO COD.

WHEN Alexander had reigned ftwelve

years, and after him Ptolemy Soter

forty years, Philadelphus took the kingdom

of Egypt, and held it forty years within one.

He procured the Jlaw to be interpreted: and

liberated those that were come from Jerusa­

lem into Egypt, and were in slavery there:

who were a hundred and twenty thousand.

The occasion was this: Demetrius Phalerius,

library keeper to the king, was now endea­

vouring, if it were possible, to gather toge­

ther all the books that were in the habitable

earth; and buying whatsoever was any where

valuable or agreeable to the king's inclina­

tion; (who was very earnestly set upon col­

lecting of books:) to which inclination of his,

Demetrius was zealously subservient. And

when once Ptolemy asked him how many

thousands of books he had collected, he re-

plied, that he had already about two hundred

thousand; but that, in a little time, he should

have five hundred thousand. But he said he

had been informed that there were many

books of laws among the Jews, worthy of

inquiring after, and worthy of the king's li­

brary; but which being written in characters

and in a dialect of their own, would cause

no small difficulty in getting them translated

into the Greek tongue: that the character in

which they were written seemed like to that

of the Syrians; and that its sound, when pro­

nounced, appeared to be peculiar to them­

selves. Wherefore he said, that nothing hin­

dered why they might not get those books to

be translated also. "For," said he, "while

nothing is wanting that is necessary for that

fmrpose, we may have their books also in this

ibrary." So the king thought Demetrius was

very zealous to procure him abundance of

books, and that he suggested what was ex­

ceeding proper for him to do: and accord­

ingly, he wrote to the Jewish high-priest,

that he should act accordingly.

Now there was one Aristeus, who was

among the king's most intimate friends, and

on account of his modesty very acceptable to

him. This Aristeus had frequently resolved

to petition the king, that he would set all the

captive Jews in this kingdom free. And he

thought this to be a convenient opportunity

for making that petition. So he discoursed

in the first place with the captains of the

king's guards, Sosibius of Tarentum, and An­

dreas; and persuaded them to assist him in

what he was going to intercede with the king

for. Accordingly Aristeus embraced the same

opinion with those that have been before-

mentioned; and went to the king, and made

the following speech to him: "It is not fit for

us, O king, to overlook things hastily, or to

deceive ourselves; but to lay the truth open.

For since we have determined not only to get

the laws of the Jews transcribed, but inter­

preted also, for thy satisfaction; by what

means can we do this, while so many of the

* See this fully proved, Book XIV. chap. 10.

t These numbers; 12 years for Alexander; 40 for

Ptolemy the son of Lagus; and 39 for Ptolemy Phila­

delphus, are very nearly the same which Ptolemy's canon

ascribes to them respectively.

J Of the translation of the other parts of the Old Tes­

tament by seventy Egyptian Jews, in the joint reigns of

Ptolemy the son of Lagus, and Philadelphus; as also of

the translation of the Pentateuch by seventy-two Jem

salem Jews, in the seventh year of Philadelphus, at

Alexandria; has given us an account of by Aristeus, and

thence by Philo and Josephus; with a vindication of

Aristeus's history, see the Appendix to the Literal Ac­

complishment of the Prophecies at large, page 117—15*.

which has hitherto received no confutation.

