118 [BOOK TV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

good things it produces. Moses, therefore,

sent messengers to Sihon, the king of this

country, desiring that he would grant his army

a passage, upon what security he should

please to require: he promised that he should

be no ways injured; neither as to that country

which Sihon governed, nor as to its inhabi­

tants: and that he would buy his provisions

at such a price as should be to their advan­

tage; even though he should desire to sell

them their very water. But Sihon refused his

offer, and put his army in array, preparing

every thing in order to hinder their passage

over Arnon.*

When Moses saw that the Amorite king was

disposed to commence hostilities, he thought

he ought not to bear that insult; and deter­

mining to wean the Hebrews from their indo­

lent temper, and prevent the disorders which

arose thence, which had been the occasion of

their former sedition; nor indeed were they

now thoroughly easy in their minds: he en­

quired of God, whether he would give him

leave to fight? which when he had done, and

God had promised him the victory, he was

very courageous, and ready to proceed to

fighting. Accordingly he encouraged the

soldiers, and desired of them that they would

take the pleasure of fighting, now God gave

them leave so to do. Upon this commission,

which they so much longed for, they put on

their armour, and set about the work without

delay. But the Amorite king was not now

like to himself, when the Hebrews were ready

to attack him; both himself was affrighted at

the Hebrews, and his army, which before had

shewn themselves to be of good courage,

were then found to be timorous. So they

could not sustain the first onset, nor bear up

against the Hebrews: but fled away, think­

ing this would afford them a more likely way

for their escape than fighting. For they de­

pended upon their cities, which were strong;

from which they reaped no advantage, when

they were forced to fly from them. For as

soon as the Hebrews saw them giving ground,

they immediately pursued; and when they

had broken their ranks, they greatly terrified

them. And some of them broke off from the

rest, and ran away to the cities. Now the

Hebrews pursued them briskly; and obsti­

nately persevered in the labours they had

already undergone; and being very skilful in

slinging, and very dexterous in throwing

darts, or any thing else of that kind; and

also having on nothing but light armour,

which made them quick in pursuit, they over­

took their enemies. And for those that were

most remote, and could not be overtaken,

they reached them by their slings and their

bows, so that many were slain, and those that

escaped the slaughter were sorely wounded;

and these were more distressed with thirst,

than with any of those that fought against

them, for it was the summer season: and when

the greatest number of them were brought

down to the river, out of a desire to drink;

as also when others fled away by troops, the

Hebrews came round them, and shot at

them; so that what with darts, and what with

arrows, they made a slaughter of them all:

Sihon also, their king, was slain. So the He­

brews spoiled their dead bodies, and took

their prey.f The land also, which they took,

was full of fruits, and the army went all over

it without fear, and fed their cattle upon it,

and took the enemies prisoners. For they

could no way put a stop to them, since all the

fighting men were destroyed. Such was the

destruction which overtook the Amorites,

who were neither sagacious in counsel, nor

courageous in action. Hereupon the He­

brews took possession of their land, which is

situate between three rivers, and naturally

resembling an island, the river Arnon being

its northern limit, and the river Jabbok de­

termining its southern side; which, running

into Jordan, loses its own name, and takes

the other. While Jordan itself runs along by

it, on its western coast.J

When matters were come to this state, Og,

the king of Gilead and Gaulanitis, fell upon

the Israelites. He brought an army with him,

and came in haste to the assistance of his

friend Sihon. But though he found him

already slain, he resolved to fight the He­

brews, supposing he should be too hard

for them, and being desirous to try their va­

lour. But failing of his hope, he was both

slain in the battle, and all his army was de­

* Nnmb. xxi. 23.

t This victory is celebrated in Numb. xxi. SOi. Deut. i.

4. iii. 2. iv. 46. xxix. 7, 8. Josh. xiii. 10. Judges xi. 21.

Ps. exam. 10, 11. cxxxvi. 18, 19. and by Philo, p. 642.

J Numb. xxi. 24.

