an. 855.] 335 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

him, wherefore this young man came to him?

and added withal, that he was mad: he re­

plied, " you guess rightly; for the words he

spake were the words of a madman." And

when they were eager about the matter, and

desired he would tell them, he answered,

that God had said, he had chosen him to be

king over the multitude. When he had said

this, every one of them *put off his garment,

and spread it under him, and blew with

trumpets, and proclaimed Jehu king. So

when he had assembled the army, he pre­

pared to set out immediately against Joram,

at the city Jezreel; in which city, as we

said before, he was healing of the wound

which he had received in the siege of Ra-

moth. It happened also that Ahaziah, king

of Jerusalem, was now come to Joram; (for

he was his sister's son, as we have said

already,) to see how he did after his wound,

and this upon account of their kindred. But

as Jehu was desirous to make a sudden

attack upon Joram and his companions, he

desired that none of the soldiers might run

away, and tell Joram what had happened;

for that this would be an evident demon­

stration of their kindness to him, and would

shew that their real inclinations were to

make him king.

So they were pleased with what he did,

and guarded the roads,f lest somebody should

privately carry intelligence to those that were

at Jezreel. Now Jehu took his choice horse­

men, and sat upon his chariot, and went on

for Jezreel. And when he was come near,

the watchman,J whom Joram had set there

to observe such as came to the city, saw Jehu

marching on, and told Joram that he saw a

of Ezekiel, chap, xxiii. 30, 31. and of Jeremiah, xxix.

26.) as fools and madmen; and some great names in the

Heathen world, looking upon all pretenders to inspiration

in no better light; according to that noted passage in

Cicero: Quid habet auctorilatis furor iste, quern divinum

vocatis, ut quae sapiens non videt, ea videat insanus, et is,

qui humanos sensus atniserit, divinos assecutus sit? De

Divinat. lib. 2. B.

* Spanheim here observes, that this putting off men's  
garments, and spreading it under a king, was an eastern

custom, which he has elsewhere explained.

t An. 855.

J In time of peace, as well as war, it was customary to

have watchmen set on high and eminent places wherever

the king was, to prevent his being surprised. Thus David,

at Jerusalem, was informed by the watchman, that his sons

were escaped from the slaughter of Absalom, when he

troop of horsemen. He accordingly gave

orders, that one of his horsemen should be

sent out to meet them, and to know who it

was that was coming. So when the mes­

senger came up to Jehu, he asked him, in

what condition the army was? for that the

king wanted to know it. But Jehu told him

not to meddle with such matters; but to

follow him. When the watchman saw this,

he told Joram, that the horseman had mingled

himself among the company, and came along

with them. And when the king had sent a

second messenger, Jehu commanded him to

do as the former did. And as soon as the

watchman told this also to Joram, he at last

got upon his chariot himself, together with

Ahaziah, the king of Jerusalem; for, as we

said before, he was there, to see how Joram

did, after he had been wounded; as being his

relation. So he went out to meet Jehu, who

marched slowly,|| and in good order. And

wjaen Joram met him in the field of Naboth,

he asked him, if all things were well in the

camp? but Jehu reproached him bitterly,

and called his mother a witch and a harlot.

Upon this the king, fearing what he intended,

turned his chariot about as soon as he could,

and said to Ahaziah, " We are fought against

by deceit and treachery." But Jehu drew

his bow and smote him; the arrow going

through his heart. So Joram fell down im­

mediately, and gave up the ghost. Jehu also

gave orders to Bidkar, the captain of the

third part of his army, to cast the dead body

into the field of Naboth; reminding him of

the prophecy which Elijah delivered to Ahab

his father, when he had slain Naboth; that

both he and his family should perish in that

thought them all lost, 2 Sam. xiii. 34. and therefore

Joram, who had an army lying before Ramoth Gilead, had

good reason to keep a watchful eye upon every motion

that came, especially from that quarter. Patrick's and

Calmefs Commentaries. B.

I I Our copies say, that this driving of the chariots was

like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drove

furiously, 2 Kings ix. 20. whereas Josephus's copy, as

he understood it, was that, on the contrary, Jehu marched

slowly, and in good order. Nor cap it be denied, that

since there was interval enough for king Joram to send

out two horsemen, one after another, to Jehu, and at

length to go out with king Ahaziah to meet him; and all

this after he was come within sight of the watchman, and

before he was come to Jezreel, the probability is greatly

on the side of Josephus's copy, or interpretation

f

