viii AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

I formed it into a distinct treatise, with a beginning of its own, and its own
conclusion. But

in process of time, as usually happens to such as undertake great things, I
grew weary and

went on slowly; it being a large subject, and a difficult thing to translate
our history into a

foreign, and to us, unaccustomed language. However, there were some persons
who desired

to know our history, and exhorted me to go on with it, and above all the rest
Epaphroditus,*

a man who is a lover of all kinds of learning, but is principally delighted
with the knowledge

of history, and this on account of his having been himself concerned in great
affairs, and

many turns of fortune, and having shewn a wonderful vigour of an excellent
nature, and an

immoveably virtuous resolution in them all. I yielded to this man's
persuasions, who always

excites such as have abilities in what is useful and acceptable, to join their
endeavours with

his. I was also ashamed to permit any indolence of disposition to have a
greater influence

upon me than the delight of taking pains in such studies as were very useful.
I therefore

stirred up myself, and went on with my work more cheerfully. Besides the
foregoing

motives, I had others, which I greatly reflected on; and these were, that our
forefathers

were willing to communicate such things to others; and that some of the Greeks
took con­

siderable pains to learn the affairs of our nation.

I found, therefore, that the second of the Ptolemies was a king who was
extraordinarily

diligent in what concerned learning and the collection of books; that he was
also peculiarly

ambitious to procure a translation of our law, and of the constitution of our
government

therein contained, into the Greek tongue. Now Eleazar the high-priest, one not
inferior to

any other of that dignity among us, did not envy the king the participation of
that ad­

vantage, which otherwise he would certainly have denied him; but that he knew
the custom

of our nation was, to hinder nothing of what we esteemed ourselves from being
communi­

cated to others. Accordingly, I thought it became me, both to imitate the
generosity of

our high-priest, and to suppose there might even now be many lovers of
learning like the

king. For he did not obtain all our writings at that time; but those who were
sent to

Alexandria as interpreters, gave him only the books of the law. While there
were a vast

number of other matters in our sacred books. They indeed containt the history
of five

thousand years. In which time happened many strange accidents, many chances of
war,

and great actions of the commanders, and mutations of the form of our
government. Upon

the whole, a man that will peruse this history may principally learn from it,
that all events

succeed well, even to an incredible degree, and the reward of felicity is
proposed by God;

but then it is to those that follow his will, and do not venture to break his
excellent laws;

and that so far as men any way apostatize from the accurate observation of
them,J what

was practicable before, becomes impracticable; and whatsoever they set about
as a good

thing, is converted into an incurable calamity. And now I exhort all those
that peruse

* Tins Epaphroditus was certainly alive in the third year of Trajan, A. D. 100. Who he was we do not know.  
Tor as to Epaphroditus, the freed man of Nero, Tacit. Annal. XV. 55, Nero's
and afterwards Domitian's secretary,

who was put to death by Domitian in the fourteenth or fifteenth year of his
reign, he could not be alive in the third

of Trajan.

t That Josephus's chronology agreed neither with the Masorete Hebrew, nor with
the present Septuagint but almost

always with that of the Samaritan Pentateuch, and contained not less than 5000
years. See Essays on the Old Testa­

ment, page 195, 203, which is here recommended by Fabricius to the
consideration of the reader, ap. Havercamp,

page 59.

J Josephus here plainly alludes to the famous Greek proverb, ©sS wf«fov1@'
zsav cw-opov vsi^ov. If God be with

us, every thing that is impossible, becomes possible.

