AN. 181 1148.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Philistines also were greatly afraid of the ark

coming to the Israelites: however the event

did not prove agreeable to the expectation of

either side; but when the battle was joined,

that victory which the Hebrews expected,

was gained by the Philistines; and what de­

feat the Philistines were afraid of, fell to the

lot of the Israelites; and thereby they found

that they had put their trust in the ark in

vain; for they were presently beaten, as soon

as they came to a close fight with their ene­

mies, and lost about thirty thousand men;

among whom were the sons of the high-priest.

The ark also was carried away by their ene­

mies.

When the news of this defeat came to

Shiloh, with that of the capture of the ark,

(for a certain young man, a Benjamite, who

was in the action, came as a messenger thi­

ther,) the whole city was full of lamentations.

And Eli the high-priest, who sat upon a high

throne at one of the gates, heard their

mournful cries; and supposed that some

strange thing had befallen his family. So he

sent for the young man, and when he under­

stood what had happened in the battle, he was

not much grieved as to his sons, or what was

told him about the army; as having previously

known by divine revelation that those things

would happen, and having himself declared

* From an. 1188 to 1148 B.C.

them beforehand. For what sad things come

unexpectedly, they distress men the most; but

as soon as he heard the ark was carried cap­

tive by their enemies, he was very much

grieved at it, because it fell out quite differ­

ently from what he expected; so he fell down

from his throne, and died; having Kved ninety-

eight years, and retained the government

forty.*

On the same day, the wife of his son Phi-

neas died also; as not able to survive the

misfortune of her husband. For they told her

of her husband's death as she was in labour.

However she bare a son at seven months, to

whom they gave the namef Icabod; which

name signifies disgrace; and this because the

army received disgrace at this time.

Now Eli was the first of the family of

Ithamar, the other son of Aaron, that had the

government; for the family of Eleazar offici­

ated as high-priest at first; the son still re­

ceiving that honour from the father, Eleazar

bequeathed it to his son Phineas, after whom

Abiezer his son took the honour, and de­

livered it to his son whose name was Bukki;

his son next received it; after whom Eli, of

whom we have been speaking, had the priest­

hood; and so had his posterity until the time

of Solomon's reign; but then it was resumed

by the posterity of Eleazar.

t 1 Sam. iv. 21.

Qq2

