aN. 896.] 331 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

barley, or fine flour, out of heaven; so it is

impossible that what thou hast said, should

come to pass." To which the prophet made

this reply, "Thou shalt see these things

come to pass; but thou shalt not be in the

least a partaker of them."

What Elisha had thus foretold, came to

{mss in the following manner: There was a

aw at Samaria,* that those who had the

leprosy, and whose bodies were not cleansed

from it, should abide without the city. And

there were four men that on this account

abode before the gates, while nobody gave

them any food by reason of the extremity of

the famine. And as they were prohibited

from entering into the city by the law; and

they considered, that if they were permitted

to enter, they should miserably perish by the

famine; as also, that if they stayed where

they were, they should suffer in the same

manner; they resolved to deliver themselves

up to the enemy; that in case they spared

them, they should live; but if they should

be killed, that would be an easy death. So

when they had confirmed this resolution, they

came by night to the enemy's camp. Now

God had alarmed and disturbed the Syrians,

by bringing the noise of chariots and armour

to their ears, as though an army were coming

upon them; and had made them suspect that

it was coming nearer and nearer. In short,

they were in such a dread of this army, that

they left their tents, and ran together to Ben-

hadad, and said, that Joram king of Israel

had hired for auxiliaries, both the king of

Egypt, and the king of the Islands, and led

them against them; for they heard the noise

of them as they were coming. And Benha-

dad believed what they said: (for there came

the same noise to his ears, as well as it did to

theirs:) so they fell into a great disorder and

tumult; and left their horses and beasts in

their camp, with immense riches also; and

betook themselves to flight. When the afore­

mentioned lepers, therefore, arrived at the

camp, they found every thing perfectly quiet

and silent. Accordingly they went hastily

into one of the tents; and when they saw no­

body there, they ate and drank, and carried

* This law of the Jews, for the exclusion of lepers out  
of the camp in the wilderness, and out of cities in Judea,

is a known one.

voL. I.—NOS.

Levit. xiii. 46.

27 & 28-

and Numb. v. 1—4.

off garments, and a great quantity of gold,

and concealed them beyond the camp. After

which they went into another tent, and car­

ried off what was in it, as they did at the

former; and this they did four several times,

without the least interruption. They now

perceived plainly that the enemies were de­

parted; and reproached themselves, that they

did not inform Joram, and the citizens of it.

So they came to the walls of Samaria, and

called aloud to the watchmen, and told them,

in what state the enemies were. This was

soon communicated to the king, who sent for

his friends, and the captain of his host, and

said to them, "I suspect that this departure

of the king of Syria is designed by way of

ambush and treachery; and that out of de­

spair of ruining you by famine, when you ima­

gine them to be fled away, you may come out

of the city to spoil their camp; and he may

then fall upon you on a sudden, and may both

kill you, and take the city without fighting.

Whence it is that I exhort you to guard the

city carefully, and by no means to go out of

it, or proudly to despise your enemies, as

though they were really gone away." A cer­

tain person replied, that he did very wisely

to admit such a suspicion; but that he still

advised him to send a couple of horsemen,

to search all the country, as far as Jordan;

that if they were seized by an ambush of the

enemy, they might be a security to the army

that they may not go out as if they suspected

nothing, nor undergo the like misfortune:

"And," said he, "those horsemen may be

numbered among those that have died by

the famine, supposing they be caught and

destroyed by the enemy." So the king was

pleased with his opinion, and sent such as

might search out the truth: who performed

their journey over a road that was without

any enemies; but found it full of provisions,

and of weapons that they had thrown away

and left behind them, in order to their being

light and expeditious in their flight. When

the king heard this, he sent out the multitude

to take the spoils of the camp; which were

not things of small value; but they took a

great quantity of gold and silver, and all kinds

Antiq. III. 11. See the examples of its constant obtaining

in practice, Numb. xii. 10—14. 2 Kings vii. 3. xv. 5

2 Chron. xxvi. 21. Antiq. IX. 10.

3M

