AN. 267 1057.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tity of gold, and a hundred thousand talents

of silver. But God prohibited me by the

prophet Nathan; because of the wars I had

on your account; and because my right hand

was polluted with the slaughter of our ene­

mies. But he commanded that my son, who

was to succeed me in the kingdom, should

build a temple for him. Now therefore, since

you know of the twelve sons whom Jacob our

forefather had, Judah was appointed to be

king; and that. I was preferred before my six

brethren, and received the government from

God; and that none of them were uneasy at

it; so I do also desire that my sons be not

seditious one against another, now Solomon

has received the kingdom; but to bear him

cheerfully for their lord: as knowing that God

hath chosen him. For it is not a grievous

thing to obey even a foreigner as a ruler, if

it be God's will; but it is natural to rejoice

when a brother hath obtained that dignity;

since the rest partake of it with him. And I

pray that the promises of God may be ful­

filled; and that this happiness, which he

hath promised to bestow upon king Solomon,

over all the country, may continue therein

for all time to come. And these promises, O

son! will be firm, and come to a happy end,

if thou shewest thyself to be religious, and a

righteous man, and an observer of the laws

of thy country. But if not, expect adversity

upon thy disobedience to them."

Now when the king had said this, he left

off: but gave the description and pattern of

the building of the temple, in the sight of

them all, to Solomon; of the foundations, and

of the chambers, inferior and superior; how

many they were to be, and how large in

height and in breadth; as also he determined

the weight of the golden and silver vessels:

moreover he earnestly excited him with his

words, to use the utmost alacrity about the

work: he exhorted the rulers also, and par­

ticularly the tribe of Levi, to assist him; both

because of his youth, and because God had

chosen him to take care of the building of the

temple, and of the government of the king­

dom. He also declared to them, that the

work would not be very laborious to them;

because he had prepared for it many talents

of gold, and more of silver, with timber, and

* 2 Sam. *xii. 11. Psal. xviii. 10.  
voL. I.—NOS. 23 & 24.

a great many carpenters, and stone-cutters,

and a large quantity of emeralds, and all

sorts of precious stones: and he said, that

even now he would give of the proper goods

of his own dominion two hundred talents;

and three hundred other talents of pure gold

for the most holy place, and for the chariot

of God,* the cherubim, which are to stand

over and cover the ark. Now when David

had done speaking, there appeared great

alacrity among the rulers, and the priests,

and the Levites, who now contributed, and

made great and splendid promises for a fu­

ture contribution. For they undertook to

bring in of gold five thousand talents, and

ten thousand drachms;f and of silver, ten

thousand talents; and many thousand talents

of iron. And if any one had a precious

stone, he brought it to be put among the

treasures; of which Jehiel, one of the pos­

terity of Moses, had the care.

Upon this occasion all the people rejoiced;

as in particular did David, when he saw the

zeal and forward ambition of the rulers, and

the priests, and of all the rest: and he began

to bless God with a loud voice, calling him

the father and parent of the universe, and

the author of human and divine things, with

which he had adorned Solomon, the patron

and guardian of the Hebrew nation, and of

its happiness, and of that kingdom which he

had given his son. Besides this, he prayed for

happiness to all the people; and to Solomon

his son, a sound and a righteous mind, in all

sorts of virtue; and then he commanded the

multitude to bless God. Upon which they

all fell down upon the ground, and wor­

shipped him. They also gave thanks to

David on account of all the blessings which

they had received ever since he had taken

the kingdom. On the next day he presented

sacrifices to God, a thousand bullocks, and as

many lambs; which they offered for burnt-

offerings. They also offered peace-offerings,

and slew many ten thousand sacrifices; and

the king feasted all day, together with all the

people: and they anointed Solomon a second

time with the oil, and appointed him to be

king, and Zadok to be the high-priest of the

whole multitude. And when they had brought

Solomon to the royal palace, and had set him

t Staters.

3D

