512 [book xit ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

magistrates, senate, and people of Sidon,

sendeth greeting. If you be in health, it is

well: I also, and the army, are well. I have

sent you a copy of that decree, registered on

the tables, which concerns Hyrcanus, the son

of Alexander, the high-priest and ethnarch of

the Jews; that it may be laid up among the

public records. And I will that it be openly

proposed in a table of brass, both in Greek

and in Latin. It is as follows :—I, Julius

Caesar, imperator the second time, and high-

priest, have made this decree, with the ap­

probation of the senate. Whereas Hyrcanus

the son of Alexander, the Jew, hath demon­

strated his fidelity and diligence about our

affairs; and this both now and in former

times; both in peace and in war, as many of

our generals have borne witness; and came

to our assistance in the last *AIexandrian war,

with fifteen hundred soldiers; and when he

was sent by me to Mithridates, shewed him­

self superior in valour to all the rest of that

army: for these reasons I will, that Hyrca­

nus, the son of Alexander, and his children,

be ethnarchs of the Jews, and have the high-

priesthood of the Jews for ever; according

to the customs of their forefathers: and that

he and his sons be our confederates: and that

besides this, every one of them be reckoned

among our particular friends. I also ordain,

that he and his children retain whatsoever

privileges belong to the office of high-priest;

or whatsoever favours have been hitherto

granted them. And if at any time hereafter

there arise any question about the Jewish

customs, I will that he determine the same.

And I think it not proper that they should be

obliged to find us winter quarters; or that

any money should be required of them."

"The decrees of Caius Caesar, consul:

containing what hath been granted and de­

termined, are as follows: That Hyrcanus and

his children bear rule over the nation of the

Jews, and have the profits of the places to

them bequeathed; and that himself as the

high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews, defend

those that are injured. And that ambassa

dors be sent to Hyrcanus, the son of Alex­

ander, the high-priest of the Jews, that may

discourse with him about a league of friend­

ship and mutual assistance; and that a table

of brass, containing the premises, be openly

proposed in the capitol, and at Sidon, and

Tyre, and Ascalon, and in the temple; en­

graven in Roman and Greek characters; that

this decree may also be communicated to the

quaestors and pretors of the several cities, and

to the friends of the Jews: and that the am­

bassadors may have presents made them, and

that these decrees be sent every where."

"Caius Caesar, imperator, dictator, consul,

hath granted that out of regard to the honour

and virtue and kindness of the man, and for

the advantage of the senate and of the people

of Rome, Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander,

and his children, be high-priests, and priests

of Jerusalem, and of the Jewish nation, by

the same right, and according to the same

laws, by which their progenitors have held

the priesthood."

"Caius Caesar,t consul the fifth time, hath

decreed, that the Jews shall possess Jerusa­

lem; and may encompass that city with

walls; and that Hyrcanus, the son of Alex­

ander, the high-priest, and ethnarch of the

Jews, retain it, in the manner he himself

pleases: and that the Jews be allowed to de­

duct out of their tribute, every second year

the land is let in the sabbatic period, a corus

of that tribute. And that the tribute they

pay be not let to farm, nor that they pay al­

ways the same tribute."

"Caius Caasar, imperator the second time,

hath ordained, that all the country of the

Jews, excepting Joppa, do pay a tribute

yearly Jfor the city Jerusalem; excepting the

seventh, which they call the sabbatical year:

because thereon they neither receive the fruits

of their trees, nor do they sow their land: and

that they pay their tribute in Sidon, on the

* That Hyrcanus was himself in Egypt, along with  
Antipater, at this time: to whom accordingly the bold

and prudent actions of his deputy Antipater are here

ascribed; as this decree of Julius Caesar supposes, we

are farther assured, by the testimony of Strabo, already

produced by Josephus, chap. 8. But as for the other

niceties in these decrees on behalf of the Jews, most of

which are but lately recovered in our editions of Jose­

phus, but which are of the most authentic authority, as

compared with the Roman customs, and other records;

and what light arises from them to the other Roman au­

thors and antiquities, they only belong to the learned in

the Roman affairs, and shall not therefore be dwelt upon

in this English version. Jacobus Gronovius, &c. in Ha-

vercamp's edition, will generally afford the inquisitive

reader abundant satisfaction.

t See the note on chap. 8.

X Probably to rebuild the walls, or to keep them in repair.

