ah. 2578.] 21 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

but from Javan and Jonia all the Grecians

are derived. Thobel founded the Thobelites,

now called Iberes: and the Mosocheni, now

called Cappadocians, were founded by Mo-

soph. There is also a mark of their ancient

denomination still to be shewn, for there is

even now among them a city called Mazaca,

which may inform those who are able to un­

derstand, that so was the nation once called.

Thiras also called those whom he ruled over

Thirasians, but the Greeks changed the name

into Thracians; and so many were the coun­

tries that had the children of Japhet for their

inhabitants.

Of the three sons of Gomer, Aschanax

founded the Aschanaxians, who are now

called by the Greeks Rheginians; Riphath

founded the Ripheans, now called Paphlago-

nians; and Thrugramma the Thrugrammeans,

who, as the Greeks resolved, were named

Phrygians. Of the three sons of Javan also,

the son of Japhet. Elisa gave name to the

Eliseans, who were his subjects; they are

now the iEolians. Tharsus to the Tharsians,

for so was Cilicia of old called; the sign of

which is, that the noblest city they have, and

a metropolis also, is Tausus, the letter Tau

being by change put for Theta. Cethimus

possessed the island Cethima. It is now called

Cyprus, and from that all islands, and the

greatest part of the sea-coasts, are named

Cethim by the Hebrews; and one city there

is in Cyprus that has been able to preserve

its denomination; it is called Citius by those

who use the language of the Greeks, and has

not, by the use of that dialect, escaped the

name of Cethim; and so many nations have

the children and grand-children of Japhet

possessed. Now when I have premised some­

what which, perhaps, the Greeks do not know,

I will return and explain what I have omitted;

for such names are pronounced here after the

manner of the Greeks, to please my readers,

for our own language does not so pronounce

them; but the names in all cases are of one

and the same ending; for the name we here

pronounce Noeus, is there Noah, and in every

case retains the same termination.

The children of Ham possessed the land

from Syria and Amanus, and the mountains

of Libanus, seizing upon all the maritime

• One observation ought not here to be neglected, with

parts, and keeping them as their own. Some,

indeed, of its names are utterly vanished:

others of them being changed, and another

sound given them, are hardly to be discover­

ed; yet there are a few which have kept

their denominations entire; for of the four

sons of Ham, time has not at all hurt the name

of Chus; for the Ethiopians, over whom he

reigned, are even at this day, both by them­

selves and by all men in Asia, called Chu-

sites. The memory also of the Mesraites is

preserved in their name, for all we who in­

habit the country of Judea call Egypt Mestre,

and the Egyptians Mestrians. Phut also was

the founder of Libya, and called the inhabi­

tants Phutites, from himself; there is also a

river in the country of the Moors which bears

that name, whence the greatest part of the

Grecian historians mention that river, and the

adjoining country, by the appellation of Phut;

but the name it has now is derived from one

of the sons of Mestraim, who was called

Lybyos. We will inform you presently what

has been the occasion why it has been called

Africa also. Canaan, the fourth son of Ham,

inhabited the country now called Judea, and

called it from his own name Canaan. The

children of these four were, Sabas, who

founded the Sabeans: Evilas, who founded

the Evileans, now called Getuli; Sabathes

who founded the Sabathens, called by the

Greeks Astoborans; Sabactas, who settled the

Sabactens: and Ragmus, who founded the

Ragmeans. This latter had two sons, one of

whom, Judadas, settled the Judadeans, a na­

tion of the western Ethiopians, and left them

his name; as did Sabas, to the Sabeans. But

Nimrod, the son of Chus, stayed and tyran­

nized at Babylon, as we have already ob­

served.

Now all the children of Mesraim, being

eight in number, possessed the country from

Gaza to Egypt, though it retained the name

of one only, the Philistim, for the Greeks caL

part of that country Palestine. As for the

rest, Ludieim, Enemim, andLabim, who alone

inhabited Libya, and called the country from

himself; Nedim and Phethrosim, and Ches-

loim and Cephthorim, we know nothing of

them besides their names: for the Ethiopic

war,* which we wiall describe hereafter,

regard to that Ethiopic war, which Moses, as General ol

v*

