490 [BOOK XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them in the war against him, as they had

done ten thousand other things that tended

to affront and reproach him. However, this

barbarity seems to have been without anjr

necessity; and in consequence of it he bore

the name of a *Thracian among the Jews.

The soldiers that had fought_ against him,

being about eight thousand in number, now

ran away by night; while Alexander being

now freed from any farther disturbance

from them, reigned the rest of his time in

the utmost tranquillity.

When Demetrius was departed out of Ju-

dea, he went to Berea, and besieged his bro­

ther Philip: having with him ten thousand

footmen, and a thousand horsemen. How­

ever, Strato, the tyrant of Berea, the confede­

rate of Philip, called in Zizon, the ruler of

the Arabian tribes, and Mithridates Sinax,

the ruler of the Parthians: who coming with

a great number of forces, and besieging De­

metrius in his encampment, into which they

had driven him with their arrows; com­

pelled those that were with him by thirst to

deliver up themselves. So they took a great

many spoils out of the country, and Deme­

trius himself; whom they sent to Mithridates,

who was then king of Parthia. But as to

those whom they took captives of the.people

of Antioch, they restored them to the Antio-

chians, without any reward. Now Mithri­

dates, the king of Parthia, had Demetrius in

great honour; till Demetrius ended his life

by sickness. So Philip, presently after the

battle was over, came to Antioch, and took

it, and reigned over Syria.

CHAP. XV.

OF THE EXPEDITIONS OF ANTIOCHUS, CALLED DIONYSIUS;

AND OF ARETAS, AGAINST JUDEA.''—AND OF THE CON­

QUESTS AND DEATH OF ALEXANDER.

AFTER this, Antiochus, who was called

tDionysius, and was Philip's brother,

aspired to the dominion, and came to Damas­

cus, and got the supreme power into his hands.

But as he was making war against the Ara­

bians, his brother Philip heard of it, and came

to Damascus; where Milesius, who had been

left governor of the citadel, and the Damas­

cenes themselves delivered up the city to him.

Yet because Philip was become ungrateful,

and had bestowed upon him nothing of that in

hopes whereof he had received him into the

city; but had a mind to have it believed that

it was rather delivered up out of fear, than by

the kindness of Milesius; and because he had

not rewarded him as he ought to have done,

he became suspected by him; and so he was

obliged to leave Damascus again. For Mile­

sius caught him marching out into the JHip-

Bodrome, and shut him up in it; and kept

•amascus for Antiochus Eucerus; who hear­

ing how Philip's affairs stood, came back out

of Arabia. He also made an expedition.

against Judea, with eight thousand armed

footmen; and eight hundred horsemen. So

Alexander, out of fear of his coming, dug a

deep ditch, beginning at Chabarzaba, which

is now called Antipatris, to the sea of Joppa,

on which part only his army could be brought

against him. He also raised a wall, and

erected wooden towers, with intermediate

redoubts for a hundred and fifty furlongs in

length; and there expected the coming of

Antiochus. But he soon burnt them all; and

made his army pass by that way into Arabia.

The Arabian king Aretas at first retreated;

but afterward appeared suddenly with ten

thousand horsemen. Antiochus gave them

the meeting, and fought desperately; but

when he had gained the victory, and was

bringing some auxiliaries to that part of his

army that was in distress, he was slain.

When Antiochus was fallen, his army fled to

the village Cana: where the greatest part of

them perished by famine.

After him ||Aretas reigned over Coelesyria-.

being called to the government by those that

held Damascus; by reason of the hatred

they bore to Ptolemy Menneus. He also

made thence an expedition against Judea,

and defeated Alexander, near a place called

* This name, Thracida, which the Jews gave Alexan­  
der, must, by the coherence, denote "as barbarous as a

Thracian," or somewhat like it. But what it properly

signifies is not known.

t Spanheim takes notice that this Antiochus Dionysius,

the brother of Philip and of Demetrius Eucerus, and of two

others, was the fifth son of Antiochus Grypus: and that he

is styled on the coins, Antiochus Epiphanes Dionysius.

J The place for horse-races.

II This Aretas was the first king of the Arabians, who

took Damascus, and reigned there. Which name became

afterwards common to such Arabian kings, both at Petra

i

