330 [BOOK 15 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

^■i

w*m

on the strength of its walls. But Benhadad

supposed he should take the city, if not by

his engines of war, yet that he should over­

come the Samaritans by famine and the want

of necessaries; and brought his army upon

them, and besieged the city. And the plenty

of necessaries was brought so low with Jo-

ram, that, from the extremity of want, an

ass's head was sold in Samaria for eighty

pieces of silver; and the Hebrews bought a

sextary of dove's dung, instead of salt, for

five pieces of silver. Now Joram was in

fear lest some persons should betray the

city to the enemy, by reason of the famine,

and went every day round the walls and the

guards, to see whether any such were con­

cealed among them; and by being thus seen,

and by taking such care he deprived them

of the opportunity of contriving any such

things. One day upon a certain woman's

crying out, "Have pity on me, my lord;"

he thought that she was about to ask for

somewhat to eat; and imprecated God's

curse upon her, saying, he had neither

threshing-floor, nor wine-press; whence he

might give her any thing at her petition.

Upon which she said, she did not desire his

aid in any such thing; nor troubled him

about food: but desired that he would do

her justice as to another woman. And

when he bade her let him know what she

desired, she said, she had made an agree­

ment with another woman, who was her

neighbour and her friend; that because the

famine was intolerable, they should kill their

children, each of them having a son of her

own, and live upon them two days, the one

day upon one son, and the other day upon

the other: "And," said she, "I have killed*

my son, the first day, and we lived upon him

yesterday; but this other woman will not do

the same thing, but hath broken her agree­

ment, and hath concealed her son." This

story affected the king so deeply that he

rent his garment and cried out with a loud

voice; and conceiving great wrath against

Elisha the prophet, he resolved to have him

slain; because he did not pray to God to

provide them some way of escape out of the

miseries with which they were surrounded.

Accordingly a messenger was immediately

despatched to kill the prophet: but Elisha

was not unacquainted with the wrath of the

king against him. For as he sat in his house

by himself, with none but his disciples about

him, he told them, that Joram,f who was the

son of a murderer, had sent one to take away

his head. "But," said he, "when he that is

commanded to do this, comes, take care that

you do not let him come in; but press the

door against him, and hold him fast there: for

the king himself will follow him, and come to

me, having altered his mind." Accordingly

they did as they were bidden, when he that

was sent by the king to kill Elisha came.

But Joram repented of his wrath against the

prophet; and for fear he that was commanded

to kill him should have done it before he

came, he made haste to hinder his slaughter.

And when he came, he accused him that he

did not pray to God for his deliverance from

the miseries the people now lay under, but

saw them so sadly destroyed by them. Here­

upon Elisha promised, that the very next

day, at the very same hour in which the king

came to him, they should have a great plenty

of food; and that two Jseahs of barley should

be sold in the market for a shekel; and a

seah|| of fine flour should be bought for a

shekel. This prediction made Joram, and

those that were present, very joyful; for they

did not scruple believing what the prophet

said, on account of the experience they had

of the truth of his former predictions. And

the expectation of plenty made the want

they were in that day, with the uneasiness

that accompanied it, appear a light thing to

them. But the captain of the third band,

who was a friend of the king's, and on whose

hand the king leaned, said, "Thou talkest

of incredible things, O prophet! for as it is

impossible for God to pour down torrents of

* This was threatened as a punishment for disobedience,  
in Levit. xxvi. 29. and Deut. xxvii. 53, 57.

t This son of a murderer was Joram, the son of Ahab,

which Ahab slew, or permitted his wife Jezebel to slay

the Lord's prophets, and Naboth, 1 Kings xviii. 4. xxi.

19. and he is here called by this name, 1 suppose, be­

cause he had now also himself sent an officer to murder

him. Yet is Josephus's account of Joram's coming to

himself at List, as repenting of his intended cruelty,

much more probable than that in our copies, 2 Kings vi.

33. which rather implies the contrary. See the place

which seems to be imperfect in those copies.

J About a peck.

D Half a peck.

