436 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sented those that attended about the king

with gilts, to the value of a great number of

talents; that he might escape the danger he

was in from them: for to these it was that

Hyrcanus's brethren had written to destroy

him. Now Ptolemy admired at the young

man's magnanimity: and commanded him to

ask what gift he pleased. But he desired

nothing else to be done for him by the king,

than to write to his father and brethren

about him. So when the king had paid him

very great respect, and had given him very

large gifts, and had written to his father and

his brethren, and all his commanders, and

officers about him, he sent him away. But

when his brethren heard that Hyrcanus had

received such favours from the king, and was

returning home with great honour, they went

out to meet him, and to destroy him; and that

with the privity of their father. For he was

angry at him for the large sum of money that

he bestowed for presents: and so had no con­

cern for his preservation. However, Joseph

concealed the anger he had at his son, out

of fear of the king. And when Hyrcanus's

brethren came to fight him, he slew many

others of those that were with them; as also

two of his brethren themselves: but the rest

of them escaped to Jerusalem, to their father.

But when Hyrcanus came to the city, where

nobody would receive him, he was afraid for

himself; and retired beyond the river Jordan,

and there abode: obliging the Barbarians to

pay their taxes.

At this time Seleucus, who was called

Soter, reigned over Asia: being the son of

Antiochus the Great. And now Hyrcanus's

father Joseph died. He was a good man,

and of great magnanimity; and brought the

Jews out of a state of poverty and meanness,

to one that was more splendid. He retained

the farm of the taxes of Syria, and Phoenicia,

and Samaria *twenty-two years. His uncle,

Onias, also died about this time, and left

the high-priesthood to his son Simon. And

when he was dead, Onias his son succeeded

him in that dignity. To fhim it was that

Areus, king of the Lacedaemonians, sent an

ambassage, with an epistle: the copy where­

of here follows:—

AREUS, KING OF THE LACEDEMONIANS, TO ONIAS,

SENDETH GREETING.

"We have met with a certain writing,

whereby we have discovered, that both the

Jews and the Lacedaemonians are of one

stock; and are derived from the Jkindred of

Abraham. It is but just, therefore, that you,

who are our brethren, should send to us

about any of your concerns as you please.

We will also do the same: and esteem your

concerns as our own: and will look upon

our concerns as in common with yours. De-

moteles, who brings this letter, will bring

your answer back to us. This letter is four

square: and the seal is an eagle, with a

dragon in his claws."

* Thirty-six years in one manuscript; which is per­  
haps the true number. See Prideaux at an. 226.

t Take here Dean Prideaux's account of this letter, at

the year 183, which I suppose to be the truth of this case.

"It is," says he, "most likely Josephus mistook the Onias

to whom this letter was directed, and ascribed that to

Onias III. which was done only in the time of Onias I.

For while Onias, the first of that name, the son of Jad-

dua, was high-priest of the Jews, there was one Areus

king of Lacedaemon; (which it no way appears there was

in the days of Onias the third.) And from him most

likely it was that this letter was written. Accordingly

Jonathan, in his letter to the Lacedaemonians, (1 Mace,

xii. 10. Antiq. XIII. 5.) wherein he makes mention

of this letter of Areus's, says, There was a long time

passed since it had been sent to them. Which could

not hare been said by Jonathan in respect of the time

in which Onias III. was high-priest: since from the

death of that Onias, to the time that Jonathan was

made prince of the Jews, there had passed no more

than twelve years."

J Whence it comes that these Lacedaemonians declare

themselves here to be of kin to the Jews, as derived

both from the same ancestor Abraham, I cannot tell.

Unless, as Grotius supposes, they were derived from the

Dores, that came of the Pelasgi. These are by Hero­

dotus, in effect, called Barbarians: and perhaps were

derived from the Syrians and Arabians, the posterity of

Abraham by Keturah, see Antiq. XIV. 10; Of the War,

I. 26. and Grotius on 1 Mace. xii. 7. We may farther

observe from the recognitions of Clement I. 33. that

Eliezer of Damascus, the servant of Abraham, Gen. xv. 2.

and xxiv. was of old by some taken for his son. So that

if the Lacedaemonians were sprung from him, they might

think themselves to be of the posterity of Abraham; as

well as the Jews, who were sprung from Isaac. And per­

haps this Eliezer of Damascus is that very Damascus,

whom Trogus Pompeius, as abridged by Justin, makes the

founder of the Jewish nation itself. Though he afterward

blunders, and makes Azelus, Adores, Abraham, and Is­

rael, kings of Judea; and successors to this Damascus:

XXXVI. 2. It may not be improper to observe far­

ther, that Moses Chorenensis, in his history of the Ar­

menians, informs us, that the nation of the Parthian?

also was derived from Abraham, by Keturah, and her

children.

