Air. 1116.] 191 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Nafaash, contemning the multitude of the

Gileadites, and the answer they gave, allowed

them a respite, and gave them leave to send

to whomsoever they pleased for assistance.

So they immediately sent to the Israelites, city

by city; and informed them what Nahash had

threatened to do, and what great distress they

were in. Now the people tell into tears and

grief, at the hearing of what the ambassadors

from Jabesh said; and the terror they were

in permitted them to do nothing more. But

when the messengers were come to the city

of king Saul, and declared the danger in

which the inhabitants of Jabesh were, the

people were in the same affliction as those in

the other cities; for they lamented the ca­

lamity of those related to them. And when

Saul was returned from his husbandry, into

the city, he found his fellow citizens weeping;

and when, upon inquiry, he had learned the

cause of the confusion and sadness they were

in, he was seized with a divine fury, and sent

away the ambassadors from the inhabitants of

Jabesh, promising to come to their assistance

on the third day, and to beat their enemies

before sun-rising; that the sun, upon its rising,

might see that they had already conquered,

and were freed from the fears they were

under. But he bade some of them remain to

conduct him the right way to Jabesh.

So being desirous to excite the people to

this war against the Ammonites, by fear of

the losses they should otherwise undergo; and

that they might the more suddenly be ga­

thered together, he cut the sinews of his oxen,

and threatened to do the same to all such as

did not come with their armour to Jordan the

next day, and follow him and Samuel the

prophet, whithersoever they should lead

them. So they came together, out of fear of

the losses they were threatened with, at the

appointed time. And the multitude were

numbered at the city Bezek. And he found

the number of those that were gathered to­

gether, besides that of the tribe of Judah, to be

seven hundred thousand; while those of that

tribe were seventy thousand. So he passed

over Jordan, and proceeded in marching all

that night, thirty furlongs; and came to Jabesh

before sun-rising. So he divided the army

into three companies, and fell upon their

* 1 Sam. xi. 18.  
t 1 Sam. xi. 14.

enemies suddenly and unexpectedly on every

side; and joining battle with them, they

slew a great many of the Ammonites, together

with their king Nahash. This glorious ac­

tion was performed by Saul, and was re­

lated with great commendation of him to all

the Hebrews: and he thence gained a won­

derful reputation for his valour. For al­

though there were some that contemned him

before, they now changed their minds, and

honoured and esteemed him as the best of

men. For he did not content himself with

having merely saved the inhabitants of Ja­

besh; but he made an expedition into the

country of the Ammonites, and laid it all

waste, and took a large prey, and then

returned to his own country triumphantly.

So the people were greatly pleased at these

excellent performances of Saul, and re­

joiced that they had constituted him their

king. They also made a clamour against

those who pretended he would be of no

advantage to their affairs: and they said,

"Where now are these men? let them be

brought to punishment :"* with all the like

things that multitudes usually say, when

elevated with prosperity, against those that

lately had despised the authors of it. But

Saul, although he took the good will and the

affection of these men very kindly, yet did

he swear that he would not see any of his

countrymen slain that day: since it was ab­

surd to mix this victory which God had given

them, with the slaughter of those that

were of the same lineage with themselves:

and that it was more agreeable to be then

of a friendly disposition, and to betake them­

selves to feasting.

When Samuel had told them that they

ought to confirm the kingdom to Saul by a

second ordination of him, they all came

together to the city Gilgal; for thither did

he command them to come.t So the prophet

anointed Saul with the holy oil, in sight

of the multitude, and declared him to be

king the second time. And so the govern­

ment of the Hebrews was changed into a

regal government. For in the days of Moses,

and his disciple Joshua, who was their ge­

neral, they continued under an aristocracy.

But after the death of Joshua, for eighteen!

X From an. 1467 to 1449. B. C,

