an. 1492.] 133 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

give the first fruits to the priests. But when

any one hath done this, and hath brought the

tithe of all that he hath, together with those

first fruits that are for the Levites, and for the

festivals; and when he is about to go home,

let him stand before the holy house, and re­

turn thanks to God, that he hath delivered

them from the injurious treatment they had

in Egypt; and hath given them a good land,

and permits them to enjoy the fruits thereof;

and when he has openly testified that he hath

fully paid the tithes, and other dues, accord­

ing to the law of Moses, let him intreat God

that he will be ever merciful and gracious to

him; and continue to be so to all the Hebrews,

both by preserving the good things he hath

already given them, and by adding what is

still in his power to bestow.

Let the Hebrews marry, at a proper age,

virgins that are free, and born of good parents.

And he that does not marry a virgin, let him

not corrupt another man's wife, and marry

her; nor grieve her former husband. Nor

let free-men marry slaves; although their af­

fections should strongly bias any of them so to

do: for it is decent, and for the dignity of the

persons themselves, to govern such affections.

And farther, no one ought to marry a harlot,

whose matrimonial oblations, arising from

prostitution, God will not receive. For by

these means the dispositions of the children

will be liberal and virtuous. I mean when

they are not born of base parents, and of the

conjunction of such as marry women that are

not free. If any one has been espoused to a

woman as to a virgin, and does not afterward

find her so to be, let him bring his action, and

accuse her; and let him make use of such in­

dications to prove his accusation as he is fur­

nished withal. And let the father or the bro­

ther of the damsel, or some one that is after

the nearest kin to her, defend her. And if

the damsel obtain a sentence in her favour,

that she had not been guilty, let her live with

her husband that accused her. And let him

not have any farther power at all to put her

away, unless she give him very great occa­

sion of suspicion, and such as can no way be

contradicted. But for him that brings an ac­

cusation and calumny against his wife, in an

* These words of Josephus are very like those of the  
Pharisees to our Saviour upon this very subject: Matthew

impudent and rash manner, let him be pu­

nished by receiving forty stripes save one,

and let him pay fifty shekels to her father;

but if the damsel be convicted, as having

been corrupted, and is one of the common

people, let her be stoned; because she did

not preserve her chastity till she were law­

fully married; but if she were the daughter of

a priest, let her be burnt alive. If any one

hath two wives, and if he greatly respect and

be kind to one of them; either of his affection

to her, or for her beauty, or for some other

reason; while the other is of less esteem with

him; and if the son of her that is beloved be

the younger by birth than another born of the

other wife, but endeavours to obtain the right

of primogeniture from his father's kindness to

his mother, and would thereby obtain a double

portion of his father's substance, (for that

double portion is what I have allotted him in

the laws,) let not this be permitted. For it

is unjust that he, who is the elder by birth,

should be deprived of what is due to him, on

the father's disposition of his estate, because

his mother was not equally regarded by him.

He that hath corrupted a damsel, espoused

to another man, in case he had her consent,

let both him and her be put to death, for they

are both equally guilty; the man, because ho

persuaded the woman willingly to submit to

an impure action, and to prefer it to lawful

wedlock; the woman, because she was per­

suaded to yield herself to be corrupted, either

for pleasure, or for gain. However, if a man

meet with a woman when she is alone, and

force her, where nobody is present to conic

to her assistance, let him only be put to

death. Let him that hath corrupted a virgin,

not yet espoused, marry her: but if the father

of the damsel be not willing she should be

his wife, let him pay fifty shekels as the price

of her prostitution. He that desires to be

divorced from his wife, for* any cause what­

soever; and many such causes happen among

men, let him in writing give assurance that he

will never use her as nis wife any more; for

by this means she may be at liberty to marry

another husband; although before this bill of

divorce be given, she is not to be permitted

so to do. But if she be misused by him also,

xix. 3. Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for

every cause?

Kk2

