ks. 107.] 485 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

had conferred many benefits on his own

country, and made war against Iturea, and

added a great part of it to Judea, and com­

pelled the inhabitants, if they would continue

in that country, to be circumcised and to

live according to the Jewish laws. He was

naturally a man of candour, and of great

modesty; as Strabo bears witness, in the

name of Timagenes; who says thus, "This

man was a person of candour, and very ser­

viceable to the Jews: for he added to them

a part of the nation of the Itureans, and uni­

ted them by the bond of circumcision."

CHAP. XII.

op Alexander's succession to the government; his

expedition against ptolemais, and the war which

ptolemy lathyrus made against him.

WHEN Aristobulus was dead, his wife

Salome, who by the Greeks was

called Alexandra, liberated his brethren from

prison: (for Aristobulus had kept them in

bonds, as we have said already:) and made

Alexander Janneus king; who was the supe­

rior in age, and in moderation. This child

happened to be hated by his father, as soon

as he was born, and was never permitted to

come into his father's sight, till he died.

The occasion of which hatred is thus report­

ed. When Hyrcanus chiefly loved the two

eldest of his sons, Antigonus and Aristobulus,

God appeared to him in his sleep. Of whom

he inquired which of his sons should be his

successor? Upon God's representing to him

the countenance of Alexander, he was griev­

ed that he was to be the heir of all his

goods; and suffered him to be brought up in

♦Galilee. However, God did not deceive

Hyrcanus: for after the death of Aristobulus,

he took the kingdom; and one of his breth­

ren, who affected the kingdom, he slew: but

the other, who chose to live private, he held

in esteem.

When Alexander Janneus had settled the

government, in the manner that he judged

best, he made an expedition against Ptole-

mais. And having overcome the men in bat-

tie, he shut them up in the city, and sat

round about it, and besieged it. For of the

maritime cities there remained only Ptolemais

and Gaza to be conquered; besides Strato's

Tower, and Dora, which were held by the

tyrant Zoilus. Now while Antiochus fPhi-

lometor, and Antiochus, who was called Cy-

zicenus, were making war against each other,

and destroying one another's armies, the

people of Ptolemais could have no assistance

from them. But when they were distressed

with this siege, Zoilus, who possessed Strato's

Tower, and Dora, and maintained a legion of

soldiers, and on occasion of the contest be­

tween the kings, affected tyranny himself;

came and brought some small assistance to

the people of Ptolemais. Nor indeed had the

kings such a friendship for them, as that they

should hope for any advantage from them.

Both those kings were in the case of wres­

tlers, who finding themselves deficient in

strength, and yet being ashamed to yield,

put off the contest by lying still as long as

they can. The only hope they had remain­

ing, was from the kings of Egypt, and from

Ptolemy Lathyrus, who came to Cyprus when

he was driven from the government of Egypt

by Cleopatra his mother. So the people of

Ptolemais sent to this Ptolemy Lathyrus;

and desired him to come, as a confederate,

to deliver them, now they were in such dan­

ger, out of the hands of Alexander. And

the ambassadors gave him hopes, that, if he

would pass over into Syria, he would have

the people of Gaza, on the side of those of

Ptolemais; and that Zoilus, with the Sido-

nians, and many others would assist them;

so that he was elevated at this, and got his

fleet ready as soon as possible.

In the mean time, however, Demetrius, one

that was of abilities to persuade men to do

as he would have them, and a leader of the

populace, made those of Ptolemais change

their opinions, and said to them, that it was

better to run the hazard of being subject to

the Jews, than to admit of evident slavery,

by delivering themselves up to a master;

and besides that, to have not only a war at

* The reason why Hyrcanus suffered not this son of  
his, whom he did not love, to come into Judea; but or­

dered him to be brought up in Galilee, is suggested by

Dr. Hudson; that Galilee was not esteemed so happy and

well cultivated a country as Judea. See Matt. xxvi. 73,

Job vii. 52, Acts ii. 7. Although another obvious reason

occurs also, that he was farther out of his sight in Galilee,

than he would have been in Judea.

t The same with Antiochus Grypus, chap. 10.

4H2

