An. 1106.] 203 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

replied, "O king, be not cast down, nor

afraid; for I will depress the insolence of

this adversary;* and will go down and fight

with him, and will bring him under me, as tall

and as great as he is; till he shall be suffi­

ciently laughed at, and thy army shall get

great glory, when he shall be slain by one

that is not yet of man's estate, neither fit for

fighting, nor capable of being intrusted with

the marshalling an army, or ordering a battle;

but by one that looks like a child, and is

really no older in age than a child."

Now Saul wondered at the boldness and

alacrity of David; but durst not presume on

his ability, by reason of his age; but said, he

must on that account be too weak to fight

with one that was skilful in the art of war.

"I undertake this enterprise," said David,

"in dependance of God's being with me; for

I have experienced already of his assistance.

For I once pursued after and caught a lion

that assaulted my flocks, and took away a

lamb from me; and I snatched the lamb out

of the wild beast's mouth; and when he

leaped upon me with violence, I took him by

the tail, and dashed him against the ground.

In the same manner did I avenge myself of a

bear also. And let this adversary of ours be

esteemed like one of these wild beasts, since

he has a long while reproached our army,

and blasphemed our God, who yet will re­

duce him under my power."

Saul prayed that the end might be, by

God's assistance, not disagreeable to the

alacrity and boldness of the child, and said,

"Go thy way to the fight." So he put about

him his breast-plate, and girded on his sword,

and fitted the helmet to his head, and went

away. But David was burdened with his

armour; for he had not been exercised to it,

nor had he learned to walk with it. So he

said, "Let this armour be thine, O king, who

* 1 Sam. xvii. 32.

t It is highly probable that this was a general practice

with idolaters, who, supposing themselves secure of the

favour and protection of their deities, concluded that their

enemies must necessarily be the objects of their displea-

•nre and vengeance. Hence, anticipating the certainty

of divine wrath upon them, they cursed and devoted them

to destruction. So did the Philistines act towards David.

And so the Romans used to do, saying,—Dii deaeque te

perdant. B.

{ This mode of speaking and challenging was very

common with the Orientals. Homer gives the same

voL. I.—NOS. 17 & 18.

art able to bear it; but give me leave to fight

as thy servant, and as I myself desire." Ac­

cordingly he laid by the armour, and taking

his staff with him, and putting five stones out

of the brook into a shepherd's bag, and

having a sling in his right hand, he went

towards Goliath. But the adversary seeing

him come in such a manner, disdained him;

and jested upon him, as if he had not such

weapons with him as are usual when one

man fights against another; but such as are

used in driving away and avoiding of dogs;

and said, "Dost thou take me not for a man

but a dog?" to which he replied, "No, not

for a doe; but for a creature worse than a

dog." This provoked Goliath to anger, who

thereupon cursed him by the name of God;t

and threatened to give his flesh to the beasts

of the earth, and to the fowls of the air, to be

torn to pieces by them. To whom David

answered, " Thou comest to me with a sword,

and with a spear, and with a breast-plate;

but I have God for my armour in coming

against thee, who will destroy thee, and all

thy army by my hands; for I will this day

cut off thy head, and cast the other parts of

thy body to the dogs;J and all men shall

learn, that. God is the protector of the He­

brews; and that our armour and our strength

is in his providence; and that without God's

assistance, all other warlike preparations and

power are useless." So the Philistine being

retarded by the weight of his armour, when

he attempted to meet David in haste, came

on but slowly, as despising him, and depended

upon it, that he should slay him, who was

both unarmed, and a child also, without any

trouble at all.

But the youth met his antagonist, being

accompanied with an invisible assistant, who

was no other than God himself. And taking

one of the stones|| that he had out of the

haughty air to his heroes, and it was doubtless a copy of

the manners and hyperbolical speeches of the times.

Thus he makes one say to another:

Bold as thou art, too prodigal of breath,

Approach, and enter the dark gates of death.

II. vi. 177. B.

I I The dexterity with which the sling may be used as

an offensive weapon is surprising. It evidently appears

in the conflict between David and Goliath, and may be

confirmed by the following citation. "The arms which

the Achaans chiefly used were slings. They were trained

Tt

