234 [book tii. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in his dancing, uncover himself among the

servants and the handmaidens. But he re­

plied, that he was not ashamed to do what

was acceptable to God, who had preferred

him before her father, and before all others;

that he would play frequently, and dance,

without any regard to what the hand­

maidens and she herself thought of it. So

this Michal who was David's wife, had no

children; however when she was afterward

married to him to whom Saul her father

had given her, (for at this time David had

taken her away from him, and had her him­

self) she bare five* children. But con­

cerning those mattersf I shall discourse in

a proper place.

Now when the king saw that his affairs

grew better almost every day, by the will of

God, he thought he should offend him, if, while

he himself continued in houses made of cedar,

such as were of great height, and had the most

curious works of architecture in them, he

should overlook the ark, while it was laid in

a tabernacle; and he was desirous to build a

temple to God, as JMoses had predicted such

a temple should be built. And when he had

discoursed with Nathan the prophet about

these things, and had been encouraged by him

to do whatsoever he had a mind to do, as

having God with him, and his helper in all

things: he was thereupon the more ready to

set about that building. But God appeared

to Nathan that night, and commanded him

to ||say to David, that he took his purposes

David kept himself within the bounds of modesty, how

joyous soever he might be. It was a command which

God gave the Israelites, that they should rejoice in their

feasts, Deut. xii. 7; but then their joy was not to be las­

civious or petulant, but pious and moderate. In the case

before us, David was in the more immediate presence of

God, and about a very sacred business; and therefore it

is incongruous to think that he would commit any thing

immodest. And, that he could not expose his nakedness

(as his wife would insinuate,) is evident from his having

not only an ephod on, but being clothed with a robe of

fine linen, besides his usual under garments, 1 Chron. xv.

27, and therefore, though his putting off his regal robes

might give some occasion to Michal's expression of his

uncovering himself, yet it must be owned, that this op­

probrious term proceeded from nothing but the overflow­

ing spleen of a proud passionate woman. Calmefs and

Patrick?! Commentaries. B.

* Hence correct our other copies. 2 Sam. vi. 23.

t This is now wanting.

I Josephus here informs us that, according to his un­

derstanding of the sense of his copy of the Pentateuch,

and his desires kindly, since nobody had be­

fore now thought of building him a temple;

although upon his having such a notion, he

would not permit him to build him that tem­

ple, because he had made many wars, and

was defiled with the slaughter of his ene­

mies; that, however, after his death, in his

old age, and when he had lived a long life,

there should be a temple built by a son of

his, who should take the kingdom after him,

and should be called Solomon, whom he pro­

mised to provide for, as a father provides for

his son, by preserving the kingdom for his

son's posterity, and delivering it to them;

but that, if he sinned, he would still punish

him, with diseases and barrenness of land.

When David understood this from the pro­

phet, and was overjoyed at this knowledge

of the sure continuance of the dominion to his

posterity, and that his house should be splen­

did, and very famous, he came to the ark,

and fell down on his face, and began to

adore God, and to return thanks to him for

all his benefits; as well for those that he had

already bestowed upon him, in raising him

from a low state, and from the employment

of a shepherd, to so great dignity of dominion

and glory; as for those also which he had

promised to his posterity, and besides for

that providence which he had exercised over

the Hebrews, in procuring them the liberty

they enjoyed. And when he had said thus,

and had sung a hymn of praise to God, he

went his way.

Moses had himself foretold the building of the temple:

which yet is no where that I know of in our present

copies. And that this is not a mistake, set down by him

unwarily, appears by what he observed before, IV. 8.

how Moses foretold, that upon the Jews' future disobedi­

ence, their temple should be burnt and rebuilt; and that

not once only, but several times afterwards. See also

Josephus's mention of God's former commands to build

such a temple presently, chap. xiv. contrary to our other

copies; or at least to our translation of the Hebrew.

2 Sam. vii. 6, 7. 1 Chron. xyii. 5, 6.

II Josephus seems in this place, with our modern in­

terpreters, to confound the two distinct predictions which

God made to David, and to Nathan, concerning the build­

ing him a temple, by one of David's posterity; the one

belonging to Solomon, the other to the Messiah: the dis­

tinction between which is of the greatest consequence to

the Christian religion: and of which I have largely treated

in my Boyle's Lectures, from p. 247—272. To which

discourse I must here refer the inquisitive reader. See

also Antiq. VII. 13. and chap. xiv.

