aN. 1048.] 287 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

now built, to be burnt and spoiled by their

enemies, and that city to be utterly over­

thrown by the hands of their enemies; and

make their miseries proverbial, and such as

should hardly be credited for their stupen­

dous magnitude; till their neighbours, when

they should hear of them, should wonder at

their calamities, and earnestly inquire for the

occasion, why the Hebrews, who had been

before advanced by God to such wealth and

glory, should be then so hated by him? and

that the answer that should be made by the

remainder of the people should be, by con­

fessing their sins, and their transgression of

the laws of their country *

CHAP. V.

OF THE ROYAL PALACE ERECTED BV KING SOLOMON, AND HIS

SOLUTION OF THE RIDDLES SENT HIM BV HIRAM.

AFTER the building of the temple,

which, we have before said, was

finished in seven years, the king laid the

foundation of his palace;")" which he did not

finish under thirteen years. For he was not

equally zealous in the building of this palace,

as he had been about the temple. For

although that was a great work, and re­

quired wonderful application; yet God, for

whom it was made, so far co-operated there­

with, that it was finished in the aforemen­

tioned number of years. But the palace,

which was a building much inferior in dignity

to the temple, both on account that its mate­

rials had not been so long beforehand pre­

pared, and on account that this was only a

habitation for kings, and not for God, it was

longer in finishing. However, this building

was raised so magnificently, as suited the

happy state of the country of the Hebrews,

and of the king thereof. But it is necessary

that I describe the entire structure and dis­

position of the parts; that so those who pe-

ruse this book may thereby make a conjec­

ture, and as it were, have a prospect of its

magnitude.

This house was a large and curious edifice,

which Solomon built for hearing causes, and

taking cognizance of suits. It was sufficiently

capacious to contain a great body of men;

who would come together to have their

causes determined. It was a hundred cubits

long, fifty broad, and thirty high; supported

by quadrangular pillars, which were all of

cedar; but its roof was according to the JCo-

rinthian order, with folding doors, and their

adjoining pillars of equal magnitude, each

fluted with three cavities; which building

was at once firm and very ornamental. There

was also another house so ordered, that its

entire breadth was placed in the middle. It

was quadrangular, and its breadth was thirty

cubits; having a temple over against it, raised

upon many pillars; in which temple there

was a large and magnificent room, wherein

the king sat in judgment. To this was joined

another house that was built for his queen.

There were other smaller edifices for diet,

and for sleep, after public matters were over;

and these were all floored with boards of

cedar. Some of these Solomon built with

stones of ten cubits; and lined the walls with

other stones that were of great value; such

as are dug out the earth for the ornaments of

temples, and to make fine prospects in royal

palaces; and which make the mines whence

they are dug famous. Now the contexture

of the curious workmanship of these stones

was in three rows; but the fourth row was

adorned with sculptures which represented

trees, and all sorts of plants, with the shades

that arose from their branches, and leaves

that hung down from them. These trees and

plants covered the stone that was beneath

them, and their leaves were wrought so pro­

digiously thin and subtile that you would

* 1 Kings ht. 1—9.

t 1 Kings vii. 1—12.

J This mention of the Corinthian ornaments of archi­

tecture in Solomon's palace by Josephus, seems to be

here set down by way of prolepsis. For although it ap­

pears to me, that the Grecian and Roman most ancient

orders of architecture were taken from Solomon's temple,

as from their original patterns; yet it is not so clear that

the last and most ornamental order, the Corinthian, was

so ancient. Although what the same Josephus says, Of

the War, V. 5. that one of the gates of Herod's temple

was built according to the rules of this Corinthian order,

is no way improbable; that order being, without dispute,

much older than the reign of Herod. However, upon

some trial, 1 confess I have not hitherto been able fully

to understand the structure of this palace of Solomon's,

either as described in our Bibles, or even with the addi­

tional help of this description here by Josephus. So I

add no more notes about it. Only the reader may easily

observe with me, that the measures of this first building

in Josephus, 100 cubits long, and 50 cubits broad, are

the very same with the area of the court of the taber­

nacle of Moses; and just half an Egyptian aroura or

acre.

