av. 396.] 419 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWa

BOOK XII.

Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Seventy Years.

FROM THE DEATH OP ALEXANDER THE GREAT, TO THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEUS.

CHAP. I.

or THE TREACHEROUS SEIZURE OF JERUSALEM AND JUDEA

BV PTOLEMY, THE SON OF LAGUS; WHO CARRIED MANY

OF THE JEWS THENCE, AND PLANTED THEM IN EGYPT.

"¥T7"HEN Alexander king of Macedon,

j j had put an end to the dominion of

the Persians, and had settled the affairs in

Judea after the aforementioned manner, he

ended his life. And as his government fell

among many, Antigonus obtained Asia; Se-

leucus, Babylon; and of the other nations

which were there, Lysimachus governed the

Hellespont; Cassander possessed Macedonia;

and Ptolemy the son of Lagus seized upon

Egypt. And while these princes ambitiously

strove one against another, every one for his

own principality, it came to pass that there

were continually wars; and the cities were

sufferers, and lost a great many of the inha­

bitants in these times of distress: insomuch

that all Syria, by the means of Ptolemy the

eon of Lagus, underwent the reverse of that

denomination of Saviour which he then had.

He also seized upon Jerusalem: and for that

end made use of deceit and treachery. For

as he came into the city on a sabbath day,

as if he would offer sacrifice, he, without any

trouble, gained the city: while the Jews did

not oppose him. For they did not suspect

him to be their enemy; and he gained it thus,

because they were free from suspicion of him;

and because on that day they were at rest

and quietness: and when he had gained it, he

ruled over it in a cruel manner. Nay, Aga-

tharchides of Cnidus, who wrote the acts ol

Alexander's successors, reproaches us with

superstition: as if we, by it, had lost our

liberty: where he says thus; "There is a

nation called the nation of the Jews; who

inhabit a city strong and great, named Jeru­

salem. These men took no care, but let it

come into the hands of Ptolemy: as not will­

ing to take arms: and thereby they submitted

to be under a hard master, by reason of

their unseasonable superstition." But when

Ptolemy had taken a great many captives,

both from the mountainous parts of Judea,

and from the places about Jerusalem and

Samaria; and the places near mount Geriz-

zim; he led them all into *Egypt and settled

them there. And as he knew that the people

of Jerusalem were fmost faithful in the ob­

servance of oaths and covenants; and this

from the Janswer they made Alexander, when

he sent an ambassage to them, after he had

* The great number of these Jews ami Samaritans that  
were formerly carried into Egypt by Alexander, and now

by Ptolemy the son of Lagus, appeared afterwards in the

vast multitude who, as we shall see presently, were soon

ransomed by Philadelphus, and by him made free, before

he sent for the seventy-two interpreters; in the many

garrisons and other soldiers of that nation in Egypt in the

famous settlement of the Jews, and the number of those

synagogues at Alexandria, long afterward, and in the ve­

hement contention between the Jews and the Samaritans

under Pliilometor, about the place appointed for public

VOL. I.—NOS. 35 & 36.

worship in the law of Moses; whether at the Jewish tem­

ple of Jerusalem, or at the Samaritan temple at Gerizzim:

of all which our author treats hereafter. And as to the

Samaritans carried into Egypt under the same princes,

Scahger supposes that those who have a great synagogue at

Cairo; as also those whom the Arabic geographer speaks of,

as having seized on an island in the Red Sea, are remains

of them at this very day; as the notes here informs us.

t Of the sacredness of oaths among the Jews in the Old

Testament, see Scripture Politics, page 54—65.

J See Book XI. chap. 8.

3Z

