AN. 591.] 369 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

punished; and this was the condition he was

in for some time, while he suffered unjustly

what I have already described.

In the ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah,

on the tenth day of the tenth month, the king

of Babylon made a second expedition against

Jerusalem, and lay before it eighteen months,

and besieged it with the utmost application.*

There came upon them also two of the

greatest calamities, at the same time that

Jerusalem was besieged; a famine and pes­

tilential distemper, and made great havock

among them. And though the prophet Jere­

miah was in prison, he did not rest, but pro­

claimed aloud, and exhorted the multitude

to open their gates, and admit the king of

Babylon: for that if they did so, they should

be preserved, and their whole families; but if

they did not do so they should be destroyed.

And he foretold that if any one staid in the

city, he should certainly perish by the fa­

mine, or by the enemies' sword: but that if

he would flee to the enemy he would escape

death. Yet did not these rulers that heard

him believe him, even when they were in

the midst of their sore calamities; but they

came to the king, and, in their anger, in­

formed him of what Jeremiah said, and ac­

cused him, and complained of the prophet,

as of a madman, and one that disheartened

their minds; and by the denunciation of

miseries, weakened the alacrity of the mul­

titude, who were otherwise ready to expose

themselves to danger for him, and for their

country; while he, in a way of threatening,

warned them to flee to the enemy: and told

them that the city should certainly be taken,

and utterly destroyed.

- But for the king himself, he was not at all  
irritated against Jeremiah: such was his

gentle and righteous disposition. Yet that

he might not be engaged in a quarrel with

those rulers, at such a time, by opposing

what they intended, he let them do with the

prophet whatsoever they would. Where­

upon, when the king had granted them such

a permission, they presently came into the

prison, and took him, and let him down with

a cord into a pit full of mire, that he might

be suffocated, and die of himself. So he

stood up to the neck in the mire, which was

all about him, and so continued. But there

was one of the king's servants, who was in

esteem with him, an Ethiopian by descent;

who told the king what a state the prophet

was in, and said that his friends and his

rulers had done evil in putting the prophet

into the mire, and by that means contriving

against him, that he should suffer a death

more bitter than by his bonds only. When

the king heard this, he repented of his

having delivered up the prophet to the

rulers, and bade the Ethiopian take thirty

men of the king's guards, and cords with

them, and whatsoever else they understood

to be necessary for the prophet's preserva­

tion; and to draw him up immediately. So

the Ethiopian took the men he was ordered

to take, and drew up the prophet out of the

mire, and left him in the prison.f

But when the king had sent to call him

privately, and inquired what he could say

to him from God, which might be suitable to

his present circumstances, and desired him

to inform him of it; Jeremiah replied, he

had somewhat to say; but that he should

not be believed, nor if he admonished him,

should he be hearkened to. "For," said he,

"thy friends have determined to destroy me,

as though I had been guilty of some wicked­

ness. And where are now those men that

deceived us, and said that the king of Baby­

lon would not come and fight against us any

more? But I am afraid now to speak the

truth; lest thou shouldst condemn me to

die." And when the king had assured him

upon oath that he would neither himself put

him to death, nor deliver him up to the

rulers, he became bold upon that assurance,

and gave him this advice: that he should

deliver the city up to the Babylonians: and

he said, that it was God that prophesied this

by him, that he must do so, if he would be

preserved, and escape out of the danger he

was in; and that then neither should the city

fall to the ground, nor should the temple be

burned; but if he disobeyed, he would be

the cause of these miseries coming upon the

citizens, and of the calamity that would be­

fall his whole house. When the king heard

this, he said, he would willingly do what he

persuaded him to, and what he declared

* 2 Kings xxv. J.

t Jeremiah xxviii. 13.

