an. 976.] 901 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

treatment after his death; the bones not

being then to be distinguished asunder." But

when he had performed those funeral rites to

the prophet, and had given that charge to his

sons, as he was a wicked and impious man,

he went to Jeroboam and said to him:—

"Wherefore is it now that thou art disturbed

at the words of this silly fellow?" And when

the king related what had happened about

the altar and about his own hand; and gave

him the names of a divine man, and an excel­

lent prophet; he endeavoured by a wicked

trick, to weaken that his opinion, and by

using plausible words concerning what had

happened, he aimed to injure the truth that

was in them. For he attempted to persuade

him, that his hand was enfeebled by the

labour it had undergone, in supporting the

sacrifices; and that upon its resting awhile

it returned to its former nature again. And

that as to the altar, it was but new, and had

borne an abundance of sacrifices, and those

large ones too; and was accordingly broken

to pieces, and fallen down, by the weight of

what had been laid upon it. He also in­

formed him of the death of him that had

foretold those things, and how he perished;

whence he concluded that he had not any

thing in him of a prophet, nor spake any

thing like one. When he had thus spoken

he persuaded the king; and entirely alienated

his mind from God, and from doing works

that were righteous and holy; and en­

couraged him to go on in his impious prac­

tices.* And accordingly he was to that

degree injurious to God, and so great a

transgressor; that he sought for nothing else

every day but how he might be guilty of

some new instances of wickedness; and such

as should be more detestable than what he

had been so insolent as to do before. And

so much shall at present suffice to have said

concerning Jeroboam.

CHAP. X.

OF rehoboam's impiety, and his punishment by shishak

KINO OF EGYPT.

REHOBOAM,t the son of Solomon, who,

as we said before, was king of the two

tribes, built strong and large cities, Beth­

lehem, Etam, Tekoa, Bethzur, Shoco, Adul-

lam,J Ipan, Maresha, Ziph, Adoraim, La-

chish, Azekah, Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron.

These he built first of all in the tribe of

Judah. He also built other cities in the tribe

of Benjamin; and walled them about, and

put garrisons in them all, and captains, and a

great deal of corn, and wine, and oil; and he

furnished every one of them plentifully with

other provisions that were necessary for sus­

tenance. Moreover he put therein shields

and spears, for many thousand men. The

Eriests also that were in all Israel, and the

.evites; and if there were any of the multi­

tude that were good and righteous men, they

gathered themselves together to him; having

left their own cities, that they might worship

God in Jerusalem. For they were not willing

to be forced to worship the heifers, which

Jeroboam had made; and they augmented

the kingdom of Rehoboam for three years.

And after he had married a woman of his own

kindred, and had by her three children; he

married also another of his own kindred,

who was the daughter of Absalom by Tamar,

whose name was Maachah; and by her he

had a son, whom he named Abijah. He had

also many other children by other wives; but

he loved Maachah above them all. Now he

had eighteen legitimate wives, and thirty

concubines;|| and he had born to him twenty-

eight sons, and threescore daughters; but

he appointed Abijah, whom he had by

Maachah, to be his successor in the kingdom;

and intrusted him with the treasures and the

strongest cities.

* How much a larger and better copy Josephus had in  
this remarkable history of the true prophet of Judea, and

his concern with Jeroboam, and with the false prophet of

Bethel, than our other copies have, is evident at first

light. The prophet's very name Jadon, or, as the Con­

stitutions call him, Adonias, IV. 6. is wanting in our other

copies; and it is there, with no little absurdity, said, that

God revealed Jadon the true prophet's death; not to

himself, as here, but to the false prophet. Of which see

Essay on the Old Test, page 74, 75. Whether the par­

ticular account of the arguments made use of, after all, by

the false prophet against his own belief, in order to per­

suade Jeroboam to persevere in his idolatry and wicked­

ness; and which it seems prevailed with him; than which

more plausible could not be invented; was intimated in

Josephus's copy, or in some other ancient book, cannot

now be determined; our other copies say not one word

of it.

t An. 974.

X Gath, 2 Chron. xi. 8.

II Sixty, 2 Chron. xi. 21.

3H2

