230 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS.

had, till now, continued with Saul's son, when

the rest of the tribe of Judah had ordained

David for their king. There came also seven

thousand and one hundred out of the tribe of

Simeon; out of the tribe of Levi came four

thousand and seven hundred, having Jehoiada

for their leader. After these came Zadok,

the high-priest, with twenty-two captains of

his kindred. Out of the tribe of Benjamin

the armed men were four thousand; but the

rest of the tribe continued still expecting that

some one of the house of Saul should reign

over them. Those of the tribe o( Ephraim

were twenty thousand and eight hundred; and

these mighty men of valour, and eminent for

their strength. Out of the half tribe of Ma-

nasseh came eighteen thousand of the most

potent men. Out of the tribe of Issachar

came two hundred,* who foreknew what was

to come hereafter: but of armed men twenty

thousand. Of the tribe of Zebulun fifty thou­

sand chosen men. This was the only tribe

which came universally in to David: and all

these had the same weapons with the tribe of

Gad. Out of the tribe of Naphtali the emi­

nent men and rulers were one thousand,

whose weapons were shields and spears, and

the tribe itself followed after; being, in a

manner,t innumerable. Out of the tribe of

Dan there were of chosen men, twenty-seven

thousand and six hundred. Out of the tribe

of Asher were forty thousand. Out of the

two tribes that were beyond Jordan, and the

rest of the tribe of Manasseh, such as used

shields, and speais, and head-pieces, and

swords, were a hundred and twenty thousand.

The rest of the tribe also made use of swords.

This multitude < ame together to Hebron, to

David; with a great quantity of corn, wine,

and all other sorts of food: and established

David in his kingdom with one consent. And

when the people had feasted and rejoiced

three days in Hebron, David and all the peo­

ple removed, and came to Jerusalem.

CHAP. III.

OF THE SIEGE AND REDUCTION OF JERUSALEM, BY KIN;

DAVID; WHO EXPELLED THE CANAANITF.S AND BROUGHT

IN THE JEWS.

NOW the Jebusites, who were the inha­

bitants of Jerusalem, and were by ex­

traction Canaanites, shut their gates; and

placed their blind, lame, and maimed persons

upon the wall, in way of derision of the

king;J and said, that the very lame them­

selves would hinder his entrance into it. This

they did out of contempt of his power, and

as depending on the strength of their walls.

David was hereby enraged, and began the

siege of Jerusalem, and employed his utmost

diligence and alacrity therein; as intending

by the taking of this place to demonstrate his

power, and to intimidate all others that might

be of the like evil disposition towards him.

So he took the lower city by force, but lhe|j

* These words of Josephus concerning the tribe of Is­  
sachar, who foreknew what was to come hereafter, are

best paraphrased by the parallel text, 1 Chron. xii. 32.

Who had understanding of the times to know what Israel

ought to do, i. e. Who had so much knowledge of astro­

nomy as to make calendars for the Israelites; that they

might keep their festivals, and plough, and sow, and gather

in their harvests and vintage in due season.

t Thirty-seven thousand, 1 Chron. xii. 34.

J The blind and the lame, says Luther, upon this place,

were the idols of the Jebusites, which, to irritate David,

they set upon their walls, as their patrons and protectors;

and these they call blind and lame sarcastically, and with

respect to David's opinion: as if they had said, ' These

gods of ours, whom ye Israelites reproach, as blind and

lame, and so unable to direct or defend us, will secure us

against you, and to your cost, make you find that they

are neither blind nor lame, but have eyes to watch for us,

and hands to fight against you, so that you must conquer

and subdue them, before you take this place.' But this

interpretation seems to be a little too metaphorical and

lorced, for which reason we have rather chosen the con­

struction which Josephus (lib. vii. cap. 2.) puts upon this

passage, viz. that they imagined their fortress to be 00

impregnable, that by way of contempt, they told David,

that their very blind and lame would be able to defend

it against him and all his forces; and this is a sense so

extremely plain and obvious, that the renowned liochart

wonders, why any man of learning should seek for any

other. The only exception to it is, that these blind and

lame, (which were rather objects of compassion,) are said

to have been extremely hated by David. But we may

observe, that David here retorts the sarcasm upon them;

The lame and blind, i. e. those who are said to defend

the place, and who, as they pretended, were to be only

the lame and the blind. And these were hateful to David,

because they had wickedly and insolently defied the ar­

mies of the living God. Pool's Annotations, Patrick's

and Le (Here's Comment. B.

II What our other copies say of Mount Sion as alone

properly called the city of David, 2 Sam. v. 6—9. and of

this its siege and conquest now by David, Josephus ap

plies to the whole city Jerusalem: though including the

citadel also. By what authority we do not now know;

perhaps after David had united them together, or joined

the citadel to the lower city, Josephus esteemed them as

one city. However this notion seems to be confirmed by

what the tame Josephus says concerning David's and roanx

