AN. 24.] 563 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

him great fame among foreigners. And it

looked, as if these calamities, that afflicted his

land to a degree plainly incredible, came in

order to raise his glory, and to be to his great

advantage. For the greatness of his liberality

in these distresses, which he now demonstra­

ted beyond all expectation, did so change the

disposition of the multitude towards him, that

they were ready to suppose he had been from

the beginning not such a one as they had

found him to be by experience; but such a

one as the care he had taken of them in sup­

plying their necessities proved him now to be.

About this time he sent five hundred chosen

men out of his body guards, as auxiliaries to

Caesar: whom *Elius Gallus led to the Red

Sea: and who were of great service to him

there. When therefore his affairs were thus

improved, and again were in a flourishing

condition, he built himself a palace in the

upper city; raising the rooms to a very great

height, and adorning them with the most

costly furniture of gold, and marble seats, and

beds; and these were so large, that they

could contain many companies of men. These

apartments were also of different sizes, and

had particular names given them. For one

apartment was called Caesar's, another Agrip-

pa's, &c. He also fell in love again, and mar­

ried another wife: not suffering his reason to

hinder him from living as he pleased. The

occasion of this marriage was as follows.

There was one Simon, a citizen of Jerusalem,

the son of Boethus, a citizen of Alexandria,

and a priest of great note there. This man

had a daughter, who was esteemed the most

beautiful woman of that time. And when the

Eeople of Jerusalem began to speak much in

er commendation, it happened that Herod

was much affected with what was said of her;

and when he saw the damsel he was smitten

with her beauty. Yet did he entirely reject

the thoughts of using his authority to abuse

her; as believing that by so doing he should

be stigmatized for violence and tyranny. So

he thought it best to take the damsel to wife.

And while Simon was of a dignity too inferior

to be allied to him; but still too considerable

to be despised; he governed his inclinations

after the most prudent manner, by augmenting

* This Elius Gallus seems to be no other than that  
Elius Largus, whom Dio speaks of, as conducting an ex­

pedition that was about this time made into Arabia Felix,

voL. I. NOS. 47 & 48.

the dignity of the family, and making them

more honourable. Accordingly he deprived

Jesus, the son of Phabet, of the high-priest­

hood; and conferred that dignity on Simon:

and so joined in affinity with him by marrying

his daughter.

When this wedding was over, Herod built

another citadel, in that place where he had

conquered the Jews, when he was driven out

of his government, and Antigonus enjoyed it.

This citadel is distant from Jerusalem about

sixty furlongs. It was strong by nature, and

fit for such a building. It is a sort of a mo­

derate hill, raised to a farther height by the

hand of man; till it was of the shape of a wo­

man's breast. It is encompassed with circu­

lar towers; and has a straight ascent to it;

which is composed of two hundred steps of

polished stones. Within it are royal and very

rich apartments, of a structure that provided

both for security and for beauty. About the

bottom there are habitations of such a struc­

ture as are well worth seeing; both on other

accounts, and also on account of the water

which is brought thither from a great way

off. and at vast expense. For the place itself

is destitute of water. The plain that is about

this citadel- is full of edifices, not inferior to

any city in largeness: and having the hill

above it in the nature of a castle.

And now, when all Herod's designs had

succeeded according to his hopes, he had not

the least suspicion that any troubles could

arise in his kingdom: because he kept his

people obedient, as well by the fear they

stood in of him, (for he was implacable in the

infliction of his punishments,) as by the provi­

dent care he had shewn towards them after

the most magnanimous manner, when they

were under their distresses. But still he took

care to have external security for his govern­

ment, as a fortress against his subjects. For

the orations he made to the cities were very

fine, and full of kindness: and he cultivated a

good understanding with their governors, and

bestowed presents on every one of them; in­

ducing them thereby to be more friendly to

him, and using his magnificent disposition so

as his kingdom might be the better secured

to him: and this till all his affairs were every

LIII. according to Petavius: who is here cited by Span-

heiro. See a full account of this expedition in Prideaux,

at the years 24 and 23.

4S

