ISO [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

night might hot'come on too soon, and be an

obstruction to the zeal of the Hebrews in pur­

suing their enemies, insomuch that Joshua

took the kings, who were hidden in a certain

cave at Makkedah, and put them to death.

Now that the day was lengthened at this

time, and was longer than ordinary, is ex­

pressed in the books laid up in the temple.

These kings who made war with, and were

ready to fight the Gibeonites, being thus

overthrown; Joshua returned again to the

mountainous parts of Canaan. And when he

made a great slaughter of the people there,

and took their prey, he came to the camp at

Gilgal.* And now there went a great fame

abroad among the neighbouring people of

the courage of the Hebrews; and those that

heard what a number of men were destroyed,

were greatly affrighted at it. So the kings

that lived about mount Libanus, who were

Canaanites; and those Canaanites that dwelt

in the plain country, with auxiliaries out of

the land of the Philistines, pitched their camp

at Beroth, a city of the Upper Galilee, not

far from Cadesh; which is itself also a place

in Galilee. The number of the whole army

was three hundred thousand armed footmen,

ten thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand

chariots. So that the multitude of the ene­

mies alarmed both Joshua himself, and the

Israelites; and they, instead of being full of

hope of success, were superstitiously timo­

rous, with the great terror with which they

were stricken. Whereupon God upbraided

them with the fear they were in; and asked

them, whether they desired a greater help

than he could afford them? and promised

them that they should overcome their ene­

mies; withal charging them to make their

enemies' horses useless, and to burn their

chariots. So Joshua became full of courage

upon these promises of God, and went out

suddenly against the enemies; and after five

days' march he came upon them, and joined

battle with them; and there was a terrible

fight, and such a number were slain, as could

not be believed by those that heard it. He

also went on the pursuit a great way; and

destroyed the entire army of the enemies, few

only escaped; and all the kings fell in the

battle; insomuch that when there wanted men

to be killed, Joshua slew their horses, and

space of a civil or artificial day, i. e. for twelve hours.

But Maimonides is of opinion, (More Nevoch. part 2.

chap. 39.) and in this he is followed by some Christian

writers, (Grotius and Masius, in locum,) that there was no

such cessation of the sun and moon's motion, but that the

whole purport of the miracle was this:—" That God, at

Joshua's request, granted him and his soldiers such a de­

gree of spirits, activity, and despatch, as enabled them to

gain a complete victory, and as much execution in one day

as might otherwise have taken up two:" but this is a con­

struction so repugnant to the genuine sense of the words

as to need no formal confutation.

There is something more, however, to be said to the

notion of other learned men, who with regard to the time

when Joshua might send up his request, and the miracle

begin, think it more probable that he should pray for a

longer day, when he perceived the sun just going to leave

him, than when it was in its height. But Joshua, no doubt,

had reasons for what he did. He was an old experienced

general, eager for a complete victory, and able to compute

what time it would take to achieve it; so that his fear of

losing any part of the present advantage, might make him

pray that the day might be thus prolonged, until he had

obtained the whole. If the sun, in its declension, had

stopped its course, it might have answered his purpose per­

haps; hut then it had given a juster handle to the sug­

gestions of those who would deny the whole merit of the

miracle. For, if the retardation of the sun had not hap­

pened until it was going to set, Spinosa might, with a much

better grace, have attributed the extraordinary length of

this day to the refraction of its rays from the clouds, which

at that time were loaded with hail; (Tract. Theol. Politic.

C. 2.) or Peirerius, to some aurora borealis, or parhelium,

which, after the setting of the sun, might appear about the

territories of Gibeon, and so be mistaken for the sun's

standing still; but now, by fixing it in its meridian point,

all the cavils are effectually silenced; (Praedam. lib. 4. c.

6.) and God, no doubt, who heard him so readily, (Cal-

met's Disser. sur le Commandment, &c.) inspired the He­

brew general with that wish or prayer, which otherwise

perhaps would never have come into his head. KeiVs

Astronomical Lectures.

Besides this general argument of Mr. Keil's, Mr. Whis-

ton has one, which he accounts no less than a demonstra­

tion: "If the earth," says he, " have an annual revolution

about the sun, it must affect the apparent motion of all the

other planets and comets; and notwithstanding the regu­

larity of their several motions in their own orbits must

render these regular motions, to us, as living upon the

moving earth, sometimes direct, and that swiftly and

slowly; sometimes stationary, and sometimes retrograde,

and that swiftly or slowly also; and all this, at such cer­

tain periods, in such certain places, for such certain dura­

tions, and according to such certain circumstances, (as

geometry and arithmetic will certainly determine,) and

not otherwise. Now that this is the real case in fact, and

that every one of these particulars are true in the astro­

nomical world, all that are skilful in that science do freely

confess, even those who do not think fit to declare openly

for this annual revolution of the earth, which yet is the

natural and certain consequence of that concession."

Whiston's Astron. Princ. of Relig. The reader that is

desirous to know more both of the annual and diurnal mo­

tion of the earth, may consult Mr. Derham's Prelim. Diss

to his Astro-Theol. B.

* Josh. x. 15.

