104 [book ra. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

people, and set them apart to be a holy tribe,

and purified them by water, taken from per­

petual springs, and with such sacrifices as

were usually offered to God on the like occa­

sions. He also delivered to them the taber­

nacle, and the sacred vessels, and the other

curtains which were made for covering the

tabernacle, that they might minister under

the conduct of the priests, who had been

already consecrated to God.

He also determined concerning animals,

which of them might be used for food, and

which they were obliged to abstain from,

which matters, when this work shall give me

occasion, shall be farther explained, and the

causes shall be added by which he was in­

duced to allot some of them to be our food,

and enjoined us to abstain from others. How­

ever, he forbade us entirely the use of blood

for food, and esteemed it to contain the soul

and spirit. He also forbade us to Cat the

flesh of the animal that died of itself, as also

the caul, and the fat of goats, and sheep, and

bulls.

He also ordered that those whose bodies

were afflicted with leprosy, and that had a

gonorrhoea, should not come into the city;*

nay, he removed the women, under certain

situations, till the seventh day, after which he

looked upon them as pure, and permitted

them to come in again. The law permits

those also who have taken care of funerals to

come in after the same manner, when this

number of days is over; but if any continued

longer than that number of days in a state of

pollution, the law appointed the offering two

lambs for a sacrifice, one of which they are to

purge by the fire, and the other the priests

take for themselves. In the same manner do

those sacrifice who have had the gonorrhoea;

but for the lepers he suffered them not to

come into the city at all, nor to live with any

others, as if they were in effect dead persons.

But if any one had obtained, by prayer to

God, a recovery from that distemper, and had

gained a healthful complexion again, such a

one returned thanks to God with several sorts

of sacrifices, concerning which we will speak

hereafter.

.Hence one cannot but smile at those who

— - ■ H—"^——-' ■

* We may. here note that Josephus frequently calls the  
camn the city, and the court of the Mosaic tabernacle a

temple, and the tabernacle itself a holy house, with allu-

say, that Moses was himself afflicted with the

leprosy when he fled out of Egypt, and that

he became the conductor of those who on

that account left that country, and led them

into the land of Canaan: for had this been

true, Moses would not have made these laws

to his own dishonour, which indeed it was

more likely he would have opposed if others

had endeavoured to introduce them: and this

the rather, because there are lepers in many

nations who are yet in honour, and not only

free from reproach and avoidance, but who

have been great captains of armies, and been

entrusted with high offices in the common­

wealth, and have had the privilege of enter­

ing into holy places and temples: so that

nothing hindered, but if either Moses himself,

or the multitude that was with him, had been

liable to such a misfortune, he might have

made laws about them for their credit and

advantage, and have laid no manner of diffi­

culty upon them. Accordingly, it is a plain

case that it is out of violent prejudice only

that they report these things about us. But

Moses was pure from any such distemper,

and lived with countrymen who were pure of

it also, and thence made the laws which con­

cerned others that had the distemper. He

did this for the honour of God; but, as to

these matters, let every one consider them

after what manner he pleases.

As to the women, when they have borne a

child, Moses forbade them to come into the

temple, or to touch the sacrifices, before forty

days were over, supposing it be a boy; but

if she hath borne a girl, the law is that she

cannot be admitted before twice that number

of days be over; and when, after the afore­

mentioned time appointed for them, they per­

form their sacrifices, the priests distribute

them before God.

But if any one suspected that his wife had

been guilty of adultery, he was to bring a

tenth deal of barley flour: they then cast one

handful to God, and gave the rest of it to the

priests for food. One of the priests set the

woman at the gates that are turned towardfe

the temple, and took the veil from her head,

and wrote the name of God on parchment,

and enjoined her to swear that she had not

■..<" 'i v."T—T- ..t -""* ."' .* *" "' ** "* "" "" '"

sion to the latter city, temple, and holy house, which he

knew so well long afterwards. - --•/.,-i?

