208 [book yr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he, with great sincerity, told him; that he

would believe what he said, when he should

either see him killed himself, or learn it upon

inquiry from others; and that the reason why

his father did not tell him of these things

was, that he knew of the friendship and affec­

tion that he bore towards him.*

When Jonathan found that this intention of

Saul's was so well attested, he asked him

what he would have him do for him? to which

David replied, "I am sensible that thou art

willing to gratify me in every thing, and pro­

cure me what I desire. Now to-morrow is

the new moon; and I was accustomed to sit

down then with the king at supper. If it

seem good to thee, I will go out of the city,

and conceal myself privately there. And if

Saul inquire why I am absent, tell him, that f

am gone to my city Bethlehem, to keep a

festival with my own tribe; and add this also,

that thou gavest leave so to do. And if he

say, as is usually said in the case of friends

that are gone abroad, it is well that he went;

then assure thyself that no latent mischief or

enmity may be feared at his hands. But it

he answer otherwise; that will be a sure sign

that he hath some design against me. Ac­

cordingly thou shalt inform me of thy father's

inclinations, and that out of pity to my case,

and out of thy friendship for me: as instances

of which friendship, thou hast vouchsafed to

accept the assurances of my love to thee;

and to give the like assurances to me; that

is, those of a master to his servant. But if

thou discoverest any wickedness in me, do

thou prevent thy father, and kill me thyself'f

But Jonathan heard those last words with

indignation; and promised to do what he de­

sired of him, and to inform him if his father's

answer implied any thing of a melancholy

nature, and any enmity against him. And

that he might the more firmly depend upon

him, he took him out into the open field, into

the pure air, and sware that he would neglect

nothing that might tend to his preservation;J

and he said, "I appeal to that God, who, as

thou seest, is diffused every where, and

knoweth this intention of mine, before I ex­

plain it in words, as the witness of this my

covenant with thee; that I will not leave off

to make frequent trials of the purpose of my

father, till I learn whether there be any

lurking distemper in the most secret parts of

his soul; and when I have learnt it, I will not

conceal it from thee; but will discover it to

thee, whether he be gently or peevishly dis­

posed. For this God himself knows, that I

pray he may always be with thee; for he is

with thee now, and will not forsake thee; but

will make thee superior to thine enemies;

whether my father be one of them, or whether

1 myself be such. Do thou only remember

what we now do; and if it happen, that I die,

preserve my children alive, and requite what

kindnesses thou hast now received, to them."

When he had thus sworn, he dismissed David,

bidding him to go to a certain part of that

plain, where he used to perform his exercises.

For as soon as he knew the mind of his father,

he would come thither to him, with one ser­

vant: and "If," said he, "I shoot three darts

at the mark, and then bid my servant carry

those three darts away, for they are before

him; know thou that there is no mischief to

be feared from my father; but if thou hearest

me say the contrary, expect the contrary

treatment from the king.|| However, thou

shalt gain security by my assistance, and

shalt by no means suffer any harm. But see

that thou dost not forget what I have desired

of thee, in the time of thy prosperity, and be

serviceable to my children." Now David,

when he had received these assurances from

Jonathan, went to the place appointed.

On the next day, which was the new moon,

the king, when he had purified himself, as the

custom was, came to supper; and when there

sat by him his son Jonathan on his right hand,

and Abner, the captain of his host, on the

other hand, he saw David's seat empty; but

said nothing; supposing that he had not puri­

fied himself, and so could not be present.

* 1 Sam. xx. 3.

t 1 Sam. xx. 8.

J Various ceremonies have been used on these occa­

sions. When treaties were made, either of a private or

public nature, such usages were observed as were of

established authority, or 'tignificantly important. The

Scythians had a peculiar method of forming their treaties.

Herodotus (1. iv c 70.) relates that they first poured

wine into a large earthen vessel, and then the contracting

parties, cutting their arms with a knife, let some of their

blood run into the wine, and stained likewise their armour

therewith. After which they themselves, and all that

were present, drank of that liquor, making the strongest

imprecations against the person that should violate the

treatv. B.

It 1 Sam. xx. 22

