an. 1950.] 29 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

possess her, if he had known she was a wife;

"But since," said he, " she accompanied thee

in the character of thy sister, I was guilty of

no offence." He also intreated him to be at

peace with him, and to make God propitious

to him; and that if he thought fit to continue

with him, he should have what he wanted in

abundance; but that if he designed to go

away, he should be honourably conducted,

and have whatever supply he wanted when

he came thither. Upon his saying this, Abra­

ham told him, that his pretence of kindred to

his wife was not a falsehood, because she

was his brother's daughter, and that he did

not think himself safe in his travels abroad

without this sort of dissimulation, and that he

was not the cause of his distemper, but was

only solicitous for his own safety. He said also

that he was ready to stay with him, where­

upon Abimelech assigned him land and

money; and they covenanted to live together

without guile, and took an oath at a certain

well, called Beersheba,* which may be in­

terpreted the well of the oath, and so it is

named by the people of the country unto this

day.

Now in a little time Abrahamf had a son

by Sarah, as God had foretold to him, whom

he named Isaac, which signifies laughter;

and indeed they so called him because Sarah

laughed when God saidJ that she should bear

a son, she not expecting such a thing, as

being past the age of child-bearing, for she

was ninety years old, and Abraham a hundred,

so that his son was born to them both in the

last year of each of those decimal numbers;

and they circumcised him|| upon the eighth

* Gen. xvi. 31.

t An. 1937.

J It is well worth observation that Josephus here calls

that principal angel who-appeared to Abraham, and fore­

told the birth of Isaac, directly God; which as he had

done it before in his coherence, c. 11. and does it after­

ward, c. 13. and v. 8. is not very strange in a great reader

and admirer of Philo, who does it so often; which lan­

guage of Josephus's here, prepares us to believe those

other expressions of his, that Jesus was a wise man, if it

be lawful to call him a man, XVIII. 3. and of God the

Word, in his last homily concerning Hades, may be

both genuine; nor is the other expression of divine

angel, used presently, and before, also of any other signifi­

cation.

II This circumcision is not after, but on the eighth day:

as it is elsewhere expressed by Josephus. The like con­

struction to which we meet with in the New Testament,

day; and from that time the Jews continue

the custom of circumcising their sons within

that number of days; but as for the Arabians,

they circumcise after the thirteenth year,

because Ismael, the founder of their nation,

who was born to Abraham of the concubine,

was circumcised at that age, concerning

whom I will hereafter give a particular ac­

count.

As for Sarah, she at first loved Ismael, who

was born of her handmaid Hagar, with an

affection not inferior to that of a mother, for

he was brought up in order to succeed in the

government; but when she herself had borne

Isaac, she was not willing that Ismael should

be brought up with him, as being too low for

him, and able to do him injuries when their

father should be dead. She therefore per­

suaded Abraham to send him and his mother

to some distant country. Now at first he did

not agree to what Sarah was zealous for, and

thought it an instance of the greatest bar­

barity to send away a young child,§ and a

woman unprovided of necessaries; but at

length he agreed to it, because God was

pleased with what Sarah had determined; so

he delivered Ismael to his mother, as not yet

able to go by himself, and commanded her to

take a bottle of water, and a loaf of bread,**

and so to depart, and to take necessity for

her guide. But as soon as her necessary pro­

visions failed, she found herself in an evil

case; and when the water was almost spent,

she laid the young child, who was ready to

expire, under a fir-tree, and went on farther,

so that he might die while she was absent;

but a divine angel came to her, and told her

Matthew xxvii. 63. Luke ii. 21. John xx. 26. This is

Reland's observation.

§ Josephus here calls Ismael, u^*iov, a young child, or

infant, though he were above 13 years of age, as Judas calls

himself and his brethren vhg, young men, when he was

47, when he had two children; and they were of much

the same age as is a damsel of 12 years old called ira«5iov,

or little child, Mark v. 39—42, five several times. Hero<l

is also said by Josephus to be, vs'©^ -aavra..aa<tiv, a very

young man at 25; and Aristobulus is styled «ai8kv,

«-av7airaffiv, a very little child, at 16 years of age. Antiq.

XV. 2. Domitian is also called by him 'ravlcwraoWui, a

very young child, when he went on his German expedition,

at about 18 years of age. Of the war, VII. 4. Samson's

wife, and Ruth, when she was a widow, are called -aa.T&tf

children, Antiq. V. 8 and 9. Accordingly in Xenophon,

we have uaTSsg for children, till 16 or 17 years of age

Kip TlouS. Edit. Hutch, page 12.

** Gen. xxi. 14. ...•.,,,.!' ./'

