56 [book n. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now when after supper they had composed

themselves to sleep, J oseph commanded his

steward both to give them their measures of

corn, and to hide its price again in their sacks;

and withal they should put into Benjamin's

sack the golden cup, out of which he himself

used to drink. Which things he did in order

to make trial of his brethren, whether they

would stand by Benjamin when he should be

accused of having stolen the cup, and should

appear to be in danger; or whether they

would leave him, and, depending on their own

innocency, go to their father without him.

When the servant had done as he was bidden,

the sons of Jacob, knowing nothing of this,

went their way, and took Simeon with them,

and had a double cause of joy; both because

they had received him again, and because

they took back Benjamin to their father, as

they had promised. But presently a troop of

horsemen encompassed them, and brought

with them Joseph's servant, who had put the

cup into Benjamin's sack. Upon this unex­

pected attack, they were much disturbed,

and asked the reason why they came thus

upon men, who a little before, had been by

their lord thought worthy of an honourable

and hospitable reception? They replied, by

calling them wicked wretches, who had for­

got that very hospitable and kind treatment

which Joseph had given them, and did not

scruple to be injurious to him; and to carry

off that cup out of which he had, in so friendly

a manner, drank to them; regarding their

friendship with Joseph no more than the

danger they should be in, if they were taken,

in comparison of the unjust gain. Hereupon

he threatened, that they should be punished,

for though they had escaped the knowledge

of him, who was but a servant, yet had they

not escaped the knowledge of God, nor had

gone off with what they had stolen; and after

all, asked, why they were pursued, as if they

knew nothing of the matter; and he told them,

that they should immediately know it by their

punishment. This and more of the same

nature did the servant say, in way of reproach;

but they being wholly ignorant of any thing

here that concerned them, laughed at what

he said, and wondered at the abusive lan-

selves, in all public feasts and banquets, was no more than

a double mess." Patrick's Commentary and Bibliotheca

Bibl. B.

guage which he gave them, when he was so

hardy as to accuse those who did not before

so much as retain the price of their corn,

which was found in their sacks, but brought it

again, though nobody else knew of any such

thing; so far were they from offering any

injury to Joseph voluntarily. But still, sup­

posing that a search would be a more sure

justification of themselves than their own de­

nial of the fact, they bid him search them;

and said, if any of them had been guilty of

theft, he might punish them all; for being no

way conscious of any crime, they spake with

assurance, and, as they thought, without any

danger to themselves. The servants desired

there might be a search made; but they said,

the punishment should extend to him alone

who should be guilty of the theft. So they

made the search; and having searched all

the rest, they' came at last to Benjamin, as

knowing it was Benjamin's sack in which they

had hidden the cup; they having searched

the rest only for a shew of accuracy; so the

rest were out of fear for themselves, and were

now only concerned about Benjamin; but

still were well assured that he would be also

found innocent; and they reproached those

that came after them for their hindering them,

while they might have proceeded a good way

on their journey. But as soon as the cup was

found in Benjamin's sack, all was changed to

mourning and lamentation. They rent their

garments, and wept for the punishment which

their brother was to undergo for his theft; and

for the delusion they had put on their father,

when they promised they would return Ben­

jamin safe to him. What added to their

misery was, that this melancholy accident

came unfortunately at a time when they

thought they had been gotten off clear. But

they confessed that this misfortune of their

brother, as well as the grief of their father

for him, was owing to themselves; since they

had forced their father to send him with them,

when he was averse from it.

The horsemen therefore took Benjamin and

brought him to Joseph, his brethren also fol­

lowing him, who, when he saw him in custody,

and them in the habit of mourning, said,

*" How came you, vile wretches as you are,

* This oration seems too long, and too unugual a digres­  
sion to have have been composed by Joseph on this occa­

sion. It seems to me a speech or declaration composed

