&v. 336.] 413 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

his son John took that dignity. On whose

account il was also that Bagoses, the general

of *another of Artaxerxes's army, polluted

the temple, and imposed tributes on the Jews;

that out of the public stock, before they of­

fered the daily sacrifices, they should pay for

every lamb filly shekels. Now Jesus was the

brother of John, and was a friend of Bagoses:

who had promised to procure him the high-

priesthood. In consequence of whose sup­

port Jesus quarrelled with John in the tem­

ple; and so provoked his brother, that in his

anger his brother slew him. Now it was a

horrible thing for John, when he was high-

priest, to perpetrate so great a crime; and so

much the more horrible, that there never was

so cruel and impious a thing done, either by

the Greeks or Barbarians. However, God

did not neglect its punishment. But the

people were, on that very account, enslaved:

and the temple was polluted by the Persians.

Now when Bagoses, the general of Artax-

erxes's army, knew that John, the high-priest

of the Jews, had slain his own brother Jesus

in the temple: he came upon the Jews imme­

diately; and began in anger to say to them,

"Have you had the impudence to perpetrate

a murder in your temple?" And as he was

aiming to go into the temple, they forbade

him so to do. But he said, "Am not I purer

than he that was slain in the temple?" And

when he had said those words, he went into

the temple. Accordingly Bagoses made use

of this pretence; and punished the Jews

seven years for the murder of Jesus.

Now when John was departed this life, his

son Jaddua succeeded in the high-priesthood.

He had a brother, whose name was Manasseh.

Now there was one tSanballat, who was sent

by Darius, the last king of Persia, into Sa­

maria. He was a Cuthean by birth; of which

stock were the Samaritans also. This man

knew that the city of Jerusalem was a famous

city; and that their kings had given a great

deal of trouble to the Assyrians, and the peo­

ple of Coelesyria. So that he willingly gave

his daughter, whose name was Nicaso, in

marriage to Manasseh; as thinking this alli­

ance by marriage would be a pledge and

security, that the nation of the Jews should

continue their good will to him.

CHAP. Vffl.

OF SANBATXAT, AND MANASSEH, AND OF THE TEMPLE WHICH

THEY BUILT IN MOUNT GERIZZIM J ALSO OF THE CON­

QUESTS OF ALEXANDER; HIS ENTRY INTO THE CITY OF

JERUSALEM; AND THE BENEFITS HE BESTOWED ON THE

JEWS.

ABOUT this {time Philip, king of Mace-

don, was treacherously assaulted and

slain at iEgeae, by Pausanias, the son of Ce­

rastes; who was derived from the family of

the Orestae. His son Alexander succeeded

in the kingdom; and passing over the Hel­

lespont, overcame the generals of Darius's

army in a battle fought at Granicum. So

he marched over Lydia, and subdued Ionia,

and over-ran Caria, and fell upon the places

of Pamphylia.

worship: nor do we know that there ever was so im­

perfect a copy of it in the world, till after the days of

Barchocah, in the second century.

* Concerning this other Artaxerxes, called Mnemon,  
and the Persian affliction and captivity of the Jews under

him, occasioned by the murder of the high-priest's bro­

ther in the holy house, see Authent. Rec. at large, page

49, 50, 116—161. And if any one wonder why Josephus

wholly omits the rest of the kings of Persia, after Ar­

taxerxes Mnemon; till he came to their last king, Darius,

who was conquered by Alexander the Great; I shall

give them Vossius's and Dr. Hudson's answer, though in

my own words: viz. that Josephus did not do ill in omit­

ting those kings of Persia with whom the Jews had no

concern: because he was giving the history of the Jews,

and not of the Persians. Which is a sufficient reason

also, why he entirely omits the history and the book of

Job; as not particularly relating to that nation. He justly

therefore returns to the Jewish affairs, after the death of

Longimanus, without any mention of Darius II. before Ar­

taxerxes Mnemon, or of Ochus, or Arogus, as the canon

of Ptolemy names them, after him. Nor had he probably

mentioned this other Artaxerxes, unless Bagoses, one of

the governors and commanders under him, had occasioned

the pollution of the Jewish temple, and had greatly dis­

tressed the Jews upon that pollution. But still, how very

wide are those learned men from truth, who, from such

bare omissions in Josephus, collect that he was unacquainted

with those reigns he omitted; and with the modern Jews,

greatly shortened the Persian monarchy. For Josephus

was in fact so far from diminishing, that he has increased

its duration; and that no fewer than 38 or 39 years.

t Many have here, very weakly, supposed that this

Sanballat, under the last Darius, is by Josephus confounded

with Sanballat the Horonite in Nehemiah xiii. 28. under

Xerxes or Artaxerxes Longimanus: who yet lived, by

Josephus's own chronology, about 120 years before him.

So palpable a mistake is hardly worth a particular confuta­

tion, and only pardonable on account of the same persons'

former mistake, as to the duration of this Persian monarchy,

in Josephus's opinion; just now observed and confuted.

} An. 336.

