140 [book IV ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

that this should be the day of my departure to

them, I return him thanks, while 1 am still

alive and present with you, for that provi­

dence he hath exercised over you, which hath

not only delivered us from the miseries they

lay under, but hath bestowed a state of pros­

perity among us; as also that he hath assisted

me in the pains I took, and in all the contri­

vances I had in my care about you, in order

to better your condition; and hath on all oc­

casions shewed himself favourable to us. Or

rather he it was who first conducted our af­

fairs, and brought them to a happy conclu­

sion, by making use of me as a general un-

,der him, and as a minister in those matters

wherein he was willing to do you good. On

which accounts I think it proper to bless that

divine power which will take care of you for

the time to come; and this in order to repay

that debt which I owe him; and to leave be­

hind me a memorial that we are obliged to

worship and honour him, and to keep those

laws which are the most excellent gift of all

those he hath already bestowed upon us; or

which, if he continue favourable to us, he will

bestow upon us hereafter. Certainly, a hu­

man legislator is a terrible enemy, when his

laws are affronted, and are made to no pur-

Sose. And may you never experience that

ispleasure of God, which will be the conse­

quence of the neglect of those laws, which he,

who is your Creator, hath given you."

When Moses had spoken thus, at the end

of his life, and had foretold what would be­

fall* every one of their tribes afterward, with

the addition of a blessing to them, the multi­

tude fell into tears; insomuch that even the

women, by beating their breasts, evinced the

deep concern they had when he was about

to die. The children also lamented still more,

as not able to contain their grief; and thereby

declared that even at their age they were

sensible of his virtue, and mighty deeds; and

truly there seemed to be a strife between the

young and the old, who should most grieve

for him. The aged grieved, because they

knew what a careful protector they were to

be deprived of, and so lamented their future

state; but the young grieved, not only for

that, but also because it so happened, that

they were to be left by him before they had

well tasted of his virtue. Now one may form

some idea of the excess of this sorrow and la­

mentation of the multitude, from what hap­

pened to the legislator himself. For although

he was always persuaded that he ought not

to be cast down at the approach of death;

since the undergoing it was agreeable to the

will of God, and the law of nature; yet what

the people did, so affected him, that he wept

himself. Now as he went thence to the place

where he was to vanish out of their sight,

they all followed after him, weeping. But

Moses beckoned with his hand to those that

were remote from him, and bid them stay be­

hind in quiet; while he exhorted those that

were near him, that they would not render

his departure so lamentable. Whereupon

they thought it their duty to let him depart

according as he desired; so they restrained

themselves, though weeping still towards one

another. All those who accompanied him

were the senate, and Eleazar the high-priest,

and Joshua their commander. Now as soon

as they were come to the mountain called

Abarim, which is a very high mountain situ­

ate over against Jericho, and one that affords

to such as are upon it a prospect of the great­

est part of the excellent land of Canaan, he

dismissed the senate; and, as he was going

to embrace Eleazar and Joshua, and was still

discoursing with them, a cloud suddenly over­

shadowed him, and he disappeared, in a cer­

tain valley;t although he wrote in the holy

books that he died; which was done out of

fear lest they should venture to say, that be­

* Since Josephus assures us here, as is most naturally  
to be supposed, and as the Septuagint gives the text, Deut.

xxxiii. 6, that Moses blessed every one of the tribes of

Israel; it is evident that Simeon was not omitted in his

copy, as it unhappily now is both in our Hebrew and Sa­

maritan copies.

t Deut. xrxiv. 6. But notwithstanding all this pre­

caution of God, the Christians boast, that they have dis­

covered the sepulchre, which had been kept secret for so

many ages. For in the year 1655, some goats that were

separated from the rest of the flock, went to feed in a cer-

tain place, in the mountain Nebo, and returned from thence

so odoriferous and perfumed, that the shepherds, asto­

nished at so wonderful a prodigy, ran presently to consult

with the patriarch of the Maronites, who sent "thither two

monks from mount Lebanon, and they discovered a monu­

ment, on which was this inscription, Moses, the servant of

the Lord. But there is too much reason to think that this

is all a fiction, on purpose to raise the reputation of the

Maronites; as Basnage, in his History and Religion of the

Jews, has sufficiently proved, lib. 4. cap. 17. B.

