104 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

messengers through the country, and gave

order that they should have a remission of

their labours, and should keep a festival many

days, on account of his kingdom. In like

manner did Vashti,* the queen, gather her

guests together, and made them a feast in the

palace. Now the king was desirous to shew

her, who exceeded all other women in beauty,

to those that feasted with him; and sent some

to command her to come to his feast. But

she, out of regard to the laws of the Persians,

which forbid the wives to be seen by stran­

gers, did not go to the king. And though he

repeatedly sent the eunuchs to her, she did

nevertheless refuse to come: till the king

was so much irritated, that he broke up the

entertainment, and rose up, and called for

those seven, who had the interpretation of

the laws committed to them, and accused his

wife, and said, that he had been affronted by

her; because when she was frequently called

by him to his feast, she did not obey him.

He therefore gave order, that they should in­

form him what could be done by the law

against her. So one of them, whose name

was Memucan, said, that this affront was of­

fered not to him alone, but to all the Persians;

who were in danger of leading their lives very

ill with their wives, if they must be despised

by them. For that none of their wives would

have any reverence for their husbands, if

they had such an example of arrogance in

the queen towards him who ruled over all.

Accordingly he exhorted him to punish her

who had been guilty of so great an affront

to him, after a severe manner; and when he

had so done, to publish to the nations what

had been decreed about the queen. So the

resolution was to put Vashti away, and to

give her dignity to another woman.f

But the king having been fond of her, did

not well bear a separation: and yet by the

law he could not admit of a reconciliation.

So he was under trouble as not having it in

his power to do what he desired. But when

his friends saw him so uneasy, they advised

him to cast the memory of his wife, and his

love for her out of his mind; and to send

abroad over all the habitable earth, and to

search out for comely virgins, and to take her

whom he should best like, for his wife, be­

cause his passion for his former wife would

be quenched by the introduction of another;

and the kindness he had for Vashti would be

withdrawn from her, and be placed on her

that was with him. Accordingly he was per­

suaded to follow this advice; and gave order

to certain persons to choose out of the vir­

gins that were in his kingdom, those that

were esteemed to be most comely. So when

a great number of these virgins were gather­

ed together, there was found a damsel in

Babylon, whose parents were dead, and she

was brought with her uncle Mordecai; who

was of the tribe of Benjamin, and one of the

principal persons among the Jews. Now it

proved that this damsel, whose name was

Esther, was the most beautiful of all the rest;

and that the grace of her countenance drew

the eyes of the spectators principally upon

her. So she was committed to one of the

eunuchs, to take the care of her, and she

was provided with odours, and with costly

ointments, such as her body required to be

anointed withal.J And this was used for six.

months by the virgins; who were in number

* It has been a great inquiry among the learned, who  
this Vashti was. Those who make the Ahasuerus in Scrip­

ture to be Darius the son of Hystaspes, suppose that she

was Atossa the daughter of Cyrus, who was first married

to Cambyses, her own brother, then to the Magian, who

would have passed for Smerdis, and last of all to Darius.

Others suppose, that she was Ahasnerus's own sister, be-

ca'i*e the Persians, in those days, made no scruple in these

kind of marriages; though there is much more reason to

think, that before her marriage, there had been such a

collection of virgins made for the use of. the king, as was

before Esther's, (this is implied in chap. ii. 19.) and that

having the good fortune then of obtaining the preference

in the king's esteem, she was created queen, but being

perhaps a woman of no high descent, her family extrac­

tion, for that reason, might be concealei'. CalmeCs Die-

tionary, under the name. B.

t Esther ii. 3, 4.

j The reason is assigned in the following verse, for

their being kept so long in this course, viz. that for six

months they might be anointed with the oil of myrrh,

which, besides the fragrancy of its smell, was good to

make the skin soft and smooth, and clear it from all man­

ner of scurf; and for six more with sweet odours, which

in these hot countries, were necessary to take away all ill

scents, and, as some think, to make the body more vigor­

ous. But besides this, there might be something of state

in making those vassals, (for such they were accounted,)

wait, before they were admitted to the honour of the

king's bed; and something of precaution too, in keeping

them recluse for so long a time, that the king might be

satisfied, that he was not imposed upon by a child begot­

ten by any other man. Patrick's Commentary, and PooVt

Annotations on Esther ii. 12. B.

