an. 226.] 433 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When the day came on which the king was

to let the taxes of the cities to farm; and those

that were the principal men of dignity in

their several countries were to bid for them;

the sum of the taxes together, of Coelesyria

and Phoenicia, and Judea, with Samaria, as

they were bidden for, came to eight thousand

talents. Hereupon Joseph accused the bid­

ders, as having agreed together to estimate

the value of the taxes at too low a rate; and

he promised that he would himself give twice

as much for them; but for those who did not

pay, he would send the king home their whole

substance: for this privilege was sold together

with the taxes themselves. The king was

pleased to hear that offer; and because it

augmented his revenues, he said he would

confirm the sale of the taxes to him. But

then he asked whether he had any sureties

that would be bound for the payment of the

money? He answered very pleasantly, "I

will give securities, and those of persons

good and responsible; and which you shall

have no reason to distrust." And when he

bade him name them, who they were, he re­

plied, " I give thee no other persons, O king,

for my sureties than thyself, and this thy

wife; and you shall be security for both par­

ties." So Ptolemy laughed at the proposal,

and granted him the farming of the taxes

without any sureties. This procedure was a

sore grief to those that came from the cities

into Egypt; who were utterly disappointed,

and they returned every one to their own

country with shame.

But Joseph took with him two thousand

foot soldiers from the king. For he desired

he might have some assistance, in order to

force such as were refractory in the cities to

pay. And borrowing of the king's friends at

Alexandria five hundred talents, he hastened

into Syria. When he was at Ascalon, and

demanded the taxes of the people, they re­

fused to pay any thing, and affronted him also:

but he seized upon about twenty of the prin­

cipal men, and slew them, and gathered what

they had together, and sent it all to the king;

and informed him what he had done. Ptolemy

admired at the prudent conduct of the man,

and commended him for what he had done;

and gave him leave to do as he pleased.

When the Syrians heard of this they were

astonished; and having before them a sad

example in the men of Ascalon, that were

slain, they opened their gates, and willingly

admitted Joseph, and paid their taxes. And

when the inhabitants of Scythopolis attempted

to affront him, and would not pay him those

taxes which they formerly used to pay, with­

out disputing about them; he slew also the

principal men of that city, and sent their

effects to the king. By this means he gathered

great wealth together; and made vast gains

by this farming of the taxes; and he made

use of what estate he had thus gotten, in

order to support his authority; as thinking it

a piece of prudence to keep what had been

the occasion and foundation of his present

good fortune; and this he did by the assist­

ance of what he was already possessed of.

For he privately sent many presents to the

king, and to Cleopatra, and to their friends,

and to all that were powerful about the

court; and thereby purchased their good will

to himself.

This good fortune he enjoyed for twenty-

two years; and was become the father ot

seven sons, by one wife; as he had one other

son, whose name was Hyrcanus, by his bro­

ther Solymius's daughter, whom he married

on the following occasion. He once came to

Alexandria with his brother; who had along

with him a daughter already marriageable;

in order to give her in wedlock to some of the

Jews of chief dignity there. He then supped

with the king; and falling in love with an

actress, that was of great beauty, and came

into the room where they feasted, he told his

brother of it, and intreated him, (because a

Jew is forbidden by their law to come near a

foreigner,) to conceal his offence, and to be

kind and subservient to him, and to give him

the opportunity of fulfilling his desires. Upon

which his brother willingly entertained the

proposal of serving him; and adorned his

own daughter, and brought her to him by

night, and put her into his bed. And Joseph

being disordered with drink, knew not who

she was; and so lay with his brother's

daughter; and this he did many times; and

loved her exceedingly; and said to his bro­

ther, that he loved this actress so well, that

he should run the hazard of his life if he must

part with her; and yet probably the king

would not give him leave to take her with

him. But his brother bade him be in no con

