364 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

kids of the goats and lambs, and three thou­

sand oxen For burnt-offerings. The prin­

cipal of the priests also gave to the priests

against the passover, two thousand and six

hundred lambs; and the principal of the Le-

vites gave to their brethren, five thousand

lambs, and five hundred oxen. By which

means great plenty of sacrifices were offered

according to the laws of Moses, while every

priest explained the matter, and ministered

to the multitude. And indeed there had

been no other festival thus celebrated by

the Hebrews from the time of Samuel the

prophet;* and the plenty of sacrifices now

was the occasion that all things were per­

formed according to the laws, and according

to the custom of their forefathers.

CHAP. V.

»F THE EXPEDITION OF NECHO, KING OF EGYPT; THE DEATH

OF JOSIAH J THE CAPTIVITY OF HIS SUCCESSOR JEHOAHAZ,

AND THE ACCESSION OF JEHOIAKIM; ALSO OF THE PRO­

PHETS JEREMIAH AND EZEKIEL.

NOW Necho,f king of Egypt, raised an

army,J and marched to the river Eu­

phrates; in order to fight with the Medes

•and Babylonians who had ||overthrown the

dominion of the Assyrians. For he had a

desire to reign over Asia. But when he wae

come to the city Mendes, which belonged to

the kingdom of Josiah, he brought an army to

hinder him from passing through his country,

in his expedition against the Medes. Now

Necho sent a herald to Josiah, and told him

that he did not make this expedition against

him; but was making haste to Euphrates;

and desired that he would not provoke him to

fight against him, because he obstructed his

march to the place whither he had resolved

to go. But Josiah did not admit of this ex­

cuse, but put himself into a posture to hinder

him from his intended march. I suppose it

was Sfate that pushed him on this conduct;

that it might take an occasion against him.

For as he was setting his **troops in array,

and rode about in his chariot,ff from one

wing of his army to another, one of the

Egyptians shot an arrow at him, and put an

end to his eagerness of fighting: for being

sorely wounded, he commanded a retreat to

be sounded for his army; and returned to

Jerusalem, and died of that wound, and he

was magnificently buried in the sepulchre

of his fathers, when he had lived thirty-nine

years, and of them had reigned JJthirty-one.

But all the people mourned greatly for him;

lamenting and grieving on his account many

magnificence seen," when we mean no more than that

the thing we speak of was very splendid and magnifi­

cent; unless we suppose, with some, that a preference

is given to this passover above all the rest, in respect of

the exact observation of the rites and ceremonies belong­

ing to it, which, at other times, were performed according

to custom, and several things either altered or omitted;

whereas at this, every thing was performed according

to the prescribed form of the law, from which, since

the finding of this authentic copy of it, Josiah enjoined

them not to vary one tittle. Calmefs and Le Clerc's

Commentaries. B.

* 2 Chron. xxxv. 18.

t Pharaoh signifies no more, in the Egyptian language,

than king; and was therefore given to any one that sat

upon that throne: but Necho (according to Herodotus)

was his proper name, though some will have it to be an

appellative which signifies lame, because this Pharaoh (as

they suppose, had a lameness, which proceeded from

some wound he had received in the wars. The same

historian tells us, that he was the son and successor of

Psammetichus king of Egypt, and a man of a bold, en­

terprising spirit; that he made an attempt to join the Nile

and the Red Sea, by drawing a canal from one to the

other; that though he failed in this design, yet, by sending

a fleet from the Red Sea through the streights of Babel

Mandel, he discovered the coasts of Africa, and, in this

his expedition to the Euphrates, resolved to bid fair

(by destroying the united force of the Babylonians and

Medes) to be the whole monarch of Asia. Prideavx't

Connection, anno 610, and Marsham'i Canon, ag. win/.

18. B.

J An. 610.

II This is a remarkable passage of Chronology in Jose-

phus; that about the latter end of the reign of Josiah, the

Medes and Babylonians overthrew the empire of the

Assyrians; or, in the words of Tobit's contmuator, that

before Tobias died, he heard of the destruction of Nineveh,

which was taken by Nabuchodonosor, the Babylonian, and

Assuerus, the Mede. Tobit xiv. 15. Of which see Dean

Pridcaux,$ Connection, at the year 612.

§ Or Divine Providence; for this procedure was

against a divine admonition.

** This battle is justly esteemed the very same that  
Herodotus mentions, when he says, that Necho joined

battle with the Syrians (or Jews) at Magdolum (Megiddo,)

and beat them: as Dr. Hudson here observes.

tt It was the custom of war in former times for great

officers to have their led horses, that if one failed they

might mount another. The kings of Persia (as Quintus

Curtius informs us) had horses attending their chariots,

which, in case of an accident, they might make to; and,

in like manner, we might presume, that, when it became

a mighty fashion to fight in chariots, all great captains had

an empty one following them, into which they might betake

themselves if any mischance befell the other. Bochart's

Hieroz. part I. c. 2. and 9. B.

Jt From an. 641 to an. 610.

