220 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS.

commandments, as I foretold to thee while I

was alive. Know, therefore, that the people

shall be made subject to their enemies; and

that thou, with thy sons, shall fall in the battle

to-morrow; and thou s-halt then be with* me

in Hades."

When Saul had heard this, he could not

speak for grief; but fell down on the floor.

Whether it were from the sorrow that arose

upon what Samuel had said, or from his

emptiness; for he had taken no food the fore-

Soing day aitd night; he easily fell quite

own. And when with difficulty he had re­

covered himself, the woman would force him

to eat; begging this of him as a favour, on

account of her concern in that dangerous in­

stance of fortune-telling, which it was not

lawful for her to have done, because of the

fear she was under of the king; while she

knew not who he was; yet did she undertake

it, and go through with it. On which account

she intreated him to admit that a table and

food might be set before him; that he might

recover his strength, and so get safe to his

own camp. And when he opposed her mo­

tion, and entirely rejected itT by reason of his

anxiety, she forced him; and at last persuaded

him to it. Now she had one calf, that she

was very fond of, and one that she took a

great deal of care of, and fed it herself; for

she was a woman that got her living by the

labour of her own hands, and had no other

possession but that one calf This she killed,

and made ready its flesh, and set it before hi*

servants and himself. So Saul returned to the

camp while it was yet night.

Now it is but just tof commend the gene­

rosity of this woman; because, when the king

had forbidden her to use that art, whence her

circumstances were improved; and when she

had never seen the king before, she still did

not remember to his disadvantage that he had

condemned her sort of learning, and did not

refuse him as a stranger, and one that she

had no acquaintance with; but she had com­

passion upon him, and comforted him, and

exhorted him to do what he was greatly averse

to; and offered him the only creature she

had, as a poof woman; and that earnestly,

and with great humanity; while she received

no requital for her kindness, nor hunted after

any future favour from him; for she knew he

was to die. Whereas men are naturally either

ambitious to please those that bestow benefits

upon them, or are very ready to serve those

from whom they may receive some advantage.

It would be well therefore to imitate the ex­

ample of this woman, and to do kindness to

all such as are in want; and to think that

nothing is better, nor more becoming than

such a general beneficence; nor what will

sooner render God favourable, and ready to

bestow good things upon us. And so far may

suffice to have spoken concerning this woman.

But I shall speak farther upon another sub­

ject; which will afford me the opportunity of

discoursing on what is for the advantage of

cities, people, and nations, and suited to the

taste of good men; and will encourage them

all in the prosecution of virtue, and is capable

of shewing them the method of acquiring

glory, and an everlasting fame; and of im­

printing on the kings of nations, and the rulers

of cities, great inclinations and diligence bi

doing well; as also of encouraging them to

undergo dangers, and to die for their coun­

tries, and of instructing them how to dispose

all the most terrible adversities. And I have

a fair occasion offered me to enter on such a

discourse by Saul, the king of the Hebrews.

For although he knew what was coming upon

him, and that he was to die immediately, by

the prediction of the prophet, he did not re­

solve to fly from death, nor so far to indulge

the love of life, as to betray his own people

to the enemy* of to bring disgrace on the

royal dignity. But exposing himself, as well

as all his family, to dangers, he thought it a

brave thing to fall together with them, as he

was fighting for his subjects; and that it was

betteF his sons- should die thus, shewing their

courage, than to leave them to their uncertain

conduct afterwards; while instead of succes­

sion and posterity they gained commendation,

and a lasting name. Such an one alone seems

to me to be a just, a courageous, and a pru­

dent man; and when any one has arrived at

these dispositions, or shall hereafter arrive at

* I Sam. xjviii. 19.

t These great commendations of this necromantic wo­

man of Endor, and of Saul's martial courage, when yet he

Vnew he should die in the" battle, are somewhat unusual

digressions in Josephus. They seem to me extracted

from some speeches or declamations of his, composed for­

merly in the way of oratory, that lay by him; and which

he thought fit to insert upon this occasion.

