248 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and communicated to them all that he had

heard of his son's madness: he then com­

mitted himself to God, to judge between

them, about all their actions, and left the care

of his royal palace to his ten concubines, and

went away from Jerusalem; being willingly

accompanied by the rest of the multitude who

went hastily away with him; and particularly

by those six hundred armed men, who had

been with him from his first flight, in the days

of Saul. But he persuaded Abiathar and

Zadok the high-priests, who had determined

to go away with him; as also all the Levites,

who were with the ark, to stay behind; as

hoping God would deliver hhn without its

removal; but he charged them to let him

know privately how all things went on. And

he had their sons, Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok,

and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, for faithful

ministers in all things. But Ittai the Gittite

went out with him, whether David would let

him or not; for he would have persuaded him

to stay, and on that account he appeared the

more friendly to him. But as he was as­

cending the Mount of Olives barefoot, and

all his company were in tears, it was told him

that Ahithophel was with Absalom. This

hearing augmented his grief, and he besought

God earnestly to alienate the mind of Absalom

from Ahithophel; for he was afraid that he

should persuade him to follow his pernicious

counsel; for he was a prudent man, and

very sharp in seeing what was advantageous.

When David had ascended to the top of the

mountain, he took a view of the city, and

prayed to God with abundance of tears, as

having already lost his kingdom. And here

it was that a faithful friend of his, whose name

was Hushai,* met him. When David saw

him with his clothes rent, and having ashes

all over his head, and in lamentation for the

great change of affairs; he comforted him,

and exhorted him to leave off grieving. Nay

at length he besought him to go back to Ab­

salom, and appear as one of his party, and to

endeavour to learn the most secret thoughts

of his mind, and to contradict the counsels of

Ahithophel;f for that he could not do him so

much good by being with him, as he might by

being with Absalom. So he was prevailed on

by David, and left him, and came to Jeru­

salem; whither Absalom himself came also a

little while afterward.J

When David was gone a little farther, there

met him Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth,

(whom he had sent to take care of the pos­

sessions which had been given him, as the

son of Jonathan, the son of Saul;) with a

couple of asses, laden with provisions; and

desired him to take as much of them as he

and his followers stood in need of. And

when the king asked him, where he had left

Mephibosheth, he said, he had left him in

Jerusalem, expecting to be chosen king in

the present confusions, in remembrance of

the benefits Saul had conferred upon them.

At this the king had great indignation, and

gave to Ziba all that he had formerly be­

stowed on Mephibosheth; for he determined

that it was much fitter that he should have

them, than the other. At which Ziba greatly

rejoiced.

When David was at a place called Ba-

hurim, there came out a kinsman of Saul's,

whose name was Shimei,|| and threw stones

at him, and gave him reproachful words; and

as his friends stood about the king, and pro­

tected him, he persevered still more in his

reproaches, and called him, " A bloody man,

and the author of all sorts of mischief/' He

* This man might be of the ancient race of the Arch-  
ites, descendants from Canaan, of whom Moses speaks,

Gen. x. 17. but since the name of these ancient people is

differently written, I should rather think, that this addi­

tional name was given him from the place of his nativity,

viz. Archi, a town situated on the frontiers of Benjamin

and Ephraim, to the West of Bethel. Josh. xvi. 2. B.

t The Jews are of opinion, that Ahithophel was in­

censed against David, and therefore ready to go over to

the adverse party, because he had abused Bathsheba,

whom they take to have been his grand-daughter, because

she was the daughter of Eliam, 2 Sam. xi. 3. and Ahitho­

phel had a son of that name, 2 Sam. xxiii. 34. for this

reason they imagine, that he advised Absalom to lie with

his father's concubines, that he might be repaid in kind:

though the Scripture assigns another, viz. that he and his

father might thereby become irreconcileable enemies.

Pool's Annotations. B.

J 2 Sam. xv. 37.

II Whether this man had been a personal sufferer in the

fall of Saul's family, or what else had exasperated him

against David, it no where appears; but it seems as if he

had conceived some very heinous offence against him,

when neither the presence of a king, nor the terror of hia

guards, could restrain him from throwing stones and bitter

speeches at him. And it looks as if the king were fallen

into the utmost contempt, when one private man could

think of venting his malice at him in so gross a manner

with impunity. Howell's Hist, in the notes. B.

