an. 1492.] 14* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

orders, by giving us victory, which will both

take away the grief we are in at present, and

prevent our distrust at what is to come."

These intercessions Joshua put up to God,

as he layprostrate on his face; whereupon God

answered him, that he should rise up, and pu­

rity his host, from the pollution which was got

into it, for that consecrated things had been

impudently stolen, and that this was the oc­

casion which this defeat had happened to

them, and that when they should search out

and punish the offender, he would ever take

care they should have the victory over their

enemies. This Joshua told the people; and

calling Eleazar, the high-priest, and the men

in authority, he cast lots, tribe by tribe; and

when the lot shewed that this wicked action

was done by one of the tribe of Judah, he

then again proposed the lot to the several

families thereto belonging, so it was found to

belong to the family of Zachar; and when the

enquiry was made man by man, they took

Achar, who, upon God's reducing him to a

terrible extremity, could not deny the fact,

but confessed the theft, and produced what

he had taken in the midst of them; so this

man was immediately put to death,* and at­

tained no more than to be buried in the night,

in a disgraceful manner, and such as was

suitable to a condemned malefactor.

When Joshua had thus purified the host,

he led them against Ai; and having by night

laid an ambush round about the city, he at­

tacked the enemies as soon as it was day;

but as they advanced boldly against the Is-

* Josh. Til. 25. Since the law against sacrilege con­  
demns transgressors to the flames, and God commanded

the person here guilty to be burnt accordingly, Josh. vii.

18. the Jews affirm, that Achar was actually burnt, and

whereas it is said in the text, that he was stoned, they think

that this was done, not judicially, but accidentally, by the

people who were so highly provoked, that they could not

forbear casting stones at him as he was led to execution.

Vid. Munst. on Joshua vii. B.

t It is a question among the casuists, whether the Gibe-

onites could, with a good conscience, pretend that they

were foreigners, and tell a lie to save their lives? And

to this Puffendorf (Droit de la Nature, lib. 4. c. 2.) thus

replies, " The artifice of the Gibeonites," says he, " had

nothing blameable in it, nor does it properly deserve the

name of a lie; for what crime is there in any one's ma­

king use of an innocent fiction, in order to elude the fury

of an enemy that would destroy all before them? Nor did

the Israelites, indeed properly receive any damage from

this imposture; for what does any one lose in not shed­

ding the blood of another, when he has it in his power to

voL. I.—NOS. 13 & 14.

raelites, because of their former victory, he

made them believe he retired, and by that

means drew them a great way from the city,

they still supposing that they were pursuing

their enemies, and despised them, as though

the case had been the same with that in the

former battle; after which Joshua ordered

his forces to turn about, and placed them

against their front. He then made the signals

agreed upon to those that lay in ambush, and

so excited them to fight; so they ran suddenly

into the city, the inhabitants being upon the

walls, nay others of them being in perplexity,

and coming to see those that were without

the gates. Accordingly these men took the

city, and slew all that they met with; but

Joshua forced those that came against him to

come to a close fight, and discomfited them,

and made them run away; and when they

were driven towards the city, and thought it

had not been touched, as soon as they saw it

was taken, and perceived it was burnt, with

their wives and children, they wandered

about in the fields in a scattered condition,

and were no where able to defend them­

selves, because they had none to support

them. Now when this calamity was come

upon the men of Ai, there were a great num­

ber of children, and women, and servants,

and an immense quantity of furniture. The

Hebrews also took herds of cattle, and a

great deal of money, for this was a rich coun­

try; so when Joshua came to Gilgal, he di­

vided all these spoils among the soldiers.

But the Gibeonitesf who inhabited very

take from him all his substance, after having so weakened

and disarmed him that he is no more able to rebel against

him?" But the opinion of this great man seems to be a

little erroneous in this case. Had the Israelites indeed

been a pack of common murderers, who, without any

commission from Heaven, were carrying blood and deso­

lation into countries where they had no right; or had the

Gibeonites been ignorant that a miraculous Providence con­

ducted these conquerors; the fraud which they here put

upon them might then be deemed innocent. For there is

no law that obliges us under the pretence of sincerity, to

submit to such incendiaries, and merciless usurpers, as are

for setting fire to our cities, and putting us and our fami­

lies to the edge of the sword. But the case of the Gibeo­

nites was particular; and if in other things they went con­

trary to truth, in this they certainly adhered to it, when

they told Joshua, We are come, bemuse, of the name of the

Lord thy God, for we have heard of the fame of him, and

all that he did in Egypt, and all that he did to the two kings

of the Amorites, that were beyond Jordan, fyc. Josh. ix. 9,

10. The idea which they had conceived of the God of

Mm

