84 [book lit ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mours about them ran abroad, which excited

great fear in the inhabitants of those coun­

tries: accordingly they sent ambassadors to

one another, and exhorted each other to de­

fend themselves, and to endeavour to destroy

these men. Those that induced the rest to

do so, were such as inhabited Gobilitis and

Petra; they were called Amalekites,* and

were the most warlike of the nations that

lived thereabout, and whose kings exhorted

one another, and their neighbours, to engage

in this war against the Hebrews, telling them

that an army of strangers, who had ran aM'ay

from slavery under the Egyptians, lay in wait

to ruin them; which army they were not in

common prudence, and regard to their own

safety, to overlook, but to crush them before

they should gather strength, and come to be

in prosperity: and perhaps attack them first

in an hostile manner, as presuming upon their

indolence in not attacking them before; and

that they ought to avenge themselves for what

had been done in the wilderness; but that

this could not be so well done when the He­

brews had once laid their hands on their

cities and goods; that those who endeavoured

to crush a power in its first rise, were wiser

than those that attempted to stop its progress

,when it became formidable; as these last

seem to be angry only at the flourishing of

others, but the former do not leave any room

for their enemies to become troublesome to

them. After they had sent such ambassages

to the neighbouring nations, and among each

other, they resolved to attack the Hebrews

in battle.

These proceedings of the people of those

countries occasioned perplexity and trouble

to Moses, who expected no such warlike pre­

parations: and when these nations were ready

to fight, the multitude of the Hebrews were

obliged to try the fortune of war; they were

in great disorder, and in want of all neces­

saries, and yet were to make war with men

who were well prepared for it. Then it was,

therefore, that Moses began to encourage

them, and to exhort them to have a good

heart, and rely on God's assistance by which

they had been advanced into a state of free­

dom, and to hope for victory over those who

were ready to fight with them in order to de­

prive them of that blessing. He said they

were to suppose their own army to be nume­

rous, wanting nothing, neither weapons, nor

money, nor provisions, nor such other con­

veniences as when men are in possession of,

they fight undauntedly, and that they were to

judge themselves to have all these advantages

in the Divine assistance. They were also to

suppose the enemies' army to be small, un­

armed, and weak, and such as want those

conveniences which they know must be

wanted when it is God's will that they should

be beaten. He reminded them that they had

experienced the value of God's assistance in

abundance of trials, and those such as were

more terrible than war; for that is only against

men, but these were against famine and thirst,

things that were in their own nature insu­

perable; as also against mountains, and that

sea which affording them no way for esca­

ping; yet had all these difficulties been con­

quered by God's gracious kindness: so he

exhorted them to be courageous at this time,

and to consider their entire prosperity to de­

pend on the present conquest of their ene­

mies.

Moses having thus encouraged the multi­

tude, called together the princes of their

tribes, and their chief men, both separately

and jointly. The young men he charged to

obey their elders, and the elders to hearken

to their leader; so the people were elevated

in their minds, and ready to try their fortune

* The Amalekites were a people descended from Ama-  
lek, the son of Eliphaz, the son of Esau, by a concubine,

Gen. xxxvi. 12. And the ground of their enmity against

the Israelites is generally supposed to have been an innate

hatred, from the remembrance of Jacob's depriving their

progenitor, both of his birth-right and blessing. Their

falling upon them, however, and that without any provo­

cation, when they saw them reduced to so low a condition

by the fitigue of their march, and the excessive drought

they laboured under, was an inhuman action, and justly

deserved the defeat which Joshua gave them. Bu* then

the reason why God thought fit to denounce a perpetual

war against them, is to be resolved into this :•—That know-

ing the Israelites were pre-ordained by God to be put in

possession of the land of Canaan, they came against them

with an armed force, in hopes of frustrating the designs of

Providence concerning them. And this is the reason which

Moses himself assigns for this declaration of war; because

his (i. e. Amalek's j hand is agaiiist the throne of God, (i. e. J

against God himself) therefore the Lord will wage war E

against him from one generation to another. Exod. xviyg

16. The injury done the Israelites was not so much as tlgpp

affront offered to the divine Majesty; and therefore Gjsfod

threatens utterly to extirpate the' designers of it. r/nnH§ff.

sal History, 1. I.c. 7. and Patrick's Commentary. B. =§

f"

