464 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

army, he removed from Ashdod, and came

to Ascalon. And when he had pitched his

camp without the city, the people of Ascalon

came out and met him; bringing him hos­

pitable presents, and honouring him: so he

accepted of their kind intentions, and re­

turned thence to Jerusalem, with a great deal

of prey; which he brought thence, when he

conquered his enemies. But when Alexan­

der heard, that Apollonius, the general of

his army, was beaten, he pretended to be

glad of it; because he had fought with Jona­

than, his friend and ally, against his direc­

tions. Accordingly he sent to Jonathan, and

gave testimony to his worth; and gave him

honorary rewards, as a *goIden button; which

it is the custom to give the king's kinsmen,

and allowed him Ekron, and its toparchy for

his own inheritance.

About this time king Ptolemy, who was

called Philometor, led an army, partly by the

sea, and partly by land, and came to Syria,

to the assistance of his son-in-law, Alexander.

And accordingly, all the cities received him

willingly, as Alexander had commanded

them to do; and conducted him as far as

Ashdod; where they all made loud com­

plaints about the temple of Dagon, which

was burnt; and accused Jonathan of having

laid it waste, and destroyed the country ad­

joining with fire, and slain a great number of

them. Ptolemy heard these accusations, but

said nothing. Jonathan also went to meet

Ptolemy as far as Joppa; and obtained from

him hospitable presents, and those glorious

in their kinds, with all the marks of honour.

And when he had conducted him as far as

the river called Eleutherus, he returned again

to Jerusalem.f

But as Ptolemy was at Ptolemais, he was

very near to a most unexpected destruction.

For a treacherous design was laid for his life

by Alexander, by the means of Ammonius,

who was his friend. And as the treachery

was very plain, Ptolemy wrote to Alexander;

and required of him that he should bring

Ammonius to condign punishment; informing

him what snares had been laid for him by

Ammonius, and desiring that he might be

punished accordingly. But when Alexander

did not comply with his demands, lie per­

ceived that it was he himself who laid the

design, and he was very angry at him.J Al­

exander had also formerly been on very ill

terms with the people of Antioch; for they

had suffered very much by his means. Yet

did Ammonius at length undergo the punish­

ment his insolent crimes had deserved. For

he was killed in an opprobrious manner, like

a woman, while he endeavoured to conceal

himself in a feminine habit.

Hereupon Ptolemy blamed himself for

having given his daughter in marriage to

Alexander, and for the league he had made

with him to assist him against Demetrius.

So he dissolved his relationship, by taking

his daughter away from him; and immedi­

ately sent to Demetrius, and offered to make

a league of mutual assistance and friendship

with him, and agreed with him to give him

his daughter in marriage, and to restore him

to the principality of his fathers. Demetrius

was well pleased with this ambassage, and

accepted of his assistance, and of the mar­

riage of his daughter. But Ptolemy had still

one more hard task to do; and that was to

persuade the people of Antioch to receive

Demetrius; because they were greatly dis­

pleased at him, on account of the injuries his

father Demetrius had done them. Yet did

he bring this about. For as the people of

Antioch hated Alexander, on Ammonius's

account, as we have shewn already; they

were easily prevailed with to cast him out of

Antioch. He accordingly retired to Cilicia;

while Ptolemy came to Antioch, and was

made king by its inhabitants, and by the

army. So that he was forced to put on two

diadems, the one of Asia, the other of Egypt.

But being naturally a good and a righteous

man, and not desirous of what belonged to

others; and besides these dispositions, being

also a wise man in reasoning about futurities,

he determined to avoid the envy of the Ro­

* Dr. Hudson observes here, that the Phoenicians and  
Romans used to reward such as had deserved well of

them, by presenting to them a golden button. This

golden button or buckle, (which was worn upon the

shoulder,) was a very singular mark of distinction both

among the Greeks and the Persians, (from whom the

Macedonians took it.) and was generally made the re­

ward of great and gallant actions in war. Calmet't Com­

mentary on 1 Mace. x. 89. B.

t 1 Mace. xi. 7.

% This is related very differently in our copies of the

first book of Maccabees.

