AN. 14»3.] 119 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

stroyed.* So Moses passed over the river

Jabbok, and over-ran the kingdom of Og.

He overthrew their cities, and slew all their

inhabitants; who exceeded in riches all the

men in that part of the continent, on account

of the goodness of the soil, and the great

quantity of his wealth. Now Og had very

few equals, either in the largeness of his body,

or the beauty of his appearance. He was

also a man of great activity; so that his ac­

tions were not unequal to the vast largeness,

and handsome appearance of his body. And

men could easily guess at his strength and

magnitude, when they took his bed at Rab-

bath, the royal city of the Ammonites. Its

structure was of iron; its breadth four cubits,

and its length a cubit more than double

thereto. However, his fall did not only im­

prove the circumstances of the Hebrews for

the present; but by his death he was the oc­

casion of further good success to them; for

they presently took those sixty cities which

were encompassed with excellent walls, and

had been subject to him; and all the people

got, both in general and particular, a great

prey.

CHAP. VI.

op Balaam's attempt to curse Israel, and of the ARr

TIFICE BY WHICH THE HEBREWS WERE WEAKENED.

WHEN Moses had brought his army to

Jordan, he pitched his camp in the

great plain over against Jericho.f This city

was a very happy situation, and very fit for

producing palm-trees and balsam. And now

the Israelites began to be very proud of them­

selves, and were very eager for fighting. Mo­

ses then, after he had offered for a few days

* See Numb. xxi. 35. Deut. iii. 3. Josh. xii. 4. Ps.  
exxxv. 11, 12. and Philo. p. 643.

t Numb. xxii. 1.

J What Josephus here remarks is worthy our remark,

viz. that the Israelites were never to meddle with the

Moabites, Ammonites, or any other people, but those be­

longing to the land of Canaan, and the countries of Sihon

and Og beyond Jordan, as far as the desert and Euphrates;

and that, therefore, no other people had reason to fear the

conquests of the Israelites; but that those countries given

them by God were their proper and peculiar portion

among the nations, and that all who endeavoured to pos­

sess them might ever be justly destroyed by them.

H Numb. xxii. 6. An opinion prevailed both in those

days, and in after ages, that some men had a power, by

the help of their gods, to devote not only particular per-

voL. I.—No. 10.

sacrifice of thanksgiving to God, and feasted

the people, sent a party of armed men to lay

waste the country of the Midianites, and to

take their cities. Now the occasion which

he took for making war upon them was as

follows:

When Balak, the king of the Moabites,

who had from his ancestors a friendship and

league with the Midianites, saw how greatly

the Israelites were increased, he was much

affrighted on account of his own and his king­

dom's danger. For he was notJ acquainted

with this; that the Hebrews would not med­

dle with any other country: but were to be

contented with the possession of the land of

Canaan, God having forbidden them to go

any farther. So he, with more haste than

wisdom, resolved to make an attempt upon

them by words; but he did not judge it pru­

dent to fight against them, after they had had

the prosperous successes, and even became

out of ill successes more happy than before;

but he thought to hinder them, if he could,

from growing greater; and so he resolved to

send ambassadors to the Midianites about

them. Now these Midianites, knowing there

was one Balaam, who lived by Euphrates, and

was the greatest of the prophets at that time,

and one that was in friendship with them,

sent some of their honourable princes along

with the ambassadors of Balak, to intreat the

prophet to come to them; that he might im­

precate curses to the destruction of the Is­

raelites.! So Balaam received the ambassa­

dors, and treated them very kindly. And

when he had supped, he inquired what was

God's will, and what this matter was for which

the Midianites intreated him to come to them:

but when God opposed his going, he came to

sons, but whole armies, to destruction. This they are

said to have done sometimes by words of imprecation, of

which there was a set form among some people, which

JZschines calls Siap^opevrpi apav, the determinate curse.

Sometimes they also offered sacrifices, and used certain

rites and ceremonies, with solemn charms. A famous in­

stance of this we find in the life of Crassus, where Plu­

tarch tells us, that Atticus, tribune of the people, made a

fire at the gate out of which Crassus was to march to the

war against the Parthians, into which he threw certain

things to make a fume, and offered sacrifices to the most

angry gods, with horrid imprecations upon him; these, he

says, according to ancient tradition, had such a power, that

no man who was loaded with them could avoid being un­

done. 8.

Hb

