aN. 896.] 321 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the enemy, and wounded the king through

his breast-plate, in his lungs. Upon this,

Ahab resolved not to make his mischance

known to his army, lest they should run away.

But he bade the driver of his chariot to turn

it back, and carry him out of the battle, be­

cause he was mortally wounded.* However,

he sat in his chariot, and endured the pain

till sunset, and then he fainted away and

died.

At the approach of night the Syrian army

retired to their camp; and when the herald

belonging to the camp gave notice that Ahab

was dead, they returned home. And they

took the dead body of Ahab to Samaria, and

buried it there; but when they had washed

his chariot in the fountain of Jezreel, which

was bloody with the dead body of the king,

they acknowledged that the prophecy of

Elijah was true, for the dogs licked his blood,

and the harlots continued afterward to wash

themselves in that fountain. But still he died

at Ramoth, as Micaiah had foretold. And as

what things weref foretold should happen to

Ahab by the two prophets came to pass, we

ought thence to have exalted notions of God;

and every where to honour and worship him,

and never to suppose that what is pleasant

and agreeable is worthy of belief before what

is true; and to esteem nothing more advan­

tageous than the gift of prophecy, and that

foreknowledge of future events which is de­

rived from it. Since God shews men thereby

what they ought to avoid. We may also,

from what happened to this king, consider

the power of fate;J that there is no way of

avoiding it, even when we know it. It creeps

upon human souls, and flatters them with

pleasing hopes, till it leads them about to the

place whence it will be too hard for them

Accordingly Ahab appears to have been de­

ceived thereby, till he disbelieved those that

predicted his defeat; but by giving credit to

such as foretold what was grateful to him, he

was slain; and his son Ahaziah succeeded

him.

* 1 Kings xxii. 34.

t We have here a very wise reflection of Josephus's

about Divine Providence; and what is derived from it,

prophecy; and the inevitable certainty of its accomplish­

ment; and that when wicked men think they take proper

methods to elude what is denounced against them, and to

escape the Divine judgments thereby threatened, without

repentance, they are ever, by Providence, infatuated to

bring about their own destruction. And thereby withal

to demonstrate the perfect veracity of that God whose

predictions they endeavour to elude.

J Or Divine Providence.

