486 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

firesent, but to expect a much greater war

rom Egypt. For that Cleopatra would not

overlook an army raised by Ptolemy for him­

self, out of the neighbourhood; but would

come against them with a great army of

their own: and this because she was labour­

ing to eject her son out of Cyprus also; that

as for Ptolemy, if he failed of his hopes, he

could still retire to Cyprus: but that they

would be left in the greatest danger possible.

Now Ptolemy, although he had heard of the

change that was made in the people of Pto-

lemais, yet did he still go on with his voyage,

and came to the country called Sycamine,

and there set his army on shore. This army,

including horse and foot, consisted of about

thirty thousand men, with which he marched

near to Ptolemais, and there pitched his

camp. But when the people of Ptolemais

neither received his ambassadors, nor would

hear what they had to say, he was under

great concern.

But when Zoilus, and the people of Gaza,

came to him, and desired his assistance, be­

cause their country was laid waste by the

Jews, and by Alexander; Alexander raised

the siege, for fear of Ptolemy. And when he

had drawn off his army into his own country,

he used a stratagem afterwards, by privately

inviting Cleopatra to come against Ptolemy;

but publicly pretending to desire a league of

friendship and mutual assistance with him.

And promising to give him four hundred

talents of silver, he desired that, by way of

requital, he would take off Zoilus the tyrant,

and give his country to the Jews. Hereupon

Ptolemy made such a league of friendship

with Alexander, and subdued Zoilus." But

when he afterward heard, that he had privily

sent to Cleopatra his mother, he brake the

league with him, which yet he had confirmed

with an oath; and fell upon him, and besieg­

ed Ptolemais; because it would not receive

him. However, leaving his generals with

eome part of his forces to go on with the

eiege, ne went himself immediately with the

rest to ravage Judea. And when Alexander

understood this to be Ptolemy's intention, he

also got together about fifty thousand sol­

diers, out 01 his own country; nay, *as some

writers have said, eighty thousand. He then

took his army, and went to meet Ptolemy.

But Ptolemy fell upon Asochis, a city of

Galilee, and took it by force on the sabbath

day: and there he took about ten thousand

slaves, and a great deal of other prey.

He then attempted to take Sepphoris, a

city not far from that which was destroyed;

but lost many of his men. Yet did he then

go to fight with Alexander; who met him at

the river Jordan, near a certain place called

Saphoth; and pitched his camp near to the

enemy. He had however eight thousand in

the first rank, whom he styled fhecatontoma-

chi, having shields of brass. But Ptolemy's

soldiers in other respects were inferior to

those of Alexander; and thereupon were the

more fearful of running hazards. But Phi-

lostephanus, the camp-master, put great

courage into them; and ordered them to

pass the river, which was between their

camps. Nor did Alexander think fit to hin­

der their passage over it: for he thought,

that if the enemy had once gotten the river

on their back, that he should the easier take

them prisoners, when they could not flee out

of the battle. When the engagement began,

the acts on both sides were alike: and a

great slaughter was made by both the ar­

mies. But Alexander was superior; till

Philostephanus opportunely brought up the

auxiliaries, to help those that were giving

way. But as there were no auxiliaries to

afford help to that part of the Jews that gave

way, it fell out that they fled; and those near

them did not assist them: but fled along

with them. However, Ptolemy's soldiers

acted quite otherwise. For they followed

the Jews, and killed them; till at length

those that slew them pursued after them,

when they had made them all run away; and

slew them so long, that their weapons of

iron were blunted, and their hands quite

tired with the slaughter. For the report

was, that thirty thousand men were then

slain; Timagenes says they were fifty thou~

* From this and other occasional expressions, dropped  
by Josephus, we may learn that where the sacred books

«f the Jews were deficient, he had several other histories

then extant, but now most of them lost, which he faith­

fully followed in his own history. Nor indeed have we

any other records of those times, relating to Judea, that

can be compared to these accounts of Josephus: though

when we do meet with authentic fragments of such ori­

ginal records, they almost always confirm his history,

t Each able of himself to fight a hundred men

