an. 1048.] 283 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

double row of cloisters; which stood on high

upon pillars of native stone: while the roofs

were of cedar, and were polished in a manner

proper for such high roofs; but he made all

the doors of this temple of silver.

CHAP. IV.

or Solomon's removal of the ark into the temple; his

SUPPLICATION TO GOD, AND PUBLIC SACRIFICES.

WHEN king Solomon had finished these

large and beautiful buildings, and had

laid up his donations in the temple, and all

this in the interval of seven years;* and had

given a demonstration of his riches and alac­

rity therein; insomuch that any one who saw

it would have thought it must have been an

immense time ere it could have been finished,

and would have been surprised that so much

should be finished in so short time: he wrote

to the rulers and elders of the Hebrews; and

ordered all the people to gather themselves

together to Jerusalem,f both to see the tenv

pie which he had built, and to remove the

ark of God into it. And when this invitation

was every where carried abroad, it was the

seventh month before they came together;

which month is by our countrymen called

Thisri; but by the Macedonians Hyperbere-

taeus.J The feast of tabernacles happened at

the same time, which was celebrated by the

Hebrews as a most holy and eminent feast.

So they carried the ark,|| and the taberna-

cle§ which Moses had pitched, and all the

inner, or court of the priests; he must mean this in a

gross estimation only; for he and all others agree, that

the inner temple, or court of the priests, was a few cubits

more elevated than the middle court, the court of Israel;

and that much more was the court of the priests elevated

several cubits above the outermost court; since the court

of Israel was lower than the one, and higher than the

other.

* The Septuagint says, that they prepared timber and  
stones to build the temple for three years: 1 Kings v. 18.

And although neither our Hebrew copy, nor Josephus,

directly name the number of years; yet do they both

say the building itself did not begin till Solomon's fourth

year; and both speak of the preparation of materials be­

forehand: 1 Kings v. 18. Antiq. VIII. 5. and Josephus

there intimates, that it was for a considerable time before-

liand also. There is no reason therefore to alter the Sep-

tuagint's number; but we are to suppose three years to

have been the just time of the preparation; as I have done

in my computation of the expenses in building that tem­

ple. See its description, chap. 13. where the whole time

is ten years and a half,

t 1 Kings viii. 1.

J This feast was appointed in commemoration of the

children of Israel's dwelling in booths, whilst they were

in the wilderness, and of the tabernacle, which at that

time was built, where God promised to meet them, to

dwell among them, and to sanctify the place with his

glory; and might therefore be well reckoned a very pro­

per season for the dedication of the temple, which was to

succeed in the tabernacle's place. Bedford's Scripture

Chronology, lib. vi. c. 2. B.

II The sacred history tells us, that in this ark there was

nothing, save the two tables of stone, which Moses put

there at Horeb, 1 Kings viii. 9. and yet the author to the

Hebrews affirms, that in this ark was the golden pot that

bad manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, as well as the

tables of the covenant, Heb. ix. 4. Now, to reconcile

tbis, some imagine, that before the ark had any fixed and

settled place, (which is the time the apostle refers to,)

all these tilings were included in it, though it was chiefly

intended for nothing but the tallies of the covenant; but

that, when it was placed in the temple, nothing was left

in it but these two tables; all the other things were de-

VOL. I.—NOS. 23 & 24.

posited in the treasury of the temple, where the book of

the law (as we read in 2 Chron. xxxiv. 14) was found in

the days of king Josias. Others however pretend, that

in the time of the Apostle, i. e. towards the end of the

Jewish commonwealth, Aaron's rod, and the pot of manna

were really kept in the ark, though in the days of Solo­

mon, they were not. But this answer would be more

solid and satisfactory, if he knew for certain, that, in the

time of the Apostle, the ark of the covenant was really in

the sanctuary of the temple, which Herod built; whereas

Josephus (De Bello Jud. lib. vi. c. 6) tells us expressly,

that, when the Romans destroyed the temple, there was

nothing found in the Holy of Holies. Calmet's Com­

mentary. B.

§ But the question is, what tabernacle, whether that

which Moses made, and was then at Gibeon, 2 Chron. i.

3. or that which was made by David, and was then at Je-'

rusalem? To end this dispute, some have imagined, that

both these tabernacles were at this time carried into the

temple, and laid up there, that all danger of superstition

and idolatry might thereby be avoided, and that no wor­

ship might be performed any where, but only at the

house which was dedicated to God's service: but it is

observed by others, that the convenience which David

made for the reception of the ark, was never called the

tabernacle of the covenant; it was no more than a plain

tent, set up in some large room of the royal palace, until

a more proper receptacle could be provided for it: but

the tabernacle that was at Gibeon, was the same that so­

journed so long in the wilderness. The tent was the same,

the curtains the same, and the altar the same, that was

made by Moses; or at least, if there was any alteration

in it, (as things of this nature could hardly subsist so very

long without some repair,) the reparation was always

made according to the original model, and with as little

deviation as possible. It is not to be doubted, then, but

that the Mosaic tabernacle is the tabernacle here intended,

which, for the prevention of schism, and to make the tem­

ple the centre of devotion, was now taken down, and repo-

sked in the treasury, or storehouse, where it continued

until the time that Jerusalem was taken by the Chaldeans,

when Jeremiah, as Josephus informs us, (Jewish Antiq.

lib. viii. c. 2) was admonished by God, to take it, and

the ark, and the altar of incense, and hide them in some

3F

