506 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

had four sons, Phasael; Herod, who was af­

terward made king; Joseph, and Pheroras;

and a daughter named Salome. This Anti-

pater cultivated also a friendship and mutual

kindness with other potentates: but espe­

cially with the king of Arabia, to whom he

committed his children, while he fought

against Aristobulus. So Cassius removed his

camp, and marched to Euphrates, to meet

those that were coming to attack him; as hath

been related by others.

But some time* afterward Caesar, when he

had taken Rome, and after Pompey and the

senate were fled beyond the Ionian Sea, freed

Aristobulus from his bonds; and resolved to

send him into Syria, and delivered two legions

to him, that he might set matters right, as be­

ing a potent man in that country. But Aristo­

bulus had no enjoyment of what he hoped for

from the power that was given him by Caesar:

for those of Pompey's party prevented it; and

destroyed him by poison. And those of

Caesar's party buried him. His dead body

also lay for a considerable time in honey; till

Antony afterward sent it to Judea; and caused

him to be buried in the royal sepulchre. But

Scipio, upon Pompey's sending him to slay

Alexander, the son of Aristobulus, because

the young man was accused of what offences

he had been guilty of at first against the Ro­

mans, cut off" his head. And thus did he die

at Antioch. But Ptolemy, the son of Menneus,

who was the ruler of Chalcis, under mount

Libanus, took his brethren to him, and sent

his son Philippion to Ascalon, to Aristobulus's

wife, and desired her to send back with him

her son Antigonus, and her daughters. The

one of which, whose name was Alexandra,

Philippion fell in love with, and married:

though afterward his father slew him, and

married Alexandra, and continued to take

care of her brethren.

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE ASSISTANCE WHICH THE JEWS GAVE TO CESAR IK

HIS BXPEDITION AGAINST EGYPT; THE GLORIOUS ACTIONS

OF ANTIPATER, AND HIS FRIENDSHIP WITH CESAR; AND

THE HONOURS WHICH THE JEWS RECEIVED FROM THE

ROMANS AND ATHENIANS.

OW after Pompey was dead,f Antipater,

who managed the Jewish affairs, became

N

* An. 49.  
t An. 48.

very useful to Caesar, when he made war

against Egypt; and that by the order of Hyr-

canus. For when Mithridates of Pergamus

was bringing his auxiliaries, and was not able

to continue his march through Pelusium, but

obliged to stay at Ascalon, Antipater came to

him, conducting three thousand armed Jews.

He had also taken care the principal men of

the Arabians should come to his assistance.

And on his account it was, that all the Syrians

assisted him also; as not willing to appear

behind-hand in their alacrity for Caesar: viz.

Jamblicus the ruler, and Ptolemy his son; and

Tholomy, the son of Sohemus, who dwelt at

mount Libanus; and almost all the Jcities.

So Mithridates marched out of Syria, and

came to Pelusium. And when its inhabitants

would not. admit him, he besieged the city.

Now Antipater signalized himself here; and

was the first who plucked down a part of the

wall, and so opened a way to the rest, whereby

they might enter the city: and by this means

Pelusium was taken. But it happened that

the Egyptian Jews, who dwelt in the country

called Onion, would not let Antipater and

Mithridates, with their soldiers, pass to Caesar.

But Antipater persuaded them to come over

to their party, because he was of the same

people with them; and that chiefly by shewing

them the epistles of Hyrcanus the high-priest;

wherein he exhorted them to cultivate friend­

ship with Caesar. And accordingly when they

saw Antipater and the high-priest of the same

sentiments, they did as they were desired.

And when the Jews about Memphis heard

that these Jews had come over to Caesar, they

also invited Mithridates to come to them. So

he came and received them also into his army.

When Mithridates had gone over all the

Delta, as the place is called, he came to a

pitched battle with the enemy, near a place

called the Jewish camp. Now Mithridates

had the right wing, and Antipater the left.

And when it came to an engagement, that

wing where Mithridates was gave way, and

was likely to suffer extremely; unless Anti­

pater had come running to him with his own

soldiers, along the shore; when he had al­

ready defeated the enemy that opposed him.

So he delivered Mithridates, and put those

Egyptians who had been too hard for him to

I Free cities.

