an. 1532.] 93 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

part of the body of the work. Upon every

one of the feet was also inserted a ring, not

far from the cover, through which went bars

of gilded wood beneath, to be taken out upon

occasion; there being a cavity where it was

joined to the rings: for they were not entire

rings; but before they came quite round,

they ended in acute points; one of which was

inserted into the prominent part of the table,

and the other into the foot; and by these it

was carried when they journeyed. Upon this

table, which was placed on the north side of

the temple, not far from the most holy place,

were laid twelve unleavened loaves of bread,

six upon each heap, one above another; they

were made of two tenth deals, of the purest

flour, which tenth* deal is a measure of the

Hebrews, containing seven Athenian cotylae.

Above those loaves were put two vials full of

frankincense. Now after seven days, other

loaves were brought in their stead on the

seventh day, which is by us called the sab­

bath; but for the occasion of this invention

of placing loaves here, we will speak of it in

another place.

Over against this table, near the southern

wall, was set a candlestick of cast gold, hol­

low within, and of the weight of one hundred

pounds, which the Hebrews call cinchares:

which, if it be turned into the Greek language,

denotes a talent . It was made with its knobs,

lilies, pomegranates, and bowls: which orna­

ments amounted to seventy in all. By this

means the shaft elevated itself from a single

base, and spread into as many branches as

there are planets, including the sun among

mem. It terminated in seven hands, in one

row, all standing parallel to each other; and

these branches carried seven lamps, one by

one, in imitation of the number of the planets:

these lamps looked to the east and the south,

the candlestick being situate obliquely.

Between this candlestick, and the table,

which, as we said, were within the sanctuary,

was the altar of incense; made of wood in­

deed, but of incorruptible wood, and en­

tirely crusted over with a golden plate. Its

breadth on each side was a cubit, but the

height double. Upon it was a grate of gold,

above the altar, which had a golden crown

encompassing it round about; whereto be-

* A homer

longed rings and bars, by which the priests

carried it, when they journeyed. Before this

tabernacle there was reared a brazen altar,

but it was within made of wood, five cubits by

measure on each side, but its height was but

three; in like manner, adorned with brass

plates, as bright as gold. It had also a bra­

zen hearth of net work; for the ground un­

derneath received the fire from the hearth,

because it had no basis to receive it. Near

this altar, lay the basons, the vials, the cen­

sers, and the caldrons, made of gold; but the

other vessels, made for the use of the sacri­

fices, were all of brass. And such was the

construction of the tabernacle, and the ves­

sels thereto belonging.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE SACERDOTAL GARMENTS.

THERE were peculiar garments ap­

pointed for the priests, and for all the

rest, which garments they call cahanaeae, or

priestly garments, as also for the high-priests,

which they call cahanaeae rabbae, and denote

the high-priest's garment. Such was there­

fore the habit of the rest: but when the priest

approaches the sacrifices, he purifies himself

with the purification which the law prescribes.

And in the first place he puts on that which

is called machanase, which means somewhat

that is fast tied. It is a girdle composed of

fine twined linen, into which the feet are in­

serted, in the nature of breeches; but above

half of it is cut ofF, and it ends at the thighs,

where it is tied fast.

Over this he wore a linen vestment, made

of fine flax doubled, and called chethone, for

we call linen by the name of chethone. This

vestment reaches to the feet, and sits close to

the body; and has sleeves that are tied fast

to the arms: it is girded to the breast a little

above the elbows, by a girdle often going

round, four fingers broad; but so loosely

woven, that it resembles the skin of a serpent.

It is embroidered with flowers of scarlet, pur­

ple, blue, and fine twined linen; but the warp

is nothing but fine linen. The beginning of

its circumvolution is at the breast; and when

it has gone often round it is there tied, and

hangs loosely down to the ankles. I mean

this, all the time the priest is not about any

