110 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK IV.

Containing an Interval of Thirty-eight Years.

FROM THE REJECTION OF THAT GENERATION, TO THE DEATH OF MOSES.

CHAP. I.

OF THE ENGAGEMENT WHICH TOOK PLACE BETWEEN THE

HEBREWS AND THE CANAANITES, WITHOUT THE CONSENT

OF MOSES.

THE residence of the Hebrews in the

wilderness was so disagreeable to them,

and they were so uneasy at it, that although

God had forbidden them to meddle with the

Canaanites, yet could they not be persuaded

to be obedient to the words of Moses, and to

be quiet; but supposing they should be able

to beat their enemies, even without his appro­

bation, they accused him; and suspected that

he made it his business to keep them in a

distressed condition, that they might always

stand in need of his assistance. Accordingly

they resolved to fight with the Canaanites,

and said, that God gave them his assistance,

not out of regard to their leader's interces­

sions, but because he took care of their entire

nation, on account of their forefathers: whose

affairs he took under his own conduct: as also

that it was on account of their own virtue,

that he had formerly procured them their

liberty, and would assist them, now they were

willing to take pains for it. They also said,

that they were of themselves of abilities suffi­

cient for the conquest of their enemies, al­

though Moses should have a mind to alienate

God from them; and that however it was for

their advantage to be their own masters, and

not so far to rejoice in their deliverance from

the indignities they endured under the Egyp­

tians, as to bear the tyranny of Moses, and to

suffer themselves to be deluded, and live ac­

cording to his pleasure: as though God did

only foretel what concerned them, out of his

kindness to him; and as though they were not

all the posterity of Abraham, and that God

made him alone the author of all their know­

ledge, and they must still learn it from him.

They said it would be prudent to oppose his

arrogant pretences, and to put their confi­

dence in God; and to resolve to take posses­

sion of that land which he had promised

them, and not to give ear to him, who, on this

account, and under the pretence of divine

authority, forbade them so to do. Consider­

ing, therefore, the distressed state they were

in at present, and that in those desert places

they were still to expect things would be

worse with them, they resolved to fight with

the Canaanites; as submitting only to God,

their supreme commander, and not waiting

for any assistance from their legislator.

When they had come to this resolution,

they went against their enemies; but those

enemies were not dismayed either at the at­

tack itself, or at the great multitude that made

it: but received them with such courage, that

many of the Hebrews were slain, and the re­

mainder of the army, upon the disorder of

their troops, were pursued, and fled after a

shameful manner* to their camp. Where­

upon this unexpected misfortune made them

quite despond, and they hoped for nothing

that was good, as gathering from it, that this

affliction came from the wrath of God, be­

cause they rashly went out to war without his

approbation.

When Moses saw how deeply they were

affected with this defeat, and when he was

* Numb. xiv. 45.

