306 [book vni ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

chres of his forefathers. He left behind him

twenty-two sons, and sixteen daughters; and

he had also those children by fourteen wives;

and Asa his son succeeded in his kingdom;

and the young man's mother was Michaiah.

Under his reign the country of the Israelites

enjoyed peace for ten years.

But Jeroboam, the king of the ten tribes,

died when he had reigned twenty-two years.*

His son Nadab succeeded him in the second

year of the reign of Asa; and governed two

years, and resembled his father in impiety and

wickedness. In these two years he made an

expedition against Gibbethon, a city of the

Philistines, and continued the siege in order

to take it; but he was conspired against while

he was there by a friend of his, whose name

was Baasha, the son of Ahijah, and was slain.

Baasha took the kingdom after the other's

death, and destroyed the whole house of Je­

roboam. It also came to pass, according as

God had foretold, that some of Jeroboam's

kindred that died in the city were torn to

pieces and devoured by dogs, and that others

of them that died in the field were torn and

devoured by the fowls. So the house of Je­

roboam suffered the just punishment of his

impiety, and of his wicked actions.

CHAP. XII.

OF THE AFFAIRS OF ASA, KINO OF JERUSALEM; THE DE­

STRUCTION OF THE HOUSE OF BAASHA, AND THE CON­

DUCT OF THE SUCCESSORS ON THE THRONE OF ISRAEL.

NOW Asa, the king of Jerusalem, was an

excellent character, and had a regard

to God; and neither did nor designed any

thing but what was consistent^with the laws.

He made a reformation of his kingdom, and

cut off whatsoever was wicked therein, and

purified it from every impurity. Now he had

an army of chosen men that were armed with

targets and spears; out of the tribe of Judah

three hundred thousand; and out of the tribe

of Benjamin that bare shields and drew bows,

two hundred and fifty thousand. But when

he had reigned ten years, Zerah,t king of

Ethiopia,J made an expedition against him,||

with a great army, of nine hundred thousand

footmen, one hundred thousand horsemen,

and three hundred chariots: and came as far

as Mareshah,§ a city that belonged to the

tribe of Judah. Now when Zerah had passed

so far with his own army, Asa met him, and

put his army in array over against him, in a

valley called Zepathan, not far from the city.

And when he saw the multitude of the Ethio­

pians, he cried out, and besought God to

give them the victory, and that he might kill

many thousands of the enemy. "For," said

he, "I depend on nothing else but that as­

sistance which I expect from thee: which

is able to make the fewer superior to the

more numerous, and the weaker, to the

stronger, and thence it is alone that I ven

ture to meet Zerah and fight him."

While Asa was speaking thus, God gave

him a signal victory; and joining battle cheer

fully on account of what God had foretold

about it, he slew a great many of the Etbio

pians: and when he had put them to flight,

he pursued them to the country of Gerar.

And when they left off killing their enemies,

they betook themselves to spoiling them, (for

the city of Gerar was already taken;) and to

spoiling their camp. So that they carried off

much gold and silver, and a great deal of

other prey, and camels, and cattle, and flocks

of sheep. Accordingly when Asa and his

army had obtained such a victory, and such

* From an. 975 to 955, at eleven months to a year.  
See Chron. of the Old Testament, page 16—20.

t The Scripture takes no notice of what was the cause

of this war between Zerah and Asa, nor are interpreters

well agreed what the country was from whence this ene­

my came. The country, in the original, is called Cush,

though we translate it Ethiopia. Now there are three

countries different from one another, all called by the

name of Cush: 1. the land of Cush, upon the river Gihon;

2. Cush upon the eastern shore of the Red Sea; and, 3.

Cush, situated above Thebais, and in Upper Egypt. It

is very probable, then, that the country here spoken of

must not be Ethiopia, properly so called, because we can

hardly imagine, how an army of a million of men should

be permitted to march through Egypt, (as they must have

done to invade Judea,) without some opposition: and

therefore the country must be the land of Cush, which

lay in Arabia Petraea, upon the east shore of the Red Sea,

and, at the extremity to the point of that sea, inclining

towards Egypt and Judea. And whereas some have

made a doubt, how so small a country could have pro­

duced so large an army, it is no hard matter to suppose,

that a great part of the array might perhaps have been

mercenaries. Calmest Commentary on 2 Chron. xiv. 9

and Dictionary, under the word Cush. And Well's Geog­

raphy of the Old Testament, vol. I. c. 4. B.

J The reader is to remember that Cush is not Ethiopia

but Arabia. See Bochart Phaleg. IV 2

B An. 947.

§ 2 Chron. xiv. 9.

