an. 1493.] 129 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the sight. Let the ascent to it be* not by

steps, but by an acclivity of raised earth.

And let there be neither an altar, nor a tem­

ple, in any other city. For God is but one,

and the nation of the Hebrews is but one.

He that blasphemeth God let him be

stoned,f and let him hang upon a tree all that

day: and then let him be buried in an igno­

minious and obscure manner.

Let those that live as remote as the bounds

of the land which the Hebrews shall possess,

come to that city where the temple shall be,

and this three timesJ every year; that they

may give thanks to God for his former bene­

fits, and may entreat him for those they shall

want hereafter: and let them, by this means,

maintain a friendly correspondence with one

another with such meetings and feastings to­

gether. For it is a good thing for those that

are of the same stock, and under the same

institutions, not to be unacquainted with each

other; which acquaintance will be maintained

"by thus conversing together, and by seeing

and talking with one another, and so renew­

ing the memorials of this union; for if they do

not thus converse together continually, they

will appear like mere strangers to one ano­

ther.

Let there be taken out of your fruits a

tenth,|| besides that which you have allotted

to give to the priests and Levites. This you

may indeed sell in the country: but it is to be

used in those feasts and sacrifices that are to

be celebrated in the holy city. For it is fit

that you should enjoy the fruits of the earth,

which God gives you to possess, so as may be

to the honour of the donor.

You are not to offer sacrifices out of the§

hire of a harlot; for the Deity is not pleased

with any thing that arises from such abuses

of nature; of which sort none can be worse

than this prostitution of the body; in like

manner no one may take the price of the co­

vering of a bitch, either of one that is used in

hunting, or in keeping of sheep, and thence

sacrifice to God.**

Let no oneff blaspheme the godsJJ which

other cities esteem such. Nor may one steal

what belongs to strange temples, nor take

away the gitts that are dedicated to any god.

Let not any one of you wear a garment

made of woollen|||| and linen; for that is ap­

pointed to be for the priests only.

When the multitude are assembled together

unto the holy city for sacrificing: every se­

venth year, at the feast of tabernacles, let

the high-priest stand upon a high desk,

whence he might be heard, and let him read

the laws to all§§ the people. And let neither

women, children, nor servants, be hindered

from hearing. For it is a good thing that

those laws should be engraven in their souls,

and preserved in their memories; that so it

may not be possible to blot them out. For

by this means they will not be guilty of sin,

when they cannot plead ignorance of what

the laws have enjoined them. The laws also

will have a great authority among them, as

foretelling what they will suffer if they break

them; and imprinting in their souls by this

hearing what they command them to do.

That so there may always be within their

minds that intention of the laws which they

have despised, and broken, and have thereby

been the causes of their own mischief. Let

the children also learn the laws, as the first

* This law, both here and Exod. xx. 25, 26, of not  
going up to God's altar by ladder-steps, but on an accli­

vity , seems not to have belonged to the altar of the taber­

nacle; which was in all but three cubits high: Exod.

xxvii. 1, nor to that of Ezekiel, which was expressly to be

gone up to by steps, xliii. 17, but rather to occasional

altars of any considerable altitude and largeness; as also

probably to Solomon's altar, to which it is here applied

by Josephus; as well as that of Zorobabel's and Herod's

temple; which were, I think, all ten cubits high. See

2 Chron. iv. 1, and Joseph. Antiq. VIII. 3. And the reason

why these temples, and these only, were to have this as­

cent on an acclivity, and not by steps, is obvious; that be­

fore the invention of stairs, such as we now use, decency

could not be otherwise provided for in the loose garments

which the priests wore, as the law required. See Lamy

of the Tabernacle and Temple, p. 444.

t Levit. xxiv. 86.

J Exod. xxiii. 14. Deut. xvi. 16.

II Levit. xxvii. 30.

§ The hire of public harlots was given to Venus in

Syria, as Lucian informs us, page 878. And against some

such vile practice of the old idolaters this law seems to

have been made.

** Deut. xxiii. 18.

tt The Apostolical Constitutions II. expound this law

of Moses, Exod. xxii. 28: "Thou shaltnot revile or blas­

pheme the gods," of magistrates; which is a much more

probable exposition than this of Josephus'*, of Heathen

gods.

%t Exod. xxii. 28.

IIII Levit. xix. 19.

§§ What book of the law was thus publicly read, see

the note on X. 5. and 1 Esd. Ix. 60—55.

