an. 894.] 333 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

051

themselves upon their antiquity. Nor do

they know that these kings are much later

than they imagine; and that they are not

yet eleven hundred years old. Now when

Joram the king of Israel, heard that Ben-

hadad was dead, he recovered out of the

terror he had been in on his account, and

was very grateful for the restoration of

peace.

CHAP. V.

OF THE WICKEDNESS OF JEHOKAM, KING OF JERUSALEM:

HIS DEFEAT AND DEATH.

JEHORAM, the king of Jerusalem, had

no sooner taken the government upon

him, than he betook himself to the slaughter

of his brethren, and his father's friends, who

were governors under him; and thus began

to demonstrate his wickedness.* Nor was he

at all better than those kings of Israel who

at first transgressed against the laws of their

country, and against God's worship. And it

was Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab, whom

he had married, who taught him to be a bad

man in other respects, and also to worship

foreign gods. Now God would not quite

root out this family, because of the promise

he had made to David. However Jehoram

did not leave off the introduction of new sorts

of customs to the propagation of impiety, and

to the customs of his own country. And

when the Edomites about that time had re­

volted from him, and slain their former king,

who was in subjection to his father, and had

set up one of their own choosing, Jehoram

fell upon the land of Edom, with the horse­

men that were about him, and the chariots,

by night; and destroyed those that lay near

to his own kingdom; but proceeded no far­

ther. However, this expedition did him no

service, for they all revolted from him, with

those that dwelt in the country of Libnah.

He was indeed so mad as to compel the

people to go up to the high places of the

mountains, and worship foreign gods.

As he was doing thus, and had entirely

cast the laws of the Hebrews out of his mind,

there was brought him an fepistle from the

prophet Elijah; which declared that God

would execute great judgments upon him,

because he had not imitated his own fathers;

but had followed the wicked courses of the

kings of Israel, and had compelled the tribe

of Judah, and the citizens of Jerusalem to

leave the holy worship of their own God, and

to worship idols, as Ahab had compelled the

Israelites to do: and because he had slain his

brethren, and those men that were righteous.

The prophet also gave him notice in this

epistle, what punishment he should undergo

for these crimes; namely, the destruction of

his people, with the corruption of his own

wives and children, and that he should him­

self die of a distemper in his bowels, with

long torments; his bowels falling out by the

violence of the inward decay of the parts;

insomuch that though he saw his own misery,

he should not be able to help himself; but

should die in that manner.

It was not long after this, that an army of

the Philistines, and of those Arabians who

lived near to Ethiopia, fell upon the kingdom

of Jehoram, and spoded the country and the

king's house. They also slew his wives, and

his sons, one only escaping, whose name was

Ahaziah. After this calamity he himself fell

into that disease which was foretold by the

prophet, and lasted Ja great while: (for God

inflicted this punishment upon him out of his

wrath against him:) and so he died misera­

bly; and saw his own bowels fall out. The

people also abused his dead body. I suppose

it was because they thought that such his

death came upon him by the wrath of God;

and that therefore he was not worthy to par­

take of such a funeral as became kings.

Accordingly they neither buried him in the

sepulchres of his fathers; nor vouchsafed him

any honours, but buried him like a private

man; and this when he had lived forty years,

and reigned eight.H And the people of Je­

rusalem delivered the government to his son

Ahaziah.

* An. 894 B. C.

t This epistle, in some copies of Josephus, is said to

come to Joram from Elijah, with this addition, "for he

was yet upon earth;" which could not be true of Elijah;

who, as all agree, was gone from the earth about four

years before, and could only be true of Elisha. Nor |

perhaps is there any more mystery here, than that the

name of Elijah has very anciently crept into the text,

instead of Elisha, by the copiers; there being nothing in

any copy of that epistle peculiar to Elijah.

J Two years: 2 Chron. xxi. 19.

II From'895 to 887.

3M2

