484 [book xm ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

his coming with a strong body of men, must

be with an intention to kill him: and that his

way of reasoning was this; that it was a silly

thing in him, while it was in his power to

reign himself, to look upon it as a great fa­

vour that he was honoured with a lower dig­

nity by his brother.

Aristobulus yielded to these imputations:

but took care both that his brother should

not suspect him, and that he himself might

not run the hazard of his own safety: so he

ordered his guards to lie in a certain place

that was under ground and dark; (he him­

self then lying sick in the tower which was

called Antonia;) and he commanded them,

that in case Antigonus came in to him un­

armed, they should not touch any body; but

if armed, they should kill him. Yet did he

send to Antigonus, and desire that he would

come unarmed. But the queen, and those

that joined with her in the plot against Anti­

gonus, persuaded the messenger to tell him

the direct contrary: how his brother had

heard, that he had made himself a fine suit

of armour for war, and desired him to come

to him in that armour; that he might see

how fine it was. So Antigonus, suspecting

no treachery, but depending on the good

will of his brother, came to Aristobulus arm­

ed, as he used to be, with his entire armour;

in order to shew it to him. But when he was

come at a place which was called Strato's

tower, where the passage happened to be

exceeding dark, the guards slew him. This

catastrophe of his demonstrates, that nothing

is stronger than envy and calumny; and that

nothing does more certainly divide the good

will and natural affections of men than those

passions. But here one may take occasion

to wonder at one Judas, who was of the sect

of the Essenes, and who never missed the

truth in his predictions. For this man, when

he saw Antigonus passing by the temple,

cried out to his companions, and friends, who

abode with him, as his scholars, in order to

learn the art of foretelling things to come;

"It would be good for me to die now; since

Antigonus is still alive, and I see him passing

.by: although I foretold he should die at the

* Hence we learn, that the Essenes pretended to have  
rules, whereby men might foretell things to come; and

that this Judas the Essene, taught those rules to his

icholars, But whether their pretences were of an as-

place called Strato's Tower, this very day:

while yet the place is six hundred furlongs off,

where 1 predicted he should be slain; and a

great part of the day is already past: so that I

I am in danger of proving a false prophet."*

As he was saying this, in a melancholy tone,

the news came that Antigonus was slain, in

a place under ground; which was also called

Strato's Tower: or of the same name with

that Cesarea which is seated at the sea.

But Aristobulus repented immediately of

this slaughter of his brother: on which ac­

count his disease increased upon him, and he

was disturbed in his mind, upon the guilt of

such wickedness: insomuch that his entrails

were corrupted by his intolerable pain, and

he vomited blood. At which time one of the

servants that attended upon him, and was

carrying his blood away, did, by Divine Pro­

vidence, as I suppose, slip down, and shed

part of his blood at the very place where

there were spots of Antigonus's blood still

remaining. And when there was a cry made

by the spectators, as if the servant had on

purpose shed the blood in that place; Aris­

tobulus heard it, and inquired what the mat­

ter was? And as they did not answer him,

he was the more earnest to know: it being

natural to men to suspect that what is thus

concealed is very bad. So upon his threat­

ening, and forcing them to speak, they at

length told him the truth. Hereupon he shed

many tears in that disorder of mind which

arose from his consciousness of what he had

done; and gave a deep groan, and said, "1

am not therefore, 1 perceive, to be concealed

from God, in the impious and horrid crimes

I have been guilty of: but a sudden punish­

ment is coming upon me, for shedding the

blood of my relations. And now, 0 thou

most impudent body of mine, how long wilt

thou retain a soul, that ought to die, in order

to appease the ghosts of my brother, and

mother? Why dost thou not give it all up at

once? And why do I deliver up my blood

drop by drop, to those whom I have so wick­

edly murdered?" In uttering these last

words he died: having reigned one year.

He was called a lover of the Grecians; and

trological or magical nature; which yet in such religious

Jews, who were utterly forbidden such arts, is no way

probable: or to any Bath Col. spoken of by the later

Rabbins, or otherwise, I cannot tell. See of the War, U. 8.

