ait. 879.] 339 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

brought the child into the midst of them, and

put on him the royal crown; and Jehoiada

anointed him with the oil, and made him

king. And the multitude rejoiced, and

shouted " God save the king."*

When Athaliah unexpectedly heard these

acclamations, she was disturbed in her mind,

and suddenly issued out of the royal palace

with her own army, and when she was come

to the temple, the priests received her; but

as for those that stood round about the

temple, as they were ordered by the high-

priests to do, they hindered the armed men

that followed her from going in. But when

Athaliah saw the child standing on a pillar,t

with the royal crown upon his head, she

rent her clothes, and cried out vehemently,

and commanded her guards to kill him that

had laid snares for her, and endeavoured to

deprive her of the government. But Je­

hoiada called for the captains of hundreds,

and commanded them to bring Athaliah to

the valley of Cedron, and slay her there; for

he would not have the temple defiled with

the punishment of this pernicious woman.

And he gave order, that if any one came

near to help her, he should be slain also.

Wherefore those that had the charge of her

slaughter led her to the gate of the king's

mules and slew her there.

Jehoiada now called together the people,

and the armed men into the temple; and

made them take an oath, that they would

be obedient to the king, and take care of his

safety, and of the safety of his government.

After which he obliged the king to give

security, upon oath, that he would worship

God, and not transgress the laws of Moses.

They then ran to the house of Baal, which

Athaliah and her husband Jehoram had

built to the dishonour of the God of their

fathers, and to the honour of Ahab; and de-

molished it, and slew Mattan, that had the

priesthood. But Jehoiada intrusted the care

and custody of the temple to the priests and

Levites, according to the appointment of

David; and enjoined them to bring their

regular burnt-offerings twice a day; and to

offer incense according to the law. He also

ordained some of the Levites with the por­

ters, to be a guard to the temple; that no

one that was defiled might come there.

When Jehoiada had set these things in

order, he, with the captains of hundreds, and

the rulers, and all the people, took Jehoash

out of the temple into the king's palace:

and when he had set him upon the king's

throne, the people shouted for joy, and kept

a festival for many days. But the city was

quiet upon the death of Athaliah. Now Je­

hoash was seven years old when he took the

kingdom. His mother's name was Zibiah,

of the city Beersheba. And all the time that

Jehoiada lived, Jehoash]: was careful that the

laws should be kept, and was very zealous

in the worship of God. And when he was

of age he married two wives, who were given

to him by the high-priest; by whom were

born to him both sons and daughters.

CHAP. VIII.

OF HAZAEL'S EXPEDITION AOAINST THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL,

AND THE INHABITANTS OF JERUSALEM; THE DEATH OF

JEHU, AND SUCCESSION OF JEHOAHAZ; THE CONDUCT OF

JEHOASH, KING OF JUDAII; AND THE ACCESSION OF

AMAZIAH.

NOW Hazael, king of Syria, fought

against the Israelites, and spoiled the

eastern parts of the country beyond Jordan,

which belonged to the Reubenites and Gad-

ites, and to the half tribe of Manassites; as

also Gilead and Bashan; burning, spoiling,

and offering violence to all that he could

-» 2 Kings xi. 12.

t The words in the text are,—And when she looked,

behold the king stood by a pillar, as the manner was,

2 Kings xi. 14. Now there were two famous pillars,

which Solomon erected in the porch of the temple,

whereof that on the right hand was called Jachin, and

that on the left Booz, and were each of them (according

to the account we have) eighteen cubits high, 1 Kings vii.

15, 21. Solomon's design in setting up these two pillars,

is generally supposed to have been, in order to represent

the pillar of the cloud, and the pillar of fire, which went

before the Israelites, and conducted them in the wilder-

VOL. I.—NOS. 29 & 30.

ness. The pillar on the right hand represented the pillar

of the cloud, and that on the left the pillar of fire; and

near one of these pillars, in all probability, the royal

throne was erected; unless we can suppose, that, what is

here called a pillar, was that brazen scaffold, five cubits

long, five broad, and five high, which Solomon made at

first upon his dedicating the temple, but was afterwards

continued for the king, upon any solemn occasion, to ap­

pear upon, and where doubtless there was a throne of

state. Calmet's Commentary, and Bedford's Scripture

Chronology, lib. vi. c. 2. B.

| 2 Kings xii. 2.

3N

