an. 709.] 359 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

give him some sign, that he might believe

what he had said, and be sensible that he

came from God. For things that are beyond

expectation, and greater than our hopes, are

made credible by actions of the like nature.

And when Isaiah had asked him, what sign

he wished to be exhibited? He desired that

he would make the shadow of the sun which

had already gone down ten steps in his

house,* to return again to the same place,

and to make it as it was before. And when

the prophet prayed to God to exhibit this

sign to the king, he saw what he desired to

see, and was freed from his distemper, and

went up to the temple, where he worshipped

God, and made vows to him.

At this time the dominion of the Assyrians

wasf overthrown by the Medes. But the

king of Babylon, whose name was Baladan,

sent ambassadors to Hezekiah with presents;

and desired he would be his ally, and his

friend.J So he received the ambassadors

gladly, and made them a feast, and shewed

them his treasures, and his armoury, and the

other wealth he was possessed of in precious

stones, and in gold, and gave them presents

to be carried to Baladan, and sent them

back to him. || Upon which the prophet

Isaiah came to him, and inquired whence

those ambassadors came? to which he re­

plied, that they came from Babylon, from the

king; and that he had shewn them all he

had; that by the sight of his riches and

forces they might thereby guess at the plenty

he was in, and be able to inform the king of

it. But the prophet rejoined, and said,

"Know thou, that, after a little while, these

riches of thine shall be carried away to

Babylon: and thy posterity shall be made

eunuchs there, and be servants to the king

of Babylon: for God hath foretold such

things shall come to pass." Upon these

* As to this regress of the shadow, either upon a sun­  
dial, or the steps of the royal palace built by Ahaz, whe­

ther it were physically done, by the miraculous revolu­

tion of the earth, in its diurnal motion, backward, from

cast to west, for a while; and its return again to its

old natural revolution from west to east; or whether it

were apparent only, and performed by an aerial phos­

phorus: (of which sort, though under other shapes, we

have had a great many of late years,) which imitated the

sun's motion backward, while a cloud hid the real sun,

cannot now be determined. Philosophers and astrono­

mers will naturally incline to the latter hypothesis. How-

ever, it must be noted, that Josephus seems to have un­

derstood it otherwise than we generally do: that the

shadow was accelerated as much at first forward, as it

was made to go backward afterward, and so the day was

neither longer nor shorter than usual; which, it must be

confessed, agrees best of all to astronomy, whose eclipses

elder than that time were observed at the same times of

the day as if this miracle had never happened. After all,

this wonderful signal was not, it seems, peculiar to Judea;

but either seen, or at least heard of at Babylon also; as

appears by 2 Chron. xxxii. 31, where we learn, that the

Babylonian ambassadors were sent to Hezekiah, among

other things to inquire of the wonder that was done in the

land. It is also taken notice of by the father of Sirach,

Ecclus. xlviii. 23. See another ancient testimony also

before, in the note under Joshua, Antiq. V. 1.

t This expression of Josephus's, that the Medcs, upon

this destruction of the Assyrian army, overthrew the As­

syrian empire, seems to be too strong. For although they

immediately cast off the Assyrian yoke, and set up De-

joces, a king of their own; yet was it some time before

the Medes and Babylonians overthrew Nineveh; and

some generations ere the Medes and Persians, under Cy-

axares and Cyras, overthrew the Assyrian or Babylonian

empire, and took Babylon.

t The conquests which the Assyrians were every

where making, could not fail of giving umbrage to the

neighbouring powers to confederate against them; and

therefore, we may well suppose, that, besides the business

of congratulating Hezekiah's recovery, the purpose of this

embassy was to enter into an alliance with him against

Sennacherib, whose growing power the Babylonians had

reason to fear, as well as the Jews ; and, (as the author of

the Chronicles expresses it,) to inquire into the wonder

that was done in the land, 2 Chron. xxxii. 31. i. e. to in­

quire into the miracle of the sun's retrogradation, which

could not fail of being a matter of great curiosity to the

Chaldeans, who, above all other nations, were at that time

given to the study of Astronomy. Calmet's Commentary.

and Prideaux's Connection, Anno 713. B. ,

|| The things which Hezekiah shewed to the Babylo­

nian ambassadors, were the riches of his house, his trea­

sures, his armoury, and all his stores and strength for war;

and the reason for his doing this, was, doubtless, to make

the Babylonians put the greater value upon his friend­

ship: but herein he offended God, that he not only laid

a bait before these foreigners to encourage them to invade

his country, but seemed to place more confidence in this

new alliance with them, than in the power of the Al­

mighty, whose favour and protection he had so long ex­

perienced. The author of the Chronicles tells us, that, in

the business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon,

who sent unto him to inquire of the wonder that was done

in the land, God left him to try him, that he might know

all that was in his heart, 2 Chron. xxxii. 31. And from

hence some have inferred, that Hezekiah's great offence

lay, not so much in the ostentation of his military stores

and treasures, as in his not giving sufficient glory to God

for so signal a miracle, and his recovery ensuant there­

upon, and in his not representing this matter to these

idolatrous ambassadors, in such powerful and convincing

terms as might have drawn them over to the knowledge

of the true God, which was the proper improvement he.

should have made this divine vouchsafement to him. Ls

Clerks Commentary. B.

