162 [SOOK V ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

an admonition from God not to overlook the

Israelites in such a distress as they were now

in; but to endeavour boldly to regain their

liberty. So when he had procured some to

assist him in this dangerous undertaking;

(and few they were who, either out of shame

at their present circumstances, or out of a

desire of changing them, could be prevailed

on to assist him:) he first of all destroyed

that garrison which Chushan had set over

them. And when it was perceived that he

had not failed in his first attempt, more of the

people came to his assistance; so they joined

battle with the Assyrians, and drove them

entirely before them, and compelled them to

pass over the Euphrates. Hereupon Othniel,

who had given such proof of bis valour, re­

ceived from the multitude authority to judge

the people. And when he had ruled over

them* forty years, he died.

CHAP. IV.

OF THE SUBJUGATION OF THE HEBREWS BY THE MOABITES;

AND OF THEIR DELIVERANCE FROM SLAVERY BY EHUD;

WHO RETAINED THE DOMINION EIGHTY YEARS.

WHEN Othniel was dead, the affairs of

the Israelites fell again into disorder;

and while they never payed to God the honour

due to him, nor were obedient to the laws,

their afflictions increased; till Eglon,f king

of the Moabites, taking advantage of the dis­

orders of their political government, made

war upon them, and overcame them in several

battles, and made the most courageous to

submit; and entirely subdued their army, and

ordered them to pay him tribute. And when

he had built him a royal palace atj: Jericho,

he omitted no method whereby he might dis­

tress them; and, indeed, he reduced them to

Eoverty for|| eighteen years. But when God

ad once taken pity on the Israelites, on ac­

count of their afflictions, and was moved to

compassion by their supplications, he freed

them from the hard usage they had met with

under the Moabitea. And this liberty he pro­

cured for them in the following manner:

There was a young man of the tribe of

Benjamin, whose name was Ehud, the son of

Gera; a man of very great courage in bold

undertakings; and of a very strong body, fit

for hard labour, but best skilled in using his

left hand,§ in which was his whole strength;

and he also dwelt at Jericho. Now this man

became familiar with Eglon, and that by

means of presents, with which he obtained his

favour, and insinuated himself into his good

opinion, whereby he was also beloved of those

that were about the king. Now when on a

time, he was bringing presents to the king,

and had two servants with him, he put a dag­

ger on his right thigh secretly, and went in

to him. It was then summer time, and the

middle of the day, when the guards were not

strictly on their watch; both because of the

heat, and because they were gone to dinner.

So the young man, when he had offered his

presents to the king, who then resided in a

small parlour, that stood conveniently to avoid

the heat, fell into discourse with him; for

they were now alone, the king having bid his

attendants leave him, because he had a mind

to talk with Ehud. He was now sitting on

his throne; and fear seized upon Ehud, lest

he should miss his stroke, and not give him a

deadly wound. So he raised himself up, and

said he had a dream to impart to him, by the

command of God. Upon this, the king leaped

out of his throne for joy of the dream; so

Ehud smote him to the heart; and leaving his

dagger in his body, he went out, and shut the

door after him. Now the king's servants

were very still, as supposing that the king had

composed himself to sleep.

Hereupon Ehud informed the people of

Jericho privately what he had done; and ex­

horted them to recover their liberty. They

heard him gladly, and went to their arms,

and sent messengers all over the country, that

should sound trumpets** of rams' horns; for it

was the custom to call the people together by

* From An. 1441 to 1401.

t Judg. iii. 12.

j It appears by the sacred history Judg. i. 16. iii. 13.

tint Eglon's pavilion or palace, was at the city of Palm-

trees, as the place where Jericho had stood is called after

its destruction by Joshua; that is, at, or near the demo­

lished city. Accordingly Josephus says it was at Jericho;

or rather in that fine country of palm-trees, upon or near

the same spot of ground on which Jericho had formerly-

stood, and on which it was afterwards rebuilt by Hiel, 1

Kings xvi. 34. Our other copies, that avoid its proper

name Jericho, and call it the city of palm-trees only, speak

here more accuratelv than Josephus.

II From An. 1401 to 1383.

§ Jndg. iii. 15.

** Judg. iii. 27

