480 [book xnr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

pened, that one and the same Cleopatra was

married to two, who were brethren: as we

have *related elsewhere. But Antiochus

Cyzicenus coming into Syria, continued many

years at war with his brother. Now Hyrca-

nus lived all this while in peace. For after

the death of Antiochus, he "frevolted from

the Macedonians; nor did he any longer pay

them the least regard; either as their sub­

ject, or their friend: but his affairs were in

a very improving and flourishing condition in

the time of Alexander Zebina, and especially

under these brethren. For the war which

they had with one another gave Hyrcanus

an opportunity of enjoying himself in Judea

quietly; insomuch that he got an immense

quantity of money. However, when Antio­

chus Cyzicenus distressed his land, he then

openly shewed what he meant. And when

he saw that Antiochus was destitute of

Egyptian auxiliaries, and that both he and

his brother were in an ill condition in the

struggles they had one with another; he

despised them both.

So he made an expedition against Sama­

ria; which was a very strong city; of whose

present name Sebaste, and its rebuilding by

Herod, we shall speak at a proper time. But

he made his attack against it, and besieged it

with a great deal of pains. For he was dis­

pleased with the Samaritans, for the injuries

they had done to the people of Marissa, a

colony of the Jews, and confederate with

them; and this in compliance with the kings

of Syria. When he had therefore drawn a

ditch, and built a double wall round the city,

which was eighty furlongs long, he set his

sons Anligonus and Anstobulus over the

siege. This brought the Samaritans to such

great distress by famine, that they were

forced to eat what used not to be eaten;

and to call for Antiochus Cyzicenus to help

them. Accordingly he came to their as­

sistance; but was beaten by Aristobulus:

and when he was pursued as far as Scytho-

polis by the two brethren, he got away. So

they returned to Samaria, and shut them

again within the wall, till they were forced

* See chap. 7.

t Dean Prideaux takes notice at the year 133, that Jus­

tin, in agreement with Josephus, says, "The power of the

Jews was now grown so great, that after this Antiochus,

they would not have any Macedonian king over them;

to send for the same Antiochus a second

time to help them. He then procured about

six thousand men from Ptolemy Lathyrus,

which were sent them without his mother's

consent, who had then in a manner turned

him out of his government. With these

Egyptians Antiochus at first overran and

ravaged the country of Hyrcanus, after the

manner of a robber: for he durst not meet

him openly to fight with him; as not having

an army sufficient for that purpose: but only

from this supposal, that by thus harassing his

land he should force Hyrcanus to raise the

siege of Samaria. But because he fell into

snares, and lost many of his soldiers therein,

he went away to Tripoli, and committed the

prosecution of the war against the Jews to

Callimander and Epicrates.

But Callimander attacked the enemy too

rashly, and was put to flight, and destroyed

immediately. And as to Epicrates, he was

such a lover of money, that he openly be­

trayed Scythopolis and other places near it

to the Jews: but was not able to make them

raise the siege of Samaria. And when Hyr­

canus had taken that city, after a year's

siege, he demolished it entirely; and brought

rivulets to it to drown it. For he dug such

hollows as might let the water run under it.

Nay he took away the very marks that there

had ever been such a city there. Now a

very surprising thing is related of this high-

priest, Hyrcanus; now God came to dis­

course with him. For they say that on the

very same day on which his sons fought with

Antiochus Cyzicenus, he was alone in the

temple, as high-priest, offering incense, and

heard a Jvoice, informing him, that his sons

had just then overcome Antiochus. And this

he openly declared before all the multitude

upon his coming out of the temple. And it

accordingly proved true.

Now it happened at this time, that not

only those Jews who were at Jerusalem and

in Judea were in prosperity, but also those of

them who were in Egypt, and Cyprus. For

Cleopatra, the queen, was at variance with

her son Ptolemy Lathyrus; and appointed for

and that they set up a government of their own, and in­

fested Syria with great wars."

J The oracle of Urim. See the note on Book III

chap. 8.

