AW. 41.] 523 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them: and wrote letters to that purpose. He

also bound fifteen of their adversaries, and

would have put them to death, but that Herod

obtained their pardon.

Yet did not these men continue quiet,

when they were come back, but a thousand

of the Jews came to Tyre to meet him there,

whither the report was that he would come.

But Antony was corrupted by the money

which Herod and his brother had given him;

and so he gave order to the governor of the

place to punish the Jewish ambassadors, who

were for making innovations: and to settle

the government upon Herod. But Herod

went out hastily to them, and Hyrcanus was

with him; (for they stood upon the shore be­

fore the city,) and he charged them to go

their ways; because great mischief would

befall them if they went on with their accu­

sation. But as they did not acquiesce, the

Romans ran upon them with their daggers,

and slew some, and wounded more of them:

and the rest fled away, and went home, and

lay still in great consternation. And when

the people made a clamour against Herod,

Antony was so provoked at it, that he slew

the prisoners.

Now in the *second year, Pacorus, the

king of Parthia's son, and Barzapharnes, a

commander of the Parthians, possessed them­

selves of Syria. Ptolemy, the son of Men-

neus, also was now dead: and Lysanias his

son took his government; and made a league

of friendship with Antigonus, the son of Aris-

tobulus; and in order to obtain it made use

of that commander, who had great interest

in him. Now Antigonus had promised to

five the Parthians a thousand talents, and

ve hundred women: upon condition they

would take the government from Hyrcanus,

and bestow it upon him, and withal kill

Herod. And although he did not give them

what he had promised, yet did the Parthians

make an expedition into Judea on that ac­

count, and carried Antigonus with them.

Pacorus went along the maritime parts; but

the commander, Barzapharnes, through the

midland. Now the Tyrians excluded Paco­

rus: but the Sidonians, and those of Ptole-

mais, received him. However Pacorus sent

a troop of horsemen into Judea, to take a

view of the state of the country, and to assist

Antigonus; and he sent the king's butler, of

voL. i.—NOS. 43 & 44.

the same name with himself. So when the

Jews that dwelt about mount Carmel came

to Antigonus, and were ready to march with

him into Judea, Antigonus hoped to get some

part of the country by their assistance. The

place is called Dry mi: and when some others

came and met them, the men privately fell

upon Jerusalem. And when some more were

come to them, they got together in great

numbers, and came against the king's palace,

and besieged it. But as Phasaelus's and

Herod's party came to the other's assistance,

and a battle ensued in the market-place, the

young men beat their enemies, and pursued

them into the temple; and sent some armed

men into the adjoining houses to keep them

in; who yet being destitute of such as should

support them, were burnt, and the houses

with them, by the people who rose up against

them. But Herod was revenged on these

seditious adversaries a little afterward, when

he fought with them, and slew a great num­

ber of them.

But while there were daily skirmishes, the

enemy waited for the coming of the multitude

out of the country to the feast of Pentecost.

And when that day was come, many thou­

sands of the people were gathered together

about the temple; some in armour, and some

without. Now those that came guarded both

the temple and the city, excepting what be­

longed to the palace, which Herod guarded

with a few of his soldiers. And Phasaelus

had the charge of the wall: while Herod,

with a body of his men, sallied out upon the

enemy, who lay in the suburbs, and fought

courageously, and put many thousands to

flight: some fleeing into the city, some into

the temple, and some into the outer fortifica­

tions: for some such fortifications there were

in that place. Phasaelus came also to his

assistance. Yet was Pacorus, the general of

the Parthians, at the desire of Antigonus, ad­

mitted into the city, with a few of his horse­

men: under pretence indeed, as if he would

appease the sedition; but in reality to assist

Antigonus in obtaining the government. And

when Phasaelus met him, and received him

kindly, Pacorus persuaded him to go himself,

as ambassador to Barzapharnes; which was

done fraudulently. Accordingly Phasaelus

* Probably of Antony's coming into Asia.

4N

