m [BOOK IV. AHfTlQUITIES OF THE TEWS.

ing cattle. But MG3es supposing that they

were afraid of fighting the Canaanitcs, and

invented this provision for their cattle, as a

handsome excuse for avoiding that war, called

them arrant cowards; and said, they had

only contrived a decent excuse for their timi­

dity; and that they had a mind to live in

luxury and ease, while all the rest were la­

bouring with great pains to obtain the land

they were desirous to have; and that they

were not willing to undergo the remaining

hard service, whereby they were under the

Divine promise to pass over Jordan, and over­

come those enemies which God had shewed

them, and so obtain their land. But these

tribes, when they saw that Moses was angry

with them, and when they could not deny but

he had a just cause to be displeased at their

petition, made an apology for themselves;

and baid, that it was not on account of their

(bar of danger, nor on account of their indo­

lence that they made this request, but that

they might leave the prey they had gotten in

places of safety, and thereby might be more

expeditious, and ready to undergo difficulties,

and to fight battles. They added, also, that

when they had built cities, wherein they

might preserve their children, and wives, and

possessions, if he would bestow them upon

them, they would go along with the rest of

the army. Hereupon Moses called for Ele-

azar, the high-priest, and Joshua, and the

chief of the tribes, and permitted these tribes

to possess the land of the Amorites, but upon

this condition, that they should join with their

kinsmen in the war, until all things were set­

tled. Upon which condition they took pos­

session of the country, and built them strong

cities, and put into them their children, and

their wives, and whatsoever else they had that

might be an impediment to the labours of

their future marches.

Moses also now built those ten cities, which

were to be of the number of forty^eight, for

the Levites. Three of these he allotted to

those that slew any person involuntarily, and

fled to them; and he assigned the same time

for their banishment, with that of the life of

the high-priest, under whom the slaughter

and flight happened; after which he permitted

* Numb, xxxvi. 2, et 8**).

) From An. 1532 to 1492 B. C.

the slayer to return home; the relations of

him ihat were slain having the power to kill

the slayer, if they caught him without the

bounds of the city to which he fled; though

this permission was not granted to any other

person. Now the cities which were set apart

for this flight were Bezer, at the borders of

Arabia; Ramoth, of the land of Gilead; and

Golan, in the land of Bashan. There were

to be also, by Moses's command, three other

cities allotted for the habitation of these fu­

gitives, out of the cities of the Levites; but

not till after they should be in possession oi'

the land of Canaan.

At this time the chief men of the tribe of

Manasseh came to Moses, and informed him,

that there was an eminent man of their tribe

dead, whose name was Zelophehad, who had

no male children, but left daughters; and

asked him whether the daughters might in­

herit his land* or not? He made this answer:

that if they shall marry into their own tribe,

they shall carry their own estate along with

them; but if they shall marry to any of ano­

ther tribe, they shall leave their inheritance

in their father's tribe. And then it was that

Moses ordained that every one's inheritance

should continue in his own tribe.

CHAP. VIU.

OF THE POLITY SETTLES BY MOSES, AND HIS DISAPPEARANCE

FROM AMONG MANKIND.

WHENt forty years were completed,

within thirty days, Moses gathered

the congregation near Jordan, where the city

Abila now stands, which place is full of palm-

trees; and when all the people were come

together, he spake thus to them:

** O ye Israelites, and fellow-soldiers, who  
have been partners with me in this long and

toilsome journey. Since now the will of God,

and the course of old age at an hundred and J

twenty, requires that I depart out of this life;

and since God has forbidden me to be a pa­

tron or an assistant to you in what remains to

be done beyond Jordan; I thought it reason­

able not to leave off my endeavours even now

for your happiness; but to do my utmost to

procure for you the eternal enjoyment of good

X Deut. xxxi. 2.

