496 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

nus's, an Idumean, called Antipater; who

was very rich, and in his nature an active

and seditious man, he was at enmity with

Aristobulus, and had differences with him

on account of his good will to Hyrcanus.

Nicolaus of Damascus indeed says, that

Antipater was of the stock of the principal

Jews who came out of Babylon into Judea.

But that assertion of his was to gratify Herod,

who was his son: and who, by certain revo­

lutions of fortune, came afterward to be king

of the Jews; whose history we shall give

you in its proper place hereafter. How­

ever, this Antipater was at first called *An-

tipas: and that was his father's name also.

Of whom they relate, that king Alexander

and his wife made him general of all Idumea:

and that he made a league of friendship with

those Arabians, Gazites, and Ascalonites,

that were of his own party, and had, by

many and large presents, made them his fast

friends. But now, this younger Antipater

was suspicious of the powers of Aristobulus;

and was afraid of some mischief he might do

him, because of his hatred to him. So he

stirred up the most powerful of the Jews,

and talked against him to them privately;

and said, it was unjust to overlook the con­

duct of Aristobulus; who had assumed the

government unrighteously; and had ejected

his brother, who was the elder, and ought to

retain what belonged to him by the preroga­

tive of his birth. And the same speeches

he perpetually made to Hyrcanus: and told

him that his own life would be in danger,

unless he guarded himself, and got rid of

Aristobulus. For, he said, that the friends

of Aristobulus omitted no opportunity of ad­

vising him to kill him; as being then and not

before sure to retain his principality. But

Hyrcanus gave no credit to these words, as

being of a gentle disposition, and one that

did not easily admit of calumnies against

other men. This temper of his not dis­

posing him to meddle with public affairs,

occasioned him to appear to spectators to

be degenerate and unmanly: while Aristo­

bulus was of a contrary temper; an active

* That the famous Antipater's, or Antipas's father, was  
also Antipater or Antipas: (which two may justly be es­

teemed one and the same name; the former with a Greek

or Gentile; the latter with a Hebrew or Jewish termina­

tion:) Josephus here assures us. Though Eusebius indeed,

man, and one of a great and generous

soul.

Since therefore t Antipater saw that Hyrca­

nus did not attend to what he said, he never

ceased day by day to charge feigned crimes

upon Aristobulus; and to calumniate him,

before him, as if he had a mind to kill him.

And so by urging him perpetually, he per­

suaded him to flee to Aretas, king of Arabia;

and promised that if he would comply with

his advice, he would also himself assist him,

and go with him. When Hyrcanus heard

this, he said, that it was for his advantage to

flee away to Aretas. However he sent An­

tipater first to the king of Arabia, in order

to receive assurances, that when he should

come in the manner of a supplicant to him, he

would not deliver him up to his enemies. So

Antipater having received such assurances,

returned to Jerusalem, and took Hyrcanus,

and stole out of the city by night; and con­

ducted him to the city called retra; where

the palace of Aretas was. And as he was a

very familiar friend of that king's, he per­

suaded him to bring back Hyrcanus into Ju­

dea; and this persuasion he continued every

day, without any remission. He also pro­

posed to make him presents on that account.

At length he prevailed with Aretas in his

suit. Moreover Hyrcanus promised him,

that when he had been brought thither, and

had received his kingdom, he would restore

that country, and those twelve cities which

his father Alexander had taken from the

Arabians, viz. Medaba, Naballo, Libias,

Tharabassa, Agalla, Athone, Zoar, Orone,

Marissa, Rudda, Lussa, and Oruba.

CHAP. II.

OF THE EXPEDITION OP ARETAS AND HYRCANUS AGAINST

ARISTOBULUS; THEIR INVESTMENT OF JERUSALEM J THE

INTERFERENCE OF SCAURUS, THE ROMAN GENERAL J AND

THE DEATH OF ONIAS.

AFTER these promises had been given to

Aretas, he made an expedition against

Aristobulus, with an army of fifty thousand

horse and foot; and defeated him in battle.

Hist. Eccl. I. 6, says it was Herod, I am clearly of Dr.

Hudson's and Noldius's minds; that we ought to follow

Josephus rather than Eusebius in this matter. See Nold-

de Vit. and Gest. Herod. § 1—6.

t An. 65.

