254 [book tu, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW&

tormenting himself, and crying out, "O my

son! I wish that I had died myself, and ended

my days with thee!" for he was of a tender

natural affection, and had extraordinary

compassion for this son in particular. But

when the army and Joab heard that the king

mourned for his son, they were ashamed to

enter into the city in the habit of conquerors:

but they all came in as cast down, and in

tears, as if they had been defeated.* Now

while the king covered himself, and griev­

ously lamented his son, Joab went to him

and comforted him, and said, "O my lord

the king, thou art not aware that thou layest

a blot on thyself, by what thou now doest:

for thou seemest to hate those that love thee,

and undergo dangers for thee; nay, to hate

thyself and thy family, and to love those that

are thy bitter enemies: and to desire the

company of those who have been justly slain.

For had Absalom obtained the victory, and

firmly settled himself in the kingdom, there

had been none of us left alive; but all of us,

beginning with thyself and thy children, had

miserably perished; while our enemies had

not wept for us, but rejoiced over us, and

punished even those that lamented our mis­

fortunes. And thou art not ashamed to do

this in the case of one that has been thy

bitter enemy; who while he was thine own

son, hath proved so wicked to thee. Leave

off therefore thy unreasonable grief, and

come abroad to thy soldiers; and return

them thanks for the alacrity they shewed in

the flight. For I myself will this day per­

suade the people to leave thee and to give

the kingdom to another, if thou continuest to

do thus; and then I shall make thee grieve

bitterly, and in earnest." Joab's speaking

thus made the king leave off his sorrow, and

brought him to the consideration of his af­

fairs. So he changed his habit, and exposed

himself in a manner fit to be seen by the mul­

titude, and sat at the gates. Whereupon all

the people heard of it and ran togethert and

saluted him.

CHAP. XI.

OF DAVID S REINSTATEMENT IN THE KINGDOM, HIS RECO.N-

CIUATION WITH SHIMEI AND ZIBA, AND HIS AFFECTION

TO BARZILLA1. THE REBELLION AND DEATH OF SHEBA.

"T^TOW those Hebrews that had been with

_|_^( Absalom, and had retired out of the

battle, when they were all returned home;

sent messengers to every city to put them in

mind of what benefits David had bestowed

upon them; and of that liberty which he

had procured them, by delivering them from

many and great wars. But they complained,

that whereas they had ejected him out of

his kingdom, and committed it to another

governor, who was already dead; they did

not now beseech David to leave off his anger

at them, and to become friends with them;

and, as he used formerly to do, to resume

the care of their affairs, and to take the king­

dom again. This was often told to David;

and this, notwithstanding David sent to Za-

dok and Abiathar the high-priest, that they

should speak to the rulers of the tribe of

Judah after the following manner: that it

would be a reproach upon them to permit

the other tribes to choose David for their

king before their tribe, and this while they

were akin to him, and of the same common

blood. He commanded them also to say

to Amasa, the captain of their forces: that

whereas he was his sister's son, he had not

persuaded the multitude to restore the king­

dom to David. That he might expect from

him not only a reconciliation, for that was

already granted, but that supreme command

of the army also which Absalom had be­

stowed upon him. Accordingly the high-

priests, when they had discoursed with the

rulers of this tribe, and said what the king

had ordered them, persuaded Amasa to

undertake the care of his affairs. So he

persuaded that tribe to send ambassadors

immediately, to beseech him to return to

his own kingdom. The same did all the

Israelites, at the like persuasion of Amasa.

place of that city gate, which seems still to have been

built the highest of any part of the wall; and since our

other copies say he went to the chamber over the gate,

2 Sam. xviii. 33. I think we ought to correct our pre­

sent reading of Josephus, and for city, should read gate:

i. e. instead of the highest part of the city, should say,

the highest part of the gate. Accordingly we find David

presently in Josephus, as well as in our other copies, 8

Sam. six. 8. sitting as before in the gate of this city.

* 2 Sam. xix. 2, 3.

t 2 Sam. xix. 8.

