664 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

way more and more augmented. But then

this magnificent temper of his, and that sub­

missive behaviour and liberality which he ex­

ercised towards Caesar, and the most power­

ful men of Rome, obliged him to transgress

the customs of his nation, and to set aside

many of their laws: and by building cities

after an extravagant manner, and erecting

temples: *not in Judea indeed, for that

would not have been permitted; it being

forbidden us to pay any honour to images, or

representations of animals, after the manner

of the Greeks; but still he did thus in the

country properly, out of our bounds, and in

the cities thereof. The apology which he

made to the Jews for these things was, that

all was done, not out of his own inclinations,

but by the commands and injunctions of

others, in order to please Caesar, and the

Romans; as though he had not the Jewish

customs so much in his eye, as he had the

honour of those Romans; while yet he had

himself entirely in view all the while: and

indeed was very ambitious to leave great

monuments of his government to posterity.

Whence it was that he was so zealous in

building such fine cities, and expended such

vast sums of money upon them.

Now fupon his noticing a place near the

sea, which was very proper for containing a

city, and was before called Strato's tower,

he set about getting a plan for a magnificent

city there; and erected many edifices of

white stone, with great diligence all over it.

He also adorned it with most sumptuous

palaces, and large edifices for containing

the people; and what was the greatest and

most laborious work of all, he adorned it

with a haven, that was always free from the

waves of the sea. Its largeness was not

less than the Pyraeum, at Athens; and had

towards the city a double station for the

ships. It was of excellent workmanship;

and this was the more remarkable for its

being built in a place that of itself was not

suitable to such noble structures, but was to

be brought to perfection by materials from

other places, and at very great expenses.

* One may here take notice, that how tyrannical and  
extravagant soever Herod were in himself, and in his

Grecian cities, as to those plays, shews, and temples for

idolatry, mentioned above, chap. 8, and here also, yet

durst even he introduce very few of them into the cities

This city is situate in Phoenicia, in the pas­

sage by sea to Egypt, between Joppa and

Dora; which are lesser maritime cities, and

not fit for havens, on account of the impetu­

ous south winds that beat upon them; which

rolling the sands that come from the sea

against the shores, do not admit of ships

lying in their station: but the merchants

are generally there forced to ride at their

anchors in the sea itself. So Herod endea­

voured to rectify this inconvenience; and

laid out such a compass towards the land, as

might be sufficient for a haven, wherein the

great ships might lie in safety. And this he

effected by letting down vast stones of above

fifty feet in length; not less than eighteen

in breadth, and nine in depth, into twenty

fathoms deep: and as some were lesser, so

were others bigger, than those dimensions.

This mole which he built by the seaside

was two hundred feet wide; the half of

which was opposed to the current of the

waves, so as to keep off those waves which

were to break upon them: and so was called

Procymatia or the first breaker of the waves:

but the other half had upon it a wall, with

several towers: the largest of which was a

work of very great excellence, and was

called Drusus, from the son-in-law of Caesar,

who died young. There were a great num­

ber of arches where the mariners dwelt:

and there was also before them a key, or

landing place, which ran round the entire

haven, and was a most agreeable walk. But

the entrance or mouth of the port was made

on the north quarter; on which side was

the stillest of the winds of all in this place.

And the basis of the whole circuit on the

left hand, at the entrance of the port, sup­

ported a round turret; which was made very

strong, in order to resist the greatest waves;

while on the right hand, stood two vast

stones, and those each of them larger than

the turret which was over against them.

These stood upright, and were joined to­

gether. Now there were edifices all along

the circular haven made of the finest stone;

with a certain elevation, whereon was erected

of the Jews: who, as Josephus here notes, would not

even then have permitted it; so zealous were the} still

for many of the laws of Moses, even under so tyrannical

a government as this of Herod the Great.

t An. 22.

