332 [book IX ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

TT^^SH

P—

of cattle. They also possessed themselves of

so many thousand measures of wheat and bar­

ley, as they never in the least expected, and

were not only freed from their former mise­

ries, but had such plenty, that two seahs of

barley were bought for a shekel; and a seah

of fine flour for a shekel; according to the

prophecy of Elisha. Now a seah is equal to

an Italian modius and a half. The captain of

the third band was the only man that re­

ceived no benefit by this plenty. For he was

appointed by the king to oversee the gate,

that he might prevent the too great crowd of

the multitude, and they might not endanger

one another in the press; but he suffered

himself in that very way, and was trodden*

to death; as Elisha had predicted, when he

alone disbelieved what he said concerning

the plenty of provisions which they should

soon have.

When Benhadad had escaped to Damascus,

and understood that it was God himself that

cast all his army into disorder, and that it

did not arise from the invasion of enemies,

he was greatly dejected at having God so

greatly for his enemy, and fell into a dis­

temper. Now it happened that Elisha the

prophet, at that time was gone out of his

own country to Damascus; of which when

Benhadad was informed, he sent Hazael, the

most faithful of all his servants, to meet him,

and to carry him presents, and bade him

inquire about his distemper, and whether he

should escape the danger that it threatened.

So Hazael came to Elisha with forty camels,

laden with the best and most precious fruits

that the country of Damascus afforded, as

well as those which the king's palace sup-

plied. He saluted him kindly, and said, that

he w as sent to him, by king Benhadad, and

brought presents with him in order to inquire

concerning his distemper, whether he should

recover from it or not? whereupon the pro­

phet bid him tell the king no melancholy

news: but still he said he would die. So

the king's servant was troubled to hear it.

And Elisha wept also, and his tears ran

down plenteously at his foresight of what

miseries his people would undergo after the

death of Benhadad. And when Hazael

asked him what was the occasion of the

confusion he was in; he said, "Out of com­

miseration for the multitude of the Is­

raelites; and what terrible miseries they

will suffer by thee. For thou wilt slay the

strongest of them, and wilt burn the strongest

cities, and wilt destroy their pregnant wo­

men, and dash their children against the

stones." And when Hazael said, "How can

it be that 1 should have power enough to

do such things?" the prophet replied, that

God had informed him he should be king

of Syria. So when Hazael was come to

Benhadad, he told him good news concern­

ing his distemper:f but on the next day he

spread a wet cloth, in the nature of a net,

over him, and took his dominion.J He was

an active man, and had the good will of the

Syrians, and of the people of Damascus: by

whom both Benhadad himself, and Hazael,

who ruled after him, are honoured to this

day, as gods, by reason of their benefactions,

and their building them temples; by which

they adorned the city of the Damascens.

They also do with great pomp pay their

daily worship! to these kings; and value

* 2 Kings vii. 20.

t Since Elijah did not live to anoint Hazael, king of

Syria, - himself as he was empowered to do, 1 Kings xix.

15. Antiq. VIII. 13, it was most probably now done, in

his name, by his servant and successor Elisha. Nor does

it seem to me otherwise, but that Benhadad immediately

recovered of his disease, as the prophet foretold; and

that Hazael, upon his being anointed to succeed him;

though he ought to have staid till he died by the course

of nature, or some other way of divine punishment; as

did David for many years in the like case; was too im­

patient, and the very next day smothered or strangled

him, in order to come directly to the succession.

J 2 Kings viii. 15.

|| What M. Le Clerc pretends here, that it is more

probable that Hazael and his son were worshipped by the

Syrians, and people of Damascus, till the days of Jose-

phus, than Benhadad and Hazael: because under Ben­

hadad they had greatly suffered; and because it is almost

incredible, that both a king and the king's murderer

should be worshipped by the same people, is of little

force against those records, out of which Josephus drew

this history; especially when it is likely that they thought

Benhadad died of the distemper he laboured under, and

not by Hazael's treachery, and when Selden hath shewn

that Benhadad was among the gods of Syria. De Diis

Syris. Synt. I. D. 6. Besides, the reason that Josephns

gives for this adoration, that these two kings had been

great benefactors to the inhabitants of Damascus, and

had built them temples, is too remote from the political

suspicions of Le Clerc. Nor ought such weak suspicions

to be deemed of any force against the authentic testimo­

nies of antiquity.

