310 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

brought it to him every day. But when that

river was dried up, for want of rain, he came

to Zarepbath, a city between Sidon and

Tyre; and this at the command of God. For

God told him that he should there find a

woman who was a widow, that should give

him sustenance. So when he was not far off

the city, he saw a woman gathering of sticks.

So God informed him that this was the person

who was to give him sustenance; so he came

and saluted her, and desired her to bring him

some water to drink. But as she was going

so to do, he called to her, and asked her to

bring him a loaf of bread also. She affirmed

upon oath, that she had at home nothing more

than one handful of meal, and a little oil;

and that she was going to gather some sticks

that she might knead it, and make bread for

herself and her son; after which she said,

they must perish by the famine, for they had

nothing for themselves any longer. Here­

upon, ne said, "Go on with good courage,

and hope for better things: but first of all

make me a little cake and bring it to me;

for I foretell to thee, that this vessel of meal,

and this cruse of oil, shall not fail, until God

send rain." When the prophet had said this,

she came to him, and made the cakes; of

which she had part for herself, and gave the

rest to her son, and to the prophet also. Nor

did any thing of this fail, until the drought

ceased.* Now Menander mentions this

drought, in his account of the acts of Eth-

baal, king of the Tyrians: where he says,

"Under him there was a want of rain from

the month Hype rbe re toe us, till the month

Hyperberetoeue of the year following. But

when he made supplications, there came

great thunders. This Ethbaal built the cily

Botrys in Phoenicia, and the city Auza in

Lybia." By these words he designed this

want of rain that was in the days of Ahab;

for at that time it was that Ethbaal also

reigned over the Tyrians, as Menander

wrote.

Now the son of this woman, who sustained

the prophet, fell into a distemper, till he

gave up the ghost, and appeared to be dead.f

The mother, therefore came to the prophet,

weeping and beating her breast, and uttering

such expressions as her passions dictated to

her, and complained to him, that he had

come to reproach her for her sins, and that

on this account it was that her son was dead.

But he bade her be of good cheer, and de­

liver her son to him; for that he would re­

store him again to her alive. So when she

had delivered her son up to him, he carried

him into an upper room, where he himself

lodged, and laid him down upon the bed;

and cried unto God, and said that God had

not done so well in rewarding the woman

who had sustained him, by taking away her

son; and he prayed that he would send again

the soul of the child into him, and bring him

to life again. Accordingly God took pity on

the mother, and was willing to gratify the

prophet; that he might not seem to have

come to her to do her a mischief; and the

child, beyond all expectation, came to life

again. So the mother returned the prophet

thanks, and said, she was then clearly satis­

fied that God did converse with him.J

IJAfter a little§ while Elijah came to king

* The woman had sufficient reason to believe that  
Elijah was a prophet, or person sent from God, when she

saw the miraculous increase of the meal and oil; but upon

his not curing her son when he lay sick, but rather suf­

fering him to die, her faith began to droop; whereas, upon

seeing him revive, her faith revived with him; and

through the joy of having him restored to her again, she

accounted this latter miracle much greater than the former.

Le Gere's Commentary. B.

t Some of the Hebrew doctors (and herein they are

followed by some Christians) are of opinion, that this

widow's son was the prophet Jonas; that after his resto­

ration, his mother gave him to Elijah; that after he at­

tended on the prophet, as long as he lived; and on a cer­

tain occasion was despatched by him to Nineveh, as every

one knows. Bat besides that these traditions are desti­

tute of any real proof, Jonah was a Hebrew, as he him­

self de.;hres, chap. i. 9. and a native of Gath-hepher, as

we read, 2 Kings xiv. 25. whereat the widow's son was a

native of Zarephtha, a town belonging to the kingdom of

Sidon, and by birth a stranger to the race of Israel. Cal­

mef s Commentary. B.

t See 1 Kings xvii. 17—24.

II Josephus, in his present copies, says, that a little

while after the recovery of the widow's son at Sarepta,

God sent rain upon the earth; whereas, in our other

copies, it is after many days, 1 Kings xviii. 1. Several

years are also intimated there, as belonging to this drought

and famine. Nay we have the express mention of the third

year; which I suppose was reckoned from the recovery

of the widow's son, and the ceasing of this drought in

Phoenicia, which, as Menander informs us here, laste ' one

whole year. And both our Saviour and St. James affirm,

that this drought lasted in all three years and six months,

as their copies of the Old Testament then informed them.

Luke iv. 25. James v. 17. I suspect, therefore, that Jo-

sephus's original reading was, No small time afterward.

§ About an. 907.

