532 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

thereby rendered the way safe for those that

came after. And these called Herod their

saviour and protector.

And when he was near to Samosata, An­

tony sent out his army in all their proper ha­

biliments to meet him, in order to pay Herod

this respect; and because of the assistance

he had given him. For he had heard what

attacks the Barbarians had made upon him

in Judea. He also was very glad to see him

there; as having been made acquainted with

the great actions he had performed upon the

road. So he entertained him very kindly,

and could not but admire his courage. An­

tony also embraced him, as soon as he saw

him, and saluted him after a most affectionate

manner, and gave him the upper hand, as

having himself lately made him a king. And

in a little time Antiochus delivered up the

fortress; and on that account this war was at

an end. Then Antony committed the rest to

Sosius, and gave him orders to assist Herod,

and went himself to Egypt. Accordingly

Sosius sent two legions before into Judea, to

the assistance of Herod; and he followed him­

self with the body of the army.

Now Joseph was already slain in Judea, in

the following manner. He forgot what charge

his brother Herod had given him, when he

went to Antony. And when he had pitched

his camp among the mountains; (for Mache-

ras had lent him five regiments;) he went

hastily to Jericho, in order to reap the corn

thereto belonging. And as the Roman regi­

ments were but newly raised, and were un­

skilful in war; for they were in great part

collected out of Syria; he was attacked by

the enemy, and caught in those places of dif­

ficulty; and was himself slain, as he was

fighting bravely: and the whole army was

lost. For there were six regiments slain.

So when Antigonus had got possession of the

dead bodies, he cut off Joseph's head; al­

though Pheroras, his brother, would have re­

deemed it at the price of fifty talents. After

this defeat, the Galileans revolted from their

commanders, and took those of Herod's party,

and drowned them in the lake: and a great part

of Judea was become seditious. But Mache-

ras fortified the place Gitta, in Samaria.

At this time messengers came to Herod,

and informed him of what had been done;

and when he was come to Daphne by Antioch

they told him of the ill fortune that had befal­

len his brother. But this he had expected,

from certain visions that appeared to him in

his dreams; which clearly foreshewed his

brother's death. So he hastened his march;

and when he came to mount Libanus, he

received about eight hundred of the men of

that place: having already with him also one

Roman legion: and with these he came to

Ptolemais. He also marched thence by night

with his army, and proceeded along Galilee.

Here it was that the enemy met him, and

fought him, and were defeated, and shut up in

the same place of strength, whence they had

sallied out the day before. So he attacked

the place in the morning. But by reason of a

great storm that was then very violent, he was

able to do nothing; but drew off his army into

the neighbouring villages. Yet as soon as the

other legion that Antony sent him was come

to his assistance, those that were in garrison

in the place were afraid; and deserted it in

the night time. Then did the king march

hastily to Jericho, intending to avenge himself

on the enemy, for the slaughter of liis brother.

And when he had pitched his tents, he made

a feast for the principal commanders; and

after this collation was over, and he had dis­

missed his guests, he retired to his own cham­

ber. And nere may one see what kindness

God had for the king. For the upper part

of the house fell down, when no body was in

it; and so killed none: insomuch that all the

people believed that Herod was beloved of

God; since he had escaped such a great and

surprising danger.

But the next day six thousand of the enemy

came down from the tops of the mountains

to fight the Romans; which greatly terrified

them. And the soldiers that were in light

armour came near, and pelted the king's

guards that were come out, with darts and

stones: and one of them struck him on the

side with a dart. Antigonus also sent a com­

mander against Samaria, whose name was

Pappus, with some forces; being desirous to

shew the enemy how potent he was; and that

he had men to spare in his war with them.

He sat down to oppose Macheras. But He­

rod, when he had taken five cities, took such

as were left in them, being about two thou­

sand, and slew them, and burnt the cities

themselves; and then returning to go against

