448 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

did not leave off fighting with the Idumeans:

but pressed upon them on all sides, and took

from them the city of Hebron, and demolished

all its fortifications, and set its towers on fire,

and burnt the country of the foreigners, and

the city Marissa. They came also to Ashdod,

and took it, and laid it waste, and took away

a great deal of the spoils and prey that were

in it, and returned to Judea.

CHAP. IX.

CONCERNING THE DEATH OF ANTIOCHUS EFIPHANES J AND

THE CONDUCT OF ANTIOCHDS EUPATOR TOWARDS JUDAS

MACCABEUS. ALSO OF ALCIMUS AND ONIAS.

ABOUT this time king Antiochus, as he

was going over the upper countries,

heard that there was a very rich city in Per­

sia, called Elymais; and therein a very rich

temple of Diana; and that it was full of all

sorts of donations dedicated to it, as also of

weapons and breast-plates: which, upon in­

quiry, he found had been left there by Alex­

ander, the son of Philip, king of Macedon.

And being incited by these motives, he went

in haste to Elymais, and assaulted and be­

sieged it. But as those that were in it were

not terrified at his assault, nor at his siege,

but opposed him courageously, he was beaten

off his hopes. For they drove him away from

the city, and went out, and pursued after him:

insomuch that he fled away as far as Baby­

lon; and lost a great many of his army. And

when he was grieving for this disappoint­

ment, some persons told him of the defeat of

his commanders whom he had left to fight

against Judea; and what strength the Jews

had already gotten. When this concern

about these affairs was added to the former,

he was confounded: and, by the anxiety he

was in, fell into a distemper; which, as it

lasted a great while, and as his pains in-

creased upon him, so he at length perceived

he should die in a little time. So he called

his friends to him; and told them, that his

distemper was severe upon him: and con­

fessed withal that this calamity was sent upon

him for the miseries he had brought upon the

Jewish nation;* while he plundered their

temple, and contemned their God. And

when he had said this, he gave up the ghost.

Whence one may wonder at Polybius of

Megalopolis; who, though otherwise a good

man, yet saith, that "Antiochus died be­

cause he had a purpose to plunder the tem­

ple of fDiana in Persia." For the {purposing

to do a thing, but not actually doing it, is not

worthy of punishment. But if Polybius could

think, that Antiochus thus lost his life on

that account, it is much more probable that

this king died on account of his sacrilegious

plundering of the temple at Jerusalem. But

we will not contend about this matter, with

those who may think that the cause assigned

by this Polybius of Megalopolis, is nearer the

truth than that assigned by us.

However, Antiochus, before he died, called

for Philip, who was one of his companions;

and made him the guardian of his kingdom.

And gave him his diadem, and his garment,

and his ring: and charged him to deliver

them to his son Antiochus; and ||desired him

to take care of his education, and to preserve

the kingdom for him. This Antiochus died

in the hundred and forty-ninth year. But it

was Lysias that declared his death to the

multitude, and appointed his son Antiochus

to be king, of whom at present he had the

care; and called himEupator.

At this time it was that the garrison in the

citadel at Jerusalem, with the Jewish run­

agates, did a great deal of harm to the Jews.

For the soldiers that were in that garrison

rushed out upon the sudden, and destroyed

* 1 Mace, vi. 12.

f Dr. Hudson observes here, that Jerom upon Daniel

xi. says, "Polybius and Diodoras both relate how this

Antiochus attempted to seize upon the spoils of the temple

of Elymais, which was full of riches." Hudson also notes

that "Strabo places this temple of Diana at Elymais."

XVI. page 744. See Authentic Records, part I. page

226, and Prideaux at the year 164.

J Since St. Paul, a Pharisee, confesses that he had not

known concupiscence, or desires to be sinful, had not the

tenth commandment said, "Thou shalt not covet," Rom.

vii. 7. the case seems to have been much the same with

our Josephus, who was of the same sect, that he had not

a deep sense of the greatness of any sins that proceeded

no farther than the intention. However, since Josephus

speaks here properly of the punishment of death, which

is not inflicted by any law either of God or man for the

bare intention, his words need not be strained to mean

that sins intended, but not executed, were no sins at all.

II No wonder that Josephus here describes Antiochus

Eupator as young, and wanting tuition, when he came

to the crown: since Appian informs us, (Dr. Hudson

notes here,) Syriac. page 177. that he was then but

nine years old.

