AN. 771.] 347 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

upon the golden altar. But Azariah the

high-priest, who had eighty priests with him,

affirmed that it was not lawful lor him to

offer sacrifice: and that none besides the

posterity of Aaron were permitted so to do.

And when they cried out, that he must go

out of the temple, and not transgress against

God, he was wroth with them, and threat­

ened to kill them, unless they would hold

their peace. In the mean time a great

*earthquake shook the ground, and a rent  
was made in the temple, and the bright rays

of the sun shone through it; and fell upon

the king's face, insomuch that the leprosy

seized upon him immediately. And before

the city, at a place called Eroge, half the

mountain broke off from the rest on the

west, and rolled itself four furlongs, and

stood still at the east mountain; till the

roads, as well as the king's gardens, were

spoiled by the obstruction. Now as soon as

the priests saw that the king's face was in­

fected with the leprosy, they told him of the

calamity he was under, and commanded

that he should go out of the city as a pol­

luted person. Hereupon he was so con­

founded, that he did as he was commanded;

and underwent this terrible and miserable

punishment for a presumptuous intention,

and for that impiety against God which was

implied therein. So he abode out of the

city for some time, and lived a private life:

while his son Jotham took the govern-

ment.f He died with grief and anxiety, at

what had happened to him; when he had

lived sixty-eight years, and reigned fifty-

two; J and his body was buried in his own

garden.

* This account of an earthquake at Jerusalem, at the  
very same time when Uzziah usurped the priest's office,

and went into the sanctuary to burn incense, and of the

consequences of the earthquake, is entirely wanting in

our other copies; though it be exceeding like to a pro­

phecy of Jeremiah's, now in Zachariah xiv. 4, 5. In

which prophecy mention is made of fleeing from that

earthquake, as they fled from this earthquake in the days

of Uzziah king of Judah. So that there seems to have

been some considerable resemblance between these his­

torical and prophetical earthquakes. But whether Jose-

pbus interpreted this prophecy as a history; or whether

a parallel has been dropped in our other copies, cannot

be determined.

t 2 Kings xv. 5.

| From an. 811 to 759.

II God had promised Jehu, that for executing his will

voI,. I.—NOS. 29 & 30.

CHAP. XI.

OF THE REIGNS OF ZACHARIAH, SHALLUM, MENAHEM, TEKA-

HIAH, AND PEKAH J AND OF THE EXPEDITION OF PUL, AND

TICLATH-PILESER AGAINST THE ISRAELITES. ALSO OF1'

THE AFFAIRS OF JOTHAM, KING OF JUDAH J AND THE

PROPHECY OF NAHUM AGAINST THE ASSYRIANS.

WHEN Zachariah,|| the son of Jero­

boam, had reigned six months over

Israel, he was slain by the treachery of

Shallum, the son of Jabesh; who took the

kingdom afterward, but kept it no longer

than thirty days. For Menahem, the gene­

ral of his army, who was at that time in the

city Tirzah, and heard of what had befallen

Zachariah, removed with all his forces to

Samaria; and joining battle with Shallum

slew him; and when he had made himself

king, he went thence, and came to the city

Tiphsah. The citizens shut their gates, and

barred them against the king; and would not

admit him. But in order to be avenged on

them, he burnt the adjacent country, and

took the city by storm; and being very

much displeased at what the inhabitants of

Tiphsah had done, he slew them all, and

spared not so much as the infants: without

omitting the utmost instances of cruelty and

barbarity. For he used such severity upon

his own countrymen, as would not be par­

donable with regard to strangers, who had

been conquered by him. And after this

manner it was that this Menahem continued

to reign with cruelty and barbarity for ten

years.§ But when Pul, king of Assyria, had

made an expedition against him, he did not

venture an engagement; but he persuaded

him to accept of a thousand talents of silver,

upon the house of Ahab, he would continue the crown

of Israel in his family for four generations; and accord­

ingly Jehoahaz, Joash, Jehoram, and Zachariah suc­

ceeded him; but because he did it not so much in obe­

dience to the divine command, as to satisfy his private

and ambitious views, and in a method of cruelty quite ab­

horrent to the divine nature, God cut his family short, as

soon as he had fulfilled his promise to him, and thereby

accomplished the prophecy of Hosea; I will avenge the

blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause

to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel, chap. i. 4.

and perhaps it was in remembrance of this prophecy, as

well as of the promise which confined the kingdom in

Jehu's family to four generations only, 2 Kings xv. 10. that

Shallum was encouraged to attempt the life of Zacha­

riah. Patrick's Commentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.

§ From an. 772 to 762.

30

