AN. 44.] 511 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

"For their sins they would not be able to es­

cape his hands." Which things will be re­

lated in their proper places.

But when Hyrcanus saw that the members

of the Sanhedrim were ready to pronounce

the sentence of death upon Herod, he put oft*

the trial till another day, and sent privately

to Herod, and advised him to flee out of the

city: for that by this means he might escape.

So he retired to Damascus, as though he fled

from the king. And when he had been with

Sextus Caesar, and had put his own affairs in

a secure posture, he resolved to do thus; that

in case he were again summoned before the

Sanhedrim, to take his trial, he would not

obey that summons. Hereupon the members

of the Sanhedrim were highly incensed, and

endeavoured to persuade Hyrcanus, that all

these things were against him. This, indeed,

he was not ignorant of: but his temper was

so unmanly, and so foolish, that he was able

to do nothing at all. But when Sextus had

made Herod general of the army of Coelesy-

ria, (for he sold him that post for money,)

Hyrcanus was in fear lest Herod should make

war upon him. Nor was the effect of what

he feared long in coming upon him. For

Herod came, and brought an army along

with him, to fight with Hyrcanus; as being

angry at the trial he had been summoned to

undergo before the Sanhedrim. But his

father Antipater and his brother Phasaelus

met him, and hindered him from assaulting

Jerusalem. They also pacified his vehement

temper, and persuaded him to do no rash ac­

tion, but merely to affright them with threat-

enings, and to proceed no farther against one

who had given him the dignity he had: they

also desired him not only to be angry that he

was summoned, and obliged to come to his

trial; but to remember withal, how he was

dismissed without condemnation; and how he

ought to give Hyrcanus thanks for the same.

So they desired him to consider, that since it

is God that turns the balance of war, there

is great Uncertainty in the issue of battle,

and that therefore he ought not to expect

the victory, when he should fight with his

king, and him that had supported him, and

bestowed many benefits upon him; and had

* If we read here for a5tjXov, uncertainty, a5ixov, in­  
justice; as in the history Of the War, I. 10. the sense

will run very clear: otherwise the two accounts will

done nothing very severe to him: for that

his accusation, which was derived from evil

counsellors, and not from himself, had rather

the suspicion of some severity, than any thing

really severe in it. Accordingly Herod was

persuaded by these arguments: and believed

that it was sufficient for his future hopes to

have made a shew of his strength before the

nation. And in this state were the affairs of

Judea at this time.

CHAP. X.

OF THE HONOURS THAT WERE PAID THE JEWS; AND THE

LEAGUES THAT WERE MADE BY THE ROMANS AND OTHER

NATIONS, WITH THEM.

NOW when Caesar was come to Rome, he

was ready to sail into Africa, to fight

against Scipio and Cato; when Hyrcanus

sent ambassadors to him, desiring that he

would ratify that league of friendship and

mutual alliance which was between them.

And it seems necessary here to give an ac­

count of all the honours that the Romans and

their emperors have paid to our nation; and

of the leagues of mutual assistance they have

made with it; that all the rest of mankind

may know what regard the kings of Asia and

Europe have had to us; and that they have

been abundantly satisfied of our courage and

fidelity. For whereas many will not believe

what hath been written about us, by the Per­

sians and Macedonians, because those writ­

ings are not every where to be met with, nor

do lie in public places; but among ourselves,

and certain other barbarous nations; while

there is no contradiction to be made against

the decrees of the Romans; for they are laid

up in the public places of the cities, and are

extant still in the capitol, and engraven upon

pillars of brass. Nay, besides this, Julius

Caesar made a pillar of brass for the Jews at

Alexandria, and declared publicly that they

were citizens of Alexandria. Out of these

evidences will I demonstrate what I say; and

will now set down the decrees made both by

the senate, and by Julius Caesar, which re

late to Hyrcanus, and to our nation.

"Caius Julius Caesar, imperator, and high-

priest, and dictator the second time, to the

be somewhat different; and tne sense of the place

more doubtful.

