an. 1096.] 221 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them, he is the man who ought to he by all

honoured, with the testimony of a virtuous or

courageous man. For as to those that go out

to war with hopes of success, and that they

shall return safe; supposing they should have

performed some glorious action; I think those

do not well who call these valiant men, as so

many historians and other writers who treat

of them are wont to do; although I confess

those do justly deserve some commendation

also. But those only may be styled coura­

geous and bold in great undertakings, and

despisers of adversities, who imitate Saul.

For as for those that do not know what the

event of war will be as to themselves, and

though they do not faint in it, but deliver

themselves up to uncertain futurity, and are

tossed this way and that way, this is not so

very eminent an instance of a generous mind;

although they happen to perform many great

exploits. But when men's minds expect no

good event; but they know beforehand they

must die; and that they must undergo that

death in the battle also; after this, neither to

be affrighted, nor to be astonished at the ter­

rible fate that is coming; but to go directly

upon it, when they know it beforehand: this

it is that I esteem the character of a man truly

courageous. Accordingly this Saul did; and

thereby demonstrated that all men who de­

sire fame after they are dead, are so to act,

as they may obtain the same. This especially

concerns kings; who ought not to think it

enough in their high station that they are not

wicked in the government of their subjects,

but to be more than moderately good to them.

1 could say more than this about Saul, and

his courage; the subject offering matter suf­

ficient; but that I may not appear to run out

improperly in his commendation, I return

again to that history from which I made this

digression.

Now when the Philistines had pitched their

camp, and had taken account of their forces

according to their nations, kingdoms, and

governments, king Achish came last of all,

with his own army. After whom came David,

with his six hundred armed men. And when

the commanders of the Philistines saw him

they asked the king, whence those Hebrews

came? and at whose invitation? He an­

swered, that it was David, who was fled

away from his master Saul; and he had en­

tertained him when he came to him; and

that now he was willing to make him this re­

quital for his favours, and to avenge himself

upon Saul; and so was become his confede­

rate. The commanders, however, complained

that he had taken him for a confederate who

was an enemy; and gave him counsel to keep

him away, lest he should unawares do his

friends a great deal of mischief by enter­

taining him. For that he afforded him an

opportunity of being reconciled to his master

by doing mischief to the army. They there­

upon desired him, out of a prudent foresight

of this to send him away, with his four hun­

dred armed men, to the place he had given

him for his habitation. For this was that

David whom the virgins celebrated in their

hymns, as having destroyed many ten thou­

sands of the Philistines. When the king of

Gath heard this, he thought they spake well;

so he called David, and said to him, " As for

myself, I can bear witness that thou hast

shewn great diligence and kindness about

me; and on that account it was that I took

thee for my confederate. However, what I

have done does not please the commanders

of the Philistines. Go therefore within a day's

time to the place I have given thee without

suspecting any harm, and there keep my

country, lest any of our enemies should make

an incursion upon it; which will be one part

of that assistance I expect from thee." So

David returned to Ziklag, as the king of Gath

bid him. But it happened that while he was

gone to the assistance of the Philistines, the

nations of the Amalekites had made an in­

cursion, and taken Ziklag before, and had

burnt it; and when they had taken a great

deal of other prey out of that place, and out

of the other parts of the Philistines' country

they departed.

Now when David found that Ziklag was

laid waste, and that it was all spoiled, and

that his own wives, and the wives of his com­

panions, with their children, were made cap­

tives; he presently rent his clothes; weeping

and lamenting, together with his friends. And

indeed he was so cast down with these mis­

fortunes, that at length tears themselves failed

him. He was also in danger of being stoned

to death by his companions; who were greatly

afflicted at the captivity of their wives and

children; for they laid the blame upon him

Xx2

