aN. 1897.] 33 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

prayed to God that Rebeka might be found

among them, or her whom Abraham sent him

as his servant to espouse to his son, in case

his will were that this marriage should be

consummated; and that she might be made

known to him by this sign, that while others

denied him water to drink, she might give it

him.

With this intention he went to the well,

and desired the maidens to give him some

water to drink: but while the others refused,

on pretence that they wanted it all at home,

and could spare none for him, one only of the

company rebuked them for their peevish be­

haviour towards the stranger, and said,

." What is there that you will ever communi­

cate to any body, who have not so much as

given the man some water?" She then offered

him water in an obliging manner, and he be­

gan to hope that this grand affair would suc­

ceed; but desiring still to know the truth, he

commended her for her generosity and good

nature, that she did not scruple to afford a

sufficiency of water to those who wanted it,

though it cost her some pains to draw it. He

then asked her who were her parents, and

wished them joy of such a daughter; "and

mayest thou be espoused," said he, " to their

satisfaction, into the family of an agreeable

husband, and bring him legitimate children."

Nor did she disdain to satisfy his enquiries

but told him her family. "They call me Re­

beka," said she: "my father was Bethuel,

but he is dead; and Laban is my brother,

See also Odyss. lib. x. 105.

A similar custom prevailed also in Armenia, as may be

seen in Xenophon's Anabasis, b. iv. B.

* The weight of the ornaments put upon Rebeka ap­  
pears extraordinary. But CJiardin assures us, that even

heavier were worn by the women of the East when he

was there. He says that the women wear rings and

Dracelets of as great weight as this, and even heavier,

through all Asia. They are rather manacles than brace­

lets. There are some as large as the finger. The women

wear several of them, one above the other, in such a

manner as sometimes to have the arm covered with them

from the wrist to the elbow. Poor people wear as many

of glass or horn. They hardly ever take them off. They

are their riches. Mariner's Observations, vol. ii. p. 600.

Among the several female ornaments which Abraham

sent by his servant, whom he employed to search out a

wife for his son Isaac, were jewels of silver and jewels of

gold, exclusive of raiment, which probably was very rich

and valuable for the age in which Abraham lived. Rich

and splendid apparel, especially such as was adorned with

gold, was very general in the eastern nations, from the

earliest ages: and as the fashions and customs of the

and, together with my mother, takes care of

all our family affairs, and is my guardian."

When the servant heard this, he was very

glad at what had happened, and at what was

told him, as perceiving that God had thus

plainly directed his journey; and producing

his bracelets,* and some other ornaments

which it was esteemed decent for virgins to

wear, he gave them to the damsel, by way of

acknowledgment, and as a reward for her

kindness in giving him water to drink, say­

ing, it was but just that she should have them,

because she was so much more obliging than

any of the rest. She desired also that he

would come and lodge with them since the

approach of the night gave him not time to

proceed farther. 1 hen producing his pre­

cious ornaments for women, he said, he de­

sired to trust them to none more safely, than

to such as she had shewed herself to be; and

that he believed he might guess at the hu­

manity of her mother and brother, that they

would not be displeased from the virtue he

found in her, for he would not be burthen-

some, but would pay the hire for his enter­

tainment, and spend his own money: to

which she replied, that he guessed rightly as

to the humanity of her parents, but com­

plained that he should think them so par­

simonious as to take money, for that he

should have all his wants supplied freely;

but she said, she would first inform her bro­

ther Laban, and if he gave her leave, she

would conduct him in.

Orientals are not subject to much variation, so we find

that this propensity to golden ornaments, prevails even in

the present age, among the females in the countries bor­

dering on Judea. Thus Mungo Park, in the account of

his travels in Africa, mentions the following singular cir­

cumstance, respecting the ornamental part of the dress of

an African lady. "It is evident from the account of the

process by which negroes obtain gold in Manding, that the

country contains a considerable portion of this precious

metal. A great part is converted into ornaments for the

women: and, when a lady of consequence is in full dress,

the gold about her person may be worth, altogether, from

fifty to eighty pounds sterling."

We find also that the same disposition for rich orna­

mental apparel prevailed in the times of the Apostles; for

St. Peter cautioned the females of quality in the first ages

of Christianity, when they adorned themselves, not to

have it consist, in the outward adorning, of plaiting the hair,

and of wearing gold, or of putting on apparel. 1 Pet. iii.

3. See also Psalm xlv. 9, 13. Upon thy right hand did

stand the queen in gold of Ophir.—Her clothing is of wrought

gold. B.

