an. 1492.J 137 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

prevent any person from rolling down and

perishing.

Let him that has received any thing in trust

for another, take care to keep it sacred; and

let no one invent any contrivance, whereby to

deprive him that hath intrusted it with him

of the same; and this whether it be a man or

a woman; no, not although he or she were to

gain an immense sum of gold; and this where

he cannot be convicted of it by any body; for

it is fit that a man's own conscience, which

knows what he hath, should in all cases oblige

him to do well. Let his conscience be his

witness, and make him always act so as may

Etrocure him commendations from others; and

et him chiefly have regard to God, from

whom no wicked man can lie concealed. But

if he in whom the trust was reposed, without

any deceit of his own, lose what he was in­

trusted withal; let him come before the seven

judges, and swear by God, that nothing hath

been lost willingly, or with a wicked inten­

tion; and that he hath not made use of any

part thereof. And so let him depart without

blame.* But if he hath made use of the least

f>art of what was committed to him, and it be

ost, let him be condemned to repay all that

he had received, after the same manner, as

in these trusts, it is to be, if any one defraud

those that undergo bodily labour for him.

And let it be always remembered, that we are

not to defraud a poor man of his wages; as be­

ing sensible that God has allotted that wages

to him instead of land and other possessions.

Nay, this payment is not at all to be delayed,

but to be made that very day;f since God is

not willing to deprive the labourer of the im­

mediate use of what he hath laboured for.

You are not to punish children for <he faults

of their parents ;J but on account of their own

virtue rather to vouchsafe them commisera­

tion, because they were born of wicked pa­

rents; than hatred, because they were born

of bad ones. Nor indeed ought we to impute

the sin of children to their fathers; while

young persons indulge themselves in many

practices different from those they have been

instructed in, and this by their refusal of such

instruction.

* Exod. xxii. 7, 11.

-f £,evit. xix. 13. Deut. xxiv. 14, 16.

i I>e«t. xxiv. 16.

Let those that have made themselves eu-

nuchs|| be had in detestation; and do you

avoid any conversation with them who have

deprived themselves of their manhood, and

of that which God had given to men, for the

increase of their kind. Let such be driven

away, as if they had killed their children;

since they beforehand have lost what should

procure them. For it is evident, that while

their soul is become effeminate, they have

withal transfused that effeminacy to their

body also. In like manner do you treat all

that is of a monstrous nature, when it is

looked on. Nor is it lawful to castrate either

men, or any other animals.§

Let this be the constitution of your political

laws, in times of peace; and God will be so

merciful as to preserve this excellent settle­

ment free from disturbance. And may that

time never come, which may innovate any

thing, and change it for the contrary; but

since it must needs happen that mankind fall

into troubles and dangers, either undesign­

edly, or intentionally, let us make a few con­

stitutions concerning them; that so being ap­

prised beforehand what ought to be done,

you may have salutary counsels ready when

you want them; and may not then be obliged

to seek what is to be done, and so be unpro­

vided, and fall into dangerous circumstances.

May you be a laborious people, and exercise

your souls in virtuous actions, and thereby

possess and inherit the land without wars;

while neither any foreigners make war upon

it, and SO afflict you, nor any internal sedition

seize upon it; whereby you may do things

that are contrary to your fathers, and so lose

the laws which they have established. And

may you continue in the observance of those

laws which God hath approved, and hath de­

livered to you. Let all sort of warlike opera­

tions, whether they befall you now, in your

own time, or hereafter in the times of your

posterity, be done out of your own borders.

But when you are about to go to war, send

ambassages and heralds to those who are your

voluntary enemies; for it is a right thing to

make use of words to them, before you come

to your weapons of war; and assure them

II Deut. xxiii. 1.

• § We may hence observe, that the Jews could have no

oxen, but only bulls and cows, in Judea.

