414 [BOOK XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

feasted on the fourteenth day, and that which

followed it. Whence it is, that even now all

the Jews that are in the habitable earth keep

these days as a festival; and send portions

to one another. Mordecai also wrote to the

Jews that lived in the kingdom of Artaxerxes,

to observe these days, and celebrate them as

festivals: and to deliver them down to pos­

terity: that this festival might continue for

all time to come; and that it might never be

buried in oblivion. For since they were about

to be destroyed by Haman, they would do a

right thing, upon escaping the danger in them,

and on their inflicting punishment on their

enemies; to observe those days, and give

thanks to God on them. For which cause

the Jews still keep the aforementioned days,

and call them days* of Purim. And Mor­

decai became a great and illustrious person

with the king, and assisted him in the govern­

ment of the people. He also lived with the

queen. So that the affairs of the Jews were,

by their means, better than they could ever

have hoped for. And this was the state of the

Jews under the reign of Artaxerxes.f

CHAP. VII.

of John's assassination of his brother jesvs in the

temple, and of the injuries offered to the jews

by bagoses; and what sanballat did.

WHEN Eliashib the high-priest was

dead, his son Judas succeeded in

the high-priesthood. And when he was dead

stars appear, they make use of three forms of prayer:

in the first of these, they praise God for counting them

worthy to attend this divine service; in the second, they

thank him for the miraculous preservation of their an­

cestors; and in the third, they bless his holy name, for

having continued their lives to the celebration of another

festival in commemoration of it. Then they read over

the whole history of Haman from the beginning to the

end, but not out of any printed book, (for that is not

lawful,) but out of a Hebrew manuscript, written on

parchment. There are five place* in the text, wherein

the reader raises his voice with all his might: when he

comes to the place that mentions the names of the ten

sons of Haman, he repeats them very quick, to shew that

they were all destroyed in a moment; and every time

that the name of Haman is pronounced, the children, with

great fury, strike against the benches of the synagogues,

with the mallets that they bring for that purpose. After

that the reading is finished, they return home and have a

supper, not of flesh, but of spoon-meat; and early next

morning they arise, and return to the synagogue: where,

after they have read that passage in Exodus, which makes

mention of the war of Amalek, they begin again to read

the book of Esther, with the same ceremonies as before;

and so conclude the service of the day, with curses

against Haman and his wife Zeresh, with blessings upon

Mordecai and Esther, and with praises to God, for having

preserved his people. Their resting on this day is ob­

served so religiously, that they will not so much as set or

sow any thing in their gardens, with full persuasion that it

would not come up if they did; and therefore they ei­

ther play at chess, and such like games, or spend the

time in music and dancing, until it be proper to begin

their feasting, wherein they indulge themselves to such an

immoderate degree, that their feast of Purim has, with

great justice, been called the Bacchanals of the Jews.

They allow themselves to drink wine to excess, nay,

even to such a pitch, as not to be able to distinguish be­

tween the blessings of Mordecai and the curse of Haman,

as themselves speak; and amidst the other sports and

diversions of the day, they used formerly to erect a gib­

bet, and burn upon it a man made of straw, whom they

called Haman; but herein it was thought, that they might

have a design to insult Christians, upon the death of our

crucified Saviour; and therefore Theodosius the second

(anno Dom. 408) forbade them to use this ceremony,

under the penalty of forfeiting all their privileges. We

have only further to remark concerning this festival, that

it is always kept for two days together, and the reason

hereof is this—The Jews at Shushan had two days al­

lowed them to revenge themselves of their enemies,

Esther ix. 13. but the rest of the Jews in other nations

had but one. This caused, at first, some difference in

their time of feasting; for the Jews in all other parts of

the kingdom, having done execution on their enemies on

the thirteenth day, kept their rejoicing feast on the four­

teenth; but the Jews at Shushan, being engaged in this

work both on the thirteenth and fourteenth days, kept

their festival for their deliverance on the fifteenth. When

Mordecai however had made a record of this great de­

liverance, he sent letters to all the Jews throughout the

dominions of Ahasuerus, to establish it as a standing ordi­

nance among them, that they should keep both the four­

teenth and fifteenth of the month Adar every year, as the

days whereon the Jews rested from their enemies: and

this is the reason why the festival continues for two days,

though the former of them is only kept with great solemnity.

Patrick's Commentary; Hotvcl's History, in the notes; and

Calmefs Dictionary, under the word Purim. B.

* Take here part of Reland's Note on this disputed  
passage: "In Josephus's copies these Hebrew words,

days of Purim, or Lots, as the Greek copies of Esther

ix. 26, 28, 29, 31, 32. is read days of phurim, or days of

protection, but ought to be read days of purim, as in the

Hebrew. Than which emendation nothing is more cer­

tain." And had we any assurance that Josephus's copy

mentioned the casting of lots, as our copies do, Esther iii.

7. I should fully agree with Reland; but as it now stands,

it seems to me by no means certain.

t As to this whole book of Esther in the present Hebrew

copy, it is so very imperfect, in a case where the providence

of God was so very remarkable, that the Septuagint and

Josephus have so much of religion, that it has not so much

as the name of God once in it; and it is hard to say who

made that epitome which the Masorites have given us for

the genuine book itself. No religious Jews could well be

the authors of it: whose education obliged them to have

a constant regard to God, and whatsoever related to hit

