an. 1532.] 95 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

also made with sleeves, and appeared like a

short coat; but in the void place of this gar­

ment was inserted a piece of the bigness of a

span, embroidered with gold, and the other

colours of the ephod; it is called essen, or

the breast-plate, which in the Greek language

signifies the oracle. This piece exactly filled

up the void space in the ephod, and was

united to it by golden rings at every corner;

and a blue riband was made use of to tie

them together by those rings; and, that the

intermediate space might not appear empty,

they contrived to fill it up with stitches of

blue ribands. There were also two sardo-

nyxes upon the ephod, at the shoulders, to

fasten it in the nature of buttons, having each

end running to the sardonyxes of gold, that

they might be buttoned by them. On these

were engraven the names of the sons of Ja­

cob, in Hebrew characters, six on each of the

stones, on either side; and the elder sons'

names were on the right shoulder: twelve

stones also were upon the breast-plate, of

extraordinary size and beauty; and they

were ornaments not to be purchased by men,

because of their immense value. These stones

however stood in three rows, by four in a

row, being set in ouches of gold, and inserted

in the breast-plate; so that they might not

fall out . The first three stones were, a sar­

donyx, a topaz, and an emerald; the second

row contained a carbuncle, a jasper, and a

sapphire; the first of the third row was a

ligure, then an amethyst, and the third an

agate, being the ninth of the whole number;

the first of the fourth row was a chrysolite,

the next was an onyx, and then a beryl, which

was the last of all. Now the names of all

those sons of Jacob were engraven in these

stones, whom we esteem the heads of our

tribes; each stone having the honour of a

name, in the order according to which they

were born; and whereas the rings were too

weak for themselves, to bear the weight of

the stones, they made two other rings of a

larger size, at the edge of that part of the

breast-plate, which reached to the neck: and

inserted it into the very texture of the breast­

plate, to receive chains finely wrought, which

connected them with golden bands to the

tops of the shoulders, whose extremity turned

backwards and went into the ring, on the

prominent back part of the ephod. And this

voL. i.—No. 8.

was for the security of the breast-plate, that

it might not fall out of its place: there was

also a girdle sewed to the breast-plate, which

was of the aforementioned colours, inter­

mixed with gold: which, when it had gone

once round, was tied again upon the seam,

and hung down: there were likewise golden

loops, that admitted its fringes at each ex­

tremity of the girdle, and included them en­

tirely.

The high-priest's mitre was the same as we

described before, and was wrought like that

of all the other priests: above which there

was another, with swaths of blue embroidered,

and round it was a golden crown of three

rows, one above another: out of which arose

a cup of gold, resembling the herb which

we call saccharus, but those Greeks that are

skilful in botany call it hyoscyamus. Now

lest any one that has seen this herb, but has

not been taught its name, and is unacquainted

with its nature; or having known its name,

knows not the herb when he sees it, I shall

give a description of it . This herb is often

in tallness above three spans: its root is like

that of a turnip; but its leaves are like the

leaves of mint: its branches send out a calyx,

cleaving to the branch: and a coat encom­

passes it, which it naturally puts off when it

is changing, in order to produce its fruit: this

calyx is ofthe bigness of the bone of the lit­

tle finger, but in the compass of its aperture

is like a cup. To render this more plain:

suppose a sphere be divided into two parts,

round at the bottom, but having another seg­

ment, that grows up to a circumference from

that bottom: suppose it to become narrower

by degrees; and that the cavity of that part

grow decently smaller, and then gradually

grow wider again at the brim; such as we see

in the navel of a pomegranate, with its notches.

And indeed such a coat grows over this plant,

as renders it an hemisphere, and that, as one

may say, turned accurately in a lathe, and

having its notches extant above it; which, as

I said, grow like a pomegranate, only that

they are sharp, and end in nothing but prick­

les. Now the fruit is preserved by this coat

of the calyx, which fruit is like the seed of the

herb sideritis; it sends out a flower, that may

seem to resemble that of poppy. Of this was

a crown made, as far as from the hinder part

ofthe head, to each of the. temples: but this

Bb

