AN. 29.] 557 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS.

ing of these strong holds; that it was proper

for them to deliver the same to her, and to

Herod's sons; lest, upon his death, any other

person should seize upon the government.

And that upon his recovery none could keep

them more safely for him than those of his

own family. These words, however, were not

by them taken in good part; for as they had

been in former times faithful to Herod, they

resolved to continue so now more than ever;

both because they hated Alexandra; and be­

cause they thought it a sort of impiety to

despair of Herod's recovery, while he was

yet alive. For they had been his old friends;

and one of them, whose name was Achiabus,

-was his cousin german. They sent messen­  
gers therefore to acquaint him with Alexan­

dra's design. So he made no longer delay,*

but gave orders to have her slain. Yet was

it still with difficulty, and after he had en­

dured great pain that he got clear of his dis­

temper. He was still sorely afflicted both in

mind and body; and made very uneasy; and

readier than ever upon all occasions to inflict

punishment upon those that fell under his

hand. He also slew the most intimate of his

friends, Costobarus, and Lysimachus, and

Gadias, who was also called Antipater; as

also Dositheus: and that upon the following

occasion:—

Costobarus was an Idumean by birth; and

one of principal dignity among them; and

one whose ancestors had been priests to the

Koze, whom the Idumeans had formerly es­

teemed as a god. But after Hyrcanus had

made a change in their political government,

and made them receive the Jewish customs,

and law, Herod made Costobarus governor

of Idumea, and Gaza; and gave him his sister

Salome to wife. And this was upon his

slaughter of his uncle Joseph, who had that

government before; as we have "{related

already. When Costobarus had gotten to be

so highly advanced, it pleased him; and was

more than he hoped for; and he was more

and more puffed up by his good success; and

in a little while he exceeded all bounds, and

did not think fit to obey what Herod, as their

ruler, commanded him; or that the Idumeans

should make use of the Jewish customs, or be

subject to them. He therefore sent to Cleo­

patra, and informed her, that the Idumeans

had been always under his progenitors; and

that for the same reason it was but just she

should desire that country for him of Antony;

for that he was ready to transfer his friend­

ship to her. And this he did, not because he

was better pleased to be under Cleopatra's

government; but because he thought that,

upon the diminution of Herod's power, it

would not be difficult for him to obtain the

entire government over the Idumeans, and

somewhat more also. For he raised his hopes

still higher; as having no small pretences,

both by his birth, and by these riches, which

he had gotten by his constant attention to

filthy lucre. And accordingly it was not a

small matter that he aimed at. So Cleopa­

tra desired this country of Antony; but failed

of her purpose. Herod, on receiving intelli­

gence of this, was ready to kill Costobarus:

yet upon the entreaties of his sister and mo­

ther he forgave him, and vouchsafed to par­

don him entirely, though he still had a suspi­

cion of him afterward for this his attempt.

But some time afterward, when Salome

happened to quarrel with Costobarus, sheJ

sent him a bill of divorce, and dissolved her

marriage with him. Though this was not

according to the Jewish laws: for with us it

is lawful for a husband to do so; but a wife,

if she depart from her husband, cannot of

herself be married to another, unless her

former husband put her away. However,

* An. 28.

t Chap. 3.

J Here is a plain example of a Jewish lady giving a

bill of divorce to her husband: though in the days of

Josephus it was not by the Jews esteemed lawful for a

woman so to do. See the like XX. 7. and among the

Parthians, XVIII. 9. However the Christian law, when

it allowed divorce for adultery, Matt. v. 32. allowed the

innocent wife to divorce her guilty husband; as well as

the innocent husband to divorce his guilty wife; as we

learn from the shepherd of Hennas, Mand. IV. and from

the second apology of Justin Martyr: where a prosecu­

tion was brought upon the Christians upon such a di-

vorce. And I think the Roman laws permitted it at that

time, as well as the laws of Christianity. Now this Ba-

bas, who was one of the race of the Asmoneans, or Mac­

cabees, is related by the Jews, as Dr. Hudson here re­

marks, to have been so eminently religious in the Jew­

ish way, that excepting the day following the tenth

of Tisri, the great day of atonement; when he seems

to have supposed all his sins entirely forgiven; he

used every day of the whole year to offer a sacrifice

for his sins of ignorance, or such as he supposed he

had been guilty of, but did not distinctly remember.

See somewhat like it of Agrippa the Great, XrX. 7.

and Job i. 4,

4R2

