186 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

>

CHAP. III.

of Samuel's attention to public affairs, the evil

administration of the government by his sons, and

the subsequent demand of the multitude to be

governed by a king.

THE prophet Samuel, when he had or­

dained the affairs of the people, after

a convenient manner, and had appointed a

city for every district of them; he commanded

them to come to such cities to have the con­

troversies that they had one with another de­

termined; he himself going over those cities

twice in a year, and doing them justice. And

by that means he kept them in very good

order for a long time.

But afterward he found himself oppressed

with old age, and not able to do as he had

done formerly. So he committed the govern­

ment, and the care of the multitude, to his

sons; the elder of whom was called Joel, and

the name of the younger was Abiah. He also

enjoined them to reside and judge the people,

the one at the city Bethel, and the other at

Beer-sheba; and divided the people into dis­

tricts, that should be under the jurisdiction of

each of them. Now these men afforded us

an evident example and demonstration, how

some children are not of the like dispositions

with their parents; but sometimes perhaps

good and moderate, though born of wicked

parents, and sometimes shewing themselves

to be wicked, though born of good parents.

For these men, turning aside from their fa­

ther's good courses, perverted justice for the

filthy lucre of gifts and bribes; and made

their determinations, not according to truth,

but according to bribery; and turned aside to

* It may probably be made a question, why God did not  
punish Samuel, as he did Eli, for the wickedness of his

sons? But to this it may be answered, that Samuel's sons

were not so bad as those of Eli; since taking bribes pri­

vately was not like openly profaning the tabernacle, and

making the worship of God contemptible. And besides

this, it is possible that Samuel might be ignorant of the

corruption of his sons, since he lived at Ramah, and they

at Beer-sheba. Patrick's Comment. B.

t 1 Sam. viii. 5.

J It is generally supposed, that what made the Israel­

ites so urgent at this time for a king, was a present strait

they thought themselves in, for want of an able leader; for

Nahash, the king of the Amorites, coming up to Jabesh

Gilead, and encamping before it, had put the inhabitants

into such a fright, that, without more to do, they offered

to surrender upon terms; telling him, that they would be-

luxury, and a voluptuous way of living. So

that, as in the first place, they practised what

was contrary to the will of God; so did they

what was contrary to the will of the prophet,

their father, who had taken a great deal of

care, and made very careful provision that the

multitude should be righteous.*

Upon these injuries offered to their former

constitution and government, by the prophet's

sons, the people were very uneasy at their

actions, and came running to the prophet,

who then lived at the city Ramah, and in­

formed him of the transgressions of his sons;

and said, that as he himself was old already,

and too infirm to oversee their affairs in the

manner he used to do; so they intreated him

to appoint some person to be king over them,f

whoj might rule over the nation, and avenge

them of the Philistines, who ought to be

punished for their former oppressions. These

words greatly afflicted Samuel, on account of

his innate love of justice, and his hatred to

regal government, for he was very fond of an

aristocracy, as what mad^ the men that used

it of a divine and happy disposition. Nor

could he either think of eating and sleeping,

out of his concern and torment of mind at

what they had said, but all the night long did

he continue awake, and revolved these no­

tions in his mind.

While he was thus disposed, God appeared

to him, and comforted him, saying, that he

ought not to be uneasy at what the multitude

desired, because it was not he, but Himself,

whom they so insolently despised, and would

not have to be alone their King; that they

had been contriving these things from the

very day that they came out of Egypt; that,

come subjects to him if he would make a league with them,

1 Sam. xi. 1. But the haughty Amorite, in contempt of

Israel, let them know, that if he made n league with them,

the condition thereof should be, that they should come out

to him, and let him thrust out all their right eyes, and lay

it for a reproach upon all Israel. The elders of Jabesh,

in this sad circumstance, demanded seven days'respite,

that they might send messengers unto all the coasts of Is­

rael, and if in that time no succours arrived they would

submit. This, it is thought, was the reason for their

pressing so hard upon Samuel at this time for a king;

whereas their duty was to have enquired of the Lord, as

they had done *t other times, who it was that he would be

pleased to constitute the general in this exigence, to lead

out their forces against their enemies. Howell's History,

in the notes. B.

