an. 1064.] 253 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Then Joab sounded a retreat, and recalled

his soldiers from pursuing the enemy's army,

in order to spare their countrymen.*

Now Absalom had erected for himself a

marble pillar, in the king's dale, two furlongs

distant from Jerusalem, which he named Ab­

salom's Hand; saying, that if his children

were killed, his name would remain by that

pillar. For he had three sons, and one

daughter, named Tamar, as we said before,

who when she was married to David's grand­

son, Rehoboam, bare a son,f Abijah by name,

who succeeded his father in the kingdom.

But of these we will speak in a part of our

history which will be more proper. But

after the death of Absalom, they every one

returned home.

Now Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, the high-

priest, went to Joab, and desired he would

permit him to go and tell David of this vic­

tory; and to carry him the good news that

God had afforded his assistance and his pro­

vidence to him. However he did not grant

this request; but said to him, "Wilt thou,

that hast always been the messenger of good

news, now go and acquaint the king that his

son is dead?" so he desired him to desist.

He then called Cushi and committed the

business to him, that he should tell the king

what he had seen. But when Ahimaaz again

desired to let him go as a messenger, and as­

sured him that he would only relate what

concerned the victory, but not concerning

the death of Absalom, he gave him leave to

go to David. Now he took a nearer road

than the former did: for nobody knew it but

himself; and he came before Cushi. Now as

David was sitting between the gates,J and

waiting to see when somebody would come

to him from the battle; one of the watchmen

saw Ahimaaz running, and before he could

discern who he was, he told David, that he

saw somebody coming to him, who said, he

was a good messenger. A little while after

he informed him that another messenger fol­

lowed him. Whereupon the king said that

he was also a good messenger. But when

the watchman saw Ahimaaz, and that he was

already very near, he gave the king notice

that it was the son of Zadok, the high-priest,

who came running. So David was very glad,

and said, he was a messenger of good tidings,

and brought him such news from the battle

as he desired to hear.

While the king was saying thus, Ahimaaz

appeared, and worshipped the king. And

when the king inquired about the battle,

he said, he brought him the good news of

victory and dominion. And when he had

inquired what he had to say concerning

his son, he said, that he came away on the

sudden, as soon as the enemy was defeated;

but that he heard a great noise of those that

pursued Absalom, and that he could learn no

more, because of the haste he made when

Joab sent him to inform him of the victory.

But when Cushi was come, and had wor­

shipped him, and informed him of the victory,

he asked him about his son: who replied,

"May the like misfortune befall thine ene­

mies, as hath befallen Absalom." That word

did not permit either himself or his soldiers

to rejoice for the victory, though it was very

great; but David went up to the highest part

of the ||city, and wept for his son and beat

his breast, tearing the hair off his head, and

out to out. The inside of this chamber is all plain, but

the outside is adorned with some pilasters of the same

kind of stone. The upper part or covering, is made in

the form of a conic pyramid, pretty high and large, with a

kind of flower-pot on its top. The pyramid is composed

of several stones, but the monument itself is square, and

all cut out of one block. In the time of Josephus, the

monument, which was said to be Absalom's, was nothing

more than one marble pillar, widely different from what,

at present, goes under his name; and which therefore,

must be accounted a more modern building. Le Gere's

and Patrick's Commentaries, and Calmet's Dictionary,

under the word Absalom. B.

* Commentators have observed the justice of God, in  
bringing Absalom to a condign punishment, and such a

kind of death, as was ordained by the law for offences like

unto his. For whereas, in the first place, he was hanged

as it were, this was declared by the law to be an accursed

death, Deut. xxi. 23. and was afterwards, in some mea­

sure, stoned; this was the particular kind of death that

the law prescribed for a stubborn and rebellious son,

Deut. xxi. B.

t 2 Chron. xi. 20.

J Those that take a view of my description of the gates

of the temple, will not be surprised at this account of

David's throne, both here, and 2 Sam. xviii. 24. that it

was between two gates, or portals. Gates being in cities,

as well as at the temple, large open places, with a portal

at the entrance, and another at the exit: between which

judicial causes were heard, and public consultations held;

as it is well known from several places of Scripture,

2 Chron. xxxi. 2. Psal. ix. 14. exxvii. 5. Prov. i. 2J.

viii. 3, 34. xxxii. 23. and often elsewhere.

II Since David was now in Mahanaim, and in the open

3B2

