AK.,1769.] 49 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

husband came home and enquired what was

the cause of the disorder she was in, she be­

gan to accuse Joseph.*

"O husband," said she, "mayest thou not

live a day longer if thou dost not punish the

wicked slave who hast desired to defile thy

bed; who has neither recollected who he

was, when he came to our house, so as to be­

have himself with modesty, nor has been

mindful of what favours he had received from

thy bounty; though he must be an ungrateful

man indeed, in every respect, not to act

agreeable to us. This man I say, laid a private

design to abuse thy wife, and this at the time

of a festival, observing when thouwouldst be

absent: so that it now is clear that his mo­

desty as it appeared to be formerly, was only

because of the restraint he was in out of

'' fear of thee, but that he was not really of a

good disposition. This has been occasioned

by his being advanced to honour beyond what

he deserved, or hoped for; insomuch that he

concluded that he who was deemed fit to be

trusted with thy estate, and the government

of thy family, and was preferred above thy

eldest servants, might be allowed to touch

thy wife also." When she had spoken thus,

she produced Joseph's garment, as if he had

left it with her when he attempted to force

her. Potiphar not being able to disbelieve

what his wife said, and what he saw himself,

and being seduced by his love, did not set

himself about the examination of the truth,

"but condemning Joseph as a wicked man, he

threw him into the malefactor's prison; and

had a still higher opinion of his wife, and bare

her witness that she was a woman of a be­

coming modesty and chastity.

CHAP. V.

of Joseph's situation in prison, and his subsequent

liberation.

"^TOW Joseph, commending all his affairs

J3| to God, did not attempt to make any

defence, nor to relate the exact circumstances

of the fact, but silently underwent the bonds

and the distress he was in, firmly believing

* There is something not unlike the revengeful artifice  
in Potiphar's wife, in the representation which the poet

makes of Phaedra, when in an affair of the like nature she

finds herself rejected by her son-in-law Hippoly tus.

Regeramus ipsa? crimen, atque ultro impiam.

that God, who knew the cause of his affliction,

and the truth of the fact, would be more

powerful than those that inflicted the punish­

ment upon him. He accordingly soon re­

ceived a proof of God's providence on his

behalf; for the keeper of the prison taking

notice of his care and fidelity in the affairs he

had set him about, and the dignity of his

countenance, relaxed his bonds, and thereby

made his heavy calamity lighter, and more

supportable to him; he also permitted him to

make use of a diet better than that of the rest

of the prisoners. Now his fellow prisoners,

when their hard labours were over, used to

discourse with each other, being equal

sufferers, and to inquire one of another what

were the occasions of their being condemned

to a prison? Among them Pharaoh's cup­

bearer, and one that had been respected by

him, was put in bonds upon the king's anger

at him. This man was under the same bonds

with Joseph, and soon grew familiar with

him; and upon his observing that Joseph had

a better understanding than the rest, he told

him of a dream he had, and desired he would

interpret its meaning, complaining, that be­

sides the afflictions he underwent from the

king, God also added to him trouble from his

dreams. ,

He therefore said, that in his sleep he saw

three clusters of grapes hanging upon three

branches of a vine, large, and ripe for gather­

ing, and that he squeezed them into a cup,

which the king held in his hands, and when

he had strained the wine, he gave it to the

king to drink, and that he received it from

him with a pleasant countenance. This, he

said, was what he saw; and he desired Jo­

seph, that if he had any portion of under­

standing in such matters, he would tell him

what this vision foretold. Joseph bid him

be of good cheer, and expect to be loosed

from his bonds in three days' time, because

the king desired his service, and was about

to restore it to him again; for he let him

know that God bestows the fruit of the vine

upon men for good, which wine is poured out

to him, and is the pledge of fidelity and

.—. —■-

Venerem arguamus, &c.

Adeste, Athena, fida tamulorum manus,

Fer opem, &c.

- Ed praeceps abiit

Ensemque trepida liquit attonitus fuga,

Pignus tenemus sceleris, &c

Senec. Hip.

