AH. 1064.] 24? ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

perform the injunction I laid upon thee,

which was, to reconcile my father to me.

And I really beg it of thee now thou art here,

to pacify my father as to me; since I esteem

my coming hither, to be more grievous than

my banishment, while my father's wrath

against me continues." Joab was hereby

persuaded, and pitied the distress that Ab­

salom was in, and became an intercessor

with the king for him. And when he had

discoursed with his father, he soon brought

him to that amicable disposition towards Ab­

salom, that he presently sent for him to come

to him. And when he had cast himself down

upon the ground, and begged for the forgive­

ness of his offences, the king raised him up,

and promised to forget what he had formerly

done.*

CHAP. IX.

OF THE INSURRECTION OF ABSALOM AGAINST DAVID, AND

THE DEATH OF AHITHOFHEL.

NOW Absalom upon this success with the

king, procured to himself many horses

and chariots, and that in a little time.? He

had also fifty armour-bearers that were about

him, and he came early every day to the

king's palace, and spake what was agreeable

to such as came for justice, and lost their

causes; as if that happened for want of good

counsellors about the king, or perhaps be­

cause the judges mistook in that unjust sen­

tence they gave. Whereby he gained the

good will of all the populace. He told them,

that had he but such authority committed to

him, he would distribute justice to them in a

most equitable manner. When he had made

himself so popular among the multitude, he

thought he had already the good will of the

people secured to him.J But when four||

years had passed since his father's reconcili­

ation, he came to him,§ and besought him to

give him leave to go to Hebron, and pay a

sacrifice to God, because he vowed it to him

when he fled out of the country. So when

David had granted his request, he went

thither; and great multitudes came running

together to him; for he had sent to a great

number so to do.

Among them came Ahithophel, the Gilonite,

a counsellor of David's, and two hundred men

of Jerusalem, who knew not his intentions;

but were sent for as to a sacrifice. So he was

appointed king by all of them, which he ob­

tained by this stratagem. As soon as this

news was brought to David, and he was in­

formed of what he did not expect from his

son; he was affrighted at this impious and

bold undertaking; and wondered that he was

so far from remembering how his offence had

lately been forgiven him, that he undertook

much worse and more wicked enterprises:

first to deprive him of that kingdom which

was given him of God; and secondly to take

away his own father's life. He therefore re­

solved to fly to the parts beyond Jordan. So

he called his most intimate friends together,

* 2 Sam. xiv. 33.

t It is an observation of Plato, that when any one in­

tends to make himself a tyrant in a popular state, he no

sooner enters on the government, but *po<tyska « xcu

ct<f*a%erai Taulaj, uav irspirvyxam, he smiles upon, and

kindly salutes, all sorts of people, wherever he meets

them; avowing that he hates tyranny, promising great

things both in private and public, xai tfao*iv iXsof re xcu

waTpwos eivco tfpotftfoisii-ai, and making as if he would be

mild, and gentle, and fatherly to all; even as Tacitus re­

lates of Otho, that protendens manum adorare vulgvm,

jacere oscula, et omnia serviliter pro dominatione. That

he used to kiss, and shake hands with any one, court and

adore the mob, and do every little servile thing, to get

possession of the government. Plato de Repvb. lib. 8.

and Tacit. Hist. lib. 1. B.

J It is an observation of Aristotle, in his Politics, (lib.

6. c. 4.) that all changes and revolutions in government

are made by one of these two ways, ere |aev 8m 8iag ore 8s

«i owra"is, either by force and violence, or else by deceit

and craft. Nor ever was there a man better formed by

nature to manage matters in this latter way, than was Ab­

salom, who was a person of courage and gallantry, of

civility and courtesy, young, and wonderfully beautiful,

descended from kings, both by his father's and mother's

side, and prodigal enough of large and magnificent pro­

mises, if ever he came to be king; a character not unlike

that of Turnus in Virgil:

Hunc decus egregium formae movet, atque juventae

Hunc atavi reges, hunc claris dextera factis.

JEneid. lib. 7. B.

|| This is one of the best corrections that Josephus's

copy affords us of a text that, in our ordinary copies, is

grossly corrupted. They say, that this rebellion of Ab­

salom was forty years after what went before (of his re­

conciliation to his father,) whereas the series of the his­

tory shews it could not be more than four years after it;

as here in Josephus; whose number is directly confirmed

by that copy of the Septuagint version, whence the Ar­

menian translation was made, which gives us the same

small number of four years. Dr. Wall also notes, that

four of the MSS. of the Vulgate have the same small

number. Which indeed I think ought, without dispute,

to be allowed the right reading.

§ About an. 1064.

