an. 1028.] 291 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

servants, in such low employments. Nor was

it reasonable, that when God had brought

so many nations under their power, they

should depress their own people to such

mean offices of lite, rather than those na­

tions. While the Israelites were concerned

in warlike affairs, and were in armour, and

set over the chariots, and the horses; rather

than leading the life of slaves. He also ap­

pointed five hundred and fifty rulers over

those Canaanites who were reduced to such

domestic slavery; who received the care of

them from the king, and instructed them in

those labours and operations wherein he

wanted their assistance.

The king also built many ships* in the

Egyptian bay of the Red Sea, in a certain

place called Eziongeber; but now called

Berenice, and not far from the city Eloth.

This country belonged formerly to the Jews,

and became useful for shipping, from the

donations of Hiram, king of Tyre. For he

sent a sufficient number of men thither for

pilots, and such as were skilful in navigation:

to whom Solomon gave this command, that

they should go along with his stewards to

the land that was of old called fOphir, but

now the Aurea Chersonesus, which belongs

to India; to fetch him gold. And when they

had gathered four hundredJ talents together,

they returned to the king.

There was then a woman queen of ||Egypt

and Ethiopia; she was inquisitive in phi­

losophy, and one that on other accounts also

was to be admired. When this queen heard

of the virtue and prudence of Solomon, she

had a great mind to see him; and the re-

Eorts that went every day abroad induced

er to come to him; she being desirous to be

satisfied by her own experience, and not by

a bare hearing; (for reports thus heard are

likely enough to comply with a false opinion;

while they wholly depend on the credit of

the relators;) so she resolved to come to

him, and that especially in order to have a

trial of his wisdom, while she proposed

questions of very great difficulty, and in-

treated that he would resolve their hidden

meaning. Accordingly she came to Jerusa­

lem with great splendour and rich furniture:

for she brought her camels laden with gold,

with several sorts of sweet spices, and with

precious stones. Now upon the king's kind

reception of her, he both shewed a great de­

sire to please her, and easily comprehending

in his mind the meaning of the curious ques­

tions she propounded to him, he resolved

them sooner than any body could have ex­

pected. So she was amazed at the wisdom

of Solomon, and discovered that it was more

excellent upon trial than what she had heard

by report beforehand. In particular she was

surprised at the fineness and largeness of his

royal palace; and not less so at the good

order of the apartments: for she observed

that the king had therein shewn great wis­

dom. But she was beyond measure asto­

nished at the house which was called §the

forest of Lebanon: as also at the magnificence

of his daily table, and the circumstances of

its preparation and ministration, with the ap­

parel of his servants that waited; and the

skilful and decent management of their at­

tendance. Nor was she less affected with

those daily sacrifices which were offered to

God, and the careful management which the

Priests and Levites used about them. When

she saw this done every day, she was in the

greatest admiration imaginable; insomuch

that she was not able to contain the surprise

* About an. 1024.

t What Josephus affirms here, that Ophir, or, as his

and the Septuagint copies spell it Sophir, was the same

with the Aurea Chersoaesus, or rather with the adjoining

island of Taprobane, now called Ceylon, is the very pro­

bable opinion of the great Bochart, Canaan. I. 46. But

it is yet not so certain as to be agreed to by all others.

See the note on IX. 1.

{Four hundred and twenty, 1 Kings ix. 28.

That this queen of Sheba was a queen of Sabaea in

South Arabia; and not of Egypt and Ethopia, as Jose­

phus here asserts, is, I suppose, now generally agreed.

And since Sabaea is well known to be a country near

the sea in the south of Arabia Felix, which lay south

from Judea also; and since our Saviour calls this queen,

voL. I.—NOS. 25 & 26.

the Queen of the South; and says, she came from the

utmost parts of the earth; Matt. xii. 42. Luke xi. 31.

which description agrees better to this Arabia, than to

Egypt and Ethiopia, there is little occasion for doubting

in this matter. The common mistake, which is much

older than Josephus; nay, as old as the Septuagint

version, that Cush signified Ethiopia, beyond Egypt,

which Bochart has fully proved to denote Arabia.

Phaleg. IV. 2, very probably misled Josephus into his

hypothesis.

§ Whether Solomon's house of the forest of Lebanon

were at Jerusalem, or whether it were not rather at Bal-

bec, between Libanns and Antilibanus, may be doubted

See for the latter interpretation, Authent. Rec. vol. II

page 887, 888.

3G

