298 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

thought it agreeable to the dignity of his go­

vernment to give them such an answer. Ac­

cordingly when the multitude was assembled

to hear his answer on the third day, all the

people were in great expectation, and very

intent to hear what the king would say to

them; and supposed they should hear some­

what of a kind nature, but he passed by his

friends, and answered as the young men had

given him counsel.* Now this was done ac­

cording to the will of God; that what Ahijah

had foretold might come to pass.

By these words the people were struck, as

it were by an iron hammer; and were so

grieved as if they had already felt the effects

of them; and they had great indignation at

the king: and all cried out aloud, and said,

"We will have no longer any relation to

David, or his posterity,f after this day; and

will only leave to Rehoboam the temple which

his father built." Nay they were so bitter,

and retained their wrath so long, that when

he sent Adoram, who was over the tribute,

that he might pacify them, and persuade

them to forgive him, if he had said any thing

that was rash or grievous to them in his

youth, they would not hear it; but threw

stones at him, and killed him. When Reho­

boam saw this, he thought himself aimed at

by those stones, with which the multitude had

killed his servant: and feared lest he should

undergo the last of punishments in earnest.

So he got immediately into his chariot4 and

fled to Jerusalem. There the tribe of Judah

and that of Benjamin ordained him for their

king: but the rest of the multitude forsook

the sons of David, from that day; and ap­

pointed Jeroboam to be the ruler of their

public affairs. Upon this, Rehoboam assem­

bled a great congregation of those two tribes

that had submitted to him, and was ready to

take a hundred and eighty thousand chosen

men out of the army, and to make an expedi­

tion against Jeroboam and his people; that

he might force them by war to be his ser­

vants. But he was forbidden of God by the

prophet Shemaiah to go to war.|| For that

it was not just, that brethren of the same

country should fight against one another.

He also said, that this defection of the mul­

titude was according to the purpose of God.

So he did not proceed in this expedition.§

And now I will relate first the actions of

Jeroboam, the king of Israel; and afterwards

what are therewith connected, the actions of

Rehoboam, the king of the two tribes. By

this means we shall preserve the order of

the history unbroken.

When Jeroboam had built him a palace in

the city Shechem, he dwelt there. He also

built him another at a city called Penual. And

now the feast of tabernacles was approaching

in a little time, Jeroboam considered, that if

he should permit the multitude to go to wor­

ship God at Jerusalem, and there to celebrate

the festival, they would probably repent of

what they had done, and be enticed by the

temple, and by the worship of God there

performed; and would leave him, and return

to their first king; and if so, he should run

the risk of losing his own life. So he made

two golden heifers, and built two little tem­

ples for them; the one in the city Bethel,

and the other in Dan:** which last was the

fffountains of the lesser Jordan: and he put

the heifers into both the little temples, in

of scorpions, such as is our furze-bush; or else some

terrible sort of whip of the like nature. See Hudson's

and Spenheim's Notes here, and Mr. Barker's parallel

observations.

* 1 Kings xii. 13.

t 1 Kings xii. 16.

| This is the first time that we read of a king's riding

in a chariot. Saul, David, and Solomon, rode in none:

but after the division of the kingdom, mention is fre­

quently made of the use of them, both by the kings of

Judah and Israel. Patrick'$ Commentary. B.

II This prophet was very well known in the reign of

Rehoboam. He is supposed to have wrote the annals of

that prince; and of what authority he was in Judah, we

may gather from this passage, where he is said to have

prevailed with the king, and a hundred and four score

thousand men, to lay down their arms, and return home,

merely by declaring, that the division which had hap­

pened was the appointment and order of God. Calmefs

Commentary. B.

§ 1 Kings xii. 24.

** 1 Kings xii. 29.

tt Whether these fountains of the lesser Jordan were

near a place called Dan, and the fountains of the greater

near a place called Jor, before their conjunction; or

whether there was only one fountain, arising at the lake

Phiala; at first sinking under the ground; then rising near

the mountain Paneum, and thence running through the

lake Semochonites to the sea of Galilee, and so far called

the lesser Jordan, is hardly certain even in Josephus him­

self; though the latter account be the most probable. See

RelancPs Palestine, tom. I. lib. I. c. 41, 43. However the

northern idolatrous calf, set up by Jeroboam, was where

little Jordan fell into great Jordan; near a place called

