308 [book vm. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he left off building and fortifying Ramah,

and returned to assist his own people under

the distresses they were in. But Asa made

use of the materials that were prepared for

building that city, for erecting in the same

place two strong cities; the one of which

was called Geba, and the other Mizpah. So

that after this, Baasha had no leisure to make

expeditions against Asa, for he was prevented

by death, and was buried in the city Tirzah.*

Elah, his son, took the kingdom; but when

he had reigned two years, he was treache­

rously slain by Zimri, the captain of half his

army: for when he was at a feast of Arza,

his steward's house, he persuaded some of

the horsemen, that were under him, to as­

sault Elah; and by that means he slew him

when he was without his armed men, and

his captains. For they were all busied in

the siege of Gibbethon, a city of the Philis­

tines.

When Zimri, the captain of the army, had

killed Elah, he took the kingdom himself;

and, according to Jehu's prophecy, slew all

the house of Baasha. For it came to pass

that Baasha's house utterly perished, on ac­

count of his impiety, in the same manner as

we have already described the destruction of

the house of Jeroboam. But the army that

was besieging Gibbethon, when they heard

what had befallen the king, and that when

Zimrif had killed him he had gained the

kingdom, they bestowed the government on

Omri their general, who drew off his army

from Gibbethon, and came to Tirzah, where

the royal palace was, and assaulted the city,

and took it by force. But when Zimri saw

that the city had none to defend it, he fled

into the inmost part of the palace, and set it

on fire, and burnt himself with it;J when he

had reigned only seven days. Hereupon the

people of Israel were presently divided; and

part of them would have Tibni to be king,

and part Omri; but when those who were for

Omri's ruling had beaten Tibni, Omri reigned

over all the multitude.

Now it was in the ||thirtieth year of the

reign of Asa, that Omri reigned for twelve

years: six of these years he reigned in the

city Tirzah, and the rest in the city called

Samareon, but named by the Greeks Samaria.

But he himself called it Semareon, from

Semer, who sold him the mountain whereon

he built it. Now Omri was no way different

from those kings that reigned before him; but

only that he grew worse than they. For they

all sought how they might turn people away

from God, by their daily wicked practices.

And on that account it was that God made

one of them to be slain by another; and that

no one person of their families should remain.

This Omri also died at Samaria, and Ahab

his son succeeded him.§

Now by these events we may learn what

concern God hath for the affairs of mankind;

and how he loves good men, and hates the

wicked, and destroys them root and branch.

For many of these kings of Israel, they and

their families, were miserably destroyed, and

taken away one by another, in a short time,

for their transgressions. But Asa, who was

king of Jerusalem, and of the two tribes, at­

tained, by God's blessing, a long and a feli­

citous old age, for his piety and his righteous­

ness; and died happily, when he had reigned

forty-one years. And when he was dead,**

that belonged to the land of Israel, and bordered on the

country of Damascus, is supposed both by Hudson and

Spanheim to be the same with Abel or Abila, whence came

Abilene, Luke iii. 1. This may be that city so denomi­

nated from Abel the righteous, there buried, concerning

the shedding of whose blood within the compass of the

land of Israel, I understand our Saviour's words, about

the fatal war and overthrow of Judea by Titus, and his

Roman army, " That upon you may come all the righteous

blood shed upon the land, from the blood of righteous

Abel, to the blood of Zacharias, son of Barachias, whom

ye slew between the temple and the altar. Verily I say

unto you, all these things shall come upon this genera­

tion," Matt, xxiii. 35, 36. Luke xi. 51. See Authent.

Rec. P. II. page 884, 885.

* 1 Kings xvi. 6.

t About an. 930.

t 1 Kinzs xvi. 18.

II The thirty-first, Heb. and Septuagint.

§ An. 919.

** The words in the text are these,—They laid him on  
the bed, which was filled with sweet odours, and divers

kinds of spices, prepared by the apothecaries' art: and

they made a great burning for him, 2 Chron. xvi. 26.

But then the question is, whether the body itself was

burnt, or only some spices and odoriferous drugs to pre­

vent any bad smell that might attend the corpse. The

Greeks and Romans indeed, when they burnt any dead

bodies, threw frankincense, myrrh, cassia, and other fra­

grant things into the fire, and this in such abundance, that

Pliny, (Nat. Hist. cap. 18.) represents it as a piece of

profaneness, to bestow such heaps of frankincense upon a

dead body, when they offered it so sparingly to their gods.

The Jews, however, (say the maintainers of this side of

the question,) were accustomed to inter, and not to burn

their dead, though they might possibly lenm from (he

