470 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

gathered a greater army together than they

had before, and came against Jonathan. But

as soon as he was informed of their coming,

he went suddenly to meet them, to the coun­

try of Hamath: for he resolved to give them

no opportunity of coming into Judea. So he

fritched his camp at fifty furlongs' distance

rom the enemy; and sent out spies to take

a view of their camp, and after what manner

they were encamped. When his spies had

given him full information, and had seized

upon some of them by night, who told him

the enemy would soon attack him; he pro­

vided for his security, and placed watchmen

beyond his camp, and kept all his forces

armed all night. And he gave them a charge

to be of good courage, and to have their

minds prepared to fight in the night time, if

they should be obliged so to do; lest their

enemies' designs should seem concealed from

them. But when Demetrius's commanders

were informed that Jonathan knew what

they intended, their counsels were disorder­

ed; and it alarmed them to find that the ene­

my had discovered their intentions. Nor did

they expect to overcome them any other

way, now they had failed in the snares they

had laid for them. For should they hazard

an open battle, they did not think they should

be a match for Jonathan's army. So they

resolved to flee: and having lighted many

fires, that when the enemy saw them, they

might suppose they were there still, they re­

tired. But when Jonathan came to give them

battle in the morning, and found their camp

deserted, and understood they were fled, he

pursued them. Yet could not he overtake

them, for they had already passed over the

river Eleutherus; and were out of danger.

So when Jonathan returned thence, he went

into Arabia, and fought against the *Naba-

teans; and drove away a great deal of their

prey, and took many captives, and came to

Damascus: and there sold off that he had

taken. About the same time it was that Si-

mon, his brother, went over all Judea, and

Palestine, as far as Ascalon; and fortified the

strong holds; and when he had made them

very strong both in the edifices erected, and

in the garrisons placed in them, he came to

Joppa: and when he had taken it, he brought

a great garrison into it. For he heard that

the people of Joppa were disposed to deliver

up the city to Demetrius's generals.

When Simon and Jonathan had finished

these affairs, they returned to Jerusalem.

There Jonathan gathered all the people to­

gether, and took counsel to restore the walls

of Jerusalem, and to rebuild the wall that

encompassed the temple, which had been

thrown down; and to make the places ad­

joining stronger by very high towers: and

besides that to build another wall in the

midst of the city, in order to exclude the

market-place from the garrison which was in

the citadel; and by that means to hinder

them from any plenty of provisions: and

moreover to make the fortresses that were in

the country much stronger and more defensi­

ble than they were before. And when these

things were approved of by the multitude,

as rightly proposed, Jonathan himself took

care of the building that belonged to the

city; and sent Simon to make the fortresses

in the country more secure than formerly.

But Demetrius passed over the Euphrates,

and came into Mesopotamia; as desirous to

contain that country still, as well as Babylon:

and when he should have obtained the do­

minion of the upper provinces, to lay a foun­

dation for recovering his entire kingdom.

For those Greeks and Macedonians who

dwelt there, frequently sent ambassadors to

him, and promised, that if he would come to

them, they would deliver themselves up to

him, and assist him in fighting against fArsa-

ces, the king of the Parthians. So he was

elevated with these hopes, and came hastily

to them; as having resolved that, if he had

once overthrown the Parthians, and gotten

* Since the Nabatean Arabians were now in amity with  
the Jews ; ch. 1. perhaps the reading in 1 Mace. xii. 31. may

be the truer: where these people are called Zabadeans.

Otherwise Grotius's conjecture, set down by Dr. Hudson,

must be allowed, that the Nabateans not now following

Antiochus, the son of Alexander Balas; but his and Jona­

than's enemy Demetrius Nicator, Jonathan endeavoured

by force to oblige them to come into his measures, and to

acknowledge his friend Antiochus as king of Syria.

t This king, who was of the famous race of Arsaces, is

both here, and 1 Mace. xiv. 2. called by the family name

Arsaces: but Appian says, his proper name was Phraates.

He is here also called by Josephus the king of the Par­

thians, as the Greeks used to call them; but by the elder

author of the first book of Maccabees, the king of the

Persians and Medes; according to the language of the

eastern nations. See Authent. Rec. Pt. II. page 1108.

