184 [book vr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

had approached to it. Those of that village

wept lor these that thus suffered, and made

such lamentation as was naturally to be ex­

pected of so great a misfortune that was sent

from God; and every one mourned for his

own relation. And since they acknowledged

themselves unworthy of the ark's abode with

them, they sent to the public senate of the

Israelites, and informed them that the ark

was restored by the Philistines. Which when

they knew, they brought it away to Kirjath-

jearim, a city in the neighbourhood of Beth-

shemesh. In this city lived one Abinadab,

by birth a Levite, and who was greatly com­

mended for his righteous and religious course

of life; so they brought the ark to his house,

as to a place fit for God himself to abide in,

since therein did inhabit a righteous man.

His sons also ministered to the Divine service

at the ark, and were the principal curators

of it for* twenty years; for so long it con­

tinued in Kirjathjearim; having been butf

four months with the Philistines.

CHAP. II.

OF THE EXPEDITION OF THE PHILISTINES AGAINST THE HE­

BREWS, AND THE HEBREWS' VICTORY, UNDER THE CON­

DUCT OF SAMUEL THE TROPHET, WHO WAS THEIR GENE­

RAL.

WHILE the city of Kirjathjearim had

the ark with them, the whole body of

the people betook themselves all at that time

to offer prayers and sacrifices to God, and ap­

peared greatly concerned and zealous about

his worship. So Samuel the prophet thought

it a proper time to speak to them, while they

were in this good disposition, about the re­

covery of their liberty, and of the blessings

that accompanied the same. Accordingly he

used such words to them, as he thought were

most likely to excite that inclination, and to

persuade them to attempt it:J "O ye Israel­

ites," said he, "to whom the Philistines are

still grievous enemies, but to whom God be­

gins to be gracious: it behoves you not only

to be desirous of liberty, but to take the

proper methods to obtain it. Nor are you to

be contented with an inclination to get clear

of your lords and masters, while you still do

what will procure your continuance under

them. Be righteous then, and cast wicked­

ness out of your souls, and by your worship

supplicate the Divine Majesty with all your

hearts, and persevere in the honour you pay

to him. For if you act thus, you will enjoy

prosperity, you will be freed from your

slavery, and will get the victory over your

enemies; which blessing cannot possibly be

attained either by weapons of war, by the

strength of your bodies, or by the multitude

of your assistance; for God has not promised

to grant these blessings by those means; but

by being good and righteous men. And if

you will be such, I will be security to you for

the performance of God's promises." When

Samuel had thus said, the multitude ap­

plauded his discourse, and gave their consent

to resign themselves up to do what was

pleasing to God. So Samuel gathered them

together, to a certain city called Mizpeh;||

which signifies, in the Hebrew tongue, a

watch tower. There they drew water, and

poured it out to God,§ and fasted all day,

and betook themselves to their prayers.

* From an. 1148 to 1128.

Seven months, in the Hebrew and Septuagint.

An. 1128.

The Mizpeh here mentioned, as appears from the

circumstance of the story, must be different from that

which is remarked in the history of Jephtha: There is

indeed another Mizpeh mentioned among the cities of

Judah, Josh. xv. 38. and a third, among those of Ben­

jamin, Josh, xviii. 26. Some are of opinion, that these

two cities are one and the same, and are only supposed to

be two, because they lie in the confines of each tribe ; but

if they are not the same, it seems most probable, that the

Mizpeh in the tribe of Benjamin was the city which is here

spoken of. And we may observe farther, that as Mizpeh

is said to be situated not far from Eben-ezer, and probably

on the east or north side: so Shen (if it be the name of a

place, and not rather on some sharp rock thereabouts)

was situated not far from it on the opposite, i. e. on the

west or south-west side, to which Bethcar must needs be

contiguous. WelWsGeog. of the Old Test. vol. iii. c. 1. B.

§ The words in our translation run thus :—And they

gathered to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out

before the Lord, 1 Sam. vii. 6. but what we are to under­

stand by this water, the conjectures of commentators have

been various. Some take these words in a metaphorical

sense, to denote those tears of contrition, which were

drawn, as it were, from the bottom of their hearts, and fell

from their eyes before the Lord. Others think, that with

this water they washed their bodies, as they are supposed

to have done upon another occasion, Exod. xix. 20. to

signify the purification of their souls from the pollution of

sin. Others that they made use of it to cleanse the ground

where Samuel was to erect an altar, that it might not stand

upon an impure place. Some suppose that it was em­

ployed as an emblem of humiliation, of prayer, of expia­

tion, of execration, and I know not what besides. But the

