Air. 1116.] 187 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS.

however, in no long time they would sorely

repent of what they did, which repentance

yet could not undo what was thus done for

futurity; that they would be sufficiently re­

buked for their contempt, and the ungrateful

conduct they had used towards Him, and

towards the prophetic office: "So I command

thee," said the Deity, "to ordain them such

a one as I shall name beforehand to be their

king, when thou hast first described what

mischiefs regal government will bring upon

them, and openly testified before them unto

what a great change of affairs they are

hasting."*

When Samuel had heard this, he called

the Jews early in the morning, and confessed

to them that he was to ordain them a king;

but he said, that he was first to describe to

them what would follow, what treatment they

would receive from their kings, and with how

many mischiefs they must struggle. "For

know ye," said he, "that in the first place,

they will take your sons away from you; and

they will command some of them to be dri­

vers of their chariots, and some to be their

horsemen, and the guards of their body; and

others of them to be runners before them, and

captains of thousands, and captains of hun­

dreds; they will also make them their arti­

ficers, makers of armour, and of chariots, and

of instruments; they will make them their

husbandmen also, and the guardians df their

own fields, and the diggers of their own vine­

yards. Nor will there be any thing which

they will not do at their commands, as if they

were slaves bought with money. They will

also appoint your daughters to be confec­

tioners, and cooks, and bakers; and these

will be obliged to do all sorts of work which

women slaves that are in fear of stripes and

torments submit to. They will, besides this,

take away your possessions, and bestow them

upon their eunuchs, and the guards of their

bodies, and will give the herds of your cattle

to their own servants; and, in brief, you and

all that is yours will be servants to your king,

and will become no way superior to his slaves.

Now when you suffer thus, you will be re­

minded of what I now say; and when you re­

pent of what you have done, you will beseech

God to have mercy upon you, and to grant you

a quick deliverance from your kings; but he

will not accept your prayers, but will neglect

you, and permit you to suffer the punishment

your evil conduct has deserved."

But the multitude was still deaf to these

predictions of what would befall them; and

too peevish to suffer a determination which

they had injudiciously made, to be taken out

of their mind; for they could not be turned

from their purpose, nor did they regard the

words of Samuel, but peremptorily insisted

on their resolution, and desired him to ordairt

them a king immediately, and not to trouble

himself with fears of what would come here­

after; for that it was necessary that they

should have with them one to fight their bat­

tles, and to avenge them of their enemies;

and that it was no way absurd, when their

neighbours were under regal government,

that they should have the same form of go­

vernment also. So when Samuel saw that

what he had said had not diverted them

from their purpose, but that they continued

resolute, he said, "Go you every one home

for the present, and I will send for you as

soon as I shall have learned from God who it

is that he will give you for your king."t

CHAP. IV.

OF THE APPOINTMENT OF A KING OVER THE ISRAELITES,

BY THE COMMAND OF GOD.

THERE was one of the tribe of Benjamin,

a man of a good family, and of a vir­

tuous disposition; his name was Kish. He

had a son, a young man of a comely counte­

nance, and of a tall stature, but his under­

standing and his mind were preferable to

what was visible in him; they called him Saul.

Now this Kish had some fine she asses that

had wandered out of the pasture wherein

they fed, so he sent out his son, and one ser­

vant with him, to search for the beasts. But

when he had gone over his own tribe in search

after the asses, he went to other tribes, and

when he found them not there neither, he de­

termined to return home, lest he should oc­

casion any concern to his father about him­

self. But his servant told him, as they were >

near the city of Ramah, that there was a true

prophet in that city, and advised him to go to

* Sam. viii. 9.  
voL. I.—NOS. 15 & 16.

t 1 Sam. viii. 22.

Rr

