an. 670.] 361 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

treachery, and ordered him to be brought

to him, and had him under his power to inflict

what punishment he pleased upon him. But

Manasseh perceiving what a miserable con­

dition he was in, and esteeming himself the

cause of all, besought God to render his

enemy humane and merciful to him. Accord­

ingly God heard his prayer, and Manasseh

was released by the king of Babylon, and

escaped the danger he was in.* And when

he was come to Jerusalem, he endeavoured,

if it were possible, to cast out of his memory

his former sins against God; of which he now

repented; and to apply himself to a very re­

ligious life. He sanctified the temple, and

purified the city; and for the remainder of

his days he was intent on nothing but to re­

turn thanks to God for his deliverance; and

to preserve him propitious to him all his life

long. He also instructed the multitude to do

the same; as having nearly experienced what

a calamity he was fallen into by a contrary

conduct. He also rebuilt the altar, and

offered the legal sacrifices, as Moses com­

manded; and when he had re-established

what concerned the divine worship, as it

ought to be, he took care of the security of

Jerusalem. He did not only repair the old

walls, with great diligence, but added another

wall to the former, f He also built very lofty

towers; and strengthened the garrisoned

places before the city; supplying them with

{)rovisions of all sorts. And indeed, when

ie had changed his former course, he so led

his life for the time to come, that from the

time of his return to piety towards God, he

was deemed a happy man, and a pattern for

imitation. When therefore he had lived

sixty-seven years, he departed this life;

having reigned Jfifty-five years, and was

buried in his own gardens; and the kingdom

came to his son HAmon, whose mother's name

was Meshulemeth, of the city Jotbath.

CHAP. IV.

OF THE REIGNS OF AMON AND JOSIAII, AND OF THE PRE­

DICTIONS OF HULDAH THE PROPHETESS.

AMON imitated those works of his father

which he insolently did when he was

young. So a conspiracy was formed against

him by his servants, and he was slain in his

own house, when he had lived twenty-four

years, and reigned two. But the multitude

punished those that slew Amon, and buried

him with his father, and gave the kingdom to

his son Josiah, who was eight years old.§

His mother was of the city Boscath; and her

name was Jedidah. He was of a most excel­

lent disposition, and naturally virtuous, and

followed the actions of king David, as a pat­

tern, and a rule to him in the whole conduct

of his life. When he was only twelve years

old, he gave demonstrations of his religious

and righteous behaviour; for he brought the

people to a sober way of living, and exhorted

them to leave off the opinion they had of

their idols; because they were not gods; but

to worship their own God. And by reflecting

on the actions of his progenitors, he prudently

corrected what they did wrong, like a very

elderly man, and like one abundantly able

to understand what was fit to be done; and

what he found they had well done, he ob­

served all the country over, and imitated the

same. And thus he acted in following the

wisdom and sagacity of his own nature, and

in compliance with the advice and instruc­

tion of the elders.** For by following the

laws it was that he succeeded so well in the

order of his government; and in piety with

regard to the divine worship. And this hap­

* The Jewish doctors have a tradition, that while Ma­  
nasseh was at Babylon, by the direction of his conqueror,

he was put in a large brazen vessel full of holes, and set

near to a great fire; that in this extremity, he had re­

course to all his false deities, to whom he had offered so

many sacrifices, but received no relief from them; that

remembering what he had heard hit good father Hezekiah

•ay, viz. When thou art in tribulation, if thou turn to the

Lord thy God he will not forsake thee, neither destroy

thee, Deut. iv. 30, 31. he was thereupon immediately de­

livered, and in a moment translated to his kingdom. But

this is no less a fiction, than that miraculous flame which

the author of the imperfect comment upon St. Matthew

speaks of, that encompassed him on a sudden, as he was

praying to God, and having melted his chains asunder,

set him at liberty. Vide Tradit. Hebr. in paralip Targum

in 2 Chron. xxxiii. 11. In all probability, it was Saos

Duchin, the successor of Esarhaddon, who some years

after bis captivity, released Manasseh out of prison. B.

t 2 Chron. xxxiii. 14.

% From an. 699 to an. 644.

II The name of this king, in some copies of the Septua-

gint, in Josephus here, and in one copy of the Apostolical

Constitutions, II. 23, 24. is not Amon, or Ammon, as in

our Hebrew, or other copies, but Amos.

§ 2 Chron. xxxiv. 1.

** Perhaps the Sanhedrim.

