166 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

that bent down on their knees, and so drank,

to be men of courage, but for all those that

drank hastily and tumultuously, that he should

esteem them to do it out of fear, and as in

dread of their enemies. And when Gideon

had done as God had suggested to him, there

-were found three hundred men that took  
water with their hands, tumultuously. So God

bid him take these men, and attack the enemy.

Accordingly they pitched their camp at the

river Jordan; as ready the next day to pass

over it.

Gideon was in great fear, because God had

told him beforehand that he should set upon

his enemies in the night time. But God being

willing to free him from his fear, bid him take

one of his soldiers, and go near the Midian-

itcs' tents; for that he should from that very

place have his courage raised,* and grow

bold. So he obeyed, and went and took his

servant Phurah with him. And as he came

pear to one of the tents, he discovered that

those that were in it were awake, and that

one of them was telling his fellowvsoldier a

dream of his own; and that so plainly, that

Gideon could hear him. The dream was this:

he thought he saw a barley-cake, such an one

as could hardly be eaten by men, it was so

vile, rolling through the camp, and overthrow­

ing the royal tent, and the tents of all the

soldiers. Now the other soldier explained

this vision to signify the destruction of the

army; and told them what his reason was,

which made him so to conjecture: viz. That

the seed called barley was all of it allowed

to be of the vilest sort of seed; and that the

Israelites were known to be the vilest of all

the people of Asia; agreeably to the seed of

barley. And that what seemed to look big

among the Israelites, wasthis Gideon and the

army that was with him. "And since thou

sayest, thou didst see the cake overturning

our tents," said he, " I am afraid lest God

hath granted the victory over us to Gideon."

When Gideon had heard this dream, he was

inspired with courage, and commanded hie

soldiers to arm themselves, telling them of

this vision of their enemies. They also took

courage upon what was told them, and were

ready to perform what he should command;

so Gideon divided his army into three parts,

and brought it out about the fourth watch of

the nightjt each part containing a hundred

men; they all bare empty pitchers and lighted

lamps in their hands, that their onset might

not be discovered by their enemies. Each

man had also a ram's horn in his right hand,

which he used instead of a trumpet. The

enemies' camp took up a large space of

ground, for they had a great many camels;

and as they were divided into different na­

tions, so they were all contained in one circle

Now when the Hebrews did as they were

ordered upon their approach to their ene­

mies, and, on the signal given, sounded with

their rams' horns, and brake their pitchers,

and set upon their enemies with their lamps,

and a great shout, and cried, "Victory to

Gideon, by God's assistance," a disorder and

a fright seized on the other men, while they

were half asleep, for it was night time, as God

would have it; so that a few of them were

slain by their enemies, but the greatest part

by their own soldiers, on account of the di­

versity of their language; and when they

were once thrown into disorder they killed

all that they met with, as thinking thorn to be

enemies also. Thus there was a great slaugh­

token of their temperance, and of the nobleness of their

spirit, which made them so desirous to engage the enemy,

that they would not stay to drink, but (though they were

very thirsty) contented themselves to moisten their mouths,

as we say, with a little water; whereas the rest indulged

themselves so fir, as to drink their bellyful. But after

all, the true reason and design of this method seems to be

only this: That God was minded to reduce Gideon's army

to a very small number, which might very likely be done

by this means. For as the season of the year was hot, and

the generality of the soldiers weary, thirsty, and faint, it

w;is most probable that they would lie down, as indeed they

did, and refresh themselves plentifully, and scarce to be

expected that any great number would deny themselves in

this matter. Patrick's Comment, and Saurin's Gideon

clef ait des Madianies. B.

* Judg. vii. 10, 11.

t The expression in the text is, in the beginning of the

middle watch. For though the Romans in after ages, di­

vided the night into four watches, (Matt. xiv. 25.) yet, in

the eastern parts, and in more ancient times, it consisted

but of three, whereof the first began at six, and continued

four hours. The second therefore is called the middle

watch, and began at eleven; so that we may suppose, that

it was some time after this, that Gideon alarmed the Midi-

anitish camp; and the reason why he chose this part of

the night to do it in, is obvious, because the trumpets

would then seem to sound louder, and the lights to shine

brighter, and so both increase the consternation of the

enemy, and conceal the smailness of his own army. Pool's

Annot. B.

