AN. 187.] 435 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

father: he assured him withal, that he would

give him but ten talents; and that for the pre­

sent to the king also. The son was irritated

at this; and threw Arion into prison. But

when Arion's wife had informed Cleopatra of

this; with her entreaty, that she would re­

buke the child for what he had done, (for

Arion was in great esteem with her;) Cleo­

patra informed the king of it. And Ptolemy

sent for Hyrcanus, and told him, that he

wondered, when he was sent to him by his

father, that he had not yet come into his pre­

sence, but had laid the steward in prison;

and he gave order therefore that he should

come to him, and give an account of the

reason of what he had done. And they re­

port, that the answer he made to the king's

messenger was this: that "There was a law

of his that forbade a child that was born, to

taste of the sacrifice, before he had been at

the temple, and sacrificed to God. Accord­

ing to which way of reasoning he did not

himself come to him; in expectation of the

Eresent he was to make to him, as to one who

ad been his father's benefactor; and that he

had punished the slave for disobeying his

commands:" "For," said he, " it matters not

whether a master be little or great, so that

unless we punish such as these, thou thyself

mayest expect to be despised by thy sub­

jects." Upon hearing this answer, the king

burst into laughter, and wondered at the

great soul of the child.

When Arion was apprised that this was the

king's disposition, and that he had no way to

help himself; he gave the child a thousand

talents; and was liberated from prison. So

after three days were over, Hyrcanus came

and saluted the king and queen. They saw

him with pleasure, and feasted him in an

obliging manner; out of the respect they bare

to his father. So he came to the merchants

Erivately, and bought a hundred boys that

ad learning, and were in the flower of their

age, each at a talent a piece; as also he

bought a hundred maidens, each at the same

price as the other. And when he was invited

to feast with the king among the principal

men of the country, he sat down the lowest

of them all; because he was little regarded,

as a child in age still; and this by those that

S laced every one according to their dignity.

fow when all those that sat with him had

VOl.. I.—NOS. 37 & 38.

lain the bones of the several parts on a heap

before Hyrcanus; (for they had themselves

taken away the flesh belonging to them) till

the table where he sat was filled full with

them, Trypho, who was the king's jester, and

was appointed for jokes and laughter at fes­

tivals, was now asked by the guests that sat

at the table to expose him to laughter. So

he stood by the king, and said, Dost thou not

see, my lord, the bones that lie by Hyrcanus?

By this similitude thou mayest conjecture that

his father made all Syria as bare as he hath

made these bones." And the king laughing

at what Trypho said,- and asking of Hyr­

canus, " How he came to have so many bones

before him?" He replied, "Very rightfully,

my lord. For they are dogs that eat the

flesh, and the bones together; as these thy

guests have done; (looking in the mean time

at those guests;) for there is nothing before

them; but they are men that eat the flesh,

and cast away the bones; as I, who am also

a man, have now done." The king admired

this answer, which was so wisely made; and

bade them all make an acclamation, as a

mark of their approbation of his jest; which

was truly a facetious one.

On the next day Hyrcanus went to every

one of the king's friends, and of the men

powerful at court, and saluted them; but still

inquired of the servants what present they

would make the king on his son's birth-day?

and when some said, that they would give

twelve talents, and that others of greater

dignity wotdd every one give according to

the quantity of their riches; he pretended to

be grieved, that he was not able to bring so

large a present; for that he had no more than

five talents. And when the servants heard

what he said, they told their masters; and

they rejoiced in this prospect that Joseph

would be disapproved, and would make the

king angry, by the smallness of his present.

When the day came, the others, even those

that brought the most, offered the king not

above twenty talents; but Hyrcanus gave to

every one of the hundred boys, and hundred

maidens that he had bought, a talent a piece,

for them to carry; and introduced them, the

boys to the king, and the maidens to Cleo­

patra; every body wondering at the unex­

pected richness of the presents, even the

king and queen themselves. He also pre-

4B

