AN. 1116.} 189 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

kissed him, and said, " Be thou a king, by the

ordination of God, against the Philistines,

and for avenging the Hebrews for what they

have suffered by them. Of this thou shalt

have a sign which I would have thee notice:

As soon as thou art departed hence, thou wilt

find three men upon the road, going to wor­

ship God at Bethel: the first thou wilt see

carrying three loaves of bread; the second

carrying a kid of the goats; and the third will

follow them, carrying a bottle of wine. These

men will salute thee, and speak kindly to

thee, and will give thee two of their loaves,

which thou shalt accept; and thence thou

shalt come to a place called Rachel's Monu­

ment, where thou shalt meet with those that

will tell thee thy asses are found; after this,

when thou comest to Gabatha, thou shalt

overtake a company of prophets, and thou

shalt be seized with the Divine Spirit,* and

prophesy along with them, till every one that

sees thee shall be astonished, and wonder,

and say, Whence is it that the son of Kish

has arrived at this degree of happiness? And

when these signs have happened to thee,

know that God is with thee, then do thou sa­

lute thy father, and thy kindred. Thou shalt

also come when I send for thee to Gilgal, that

we may offer thank-offerings to God for these

blessings." When Samuel had said this, he

sent the young man away; and all things fell

out to Saul according to the prophecy of

Samuel.

But as soon as Saul came into the house of

his kinsman Abner, he was asked by him con­

cerning his journey, and what accidents had

happened to him therein; and he concealed

none of the other things from him, no, not his

coming to Samuel the prophet, nor how he

told him the asses were found; but he said

nothing about the kingdom, andf what be­

longed thereto; which ne thought would pro­

cure him envy, and when such things are

heard they are not easily believed. Nor did

he think it prudent to tell those things to him,

although he appeared very friendly, and one

whom he loved above the rest of his relations,

considering, I suppose, what human nature

really is; that no one is a firm friend, neither

among our intimates, nor of our kindred; nor

do they preserve that kind disposition when

God advances nfen to great prosperity, but

they are still ill-natured and envious at those

that are in eminent stations.

Then Samuel called the people together to

the city Mispeh; and spake to them by the

command of God in the words following:—

"When God had granted you a state of liberty,

and brought your enemies into subjection, you

became unmindful of his benefits, and re­

jected him, that he should not be your king;

not considering that it would be most for

your advantage to be presided over by the

best of Beings; for God is the best of beings;

but you choose to have a man for your king;

though kings will use their subjects as beasts,

according to the violence of their own wills

and inclinations, as wholly carried away with

the lust of power; but will not endeavour so

to preserve the race of mankind, as their own

workmanship and creation; which, for that

very reason, God would take care of. Since,

however, you have come to a fixed resolution,

and this injurious treatment of God has quite

prevailed over you, dispose yourselves by

your tribes, and cast lots."

When the Hebrews had so done, the lot

fell upon the tribe of Benjamin, and when the

lot was cast for the families of this tribe, that

which was called Matri was taken; and when

the lot was cast for the single persons of that

family; Saul the son of Kish was taken for

their king. When the young man knew this,

he prevented their sending for him, and im­

mediately went away and hid himself. I sup­

pose it was because he would not have it

thought that he willingly took the govern­

ment upon him. Nay* he shewed such a de

gree of command over himself, and of mo­

desty, that while the greatest part are not

able to contain their joy, even in the gaining

of small advantages, but presently shew

themselves publicly to all men; this man did

not only evince nothing of that nature, when

he was appointed to be lord over so many

and so great tribes, but crept away, and con­

cealed himself from those he was to reign

over, and made them seek him with a good

from him, it is more reasonable to think, though some

Jewish doctors will have it otherwise, that what he made

un* of, upon this occasion, was no more than common oil.

Patrick's Comment. B.

* An instance of this divine fury we have after this in  
Saul, 1 Sam. xi. 6. See the like Judg. iii. 10. vi. 34. xi.

29. xiii. 25. xiv. 6.

t 1 Sam. x. 16.

Rr2

