350 [book h. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

government, stood up, and three others with

him, and said, "We will not suffer the citi­

zens to bring these prisoners into the city, lest

we be all destroyed by God. We have sins

enough of our own, that we have committed

against him, as the prophet assures us. Nor

ought we therefore to introduce the practice

of new crimes." When the soldiers heard

that, they permitted them to do what they

thought best. So the aforenamed men took

the captives and gave them provisions, and

sent them into their own country, without

doing them any harm. However, these four

went along with them, and conducted them

as far as Jericho, which is not far from Jeru­

salem; and then returned to Samaria.

Hereupon king Ahaz, having been so com­

pletely defeated by the Israelites, sent to

Tiglath-Pileser,* king of the Assyrians, and

sued for assistance in his war against the

Israelites, Syrians, and Damascenes; with

a promise to send him much money. He

sent him also great presents at the same

time. Now this king, upon the reception of

the ambassadors, came to assist Ahaz, and

having made war upon the Syrians, he laid

their country waste, took Damascus by force,

slew Rezin their king, and transplanted the

people of Damascus into the upper Media;

and planted a colony of Assyrians, in their

city. He also afflicted the land of Israel,

and took many captives out of it. In the

mean time, king Ahaz took all the gold that

was in the royal treasury, and the silver,

and what was in the temple of God, and what

precious gifts were there, and he carried

them with him, and came to Damascus, and

gave it to the king of Assyria, according to

his agreement. So he confessed that he

owed him thanks for all that he had done

for him, and returned to Jerusalem.

Now this king was so thoughtless of what

was for his own good, that he would not

leave off worshipping the Syrians' gods, when

he was beaten by them: but he continued in

his idolatry, as though they had procured

him the victory. And when he was beaten

again, he began to honour the gods of the

Assyrians: and he seemed more desirous to

honour any other than his paternal and true

God; whose anger was the cause of his de­

feat. Nay he proceeded to such a degree

of contempt of God's worship, that he shut

up the temple entirely ;f and forbade the

people to bring in the appointed sacrifices;

and took away the gifts that had been given

to it. And when he had offered these indig­

nities to God, he died; having lived thirty-six

years,J and reigned sixteen ;j| and he left his

son Hezekiah for his successor.

CHAP. XIII.

OF THE DEATH OF PEKAH; AND THE REIGNS OF HOSHEA,

KING OF ISRAEL, AND HEZEKIAH, KING OF JUDAH.

ABOUT the same time Pekah.§ king of

Israel died by the treachery of a friend

of his named Hoshea, who retained the king­

* In 2 Chron. xxviii. 20, we read, that Tiglath-Pileser  
came unto Ahaz, and distressed, but strengthened him not.

And yet, in 2 Kings xvi. 9. it is said, that he did help him;

and how then can he be said to have distressed him?

Very well: for as he came to his assistance against the

king of Syria, so he took Damascus, carried the people

captive, and delivered Ahaz from the power of the Syrians;

but this did Ahaz little good, for he helped him not to re­

cover the cities which the Philistines had taken from

him. He lent him no forces, nor enabled him to recruit

his own ; on the contrary he rather weakened him, by ex­

hausting his treasures, and destroying Samaria, which

opened a way for the invasion of his country with more

facility, as it happened in the next reign. For it is no

uncommon thing, even in later ages, to hear of kingdoms

that were called in the help of some foreign prince

against their enemies, over-run and conquered by those

who came in their assistance. Patrick'} Commentary. B.

t 2 Kings xxviii. 24.

J When Josephus, together with all our Hebrew, and

all our Greek copies in the Kings; and all our Hebrew,

and almost all our Greek copies in the Chronicles, make

Ahaz to be but twenty years old when he began to reign,

and to reign sixteen years; and then as all the copies

agree, to be succeeded by Hezekiah at twenty-five years

of age: it is plain there are but eleven years, or at most

some odd months besides for Ahaz, the father, when the

son Hezekiah was born; which is one of the greatest dif­

ficulties in all the Bible. But then, as Dr. Wall justly

observes, this difficulty is cleared by the Greek copy and

the Armenian version; which though the former in the

Kings, and the latter in the Chronicles, had with the rest

dropped the odd years above twenty for the age of Ahaz,

when he came to the crown, yet has the former in the

Chronicles, 2 Chron. xxviii. 1, and the latter in the Kings,

preserved them, and expressly assured us there, that

Ahaz was twenty-five years old when he began to reign;

which directly implies that he was sixteen years old when

his son Hezekiah was born; which wholly obviates the

difficulty.

II From An, 744 to 728.

§ Josephus says here, that Pekah was slain about the

same time that Ahaz died; which chronology will not

allow. Yet when we consider, that in the same chrono­

logy the fourth of Ahaz is called the twentieth of Jotham,

2 Kings xv. 30. while Jotham reigned in all but sixteen

