iw. 968.] 303 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Ethiopians* learned the rite of circumcision

from the Egyptians, with this addition; that

the Phoenicians and Syrians that live in

Palestine confess that they learned it of the

Egyptians." Yet is it evident that no other

of the Syrians that live in Palestine besides

us alone are circumcised. But as to such

matters let every one speak what is agree­

able to his own opinion.

When Shishak was gone away, king Re-

hoboam made bucklers and shields of brass,t

instead of those of gold;J and delivered the

same number of them to the keepers of the

king's palace. So instead of famous warlike

expeditions, and that glory which results

from those public actions, he reigned in

great quietness, though not without fear; as

being always an enemy to Jeroboam. And

he died when he had lived fifty-seven years,

and reigned seventeen.|| He was in his dis­

position a proud, and a foolish man: and lost

part of his dominions by not hearkening to

his father's friends. He was buried at Jeru-

salem, in the sepulchres of the kings. And

his son Abijah§ succeeded him in the king­

dom; and this in the eighteenth year of Je­

roboam's reign over the ten tribes. It must

be now our business to relate the affairs of

Jeroboam, and how he ended his life. For

he ceased not, nor rested to be injurious to

God; but every day raised up altars upon

high mountains, and went on making priests

out of the multitude.

CHAP. XI.

OF THE DEATH OF JEROBOAM'S SON; JEROBOAM'S DEFEAT

BY ABIJAH; HIS SUBSEQUENT DEATH AND DESTRUCTION

OF HIS HOUSE BY BAASHA.

GOD was in no long time ready to return

Jeroboam's wicked actions, and the

punishment they deserved, upon his head,

and upon the heads of all his house. And

whereas a son of the king's lay sick at that

time, who was called Abijah;** he enjoined

his wife to lay aside her robes, and to take

* Herodotus, as here quoted by Josephus, and as this  
passage still stands in his present copies, Book II. chap.

104, affirms, that "the Phoenicians and Syrians in Pales­

tine, (which last are generally supposed to denote the

Jews,) owned their receiving circumcision from the Egyp­

tians." Whereas it is abundantly evident, that the Jews

received their circumcision from the patriarch Abraham,

Gen. xvii. 9—14. Josh. vii. 22, 23. as I conclude the

Egyptian priests themselves did. It is not therefore

rery unlikely that Herodotus, because the Jews had

lived long in Egypt, and came out of it circumcised, did

thereupon think they had learned that circumcision in

Egypt, and had it not before. Manetho, the famous

Egyptian chronologer and historian, who knew the his­

tory of his own country much better than Herodotus,

complains frequently of his mistakes about their affairs;

as does Josephus more than once in this chapter. Nor

indeed does Herodotus seem at all acquainted with the

affairs of the Jews. For as he never names them; so

little or nothing of what he says about them, their country,

or maritime cities, two of which he alone mentions, Ca-

dytis and Jenysis, proves true. Nor indeed do there

appear to have ever been any such cities on their coast.

See Essay on the Old Testament, Appendix, page 180.

Reland's Palestine, tom. II. lib. iii. page 668, 669, 670,

and the note on XI. 2.

t This shews, to what low condition the kingdom of

Judnh was reduced. These shields were a matter of state

and grandeur; and therefore it concerned them, if they

were able, to have them of the same value that they were

before. And, as they were carried before the king to the

house of the Lord, it seemed likewise to be a matter of

relisjion, that their value should not be diminished. Now,

in making these three hundred shields we are told, that

three pounds of gold went to one shield, I Kings x. 17.

Thus at four pounds per ounce, or forty-eight pounds

sterling to the pound, amounts to no more than 432,0O0Z

and therefore it was a miserable case, that they were

reduced from so much wealth to so much poverty, that

neither reason of state, nor religion, could raise so small a

sum on so great an occasion Bedford's Scripture Chro­

nology, lib. vi. c. 2. B.

| 1 Kings xiv. 27.

II From an. 976 to 959 B. C

§ An. 959.

** Jeroboam might be for having his wife go to consult  
the prophet at Shiloh, because this was a secret not to be

entrusted with any body else ; a secret which if it had been

divulged, might have endangered his whole government:

because, if once his subjects came to understand, that he

himself had no confidence in the calves which he had set

up, but in any matter of importance had recourse to the

true worshippers of God, it is not to be imagined, what an

inducement this would have been for them to forsake

these senseless idols, and to return to the worship of the

God of Israel, whom they imprudently had forsaken.

The queen was then the only person he could have con­

fidence in. As a mother, he knew, that she would he

diligent in her inquiry: and as a wife, faithful in her re­

port; but there were sundry reasons why ne might de­

sire her to disguise herself. For though Shiloh lay within

the confines of Ephraim, yet there is sufficient ground to

think, that it was subject to the house of David, and be­

longed to the kingdom of Judah. It was certainly nearer

Jerusalem than Shechem, which Rehoboam had lately

fortified, and made his place of residence: and therefore

Jeroboam thought it not safe to venture his queen, in a

place that was under his rival's government, without her

puttins; on some disguise. He knew too, tb:tt the prophet

Ahijah was greatly offended at him, for the gross idolatry

he had introduced: and therefore he thought (as justly

he might) that, if the prophet perceived it to be his wife,

