AN. 1148.] 185 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

This assembly did not escape the notice of

the Philistines. So when they had learned

that so large a company had met together,

they fell upon the Hebrews with a great

army, and mighty forces, as hoping to assault

them when they did not expect it, nor were

Erepared for it. This thing affrighted the

[ebrews, and put them into disorder and ter­

ror. So they came running to Samuel, and

said, "Our souls were sunk by our fears,

and by the former defeat we had received:

and thence it was that we lay still, lest we

should excite the power of our enemies

against us. Now while thou hast brought us

hither to offer up our prayers and sacrifices,

and take oaths to be obedient; our enemies

are making an expedition against us, while

we are naked and unarmed. Wherefore we

have no other hope of deliverance but that

by thy means, and by the assistance God shall

afford us upon thy prayers to him, we shall

obtain deliverance from the Philistines."

Hereupon Samuel bid them be of good cheer,

and promised that God would assist them.

And taking a sucking lamb, he sacrificed it

for the multitude;* and besought God to

hold his protecting hand over them when

they should fight with the Philistines, and

not to overlook them, nor suffer them to

come under a second misfortune. Accord­

ingly God hearkened to his prayers; and, ac­

cepting their sacrifice with a gracious inten­

tion, he granted them a victory over their

enemies. Now while the altar had the

sacrifice of God upon it, and had not yet

consumed it wholly by the sacred fire; the

enemy's army marched out of their camp,

and was put in order of battle; and this in

hope that they should be conquerors, since

thet Jews were caught in distressed circum­

stances; as neither having their weapons

with them, nor being assembled in order to

fight. But things so fell out, that they would

hardly have been credited though they had

been foretold by any body. For in the first

place God disturbed their enemies with an

earthquake, and moved the ground under

them to such a degree, that he caused it to

tremble, and made them to shake; insomuch

that by its trembling he made some unable to

keep their feet, and made them fall down;

and by opening its chasms he caused that

others should be hurried down into them.

After which he caused such a noise of thunder

to come among them, and made fiery light­

ning shine so terribly round about them, that

it was ready to burn their faces; and he so

suddenly shook their weapons out of their

hands, that he made them flee, and return

home naked. So Samuel, with the multitude,

pursued them to a place called Bethcar; and

there he set up a stone as a boundary of their

victory, and their enemies' flight; and called

it the stone of power; as a signal of that

power God had given them against their

enemies.

So the Pnilistines, after this stroke, made

no more expeditions against the Israelites;J

but lay still out of fear, and out of remem­

brance of what had befallen them. And what

courage the Philistines had formerly against

the Hebrews, after this victory, was trans­

ferred to the Hebrews. Samuel also made an

expedition against the Philistines, and slew

many of them, and entirely humbled their

proud hearts, and took from them that country

which, when they were formerly conquerors,

they had cut off from the Jews; which was

the country that extended from the borders

of Gath to the city Ekron. But the remains

of the Canaanites were at this time in friend­

ship with the Israelites.

most probable opinion is, that this water was, upon this

occasion, poured out, by way of libation, before God.

And for support of this it is commonly alleged, that liba­

tions of this kind were very customary in ancient times;

that Theophrastus, as he is cited by Porphyry, (De Abstin.

lib. 2.) tells us, that the earliest libations were of water,

though afterwards honey and wine came into request:

that Virgil (jEneid. iv.) mentions the practice of sprink­

hng the water of the lake Avernus: and that Homer

(Odyss. 12.) remarks, that for want of wine, the com­

panions of Ulysses poured out water in a sacrifice, which

they offered to the Gods. It is certain, that David poured

out unto the Lord the water which the three gallant men

in his army brought him from the well of Bethlehem, at

the hazard of their lives, 2 Sam. xxiii. 16. and, therefore,

though the law does not enjoin any such libations of water;

yet, since there is no positive prohibition of them, why

may we not suppose, that upon this extraordinary occasion,

something singular and extraordinary might have been

done? Patrick's and Calmet's Comment. B.

* 1 Sam. vii. 9.

t This is the first place, so far as I remember, in these

Antiquities, where Josephus begins to call his nation Jews,

he having hitherto usually, if not constantly, called them

either Hebrews or Israelites.

| 1 Sam. vii. 13.

