458 [book xm. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

other should treat with him first, and gain

assistance from him. And this he did out of

the fear he had, lest Jonathan should remem­

ber how ill Demetrius had formerly treated

him; and should join with him in this war

against him. He therefore gave orders that

Jonathan should be allowed to raise an army,

and should get armour made, and should re­

ceive back those hostages of the Jewish na­

tion whom Bacchides had shut up in the

citadel of Jerusalem. When this good for­

tune had befallen Jonathan, by the concession

of Demetrius, he came to Jerusalem, and

read the king's letter, in the audience of the

people, and of those that kept the citadel:

those wicked men and deserters who were

in the citadel, were therefore greatly afraid,

upon the king's permission to Jonathan to

raise an army, and to receive back the hos­

tages. So he delivered every one of them

to their own parents. And thus did Jonathan

make his abode at Jerusalem: renewing the

city to a better state, and reforming the

buildings as he pleased. For he gave orders

that the walls of the city should be rebuilt

with square stones; that it might be more

secure from their enemies. And when those

that kept the garrisons that were in Judea

saw this, they all left them, and fled to An-

tioch; excepting those that were in the city

Bethsura, and those that were in the citadel

of Jerusalem. For the greater part of these

consisted of the wicked Jews and deserters;

and on that account these did not deliver up

their garrisons.

When Alexander knew what promises De­

metrius had made Jonathan, and withal knew

his courage, and what great things he had

* 1 Mace. x. 15.

t Since Jonathan did not put on the pontifical robes

till seven or eight years after the death of his brother

Judas, or not till the feast of tabernacles in the 160th of

the SeleucidsB, 1 Mace. x. 21. Petitus's emendation

seems here to deserve consideration: who instead of

"After four years, since the death of his brother Judas:"

would have us read: "And therefore after eight years,

since the death of his brother Judas." This would tole­

rably well agree with the date in the Maccabees, and with

Josephus's own exact chronology, at the end of the XXth

book of these Antiquities: which the present text cannot

be made to do.

J From the time of the return from the Babylonish

captivity, the office of high-priest had been in the family

of Josodek, and, in a lineal descent, was transmitted

down to Onias, the third of that name. He was sup-

done when he fought the Macedonians; and

besides what hardships he had undergone by

the means of Demetrius, and of Bacchides,

the general of Demetrius's army; he told his

friends, that he could not at present find any

one that might afford him better assistance

than Jonathan; who was both courageous

against his enemies, and had a particular ha­

tred against Demetrius, as having both suf­

fered many hard things from him, and acted

many hard things against him. If therefore

they were of opinion that they should make

him their friend against Demetrius, it was

more for their advantage to invite him to as­

sist them now, than at another time.* It

being therefore determined by him and his

friends to send to Jonathan, he wrote to him

this epistle:—

"King Alexander, to his brother Jonathan,

sendeth greeting. We have long ago heard

of thy courage and fidelity: and for that rea­

son have sent to thee to make with thee a

league of friendship, and of mutual assist­

ance. I therefore do ordain thee this day

the high-priest of the Jews; and appoint that

thou shall be called my friend. I have also

sent thee, as presents, a purple robe, and a

golden crown: and desire that now thou art

by me honoured, thou wilt in like manner

respect me also."

When Jonathan had received this letter,

he fput on the pontifical robe, at the feast of

tabernacles; four years after the death of his

brother Judas. For at that time no high-

priest had been made.J So he raised great

forces, and had abundance of armour got

ready. This greatly grieved Demetrius,

when he heard of it; and made him blame

planted by Jason his brother, as Jason was by his brother

Menelaus, and after the death of Menelaus, Alcimus, who

was of a different family, was put into the office by the

command of the king of Syria. Whether the Asmoneans

were of the race of Josedek, or not, it is no where said:

but it is certain that they were of the course of Joarib,

(1 Mace. ii. 1,) which was the first class of the sons of

Aaron; and therefore, upon the failure of the former

pontifical family, they had the best right to succeed.

With this right it was, that Jonathan took the office; and

in his family it became settled, and continued for several

descents, until the time of Herod, who, from an office of

inheritance, changed it into that of arbitrary will and plea­

sure. Whoever had the power after him, put the high-

priests in or out, as they thought fit, till at length the

office was extinguished by the destruction of the temple

by the Romans. Prideaux's Connection, an. 253. B.

i

