AN. 1158. J 175 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When Sampson had slain many of the Phi­

listines, in the plain country, he dwelt at

Etam; which is a strong rock of the tribe of

Judah. For the Philistines at that time made

an expedition against that tribe. But the

people of Judah said, they did not act justly

with them, in inflicting punishments upon

them, while they paid their tribute; and this

only on account of Sampson's offences. They

answered, that in case they would not be

blamed themselves, they must deliver up

Sampson, and put him into their power. So

they, being desirous to exculpate themselves,

came to the rock with three thousand armed

men, and complained to Sampson of the bold

insults he had made upon the Philistines; who

were men able to bring calamity upon the

whole nation of the Hebrews; and they told

him, they were come to take him, and to de­

liver him up to them, and put him into their

power. So they desired him to bear this

willingly. Accordingly when he had received

assurance from them upon oath, that they

would do him no other harm than only to de­

liver him into the enemy's hands, he came

down from the rock, and put himself into the

power of his countrymen. Then did they

bind him with two cords, and lead him on,

in order to deliver him to the Philistines, and

when they came to a certain place, which is

now called the Jaw Bone, on account of the

great action there performed by Sampson;

though of old it had no particular name; the

Philistines, who had pitched their camp not

far off, came to meet them with joy and

shouting; as having done a great thing, and

gained what they desired. But Sampson

brake his bonds asunder, and catching up the

jaw bone of an ass, that lay at his feet, he fell

upon his enemies, and smiting them with his

jaw bone slew a thousand of them;* and put

the rest to flight in great disorder, f

Upon this slaughter, Sampson was too

proud of what he had performed, and said

that this did not come to pass by the assist­

ance of God, but that his success was to be

ascribed to his own courage, and vaunted

himself, that it was out of dread of him that

some of his enemies fell, and the rest ran

away, upon his use of the jaw bone. But

when a great thirst came upon him, he con­

sidered that human courage is nothing, and

bare his testimony that all is to be ascribed

to God; and besought him, that he would not

be angry at any thing he had said, nor give

him up into the hands of his enemies; but

afford him help under his affliction, and de­

liver him from the misfortunes he was under.

Accordingly God was moved with his in-

treaties, and raised him up a plentiful foun­

tain of sweet water, at a certain rock. Whence

it was that Sampson called the placeJ the

Jaw Bone, and so it is called to this day.

After this fight Sampson held the Philis­

tines in contempt, and came to Gaza, and

took up his lodging in a certain inn. When

the rulers of Gaza were informed of his com­

ing thither, they seized upon the gates, and

* Judg. xv. 15.

t Setting aside the various interpretations which have

been given of this expression, the Editor of Calmet's

Dictionary proposes to illustrate it by the following ex­

tract: "It appears probable from the following circum­

stances, that the exercise of wrestling, as it is now per­

formed by the Turks, is the very same that was anciently

used in the Olympic games. For, besides the previous

covering of the palaestra with sand, that the combatants

might fall with more safety, they have their pellowan

bashee, or master wrestler; who, like the ayuvoderiis of

old, is to observe and superintend the jura palaestra, and

to be the umpire in all disputes. The combatants, after

they are anointed all over with oil, to render their naked

bodies the more slippery, and less easily to be taken hold

of, first of all look one another stedfastly in the face, as

Diomede or Ulysses does the palladium upon antique

gems. They then ran up to, and retire from, each other

several times, using all the while a variety of antic and

other postures, such as are commonly used in the course

of the ensuing conflict: after this prelude they draw

nearer together, and challenge each other, by clapping the

palms of their hands, first upon their own knees or thighs,

then upon each other, and afterwards upon the palms of

their respective antagonists. The challenge being thus

given, they immediately close in and struggle with each

other, striving with all their strength, art, and dexterity,

(which are often very extraordinary,) which shall give his

antagonist a fall, and become the conqueror. Durtng

these contests I have often seen their arms, legs, and

thighs, so twisted and linked together, that they have both

fallen together, and left the victory dubious, too difficult

sometimes for the pellowan bashee to decide." Shaw's

Trav. p. 217.

Do not these well deserve the description of leg and

thigh men, or shoulder and thigh men? The name seems

to be taken from their very attitudes, and correctly to ex­

press them. If this idea be admitted, it cannot be difficult

to understand the above cited expression. B.

J This fountain, called Leti, or the Jaw Bone, is still in

being, as travellers assure us; and was known by this very

name in the days of Josephus; and hath been known by

the same name in all past ages. See Antiq. VII. 12. the

Annals of Glycas, and the itinerary of Antoninus; ap

Reland, Palestin. torn. II. p. 752.

