AN. 1080.] 235 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. V.

op david's successes against the Philistines, and the

moabites, and the kings op sophene and of damas­

cus, the syrians, and the idumeans; of his league

with the king op hamath; and his gratitude for

the friendship of jonathan.

A LITTLE while after* this David con­

sidered, that he ought to make war

against the Philistines, and not see any indo­

lence permitted in his management; that so

it might prove as God had foretold to him,

that when he had overthrown his enemies, he

should leave his posterity to reign in peace.

So he called together his army, and charged

them to be ready and prepared for war; and

when he thought that all things were in a

good state, he removed from Jerusalem, and

came against the Philistines; and when he

had overcome them in battle, and had cut off

a great part of their country, and united it to

the country of the Hebrews, he transferred

the war to the Moabites. And when he had

overcome two parts of their army in battle,

he took the remaining part captive ;f and

imposed tribute upon them to be paid annu-

ally.J He then made war against Hadadezer,

the son of Rehob,|| king of Sophene; and

when he had joined battle with him, at the

river Euphrates, he destroyed twenty thou­

sand of his footmen, and about seven thousand

of his horsemen. He also took a thousand

of his chariots, and destroyed the greatest

part of them; and ordered that no more than§

one hundred should be kept.

Now when** Hadad, king of Damascus, and

of Syria, heard that David fought against

Hadadezer, who was his friend, he came to

his assistance, with a powerful army, in hopes

to rescue him; but when he had joined battle

with David, at the river Euphrates, he failed

of his purpose, and lost a great number of his

soldiers; for there were slain of the army of

Hadad twenty thousand, and all the rest fled.

Nicolaus also, of Damascus, makes mention

of the king, in the fourth book of his histories,

where he speaks thus: "A great while after

these things had happened, there was one of

that country whose name was Hadad, who

was become very potent. He reigned over

Damascus, and the other parts of Syria, ex­

cepting Phoenicia. He made war against

* About an. 1081.

t There is no small obscurity in the words of the text,

which are these :—He smote Moab, and measured them

with a line, casting them down to the ground; even in

two lines measured he to put to death, and with one line

to keep alive. Which words seem to allude to a custom

among the kings of the east, when they were thoroughly

incensed against any nation, viz. to make the captives all

come together in one place, and prostrate themselves

upon the ground; that, being divided into two parts, as it

were with a line, their conqueror might appoint which

part he pleased either for death or life, which was some­

times determined by casting of lots. Some are of opinion,

that David made three lots or parts of these Moabites, two

of which he ordered to be slain, and one part only to be

kept alive. The reason of this severity against this

miserable people, the Rabbins assure us, was, because

they had slain his parents and brethren, whom he hod

committed to the custody of the king of Moab during his

exile. But of the reality of this motive there is no manner

of appearance; and since this execution which David in­

flicted may relate either to the whole nation, or the army

only, to clear David from the imputation of too much

cruelty, we should rather conceive it of the third, or half

part at most, of the army. Le Clerks and Calmefs Com­

mentaries. B.

% 2 Sam. viii. 2.

II Whether Syria Zobah, 2 Sam. iii. 8. ,1 Chron. xviii.

3—8, be Sophene, as Josephus here supposes: which yet

Ptolomy places beyond Euphrates, as Dr. Hudson ob­

serves here ; whereas Zobah was on this side ; or whether

Josephus was not here guilty of a mistake in his geog­

raphy, I cannot certainly determine.

voL. I.—NOS. 19 & 20-

§ David's reserving only 100 chariots for himself, out

of 1000 he had taken from Hadadezer, was most probably

done in compliance with the law of Moses, which forbade

the king of Israel to multiply horses to himself, Deut.

xvii. 16. One of the principal uses of horses in Judea

at that time being for drawing their chariots: see Jo­

seph. Antiq. V. 1. and Bp. Sherlock's discourse on that

subject.

** It deserves here to be remarked, that this Hadad,  
being a very great king, was conquered by David; whose

posterity yet for several generations were called Ben­

hadad, or the son of Hadad, till the days of Hazael; whose

son Adar or Ader is also in our Hebrew copy, 2 Kings xiii.

24. written Benhadad; but in Josephus Adad or Adar.

And strange it is, that the son of Hazael, said to be such in

the same text, and in Josephus, IX. 8. should still be

called the son of Hadad. I would therefore here correct

our Hebrew copy from Josephus's; which seems to have

the true reading. Nor does the testimony of Nicolaus of

Damascus produced in this place by Josephus, seem to be

faultless; when it says, that he was the third of the Ha-

dads, or second of the Benhadads, who besieged Samaria,

in the days of Ahab. He must rather have been the

seventh or eighth, if there were ten in all of that name,

as we are assured there were. For testimony makes all

the Hadads or Benhadads of the same line; and to have

immediately succeeded one another. Whereas Hazael

was not of that line, nor is he called Hadad or Benhadad,

in any copy. And note that from this Hadad, in the

days of David, to the beginning of Hazael, were near

200 years, according to the most exact chronology of

Josephus.

Zz

