466 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ther, and to the nation of the Jews, sendeth

greeting. We have sent you a copy of that

epistle which we have written to Lasthenes,

our kinsman, that you may know its contents.

"King Demetrius to Lasthenes our father,

sendeth greeting. I have determined to re­

turn thanks, and to shew favour to the nation

of the Jews, which hath observed the rules

of justice in our concerns. Accordingly I

remit to them the three prefectures, Aphe-

rime, Lydda, and Ramatha, which have been

added to Judea out of Samaria, with their

appurtenances. As also what the kings my

predecessors received from those that offered

sacrifices in Jerusalem; and what are due

from the fruits of the earth, and of the trees,

and what else belongs to us; with the salt-

pits, and the crowns that used to be presented

to us. Nor shall they be compelled to pay

any of these taxes from this time to all fu­

turity. Take care therefore that a copy of

this epistle be taken, and given to Jonathan;

and be set up in an eminent place of their

holy temple."

Now when Demetrius saw that there was

peace every where, and that there was no

danger, nor fear of war, he disbanded the

greatest part of his army, and diminished

their pay; and even retained in pay no others

than such foreigners as came up with him

from Crete, and from the other islands. How­

ever, this procured him ill will and hatred

from the soldiers; on whom he bestowed

nothing from this time; while the kings be­

fore him used to pay them in times of peace,

as they did before; that they might have

their good will; and that they might be ready

to undergo the difficulties of war, if occasion

should require it.

CHAP. V.

OF THE REVOLT OF TRYPHO, WHO, AFTER HE HAD DE­

FEATED DEMETRIUS, DELIVERED THE KINGDOM TO ANTI-

OCHUS, THE SON OF ALEXANDER, AND GAINED JONATHAN

FOR HIS ASSISTANT; AND CONCERNING THE ACTIONS AND

EMBASSIES OF JONATHAN.

NOW there was a certain commander of

Alexander's forces, of Apamia by birth:

his name was Diodotus, but he was also called

Trypho. This man took notice of the ill

will the soldiers bare to Demetrius; and went

to Malchus, the Arabian, who brought up

Antiochus, the son of Alexander; and told

him what ill will the armies bare Demetrius;

and persuaded him to give him Antiochus,

because he would make him king, and re­

cover to him the kingdom of his father. Mal­

chus at first opposed him in this attempt, be­

cause he could not believe him: but Trypho

over-persuaded him to comply with his in­

tentions and intreaties.

But Jonathan, the high-priest, being de­

sirous to get clear of those that were in the

citadel of Jerusalem, and of the Jewish de­

serters and wicked men, as well as of those

in all the garrisons in the country, sent pre­

sents and ambassadors to Demetrius, and

intreated him to take away his soldiers out

of the strong holds of Judea. Demetrius made

answer, that after the war, which he was now

deeply engaged in, he would not only grant

him that, but greater things also. And he

desired he would send him some assistance;

and informed him that his army had deserted

him. So Jonathan chose out three thousand

of his soldiers, and sent them to Demetrius.

Now the people of Antioch hated Deme­

trius; both on account of what mischief he

had himself done them; and because they

were his enemies also on account of his father

Demetrius, who had greatly abused them.

So they watched some opportunity, which

they might lay hold on, to fall upon him.

And when they were informed of the assist­

ance that was coming to Demetrius from

Jonathan, and considered at the same time

that he would raise a numerous army, unless

they prevented him, and seized upon him;

they took their weapons immediately, and

encompassed his palace, in the way of a

siege; and seizing upon all the ways of get­

ting out, they sought to subdue their king.

And when he saw that the people of Antioch

were become his bitter enemies, and that

they were thus in arms, he took the merce­

nary soldiers which he had with him, and

those Jews who were sent by Jonathan, and

assaulted the Antiochians. But he was over­

powered by their numbers, and was beaten.

But when the Jews saw that the Antiochians

were superior, they went up to the top of the

palace, and shot at them from thence. And

because they were so remote from them by

their height, that they suffered nothing on

their side, but did great execution on the

