452 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS.

month they returned to the city of Shiloh,

where they had set up the tabernacle.

Joshua now took both Eleazar, and the

senate, and with them the heads of the tribes,

and distributed the land to the nine tribes,

and to the half tribe of Manasseh; appointing

the dimensions according to the largeness of

each tribe.* So when he had cast lots, Judah

had assigned him by lot, the upper part of

Judea, reaching as far as Jerusalem, and its

breadth, extending to the lake of Sodom; and

the lot of this tribe included the cities of As-

calon and Gaza. The lot of Simeon, which

was the second, comprehended that part of

Idumea, which bordered upon Egypt and

Arabia. As to the Benjamites, their lot fell

so, that its length reached from the river Jor­

dan to the sea; but in breadth, it was bounded

Dy Jerusalem and Bethel; and this lot was

the narrowest of all, by reason of the good­

ness of the land; for it included Jericho, and

the city of Jerusalem. The tribe of Ephraim

had the land that extended in length, from

the river Jordan, to Gezer; but in breadth,

as far as from Bethel to the great plain. The

half tribe of Manasseh had the land from Jor­

dan, to the city of Dora; but its breadth was

at Bethshan, which is now called Scythopolis.

And after these was Issachar, which had its

limits, in length, mount Carmel and the river;

but its limit, in breadth, was mount Tabor.

The tribe of Zabulon's lot included the land

which lay as far as the lake of Gennesareth,

and that which belonged to Carmel and the

sea. The tribe of Aser had that part which

was called The Valley, for such it was; and

all that part that lay over against Sidon. The

city Arce belonged to their share, which is

also named Actipus. The Naphthalites re­

ceived the eastern parts, as far as the city of

Damascus, and the Upper Galilee, unto mount

Libanus, and the fountains of Jordan, which

arise out of that mountain: that is, out of that

part of it, whose limits belong to the neigh­

bouring city Arce. The Danites' lot included

all that part of the valley which respects the

sun-setting, and were bounded by Azotus and

Dora; they also had all Jamnia and Gath,

from Ekron to that mountain where the tribe

of Judah begins.

After this manner did Joshua divide the six

* If I were writing to the learned, I must have made  
particular notes on this and the rest of Josephus's geogra-

nations that bear the names of the sons of Ca­

naan, with their land, to be possessed by the

nine tribes and a half; for Moses had pre­

vented him, and had already distributed the

land of the Amorites, which was so called

from one of the sons of Canaan, to the two

tribes and a half, as we have shewed already;

but the parts about Sidon, as also those that

belonged to the Arkites, the Amathites, and

the Arabians, were not yet regularly dis­

posed of.

But now Joshua was hindered by his age,

from executing what he intended, and those

who succeeded him in the government took

little care of what was for the advantage of

the public; so he gave it in charge to every

tribe to leave none of the race of the Canaan-

ites in the land that had been divided to them

by lot; for, that Moses had assured them be­

forehand, and they might rest fully satisfied,

that their own security, and their observance

of their own laws depended wholly upon it

He also enjoined them to give thirty-eight

cities to the Levites, for they had already

received ten in the country of the Amorites;

and three of these he assigned to fugitive

man-slayers, who were to inhabit there, for he

was very solicitous that nothing should be

neglected which Moses had ordained. These

cities were. of the tribe of Judah, Hebron;

of that of Ephraim, Shechem; and that of

Naphthali, Cadesh, which is a place of the

Upper Galilee. He also distributed among

them the rest of the prey not yet distributed,

which was very great, whereby they had an

affluence of great riches, both all in general,

and every one in particular; and this of gold,

vestments, and other furniture, besides a

multitude of cattle, whose number cannot be

told.

After this he gathered the army together,

and spake thus to those tribes that had their

settlement in the land of the Amorites beyond

Jordan; for fifty thousand men of them had

armed themselves, and had gone to the war

along with them: "Since that God, who is

the Father and Lord of the Hebrew nation,

has now given us this land for a possession,

and promised to preserve us in the enjoyment

of it as our own for ever; and since you have

with alacrity offered yourselves to assist us,

phy of Canaan; but in this version it shall suffice to refer

the English reader to my map of Palestine.

