ait. 71.] 493 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

that had been slain already, they would take

what had been done patiently, on account of

their natural love to their governors: but if

they must expect the same for the future also,

they implored of her a dismission from her

service. For they could not bear to think of

attempting any method for their deliverance

without her: but would rather die wiHingly,

before the palace gate, in case she would not

forgive them. And that it was a great shame,

both for themselves, and for the queen, that

when they were neglected by her, they should

come under the lash of her husband's ene­

mies. For that Aretas, the Arabian king,

and the *monarchs, would give any reward

if they could get such men as foreign aux­

iliaries; to whom their very names might

perhaps be terrible. But if they could not

obtain this their second request, and if she

had determined to prefer the Pharisees be­

fore them, they still insisted that she would

place them, every one in her fortresses. For

that if some fatal demon had a constant spite

against Alexander's house, they would be

willing to bear their part, and to live in a

private station there.

As these men spake thus, and called upon

Alexander's ghost for commiseration of those

already slain, and those in danger of death;

all the bystanders burst into tears. But Aris-

tobulus chiefly manifested what were his sen­

timents; and used many reproachful expres­

sions to his mother, saying, "Nay indeed the

case is this; that they have been themselves

the authors of their own calamities, who have

permitted a woman, who against reason was

mad with ambition, to reign over them, when

there were sons in the flower of their age fit­

ter for it." So Alexandra, not knowing what

to do with any decency, committed the for­

tresses to them, all but Hyrcania, Alexan-

drium, and Macherus, where her principal

treasures were. After a little while also, she

Bent Aristobulus with an army to Damascus,

against Ptolemy, who was called Menneus.

But he did nothing considerable there, and

so returned home.

About this time news was brought" that Ti-

granes, king of Armenia, had made an irrup­

tion into Syria with "[five hundred thousand

soldiers; and was coming against Judea.

This intelligence, as may well be supposed,

terrified the queen and the nation. Accord­

ingly they sent ambassadors to him with

many valuable presents; as he was besieging

Ptolemais. For Selene, who was also called

Cleopatra, ruled then over Syria; having per­

suaded the inhabitants to exclude Tigranes.

So the Jewish ambassadors interceded with

him, and intreated him that he would deter­

mine nothing that was severe about their

queen or nation. He commended them for

the respects they paid him at so great a dis­

tance: and gave them good hopes of his fa­

vour.:}: But as soon as Ptolemais was taken,

news came to Tigranes, that Lucullus in his

pursuit of Mithridates, could not overtake

him: for he had fled into Iberia; and was

laying fwaste Armenia, and besieging its

cities. Now when Tigranes knew this, he

returned home.

After this, when the queen was fallen into

a dangerous distemper, Aristobulus resolved

to attempt seizing upon the government.

Accordingly he stole away secretly by night,

with only one of his servants, and went to the

fortresses, wherein his friends, that were such

from the days of his father, were settled. For

as he had been a great while displeased at his

mother's conduct, so he was now much more

afraid, lest, upon her death, their whole family

should be under the power of the Phariseesi

For he saw the inability of his brother, who

was to succeed her in the government. Nor

was any one conscious of what he was doing,

but only his wife, whom he left at Jerusalem,

with their children. He first of all came to

||Agaba, where was Galestes, one of the po­

tent men beforementioned; and was received

by him. When it was day Alexandra per­

ceived that Aristobulus was fled: and for

some time she supposed that his departure

was not in order to make any innovation.

But when messengers came one after another,

* See Of the War, Book I. chap. 20.

t The number of 600,000, or even 300,000, as one

Greek copy, with the Latin copies, have it, for Tigranes's

army, that came out of Armenia into Syria and Judea;

seems much too large. We have had already several

such extravagant numbers in Josephus's present copies,

which are not to be ascribed to him. Accordingly I in­

cline to Dr. Hudson's emendation here, which suppose!

them but 40,000.

I An. 71.

II Or, Argob.

. ... -

4 I 2

