304 [book VIII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the garments belonging to a private person,

and to go to Ahijah the prophet; for that he

Was a wonderful man in foretelling future

events; it having been he who told him, that

he should be king. He also enjoined her,

when she came to him, to inquire concerning

the child, as if she were a stranger, whether

he should escape this distemper. So she did

as her husband bade her; and changed her

habit, and came to the city Shiloh; for there

did Ahijah live. But as she was going into

his house, his eyes being then dim with age,

God appeared to him, and informed him

that the wife of Jeroboam was come to him;

and what answer he should make to her

inquiry. Accordingly as the woman was

coming into the house, like a private person,

and a stranger, he cried out, "Come in, O

thou wife of Jeroboam. Why concealest

thou thyself? Thou art not concealed from

God; who hath appeared to me, and in­

formed me that thou wast coming, and hath

given me in command what I shall say to

thee." So he said, that she should go away

to her husband and speak to him thus:

"Since I made thee a great man, when thou

wast little, or rather nothing, and rent the

kingdom from the house of David, and gave

it to thee; and thou hast been unmindful of

these benefits, hast left off my worship, hast

made thee molten gods and honoured them:

I will in like manner cast thee down again,

and will destroy all thy house, and make

them food for the dogs, and the fowls. For

a certain king is rising up, by my appoint­

ment, over all this people, who shall leave

none of the family of Jeroboam remaining.

The multitude also shall themselves partake

of the same punishment; and shall be cast

out of this good land, and shall be scattered

into the places beyond Euphrates; because

they have followed the wicked practices of

their king, and have worshipped the gods

that he made, and forsaken my sacrifices.

Do thou, O woman! make haste back to thy

husband, and tell him this message. But

thou shalt then find thy son dead; for as

thou enterest the city he shall depart this

life. Yet shall he be buried with the lamen-

tations of all the multitude, and be honoured

with a general mourning: he is the only inno­

cent person of Jeroboam's family."*

When the prophet had foretold these

events, the woman went hastily away with a

disordered mind, and greatly grieved at the

death of the child. So she was in lamenta­

tion as she went along the road, and mourned

for the death of her son, that was just at hand

She was indeed in a miserable condition at

the unavoidable approach of death, and went

apace; but in circumstances very unfortunate

because of her son: for the greater haste she

made, she would the sooner see her son dead.

Yet was she forced to make such haste on

account of her husband. Accordingly when

she was come back, she found that the child

had given up the ghost, as the prophet had

said, and she related all the circumstances

to the king.

Jeroboam, however, did not lay any of

these things to heart; but he brought together

a very numerous army, and made a warlike

expedition against Abijah, the son of Reho-

boam, who had succeeded his father in the

kingdom of the two tribes. For he despised

him, because of his age. But when he heard

of the expedition of Jeroboam, he was not

affrighted at it; but proved of a courageous

temper of mind, superior both to his youth,

and to the hopes of his enemy. So he chose

an army out of the two tribes, and met Je­

roboam at a place called mount Zemaraim,

and pitched his camp near the others, and

prepared every thing necessary for the fight.

His army consisted of four hundred thousand:

but the army of Jeroboam was double that

number. Now as the armies stood in array

ready for action, and were just going to

fight, Abijah stood upon an elevated place,

and beckoning with his hand, he desired the

multitude, and Jeroboam himself, to hear

first what he had to say. And when silence

was made, he began to speak to this effect:

"God consented that David and his posterity

should be your rulers for all time to come;

and this you yourselves are not unacquainted

with. But I cannot but wonder how you

should forsake my father, and join yourselves

he would either tell her nothing, or make things much

worse than they were. The only way, therefore, to come

at the truth, was, (as he thought,) to do what he did: but

herein appears his infatuation, that he should not think

the person, whom he held capable of resolving him in the

fate of his son, able to see through this guile and disguise.

Calmefs Commentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.

* 1 Kings xiv. 13.

