488 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

but when Alexander saw that Ptolemy was

retired from Gaza to Cyprus, and his mother

Cleopatra was returned to Egypt; he grew

angry at the people of Gaza, because they

had invited Ptolemy to assist them; and be­

sieged their city, and ravaged their country.

But as Apollodorus, the general of the army

of Gaza, fell upon the camp of the Jews by

night, with two thousand foreign, and *ten

thousand of his own forces; while the night

lasted, those of Gaza prevailed; because the

enemy were made to believe that it was Pto­

lemy who attacked them. But when day

came on, and that mistake was corrected, and

the Jews knew the truth of the matter, they

came back again, and fell upon those of Gaza,

and slew of them about a thousand. But as

those of Gaza stoutly resisted, and would not

yield for either their want of any thing, nor

for the great multitude that were slain; (for

they would rather suffer any hardship what­

ever, than come under the power of their ene­

mies;) Aretas, king of the Arabians, a person

then very illustrious, encouraged them to go

on with alacrity; and promised them that he

would come to their assistance. But it hap­

pened that before he came Apollodorus was

slain: for his brother Lysimachus envying

him for the great reputation he had gained

among the citizens, slew him; and got the

army together, and delivered upf the city.

When Alexander came in, at first he lay

quiet; but afterward set his army upon the

inhabitants of Gaza, and gave them leave to

punish them. So some went one way, and

some another, and slew the inhabitants of

Gaza. Yet were not they of cowardly hearts;

but opposed those that came to slay them,

and slew as many of the Jews: and some of

them, when they saw themselves deserted,

burnt their own nouses; that the enemy might

get none of their spoils. Nay, some of them

with their own hands slew their wives and

children; having no other way of avoiding

slavery. But the senators, who were in all five

hundred, fled to Apollo's temple; (for this at­

tack happened to be made as they were sit­

ting,) whom Alexander slew; and when he had

utterly overthrown their city, he returned to

Jerusalem; having spent a year in that siege.

About this time JAntiochus Grypus died.

His death was caused by Heracleon's trea­

chery; when he had lived forty-five years,

and had reigned ||twenty-nine. His eon Se-

leucus succeeded him in the kingdom; and

made war with Antiochus, his father's bro­

ther, who was called Antiochus Cyzicenus,

and defeated him, and took him prisoner, and

slew him. But after a while §Antiochus, the

son of Cyzicenus, who was called Pius, came

to Aradus; and put the diadem on his own

head; and made war with Seleucus, and drove

him out of all Syria. But when he fled out of

Syria, he came to Mopsuestia again, and

levied money upon them. But when Antio­

chus, the son of Cyzicenus, was king of Syria;

**Antiochus, the brother of Seleucus, made  
war upon him, and was overcome, and de­

stroyed, he and his army. After him his bro­

ther Philip put on the diadem, and reigned

over some part of Syria. But Ptolemy Lathy-

rus sent for his fourth brother, Demetrius,

who was called Eucerus, from Cnidus; and

made him king of Damascus. Both these

brothers did Antiochus vehemently oppose;

but presently died. For when he was come

as an auxiliary to ffLaodice,JJ queen of the

Gileadites, when she was making war against

the Parthians, and he was fighting coura­

geously, he fell: while Demetrius and Philip

governed Syria.

As to Alexander, his own people were sedi­

* Or, one thousand.

t An. 97.

J This account of the death of Antiochus Grypus, is

confirmed by Appian, Syriac. page 132. here cited by

Spanheim.

II Porphyry says, that this Antiochus Grypus reigned

but 26 years; as Dr. Hudson observes.

§ The copies of Josephus, both Greek and Latin, have

here so grossly false a reading, Antiochus and Antonius

or Antonius Pius, for Antiochus Pius, that the editors are

forced to correct the text from the other historians: who

all agree that this king's name was nothing more than

Antiochus Pius.

** These two brothers, Antiochus and Philippus, are

called twins by Porphyry: the fourth brother was king

of Damascus. Both which are the observations of Span

heim.

tt Or Laodicea of Gilead.

JJ This Laodicea was a city of Gilead, beyond Jordan.

However Porphyry says, that this Antiochus Pius did not

die in this battle; but, running away, was drowned in the

river Orontes. Appian says, that he was deprived of the

kingdom of Syria by Tigranes. But Porphyry makes this

Laodice queen of the Calamans. All which is noted hy

Spanheim. In such confusion of the later historians, we

have no reason to prefer any of them before Josephus,

who had more original ones before him.

