358 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was in a great dread at this calamity; and

being in fear for his whole array, he fled with

the rest of his forces to his own kingdom,

and to his city Nineveh.* And when he had

abode there a little while, he was treache­

rously assaulted, and died by the hands of

his elder sons fAdrammeleeh and Sarasar:

and was slain in his own temple, which was

called Araske. Now these sons of his were

driven away on account of the murder of

their father by the citizens* and went into

Armenia: while Assarachoddas took the

kingdom of Sennacherib." And this proved

to be the conclusion of this Assyrian expedi­

tion against the people of Jerusalem.

CHAP. II.

as hezekiah's indisposition, the prolongation of

HIS LIFE FOR FIFTEEN YEARS, AND THE GOING BACK

OF THE SHADOW TEN DEGREES, IN CONFIRMATION OF

GOD'S PROMISE.

RING Hezekiah being thus delivered,

after a surprising manner, from the

dread he was in, offered thank-offerings to

God, with all his people: because the de­

struction of some of their enemies, and the

departure of the rest from Jerusalem, was

entirely owing to the divine assistance. Yet,

though he was very zealous and diligent

about the worship of God, he soon after fell

into a severe Jdistemper; insomuch that the

physicians despaired of him, and expected

phrase, that reconciles all the Scripture passages wherein

this terrible defeat is mentioned, and all the sentiments of

commentators concerning it. Calmet's Dissertation sur la

Defaite de l'Armee de Sennacherib. B.

* When Sennacherib was got home, after the loss of  
so great an army, he demanded of some about him, What

the reason might be, that the irresistible God of heaven so

favoured the Jewish nation? To which he was answered,

That Abraham, from whom they were descended, by sa­

crificing his only son to him, had purchased his protection

to his progeny; whereupon the king replied, If that will

win him, I will spare him two of mine to gain him'to my

side: which when his two sons, Sharezer and Adram-

melech heard, they resolved to prevent their own death

by sacrificing him. But for all this fiction there is no

other foundation, but that scarce any thing else can be

thought of, that can afford any excuse for so wicked a

parricide. Prideaux's Connection, anno 709. B.

t We are here to take notice, that these two sons of

Sennacherib, that ran away into Armenia, became the

heads of two famous families there, Arzerunii and the

Genunii; of which see the particular histories in Mo»es

Chorenensis, the Armenian historian, page 60, 92, 93.

| Josephus, and all our copies, place the sickness of

no good issue of his sickness; as neither did

his friends. And besides the distemper it­

self, there was a very melancholy circum­

stance that disordered the king, which was

the consideration that he was childless, and

was going to die, and leave his house and his

government without a successor of his own

body. So he was troubled at the thoughts

of his condition: and lamented himself, and

intreated God that he would prolong his life

for a little while, till he had some children;

and not suffer him to depart this life before

he was become a father. Hereupon God

had mercy upon him, and accepted of his

supplication; because the trouble he was

under at his supposed death, was not be­

cause he was soon to leave the advantages

he enjoyed in the kingdom, nor did he on

that account pray that he might have a

longer life afforded him; but in order to

have sons, that might receive the govern­

ment after him. And so God sent Isaiah

the prophet, and commanded him to inform

Hezekiah, that "within three days' time he

should recover from his distemper, and

should survive it fifteen years;ll and that he

should also have children." Now upon the

prophet's saying this, as God had com­

manded him, Hezekiah could hardly be­

lieve it: both on account of the distemper

he was under, which was very sore: and by

reason of the surprising nature of what was

told him; so he desired that Isaiah would

Hezekiah, after the destruction of Sennacherib's army;

because it appears to have been after his first assault, us

he was going into Arabia and Egypt; where he pushed

his conquest as far as they would go: and in order to

despatch his story altogether. Yet does no copy but

this of Josephus's say it was after that destruction; but

only that it happened in those days, or about that time of

Hezekiah's life. Nor will the fifteen years prolongation

of his life after his sickness, allow that sickness to have

been later than the former part of the fifteenth year of

his reign. Since chronology does not allow him in all

above twenty-nine years and a few months. Whereas

the first assault of Sennacherib was in the fourteenth

year of Hezekiah, 2 Kings xviii. 13. but the destruction

of Sennacherib's army was not till the eighteenth year.

There is also a promise inserted in the history of He­

zekiah's sickness, which shews it to have been after

Sennacherib's first assault, but before his army's destruc­

tion; I mean the words of the prophet Isaiah, "I wiH

deliver thee awl this city out of the hand of the king

of Assyria, and I will defend this city to save it, for my

own sake, and for my servant David's sake." 3 Kings

xx. 6. Isaiah xxxviii. 6.

8 2 Kings xx. 6,6.

