AN. 128.] 479 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

"Fanius, the son of Marcus, the praetor,

gathered the senate together, on the eighth

day before the ides of February, in the senate

house: when Lucius Manlius, the son of Lu­

cius, of the Mentine tribe, and Caius Sempro-

nius, the son of Caius, of the Falernian tribe,

were present. The occasion was that the

ambassadors sent by the *people of the Jews,

Simon the son of Dositheus, Apollonius the

son of Alexander, and Diodorus the son of

Jason, who were good and virtuous men, had

somewhat to propose about that league of

friendship and mutual assistance which sub­

sisted between them and the Romans; and

about other public affairs: who desired that

Joppa, and the havens, and Gazara, and the

springs of Jordan, and the several other cities

a nd countries of theirs, which Antiochus had

taken from them in the war, contrary to the

decree of the senate, might be restored to

them: and that it might be lawful for the

king's troops to pass through their country,

and the countries of those that are subject to

them. And that what attempts Antiochus

had made during that war, without the de­

cree of the senate, might be made void;

and that they would send ambassadors, who

should take care that restitution be made

them of what Antiochus had taken from

them; and that they should make an esti­

mate of the country that had been laid waste

in the war; and that they would grant them

letters of protection to the kings, and free

people; in order to their quiet return home.

It was therefore decreed, as to these points, to

renew their league of friendship and mutual

assistance with these good men, who were

sent by a good and a friendly people."

But as to the letters desired, their answer

was, that the senate would consult about

that matter, when their own affairs would

give them leave: and that they would en­

deavour for the time to come, that no like

injury should be done them: and that their

praetor Fanius, should give them money out

of the public treasury, to bear their ex­

penses home. And thus did Fanius dismiss

the Jewish ambassadors, and gave them

money out of the public treasury; and gave

the decree of the senate to those that were

to conduct them, and to take care that they

should return home in safety. j

And thus stood the affairs of Hyrcanus,

the high-priest. But as for king Demetrius,

who was inclined to make war against Hyr­

canus, there was no opportunity for it; while

both the Syrians, and the soldiers, bare ill

will to him, because he was an ill man. But

when they had sent ambassadors to Ptolemy

Physcon, that he would send them one of the

family of Seleucus, in order to take the king­

dom; and he had sent them Alexander, who

was called Zebina, with an army, and there

had been a battle between them, Demetrius

was defeated, and fled to Cleopatra, his wife,

to Ptolemais; but his wife would not receive

him. He went thence to Tyre, and was

there caught; and fwhen he had suffered

much from his enemies, he was slain by

them. So Alexander took the kingdom, and

made a league with Hyrcanus. Yet when

Alexander afterward fought with Antiochus,

the son of Demetrius, who was called Gry-

pus, he was also defeated and slain.!

CHAP. X.

UPON THE QUARREL BETWEEN ANTIOCHUS GRYPUS AND

ANTIOCHUS CYZICENUS RESPECTING THE KINGDOM, HYR­

CANUS TAKES AND DEMOLISHES SAMARIA; AND AFTER­

WARD JOINS HIMSELF TO THE SECT OF THE SADDUCEES.

WHEN Antiochus had taken the king­

dom, he was afraid to make war

against Judea; because he heard that his

brother by the same mother, who was also

called Antiochus, was raising an army against

him out of Cyzicum. So he stayed in his

own land; and resolved to prepare himself

for the attack he expected from his brother,

who was called Cyzicenus; because he had

been brought up in that city. He was the

son of Antiochus, called Soter, who died in

Parthia. He was the brother of Demetrius,

the father of Grypus. For it had so hap­

* In this decree of the Roman senate, it seems, that  
these ambassadors were sent from the people of the

Jews, as well as from their prince or high-priest, John

Hyrcanus.

"f This clause, that Demetrius suffered much from his

enemies before his death, is noted here by Dr. Hudson to

<b"sagree with the accounts of Trogus Pompeius in Justin;

and with Porphyry. Whether Josephus or those authors

were here imposed upon cannot now be determined. But

if this were a part of the Chronicles of John Hyrcanus, a

most authentic and contemporary record, as it seems to

be, there is no doubt but Josephus's account ought to be

preferred.

J An. 122.

