an. 1492.] 143 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When he had pitched his camp, the spies*

came to him immediately, well acquainted

with the whole state of the Canaanites. For

at first, hefore they were all discovered, they

took a full view of the city of Jericho without

disturbance, and saw which parts of the walls

were strong, and which parts were insecure,

and which of the gates were so weak as might

afford an entrance to their army. Now those

that met them took no notice of them when

they saw them, and supposed they were only

strangers, who used to be very curious in ob­

serving every thing in the city, and did not

take them for .enemies. At even they retired

to a certain inn that was near the wall,

whither they went to eat their supper, but

when they had finished their repast, and were

considering how to get away, information was

given the king, that there were some persons

come from the Hebrews' camp to view the

city, as spies; and that they were in the inn

kept by Rahab, and were very solicitous that

they might not be discovered. So he sent

immediately and commanded to catch them,

and bring them to him that he might examine

them by torture, and learn what their business

was there. As soon as Rahab understood that

these messengers were coming, she hid the

spies under stalks of flax, which were laid to

dry on the top of her house, and said to the

messengers that were sent by the king, that

certain unknown strangers had supped with

her, a little before sun-setting, and were gone

away; who might easily be taken, if they

were any terror to the city, or likely to bring

any danger to the king. So these messengers

being thusf deluded by the woman, and sus­

pecting no imposition, went their ways, with­

out so much as searching the inn; but they

immediately pursued them along those roads

which they most probably supposed them to

have gone, and those particularly which led

to the river; but could hear no tidings of

them, so they left off any farther pursuit. But

when the tumult was over, Rahab brought

the men down, and desired them, as soon as

they should have obtained possession of the

land of Canaan, when it would be in their

power to make her amends for her preserva­

tion of them, to remember what danger she

had undergone for their sakes; for, that if

she had been caught concealing them, she

could not have escaped a terrible destruc­

tion, she and all her family; and so bid them

go home, and desired them to swear to her,

to preserve her and her family when they

should take the city, and destroy all its in­

habitants, as they had resolved to do. For

* The eastern writers tell us, that these spies (whom  
they make to be Caleb and Phineas) were valiant and re­

ligious men, and in the prime of their youth; that to pass

unobserved, they changed their habits, as if they had

come from a distant country; and if any one asked them

any questions, their reply was to this effect: "We are

people from the east, and our companions have heard of

this powerful people, who were forty years in the wilder­

ness, without either guide or provision; and it was re­

ported to us, that they had a God whom they called tlie

Kins, of- Heaven and earth, and who (as they say) hath

given them both your and our country. Our principals

have therefore sent us to find out the truth hereof, and to

report it to them.—We have likewise heard of their cap­

tain, whom they call Joshua, the son of Nun, who put the

Amalekiteslo flight, who destroyed Sihon and Og, the

kings of Mmian and Moab. Woe therefore be to us, and

you, and all that flee to us for shelter! They are a people

who pity none, leave none alive, drive all out of their

country, and make peace with none. We are all accounted

by them infidels, profane, proud, and rebellious. Who­

ever of us or you, therefore, that intend to take care of

themselves, let them take their families, and be gone, lest

they repent of their stay, when it is too late." By this

means they imposed upon the people; and, as Josephus

informs us, went whither they would, and saw whatever

they had a mind to, without any stop or question. They

took a view of the wills, the gates, the ramparts, and

passed the whole day for men of curiosity only, without

any design. So that if any credit may be given to this ac­

count, it was but just that they who thus imposed upon the

Canaanites should, in the same manner, be imposed upon

by the Gibeonites. Chronicon Samaritanum Jtrabice scrip-

turn, page 65. B.

t It plainly appears by the history of these spies, and

the innkeeper Rahab's deception of the king of Jericho's

messengers, by telling them what was false, in order to

save tlie lives of the spies, and yet the great commendation

of her faith and good works in the New Testament, Heb.

xi. 32. Jam. ii. 25. as well as by many other parallel ex­

amples both in the Old Testament, and in Josephus, that

the best men did not then scruple to deceive those public

enemies, who might justly be destroyed; as also to de­

ceive ill men, in order to save life, and deliver themselves

from the tyranny of their unjust oppressors; and this by

telling direct falsehoods. I mean all this where no oath'

was demanded of them; otherwise they never durst ven­

ture on such a procedure. Nor was Josephus himself of

any other opinion or practice; as I shall remark in the

note on Antiq. IX. 4, 3. And observe, that I still call this

woman Rahab an innkeeper not a harlot; the whole his­

tory, both in our other copies, and especially in Josephus,

implying no more. It was indeed so frequent a thing that

women, who were innkeepers, were also harlots, or main-

tainers of harlots, that the word commonly used for real

harlots was usually given them. See Dr. Bernard's note

here, and Judg. xi. 1. and Josephus, Antiq. V, 7.

