AN. 31.] 549 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

delay, he should by it have his camp fortified.

And as the Arabians had the same intentions

upon that place, a contest arose about it. At

first they were but skirmishes; but afterwards

there came more soldiers, and it proved a

sort of engagement, and some fell on both

sides; till those of the Arabian side were

beaten and retreated. This was no small

encouragement to the Jews: and when Herod

observed that the enemy's army were dis­

posed to any thing rather than to come to an

engagement, he ventured boldly to attempt

the bulwark itself, and to pull it to pieces;

and so to get nearer to their camp, in order

to fight them. For when they were forced

out of their trenches, they went out in dis­

order, and had not the least alacrity, or hope

of victory. Yet did they fight hand to hand;

because they were more numerous than the

Jews; and because they were in such a dis­

position of war, that they were under a ne­

cessity of coming on boldly. So they came

to a terrible battle; while not a few fell on

each side. However, at length the Arabians

fled; and so great a slaughter was made upon

their being routed, that they were not only

killed by their enemies, but became the au­

thors of their own deaths also; and were

trodden down by the multitude, and the

great current of people in disorder; and

were destroyed by their own armour. So

five thousand men lay dead upon the spot,

while the rest of the multitude soon ran

within the bulwark for safety; but had no

firm hope of safety, by reason of their want

of necessaries, and especially of water. The

Jews pursued them, but could not get in with

them; but sat round about the bulwark, and

watched any assistance that would get in to

them; and prevented any, that had a mind to

it, from running away.

When the Arabians were in these circum­

stances, they sent ambassadors to Herod; in

the first place to propose terms of accommo­

dation, and after that to offer him, (so press­

ing was their thirst upon them,) to undergo

whatsoever he pleased, if he would free them

from their present distress. But he would

admit of no ambassadors, of no price of re­

demption, nor of any other moderate terms

whatever; being very desirous to revenge

those unjust actions which they had been

guilty of towards his nation. So they were

necessitated by other motives, and particu­

larly by their thirst, to come out, and deliver

themselves up to him, to be carried away

captives. And in five days' time the number

of four thousand were taken prisoners: while

all the rest resolved to make a sally upon

their enemies, and to fight it out with them:

choosing rather, if so it must be, to die

therein, than to perish gradually and inglo-

riously. When they had taken this resolu­

tion, they came out of their trenches; but

were unable to sustain the fight; being too

much debilitated both in mind and body; and

having not room to exert themselves; and

thought it an advantage to be killed, and a

misery to survive. So at the first onset there

fell about seven thousand of them. After

which stroke, they let all the courage they

had put on before fall; and stood amazed at

Herod's warlike spirit under his own cala­

mities. So, for the future, they yielded, and

made him ruler of their nation. He was

greatly elevated at so seasonable a success;

and returned home, taking great authority

upon him, on account of his bold and glorious

expedition

CHAP. VI.

HEROD CAUSES HYRCANUS TO BE PUT TO DEATH; AND

OBTAINS THE CONFIRMATION OF HIS OWN DIGNITY FROM

OCTAVIUS CESAR, WHOM HE ENTERTAINED IN A SUMP­

TUOUS MANNER.

HEROD's other affairs were now very

prosperous; and he was not to be easily

assaulted on any side. Yet did there come

upon him a danger that would hazard his en­

tire dominions, after Antony had been beaten

at the battle of Actium by Octavius Caesar.*

* Antony had provoked Octavinnus against him, by the  
wrong done to Octavia his sister, whom Antony had mar­

ried, and yet divorced her for the gratification of his

adulterous love to Cleopatra, though Octavia was much

the handsomer of the two. Antony had likewise given

out, that Cleopatra had been married to Julius Caesar, and

that Caesanon, whom she had by him, was his lawful son,

and consequently had the proper right to the inheritance,

which Octavianus held only as his adopted son. These

things were objected against Antony; and Antony, by

his agents and letters, was not forgetful to recriminate.

But these things were no more than pretences: the

true reason of their disagreement was, that both these

two great men, being not contented with half of the

4 Q2

