222 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS.

of what had happened. But when he had

recovered from his grief, and had raised up

his mind to God, he desired the high-priest

Abiathar to put on his sacerdotal garments,

and to inquire of God, and to prophesy to

him, whether God would grant, that if he

pursued after the Amalekites, he should over­

take them, and save their wives and their

children, and avenge himself on the enemies?

and when the high-priest bade him pursue

after them, he marched apace, with four hun­

dred men, after the enemy. And when he

was come to a certain brook called Besor,

and had met with* an Egyptian, who was

almost dead with want and famine; (for he

had continued wandering about without food,

in the wilderness three days;) he first of all

gave him refreshments, and then asked to

whom he belonged, and whence he came?

The man told him, he was an Egyptian by

birth, and was left behind by his master, be­

cause he was so sick and weak that he could

not follow him. He also informed him, that

he was one of those that had burnt and plun­

dered not only other parts of Judea, but

Ziklag also. So David made use of him as a

guide, to find out the Amalekites; and when

he had overtaken them, as they lay scattered

about on the ground, some at dinner, some

disordered and inebriated with wine; and in

their fruition of the spoils and their prey, he

fell upon them on the sudden, and made a

great slaughter. For they were naked, and

expected no such thing; but had betaken

themselves to drinking and feasting; and so

they were all easily destroyed. Now some

of them that were overtaken as they lay at

the table, were slain in that posture. Others

of them were slain as they were drinking to

one another, in their cups; and some of them

when their satiety had made them fall asleep.

And for so many as had time to put on all

their armour, they slew them with the sword

with no less ease than they did those that

were naked. And for the partizans of David,

they continued also the slaughter from the

first hour of the day to the evening, so that

there was not above four hundred of the

Amalekites left, and they only escaped by

getting upon their dromedaries and camels.

Accordingly David recovered not only all the

* 1 Sam. xxx. 1

other spoils which the enemy had carried

away; but his wives also, and the wives of his

companions. But when they were come to

the place where they had left the two hun­

dred men, who were not able to follow them,

but were left to take care of the stuff; the

four hundred men did not think fit to divide

among them any other parts of what they

had gotten, or of the prey, since they did not

accompany them; but pretended to be feeble,

and did not follow them in the pursuit of the

enemy; but said, they should be contented

to have safely recovered their wives. Yet

did David pronounce, that this opinion of

theirs was evil and unjust, and that when God

had granted them such a favour, that they

had avenged themselves on their enemies,

and had recovered all that belonged to them­

selves, they should make an equal distribu­

tion of what they had gotten to all, because

the rest had tarried behind to guard their

stuff! And from that time this law obtained

among them;—that those who guarded the

stuff} should receive an equal share with those

that fought in the battle.f Now when David

was come to Ziklag, he sent portions of the

spoils to all that had been familiar with him,

and to his friends, in the tribe of Judah. And

thus ended the affairs of the plundering of

Ziklag, and of the slaughter of the Amalekites.

Now upon the Philistines joining battle,

there followed a sharp engagement, and the

Philistines became the conquerors, and slew

a great number of their enemies. But Saul

the king of Israel, and his sons, fought coura­

geously, and with the utmost alacrity; as

knowing that their entire glory lay in nothing

else but dying honourably; and exposing

themselves to the utmost danger from the

enemy; for they had nothing else to hope for.

So they brought upon themselves the whole

power of the enemy till they were encom­

passed round and slain, but not before they

had killed many of the Philistines. Now the

sons of Saul were Jonathan, Abinadab, and

Malchishua. And when these were slain, the

multitude of the Hebrews were put to flight;

and all was disorder, confusion, and slaughter,

upon the Philistines pressing in upon them.

But Saul himself fled, having a strong body

"of soldiers about him; and upon the Philis-

t 1 Sam: xxx. 25.

