THE

AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

THOSE* who undertake to write histories, do not, I perceive, take that trouble
on one

and the same account; but for many and various reasons. For some apply
themselves

to this part of learning to shew their great skill in composition; and that
they may therein

acquire a reputation. Others write histories in order to gratify those who
happen to be

concerned in them; and on that account spare no pains, but rather exceed their
own abilities,

in the performance. But there are others who of necessity are driven to write
history, be­

cause they were concerned in the facts, and so cannot excuse themselves from
committing

them to writing, for the advantage of posterity. Nay, there are not a few who
are induced

to draw their historical facts out of darkness into light, and to produce them
for the benefit

of the public, on account of the great importance of the facts themselves,
with which they

had been concerned. Now of these several reasons for writing history, I must
profess the two

last were my own. For since I was myself interested in that war which we Jews
had with

the Romans, and knew myself its particular actions and conclusion, I was
forced to give the

history of it, because I saw that others perverted the truth of those actions
in their writings.

Now I have undertaken the present work, as thinking it will appear to all the
Greeksf

worthy of their study: for it will contain all our antiquities, and the
constitution of our

government, as interpreted out of the Hebrew J scriptures. And indeed, I did
formerly

intend when I§ wrote of the war, to explain who the Jews originally were; what
fortunes they

had been subject to; and by what legislator they had been instructed in piety
and the exer­

cise of other virtue; what wars they also had made in remote ages, till they
were unwillingly

engaged in this last with the Romans. But because this work would take up a
great compass,

* This preface of Josephus's is excellent in its kind, and highly worthy the repeated perusal of the reader, before  
he set about the perusal of the work itself.

t That is all the Gentiles, both Greeks, and Romans.

X Josephus never followed the Septuagint, nor any other Greek version, in
these his Antiquities, or other works,

but only the Hebrew original; and this so punctually through all his known
writings, as to make use of none of the

sacred books but those that were written in Hebrew, and belonging to the
Jerusalem catalogue.

§ Josephus wrote his seven books of the Jewish War, long before he wrote his
Antiquities. Those books of the

War were published about A. D. 75, and these Antiquities A. D. 93, about
eighteen years later. See Fabriciui apud

Havercamp, page 58, 59.

voL. I.—No. I. C

