290 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

it is *called by at this day among the Syrians;

but the Greeks name it Palmyra.

Now Solomon the king was at this time

engaged in building these cities. But if any

inquire why all the kings of Egypt, from

Menes, who built Memphis, and was many

years earlier than our forefather Abraham,

until Solomon, where the interval was more

than one thousand three hundred years, were

called Pharaohs, and took it from one Pharaoh

that lived after the kings of that interval? I

think it necessary to inform them of it: and

this in order to cure their ignorance, and to

make the occasion of that name manifest.

Pharaoh in the Egyptian tongue signifies fa

king. But I suppose they made use of other

names from their childhood: but when they

were made kings, they changed them into the

name which in their own tongue denoted their

authority. For thus it was also that the kings

of Alexandria, who were called formerly by

other names when they took the kingdom,

were named Ptolemies, from their first king.

The Roman emperors also were from their

nativity called by other names, but are styled

Caesars: their empire and their dignity im­

posing that name upon them, and not suf­

fering them to continue those names which

their fathers gave them. I suppose also that

Herodotus of Halicarnassus, when he said

there were Jthree hundred and thirty kings

of Egypt after Menes, who built Memphis,

did therefore not tell us their names, because

they were in common called Pharaohs. For

when after death there was a queen reigned,

he calls her by her name, ||Nicaule: as thereby

declaring, that while the kings were of the

male line, and so admitted of the same name,

while a woman did not admit the same, he

therefore set down that her name, which she

could not naturally have. As for myself, I

have discovered from our own books, that

after Pharaoh the father-in-law of Solomon,

no other king of Egypt did any longer use

that name; and that it was after that time

when the queen of Egypt and Ethiopia came

to Solomon, concerning whom we shall inform

the reader presently. But I have now made

mention of these things, that I may prove that

our books, and those of the Egyptians, agree

together in many things.

King Solomon subdued to himself the rem­

nant of the Canaanites, that had not befo re

submitted to him; those I mean that dwelt

in mount Lebanon, and as far as the city Ha-

math, and ordered them to pay tribute. He

also chose out of them every year such as

were to serve him in the meanest offices,

and to do his domestic works, and to follow

husbandry. For none of the Hebrews were

thing as a well or fountain, but in this spot only, to be

found. If we may guess by the ruins, which later tra­

vellers give us the description of, this city was certainly

one of the finest and most magnificent in the east; and it

is somewhat surprising, that history should give us no

account, either when or by whom it was reduced to the

sad condition wherein it lies at this day. But the true

reason for his building this town in so desolate a place

was the commodiousness of its situation, to cut off all

commerce between the Syrians and Mesopotamians, and

to prevent their caballing and conspiring together against

him, as they had done against his father David. Le Clerc's

Commentary. If the reader is desirous to know the pre­

sent state of this ruinated city, he may find it related in

the Philosophical Transactions, for October, 1C95, in a

letter from Dr. Halifax to Dr. Bernard; or in Well's

Geography of the Old Testament, vol. iii. who has bor­

rowed it from thence. B.

* It is a well known and very true observation of Am-  
raianus Marcellinus, near the beginning of his XlVth

book; that the Greek and Roman names of places were

never among the natives of Syria; which is the reason

why most places retain their adopted original names" at

this day. This is in effect the note of Mr. Mnundrell,

page 53, and is perfectly agreeable to Josephus's observa­

tion here. We have an account of the wonderful remains

of this Tadmor or Palmyra, in our Philosophical Transac­

tions, No. 318, to which I refer the reader.

t This signification of the name of Pharaoh appears to

be true. And Mr. Reland himself says, "Piouro, in the

Coptic tongue, is a king; which the Greeks would pro­

nounce *afaw." What Josephus adds presently, that

in his copy, no king of Egypt was called Pharaoh after

Solomon's father-in-law, does hardly agree with our

copies; which have long afterwards the names of Pha­

raoh Necho, and Pharaoh Hophrn, 2 Kings xxiii. 29.

Jer. xliv. 30. besides the frequent mention of that name in

the Prophets. However, Josephus in his own speech to

the Jews, Of the War, V. 9. speaks of Nechao, who was

also called Pharaoh; as the name of that king of Egypt

with whom Abraham was concerned; of which name

Nechao yet we have elsewhere no mention, till the

days of Josiah, but only of Pharaoh. And indeed it

must be confessed that in this chapter we have more

mistakes made by Josephus, and those relating to the

kings of Egypt, and to that Queen of Egypt and Ethiopia,

whom he supposes to have come to see Solomon, than

almost any where else in all his Antiquities, and which

are particularly taken notice of by Bochart in his Phaleg.

II. 26, of the occasions of which mistakes I c»n give DO

account.

% Of these 330 kings of Egypt, and that they were in

great measure collateral and not successive, see my Chro­

nological Table.

II Perhaps Nitocris.

