An. 916.] 309 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

his son Jehoshaphat* succeeded him in the

government . He was born of Asa's wife

Azubah. And all men allowed that he fol­

lowed the works of David his forefather, and

this both in courage and piety. But we are

not obliged now to speak any more of the

affairs of this king.

CHAP. XIII.

OF THE IMPIETY OF AHAB KING OF ISRAEL; THE ACTIONS OF

THE PROPHET ELIJAH; AND THE MURDER OF NABOTH.

AHAB, the king of Israel, dwelt in Sa­

maria, and held the government for

twenty-two years; and made no alteration in

the conduct of the kings that were his pre­

decessors, but only in such things as were of

his own invention for the worse, and in his

most gross wickedness. He imitated them in

their wicked courses, and in their injurious

behaviour towards God; and most especially

he imitated the transgression of Jeroboam.

For he worshipped the heifers that he had

Egyptians the usage of burning many spices at their fune

rals, as we find they did at the funeral of Zedekiah king of

Judah, Jer. xxxiv. 5. but notwithstanding this, some very

able commentators are of opinion, that all these spices and

perfumes were burnt along with Asa's body; and they

remark, that among his other offences, the sacred history

takes no notice of this vanity of his, in ordering his body

to be disposed of according to the manner of the Gentiles,

and not of his own people. Though therefore they sup­

pose that Asa was the first who introduced this custom;

yet, in after ages, it became very frequent, and was

thought the more honourable ceremony of the two,

2 Chron. xxi. 19. Ibid. xvi. 14. Amos vi. 10. Patrick's

and CalmeCs Commentaries on 2 Chron. xvi. 14. B.

* An. 916.  
\ About an. 910.

J Thesbe was a town on the other side of Jordan, in

the tribe of Gad, and in the land of Gilead, where this

prophet was born, or at least inhabited for some time.

Since the Scripture makes no mention either of the quality

of bis parents, the manner of his education, or his call to

the prophetic office, some Jewish doctors have been of

opinion that he was an angel sent from heaven, in the

midst of the general corruption of the world, to preserve

the true worship of God. Others pretend, that he was a

priest descended from the tribe of Aaron; that his father's

name was Sabaca, and his birth altogether miraculous:

whilst others again will needs have it, that he was Phineas,

the son of Aaron, who, after having lived a long while

concealed, appeared again in the world under the name of

Elijah. But where the Scripture is silent, all particulars

of this kind are of small authority. This, however, may

be said with safety of him, that he was one of the chief,

if not the prince of the prophets of his age; a man of great

and elevated soul, of a generous and undaunted spirit, a

zealous defender of the cause of God, and a just avenger

of the violation of his honour. Calmefs Commentary. B.

made; and he contrived other absurd objects

of worship. He also married Jezebel, the

daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Tynans and

Sidonians; of whom he learnt to worship her

own gods. This woman was active and bold;

and fell into so great a degree of impurity

and madness, that she built a temple to the

god of the Tyrians, which they call Belus,

and planted a grove of all sorts of trees; she

also appointed priests and false prophets to

this god. The king also himself had many

such about him; and so exceeded in madness

and wickedness all the kings that went be­

fore him.

Now there was a prophett of God, of

Thesbon,J a country in Gilead, that came to

Ahab, and said to him, that God foretold, he

would not send rain nor dew in those years

upon the country,|| but when he should ap­

pear^ And when he had confirmed this by

an oath, he departed into the southern parts,

and made his abode by a brook, out of which

he had water to drink; as for his food, ravens

II St. James's words are these:—Elias was a man sub­

ject to the like passions as we are; and he prayed earnestly,

that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth for the

space of three years and six months. Our blessed Saviour

makes mention of the like compass of time, Luke iv. 25.

and yet neither of these are contradictory to what the

sacred history tells us, viz. That the word of the Lord

came to Elijah in the third year, 1 Kings xviii. 1. For

we must remember, that as Egypt had usually no rain, but

was watered by the river Nile; so the land of Canaan had

generally none, except twice a year, which they called

the early and latter rain. The former of these was in the

month Nisan, which answers to our March; and the other

in the month Marheshvan, which answers to our October.

Now, at the beginning of the drought, Ahab might very

probably impute the want of rain to natural causes; but

when, after six months, neither the former nor the latter

rain fell in their season, he then began to be enraged at

Elijah, as the cause of the national judgment, and forced

him, at God's, command, to save his life by flight; and

from that time the three years in the historian are to be

computed, though from the first notice which Elijah gave

Ahab of this approaching calamity, to the expiration of it,

were certainly three years and a half. This calamity is

said to have been procured by Elijah's prayers: but we

must not therefore imagine that his prayers were spiteful

and malicious, but necessary rather, and charitable to the

offenders; that by the sharp and long affliction which they

produced, God's honour, and the truth of his word and

threatonings (which was now universally contemned)

might be vindicated; and that the Israelites (whose pre­

sent impunity hardened them in their idolatry) might

hereby be awakened to see their wickedness, their de­

pendence upon God, and the necessity of their returning

to his religion and worship. Bedford's Scripture Chro­

nology, lib. vi. c. 2. and Pool's Annotations. B.

§ 1 Kings xvii. 1.

312

