AN. 153.] 457 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

dea, wrote to all his friends, both Jews and

auxiliaries, that they should seize upon Jona­

than, and bring him to him. But when, upon

all their endeavours, they were not able to

seize upon Jonathan, (for he was sensible of

the snares they laid for him, and very care­

fully guarded against them,) Bacchides was

angry at these deserters as having imposed

upon him, and upon the king, and slew fifty

of their leaders. Thereupon Jonathan, with

his brother, and those that were with him,

retired to Bethagla, a village that lay in the

wilderness, out of his fear of Bacchides. He

also built towers in it, and encompassed it

with walls, and took care that it should be

safely guarded. Upon the hearing of which,

Bacchides led his own army along with him,

and besides took his Jewish auxiliaries, and

came against Jonathan, and made an assault

upon his fortifications, and besieged him

many days. But Jonathan did not abate of

his courage at the zeal Bacchides shewed in

the siege, but courageously opposed him.

And while he left his brother Simon in the

city, to fight with Bacchides, he went pri­

vately out into the country, and got a great

body of men together of his own party, and

fell upon Bacchides's camp in the night time,

and destroyed a great many of them. His

brother Simon knew also of his falling upon

them; because he perceived that the ene­

mies were slain by him: so he sallied out

upon them, and burnt the engines which the

Macedonians used, and made a great slaugh­

ter of them. And when Bacchides saw him­

self encompassed with enemies, he fell into

despair, as confounded at the unexpected ill

success of this siege. However, he vented

his displeasure at these misfortunes upon

those deserters who sent for him from the

king; as having deluded him. So he had a

mind to finish this siege after a decent man­

ner, if it were possible for him so to do, and

then to return home.

* 1 Macc. ix. 72.

t This Alexander Bala, who certainly pretended to be

the son of Antiochus Epiphanes, and was owned as such

by the Jews, and Romans, and many others, and yet is by

several historians deemed to be an impostor; is, however,

by Josephus, believed to have been the real son of that

Antiochus; and by him always spoken of accordingly.

And truly since the original contemporary and authentic

author of the first book of Maccabees x. 1. calls him by

his father's name, Epiphanes; and says he was the son of

When Jonathan understood his intentions,

he sent ambassadors to him about a league

of friendship, and mutual assistance; and

that they might restore those whom they had

taken captive on both sides. So Bacchides

thought this a decent way of retiring home;

and made a league of friendship with Jona­

than; by which it was mutually agreed that

they would not any more make war one

against another. Accordingly he restored the

captives, and took his own men with him, and

returned to the king to Antioch. And after

this departure he never came into Judea

again.* Then did Jonathan take the oppor­

tunity of this quiet state of things, and went

and lived in the city Michmash; and there

governed the multitude, and punished the

wicked; and by that means purged the na­

tion of them.

CHAP. II.

OF THE ADVANTAGES GRANTED TO JONATHAN, FIRST BY

DEMETRIUS, AND AFTERWARDS BY ALEXANDER BALA, IN

ORDER TO OBTAIN HIS ASSISTANCE; AND OF THE DEATH

OF DEMETRIUS.

NOW in the hundred and sixtieth year,

Alexander, the tson of Antiochus Epi­

phanes, came up into Syria, and took Ptole-

mais 4 the soldiers within having betrayed it

to him. For they were at enmity with De­

metrius, on account of his insolence and dif­

ficulty of access. For he shut himself up in

a palace that had four towers; which he had

built himself not far from Antioch, and ad­

mitted nobody. He was also slothful, and

negligent about the public affairs: which

rendered him odious to his subjects. When

therefore Demetrius heard that Alexander

was in Ptolemais, he took his whole army,

and led it against him: he also sent ambas­

sadors to Jonathan, about a league of mutual

assistance and friendship. For he resolved

to be beforehand with Alexander: lest the

Antiochus, I suppose the other writers, who are all much

later, are not to be followed against such evidence, though

perhaps Epiphanes might have him by a woman of no fami­

ly . The king of Egypt also, Philometor, soon gave him his

daughter in marriage: which he would hardly have done

had he believed him to be a counterfeit, and of so mean a

birth as the historians pretend. He is also called Biovarup,

one of a divine lineage in the coins: as Spanheim assures.

us. Nor does any original evidence appear against it.

% 1 Macc. x. 1.

