58 [book n ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

for thyself, to preserve even those that would

have nobody to lament them when they were

dead; but we would have yielded ourselves

up to suffer whatsoever thou pleasedst. But

now, (for we do not plead for mercy to our­

selves, though indeed, if we die, it will be

while we are young, and before we have had

the enjoyment of life,) have regard to our

father, and take pity on his old age; on whose

account it is that we make these supplications.

We beg thou wilt give us those lives, which

this wickedness of ours has rendered obnox­

ious to thy punishment; and this for his sake

who is not himself wicked; nor does his being

our father make us wicked. He is a good

man, and not worthy to have such trials of his

patience; now we are absent he is afflicted

with care for us. But if he hear of our deaths,

and what was the cause of it, he will on that

account die an immature death: and the re­

proachful manner of our ruin will hasten his

end, and will directly kill him; nay, will bring

him to a miserable death, while he will make

haste to rid himself out of the world, and bring

himself to a state of insensibility, before the

sad story of our end come abroad into the

rest of the world.

"Consider things in this manner, although

our wickedness does now provoke thee, with

a just desire of punishing that wickedness;

and forgive it for our father's sake; and let

thy commiseration of him weigh more with

thee, than our wickedness. Have regard to

the old age of our father, who, if we perish,

will be very lonely while he lives; and will

soon die himself also. Grant this boon to the

name of father, for thereby thou wilt honour

him that begat thee, and wilt grant it to thy­

self also, who enjoyest already that denomi­

nation; thou wilt then, by that denomination,

be preserved of God the father of all; by

shewing a pious regard to which in the case

of our father, thou wilt appear to honour him

who is styled by the same name. I mean if

thou wilt have this pity on our father, upon

the consideration how miserable he will be if

he be deprived of his sons. It is thy part,

therefore, to bestow on us what God has given

us, when it is in thy power to take it away;

and so to resemble him intirely in charity.

For it is good to use that power which can

* In all this speech of Judas's we may observe, that  
Josephus supposed death to have been the punishment of

neither give nor take away, on the merciful

side, and when it is in thy power to destroy,

to forget that thou ever hadst that power, and

to look on thyself as only allowed power for

preservation; and that the more any one ex­

tends this power, the greater reputation does

he gain to himself. Now by forgiving our

brother what he has unhappily committed,

thou wilt preserve us all. For we cannot

think of living if he be put to death; since we

dare not shew ourselves alive to our father

without our brother. But here must we par­

take of one and the same catastrophe. And

so far we beg of thee, O governor, that if thou

condemnest our brother to die, thou wilt

punish us together with him, as partakers of

his crime; for we shall not think it reasonable

to be reserved to kill ourselves for grief of

our brother's death, but so to die rather as

equally guilty with him of this crime. I will

only leave with thee this one consideration,

and then will say no more, viz. that our bro­

ther committed his fault when he was young,

and not yet of confirmed wisdom in his con­

duct; and that men naturally forgive such

young persons. And I end here, without

adding what more I have to say, that in case

thou condemnest us, that omission may be

supposed to have hurt us, and permitted thee

to take the severer side. But in case thou

settest us free, that this may be ascribed to

thy own goodness; of which thou art inwardly

conscious, that thou freest us from condem­

nation; and that not by barely preserving us,

but by granting us such a favour as will make

us appear more righteous than we really are:

and by representing to thyself more motives

for our deliverance than we are able to pro­

duce ourselves. If, therefore, thou resolvest

to slay him, I desire thou wilt slay me in his

stead, and send him back to his father, or if

thou pleasest to retain him with thee as a

slave, I am fitter to labour for thy advantage

in that capacity, and as thou seest, am better

Prepared for either of those sufferings."* So

udas being very willing to undergo any

thing for the deliverance of his brother, cast

himself clown at Joseph's feet, and earnestly

laboured to assuage and pacify his anger. All

his brethren also fell down before him, weep­

ing and delivering themselves up for destruc-

theft in Egypt, in the days of Joseph; though it never wag

so among the Jews, by the law of Moses.

