158 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS,

they suffered themselves to be overcome by

their pleasure, and so offend against their

laws; they despised his righteous admonition,

and laughed him to scorn; they also threat­

ened to kill him, if he became an obstacle to

their inclinations. Whereupon, when he

found himself in great distress, and yet was

not willing to overlook his guests, and see

them abused, he produced his own daughter

to them; and told them, that it was* a smaller

breach of the law to satisfy their lust upon

her, than to abuse his guests; supposing that

he should by this means prevent an injury

from being done to those guests. When they

no way abated of their earnestness for the

strange woman, but insisted absolutely on

their desires to have her, he intreated them

not to perpetrate any such act of injustice:

but they proceeded to take her away by

force; and indulging still more the violence

of their inclinations, they took the woman

away to their house, and when they had

abused her the whole night, they let her go

about day-break. So she came to the place

where she had been entertained, under great

affliction at what had happened, and durst

not look her husband in the face for shame;

for she concluded that he would never for­

give her, for what she had done. So she fell

down, and gave up the ghost; but her hus­

band supposed his wife was only fast asleep;

and thinking nothing of a more melancholy

nature had happened, endeavoured to raise

her up, resolving to speak comfortably to her,

since she did not voluntarily expose herself

to those men's lust, but was forced away to

their house. But as soon as he perceived

that she was dead, he acted as prudently as

the greatness of the misfortune would admit;

and laid his dead wife upon the beast, and

carried her home. Then cuttingt her limb by

limb into twelve pieces, he sent them to every

. . __

* See Gen. xix. 8.

t Interpreters say but little concerning the real views

of the Levite in this transaction; they merely intimate,

that it was done to excite a general indignation against the

authors of the injury he had sustained. His motives cer­

tainly were good and regular. He intended to unite the

whole nation in vengeance against a crime, in which it was

interested; but as they might be checked in the extent of

the punishment by the number, the credit, and the power,

of the offenders; by the natural commiseration which is

felt for those who are of the same blood; or by an aver­

sion to involve a city in destruction; he sought and seized

a method which put them to the indispensable necessity of

espousing his cause. The only part which he had to take

w\s, to cut in pieces the body of his wife, which he did, or

else that of an ox, or other like animal, which had been

either devoted or offered in sacrifice, and to send a part of

it to each tribe. In consequence of this, every tribe en­

tered into an indissoluble engagement to see justice done

him for the injury he had received. This is what the in­

terpreters of scripture seem not to have known, and which

it is necessary to explain.

The ancients had several ways of uniting themselves

together by strict ties, which lasted for a stipulated time,

amongst these may be noticed the sacrifice of Abraham,

the circumstances of which are mentioned, Gen. xvi. 9.

kc. Another method was to take a bullock offered or de­

voted in sacrifice, cut it into pieces, and distribute it. All

who had a piece of this devoted bullock were thencefor­

ward connected, and were to concur in carrying on the

affair which had given occasion for the sacrifice. But as

this devoting and dividing was variously practised, it also

produced different engagements. If he who was at the

expense of the sacrifice were a public person, or in high

office, he sent of his own accord a piece of the victim to

all who were subject to him; and by this act obliged them

to enter into his views. If the sacrifice were offered by

a private person, those only who voluntarily took a piece

of the sacrifice entered into a strict engagement to espouse

his interest. Connections of this kind derived their force,

from the deities, in honour of which the sacrifice was

offered; from the true God, when made by the Jews;

from idols, when made by the Gentiles. The Jews were

content to invoke and take the Lord to witness, whereas

the Pagans never failed to place upon an altar of green

turf, the deities which presided over their covenant.

These deities were called common, because they were

the common deities of all who were thus united, and re­

ceived in common the honours which they thought proper

to pay them.

A direct proof of these facts is recorded in 1 Sam. xi. 7.

"And Saul took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces,

and sent them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the

hands of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth

after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his

oxen. And the fear of the Lord fell on the people, and

they came out with one consent." Another proof is drawn

from the customs observed by the Scythians and Molos-

sians. Lucian thus speaks of what passed between these

people upon urgent occasions. "When any one had re­

ceived an injury, and had not the means of avenging him­

self, he sacrificed an ox, and cut it into pieces, which he

caused to be dressed and publicly exposed; then he spread

out the skin of the victim, and sat upon it, with his hands

tied behind him. All who chose to take part in the injury

which had been done, took up a piece of the ox, and swore

to supply and maintain for him, one five horses, another

ten, others still more; some infantry, each according to

his strength and ability. They who had only their person,

engaged to march themselves. Now an army composed

of such soldiers, far from retreating or disbanding, was in­

vincible, as it was engaged by oath."

These circumstances, compared with the account given

of the Levite's conduct, and the subsequent behaviour of

the tribes, clearly point out, that the method used by the

Levite to obtain redress was consistent with the established

usages of the times, and effected the retribution he desired

to see accomplished. B.

