an. 1582.] 69 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

maidens, and drove them away, that they

might have the command of the waters them­

selves. Moses thought it would be a terrible

reproach upon him it" he should overlook this

uujust oppression, and should suffer the vio­

lence of the men to prevail over the right of

the maidens, he therefore drove away the

men, who had a mind to more than their

share, and afforded a proper assistance to the

women, who, when they had received such a

benefit, came to their father, and told him

how they had been affronted by the shep­

herds, and assisted by a stranger, and in-

treated that he would not let this generous

action go without a reward. Now the father

took it well from his daughters that they were

so desirous to remunerate their benefactor,

and bid them bring Moses into his presence,

that he might be rewarded as he deserved.

And when Moses came, he told him what

testimony his daughters bare to him that he

had assisted them; and that, as he admired

him for his virtue, he said, that Moses had

"bestowed such assistance on persons not in­

sensible of benefits, but where they were both

able and willing to return the kindness, and

even to exceed the measure of his generosity:

so he made him his son, and gave him one of

his daughters in marriage, and appointed him

to be the guardian and superintendent over

his cattle, for of old all the wealth of the bar­

barians was in their cattle.

CHAP. XII

OF THE BURNING BUSH AND THE ROD OF MOSES.

WHEN Moses had obtained this favour

of Jethro* (for that was one of the

names of Raguel,) he stayed there, and fed

his flocks;f but some time afterward, taking

his station at the mountain called Sinai, he

drove his flocks thither to feed them. Now

this is the highest of all the mountains there­

abouts, and the best for pasturage, the herb­

age being good: and it had not been before

fed upon, because of the opinion men had that

Cod dwelt there, the shepherds not daring to

ascend up to it: and here it Was that a won­

derful prodigy appeared to Moses: for a fireJ

* Jetheajacus, in the Greek of Josephus  
} Exod. iii. 1.

fed upon a thorn bush; yet did the green

leaves and flowers remain untouched, and

the fire did not consume the fruit branches,

although the flame was great and fierce. Mo­

ses was affrighted at this strange sight; but

he was still more astonished when the fire

uttered a voice, and called to him by name,

and spake words to him; by which it signi­

fied how bold he had been in venturing to

come into a place whither no man had ever

come before, because the place was divine;

and advised him to remove a great way from

the flame, and to be contented with what he

had seen; for, though he were himself a good

man, and the offspring of great men, he should

not pry any farther; and he foretold to him

that he should have glory and honour among

men, by the blessing of God upon him. He

also commanded him to go with confidence

to Egypt, in order to his being the commander

and conductor of the body of the Hebrews,

and to his delivering his own people from the

injuries they suffered there. "For," said God,

"they shall inhabit this happy land, which

your forefather Abraham inhabited, and shall

have the enjoyment of all sorts of good things;

and thou, by thy prudence, shalt guide them

to those good things." But he still enjoined

him, when he had brought the Hebrews out

of the land of Egypt, to come to that place,

and offer sacrifice of thanksgiving there. Such

were the divine oracles which were delivered

out of the fire.

Moses was astonished at what he saw, and

much more at what he heard; and he said,

"I think it would be an instance of too great

madness, O Lord, for one of that regard I

bear to thee, to distrust thy power, since I

myself adore it, and know that it has been

made manifest to my progenitors; but I am

still in doubt how I, who am a private man,

and one of no abilities, should either persuade

my countrymen to leave the country they now

inhabit, and to follow me to a land whither 1

lead them; or, if they should be persuaded,

how can I force Pharaoh to permit them to

depart, since he augments his own wealth and

prosperity by the labours and works he puts

upon them."

But God persuaded him to be courageous

J An. 1532.

