340 [book a. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

lay his hands on; and this without interrup­

tion from Jehu, who made no haste to defend

the country, when it was under this distress.

Nay he was become a contemner of religion,

and despiser of holiness, and of the laws;

and died when he had reigned over the Is­

raelites *twenty-seven years. He was bu­

ried in Samaria, and left the government to

his son Jehoahaz.

Meanwhile Jehoash, king of Judah, had

an inclination to repair the temple of God.

So he called Jehoiada, and bade him send

the Levites and priests through all the

country to require half a shekel of silver

from every head, towards the rebuilding and

repairing of the temple, which was brought

to decay by Jehoram, and Athaliah, and her

sons. But the high-priest did not do this;

as concluding that no one would willingly

pay that money. But in the twenty-third

year of Jehoash's reign, when the king sent

for him, and the Levites, and complained

that they had not obeyed what he enjoined

them; and still commanded them to take

care of the rebuilding of the temple, he used

this stratagem for collecting the money. He

made a wooden chest, and closed it up fast

on all sides, but opened one hole in it. He

then set it in the temple, beside the altar,

and desired every one to cast into it,

through the hole what he pleased, for the

repair of the temple. This contrivance was

acceptable to the people; and they strove

one with another, and brought in jointly

large quantities of silver and gold.f And

when the scribes and the priests that were

over the treasuries, had emptied the chest,

and counted the money in the king's pre­

sence, they then set it in its former place.

And thus did they every day. But when the

multitude appeared to have cast in as much

as was wanted, the high-priest Jehoiada,

and king Joash, sent to hire masons and car­

penters: and to buy large pieces of timber,

and of the most curious sort. And when

they had repaired the temple, they made

use of the remaining gold and silver, for

bowls, basons, cups, and other vessels; and

they went on to make the altar every day

rich with sacrifices of great value.

Some time afterwards Jehoiada died when

he had lived one hundred and thirty years;

having been a righteous, and in every re­

spect a good man: and he was buried in

the king's sepulchres at Jerusalem; because

he had recovered the kingdom to the family

of David. After his death Jehoash betrayed

his want of care about God; and the prin­

cipal men of the people were corrupted

with him; and offended against their duty,

and what their constitution determined to

be most for their good. Hereupon God was

displeased with the change that was made

in the king, and in the rest of the people:

and sent prophets to testify to them what

their actions were, and to bring them to

leave off their wickedness. But they had so

violent an inclination to it, that neither could

the examples of those that had offered af­

fronts to the laws, and had been so severely

punished, they and their entire families; nor

could the fear of what the prophets now

foretold, bring them to repentance, and

turn them back from their course of trans­

gression, to their former duty. But the king

commanded that Zachariah, the son of the

high-priest Jehoiada, should be stoned to

Jdeath in the temple; and forgot the kind­

nesses he had received from his father. For

when God had appointed him to prophesy,

he stood in the midst of the multitude, and

exhorted both them and the king to act

righteously; and foretold, that if they would

not hearken to his admonitions, they should

suffer a heavy punishment. But as Zacha­

riah was ready to die, he appealed to God

as a witness of what he suffered, for the

good counsel he had given them: and how

he perished after a most severe and violent

manner, for the good deeds his father had

done to Jehoash.

However, it was not long before the king

suffered punishment for his transgression.

For when Hazael, king of Syria, made an

irruption into his country, and when he had

overthrown Gath, and spoiled it, he made an

expedition against Jerusalem. Hereupon

Jehoash was afraid, and emptied all the

treasures of God, and of the kings before

him, and took down the gifts that had been

* Twenty-eight, Hebrew and Septuagint, from an.  
885 to 857.

t 2 Kings xii. 9.

j About an. 840.

