AN. 35.] 541 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

very pleasant with the young man, and drew

him into a lonely place; and at the same time

played with him in a juvenile and ludicrous

manner. Now the nature of that place was

hotter than ordinary: so they went out in a

body, and of a sudden, and in a vein of mad­

ness; and as they stood by the fish ponds, of

which there were large ones about the house,

they went to cool themselves by bathing, be­

cause it was in the midst of a sultry day. At

first they were only spectators of Herod's ser­

vants and acquaintance, as they were swim­

ming. But after a while, the young man, at

the instigation of Herod, went into the water

among them: while such of Herod's acquaint­

ance, as he had appointed to do it, dipped

him, as he was swimming, and plunged him

under water, in the dark of the evening: as

if it had been done in sport only. Nor did

they desist till he was entirely suffocated.

And thus was Aristobulus murdered. Hav­

ing lived no more than *eighteen years; and

kept the high-priesthood one year only.

Which high-priesthood Ananelus now reco­

vered again.

When this j>ad accident was related, the joy

of Mis' women was soon changed to lamenta­

tion, at the sight of the dead body that lay

before them; and their sorrow was immode­

rate. The city of Jerusalem also, upon the

spreading of this news, were in very great

grief: every family looking on this calamity

as if it had not belonged to another, but that

one of themselves was slain. But Alexandra

was more deeply affected; upon her know­

ledge that he had been wilfully destroyed.

But she was under a necessity of bearing up

under it; out of her prospect of a greater

mischief that might otherwise follow. And

she oftentimes came to an inclination to kill

herself with her own hands. But still she re­

strained herself; in hopes she might live long

enough to revenge the unjust murder thus

privately committed. Nay she farther re­

solved to endeavour to live longer, and to

give no occasion to think she suspected that

her son was slain on purpose; and supposed

that she might be in a capacity of revenging

it, at a proper opportunity. However, Herod

endeavoured that none abroad should believe

that the child's death was caused by any de­

sign of his. And for this purpose he exhibit­

ed not only the ordinary signs of sorrow, but

even burst into tears, and seemed to evince

a real confusion of soul. And perhaps his

affections were overcome on this occasion,

when he saw the child's countenance so

young, and so beautiful: although his death

were supposed to tend to his own security.

So far at least this grief served, as to make

some apology for him. He also took care

that his funeral should be very magnificent,

by making great preparation of a sepulchre to

lay his body in; and providing a great quan­

tity of spices; and burying many ornaments

together with him: till the very women, who

were in such deep sorrow, were astonished

at it; and received in this way some conso­

lation.

None of these things, however, could

overcome Alexandra's grief; but the remem­

brance of this miserable case made her sor­

row both deep and obstinate. Accordingly

she wrote an account of this treacherous

scene to Cleopatra; and informed her by

what means her son had been murdered.

Cleopatra, as she had formerly been desi­

rous to give her what satisfaction she could,

and commiserating Alexandra's fortunes,

made the case her own; and excited An­

tony to punish the child's murder. For that

it was an unworthy thing that Herod, who

had been by him made king of a country that

no way belonged to him, should be guilty of

such horrid crimes against those that were of

the royal blood. Antony was persuaded by

these arguments. And when he came to

Laodicea, the sent and commanded Herod

to come and make his defence, as to what

he had done to Aristobulus; for that such a

treacherous design was not well done, if he

had any hand in it. Herod was now in fear,

both of the accusation, and of Cleopatra's ill

will to him: which was such, that she was

ever endeavouring to make Antony hate him.

He therefore determined to obey his sum-

place before us. In the first book Of the War, chap. 22,

he is said to be seventeen when he was made high-priest,

and soon after murdered.

* The reading of one of Josephus's Greek MSS. and of  
Zonaras, seems here to be right; that Aristobulus was

not eighteen years old when he was drowned. For he

was not seventeen when he was made high-priest, chap.

2, and he continued in that office but one year, as in the

t An. 34.

4P2

