482 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

him according to the common sentiments of

all the Pharisees:* and that this would be

made manifest if he would but ask them the

question, what punishment they thought this

man merited? For that he might depend

upon it, that the reproach was not laid on

him with their approbation; if they were for

punishing him as his crime deserved. So the

Pharisees made answer, that he deserved

stripes and bonds; but that it did not seem

right to punish reproaches with death. And

indeed -the Pharisees, even upon other occa­

sions, are not apt to be severe in punish­

ments. At this gentle sentence Hyrcanus

was very angry: and thought that this man

reproached him by their approbation. It

was this Jonathan, who chiefly irritated him,

and influenced him so far, that he made him

leave the party of the Pharisees, and abolish

the decrees they had imposed on the peo­

ple; and to punish those that observed them.

From this source arose that hatred, which

he and his sons met with from the multitude.

But of these matters we shall speak here­

after. What I would now explain is this.

that the Pharisees have delivered to the

people, a great many observances by suc­

cession from their fathers, which are not

written in the laws of Moses: and for that

reason it is, that the sect of the Sadducees

opinion, 1st, Because the Sadducees taught and prayed in

the temple, where the prophets, and other holy writers,

were read, as appears from the example of Christ, who

explained a passage out of Isaiah. 2dly, Because Jose-

phiis, who ought to have been well acquainted with the

principles of his sect, relates of them, (lib. VI. c. 9.) that

they received what was written. And, 3dly, Because the

Pharisees, in their disputes with them about the doctrine

of the resurrection, quote, not only the writings of Moses,

but those of the prophets likewise, and other hagiogra-

phers, whose authority the others do not deny, but only

endeavour to elude the force of the passages that are

hence produced against them. Upon the whole, there­

fore, Scaliger (Elench. Trihser, c. 16.) is of opinion, that

these Sadducees did not absolutely reject all the sacred

writings, but rather looked upon them as books composed

by holy men, whose memoirs they reverenced, though

they could not believe them of the like authority with

the law of Moses, which to them was the only rule of

faith. But notwithstanding this, "the account which is

j;iven us in the Gospel, (says the learned Prideaux,) of

the disputation which Christ had with the Sadducees,

plainly proves the contrary. For seeing there, are so many

texts in the prophets and hagiographa, which plainly

and directly prove a future state, and the resurrection

from the dead, no other reason can be given why Christ

waved all these proofs, and drew his argument, only by

consequence, from what is said in the law, but that he

knew, that the Sadducees, had rejected the prophets and

the hagiographa, and therefore would admit of no argu­

ments, but from the law only." Anno 107. B.

* The Pharisees were so called from the Hebrew word  
Pharas, which signifies to separate; because the prevail­

ing passion, or rather ambition, of this sect was, to dis­

tinguish and separate itself from the rest of the people,

by a greater degree of holiness and piety, but accom­

panied with very much affectation and abundance of vain

observances. Vide Lamifs Introduction, and Prideaux's

Connection. At what time this sect began first to ap­

pear, is no easy matter to determine. Josephus makes

mention of them in the government of Jonathan, a hun­

dred and forty years before Christ, as a very powerful

body of men at that time; nor is it improbable, that

their origin was somewhat earlier, and that, as soon as

the Sadducees discovered their principles to the world,

these men of different sentiments might not long after

rise up in opposition to them: for it is evident from the

character which the Jewish historian gives of them, that,

in the main articles of their belief, they were entirely

repugnant to the Sadducees. Joseph, de Bella Jvd. lib.

II. c. 12. The Pharisees believe in a fate, says he, and

attribute all things to it, but nevertheless they acknow­

ledge the freedom of man; but how they made these

two apparent incompatibles consist together, is no where

sufficiently explained. They teach, that God will one

day judge the world, and punish or reward men accord­

ing to their merits. They maintain, that souls are im­

mortal, and that, in the other world, soine will be shut up

in an eternal prison, and others sent back again; but

with this difference, that those of good men shall enter

into the bodies of men, those of wicked men into the

bodies of beasts; which exactly agrees with the famous

transmigration of Pythagoras. Their adherence to the

law was so exact, that, for fear of violating the least pre­

cept of it, they scrupulously observed every thing that

had the least relation to it, even though the law had nei­

ther commanded nor forbidden them. Their zeal for the

traditions of the elders was such, that they derived tbem

from the same fountain with the written word itself, pre­

tending, that Moses received both of them from God on

mount Sinai, and therefore ascribing an equal authority

to both. They had a notion, that good works were me­

ritorious; and therefore they invented a great number of

supererogatory ones, upon which they valued themselves

more than upon a due observance of the law itself. Their

frequent washings and ablutions, Matt. vi. 5, &c. their

long prayers in public places, Luke vii. 39. their nice

avoidance of reputed sinners, their fasting and great ab­

stinence, their penance and mortification, their minute

payment of tithes, their strict observance of the Sabbath,

and ostentatious enlargement of phylacteries, were all

works of this kind; which nevertheless gained them such

esteem and veneration, that while the common people

loved, the great ones dreaded them, so that their power

and authority in the state was considerable, though gene­

rally attended with pernicious consequences, because

their hearts were evil: for notwithstanding their shew oi

mighty zeal and great austerity, they were in reality, no

better than what our Saviour calls them, vain and osten­

tatious, spiteful and malicious, griping and voracious,

lovers of themselves only, and despisers of others; inso­

much, that it was hard to say which was most predomi­

nant in them, their insatiable avarice, their insupportable

pride, or abominable hypocrisy. B.

