an. 462.] 401 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tongue. So he went to them and asked them,

whence they came? and when their answer

was that they came from Judea, he began to

inquire of them again, in what state the mul­

titude was? and in what condition Jerusalem

was? They replied, that they were in a bad

state;* for that their walls were thrown down

to the ground: and that the neighbouring na­

tions did a great deal of mischief to the Jews;

while in the day time they over-ran the coun­

try, and pillaged it, arid in the night did them

mischief; insomuch that not a few were led

away captive out of the country, and out of

Jerusalem itself: and that the roads were, in

the day time, found full of dead men. Here­

upon Nehemiah shed tears, out of commisera­

tion of the calamities of his countrymen: and

looking up to heaven, he said, "How long,

O Lord, wilt thou overlook our nation, while

it suffers so great miseries; and while we are

made the prey and the spoil of all men?"

And while he stayed at the gate, and la­

mented thus, one told him that the king was

going to sit down to supper. So he made

haste, and went as he was, without washing

himself, to minister to the king in his office of

cup-bearer. But as the king was very plea­

sant after supper, and more cheerful than

usual, he cast his eyes on Nehemiah, and

seeing him look sad, he asked him why he

was sad? Whereupon he prayed to God to

give him favour, and afford nim the power of

persuading by his words, and said:—"How

can I, O king, appear otherwise than thus,

and not be in trouble, while I hear that the

walls of Jerusalem: the city where the sepul­

chres of my fathers are, thrown down to the

fround, and that its gates are consumed by

re? But do thou grant me the favour to go

and build its wall, and to finish the buildings

of the temple."f Accordingly the king gave

him a signal, that he freely granted him what

he asked; and told him, that he should carry

an epistle to the governors, that they might

pay him due honour, and afford him what-

* This miserable condition of the Jews, and the capi­  
tal, must have been after the death of Ezra, their former

governor, and before Nehemiah came with his commis­

sion to build the walls of Jerusalem. Nor is that at

all disagreeable to these histories in Josephus; since

Ezra came on the seventh, and Nehemiah not till the

twenty-fifth of Xerxes; at the interval of eighteen

years.

, t Nehemiah ii. 1—6.

ever assistance he wanted, and as he pleased.

"Leave off thy sorrow then," said the king,

"and be cheerful in tbs performance of thy

office hereafter." So Nehemiah worshipped

God, and gave the king thanks for his pro­

mise; and cleared up his sad and cloudy

countenance, by the pleasure he had from

the king's promises. Accordingly the king

called for him the next day, and gave him an

epistle to be carried to Adeus the governor of

Syria, and Phoenicia, and Samaria: wherein

he sent to him to pay due honour to Nehe­

miah, and to supply him with what he wanted

for his building.

Now when he was come to Babylon, and

had taken with him many of his countrymen,

who voluntarily followed him, he came to Je­

rusalem in the twenty-fifth year of the reign

of Xerxes. And when he had shewn the

epistle to God,J he gave them to Adeus, and

to the other governors. He also called to­

gether all the people to Jerusalem, and stood

in the midst oi the temple, and made the fol­

lowing speech to them. "Ye know, O Jews,

that God hath kept our fathers, Abraham,

and Isaac, and Jacob, in mind continually;

and for the sake of their righteousness hath

not left off the care of you. Indeed he hath

assisted me in granting this authority of the

king to raise up our wall, and finish what is

wanting of the temple. I desire you there­

fore, wno well know the ill will the neigh­

bouring nations bear to us, and that when

they once are made sensible that we are in

earnest about building, they will come upon

us, and contrive many ways of obstructing

our works, that you will, in the first place,

put your trust in God, as in him that will as­

sist us against their hatred; and to intermit

building neither night nor day; but to use

all diligence, and to hasten on the work, now

we have this especial opportunity for it."

When he had said this, he gave order that

the rulers should measure the wall, and part

the work of it among the people, according

J This shewing king Xerxes's epistles to God, or

laying them open before God in the temple, is very like

the laying open the epistles of Sennacherib, before him

also by Hezekiah, 2 Kings xix. 14. Isaiah xxxvii. 14.

although this last was for a memorial, to put him in mind

of the enemies, in order to move the divine compassion;

and the present, as a token of gratitude, for mercies

already received: as Havercamp well observes on thli

place.

