328 [book xrr ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

water. Insomuch that on this occasion Jo­

seph, Herod's brother, was contriving to run

away from it, with two hundred of his de­

pendents, to the Arabians. For he had heard

that Malchus repented of the offences he had

been guilty of with regard to Herod. But

God, by sending rain in the night time, pre­

vented his going away; for their cisterns

were thereby filled, and he was under no ne­

cessity of removing on that account. But

they were now of good courage; and the

more so, because the sending that plenty of

water which they had been sadly in want of,

seemed a mark of Divine providence. So

they made a sally, and fought hand to hand

with Antigonus's soldiers, and destroyed a

great number of them. At the same time

Ventidius, the general of the Romans, was

sent out of Syria, to drive the Parthians out

of it; and marched after them into Judea;

in pretence indeed to succour Joseph; but in

reality the whole affair was no more than a

stratagem, in order to get money of Antigo-

nus. So they pitched their camp very near

to Jerusalem; and obtained a great deal of

money from Antigonus, and then he retired

himself with the greater part of the army.

But that the wickedness he had been guilty

of might not be found out, he left a certain

part of his soldiers, under the command of

Silo; with whom also Antigonus cultivated

an acquaintance; that he might cause him no

disturbance; and was still in hopes that the

Parthians would come again, and defend him.

CHAP. XV.

OF HEROd's RETURN FROM ITALY, AND HIS SUCCESSES

AGAINST HIS ENEMIES

BY this time Herod had sailed out of Italy

to Ptolemais, and had gotten together

a numerous army, both of strangers and of

his own countrymen; and marched through

Galilee against Antigonus. Silo also and

Ventidius came and assisted him; being per­

suaded by Dellius, who was sent by Antony

to assist in bringing back Herod. Now Ven­

tidius was employed in appeasing the disturb­

ances that had been made in the cities, by

the means of the Parthians. And Silo was

in Judea, but corrupted by Antigonus. How­

ever, as Herod went along, his army increased

every day; and all Galilee, with some small

exceptions, joined him. But as he was march­

ing to those that were in Massada; for he

was obliged to endeavour to save those that

were in that fortress, now they were be­

sieged, because they were his relations:

Joppa was a hindrance to him. For it was

necessary for him to take that place first; it

being a city at variance with him; that no

strong hold might be left in his enemies' hands

behind him, when he should goto Jerusalem.

And when Silo made this a pretence for ri­

sing up from Jerusalem, and was thereupon

pursued by the Jews, Herod fell upon them

with a small body of men; and both put the

Jews to flight and saved Silo, when he was

very unable to defend himself. But when

Herod had taken Joppa, he made haste to

liberate those of his family that were in Mas­

sada. Now of the people of the country some

joined him because of the friendship they

had had with his father; and some because

of the splendid appearance he made; and

others by way of requital for the benefits they

had received from both of them: but the

greatest number came to him in hopes of

getting somewhat from him afterward, if he

were once firmly settled in the kingdom.

Herod had now* a strong army. And as

he marched on, Antigonus laid snares and

ambushes in the passes and places most pro­

per for them. But in truth he thereby did

little or no damage to the enemy. So Herod

received those of his family out of Massada,

and the fortress Ressa; and then went on for

Jerusalem. The soldiery also that was with

Silo accompanied him all along: as did many

of the citizens; being afraid of his power.

And as soon as he had pitched his camp on

the west side of the city, the soldiers that

were set to guard that part shot their arrows,

and threw their darts at him. And when

some sallied out in a crowd, and came to

fight hand to hand with the first ranks of

Herod's army, he gave orders, that they

should in the first place make proclamation

about the wall; that he came for the good of

the people, and for the preservation of (he

tioned both here, and Of the War, I. 15. is an indication

that it was now summer time: which agrees to my deter­

mination of the time of the year when Herod was made

king at Rome. See Harm, of the Evang. page 150,151.

* An. 39.

