34 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

As soon as this was done, the servants of

Laban brought the camels in, and took care

of them, and the stranger was himself brought

in to supper by Laban, and. after supper he

said to him, and to the mother of the damsel,

addressing himself to her, Abraham is the son

of Terah, and a kinsman of yours: for Nahor,

the grandfather of these children, was the

brother of Abraham, by both father and

mother, upon which account he hath sent me

to you, being desirous to take this damsel for

his son to wife. He is his legitimate son, and

is brought up as his only heir. He could

indeed have had the most happy of all the

women in that country for him, but he would

not have his own son marry any of them out

of regard to his own relations. I would not,

therefore, have you despise his affection; for

it was by the good pleasure of God that other

accidents fell out in my journey, and that

thereby I met with your daughter and your

house; for when I was come near your city, I

saw a great many maidens coming to a well,

and I prayed that I might meet with this

damsel, which has come to pass accordingly.

Do you therefore confirm that marriage,

whose espousals have been already made by

a divine appearance, and shew the respect

you have for Abraham, who has sent me with

so much solicitude, in giving your consent to

the marriage of this damsel."

Upon this they understood it to be the

will of God, and greatly approved of the

offer, and sent their daughter,* as was de­

sired, f Accordingly Isaac married her, the

inheritance being now come to him: for the

children of Keturah were gone to their own

remote habitations.

CHAP. XVII.

OF ABRAHAM S DEATH AND BURIAL.

A LITTLE while after this Abraham

died ;J he was a man of incomparable

virtue, and honoured by God in a manner

agreeable to his piety towards him. The

whole time of his life was one hundred and

seventy-five years,|| and he was buried in

Hebron with his wife Sarah, by their sons

Isaac and Ismael.

CHAP. XVIII.

OF THE NATIVITY AND EDUCATION OF ESAU AND JACOB.

ISAAC'S wife proved with child,§ after the

death of Abraham; and when she was

far advanced in her pregnancy, Isaac was

very anxious, and inquired of God; who an­

swered, that Rebeka should bear twins, and

that two nations should take the names of

those sons: and that he who appeared the

second, should excel the elder.** Accordingly

she in a little time, as God foretold, gave

birth to twins; the elder of whom, from his

head to his feet was very rough and hairy;

but the younger took hold of his heel as they

were in the birth. Now the father loved the

elder, who was called Esau: a name agreeable

to his roughness, for the Hebrews call such an

hairy roughness Esauff for Seir; but Jacob

the younger was best beloved by his mother.

When there was a famine in the land, Isaac

resolved to go into Egypt, the land there

being good; but he went to Gerar, as God

commanded him. Here Abimelech, the king

* Gen. xxiv. 59.

t When Kebeka was sent away, it appears that her

nurse accompanied her. Nurses were formerly held in

very high esteem, and considered as being entitled to

constant and lasting regard. "The nurse in an Eastern

family is always an important personage. Modern travel­

lers inform us, that in Syria she is considered as a sort of

second parent, whether she has been foster-mother or

otherwise. She always accompanies the bride to her

husband's house, and ever remains there an honoured

character. Thus it was in ancient Greece." Siege of

Acre, b. ii. p. 35. Note.

Rebeka upon leaving her family received their bless­

ing. Nuptial benedictions were used both by the Jews,

Greeks, and Romans. That of the Jews was in this

form: "Blessed be thou, O Lord, who hast created man

and woman, and ordained marriage, &c." This was re­

peated every day during the wedding week, provided

there were new guests. The Grecian form of bene­

diction was, aoaSri ru^i]. The Latin was, Quod faustum

felixque sit. The Jews constantly made use of the same

form, but the Greeks and Romans frequently varied theirs:

a benediction, however, in some form, was always used.

See Selden de Jure, N. et G. 1. 5. c. 19. B.

I An. 1862.

II Gen. xxv. 7.

§ The birth of Jacob and Esau is here said to be after

Abraham's death; it should have been after Sarah's death

The chronology here certainly shews the other to be a

mistake. The order of the narration in Genesis, not

always exactly according to the order of time, seems to

have led Josephus into it, as Dr. Bernard observes here.

** Gen. xxv. 23.

Tt For Seir, in Josephus, the coherence requires that

we read Esau or Seir -, which signifies the same thing.

