an. 1748.] 55 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was no returning into Egypt unless they came

with what they had promised. Now the

misery growing every day worse, and his sons

begging it of him, he had no other course to

take in his present circumstances; and Judas,

who was of a bold temper on other occasions,

spake his mind very freely. He told him,

that it did not become him to be afraid on

account of his son, nor to suspect the worst,

as he did; for nothing could be done to his

son but by the appointment of God; which

must also for certain come to pass though he

were at home with him: that he ought not

to condemn them to such manifest destruc­

tion, nor deprive them of that plenty of food

they might have from Pharaoh, by his unrea­

sonable fear about his son Benjamin, but

ought to take care of the preservation of

Simeon; lest by attempting to hinder Benja­

min's journey, Simeon should perish. He

exhorted him to trust God for him; and said

he would either bring his son back to him

safe, or, together with his, lose his own life.

So that Jacob was at length persuaded, and

delivered Benjamin to them, with the price of

the corn doubled ;* he also sent presents to

Joseph, of the fruits of the land of Canaan;

balsam,t and rosin, as also turpentine and

honey. Now their father shed many tears at

the departure of his sons, as well as them­

selves; his concern was, that he might receive

them back again safe after their journey; and

their concern was, that they might find their

father well, and no way afflicted with the

grief for them. And this lamentation lasted

a whole day; so that the old man was at last

tired with grief, and stayed behind; but they

went on their way for Egypt, endeavouring to

mitigate their grief for their present misfor­

tunes, with the hopes of better success here­

after.

As soon as they came into Egypt they were

brought down to Joseph; but here no small

fear disturbed them, lest they should be ac­

cused about the price of the corn, as if they

had cheated Joseph. They therefore made a

long apology to Joseph's steward, and told

him that when they came home they found

the money in their sacks; and that they had

now brought it along with them. He said he

did not know what they meant. So they were

delivered from that fear. And when he had

loosed Simeon, and put him into a handsome

habit, he suffered him to be with his brethren:

at which time Joseph came from his attend­

ance on the king. So they offered him their

presents, and upon his putting the question to

them about their father, they answered that

they found him well. He also, upon his dis­

covery that Benjamin was alive, asked, whe­

ther this was their youngest brother? for they

had not seen him. Whereupon they said he

was; he replied, that the God over all was

his protector. But when his affection made

him shed tears, he retired; desiring he might

not be seen in that state by his brethren.

Then Joseph took them to supper; and they

were seated in the same order as they used to

sit at their father's table. And although Joseph

treated them all kindly, yet did he send a

mess to Benjamin, that was donbleJ to what

the rest of the guests had for their shares.||

* Gen. xliii. 12.

t Of the precious balsam of Judea, and the turpentine,

see note on VIII. 6.

J Five times as much. Heb. and Septuagint.

11 The reason which some assign for the Egyptians re­

fusing to eat with the Hebrews, was their sacrificing some

creatures which the Egyptians worshipped: but though,

in after ages, they certainly did worship several kinds of

animals, yet there appears nothing from the story that

they did so in Joseph's days; for their worship of the

famous ox, called Apis, was a much later invention, as

many learned men have demonstrated. It is much more

likely therefore, that this great abhorrence should be re­

solved into their different manner, both of dressing and

eating their victuals. No people, as Herodotus tells, (even

where he treats of their manner of feasting, Euterpe, c. 28.)

were more tenacious of their old customs than the Egyp­

tians. They would not use those of any other nation

whatever; and therefore the Hebrews were not the only

people they had an aversion to. For (as the same histo-

voL. I. No. 5-

rian informs us) an Egyptian man, or woman, would not kiss

the mouth of a Greek, would not make use of a spit or a

pot belonging to them; nor eat any meat that was cut with

one of their knives. Patrick's and Le Clerc's Commentary.

The manner of eating among the ancients was not for all

the company to eat out of one and the same dish, but for

every one to have one or more dishes to himself. The

whole of these dishes were set before the master of the

feast, and he distributed to every one his portion. As

Joseph, however, is here said to have had a table to him­

self, we may suppose, that he had a great variety of little

dishes, or plates set before him; and as it was a custom for

great men to honour those who were in their favour, by

sending such dishes to them as were first served up to

themselves, Joseph shewed that token of respect to his

brethren: but to express a particular value for Benjamin,

he sent him five dishes to their one, which disproportion

could not but be marvellous and astonishing to them, if

what Herodotus tells us be true, 1. 6. c. 27. viz. "That

the distinction in this case, even to Egyptian kings them-

