AN. 1800.] 3? ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ing fallen asleep, he dreamed that he saw a

ladder which reached from the earth unto

heaven, and persons descending down the

ladder that seemed more excellent than

human; and at last God himself stood above

it, and calling him by his name, said, " O

Jacob, it is not fit for thee, who art the son of

a good father, and grandson to one who had

obtained a great reputation for his eminent

virtue, to be dejected at thy present circum­

stances, but to hope for better times. For

thou shalt have great abundance of all good

things, by my assistance. For I brought Abra­

ham hither, out of Mesopotamia, when he

was driven away by his kinsmen; and I made

thy father a happy man. Nor will I bestow

an inferior degree of happiness on thyself.

Be of good courage, therefore; and under

my conduct, proceed on thy journey; for the

marriage thou goest so zealously about shall

be consummated. And thou shalt have chil­

dren of good characters; whose multitude shall

be innumerable. And they shall leave what

they have to a still more numerous posterity;

to whom, and to whose posterity, I give the

dominion of all the land, and their posterity

shall fill the earth, so far as the sun beholds

them. But do not thou fear any danger, nor

be afraid of the many labours thou must

undergo, for by my providence I will direct

thee what thou art to do in the time present,

and still more in the time to come."

Such were the predictions which God made

to Jacob. Whereupon he became very joy­

ful at what he had seen and heard; and he

poured oil upon the stones,* because on them

the prediction of such great benefits was

made. He also vowed a vow that he would

* One of the idols in the Pagoda of Jaggernaut is de­  
scribed, by Captain Hamilton, as a huge black stone, of a

py ramidical form, and the Saj/imona Codom of the Siamese

is of the same complexion. The Ayeen Akbery mentions an

octagonal pillar of black stone fifty cubits high. Tavernier

observed an idol of black stone in the Pagoda of Benares,

and that the statue of Chreeshna, in his celebrated tem­

ple of Mathura, is of black marble. It is very remarkable,

that one of the principal ceremonies incumbent upon the

priests of these stone deities, according to Tavernier, is to

anoint them daily with odoriferous oils: a circumstance

which immediately brings to our remembrance the similar

practice of Jacob, who, after the famous vision of the ce­

lestial ladder, took the stone which he had put for his pillow,

and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.

It is added, that he called the name of that place, Bethel;

that is, the house of God. This passage evinces of how

great antiquity is the custom of considering stones in a

sacred light, as well as the anointing them with consecrated

oil. From this conduct of Jacob, and this Hebrew appel­

lative, the learned Bochart, with great ingenuity and

reason, insists that the name and veneration of the sacred

stones, called Baetyti, so celebrated in all pagan antiquity,

were derived. These Baetyti were stones of a round

form; they were supposed to be animated by means of

magical incantations, with a portion of the Deity; they

were consulted on occasions of great and pressing emer­

gency, as a kind of divine oracles, and were suspended,

either round the neck, or some other part of the body.

Thus the setting up of a stone by this holy person, in

grateful memory of the celestial vision, probably became

the occasion of the idolatry in succeeding ages, to these

shapeless masses of unhewn stone, of which so many

astonishing remains are scattered up and down the Asiatic

and the European world. Maurice's Indian Antiquities,

vol. ii. p. 355.

Jacob calls the pillar which he had set up, God's house.

It appears strange to as to hear a stone pillar called God's

house, being accustomed to give names of this kind to such

buildings only as are capable of containing their worship­

pers within them. But this is not the case in every part

of the world, as we learn from Major Symes's narrative of

his Embassy to the kingdom of Ava. The temples of that

people, vast as many of them are, are built without cavity

of any sort, and he only mentions some of the most ancient

of those at Pagahm as constructed otherwise. The fol­

lowing extract will sufficiently illustrate this matter:

"The object in Pegu that moat attracts, and most

merits notice, is the noble edifice of Slwemadoo, or the

golden supreme. This is a pyramidical building, composed

of brick and mortar, without excavation or aperture of

any sort: octagonal at the base, and spiral at the top.

Each side of the base measures one hundred and sixty-

two feet. The extreme height of the edifice, from the

level of the country, is three hundred and sixty-one feet,

and above the interior terrace three hundred and thirty-

one feet. Along the whole extent of the northern face of

the upper terrace there is a wooden shed for the con­

venience of devotees, who come from a distant part of the

country. There are several low benches near the foot of

the temple, on which the person, who comes to pray,

places his offering, commonly consisting of boiled rice, a

plate of sweetmeats, or cocoa-nuts fried in oil; when it is

given, the devotee cares not what becomes of it; the

crows and wild dogs often devour it in the presence of the

donor, who never attempts to disturb the animals. I saw

several plates of victuals disposed of in this manner, and

understood it was the case with all that was brought.

"The temple of Shoedagan, about two miles and a half

north of Rangoon, is a very grand building, although not so

high, by twenty-five or thirty feet, as that of Shoemadoo,

at Pegu. The terrace on which it stands is raised on a

rocky eminence, considerably higher than the circumjacent

country, and is ascended by above a hundred stone steps,

The name of this temple, which signifies Golden Dagon,

naturally recalls to mind the passage in the scriptures,

where the house of Dagon is mentioned, and the image of

idolatry bows down before the Holy Ark."

"Many of the most ancient temples at Pagahm are not

solid at the bottom: a well arched dome supports a pon­

derous superstructure; and, within, an image of Gaudona

■its enshrined." B.

