o48 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

is right.-' And when such have been their

actions, how is it possible they can either live

securely in common life, or be successful in

war? In my opinion this is impossible. But

perhaps some will say, that what is holy, and

what is righteous, is indeed on our side; but

that the Arabians are either more courageous,

or more numerous than we are. Now as to

this in the first place, it is not fit for us to say

so; for with whom is what is righteous, with

them is God himself. Now where God is,

there are both multitude and courage. But

to examine our own circumstances a little;

we were conquerors in the first battle; and

when we fought again they were not able to

oppose us, but ran away; and could not en­

dure our attacks, or our courage. But when

we had conquered them, then came Athe-

nion, and made war against us without de­

claring it. And pray is this an instance of

their manhood? or is it not a second instance

of their wickedness and treachery? Why

are we therefore of less courage, on account

of that which ought to inspire us with stronger

hopes? And why are we terrified at those,

who, when they fight upon the level, are

continually beaten; and when they seem to

be conquerors, they gain it by wickedness?

And if we suppose that any one should deem

them to be men of real courage, will not he

be excited by that very consideration to do

his utmost against them? For true valour is

not shewn by fighting against weak persons,

but in being able to overcome the most

hardy. But then, if the distress we are our­

selves under, and the miseries that have come

by the earthquake, have affrighted any one;

let him consider, in the first place, that this

very thing will deceive the Arabians; by

their supposal that what hath befallen us is

greater than it really is. Moreover, it is not

right that the same thing that emboldens

them, should discourage us. For these men,

you see, do not derive their alacrity from any

advantageous virtue of their own; but from

their hope, as to us, that we are quite cast

down by our misfortunes. But when we

boldly march against them, we shall soon pull

down their insolent conceit of themselves;

and shall gain this by attacking them, that

they will not be so insolent when we come to

the battle. For our distresses are not so

great, nor is what hath happened an indigna­

tion of the anger of God against us; as some

imagine. For such things are accidental, and

adversities that come in the usual course of

things. And if we allow that this was done

by the will of God, we must allow that it is

now over by his will also; and that he is

satisfied with what hath already happened.

For had he been willing to afflict us still more

thereby, he had not changed his mind so

soon. And as for the war we are engaged

in, he hath himself demonstrated, that he is

willing it should go on; and that he knows

it to be a just war. For while some of the

people in the country have perished, all you

who were in arms have suffered nothing; but

are all preserved alive. Hence God makes

it plain to us, that if you had universally,

with your wives and children, been in the

army, it had come to pass that you had not

undergone any thing that would have much

hurt you. Consider these things; and, what

is more than all the rest, that you have God

at all times for your protector; and prosecute

these men with a just bravery, who in point

of friendship are unjust; in their battles per­

fidious; towards ambassadors impious; and

always inferior to you in valour." i

When the Jews heard this speech, their

minds were animated, and more disposed to

fight than before. So Herod, when he had

*offered the sacrifices appointed by the law,  
made haste, and took them, and led them

against the Arabians: and in order to that

passed over Jordan; and pitched his camp

near to that of the enemy. He also thought

fit to seize upon a certain castle, that lay in

the midst of them; as hoping it would be for

his advantage, and would the sooner produce

a battle; and, that if there were occasion for

* This piece of religion, the supplicating God with sa­  
crifices, by Herod, before he went to this fight with the

Arabians; taken notice of also in the first book of the war,

chap. 19. is worth remarking: because it is the only ex­

ample of this nature, so far as I remember, that Josephus

ever mentions in all his particular accounts of this Herod.

And it was when he had been in great distress, and dis­

couraged by a defeat of his former army, and by a very

great earthquake in Judea. Such times of affliction ma­

king men most religious. Nor was he disappointed of his

hopes here; but immediately gained a most signal victory

over the Arabians. While they who just before had been

so great victors, and so much elevated upon the earth­

quake in Judea, as to venture to slay the Jewish ambassa­

dors; were now under a strange consternation, and hardly

able to fight at all.

