AN. 381 562.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

nied with a few others, over the desert, and

came to Babylon. So he took upon him the

management of the public affairs and of the

kingdom, which had been kept for him by

one that was the principal of the Chaldeans;

and he received the entire dominions of his

father; and appointed, that, when the cap­

tives came, they should be placed as colo­

nies, in the most proper parts of Babylonia.

He then adorned the temple of Belus, and

the rest of the temples, in a magnificent

manner, with the spoils he had taken in the

war. He also added another city to that

which was there of old, and rebuilt it: that

such as would besiege it hereafter might

no more turn the course of the river, and

thereby attack the city itself. He therefore

built three walls round about the inner city,

and three others about that which was the

outer; and this he did with burnt brick.

And after he had walled the city, and

adorned its gates, he built another palace

before his father's palace; but so that they

joined to it: to describe whose vast height

and immense riches it would perhaps be too

much for me to attempt. Yet as large and

lofty as they were, they were completed* in

fifteen days. He also erected elevated

places for walking, of stone; and made it

resemble mountains: and built it so that it

might be planted with all sorts of trees.

He also erected what was called a pensile

paradise: because his wife was desirous to

have things like her own country; she hav­

ing been bred up in the palaces of Media."

Megasthenes also, in his fourth book of his

the year 6IS, that Nebuchadnezzar must have been a

common name of other kings of Babylon besides the great

Nebuchadnezzar himself, is a groundless mistake of some

modem chronologers only, and destitute of all proper

original authority.

* These fifteen days for finishing such vast buildings  
at Babylon, in Josephus's copy of Berosus, would seem

too absurd to be supposed to be the true number;

were it not for the same testimony extant also in the

first book against Apion, with the same number. It

thence indeed uppears, that Josephus's copy of Berosus

had this sm.ill number; but that it is the true number, I

Still doubt. Josephus assures us, that the walls of so

much a smaller city as Jerusalem were two years and

four months in building by Nehemiah, who yet hastened

the work all he could; XI. 5. I should think one hun­

dred and fifteen days, or a year and twenty days, much

more proportionable to so great a work.

t Two ye:irs.

% Four years.

Accounts of India, makes mention of these

things; and thereby endeavours to shew that

this king, Nebuchadnezzar, exceeded Her­

cules in fortitude, and in the greatness of his

actions. For he saith, that "he conquered

great part of Libya and Iberia," Diocles

also, in the second book of the Accounts of

Persia, mentions this king. As does Philos-

tratus, in his accounts both of India and

of Phoenicia say, that "this king besieged

Tyre thirteen years: while at the same time

Ethbaal reigned at Tyre." These are all

the histories that I have met with concerning

this king.

After the death of Nebuchadnezzar, Evil-

Merodach his son succeeded in the kingdom;

who immediately set Jechoniah at liberty,

and esteemed him among his most intimate

friends. He also gave him many presents,

and made him honourable above the rest of

the kings that were in Babylon. For his

father had not kept his faith with Jechoniah,

when he voluntarily delivered up himself to

him, with his wives and children, and his

whole kindred, for the sake of his country:

that it might not be taken by siege, and ut­

terly destroyed; as we said before. When

Evil-Merodach was dead, after a reign of

teighteen years, Niglissar his son took the

government, and retained it Jforty years:

and then ended his life. And after him the

succession in the kingdom came to his son

Labosordacus, who continued in it, in all,

but nine months, and when he was dead, it

came to Baltasar;|| who by the Babylonians

was called Naboandelus. Against him did

II It is here remarkable, that Josephus, without the

knowledge of Ptolemy's Canon, should call the same king,

whom he himself here, Baruch i. 11. and Daniel v. 1,2,

9, 12, 22, 29, 30. styles Baltasar, or Belshazzar, from the

Babylonian god Bel; Naboandelus also; and in another

place from the same citation out of Berosus, Nabonnedon;

from the Babylonian god Nabo, or Nebo. This last is

not remote from the original Babylonian pronunciation in

Ptolemy's Canon, Nabonadius. For both the place of

this king in that Canon, as the last of the Assyrian or

Babylonian kings, and the number of years of his reign,

seventeen, the same in both, demonstrate that it is one

and the same king that is meant by them all. It is also

worth noting, that Josephus knew that Darius, the part­

ner of Cyrus, was the son of Astyages, and was called

by another name among the Greeks: though it does not

appear he knew what that name was; as having never

seen the best history of this period, which is Xenophon'i

Kujs .buiSsm. But then, what Josephus's present copies

say presently, that it was only within no long time

3S2

