AN. 285 1048.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

appearance of God's having descended into

this temple, and of his having pitched his

tabernacle therein. So these men were in­

tent upon this thought. But Solomon rose

up, (for he was sitting before) and used such

words to God as he thought agreeable to the

divine nature to receive, and fit for him to

give; for he said, "Thou hast an eternal

house, O Lord! and such a one as thou hast

created for thyself out of thine own works;

we know it to be the heaven, the air, the

earth, and the sea, which thou pervadest;

nor art thou contained within their limits. I

have indeed built this temple to thee and thy

name; that from thence when we sacrifice,

and perform sacred operations, we may send

our prayers up into the air, and may con­

stantly believe that thou art present, and art

not remote from what is thine own. For

neither when thou seest and hearest all

things, nor now, when it pleases thee to

dwell here, dost thou leave off the care of

all men; but rather thou art very near to

them all; and especially thou art present to

those that address themselves to thee, whe­

ther by night or by day." When he had

thus solemnly addressed himself to God, he

turned his discourse to the multitude, and

strongly represented the power and provi­

dence of God to them. How he had shewn

all things that were to come to pass to David

his father; as many of those things had

already come to pass; and the rest would

certainly come to pass hereafter. And how

he had given him his name, and told to David

what he should be called before he was

born; and foretold that when he should be

king, after his father's death, he should build

him a temple; which since they saw accom­

plished according to his prediction, he re­

quired them to bless God; and by believing

him, from what they had seen accomplished,

never to despair of any thing that he had pro­

mised for the future, in order to their happi­

ness, or suspect that it would not come to pass.

When the king had spoken thus, he looked

again towards the temple, and lifting up his

right hand to the multitude, he said, "It is

not possible by what men can do to return

sufficient thanks to God for his benefits be­

stowed upon them; for the Deity stands in

need of nothing; and is above any such re­

quital. But so far as we have been superior,

O Lord! to other animals by thee, it becomes

us to bless thy majesty; and it is necessary

for us to return thee thanks for what thou

hast bestowed on our house, and on the He­

brew people. For with what other instru­

ments can we better appease thee, when thou

art angry at us, or more properly preserve

thy favour, than with our voice? which as we

have it from the air, so do we know that by

that air it ascends upwards towards thee. I

therefore ought myself to return thee thanks

thereby, in the first place concerning my

father, whom thou hast rained from obscurity

unto so great glory; and in the next place

concerning myself; since thou hast performed

all that thou promisedst unto this very day.

And I beseech thee for the time to come

to afford us whatsoever thou, O God! hast

power to bestow on such as thou didst

esteem; and to augment our house for all

ages, as thou hast promised to David my

father to do, both in his life-time, and at his

death; that our kingdom should continue,

and that his posterity should successively

receive it to ten thousand generations. Do

not therefore fail to give us these blessings,

and to bestow on my children that virtue in

which thou delightest. And besides all this,

I humbly beseech thee that thou wilt let some

portion of thy Spirit come down and inhabit

in this temple; that thou mayest appear to

be with us upon earth. As to thyself, the

entire heavens, and the immensity of the

things that are therein, are but a small habi­

tation for thee; much more is this poor

temple. But I intreat thee to keep it, as

thine own house, from being destroyed by

our enemies for ever; and to take care of it

as thine own possession. If this people be

found to have sinned, and be thereupon

afflicted by thee with any plague, because of

their sin; as with'dearth, pestilence, or any

other affliction which thou usest to inflict on

those that transgress any of thy holy laws;

and if they fly all of them to this temple, be­

seeching thee to deliver them; then do thou

hear their prayer, as being within this house,

and have mercy upon them, and deliver them

from their afflictions. Nay, moreover, this

help is what I implore of thee, not for the

Hebrews only, when they are in distress; but

when any shall come hither from any ends of

the world, and shall return from their sins,

3F2

