66 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

is in vain that thou, O queen, callest for these

women tor the nourishment of the child, who

are by no way of kin to it, but if thou wilt

order one of the Hebrew women to be brought,

perhaps it may admit the breast of one of his

own nation. Now, since she seemed to speak

well, Thermuthis bid her procure such a one;

so when she had such authority given her,

she came back, and brought the mother, who

was known to nobody there; and now the

child gladly admitted the breast, and seemed

to adhere closely to it; and so it was that at

the queen's desire the nursing of the child

was entirely intrusted to the mother.

Hereupon it was that Thermuthis imposed

this name, Mouses, upon him, from what had

happened when he was put into the river, for

the Egyptians call water by the name of Mo,

and such as are saved out of it by the name

of Uses; so, by putting these two words

together, they imposed this name upon him;

and he was, by the confession of all, accor­

ding to God's prediction, as well for his great­

ness of mind, as for his contempt of difficul­

ties, the best of all the Hebrews. Abraham

was his' ancestor of the seventh generation,

for Moses was the son of Amram, who was

the son of Caath: whose father Levi, was the

son of Jacob, who was the son of Isaac, who

was the son of Abraham. Now Moses's un­

derstanding became far superior to his age,

and when he was taught, he discovered

greater quickness of apprehension than was

usual in youth, and his action at that time

promised greater, when he should come to

the age of a man. God also gave him that

tallness, when he was but three years* old,

as was wonderful, and every one that saw

him was greatly surprised at the beauty of

his countenance. Nay it happened frequently,

that those that met him, as he was carried

along the road, were obliged to turn again

upon seeing the child; that they left what

they were about, and stood still a great while

to look on him; for the beauty of the child

was so remarkable on many accounts, that it

detained the spectators, and made them stay

longer to look upon him.

Thermuthis, therefore, perceiving him to

be so remarkable a child, adopted him for

her son, having no child of her own; and

when one time she had carried Moses to her

* An. 1609.

father, she shewed him to him, and said, " she

thought to make him her father's successor,

if it should please God she should have no

legitimate child of her own; and said to him,

I have brought up a child who is of a divine

form and of a generous mind; and as I have

received him from the bounty of the river, in

a wonderful manner, I thought proper to

adopt him for my son, and the heir of thy

kingdom." And when she had said this, she

put the infant into her father's hands; so he

took him, and pressed him to his breast; and

on his daughter's account, in a pleasant way,

put the diadem upon his head. But Moses

threw it down to the ground, and in a puerile

mood he wreathed it round, and trod upon it

with his feet, which seemed to bring along

with it an evil presage concerning the king­

dom of Egypt. But when the sacred scribe

saw this, (he was the same person that fore­

told that his nativity would bring the do­

minion of that kingdom low,) he made a

violent attempt to kill him; and crying out

in a frightful manner, he said, " This, O king!

this child is he of whom God foretold, that if

we kill him we shall be in no danger; he

himself affords an attestation to the predic­

tion of the same thing, by his trampling upon

thy government, and treading upon thy dia­

dem. Take him therefore, out of the way,

and deliver the Egyptians from the fear they

are in about him, and deprive the Hebrews

of the hope they have of being encouraged

by him." But Thermuthis prevented him,

and snatched the child away: and the king

was not hasty to slay him, God himself, whose

providence protected Moses, inclining the.,

king to spare him: he was therefore educa­

ted with great care; so the Hebrews de­

pended on him, and were of good hopes that

great things would be done by him. The

Egyptians, indeed, were suspicious of what

would follow his education; yet because if

Moses had been slain, there was no one,

either a kin or adopted, that had any oracle

of his side, for pretending to the crown of

Egypt, and likely to be of greater advantage

to them, they abstained from killing him.

CHAP. X.

OF THE WAR WHICH MOSES MADE WITH THE ETHIOPIANS,

OSES, therefore, when he was born,

and brought up in the foregoing man-

M

