an. 1064.] «1 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

said they then went their ways, and she fore­

told, that if they would follow them directly

they would catch them. But when after a

long pursuit they could not catch them, they

came back again. And when the woman

saw those men were returned, and that there

was no longer any fear of the young men

being caught by them, she drew them up by

the rope, and bid them go on their journey.

Accordingly they used great diligence in the

prosecution of that journey, and came to

David, and informed him accurately of all

the counsels of Absalom. So he commanded

those that were with him to pass over Jordan

while it was night, and not to delay at all on

that account.

But Ahithophel, on the rejection of his ad­

vice, got upon his ass and rode away to his

own country, Gilon; and calling his family

together, he told them distinctly, what advice

he had given Absalom: and since he had not

been persuaded by it, he should certainly

perish, and this in no long time, and that

David would overcome him, and return to his

kingdom again. So he said it was better

that he should take his own life away with

freedom and magnanimity, than oppose him­

self to be punished by David; in opposition

to whom he had acted entirely for Absalom.

When he had discoursed thus to them, he

went into the innermost room of his house,

and hanged himself.*

And this was the death of Ahithophel, who

was self-condemned. And when his relations

had taken him down from the halter, they

took care of his funeral. Now as for David

he passed over Jordan, as we have said

already, and came to Mahanaim, a very fine

and strong city; and all the chief men of the

country received him with great pleasure;

both out of the shame they had that he should

be forced to flee away from Jerusalem; and

out of the respect they bare to him while he

was in his former prosperity. These were

* 2 Sam. xvii. 23.

t The son of Ainmiel, of Lodebar, Hebrew and Sep-

tuagint.

J In 2 Sam. xv. 18. we read, that All the Gittites, six

hundred men, which came after him, (viz. David) from

Gath, passed on before the king: but who these Gittites

were, it is hard to determine; because we have no men­

tion made of them in any other part of Scripture. Some

imagine they were natives of Gath, who, taken with the

fame of David's piety, and happy success, came along

Barzillai the Gileadite, Siphar the ruler

among the Ammonites, and Machirf the

principal man of Gilead: these furnished him

with plentiful provisions for himself and his

followers, insomuch that they wanted no beds

nor blankets for them, nor loaves of bread,

nor wine. Nay, they bought them a great

many cattle for slaughter; and afforded them

what furniture .they wanted for their re­

freshment when they were weary, and for

food, with plenty of other necessaries.

CHAP. X.

of Absalom's defeat and death.

WHILST David and his adherents were

in this situation, Absalom got together

a vast army of Hebrews to oppose his father;

and passed therewith over the river Jordan,

and sat down not far off Mahanaim, in the

country of Gilead. He appointed Amasa to

be captain of all his host, instead of Joab his

kinsman. His father was Ithra, and his mo­

ther Abigail. Now she and Zeruiah the mo­

ther of Joab were David's sisters. But when

David had numbered his followers, and found

them to be about four thousand, he resolved

not to tarry till Absalom attacked him; but

set over his men captains of thousands, and

captains of hundreds, and divided his army

into three parts; one part he committed to

Joab, the next to Abishai, Joah's brother,

and the third to Ittai,J David's companion

and friend, but one that came from the city

Gath. And when he was desirous of fighting

himself among them, his friends would not

let him; and their refusal was founded upon

very wise reasons. "For," said they, " if we

be conquered when he is with us, we have

lost all hopes of recovering ourselves; but if

we should be beaten in one part of our army,

the other parts may retire to him, and may

thereby prepare a greater force; while the

voL. I. NOS. 21 & 22.

with Ittai, whom the Jews suppose to have been the son

of Achish, king of Gath, and being proselyted to the

Jewish religion, became a part of David's guard, and at­

tended him in his wars. But others rather think, that

they were men of Jewish extract, but had this additional

name, from their flying unto David, probably under the

conduct of Ittai, while he was at Gath, and accompanying

him ever after, not only in the time of Saul's persecution

of him, but even after his accession to the united kingdoms

of Judah and Israel. Patrick's Commentary. B.

3B

-

