200 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

bewail their children; so shalt thou by thy

death cause thy mother to lament thee also.*

Accordingly he gave orders to slay him im­

mediately at Gilgal; and then went away to

the city Ramah.

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE APPOINTMENT OF DAVID TO THE REGAL AUTHORITY,

BY THE DIVINE COMMAND, AND IN CONSEQUENCE OF SAUL'S

TRANSGRESSION.

SAUL being sensible of the miserable con­

dition he had brought himself into, and

that he had made God to be his enemy, went

up to his royal palace at Gibeah, which name

denotes a hill; and after that day he came no

more into the presence of the prophet. And

when Samuel mourned for him, God bade

him leave off his concern for him, and to take

the holy oil, and go to Bethlehem, to Jesse,

the son of Obed, and to anoint such of his

sons as he should shew him, for their future

king. But Samuel said, he was afraid lest

Saul, when he came to know of it, should kill

him, either by some private method, or even

openly. But upon God's suggesting to him a

safe way of going thither, he came to Beth­

lehem. And when they all saluted him, and

asked, what was the occasion of his coming?

he told them, he came to sacrifice to God.

When, therefore, he had prepared the sacri­

fice, he called Jesse and his sons to partake.

And when he saw his eldest son to be a tall

and handsome man, he guessed by his come­

liness, that he was the person who was to be

their future king. But he was mistaken in

judging about God's providence; for when

Samuel enquired of God, whether he should

anoint this youth, whom he so much admired,

and esteemed worthy of the kingdom? God

said, "Men do not see as God seeth. Thou

indeed hast respect to the fine appearance of

this youth, and thence esteemed him worthy

of the kingdom; while I propose the kingdom

as a reward, not out of the beauty of bodies,

but of the virtue of souls; and I enquire after

one that is perfectly comely in that respect;

I mean one who is beautiful in piety, right­

eousness, fortitude, and obedience; for in

them consists the comeliness of the soul."f

When God had said this, Samuel desired

Jesse to shew him all his sons. So he made

five others of his sons to come to him. Of all

which, Eliab was the eldest, Aminidab the

second, Shammah the third, Nathaniel the

fourth, the fifth was called Rael, and the sixth

Asam. And when the prophet saw that these

were no way inferior to the eldest in their

countenances, he inquired of God, which of

them it was whom he chose for their king?

and when God said it was none of them, he

asked Jesse, whether he had not some other

sons besides these? and when he said that

he had one more, named David, but that he

was a shepherd, and took care of the flocks:

Samuel bade them call him immediately; for

that till he was come they could not possibly

sit down to the feast. Now as soon as his

father had sent for David, and he was come,

he appeared to be of a yellow complexion,

of a sharp sight, and a comely person in other

respecls also. "This is he," said Samuel to

himself, "whom it pleases God to make our

king." So he sat down to the feast; and

placed the youth under him; and Jesse also,

with his other sons. After which he took oil

in the presence of David, and anointedJ him;

and whispered him in the ear, and acquainted

him, that God chose him to be their king;

and exhorted him to be righteous and obe­

dient to his commands; for that by this means

his kingdom would continue for a long time;

and that his house should be of great splen­

dour, and celebrated in the world; that he

* 1 Sam. xv. 33.

t 1 Sam. xvi. 7.

t Our translation says, that Samuel anointed him in the

midst of his brethren, and for this it is pretended, that as

this unction was a solemn act, and the only title which

David had to the kingdom, it was necessary to have it

done in the presence of some witnesses, for which pur­

pose none were more proper than those of his own family.

But it is plain, from his brother Eliab's treating him after

this, 1 Sam. xvii. 28. that he was not privy to his being

anointed king-elect over God's people; and therefore

since the words will equally bear the sense of from the

midst, as well as in the midst of his brethren, it is more

reasonable to suppose, that as this was the ceremony of

his designation to the kingdom only, few or none (except

his father perhaps) were admitted to it. And there was

the less reason for witnesses upon this occasion, because

David never laid claim to the crown till after Saul's de­

cease, and was then, at two several times, 1st, when he

was made king over the tribe of Judah, and 2d, when

made king over all the tribes of Israel, anointed publicly.

Calmet's and Patrick's Comment, and Howell's History, in

(he notes. B.

