ah. 1487.] 153 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

whenever we wanted that assistance, accord­

ing to his command; it is but just, now all

our difficulties are over, that you should be

permitted to enjoy rest, and that we should

trespass on your alacrity to help us no longer;

that so, if we should again stand in need of

it, we may readily have it on any future

emergency, and not tire you out so much

now, as may make you slower in assisting us

another lime. We therefore return you thanks

for the dangers you have undergone with us;

and we do it not at this time only, but we

shall always be disposed to remember our

friends, and to preserve in mind what advan­

tages we have had from them, and how you

have put off the enjoyment of your own hap­

piness for our sakes, and have laboured for

what we have now, by the good will of God,

obtained; and resolved not to enjoy your own

prosperity till you had afforded us that as­

sistance. However, you have, by joining your

labours with ours, gotten great plenty of

riches, and will carry home with you much

prey, with gold and silver, and, what is more

than all these, our good will towards you, and

a mind willingly disposed to make a requital

of your kindness, in what case soever you

shall desire it; for you have not omitted any

thing which Moses previously required of

you, nor have you despised him, because he

was dead and gone from you, so that there

is nothing to diminish that gratitude which

we owe you. We therefore dismiss you joy­

ful to your own inheritances, and intreat you

to suppose that there is no limit to be set to

the intimate relation that is between us; and

that you will not imagine, that because this

river is interposed between us, that you are

of a different race from us, and not Hebrews;

for we are all the posterity of Abraham, both

we that inhabit here, and you that inhabit

there; and it is the same God who brought

our forefathers, and yours, into the world;

whose worship and form of government we

are to take care of, which he has ordained,

and are most carefully to observe; because,

while you continue in those laws, God will

also shew himself merciful and assisting to

you; but if you imitate the other nations, and

forsake those laws, he will reject your na­

tion."* When Joshua had spoken thus, and

* Josh. xxii. 1—6.

had saluted them all, both those in authority,

one by one, and the whole multitude in com­

mon, he himself stayed where he was; but

the people conducted these tribes on their

journey, and that not without tears in their

eyes; and, indeed, they hardly knew how to

part one from the other.

Now when the tribe of Reubel, and that of

Gad, and as many of the Manassites as fol­

lowed them, were passed over the river, they

built an altart on the banks of Jordan, as a

monument to posterity, and as a sign of their

relation to those that should inhabit on the

other side. But when those on the other side

heard that those who had been dismissed had

built an altar, but did not hear with what in­

tention they built it, but supposed it to be by

way of innovation, and for the introduction of

strange gods, they did not incline to disbe­

lieve it, but thinking this defamatory report,

as if it were built for divine worship, was

credible, they appeared in arms, as though

they would avenge themselves upon those

that built the altar, and they were about to

pass over the river, and to punish them for

their subversion of the laws of their country:

for they did not think it fit to regard them on

account of their kindred, or the dignity of

those that had given the occasion, but to re­

gard the will of God, and the manner wherein

he desired to be worshipped; so these men

put themselves in array for war; but Joshua,

and Eleazar the high-priest, and the senate

restrained them, and persuaded them first to

make trial by words of their intention; and

afterwards, if they found that their intention

was evil, then only to proceed to make war

upon them. Accordingly, they sent as am­

bassadors to them Phineas. the son of Eleazar,

and ten more persons that were in esteem

among the Hebrews, to learn what was in

their mind, when, upon passing over the river,

they had built an altar upon its banks. But, as

soon as these ambassadors were passed over,

and were come to them, and a congregation

was assembled, Phineas stood up, and said,

"The offence you have been guilty of is of

too heinous a nature to be punished by words

alone, or by them only to be amended for

the future. Yet we do not so look at the

heinousness of your transgression, as to have

t Josh. xxii. 10.

s

