494 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

with the news that he had secured the first

place, the second, and all the places, (for as

boon as one had begun, they all submitted to

his disposal:) but the queen and the nation

were in the greatest disorder. For they were

aware, that it would not be long ere Aristo-

bulus would be able to set himself firmly in

the government: what they were principally

afraid of was this, that he would inflict punish­

ment upon them, from the mad treatment his

house had had from them. So they resolved

to take his wife and children into custody, and

keep them in the *fortress that was over the

temple. Now there was a great conflux of

people that came to Aristobulus from all

parts: insomuch that he had a kind of royal

attendance about him. For in little more

than fifteen days he got twenty-two strong

places; which gave him the opportunity of

raising an army from Libanus, and Tra-

chonitis, and the fmonarchs. For men are

easily led by the greater number, and easily

submit to them. And besides this they sup­

posed, that by affording him their assistance,

when he could not expect it, as well as he

should have the advantages that would come

by his being king: because they had been

the occasion of his gaining the kingdom.

Now the elders of the Jews, and Hyrcanus

with them, went unto the queen; and de­

sired that she would give them her senti­

ments about the present posture of affairs.

For that Aristobulus was in effect lord of

almost all the kingdom; by possessing so

many strong holds; and that it was absurd

for them to take any counsel of themselves,

how ill soever she were, while she was alive;

and that the danger would be upon them in

no long time. But she bade them do what

they thought proper to be done: that they

* This fortress, castle, citadel, or tower, whither  
the wife and children of Aristobulus were now sent,

and which overlooked the temple, could be no other

than what Hyrcanus I. built, XVIII. 4, and Herod

had many circumstances in their favour still

remaining: a nation in good heart; an army;

and money in their several treasuries: for

that she had small concern about public

affairs now, when the strength of her body

already failed her.

Now a little while after she had said this

to them, she died; when she had reigned

Jnine years, and had lived seventy-three.

A woman she was who shewed no signs of

weakness in her sex; for she was sagacious

to the greatest degree in her ambition of

governing; and demonstrated by her doings

at once that her mind was fit for action, and

that sometimes men themselves shew the lit­

tle understanding they have by the frequent

mistakes they make in point of government.

For she always preferred the present to fu­

turity, and preferred the power of an impe­

rious dominion above all things: and in com­

parison of that had no regard to what was

good, or what was right. However she

brought the affairs of her house to such an

unfortunate condition, that she was the occa­

sion of the taking away that authority from

it, and that in no long time afterward, which

she had obtained by a vast number of haz­

ards and misfortunes; and this out of a de­

sire of what does not belong to a woman; and

all by a compliance in her sentiments with

those that bore ill will to their family; and

by leaving the administration destitute of a

proper support of great men. And indeed

her management, during her administration,

while she was alive, was such, as filled the

palace after her death with calamities and

disturbance. However, although this had

been her way of governing, she preserved

the nation in peace. And this is the conclu­

sion of the affairs of Alexandra.

the Great rebuilt, and called the tower of Antonio,

XV. 11.

t See Of the War, Book I. chap. 20.

t From an. 78 to an. 70 B. C.

