276 [book vih. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to the place where the king abode at that

time.

Now the sagacity and wisdom which God

had bestowed on Solomon was so great, that

he exceeded the ancients: insomuch that he

was no way inferior to the Egyptians, who are

said to have been beyond all men in under­

standing; nay indeed it is evident that their

sagacity was very much inferior to that of

the king's. He also distinguished himself in

wisdom above those who were most eminent

among the Hebrews at that time for shrewd­

ness. Those I mean were Ethan, Heman,

Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. He

also composed books of Odes, and Songs, in

number a thousand and five; and of Parables

and Similitudes three thousand. For he spake

a parable upon every sort of tree, from the

hyssop to the cedar: and in like manner also

about beasts, about all sorts of living crea­

tures,* whether upon the earth, or in the seas,

or in the air. For he was not unacquainted

with any of their natures; nor omitted in­

quiries about them; but described them all

like a philosopher, and demonstrated his ex­

quisite knowledge of their several properties.

God also enabled him to learn that skill which

expels demons,f which is a useful science to

men. He composed such incantations also

by which distempers are alleviated; and left

behind him the manner of using exorcisms,

by which they drive away demons; so that

they never return, and this method of cure

is of great force until this day. For I have

seen a certain man of my own country,

whose name was Eleazar, releasing the

people that were demoniacal in the pre­

sence of Vespasian, and his sons, and his

captains, and the multitude of his soldiers:

and the manner of the cure was this; he

put a ring that had a root of one of those

sorts mentioned by Solomon to the nostrils

of the demoniac, after which he drew out

the demon through his nostrils: and when

the man fell down, he adjured him to return

into him no more; making still mention of

Solomon, and reciting the incantations which

he composed. And when Eleazar would de­

monstrate to the spectators, that he had such

a power, he set a little way offa cup or bason

full of water, and commanded the demon, as

he went out of the man, to overturn it: and

thereby let the spectators know that he had

left the man. And when this was done, the

skill and wisdom of Solomon was shewn very

manifestly. For which reason it is that all

men may know the vastness of Solomon's

abilities, and how he was beloved of God,

and that the extraordinary virtues of every

kind with which this king was endowed may

not be unknown to any people under the

sun; for this reason, I say, it is that we have

proceeded to speak so largely of these mat­

ters.

Now Hiram, king of Tyre, when he heard

that Solomon succeeded to his father's king­

dom, was very glad, for he was a friend of

David's. So he sent ambassadors to him,

* The several books which treated of the nature and  
virtue of animals, as well as plants, are supposed to have

been lost in the Babylonish captivity; but Eusebius, as

he is quoted by Anastatius, informs us, that king He-

zekiah, seeing the abuse which his subjects made of

Solomon's works, by placing too much confidence in

remedies which he prescribed, and the natural secrets

which he discovered, thought proper to suppress them

all. Notwithstanding this, since his time, many books,

concerning the secrets of magic, medicine, and enchant­

ments, have appeared under the name of this prince; and

several pieces have been quoted, such as The Instructions

of Solomon to his son Rehoboam; The Testament of Solo­

mon; The Books of the Throne of Solomon; The Books

of Magic, composed by the demons, under the name of

Solomon; The Clavicula, or Key of Solomon; The Ring

of Solomon; the Contradiction of Solomon, &c. which

were most of them very wicked and pernicious tracts, to

which the authors prefixed this great name to give them

credit and sanction. It is somewhat strange, however,

that Josephus should inform us, that Solomon composed

books of enchantments, and several manners of exorcisms,

or of driving away devils, so that they could return no

more; and that he should farther assure us, that himself

had seen experiments of it by one Eleazar, a Jew, who,

in the presence of Vespasian, his sons, and the officers of

his army, cured several that were possessed. Jewish

Antiq. lib. 8. c. 2. Calmef s Dictionary, under the word

Solomon. B.

t Some pretended fragments of these books of conjura­

tions of Solomon are still extant in Fabricius's Cod. Pseu-

depigr. Vet. Test, page 1054. Though I entirely differ

from Josephus, in this opinion, that such books and arts

of Solomon were parts of that wisdom which was imparted

to him by God in his younger days. They must rather

have belonged to such profane but curious arts as we find,

mentioned, Acts xix. 13, 20. and had been derived from

the idolatry and superstition of heathen wives and concu­

bines, in his old age; when he had forsaken God, and

God had forsaken him, and given him up to demoniacal

delusions. Nor does Josephus's strange account of the

root Baara, Of the war, VII. 6, seem to be other than

that of its magical use in such conjurations. As for the

following history it confirms what Christ says, Malt. xii.

27. If I by Beelzebub cast out demons, by whom do your;

sons cast them out?

