ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book III.

also the sacrifices. There were also many

and various kinds of sweet spices that be­

longed to the tabernacle, and such as were

very costly, and were brought to the golden

altar of incense, whose nature I do not now

describe, lest it should be troublesome to my

readers. But incense* was to be offered

twice a day, both before sun-rising, and sun-

setting. They were also to keep oil ready

purified for the lamps, threet of which were

to give light all day long upon the sacred

candlestick before God, and the rest were to

be lighted at the evening.

When all was finished, Besaleel and Aho-

liab appeared to be the most skilful of the

workmen; for they invented finer works than

what others had done before them, and were

of great abilities to gain notions of what they

were formerly ignorant of: and of these Besa­

leel was judged to be the best. Now the

whole time they were about this work was

seven months, and after this ended the first

year since their departure out of Egypt. But

at the beginning 01 the second year,f in the

month Xanthicus, as the Macedonians call it,

but in the month Nisan, as the Hebrews call

it, on the new moon, they consecrated the

tabernacle, and all its vessels which I have

already described.

God shewed himself pleased with the work

of the Hebrews, and did not permit their

labours to be in vain; nor did he disdain to

use what they had made; but he came and

sojourned with them, and pitched his taber­

nacle in the holy house. And in the follow­

ing manner did he come to it: the sky was

clear, but there was a mist over the taberna­

cle only, encompassing it, but not with such a

very deep and thick cloud as is seen in the

winter season, nor yet in so thin an one as

men might be able to discern any thing

through it; but from it there dropped a sweet

dew, which shewed the presence of God to

those that desired and believed it.

When Moses had bestowed such honorary

presents on the workmen as it was fit they

should receive who had wrought so well, he

offered sacrifices in the open court of the

* The incense was here offered, according to Jose-  
phus'9 opinion, before sun-rising, and at sun-setting; but,

in the days of Pompey, according to the same Josephus,

the sacrifices were offered in the morning, and at the ninth

hour. XIV. 4.

tabernacle, as God commanded him; a bull,

a ram, and a kid of the goats, for a sin offer­

ing. Now I shall speak of what we do in our

sacred offices in my discourse about sacrifi­

ces, and therein shall inform men in what

cases Moses bid us offer whole burnt offer­

ings, and in what cases the law permits us to

partake of them as food. And when Moses

had sprinkled Aaron's vestments, himself, and

his sons, with the blood of the beasts that

were slain, and had purified them with spring

water and ointment, they became God's

priests. After this manner did he consecrate

them, and their garments, for seven days

together. The same he did to the taberna­

cle, and the vessels thereto belonging, both

with oil first incensed, as I said, and with the

blood of bulls, and of rams, slain day by day

one, according to its kind. But on the eighth

day, he appointed a feast for the people, and

commanded them to offer sacrifice according

to their ability. Accordingly they contended

one with another, and were ambitious to ex­

ceed each other in the sacrifices which they

brought, and so fulfilled Moses's injunctions.

But as the sacrifices lay upon the altar, a sud­

den fire was kindled from among them of its

own accord; and appeared to the sight like

fire from a flash of lightning, and consumed

whatsoever was upon the altar.

Hereupon an affliction befel Aaron, con­

sidered as a man and a father; but he sup­

ported it with true fortitude, for he had, in­

deed, a firmness of soul in such accidents;

and he thought this calamity came upon him

according to God's will; for whereas he had

four sons, as I said before, the two elder of

them, Nadab and Abihu, did not bring those

sacrifices which Moses bade them bring, but

which they used to offer formerly, and were

burnt to death. Now when the fire rushed

upon them, and began to burn them, nobody

could quench it, accordingly they died in this

manner: and Moses bid their father and their

brethren to take up their bodies, to carry them

out of the camp, and to bury them magnifi­

cently. Now the multitude lamented them,

and were deeply affected at this death, which

t Hence we may correct the opinion of the modern

Rabbins, who say that only one of the seven lamps burned

in the day time, when Josephus, an eye witness, says

there were three.

J An. 1531

