154 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

recourse to arms, and to a battle for your

punishment immediately; but, on account of

our kindred, and the probability that you

may be reclaimed, we have taken this method

of sending an ambassage; that when we have

learned the true reasons by which you have

been moved to build this altar, we may neither

seem to have been too rash in assaulting you

by our weapons of war, if it prove that you

made the altar for justifiable reasons, and

may then justly punish you, if the accusation

prove true; for we can hardly suppose that

you, who have been acquainted with the will

of God, and have been hearers of those laws

which he himself hath given us, now you are

separated from us, and gone to that patrimony

of yours, which you, through the grace of

God, and that providence he exercises over

you, have obtained by lot, can forget him, and

can leave that ark, and that altar which is

peculiar to us, and can introduce strange

gods, and imitate the wicked practices of the

Canaanites. Now this will appear to have

been a small crime, if you repent now, and

proceed no farther in your madness, but pay

a due reverence to, and keep in mind, the

laws of your country. But if you persist in

your sins, we will not grudge our pains to

preserve your laws, but will pass over Jor­

dan, and defend them, and defend God also;

and shall esteem of you as of men no way

differing from the Canaanites, but shall de­

stroy you in the like manner as we destroyed

them; for do not you imagine that because

you are got over the river you are beyond the

reach of God's power. You are every where

in places that belong to him, and it is impos­

sible to overrun his power, and the punish­

ment he will bring on men thereby. But if

you think that your settlement here will be

any obstruction to your conversion to what is

good, nothing need hinder us from dividing

the land anew, and leaving this old land to

be for the feeding of sheep; but you will do

well to return to your duty, and to leave off

these new crimes. And we beseech you, by

your wives and children, not to force us to

punish you. Take therefore such measures

in this assembly, as supposing that your own

safety, and the safety of those that are dearest

to you. is therein concerned; and believe that

it is better for you to be conquered by words,

than to continue in your purpose, and thereby

to experience deeds and war."

When Phineas had discoursed thus, the

governors of the assembly, and the whole

multitude, began to make an apology for

themselves, concerning what they were ac­

cused of; and they said, "We neither will

depart from the relation we bear to you, nor

have we built the altar in way of innovation;

we own one and the same God with all the

Hebrews, and that brazen altar which is be­

fore the tabernacle, on which we will offer our

sacrifices. As to the altar we have raised,

on account of which we are thus suspected,

it was not built for worship; but that it might

be a sign and a monument of our relation to

you for ever; and a necessary caution to us to

act wisely, and to continue in the laws of our

country; but not a handle for transgressing

them, as you suspect. And let God be our

authentic witness, that this was the occasion

of our building this altar. Whence we beg

you will have a better opinion of us; and do

not impute such a thing to us as would render

any of the posterity of Abraham well worthy

of perdition; in case they attempt to bring in

new rites, and such as are different from our

usual practices."

When they had made this answer, and

Phineas had commended them for it, he came

to Joshua, and explained before the people

what answer they had received. Now Joshua

was glad that he was under no necessity of

setting them in array, or of leading them to

shed blood, and make war against men that

were of their own kindred; and accordingly

he offered sacrifices of thanksgiving to God

for the same; so Joshua, after that, dissolved

this great assembly of the people. and sent

them to their own inheritances, while himself

lived at Shechem. But in the* twentieth year

after this, when he was very old, he sent for

those of the greatest dignity in the several

cities, with those in authority, and the senate;

and gathered together as many of the com­

mon people as he could; and when they were

come, he put them in mind of all the benefits

God had bestowed on them; which could not

but be a great many, since from a low estate

they were advanced to so great a degree of

glory and plenty; and exhorted them to take

* An. 1467.

