428 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tion of it? Demetrius replied, that no one

durst be so bold as to touch upon the descrip­

tion of these laws, because they were divine

and venerable; and because some that had

attempted it were afflicted by God. He also

told him, that Theopompus was desirous of

writing somewhat about them; but was there­

upon disturbed in his mind, for above thirty

days' time. And upon some intermission of

his distemper, he appeased God by prayer: as

suspecting that his madness proceeded from

that cause. Nay, indeed, he farther saw in

a dream, that his distemper befell him, while

he indulged too great a curiosity about di­

vine matters; and was desirous of publishing

them among common men. But when he

left off that attempt, he recovered his under­

standing again. Moreover he informed him

of Theodectes, the tragic poet; concerning

whom it was reported, that when in a certain

dramatic representation, he was desirous to

make mention of things that were contained

in these sacred books, he was afflicted with

a darkness in his eyes. And that upon his

being conscious of the occasion of his dis­

temper, and appeasing God by prayer, he

was free from that affliction.

When the king had received these books

from Demetrius, as we have said already, he

adored them: and gave order that great care

should be taken of them, that they might re­

main uncorrupted. He also desired that the

interpreters would come often to him out of

Judea, and that both on account of the re­

spect that he would pay them, and oh ac­

count of the presents he would make them.

For he said, it was now but just to send

them away: although if, of their own ac­

cord, they would come to him hereafter,

they should obtain all that their own wisdom

might justly require, and what his generosity

was able to give them. So he then dismissed

them: and gave to every one of them three

garments of the best sort, two talents of gold,

a cup of the value of one talent, and the fur­

niture of the room wherein they were feasted.

And these were the things he presented to

* The use of oil was much greater, and the donatives  
of it, much more valuable in Judea, and the neighbouring

countries than it is amongst us. It was also, in the days

of Josephus, thought unlawful for Jews to make use of

any oil that was prepared by heathens: perhaps on ac­

count of some superstitions intermixed with its prepara-

them. But by them he sent to Eleazar, the

high-priest, ten beds, with feet of silver, and

the furniture to them belonging; and a cup

of the value of thirty talents. And besides

these, ten garments, and purple, and a very

beautiful crown, and a hundred pieces of the

finest wove linen: as also vials, and dishes,

and vessels for pouring, and two golden cis­

terns to be dedicated to God. He also de­

sired him, by an epistle, that he would give

these interpreters leave, if any of them were

desirous of coming to him; because he highly

valued a conversation with men of such learn­

ing, and would be very willing to lay out his

wealth upon such men. And this was what

came to the Jews, and was much to their glory

and honour, from Ptolemy Philadelphus.

CHAP. m.

OF THE HONOURS AND PRIVILEGES BESTOWED UPON THE

NATION OF THE JEWS, BY THE KINGS OF ASIA.

THE Jews also obtained honours from

the kings of Asia, when they became

their auxiliaries. For Seleucus Nicator

made them citizens in those cities which he

built in Asia, and in the lower Syria, and in

the metropolis, Antioch, and gave them pri­

vileges equal to those of the Macedonians

and Greeks, who were the inhabitants; inso­

much that these privileges continue to this

very day. An argument for which you have

in this, that whereas the Jews do not make

use *of oil prepared by foreigners, they

receive a certain sum of money from the

proper officers belonging to their exercises,

as the value of that oil; which money, whea

the people of Antioch would have deprived

them of, in the last war, Mucianus, who was

then president of Syria, preserved it to them.

And when the people of Alexandria and of

Antioch did after that, at the time that Ves­

pasian and Titus his son governed the ha­

bitable earth, pray that these privileges of

citizens might be taken away, they did not

obtain their request. In which behaviour

any one may discern the equity and gene­

rosity of the Romans;t especially of Vespa-

tion by those heathens. When therefore the heathens

were to make them a donative of oil, they paid them

money instead of it. See Of the War, II. 19. and Hud­

son's note on the place before us.

t This, and the like great and just characters of the

justice, equity, and generosity, of the old Romans, both

