AN. 31.] 551 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

treat, and that Herod had given no occasion

to suspect that he was displeased at him,

but put this question to Hyrcanus, Whether

he had received any letters from Malchus?

and when he answered, that he had received

letters, but those of salutation only; and

when he asked farther, whether he had not

received any presents from him? and when

he replied, that he had received no more

than four horses to ride on, which Malchus

had sent him, Herod charged these upon

him as the crimes of bribery and treason;

and gave order that he should be led away

and slain. And in order to demonstrate that

he had been guilty of no offence, when he

was thus brought to his end, they allege, how

mild his temper had been; and, that even in

his youth, he had never given any demon­

stration of boldness or rashness; and that the

case was the same when he came to be king:

but that he even then committed the manage­

ment of the greatest part of public affairs to

Antipater. And that he was now above

eighty years old; and knew that Herod's

government was in a secure state. He also

came over Euphrates, and left those who

greatly honoured him beyond that river;

though he were to be entirely under Herod's

government; and that it was a most incredi­

ble thing that he should undertake any thing

by way of innovation, and not at all agree­

able to his temper: but that this was a plot

of Herod's own contrivance.*

And this was the fate of Hyrcanus, after

he had endured various turns of fortune in

his life-time. For he was made high-priest

of the Jewish nation in the beginning of his

mother Alexandra's reign; who held the go­

vernment nine years. And when after his

mother's death, he took the kingdom him­

self, and held it three months, he lost it, by

the means of his brother Aristobulus. He

was then restored by Pompey, and received

all sorts of honour from him, and enjoyed

them forty years. But when he was again

deprived by Antigonus, and was maimed in

his body, he was made a captive by the Par-

thians; and thence returned home again

after some time, on account of the hopes

that Herod had given him. None of these,

however, came to pass according to his ex­

pectation; but he still conflicted with many

misfortunes through the whole course of his

life: and, what was the heaviest calamity of

all, as we have related already, he came to

an end which was undeserved by him. His

character appeared to be that of a man of a

mild and moderate disposition; and suffered

the administration of affairs to be generally

done by others under him. He was averse

to the management of public affairs, nor had

shrewdness enough to govern a kingdom.

And both Antipater and Herod came to their

greatness by reason of his mildness; and

at last he met with such an end from them,

as was not agreeable either to justice or

piety.

Now Herod, as soon as he had put Hyr­

canus out of the way, hastened to Caesar:

and because he could not have any hopes of

kindness from him on account of the friend­

ship he had for Antony, he had a suspicion

of Alexandra, lest she should take this op­

portunity to bring the multitude to a revolt;

and introduce a sedition into the affairs of

the kingdom. So he committed the care of

every thing to his brother Pheroras; and

placed his mother Cypros, and his sister Sa­

lome, and the whole family at Massada: and

gave him a charge, that if he should hear

any sad news about him, he should take care

of the government. But as to Mariamne his

wife, because of the misunderstanding be­

tween her and her sister, and his sister's

mother, which made it impossible for them

to live together, he placed her at Alexan-

drium, with Alexandra her mother: and left

his treasurer Joseph, and Sohemus of Ituria,

to take care of that fortress. These two

had been very faithful to him from the be­

ginning; and were now left as a guard to the

women. They also had it in charge, that if

they should hear any mischief had befallen

him, they should kill them both: and, as far

* As Hyrcanus was the only remaining person of the  
male line of the Asmoneans, and had himself reigned

in Judea under the protection of the Romans, till deposed

by the Parthians; Herod suspected, that if any thing

went hard with him, it would turn in favour of Hyrcanus,

for restoring him again to the kingdom: and therefore, to

prevent this, contrived a plot against that prince: as if

he had held a correspondence with Malchus, king of

Arabia, for the accomplishing of treasonable designs

against him. Under this pretence, he caused him to be

put to death, after he had passed the eightieth year of his

age. Prideaux,s Connection, part 2. book 8. B.

