164 [book V ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

not be the general, unless she would go also

as a general with him, she had indignation at

what he said, and replied: "Thou, O Barak,

deliverest up meanly that authority which

God hath given thee, into the hand of a wo­

man, and I do not reject it." So they col­

lected ten thousand men, and pitched their

camp at mount Tabor; where, at the king's

command, Sisera met them, and pitched his

camp not far from the enemy. Whereupon

the Israelites, and Barak himself, were so

affrighted at the multitude of those enemies,

that they were resolved to march off, had not

Deborah retained them, and commanded

them to fight the enemy that very day; for

that they should conquer them, and God

would be their assistance.

So the battle began; and when they were

come to a close fight, there came down from

heaven a great storm, with a vast quantity of

rain and hail; and the wind blew the rain in

the face of the Canaanites, and so darkened

their eyes, that their arrows and slings were

of no advantage to them. Nor would the

coldness of the air permit the soldiers to make

use of their swords. This storm, however,

did not so much incommode the Israelites,

because it came on their, back; They also

took such courage upon the apprehension

that God was assisting them, that they fell

upon the very midst of their enemies, and

slew a great number of them. So that some

of them fell by the Israelites; some fell by

their own horses, which were put into dis­

order; and not a few were killed by their

own chariots. At last Sisera, as soon as he

saw himself beaten, fled away, and came to a

woman, whose name was Jael,* a Kenite;

who received him, when he desired to be

concealed, and when he asked for somewhat

to drink, she gave him sour milk;t of which

he drank so freely, that he fell asleep. But

when he was asleep, Jael took an iron nail,

and drove it through his temples with a

hammer, into the floor. And when Barak

came a little afterwards, she shewed Sisera

nailed to the ground.J And thus was the

victory gained by a woman, as Deborah had

foretold. Barak also fought with Jabin, at

Hazor; and when he met with him, he slew

him. And when the general was fallen,

Barak overthrew the city to the foundation,

and was the commander of the Israelites for

forty years

CHAP. VI.

OF THE OPPRESSION OF THE HEBREWS BY THE MIDIANITES

AND OTHER NATIONS; AND OF THEIR DELIVERANCE BV

GIDEON, WHO RULED OVER THE MULTITUDE FOR SEVEN

YEARS.

N

OW when Barak and Deborah were

dead, whose deaths, happened about

endearing herself to the people, and made her, by this

means, the fitter instrument to rescue them from oppres­

sion. Pool's Annot. B.

* She was of the posterity of Hobab, the son of Jethro,  
father-in-law of Moses; and is here called a Kenite, be­

cause originally she descended from those people who

dwelt westward of the Dead Sea, and extended themselves

pretty far into Arabia Petraea. The word Ken, from which

they took their name, signifies a nest, a hole, or a cave;

and to this the prophet Balaam might allude, when he ad­

dressed himself to them in these words :—" Strong is thy

dwelling-place, and thou puttest thy nest on a rock ; never­

theless the Kenites shall be wasted, until Ashur shall carry

thee away captive." Numb. xxiv. 21. These Kenites

indeed were some of the people whose lands God had

promised to the descendants of Abraham; nevertheless, in

consideration of Jethro, all that submitted to the Israelites,

were permitted to live in their own country. In Numb.

x. 29. we find that Hobab was invited by Moses to accom­

pany him into the land of Canaan; and, in all probability,

he accepted the invitation. At their first coming, they

settled themselves in the territories of Jericho; but having

contracted a particular friendship with the tribe of Jndah,

they removed with them into the country that fell to their

lot, Judg. i. 16. Every family of them, however, did not

so; for this Heber, we find, for some reasons that are not

mentioned, had settled his habitation in the tribe of Naph-

thali, Jiidg. i. 11. The Kenites, indeed, though they

were proselytes, and worshipped the true God, according

to the Mosaic law, yet being strangers by birth, and so not

pretending to any right or title to the land of Canaan, held

it best policy, in these troublesome times, to observe a

neutrality, and maintain peace, as well as they could, both

with the Israelites and Canaanites; and upon this footing it

was, that there was a peace between king Jabin and the

house of Heber, and that Sisera, in his distress, fled to

Heber's tent for protection, and put confidence in the

feigned civilities of his wife. Howell's Hist, of the Bible. B.

t Jael certainly shewed her regard for Israel by de­

stroying Sisera; but it is as certain that she did not do it in

the most honourable manner: there was treachery in it;

perhaps, in the estimation of those people, the greatest

treachery. Among the later Arabs, giving a person drink

has been thought to be the strongest assurance of their re­

ceiving him under their protection. When Guy de Lusig-

nan, king of Jerusalem, was taken prisoner, and was con­

ducted before Saladin, he demanded drink, and they gave

him fresh water, which he drank in Saladin's presence;

but when one of his lords would have done the same, Sa­

ladin would not suffer it, because he did not intend to

spare his life: on the contrary, advancing to him, aftei

some expostulations, he cut off his head. D'Herbelot, p

371; /farmer, vol. ii. p. 469.

J Judg. iv. 22.

