370 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

would be to his advantage; but that he

was afraid of those of his own country, that

had fallen away to the Babylonians; lest he

should be accused by them to the king of

Babylon, and be punished. But the prophet

encouraged him, and said, he had no cause

to fear such punishment: for that he should

not have the experience of any misfortune, if

he would deliver all up to the Babylonians;

neither himself, nor his children, nor his

wives; and that the temple should then con­

tinue unhurt. So when Jeremiah had said

this, the king let him go, and charged him to

betray what they had resolved on to none

of the citizens, nor tell any of these matters

to any of the rulers, if they should have

learned that he had been sent for, and

should inquire of him what it was that he

was sent for, and what he had said to him;

but to pretend to them, that he besought

him that he might not be kept in bonds and

in prison. And indeed he said so to them;

for they came to the prophet, and asked

him what advice it was that he came to

give the king relating to them.

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE REDUCTION OF JERUSALEM, AND THE REMOVAL OF

ZEDEKIAH AND HIS SUBJECTS TO BABYLON.

NOW the king of Babylon was very intent

upon the siege of Jerusalem. And he

erected towers upon great banks of earth;

and from them repelled those that stood

upon the walls. He also made a great num­

ber of such banks round about the whole

city, whose height was equal to those walls.

However, those that were within bore the

siege with courage and patience. For they

were not dismayed either by the famine, or

by the pestilential distemper: but were of

cheerful minds, in the prosecution of the war;

although those miseries within oppressed

them also; and they did not suffer them

selves to be terrified, neither by the con-

trivances of the enemy, or by their engines

of war; but contrived still different engines

to oppose them; till there seemed to be an

entire struggle between the Babylonians,

and the people of Jerusalem, which had the

greater sagacity and skill; the former party

supposing they should be thereby too hard

for the other, for the destruction of the city:

the latter placing their hopes of deliverance

in persevering in such inventions, in oppo­

sition to the other, as might demonstrate

the enemies' engines were useless to them.

And this siege they endured for eighteen

months; until they were destroyed by the

famine, and by the darts which the enemy

threw at them from the towers.

At length the city was taken, on the ninth

day of the fourth month, in the eleventh year

of the reign of Zedekiah.* They were in­

deed only generals of the king of Babylon,

to whom Nebuchadnezzar committed the

care of the siege: for he abode himself in

the city of Riblah. The names of these

generals who ravaged and subdued Jerusa­

lem, if any one desire to know them, were

these: Nergal Sharezer, Samgar Nebo,

Rabsaris, Sarsechim, and Rabmag. And

when the city was taken, about midnight,

and the enemy's generals were entered into

the temple:f and when Zedekiah was sen­

sible of it, he took his wives, his children,

his captains, and his friends, and fled out

of the city, through the fortified ditch, and

through the desert. And when certain of

the deserters had informed the Babylonians

of this, at break of day they pursued after

Zedekiah, and overtook him not far from

Jericho, and encompassed him about. But

for those friends and captains of Zedekiah,

* 2 Kings xxv. 2, 3.

t The temple was burnt, from the time that it was

built, four hundred years, says Sir John Marsham; four

hundred and twenty-four years three months and eight

days, says Primate Usshur; four hundred and thirty

years, says Abarbinel, and other learned Jews: but Jo-

sephus computes the thing still higher: for he tells us,

that the temple was burnt four hundred and seventy years

six months and ten days, from the building of it; one

thousand and sixty years six months and ten days, from

the Israelites coming out of the land of Egypt; one thou­

sand nine hundred and fifty years and six months and ten

days from the deluge; and three thousand five hundred

and thirty years six months and ten days from the crea­

tion of the world. Josephus stands amazed, that the se­

cond temple should be burnt by the Romans in the same

month, and on the very same day of the month, that this

was set on fire by the Chaldeans, and as some of the

Jewish doctors say, when the Levites were singing the

same psalm in both destructions, viz. xciv. 23. He shall

bring upon them their own iniquity, and he shall cot

them off in their own wickedness; yea, the Lord out"

God shall cut them off. Patrick's Commentary, and

Jewish Antiq. lib. X. c. 11. 6.

