212 [BOOK VI; ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and manners, and take up boldness, insolence,

and a contempt of both divine and human

laws. And that at a time when they espe­

cially stand in need of piety and righteous­

ness; because they are then peculiarly ex­

posed to envy, and all they think and say are

in the view of all men; then it is that they

become so insolent in their actions, as though

God saw them no longer, or were afraid of

them, because of their power. And whatso­

ever it is that they are either afraid of by the

rumours they hear, or they hate by inclination,

or love without reason; these seem to them

to be authentic, firm, and true, and pleasing

both to man and to God. But as to what

would come hereafter, they have not the least

regard to it. They raise those to honour,

indeed, who have been at a great deal of

pains for them, and after that honour they

envy them, and when they have brought

them unto high dignity, they do not only de­

prive them of what they had obtained; but on

that very account of their lives also; and

that on wicked accusations, and such as, on

account of their extravagant nature, are in­

credible. They also punish men, not for such

actions as deserve condemnation, but from

calumnies and accusations without examina­

tion; and this extends not only to such as de­

serve to be punished, but to as many as they

are able to kill This reflection is openly

confirmed from the example of Saul, the son

of Kish; who was the first king who reigned

after our aristocracy, and government under

the judges: and that by his slaughter of three

hundred priests and prophets, on occasion of

his suspicion about Ahimeleoh, and by the

additional wickedness of the overthrow of

their city; and this as if he were endeavouring

in some sort to render the tabernacle desti­

tute both of priests and prophets; which en­

deavour he shewed by slaying so many of

them, and not suffering the very city be­

longing to them to remain, lest others might

exceed them.

But Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, who

alone could be saved out of the family of

priests slain by Saul, fled to David; and in­

formed him of the calamity that had befallen

their family; and of the slaughter of his fa­

ther. David replied that he was not unap-

prised of what would follow with relation to

them, when he saw Doeg there; for he had

then a suspicion that the high-priest would

be falsely accused by him to the king; and

he blamed himself as having been the cause

of this misfortune. But he desired him to

stay there, and abide with him,* as in a place

where he might be better concealed than any

where else.

chap. xm.

of david's generosity in repeatedly sparing the life

of saul, when opportunities offered for his de­

struction, and of the death of samuel and nabal.

ABOUT this time David heard that the

Philistines had made an inroad into the

country of Keilah,f and robbed it. So he

offered himself to fight against them, if God,

when he should be consulted by the prophet,

would grant him the victory. And when the

prophet said, that God gave the signal of vic­

tory, he made a sudden onset upon the Phi­

listines, with his companions; and he shed a

great deal of blood, and carried ofTtheir prey,

and staid with the inhabitants of Keilah till

they had securely gathered in their corn, and

their fruit. However it was told Saul, that

David was with the men of Keilah; for what

had been done, and the great success that

had attended him, were not confined among

the people where the things were done; but

the fame of it went all abroad, and came to

the hearing of others; and both the fact as it

stood, and the author of the fact were carried

to the king's ears. Then was Saul glad when

he heard that David was in Keilah; and he

said, " God hath now put him into my hands,

since he hath obliged him to come into a city

that hath walls, and gates, and bars." So he

commanded all the people to set upon Keilah

suddenly; and when they had besieged and

taken it, to kill David. But when David per­

ceived this, and learned of God that if he

stayed there the men of Keilah would deliver

him up to Saul, he took his four hundred

men, and retired into a desert, that was over

a city called Engaddi. So when the king

heard he was fled away from the men of

Keilah, he left off his expedition against him.J

Then David removed thence, and came to

* 1 Sam. Mii. 23.

t 1 Sam. xxiii. 1. et seq.

l 1 Sam. xxiii. 13. .

