392 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

/

willing to forsake what we have, that we

may enjoy her beauty, and procure it to

ourselves. We also leave father and mo­

ther, and the earth that nourishes us, and

frequently forget our dearest friends, for the

sake of women. Nay, we are so hardy as

to lay down our lives for them. But what

will chieily make you take notice of the

strength of women is this that follows. Do

not we take pains, and endure a great deal

of trouble, and that both by land and sea,

and when we have procured somewhat as

the fruit of our labours, do not we bring

them to the women, as to our mistresses,

and bestow them upon them? Nay, I once

saw the king, who is lord of so many people,

smitten on the face by Apame, the daughter

of Rabsaces Themasius, his concubine; and

his diadem taken away from him, and put

upon her own head; while he bore it pa­

tiently: and when she smiled he smiled, and

when she was angry he was sad; and ac­

cording to the change of her passions, he

flattered her, and drew her to reconciliation

by the great humiliation of himself, if at any

time he saw her displeased."

And when the princes and rulers looked

one upon another, Zorobabel began to speak

about truth: and he said, "I have already de­

monstrated how powerful women are. But

both these women and the king are weaker

than truth. For although the earth be large,

and the heaven high, and the course of the

sun swift, yet are all these moved according

to the will of God, who is true and righteous.

For which cause we ought also to esteem

truth to be the strongest of all things, and

that what is unrighteous is of no force against

it. Moreover all things that have any strength

are mortal, and short lived, but truth is a thing

that is immortal, and eternal. It affords us

not indeed such a beauty as will wither away

by time, nor such riches as may be taken

away by fortune; but righteous rules and

laws. It distinguishes them from injustice,

and puts what is unrighteous to rebuke."*

So when Zorobabel had left oft' his dis­

course about truth, and the multitude had

cried out aloud, that he had spoken the most

wisely, and that it was truth alone that had

immutable strength, and such as never would

wax old; the king commanded, that he should

ask for somewhat over and above what he

had promised; for that he would give it him;

because of his wisdom, and that prudence

wherein he exceeded the rest. "And thou

slialt sit with me," said the king, "and shalt

be called my cousin." When he had said

this, Zorobabel reminded him of the vow he

had made, in case he should ever have the

kingdom. Now this vow was, to rebuild Je­

rusalem, and to build therein the temple of

God; as also to restore the vessels which

Nebuchadnezzar, had pillaged, and carried

to Babylon. "And this," said he, "is that

request which thou now permiltest me to

make, on account that I have been judged

to be wise, and to have understanding."

So the king was pleased with what he said,

and arose, and kissed him; and wrote to the

toparchs and governors; and enjoined them

to conduct Zorobabel, and those that were

going with him to build the temple. He also

sent letters to those rulers that were in Syria

and Phoenicia, to cut down and carry cedar

trees from Lebanon to Jerusalem; and to as­

sist him in building the city. He also wrote

to them, that all the captives who should go

to Judea should be free: and he prohibited

his deputies and governors from imposing any

king's taxes upon the Jews. He also per­

mitted, that they should have all that land

* The reader is to note, that although the speeches or  
papers of these three of the king's guard, are much the

same in our third Book of Esdras, chap. iii. and iv. as

they are in Josephus; yet the introduction of them is en­

tirely different. While in our Esdras the whole is related

as the contrivance of the three of the king's guard them­

selves: and even the mighty rewards are spoken of as

proposed by themselves, and the speeches arc related to

have been delivered by themselves to the king in writing.

While all is contrary in Josephus. I need not say whose

account is nost probable. The matters speak for them­

selves; and there can be no doubt but Josephus's history

is here to be very much preferred before the other. Nor

indeed does it seem to me at all unlikely, that the whole

was a contrivance of king Darius's, in order to be de -

cently and inoffensively put in mind by Zorobabel, of

fulfilling his old vow for the rebuilding of Jerusalem, and

the temple, and the restoration of the worship of the

One True God there. Nor does the full meaning of Zo­

robabel, when he cries out, 3 Esdras iv. 40. "Blessed

be the God of truth:" and here, "God is true and righ­

teous:" or of even all the people, 3 Esdras iv. 41. "God

is truth, and mighty above all things," seem to me much

different from this, there is but One True God, the God

of Israel. To which doctrine, such as Cyrus, Darius,

&c. those great patrons of the Jews, seem not to have

been very averse; though the entire idolatry of their

kingdom made them generally conceal it.

