28 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and promised that if their inclinations could

not be governed, he would expose his daugh­

ters to their lust, instead of these strangers;

neither thus were they made ashamed.

But God was much displeased at their im­

pudent behaviour, so that he both smote those

men with blindness,* and condemned the

Sodomites to universal destruction; but Lot,

upon God's informing him of the future de­

struction of the Sodomites, went away, taking

with him his wife and two daughters, who

were still virgins, for those that were be-

trothedt to them were above the thoughts of

going, and deemed Lot's words trifling. God

then cast a thunderbolt upon the city, and

set it on fire, with its inhabitants, and laid

waste the country with the like burning, as I

formerly said when I wrote the Jewish war;J

but Lot's wife continually turning back to

view the city, as she went from it, and being

too inquisitive what would become of it,

although God had forbidden her so to do, was

changed into a pillar|| of salt; for I have seen

it, and it remains at this day. Now he and

his daughters fled to a certain small place,

encompassed with the fire, and settled in it.

It is to this day called Zoar, for that is the

word which the Hebrews use for a small

thing. There it was that he lived a miserable

life, on account of his having no company, and

his want of provisions.

But his daughters thinking that all man­

kind were destroyed, approached§ to their

lather, though taking care not to be per­

ceived. This they did, that the human race

might not utterly fail; and they bare sons, the

son of the elder was called Moab, which de­

notes one derived from his father: the younger

bare Ammon, which name denotes one de­

rived from a kinsman. The former was the

father of the Moabites, which is even still a

great nation; the latter was the father of the

Ammonites, and both of them are inhabitants

of Celesyria. And such was the departure

of Lot from among the Sodomites.

CHAP. XII.

OP ABIMELECH's CONDUCT TOWARDS ABRAHAM; OF ISMAEL

THE SON OF ABRAHAM; AND THE ARABIANS, HIS POS­

TERITY.

ABRAHAM now removed to Gerar of

Palestine, leading Sarah along with

him, under the name of his sister, using the

like dissimulation that he had used before:

for he was afraid of Abimelech, the king of

that country; who actually fell in love with

Sarah, and was disposed to corrupt her, but

he was restrained from satisfying his desires

by a dangerous distemper, which befel him

from God. Now when his physicians des­

paired of curing him, he fell asleep, and was

warned in a dream not to abuse the stranger's

wife; and when he recovered he told his

friends, that God had inflicted that disease

upon him, by way of punishment for his injury

to the stranger, and in order to preserve the

chastity of his wife; for that she did not ac­

company him as his sister, but as his legitimate

wife; and that God had promised to be gra­

cious to him for the time to come, if this per­

son were once secure of his wife's chastity.

When he had said this, by the advice of his

friends he sent for Abraham, and told him not

to be in the least concerned about his wife,

for that God took care of him; and that it

was by his providence he received his wife

again, without suffering any abuse; and he

appealed to God, and to his wife's conscience,

and said he had not any inclination at first to

* Gen. xix. 11.

t These sons-in-law to Lot, as they are called, Gen.

six. 12, 14,mi?htbe so styled because they were be­

trothed to Lot's daughters, though not yet married to

them. See the Note on XIV. 13.

t Of the War, IV. 8.

II This pillar of salt was, we see here, standing in the

days of Josephus, and he had seen it. That it was stand­

ing then is also attested by Clement of Rome, contempo­

rary with Josephus; as also it was standing in the next

oentury, is attested by Irenaeus, with the addition of an hy­

pothesis, how it came to last so long, with all its members

intire. Whether the account that some modern travellers

give be true, that it is still standing, I do not know. Its

remote situation, at the utmost southern point of the sea

of Sodom, in the wild and dangerous deserts of Arabia,

makes it exceeding difficult for inquisitive travellers to

examine the place, and for common reports of country

people at a distance, they are not very satisfactory.

§ I see no wicked intention of these daughters of Lot,

in a case which appeared to them as an unavoidable neces­

sity. Incest is certainly a horrid crime; but whether in

such a case of necessity as they apprehended this to be,

according to Josephus, it was any such crime, I am not sa­

tisfied. In the mean time, their making their father in­

ebriated, and their solicitous concealment of what they did

from him, shewed that they despaired of persuading him to

an action, which at the best, could not but be very shock­

ing to so good a man.

