616 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

send greeting. Sopater, the ambassador of

Hyrcanus the high-priest, hath delivered us

an epistle from thee; whereby he lets us

know that certain ambassadors were come

from Hyrcanus, the high-priest of the Jews,

and brought an epistle written concerning

their nation; wherein they desire that the

Jews may be allowed to observe their sab­

baths, and other sacred rites, according to

the laws of their forefathers; and that they

may not be prevented therefrom; because

they are our friends and confederates; and

that nobody may injure them in our provinces.

Now although the Trallians there present

contradicted them, and were not pleased

with these decrees, yet didst thou give order

that they should be observed; and inform-

edst us that thou hadst been desired to write

this to us about them. We therefore, in obe­

dience to the injunctions received from thee,

have received thy epistle; and have laid it

up among our public records. And as to the

other things about which thou didst send, we

will take care that no complaint be made

against us."

"Publius Servilius, the son of Publius, of

the Galban tribe, proconsul, to the magis­

trates, senate, and people of the Milesians,

sendeth greeting. Prytanes, the son of Her­

mes, a citizen of yours, came to me when I

was at Tralles, and held a court there; and

informed me, that you used the Jews in a

way different from my opinion; and forbade

them to celebrate their sabbaths, and to per­

form their sacred rites received from their

forefathers; and to manage the fruits of the

land according to their ancient custom; and

that he had himself been the promulger of

your degree, according as your laws require.

I would therefore have you know, that upon

hearing the pleadings on both sides, I gave

sentence, that the Jews should not be prohi­

bited from making use of their own customs."

"The decree of those of Pergamus. When

Cratippus was prytanis, on the first day of

the month Desius, the decree of the praetors

was this. Since the Romans, following the

conduct of their ancestors, undertake dan­

gers for the common safety of all mankind;

and are ambitious to settle their confederates

and friends in happiness, and in firm peace;

* We haye here a most remarkable and authentic at­  
testation of the citizens of Pergamus, that Abraham was

and since the nation of the Jews, and their

high-priest Hyrcanus, sent as ambassadors

to them, Strabo the son of Theodatus, Apol-

lonius, the son of Alexander, Eneas, the son

of Antipater, Aristobulus, the son of Amyn-

tas, and Sosipater, the son of Philip, worthy

and good men; who gave a particular ac­

count of their affairs: the senate thereupon

made a decree about what they had desired

of them; that Antiochus the king, the son of

Antiochus, should do no injury to the Jews,

the confederates of the Romans; and that

the fortresses and the havens, and the coun­

try, and whatsoever else he had taken from

them, should be restored; and that it may be

lawful for them to export their goods out of

their own havens; and that no king nor peo­

ple may have leave to export any goods, ei­

ther out of the country of Judea, or out of

their havens, without paying customs; but

only Ptolemy, king of Alexandria: because

he is our confederate, and friend: and that

according to their desire the garrison that is

in Joppa may be ejected. Now Lucius Pet-

tius, one of our senators, a worthy and good

man, gave order that we should take care

that these things should be done. according

to the senate's decree; and that their ambas­

sadors might return home in safety. Accor­

dingly we admitted Theodorus into our se­

nate, and took the epistle out of his hands,

as well as the decree of the senate. And as

he discoursed with great zeal about the Jews,

and described Hyrcanus's virtue and gene­

rosity, and how he was a benefactor to all

men in common, and particularly to every

body that comes to him; we laid up the

epistle in our public records; and made a

decree ourselves, that since we also are in

confederacy with the Romans, we would do

every thing we could for the Jews, according

to the senate's decree. Theodorus also, who

brought the epistle, desired of our praetors

that they would send Hyrcanus a copy of

that decree; as also ambassadors to signify

to him the affection of our people; and to

exhort them to preserve and augment their

friendship for us, and be ready to bestow

other benefits upon us; as justly expecting

to receive proper requitals from us; and de­

siring them to remember, that our *ancestors

the father of all the Hebrews; that their own ancestors

were, in the eldest times, the friends of those Hebrews ,

