an. 1532.] 73 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

king of Egypt was in disorder, upon the fear

into which he reasoned himself, lest his people

should be destroyed, and that the manner of

this death was also reproachful. So that he

was forced in part to recover himself from his

wicked temper to a sounder mind; for he

gave leave for the Hebrews themselves to

depart. But when the plague thereupon

ceased, he thought it proper to require, that

they should leave their children and wives

behind them, as pledges of their return;

whereby he provoked God to be more vehe­

mently angry at him; as if he thought to im­

pose on his providence; and as if it were only

Moses, and not God who punished the Egyp­

tians for the sake of the Hebrews. For he

filled that country full of various sorts of pes­

tilential creatures,* with their various pro­

perties; such, indeed, as never came into the

sight of men before. By their means the men

perished themselves, and the land was desti­

tute of husbandmen for its cultivation: but if

any thing escaped destruction from them, it

was killed by a distemper, which the men

underwent also.

Pharaoh did not yet yield to the will of

God; but while he gave leave to the husbands

to take their wives with them, he insisted that

the children should be left behind; God

therefore resolved to punish his wickedness

with several sorts of calamities, and those

worse than the foregoing, which had yet so

generally afflicted them; but their bodies had

terrible boils,f breaking forth with blains;

while they were already inwardly consumed;

and a great part of the Egyptians perished in

this manner. But when the king was not

brought to reason by this plague, hail was

sent down from heaven ;J and such hail as the

climate of Egypt had never suffered be­

lice, to signify gnats. The Septuagint call them Kriviireg;

but what kind of creatures these were, is not so certainly

known. Others would have them to be a new species of

animals, called analogically by an old name; or if they

were lice, that they were such as had wings, and cruelly

stung and ulcerated the Egyptians. But upon the suppo­

sition that they were no worse than common lice, this was

plague enough to the Egyptians, who affected neatness to

such a degree, that they bathed themselves every day, and

some of them frequently shaved their bodies all over, for

fear of such vermin. Those who pretended that these

lice were a new species, make this a reason why the magi­

cians could not counterfeit this miracle, because, though

they could easily provide the serpents, the blood, and the

frogs, yet this sort of animal was now no where to be had;

and therefore, as the organs of sight are more liable to be

imposed upon than those of feeling, the magicians might

impose upon the king, and the other spectators, with fan­

tastical blood and frogs, but visionary lice could not vex

and torment the body; so that now it was time for the en­

chanters to desist, and to own their inability to mimic Moses

any farther. But supposing, that what the magicians did,

in the three former miracles, was not illusion and imposi­

tion upon the senses, but reality, the true reason why they

could proceed no farther was, that God Almighty had laid

bis restraint and prohibition upon the evil spirits, who had

hitherto been subservient to them, that they might not

assist them any longer. Le Clerc's Commentary; and jBi'4-

liotheca Bibl. in locum. B.

* The word Arab, which we render fly in general, is by  
the Septuagint called Kvvofwia, i. e. dog-fly, from its biting;

for it fastens its teeth so deep in the flesh, and sticks so

very close, that it oftentimes makes cattle run mad; and

the congruity of this plague seems to be greater, because

one of the Egyptian deities, which they called Anubis, bore

the head of a dog. The Psalmist indeed tells us, that God

sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them.

Ps. Ixxviii. 45. So that according to him, it was not one

particular kind, but all sorts of flies mingled together in

one prodigious swarm or conflux. Some translate it a

mixture of beasts, which they suppose went into Egypt to

infest and destroy the country: but this is not so probable

a construction, because the punishments hitherto inflicted

were nauseous and troublesome, rather than mortal;

though this plague of infinite numbers of small tormentors

is so great aone, that God calls it his army, Joel ii. 25, and

the Greeks thought fit fas Pliny, 1. 20. c. 28. tells us) to

have a god to deliver them from it, under the style of

Myiagros, or Myiodes, even as Belzebub signifies the Lord

or God of flies. Bochart, Hier. part 2. B.

t The Hebrew word Sliechin properly signifies an in­

flammation, which first makes a tumor or boil, (as we

translate it,) and thence turns a grievous ulcer. Dr.

Lightfoot indeed observes, that in the book of Job, chap,

ii. 7, 8. where the same word occurs, it signifies only a

burning itch, or an inflamed scab; an intolerable dry itch,

which Job could not scratch off with his nails, and was

therefore forced to make use of a potsherd: but then he

confesses that thisShechin here spoken of, was more ran­

corous than that, having blains and ulcers that broke out

with it, which Job's had not. So that the Egyptians, accor­

ding to this, must have been vexed with a triple punish­

ment at once, (a punishment fitly calculated for the morti­

fication of a delicate and a voluptuous people,) aking boils,

nauseous ulcers, and a burning itch; and to this that com­

munication of Moses to the people, in case they proved

disobedient, does, without all peradventure, allude. The

Lord mill smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with the

emcrods, and with the scab, and with the itch, whereof thou

canst not be healed. Deut. xxviii. 27. B.

I This infection was the more terrible in Egypt, be­

cause according to the account of Herodotus, (1. 3. c. 10.)

a very rare thing it was to see any rain, and much more

any bail, in that climate: and accordingly he mentions it

as a kind of prodigy, that in the reign of Psammenitus,

there happened to be a shower in Thebes, which was

never known before in the memory of man, nor ever after,

to the age wherein our author wrote. The Psalmist has

given us a very poetic description of this judgment: He

destroyed the vines with haU, and the sycamore trees with

