aN. 486.] 397 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

years, six months, and ten days. But before

those kings such rulers governed them as

were called judges and monarchs. Under

this form of government they continued for

more than five hundred years, after the

death of Moses and of Joshua their com­

mander. And this is the account I had to

give of the Jews who had been carried into

captivity, but were delivered from it in the

times of Cyrus and Darius.

*But the Samaritans being enviously dis­  
posed toward the Jews wrought them many

mischiefs; by reliance on their riches, and

by their pretence that they were allied to the

Persians. And whatsoever it was that they

were enjoined to pay to the Jews, by the

king's order, out of their tribute, for the sa­

crifices, they would not pay it. They had

also the governors favourable to them, and

assisting them for that purpose. Nor did they

spare to hurt them, either by themselves, or

by others, as far as they were able. So the

Jews determined to send an ambassage to

king Darius, in favour of the people of Jeru­

salem; and in order to accuse the Samaritans.

The ambassadors were Zorobabel, and four

others of the rulers. And as soon as the king

knew from the ambassadors the accusations

and complaints they brought against the Sa­

maritans, he gave them an epistle to be car­

ried to the governors and council of Samaria.

The contents of the epistle were these:—

"King Darius to Tanganas, and Sambabas

governors of the Samaritans; to Sadraces and

Bobelo, and the rest of their fellow servants

that are in Samaria: Zorobabel, Ananias,

and Mordecai, the ambassadors of the Jews,

complain of you, that you obstruct them in

the building of the temple, and do not supply

them with the expenses that I commanded

you to do, for the offering their sacrifices.

My will is, therefore, that upon reading of

this epistle, you supply them with whatsoever

they want for their sacrifices; and that out of

the royal treasury of the tributes of Samaria,

as the priest shall desire; that they may not

leave off offering their daily sacrifice, nor

praying to God for me, and the Persians."

CHAP. V.

OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE JEWS UNDER XF.RXK.S, THE SON OV

DARIUS; ALSO CONCERNING ESDRAS AND NEHEMIAH.

UPON the death of Darius,f the govern­

ment devolved upon his son Xerxes,!

who, as he inherited his father's kingdom,

so did he inherit his piety toward God, and

honour of him. For he did all things agreea­

bly to his father's will relating to divine wor­

ship; and was exceeding friendly to the Jews.

Now about this time|| a son of Jeshua, whose

name was Joacim, was the high-priest. More­

over there was now in Babylon a righteous

man, and one that enjoyed a great reputation

among the multitude. He was the principal

priest of the people; and his name was Es­

* N. B. This part of the history is entirely wanting in  
sill our other copies, both of Ezra and Esdras.

t The character which oar celebrated connector of the

Old and New Testament has given us of this Darius is,—

That he was a prince of great wisdom, clemency, and

justice, and has the honour to be recorded in holy writ,

for a favourer of God's people, and a restorer of his

temple at Jerusalem, and a promoter of his worship

therein. For all this God was pleased to make him his

instrument; and, with respect to this, I doubt not, it was,

that he blessed him with a numerous issue, a long reign,

and great prosperity. For, though he was not so very

fortunate in his wars against the Scythians and Grecians,

yet every where else he had full success in all his under­

takings, and not only restored and fully settled the empire

of Cyrus, after it had been much shaken by Cambyses,

and the Magian, but also added many large and rich pro­

vinces to it, especially those of India, Thrace, Macedon,

and the Isles of the Ionian sea. Pridcaitx't Connection,

anno 486. B.

I % Darius had three sons by his first wife, the daugh­

ter of Gobrias, all born before his advancement to the

throne, and four others by Atossa, the daughter of Cyrus,

who were all born after it. Of the former Artabasanes

was the eldest; of the latter Xerxes; and, as Darius ad­

vanced in years, between these two was the competition

for the succession. Artabasanes urged, that, as he was

the eldest son, according to the custom and usage of all

nations, he ought to be preferred before any that was

younger. But Xerxes replied to this, That he was the

son of Darius by Atossa, the daughter of Cyrus, who was

the first founder of the Persian empire; for which reason

he held it just and reasonable, that the crown of Cyrus

should rather come to a descendant of Cyrus, than to one

that was not; and to this he added, that though Artaba­

sanes was the eldest son of Darius, yet he was not the

eldest son of a king; that he was born when he was only

a private person, and could therefore claim no more than

to be heir of his private fortunes; but that as to himself,

he was the first-born after his father was king, and had

therefore the best right to succeed1 him m the kingdom.

Whereupon he was nominated to the succession, but not

so much for the strength of his plea, as for the influence

which his mother Atossa had over the inclinations of her

husband. PridetLttx's Connection, anno 486. B.

II An. 479.

3U2

