210 [BOOK Yt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

him, either sword or spear? Now there was

at Nob a servant of Saul's, by birth a* Syrian,

whose name was Doeg; one that kept the

king's mules. The high-priest said, that he

had no such weapon: but he added, "Here

is the sword of Goliath, which, when thou

hadst slain the Philistine, thou didstf dedi­

cate to God."

When David had received the sword, he

fled out of the country of the Hebrews, into

that of the Philistines, over which Achish

reigned. And when the king's servants knew

him, and he was made known to the king

himself, the servants informing him that he

was that David, who had killed many ten

thousands of the Philistines, David was afraid

lest the king should put him to death, and

that he should experience that danger from

him which he had escaped from Saul, so he

pretended to be distracted and mad; letting

his spittle run out of his mouth, and doing

other actions before the king of Gath, which

might make him believe that they proceeded

from such a distemper. Accordingly, the

king was very angry at his servants that they

had brought him a madman;J and gave order

that they should eject David immediately out

of the city.

When David had escaped in this manner

out of Gath, he came to the tribe of Judah,

and abode in a cave, by the city of Adullam.

Then it was that he sent to his brethren, and

informed them where he was, who then came

to him with all their kindred, and as many

others as were either in want, or in fear of

king Saul, came and made a body together,

and told him they were ready to obey his

orders. They were in all four hundred.

Whereupon he took courage, now such a

force and assistance was come to him. So he

removed hence, and came to the king of the

Moabites, and desired him to entertain his

parents in his country, while the issue of his

affairs were in such an uncertain condition.

The king granted him his favour, and payed

great respect to David's parents, all the time

they were with him.

As for himself,|| upon the prophet's com­

manding him to leave the desert, and go into

the portion of the tribe of Judah, and abide

* Edomite in the Hebrew, Syrian in the Septuagint.  
t Antiq. vi. 9.

| 1 Sam. xvi. 15.

there, he complied: and coming to the city

Hareth, which was in that tribe, he remained

there. Now when Saul heard that David had

been seen with a multitude about him, he fell

into no small disturbance and trouble. But

as he knew, that David was a bold and cou­

rageous man, he suspected that somewhat ex­

traordinary would appear from him, and that

openly also, which would make him weep,

and put him into distress. So he called toge­

ther his friends and his commanders, and the

tribe from which he was himself derived, to

the hill where his palace was, and sitting upon

a place called Aroura, his courtiers that were

in dignities, and the guards of his body being

with him, he spake thus to them: "you that

are men of my own tribe, I conclude, remem­

ber the benefits that I have bestowed upon

you; that I have made some of you owners of

land, and made you commanders, and be­

stowed posts of honour upon you, and set

some of you over the common people, and

others over the soldiers. I ask you, there­

fore, whether you expect greater donations

from the son of Jesse? for I know that you

are all inclined towards him; even my own

son Jonathan is of that opinion, and persuades

you to be of the same. For I am not unac­

quainted with the oaths and covenants that

are between him and David; and that Jona­

than is a counsellor, and an assistant to those

that conspire against me; and none of you

are concerned about these things; but you

keep silence, and watch to see what will be

the result." When the king had concluded

his speech, not one of the rest of those that

were present made any answer; but Doeg

the Syrian,§ who fed his mules, said, that he

saw David, when he came to the city Nob,

to Ahimelech the high-priest; and that he

learned future events by his prophesying;

that he received food from him, and the

sword of Goliath, and was conducted by him

with security whither he desired to go.

Saul therefore sent for the high-priest, and

for all his kindred, and said to them, "what

terrible or ungrateful thing hast thou suffered

from me, that thou hast received the son of

Jesse, and hast bestowed on him both food

and weapons, when he was contriving to get

II About an. 1099.

§ Or Edomite.

