aN. 1532.] 91 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and on the back part of it remained the west.

It was necessary that its height should be

equal to its breadth, ten cubits. There were

also pillars made of wood, twenty on each

side; they were wrought into a quadrangular

figure, in breadth a cubit and a half, but the

thickness was four fingers: they had thin

plates of gold affixed to them, on both sides,

inwardly and outwardly: they had also each

of them, two silver tenons, inserted into their

bases; in each of which was a socket to re­

ceive the tenon. But the pillars on the west­

ern wall were six. Now all these tenons and

sockets accurately fitted one another, inso­

much that the joints were invisible; and both

seemed to be one united wall: it was also

covered with gold, both within and without.

The number of pillars was equal on the op­

posite sides, and there were on each part

twenty; and every one had the third part of

a span in thickness: so that the number of

thirty cubits were fully made up between

them. But as to the wall behind, where the

six pillars made up together only nine cubits,

they made two other pillars, and cut them out

of one cubit, which they placed in the cor­

ners, and made them equally fine with the

others. Now every one of the pillars had

rings of gold affixed to their fronts outward,

as if they had taken root in the pillars, and

stood one row over against another round

about; through which were inserted gilded

bars, each of them five cubits long, and these

bound together the pillars; the head of one

bar running into another, after the nature of

one tenon inserted into another. But for the

wall behind, there was but one row of bars

that went through all the pillars: into which

row ran the ends of the bars on each side of

the longer walls; and all joined so fast toge­

ther, that the tabernacle could not be shaken,

either by the winds, or by any other means;

but remained firm, quiet, and immoveable.

As for the inside, Moses divided its length

into three partitions. At the distance often

cubits from the most sacred end, he placed

four pillars; whose workmanship was the

game with that of the rest, and they stood

upon the like bases with them; each at a

small distance from his fellow. Now the room

within those pillars was the most holy place:

but the rest of the room was the tabernacle,

which was open for the priests. However this

VOL. I.—NO. e.

proportion of the measures of the tabernacle

proved to be an imitation of the system of the

world; for that third part which was within

the four pillars, to which the priests were not

admitted, is, as it were, a heaven, peculiar to

God; but the space of the twenty cubits, is,

as it were, sea and land, on which men live:

and so this part is peculiar to the priests only.

At the front, where the entrance was made,

they placed seven pillars of gold, that stood

on bases of brass; and they spread over the

tabernacle veils of fine linen, and purple, and

blue, and scarlet colours, embroidered. The

first veil was ten cubits every way; and this

was spread over the pillars which parted the

temple, and kept the most holy place con­

cealed within: and this veil was that which

made this part not visible to any. Now the

whole temple was called the Holy Place; but

that part which was within the four pillars,

and to which none were admitted, was called

the Holy of Holies. This veil was very orna­

mental, and embroidered with all sorts of fine

flowers; and there were interwoven into it a

variety of ornaments, excepting only the forms

of animals. Another veil, which covered the

five pillars at the entrance, was like the for­

mer in its magnitude, texture, and colour;

and at the corner of every pillar a ring re­

tained it from the top downwards, half the

depth of the pillars; the other half affording

an entrance for the priests, who crept under

it. Over this was a veil of linen, of the same

size with the former: it was to be drawn this

way or that way by cords, whose rings fixed

to the texture of the veil, and to the cords

also, were subservient to the drawing and un­

drawing of the veil, and to the fastening it at

the corner that it might be no hindrance to

the view of the sanctuary; especially on so­

lemn days; but that on other days, and espe­

cially when the weather was inclined to snow,

it might be expanded, and afford a covering

to the veil of divers colours. Hence that

custom of ours is derived, of having a fine

linen veil after the temple has been built, to

be drawn over the entrances. The ten other

curtains were four cubits in breadth, and

twenty-eight in length, and had golden clasps,

which joined the one curtain to the other, so

exactly, that they seemed to be one entire

curtain. These were spread over the temple,

and covered all the top, and part of the walls,

Aa

