106 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

seven times seven years,* which in all are

fifty years; and the fiftieth year is called by

the Hebrews the Jubilee. At that time debt­

ors are freed from their debts, and slaves are

set at liberty, which slaves became such,

though they were of the same stock, by trans­

gressing some of those laws whose punishment

was not capital; but they were punished by

this method of slavery. This year also re­

stores the land to its former possessors in the

following manner; when the jubilee is come,

which name denotes liberty, he that sold the

land, and he that bought it, meet together,

and make an estimate on one hand of the

fruits gathered, and on the other hand of the

expenses laid out upon it. If the fruits ga­

thered come to more than the expenses laid

out, he that sold it takes the land again; but

if the expenses prove more than the fruits,

the present possessor receives of the former

owner the difference that was wanting, and

leaves the land to him: but if the fruits re­

ceived, and the expenses laid out, prove

equal, the present possessor relinquishes it to

the former owner. Moses would have the

same law obtain as to those houses also which

were sold in villages: but he made a differ­

ent law for such as were sold in a city; for if

he that sold it tendered the purchaser his

money again within a year, he was forced to

restore it; but in case a whole year had in­

tervened, the purchaser was to enjoy what he

had bought. This was the constitution of the

laws which Moses learned of God when the

camp lay under mount Sinai, and this he de­

livered in writing to the Hebrews.

Now when this settlement of laws seemed

to be well over, Moses thought proper to take

a review of the host, in order to settle the

affairs of war: so he charged the heads of

the tribes, excepting the tribe of Levi, to take

an exact account of the number of those who

were able to go to war; for as to the Levites

they were holy, and free from all such bur­

dens. Now, when the people had been num­

bered, there were found six hundered thou­

sand that were able to go to war, from twenty

to fifty years of age, besides three thousand

six hundred and fifty. Instead of Levi, Moses

took Manasseh, the son of Joseph, among the

* Levit. xxv. 1.  
t Book II. chap. 8.

heads of tribes, and Ephraim instead of Jo­

seph. It was indeed the desire of Jacob

himself to Joseph, that he would give him his

sons to be his own by adoption,f as I have be­

fore related.

When they set up the tabernacle, they re­

ceived it into the midst of their camp; three

of the tribes pitching their tents on each side

of it, and roads were cut through the midst

of these tents. It was like a well appointed

market, and every thing was there ready for

sale in due order, and all sorts of artificers

were in the shops, and it resembled nothing

so much as a city that sometimes was movea­

ble, and sometimes fixed. The priests had

the first places about the tabernacle; then

the Levites, who, because their whole mul­

titude was reckoned from thirty days old,

were twenty-three thousand eight hundred

and eighty males; and during the time that

the cloud stood over the tabernacle, they

thought proper to stay in the same place, as

supposing that God there inhabited among

men, but when that removed they journeyed

also.J

Moses was also the inventor of the form of

the Hebrew trumpet, which was made of

silver. In length it was little less than a cu­

bit. It was composed of a narrow tube, some­

what thicker than a flute, but with so much

breadth as was sufficient for admission of the

breadth of a man's mouth; it ended in the

form of a bell, like common trumpets. Its

sound was called, in the Hebrew tongue,

assosra. There were two of them made; and

when the first of them gave a signal, the

heads of the tribes were to assemble, and

consult about the affairs to them properly be­

longing: but when both of them sounded they

called the multitude together, which was

done when the tabernacle was to remove.

When the second signal was given, those that

were on the south quarter did the like. In

the next place, the tabernacle was taken to

pieces, and was carried in the midst of six

tribes that went before, and of six that fol­

lowed. Now all the Levites were about the

tabernacle. When the third signal was given,

that part which had their tents towards the

west put themselves in motion; and at the

X Exod. xl. 36, 37.

