AN. 187.] 437 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

These were the contents of the epistle,

which was sent from the king of the Lace­

daemonians. But upon the death of Joseph,

the people grew seditious, on account of his

sons. For whereas the elders made war

against Hyrcanus, who was the youngest of

Joseph's sons, the multitude was divided:

but the greater part joined with the elders

in this war: as did Simon the high-priest, by

reason he was of *kin to them. However,

Hyrcanus determined not to return to Jeru­

salem any more; but seated himself beyond

Jordan; and was at perpetual war with the

Arabians, and slew many of them, and took

many captives. He also erected a strong

castle, and built it entirely of white stone, to

the very roof; and had animals of a prodi­

gious magnitude engraven upon it; and also

encompassed it with a great and deep canal

of water. He also made caves of many fur­

longs in length; by hollowing a rock that

was over against him; and then made large

rooms in it; some for feasting, and some for

sleeping, and living in. He introduced also

a vast quantity of waters which ran along it,

and which were very delightful, and orna­

mental in the court. But still he made the

entrances at the mouths of the caves so very

narrow, that no more than one person could

enter by them at once. And the reason why

he built them after that manner was for his

own preservation: lest he should be besieged

by his brethren, and run the hazard of being

caught by them. Moreover, he built courts

of greater magnitude than ordinary; which

he adorned with vastly large gardens. And

when he had brought the place to this state,

he named it Tyre. This place is between

Arabia and Judea, beyond Jordan, not far

from the country of Heshbon. And he ruled

over those parts for seven years: even all

that time that Seleucus was king of Syria.

But when he was dead, his brother Antio­

chus, surnamed Epiphanes, took the king­

dom. Ptolemy, king of Egypt, also died;

who was besides called Epiphanes. He left

two sons, and both young in age; the elder

of whom was called Philometor, and the

younger Physcon. As for Hyrcanus, when

he saw that Antiochus had a great army,

and feared lest he should be caught by him,

and brought to punishment for what he had

done to the Arabians, he slew himself with

his own hand: and Antiochus seized upon

all his substance.

CHAP. V.

OF THE ftUARRELS WHICH AROSE RESPECTING THE HIGH-

PRIESTHOOD; THE EXPEDITION OF ANTIOCHUS AGAINST

JERUSALEM; THE CRUELTIES EXECUTED ON THE JEWS;

ND THE CONDUCT OF THE SAMARITANS.

UPON the death of Onias, the high-priest,

they gave the high-priesthood to Jesus,

his brother; for that son which Onias left,

(Onias IV.) was yet but an infant. And in

its proper place we will inform the reader of

all the circumstances that befell this child.

But this Jesus, who was the brother of Onias,

was deprived of the high-priesthood by the

king, who was angry with him, and gave it to

his younger brother; whose name also was

Onias. For Simon had these three sons; to

each of whom the high-priesthood came; as

we have falready informed the reader. This

Jesus changed his name to Jason; but Onias

was called Menelaus. Now as the former

high-priest, Jesus, raised a sedition against

Menelaus, who was ordained after him, the

multitude were divided between them both.

And the sons of Tobias took the part of Me­

nelaus, but the greater part of the people

assisted Jason; and by that means Menelaus

and the sons of Tobias were distressed, and

* Chap. iv.

* We have hitherto had but few of those citations  
where Josephus says, that he had elsewhere formerly

treated of many things, of which yet his present books

have not a syllable. Our commentators have hitherto

been able to give no tolerable account of these citations;

which are far too numerous, and that usually in all his

copies, both Greek and Latin, to be supposed later inter­

polations: which is almost all that has been hitherto said

upon this occasion. What I have to observe farther is

this; that we have but very few of these references be­

fore, and very many in and after the history of Antiochus

Epiphanes and that Josephus's first work, the Hebrew

or Chaldee, as well as the Greek history of the Jewish

war, long since lost, began with that very history. So

that the references are most probably made to the edition

of the seven books of the war. See the several other ex­

amples: I mean besides those in the chapter before us:

in Antiq. XIII. 2. and chap. 4, 6, 8, and 13. and Book

XVIII. chap. 2. As for his latter Greek books of that

war, now extant, they are frequetiy cited hereafter also:

and those citations are still extant therein. See Antiq.

XIII. 3, and chap. 5 and 10. See also some other places

that may give some light to this matter. Antiq. XIV. 6,

and chap. 7, and XX. chap. 7. Of the War, I. 8. IV. 8

\ 6

4B2

