236 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

David, king of Judea; and tried his fortune

in many battles, and particularly in the last

battle at Euphrates, wherein he was beaten.

He seems to have been the most excellent of

all their kings, in strength and manhood."

Besides this, he says of his posterity, that

after his death they succeeded one another

in his kingdom, and in his name: where he

thus speaks, "When Hadad was dead, his

posterity reigned for ten generations, each of

his successors receiving from his father his

dominion and his name; as did the Ptolemies

in Egypt. But the third was the most pow­

erful of them all; and was willing to avenge

the defeat his forefather had received; so he

made an expedition against the Jews, and

laid waste the city which is now called Sa­

maria." Nor did he err from the truth. For

this is that Hadad who made the expedition

against Samaria, in the reign of Ahab, king

of Israel; concerning whom we shall speak in

due place hereafter.

Now when David had made an expedition

against Damascus, and the other parts of

Syria, and had brought it all into subjection,

and had placed garrisons in the country, and

appointed that they should pay tribute, he

returned home. He also dedicated to God

at Jerusalem the golden quivers, and the en-

lire armour which the guards of Hadad used

to wear; which Shishak the king of Egypt

took away when he fought with David's

grandson Rehoboam; with a great deal of

other wealth which he carried out of Jeru­

salem. However these things will come to be

explained in their proper places hereafter.

Now as for the king of the Hebrews, he was

assisted by God, who gave him great success

in his wars; and he made an expedition

against the best cities of Hadadezer, Betah,

and Machon. So he took them by force, and

laid them waste. Therein was found a very

great quantity of gold and silver, besides that

sort of brass which is said to be more valuable

than gold. Of which brass Solomon made

that large vessel which was called the brazen

sea; and those most curious lavers, when he

built the temple of God.

But when the king of Hamath was informed

of the ill success of Hadadezer, and had

heard of the ruin of his army, he was afraid

on his own account, and resolved to make a

league of friendship with David, before he

should come against him. So he sent to him

his son Joram, and professed that he owed

him thanks for fighting against Hadadezer,

who was his enemy; and made a league with

him of mutual assistance and friendship. He

also sent him presents, vessels of ancient

workmanship, both of gold, silver, and brass.*

So when David had made this league of mu­

tual assistance with Toi, (for that was the

name of the king of Hamath,) and had re­

ceived the presents he sent him, he dismissed

his son with that respect which was due on

both sides. But then David brought those

presents that were sent by him; as also the

rest of the gold and silver which he had taken

of the cities of the nations, whom he had con­

quered, and dedicated them to God. Nor

did God give victory and success to him only,

when he went to the battle himself, and led

his own army; but he gave victory to Abishai,

the brother of Joab, general of his forces,f

over the Idumeans; and by him to David,

when he sent him with an army into Idumea.

For Abishai destroyed eighteen thousand of

them in the battle. Whereupon the king of

Israel placed garrisons through all Idumea,

and received the tribute of the country, and

of every head among them. Now David was

in his nature just, and made his determina­

tions with regard to truth. He had for the

general of his whole army Joab; and he made

Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, recorder.

He also appointed Zadok, of the family of

Phineas, to be high-priest, together with Abi-

athar; for he was his friend. He also made

Seisan the scribe, and committed the com­

mand over the guards of his body to Benaiah,J

* 1 Chron. xviii. 9, 10.

t By this great victory over the Idumeans or Edomites,

the posterity of Esau, and by the consequent tribute paid

by that nation to the Jews, were the prophecies delivered

to Rebecca before Jacob and Esau were born; and by

old Isaac before his death, that the elder, Esau, or

the Edomites, should serve the younger, Jacob, or the

Israelites; and Jacob, or the Israelites, should be Esau's,

or the Edomites', lord, remarkably fulfilled. See VIII.

7. Gen. xxv. 23. and xxvii. 29, 37. and the Notes on

I. 18.

J The word in our translation, is recorder, which, in

the marginal note, is remembrancer, or writer of chroni­

cles; an employment of no mean estimation in the eastern

world, where it was customary with the kings to keep

daily registers of all the transactions of their reigns; and

a trust, which however discharged to purpose, must be

let into the true springs and secrets of action, and conse­

