AIT. 405 454.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

four hundred. And when the eunuch thought

the virgin had been sufficiently purified, in

the aforementioned time, and were now fit to

go to the king's bed, he sent one to be with

the king every day. So when he had ac­

companied with her, he sent her back to the

eunuch. And when Esther had come to

him, he was pleased with her, and fell in

love with the damsel, and married her; and

made her his lawful wife,* and kept a wed­

ding feast for her on the twelfth month, of

the seventh year of his reign; which was

called Adar. He also sent Angari, as they

are called, or messengers into every nation;

and gave orders that they should keep a feast

for his marriage: while he himself treated the

Persians, and the Medes, and the principal

men of the nations, for a whole month. Ac­

cordingly Esther came to his royal palace,

and he set a diadem pn her head, and thus

was she married;f without making known to

the king what nation she was derived from.

Her uncle also removed from Babylon to

Shushan, and dwelt there: being every day

about the palace, and inquiring how the

damsel did: for he loved her as though she

had been his own daughter.

Now the king had made a law, that none

of his own people should approach him4 un­

less he were called, when ne sat upon his

throne. And men with axes in their hands

stood round about his throne; in order to

punish such as approached to him, without

being called. However the king sat with a

golden sceptre in his hand; which he held out

when he had a mind to save any one of those

that approached to him, without being called;

and he who touched it was free from danger.

Some time after this two eunuchs,|| Big-

than and Teresh, conspired against the

king: and Barnabazus, the servant of one

of the eunuchs, being by birth a Jew, was

acquainted with their conspiracy, and dis­

covered it to the queen's uncle. And Mor-

decai, by the means of Esther, made the

conspirators known to the king.§ This trou­

bled the king: but he discovered the truth,

and hanged the eunuchs upon a cross. At

that time, however, he gave no reward to

Mordecai, who had been the occasion of his

preservation. He only bade the scribes to

set down his name in the records; and bade

him stay in the palace as an intimate friend

of the king's.

Now there was one Haman, the son of

Amedatha, by birth an Amalekite, that used

to go in to the king: and the foreigners and

Persians worshipped him; as Artaxerxes had

commanded that such honour should be paid

to him. But Mordecai was so wise, and so

observant of his country's laws, that he would

not worship the man*** When Haman ob­

served this, he inquired whence he came?

and when he understood that he was a Jew,

, * Esther ii. 17.

t According to this account of things, this Persian mo­

narch seems to have had but one wife, at least but one in

chief favour and esteem with him, though it is certain, he

could not fail of having an infinite number of secondary

wives or concubines. This was the name of every one

that was taken from among the virgins, who had a separate

house for themselves, and conducted to the king's bed;

where having passed a night, she returned no more to the

virgins' apartments, but was, the next morning, received

into the house of the concubines, and there treated in the

state and port of one of the king's wives: for such they

Were accounted. No man was permitted to marry them,

as long as the king lived; and upon his demise, they

generally fell to his successor. Of these Darius Nothus

is reckoned to have had no less than three hundred and

sixty. Pool's Annotations. The manner of the Persian

king was to give his queens, at their marriage, such a

city to buy them clothes; another for their hair; another

for their necklaces; and so on for the rest of their ex­

penses. And as it was customary for him, according to

the testimony of Herodotus, upon his accession to the

throne, to remit the tribute that was due to him from all

the cities; so he might, upon this occasion, out of his

abundant joy, make a release to the provinces, and forgive

them some of the duties and imposts that they were bound

to pay him. Patrick's Commentary. B:

J Take here Dr. Hudson's note, which ie this: Hero­

dotus shews, lib. I. cap. 99. that this law against any one's

coming uncalled to the kings of Persia, when they were

sitting on their thrones, was first enacted by Dejoces, i. e.

by him who first withdrew the Medes from the dominion

of the Assyrians, and himself first reigned over thera.

Thus also, says Spanheim, stood guards, with their axes,

about the throne of Tenus, or Tenelus, that the offender

might by them be punished immediately.

II Those were two great men, who perhaps kept the

door of the king's bed-chamber, and being either incensed

at the divorce of Vashti, (whose creatures they were,)

or at the advancement of Esther, who, in all probability,

would raise her kinsman Mordecai to a superiority over

them, took disgust thereat, and so resolved to revenge

themselves on the king for" it. Prideaux's Connection,

and Patrick's Commentary. B.

§ Esther ii. 21, 22.

** Whether this adoration required of Mordecai to Ha­  
man, were by hhn deemed too like the adoration due only

to God; as Josephus- seems here to think ; as well as their

Septuagint interpreters also, by their translation of Esther

xiii. 12, 13, 14. of whether he thought he ought to pay

3X2

