a*. 479] 399 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

same year. Now Esdras presented the sacred

money to the treasurers, who were of the fa­

mily of the priests, of silver six hundred and

fifty talents; vessels of silver one hundred ta­

lents; vessels of gold twenty talents; and ves­

sels of brass, that was *more precious than

gold, twelve talents by weight. For these

presents had been made by the king, and his

counsellors, and by all the Israelites that

stayed at Babylon. So when Esdras had

delivered these things to the priests, he gave

to God as the appointed sacrifices of whole

burnt-offerings; twelve bulls, on account of

the common preservation of the people,

ninety rams, seventy-two lambs, and twelve

kids of the goats, for the remission of sins.

He also delivered the king's epistle to the

king's officers, and to the governors of Coole-

syria and Phoenicia. And as they were under

a necessity of doing what was enjoined by

him, they honoured our nation, and were as­

sistant to them in all their necessities.

Now these things were truly done under

the conduct of Esdras; and he succeeded in

them; because God esteemed him worthy of

the success of his conduct, on account of

his righteousness. But some time afterward

there came some persons to him, and brought

an accusation against certain of the multitude,

and of the priests and Levites, who had trans­

gressed their settlement, and dissolved the

laws of their country, by marrying strange

wives; and had brought the family of the

priests into confusion. These persons desir­

ed him to support the laws; lest God should

take up a general anger against them all, and

reduce them to a calamitous condition again.

Hereupon he rent his garment immediately,

out of his grief, and pulled the hair of his head

and beard; and cast himself upon the ground:

because this crime had reached the principal

men among the people, and considering that

if he should enjoin them to cast out their

wives, and the children they had by them, he

should not be hearkened to, he continued ly­

ing upon the ground. However all the better

sort came running to him; who also them­

selves wept, and partook of the grief he was

under for what had been done. So Esdras

rose up from the ground, and stretched out his

hand towards heaven, and said, that he wa#

ashamed to look towards it, because of the

sins which the people had committed: while

they had cast out of their memories what their

fathers had undergone on account of their

wickedness. And he besought God, who

had saved a seed and a remnant out of the

calamity and captivity they had been in, and

had restored them again to Jerusalem, and

to their own land, and had obliged the kings

of Persia to have compassion on them, that

he would also forgive them the sins they had

now committed: which, though they deserved

death, yet was it agreeable to the mercy of

God to remit the punishments due to them.

After Esdras had said this, he left off' pray­

ing; and when all those who came to him

with their wives and children were under la­

mentation, one whose name was Jechonias,

a principal man in Jerusalem, came to him

and said, that they had sinned in marrying

strange wives; and he persuaded him to ad­

jure them all, to cast those wives out, and the

children born of them, and that those should

be punished who would not obey the law. So

Esdras hearkened to this advice, and made

the heads of the priests, and of the Levites,

and of the Israelites, swear that they would

put away those wives and children according

to the advice of Jechonias. And when he

had received their oaths, he went in haste

out of the temple, into the chamber of Joha-

nan, the son of Eliasib: and as he had hitherto

stated nothing at all, for grief; so he abode

there that day. And when proclamation was

made, that all those of the captivity should

gather themselves together to Jerusalem, and

that those that did not meet there in two

or three days,,should be banished from the

multitude, and that their substance should be

appropriated to the uses of the temple ac­

cording to the sentence of the elders, those

that were of the tribes of Judah and Benja­

min came together in three days; viz. on the

twentieth day of the ninth month: which, ac­

cording to the Hebrews, is called fTebeth,

and according to the Macedonians, Apelleus.

Now as they were sitting in the upper room

tieth of Artaxerxes, as commonly supposed, but from the

twenty-fifth of Xerxes, is there proved at large, page

78—91.

* Dr. Hudson observes here, that this kind of brass or

copper, or rather mixture of gold and brass or copper, was

called Aurichalcum; and that this was of old esteemed the

most precious of all metals.

t Casleu.

