366 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

excepting Judea. But when Nebuchadnez­

zar had already reigned four years, which

was the eighth of Jehoiakim's government

over the Hebrews, the king of Babylon made

an expedition with mighty forces against the

Jews, and required tribute of Jehoiakim;

threatening upon his refusal to make war

against him. He was affrighted at his threat­

ening, and bought his peace with money;

and brought the tribute he was ordered to

bring for three years.

But on the third year, upon hearing that

the king of Babylon made an expedition

against the Egyptians, he did not pay his

tribute; yet was he disappointed of his hope,

for the Egyptians durst not fight at this time.

And indeed the prophet Jeremiah foretold

every day how vainly they relied on their

hopes from Egypt; and how the city would

foe overthrown by the king of Babylon,* and

Jehoiakim the king would be subdued by

him. But what he thus spoke, proved to be

of no advantage to them, because there were

none that should escape. For both the mul­

titude, and the rulers when they heard him,

had no concern about what they heard: but

being displeased at what was said, as if the

prophet were a diviner against the kings,

they accused Jeremiah; and bringing him

before the court, they required that a sen­

tence of punishment might be given against

him. Now all the rest gave their votes

for his condemnation; but the elders pru­

dently sent away the prophet from the court

of the prison, and persuaded the rest to do

him no harm. For they said he was not the

only person who foretold what would come

to the city, but that Micah signified the same

before him, as well as many others; none of

whom suffered any thing of the kings that

then reigned, but were honoured as the pro­

phets of God. So they appeased the multi­

tude with these words, and delivered Jere-

miah from the punishment to which he was

condemned.f Now when this prophet had

written all his prophecies, and the people

were fasting, and assembled at the temple, on

the ninth month of the fifth year of Jehoiakim,

he read the book he composed, containing

his predictions of what was to befall the city,

the temple, and the multitude. And when

the rulers heard of it, they took the book

from him, and bade him and Barucb the

scribe to go their ways, lest they should be

discovered by one or the other. They then

carried the book to the king, who gave order

in the presence of his friends, that his scribe

should read it: but when he heard what it

contained, he was angry, and tore it, and cast

it into the fire, where it was consumed. He

also commanded they should seek for Jere­

miah, and Baruch the scribe, and bring them

to him that they might be punished. How­

ever, they escaped his anger.

A little time afterward, the king of Baby­

lon made an expedition against Jehoiakim;

who received him into the city; and this out

of fear of the foregoing predictions of Jere­

miah, as supposing he should suffer nothing

that was terrible; because he neither shut

the gates, nor fought against him. Yet when

he was come into the city, he did not observe

the covenants he had made; but he slew

such as were in the flower of their age, and

such as were of the greatest dignity; together

with their king Jehoiakim, whom he com­

manded to be thrown before the walls, with­

out any burial, and made his son Jehoiachirj

king of the country, and of the city; he also

took the principal persons in dignity for cap­

tives, three thousand in number, and led

them away to Babylon. Among whom was

the prophet Ezekiel, who was then but young.

And this was the end of king Jehoiakim,

when he had lived thirty-six years, and

reigned eleven.J But he was succeeded in

—.—. . —- . -—

* The prophet's words upon this occasion, are these:  
Because ye have obeyed the commandments of Jona-

dab, your father, and kept all his precepts, and done ac­

cording to all that he hath commanded you; thus saith

the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Jonadab, the son

of Rechab, shall not want a man to stand before me for

ever, Jer. xxxv. 18, 19. To stand before a prince, or to

■ee his face, in Scripture-phrase, denotes the honour

which accrues from being in his service, but the Recha-

bites were neither priests nor Levites. Hitherto they

had lived in the fields, separate from towns and villages,

and were averse indeed to any employment either in

church or state; but from the time of their captivity,

(for they were carried along with the two tribes,) we-

hnd them employed as singers and porters in the service

of the temple. To serve in this capacity, there was no

necessity for their being of the tribe of Levi; the decla­

ration of the divine will by the mouth of the prophet

Jeremiah, was in this case a sufficient vocation. Colmei's

Commentary on Jer. xxv. 19. B.

t Jeremiah xxvi. 8—24.

j From an. 610 to an. 599.

