432 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Hereupon he came to Jerusalem, and re­

proved Onias for not taking care of the pre­

servation of his countrymen; but bringing

the nation into dangers, by not paying this

money. For which preservation of them, he

told him, he had received the authority over

them, and had been made high-priest. But

that, in case he was so great a lover of money,

as to endure to see his country in danger on

that account, and his countrymen suffer the

greatest damages, he advised him to go to the

king, and to petition him to remit either the

whole, or a part of the sum demanded. Onias

replied, that he did not care for his authority;

and that he was ready, if the thing was prac­

ticable, to lay down his high-priesthood; and

that he would not go to the king; because he

troubled not himself at all about such mat­

ters. Joseph then asked him, if he would not

give him leave to go ambassador on behalf of

the nation? He replied that he would give

him leave. Hereupon Joseph went up into

the temple, and called the multitude together

to a congregation; and exhorted them not to

be disturbed, nor affrighted, because of his

uncle Onias's carelessness; but desired them

to be at rest, and not terrify themselves with

fear about it; for he promised, that he would

be their ambassador to the king, and per­

suade him, that they had done him no wrong.

And when the multitude heard this they re­

turned thanks to Joseph.

. So he went down from the temple, and

treated Ptolemy's ambassador in a hospitable

manner. He also presented him with rich

gifts and feasted him magnificently for many

days; and then sent him to the king before

him; and told him that he would soon follow

him. For he was now more willing to go to

the king by the encouragement of the ambas­

sador; who earnestly persuaded him to come

into Egypt; and promised that he should ob­

tain every thing that he desired of Ptolemy.

For he was highly pleased with his frank and

liberal temper, and with the gravity of his

deportment.

When Ptolemy's ambassador was come into

Egypt, he told the king of the thoughtless

temper of Onias; and informed him of the

goodness of the disposition of Joseph; and

days of Abraham, Genesis xxi. 22, and might possibly

br; the place of that Phicol's nativity or abode. For it

that he was coming to him, to excuse the

multitude, as not having done him any harm;

for that he was their patron. In short, he was

so very warm in his encomiums upon the

young man, that he disposed both the king

and his wife Cleopatra to have a kindness

for him, before he came. So Joseph sent to

his friends at Samaria, and borrowed money

of them; and got ready what was necessary

for his journey; garments, and cups, and

beasts for burden, which amounted to about

twenty thousand drachmae; and went to Alex­

andria. Now it happened, that at this time

all the principal men and rulers went up out

of the cities of Syria and Phoenicia, to bid for

their taxes. For every year the king sold

them to the men of the greatest power in

every city. So these men saw Joseph jour­

neying on his way; and laughed at him for

his poverty and meanness. But when he

came to Alexandria, and heard that king

Ptolemy was at Memphis; he went up thither

to meet with him; which happened as the

king was sitting in his chariot, with his wife,

and his friend Athenion; who was the very

person who had been ambassador at Jeru­

salem, and been entertained by Joseph. As

soon, therefore, as Athenion saw him, he pre­

sently made known to the king, how good and

how generous a young man he was. So

Ptolemy saluted him, and desired him to

come up in his chariot; and as Joseph sat

there, he began to complain of the manage­

ment of Onias. To which he answered,

"Forgive him, on account of his age; for

thou canst not certainly be unacquainted

with this, that old men and infants have their

minds exactly alike. But thou shalt have

from us, who are young men, every thing

thou desirest; and shalt have no cause to

complain." With this good humour and

pleasantry of the young man, the king was so

delighted, that he began already, as though

he had long experience of him, to have a still

greater affection for him; insomuch that he

bade him take his diet in the king's palace;

and be a guest at his own table every day.

But when the king was come to Alexandria,

the principal men of Syria saw him sitting

with the king, and were much offended at it

seems to hare been in the south part of Palestine, aa that

was

