AK. 1050.] 281 Antiquities of the jews.

figure was that of a hemisphere; this brazen

vessel was called a sea tor its largeness; for

the laver was ten cubits in diameter, and cast

of the thickness of a palm. Its middle part

rested on a short pillar, that had ten spirals

round it; and that pillar was a cubit in dia­

meter. There stood round about it twelve

oxen, that looked to the four winds of heaven;

three to each wind; having their hinder parts

depressed, that so the vessel might rest upon

them; which itself was also depressed round

about inwardly. Now this sea contained

three thousand baths.

He also made ten brazen bases, for so

many quadrangular lavers; the length of

every one of these bases was five cubits, the

breadth four cubits, and the height six

cubits.* This vessel was partly turned, and

was thus contrived. There were four small

quadrangular pillars, that stood one at each

corner; these had the sides of the base fitted

to them on each quarter; and they were

parted into three parts; every interval had

a border fitted to support the laver; upon

which was engraven, in one place a lion, and

in another place a bull, and an eagle. The

small pillars had the same animals engraven,

that were on the sides. The whole work

was elevated, and stood upon four cast

wheels; which had also naves and felloes,

and were a foot and half in diameter. Any

one that saw the spokes of the wheels, how

exactly they were turned, and united to the

sides of the bases, and with what harmony

they agreed to the felloes, would wonder at

them. However, their structure was this.

Certain shoulders of hands stretched out

held the corners above; upon which rested

a short spiral pillar, that lay under the hol­

low part of the laver, resting upon the fore­

feet of the eagle, and the lion; which were

adapted to them: insomuch that those who

viewed them would think that they were of

one piece. Between these were engravings

of palm trees. This was the construction of

the ten bases. He also made ten large round

vessels, which were the lavers themselves;

each of which contained fforty baths:J for

it had its height four cubits, and its edges

were as much distant from each other. He

also placed these lavers upon the ten bases

that were called Mechonoth; and he set five

of the lavers on the ||left side of the temple,

which was that side towards the north wind;

and as many on the right side, towards the

south, but looking towards the east. The

same eastern way he also set the sea. Now

he appointed the sea for washing the hands

and the feet of the priests, when they entered

into the temple, and were to ascend the al­

tar; but the lavers to cleanse the feet and

entrails of the beasts that were to be burnt-

offerings.

He also made a brazen altar, whose length

was twenty cubits, its breadth the same, and

its height ten, for the burnt-oflerings. He

in number and richness, to that of the edifice; and yet

Josephiu seems to have carried his account beyond all

credibility, when he tells us, that there were 10,000

tables besides those of the shew-bread; 10,000 candle­

sticks besides those in the holy place; 80,000 cups for

drink-offerings; 100,000 basons of gold, and double that

number of silver: when he tells us that Solomon caused

to be made 1000 ornaments for the sole use of the high-

priest, 10,000 linen robes and girdles for that of the

common priests, and 200,000 more for the Levites and

musicians, when he tells of 200,000 trumpets made ac­

cording to Solomon's direction, with 200,000 more, made

in the fashion that Moses had appointed, and 400,000

musical instruments of a mixed metal, between gold and

silver, called by the ancients electrum. Concerning all

-which we can only say, that the text is either silent, or  
contradicts this prodigious account. Universal History,

lib. i. c. 7. B.

* Four cubits, Heb. and Septuagint. 1 Kings vii. 27.

t The round or cylindrical lavers of 4 cubits in dia­

meter, and 4 in height, both in our copies: 1 Kings vii.

38, 39. and here in Josephus, must have contained a great

deal more than the 40 baths, which are always assigned

t hem. Where the error lies is hard to say. If for ^oou,

congii, or baths, we take homers, which were but a tenth

part of the bath: or if, in Josephus, we take their dia­

meters only one third of their height, by reading instead

of tjctois, to rpirov too"stwv, the measures would pretty well

agree. But both these conjectures are uncertain, and

unsupported. Perhaps Josephus honestly followed his

copies here; though they had been corrupted, and he was

not able to restore the true reading. In the mean time

these 40 baths are probably the quantity contained in

each laver: since they went upon wheels, and were to

be drawn by the Levites about the court of the priests,

for the washings they were designed for, and had they

held much more they would have been too heavy to have

been so drawn.

I Cori, or Congii.

II Here Josephus gives us a key to his own language,

of right and left hand in the tabernacle and temple: that

by the right hand he means what is against our left, when

we suppose ourselves going up from the east gate of the

courts, towards the tabernacle or temple themselves: and

so vice versa. Whence it follows that the pillar Jachin,

on the right hand of the temple was on the south, against

our left hand, and Booz on the north against our right

hand.

