AN. 168.] 441 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

who compelled them to sacrifice, with a few

of his soldiers. He also overthrew the idol

altar; and cried out, "If any one be zealous

for the laws of his country, and for the wor­

ship of God, let him follow me." And when

he had said this, he hastened into the desert

with his sons, and left all his substance in the

village. Many others did the same, and fled

with their children and wives into the desert;

and dwelt in caves. But when the king's

generals heard this, they took all the forces

they then had in the citadel at Jerusalem,

and pursued the Jews into the desert. And

when they had overtaken them, they, in the

first place, endeavoured to persuade them to

repent, and to choose what was most for

their advantage; and not put them to the ne­

cessity of using them according to the law of

war. But when they would not comply with

their persuasions, but continued to be of a

different mind, they fought against them on

the sabbath day; and they burnt them, as

they were in the caves, without resistance;

and without so much as stopping up the en­

trances of the caves. And they avoided to

defend themselves on that day, because they

were not willing to break in upon the honour

they owed the sabbath, even in such dis­

tresses. For our law requires that we rest

upon that day. There were about a thousand,

with their wives and children, who were

smothered, and died in these caves. But

many of those that escaped, joined them­

selves to Mattathias, and appointed him to

be their ruler; who taught them to fight, even

on the sabbath day;* and told them, that

unless they would do so, they would become

their own enemies, by observing the law so

rigorously, while their adversaries would still

assault them on this day, and they would not

then defend themselves; and that nothing

could hinder, but they must all perish, with­

out fighting. This speech persuaded them;

and this rule continues among us to the pre­

sent time; that if there be a necessity, we

may fight on sabbath days. So Mattathias

assembled a great army and overthrew their

idol altars, and slew those that brake the

laws; even all that he could get under his

power. For many of them were dispersed

among the nations round about them, for fear

of him. He also commanded that those boys

which were not yet circumcised, should be

circumcised now; and he drove those away

that were appointed to hinder such circum­

cision.

But when he had ruled one year, and was

fallen into a distemper, he called for his

sons,f and set them round about him, and

said, " O my sons, I am going the way of all

the earth, and I recommend to you my reso­

lution; and beseech you not to be negligent

in keeping it; but to be mindful of the de­

sired of him who begat you, and brought you

up; and to preserve the customs of your

country; and to recover your ancient form of

government, which is in danger of being over­

turned; and not be carried away with those

* By the law of Moses, the Jews were commanded to  
do no manner of work on the sabbath day; but this was

a precept which would admit of some exceptions, and

what some people took in a more rigorous sense than

others. The Samaritans, for instance, thought themselves

obliged to observe it to such a degree of strictness, as not

to stir out of their places on that day, because the law is

literally so expressed, Exod. xvi. 29. but the Jews were

of opinion, that they were permitted to make their escape

from danger, or to walk such a compass of ground, (which

they call a sabbath day's journey,) if it were for any

necessary occasion, on that day. In our Saviour's time,

it was allowable, they thought, to pull any animal out of a

pit, or a ditch, on that day, Matt. xii. 11. but the Talmu-

dical doctors were for revoking that permission, and

found fault with him for even healing the sick and the

lame, on the sabbath. Mattathias, and his company, by

sundry experiences, were convinced, that too scrupulous

an observance of the sabbath had brought several cala­

mities upon their nation; that Ptolemy, the son of Lagus,

the first king of Egypt of that name, by assaulting Jeru­

salem on the sabbath day, (wherein the Jews would do

nothing to defend themselves,) became master of it with­

out opposition; and that (but just lately,\ a great number

of their brethren had been passively slain, because they

would not so much as handle their arms on that day; and

thereupon they came to a resolution to defend themselves,

whenever they were attacked, be the day what it would;

but we do not find, that they came to any decision, whe­

ther they themselves were to attack the enemy on the

sabbath. On the contrary, it seems as if they had de­

termined that they were only permitted to repel force by

force; and therefore we read, that, when Pompey be­

sieged the temple, observing that the Jews did barely

defend themselves on the seventh day, he ordered his

men to offer no hostilities, but only to raise the batteries,

plant their engines, and make their approaches on that

day, being well assured, that in doing of this, he should

meet with no molestation from them; and, by this means

he carried the place much sooner than he otherwise

would have done. Jemsh Antiq. lib. 14. c. 8. Jewish

Wars, lib. 1. c. 5. and Calmefs Commentary on 1 Macca­

bees ii. 14. B.

t 1 Mace. ii. 49.

