An. 36.] 539 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Antony, he resolved that he would not en­

tirely permit the child, or Alexandra, to be

treated dishonourably. But his wife Mari-

amne urged him vehemently to restore the

high-priesthood to her brother; and he judged

it was for his advantage so to do; because if

he once had that dignity, he could not go out

of the country. So he called his friends to­

gether, and told them, that "Alexandra pri­

vately conspired against his royal authority,

and endeavoured, by means of Cleopatra, so

to bring it about, that he might be deprived of

the government; and that by Antony's means

this youth might have the management of

public affairs in his stead. And that this pro­

cedure of hers was unjust; since she would

at the same time deprive her daughter of the

dignity she now had, and would bring dis­

turbances upon the kingdom; for which he

had taken a great deal of pains, and had got­

ten it with extraordinary hazards: that yet,

while he well remembered her wicked prac­

tices, he would not leave off doing what was

right himself; but would even now give the

youth the high-priesthood: and that he for­

merly set up Ananelus, because Aristobulus

was then so very young a child." Now when

he had said this, not at random, but as he

thought with the best discretion he had, in

order to deceive the women, and those friends

whom he had taken to consult withal; Alex­

andra, out of the great joy she had at this un­

expected promise, and out of fear from the

suspicions she lay under, burst into tears, and

made the following apology for herself, and

said: that "As to the high-priesthood, she

was very much concerned for the disgrace

her son was under, and so did her utmost en­

deavours to procure it for him: but that as

to the kingdom, she had made no attempts;

and that if it were offered her for her son

she would not accept it. And that now she

would be satisfied with her son's dignity,

while he himself held the civil government;

* When Josephus says here, in his Greek copies, that  
this Ananelus, the new high-priest, was of the stock of the

high-priests, we must remember that the Latin version,

in all copies, has not a syllable of any such clause. And

since, in all copies, he had been just telling us, that he

was a priest of an obscure family or character, chap. 2, it

is not probable, that he could so soon say that he was of

the stock of the high-priests. However Josephus here

makes a remarkable observation, that this Ananelus was

the third that was ever unjustly and wickedly turned out

voL. I.—NOS. 45 & 46.

and she had thereby the security that arose

from his peculiar ability in governing, to all

the remainder of her family: that she was

now overcome by his benefits, and thankfully

accepted of this honour shewn by him to her

son; and that she would hereafter be entirely

obedient. And she desired him to excuse

her, if the nobility of her family, and that

freedom of acting which she thought that

allowed her, had made her act too precipi­

tately and imprudently in this matter." So

when they had spoken thus to one another,

they came to an agreement; and all suspi­

cions seemed to have vanished away.

CHAP. III.

ARISTOBULUS IS HADE HIGH-PRIEST, BUT AFTERWARDS

MURDERED BY THE ORDER OF HEROD, WHO APOLOGIZES

TO ANTONY. ALSO CONCERNING JOSEPH AND MAR1AMNE.

HEROD now took the high-priesthood

from Ananelus; who, as we said be­

fore, was not of this country, but one of those

Jews that had been carried captive beyond

Euphrates. For there were many thousands

of this people who had been carried captive,

and dwelt about Babylonia; whence Ananelus

came. He was one* of the stock of the high-

priests; and had been of old a particular

friend of Herod's. And when he was first

made king, he conferred that dignity upon

him; and now put him out of it again, in or­

der to quiet the troubles in his family; though

what he did was plainly unlawful. For on

no preceding occasion was any one that had

once been in that dignity deprived of it. It

was Antiochus Epiphanes who first brake

that law, and deprived Jesus, and made

his brother Onias high-priest in his stead.

Aristobulus was the second that did so; and

took that dignity from his brother Hyrcanus.

And this Herod was the third; who took that

high office from Ananelus, and gave it to this

young man Aristobulus.

of the high-priesthood, by the civil power. No king or

governor having ventured to do so, that Josephus knew

of, but that heathen tyrant and persecutor Antiochus Epi­

phanes; that barbarous parricide Aristobulus, the first

that assumed royal authority among the Maccabees; and

this tyrant, king Herod the Great: although afterward

that infamous practice became frequent, till the very de­

struction of Jerusalem: when the office of high-priesthood

was at an end.

4 P

