am. 727.] 353 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the priests and the LeviteB. The king also

made garners and receptacles lor these fruits,

and distributed them to every one of the

priests and Levites, and to their wives and

children. And thus did they return to their

old form of divine worship. Now when the

king had settled these matters after the

manner already described, he made war

upon the Philistines, and defeated them, and

possessed himself of all their cities, from

Gaza to Gath. And when the king of Assyria

gent to him, threatening to overturn all his

dominions, unless he would pay him the tri­

bute which his father paid formerly, Heze­

kiah was not alarmed; but depended on his

piety towards God, by whom he inquired,

and accurately knew all future events. And

thus much shall suffice for the present con­

cerning king Hezekiah.

CHAP. XIV.

OP THE REDUCTION OF SAMARIA BY SHALMANE9ER, AND

THE REMOVAL OF THE TEN TRIBES INTO MEDIA.

WHEN Shalmaneser, king of Assyria,

was informed that Hoshea had sent

Erivately to So, the king of Egypt, desiring

is assistance against him, he was very

angry; and made an expedition against Sa­

maria, in the seventh year of the reign of

Hoshea. And on being refused admittance

into the city, he besieged Samaria three

years,* and took it by mere force, in the

ninth year of the reign of Hoshea, and in the

seventh of Hezekiah king of Jerusalem; and

quite demolished the government of the Is­

raelites, and transplanted all the people into

Media and Persia; among whom he took

king Hoshea alive; and when he had removed

these people out of their land, he transplanted

other nations out of a place called Cuthah,

into Samaria, and into the country of the

Israelites. So the tten tribes of the Israelites

were removed out of Judea, nine hundred

and forty-seven years after their forefathers

came out of the land of Egypt, and possessed

themselves of this country; but eight hundred

years after Joshua had been their leader;

and two hundred and forty years, seven

months, and seven days, after they had re­

volted from Rehoboam, the grandson of

David, and had given the kingdom to Jero­

boam. And such a conclusion overtook the

Israelites, when they had transgressed the

laws, and would not hearken to the prophets,

who foretold that this calamity would come

upon them, if they would not leave off their

transgressions. What gave birth to these

doings, was that sedition which they raised

against Rehoboam, the grandson of David;

when they set up his servant Jeroboam to be

their king; who by sinning against God, and

bringing them to imitate his bad example,

made God to be their enemy; while himself

underwent that punishment he justly de­

served.

And now the king of Assyria invaded all

Syria and Phoenicia in a hostile manner. The

name of this king is also set down in the ar­

chives of Tyre; for he made an expedition

against Tyre in the reign of Eluleus. And

Menander attests to it; who, when he wrote

his Chronology, and translated the archives

of Tyre into the Greek language, gives us the

following history: "One whose name was

Eluleus reigned thirty-six years: the king,

upon the revolt of the Citteans, sailed to

them and reduced them again to submission.

Against these did the king of Assyria send an

army, and in a hostile manner over-ran all

Phoenicia; but soon made peace with them,

and returned back. But Sidon and Ace Pa-

loetyrus revolted, and many other cities there

were which delivered themselves up to the

king of Assyria. Accordingly when the Ty-

rians would not submit to him, the king re­

turned, and fell upon them again; while the

Phoenicians had furnished him with sixty

ships, and eight hundred men to row them.

And when the Tyrians had come upon them

* This siege of Samaria, though not given a particular  
account of either in our Hebrew or Greek Bibles, or in

Josephus, was so very long; no less than three years;

that it is no way improbable but that parents, and particu­

larly mothers, might therein be reduced to eat their own

children, as the law of Moses had threatened upon their

disobedience, Levit. xxvi. 29. Deut. xxviii. 53—57. and

as was accomplished in the other shorter sieves of both

the capital cities, Jerusalem, and Samaria; the former

mentioned, Jer. xix. 9. Lam. ii. 20. iv. 10. Antiq. IX. 4.

Of the War, VI. 3, 4. the latter mentioned, 2 Kings vi.

26—29. See my Boyle's Lectures, page 209—214.

t That our Chronology is certain, as far backward as

this captivity of the ten tribes; and that to a single year,

during the interval of 2456 years, see demonstrated from

the sabbatical years, in the Supplement to the Literal

Accomplishment of the Prophecies, page 75.

