an. 2928.] 19 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the regions of the air on high, excepting the

blood, for therein is the life. But I will give

you a sign that I have laid aside my anger by

my bow;"* whereby is meant the rainbow:

for they determined that the rainbow was the

bow of God. And when God had said and

promised thus, he went away.

Now when Noah had lived three hundred

and fifty years after the flood, and all that

time happily, he died; being nine hundred

and fifty years old, but let no one, upon com­

paring the lives of the ancients with our lives,

and with the few years which we now live,

(think that what we have said of them is false;

or make the shortness of our lives at present

an argument that they did not attain to so

long a duration of life; for those ancients

were beloved of God, and lately made by

God himself; and, because their food was

then fitter for the prolongation of life, might

well live so great a number of years. And

besides, God afforded them a longer time of

life on account of their virtue, and the good

I use they made of it in astronomical and ge­

ometrical discoveries, which would not have

afforded them time for foretelling the pe­

riods of the stars, unless they had lived six

hundred years, for the great year is com­

pleted in that interval.

Now I have for witnesses to what I have

said all those that have written antiquities,

both among the Greeks and Barbarians; for

even Manetho, who wrote the Egyptian His­

tory; and Berosus, who collected the Chal­

dean Monuments; and Mochus, and Hestiseus,

. and besides these, Hieronymus, the Egyptian,

and those that compose the Phoenician His­

tory, agree to what I here say. Hesiodf also,

and Hecataeus, and Hellanicus, and Aculsi-

laus; and besides these, Ephorus and Nico-

laus relate, that the ancients lived a thou­

sand years. But, as to these matters, let

every one look upon them as they think fit.

CHAP. IV.

OF THE TOWER OF BABYLON, AND THE CONFUSION OF

TONGUES.

HE sons of Noah were three, Shem,

Japhet, and Ham, born one hundred

* Gen. far. 13.

t Since the Latin copies have here generally Isiodorus,

fcstead of Hesiodus; Vossius, and perhaps Hudson, in-

vot. I. No. 2-

T

years before the deluge. These first of all

descended from the mountains into the plains,

and fixed their habitation there and per­

suaded others, who were greatly afraid of

the lower grounds on account of the flood,

and so were very loth to come down from the

higher places, to venture to follow their ex­

ample. Now the plain in which they first

dwelt was called Shinar. God also com­

manded them to send colonies abroad, for the

thorough peopling of the earth, that they

might not raise seditions among themselves,

but might cultivate a great part of the earth,

and enjoy its fruits after a plentiful manner;

but they were so ill-instructed, that they did

not obey God, for which reason they fell into

calamities, and were made sensible by expe­

rience of what sin they had been guilty of; for

when they flourished with a numerous youth,

God admonished them again to send out colo­

nies; but they imagining that the prosperity

they enjoyed was not derived from the favour

of God, but supposing that their own power

was the proper cause of the plentiful con­

dition they were in, did not obey him. Nay,

they added to this disobedience to the divine

will, the suspicion that they were ordered to

send out separate colonies, that, being divided

asunder, they might the more easily be op­

pressed.

Now it was Nimrod who excited them to

such an affront and contempt of God; he was

the grandson of Ham, the son of Noah, a bold

man, and of great strength of hand. He per­

suaded them not to ascribe it to God, as if it

were through his means that they were happy,

but to believe that it was their own courage

that procured that happiness. He also gra­

dually changed the government into tyranny,

seeing no other method of turning men from

the fear of God, but to bring them into a con­

stant dependence on his own power. He

also said, " He would be revenged on God, if

he should have a mind to drown the world

again; for that he would build a tower too

high for the waters to be able to reach, and

that he would avenge himself on God for

destroying their fore-fathers.

Now the multitude were very ready to fol­

low the determination of Nimrod, and to

clined to think the writer here meant was Isidorus Chara-

cenus, who produced instances of kings who reigned along

time. But since the Greek copies, have constantly Hesiod,

