AN. 1183.] 179 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

law. And when this was done, Booz married

Ruth, and they had a son within a year's

time. Naomi was herself a nurse to his

child; and by the advice of the women call­

ed him Obed, as being to be brought up in

order to be subservient to her in her old age.

For Obed in the Hebrew dialect signifies a

servant. The son of Obed was Jesse; and

king David was his son,* who left his domi­

nions to his sons for one and twenty gene­

rations. I was therefore obliged to relate

this history of Ruth, because I had a mind to

demonstrate the power of God; who, with­

out difficulty, can raise those that are of

ordinary parentage to dignity and splendour,

to which he advanced David, though he

were born of such mean parents.

CHAP. X.

OF THE BIRTH OF SAMUEL, AND HIS PREDICTION OF THE

CALAMITY THAT BEFEL THE SONS OF ELI.

AND now, upon the ill state of the af­

fairs of the Hebrews, they made war

again upon the Philistines. The occasion

was this: Eli the high-priest had two sons,

Hophni and Phineas, who were guilty of

injustice towards men, and of impiety to­

wards God; and abstained from no sort of

wickedness. Some of their gifts they carried

oft", as belonging to the honourable employ­

ment they had: others of them they took

away by violence. They also were guilty of

impurity with the women that came to wor­

ship God at the tabernacle. Nay, the whole

course of their life, was no better than ty-

ranny.f Their father therefore was angry at

them for such wickedness, and expected that

God would suddenly inflict his punishments

upon them, for what they had done. The

multitude took it heinously also. And as

soon as God had foretold what calamity

would befall Eli's sons, which he did both to

Eli himself, and to Samuel the prophet, who

the shoe as a token of investiture, Castell, Lex. Polyg.

col. 2342. mentions that the Emperor of the Ahyssinians

used the casting of a shoe as a sign of dominion. See

Psalm lx. 8. To these instances the following may pro­

perly be added; "Childebert the Second was fifteen

years old, when Gontram his uncle declared he was of

age, and capable of governing by himself. I have put"

gays he, " this Javelin into thy hands, as a token that I

VOL. I.—nos. 15 & 16.

was yet but a child, he openly shewed his

sorrow for his son's destruction.

I will first despatch what I have to say

about the prophet Samuel; and after that

will proceed to speak of the sons of Eli, and

the miseries which they brought upon the

whole people of the Hebrews. Elcanah, a

Levite, one of a middling condition among his

fellow citizens, and one that dwelt at Rama-

thaim, a city of the tribe of Ephraim, mar­

ried two wives, Hannah, and Peninnah. He

had children by the latter, but he loved the

other best, although she were barren.

Now Elcanah came with his wives to the

city Shiloh, to sacrifice; for there it was that

the tabernacle of God was fixed. Now after

he had sacrificed, he distributed at that

festival portions of the flesh to his wives and

children; and when Hannah saw the other

wife's children round about their mother, she

burst into tears, on account of her barren­

ness; and, suffering her grief to prevail over

her husband's consolations, she went to the

tabernacle to beseech God to make her a

mother, and to vow to consecrate the first

son she should bear to the service of God;

and this in such a way that his manner of

living should not be like that of ordinary

men. And as she continued at her prayers a

long time, Eli the high-priest who sat before

the tabernacle, bade her go away: thinking

she had been disordered with wine; but

when she said she had drank water, but was

in sorrow for want of children, and was be­

seeching God for them: he exhorted her to

be of good cheer, and told her that God

would grant her request.J

So she came to her husband full of hope,

and ate her meal with gladness. And when

they returned to their own country, she found

herself pregnant, and they had a son born to

them; to whom they gave the name of Samu­

el, which may be styled one that was asked

of God. They therefore came to the taber­

nacle to offer sacrifice for the birth of the

child, and brought their tithes with them; but

have given thee all my kingdom." And then turning to­

wards the assembly, he added, " You see that my son

Childebert has become a man. Obey him." Montes­

quieu, Spirit of Lares, vol. i. p. 361. B.

* Ruth iv. 17.

t 1 Sam. ii. 12—17.

j 1 Sam. i. 17.

