ah. 976.] 297 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was buried in Jerusalem: having been supe­

rior to all other kings in happiness, riches,

and wisdom; excepting that when he was

grown in years, he was deluded by women,

and transgressed the law, concerning which

transgressions, and the miseries which befell

the Hebrews thereby, I think proper to dis­

course at another opportunity.*

CHAP. VIII.

of rehoboam's conduct after his father's death; AND

THE REVOLT OF TEN TRIBES UNDER JEROBOAM.

NOWf when Solomon was dead, and his

son Rehoboam (who was born of an

Ammonite wife, whose name was Naamah)

had succeeded him in the kingdom, the

rulers of the multitude sent immediately into

Egypt, and recalled Jeroboam. And when

he was come to the city Shechem, Rehoboam

came thither also; for he had resolved to

declare himself king of the Israelites, while

they were there gathered together. So the

rulers of the people, as well as Jeroboam,

came to him and said, that he ought to relax,

and to be gentler than his father in the servi­

tude he had imposed on them; because they

had borne a heavyJ yoke,|| and that then

they should be better affected to him, and

be well contented to serve him under his

moderate government, and should do it more

out of love than fear. But Rehoboam told

them, they should come to him again in three

days' time, when he would give an answer to

their request. This delay gave occasion to

a present suspicion; since he had not given

them a favourable answer immediately, flow-

ever they thought that his consultation about

it afforded some hope of success.

Rehoboam now called his father's friends,

and advised with them, what sort of answer

he ought to give to the multitude. Upon

which they gave him the advice which be­

came friends, and those that knew the tem­

per of such a multitude; they advised him

to speak in a way more popular than suited

the grandeur of a king; because he would

thereby oblige them to submit to him with

good will: it being most agreeable to sub­

jects, that their kings should be almost upon

a level with them. But Rehoboam rejected

this good and profitable advice: (it was such

at least at that time, when he was to be made

king:) God himself, I suppose, causing what

was most advantageous to be contemned by

him. So he called for the young men who

were brought up with him,§ and told them

what advice the elders had given him, and

bade them speak what they thought he ought

to do. So they advised him to give the lol-

lowing answer to the people, (for neither

their youth, nor God himself, suffered them

to discern what was best,) That his little

finger should be thicker than his father's

loins; and, if they had met with hard usage

from his father, they should experience much

rougher treatment from him: and if his father

had chastised them with whips, they must

expect that he would do it with scorpions.**

The king was pleased with this advice; and

* This discourse is now wanting.  
t An. 976.

I Probably in maintaining his court, and, in particular,

his numerous wives and concubines.

II What the particular grievances were that these

people desired to have redressed, we may gather from 1

Kings iv. 7, &c. viz. the tribute Solomon exacted for his

buildings, the expenses of his family, and the maintenance

of his chariots and horses, which being for the honour

.if the nation, ought to have been borne more contentedly

by a people enjoying such a large share of peace and

plenty, and from a prince who had brought in such vast

riches to his subjects, as made silver to be of no value

at all in his days, chap. x. 21. but people are more sen­

sible of their pressures than of their enjoyments, and

feel the least burdens when they are most at ease. It is

observable, however, that among all their complaints,

they take no notice of Solomon's-idolatry, or the strange

worship which he had introduced, though this, one would

think, should have been reckoned among the greatest of

their grievances. Patrick'* Commentary. B.

§ It was a common custom among the kings of the east,

to have their sons educated among other young lords that

were of the same age, which, as it created a generous

spirit of emulation, and both endeared the prince to the

nobles and the nobles to the prince, could not but tend

greatly to the benefit of the public. Sesostris, the most

famous prince that ever Egypt produced, is said to have

been educated this way. And by the gallant youths that

were his cotemporaries and fellow pupils, it was, that he

afterwards did so many surprising actions. The same

custom was in use among the Persians, as we may learn

from the life of Cyrus; and of Alexander the Great we

are told, that his father Philip had trained him up in his

youth, among those young noblemen who became his

great captains in the conquest of all Asia. So that Solo­

mon's method and design, in the education of his son,

was wise and well concerted, though it failed of success.

Calmet's Commentary. B.

** That by scorpions is not here meant the small ani­  
mals so called, which were never used in corrections;

but either a shrub with sharp prickles, like the stings

