516 [book xy. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tion fell upon the Arabians: for when they

perceived that the Jews were not to be con­

quered, and were full of spirit, the greater

part of them ran away, and avoided fighting.

And they had been quite destroyed, had not

Athenio fallen upon the Jews, and distressed

them. This man was Cleopatra's general

over the soldiers she had there, and was at

enmity with Herod; and very wistfully looked

on, to see what the event of the battle would

be. He had also resolved, that in case the

Arabians did any thing that was brave and

successful, he would lie still; but in case they

were beaten, as it really happened, he would

attack the Jews with those forces he had of

his own, and with those that the country had

fotten together for him. So he fell upon the

ews unexpectedly, when they were fatigued

and thought they had already vanquished the

enemy, and made a great slaughter of them.

For as the Jews had spent their courage upon

their known enemies, and were about to enjoy

themselves in quietness after their victory;

they were easily beaten by these that at­

tacked them afresh; and in particular re­

ceived a great loss in places where the horses

could not be of service, and which were very

stony; and where those that attacked them

were better acquainted with the places than

themselves. And when the Jews had suffered

this loss, the Arabians resumed their courage

after their defeat; and, returning back again,

slew those that were already put to flight.

And indeed all sorts of slaughter were now

frequent; and of those that escaped, a few

only returned into the camp. So king Herod,

when he despaired of the battle, rode up to

them, to bring them assistance. Yet he did

not come time enough to render them any

service; though he laboured hard to do it:

but the Jewish camp was taken. So that the

Arabians had unexpectedly a most glorious

success; having gained that victory, which

of themselves they were no way likely to

have gained; and slaying a great part of the

enemy's army. Whence afterward Herod

could only act like a private robber, and

make excursions, upon many parts of Arabia,

and distress them by sudden incursions;

while he encamped among the mountains,

and avoided by any means to come to a

pitched battle. Yet did he greatly harass

the enemy by his assiduity, and the hard

labour he took in this matter. He also took

great care of his own forces; and used all

the means he could to restore his affairs to

their former state.

At this time the fight happened at Actium,

between Octavius Caesar and Antony; in the

seventh* year of the reign of Herod. And

then it was also that there was an earthquake

in Judea: such a one as had not happened

at any other time: and which earthquake

brought a great destruction upon the cattle

in that country. About ften thousand men

also perished by the fall of houses. But the

army, which lodged in the field, received no

damage from this sad accident. When the

Arabians were informed of this, and when

those that hated the Jews, and pleased them­

selves with aggravating the reports, told them

of it; they raised their spirits, as if their ene­

my's country were quite overthrown, and the

men were utterly destroyed; and thought

there now remained nothing that could op­

pose them. Accordingly they took the Jewish

ambassadors, who came to them, after all

this had happened, to make peace with them,

and slew them; and came with great alacrity

against their army. But the Jews durst not

withstand them; and were so cast down by

the calamities they were under, that they took

no care of their affairs; but gave themselves

up to despair. For they had no hope that

they should be upon a level with them again

in battle, nor obtain any assistance elsewhere;

while their affairs at home were in such great

distress. When matters were in this condi­

tion, the king persuaded the commanders by

his words, and tried to raise their spirits,

which were quite sunk. And first he endea­

voured to encourage and embolden some of

the better sort beforehand; and then ventured

to make a speech to the multitude. which he

had before avoided to do; lest he should find

them uneasy because of the misfortunes which

* The reader is here to take notice, that this seventh  
year of the reign of Herod, and all the other years of his

reign, in Josephus, are dated from the death of Antigo-

nus; or at the soonest from the conquest of Antigonus,

and the taking of Jerusalem a few months before: and

never from his first obtaining the kingdom at Rome

above three years before; as some have very injudi­

ciously done. See the rest of those dates, XV. 9, 10,

and 11. and XVI. 5.

t Or thirty thousand

