EDITOR'S PREFACE. v

phecy among them to the Twelfth of Nero, he has let us know the state of
affairs in Judea

during the time of the Evangelical history; and he had before done the like in
the first two

books of the Jewish War. What he has therein said of Herod and his sons, of
the Roman

governors in Judea, the Jewish sects and their principles, the manners of the
Jewish people,

and likewise concerning the Samaritans, greatly confirms and illustrates the
history of our Evan­

gelists."

Dr. W. Wotton says of Josephus, " He is certainly an author very justly to be
valued, not­

withstanding all his faults. His history of the Jewish war is a noble
demonstration of the

truth of the Christian religion: by shewing, in the most lively manner, how
the prophecies of

our blessed Lord, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, were literally
fulfilled in their

fullest extent." Preface to Miscellaneous Discourses relating to the
Traditions and Usages of the

Scribes and Pharisees, p. 49

In reference to the account Josephus gives of the destruction of Jerusalem,
Archbishop

Tillotson says, " We have this matter related, not by a Christian, (who might
be suspected of

partiality and a design to have paralleled the event with our Saviour's
prediction,) but by a

Jew, both by nation and religion, who seems designedly to have avoided, as
much as possibly

he could, the very mention of the Christian name, and all particulars relating
to our Saviour,

though no historian was ever more punctual in other things." Vol. ii. p. 563.
Serm. 186.

Similar to this is the testimony of M. Tillemont. "God has been pleased to
chuse for our

information in this history, not an apostle, nor any of the chief men of the
church, but an ob­

stinate Jew, whom neither the view of the virtue and miracles of the
Christians, nor the

knowledge of the law, nor the ruin of his religion and country, could induce
to believe in and

love the Messiah, who was all the expectation of the nation. God has permitted
it so to be,

that the testimony which this historian gave to an event, of which he did not
comprehend the

mystery, might not be rejected either by Jews or Heathens: and that none might
be able to

say, that he had altered the truth of things to favour Jesus Christ and his
disciples." Ruine

des Juifs. Art. I. p. 722.

Dr. Doddridge, in his notes on Matt. xxiv. says, « Christian writers have
always with great

reason represented Josephus's History of the Jewish War, as the best
commentary upon this

chapter. And many have justly remarked it, as a wonderful instance of the care
of Providence

for the Christian church, that he, an eye-witness, and in these things of so
great credit, should

(especially in so extraordinary a manner) be preserved to transmit to us a
collection of im­

portant facts, which so exactly illustrate this noble prophecy in almost every
particular cir­

cumstance."

Isidore of Pelusium, who flourished about the year 412, in one of his
epistles, has these

expressions; "if you have a mind to know what punishment the wicked Jews
underwent, who

ill treated the Christ, read the history of their destruction, written by
Josephus, a Jew in­

deed, but a lover of truth, that you may see the wonderful story, such as no
time ever saw

before since the beginning of the world, nor ever shall see. For that none
might refuse to

give credit to the history of their incredible and unparalleled sufferings,
truth found out, not

a stranger, but a native, and a man fond of their institutions, to relate them
in a doleful strain."

Eusebius often quotes Josephus, and, in his Ecclesiastical History, has
transcribed from

him several articles at large. Having rehearsed from the gospels divers of our
Lord's pre­

