AN. 20.] 571 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in order to secure and guard the temple, he

gratified Antonius, who was his friend, and

the Roman ruler; and he then gave it the

name of the tower of Antonia.

Now in the western quarters of the inclo-

sure of the temple, there were four gates.

The first led to the king's palace, and went

to a passage over the intermediate valley;

two more led to the suburbs of the city; and

the last led to the other city, where the road

descended down into the valley by a great

number of steps, and thence up again by the

ascent. For the city lay over against the

temple, in the manner of a theatre, and was

encompassed with a deep valley, along the

entire south quarter. But the fourth front of

the temple, which was southward, had indeed

itself *gates in its middle; as also it had the

royal cloisters, with three walks, which

reached in length from the east valley, unto

that on the west: for it was impossible it

should reach any farther. And this cloister

deserves to be mentioned better than any

other under the sun. For while the valley

was very deep, and its bottom could not be

seen, if you looked from above into the

depth, this farther vastly high elevation of

the cloister stood upon that height: insomuch

that if any one looked down from the top of

the battlements or down both those altitudes,

he would be giddy; while his sight could not

reach to such an immense depth. This

cloister had pillars that stood in four rows,

one over against the other all along; for the

fourth row was interwoven into the wall,

which also was built of stone. And the

thickness of each pillar was such, that three

men might, with their arms extended, fathom

it round, and join their hands again: while

its length was twenty-seven feet, with a

double spiral at its basis. And the number

of all the pillars in that court was a hundred

and sixty-two. Their chapiters were adorned

with sculptures, after the Corinthian order;

and caused an amazement to the spectators,

by reason of the grandeur of the whole.

These four rows of pillars included three

intervals for walking in the middle of this

cloister. Two of which walks were made

parallel to each other, and were contrived

after the same manner: the breadth of each

of them was thirty feet; the length was a

tfurlong; and the height fifty feet. ' But the

breadth of the middle part of the cloister

was one and a half of the breadth of the

other; and the height was double; for it was

much higher than those on each side. But

the roofs were adorned with deep sculptures

in wood; representing many sorts of figures.

The middle was much higher than the rest;

and the wall of the front was adorned with

beams, resting upon pillars, that were inter­

woven into it; and that front was all of po­

lished stone; insomuch that its fineness, to

such as had not seen it, was incredible; and

such as had seen it, was greatly amazing.

Thus was the first inclosure. In the midst of

which, and not far from it, was the second;

to be gone up to by a few steps. This was

encompassed by a stone wall, for a partition;

with an inscription, which forbade any fo­

reigner to go in under pain of death. Now

this inner inclosure had on its southern and

northern quarters three gates, equidistant

from each other. But on the east quarter,

towards the sun-rising, there was one large

gate: through which such as were pure came

in together with their wives. But the temple

farther inward in that gate was not allowed

to the women. But still more inward was

there a third court of the temple; whereinto

it was not lawful for any but the priests alone

to enter. The temple itself was within this:

and before that temple was the altar; upon

which we offer our sacrifices and burnt-offer­

ings to God. IntoJ none of these three did

Herod enter: for he was forbidden; because

he was not a priest. However, he took care

of the cloisters, and the outer inclosures; and

these he built in eight years.

But the temple itself was built by the

priests in a year and six months. Upon which

all the people were full of joy: and presently

they returned thanks, in the first place to God,

* The number of these gates is wanting.

t Four hundred cubits, each cubit about twenty-one

inches.

{ Into none of these three did king Herod enter, i. e.

1. Not into the court of the priests: 2. Nor into the holy

house itself: 3. Nor into the separate place belonging to

voL. I.—NOS. 47 & 48.

the altar; as the words following imply. For none but

the priests, or their attendants the Levites, might come

into any of them. See XVI. 4. Where Herod goes into

the temple, and makes a speech in it to the people. But

that could only be into the court of Israel; whither the

people could come to hear him.

4T

