ah. 1756.] 53 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

gates; and he called upon Joseph, who sold

the corn to them; being become confessedly

a saviour to the whole multitude of the Egyp­

tians. Nor did he open this market of corn

for the people of that country only: but stran­

gers had liberty to buy also, Joseph being

willing that all men, who are naturally akin

to each other, should have assistance from

those that lived in happiness.

Jacob also when he understood that

foreigners had this privilege, sent all his sons

into Egypt to buy corn; for the land of Ca­

naan was grievously afflicted with the famine:

and this great misery touched the whole

continent. He only retained Benjamin, who

was born to him by Rachel; and was of the

same mother as Joseph. These sons of Jacob

then came into Egypt, and applied them­

selves to Joseph, to buy corn, for nothing of

this kind was done without his approbation!

since even the honour that was paid the king

himself, was only advantageous to the per­

sons that paid it when they took care to

honour Joseph also. Now when he well knew

his brethren, they thought nothing of him; for

he was but a youth when he left them, and

was now come to an age much greater, that

the lineaments of his face were changed, and

he was not known to them; besides this, the

greatness of the dignity wherein he appeared

suffered them not so much as to suspect the

truth. He therefore now made trial what

sentiments they had about the affairs of the

greatest consequence; for he refused to sell

them corn, and said they were come as spies

of the king's affairs; and that they came from

several countries, and joined themselves

together, and pretended they were of kin; it

not being possible that a private man should

breed up so many sons, and those of so great

a beauty of countenance as they were: such

an education of so many children being not

easily obtained by kings themselves. Now

this he did in order to discover what con­

cerned his father; and what happened to him

after his own departure from him; and as de­

siring to know what was become of Benjamin

his brother; for he was afraid that they had

ventured on the like wicked enterprise against

him, that they had done to himself, and had

taken him off also.*

Now these brethren of his were under dis­

traction and terror, and thought that very

great danger hung over them; yet not at all

reflecting upon their brother Joseph, and

standing firm under the accusations laid against

them, they made their defence by Reubel, the

eldest of them, who now became their spokes­

man. "We come not hither," said he, " with

any unjust design, nor in order to bring any

harm to the king's affairs; we only want to

be preserved, as supposing,your humanity

might be a refuge for us from the miseries

which our country labours under; we have

heard that you proposed to sell corn, not only

to your own countrymen, but to strangers

also; and that you determined to allow that

corn in order to preserve all that want it.

But that we are brethren, and of the same

common blood, the peculiar lineaments of

our face, and those not much different from

one another, plainly shew. Our father's name

is Jacob, an Hebrew; who had twelve sons,

by four wives, which twelve of us while we

were all alive, were a happy family. But

when one of our brethren, whose name was

Joseph, died, our affairs changed for the

worse, for our father could not forbear to

of famine before they came, told us before, as well as here,

by Josephus, seems almost incredible. It is in no other

copy that I know of.

* In scripture Joseph is represented as swearing by the  
life of Pharaoh. Most authors take this for an oath, the

original of which is well explained by Mr. Selden, (in his

Titles of Honour, p. 45.) where he observes, that the

names of gods being given to kings very early, from the

excellency of their heroic virtue, which made them an­

ciently great benefactors to mankind; thence arose the

custom of swearing by them: which Aben Ezra saith,

continued in his time, (about 1170,) when Egypt was

governed by caliphs. It any man swore by the king's

bead, and were found to have sworn falsely, he was

punished capitally. Extraordinary as this kind of oath

which Joseph made use of may appear to us, it still con-

tinues in the East. Mr. Hanway says, the most sacred

oath among the Persians is " by the king's head;" (Trav.

vol. i. p. 313.) and among other instances of it we read in

the travels of the Ambassadors, p. 204, "there were but

sixty horses for ninety-four persons. The Mehemander

(or conductor) swore by the head of the king (which is the

greatest oath among the Persians) that he could not pos­

sibly find any more." And Thevenot says, (Trav. p.

97, part 2.) "his subjects never look upon him but with

fear and trembling; and they have such respect for him,

and pay so blind an obedience to his orders, that how un­

just soever his commands might be, they perform them,

though against the law both of God and nature. Nay, if

they swear by the king's head, their oath is more authentic,

and of greater credit, than if they swore by all that is most

sacred in heaven and upon earth."

