88 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

saw it; and thunder, with its thunderbolts,

were sent down, and declared God to be

there present in a gracious way to such as

Moses desired he should be gracious. Now

as to these matters, every one of my readers

may think as he pleases: but I am under the

necessity of relating this history as it is de­

scribed in the sacred books. This sight, and

the amazing sound that came to their ears,

disturbed the Hebrews to a prodigious de­

gree; for they were not such as they were

accustomed to. And then the rumour that

was spread abroad how God frequented that

mountain, greatly astonished their minds; so

they sorrowfully remained within their tents,

as both supposing Moses to be destroyed by

the Divine wrath, and expecting the like de­

struction for themselves.

While they were under these apprehen­

sions, Moses appeared joyful and greatly ex­

alted. When they saw him they were freed

from their fear, and admitted more comfort­

able hopes as to what was to come. The air

also was become clear and pure of its former

disorders, upon the appearance of Moses;

whereupon he called the people together, in

order to their hearing what God would say

to them. And when they were assembled, he

stood on an eminence, whence they might all

hear him, and said, "God has received me

graciously, O Hebrews, as he has formerly

done; and has suggested a happy method of

living for you, and an order of political go­

vernment, and is now present in the camp. I

therefore charge you for his sake, and the

sake of his works, and what we have done by

his means, that you do not put a low value

on what I am going to say, because the com­

mands have been given by me; nor because

it is the tongue of a man that delivers them

to you. But if you have a due regard to the

great importance of the things themselves,

you will understand the greatness of Him

whose institutions they are; and who has not

disdained to communicate them to me for our

Hvixa |8Xs ' jj£ ftopprjs a«p EuiEpov tfup

AajurofASvov tfxip7ij<5ov oXx xa7a [3iv9ea Koifjjt

KXudi tfupos <pwvi]v

common advantage. For it is not to be sup­

posed that the author of these institutions is

barely Moses, the son of Amram and Joche-

bed, but he who obliged the Nile to run

bloody for your sakes, and tamed the haugh­

tiness of the Egyptians, by various sorts of

judgments; he who provided a way through

the sea for us; he who contrived a method of

sending us food from heaven, when we were

distressed for want of it; he who made the

water to issue out of a rock, when we had

very little of it before; he, by whose means

Adam was made to partake of the fruits of

the land, and of the sea; he, by whose means

Noah escaped the deluge; he, by whose

means our forefather Abraham, of a wander­

ing pilgrim was made the heir of the land of

Canaan; he, by whose means Jacob was

adorned with twelve virtuous sons; he, by

whose means Joseph became a potent lord

over the Egyptians; he it is who conveys these

instructions to you by me as his interpreter.

And let them be to you venerable, and con­

tended for more earnestly by you than your

own wives and children; for if you will follow

them you will lead a happy life, you will en­

joy the land fruitful, the sea calm, and the

fruit of the womb complete, as nature re­

quires; you will also be terrible to your ene­

mies; for I have been admitted into the pre­

sence of God, and been made a hearer of his

incorruptible voice; so great is his concern

for the welfare of your nation."

When he had said this, he brought the

people, with their wives and children, so near

the mountain, that they might hear God him­

self speaking to them about the precepts

which they were to practise; that the energy

of what should be spoken might not be hurt

by its utterance, by that tongue of a man

which could but imperfectly deliver it to their

understanding. And they all heard a voice

that came from above; insomuch that none

of those words escaped them, which Moses

wrote in two tables; and though it is not*

^s

say the Chaldaic oracles; and as for earthquakes, or

shaking of mountains, this is no more than what all nations

suppose have ever come to pass upon God's manifesting

himself at any time: for it is not only the Psalmist who

tells us, that the earth shook, and the heaven dropped, at

the presence of God; but in the description which Virgil

gives us of the approach of Phoebus, he does in a manner

translate the words of Moses:

Tremere omnia visa repente,

Luminaque, laurusque Dei: totusque moveri

Mons circum, et mugire adytis cortina reelusis

Vide Nicholl's Conference, part 2. B.

* Of this and another superstitious notion of the Phari­  
sees, which Josephus complied with, see note on II. 12.

