400 [book XI, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

of the temple where the elders also were

present, but were uneasy because of the

cold; Esdras stood up, and told them, they

had sinned, in marrying wives that were not

of their own nation. But that now they

would do a thing both pleasing to God and

advantageous to themselves, if they would

put those wives away. Accordingly they all

cried out that they would do so: that how­

ever the multitude was great, and the season

of the year was winter, and this work would

require more than one or two days. "Let

their rulers therefore," said they, "and those

that have married strange wives, come hither

at a proper time while the elders of every

place, that are in common to estimate the

number of those that have thus married, are

to be there also.* Accordingly this was re­

solved on. And they began the inquiry after

those that had married strange wives, on the

first day of the tenth month; and continued

the inquiry till the first day of the next month;

and found a great many of the posterity of

Jeshua the high-priest, and of the priests and

Levites, and Israelites, who had fa greater

regard to the observance of the law, than to

their natural affection: and immediately cast

,out their wives, and the children which were

born of them. And in order to appease God,

they offered sacrifices and slew rams, as ob­

lations to him. But it does not seem neces­

sary to set down the names of these men.

So when Esdras had reformed this sin,

about the marriages of the aforementioned

persons, he reduced that practice to purity;

so that it continued in that state for the time

to come.

Now when they kept Jthe feast of taber­

nacles in the seventh month, and almost all

the people were come together to it, they

went up to the open part of* the temple, to

the gate that looked eastward, and desired of

Esdras that the laws of Moses might be read

to them. Accordingly he stood in the midst of

the multitude, and read them from the morn­

ing to noon. Now by hearing the laws read

to them, they were instructed to be righteous

men for the present and for the future. But

as for their past offences, they were dis­

pleased at themselves, and proceeded to

shed tears on their account; as considering

with themselves, that if they had kept the

law, they had endured none of those miseries

which they had experienced. But when Es­

dras saw them in this disposition, he bade

them go home, and not weep; for that it was

a festival, and that they ought not to weep

thereon; for that it was not lawful so to do.|j

He exhorted them rather to proceed imme­

diately to feasting, and to do what was agree­

able to a day of joy, but let their repentance

and sorrow for their former sins be a security,

and a guard to them, that they fall no more

into the like offences. So upon Esdras's ex­

hortation, they began to feast; and when they

had so done for eight days in the tabernacles,

they departed to their own homes: singing

hymns to God, and returning thanks to Es­

dras, for his reformation of what corruptions

had been introduced into their settlement.

So it came to pass, that after he had ob­

tained this reputation among the people, he

died an old man; and was buried in a mag­

nificent manner at Jerusalem. About the

same time it happened also, that Joacim, the

high-priest died; and his son Eliasib suc­

ceeded to the high-priesthood.

Now§ there was one of those Jews that had

been carried captive, who was cup-bearer to

king Xerxes. His name was Nehemiah. As

this man was walking before Susa, the metro­

polis of the Persians, he heard some strangers

that were entering the city, after a long jour­

ney, speaking to one another in the Hebrew

* Ezra*. 13, 14.

t This procedure of Ezra, and of the best part of the

Jewish nation, after the return from the Babylonish Cap­

tivity, of reducing the Jewish marriages, one for all, to

the strictness of the law of Moses; without any regard to

the greatness of those who had broken it; and without

regard to that natural affection or compassion for their

heathen wires, and their children by them, which made

it so hard for Ezra to correct them; deserves greatly to

be observed among Christians. The contrary conduct

having ever been the bane of true religion, both among

Jews and Christians; while political views, human pas­

sions, or prudential motives, are suffered to take place,

instead of the divine laws; and the blessing of God is

forfeited, and the,church suffered to continue corrupt,

from one generation to another.

J This Jewish feast of tabernacles was imitated in seve­

ral heathen solemnities: as Spanheim here observes, and

proves. He also farther observes presently, what great

regard many heathens had to the monuments of their

forefathers, as Nehemiah had here.

II This rule of Ezra's, not to fast on a festival day, is

quoted in the Apostolical Constitutions, as obtaining

among Christians also, V. 20.

§ An. 462

