22 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was the cause that those cities were over­

thrown.

The sons of Canaan were these; Sidonius,

who built a city of the same name, but called

by the Greeks Sidon; Amathus inhabited

Amathine, which is even now called Amathe

by the inhabitants, although the Macedonians

named it Epiphania, from one of his pos­

terity; Arudeus possessed the island Aradeus;

Arucus possessed Arce, which is in Libanus.

But of the seven others, Ghetteus, Jebuceus,

Amorreus, Gergesseus, Eudeus, Sineus, and

Samareus, we have nothing in the sacred

books but their names; for the Hebrews

overthrew their cities, and their calamities

came upon them on the occasion following.

When, after the deluge, the earth was re­

settled in its former condition; Noah set

about its cultivation, and planted it with

vines; and when the fruit was ripe, and he

had gathered the grapes in their season, and

the wine was ready for use, he offered sacri­

fice,* and feasted; and being inebriated, he

fell asleep, and lay naked in an unseemly

manner.* When his youngest son saw this,

he came laughing, and shewed him to his

brethren, but they covered their father's

nakedness; and when Noah was made sen­

sible of what had been done, he prayed for

prosperity to his other sons; but for Ham, he

did not curse him by reason of his nearness

in blood, but cursed his posterity, and when

the rest of them escaped that curse, God

inflicted it on the children of Canaan. But of

these matters we shall speak more hereafter.

Shem, the third son of Noah, had five sons,t

who inhabited the land that began at Eu­

phrates, and reached to the Indian ocean.

For Elam left behind him the Elamites, the

ancestors of the Persians. Ashur lived at the

the Egyptians, put an end to, II. 10. and about which

modern writers seem very much unconcerned ; viz. that it

was a war of that consequence, as to occasion the removal

or destruction of six or seven nations of the posterity of

Mesraim, with their cities, which Josephus would not have

said, if he had not had ancient records to justify his asser­

tions, though those records be now lost.

* Gen. ix. 21.

t Gen. x. 21.

% That the Jews were called Hebrews from their pro­

genitor Heber, our author Josephus here rightly affirms;

and not from Abram the Hebrew^or passenger over Eu­

phrates, as many of the modems suppose. Shem is also

called the Father of all the Children of Heber, or of all the

city Ninive, and named his subjects Assyrians,

who became the most fortunate nation beyond

others. Arphaxad named the Arphaxadites,

who are now called Chaldeans. Aram had

the Aramites, whom the Greeks call Syrians;

as Lud founded the Ludites, who are now

called Lydians. Of the four sons of Aram,

Uz founded Trachonitis and Damascus; this

country lies between Palestine and Celesyria.

Ul founded Armenia; and Gather the Bac-

trians; and Mesa the Mesaneans: it is now

called Charax Spasina. Sala was the son of

Arphaxad: and his son was Heber, from

whom they originally called the Jews He­

brews.:*; Heber begat Joctan and Phaleg.

He was called Phaleg because he was born||

at the dispersion of the nations to their se­

veral countries, for Phaleg among the He­

brews signifies division. Now Joctan, one

of the sons of Heber had these sons, Elmo-

dad, Saleph, Asermoth, Jera, Adoram, Aizel,

Decla, Ebal, Abimeal, Sabeus, Ophir, Euilar,

and Jobab: these inhabited from Cophen, an

Indian river, and in part of Asia adjoining to

it; and this may suffice concerning the sons

of Shem.

I will now treat of the Hebrews. The son

of Phaleg, whose father was Heber, was Ra-

gau, whose son was Serug, to whom was born

Nahor; his son was Terah, who was the

father of Abraham, who accordingly was the

tenth§ from Noah, who was born in the two

hundred and ninety-second year after the

deluge: for Terah begat Abram in his seven­

tieth year. Nahor begat Haran when he was

one hundred and twenty years old: Nahor

was born to Serug at his hundred and thirty-

second year; Ragau had Serug at one hun­

dred and thirty; at the same age also Phaleg

had Ragau; Heber begat Phaleg in his hun-

Hebrews in a history long before Abram passed over

Euphrates. Gen. x. 21.

II If Phaleg were so called at his birth, as Josephus here

rightly asserts, it is plain the short Hebrew, or Masorete

chronology was not the chronology of Josephus, by which

the confusion of languages, and the dispersion of mankind

fell no later than the 100th year after the deluge, which is

impossible to be supposed, and is a great deal too soon for

such confusion of languages and dispersion of mankind,

which, by the best chronology, did not happen till 300

years later, or till 400 years after the flood.

§ Therefore the second Cainan is spurious. See Ber .

nard's note.

