AN. 710.] 357 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

cure of not being at all disturbed by him, and

that the people might go on peaceably and

without fear with their husbandry and other

affairs. But after a little while, the king of

Assyria, when he had failed of his treache­

rous designs against the Egyptians, returned

home, without success, on the following oc­

casion. He spent a long time in the siege of

Pelusium; and when the banks that he had

raised over against the walls were of a great

height, and when he was ready to make

an immediate assault upon them, he heard

that Tirhaka, king of the Ethiopians, was

bringing great forces to aid the Egyptians,

and was resolved to march through the de­

sert, and so to fall directly upon the Assy­

rians. Sennacherib was therefore disturbed

at the news: and, as I said before, left Pe­

lusium, and returned back without success.

Now concerning this Sennacherib Herodotus

says, in the second book of his histories, that

he came against the Egyptian king, who was

the priest of Vulcan: and that as he was

besieging Pelusium, he broke up the siege

on the following occasion. This Egyptian

priest prayed to God, and God heard his

prayer; and sent a judgment upon the Ara­

bian king; but in this Herodotus was mis­

taken, when he called this king not *king of

the Assyrians, but of the Arabians. For he

saith, that "A multitude of mice gnawed to

pieces in one night both the bows, and the

rest of the armour of the Assyrians; and that

it was on that account that the king, when

he had no bows left, drew off his army from

Pelusium." And Herodotus does indeed

give us this history. Nay, and Berosus,

who wrote of the affairs of Chaldea, makes

mention of this king Sennacherib, and that

he ruled over the Assyrians, and that he

made an expedition against all Asia and

Egypt; and fsays thus:—

"Now when Sennacherib was returning

from his Egyptian war to Jerusalem, he

found his army under Rabshakeh his gene­

ral, in danger by a plague, for God had sent

a pestilential distemper upon his army; and

on the very first night of the siege a hundred

and eighty-five thousand, with their captains

and generals, were destroyed.J So the king

that (afterward) the people might go on peaceably, and

without fear with their husbandry, and other affairs," is

more distinct in our other copies, both of the Kings and

of Isaiah; and deserves very great consideration. The

words are these, "This shall be a sign unto thee: ye

shall eat this year such as groweth of itself; and the

second year that which springeth of the same; and in

the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and

eat the fruits thereof." 2 Kings xix. 20. Isaiah xxxvii.

30. which seem to me plainly to design a sabbatic year;

a year of Jubilee, next after it; and the succeeding usual

labours and fruits of them on the third and following

years. From which may be determined the sabbatic

year; part of the 18th and part of the 19th year of He-

zekiah; or part of the 710th and 709th years before the

Christian Era: and the year of Jubilee: part of the 19th

and part of the 20th of Hezekiah; which is the part of

the 709th and part of the 708th before the Christian Era.

From which texts may be determined all the other sab­

batic years; and that in agreement with a great deal of

other evidence, which in this case no way differs from

it. From which texts also may be determined, what we

have hitherto extremely wanted, the situation of all the

other years of Jubilee; even from that first year wherein

Moses died, and Joshua led the Israelites into the land of

Canaan, an. 1492, to the last year of Jubilee, wherein

John the Baptist began his ministry, A. D. 28, thirty-two

in all. Whence the Scripture chronology may be settled,

and this without the error of a single year, as far back as

the death of Moses; during the very long interval of

3227 years.

* Correct here Josephus's copies, as to the citation out  
of Herodotus, and read, "who says that Sennacherib

was not only king of the Assyrians, but of the Arabians

also." Which Josephus seems to have esteemed a mis­

take in Herodotus.

t That this terrible calamity of the slaughter of the

185,000 Assyrians is here delivered in the words of Be­

rosus the Chaldean; and that it was certainly and fre­

quently foretold by the Jewish prophets, and that it was

certainly and undeniably accomplished, see Authentic

Rec. part II. page 858—871.

J The ancient Jews, (as well as Persians and Arabians,)

were of opinion, that there is an angel of death, or an ex­

terminating angel, whom God has given the commission

to take away the lives, either of single persons, or of mul­

titudes of people at once, wherein the Almighty gives the

order, but leaves the method of doing it to the angel;

so that in which way soever the infliction is made, it is

always said to be done by the angel of God. The modern

Jews are much of the same opinion: for they maintain,

that this angel of death stands at every dying man's bed's

head, with a naked sword in his hand, at the extremity

of which there hang three drops of gall, and that the sick

person, seeing this angel, in a great fright opens his

mouth, whereupon he immediately drops into it these

three fatal drops; the first which occasions his death; the

second makes him pale and livid; and the third reduces

him to the dust in the grave, with some other notions of

the like nature. Now since the Scripture has no where

said expressly, in what manner this Assyrian army was

destroyed, some have thought that it was by a plague;

others by thunder and lightning; others by fire from hea­

ven; others by a scorching wind; others by their falling

foul upon one another in the obscurity of the night; but

which way soever it was effected, according to the He­

brew idiom, there is no impropriety in saying, that it wa»

done by a destroying angel, which is a comprehensive

3P2

