AN. 10S 1532.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

with the kids of the goats; but abating one of

the bulls every day, till they amounted to

seven only. On the eighth day all work was

laid aside, and then, as we said before, they

sacrificed to God a bullock, a ram, seven

lambs, and a kid of the goats for an expiation

of sins: and this is the accustomed solemnity

of the Hebrews when they pitch their taber­

nacles.

But in the month of Xanthicus, which is by

us called Nisan,* and is the beginning of our

year, on the fourteenth day of the lunar month,

when the sun is in Aries, (for on this month

it was that we were delivered from bondage

under the Egyptians,) the law ordained that

we should every year slay that sacrifice,

which I before observed we slew when we

came out of Egypt, and which was called the

Passover; and so do we celebrate this pass-

over in companies, and leave nothing of what

we sacrifice till the day following. The feast

of unleavened bread succeeds that of the

passover, and falls on the fifteenth day of the

month, and continues seven days, wherein

they feed on unleavened bread; on every one

of which days two bulls are killed, and one

ram, and seven lambs. Now these lambs are

entirely burnt, besides the kid of the goats,

which is added to all the rest, for sins; for it

is intended as a feast for the priest on every

one of those days. But on the second day of

unleavened bread, which is the sixteenth day

of the month, they first partake of the fruits of

the earth, for before that day they do not

touch them. And while they suppose it pro­

per to honour God, from whom they obtain

this plentiful provision, in the first place they

offer the first fruits of their barley, and that in

the manner following: They take a handful

of the ears, and dry them; they then beat

them small, and cleanse the barley from the

bran; they then bring one tenth deal to the

altar to God, and casting one handful of it

upon the fire, they leave the rest for the use

of the priests; and after this it is that they

may publicly or privately reap their harvest.

They also, at this participation of the first

fruits of the earth, sacrifice a lamb as a burnt-

offering to God.

When a week of weeks has passed over

after this sacrifice, which weeks contain forty

* Or Abid. Deut. xvi. 1.

voL. I.—No. 9.

and nine days; on the fiftiethf day, called by

the Hebrews Asartha, which signifies Pente­

cost, they bring to God a loaf made of wheat

flour, of two tenth deals with leaven; and for

sacrifices they bring two lambs; and when

they have only presented them to God, they

are made ready for supper for the priests:

nor is it permitted to leave any thing of them

till the day following. They also slay three

bullocks for a burnt-offering, and two rams,

and fourteen lambs, with two kids of the goats

for sins: nor is there any one of the festivals

but in it they offer burnt-offerings. They also

allow themselves to rest on every one of them:

accordingly the law prescribes in them all

what kinds they are to sacrifice, and how they

are to rest entirely, and must slay sacrifices

in order to feast upon them.

However, out of the common charges baked

bread was set on the table of shew bread

without leaven, of twenty-four tenth deals of

flour, for so much is spent upon this bread;

two heaps of these were baked; they were

taken the day before the sabbath, but were

brought into the holy place on the morning of

the sabbath, and set upon the holy table six

on a heap, one loaf still standing over against

another, where two golden cups, full of frank­

incense, were also set upon them; and there

they remained till another sabbath; and then

other loaves were brought in their stead,

while the loaves were given to the priests for

their food, and the frankincense was burnt in

that sacred fire wherein all their offerings

were burnt also; and so other frankincense

was set upon the loaves instead of what was

there before. The high-priest also, at his

own expense offered a sacrifice twice every

day. It was made of flour, mingled with oil,

and gently baked by the fire. The quantity

was one tenth deal of flour. He brought the

half of it to the fire in the morning, and the

other half at night. The account of these

sacrifices I shall give more accurately here­

after, but I think I have premised what for the

present may be sufficient concerning them.

M

CHAP. XI.

OF THE PURIFICATIONS.

OSES took out the tribe of Levi from

communicating with the rest of the

t Levit. xxiii. 16.

Dd

