390 [BOOK XL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

kings: as hath their city been also: which,

for that reason, hath been till now laid

waste. We thought proper also to inform

thee of this matter, because thou mayest

otherwise perhaps be ignorant that if this

city be once inhabited, and entirely encom­

passed with walls, thou wilt be excluded from

thy passage to Coelesyria and Phoenicia."

When Cambyses had read the epistle,

being naturally wicked, he was irritated at

what they told him; and wrote back to them

as follows:

"Cambyses the king, to Rathumus the

historiographer, to Beeltethmus, to Semellius

the scribe, and the rest that are in commis­

sion, and dwelling in Samaria and Phoenicia,

after this manner. I have read the epistle

that was sent from you; and I gave order

that the books of my forefathers should be

searched into. And it is there found, that

this city hath always been an enemy to kings:

and its inhabitants have raised seditions and

wars. We also are sensible that their kings

have been powerful, and tyrannical, and have

exacted tribute of Coelesyria and Phoenicia.

Wherefore I give order, that the Jews shall

not be permitted to build that city; lest such

mischief as they used to bring upon kings, be

greatly augmented." When this epistle was

read, Rathumus, and Semellius the scribe,

and their associates, got suddenly on horse­

back, and made haste to Jerusalem; they

also brought a great company with them,

and forbade the Jews to build the city and

the temple. Accordingly these works were

hindered from going on till the second year

of the reign of Darius; for nine more years.

For Cambyses reigned seven years;* and

within that time overthrew Egypt; and when

he was come back, he died at Damascus.

CHAP. III.

OF THE ELEVATION OF DARIUS TO THE THROVE OF PERSIA;

THE SUPERIORITY OF ZOROBABEL IN THE SOLUTION OF

FROBLKVS; AND THE PERMISSION WHICH HE ATTAINED

FOR THE REBUILDING OF THE TEMPLE,

FTER the slaughter of the Magi,f who,

upon the death of Cambyses, retained

A

* Cambyses reigned, according to the canon of Pto­  
lemy, including the seven months of the Magi, eight

years. Josephus gives here Cambyses but six years,

Rnd the Magi one year; seven in all. I suppose Pto-

the government of the Persians for a year,

those families which were called the seven

families of the Persians appointed Darius,

the son of Hystaspes, to be their king. Now

he, while he was a private man, had made a

vow to God, that if he came to be king, he

would send all the vessels of God that were

in Babylon to the temple at Jerusalem. Now

it so fell out, that about this time Zorobabel,

who had been made governor of the Jews

that had been in captivity, came to Darius,

from Jerusalem; for there had been an old

friendship between him and the king. He

was also, with two others, thought worthy to

be guards of the king's body; and obtained

that honour which he hoped for.

Now in the first year of the king's reign,

Darius feasted those that were about him,

and those born in his house, with the rulers

of the Medes, and princes of the Persians,

and the toparchs of India and Ethiopia, and

the generals of the armies, of his hundred

and twenty-seven provinces. But when they

had eaten and drank abundantly, they every

one departed to their own houses. And Da­

rius the king went to bed. But after he had

rested a little part of the night, he awoke,

and not being able to sleep any more, he fell

into conversation with the three guards of his

body; and promised that to him who should

make an oration, about points that he should

inquire of, such as should be most agreeable

to truth, and to the dictates of wisdom, he

would grant it as a reward of his victory, to

put on a purple garment, to drink in cups of

gold, to sleep upon gold, and to have a cha­

riot with bridles of gold, and a head tire of

fine linen, and a chain of gold about his neck,

and to set next to himself, on account of his

wisdom, and to be called his cousin. Now

when he had promised to give them these

gifts, he asked the first of them, whether

wine were not the strongest? the second,

whether kings were not such? and the third,

whether women were not such? or whether

truth were not rather the strongest of all?

When he had proposed that they should

make their inquiries about these problems,

he went to rest. But in the morning he Bent

lemy's canon to be the true number; though the dif­

ference between that account and Josephus's, is no more

than a single year.

- } An. 622.

