AN. 1178.] 173 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Accordingly she intreated God to send the

angel again, that he might be seen by her

husband. So the angel came again, by the

favour of God, while they were in the sub­

urbs; and appeared to her, when she was

alone, without her husband. She desired the

angel to stay so long till she might bring her

husband; and that request being granted,

she went to call Manoah. When he saw the

angel, he was not yet free from suspicion; and

desired him to inform him of all he had told

his wife. But when he said, it was sufficient

that she alone knew what he had said; he

then requested of him to tell him, who he was;

that when the child was born, they might re­

turn him thanks, and give him a present. He

replied, that he did not want any present; for

he did not bring them the good news of the

birth of a son out of the want of any thing.

And when Manoah intreated him to stay, and

partake of his hospitality, he did not give his

consent. However he was persuaded, at the

earnest request of Manoah, to stay so long, as

while he brought him one mark of his hospi­

tality. So he slew a kid of the goats, and

bade his wife boil it. When all was ready

the angel enjoined him to set the loaves and

the flesh, but without the vessels, upon the

rock. Which, when . they had done, he

touched the flesh with a rod which he had in

his hand; which, upon the breaking out of a

flame, was consumed, together with the

loaves. And the angel ascended in their

sight, up to heaven by means of the smoke,

as by a vehicle. Now Manoah was afraid

that some danger would come to them, from

this sight of God; but his wife exhorted him

to be of good courage; for that God appeared

to them for their benefit.*

So the woman became pregnant, and was

careful to observe the injunctions that were

given her. And they called the child, when

it was born, Sampson; which name signifies

one that is strong. So the child grew apace,

and it appeared evidently that he would be

af prophet; both by the moderation of his

diet, and the permission of his hair to grow.

Now when he once came with his parents

to Timnath, a city of the Philistines, when

there was a great festival, he fell in love with

a maid of that country, and desired of his pa­

rents that they would procure him the dam­

sel for his wife. But they refused so to do;

because she was not of the stock of Israel.

Yet because this marriage was of God, who

intended to convert it to the benefit of the

Hebrews, he over-persuaded them to procure

her to be espoused to him. And as he was

continually coming to her parents he met a

lion; and, though he was naked, he received

the animal's onset, strangling him with his

hands, and cast his body into a woody piece

of ground, on the inside of the road.

Another time when he was going to the

damsel, he discovered a swarm of bees, ma­

king their combs in the breast of the lion.

And taking three honey-combs away, he gave

them, together with the rest of his presents, to

the damsel. Now the people of Timnath, out

of a dread of the young man's strength, gave

him, during the time of the wedding-feast,

(for he then feasted them all) thirty of the

most stout of their youths in pretence to be

his companions; but in reality to be a guard

upon him, that he might not attempt to give

them any disturbance. Now as they were

drinking merrily and playing, Sampson said,

as was usual at such times, " Come; I propose

you a riddle,! and if you can expound it in

these seven days time, I will give you every

one a linen shirt and a garment,|| as a reward

of your wisdom." So they, being very ambi­

* Judg. xiii. 23.

t Here by a prophet Josephus seems only to mean,

one that was born by a particular providence, who lived

after the manner of a Nazarite devoted to God, and was to

have an extraordinary commission and strength from God

for the judging and avenging his people Israel; without

any proper prophetic revelations.

J This shews how ancient the custom was, (which we

find afterwards amongst the Greeks,) of proposing ques­

tions to be resolved in their compotations and feasts, that

they might not be spent merely in eating and drinking,

but that there might be something to exercise their wit

and ingenuity. Such riddles as were contrived to puzzle

and perplex were called by the name of 7f 190s, which the

scholiast upon Aristophanes defines to be a question put

among their cups. See Bochart Hieroz, lib. iv. cap. 12.

It should also be observed, that they incurred a forfeiture

equal to the reward, if they failed altogether in their

answers. B.

II Among the Greeks it was usual for the bride to give

changes of dress to the friends of the bridegroom at the

celebration of the marriage. Homer represents Pallas as

appearing to Nausica in a dream, and commanding her to

descend to the river, and wash the robes of state, pre­

paratory to her nuptials.

Oh, indolent, to waste thy hours away!

And sleep'st thon, careless of the bridal day?

Pp2

