as. 70.] 495 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK XIV.

Containing an Interval of Thirty-two Years.

FROM THE DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA, TO THE DEATH OF ANTIGONUS.

CHAP. I.

OF THE WAR BETWEEN ARISTOBULUS AND HYRCANU9; THEIR

AGREEMENT RELATIVE TO THE KINGDOM; AND THE SUB­

SEQUENT FLIGHT OF HYRCANUS.

WE have related the affairs of queen

Alexandra, and her death, in the

foregoing book; and will now speak of what

followed, and was connected with those his­

tories: declaring before we proceed, that

we have nothing so much at heart, as to

*omit no facts either through ignorance or  
indolence. For we are treating upon the

his.tory and explication of such things, as the

greatest part of our readers are unacquaint­

ed with, because of their distance from our

times; and we aim to do it with a beauty of

style so far as that is derived from proper

words harmonically disposed; and from such

ornaments of speech as may contribute to

the pleasure of our readers: that they may

entertain the knowledge of what we write

with some degree of satisfaction and plea­

sure. But the principal end that authors

ought to aim at above all the rest, is to

speak accurately, and to speak truly; for

the satisfaction of those that are otherwise

unacquainted with such transactions, and

are obliged to believe what these writers

inform them of.

Hyrcanus then began his high-priesthood

on the fthird year of the hundred and seventy

seventh Olympiad; when Quintus Horten-

sius and Quintus Metellus, who was called

Metellus of Crete, were consuls at Rome:

when presently Aristobulus began to make

war against him. And as it came to a battle

with Hyrcanus at Jericho, many of his sol~

diers deserted him, and went over to his bro­

ther. Upon this Hyrcanus fled into the cita­

del: where Aristobulus's wife and children

were imprisoned by their mother, as we have

Jsaid already; and attacked and overcame

those adversaries that fled thither, and lay

within the walls of the temple. So when he

had sent a message to his brother about com­

promising the matters between them, he laid

aside his enmity to him on these conditions:

that Aristobulus should be king; and that he

should live without intermeddling with public

affairs, and quietly enjoy the estate he had

acquired. When they agreed upon these

terms in the temple, and had confirmed the

agreement with oaths, and the giving one

another their ||right hands, and embracing

one another, in the sight of the whole mul­

titude, they departed: Aristobulus, to the

palace; and Hyrcanus, as a private man, to

the former house of Aristobulus.

But there was a certain friend of Hyrca­

* Reland observes here, very justly, how Josephus's  
declaration, that it was his great concern not only to

write an agreeable, accurate, and a true history, but also

distinctly not to omit any thing of consequence, either

through ignorance, or indolence; implies, that he could

not, consistently with that resolution, omit the mention of

no famous a person as Jesus Christ.

t Langius well observes, that this beginning of Hyr-

canus's reign is rightly stated by Josephus: and implies,

that he began before the middle of the 69th year be­

fore the Christian Era. De Annis Christi II. 18, page

336.

J See Book XIII. chap. 16.

II This is, I think, the first mention of confirming agree

ments by giving each other the right hand, in Josephus;

which, however, frequently occurs afterward.

