in. 65.] 497 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

And when, after that victory, many went over

to Hyrcanus, ass deserters, Aristobulus was left

desolate, and fled to Jerusalem. Hereupon

the king of Arabia took all his army, and

made an assault on the temple, and besieged

Aristobulus therein: the people still support­

ing Hyrcanus, and assisting him in the siege;

while none but the priests continued with

Aristobulus. So Aretas united the forces of

the Arabians, and of the Jews together, and

pressed on the siege vigorously. As this hap­

pened at the season when the feast of unlea­

vened bread was celebrated, which we call

the passover, the principal men among the

Jews left the country, and fled into Egypt.

Now there was one, whose name was Onias;

a righteous man, and beloved of God; who,

in a certain drought, had prayed to God to

put an end to the intense heat; and whose

prayers God had heard, and had sent them

rain.* This man had concealed himself, be­

cause he saw that this sedition would last a

great while. However they brought him to

the Jewish camp, and desired that as by his

prayers he had once put an end to the drought,

so he would in like manner make impreca­

tions on Aristobulus, and those of his faction.

And when, upon his refusal, and the excuses

that he made, he was still by the multitude

compelled to speak: he stood up in the midst

of them, and said, "O God, the king of the

whole world! since those that now stand with

me are thy people; and those that are be­

sieged are also thy priests; I beseech thee

that thou wilt neither hearken to the prayers

of those against these; nor bring to effect

what these pray against those." But as soon

as he had made this prayer, the wicked Jews

who stood about him stoned him to death.

But God punished them immediately for

this barbarity, and took vengeance upon them

for the murder of Onias, in the following man­

ner. While the priests and Aristobulus were

besieged, it happened that the feast called the

passover was come. At which it is our cus­

tom to offer a great number of sacrifices to

God. But those who were with Aristobulus

wanted sacrifices, and desired that their coun­

trymen without would furnish them with such

sacrifices; and assured them that they should

have as much money for them as they should

desire; and when they required them to pay

a thousand drachmae for each head of cattle,

Aristobulus and the priests willingly under­

took to pay for them accordingly. And those

within lowered down the money over the

walls, and gave it them. But when the others

had received it, they did not deliver the sac­

rifices; but arrived at that height of wicked­

ness, as to break the assurances they had

given; and to be guilty of impiety towards

God, by not furnishing those that wanted

them with sacrifices. And when the priests

found they had been cheated, and that the

agreements they had made were violated,

they prayed to God, that he would avenge

them on their countrymen. Nor did he de­

lay that punishment: but sent a strong and

vehement storm of wind that destroyed the

fruits of the whole country, till a modius of

wheat was sold for eleven drachmae.

In the mean time Pompey sent Scaurus into

Syria; while he was himself in Armenia, and

making war with Tigranes. But when Scau­

rus was come to Damascus, and found that

Lollius and Metellus had newly taken the

city, he came himself hastily into Judea. And

when he was come thither, ambassadors came

to him, both from Aristobulus and Hyrcanus;

and both desired he would assist them. And

when both of them promised to give him mo­

ney—Aristobulus "Hour hundred talents, and

Hyrcanus no less;—he accepted of Aristobu-

lus's promise: for he was rich, and had a great

soul; and desired to obtain nothing but what

was moderate. Whereas the other was poor

and tenacious, and made incredible promises

in hopes of greater advantages. For it was

not the same thing to take a city that was

exceeding strong and powerful, as it was to

eject out of the country some fugitives, with

a greater number of Nabateans who were no

very warlike people. He therefore made an

agreement with Aristobulus, for the reasons

beforementioned; and took his money, and

raised the siege; and ordered Aretas to de­

part, or else he should be declared an enemy

to the Romans. So Scaurus returned to Da­

* This miraculous grant of rain in the time of dearth,  
related here by Josephus, on the prayers of this holy

irian, Onias, is confirmed in two places by the Jewish

yabbins, after their awkward manner: as Reland informs

us in his note on this place. One of which testimonies

is here set down by him at large. To which I refer the,

inquisitive reader.

1 Or, three hundred. See Chap. 3.

