286 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and implore thy pardon, do thou then pardon

them, and hear their prayer. For hereby all

shall learn that thou wast pleased with the

building of this house; and that we are not

ourselves of an unsociable nature, nor behave

ourselves like enemies to such as are not of

our own people; but are willing that thy

assistance should be communicated to all

men in common; and that they may have

the enjoyment of thy benefits bestowed upon

them."

When Solomon had said this, and had cast

himself upon the ground, and worshipped a

long time, he arose up, and brought sacrifices

to the altar; and when he had filled it with

unblemished victims, he evidently discovered

that God had with pleasure accepted of all

that he had sacrificed to him; for there came

a fire running out of the air, and rushed with

Violence upon the altar, in the sight of all;

and caught hold of and consumed the sacri­

fices. Now when this divine appearance was

seen, the people supposed it to be a demon­

stration of God's abode in the temple, and

were pleased with it; and fell down upon the

ground and worshipped. Upon which the

king began to bless God, and exhorted the

multitude to do the same; as now having

sufficient indication of God's favourable dis­

position to them; and to pray that they might

always have the like indications from him,

and that he would preserve in them a mind

pure from all wickedness, in righteousness

and religious worship, and- that they might

continue in the observance of those precepts

which God had given them by Moses; be­

cause by that means the Hebrew nation

would be so happy, and indeed the most

blessed of all nations among all mankind.

He exhorted them also to be mindful, that by

what methods they had obtained their present

good things, by the same they must preserve

them to themselves, and make them greater

and more than they were at present. For

that it was not sufficient for them to suppose

they had received them on account of their

piety and righteousness; but that they had

no other way of preserving them for the time

to come; for it is not so great a thing for men

to acquire somewhat which they want, as to

preserve what they have acquired, and to be

guilty of no sin, whereby it may be hurt.

So when the king had spoken thus, he dis­

solved the congregation; but not till he had

completed his oblations, both for himself, and

for the Hebrews; insomuch that he sacrificed

twenty-two thousand oxen; and a hundred

and twenty thousand sheep. For then it was

that the temple did first taste of the victims;

and all the Hebrews with their wives and

children feasted therein. Nay, besides this,

the king then observed splendidly and mag­

nificently the feast of tabernacles, before the

temple for fourteen days; and he then feasted

together with all the people.

When all these solemnities were performed,

and nothing was omitted that concerned the

divine worship, the king dismissed them; and

they every one went to their own homes;

giving thanks to the king for the care he had

taken of them, and the works he had done

for them; and praying to God to preserve

Solomon to be their king for a long time,

they also took their journey home with re­

joicing, and singing hymns to God. And in­

deed the pleasure they enjoyed took away

the sense of the pains they all underwent in

their journey home. So when they had

brought the ark into the temple, and had

seen its greatness, and had been partakers

of the sacrifices that had been offered, and of

the festivals that had been solemnized, they

returned to their own cities. But a dream

that appeared to the king in his sleep in­

formed him, that God had heard his prayers;

and that he would not only preserve the

temple, but would always abide in it; that is,

in case his posterity, and the whole multi­

tude, would be righteous. And for himself,

if he continued obedient to the admonitions

of his father, God would advance him to an

immense degree of dignity and happiness; so

that then his posterity should be kings of

that country of the tribe of Judah, for ever.

But that still, if he should be a betrayer of

the ordinances of the law, and forget them,

and turn away to the worship of strange gods,

he would cut him off by the roots; and would

neither suffer any remainder of his family to

continue, nor would watch over the people

of Israel, nor preserve them any longer from

afflictions; but would utterly destroy them

with wars and misfortunes; would cast them

out of the land which he had given their

fathers, and make them sojourners in strange

lands; and deliver that temple which was

