410 [book xi. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

honour a man whom thou dost love, give or­

der that he may ride on horseback, with the

same garment which thou wearest, and with

a gold chain about his neck; and let one of

thy intimate friends go before him, and pro­

claim through the whole city, that whosoever

the king honoureth, obtaineth this mark of

his honour."* This was the advice which

Haman gave, out of a supposal that such re­

ward would come to himself.f Hereupon

the king was pleased with the advice, and

said, "Go thou, therefore, for thou hast the

horse, the garment, and the chain. Ask for

Mordecai the Jew, and give him those things;

and go before his horse, and proclaim accor­

dingly: for thou art my intimate friend, and

hast given me good advice. Be thou then

*he minister of what thou hast advised: for  
this shall be his reward from us, for preserv­

ing my life." When he heard this order,

which was entirely unexpected, he was con­

founded in his mind, and knew not what to

do. However he went out, and led the horse4

and took the purple garment, and the golden

chain for the neck: and finding Mordecai

* Esther vi. 6—9.

t To form a notion of that height of pride and arro-

pnnce, to which Haman, (who thought all the honours he

specifieJ were designed for him) was arrived, we may

observe, that for any one to put on the royal robe, with­

out the privity and consent of the king, was, among the

Persians, accounted a capital crime. To which purpose

Plutarch, in his life of Artaxerxes, has related this story:

—" That one day, when in hunting, the king happened

to tear his garment, and Tiribazus was telling him of it,

the king asked him, what he should do? Why, put on

another, says Tiribazus, and give that to me. That I will,

says the king, but then I enjoin you not to wear it. Tiri­

bazus, however, who was a good kind of man enough, but

a little weak and silly, adventured to put it on, with all its

fine ornaments; and when some of the nobles began to

resent it, as a thing not lawful for any subject to do, I

allow him, says the king, laughing at the figure he made,

to wear the fine trinkets as a woman, and the robe as a

madman;" Le Clerc's Commentary. There was a custom,

not unlike this, among the Hebrews, as appears from the

history of Solomon, 1 Kings i. 33. for the person that was

declared to be successor to the crown, on the day of his

inauguration, to be mounted on the king's horse: and, to

the like custom among the Persians, it is highly probable,

that the poet Statius, in his description of a young king

succeeding to his father's throne, may allude.

Sicut Ahaemenius solium gentesque paternas

Excepit si forte puer, cui vivere patrem

Tutius, incerta formidine gaudia librat,

An fidi proceres, an pugnet vulgus habenis,

Cui latus Euphratae, cui Caspia limina mandet,

Samere nunc arcus, ipsumque onerare veretur

before the court, clothed in sackcloth, he

bade him put that garment off, and put the

purple garment on. But Mordecai, not know­

ing the truth of the matter, but thinking that

it was done in mockery, said, "O thou

wretch, the vilest of all mankind: dost thou

thus laugh at our calamities?" But when he

was satisfied that the king bestowed this

honour upon him, for the deliverance he had

procured him when he convicted the eunuchs,

who had conspired against him, he put on

that purple garment which the king always

wore; and put the chain about his neck; and

got on horseback, and went round the city:

while Haman went before, and proclaimed,

"This shall be the reward which the king

will bestow on every one whom he loves, and

esteems worthy of honour." And when they

had gone round the city, Mordecai went in

to the king. But Haman went home out of

shame; and informed his wife and friends of

what had happened, and this with tears: up­

on which they said, he would never be able

to be revenged on Mordecai; for that God

was with him.||

Patris equum, visusque sibi nee sceptra capaci

Sustentare manu, nee adhuc implere tiaram.

Thebaid. lib. 8. B.

J Commentators arc not agreed whether this crown

was placed upon the king's head, or his horse's. Those

who refer it to the king, will have it to be what we call a

turban, made of fine white and pure linen, which it was

death for any one to put on his head, without the king's

express order; to which purpose Arrian (Alex, exped.

lib. 7.) tells us this story :—" That as Alexander was sail­

ing on the Euphrates, and his turban happened to fall off

among some reeds, one of the watermen immediately

jumped in and swam to it; but as he could not bring it

back in his hand without wetting it, he put it upon his

head, and so returned with it. Whereupon most histo­

rians that have wrote of Alexander (says he) tells us, that

he gave him a talent of silver for this expression of his

zeal to serve him, but, at the same time, ordered his head

to be struck off for presuming to put on the royal diadem."

Other commentators are of opinion, that this Keter, which

we render crown, being a word of a large signification,

will equally denote that ornament which the horse that

the king rode, wore upon his head. As it must be acknow­

ledged, that this application of the thing agrees better

with the signification and order of the Hebrew words;

with the following verses, wherein no mention is made ol

the Keter, but only of the robe and the horse to which

this crown belonged; and with the custom of the Persians »

who used to put a certain ornament, in Italian called

fiocco, upon the head of that hor?r whereon the king was

mounted. Le Clerc's and Patrick's Commentaries; and

Pool's Annotations. B.

I I Esther vi. 13.

