3U [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

five thousand five hundred and twenty-five.

And the governors of all the multitude, thus

numbered, were Zorobabel, the son of Sala-

thiel, of the posterity of David, and of the

tribe of Judah and Jeshua, the son of Josedek,

the high-priest. And besides these, there

were Mordecai and Serebeus, who were dis­

tinguished from the multitude, and were ru­

lers: who also contributed a hundred pounds

of gold and five thousand of silver. By this

means therefore the priests, and the Levites,

and a certain part of the people of the Jews

that were in Babylon came and dwelt in Je­

rusalem: but the rest of the multitude re­

turned to their own countries.

CHAP. IV.

UT THE REBUILDING OF THE TEMPLE, AND THE FRUITLESS

ATTEMPT OF THE CUTHEANS TO OBSTRUCT THE WORK.

IN the seventh month, after they were de­

parted out of Babylon, both Jeshua the

high-priest, and Zorobabel, the governor, sent

messengers every way round about, and ga­

thered those that were in the country together

to Jerusalem.* They then built the altar, on

the place where it formerly stood; that they

might offer the appointed sacrifices upon it to

God, according to the laws of Moses. But

while they did this, they did not please the

neighbouring nations: who regarded them

with envy and ill will. They also celebrated

the feasts of tabernacles at that time, as the

legislator had ordained: and after that they

offered sacrifices, and what were called the

daily sacrifices, and the oblations proper for

the sabbath, and for all the holy festivals.

Those also that had made vows performed

them; and offered their sacrifices, from the

first day of the seventh month. They also

began to build the temple, and gave a great

sum of money to the masons and carpenters;

and what was necessary for the maintenance

of the workmen. The Sidonians also were

very willing to bring cedar trees from Liba-

nus, to bind them together, and to make a

united float of them, and to bring them to the

port of Joppa. For that was what Cyrus had

commanded at first; and what was now done

at the command of Darius.

* Ezra iii. 1.  
t An. 519.

In the second yearf of their Coming to Je­

rusalem, as the Jews were there, in the second

month, the building of the temple went on

apace. And when they had laid the founda­

tion, on the first day of the second month, of

that year, they appointed as overseers of the

work, such Levites as were full twenty years

old, and Jeshua, and his sons and brethren,

and Cadmiel, the brother of Judas, the son

of Aminadab, with his sons. And by the great

diligence of those that had the care of it, the

temple was finished sooner than any one

would have expected. The priests, then,

adorned with their accustomed garments,

stood with their trumpets: while the Levites,

and the sons of Asaph, stood, and sang hymns

to God, according as David had first of all

appointed. Now the priests, and Levites,

and the elder part of the families, recollect­

ing how much greater and more sumptuous

the old temple had been; and contrasting it

with the inferiority of the new one, they con­

sidered with themselves how much their hap­

py state was sunk below what it had been of

old, as well as their temple. Hereupon they

were very disconsolate, and proceeded so far

as to lament and shed tears on those accounts.

But the people in general were contented

with their present condition; and because

they were allowed to build them a temple,

they desired no more; and neither regarded,

nor indeed at all tormented themselves with

the comparison of that and the former tem­

ple; as if this were below their expectations.

But the wailing of the old men, and of the

priests on account of the deficiency of this

temple, in their opinion, if compared with

that which had been demolished, overcame

the sounds of trumpets, and the rejoicing of

the people.J

When the Samaritans, who were still ene­

mies to the tribe of Judah and Benjamin,

heard the sound of the trumpets, they came

running together, and desired to know what

was the occasion of this tumult? and when

they perceived that it was from the Jews, who

had been carried captive to Babylon, and

were rebuilding their temple; they came to

Zorobabel, and to Jeshua, and to the heads

of the families, and desired they would give

, I Ezra iii. 13.

