180 [book t. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the women remembered the vow which she

had made concerning her son, and delivered

him to Eh; dedicating him to God, that he

might become a prophet. Accordingly his

hair was suffered to grow long, and his drink

was water. So Samuel was brought up in the*

temple. But Elcanah had other sons of Han­

nah, and three daughters.

When Samuel was twelve years old,f he

began to prophesy, and when he was once

asleep, God called to him by name; but he

supposing he had been called by the high-

priest, came to him; but when the high-priest

said he did not call him, God did so thrice.

Eli was then so far illuminated, that he said

to him, "Indeed Samuel I was silent now as

well as before. It is God that calls thee.} Do

thou therefore signify unto him, and say, I am

here ready." So when he heard God speak

again, he desired him to speak, and to deliver

what oracles he pleased, for he would not fail

to perform any ministration he should make

use of him in. To which God replied, " Since

thou art here ready, learn what miseries are

coming upon the Israelites; such indeed as

words cannot declare, nor faith believe. For

the sons of Eli shall die in one day; and the

priesthood shall be transferred into the family

of Eleazar; for Eli hath loved his sons more

than my worship, and to such a degree, as is

not for their advantage." This message Eli

obliged the prophet by oath to tell him; for

otherwise he had no inclination to afflict him

by repeating it. And now Eli had a far more

sure expectation of the perdition of his sons:

but the glory of Samuel increased more and

more; it being found by experience that

whatsoever he]| prophesied came to pass ac .

cordingly.

CHAP. XI

OF THE MISFORTUNES WHICH BEFEL THE SONS OF ELI, THE

ARK, AND THE PEOPLE; AND OF THE DEATH OF ELI.

ABOUT this time§ the Philistines made

war against the Israelites, and pitched

their camp at the city Aphec. Now when

the Israelites had expected them a little

while, the very next day they joined battle;

but the Philistines were conquerors, and slew

about four thousand of the Hebrews; and

pursued the rest of the multitude to their

camp.

The Hebrews being now afraid of the

worst, sent to the senate, and to the high-

priest, and desired that they would bring the

ark of God; that by putting themselves in

array, when it was present with them, they

might be too hard for their enemies; as not

reflecting that he who had condemned them

to endure these calamities was greater than

the ark; and for whose sake it was that the

ark came to be honoured. So the ark came,

and the sons of the high-priest with it, having

received an assurance from their father, that

if they pretended to survive the taking of the

ark, they should come no more into his pre­

sence. For Phineas officiated already as high-

priest; his father having resigned his office to

him, by reason of his great age.** So the

Hebrews were full of courage, as supposing

they should be too hard for their enemies; the

* Josephus here says, that Samuel was brought up in  
the holy place, or the temple; that is in the sacred build­

ings about the tabernacle; as is the holy house used by

Josephus for the tabernacle itself, VI. 12. and in many

other places.

t About an. 1170.

j 1 Sam. iii. 21. TJie word of the Lord. Without re­

curring to the learned explanations which have been

given of this expression, it may possibly receive an agree­

able illustration from the following extracts. "In Abys­

sinia there is an officer named Kal Hatze, who stands

always upon steps at the side of the lattice window, where

there is a hole covered in the inside with a curtain of

green taffeta; behind this curtain the king sits." (Brace's

Trav. vol. iv. p. 76.) The king is described in another

place as very much concealed from public view. He

even "covers his face on audiences, or public occasions,

and when in judgment. On cases of treason he sits within

his balcony, and speaks through a hole in the side of it, to

an officer called Kal Hatze, the voice or word of the king,

by whom he sends his questions, or any thing else that

occurs, to the judges, who are seated at the council table."

(Brace's Trav. vol. iii. p. 266.) If such a custom ever

obtained among the Jews, the propriety of the expression,

the word of the Lord, is obvious, as the idea must have

been very familiar to them. This clearly appears to have

been the case as to Joseph and his brethren, Gen. xlii. 23.

Joseph spake by an interpreter not of languages, but of

dignity and state. Other instances of the same nature may

probably be traced in 2 Kings v. 10. Job xxxiii. 23. B.

II Although there had been a few occasional prophets

before, yet was this Samuel the first of a constant succes­

sion of prophets in the Jewish nation; as it is implied in

St. Peter's words, Acts iii. 24. "Yea and all the prophets

from Samuel, and those that follow after, as many as have

spoken, have likewise foretold of these days." See also

Acts xiii. 20. The others were rather sometimes called

righteous men. See Matt. x. 41. xiii. 17. Constitut.

VIII. 12.

§ An. 1143.

** He was 08 years old. See 1 Sam. iv. 15.

