296 [book nn. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Syria. There he met with one Rezon,* who

had run away from Hadadezer,f king of

Zobah, his master, and was become a robber

in that country; and joined friendship with

him, who had already a band of robbers

about him. So he went up and seized upon

that part of Syria, and was made king

thereof. He also made incursions into the

land of Israel, and did in it no small mischief,

and spoiled it, and that in the life time of

Solomon. And such was the calamity which

the Hebrews suffered by Hadad.

There was also one of Solomon's own

nation that made an attempt against him,

Jeroboam, the son of Nebat; who had an ex­

pectation of rising, from a prophecy that had

been made to him long before. He was left

a child by his father, and brought up by his

mother; and when Solomon saw that he was

of an active and bold disposition, he made

him the curator of the walls which he built

round about Jerusalem. And he took such

care of those works, that the king approved

of his behaviour, and gave him as a reward

for the same, the charge over the tribe of

Joseph. And when about that time Jeroboam

was once going out of Jerusalem, a prophet

of the city Shilo, whose name was Ahijah,

met him, and saluted him; and when he had

taken him a little aside to the place where

there was no one present, he rent the gar­

ment he had into twelve pieces, and bade

Jeroboam take ten of them; saying, " This is

the will of God; he will part the dominion of

Solomon, and give one tribe, with that which

is next it, to his son; because of the promise

made to David for his succession; and will

give ten tribes to thee; because Solomon hath

sinned against him, and delivered himself up

to women, and to their gods. Seeing, there­

fore, thou knowest the cause for which God

hath changed his mind, and is alienated from

Solomon, be thou righteous, and keep the

laws; because thou hast proposed to thee the

greatest of all rewards for thy piety, and the

honour thou shalt pay to God; namely, to be

as greatly exalted as thou knowest David to

have been."

So Jeroboam was elevated by these words

of the prophet, and being a young manJ of

warm temper, and ambitious of greatness, he

could not be quiet. And when he had so

great a charge in the government, and called

to mind what had been revealed to him by

Ahijah, he endeavoured to persuade the

people to forsake Solomon; to make a dis­

turbance, and to bring the government over

to himself. But when Solomon understood

his intention and treachery,|| he sought to

catch him and kill him. But Jeroboam

was informed of it beforehand; and fled to

Shishak, king of Egypt; and there abode till

the death of Solomon. By which means he

gained these two advantages; to suffer no

harm from Solomon, and to be preserved for

the kingdom. So Solomon died when he

was already an old man, having reigned§

eighty years,** and lived ninety-four. He

* 1 Kings xi. 23.

t When David made war against Hadadezer, Rezon,

one of his generals, escaped from the field of battle, with

the troops under his command; and, having lived for a

little while hy plunder and robbery, at length seized on

Damascus, and reigned there. But his reign was not long.

For David took Damascus, as well as the other parts of

Syria, and left it in subjection to his son Solomon, till God

was pleased to suffer this Rezon to recover Damascus,

and there re-establish himself, to the great disturbance of

the latter part of Solomon's reign. Calmef s Comment. B.

SThis youth of Jeroboam when Solomon built the

Is of Jerusalem, not very long after he had finished his

twenty years' building of the temple, and his own palace;

or not very long after the twenty-fourth year of his reign,

1 Kings ix. 24. 2 Chron. viii. 11. and his youth here still

mentioned, when Solomon's wickedness was become in­

tolerable; fully confirm my former observation, that such

his wickedness began early, and continued yery long.

See Eccltis. xlvii. 14. Had we this discourse of Jose-

phus's, wherein he intended to enlarge on this part of

Solomon's life (which part is only in brief touched upon

in our other copies, 1 Kings xi. and is wholly omitted in

the books of Chronicles) we had probably been more

fully informed of this matter,

I! How Solomon came to know what was thus transacted

between Ahijah and Jeroboam alone, is a question of no

great difficulty. For perhaps the prophet made no scruple

to report what he delivered in the name of the Lord; per­

haps Jeroboam himself, being puffed up with this assu­

rance, could not contain, but told it to some of his confi­

dants, who spread it abroad; or perhaps his servants,

though they heard not the words the prophet spake, yet.

seeing him rend the garment into twelve parts, and give

ten to him, might speak of this strange and unaccountable

action, which Solomon, as soon as he came to hear of it,

might easily understand, because the same prophet very

likely had told him but just before, that the kingdom

should be rent from him, and given to his servant, 1 Kings

xiv. 8. Patrick1!! Commentary. B.

§ From an. 1056 to 976 B.' C.

** That Josephus justly ascribes eighty years to the  
reign of Solomon, see Essay on the Old Testament,

page 31, 32.

