252 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

enemy will naturally suppose that he hath

another army with him." So David was

pleased with this advice, and resolved to

tarry at Mahanaim. And as he sent his

friends and commanders to the battle, he

desired them to shew all possible alacrity and

fidelity, and to bear in mind what advantages

they had received from him; which though

they had not been very great, yet had they

not been quite inconsiderable; and he begged

of them to spare the young man Absalom,

lest some mischief should befall himself, if

he should be killed.* And thus did lie send

out his army to the battle, and wished them

victory therein.

Then did Joab put his army in array over

against the enemy, in the great plain, where

he had a wood behind him. Absalom also

brought his army into the field to oppose him.

Upon the joining of the battle both sides per­

formed great actions; the one side exposing

themselves to the greatest hazards and using

their utmost alacrity, that David might re­

cover his kingdom; and the other being no

way deficient either in doing or suffering,

that Absalom might not be deprived of that

kingdom, and to be brought to punishment

by his father for his impudent attempt against

him. Those also that were the most nu­

merous were solicitous that they might not

be conquered by those few that were with

Joab, and with the other commanders, be­

cause that would be the greatest disgrace to

them; while David's soldiers strove greatly

to overcome so many ten thousands as the

enemy had with them. Now David's men

were conquerors, as superior in strength and

skill in war. So they followed the others as

they fled away through the forests and valleys;

and some they took prisoners, and many they

slew; and more in the flight than in the

battle ;f for there fell about twenty thousand

that day. But all David's men ran violently

upon Absalom; for he was easily known by

his beauty and stature. He was himself also

afraid lest his enemies should seize him. So

he got upon the king's mule and fled. But

as he was carried along with violence, and a

great motion, as he being himself light, he

entangled his hair in the large spreading

bough of a knotty tree, and there he hung

after a surprising manner. And as for the

beast, it went on swiftly; as if his master had

been still upon his back. But he hanging in

the air upon the boughs was left to his ene­

mies. Now when one of David's soldiers saw

this, he informed Joab of it; and when the

general said, that if he had shot at and killed

Absalom, he would have given him fifty

shekels, he replied, " I would not have killed

my master's son if thou wouldest have given

me a thousand shekels; especially when he

desired that the young man might be spared

in the hearing of us all." But Joab made

him shew him where it was that he saw Ab­

salom hang. Whereupon he shot him to the

heart, and slew him,J and Joab's armour-

bearers stood round about the tree, and

pulled down his dead body, and cast it into a

great chasm that was out of sight, and laid a

heap of stones|| upon him till the cavity was

filled up; and had the appearance of a grave.

* 2 Sam. xviii. 5.

t The expression in the text is, The wood devoured

more people that day than the sword devoured, 2 Sam.,

xviii. 8. which some think was occasioned by their falling

into pits, pressing one another to death in strait places,

creeping into lurking holes, and there being starved to

death, or otherwise devoured by wild beasts, which met

them in their flight. But the most easy and simple

meaning of the passage is, that there were more slain in

the wood than in the field of battle. The field of battle

was a plain, with a wood contiguous to it; and therefore,

when Absalom's army was put to the rout, and betook

themselves to the wood for refuge, their pursuers made a

greater slaughter of them there, than they otherwise

would have done, because they could not run away so

fast in the wood, as they might have done in the open

field. Patrick's Commentary. B.

% 2 Sam. xviii. 14.

II In the description of the Holy Land, some geogra­

phers tell us, that this heap of stones remained even to

their days, and that all travellers, as they passed by it,

were wont to throw a stone to add to the heap, in detesta­

tion of his rebellion against his father. For though it be­

came a custom among the Greeks, to raise a heap of stones

in the place where any great person was interred, as a

monument of honour and respect; yet it is plain, that

none of David's army intended any honour to Absalom's

memory in accumulating stones upon him; nor can we

think, that David himself, though too fond of this rebel

son, made any alteration afterwards in the form of his

burial, for fear of enraging the people against him. Some,

however, are of a quite contrary opinion, viz. that David,

who lamented him with such excess, removed him from

this pit, in order to have him laid in the sepulchre be­

longing to the kings, or perhaps somewhere about the

place where the monument which goes under his name,

and even to this day is shewn to travellers, was dug in a

rock. It is a litUe chamber wrought with a chisel, out of

one piece of rock, which stands at some distance from the

rest of the mountain, and is a square of eight paces from

