ait. 1493.] 117 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

cat; and in the temple also; and the same

day they were offered.

When Moses had made these constitutions,

after the sedition was over, he removed to­

gether with the whole army, and came to the

borders of Idumea. He then sent ambassa­

dors to the king of the Idumeans, and desired

him to give him a passage through his coun­

try: and agreed to send him what hostages

he should desire, to secure him from any in­

jury. He desired also, that he would allow

his army liberty to buy provisions: and if he

insisted upon it, he would pay down a price

for the very water they should drink. But

the king was not pleased with this ambassage

from Moses, nor did he allow a passage for

the army, but brought his people armed to

meet Moses, and to hinder them in case they

should endeavour to force their passage.

Upon which Moses consulted God by the

Oracle; who would not have him begin the

war first; and so he withdrew his forces, and

travelled round about through the wilder­

ness.

Then it was that Miriam, the sister of

Moses, came to her* end; having completed

herf fortieth year since she left Egypt; on J

the first day of the lunar month Xanthicus.

They then made a public funeral for her, at a

great expense. She was buried upon a cer­

tain mountain, which they call Sin. And

when they had mourned for her thirty days,

Moses purified the people after this manner:

He brought a heifer, that had never been

used to the plough, or to husbandry; that was

complete in all its parts, and entirely of a red

colour; at a little distance from the camp, into

a place perfectly clean. This heifer was slain

by the high-priest, and her blood sprinkled

with his finger seven times before the taber­

nacle of God. After this, the entire heifer

was burnt in that state, together with its skin

and entrails, and they threw cedar-wood, and

hyssop, and scarlet wool, into the midst of the

fire. Then a clean man gathered all her

ashes together, and laid them in a place per­

fectly clean. When, therefore, any persons

were defiled by a dead body, they put a little

of these ashes into spring water, with hyssop;

and dipping part of these ashes in it, they

sprinkled them with it, both on the third day,

and on the seventh; and after that they were

clean. This he enjoined them to do also,

when the tribes should come into their own

land.

Now when this purification, which their

leader made, upon the mourning for his sister,

as it had now been described, was over, he

caused the army to remove, and to march

through the wilderness, and through Arabia.

And when he came to a place which the Ara­

bians esteem their metropolis, which was for­

merly called Arce, but has now the name of

Petra: at this place, which was encompassed

with high mountains, Aaron went up one of

them, in the sight of the whole army; Moses

having before told him that he was to die.

for this place was over against them. He

there put off his pontifical garments, and de­

livered them to Eleazar his son, to whom the

high-priesthood belonged, because he was the

elder brother; and died|| while the multitude

looked upon him. He died in the same year

wherein he lost his sister; having lived in all

an hundred and twenty-three years. He died

on the first day of that lunar month, which is

called by the Athenians, Hecatombaeon; by

the Macedonians, Lous; but by the Hebrews,

Abba.

CHAP. V.

OF THE CONQUEST OF SIHON AND OG, KINGS OF THE AMO-

RITES J AND THE DIVISION OF THEIR LAND BY LOT TO

TWO TRIBES AND A HALF OF THE HEBREWS.

THE people mourned for Aaron thirty

days: and when this mourning was over,

Moses removed the army from that place, and

came to the river Arnon; which issuing out

of the mountains of Arabia, and running

through all that wilderness, fell into the lake

Asphaltites, and became the limit between

the land of the Moabites, and the land of the

Amorites. This land is fruitful, and sufficient

to maintain a great number of men, with the

* Numb. xx. 1.

T Josephus here uses this phrase, when the fortieth

year was completed, for when it was begun; as does St.

Luke, when the day of Pentecost was completed. Acts ii. 1.

J Whether Miriam died, as Josephus's Greek copies

imply, on this first day of the month, may be doubted;

because the Latin copies say, it was on the tenth; and so

say the Jewish calendars also, as Dr. Bernard assures us.

It is said her sepulchre is still extant near Petra, the old

capital of Arabia Petra, at this day; as also that of Aaron,

not far off.

1! Numb. xx. 28.

