AN. 1102.] 209 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

But when he saw that he was not there on

the second day of the month, he inquired of

Jonathan, why the son of Jesse did not come

to the supper and the feast, neither the day

before, nor that day? Jonathan replied, that

he was gone, according to the agreement be­

tween them, to his own city, where his tribe

kept a festival, and that by his permission:

that he also invited him to come to their

sacrifice; and, said Jonathan, "If thou wilt

give me leave, I will go thither, for thou

knowest the good will that I bear him." And

then it was that Jonathan understood his

father's hatred to David; and plainly saw his

entire disposition. For Saul could not restrain

his anger, but reproached Jonathan, and

called him the son of a runagate, and an

enemy, and said he was a partner with David,

and his assistant, and that by this behaviour

he shewed he had no regard to himself, or to

his mother; and would not be persuaded,

that while David remained alive, their king­

dom was not secure to them. Yet did he bid

him send for him, that he might be punished.

And when Jonathan said, in answer, "What

hath he done that thou wilt punish him?"

Saul no longer contented himself to express

his anger in bare words, but snatched up his

spear, and leaped upon him, and was desirous

to kill him. He did not indeed do what he

intended, because he was hindered by his

friends; but it appeared plainly to his son,

that he hated David, and greatly desired to

despatch him; insomuch, that he had almost

slain his son with his own hands on his ac­

count .

The king's son rose hastily from supper,

and being then unable to admit any thing

into his mouth for grief, he wept all night;

both because he had himself been near de­

struction, and because the death of David

was determined. But as soon as it was day,

he went out into the plain that was before

the city; as going to perform his exercises;

but, in reality, to inform his friend what dis­

position his father was in towards him, as he

had agreed to do. And when Jonathan had

done what had been thus agreed, he dis­

missed his servant that followed him, to re­

turn to the city, but he himself went into the

desert, and came into his presence, and com­

muned with him. So David appeared, and

fell at Jonathan's feet, and bowed down to

him, and called him the preserver of his soul.

But he lifted him up from the earth, and they

mutually embraced one another, and made a

long greeting, and that not without tears.

They also lamented their age, and that fa­

miliarity which envy would deprive them of,

and that separation which must now be ex­

pected, which seemed to them no better than

death itself. So recollecting themselves at

length from their lamentation, and exhorting

each other to be mindful of the oaths they

had mutually sworn, they parted.*

CHAP. XII.

of David's flight; fikst to ahimelech, and after­

wards TO THE KINGS OF THE PHILISTINES, AND OF THE

MOABITES; AND OF THE DESTRUCTION OF AHIMELECH

AND HIS FAMILY.

DAVID now fled from the king, and that

death he was in danger of by him; and

came to the city Nob, tof Ahimelech the

priest, who, when he saw him coming alone,

and neither a friend nor a servant with him,

he wondered at it; and desired to learn the

cause why there was nobody with him? To

which David answered, that the king had

commanded him to do a certain thing that

was to be kept secret, to which, if he had a

mind to know so much, he had no occasion

for any one to accompany him. "However,"

said he, " I have ordered my servants to meet

me at such and such a place." So he desired

him to let him have somewhat to eat; and

that in case he would supply him, he would

act the part of a friend, and be assisting to

the business he was now about. And when

he had obtained what he desired, he also

asked him, whether he had any weapons with

* l Sam. xx. 42.

t Whether this Ahimelech of the family of Ithamar, or

Abiathar, of the same family were the Jewish high-priest,

when David came to Nob, see my dissertation at the end of

my Essay on the Revelation of St. John at large; pag.

884—289. Josephus believed, that Ahimelech was then

the high-priest, which seems contrary to our Saviour's

affirmation, Mar. ii. 25, 26. I mean this, unless there

were, in effect, two high-priests at the same time; the

one of the family of Eleazar; and the other of that of

Ithamar; the one Ahimelech, the other Abiathar: and

that our Saviour esteemed Abiathar to be so most pro­

perly; which is not impossible to be supposed.

