148 [book t ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

near to Jerusalem, when they saw what mise­

ries had happened to the inhabitants of Je­

richo, and to those of Ai, and suspected that

the like sore calamity would come as far as

themselves, they did not think fit to ask for

mercy of Joshua, for they supposed they

should find little mercy from him who made

war that he might entirely destroy the nation

of the Canaanites. But they invited the

people of Cephirah and Kiriathjearim, who

were their neighbours, to join in the league

with them, and told them, that neither could

they themselves avoid the danger they were

all in, if the Israelites should prevent them,

and seize upon them: so when they had per­

suaded them, they resolved to endeavour to

escape the forces of the Israelites. Accord­

ingly upon their agreement to what they pro­

posed, they sent ambassadors to Joshua, to

make a league of friendship with him, and

chose such of the citizens as were best ap­

proved of, and most capable of doing what

was most advantageous to the multitude. Now

these ambassadors thought it dangerous to

confess themselves to be Canaanites, but

thought they might avoid the danger by say­

ing that they bare no relation to the Canaan­

ites at all, but dwelt at a very great distance

from them; and they said farther, that they

came a long way on account of the reputation

Joshua had gained for his virtue; and as a

proof of the truth of what they said, they

shewed him the habit they were in, for that

their clothes were new when they came out,

but were greatly worn by the length of time

they had been on their journey, for indeed

they took torn garments, on purpose that they

might make him believe so; so they stood in

the midst of the people, and said, that they

were sent by the people of Gibeon, and of

the circumjacent cities, which were very re­

mote from the land where they now were, to

make such a league of friendship with them,

and this on such conditions as were customary

among their forefathers; for, when they un­

derstood that, by the favour of God, and his

gift to them, they were to have the possession

Israel should have put them upon some other expedient

than that of lying and deceit. They should have enquired

(as far as the obscure dispensation they were under would

have permitted them) into the cause of God's severity

against them. They should have acknowledged, that it

was their grievous sins which drew down this heavy

judgment upon their nation; and after they had repented

of the land of Canaan bestowed upon them,

they said they were very glad to hear it, and

desired to be admitted into the number of

their citizens. Thus did these ambassadors

speak, and shewing them the marks of their

long journey, they intreated the Hebrews to

make a league of friendship with them. Ac­

cordingly Joshua, believing that they were

not of the nation of the Canaanites, entered

into friendship with them, and Eleazar the

high-priest, with the senate, sware to them,

that they would esteem them their friends

and associates, and would attempt nothing

that should be unfair against them, the multi­

tude also assenting to the oaths that were

made to them; so these men having obtained

what they desired by deceiving the Israel­

ites, went home; but when Joshua led his

army to the country at the bottom of the

mountains of this part of Canaan, he under­

stood that the Gibeonites dwelt not far from

Jerusalem, and that they were of the stock

of the Canaanites; so he sent for their go­

vernors, and reproached them with the cheat

they had put upon him. But they alleged

on their own behalf, that they had no other

way to save themselves but that, and were

therefore forced to have recourse to it. So

he called for Eleazar the high-priest, and for

the senate, who thought it right to make

them public servants, that they might not

break the oath they had made to them; and

they ordained them to be so; and this was

the method by which these men found secu­

rity under the calamity that was ready to

overtake them.*

But the king of Jerusalem took it to heart

that the Gibeonites had gone over to Joshua;

so he called upon the kings of the neighbour­

ing nations to join together to make war

against them. Now when the Gibeonites saw

these kings, which were four, besides the

king of Jerusalem, and perceived that they

had pitched their camp at a certain fountain

not far from the city, and were getting ready

for the siege, they called upon Joshua to assist

them; for such was their case, as to expect

thereof in sackcloth and ashes, they should have committed

the rest to Providence, never doubting but that he, who

had changed the very course of nature to punish the guilty,

would always find out some means or other to save the

penitent; but this they did not do, and therefore they were

culpable. Scncrin, vol. 3. dissertation 4. B.

* Josh. ix. 87.

