568 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now there was one of these Essenes, whose

name was Manahem; who had this testimony,

that he not only conducted his life after an

excellent manner, but had the foreknow­

ledge of future events given by God. This

man once saw Herod, when he was a child,

and going to school; and saluted him as king

of the Jews. But he thinking that either he

did not know him, or that he was in jest, re­

minded him that he was but a private person.

But Manahem smiled to himself, and clapped

him on the back with his hand; and said,

"However that be, thou wilt be king, and

wilt begin thy reign happily; for God finds

thee worthy of it, and do thou remember the

blows that Manahem hath given thee; as be­

ing a signal of the change of thy fortune.

And truly this will be the best reasoning for

thee; that thou love justice towards men,

and piety towards God, and clemency to­

wards thy citizens. Yet do 1 know how thy

whole conduct will be; that thou wilt not be

such an one. For thou wilt excel all men in

happiness, and obtain an everlasting reputa­

tion; but wilt forget piety and righteousness.

And those crimes will not be concealed from

God, at the conclusion of thy life; when thou

wilt find that he will be mindful of them, and

punish thee for them." At that time Herod

did not attend to what Manahem said: as

having no hopes of such advancement. But

a little afterward, when he was so fortunate

as to be advanced to the dignity of king, and

-was in the height of his dominion, he sent for  
Manahem, and asked him, how long he should

reign

? But Manahem did not tell him the full

length of his reign. Wherefore, upon that

silence of his, he asked him farther, whether

he should reign ten years or not? he replied,

"Yes, twenty, nay, thirty years;"but did not

assign the just limit of his reign. Herod was

satisfied with these replies: and gave Mana­

hem his hand, and dismissed him: and from

that time he continued to honour all the Es­

senes. We have thought it proper to relate

* Of this temple of Herod, see my description of the  
Jewish temples, in the scheme relating to this work,

chap. 15. Only we may here farther observe, that the

fancy of the modern Jews, in calling this, which was

really the third of their temples, the second temple, fol­

lowed so long by later Christians seems to be without any

solid foundation. The reason why the Christians here

follow the Jews is because of the prophecy of Haggai,

ii. 6—9, which they expound of the Messiah's coming to

these facts to our readers, how strange soever

they be; and to declare what hath happened

among us; because many of these Essenes

have, by their excellent virtue, been thought

worthy of this knowledge of divine revelation.

CHAP. XI.

OF THE REBUILDING AND BEAUTIFYING OF THE TEMPLE;

AND OF THE TOWER OF ANTONIA.

IN the eighteenth year of his reign, and

after the acts already mentioned, Herod

undertook to rebuild of himself the *temple

of God, and make it larger in compass, and

to raise it to a most magnificent altitude; as

esteeming it to be the most glorious of all his

actions as it really was, to bring it to perfec­

tion; and that this would be sufficient for an

everlasting memorial of him. But as he knew

the multitude were not ready nor willing to

assist in so vast a design; he thought it ad­

visable to prepare them first by making a

speech to them; and then to set about the

work itself. So he called them together, and

spake thus:

"I think I need not remind you my coun­

trymen, of such other works as I have done,

since I came to the kingdom: although I may

say they have been performed in such a man­

ner as to bring more security to you than

glory for myself. For I have neither been

negligent in the most difficult times about

what tended to ease your necessities: nor

have the buildings I have made been so pro­

per to preserve me, as yourselves, from inju­

ries. And I imagine that, with God's assist­

ance, I have advanced the nation of the Jews

to a degree of happiness which they never

had before. And for the particular edifices

belonging to your own country and your own

cities; as also to those cities that we have

lately acquired, which we have erected, and

greatly adorned, and thereby augmented the

dignity of your nation; it seems to me a

needless task to enumerate them; since you

the second or Zorobabel's temple; of which they suppose

this of Herod's to be only a continuation, which is meant,

I think, of his coming to the fourth and last temple, or to

that future largest and most glorious one described by Eze-

kiel. Whence I take the former notion, how general

soever, to be a great mistake. See the Testament of

Benjamin, § in the Authent. Rec. page 406, and Lit. Ac-

compl. of Proph. page 24, 25.

i

