40 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

born by hire; and Zebulon, one born as a

pledge of benevolence towards her; and a

daughter, Dina. After some time Rachel had

a son, named Joseph, which signified there

should be another added to him.

Now Jacob fed the flocks of Laban all this

time, being twenty years,* after which he de­

sired permission to take his wives, and go

home; but when his father-in-law would not

give him leave, he contrived to do it secretly.

He made trial, therefore, of the disposition

of his wives, what they thought of this jour­

ney. When they appeared glad, and ap­

proved of it, Rachel took along with her the

images of the gods, which, according to their

laws, they used to worship in their own coun­

try, and ran away, together with her sister.

Their children also, and their handmaids, and

what possessions they had, went along with

them. Jacob also drove away half the cattle,

without letting Laban know of it beforehand:

but the reason why Rachel took the images of

the gods, although Jacob had taught her to

despise such worship, was this, that in case

they were pursued and taken by her father,

she might have recourse to these images, in

order to obtain his pardon.

Laban, after one day, being acquainted

with Jacob's and his daughters' departure,

was much troubled, and pursued after them,

leading a band of men with him; and on the

seventh day overtook them, and found them

resting on a certain hill; but he did not then

meddle with them, for it was even-tide. God

stood by him in a dream the same night, and

warned him to receive his son-in-law and his

daughters in a peaceable manner, and not to

venture upon any thing rashly, or in wrath to

them, but to make a league with Jacob; as­

suring him that if he despised their small

number, and attacked them in an hostile man­

ner, he would himself assist them."

Laban having been thus forewarned by

God, called Jacob to him the next day, in

order to treat with him, and shewed him what

dream he had; in dependence whereon he

came confidently to him, and began to accuse

him, alledging that he had entertained him

when he was poor, and in want, and had

given him plenty of all things which he had;

"For," said he, " I have joined my daughters

to thee in marriage, and supposed that thy

**~~ * From about an. 1801 to 1714 B. C.

kindness to me would be greater than before

but thou hast had no regard to either thy

own mother's relation to me, nor to the affinity

more recently contracted between us, nor to

those wives whom thou hast married; nor to

those children of whom I am the grandfather:

thou hast treated me as an enemy, by driving

away my cattle, and by persuading my daugh­

ters to run away from their father: and by

carrying home those sacred paternal images

which were worshipped by my forefathers,

and which have been honoured with worship

by myself. In short, thou hast done this

whilst thou wert my kinsman, and my sister's

son, and the husband of my daughters, and

wast hospitably treated by me, and didst eat

at my table."

When Laban had said this, Jacob replied

in his defence, that he was not the only per­

son in whom God had implanted the love of

his native country, but that he had made it

natural to all men; and, therefore, it was but

reasonable that, after so long time, he should

go back to it. "But as to the prey," said

he, " of whose driving away thou accusest

me, if any other person were the arbitrator,

thou wouldst be found in the wrong, for in­

stead of those thanks I ought to have had

from thee, for both keeping thy cattle, and

increasing them, how is it that thou art un­

justly angry because I have taken a small

portion of them; but then, as to thy daugh­

ters, it is not through any evil practices of

mine that they follow me in my return home,

but from that just affection which wives na­

turally have for their husbands; they follow,

therefore, not so properly myself, as their

own children." Thus far his apology was

made in order to clear himself from the

charge of injustice; to which he added his

own complaint and accusation of Laban, say­

ing, "While I was thy sister's son, and thou

hadst given me thy daughters in marriage,

thou hast worn me out with thy harsh com­

mands, and detained me twenty years under

them; that, indeed, which was required in

order to my marrying thy daughters, hard as

it was, I own to have been tolerable: but as

to those that were put upon me after those

marriages, they were worse, and such indeed,

as an enemy would have avoided." For cer­

tainly Laban had used Jacob very ill; for

when he saw that God was assisting to Jacob

