4*. 1532.] 101 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS,

CHAP. IX.

OF THE MANNER OF OFFERING SACRIFICES.

1WILL now make mention of a few of our

laws, which belong to purifications, and

the like sacred offices, since I am accidentally

come to this matter of sacrifices: these sacri­

fices are of two sorts, one being offered for

private persons, and the other for the people

in general: and they are done in two differ­

ent ways. In one case, what is slain is burnt,

as a whole burnt-offering: whence that name

is given to it: but the other is a thank-offer­

ing, and as designed for feasting those that

sacrifice. I will speak of the former: Sup­

pose a private man offer a burnt-offering, he

must slay either a bull, a lamb, or a kid of the

goats, and the two latter of the first year;

though of bulls he is permitted to sacrifice

those of a greater age: but all burnt-offer­

ings are to be of males. When they are slain,

the priests sprinkle the blood* round about

the altar: they then cleanse the bodies, di­

vide them into parts, salt them, and lay them

upon the altar; while the pieces of wood are

piled one upon another, and the fire is burn­

ing. They then cleanse the feet of the sacri­

fices, and the inwards, in an accurate man­

ner: and so they lay them to the rest, to be

purified by the fire, while the priests receive

the hides: this is the way of offering a burnt-

offering.

Those who offer thank-offerings do indeed

sacrifice the same creatures; but such as are

unblemished, and above a year old: however

they may take either males or females. They

also sprinkle the altar with their blood; but

they lay upon the altar the kidneys, the caul,

and all the fat, and the lobe of the liver; with

these they bring also the rump of the lamb;

they give also the breast and the right

shoulder to the priests; so they feast upon

the remainder of the flesh for two days; and

what remains they burn.

The sacrifices for sins are offered in the

same manner, as is the thank-offering: but

those who are unable to purchase complete

sacrifices offer two pigeons, or turtle doves;

one of which is made a burnt-offering to God,

and the other is given as food for the priests.

But we shall treat more accurately about

the oblation of these creatures, in our dis­

course concerning sacrifices; but if a person

fall into sin by ignorance, he offers an ewe

lamb or female kid of the goats of the same

age; and the priest sprinkles the blood at the

altar; not after the former manner, but at the

corners of it. They also bring the kidneys,

and the rest of the fat, together with the lobe

of the liver, to the altar: while the priests

bear away the hides, and the flesh, and spend

it in the holy place,f on the same day; for the

law does not permit them to leave of it until

the morning. But if any one sin, and is con­

scious of it himself, but hath nobody that can

prove it upon him, he offers a ram; the flesh

of which the priests eat, as before, in the holy

place, on the same day. And if the rulers

offer sacrifices for their sins, they bring the

* It is, says Bp. Patrick, no improbable conjecture of  
Fortunatus Scacchus, that from hence the heathens learned

their Taurobolia, and Criobolia, which in process of time

they disguised with infernal rites and ceremonies. "The

Taurobolium of the ancients was a ceremony in which the

high-priest of Cybele was consecrated, and might be called

a baptism of blood, which they conceived imparted a spi­

ritual new birth to the liberated spirit. In this dreadful

and SfHiguinary ceremony, according to the poet Pruden-

tiu.s, cited at length by Banier on the ancient sacrifices, the

high-priest about to be inaugurated was introduced into a

dark excavated apartment, adorned with a long silken

robe, and a crown of gold. Above this apartment was a

floor perforated in a thousand places with holes like a

=ie ve, through which the blood of a sacred bull, slaughtered

for the purpose, descended in a copious torrent upon the

inclosed priest, who received the purifying stream on

every part of his dress, rejoicing to bathe with the bloody

shower his hands, his cheeks, and even to bedew his lips

and his tongue with it: when all the blood had run from

the throat of the immolated bull, the carcass of the victim

was removed, and the priest issued forth from the cavity,

a spectacle ghastly and horrible, his head and vestments

being covered with blood, and clotted drops of it adhering

to his venerable beard. As soon as the pontifex appeared

before the assembled multitude, the air was rent with con­

gratulatory shouts; so pure and so sanctified however was

he now esteemed, that they dared not approach his per­

son, but beheld him at a distance with awe and veneration."

Maurice's Ind. Ant. voL v. p. 196. B.

t What Reland observes here, out of Josephus, as com­

pared with the law of Moses, Levit. vii. 15, (that the eat­

ing of the sacrifice the same day it was offered, seems to

mean only before the morning of the next, although the

latter part, i. e. the night, be in strictness part of the next

day, according to the Jewish reckoning,) is greatly to be

observed upon other occasions also. The Jewish maxim,

in such cases, it seems, is this: that the day goes before

the night, and this appears to me to be the language both

of the Old and New Testament. See alsothe note on IV.

4, and Reland's note on IV. 8.

