AiV. 233 1083.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

and so they brought the ark to Jerusalem.

But as they came to the threshing floor of

*Chidon, a place so called, Uzzahf was  
slain by the anger of God. For as the oxen

shook the ark, he stretched out his hand and

would needs take hold of it. Now because

he was not a priest, and yet touched the ark,

God struck him dead. Hereupon both the

king and the people were displeased at the

death of Uzzah; and the place where he died

is called the Breach of UzzahJ unto this day.

So David was afraid, and supposing that if

he received the ark to himself into the city,

he might suffer in the like manner as Uzzah

had suffered, who, upon his barely putting

out his hand to the ark, died in the manner

already mentioned: he did not receive it to

himself into the city; but he took it aside

unto a certain place belonging to a righteous

man, whose name was Obededom, who was,

by his family, a Levite, and deposited the ark

with him. And it remained there three entire

months. This augmented the house of Obed­

edom, and conferred many blessings upon it:

and when the king heard what had befallen

Obededom; how he was become of a poor

man, in a low estate, exceeding happy, and

the object of envy to all those that saw or in-

quired after his houseThe took courage; and,

hoping that he should meet with no misfortune

thereby, he transferred the ark to his own

house;|j the priests carrying it, while seven

companies of singers, who were set in that

order by the king, went before it; and while

he himself played upon the harp, and joined

in the music;§ insomuch, that when his wife

Michal, the daughter of Saul, saw him so do­

ing, she laughed at him. But when they had

brought in the ark, they placed it under the

tabernacle which David had pitched for it;

and he offered costly sacrifices, and peace-

offerings; and treated the whole multitude,

and dealt both to the women, and the men,

and the infants, a loaf of bread and a cake,

and another cake baked in a pan, with a por­

tion of the sacrifice. So when he had thus

feasted the people, he sent them away, and

returned to his own house.

But when Michal his wife, the daughter of

Saul, came and stood by him, she wished him

all other happiness; and intreated, that what­

ever he should farther desire, to the utmost

possibility, might be given by God, and that

he might be favourable to him. Yet did she

blame him,** that so great a king as he was

should dance after an unseemly manner; and,

* 1 Chron. xiii. 9.

t Josephus seems to be partly in the right, when he

observes here, that Uzzah was no priest, (though perhaps

he might be a Levite,) and was therefore struck dead for

touching the ark, contrary to the law; and for which pro­

fane rashness death was the penalty by that law, Numb.

iv. 15, 20. See the like before, VI. 1. It is not impro­

bable that the putting this ark in a cart, when it ought to

have been carried by the priests or Levites, as it was

presently here in Josephus so carried from Obededom's

house to David's, might be also an occasion of the anger

of God on that breach of the law. See Numb. iv. 15.

1 Chron. xv. 13.

t 2 Sam. vi. 8. 1 Chron. xv. 13.

ft It is supposed by some, that this bringing back of the

ark was appointed to be one of the great festivals; and

the reason why David might summon so many of his

principal ministers and officers to accompany him in the

expedition might be, to possess the young people,

who perhaps had heard little or nothing of the ark, by

reason of its having been absent so long, with a mighty

veneration for it when they saw the king, and so many of

the chief nobility waiting on it, with such a variety of

music, and such public declarations of joy. Miller's His­

tory of the Church.

§ Strabo teHs us, that it was customary among the

Greeks, as well as other nations, to use music and dancing

in the processions before their gods, lib. 10. Callima-

chus mentions the chori, and dancings of the youth at the

altar of Apollo; Plato observes that among the Egyptians,

all kinds of music, songs, and dances, were consecrated to

their gods. De Legibus, 1. 3. And even Lucian (De

Saltatione) expressly says, that among the ancients, no

ceremonial of religion, no expiation, no atonement, was

accounted rightly accomplished without dancing. So that

David was far from being singular in his behaviour upon

this occasion; nor was his behaviour, in this particular,

any disparagement to his regal dignity. His dancing, i. e.

his moving in certain serious and solemn measures, suited

to music of the same character and tendency, was an ex­

ercise highly conducive to the purposes of piety, and his

mixing with the public festivities of his people was a con­

descension, (as Tacitus relates of Augustus the Roman

emperor,) not unbecoming the greatest monarch. Policy

taught Augustus to put himself upon a level with his sub­

jects in the public rejoicings; piety taught David, that all

men are upon a- level in the solemnities of religion. So

that David was not singular in his behaviour upon this

occasion* Patrick's Commentary, and The History of the

Life of King David, vol. 2. B.

**" The words of Michal, wherein she upbraids David.  
are these :—How glorious was the king of Israel to-day.

who uncovered himself to-day, in-the eyes of the hand­

maids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shame­

lessly uncovereth himself! 2 Sam. vi. 20. At first read­

ing, they seem to intimate, that David, in his dancing,

had exposed his naked body, and acted some way or othei

immodestly. But these words, we are to consider, were

spoken in a fit of passion, and when Michal was minded

to aggravate matters; for it is not to be doubted, but that

