AN. 39.] 529 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

city; and not to bear any old grudge at even

his most open enemies; but was ready to

forget the offences which his greatest adver­

saries had done him. But Antigonus, by

way of reply to what Herod had caused to

be proclaimed, and this before the Romans,

and before Silo also, said, that they would

not do justly if they gave the kingdom to

Herod; who was no more than a private

man, and an Idumean, i. e. *a half Jew:

whereas they ought to bestow it on one of

the royal family, as their custom was. For

that in case they at present bare any ill-will

to him, and had resolved to deprive him of

the kingdom, as having received it from the

Parthians; yet were there many others of his

family that might by their flaw take it, and

these such as had no way offended the Ro­

mans; and being of sacerdotal family, it

would be an unworthy thing to put them by.

Now while they said thus one to another, and

fell to reproaching one another on both sides,

Antigonus permitted his own men, that were

upon the wall, to defend themselves. Who

using their bows, and shewing great alacrity

against their enemies, easily drove them

away from the towers.

And now it was that Silo discovered that

he had taken bribes. For he set a good

number of his soldiers to complain aloud of

the want of provisions they were in; and to

require money to buy them food; and that it

was fit to let them go into places proper for

winter quarters; since the places near the

city were a desert, by reason that Antigonus's

soldiers had carried all away. So he set the

army upon removing, and endeavoured to

inarch away. But Herod pressed Silo not to

depart; and exhorted Silo's captains and

soldiers not to desert him, when Caesar, and

Antony, and the senate. had sent him thither.

For that he would provide them plenty of all

the things they wanted; and easily procure

them a great abundance of what they re­

quired. After which entreaty he immediately

'went out into the country, and left not the

least pretence to Silo for his departure. For

* This affirmation of Antigonus's, spoken in the days  
of Herod, and in a manner to his face, that he was an

Idumean, i. e. a half Jew, seems to me of much greater

authority than that pretence of his favourite and flatterer,

Nicolaus of Damascus, that he derived his pedigree from

the Jews, as far hackward as the Babylonish captivity,

chap. 1. Accordingly Josephus always esteems him an

he brought an unexpected quantity of provi­

sions; and sent to those friends of his who

inhabited'about Samaria, to bring down corn,

and wine, and oil, and cattle, and all other

provisions, to Jericho; that there might be

no want of a supply for the soldiers for the

time to come. Antigonus was sensible of

this: and sent presently over the country

such as might restrain, and lie in ambush for,

those that went out for provisions. So these

men obeyed the orders of Antigonus, and got

together a great number of armed men about

Jericho; and sat about the mountains, and

watched those that brought the provisions.

However, Herod was not idle in the mean

time. For he took ten bands of soldiers, of

whom five were of the Romans, and five of

the Jews, with some mercenaries among

them, and with some few horsemen, and came

to Jericho. And as they found the city de­

serted, but that five hundred of them had

settled themselves on the tops of the hills,

with their wives and children, those he took,

and sent away. But the Romans fell upon

the city, and plundered it; and found the

houses full of all sorts of good things. So the

king left a garrison at Jericho, and came

back again; and sent the Roman army to

take their winter quarters in the countries

that were come over to him: Judea, and

Galilee, and Samaria. And so much did An­

tigonus gain of Silo for the bribes he gave

him, that part of the army should be quar­

tered at Lidda; in order to please Antony.

So the Romans laid their weapons aside, and

lived in plenty of all things.

Herod, however, was not pleased with

lying still; but sent out his brother Joseph

against Idumea, with two thousand armed

footmen, and four hundred horsemen; while

himself came to Samaria, and left his mother

and his other relations there; for they were

already gone out of Massada; and went into

Galilee, to take certain places which were

held by the garrisons of Antigonus. And he

passed on to Sepphoris, as God sent a snow

while Antigonus's garrisons withdrew them-

Idumean: though he says his father Anti pater was of the

same people with the Jews, chap. 8. and hy birth a Jew,

XX. 8. as indeed all such proselytes of justice, as the Idu-

means, XIII. 9. were in time esteemed the very same

people with the Jews

t Deut. xvii. 15.

