272 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

since she desired that he might marry Abi-

shag; and that he had potent friends, Joab

the captain of the host, and Abiathar the

priest. So he called for Benaiah, the cap­

tain of the guards, and ordered him to slay

his brother Adonijah.* He also called for

Abiathar, the priest, and said to him, "I will

not put thee to death, because of those hard­

ships which thou hast endured with my father,

and because of the ark which thou hast borne

along with him; but I inflict the following

punishment upon thee, because thou wast

among Adonijah's followers, and wast of his

party. Do not thou continue here, nor come

any more into my sight; but go to thine own

town, and live on thine own fields, and there

abide all thy life; for thou hast offended so

greatly, that it is not just thou shouldest re­

tain thy dignity any longer." For the afore­

mentioned cause therefore it was, that the

house of Ithamar was deprived of the sacer­

dotal dignity, as God had foretold to Eli, the

grandfather of Abiathar. So it was trans­

ferred to the family of Phineas, to Zadok.

Now those that were of the family of Phineas,

but lived privately during the time that the

high priesthood was transferred to the house

of Ithamar, (of which family Eli was the first

that received it,) were these that follow:

Bnkki, the son of Abishua, the high-priest;

his son was "fJoatham; Joatham's son was

Meraioth; Meraioth's son was JArophoeus;

Arophoeus's son was Ahitub; and Ahitub's

son was Zadok: who was first made high-

priest in the reign of David.

Now when Joab, the captain of his host,

had heard of the slaughter of Adonijah, he

was greatly afraid, for he was a greater friend

to him than to Solomon; and suspecting, not

without reason, that he was in danger on ac­

count of his favour to Adonijah, he fled to the

altar, and supposed he might procure safety

thereby to himself; because of the king's piety

towards God. But when some told the king

what Joab's supposal was, he sent Benaiah,

and commanded him to raise him up from the

altar, and bring him to the judgment seat, in

order to make his defence. However Joab

said he would not leave the altar, but would

die there, rather than in another place. And

when Benaiah had reported his answer to

the king, Solomon commanded him to ||cut

off his head there,§ and let him take that as

a punishment for those two captains of his

host whom he had wickedly slain, and to bury

his body: that his sins might never leave his

family; but that himself and his father, by

Joab's death, might be guiltless. And when

Benaiah had done what he was commanded

to do he was himself appointed to be captain

of the whole army. The king also made

Zadok high-priest, in the room of Abiathar,**

whom he had removed.

But as to Shimei, Solomon commanded

that he should build him a house, and stay at

Jerusalem, and attend upon him; and should

not have authority to go over the brook Ce-

dron; and that if he disobeyed that command,

death should be his punishment. He also

threatened him so terribly, that he compelled

him to take an oath, that he would obey, Ac­

cordingly, Shimei said, that he had reason to

thank Solomon for giving him such an injunc­

tion, and added an oath that he would do as

he bade him: and, leaving his own country,

he made his abode in Jerusalem.ff But three

* 1 Kings ii. 25.  
Zerahiah, 1 Chron. vi. 6.

:; Amariah, 1 Chron. vi. 7.

I This execution upon Joab, as a murderer, by slaying

him, even when he had taken sanctuary at God's altar, is

perfectly agreeable to the laws of Moses, which enjoins,

that "If a man come presumptuously upon his neighbour

to slay him with guile, thou shalt take him from mine

altar, that he may die." Exod. xxi. 14.

§ It was formerly very customary among princes, to

employ their officers, or greatest confidants, in such like

executions. Among the Romans, the soldiers were always

the persons who carried to prison, to torture, or to ex­

ecution, such as were found guilty of any offence; and

this Tertullian makes an argument to dissuade Christians

from engaging in their wars, lest thereby they should be

obliged to imprison, punish, or execute malefactors. In

Dan. ii. 24. we read, that Nebuchadnezzar sent Arioch,

who was chief commander of his troops, to destroy the

wise men of Babylon, because they could not interpret his

dream; and therefore we need less wonder, that we find

Solomon employing Benaiah, the captain of his guard, on

the like office. But whether he did not first drag Joab

from the altar before he slew him, for fear of polluting the

holy place with blood, or whether Solomon did not rather

think fit to have him killed even at the altar, and let all

men see, that no place, though never so sacred, should

secure any man from the hand of justice, commentators

have not agreed. Calmefs and Patrick's Comment. B.

** 1 Kings ii. 35.

tt Shimei, as we read, was a very powerful man.

When he came to meet king David, and to beg pardon

for his offence, he had a thousand of his own tribe to

accompany him, 2 Sam. xix. 17. and therefore Solomon

