172 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to fight their enemies, they came hastily

against their own kindred. And he threat­

ened them, that, with God's assistance, he

would inflict a punishment upon them, unless

.they would grow wiser. But when he could

not persuade them, he fought with them with

those forces which he sent for out of Gilead;

and he made a great slaughter among them;

and when they were beaten, he pursued them,

and seized on the passages of Jordan with a

part of his army, which he had sent be­

fore; and slew about forty-two thousand of

them.*

So when Jephtha had ruledt six years, he

died, and was buried in his own country,

Sebee, which is a place in the land of

Gilead.

Ibzan then took the government; being of

the tribe of Judah, and of the city Bethlehem.

He had sixty children, thirty of them sons,

and the rest daughters; all of which he left

behind him; giving the daughters in marriage

to husbands, and taking wives for his sons.

He did nothing in thej seven years of his

administration that was worth recording, or

deserving a memorial. So he died an old man,

and was buried in his own country.

When Ibzan was dead after this manner,

neither did Elon, who succeeded him in the

government, and kept it ten|| years, do any

thing remarkable: he was of the tribe of

Zebulon.

Abdon§ also, the son of Hillel, of the tribe

of Ephraim, and born at the city Pyrathon,

was ordained their supreme governor after

Elon. He is only recorded to have been

happy in his children; for the public affairs

were then so peaceable, and in such security,

that neither did he perform any glorious ac­

tion. He had forty sons, and by them left

thirty grand-children; and he marched in

state with these seventy, who were all skilful

in riding horses, and he left them all alive

after him. He died an old man, and obtained

a magnificent burial in Pyrathon.**

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE BIRTH OF SAMPSON, AND THE CALAMITIES HE

BROUGHT UPON THE PHILISTINES.

AFTER Abdon was dead, the Philistines

overcame the Israelites; and received

tribute of them fortt forty years. From which

distress they were delivered after the follow­

ing manner:

There was one Manoah, a person of such

great virtue that he had few men his equals

and without dispute the principal person of

his country. He had a wife celebrated for

her beauty, and excelling her contemporaries.

But he had no children; and being uneasy at

his want of posterity, he intreated God to

give them seed of their own bodies to succeed

them, and with that intent he came constantly

into theJJ suburbs, together with his wife;

which suburbs were in the great plain. Now

he was fond of his wife to a degree of mad­

ness, and on that account was unmeasurably

jealous of her. Now when his wife was once

alone, an apparition was seen by her; it was

an angel of God, and resembled a young man,

beautiful and tall; who brought her the good

news that she should have a son, born by

God's providence, that should be a goodly

child, of great strength; by whom, when he

was grown up to man's estate, the Philistines

should be afflicted. He exhorted her also

not to poll his hair, and that he should avoid

all kinds of drink, except water; for so had

God commanded. So the angel, when he had

delivered that message, went his way; his

coming being by the will of God.

Now the woman informed her husband,

when he came home, of what the angel had

said: who shewed so great an admiration of

the beauty and stature of the young man that

had appeared to her, that her husband was

astonished, and out of himself for jealousy,

and such suspicions as are excited by that

passion. But she was desirous to have her

husband's unreasonable sorrow taken away.

* .111115. x"- 6.

t From an. 1201 to 1195 B. C.

% From an. 1195 to 1188.

|| From an. 1188 to 1178.

§ The number of the years of Abdon's government:

which in the other copies are 8, are wanting in all our

present copies of Josephus, in the same manner as was

Tola's entire government; which I just now observed.

Nor is there any room to doubt but this is a bare omission

of the scribes.

** Judg. xii. 15.

tt From an. 1178 to 1128.

\\ I can discover no reason why Manoah and his wife

came so constantly into these suburbs, to pray for chil­

dren, but because there was a synagogue or place of devo­

tion in those suburbs.

