518 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

decrees of the cities, and rescripts of the

praetors to such epistles as concerned our

rights and privileges. And certainly such as

are not ill disposed to what we write, may

believe that they are all to this purpose; and

that by these specimens which we have in­

serted. For since we have produced evident

marks, that may still be seen, of the friend­

ship we have had with the Romans, and de­

monstrated that those marks are engraven

upon columns and tables of brass in the

capitol, that are still in being, and preserved

to this day, we have omitted to set them all

down, as needless and uninteresting. For I

cannot suppose any one so perverse, as not

to believe the friendship we have had with

the Romans; while they have demonstrated

the same by such a great number of their

decrees relating to us. Nor will they doubt

of our fidelity as to the rest of those decrees;

since we have shewn the same in those we

have produced. And thus have we sufficient­

ly explained that friendship and confederacy

we at those times had with the Romans.

CHAP. XI.

MARCUS* SUCCEEDS TO THE PRESIDENCY OF SYRIA, ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF SEXTUS CESAR; CASSItTS COMES INTO

SYRIA, AND DISTRESSES JUDEA; AND MALICHUS, AFTER

TREACHEROUSLY KILLING ANTIPATER, IS SLAIN BY

HEROD.

ABOUT this timet the affairs of Syria

were in great disorder, on the following

occasion. Cecilius Bassus, one of Pompey's

party, laid a treacherous design against Sex-

tus Caesar, and slew him: and then took his

army, and got the management of public af­

fairs into his own hands. So there arose a

great war about Apamia; while Caesar's ge­

nerals came against him, with an army of

horsemen and footmen. To these Antipater

also sent succours, and his sons with them;

as calling to mind the kindnesses they had

received from Caesar; and on that account

he thought it but just to require punishment

for him, and to take vengeance on the man

that had murdered him. And as the war

wasJ drawn out into a great length, Marcus

came from Rome to take Sextus's government

upon him. But Caesar was slain by Cassius

and Brutus, in the senate-house, after he had

retained the government three years and six

months.

As the war that arose upon the death of

Caesar was now|| begun, and the principal

men were all gone, some one way, and some

another, to raise armies, Cassius came from

Rome into Syria, in order to receive the army

that lay in the camp at Apamia; and having

raised the siege, he brought over both Bassus

and Marcus to his party. He then went over

the cities, and got together weapons and sol­

diers; and laid great taxes upon those cities.

And he chiefly oppressed Judea, and exacted

of it seven hundred talents. But Antipater,

when he saw the state to be in so great con­

sternation and disorder, he divided the col­

lection of that sum, and appointed his two

sons to gather it. And so, that part of it was

to be exacted from Malichus, who was ill dis­

posed to him; and part by others. And be­

cause Herod did exact what was required of

him from Galilee before others, he was in the

greatest favour with Cassius. For he thought

it prudent to cultivate a friendship with the

Romans; and to gain their good will at the

expense of others. Whereas the curators of

the other cities, with their citizens, were sold

for slaves: and Cassius reduced four cities

into a state of slavery; the two most potent

of which were Gophna and Emmaus: and

besides these, Dydda and Thamna. Nay,

Cassius was so very angry at Malichus, that

he would have killed him, had not Hyrcanus,

by the means of Antipater, sent him a hun­

dred talents of his own, and thereby pacified

his anger.

After Cassius was gone out of Judea, Ma­

lichus laid snares for Antipater: as thinking

that his death would be the preservation of

Hyrcanus's government. But Antipater per­

ceived his design, and retired beyond Jordan,

* For Marcus, this president of Syria, sent as successor  
to Sextus Caesar, the Roman historians require us to read

Murcus in Josephus; and this perpetually, both in these

Antiquities, and in his history of the War: as the learned

generally agree. Whether he himself originally wrote

the name Marcus or Murcus; or whether the transcribers

have not put a usual for an unusual name; which is sup­

posed to have been a practice not uncommon amongst

them; cannot now be known.

t An. 45.

j The reason of the protraction of this war at Apamia,

before the murder of Caesar, Dr. Hudson observes, may

be seen in Strabo, XVI. page 752. though the entire pas­

sage be too large for this place. See Prideaux at the

years 46, 45, 44, 43.

11 An. 44.

