aw. 144.] 471 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

an army of his own, he would make war

against Trypho, and eject him out of Syria.

And the people of that country received him

with great alacrity. So he raised forces,

with which he fought against Arsaces; but

he lost all his army, and was himself taken

prisoner.

CHAP. VI.

OF THE TREACHEROUS ASSASSINATION OF JONATHAN; THE

SUCCESSION OF SIMON AS GENERAL AND HIGH-PRIEST OF

THE JEWS ; AND THE COURAGEOUS ACTIONS HE PERFORMED

AGAINST TRVPHO.

WHEN Trypho knew what had befallen

Demetrius, he was no longer firm to

Antiochus; but contrived by subtilty to kill

him, and then take possession of his kingdom.

But the fear that he was in of Jonathan was

an obstacle to his design; for Jonathan was

a friend to Antiochus. For which cause he

resolved first to take Jonathan out of the

way; and then to set about his design rela­

ting to Antiochus. But he. judging it best to

take him off by deceit and treachery, came

from Antioch to *Bethshan; which by the

Greeks is called Scythopolis: at which place

Jonathan met him, with forty thousand chosen

men; for he thought that he came to fight

him. But when he perceived that Jonathan

was ready to fight, he attempted to gain him

by presents, and kind treatment; and gave

order to his captains to obey him; and by

these means was desirous to give him assu­

rance of his good will, and to take away all

suspicions out of his mind; that so he might

make him careless, and inconsiderate; and

might take him when he was unguarded. He

also advised him to dismiss his army, because

there was no occasion for bringing it with

him; when there was no war, but all was in

}>eace. However he desired him to retain a

ew about him, and go with him to Ptolemais;

for that he would deliver the city up to him;

and would bring all the fortresses that were

in the country under his dominion; and he

told him that he came with those very de­

signs.

* 1 Mace. xii. 39—45.

t 1 Mace. xii. 52.

J The commendation which the author of the first hook

ef the Maccabees, chap. xiv. 4, &c. bestows npon Simon,

is worth our observation; for he therein tells us, that he

Yet did not Jonathan suspect any thing at

all by this management; but believed that

Trypho gave him this advice out of kindness,

and with a sincere design. Accordingly he

dismissed his army, and retained no more

than three thousand of them with him; and

left two thousand in Galilee, and he himself

with one thousand came with Trypho to

Ptolemais. But when the people of Ptole­

mais had shut their gates, as it had been com­

manded them by Trypho to do; he took

Jonathan alive, and slew all that were with

him. He also sent soldiers against those

two thousand that were left in Galilee, in

order to destroy them. But those men, having

heard the report of what had happened to

Jonathan, prevented the execution; and be­

fore those that were sent by Trypho came,

they covered themselves with their armour,

and went away out of the country. Now

when those that were sent against them saw

that they were ready to fight for their lives,

they gave them no disturbance; but returned

back to Trypho.

When the people of Jerusalem heard that

Jonathan was taken, and that the soldiers

who were with him were destroyed; they

deplored his sad fate:f and there was earnest

inquiry made about him by every body; and

a great fear fell upon them, and made them

sad, lest now they were deprived of the

courage and conduct of Jonathan, the nations

about them should bear them ill will; and as

they were before quiet on account of Jona­

than, they should now rise up against them;

and by making war with them should force

them into the utmost dangers. And indeed

what they suspected really befell them. For

when those nations heard of the death of

Jonathan, they began to make war with the

Jews, as now destitute of a governor. And

Trypho himself assembled an army, and had

an intention to go up to Judea, and make war

against its inhabitants. But when Simon saw

that the people of Jerusalem were terrified

at the circumstances they were in, he desired

to make a speech to them;J and thereby to

render them more resolute in opposing Try-

sought the fjood of the nation in every thing, so that his

authority always pleased them well; that during his ad­

ministration, whilst Syria, and other neighbouring king­

doms were almost destroyed by wars, the Jews lived

quietly, every man under his own vine and fig-tree, en«

