AN. 20.] 569 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

well know them yourselves. But as to that

undertaking which I have a mind to set about

at present, and which will be a work of the

greatest piety and excellence that can possi­

bly be undertaken by us; I will now declare

to you. Our fathers indeed, when they re­

turned from Babylon, built this temple to God

Almighty. Yet does it want sixty cubits of

its largeness in altitude; for so much did that

first temple which Solomon built exceed this

temple. Nor let any one condemn our fa­

thers for their negligence or want of piety

herein. For it was not their fault, that the

temple was no higher. For they were Cyrus,

and Darius, the son of Hystaspes, who de­

termined the measures for its rebuilding.

And it hath been by reason of the subjection

of those fathers of ours to them and to their

posterity, and after them to the Macedonians,

that they had not the opportunity to follow

the original model of this sacred edifice; nor

could raise it to its ancient altitude. But

since I am now, by God's will, your governor;

and I have had peace a long time, and have

gained great riches, and large revenues; and,

what is the principal thing of all, I am in

amity with, and well regarded by, the Ro­

mans; who, if I may so say, are the rulers of

the whole world; I will do my endeavour to

correct that imperfection, which hath arisen

from the necessity of our affairs, and the

slavery we have been under formerly; and

to make a thankful return, after the most

pious manner, to God, for what blessings I

have received from him, by giving me this

kingdom, and that by rendering his temple

as complete as 1 am able."

This speech, however, affrighted many of

the people, as being unexpected; and be­

cause it seemed incredible, it put a damp

upon them; for they were afraid that he

would pull down the whole edifice, and not

be able to bring his intentions to perfection

for its rebuilding. And this danger appeared

to them to be very great; and the vastness

of the undertaking to be such as could hardly

be accomplished. But while they were in

this disposition, the king told them, he would

not pull down their temple till all things were

prepared for the building it up again. And

as he promised them this beforehand, so he

did not break his word; but got ready a

thousand wagons, that were to bring stones

for the building; and chose out ten thousand

of the most skilful workmen, and brought a

thousand sacerdotal garments, for as many

of the priests; and had some of them taught

the art of stone-cutters, and others of car­

penters, and then began to build: but not till

every thing was well prepared for the work.

So Herod took away the old foundations,

and laid others, and erected the temple upon

them: being in length a hundred cubits, and

in height twenty additional cubits; which

twenty, upon the *sinking of their founda­

tions, fell down. And this part it was that

we resolved to raise again in the days of

Nero. Now the temple was built of stones

that were white and strong: their length was

twenty-five cubits, their height was eight,

and their breadth about twelve. And the

whole structure, as was also the structure of

the royal cloister, was on each side lower;

but the middle was much higher; till they

were visible to those that dwell in the coun­

try for a great many furlongs; but chiefly to

such as lived over against them, and those

that approached to them. The temple had

doors also at the entrance, and lintels over

them, of the same height with the temple

itself. They were adorned with their em­

broidered veils, with their flowers of purple,

and pillars interwoven. And over these, but

under the crown-work, was spread out a

golden vine, with its branches, hanging down

from a considerable height; the largeness

and fine workmanship of which was a sur­

prising sight to the spectators; to see what

* Some of our modern students in architecture have  
made a strange blunder here; when they imagine, that

Josephus affirms the entire foundations of the temple, or

holy house, sunk down into the rocky mountain, on which

it stood, no less than 20 cubits. See Lamy de Templo,

page 1083. Whereas it is clear, that they were the

foundations of the additional 20 cubits only, above the

hundred; (made perhaps weak on purpose, and only for

shew and grandeur,) that sunk or fell down; as Dr.

Hudson rightly understands him. Nor is the thing itself

possible in the other sense. Agrippa's preparation for

building the inner parts of the temple 20 cubits higher,

history Of the War, V. 1. must, in all probability, refer

to this matter: since Josephus says here, that this which

had fallen down was designed to be raised up again under

Nero; under whom Agrippa made that preparation. But

what Josephus says presently, that Solomon was the first

king of the Jews; appears by the parallel place, XX. 9.

and other places, to be meant only, the first of David's

posterity, and the first builder of the temple.

