552 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

as they were able, to preserve the kingdom

for his sons, and for his brother Pheroras.

When he had given them this charge, he

went to Rhodes, to meet Caesar. And when

he had sailed to that city, he took off his dia­

dem; but remitted nothing else of his usual

dignity. And when, upon his meeting him,

he desired that he would let him speak to

him, he therein exhibited a much more no­

ble specimen of a great soul. For he did

not betake himself to supplications, as men

usually do upon such occasions; nor offered

him any petition, as if he were an offender:

but after an undaunted manner gave an ac­

count of what he had done. For he said

that he had the greatest friendship for An­

tony; and did every thing he could that he

might attain the government. That he was

not indeed in the army with him; because

the Arabians had diverted him: but that he

had sent him both money and corn; which

was but too little in comparison of what he

ought to have done for him. "For," said

he, "if a man own himself to be another's

friend, and know him to be a benefactor, he

is obliged to hazard every thing, to use

every faculty of his soul, every member of

his body, and all the wealth he hath, for

him; in which I confess 1 have been too de­

ficient. However, I am conscious to myself,

that so far I have done right, that I have

not deserted him upon his defeat at Actium:

nor upon the evident change of his fortune,

have I transferred my hopes from him to

another; but have preserved myself, though

not as a valuable fellow-soldier, yet certainly

as a faithful counsellor to Antony; when I

demonstrated to him, that the only way he

had to save himself, and not to lose all his

authority, was to slay Cleopatra, for when

she was once dead, there would be room for

him to retain his authority; and rather to

bring thee to make a composition with him,

than to continue at enmity any longer. He,

however, would not attend to my advice;

but preferred his own rash resolutions,

which have happened unprofitably for him,

but profitably for thee. Now therefore, in

case thou determinest about me, and my

alacrity in serving Antony, according to thy

anger at him; I own there is no room for

me to deny what I have done, nor will 1 be

ashamed to own, and that publicly too, that

I had a great kindness for him. But if thou

wilt put him out of thy case, and only exa­

mine how I behave myself to my benefactors

in general; and what a sort of friend I am,

thou wilt find by experience that I shall

do and be the same to thyself. For it is

but changing the names, and the firmness of

friendship that I shall bear to thee will not

be disapproved by thee."

By this speech, and by his behaviour,

which shewed Caesar the frankness of his

mind, he greatly gained upon him; who

was himself of a generous and magnificent

temper: insomuch that those very actions,

which were the foundation of the accusa­

tions against him, procured him Caesar's

good will. Accordingly he restored him

his diadem; and encouraged him to exhibit

himself as great a friend to himself as he

had been to Antony; and then had him in

great esteem. He also added, that Quintus

Didius had written to him, that Herod had

very readily assisted him in the *affair of

the gladiators. So when he had obtained

such a kind reception, and had, beyond all

his hopes, procured his crown to be more

entirely and firmly settled upon him than

ever, by Caesar's donation, as well as by that

decree of the Romans, which was procured

for his greater security; he conducted Cae­

sar on his way to Egypt, and made presents

even beyond his ability, to both him and his

friends; and in general behaved himself with

great magnanimity. He also desired that

Caesar would not put to death one Alexan­

der, who had been a companion of Antony's:

but Caesar had sworn to put him to death:

and so he could not obtain that petition.

And now he returned to Judea again, with

greater honour and assurance than ever;

and affrighted those that had expectations

to the contrary: as still acquiring from his

very dangers greater splendour than before,

by the favour of God to him. So he pre­

pared for the reception of Caesar, as he was

going out of Syria to invade Egypt: and

when he came, he entertained him at Ptole-

mais with all royal magnificence. He also

bestowed presents on the army, and brought

them provisions in abundance. He likewise

proved to be one of Caesar's most cordial

* See Of the War, Book I. chap. 20.

