216 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

from harm; and what had passed would prove

very pernicious to his master." When the

servant had said this, Abigail, (for that was

the wife's name,) saddled her asses, and

loaded them with all sorts of presents; and

without telling her husband any thing of what

she was about, for he was not sensible on

account of his drunkenness, she went to

David. She was then met by David, as she

was descending a hill, for he was coming

Wainst Nabal with the four hundred men.

hen the woman saw him, she leaped from

her ass, and fell on her face, and bowed down

to the ground; and intreated him not to bear

in mind the words of Nabal; since he knew

that he resembled his name: Now Nabal, in

the Hebrew tongue, signifies folly. So she

apologized by saying, that she did not see

the messengers whom he sent. "Forgive

me, therefore," said she, "and thank God

who hath hindered thee from shedding human

blood. For so long as thou keepest thyself*

innocent, he will avenge thee of wicked men.

For those miseries which await Nabal, will

fall upon the heads of thine enemies. Be

thou gracious to me, and think me so far

worthy as to accept these presents; and out

of regard to me remit that wrath and anger

which thou hast against my husband, and his

house. For mildness and humanity become

thee; especially as thou art to be our king."

Accordingly David accepted her presents,

and said, "O woman! it was no other than

God's mercy which brought thee to us to-day.

For otherwise thou hadst never seen another

day; I havingf sworn to destroy Nabal's house

this very night, and to leave alive not one of

you who belonged to a man that was wicked,

and ungrateful to me, and my companions.

But now hast thou prevented me, and sea­

sonably mollified my anger; as being thyself

under the care of God's providence. But as

for Nabal; although, for thy sake, he now

escape punishment, he will not always avoid

justice for his evil conduct, which on some

other occasion, will be ruin."

When David had said this, he dismissed

the woman. And when she came home, and

found her husband feasting with a great com­

pany, and oppressed with wine, she said

nothing to him about what had happened;

but on the next day, when he was sober, she

told him all the particulars, and made his

whole body to appear like that of a dead

man,J by her words; and by that grief which

arose from them. So Nabal survived only

ten days, and then died.|| And when David

heard of his death, he said that God had justly

avenged him of this man; for that Nabal died

by his own wickedness, and had suffered

punishment on his account; while he had kept

his own hand clean. At which time he under­

stood, that the wicked are persecuted by

God; that he does not overlook any man, but

bestows on the good what is suitable to them,

and inflicts a deserved punishment on the

* Here we may perceive how Josephus, nay, how  
Abigail herself, would understand, the not avenging our­

selves, but heaping coals of fire on the head of the inju­

rious: Prov. xxv. 21, 22. Rom. xii. 20. not as we com­

monly do now, of melting them into kindness; but of

leaving them to the judgment of God; to whom vengeance

belongeth: Deut. xxxii. 35. Ps. xciv. 1. Heb. x. 30. and

who will take vengeance on the wicked. And since all

God's judgments are just, and all fit to be executed; and

all, at length, for good of the persons punished, I incline

to think that to be the meaning of this phrase, of heaping

coals of fire on their heads. So also, as it seems to me,

do the Apostolical Constitutions understand it, I. 2.

t We imy note here, that how sacred soever an oath

was esteemed among the people of God in old times, as I

have fully shewn in my Scripture Politics, p. 54—65,

they did not think it obligatory where the action was

plainly unlawful. For so we see it was in this case of

David; who although he had sworn to destroy Nabal, and

his family, yet does he here, and 1 Sam. xxv. 32, 33, 31

bless God for preventing his keeping this oath, and from

shedding of blood as he had sworn to do.

J The words in the original are, " He became a stone;"

but our translation has wisely supplied the particle at,

which should always be done, when the scripture affirms

something of another that is not absolutely of the same

nature. We may observe, however, that this manner of

expression is very common among profane authors. Thus

Ovid brings in Ariadne expressing her grief and astonish­

ment at the loss of Theseus, who had left her in the island

Dia:

Aut mare prospiciens in saxo frigida sedi.

Quamque lapis seges, tarn lapis ipsa fui.

The like expression is used of Hecuba, when she saw the

dead body of her son Polydorus:

-duroque simillima saxo.

Torpet

But in the case of Niobe, who is said to be turned into a

statue of stone, Cicero, in his Tusculan Questions ob­

serves, that this fable only represents her perpetual

silence in mourning; and accordingly Josephus tells us

of Nabal that when his wife told him of the danger he

had escaped, he was struck with such an astonishment,

that he fell into a dead numbness all over his body, of

which he soon died. Le Clerc,s Comment, and Dm. De

statu,/ salis. 6.

II 1 Sam. xxv. 38.

