442 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

V

that, either by their own inclination, or out

of necessity betray it; but to become such

sons as are worthy of me, to be above all

force and necessity; and so to dispose your

souls as to be ready, when it shall be neces­

sary, to die for your laws, as sensible of this

by just reasoning; that if God see that you

are disposed, he will not overlook you, but

will have a great value for your virtue; and

will restore to you again what you have lost,

and will return to you that freedom in which

you shall live quietly, and enjoy your own

customs. Your bodies are mortal and sub­

ject to fate; but they receive a sort of im­

mortality by the remembrance of what ac­

tions they have done. And I would have

you so in love with this immortality, that you

may pursue after glory; and that, when you

have undergone the greatest difficulties, you

may not scruple for such things, to lose your

lives. I exhort you especially to agree one

with another; and in what excellence any

one of you exceeds another, to yield to him

so far; and by that means to reap the advan­

tage of every one's own virtues. Do you

then esteem Simon as your father; because

he is a man of extraordinary prudence; and

be governed by him, in what counsels he

gives you. Take Maccabeus for the general

of your army; because of his courage and

strength. For he will avenge your nation,

and will bring vengeance on your enemies.

Admit among you the righteous and religious,

and augment their power."

When Mattathias had thus discoursed to

his sons, and had prayed to God to be their

assistant, and to recover to the people their

former constitution; he died a little after­

ward; and was buried at Modin; all the

people making great lamentation for him.

His son Judas then took upon him the ad­

ministration of public affairs; in the hundred

and forty-sixth year.* And thus by the ready

* 1 Mace. ii. 70.

t This, in all probability, was the same Apollonius

whom Antiochus sent at first to plunder Jerusalem, and

afterwards to set up the statue of Jupiter Olympius, and

to compel the Jews to relinquish their religion. Calmet's

Commentary. B.

t 1 Mace. iii. 12.

II At this time Jerusalem was in the hands of the Hea­

thens, and the sanctuary trodden under foot; so that Judas

could not assemble his men there, to implore the assist­

ance of God in this time of imminent danger; and there-

assistance of his brethren, and of others,

Judas cast their enemies out of the country;

and put those of their own country to death

who had transgressed its laws; and purified

the land of all the pollutions that were in it.

CHAP. VII.

OF THE SUCCESSES OF THE JEWISH ARMS UNDER JUDAS

MACCABEUS J AND THE PURIFICATION OF THE TEMPLE.

WHEN Apollonius,f the general of the

Samaritan forces, heard this, he took

his army and hastened to go against Judas.

But having joined battle, he was defeated

and slain by Judas, who seized upon his

sword, and kept it for himself, as a trophy of

victory.J The number of Apollonius's army

that were slain, was also very great; that of

the wounded was still more considerable;

and the victors took a great deal of prey.

But when Seron, who was general of the

army of Coelesyria, heard that many had

joined themselves to Judas; and that he had

about him an army sufficient for making war,

he determined to make an expedition against

him; as thinking it became him to endeavour

to punish those that transgressed the king's

injunctions. He then got together an army.||

as large as he was able, and joined it to the

runagate and wicked Jews, and came as far

as Beth-horon, a village of Judea, and there

pitched his camp. Judas met him, and re­

solved to give him battle; but as his soldiers

were backward to fight, because their number

was small, and because they wanted food,

for they were fasting; he encouraged them,

and reminded them, that victory and con­

quests of enemies are not derived from the

multitude in armies, but in the exercise of

piety towards God; and that they had the

plainest instances in their forefathers; who

by their righteousness, and exerting them­

selves on behalf of their own laws, and their

fore he repaired to Mizpeh, a place where the people

oftentimes used to assemble to prayer, Judges xx. 1.

1 Kings xv. 22. 2 Chron. xvi. 6. Here he and all his

army addressed themselves to God, in solemn fasting and

prayer, for his assistance and protection: and herein he

acted the part of a wise and religious commander, as

knowing that the battle was the Lord's, and that therefore

it would be impious to begin any such enterprise, without

first imploring the divine aid. Prideaux,s Connection,

anno 166. 6.

