aN. 1058.] 263 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now it happened that Abraham* came and

offered his eon Isaac for a burnt-offering at

that very place; and, when the youth was

ready to have his throat cut, a ram appeared

on a sudden, standing by the altar, which

Abraham sacrificed in the stead of his son,

as we have before related. Now when king

David saw that God had heard his prayer,

and had graciously accepted of his sacrifice,

he resolved to call that place the altar of all

the people; and to build a temple to God

there. Which words he uttered very appo­

sitely to what was to be done afterward; for

God sent the prophet to him, and told him,

that there should his son build him an altar.

CHAP. XIV.

OF THE GREAT PREPARATIONS MADE BY DAVID FOR THE

HOUSE OF GOD, AND HIS APPOINTMENT OF SOLOMON TO

REIGN, UPON ADONIJAH'S ATTEMPT TO OAIN THE KINGDOM.

AFTER the delivery of this prophecyf

the king commanded the strangers to

be numbered; and they were found to be one

hundred and eighty thousand. Of these he

appointed eighty thousand to be hewers of

stone, and the rest of the multitude to carry

stones; and of them he set over the workmen

three thousand and Jfive hundred. He also

prepared a great quantity of iron and brass

for the work, with many large cedar trees;

the Tyrians and Sidonians sending them to

him; for he had sent to them for a supply of

those trees. And told his friends, that these

things were now prepared, that he might

leave materials ready for the building of the

temple to his son, who was to reign after

him; and that he might not have them to

seek then, when he was very young, and by

reason of his age unskilful in those matters;

but might have them lying by him, and so

might the more readily complete the work.

So David called his son Solomon, and

charged him, when he had received the

kingdom.j| to build a temple to God: and

said, "I was willing to build God a temple

myself; but he prohibited me, because I was

polluted with blood and wars; but he hath

foretold that Solomon, my youngest son,

should build him a temple, and should be

called by that name. Over whom he hath

promised to take the like care, as a father

takes over his son; and that he would make

the country of the Hebrews happy under him,

and that not only in other respects, but by

giving it peace, and freedom from wars, and

from internal seditions, which are the greatest

of all blessings. Since therefore, thou wast

ordained king by God himself before thou

wast born; endeavour to render thyself

worthy of this his providence; as is in other

instances so particularly in being religious

and courageous. Keep thou also his com­

mands, and his laws, which he hath given us

by Moses; and do not permit others to break

them. Be zealous also to dedicate to God a

temple, which he hath chosen to be built

under thy reign. Nor be thou affrighted by

the vastness of the work; nor set about it

timorously. For I will make all things ready

before I die. And take notice, that there

are already §ten thousand talents of gold,

and a hundred talents of silver collected

together. I have also laid together brass

and iron without number; and an immense

quantity of timber, and of stones. Moreover

thou hast many thousand stone-cutters and

carpenters. And if thou shalt want any thing

farther, do thou add somewhat of thine own.

Wherefore if thou performest this work, thou

wilt be acceptable to God, and have him for

thy patron." David also farther exhorted the

rulers of the people to assist his son in this

building, and to attend to the divine service,

* What Josephus adds here, whether from his copy of  
2 Sam. xxiv. 25. or of 1 Chron. xxvi. 26—30. or from

other places belonging to David's history, of which already

VII. 4. is very remarkable; that this mount Moriah was

not only the very place where Abraham offered up his

ton Isaac long ago, but that God had foretold to David by a

prophet that here his son should build him a temple, which

is not directly in any of our other copies; though very

agreeable to what was in them; particularly in 1 Chron.

xxi. 26, 28. and xxii. 1. to which place I refer the reader.

t About an. 1057.

Three hundred, 1 Kings v. 16.

This power of naming a successor was here assumed

by David, and for some time afterwards, (as it appears by

the story of his grandson Rehoboam,) was continued in

the Jewish state. It was a privilege that, in after-ages,

was granted to several good princes; but among the Israel­

ites it did not prevail long, because the constitution of

other nations, (to which the Israelites affected to conform

themselves,) was different. Pool's Annotations, and Pat­

rick's Commentary. B.

§ Of the quantity of gold and silver expended in the

building of Solomon's temple, and whence it arose, see the

description of the temples, chap. 13. And of the distinct

parts of that temple, see the other chapters of that descrip­

tion thereto belonging.

