an. 899.] 327 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

see this river full of water, till the army and

cattle be saved by drinking of it. JNor will

this be all the favour that you shall receive

from God; but you shall also overcome your

enemies, and take the best and strongest

cities of the Moabites; and you shall *cut

down their fruit trees, and lay waste their

country, and stop up their fountains and

rivers."

Accordingly, the next day before sun-rise,

a great torrent ran strongly: for God had

caused it to rain very plentifully at the dis­

tance of three days' journey in Edom. So

that the army and the cattle found water in

abundance. But when the Moabites heard

that the three kings were coming upon them,

and made their approach through the wil­

derness, the king of JVloab gathered his army

together presently, and commanded them to

encamp upon the mountains; that when the

enemies should attempt to enter their country,

they might not be concealed from them. But

at the rising of the sun when they saw the

water in the torrent; for it was not far from

the land of Moab, and that it was of the

colour of blood; (for at such a time the water

especially looks red, by the shining of the

sun upon it;) they formed a false notion of the

state of their enemies, as if they had slain

one another for thirst, and that the river ran

with their blood. However, supposing that

this was the case, they desired their king

would send them out to spoil their enemies.

Whereupon they all went in haste, as to an

advantage already gained; and came to the

enemy's camp; as supposing them destroyed

already. But their hope deceived them; for

as their enemies stood round about them,

some of them were cut in pieces, and others

were dispersed, and fled to their own coun­

try. And when the kings came to the land

of Moab, they overthrew the cities that were

in it, and spoiled their fields, and marred

them; filling them with stones out of the

brooks; and cut down the best of their trees,

and stopped up their fountains of water, and

overthrew their walls to the foundations.

But the king of Moab, when he was pursued,

endured a siege; and seeing his city in dan­

ger of being overthrown by force, he made

a sally with seven hundred men, in order to

break through the enemies' camp with his

horsemen, on that side where the watch

seemed to be kept most negligently; and

when, upon trial, he could not get away, he

returned to the city, and committed an ac­

tion expressive of despair, and the utmost

distress: for he took his eldest son, who was

to reign after him, and lifting him up upon

the wall, that he might be visible to all the

enemies, he offered him as a whole burnt-

offering to God. When the kings saw this,

they commiserated the distress that had oc­

casioned it; and were so affected, that they

raised the siege, and every one returned to

his own house. So Jehoshaphat came to Je­

rusalem, and continued in peace there, and

survived this expedition but a little time,

and then died; having lived in all sixty

years, and reigned twenty-five.t He was

buried in a magnificent manner in Jeru­

salem; for he had imitated the actions of

David.

CHAP. IV.

OF JF.ItOKAM, THE SUCCESSOR OF JEHOSHAPHAT; OF JORAM

KING OF ISRAEL, AND THE WONDERS PERFORMED BY THE

PROPHET ELISHA.

JEHOSHAPHAT had a considerable

number of children, but he appointed

his eldest son Jehoram, to be his successor;J

who had the same name with his mother's

brother, that was king of Israel, and the son

of Ahab. Now when the king of Israel was

come out of the land of Moab to Samaria, he

had with him Elisha the prophet, whose acts

1 have a mind to go over particularly, for

they were illustrious and worthy to be re­

lated; as we have them set down in the

sacred books.

For they say that the ||widow of Obadiah,

* This practice of cutting down, or plucking up by the  
roots the fruit trees, was forbidden in ordinary wars, by

the law of Moses, Deut. xx. 19, 20. and only allowed by

God in this particular case, when the Moabites were to

be punished and cut off in an extraordinary manner for

their wickedness. See Jer. xlviii. 11, 12, 13. and many

similar prophecies against them. Nothing could there­

fore justify this practice, but a particular commission from

God, by his prophet; as in the present case; which was

ever a sufficient warrant for breaking any such ritual or

ceremonial law.

From an. 919 to 894 B. C.

1 Kings xxii. 50.

That this woman who cried to Elisha, and who, in

our Bible, is styled the wife of one of the prophets,

2 Kings ir. 1. was no other than the widow of Obadiah,

