500 [book xrv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

morning to Jerusalem. Hereupon Aristobu-

lus repented of what he was doing;* and

came to Pompey, and promised to give him

money, and received him into Jerusalem,

and desired that he would leave off the war,

and do what he pleased peaceably. So Pom­

pey, upon his intreaty, forgave him; and sent

Gabinius, and soldiers with him, to receive

the money, and the city. Yet was no part

of this performed: but Gabinius came back;

being both excluded out of the city, and re­

ceiving none of the money promised: because

Aristobulus's soldiers would not permit the

agreements to be executed. At this Pompey

was very angry, and put Aristobulus into

prison; and came himself to the city: which

was strong on every side, excepting the

north, which was not so well fortified. For

there was fa broad deep ditch that encom­

passed the city; and included within it the

temple; which was itself encompassed about

with a very strong stone wall.

Now there was a sedition of the men that

were within the city, who did not agree what

was to be done in their present circumstances.

Some thought it best to deliver up the city to

Pompey: but Aristobulus's party exhorted

them to shut the gates: because he was kept

in prison. Now these prevented the others;

and seized upon the temple; and cut off the

bridge which reached from it to the city;

and prepared themselves to sustain a siege.

But the others admitted Pompey's army, and

delivered up both the city, and the king's

palace to him. So Pompey sent his lieutenant

Piso with an army, and placed garrisons both

in the city, and in the palace, to secure

them; and fortified the house that joined to

the temple; and all those which were more

distant, and without it. And in the first place

he offered terms of accommodation to those

within: but when they would not comply

with what was desired, he encompassed all

the places thereabout with a wall; Hyrcanus

gladly assisting him on all occasions. But

Pompey pitched his camp within the wall, on

the north part of the temple, where it was

most practicable. But even on that side

there were great towers, and a ditch had been

dug, and a deep valley begirt it round about.

For on the parts towards the city were pre­

cipices; and the bridge on what Pompey

had gotten in was broken down: however a

bank was raised day by day, with a great

deal of labour; while the Romans cut down

materials for it from the places round about.

And when this bank was sufficiently raised,

and the ditch filled up, though but poorly,

by reason of its immense depth, he brought

his mechanical engines, and battering rams

from Tyre: and placing them on the bank,

he battered the temple, with the stones that

were thrown against it. And had it not been

our practice from the day of our forefathers,

to rest on the seventh days, this bank could

never have been completed; by reason of

the opposition the Jews would have made.

For though our law gives us leave then to

defend ourselves against those that begin to

fight with us, and assault us; yet does it not

permit us to meddle with our enemies, while

they do any thing else.

When the Romans understood this matter,

on those days which we call sabbaths, they

threw nothing on the Jews, nor came to any

battle with them; but raised up their earthen

banks, and brought their engines into such

forwardness, that they might do execution

the next day. And any one may hence learn,

how very great piety we exercise toward

God, and the observance of his laws: since

the priests were not at all hindered from

their sacred ministrations by their fear during

this siege; but did still, twice a day, in the

morning, and about the ninth hour, offer their

sacrifices on the altars. Nor did they omit

* The fourth book of the Maccabees, (chap, xxxvi.)  
says nothing of this submission of Aristobulus to the Ro­

man general, but tells us, that Pompey marched directly

against Jerusalem, where observing the situation of the

place, the strength of its walls, tower, &c. he resolved'

to try to gain Aristobulus by fair means; that he invited

him to come into his camp, and promised him all the

safety that he could desire; that accordingly he came to

him, and engaged to deliver up all the treasure of the

temple, if he would but declare for him; but that the

or.esis having refused to ratify the king's promise, this

made the general lay siege to the temple. Universal

History, lib. 2, c. 1 r. B.

t The particular depth and breadth of this ditch;

whence the stones for the wall about the temple -were

probably taken, are omitted in our copies of Josephus;

but set down by Strabo, XIV. page 763. from whom we-

learn, that this ditch is 60 feet deep, and 250 feet broad..

However, its depth is said by Josephus to be immense:

which exactly agrees with Strabo's description: and the

numbers in Strabo are a strong confirmation of the truth,

of Josephus's description also.

