114 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

know them well enough, unjustly pretend to

suspect, he thou my witness. When I lived

a private quiet life, I left those good things,

which by my own diligence, and by thy coun­

sel, I enjoyed with Raguel, my father-in-law;

and I gave myself up to this people, and un­

derwent many miseries on their account. I

also bore great labours; at first, in order to

obtain liberty for them, and now in order to

their preservation; and have always shewed

myself ready to assist them in every distress.

Now, therefore, since I am suspected by those

very men, whose being is owing to my la­

bours; come thou, as it is reasonable to hope

thou wilt: thou, I say, who shewedst me that

fire at mount Sinai, and madest me to hear its

voice, and to see the several wonders which

that place afforded; thou, who commandedst

me to go to Egypt, and declare thy will to

this people; thou, who disturbedst the happy

estate of the Egyptians, and gavedst us the

opportunity of flying from our slavery under

them, and madest the dominion of Pharaoh

inferior to my dominion; thou, who didst

make the sea dry land for us, when we knew

not whither to go, and didst overwhelm the

Egyptians with those destructive waves which

had been divided for us; thou, who didst be­

stow upon us the security of weapons when

we were naked; thou, who didst make the

corrupted fountains to flow so as to be fit for

drinking; and didst furnish us with water that

came out of the rocks, when we were in the

greatest want of it; thou, who didst preserve

our lives with quails, which was food from

the sea, when the fruits of the ground failed

us; thou, who didst send us such food from

heaven, as had never been seen before; thou,

who didst suggest to us the knowledge of thy

laws, and appoint us a form of government:

Come thou, O Lord of the whole world, and

that as such a judge and a witness to me as

cannot be bribed; and show how I have

never admitted of any gift against justice from

any of the Hebrews; and have never con­

demned a poor man, that ought to have been

acquitted on occount of one that was rich;

and have never attempted to hurt this com­

monwealth: I am now here present, and am

suspected of a thing the remotest from my in­

tentions: as if I had given the priesthood to

Aaron, not at thy command; but out of my

own favour to him. Do thou at this time de­

monstrate, that all things are administered by

thy providence, and that nothing happens by

chance, but is governed by thy will, and

thereby attains its end; as also demonstrate

that thou takest care of those that have done

good to the Hebrews. Demonstrate this, I

say, by the punishment of Abiram and Da-

than, who condemn thee as an insensible be­

ing, and one overcome by my contrivances.

This wilt thou do by inflicting such an open

punishment on those men, who so madly fly

in the face of thy glory, as will take them out

of the world, not in an ordinary manner, but

so that it may appear that they do not die as

other men go out of the world: let that ground

on which they tread open about them, with

their families and goods. This will be a de­

monstration of thy power to all men; and this

method of their sufferings will be an instruc­

tion of wisdom for those that entertain pro­

found sentiments of thee. By this means I

shall be found a good servant, in the precepts

thou hast given by me. But if the calumnies

they have raised against me be true, mayest

thou preserve these men from every evil ac­

cident, and bring all that destruction on me,

which I have imprecated upon them. And

when thou hast inflicted punishment on those

that have endeavoured to deal unjustly with

this people, bestow upon them concord and

peace. Save this multitude that follow thy

commandments, and preserve them free from

harm: and let them not partake of the punish­

ment of those that have sinned. For thou

knowest thyself, it is not just that for the

wickedness of those men, the whole body of

the Israelites should suffer punishment."

When Moses had said this with tears in his

eyes, the ground was moved on a sudden;

and the agitation that set it in motion was

like that which the wind produces in waves

of the sea. The people were all affrighted,

and the ground that was about their tents

sunk down at that terrible sound, and carried

whatsoever was dear to the seditious into it­

self; who so entirely perished, that there was

not the least appearance that any men had

ever been seen there: the earth that had

opened itself about them closing again, and

becoming entire as it was before: insomuch,

that such as saw it afterward did not perceive

-\

