250 [BOQIVfl. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

pleased at this advice, and called for Hushai,

David's friend; (for so did he style him,) and

informing him ot the opinion of Ahithophel,

he asked farther what was his opinion con­

cerning that matter? now he was sensible,

that if Ahithophel's counsel was followed,

David would be in danger of being seized

and slain. So he attempted to introduce a

contrary opinion, and said, "Thou art not

acquainted, O king! with the valour of thy

father, and of those that are now with him:

that he had made many wars, and hath always

come off victorious. Though probably he

now abides in the camp, for he is very skilful

in stratagems, and in foreseeing the deceitful

tricks of his enemies; yet will he leave Lis

own soldiers in the evening; and will either

hide himself in some valley, or will place an

ambush at some rock; so that when our army

joins battle with him, his soldiers will retire

for a little while; but will come upon us

again as encouraged by the king's being near

them; and in the mean time, your father will

6hew himself suddenly in the time of the

battle, and will infuse courage into his own

people, when they are in danger; but bring

consternation to thine. Consider therefore

my advice, and reason upon it; and if tbou

canst but acknowledge it to be the best,

reject the opinion of Ahithophel. Send to

the entire country of the Hebrews, and order

them to come to fight with thy father. And

do thou thyself take the army, and be thine

own general in this war, and do not trust its

management to another. Then expect to

conquer him with ease, when thou overtakest

him openly with his few partisans; but hast

thyself many ten thousands; who will be de­

sirous to demonstrate their diligence and

alacrity. And if thy father shall shut himself

up in some city, and bear a siege, we will

overthrow that city by machines of war, and

by undermining it." When Hushai had said

this, he obtained his point against Ahitho­

phel; for his opinion was preferred by Ab­

salom before the others. However, it was

no other than *God who made the counsel of

Hushai appear best to the mind of Absalom.

So Hushai hastened to the high-priests,

Zadok and Abiathar, and told them the

opinion of Ahithophel, and his own, and that

the resolution was taken to follow this latter

advice. He therefore bade them send to

David, and tell him of it; and to inform him

of the counsels that had been taken; and to

desire him to pass quickly over Jordan, lest

his son should change his mind, and make

haste to pursue him, and to prevent him,

and seize upon him, before he should be iu

safety. Now the high-priests had their sons

concealed in a proper place out of the city;

that they might carry news to David of what

was transacted. Accordingly they sent a

maid servant, whom they could trust, to them,

to carry the news of Absalom's counsels, and

ordered them to signify the same to David,

with all speed. So they made no delay; but

taking along with them their father's injunc­

tions, became pious and faithful ministers,

and judging that quickness and alacrity was

the best mark of faithful service, they made

haste to meet with David. But certain

horsemen saw them, when they were two

furlongs from the city, and informed Absalom

of them, who immediately sent home to take

them. But when the sons of the high-priest

perceived this, they turned out of the road,

to a village called Bahurim. There they

desired a certain woman to hide them, and

afford them security. Accordingly she let

the young men down by a rope into a well,

and laid fleeces of wool over them, and when

those that pursued them came to her, and

asked her whether she saw them? she did

not deny that she had seen them; for that

they stayed with her some time; but she

* This reflection of Josephus's, that God brought to  
nought the dangerous counsel of Ahithophel, and directly

infatuated wicked Absalom to reject it; (which infatuation

is what the Scripture styles the judicial hardening the

hearts and blinding the eyes of men, who, by their former

voluntary wickedness have justly deserved to be de­

stroyed, and are thereby brought to destruction,) is a very

just one. Nor does Josephus ever puzzle himself, or

perplex his readers with subtle hypotheses as to the

manner of such judicial infatuations hy God; while the

justice of them is generally so obvious. That peculiar

manner of the divine operations, or permissions; or the

means God makes use of in such cases, is often impene­

trable by -us. Secret things belong to the Lord our God;

but those things that are revealed belong to us, and to our

children for ever, that we may do all the words of his law,

Deut. xxix. 29. Nor have all the subtiltietn of the moderns,

so far as I see, given any considerable light in this and

many other similar points of difficulty relating either to

divine or human operations. See also the Notes on V. 1.

and IX. 4.

