12 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Moreover Moses, after the seventh day was

over, begins to talk philosophically;* and con­

cerning the formation of man says thus: that

God took dust from the ground,f and formed

man,J a"d inserted in him a spirit and a soul.

This man was called Adam, which in the*He-

brew tongue signified one that is red, because

he was formed out of red earth compounded

together, for of that kind is virgin and true,

earth. God also presented the living crea­

tures, when he had made them, according to

their kinds, both male and female, to Adam,

and gave them those names by which they

are still called. But when he saw that Adam

had no female companion, no society, for there

was no such created, and that he wondered

at the other animals which were male and fe­

male, he laid him asleep, and took away one

of his ribs, and out of it formed the woman ;§

whereupon Adam knew her when she was

brought to him, and acknowledged that she

was made out of himself. Now a woman is

called in the Hebrew tongue Issa: but the

name of this woman was Eve, which signifies

the mother of all living.

Moses says farther, that God planted a pa­

radise in the east, flourishing with all sorts of

trees, and that among them was the tree of

life, and another of knowledge, whereby was

to be known what was good and evil; and

that when he had brought Adam and his wife

into this garden, he commanded them to take

care of the plants.|| Now the garden was wa­

tered by one river,** which ran round about

the whole earth, and was parted into^Pur

parts. Phison, which denotes a multitude, l

running into India, makes its exit into the'

sea, and is by the Greeks called Ganges. Eu­

phrates also, as well as Tigris, goes down

into the Red Sea,ff Now the name Euphrates,

or Phrath, denotes either a dispersion or a

flower; by Tigris, or Diglath, is signified what

is swift, with narrowness; and Geon runs

through Egypt, and denotes what arises from

the East, which the Greeks call Nile.

God therefore commanded that Adam and

his wife should eat of all the rest of the plants,

but to abstain from the tree of knowledge,

and foretold to them, that if they toucjied it, it

would prove their destruction. But while all

* Since Josephns, in his preface, says, that Moses wrote  
some things enigmatically, some allegorically, and the rest

in plain words; since in his account of the first chapter of

Genesis, and the three first verses of the second, he gives

us no hints of any mystery at all; but when he comes to

ver. 4. &c. he says, that Moses, after the seventh day was

over, began to talk philosophically, it is not improbable

that he understood the rest of the second and the third

chapters in some enigmatical, allegorical, or philosophical

sense. The change of the name of God just at this place

from Elohim to Jehovah Elohim, from God to Lord God,

in the Hebrew, Samaritan, and Septuagint, also seems to

favour some such change in the narration or construc­

tion.

t Gen. ii. 7.

j Josephus supposed man to be compounded of Spirit,

soul, and body, with St. Paul, 1 Thess. v. 23, and the rest

of the ancients. He elsewhere says also, that the blood

of animals was forbidden to be eaten, as having in it soul

and spirit.

§ Gen. ii. 22.

II The place wherein the country of Eden, as mentioned

by Moses, seems most like to be situated, is Chaldea, not

far from the banks of the Euphrates. To this purpose,

when we find Rabshekah vaunting his master's 'actions,

have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fa­

thers luive destroyed, as Gazan and Haran, and Rezeph,

and the children of Eden, which were in Telassar? As Te-

lassar, in general, signifies any garrison or fortification, so

here, more particularly, it denotes that strong fort which

the children of Eden built in an island of the Euphrates,

towards the west of Babylon, as a barrier against the in­

cursions of the Assyrians on that side. And therefore, in

all probability the country of Eden lay on the west side,

or rather on both sides the Euphrates, after its conjunction

with the Tigris, a little below the place where, in process

of time, the famous city of Babylon came to be built. Thus

we have found out a country called Eden, which for its

pleasure and fruitfulness, as all authors agree, answers the

character which Moses gives of it. Herodotus, who was

an eye witness of it, tells us, that where Euphrates runs

out into Tigris, not far from the place where Ninus is

seated, that region is, of all that ever he saw, the most ex­

cellent : so fruitful in bringing forth corn, that it yields two

hundred fold; and so plenteous in grass, that the people

are forced to drive their cattle from pasture, lest they

should surfeit themselves. B.

** Whence this strange notion came, which is not pe­  
culiar to Josephus, but Dr. Hudson says, is derived from

elder authors; as if four of the greatest rivers in the world,

running two of them at vast distances from (he other two,

by some means or other watered Paradise, is hare, to say.

Only, since Josephus has already appeared to allegorize

this history, and takes notice that these four names had a

particular signification: Phison for Ganges, a multitude;

Phrath for Euphrates, either a dispersion or a flower;

Diglath for Tigris, what is swift with narrowness; and Geon

for Nile, what arises from the east; we perhaps mistake

him when we suppose he literally means those four rivers,

especially as to Geon, or Nile, which arises from the east;

while he very well knew the literal Nile arises from the

south; though what farther allegorical sense he had in

view is now, I fear, impossible to be determined.

tt By the Red Sea is not here meant the Arabian Gulf,

which alone we now call by that name, but all that South

Sea which included the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf, as

far as the East Indies; as Reland and Hudson truly note

from the old geographers.

