an, J 532.] 67 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ner, and came to the age of maturity, made

his virtue manifest to the Egyptians, and

shewed that he was born for the bringing

them down, and raising the Israelites: and the

occasion he laid hold of was this: the Ethio­

pians, who are next neighbours to the Egyp­

tians, made an incursion into their country,

which they seized upon, and carried off the

effects of the Egyptians, who, in their rage,

fought against them, and revenged the affronts

they had received; but being overcome in

battle, some of them were slain, and the rest

ran away in a shameful manner, and by that

means saved themselves. Hereupon the Ethi­

opians followed after them in the pursuit, and

thinking it would be a mark of cowardice if

they did not subdue all Egypt, they went on

to subdue the rest with great vehemence;

and when they had tasted the sweets of the

country, they never left off the prosecution

of the war, and as the nearest parts had not

courage enough at first to fight with them,

they proceeded as far as Memphis, and the

sea itself, while not one of the cities were able

to oppose them. The Egyptians, under this

sad oppression, betook themselves to their

oracles and prophecies; and when God had

given them his counsel, to make use of Moses,

the Hebrew, and take his assistance, the king

commanded his daughter to produce him, that

he might be the general of their army;* upon

which, when she had made him swear he

would do him no harm, she delivered him to

the king, and supposed his assistance would

be of great advantage to them. She also re­

proached the priest, who although he had

before admonished the Egyptians to kill him,

was not ashamed now to own their want of

his help.

Moses, at the persuasion both of Thermu-

this and the king himself, cheerfully under­

took this business: and the sac rod scribes of

both nations were glad; those of the Egyp­

tians, that they should at once overcome their

* This history of Moses, as general of the Egyptians  
against the Ethiopians, is wholly omitted in our bibles; but

is thus cited by Irerweus, from Josephus, and that soon

-after his own age: "Josephus said that when Moses was  
nourished in the king's palace, he was appointed general

of the army against the Ethiopians, and conquered them,

irhen he married that king's daughter, because out of her

affection for him, they delivered the city up to him." See

the fragments of Irenaeus, ap. edit. Grab, page 472. Nor,

perhaps, did St. Stephen refer to any thing else, when he

voL. I.—No. 6.

enemies by his valour, and that by the same

piece of management Moses would be slain:

but those of the Hebrews, that they should

escape from the Egyptians, because Mosee

was to be their general.

Moses took and led his army before their

enemies were apprised of his attacking them;

for he did not march by the river, but by

land, where he gave a wonderful demonstra­

tion of his sagacity: for when the ground was

difficult to be passed over, because of the

multitude of serpents, which it produces in

vast numbers, and indeed is singular in some

of those productions which other countries do

not breed, and yet such as are worse than

others in power and mischief, and an unusual

fierceness of sight, some of which ascend out

of the ground unseen, and also fly into the air,

and so come upon men at unawares, and do

them a mischief. Moses invented a wonder­

ful stratagem to preserve the army safe, and

without hurt, for he made baskets, like unto

arks of sedge, and filled them with ibes,f and

carried them along with them, which animals

are the greatest enemies to serpents imagi­

nable, for they fly from them when they come

near them, and as they fly, they are caught

and devoured; but the ibes are tame crea­

tures, and only enemies to the serpentine kind.

Of these ibes, however, I say no more at pre­

sent, since the Greeks are not themselves un­

acquainted with this sort of bird. As soon,

therefore, as Moses was come to the land

which was the breeder of these serpents, he

let loose these ibes, and by their means re­

pelled the serpentine kind, and used them for

his assistants before the army came upon that

ground. When he had, therefore, proceeded

thus on his journey, he came upon the Ethio­

pians before they expected him; and, join­

ing battle with them, he beat them, and de­

prived them of the hopes they had of success

against the Egyptians, and went on in over­

throwing their cities, and indeed made a great

said of Moses, before he was sent by God to the Israelites:

that he was not only learned in all the wisdom of the

Egyptians, but was also mighty in words and in deeds. Acts

vii. 82.

t Pliny speaks of these -birds called ibes, and says the

Egyptians invoked them against the serpents. Hist. Nat.

X. 28. Straho speaks of this island, Meroe, and these

rivers Astapusaad Aslaborus, XVI. page 771. 786, XVII.

page 821.

S

