AN 1531.] 109 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

same time he promised to give that land to

their children, and to bestow on them those

good things which their fathers had forfeited

by their ungoverned passions.

When Moses had discoursed thus, accord­

ing to the direction of God, the multitude

grieved, and were in affliction; and intreated

Moses to procure their reconciliation to God,

and to permit them no longer to wander in the

wilderness, but to bestow cities upon them;

but he replied that God would not admit of

any such trial, for that God was not moved to

this determination from any human levity or

anger, but that he had judiciously condemned

them to that punishment. Now we are not

to disbelieve that Moses, who was but a sin­

gle person, pacified so many ten thousands

when they were in anger, and converted them

to a mildness of temper; for God was with him,

and prepared the way to his persuasions of the

multitude; and as they had often been diso­

bedient, they were now sensible that such dis­

obedience was disadvantageous to them, and

that they had thereby fallen into calamities.

This man was indeed admirable for his

virtue, and powerful in making men give

credit to what he delivered, not only during

the time of his natural life, but even there is

still no one of the Hebrews, who does not act

even now, as if Moses were present, and

ready to punish him if he should do any thing

that is indecent; nay, there is no one but is

obedient to what laws he ordained, although

they might be concealed in their transgres­

sions. There are also many other demonstra­

tions that his power was more than human;

for some have even come from the parts be­

yond Euphrates, a journey of four months,

through many dangers, and at great expenses,

* This great famine, as Dr. Hudson observe?, in the  
days of Claudius, is again mentioned in the Antiquities,

XX. 4, and Acts xi. 28, as also by Tacitus, Phlegon, Dio,

and Africanus. .

in honour of our temple; and yet when they

had offered their oblations could not partake

of their own sacrifices, because Moses had

forbidden it, by somewhat in the law that did

not permit them, or somewhat that had be­

fallen them, which our ancient customs made

inconsistent therewith; so that some of these

did not sacrifice at all, and others left their

sacrifices in an imperfect condition: nay,

many were not able even at first so much as

to enter into the temple, but went their ways

in this state, as preferring a submission to the

laws of Moses before the fulfilling of their own

inclinations, even when they had no fear upon

them that any body could convict them, but

only out of a reverence to their own con­

science; so that this legislation, which ap­

peared to be divine, made this man to be

esteemed as one superior to his own human

nature. Nay, farther, a little before the be­

ginning of this war, when Claudius was em­

peror of the Romans, and Ismael was our

high-priest; and when so great a famine*

was come upon us, that one tenth deal of

wheat was sold for four drachmae, and when

no less than seventy corifof flour was brought

into the temple, at the feast of unleavened

bread, not one of the priests was so hardy as

to eat one crumb of it, even while so great a

distress was on the land, and this out of a

dread of the law, and of that wrath which

God retains against acts of wickedness, even

when no one can accuse the actors; whence

we are not to wonder at what was then done,

while this very day the writings left by Moses

have so great force, that even those who hate

us, confess that he who established this set­

tlement was God, and that it was by the

means of Moses, and of his virtue.

t These cori are thirty-one Sicilian, or forty-one Athe­

nian medimni.

