AM. 103.] 487 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sand. As for the rest, they were part of them

taken captives; and the other part ran away

to their own country.

After this victory Ptolemy overran all the

country; and when night came on, he abode

in certain villages of Judea, where he com­

manded his soldiers to strangle the women

and children, and to cut them in pieces, and

to cast them into boiling caldrons, and then to

devour their limbs, as sacrifices. This com­

mandment was given, that such as fled from

the battle, and came to them, might suppose

their enemies were cannibals, and might on

that account be still more terrified at them,

upon such a sight. And both Strabo and

Nicolaus of Damascus affirm, that they used

these people after this manner. Ptolemy also

took Ptolemais by force.

CHAP. XIII.

OF Alexander's expedition against ccelesyria; his

DESTRUCTION OF THE CITY GAZA, AND OF MANY THOU­

SANDS OF JEWS THAT REBELLED AGAINST HIM. ALSO

CONCERNING ANTIOCHUS GRYPUS, SELEUCUS, ANTIOCHUS

CYZICENUS, ANTIOCHUS PIUS, AND OTHERS.

WHEN Cleopatra saw* that her son was

grown great, and laid Judea waste,

without disturbance, and had gotten the city

of Gaza under his- power, Bhe resolved no

longer to overlook what he did, when he was

almost at her gates; and she concluded that

now he was so much stronger than before, he

would be very desirous of the dominion over

the Egyptians. But she immediately marched

against him with a fleet at sea, and an army

oi foot at land; and made "fChelcias and Ana­

nias the Jews, generals of her whole army;

while she sent the greatest part of her riches,

with her grandchildren, and her testament,

to the people of JCos. Cleopatra also ordered

her son Alexander to sail with a great fleet

to Phoenicia; and when that country had re­

volted, she came to Ptolemais; and because

the people of Ptolemais did not receive her,

she besieged the city. But Ptolemy went out

of Syria, and hastened into Egypt; supposing

that he should find it destitute of an army,

and soon take it; though he failed of his hopes.

At this time Chelcias, one of Cleopatra's

generals, happened to die in Coslesyria; as

he was in pursuit of Ptolemy.

When Cleopatra heard of her son's attempt,

and that his Egyptian expedition did not suc­

ceed, according to his expectations, she sent

thither|| part of her army, and drove him out

of that country. So when he was returned

out of Egypt, he abode, during the winter, at

Gaza. In which time Cleopatra took the

garrison that was in Ptolemais by siege; as

well as the city. And when Alexander came

to her he gave her presents, and such marks

of respect as were but proper; since under

the miseries he endured by Ptolemy he had

no other refuge but her. Now there were

some of her friends who persuaded her to

seize Alexander, and to overrun and take

possession of the country; and not to sit still

and see such a multitude of brave Jews sub­

ject to one man. But Ananias's counsel was

contrary to theirs: who said, that she would

do an unjust action if she deprived a man that

was her ally of that authority which belonged

to him; and this a man who is related to us.

"For," said he, " I would not have thee igno­

rant of this, that what injustice thou doest to

him will make all that are Jews to be thy

enemies." This desire of Ananias's Cleopatra

complied with, and did no injury to Alexander;

but made a league of mutual assistance with

him, at Scythopolis, a city of Coslesyria.

So when Alexander was delivered from the

fear he was in of Ptolemy, he presently made

an expedition against Coelesyria. He then

took Gadara, after a siege often months. He

took also Amathus, a very strong fortress be­

longing to the inhabitants above Jordan;

where Theodorus, the son of Zeno, had his

chief treasure; and what he esteemed most

precious. This Zeno fell unexpectedly upon

the Jews, and slew ten thousand of them; and

seized upon Alexander's baggage. Yet did

not this misfortune terrify Alexander; but he

made an expedition upon the maritime parts

of the country, Raphia, and Athedon, (the

name of which king Herod afterward changed

to Agrippias,) and took even that by force:

* An. 103.

\ The sons of Onias IV. that high-priest who built the

temple in Egypt. See Book XIII. chap. 3 and 10.

J This city or island Cos, is not that remote island in

the Egean sea, famous for the birth of the great Hippo-

crates; but a city or island of the same name adjoining to

Egypt; mentioned both by Stephanus and Ptolemy; as

Dr. Hudson informs us. Of which Cos, and the treasures

there laid up by Cleopatra and the Jews, see XIV. 7.

II An. 102.

