.50 {book tti ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mutual confidence amiSrigf inert; putting" ah

end to their quarrels, removing passion artel

grief out of the minds of therh that use it,

and making them cheerful. "Thou didst

squeeze this wine," said he, "from three

clusters of grapes, with thine hands, and the

king received it. Know, therefore, that this

vision is for thy good, and foretels a release

from thy present distress within the same

number of days as the branches whence thou

gatheredst thy grapes in thy sleep.* f How­

ever, remember what prosperity I have fore­

told thee, when thou hast found it true; and

when thou art in authority, do not overlook

us in this prison, wherein thou wilt leave Us,

when thou art gone to the place we have

foretold: for we are not in prison for any

crime, but for the sake of our virtue and

sobriety are we condemned to suffer the

penalty of malefactors, and because we are

not willing to injure him that has thus dis­

tressed us, though it were for our own plea­

sure." The cup-bearer rejoiced to hear such

an interpretation of his dream, and waited

the completion of what had been thus shewed

him beforehand.

Another servant of the king's who had been

chief baker, and was now bound in prison

with the cup-bearer, was in good hope upon

Joseph's interpretation of the other's vision,

for he had dreamed also; so he desired that

Joseph would tell him what the visions he

had seen the night before might mean? "I

thought," said he, "that I carried three bas­

kets upon my head, two were full of loaves,

and the third full of sweet-theats, and other

eataBles, such as are prepared for kings*

but the fowls came flying, and ate them all

up, and had no regard to my attempt to drive

them away." He then expected a prediction

lik'e to that of the cup-tfea'rer's: but Joseph,

considering the dream, said to him that he

would willingly be an interpreter of good

events to him, arid riot of such as his dream

pronounced; tint he told him that he had

ortTy three days to live, as the three baskets

signified; but that on the third day he should

be crucified, and devoured by fowls, while

he w£s not able to help himself. Now both

these dreams had the same events that Joseph

fbretold they should have, and this to both

parties: for on the third day, when the king

solemnized his birth-day, he crucified the

chief baker, but set the butler free from his

bonds, and restored him to his former service,

God freed Joseph from his confinement

after he had endured his bonds two years,J

and had received no assistance from the cup­

bearer, who did not remember what he had

said to him formerly; and God contrived this

method of deliverance for him. Pharaoh, the

king, had seen in his sleep the same evening

two visions, and after them had the interpre­

tation of them both given him; he haT-^br-

gotten the latter, but retained that of #ie

dreams themselves. Being, therefore, troubl"

at what he had seen, for it seemed to him to-

be all of a melancholy nature; the next day

he called together the wisest men among the

Egyptians,|| desiring to learn from them the

*.An. 1767.

t The expression which Joseph makes use of concern­

ing the king's cup-bearer and baker, Pharaoh shall lift up

thy head, seems somewhat too literally translated, since the

words in the original mean no more, than that Pharaoh

would have them brought forth and examined. The an­

cients, we are to know, in keeping their reckonings, or

accounts, of time, or their list of domestic officers, or ser-

Tants, made use of tables with holes bored in them, in

which they put a sort of pegs, or nails, with broad heads,

exhibiting the particulars, either number, or name, or

whatever it was. These nails, or pegs, the Jews call

heads, and the sockets of the heads they call bases. The

meaning therefore of Pharaoh's lifting up his head, is, that

Pharaoh would take out the peg, which had the cup-bear­

er's name on the top of it, to read it; i. e. would sit in

Judgment, and make examination into his accounts. For

it seems very probable that both he and the baker had been

either suspected or accused of having cheated the king;

and that, when their accounts were examined and cast up,

the one was acquitted, while the other was found guilty.

And though Joseph uses the same expression in both cases,

yet we may observe, that speaking to the baker he adds,

that Pharaoh shall lift up thy head from off thee, i. e. shall

order thy name to be struck'out of the list of his servants,

by taking the peg out of the socket. Bibliotheca Bibl. in

locum. B.

J Gen. xl. 18.

II The Chaldeans of old were the most famous people

in the world for divinations of all kinds; and therefore it

is very probable that the word Hhartaumim, which we

render magicians, is not of Hebrew, but Chaldet origin.

The roots, however, from whence it springs (if it be a

compound word, as probably it is,) are not so visible;

and therefore commentators are perplexed to know by

what method men of this profession proceeded in their

inquiry into secret things; whether they pretended to ex­

pound dreams, and descry future events, by natural obser­

vations, by the art of astrology, (which came much in re­

quest in future ages,) by such rules as are now found in

the books of Oneirocrites or by certain characters, images,

pictures, and figures, which were engraved with magical

rites and ceremonies. It is not to be doubted, indeed, but

that the magicians, whom Pharaoh consulted for the inter­

