94 [book hi. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

laborious service; for in this position it ap­

pears in the most agreeable manner to the

spectators; but when he is obliged to assist

at offering sacrifices, and to do the appointed

service, that he may not be hindered in his

operations by its motion, he throws it to the

left, and bears it on his shoulder. Moses calls

this belt abaneth; but we have learned, from

the Babylonians, to call it emia. This vest­

ment has no loose or hollow parts any where

in it, but only a narrow aperture about the

neck: and it is tied with certain strings hang­

ing down from the edge over the breast, and

over the back; and is fastened above each

shoulder. It is called massabazanes.

Upon his head he wears a cap, not brought

to a conic form, nor including the entire head;

but still including more than the half of it.

It is named masnaemphthes, or a mitre, but

its make is such that it seems to be a crown.

It is made of thick swaths, but the contexture

is of linen, and it i3 doubled round many

times, and sewed together; besides which, a

piece of fine linen covers the whole cap,

from the upper part, and reaches down to

the forehead, and hides the seams of the

swaths, which would otherwise appear in­

decently: this adheres closely upon the solid

part of the head, that it may not fall off du­

ring the sacred service about the sacrifices.

Such was the habit of the generality of the

priests.

The high-priest is adorned with the same

garments already described; but over these

he puts on a vestment of a blue colour; this

also is a long robe, reaching to his feet: in

our language it is called meeir, and is tied

round with a girdle, embroidered with the

same colours and flowers as the former, in­

terwoven with a mixture of gold: to the bot­

tom are hung fringes, in colour like pome­

granates, with golden* bells,f by a curious

and beautiful contrivance; so that between

two bells hangs a pomegranate, and between

two pomegranates a bell. Now this vesture

was not composed of two pieces, nor was it

sewed together upon the shoulders and the

sides, but it was one long vestment, so woven

as to have an aperture for the neck: not an

oblique one, but parted all along the breast,

and the back; a border also was sewed to it,

lest the aperture should look too indecently;

it was also parted where the hands were to

come out.

Besides these, the high-priest put on a third

garment, called the epnod, which resembles

the epomis of the Greeks. It was woven to

the depth of a cubit, of several colours, with

gold intermixed, and embroidered: but it left

the middle of the breast uncovered; it was

X

* The use of these golden bells, at the bottom of the  
high-priest's long garment, seems to have been this; that

by shaking his garment at the time of his offering incense

in the temple, on the great day of expiation, or at other

proper periods of his sacred ministrations on the great

festivals, the people might have notice of it, and mieht fall

to their own prayers at the time of incense, or other pro­

per periods; and so the whole congregation might at once

offer those common prayers jointly with the high-priest to

the Almighty. See Luc. i. 10. Nor probably is the

father of Sirach to be otherwise understood, when he says

of Aaron, the first high-priest, Ecclus. xlv. 9, God com­

passed Aaron with pomegranates, and with many golden

bells round about; that as he went there might be a sound,

and a noise made, that might be heard in the temple, for a

memorial to the children of his people.

t The bell seems to have been a sacred utensil of very

ancient use in Asia. Golden bells formed a part of the

ornaments of the pontifical robe of the Jewish high-priest,

with which he invested himself upon those grand and

peculiar festivals, when he entered into the sanctuary.

That robe was very magnificent; it was ordained to be of

sky-blue, and the border of it, at the bottom, was adorned

with pomegranates and gold bells intermixed equally, and

at equal distances. The use and intent of these bells is

evident from these words: And it shall be upon Aaron to

minister, and his sound shall be heard when he goeth in

unto the holy place before the Lord, and when he cometh

out, that he die not. The sound of the numerous bells

that covered the hem of his garment, gave notice to the

assembled people that the most awful ceremony of their

religion had commenced. When arrayed in this garb, he

bore into the sanctuary the vessel of incense; it was the

signal to prostrate themselves before the Deity, and to

commence those fervent ejaculations which were to ascend

with the column of that incense to the throne of heaven.

"One indispensable ceremony in the Indian Pooja is the

ringing of a small bell by the officiating Brahmin. The

women of the idol, or dancing girls of the pagoda, have

little golden bells fastened to their feet, the soft harmonious

tinkling of which vibrates in unison with the exquisite

melody of their voices." (Maurice's Indian Antiquities,

vol. v. p. 137.) "The ancient kings of Persia, who, in

fact, united to their own persons the regal and sacerdotal

office, were accustomed to have the fringes of their robes

adorned with pomegranates and golden bells. The Ara­

bian courtesans, like the Indian women, have little golden

bells fastened round their legs, neck, and elbows, to the

sound of which they dance before the king. The Arabian

princesses wear golden rings on their fingers, to which

little bells are suspended, as well as in the flowing tresses

of their hair, that their superior rank may be known, and

they themselves, in passing, receive the homage due

to their exalted station." CalmeCt Dictionary, article

Bell. B.

