an. 1052.] 273 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

years afterwards,* when he heard that two

of hie servants were run away from him, and

were in Gath, he went for his servants in

haste: and when he was come back with

them, the king perceived it, and was much

displeased that he had contemned his com­

mands, and what was more, had no regard to

the oaths he had sworn to God. So he called

him, and said, "Didst not thou swear never

to leave, nor to go out of this city to another?

Thou shalt not therefore escape punishment

for thy perjury, but I will punish thee, thou

wicked wretch! both for this crime, and for

those wherewith thou didst abuse my father,

when he was in his flight; that thou mayest

know that wicked men gain nothing at last;

although they be not punished immediately

upon their unjust practices; but that in all the

time wherein they think themselves secure,

because they have yet suffered nothing, their

punishment increases, and is heavier upon

them; and that to a greater degree than if

they had been punished immediately upon

the commission of their crimes" So Benaiah,

on the king's command, slew Shimei.

CHAP. II.

op Solomon's marriage; his wisdom and riches; and

the assistance he obtained from hiram towards

the building of the temple.

SOLOMON having settled himself firmly

in his kingdom, and having brought his

enemies to punishment; married the daughter

of Pharaoh, king of Egypt! He also built the

walls of JerusalemJ much larger and stronger

than those which had been before: and

thenceforward he managed public affairs very

peaceably. Nor was his youth any hindrance

in the exercise of justice, the observance of

the law, or the remembrance of what charges

his father had given him at his death: but he

discharged every duty with greater accuracy

than might have been expected from such as.

are aged, and of the greatest prudence. He

now resolved to go to Hebron,|| and sacrifice

to God upon the brazen altar that was built

by Moses. Accordingly he offered there a

thousand burnt offerings. And when he had

done this, he thought he had payed great

honour to God. For as he was asleep that

very night, God appeared to him, and com­

manded him to ask of him some gifts which

he was ready to bestow on him, as a reward

for his piety. So Solomon asked of God

what was most excellent, and of the greatest

worth in itself: what God would bestow with

the greatest joy; and what it was most pro­

fitable for man to receive. For he did not

desire either gold, silver, or any other riches,

as a young man might naturally have done;

for these are the things that generally are es­

teemed by most men, as alone of the greatest

worth, and of the best gifts of God. "But,"

said he, "Give me, O Lord, a sound mind,

and a good understanding; whereby I may

speak and judge the people according to

truth and righteousness." With these peti­

tions God was well pleased, and promised

to give him all those things that he had not

mentioned in his option, riches, glory, victory

over his enemies; and in the first place, un­

derstanding and wisdom; and this in such a

degree, as no other mortal man, neither kings

nor ordinary persons ever had. He also pro­

mised to preserve the kingdom to his posterity

for a very long time; if he continued righteous

and obedient to him, and imitated his father

might think proper to confine him to the city of Jerusalem,

that, being removed from the place where his family and

interest lay, to one where he was but a stranger, and suf­

ficiently odious for his former ill treatment of the late

king, he might be incapable of raising any tumults or

seditions; and that, being in this public theatre, all his

words and actions might be narrowly observed, which,

considering his busy and wicked temper, might give So­

lomon a fair advantage against him, and, as the manner of

some is, the very prohibition itself might probably inflame

his desire to transgress it. Pool's Annotations. B.

* About an. 1052.

t 1 Kings iii. 1.

J This building the walls of Jerusalem, soon after

David's death, illustrates the conclusion of the fifty-first

Psalm, where David prays: Build thou the walls of Jeru-

salem; they being, it seems, unfinished or imperfect at

that time. See VIII. 6, and 1 Kings ix. 15.

II Although both the Hebrew and the Septuagint say

1 Kings iii. 4, 5. and 2 Chron. i. 3. that the place whither

Solomon now went, to the tabernacle or great brazen

altar, was Gibeon, and not Hebron, as Josephus's copy

had it, yet is Josephus's copy confirmed by the vow of

Absalom, which was according to our common copies, to

be performed not at Gibeon, but at Hebron, 2 Sam. xv.

7, 12. And since Gibeah or Gibeon denotes a hill or an

elevation, as Josephus elsewhere truly observes, VI. 3.

the original text perhaps meant an elevated place at He­

bron. See the very same difference between Gibeon in

our copies, Jeremiah xli. 12. and Hebron in Josephus's,

x. 9. which probably requires the very same reconcilia­

tion also.

