T70 [book :iv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

!Hkk^it>«BlW-j

vast materials were there, and with what

great skill the workmanship was executed.

He also encompassed the entire temple with

very large cloisters; contriving them to be

in a due proportion thereto; and he expended

larger sums of money upon them than had

been done before him; till it seemed that no

one else had so greatly adorned the temple

as he had done. There was a large wall to

both the cloisters; which wall was itself the

most prodigious work that was ever heard of

by man. The hill was a rocky ascent, that

declined by degrees towards the east parts

of the city, till it came to an elevated level.

This hill it was which Solomon, who was *the

first of our kings, by divine revelation en­

compassed with a wall; it was of excellent

workmanship upwards, and round the top of

it. He also built a wall below, beginning at

the bottom; which was encompassed by a

deep valley. And at the south side he laid

rocks together, and bound them to each other

with lead; and included some of the inner

parts, till it proceeded to a great height; and

till both the largeness of the square edifice,

and its altitude were immense: and till the

vastness of the stones in the front were plainly

visible on the outside; yet so, that the in­

ward parts were fastened together with iron,

and preserved the joints immovable for all

future times. When this work for the foun­

dation was done, in this manner, and joined

together as part of the hill itself to the very

top of it; he wrought it all into one outward

surface, and filled up the hollow places which

were about the wall, and made it a level on

the external surface, and a smooth level also.

This hill was walled all round; and in com­

pass four furlongs; the distance of each angle

containing in length a furlong. But within

this wall, and on the top of all, there ran

another wall of stone also: having on the

east quarter, a double cloister, of the same

length with the wall: in the midst of which

was the temple itself. This cloister looked

to the gates of the temple: and it had been

adorned by many kings in former times.

And round about the entire temple were

fixed the spoils taken from barbarous nations.

All these had been dedicated to the temple

* See Book XVIII. chap. 4.

by Herod; with the addition of those he had

taken from the Arabians.

Now on the north side of the temple was

built a citadel, whose walls were square and

strong, and of extraordinary firmness. This

citadel was built by the kings of the Asmo-

nean race, who were also high-priests, before

Herod: and they called it the tower: in

which were deposited the vestments of the

high-priest, which the high-priest only put on

at the time when he was to offer sacrifice.

These vestments king Herod kept in that

place; and after his death they were under

the power of the Romans, until the time of

Tiberius Caesar. Under whose reign Vitel-

lius, the president of Syria, when he once

came to Jerusalem, and had been most mag­

nificently received by the multitude, he had

a mind to make them some requital for the

kindness they had shewn him. So, upon their

petition to have those holy vestments in their

own power, he wrote about them to Tiberius

Caesar; who granted his request. And this

their power over the sacerdotal vestments

continued with the Jews until the death of

king Agrippa. But after that, Cassius Lon-

ginus, who was president of Syria; and Cus-

pius Fadus, who was procurator of Judea,

enjoined the Jews to deposit those vestments

in the tower of Antonia: for that they ought

to have them in their power, as they formerly

had. However, the Jews sent ambassadors

to Claudius Caesar, to intercede with him for

them. Upon whose coming, king Agrippa

junior being then at Rome, asked for and ob­

tained the power over them from the empe­

ror: who gave the command to Vitellius,

then commander in Syria, to give it them ac­

cordingly. Before that time they were kept

under the seal of the high-priest, and of the

treasurers of the temple: which treasurers,

the day before a festival, went up to the Ro­

man captain of the temple guards, and viewed

their own seal, and received the vestments.

And again, when the festival was over, they

brought it to the same place, and shewed the

captain of the temple guards their seal, which

corresponded with his own, and deposited

them there. And that these things were so,

the afflictions that happened to us afterwards

about them are sufficient evidence. But for

the^ tower itself, when Herod the king of the

Jews had fortified it more firmly than before,

