.550 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

For at that time both Herod's enemies and

friends despaired of his affairs: as it was

not probable that he would remain without

punishment, who had shewed so much friend­

ship for Antony. His friends despaired, and

had no hopes of his escape: but his ene­

mies, though they outwardly appeared to be

troubled at his case, were privately very

glad of it: as hoping to obtain a change for

the better. As for Herod himself, he saw

that there was no one of royal dignity left,

but Hyrcanus; and therefore he thought it

would be for his advantage, not to suffer him

to be an obstacle in his way any longer.

For that in case he himself survived, and

escaped the danger he was in, he thought

it the safest way to put it out of the power

of such a man to make any attempt against

him, at such junctures of affairs, as was more

worthy of the kingdom than himself: and in

case he should be slain by Caesar, his envy

prompted him to desire to slay him that

would otherwise be king after him.

While Herod had these things in his mind,

there was a certain occasion afforded him.

For Hyrcanus was of so mild a temper, that

he desired not to meddle with public affairs,

nor to concern himself with innovations; but

left all to fortune, and contented himself with

what that afforded him. But Alexandra his

daughter was a lover of strife; and was ex­

ceeding desirous of a change in the govern­

ment: and spake to her father not to bear

Herod's injurious treatment of their family,

but to anticipate their future hopes, as he

safely might: and desired him to write

about those matters to Malchus, who was

then governor of Arabia, to receive them,

and to secure them from Herod: for that if

they went away, and Herod's affairs proved,

as it was likely they would, by reason of

Caesar's enmity to him, they should then be

the only persons that could take the govern­

ment: and this both on account of the royal

family they were of, and on account of the

good disposition of the multitude toward

them. While she used these persuasions,

Hyrcanus put off their suit. But as she

shewed that she was a woman, and a con­

tentious woman too, and would not desist

Roman empire, were each resolved to have all, and

accordingly agreed to throw the dice of war for it.

either night or day; but would always be

speaking to him about these matters, and

about Herod's treacherous designs; she at

last prevailed with him to entrust Dositheus,

one of his friends, with a letter; wherein his

resolution was declared: and he desired the

Arabian governor to send to him some horse­

men, who should receive him, and conduct

him to the lake Asphaltites: which is three

hundred furlongs distant from the bounds of

Jerusalem. And he did therefore trust Do­

sitheus with his letter, because he was a

careful attendant on him, and on Alexandra;

and had no small occasion to bear ill will to

Herod. For he was a kinsman of one Jo­

seph, whom he had slain; and a brother of

those that were formerly slain at Tyre by

Antony. Yet could not these motives in­

duce Dositheus to serve Hyrcanus in this

affair: for preferring the hopes he had from

the present king, to those he had from him,

he gave Herod the letter. So he took his

kindness in good part; and bade him go on

in serving him, by rolling up the epistle, and

sealing it again, and delivering it to Malchus;

and then to bring back his letter in answer to

it: for it would be much better if he could

know Malchus's intentions also. And when

Dositheus was very ready to serve him in this

point also, the Arabian governor returned

back for answer, that he would receive Hyr­

canus, and all that should come with him, and

even all the Jews that were of his party; that

he would also send forces sufficient to secure

them in their journey; and that he should

be in no want of any thing he should desire.

Now as soon as Herod had received this let­

ter, he immediately sent for Hyrcanus, and

questioned him about the league he had

made with Malchus; and when he denied

it, he shewed his letter to the Sanhedrim,

and put the man to death immediately.

This account we give the reader, as it is

contained in the commentaries of king He­

rod. But other historians do not agree with

them: for they suppose that Herod did not

find, but rather make, this an occasion for

thus putting him to death: and that by trea­

cherously laying a snare for him. For they

write, that Herod and he were once at a

Plutarch De Antonio; and Prideaux's Connection, anno

33. B.

