348 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

l*>.

ss

and to go away, and so put an end to the

war. This sum the multitude collected for

Menahem, by exacting *fifty fdrachmae, as

Soil-money for every head. After which he

ied, and was buried in Samaria, and left

his son Pekahiah his successor in the king­

dom. This prince followed the barbarity of

his father, and so ruled but two years only:

after which he was slain with his friends at

a feast, by the treachery of one Pekah, the

general of his horse, and the son of Rema-

liah, who laid snares for him. Now this Pe­

kah held the government twenty years,J and

proved a wicked man, and a transgressor.

But the king of Assyria, whose name was

Tiglath-Pileser, when he had made an expe­

dition against the Israelites, and had over-run

all the land of Gilead, and the region beyond

Jordan, and the adjoining country, which is

called Galilee, and Kadesh, and Hazor; he

made the inhabitants prisoners, and trans­

planted them into his own kingdom.

Now Jotham, the son of Uzziah, reigned

over the tribe of Judah in Jerusalem: being

a citizen thereof by his mother, whose name

was Jerusha. This king was not defective in

any virtue;|| but was religious towards God,

and righteous towards men, and careful of

the good of the city, for what parts soever

wanted to be repaired or adorned, he mag­

nificently repaired and adorned them. He

also took care of the foundations of the

cloisters in the temple, and repaired the

walls that were fallen down, and built very

great towers, and such as were almost im­

pregnable: and if any thing else in his king­

dom had been neglected, he took great care

of it. He also made an expedition against

the Ammonites, and overcame them in battle,

and ordered them to pay an annual tribute

of a hundred talents, and ten thousand cori

of wheat, and as many of barley: and so

augmented his kingdom, that his enemies

could not despise it, and his own people

lived happily.

There was at this time a prophet,§ called

Nahum; who spake after this manner con­

cerning the overthrow of the Assyrians, and

of Nineveh:** "Nineveh shall be a pool of

water in motion; so shall all her people be

troubled and tossed, and go away by flight:

while they say one to another, stand, stand

still; seize their gold and silver, for there

shall be none to wish them well. For they

will rather save their lives than their money:

For a terrible contention shall possess them

one with another, and lamentation, and loos­

ing of the members; and their countenances

shall be perfectly black with fear. And

where will be the den of the lions, and the

mother of the young lions? God says to thee,

Nineveh, that they shall deface thee, and

the lions shall no longer go out from thee,

to give laws to the world." And indeed

this prophet prophesied many other things

besides these concerning Nineveh; which I

do not think necessary to repeat: and I here

omit them, that I may not appear trouble-

drawn into idolatry; that Rehoboam forsook the law of

the Lord, and Abijah walked in his steps; that Asa sent

the treasures of the temple to the king of Syria, and put

the prophet in the stocks; that Jehoshaphat entered into

society with the idolatrous; and so he .goes on with all

the rest. But in Jotham, says he, there is no fault found,

which, in an age of general corruption, is pretty wonder­

ful, unless we may suppose, that the people's sacrificing

and burning incense still on high places, 2 Kings xv. 35.

(which he by his authority might have removed,) be im­

putable to him as a fault. Patrick's Commentary. B.

* Dr. Wall, in his critical notes on 2 Kings xv. 20.  
observes, that "When this Menahem is said to have

exacted the money of Israel, of all the mighty men of

wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give Pul,

king of Assyria, 1000 talents; this is the first public

money raised by any Israelitish king, by a tax on the peo­

ple: that they used before to raise it out of the treasures

of the house of the Lord, or out of their own house; that

it was the poll-money on the rich men, and them only,

lo raise 353,000/. or, as others count a talent, 400,000Z.

at the rate of 61. or 11. per head:—and that God com­

manded by Ezekiel, chap. xlv. 8. and xlvi. 18. that no

such things should be done at the Jews' restoration; but

jthe king should have land of his own." See also the

same notes on 2 Kings xxiii. 35. and on 2 Chron. xxxvi.

3, 4.

t Shekels, Hebrew and Septuagint.

t From an. 760 to 740.

if Solomon Jarchi here observes that all the kings of

Judah had some crime or other laid to their charge, ex­

cept this Jotham. That David himself sinned grievously

in the matter of Uriah; that Solomon by his wives was

§ About an. 726.

** This passage is taken out of the prophet Nahum, ii.  
8—13. and is the principal, or rather the only one that

is given us verbatim, but a little abridged, in Josephus's

writings. By which quotation we learn what he himself

always asserts, viz. that he made use of the Hebrew ori­

ginal, and not of the Greek version: as also we learn, that

his Hebrew copy considerably differed from ours. See

all three texts particularly set down and compared toge­

ther in the Essay on the Old Testament, page 187, 188,

189.

