an. 1089.] 227 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

give this as the first mark of performance of

the present league, that he might have his

wife Michal restored to him, as her whom he

had purchased with great hazards, and with

those six hundred heads of the Philistines

which he had brought to Saul, her father.

So Abner took Michal from Phalli el, who

was then her husband, and sent her to David;

Ishbosheth himself affording him his assist­

ance: for David had written to him that of

right he ought to have his wife restored to

him. Abner also called together the elders

of the multitude, the commanders, and cap­

tains of thousands; and spake thus to them,

that, He had formerly dissuaded them from

their own resolution, when they were ready

to forsake Ishbosheth, and to join themselves

to David: that, however, he now gave them

leave so to do, if they had a mind to it; for

they knew that God had appointed David to

be king of all the Hebrews, by Samuel the

prophet; and had foretold that he should

punish the Philistines, and finally overcome

them. Now when the elders and rulers heard

this, and understood that Abner was come

over to those sentiments about the public

affairs which they were of before, they

changed their measures, and came in to

David. When these men had agreed to Ab-

ner's proposal, he called together the tribe

of Benjamin; (for all of that tribe were the

guards of Ishbosheth's body;) and spake to

them to the same purpose. And when he

saw that they did not in the least oppose

what he said, but resigned themselves up to

his opinion, he took about twenty of his

friends, and came to David, in order to re­

ceive himself security upon oath from him.

For we may justly esteem those things to be

firmer which every one of us do by ourselves,

than those which we do by another. He also

gave him an account of what he had said to

the rulers, and to the whole tribe of Ben­

jamin. And when David had received him

in a courteous manner, and had treated him

with great hospitality for many days, Abner,

when he was dismissed, desired permission

to bring the multitude with him, that he might

deliver up the government to him, when

David himself was present, and a spectator

of what was done.

When David had sent Abner away, Joab,

(he general of his army, came immediately to

Hebron; and when he had understood that

Abner had been with David, and had parted

with him a little before under an agreement,

that the government should be delivered up

to David; he feared lest David should place

Abner, who had assisted him to gain the king­

dom, in the first rank of dignity; especially

since he was a shrewd man in other respects;

in understanding affairs, and in managing

them artfully, as proper seasons should re­

quire; and that he should himself be put

lower, and be deprived of the command of

the army; so he took a knavish and a wicked

course. In the first place he endeavoured to

calumniate Abner to the king, exhorting him

to have a care of him, and not to give atten­

tion to what he had engaged to do for him;

because all he did tended to confirm the

government to Saul's son; that he came to

him deceitfully, and with guile, and was gone

away in hopes of gaining his purposes by this

management. But when he could not thus

persuade David, nor saw him at all exas­

perated, he betook himself to a project bolder

than the former. He determined to kill Abner;

and in order thereto he sent some messengers

after him; to whom he gave in charge, that

when they should overtake him, they should

recall him in David's name; and tell him, that

he had somewhat to say to him about his

affairs which he had not remembered to speak

of when he was with him.

Now when Abner heard what the mes­

sengers said, (for they overtook him in a cer­

tain place called Bisera, which was distant

from Hebron twenty furlongs;) he suspected

none of the mischief which was befalling him,

and came back. Hereupon Joab met him

in the gate; and received him in the kindest

manner, as if he were Abner's most benevo­

lent acquaintance and friend; for such as un­

dertake the vilest actions, in order to prevent

the suspicion of any private mischief, do fre­

quently make the greatest pretence to what

good men do sincerely. So he took him aside

from his own followers, as if he would speak

to him in private, and brought him into a void

place of the gate; having himself nobody with

him, but his brother Abishai; then he drew

his sword, and smote him in the groin; upon

which Abner died* by this treachery of

voL. r. NOS. 19 & 20.

* 2 Sam. iii. 27.

Yy

