AN. 337 855.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the letter, they were afraid; and, considering

their utter inability to oppose him who had

already subdued two great kings, they re­

turned for answer, that they owned him for

their lord, and would do whatsoever he com­

manded them. So he wrote back, enjoining

them to cut off the heads of Ahab's sons, and

send them to him. Accordingly the rulers

sent for those that brought up the sons of

Ahab, and commanded them to cut off their

heads, and send them to Jehu. This was

accordingly done, and the heads were put in

wicker baskets, and sent to Jezreel. And

when Jehu, as he was at supper with his

friends, was informed that the heads of Ahab's

sons were brought, he ordered them to make

two heaps of them, one before each of the

gates: and in the morning he went out to

take a view of them; and when he saw them,

he began to say to the people that were pre­

sent, that he certainly made an expedition

against his master Joram, and slew him; but

that it was not he that slew all these. And

he desired them to take notice, that as to

Ahab's family, all things had come to pass

according to God's prophecy; and his house

was perished, according as Elijah had fore­

told.* And when he had farther destroyed

all the kindred of Ahab that was found in

Jezreel, he went to Samaria. And as he was

upon the road, he met the relations of Aha-

ziah king of Jerusalem, and asked them

whither they were going? They replied,

that they came to salute Joram, and their

own king Ahaziah; for they knew not that he

had slain them both. So Jehu gave orders

that they should be taken and slain, being in

number forty-two persons.

After these, there met him a righteous man,

whose name was Jehonadab; and who had

been his friend of old. He saluted Jehu,

and began to commend him, because he had

done every thing according to the will of

God, in extirpating the house of Ahab. So

Jehu desired him to come up into his chariot,

and make his entry with him into Samaria;

and told him that he would not spare one

wicked man, but would punish the false pro­

phets and false priests, and those that de­

ceived the multitude, and persuaded them to

leave the worship of the Almighty, and to

* 2 Kings x. 10.

worship foreign gods; and that it was a most

excellent and pleasing sight to a righteous

man to see the wicked punished. So Jeho­

nadab was persuaded by these arguments,

and came into Jehu's chariot, and came to

Samaria. And Jehu sought out for all Ahab's

kindred, and slew them. And, being de­

sirous that none of the false prophets, nor the

priests of Ahab's god might escape punish­

ment, he caught them deceitfully by the fol­

lowing artifice:—He gathered all the people

together, and said, that " he would worship

twice as many gods as Ahab had worshipped;

and desired that his priests and prophets, and

servants, might be present; because he would

offer costly and great sacrifices to Ahab's

god; and that if any of his priests were

wanting, they should be punished with death.

Now Ahab's god was called Baal: and when

he had appointed a day on which he would

offer those sacrifices, he sent messengers

through all the country of the Israelites, that

they might bring the priests of Baal to him.

So Jehu commanded to give all the priests

vestments; and when they had received

them, he went into the house of Baal, with

his friend Jehonadabf and gave orders to

make search whether there were not any

foreigner or stranger among them; for he

would have no one of a different religion to

mix among their sacred offices. And when

they said that there was no stranger there,

and they were beginning their sacrifices, he

set eighty of his most faithful soldiers without

the doors, and bade them slay the false pro­

phets, and vindicate the laws of their country,

which had been a long time in disesteem.

He also threatened that if any escaped, their

own lives should go for them. So they slew

them all with the sword; and destroyed the

house of Baal,f and by that means purged

Samaria of idolatrous worship. Now this

Baal was the god of the Tyrians; and Ahab,

in order to gratify his father-in-law, Ethbaal,

who was the king of Tyre and Sidon, built a

temple for him in Samaria; and appointed

him prophets, and worshipped him with all

sorts of worship. This idol Jehu now de­

molished, but he still permitted the Israelites

to worship the golden heifers. However,

because he had done thus, and taken care to

T 2 Kings x. 27.

