138 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

thereby, that although you have a numerous

army, with horses, and weapons, and above

these, a God merciful to you, and ready to

assist you; you do, however, desire them not

to compel you to fight against them, nor to

take from them what they have; which will

indeed be our gain, but what they will have

no reason to wish we should take to ourselves.

And if they hearken to you, it will be proper

for you to keep peace with them; but if they

trust on their own strength, as superior to

yours, and will not do you justice, lead your

army against them; making use of God as

your supreme commander, but ordaining as a

lieutenant under him one that is of the great­

est courage among you. For these different

commanders, besides their being an obstacle

to actions that are to be done on the sudden,

are a disadvantage to those that make use of

them. Lead an army, pure, and of chosen

men, composed of all such as have extraor­

dinary strength of body, and hardiness of

soul; but send away the timorous part, lest

they flee in the time of action, and so afford

an advantage to your enemies. Do you also

give leave to those that have lately built them

houses, and have not yet lived in them a year's

time, and to those that have planted them

vineyards, and have not been yet partakers

of their fruits, to continue in their own coun­

try; as well as to those also who have be­

trothed or lately married wives; lest they

have such an affection for these things, that

they be too sparing of their lives, and by re­

serving themselves for these enjoyments, they

become voluntary cowards.*

When you have pitched your camp take

care that you do nothing that is cruel; and

when you are engaged in a siege, and want

timber for making warlike engines, do not

render the land naked by cutting down trees

that bear fruit; but spare them, as consider-

ing that they were made for the benefit of

men, and that if they could speak, they would

have a just plea against you; because, though

they are not occasions of the war, they are

unjustly treated, and suffer in it; and would,

if they were able, remove themselves into

another land. When you have beaten your

enemies in battle, slay those that have fought

against you, but preserve the others alive,

that they may pay you tribute; excepting the

nation of the Canaanites, for as to that people

you must entirely destroy them.

Take care, especially in your battles, that

no woman use the habit of a man, nor man

the garment of a woman, f

This was the form of political government

which was left us by Moses. Moreover he

hadJ already delivered laws in writing, in the

fortieth year after they came out of Egypt,

concerning which we will discourse in ano­

ther book. But now on the following days,

(for he called them to assemble continually;)

he delivered blessings to them, and curses

upon those that should not live according to

the laws, but should transgress the duties that

were determined for them to observe. After

this, he read to them a poetic song, which

was composed in hexameter verse, and left

it to them in the holy book; it contained a

prediction of what was to come to pass after­

ward; agreeably whereto all things have hap­

pened all along, and do still happen to us;

and wherein he has not at all deviated from

the truth. Accordingly he delivered these

books to the|| priests, with the ark; into

which he also put the Ten Commandments,

written in two tables. He also delivered to

them the tabernacle; and exhorted the peo­

ple, that when they had conquered the land,

and were settled in it, they should not forget

the injuries of the Amalekites;§ but make war

against them, and inflict punishment upon

* Deut. xx. 7.

i Deut. xxii. 5.

Deut. xxii. 5. The woman shall not wear that which

pertaineth unto a man, neither shall a man put on a wo­

man's garment. This prohibitory law seems directed

against an idolatrous usage, which appears to be as ancient

as Moses, and which later writers inform us was to be

found among several nations in after times; and that too

attended with the most abominable practices. From Plu­

tarch (De Isid. et Osir. tom. ii. p. 368. edit. Xylandr.) we

learn that thp Egyptians called the moon the mother of

the world, and assigned to her a nature both male and ft -

male; and Boyse (Pantheon, p. 72.) says of Diana, Luna,

or the moon, that the Egyptians worshipped this deity

both as male and female, the men sacrificing to it as Luna,

the women as Lunus, and each sex on these occasions

assuming the dress of the other. Parkhurst's Heb. Lex.

p. 107. B.

J These laws seem to be those previously recited in

this chapter.

I I What laws were now delivered to the priests, see the

note on HI. 1. / «

§ Deut. xxv. 1"

