AN. 166.] 443 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

own children, had frequently conquered many

thousands. By this speech he induced his

men to contemn the multitude of the enemy,

and to tall upon Seron. And upon joining

battle with him, he defeated the Syrians; and

when their general fell among the rest, they

all ran away with speed; as thinking that to

be their best way of escaping. So he pur­

sued them into the plain, and slew about

eight hundred of the enemy; but the rest es­

caped to the region which lay near to the sea.

When king Antiochus heard of these things,

he was very angry at what had happened.

So he assembled all his own army;* with

many mercenaries whom he had hired from

the islands, and took them with him, and

prepared to break into Judea, about the be­

ginning of the spring. But upon mustering

his soldiers, he perceived that his treasures

were deficient, and there was a want of

money in them; for all the taxes were not

paid, by reason of the seditions there had

been among the nations; he having been so

magnanimous and so liberal, that what he

had was not sufficient for him. He there­

fore resolved first to go into Persia, and col­

lect the taxes of that country. Hereupon he

left one Lysias, who was in great repute with

him, governor of the kingdom; as far as the

bounds of Egypt, and of the lower Asia, and

reaching from the river Euphrates; and com­

mitted to him a certain part of his forces,

and of his elephants; and charged him to

bring up his son Antiochus with all possible

care, until he came back; and that he should

conquer Judea, and take its inhabitants for

slaves, and utterly destroy Jerusalem, and

abolish the whole nation. And when king

Antiochus had given these things in charge

to Lysias, he went into Persia, and in the

hundred and forty-seventh year he passed

over Euphrates, and went up to the superior

provinces.

Upon this Lysias chose Ptolemy, the son

of Dorymenes, and Nicanor, and Gorgias,

very potent men among the king's friends;

and delivered to them forty thousand foot

soldiers, and seven thousand horsemen; and

sent them against Judea. Accordingly, they

came as far as the city Emmaus, and pitched

their camp in the plain country. There

came also to them auxiliaries out of Syria,

and the country round about; as also many

of the runagate Jews. And besides these

came some merchants, to buy those that

should be carried captives; (having bonds

with them, to bind those that should be made

prisoners;) with that silver and gold which

they were to pay for their price. And when

Judas saw their camp, and how numerous their

enemies were, he persuaded his own soldiers

to be of good courage; and exhorted them to

place their hopes of victory in God; and to

make supplication to him, according to the

custom of their country, clothed in sackcloth;

and to shew what was their usual habit of

supplication in the greatest dangers; and

thereby to prevail with God to grant them

the victory over their enemies. So he set

them in the ancient order of battle used by

their forefathers; under their captains of

thousands, and other officers; and dismissed

such as were newly married, as well as those

that had newly gained possessions; that they

might not fight in a cowardly manner, out of

an inordinate love of life, in order to enjoy

those blessings. When he had thus disposed

his soldiers, he encouraged them to fight by

the following speech: "O my fellow-soldiers,

no other time remains more opportune than

the present for courage and contempt of

danger; for if you fight manfully, you may

recover your liberty, which, as it is a thing

of itself agreeable to all men, so it proves to

be to us much more desirable, by its affording

us the liberty of worshipping God. You are

in such circumstances at present, that you

must either recover that liberty, and so re­

gain a happy and blessed way of living, which

is according to our laws, and the customs of

our country; or submit to the most oppro­

brious sufferings; nor will any seed of your

nation remain, if you be beaten in this battle.

Fight therefore manfully, and suppose that

you must die though you do not fight. But be­

lieve, that besides such glorious rewards as

those of the liberty of your country, of your

laws, and of your religion, you shall obtain

everlasting glory. Prepare yourselves there­

fore, and put yourselves into such a posture,

that you be ready to fight with the enemy, as

soon as it is day to-morrow morning.'t

* 1 Mace. iii. 27.  
voL. I.—NOS. 37 & 38.

t 1 Mace. iii. 58.

4C

