aN. M»a] 123 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVT&

taking you for brave and: worthy men, we

agreed to your request, that we might treat

you with such honours as hospitality required.

And now seeing yao say that you nave a

great affection for us, and are troubled when

you think we are departing, we are not averse

to your entreaties, and if we may receive sa­

tisfactory assurance of your good will, we will

be glad to lead our lives with you, as your

wives; but we are afraid that you will in time

be weary of our company, and will then abuse

us, and send us back to our parents, after an

ignominious manner. You must, therefore,

excuse us in guarding against that danger."

The young men professed they would give

them any assistance they should desire; nor

did they at all contradict what they requested;

so great was the passion they had for them.

"If then," rejoined they, "this be your

resolution; since you make use of such cus­

toms* and conduct of life as are entirely dif­

ferent from all other men; insomuch that your

kinds of food are peculiar to yourselves, and

your kinds of drink not common to others; it

will be absolutely necessary, if you would

have us for your wives, that you do withal

worship our gods. Nor can there be any

other demonstration of the kindness which

you say you already have, and promise to

have hereafter to us, than this, that you wor­

ship the same gods as we do. For has any

one reason to complain, that now you are

come into this country, you should worship

the proper gods of the same country? espe­

cially while our gods are common to all men,

and yours such as belong to nobody but your­

selves." So they said they must either come

into such methods of divine worship as all

others came into, or else they most look out

for another world, wherein they might live by

themselves according to their own laws.

Now the young men were induced, by the

fondness they had for these women, tb think

they spake very welK So they gave them­

selves up to what they suggested, and trans­

gressed their own laws; and supposing there

* What Jbsephus here puts into the mouths of these  
Midianite women who came to entice the Israelites to

lewdness and idolatry; viz. that their worship of the God

of Israel, m opposition to their idol gods-, implied their

living according to the holy laws, which the true God had

given them by I\fosesr in opposition to those impure laws,

which were observed under ifteif false gods', well'deserves

VOL. I. NOS. 11 & 12.

were many gods, and resolving that they

would sacrifice to them according to the law

of that country which ordained them: they

both were delighted with their strange food,

and went on to do every thing that the women

would have them do, though in contradiction

to their own laws. So far, indeed, that this

transgression was already gone through the

whole army of the young men: and they fell

into a sedition that was much worse than the

former, and into the danger of the entire abo­

lition of their own institutions. For when

once the youth had tasted of these strange

customs, they went with insatiable inclinations

into them; and some of the principal men,

who were illustrious on account of the virtues

of their fathers, were also corrupted together

with the rest. Even Zimri, the head of the

tribe of Simeon, accompanied with Cozbi, a

Midianitish woman, who was the daughter of

Sur, a man of authority in that country: and

being desired by his wife to disregard the

raws of Moses, and to follow those she was

used to, he complied with her: and this both

by sacrificing after a manner different from

his own, and by taking a stranger to wife.

When things were in this state, Moses was

afraid that matters would grow worse, and

called the people to a congregation: he then

accused nobody by name; as unwilling to

drive those to despair, who, by lying con­

cealed, might come to repentance; but ho

said, that they did not do what was either

worthy of themselves, or of their fathers; by

preferring pleasure to God, and to the living

according to his will: that it was fit to change

their courses, while affairs were in a good

state; and think that to be true fortitude,

which, instead of offering violence to their

laws, enabled them to resist their lusts. And

besides that, he said, it was not a reasonable

thing, when they had lived soberly in the

wilderness, to act madly now they were in

prosperity: and that they ought not to lose in

abandance, what they had gained when they

had Kttre. And thus did he endeavour to cor-

'our consideration; and gives us a substantial reason for

the great concern that was ever showed under the laws

of Moses, to preserve the Israelites from idolatry, and in

the worship of the true-God'; rt being of no less conse­

quence than, whether God's people should be governed

by. the holy laws-of the true G»d, or by the impure laws,

derived from demons,, under the pagan idolatry.

Il

