yi EDITOR'S PREFACE

dictions of the evils then Coming upon Jerusalem, and the Jewish people, he
adds, " Who­

soever shall compare these words of our Saviour with the history of the whole
war, published

by the above-mentioned writer, must admire our Lord's great wisdom, and
acknowledge

that his foresight was divine."

In his Chronicle, as we have it from Jerom in Latin, Eusebius says, "In
subduing Judea,

and overthrowing Jerusalem, Titus slew six hundred thousand people: but
Josephus writes,

that eleven hundred thousand perished by famine and the sword, and that
another hundred

thousand were publicly sold and carried captives; and he says that the
occasion of there

being so great a multitude of people at Jerusalem was this, that it was the
time of the Pass­

over: for which reason the Jews, having come up from all parts to worship at
the temple,

were shut up in the city, as in a prison. And indeed it was fit they should be
slain at the same

time in which they crucified our Saviour."

The following general character of Josephus from the pen of Dr. Lardner$
concludes his

observations on his works. "Josephus was a man of great eminence and
distinction among

his people: but we do not observe in him a seriousness of spirit becoming a
Christian, nor that

sublimity of virtue which is suited to the principles of the Christian
religion. Nor do we dis­

cern in him such qualities as should induce us to think he was one of those
who were well

disposed, and were not far from the kingdom of God, Matt. xii. 34. He was a
priest by

descent, and early in the magistracy: then a general, and a courtier: and in
all shewing a

worldly mind, suited to such stations and employments; insomuch that he
appears to be

one of those, of whom, and to whom, the best judge of men and things said, how
can ye be­

lieve who receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh
from God only.

John v. 24."

The utility of the works of Josephus as a companion to the Sacred History must
now be ob­

vious. A careful perusal of them cannot fail to illustrate and corroborate
many facts of the

inspired volume. On this principle they are strongly recommended to the
attention of the

religious public. In the present edition, the translation of Mr. Whiston is
retained as the most

valuable which has yet appeared. The notes also which he originally added to
explain his

author are here preserved. But as room remained for farther explanation than
he has given,

a considerable body of information is added, in a selection of notes by the
Editor, which

are distinguished from those of the translator by the letter B at the close of
each. It is

hoped theretore, on the whole, that this edition of the Genuine works of
Josephus will be

an acceptable and useful work, and contribute to the enlargement of knowledge
on subjects,

which are connected with the dispensations of religion, and the interest of
the visible church

of God upon earth.

SAMUEL BURDER.

London, October 1, 1811

~\

