16ft [book V ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the city Shechem, and cried out bo as to be

heard by the multitude, who were attentive

to him. He desired they would consider

what he was going to say; so when silence

was made,* he said, "When the trees had a

human voice, and there was an assembly of

them gathered together, they desired that the

fig-tree would rule over them. But when that

tree refused so to do, because it was con­

tented to enjoy that honour which belonged

peculiarly to the fruit it bare, and not that

which should be derived to it from abroad,

the trees did not leave off their intentions to

have a ruler; so they thought proper to make

the offer of that honour to the vine. But

when the vine was chosen, it made use of the

same words which the fig-tree had used be­

fore, and excused itself from accepting the

government; and when the olive-tree had

done the same, the briar, a sort of wood good

for firing, promised to take the government,

and to be zealous in the exercise of it; but

that then they must sit down under its shadow;

and if they should plot against it to destroy it,

the principle of fire that was in it should de-

stroy them."—He added, "that what he had

said was no laughing matter: tor that when

they had experienced many blessings from

, Gideon, they overlooked Abimelech, when

he overruled all, and had joined with him in

slaying his brethren, and that he was no bet­

ter than a fire himself." So when he had

said this, he went away, and lived privately

in the mountains for three years, out of fear

of Abimelech.f

A little while after this festival, the She-

chemites, who had now repented of having

slain the sons of Gideon, drove Abimelech

away, both from,their city and their tribe;

whereupon he contrived how he might dis­

tress their city. Now at the season of vintage,

the people were afraid to go out, and gather

their fruits, for fear Abimelech should do

them some mischief. Now it happened that

there had come to them a man of authority,

one Gaal, that sojourned with them, having

his armed men and his kinsmen with him, so

the Shechemites desired that he would allow

them a guard during their vintage. Accord­

ingly he accepted of their desires, and the

* This is the first fable that we find any where upon  
record; and from hence it appears, that such fictions as

these, wherein the most serious truths are represented,

were in use among the Jews, as they are still in the eastern

countries, long before the time of jEsop, or any other

author that we know of. Various are the reasons that may

be assigned for the first invention of them; but these two

seem to be the principal: 1. Because men would suffer

themselves to be reprehended in this guise, when they

would not endure plain words: and, 2. Because they

heard them with delight and pleasure, and remembered

them better than any grave or rational discourses. The

trees went forth on a time, to anoint a king over them, (so

that anointing was in use 200 years before the first king of

Israel;) and they said unto the olive-tree, Reign over us.

But the olive-tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness,

wherewith by me they honour God and man, (because oil

was offered in sacrifice to God, and fed the lamps of his

house, besides all the other uses wherein it was service­

able to man,) and go to be promoted over the trees? And

the trees said to tlie fig-tree, Come thou and reign over us.

But the Jig-tree said to them, Should I forsake my sweetness,

and my good fruit, (an apt representation of that content

and fulness of pleasure which may be enjoyed in a private

life, and cannot, without folly, be exchanged for the trou­

bles and cares that men meet with in the managery of

public affairs,) and go to be promoted over the trees? Then

said the trees unto tlte vine, Come thou and reign over us.

And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which

cheereth God and man, (a form of speech imitated by Hea­

then authors, especially by Virgil, (Georg. lib. 2.) where

speaking of some generous wine, he terms it—mensis et

diis accepta secundis, since wine, as well as oil, was used

both in Jewish and Heathen sacrifices,) and go to be pro-

moted over the trees? Then said all the trees unto the bramble,

(the meanest of all trees, good for nothing but to be burnt,

and therefore fitly resembling Abimelech, from whom the

Shechemites could expect no manner of benefit, but a

great deal of trouble and vexation,) Come thou, and reign

over us. And the bramble said unto the trees, If, in truth,

ye anoint me king, then come and put your trust in my

shadow, (an apt emblem of Abimelech's ridiculous vanity,

to imagine that he should be able to maintain the authority

of a king, any more than the bramble could afford a shadow

or shelter,) and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and

devour the cedars of Lebanon; (words that carry a lively

image of Abimelech's ostentatious spirit, and menaces to

take severe vengeance on the nobles of Shechem, such as

the house of Millo, who had been chiefly instrumental in

his promotion, in case they should desert him.) This is

the parable, and, in some measure, the interpretation.

The only difficulty is, to know whom these trees are set

to signify. And here, some have thought, that by the

olive-tree we are to understand Othniel; by the fig-tree,

Deborah, and by the vine, Gideon; for to the two former;

they suppose the offer of the kingdom was made for the

services done their country, and by them rejected, as well

a« by the last. But for this there is no authority; neither

is there any necessity, in the explication of such fables, to

assign a particular reason for every image that is drawn in

them. -It is sufficient if we can but hit off their main in­

tendment, which, in this of Jotham, was to convince the

Shechemites of their folly in choosing a man for their king,

who was no more able to protect them, than a bramble

was to cover other trees that should resort to it, under the

shadow of its branches. Saurin't Dissertations, and Pa.

trick's Commentary. B

t Judg. ix. 21.

