242 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the same city, the one of them was rich, and

the other poor; the rich man had a great

many flocks of cattle, of sheep, and of kine;

but the poor man had but one ewe lamb.

This he brought up with his children, and

let her eat her food with them, and he had

the same natural affection for her which any

one might have for a daughter. Now upon

the coming of a stranger to the rich man, he

would not vouchsafe to kill any of his own

flocks, and thence regale his friend; but he

sent for the poor man's lamb, and took her

away from him, and made her ready for

food, and thence feasted the stranger." This

discourse troubled the king exceedingly; and

he denounced to Nathan, that this was a

wicked man, who could dare to do such a

thing, and it was but just that he should re­

store the lamb* fourfold, and be punished

with death for it also. Upon this Nathan im­

mediately said, that he was himself the man

who ought to suffer those punishments; and

that by his own sentence: for that it was he

who had perpetrated this great and horrid

crime. He also revealed to him the anger of

God, who had made him king over the army

of the Hebrews, and lord of all the nations,

and those many and great nations, round

about him; who had formerly delivered him

out of the hands of Saul, and had given him

such wives as he had justly and legally mar­

ried, and now this God was despised by him,

and affronted by his impiety; when he had

married, and now had another man's wife;

and by exposing her husband to the enemy,

had really slain him; that God would inflict

punishments upon him on account of those

instances of wickedness; that his own wives

should be violated by one of his sons; and

that he should be treacherously supplanted by

the same son, and that although he had per-

petrated his wickedness secretly, yet should

that punishment which he was to undergo, be

inflicted publicly upon him, and also that the

child which was born to him of Bathsheba

should soon die. When the king was troubled

at these messages, and sufficiently confound­

ed, and said with tears and sorrow that he had

sinned: (for he was without controversy a

pious man, and guilty of no sin at all in his

whole life, excepting those in the matter of

Uriah,) God had compassion on him, and

was reconciled to him, and promised that he

would preserve him both nis life and his

kingdom. For he said, that seeing he re­

pented of the things he had done, he was

no longer displeased with him. So Nathan,

when he had delivered this prophecy to the

king, returned home.

However God sent a dangerous distemper

upon the child that was born to David, of the

wife of Uriah. At which the king was trou­

bled, and did not take any food for seven

days;t although his servants almost forced

him to take it; but he clothed himself in a

black garment, and fell down, and lay upon

the ground, in sackcloth: intreating God for

the recovery of the child, for he vehemently

loved the child's mother. But when, on the

seventh day, the child was dead, the king's

servants durst not tell him of it; as supposing

that when he knew it, he would still less ad­

mit of food, and other care of himself, by

reason of his grief at the death of his son?

since when the child was only sick, he so

greatly afflicted himself, and grieved for him.

But when the king perceived that his servants

were in disorder, and seemed to be affected

as those are who are very desirous to conceal

something, he understood that the child was

dead; and when he had called one of his ser­

vants to him, and discovered that it was so, he

even at this day it is a custom in Arabia, (which is con­

tiguous to Judea) to have one of the finest lambs in the

flock brought up in the house, and fed with the children.

"And there came a traveller to the rich man;" this de­

notes David's straggling appetite, which he suffered to

wander from his own home, and to covet another man's

wife: and of this appetite the Jewish doctors have this ob­

servation, that 'in the beginning it is but a traveller, but

in time it becomes a guest, and in conclusion is the master

of the house.' "And he spared to take of his own flock

and his own herds," wherewith he might have satisfied

his appetite, "but took the poor man's lamb, and dressed

it for the wayfaring man that was come to him." Most

commentators here take notice, that Nathan did not go so

far in the parable, as to say any thing of the rich man's

killing the poor man. This certainly would have made

the resemblance more complete, but it is therefore omit­

ted, that David might not so readily apprehend Nathan's

meaning, and so be induced unawares to pronounce a

sentence of condemnation upon himself; whereupon the

prophet had a fair opportunity to shew him, that if the

rich man, who took away the poor man's lamb, deserved

death according to his own judgment, how much more

did he deserve it, who had not only taken another man's

wife, but caused him to be slain likewise by the enemies

of Israel! Patrick's Commentary. B.

* Exod. xxii. 1.

t See the note on VI. 14.

%

