108 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

count; and to let him know that she with her

maidens would do the same: and then she

promised that she would go to the king,

though it were against the law; and that if

she must die, she would not refuse it.*

Accordingly Mordecai did as Esther had

enjoined him, and made the people fast,f and

he besought God, together with them, not to

overlook his nation, particularly at this time,

when it was going to be destroyed. But that,

as he had often before provided for them, and

forgiven them, when they had sinned, so he

would now deliver them from that destruction

which was denounced against them. For al­

though it was not the nation that had at all

offended, yet must they so ingloriously be

slain; and that he was himself the occasion

of the wrath of Haman: "because," said he,

"I did not worship him; nor could I endure

to pay that honour to him, which I used to

pay to thee, O Lord. For upon that his anger

hath he contrived this present mischief against

those that have not transgressed thy laws."

The same supplications did the multitude

put up: and entreated that God would pro­

vide for their deliverance; and free the Is­

raelites that were in all the earth from this

calamity which was now coming upon them.

For they had it before their eyes, and ex­

pected its coming. Accordingly Esther made

supplication to God, after the manner of her

country; by prostrating herself upon the

earth, and putting on her mourning garments,

and bidding farewell to meat and drink, and

all delicacies for three days' time; and she

entreated God to have mercy upon her, and

make her words appear persuasive to the

king, and render her countenance more beau­

tiful than it was before: that by both her

words and beauty she might succeed, for the

averting of the king's anger, in case he was

irritated against her; and for the consolation

of those of her own country, now they were

in the utmost danger of perishing: as also

that he would excite a hatred in the king

against the enemies of the Jews, and those

that had contrived their future destruction,

if they proved to be contemned by him.

When Esther had offered this supplication,

for three days, she put off those garments;

and changed her habit, and adorned herself

as became a queen; and took two of her

handmaids with her: one of whom supported

her, as she gently leaned upon her; and the

other followed after, and held up her large

train with the extremities of her fingers. And

thus she came to the king: having a blushing

redness in her countenance; with a pleasant

agreeableness in her behaviour. Yet did she

go in to him with fear. And as soon as she

was come over against him, as he was sitting

on his throne, in his royal apparel; which

was a garment interwoven with gold and

precious stones, which made him seem to her

more terrible; especially when he looked at

her somewhat severely, and with a counte­

nance on fire with anger, her joints failed

her, out of the dread she was in; and she

fell down sideways in a swoon. But the king

changed his mind; which happened, as I

suppose by the will of God; and was con­

cerned for his wife, lest her fear should bring

some ill thing upon her: and he leaped from

his throne, and took her in his arms, and re­

covered her, by embracing her, and speaking

comfortably to her, and exhorting her to be

of good cheer, and not to suspect any thing

that was sad on account of her coming to

him without being called; because the law

was made for subjects: but that she, who

was a queen, might be entirely secure. And

as he said this, he put the sceptre into her

hand;J and laid his rod upon her neck, on

account of the law; and so freed her from

her fear. And after she had recovered her­

self by these encouragements, she said, "My

lord, it is not easy for me, on the sudden, to

say what hath happened: for as soon as I

saw thee to be great, and comely, and terri­

ble, my spirit departed from me; and I had

no soul left in me.*' And while it was with

difficulty, and in a low voice, that she cottid

* Esther iv. 16.

t This is not to be understood, as if the people were

to take no manner of sustenance for three days, because

few or none could undergo that, but only, either that

they should abstain from all delicacies, and content them­

selves with coarse fare, as Josephus expounds it, or that

they should make no set meals of dinner or supper in their

families, but eat and drink no more than would suffice to

sustain nature, and support them in prayer to God for a

blessing upon her undertaking. Patrick's and Le Cterc*s

Commentaries. B.

J A sceptre was the ensign of the highest and most

absolute authority; and therefore some have observed,

that when Mordecai was advanced to the greatest dignity

next the king, having the royal robes, and other ensigns

of royal dignity, no mention is made of any sceptre, for

