an. 587.] 377 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the Hebrews, and among the Chaldeans. As

especially did Daniel, who, being already

sufficiently skilful in wisdom, was very busy

about the interpretation of dreams. And

God manifested himself to him.

Two years after the destruction of Egypt,

king Nebuchadnezzar saw a wonderful dream;

the accomplishment of which God shewed

him in his sleep.* But when he arose out of

his bed he forgot the accomplishment. So

he sent for the Chaldeans, magicians, and

prophets, and told them he had seen a dream;

and informed them that he had forgotten the

accomplishment of what he had seen; and he

enjoined them to tell him, both what the

dream was, and what was its signification.

They replied, that this was a thing impos­

sible to be discovered by men; but they pro­

mised that if he would explain to them what

dream he had seen, they would tell him its

signification. Hereupon he threatened to

put them to death unless they told him his

dream, and he gave command accordingly,

since they confessed they could not do what

they were commanded. Now when Daniel

heard that the king had given a command,

that all the wise men should be put to death;

and that among them himself and his three

kinsmen were in danger; he went to Arioch,

who was captain of the king's guards, and

desired to know the reason why the king had

given command that all the wise men, Chal­

deans, and magicians, should be slain? So

when he had, learned that the king had had a

dream, and had forgotten it; and that when

they were enjoined to inform the king of it,

they had said they could not do it, and had

thereby provoked him to anger; he desired

* Some are of opinion, that Nebuchadnezzar's dream  
and the interpretation thereof, were both revealed to

Daniel, while he was asleep; but others rather think,

that it was in a vision, while he was awake, because the

prayer and thanksgiving which he made to God seem to

insinuate, that he was awake; though we cannot see,

why he might not receive the revelation in his sleep, and

return God thanks for it as soon as he awoke. Calmefs

Commentary. B.

t The prophet Daniel makes mention of these sort of

people, and ranks them under the«e four different kinds.

The Chartumim, the Asaphim, the Mecasphim, and the

Chasdim, chap. ii. 2. Chartumim, according to the Septu-

agint, signifies sophists; but according to St. Jerom, divi­

ners, fortune-tellers, casters of nativity, &c. Asaphim

has no derivation from the Chaldee tongue, but no small

resemblance to the Greek word sophos, (whether the

Greeks took this word from the Babylonians, or the

of Arioch, that he would go in to the king,

and desire respite for the magicians for one

night; and to put off their slaughter so long;

for that he hoped in that time, to obtain by

prayer to God the knowledge of the dream.

Accordingly Arioch informed the king of

what Daniel desired. So the king bade them

delay the slaughter of the magicians, till he

knew what Daniel's promise would come to.

The young man then retired to his own

house, with his kinsmen, and besought God

that whole night to discover the dream, and

thereby deliver the magicians and Chaldeans,

with whom they were themselves to perish,

from the king's anger, by enabling him to

declare his vision, and to make manifest what

the king had seen the night before in his

sleep, but had forgotten it. Accordingly God,

out of pity to those that were in danger, and

out of regard to the wisdom of Daniel, made

known to him the dream and its interpreta­

tion, so that the king might understand by

him its signification also. When Daniel had

obtained this knowledge from God, he arose

joyfully, and told it his brethren; and made

them to hope that they should now preserve

their lives, of which they despaired before,

and had their minds full of nothing but the

thoughts of dying. So when he had with them

returned thanks to God, who had commise­

rated their youth; he came to Arioch, and

desired him to bring him to the king, because

he would discover to him that dream which

he had seen the night before".

When Daniel was come in to the king, he

excused himself first, that he did not pretend

to be wiser than the other Chaldeans and

magicians,t when, upon their entire inability

Babylonians from them;) and therefore the Septuagint

has rendered it by philosophers. Mecasphim is thought

by some to be necromancers, such as pretend to raise the

dead, to gain intelligence of things future; but the Sep­

tuagint has rendered it by a word that denotes such en­

chanters as made use of noxious herbs and drugs, the

blood of victims, and the bones of the dead, for their su­

perstitious operations. The other word Chasdim is the

same with Chaldeans, and here signifies a sort of philoso­

phers among the Babylonians, who dwelt in a separate

part of the city, and were exempt from all employments.

Their study was natural philosophy, astrology, divination,

or the foretelling of future events by the observation of

the stars, the interpretation of dreams, the science of

auguries, the worship of their gods, &c. as Diodorus Si-

culus, lib. 1. gives us an account of them. Calmest

Dictionary, under the word Magicians. B.

