an. 1962.] 25 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now every part of the army had its own

commander, and when the battle was joined,

the Assyrians were conquerors, and imposed

a tribute upon the kings of the Sodomites,

who submitted to this slavery twelve years;

and so long they continued to pay their tri­

bute; but on the thirteenth year they re­

belled; and then the army of thje Assyrians

came upon them, under their commanders

Amraphel, Arioch, Chedorlaomer,* and Ti-

dal.f These kings had laid waste all Syria,

and overthrown the offspring of the giants.

And when they were come over against So­

dom, they pitched their camp at the vale,

called the Slimepits; for at that time there

were many pits in that place; but upon the

destruction of the city of Sodom, that vale be­

came the lake Asphaltites, as it is called:

however, concerning this lake, we shall speak

more presently. Now when the Sodomites

joined battle with the Assyrians, and the fight

was very obstinate, many of them were killed,

and the rest were carried captive; among

which captives were Lot, who had come to

assist the Sodomites.

CHAP. X.

OF ABRAm's SUCCESSFUL ENGAGEMENT WITH THE ASSYRIANS,

AND HIS RESCUE OF THE SODOMITE PRISONERS.

WHEN Abram heard of their calamity,

he was at once afraid for Lot, his

kinsman, and pitied the Sodomites, his friends

and neighbours; and thinking it proper to

afford them assistance, he did not delay it,

but marched hastily, and the fifth night fell

upon the Assyrians near Dan; for that is the

name of the other spring of Jordan; and be­

fore they could arm themselves he slew them

as they were in their beds; and others, who

were not yet gone to sleep, but were so in­

toxicated they could not fight, ran away.

Abram pursued after them till, on the second

day, he drove them in a body unto Hoba,J a

place belonging to Damascus; and thereby

demonstrated that victory does not depend

on multitude, and the number of hands, but

that the alacrity and courage of soldiers over­

come the most numerous bodies of men:

while he got the victory over so great an

army with no more than three hundred and

eighteen of his servants, and three of his

friends. But all those that fled returned home

ingloriously. So Abram, when he had saved

the captive Sodomites, who had been taken

by the Assyrians, and Lot, also, his kinsman,

returned home in peace.

Now the king of Sodom met him at a cer­

tain place, which they called the King's Dale,

where Melchisedec, king of the city of Sa­

lem, received him. That name signifies, the

righteous king: and such he was without dis­

pute, insomuch, that on his account, he was

made the priest of God. However, they

afterwards called Salem, Jerusalem. Now

this Melchisedec supplied Abram's army in

a hospitable manner, and gave them pro­

visions in abundance: and as they were feast­

ing, he began to praise him, and to bless God

for subduing his enemies under him. But

when Abram gave him the tenth part of his

prey, he accepted of the gift. But the King

of Sodom desired Abram to take the prey;

but intreated that he might have those men

restored to him whom Abram had saved from

the Assyrians because they belonged to him.

But Abram would not do so; nor would make

any other advantage of that prey, than what

his servants had eaten; but still insisted that

he should afford a part to his friends who had

assisted him in the battle. The first of them

was called Eschol, and the others Enner and

Mambre.

God commended his virtue and said,

"Thou shalt not, however lose the rewards

thou hast deserved to receive by such glo­

* We no where in profane history meet with the name  
of Chedorlaomer, nor with any of those names of the kings

who were confederate with him. The reason hereof is,

that Ctesias X. from whom the profane historians take the

names of these kings, did not use their original Assyrian

names in his history, but rather such as he found in the

Persian records. However, since the date of this trans­

action falls four years before the death of Ninyas, there

are good grounds to infer, that Ninyas, who then lived in

Persia, was the Chedorlaomer of Moses, at that time the

bead of the Assyrian monarchy: that Amraphel was his

deputy at Babylon in Shinar: and Arioch and Tidal his

deputies over some other adjacent countries. For it is

remarkable, that Ninyas, was the first who appointed un­

der him such deputies: nor is there any absurdity in Mo­

ses to call them kings, since it is observable, from what

Isaiah hinted afterwards, chap. x. 8. that the Assyrian

boasted his deputy princes to be equal to royal governors.

Are not my princes altogether kings? Shackford's Connec­

tion, Vol. II. 1. 6. B.

t Gen. xiv. 1.

j Gen. xiv. 16.

