72 [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

joined them so to do. He persuaded him

also not to counterwork the designs of God,

but to esteem his favour above ail things, and

to permit them to depart lest he should lay

an obstruction in the way of the Divine com­

mands, and so occasion his suffering such

punishments, as it was probable any one that

withstood the Divine commands should un­

dergo, since the severest afflictions arise from

every object to those that provoke the Divine

wrath against them; for such as these have

neither the earth, nor the air, for their friends:

nor are the fruits of the womb according to

nature, but every thing is unfriendly and ad­

verse towards them. He said farther, that

the Egyptians should know this by sad expe­

rience, and that the Hebrew people should go

out of their country without permission.

.

CHAP. XIV.

OF THE TEN PLAGUES WHICH CAME UPON THE EGYPTIANS.

WHEN the king despised the words of

Moses, and had no regard at all to

them, grievous plagues seized the Egyptians;

every one of which I will describe; both be­

cause no such plagues ever happened to any

other nation as the Egyptians now felt; and

because I would demonstrate that Moses did

not fail in any one thing that he foretold them;

and because it is for the good of mankind,

that they may learn this caution, not to do

any thing that may displease God, lest he be

provoked to wrath, and avenge their iniqui­

ties upon them.

The Egyptian river ran with bloody water,*

at the command of God, insomuch, that it

could not be drank; and they had no other

spring of water. For the water was not only

of the colour of blood, but it brought upon

those that ventured to drink it great pains,

and bitter torment. Such was the river to

the Egyptians. But it was sweet and fit to

drink to the Hebrews, and no way different

from what it naturally used to be. As the

king, therefore, knew not what to do in these

surprising circumstances, and was in fear for

the Egyptians, he gave the Hebrews leave to

go away. But when the plague ceased, he

changed his mind, and would not suffer them

to go.

But when God saw that he was ungrateful,

and upon the ceasing of the calamity would

not grow wiser, he sent another plague upon

the Egyptians: an innumerable multitude of

frogst consumed the fruit of the ground.J

The river was also full of them; insomuch

that those who drew water had it spoiled by

the blood of these animals, as they died in,

and were destroyed by, the water; and the

country was full of filthy slime, as they were

born, and as they died; they also spoiled

their vessels in their houses which they used,

and were found among what they ate and

what they drank, and came in great numbers

upon their beds. There was also a noisome

smell arose from them, as they were born, and

as they died therein. Now when the Egyp­

tians were under the oppression of these

miseries, the king ordered Moses to take the

Hebrews with him, and be gone: upon which

the whole multitude of the frogs vanished

away; and both the land and the river re­

turned to their former natures. But as soon

as Pharaoh saw the land freed from this

plague, he forgot the cause of it, and retained

the Hebrews; and, as though he had a mind

to try the nature of more such judgments, he

would not yet suffer Moses and his people to

depart; having granted that liberty rather

out of fear, than out of good consideration.

Accordingly, God punished his falseness

with another plague, added to the former.

For there arose, out of the bodies of the

Egyptians, an innumerable quantity oflice;||

by which, wicked as they were, they misera­

bly perished; being unable to destroy this

sort of vermin, either with washes, or with

ointments. § At this terrible judgment, the

* Exod. vii. 20.

t Exod. viii. 6.

J The river Nile naturally produces frogs; but so great

an abundance appearing on a sudden, filling the country,

and leaving the rivers and fields, to go into the cities and

houses, was really miraculous. How they got into the

cities and houses is not so hard a matter to conceive: for

if expert generals, according to both ancient and modern

history, have sometimes surprised an enemy bv entering

cities through the common sewers, with much less dim

unity might the frogs, these armies of the Divine vengeance,

find a conveyance into the cities, which stood all upon tbe

banks of the river, by aqueducts and subterraneous com­

munications; and being eot into the cities, they might find

apertures in the walls of the bouses, which the inhabitants

never perceived before. Bibliotheca Bill, in locum. B.

II Exod. viii. 17.

§ Some would have the word Cmnim, which we reader

