AW.-31.J 547 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

had happened. So he made a consolatory

speech to the multitude, in the following

manner.

"You are not ignorant, my fellow-soldiers,

that we have recently sustained many acci­

dents, that we have put a stop to what we are

about; and it is probable, that even those

that are most distinguished for their courage,

can hardly keep up their spirits in such cir­

cumstances. But since we cannot avoid

fighting; and nothing that hath happened is

of such a nature, but it may by yourselves be

recovered into a good state, and this by one

brave action well performed; I have pro­

posed to myself, both to give you some en­

couragement, and, at the same time, some

information. Both which parts of my de­

sign will tend to this point, that you may still

continue in your own proper fortitude. I will

then in the first place demonstrate to you,

that this war is a just one on our side; and

that on this account it is a war of necessity,

and occasioned by the injustice of our adver­

saries. For if you be once satisfied of this,

it will be a real cause of alacrity to you.

After which I will farther demonstrate, that

the misfortunes we are under are of no great

consequence; and that we have the greatest

reason to hope for victory. I shall begin with

the first, and appeal to yourselves as witnesses

of what I shall say. You are not ignorant of

the wickedness of the Arabians; which is to

that degree as to appear incredible to all

other men; and to include somewhat that

shews the grossest barbarity and ignorance

of God. The chief things wherein they have

affronted us, have arisen from covetousness,

and envy: and they have attacked us in an

insidious manner, and on the sudden. And

what occasion is there for me to mention many

instances of such their procedure? When

they were in danger of losing their own go­

vernment, and of being slaves to Cleopatra,

what others were they that freed them from

that fear? For it was the friendship I had

with Antony, and the kind disposition he was

in towards us, that hath been the occasion,

that even these Arabians have not been

utterly undone; Antony being unwilling to

undertake any thing which might be sus-

peeled by us of unkindness. But when he

had a mind to bestow some parts of each of

our dominions on Cleopatra, I also managed

that matter so, that by giving him presents of

my own, I might obtain a security to both

nations: while I undertook myself to answer

for the money; giving him two hundred

talents, and becoming surety for those two

hundred more which were imposed upon the

land that was subject to this tribute. And

this they have defrauded us of; although it

was not reasonable that Jews should pay tri­

bute to any man living; or allow part of their

land to be taxable. But although that was

to be, yet ought we not to pay tribute for

these Arabians, whom we have ourselves

preserved. Nor is it fit that they, who have

acknowledged, with great integrity and sense

of our kindness, that it is by our means they

keep their principality, should injure us, and

deprive us of what is our due; and this while

we have remained their friends. And whereas

the observance of covenants takes place

among the bitterest enemies, but among

friends is absolutely necessary, this is not

observed among these men; who think gain

to be the best of all things, let it be by any

means whatsoever; and that injustice is no

harm, if they may but get money by it. It is,

therefore, a question with you, whether the

unjust are to be punished or not? when God

himself hath declared his mind that so it

ought to be; and hath commanded that we

should abhor injuries and injustice. This is

not only just but necessary, in wars between

several nations. For these Arabians have

done what both the Greeks and Barbarians

own to be an instance of the grossest wick­

edness, with regard to our ambassadors;

whom they have beheaded. While the

Greeks declare that such ambassadors are

*sacred and inviolable. And for ourselves,  
we have learned from God the most excellent

of our doctrines, and the most holy part of

our law, by angels, or ambassadors. For

this name brings God to the knowledge of

mankind; and is sufficient to reconcile ene­

mies one to another. What wickedness then

can be greater than the slaughter of ambas­

sadors, who come to treat about doing what

* Herod says here, that as ambassadors were sacred,  
when they carried messages to others; so did the laws of

the Jews derive a sacred authority by being delivered

voL. I.—NOS. 45 & 46.

from God by angels, or divine ambassadors, which is St.

Paul's expression, about the same laws. Gal. iii. 19.

Heb. ii. 2.

4 Q

