an. 976.] 299 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the aforementioned cities. And when he had

called the ten tribes together over whom he

ruled, he made a speech to the people in

these words: "I suppose, my countrymen,

you know that every place hath God in it:

nor is there any determinate place in which

he is: but he every where hears and sees

those that worship him. On which account

I do not think it right for you to go so long a

journey to Jerusalem, which is an enemy's

city, to worship him. It was a man that built

the temple: I have also made two golden

heifers, dedicated to the same God; and the

one I have consecrated in the city Bethel,

and the other in Dan; to the end that those

of you who dwell nearest those cities may go

to them and worship God there. And I will

ordain for you certain priests and Levites

from among yourselves; that you may have

no want of the tribe of Levi, or of the sons of

Aaron. But let him that is desirous among

you of being a priest, bring to God a bullock

and a ram; which they say* Aaron the first

priest brought also." When Jeroboam had

said this, he deluded the people, and caused

them to revolt from the worship of their fore­

fathers, and to transgress their laws. This

was the beginning of miseries to the He­

brews; and the cause why they were over­

come in war by foreigners, and so fell into

captivity. But we shall relate those things

in their proper places hereafter.

When this feast of tabernacles was justf

approaching, JeroboamJ was desirousto ce­

lebrate it himself in Bethel; as did the two

tribes in Jerusalem. Accordingly he built

an altar before the heifer, and undertook to

be high-priest himself. So he went up to the

altar, with his own priests about him. But

when he was going to offer the sacrifices,

and the burnt-offerings, in the sight of all the

people, a prophet,|| whose name was Jadon,

was sent by God, and came to him from Je­

rusalem; who stood in the midst of the mul­

titude, and in the hearing of the king, and

directing his discourse to the altar, said thus:

"God foretells that there shall be a certain

man of the family of David, Josiah by name,

who shall slay upon thee those false priests

that shall live at that time, and upon thee

shall burn the bones of those deceivers of the

Eeople, those impostors and wicked wretches

towever, that this people may believe these

things shall come to pass, I foretell a sign to

them, that shall also be fulfilled. This altar

shall be broken to pieces immediately; and

all the fat of the sacrifices that is upon it

shall be poured upon the ground." When

the prophet had said this, Jeroboam, in a

passion, stretched out his hand, and bade

them lay hold of him. But that hand which

he stretched out was enfeebled, and he was

not able to pull it in again to him: for it was

become withered, and hung down as if it

were dead. The altar also was broken to

pieces, and all that was upon it was poured

out: as the prophet had foretold should

come to pass. So the king understood that

he was a man of veracity, and had a divine

foreknowledge; and intreated him to pray

unto God, that he would restore his right

hand. Accordingly the prophet did pray to

Daphnn, as Josephus elsewhere informs us: Of the War,

IV. 1. See the note there.

* Lev. viii. 14, 22.

t An. 975.

J As the Jews had their feast of tabernacles on the fif­

teenth day of the seventh month, so Jeroboam had a feast

on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, which he insti­

tuted of his own accord. Some suppose, indeed, that as

this feast was appointed by God to be observed after the

gathering in of the fruits, which might be sooner ripe in

Jerusalem, than in the northern parts of the country, so

Jeroboam might pretend, that the eighth would be a bet­

ter time for it than the seventh, because then they would

every where be gathered. Others imagine, that he might

have this farther design in the alteration of this month,

viz. that the people of Judah, when their own feast was

over a month before at Jerusalem, might have an oppor­

tunity to come to his, if their curiosity led them. But

the plain cast is, that he did every thing he could in oppo­

sition to the established religion, and his chief intention

voL. I.—NOS. 25 & 26.

was to alienate the people from Jerusalem. Bedford's

Scripture Chronology lib. VI. c. 2. B.

|| Who this prophet was, commentators are not agreed.

The Jews would generally have it to have been Iddo; but

unless we may suppose that what is here related fell out

in the latter end of Jeroboam's reign, Iddo could not be

the person; because Iddo was alive in the days of Abijah,

son of Rehoboam, whereas the prophet here spoken of

died, in a manner, as soon as he had delivered this pro­

phecy. Others therefore have thought, that this prophet

who came to rebuke Jeroboam was Ahijah, the same who

had foretold him of his exaltation to the crown of Israel.

But besides that Ahijah was alive after the time that this

prophet was slain, Ahijah was certainly a native of Shiloh

and lived in Shiloh, which is the tribe of Ephraim, ana

part of Jeroboam's dominions: whereas it is expressly

said of this prophet, that he came from Judah. So that

there is no foundation, so much as for a conjecture, what

the name of this man of God was. Patrick's and Calmet'i

Commentaries. B.

3H

