aN. 1492.] 151 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

burnt their chariots, and passed all over their

country without opposition; no one daring to

meet him in battle; but he still went on, ta­

king their cities by siege, and killing what­

ever he took.

The filth year was now past;* and there

was not one of the Canaanites remained any

longer; excepting some that had retired to

places of great strength. So Joshua removed

his camp to the mountainous country, and

{ilaced the tabernacle in the city of Shiloh;f

or that seemed a fit place for it, because of

the beauty of its situation; until such times

as their affairs would permit them to build a

temple. And from thence he went to She-

chem, together with all the people, and raised

an altar where Moses had previously di­

rected. Then did he divide the army, and

placed one half of them on Mount Geriz-

zim, and the other half on Mount Ebal; on

which mountain the altar was; he also placed

there the tribe of Levi, and the priests. And

when they had sacrificed, and denounced the

blessings and the curses, and had left them

engraven upon the altar, they returned to

Shiloh.

And now Joshua was old, and saw that the

cities of the Canaanites were not easily to be

taken; not only because they were situated

in such strong places, but because of the

strength of the walls themselves; which be­

ing built round about, the natural strength of

the places on which the cities stood, seemed

capable of repelling their enemies from be­

sieging them. For when the Canaanites had

learned, that the Israelites came out of Egypt,

in order to destroy them, they were busy all

that time in making their cities strong. So

he gathered the people together at Shiloh;

and when they, with great zeal and haste,

were come thither, he observed to them, what

prosperous successes they had already had,

and what glorious things had been done; and

those such as were worthy of that God who

enabled them to do those things, and worthy

of the virtue of those laws which they fol­

lowed. He took notice also, thatJ thirty-one

of those kings that ventured to give them

battle were overcome; and every army, how

great soever it were that confided in their

* An. 1487.  
t Josh, xviii. 1.

power, and fought with them, was utterly de­

stroyed; 60 that not so much as any of their

posterity remained. And as for the cities,

since some of them were taken, but the others

must be taken in length of time by long sieges;

both on account of the strength of their walls,

and of the confidence the inhabitants had in

them; he thought it reasonable that those

tribes that came along with them from beyond

Jordan, and had partaken of the dangers they

had undergone, being their own kindred,

should now be dismissed and sent home; and

should have thanks for the pains they had

taken together with them. As also he thought

it reasonable, that they should send one man

out of every tribe, and he such as had the

testimony of extraordinary virtue, who should

measure the land faithfully, and without any

fallacy or deceit should inform them of its

real magnitude.

Now Joshua, when he had thus spoken,

found that the multitude approved of his pro­

posal. So he sent men to measure their

country, and sent with them some geometri­

cians, who could not easily fail of ascertain­

ing the truth, on account of their skill in that

art. He also gave them a charge to estimate

the measure of that part of the land that was

most fruitful, and what was not so good. For

such is the nature of the land of Canaan, that

one may see large plains, and such as are ex­

ceedingly fit to produce fruit, which if they

were compared with other parts of the coun­

try, might be reckoned exceeding fruitful;

yet, in comparison with the fields about Jeri­

cho, and those that belong to Jerusalem, they

will appear to be of no account at all. And

although it happen, that these people have

but very little of this sort of land, and that it

is in general, mountainous also, yet does it

not come behind other parts on account of its

exceeding goodness and beauty. For which

reason, Joshua thought that the land for the

tribes should be divided by estimation of its

goodness, rather than its extent, it often hap­

pening that one acre of some sort of land was

equivalent to a thousand other acres. Now

the men that were sent, which were in num­

ber ten, travelled all about, and made an es­

timation of the land; and in the seventh

J Josh. xii. 8—24.

