282 [book vra. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

also made aD. its vessel* of brass; the pots,

and the shovels, and the basoiis, and besides

these the snuffers, and the tongs; and all its

other vessels he made of such brass as was

in splendor and beauty like gold. The king

also dedicated a * great number of tables;

but one was large and made of gold; upon

which they set the loaves of God, and he

made ten thousand more that resembled

them, but were done after another manner;

upon which lay the vials, and the cups; those

of gold were twenty thousand, those of silver

were forty thousand. He also made ten thou­

sand candlesticks, according to the command

of Moses; one of which he dedicated for the

temple, that it might burn in the day-time,

according to the law, and one table with

loaves upon it, on the north side of the tem­

ple, over against the candlestick: for this he

set on the south side; but the golden altar

stood between them. All these vessels were

contained in that part of the holy house which

was forty cubits long; and were before the

veil of that most secret place, wherein the

ark was to be set .

The king also made eighty thousand pour­

ing vessels, and a hundred thousand golden

vials, and twice as many silver vials. Of

golden dishes, to offer kneaded fine flour at

the altar, there were eighty thousand, and

twice as many silver. Of large basons also,

wherein they mixed fine flour with oil, sixty

thousand of gold, and twice as many of silver.

Of the measures like those which Moses

called the hin, and the assaron,t there were

twenty thousand of gold, and twice as many

of silver. The other censers, in which they

carried fire from the great altar, to the little

one within the temple, were fifty thousand.

The sacerdotal garments, which belonged to

the high-priest, with the long robes, the

oracle, and the precious stones, were a thou­

sand. But the crown, upon which Moses

wrote the name of God, was only one; and

hath remained to this day 4 He also made

ten thousand sacerdotal garments of fine

linen, with purple girdles, for every priest:

and two hundred thousand trumpets, ac­

cording to the command of Moses. Also

two hundred thousand garments of tine linen

for the singers, that were Levites. And he

made musical instruments, and such as were

invented for singing of hymns, called IN a bis

and Cinyrae, (psalteries and harps,) which,

were made ot electrum, (the finest brass,)

forty thousand.

Solomon made all these things for the

honour of God, with great variety and mag­

nificence; sparing no cost, but using all pos­

sible liberality in adorning the temple: and

these things he dedicated to the treasure oi

God. He also placed a partition round about

the temple, winch in our own tongue we call

Gison; but it is called epiyxos by the Greeks:

and he raised it up to the height of three

cubits; and it was for the exclusion of the

multitude from coming into the temple, and

shewing that it was a place that was free and

open only for the priests. || He also built

beyond this court a temple, whose figure

was that of a quadrangle, and erected for it

great and broad cloisters: this was entered

by very high gates; each of which had its

front exposed to one of the four winds, and

were shut by golden doors. Into this temple

all the people entered that were distinguished

from the rest by being pure, and observant of

the laws. But he made that temple which

was beyond this a wonderful one indeed;

and such as exceeds all description in

words: nay, if I may so say, is hardly be­

lieved upon sight. For when he had filled

up great valleys with earth, which on ac­

count of their immense depth could not be

looked on, when you bended down to see

them, without pain; and had elevated the

ground four hundred cubits, he made it to

be on a level with the top of the mountain,

on which the temple was built: and by this

means the outermost temple, which was ex­

posed to the air, was §even with the temple

itself. He encompassed this also with a

* Of these prodigious and extravagant numbers, see  
the description of the temple, chap. 13.

t A tenth deal.

{ Of the golden plate on the high-priest's forehead that

was in being in the days of Josephus, and a century or

two at least later. See the note on III. 7.

U When Josephus here speaks of the court of the

priests, as inclosed, and kept distinct from the rest of the

temple, he does not mean to exclude the Levites, their

brethren; who all ministered to the priests in that court,

and ordinarily not elsewhere.

§ When Josephus here says, that the floor of the outer­

most temple, or court of the Gentiles, was with vast labour

raised to be even, or of equal height with the floor of the

