AN. 40.] 327 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

came to the port of Brundusium. And when

he was come from thence to Rome, he first

related to Antony what had befallen him in

Judea; and that Phasaelus his brother was

seized on by the Parthians, and put to death

by them; that Hyrcanus was detained cap­

tive by them; and that they had made Anti-

gonus king, who had promised them a thou­

sand talents, with five hundred women; who

were to be of the principal families, and of

the Jewish stock; and that he carried off the

women by night; and that by undergoing a

great many hardships, he had escaped the

hands of his enemies. As also that his own

relations were in danger of being besieged,

and taken; and that he had sailed through a

storm, and contemned all these terrible dan­

gers in order to come, as soon as possible, to

him; who was his hope, and only succour, at

this time.

This account made Antony commiserate*

the change that had happened in Herod's

condition. And reasoning with himself, that

this was a common case among those that are

placed in such great dignities, and that they

are liable to the mutations that come from

fortune, he was very ready to give him the

assistance he desired; and this because he

recollected the friendship he had had with

Antipater; because Herod offered him money

to make him a king, as he had formerly given

it him to make him tetrarch, and chiefly be­

cause of his hatred to Antigonus: for he took

him to be a seditious person, and an enemy to

the Romans, f Caesar was also the forwarder

to raise Herod's dignity, and to give him his

assistance in what he desired, on account of

the toils of war which he had himself under­

gone with Antipater, his father, in Egypt;

and of the hospitality he had treated him

withal; and the kindness he had always

shewn him: as also to gratify Antony, who

was very zealous for Herod. So a senate was

convened: and Massala first, and then Atra-

tinus, introduced Herod into it: and enlarged

upon the benefits they had received from his

father; and reminded them of the good will

he had borne the Romans. At the same time

they accused Antigonus, and declared him an

enemy; not only because of his former oppo­

sition to them; but that he had now over­

looked the Romans, and taken the govern­

ment from the Parthians. Upon this the se­

nate was irritated: and Antony informed

them farther, that it was for their advantage

in the Parthian war that Herod should be

king. This seemed good to all the senators;

and they made a decree accordingly.

This was the principal instance of Antony's

affection for Herod, that he not only pro­

cured him a kingdom which he did not ex­

pect; (for he did not come with an intention

to ask the kingdom for himself; which he did

not suppose the Romans would grant him;

who used to bestow it on some of the royal

family; but intended to desire it for his wife's

brother, who was grandson by his father to

Aristobulus, and to Hyrcanus by his mother;)

but that he procured it for him so suddenly,

that he obtained what he did not expect, and

departed out of Italy in seven days. This

Jyoung man, the grandson, Herod afterward

took care to have slain; as we shall shew in

its proper place. But when the senate was

dissolved, Antony and Caesar went out of the

senate house, with Herod between them, and

with the consuls and other magistrates before

them; in order to offer sacrifices, and to lay

up their decrees in the capitol. Antony also

feasted Herod the first day of his reign. And

thus did this man receive the kingdom; having

obtained it in the hundred and eighty-fourth

Olympiad; when Caius Domitius Calvinus

was consul the second time, and Caius Asi-

nius Pollio the first time.

In the mean time Antigonus besieged those

that were in Massada; who had plenty of all

other necessaries, but were only in ||want of

* Concerning the chronology of Herod, and the time  
when he was first made king at Rome; and concerning

the time when he began his second reign, without a rival,

upon the conquest or slaughter of Antigonus; both prin­

cipally derived from this and the two next chapters in Jo-

gephus; see the Harm, of the Evang. page 150—155, and

the note on chap. 15. It is, however, very strange, that

in such a violent haste as Herod now was, Josephus should

use such words, and that both here, and in the history Of

the War, I. 14. as almost imply his building a great ship

at Rhodes, in his passage to Italy; for which to be sure,

he now had no time at all. Spanheim says, on the place

Of the War now quoted, that he only hired a ship now at

Rhodes; and that as Josephus's affirmation also; which,

though not at all unlikely in itself, but rather highly pro­

bable, yet has no foundation in the copies. See also for

this chronology of Herod, Josephus's own speech to the

Jews, Of the War, V. 9.

t See Chap. 13.

J Aristobulus, jun. See Book XV. chap. 3.

II This grievous want of water at Maseada, till the

place had like to have been taken by the Parthians, men

