an. 1532.] 83 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

might not be able to get their share, by rea­

son of the overbearing of the strong in col­

lecting it. However, these strong men, when

they had gathered more than the measure

appointed for them, they had no more than

others, but only tired themselves more in

gathering it; for they found no more than a

homer a piece, and the advantage they got by

what was superfluous was none at all, as it

corrupted, both by worms breeding in it, and

by its bitterness. So divine and wonderful a

food was this! It also supplied the want of

other sorts of food to those that fed on it;

and even now,* in all that place, this manna

comes down in rain, according to what Moses

then obtained of God, to send it the people

for their sustenance. Now the Hebrews call

this food manna,f for the particle man in our

language is the asking of a question, what is

this? So the Hebrews were very joyful at

what was sent them from heaven, and they

made use of this food for forty years,J or as

long as they remained in the wilderness.

As soon as they removed thence, they came

to Rephidim,|| distressed to the last degree

by thirst: for, though in the foregoing days

they had met with a few small fountains, they

now found the earth entirely destitute of wa­

ter, and were in an evil case. They again

turned their anger against Moses; but he at

first avoided the fury of the multitude, and

then betook himself to prayer, beseeching

God, that as he had given them food when

they were in the greatest want of it, so he

would give them drink, since the favour of

giving them food was of no value to them

-while they had nothing to drink. God did  
not long delay to grant this request, but pro­

mised that he would procure them a fountain,

and plenty of water from a place where they

did not expect any; so he commanded Moses

to smite the rock§ which they saw lying there

with his rod, and out of it to receive plenty

in what they wanted; for he had taken care

that drink should come to them without any

labour or exertion. When Moses had re­

ceived this command, he came to the people

who waited for and looked upon him, for they

saw already that he was coming apace from

his eminence. As soon as he was come, he

told them, that God would deliver them from

their present distress, and had granted them

an unexpected favour, and informed them that

a river should run for their sakes out of the

rock; but they were amazed at that hearing,

supposing they were of necessity to cut the

rock in pieces now they were distressed by

their thirst, and by their journey. Moses,

however, by only smiting the rock with his

rod, opened a passage, and out of it burst

water in great abundance, and very clear;

while they were astonished at this wonderful

effect, and as it were quenched their thirst

by the very sight of it: so they drank this

pleasant, this sweet water, and such it seemed

to be, as might well be expected where God

was the donor. They were also in admira­

tion how Moses was honoured by God, and

they made grateful returns of sacrifices to

God for his providence towards them. Now

that scripture which is laid up in the temple**

informs us how God foretold to Moses, that

water should in this manner be derived out

of the rock.

CHAP. II.

OF THE HOSTILITIES COMMITTED AGAINST THE HEBREWS BY

THE AMALEKITES, AND OF THEIR COMPLETE DEFEAT.

HE name of the Hebrews began already

to be every where renowned, and ru-

T

* This supposal that the sweet honey dew, or manna, so  
celebrated in ancient and modern authors, as falling usu­

ally in Arabia, was of the very same sort with the manna

sent to the Israelites, savours more of Gentilism than of

Judaism or Christianity. It is not improbable that some

ancient Gentile author, read by Josephus, thought so, nor

would he here contradict him, though just before, and IV.

3, he seems directly to allow that it had not been seen pre­

viously. However, this food from heaven is here described

by the word v'i<pei6au, that it fell like snow; and in Artapa-

nus, a heathen writer, it is compared to meal, like to oat­

meal, in colour like to snow, rained down by God. Essay

on the Old Test. Appendix, page 239. But as to the deri­

vation of the word manna, whether from man, which Jose-

phas says then signified, what is it? or from manah, to

VOI-. I. No. 7.

divide, i. e. a dividend, or portion allotted to every one, it

is uncertain. I incline to the latter derivation. This

manna is called angels' food, Ps. lxxviii. 25. and by our

Saviour, John vi. 31. as well as by Josephus here and else­

where, said to be sent to the Jews from heaven.

t Exod. xvi. 15.

t From an. 1532 to 1429, B. C.

II Exod. xvii. 1.

§ This rock is here at this day, as modern travellers

agree, and must be the same that was there in the days of

Moses.

** Note here, that the small book of the principal laws  
of Moses is ever said to be laid npin the holy house itself,

but the larger Pentateuch somewhere within the limits of

the temple and its courts only. See V. 1. VI. 4. X. 4.

•.

