AN. 39.] 531 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them every one: and after that he slew his

wife, and cast their dead bodies down the

precipice, and himself after them; and so un­

derwent death rather than slavery. But be­

fore he did this, he greatly reproached Herod

with the meanness of his family; although he

was then king. Herod also saw what he was

doing, and stretched out his hand, and offered^

him all manner of security for his life. By

which means all these caves were at length

subdued entirely.

When the king had sent Ptolemy over these

parts of the country, as his general, he went

to Samaria, with six hundred horsemen, and

three thousand armed footmen, as intending

to fight Antigonus. But still this command

of the army did not succeed well with Pto­

lemy: but those that had been troublesome to

Galilee before, attacked him, and slew him;

and when they had done this, they fled among

the lakes, and places almost inaccessible,

laying waste and plundering whatsoever they

could come at in those places. But Herod

soon returned, and punished them for what

they had done. For some of these rebels he

slew; and others of them, who had fled to the

strong holds, he besieged, and both slew them,

and demolished their strong holds. And

when he had thus put an end to their rebel­

lion, he laid a fine upon the cities of a hun­

dred talents.

In the mean time Pacorus was *fallen in a

battle; and the Parthians were defeated, when

Ventidius sent Macheras to the assistance of

Herod, with two legions, and a thousand

horsemen: while Antony encouraged him to

make haste. But Macheras, at the instiga­

tion of Antigonus, without the approbation of

Herod, as being corrupted by money, went

about to take a view of his affairs. But Anti­

gonus suspecting this intention of his coming,

did not admit him into the city, but kept him

at a distance, with slinging stones at him;

and plainly shewed what he himself meant.

But when Macheras was sensible that Herod

had given him good advice, and that he had

made a mistake in not hearkening to that ad­

vice, he retired to the city Emmaus; and

what Jews he met with he slew, whether they

were enemies or friends; out of the rage he

was in at what hardships he had undergone.

* On the 18th of July, according to Pagi.  
VOL. I.—NOS. 45 & 46.

The king was provoked at this conduct, and

went to Samaria, and resolved to go to An­

tony about these affairs, and to inform him

that he stood in no need of such helpers, who

did him more mischief than they did his ene­

mies; and that he was able of himself to beat

Antigonus. But Macheras followed him, and

desired that he would not go to Antony; or if

he were resolved to go, that he would join his

brother Joseph with him, and let them fight

against Antigonus. So he was reconciled to

Macheras, upon his earnest entreaties. Ac­

cordingly he left Joseph there with his army;

but charged him to run no hazards, nor to

quarrel with Macheras.

But for his own part, he hastened to An­

tony; (who was then at the siege of Samo-

sata, a place upon Euphrates,) with his troops,

both horsemen and footmen, to be auxiliaries

to him. And when he came to Antioch, and

met there a great number of men that were

very desirous to go to Antony, but durst not

venture to go out of fear, because the Barba­

rians fell upon men on the road and slew

many; he encouraged them, and became their

conductor upon the road. Now when they

were within two days' march of Samosata,

the Barbarians had laid an ambush to disturb

those that came to Antony; and where the

woods made the passes narrow, as they led to

the plains, there they laid not a few of their

horsemen; who were to lie still until those

passengers were gone by, into the wide place.

Now as soon as the first ranks were gone by,

(for Herod brought on the rear,) those that

lay in ambush, who were about five hundred,

fell upon them on the sudden; and when they

had put the foremost to flight, the king came

riding hard, with the forces that were about

him; and immediately drove back the enemy.

By which means he emboldened his own men

to go on; insomuch that those who ran away

before, now returned back; and the Barba­

rians were slain on all sides. The king also

went on killing them, and recovered all the

baggage; among which were a great number

of beasts for burden, and of slaves; and pro­

ceeded on in his march. And whereas there

were a great number of those in the woods

that attacked them, and were near the passage

that led into the plain, he made a sally upon

these also, with a strong body of men. and put

them to flight, and slew many of them; and

4 O

