492 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in their power to abuse my dead body, they

will do it no injury at all, and thou wilt rule

in safety." *So when he had given his wife

this advice, he died: after he had reigned

ftwenty-seven years, and lived forty-nine.

CHAP. XVI.

OF ALEXANDRA S CONDUCT TOWARD THE PHARISEES; HER

GOVERNMENT AND DEATH.

ALEXANDRA, having taken the fortress,

acted as her husband had suggested;

and spake to the Pharisees, and put all things

into their power; both as to the dead body,

and as to the affairs of the kingdom: and

thereby pacified their anger against Alex­

ander, and made them bear good will and

friendship to him. Accordingly they came

among the multitude, and laid before them

the actions of Alexander; and told them that

they had lost a righteous king: and by the

commendations they gave him, they brought

them to grieve, and to be in heaviness for

him: so that he had a funeral more splendid

than had any of his predecessors. Alexan­

der left behind him two sons, Hyrcanus and

Aristobulus; but committed the kingdom to

Alexandra. Now as to these two sons, Hyr­

canus was indeed unable to manage public

affairs, and delighted rather in quiet life.

But the younger, Aristobulus, was an active

and a bold man. And Alexandra was be­

loved by the multitude, because she seemed

displeased at the offences her husband had

been guilty of.

So she made Hyrcanus high-priest, because

he was the elder, but more particularly be­

cause he cared not to meddle with politics;

and she permitted the Pharisees to do every

thing, requiring the multitude to be obedient

< * It seems by this dying advice of Alexander Janneus

to his wife, that he had himself pursued the measures of

his father Hyrcanus, and taken part with the Sadducees;

who closely adhered to the written law; against the Pha­

risees, who had introduced their own traditions: see

chap. 16. and that he now saw a political necessity of

submitting to the Pharisees, and their traditions hereafter,

if his widow and family wished to retain their monarchi­

cal government, or tyranny over the Jewish nation.

Which sect yet, thus supported, were at last in a great

measure the ruin of the religion, government, and nation

of the Jews: and brought them into so wicked a state, that

the vengeance of God came upon them, to their utter

excision. Just thus did Caiaphas politically advise the

to them. She also restored those practices

which the Pharisees had introduced, accord­

ing to the traditions of their forefathers; and

which her father-in-law, Hyrcanus, had abro­

gated: so she had the name of the regent,

but the Pharisees had the authority. For it

was they who restored such as had been

banished, and set such as were prisoners at

liberty: and in short they differed nothing

from lords. The queen, however, took care

of the affairs of the kingdom, and got toge­

ther a great body of mercenary soldiers, and

increased her own army to such a degree,

that she became terrible to the neighbouring

tyrants; and took hostages of them. And

the country was entirely at peace; excepting

the Pharisees, for they disturbed the queen,

and desired that she would kill those who

persuaded Alexander to slay the eight hun­

dred men.J After which they cut the throat

of one of them, named Diogenes; and after

him they did the same to several, one after

another; till the men that were the most

potent came into the palace, and Aristobulus

with them: for he seemed to be displeased at

what was done; and it appeared openly, that

if he had an opportunity, ne would not permit

his mother to go on so. These reminded the

queen of the great dangers they had gone

through, and the great things they had done:

whereby they had demonstrated the firmness

of their fidelity to their master: insomuch

that they had received the greatest marks of

favour from him. And they begged of her,

that she would not utterly blast their hopes,

as it now happened, that when they had es­

caped the hazards that arose from their open

enemies, they were to be cut off at home,

by their private enemies, like brute beasts,

without any assistance. They said also, that if

their adversaries would be satisfied with those

Jewish Sanhedrim; John xi. 50. "That it was expe­

dient for them that one man should die for the people;

and that the whole nation perish not." And this in con­

sequence of their own political supposal, verse 48, that

"If they let Jesus alone, with his miracles, all men would

believe on him; and the Romans would come and take

away both their place and nation." Which political cru»

cifixion of Jesus of Nazareth brought down the vengeance

of God upon them; and occasioned those very Romans,

of whom they seemed so much afraid, that to prevent it

they put him to death, actually to come and take away

both their place and nation, within 38 years afterwards

t From an. 105 to an. 79 B. C.

\ An. 77.

