aN. 1532.] 107 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

fourth signal* those on the north did so like­

wise. 1 hey also used trumpets in their sa­

cred ministrations, when they were bringing

their sacrifices to the altar, as well as on the

sabbaths, and on the rest of the festival days.

And now it was that Moses offered that sacri­

fice which was called the Passover in the wil­

derness, as the first he had offered after the

departure out of Egypt.

CHAP. XIII

OF MOSES'S REMOVAL FROM MOUNT SINAI TOWARDS THE

BORDERS OF THE CANAANITES.

A LITTLE while afterwards Moses rose

up, and went from mount Sinai; and,

having passed through several mansions, of

which we will speak anon, he came to a place

called Hazeroth, where the multitude began

again to be mutinous, and to blame him for

the misfortunes they had suffered in their

travels; and that when he had persuaded

them to leave a good land, they at once had

lost that land, and instead of the happy state

he had promised them, they were still wan­

dering in their present miserable condition,

being already in want of water, and if the

manna should happen to fail, they must then

utterly perish; yet, while they generally spake

many bitter things against the men, there was

one who exhorted them not to be unmindful

of Moses, and of what great pains he had been

at about their common safety, and not to des­

pair of assistance from God. The multitude,

however, became still more unruly, and more

mutinous against Moses than before; here­

upon Moses,f although he was so basely

abused by them, encouraged them in their

despairing condition, and promised that he

would procure them a great quantity of flesh

meat, and that not for a few days only, but for

many days; and when they could not believe

him, and one of them asked, whence he could

obtain such vast plenty of what he promised?

he replied, "Neither God nor I, although we

hear such opprobrious words from you, will

leave off our labours for you; and this shall

soon appear." As soon as he had said this,

* These two signals are wanting in the Hebrew and  
Samaritan, but extant in the Septuagint, as in Josephus.

t This circumstance clearly evinces the propriety with

which Moses is denominated the meekest of men. The

provocations he received would have excited resentment

vol. I-—No. 9.

the whole camp was filled with quails, and

they stood round about them, and gathered

them in great numbers. However, it was not

long ere God punished the Hebrews for that

insolence and those reproaches they had used

towards him, for no small number of them

died; and to this day the place retains the

memory of their destruction, and is named

Ki broth Hattaavah, which is, the graves of

lust4

CHAP. XIV.

OF THE SPIES WHO WERE SENT TO SEARCH OUT THE LAND

OF CANAAN, AND THE CONSEQUENCE OF THEIR REPORT.

WHEN Moses had led the Hebrews to

a place called Paran, which was near

the borders of the Canaanites, and a place

difficult to be continued in, he gathered the

multitude together: and standing in the midst

of them, he said: "Of the two things that God

determined to bestow upon us, liberty, and

the possession of a happy country, the one ye

are already partakers of, by the gift of God,

and the other you will quickly obtain; for we

now have our abode near the borders of Ca­

naan, and nothing can hinder the acquisition

of it, when we now at last are fallen upon it:

I say not only no king, nor city, but neither

the whole race of mankind, if they are all

gathered together, could do it. Let us, there­

fore, prepare ourselves for the work; for the

Canaanites will not resign up their land to us

without fighting, but it must be wrested from

them by great struggles in war. Let us then

send spies, who may take a view of the good­

ness of the land, and what strength it is of;

but above all things, let us be of one mind,

and let us honour God, who is our supreme

helper and assister."

When Moses had said thus, the multitude

requited him with marks of respect, and

chose twelve spies of the most eminent men,

one out of each tribe, who, passing over all

the land of Canaan, from the borders of Egypt,

came to the city Hamath and to mount Leba­

non, and when they had learned the nature

of the land and of its inhabitants, they re­

in most men; but on him it had no other effect than to

induce him to exert himself the more for the good of the

people. B.

X Numb. xi. 34.

Ee

