AW. 451 163.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. X.

OF THE UNSUCCESSFUL EXPEDITION OF BACCHIDES, THE

GENERAL OF DEMETRIUs's ARMV, AGAINST JUDEA J THE

SUBSEQUENT DEFEAT OF N1CANOR; THE DEATH OF AL-

CIMUS, AND THE SUCCESSION OF JUDAS.

ABOUT the same time Demetrius, the

son of Seleucus, fled away from Rome,

and took Tripoli, a city of Syria, and set the

diadem on his own head. He also gathered

certain mercenary soldiers together, and en­

tered into his kingdom; and was joyfully

received by all, who delivered themselves

up to him. And when they had taken An-

tiochus the king, and Lysias, they brought

them to him alive: both of whom were im­

mediately put to death by the command of

Demetrius,* when Antiochus had reigned

two years. But there were now many of

the wicked Jewish runagates, that came

together to him; and with them Alcimus the

high-priest, who accused the whole, nation,

and particularly Judas and his brethren,

and said, that they had slain all his friends;

and that those in his kingdom that were of

his party, and waited for his return, were

by them put to death; that these men had

ejected them out of their own country; and

caused them to be sojourners in a foreign

land; and they desired, that he would send

some one of his own friends, and know from

him what mischief Judas's party had done.

At this Demetrius was very angry, and

sent Bacchides, a friend of Antiochus Epi-

phanes, fa good man, and one that had been

intrusted with all Mesopotamia; and gave

him an army, and committed Alcimus, the

high-priest, to his care; and gave him charge

to slay Judas, and those that were with him.

So Bacchides made haste, and went out of

Antioch, with his army; and when he was

come into Judea, he sent to Judas and his

brethren, to discourse with him about a league

of friendship and peace. For he had a mind

to take him by treachery. But Judas did not

give credit to him: for he saw that he came

with so great an army, as men do not bring

* 1 Mace. vii. 2, 3.

t It is no way probable that Josephus would call Bac­

chides, that bitter enemy of the Jews, as our present

copies have it, av<W xflS0V> "a good man," or "kind and

gentle:" (in which latter sense he uses the word xfIS°S

soon afterward:) what the author of the first book of

voL. I.—NOS. 37 & 38.

when they come to make peace, but to make

war. However, some of the people acqui­

esced in what Bacchides caused to be pro­

claimed. And supposing they should undergo

no considerable harm from Alcimus, who was

their countryman, they went over to them;

and when they had received oaths from both

of them, that neither they themselves, nor

those of the same sentiments, should come

to any harm, they intrusted themselves with

them. But Bacchides troubled not himself

about the oaths he had taken; but slew

threescore of them: although by not keeping

his faith with those that first went over, he

deterred all the rest, who had intentions to

go over to him, from doing it. But as he was

gone out of Jerusalem, and was at the village

called Bethzetho, he sent out and caught

many of the deserters, and some of the peo­

ple also, and slew them all; and enjoined

all that lived in the country to submit to Al­

cimus. So he left him there, with some part

of the army; that he might have wherewith

to keep the country in obedience; and re­

turned to Antioch, to king Demetrius.

But Alcimus was desirous to have the do­

minion more firmly assured to him. And un­

derstanding that if he could bring it about

that the multitude should be his friends, he

should govern with greater security, he spake

kind words to them all, and discoursed to

each of them after an agreeable and pleasant

manner. By which means he quickly had a

great body of men, and an army about him:

although the greater part of them were of the

wicked and the deserters. With these, whom

he used as his servants and soldiers, he went

all over the country, and slew all that he

could find of Judas's party. But when Judas

saw that Alcimus was already become great;

and had destroyed many good and holy men,

he also went all over the country, and destroy­

ed those that were of the other party. When

Alcimus saw that he was not able to oppose

Judas, nor was equal to him in strength, he

resolved to apply himself to king Demetrius

for his assistance. So he came to Antioch,

Maccabees, whom Josephus here follows, instead of that

character, says of him is this; that he was a great man

in the kingdom, and zsigmru Gaifikii faithful to the king.

Which was very probably Josephus's meaning also.

Perhaps, therefore, he wrote wjov, faithful, for XflS0V>

good or gentle.

4D

