534 [book xiv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

encamped at the north wall of the city; being

now an army of eleven legions, armed men on

foot, and six thousand horsemen, with other

auxiliaries out of •Syria. The generals were

two, viz. Sosius, sent by Antony, to assist He­

rod; and Herod, on his own account, in order

to take the government from Antigonus, who

was declared an enemy at Rome; and that

he might himself be king, according to the

decree of the senate.

Now the Jews that were enclosed within

the walls of the city, fought against Herod

with great alacrity and zeal; for the whole

nation was gathered together: they also gave

out many prophecies respecting the temple,

and many things agreeable to the people; as

if God would deliver them out of the dangers

they were in. They had also carried off

what was out of the city, that they might not

leave any thing to afford sustenance for men,

or for beasts; and by private robberies they

made the want of necessaries greater. When

Herod understood this, he opposed ambushes

in the fittest places against their private rob­

beries; and sent legions of armed men to

bring in provisions; and that from remote

places: so that in a little time they had great

plenty. Now the three bulwarks were easily

erected; because so many hands were conti­

nually at work upon them. For it was sum­

mer time, and there was nothing to hinder

them in raising their works, neither from the

air nor from the workmen. So they brought

their engines to bear, and shook the wall of

the city, and tried all manner of ways to get

in. Yet did not these within discover any

fear: but they also contrived not a few en­

gines, to oppose those of the besiegers. They

also sallied out, and burnt not only those en­

gines that were not yet perfected, but those

that were: and when they came hand to hand

their attempts were not less bold than those

of the Romans; though they were inferior to

them in skill. They also erected new works,

when the former were ruined; and making

mines under ground, they met each other, and

fought there: and making use of brutish cou­

rage, rather than of prudent valour, they per­

sisted in this war to the very last. And this

they did while a mighty army lay round about

thetn; and while they were distressed by

famine, and the want of necessaries: for this

happened to be a sabbatic year. The first

that scaled the walls were twenty chosen

men: the next were Sosius's centurions, t or

the first wall was taken in forty days; and the

second in fifteen more: when some of the

cloisters that were about the temple were

burnt: which Herod gave out to have been

burnt by Antigonus, in order to expose him to

the hatred of the Jews. And when the outer

court of the temple, and the lower city, were

taken, the Jews fled into the inner court of the

temple, and into the upper city. But now fear­

ing lest the Romans should prevent them from

offering their daily sacrifices to God, they sent

an ambassage, and desired that they would

only permit them to bring in beasts for sa­

crifices. This Herod granted: hoping they

were going to yield. But when he saw that

they did nothing of what he supposed, but

bitterly opposed him, in order to preserve the

kingdom to Antigonus, he made an assault

upon the city, and took it by storm. And now

all parts were full of those that were slain, by

the rage of the Romans at the long duration

of the siege; and by the zeal of the Jews

that were on Herod's side; who were not

willing to leave one of their adversaries alive.

So they were murdered continually in the

narrow streets, and in the houses by crowds,

and as they were fleeing to the temple for

shelter; and there was no pity taken of either

infants or the aged; nor did they spare so

much as the weaker sex. Nay, although the

king sent about and besought them to spare

the people, yet nobody restrained their hand

from slaughter; but, as if they were a com­

pany of madmen, they fell upon persons of all

ages, without distinction. And then Anti­

gonus, without regard to either his past or

present circumstances, came down from the

citadel, and fell down at the feet of Sosius.

He, however, took no pity of him, in the

change of his fortune; but insulted him be­

yond measure, and called him * Antigone. Yet .

did not he treat him as if he were a woman,

by letting him go at liberty; but put him into

bonds, and kept him in close custody.

And now Herod had overcome his enemies,

his care was to govern those foreigners who

had been his assistants. For the crowd of

strangers rushed to see the temple, and the

sacred things it contained. But the king

thinking a victory to be a more severe al-

* Antigone is the name of a woman.

