144 [BOOK V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

so far, she said, she had been assured by

those divine miracles of which she had been

informed. So these spies acknowledged that

they owed her thanks for what she had done

already, and withal swore to requite her kind­

ness not only in words, but in deeds; but they

gave her this advice, that when she should

perceive that the city was about to be taken,

she should put her goods and all her family,

by way of security, in her inn; and hang out

scarlet threads before her doors or windows,

that the commander of the Hebrews might

know her house, and take care to do her no

harm. "For,"' said they, "we will inform him

of this matter, because of the concern thou

hast had to preserve us; but if any of thy

family fall in the battle, do not blame us; and

we beseech that God by whom we have sworn,

not then to be displeased with us, as though

we had broken our oaths." So these men,

when they had made this agreement, went

away; letting themselves down by a rope

from the wall, and escaped; and came and

told their own people whatsoever they had

done in their journey to this city. Joshua

also told Eleazar the high-priest, and the

senate, what the spies had sworn to Rahab,

who confirmed what had been sworn.

Now while Joshua, the commander, was in

fear about their passing over Jordan, for the

river ran with a strong current, and could not

be passed over with bridges, for there never

had been bridges laid over it hitherto; and

while he suspected that if he should attempt

to make a bridge, the enemies would not

afford him time to perfect it; and ferry boats

they had none; God promised so to dispose

of the river that they might pass over it, and

(hat by taking away the main part of its wa­

ters. So Joshua, after two days, caused the

army and the whole multitude to pass over in

the following manner:—The priests went first,

having the ark with them; then went the Le-

vites, bearing the tabernacle and the vessels

that belonged to the sacrifices; after which

the entire multitude followed, according to

their tribes, having their children and their

wives in the midst of them, as being afraid for

them lest they should be borne away by the

stream. But as soon as the priests had en­

tered the river first, it appeared fordable; the

depth of the water being restrained, and the

sand appearing at the bottom, because the

current was neither so strong nor so swift, as

to carry it away by its force; so they all

passed over the river without fear, finding it

to be in the very same state as God had fore­

told he would put it in. But the priests stood

still in the midst of the river, till the multi­

tude should be passed over, and should get

to the shore in safety; and when all were

gone over, the priests came out also and per­

mitted the current to run freely as it used to

do before. Accordingly, the river, as soon

as the Hebrews were gone out of it, arose

again presently, and came to its proper height

as before.*

So the Hebrews went on farther fifty fur­

longs, and pitched their camp at the distance

of ten furlongs from Jericho. But Joshua

built an altar of those stonest which all the

heads of the tribes, at the command of the

prophet, had taken out of the river; to be

afterward a memorial of the division of the

stream, and upon it offered sacrifice to God;

and in that place celebrated the passover,

and had great plenty of all things which they

had wanted hitherto. For they reaped the

corn of the Canaanites, which was now ripe;

and took other things as prey; for then it was

that their former food, which was manna,

and of which they had eaten forty years,

failed them.

While the Israelites did this, and the Ca­

naanites did not attack them, but remained

quiet within their own walls, Joshua resolved

to besiege them. So on the first day of the

feast of the passover, the priests carried the

ark, round about which was some part of the

armed men to be a guard to it. These priests

went forward, blowing with their seven trum­

pets, and exhorted the army to be of good

courage, and went round the city with the

senate following them, and when the priests

had only blown with their trumpets,J for they

did nothing more at all, they returned to the

* Josh. iv. 10.

t It has been a custom in all nations to erect monuments

of stone, in order to preserve the memory of covenants,

victories, and other great transactions; and though there

was no inscription upon these stones, yet the number of

them, and the place where they lay, which was not at all

stony, was sufficient to signify some memorable thing,

which posterity would not fail to hand down from one

generation to another. Patrick's Commentary on Joshua,

iv. 7. B.

| Josh. vi. IS.

