130 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

thing they arc taught; which will be the best

thing they can be taught, and will be cause of

their future felicity.*

Let every one commemorate before God,

the benefits which he bestowed upon them at

their deliverance out of the land of Egypt;

and this twice every day; both when the day

begins, and when the hour of sleep comes.

Gratitude being in its own nature a just thing;

and serving not only by way of return for

!)ast, but also by way of invitation of future

avours. They are also to inscribe the prin­

cipal blessings they have received from God,

upon their doors, and shew the same remem­

brance of them on their arms;t as also they

are to bear on their forehead and their arm

those wonders which declare the power of

God, and his good will towards them; that

God's readiness to bless them may appear

every where conspicuous about them.J

Let there be seven men to judge|| in every

city;§ and these such as have been before

most zealous in the exercise of virtue and

righteousness. Let every judge have two

officers allotted bim out of the tribe of Levi.

Let those that are chosen to judge in the

several cities be had in great honour: and

let none be permitted to revile any others,

when these are present, nor to carry them­

selves in an insolent manner to them. It be­

ing natural that reverence towards those in

high offices among men should procure men's

fear and reverence towards God. Let those

that judge be permitted to determine accord­

ing as they think right; unless any one can

shew that they have taken bribes, to the per­

version of justice, or can ailedge any other

accusation against them, whereby it may ap­

pear that they have passed an unjust sen-

* Deut. xxxi. 12.

t Whether these phylacteries, and.' other Jewish me­

morials of the law here mentioned by Josephus, and by

Moses, (besides the fringes on the border of their gar­

ments, Numb. xv. 37,) were literally meant by God, I

much question. That they have been long observed by

the Pharisees, and the Rabbinical Jews, is certain. How­

ever the Karaites, who receive not the underwritten tra­

ditions of the elders, but keep close to the written law

with Jerome and Grotius, think they were not literally to

be understood; as Bernard and Reland here take notice.

Nor indeed do I remember, that either in the ancienter

books of the Old Testament, or in the books we call Apo­

crypha, there are any signs of such literal observations

appearing among the Jews. Though their real or mys­

tical signification, i. e. the constant remembrance and ob-

tence. For it is not fit that causes should be

openly determined out of regard to gain, or

to the dignity of the suitors; but that the

judges should esteem what is right before all

other things: for otherwise God will be des­

pised, and esteemed inferior to those, the

dread of whose power has occasioned the un­

just sentence. For justice is the power of

God: he, therefore, that gratifies those in

great dignity supposes them more potent than

God himself. But if these judges are unable

to give a just sentence, about the causes that

come before them; (which case is not unfre-

quent in human affection,) let them send the

cause undetermined to the holy city, and

there let the high-priest, the prophet, and the

Sanhedrim, determine as shall seem good to

them.

But let not a single** witness be credited:

but three, or two at the least, and those such

whose testimony is confirmed by their good

lives. But let not the testimony offt women

be admitted, on account of the levity and

boldness of their sex. Nor let servants be

admitted to give testimony, on account of

their ignoble spirit; since it is probable they

may not speak truth, either out of hope of

gain, or fear of punishment. But if any one

be believed to have borne false witness, let

him, when he is convicted, suffer all the same

punishments, which he, against whom he bore

witness, was to have suffered.

If a murder be committed in any place, and

he that did it be not found, nor is there any

suspicion upon one, as if he had hated the

man, and so had killed him; let there be a

very diligent inquiry made after the man,

and rewards proposed to any that will disco­

ver him. But if no information can be pre­

servation of the lawsof God' and Moses, be frequently in­

culcated in all the sacred writings.

X Numb. xv. 38, 39.

II Here, as well as Of the War, n. 20, are but seven

judges appointed for small cities, instead of twenty-thiee

in the modern Rabbins, which modern Rabbins are always

but of very Htde authority in comparison of Josephus.

§ Deut. xvi. 18.

** I have never observed elsewhere, that in the Jewish  
government women were not admitted as legal witnesses

in courts of Justice. None of our copies of the Penta­

teuch say a word of it. It is very probable, however,

that this was an exposition of the Scribes and Pharisees,

and the practice of the Jews in the days of Josephus.

tt Deut. xvii. 6;

--

