an. 1052.] 277 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and congratulated him on the present happy

state of affairs. Upon which Solomon sent

him an epistle, the contents of which were as

follows:

SOLOMON TO KING HIRAM.

"Know* thou that my father would have

built a temple to God; but was hindered by

wars and continual expeditions; for he did

not leave off to overthrow his enemies, till he

made them all subject to tribute. But I give

thanks to God for the peace I at present

enjoy; and on that account I am at leisure,

and design to build a house to God; For

God foretold to my father that such a build­

ing should be erected by me. Wherefore I

desire thee to send some of thy subjects with

mine to mount Lebanon, to cut down timber;

for the Sidonians are more skilful than our

people in cutting of wood. As for wages to

the hewers of wood, I will pay whatever price

thou shalt determine."

When Hiram had read this epistle, he was

pleased with it; and wrote back this answer

to Solomon:—

KING HIRAM TO KING SOLOMON.

"It is fit to bless God, that he hath com­

mitted thy father's government to thee, who

art a wise man, and endowed with all virtues.

As for myself, I rejoice at the condition thou

art in; and will be subservient to thee in all

that thou sendest to me about. For when my

subjects have cut down many and large trees

of cedar, and cypress wood, I will send them

to sea, and will order my subjects to make

floats of them, and to sail to what place

soever of thy country thou shalt desire, and

leave them there. After which thy subjects

may carry them to Jerusalem. But do thou

take care to procure us corn for this timber;

which we stand in need of, because we in­

habit an island."f

The copies of these epistles remain at this

day, and are preserved not only in our books

but among the Tyrians also; insomuch that

* These epistles of Solomon and Hiram are those in  
1 Kings v. 3—9. and as enlarged in 2 Chron. ii. 2—16.

but here given us by Josephus in his own words. They

are also extant in Eusebius's Praeparat. Evangel. IX. 33.

but greatly disguised by Eupolemus, from whom Eusebius

had those copies. Which Eupolemus, for a heathen,

knew a considerable deal of Jewish affairs; though in a

very imperfect manner. Nor are his other accounts of

Jewish history to be compared with the more accurate

ones in Josephus.

t What Josephus here puts into his copy of Hiram's

epistle to Solomon, and repeats afterwards, chap. v. that

Tyre was now an island, is not in any of the three other

copies, that in the Kings, that in the Chronicles, or that

in Eusebius, out of Eupolemus. Nor is it any other, I

suppose, than his own conjectural paraphrase. For when

I, many years ago, inquired into this matter, I found the

itate of this famous city, and of the island whereupon it

stood, to have been different at very different times; in­

somuch that the accurate Mr. Reland, who much laboured

at it, was not able to clear the difficulties thereto relating.

See his Palestina, tom. ii. page 1046—1056. The result

of my inquiries into this matter is in my Essay on the Old

Test. Append, page 226, 227, and, with the addition of

some later improvements, stands thus:—that the best

tetimonies hereto relating imply, that Palaetyras, or oldest

Tyre, was no other than that most ancient smaller fort or

city Tyre, situate on the continent, and mentioned Josh.

xix. 29. out of which the Canaanite or Phoenician inha­

bitants were driven into a large island, that lay not far off

in the sea, by Joshua; that this island was then joined to

the continent at the present remains of Palastyrus, by a

neck of land, over against Solomon's cisterns, still so

called; and the city's fresh water probably was carried

along in pipes by that neck of land, and that this island

was therefore, in strictness, no other than a peninsula;

having villages in its fields, Ezek. xxvi. 6. and a wall about

it, Amos i. 10. and the city was not of so great reputation

as Sidon for some ages; that it was attacked both by sea

and land by Salmanassar, as Josephus informs us out of

Menander, IX. 14. and came to be the metropolis of Phoe­

nicia, and was afterwards taken and destroyed by Nebu­

chadnezzar, according to the numerous Scripture Prophe­

cies thereto relating, Isa. xxiii. Jer. xxv. 22.—xxvii. 3.—

xlvii. 4. Ezek. xxvi. xxvii. xxviii. and that there were

remains of that destruction in heathen authors also, extant

in the days of Josephus, though now lost, X. 11. that

seventy years after that destruction by Nebuchadnezzar,

this city was in some measure revived and rebuilt,

Isa. xxiii. 17, 18. but that, as the prophet Ezekiel had

foretold, Isa. xxvi. 3, 4, 5, 14. xxvii. 34. the sea arose

higher than before, till at last it overflowed, not only the

neck of land, but the main island or peninsula itself, and

destroyed that old and famous city for ever; that how­

ever there still remained an adjoining smaller island, once

connected to old Tyre itself by Hiram, which was after­

ward inhabited; to which Alexander the Great, with in­

credible pains, raised a new bank or causeway, and that

it plainly appears from Mr. Maundrell, a most authentic

eye witness, that the old large and famous city, on the

original large island, is laid now so generally under water,

that scarcely more than forty acres of it, or rather of that

adjoining small island, remain at this day, so that perhaps

not above the hundredth part of the first island and city is

now above water. See Reland, page 1049, 1052. Marsh

Chron. page 539, and Maundrell's Travels, page 50.

This was foretold in the prophecies of Ezekiel; and

according to them, as Mr. Maundrell distinctly observes,

these poor remains of Old Tyre are now become like the

top of a rock, a place for the spreading of nets in the midst

of the sea. Nor does Ovid pretend that the proper island

on which Old Tyre stood is now visible.

3E2

