232 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

of legitimate wives: but the two last of con­

cubines. And Tamar had the same mother

with Absalom.

CHAP. IV.

«t david's further success against the Philistines;

HIS REMOVAL OF THE ARK TO JERUSALEM, AND HIS DE­

SIRE TO BUILD A TEMPLE.

WHEN the Philistines understood that

David was made king of the Hebrews,

they made war against him at Jerusalem.

And when they had seized upon that valley

which is called The valley of the Giants; and

fa a place not far from the city; they pitched

their camp there. But the king of the Jews,*

who never permitted himself to do any thing

without prophecy, and the command of God,

and without depending on him as a security

for the time to come, bade the high-priest

foretell to him what was the will of God, and

what would be the event of this battle. And

when he foretold that he should gain the vic­

tory, and the dominion, he led out his army

against the Philistines; and when the battle

was joined, he came himself behind, and fell

upon the enemy suddenly, and slew some of

them, and put the rest to flight. And let no

one suppose that it was a small army of the

Philistines that came against the Hebrews:

as guessing so from the suddenness of their

defeat, and from their having performed no

action that was worth recording, from the

slowness of their march, and want of courage:

but let him know, that all Syria and Phoenicia,

with many other nations besides them, and

those warlike nations also, came to their as­

sistance; and had a share in this war. Which

thing was the only cause why, when they had

been so often conquered, and had lost so many

ten thousands of their men, they still came

upon the Hebrews with greater armies. Nay,

indeed, when they had so often failed of their

purpose in these battles, they came upon Da­

vid with an army three times as numerous as

before, and pitched their camp on the same

spot of ground as before. The king of Israel

therefore inquired of God again, concerning

the event of the battle; and the high-priest

prophesied to him, that he should keep his

army in the groves, called the Groves of

Weeping, which were not far from the ene­

mies' camp: and that he should not move,

nor begin to fight till the trees of the grove

should be in motion without the winds blow­

ing; but as soon as these trees moved, and the

time foretold to him by God was come, he

should, without delay, go out to gain what

was already prepared, an evident victory.

For the several ranks of the enemies' army

did not sustain him, but retreated at the first

onset, whom he closely followed, and slew

them as he went along and pursued them to

the city Gaza, which is the limit of their

country. After ..this, he spoiled their camp,

in Which he found great riches; and he also

destroyed their gods.

When this had proved the event of the bat­

tle, David thought proper, upon a consultation

with the elders, and rulers, and captains of

thousands, to send for those that were in the

flower of their age, out of all his countrymen,

and out of the whole land; and withal for the

priests and the Levites: in order to their going

to Kirjathjearim, to bring up the ark of God

out of that city, and to carry it to Jerusalem,

and there to keep it; and offer before it

those sacrifices, and those other honours, with

which God used to be well pleased. For had

they done thus in the reign of Saul, they had

not undergone any great misfortunes at all.

So when the whole body of the people were

come together, as they had resolved to do,

the king came to the ark, which the priests

brought out of the house of Aminadab, and

laid it upon a new cart, and permitted their

brethren and children to draw it, together with

the oxen. Before it went the king, and the

whole multitude of the people with him, sing­

ing hymns to God, and making use of all sorts

of songs usual among them; accompanied

with the sounds of musical instruments, and

with dancing and singing of psalms; as also

with the sounds of trumpets and of cymbals:

* It deserves here to be remarked, that Saul very rare­  
ly, and David very frequently, consulted God by Urim:

and that David aimed always to depend, not on his own

prudence or abilities, but on the divine direction; con­

trary to Saul's practice. See the note on III. 8. And

when Saul's daughter, Michal, laughed at David's dancing

before the ark, 2 Sam. vi. 16, &c. it is probable she

did so, because her father S;ml did not use to pay

such regard to that ark; to the Urim there inquired

by; or to God's worship before it; and because she

thought it beneath the dignity of a king to be so re­

ligious.

