352 [book k. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sacrifices upon the altar. The king also sent

to the country that was under him; and called

the people to Jerusalem, to celebrate the

feast of unleavened bread;* for it had been

intermitted a long time, on account of the

wickedness of the aforementioned kings. He

also sent to the Israelites, and exhorted them

to leave off their present way of living, and

to return to their ancient practices, and to

worship God; for that he gave them leave to

come to Jerusalem, and to celebrate, all in

one body, the feast of unleavened bread: and

this he said was by way of invitation only,

and to be done of their own good will, and

for their own advantage, and not out of obe­

dience to him; because it would make them

happy.

But the Israelites, upon the arrival of the

ambassadors, and upon their laying before

them what they had in charge from their

own king, were so far from complying there­

with, that they laughed the ambassadors to

scorn, and mocked them as fools; they also

affronted the prophets, who gave them the

same exhortations; and foretold what they

would suffer if they did not return to the

worship of God; insomuch that they caught

them, and slew them. Nor did this degree of

transgressing suffice them; but they had more

wicked contrivances than what have been

described. Nor did they leave off, before

God, as a punishment for their impiety,

brought them under their enemies. But of

that more hereafter. There were, however,

many of the tribe of Manasseh, and of Zab-

ulon, and of Issachar.t who were obedient to

what the prophets exhorted them to do; and

all these came running to Jerusalem, to Heze-

kiah, that they might worship God there.

When these men were come, king Heze-

kiah went up into the temple, with the rulers

and all the people, and offered for himself

seven bulls, and as many rams; with seven

lambs, and seven kids of the goats. The

king also and the rulers laid their hands on

the heads of the sacrifices, and permitted the

priests to complete the sacred offices about

them. So they both slew the sacrifices, and

burnt the burnt-offerings; while the Levites

stood round about them, with their musical

instruments,^; and sang hymns to God, and

played on their psalteries; as they were in­

structed to do; and this while the rest of the

priests returned the music, and sounded the

trumpets which they had in their hands. And

when this was done, the king and the multi­

tude prostrated themselves and worshipped

God. Seventy bulls, one hundred rams, and

two hundred lambs, were sacrificed by the

king, who also granted the multitude sacri­

fices to feast upon, six hundred oxen, and

three thousand other cattle; and the priests

performed all things according to the law.

Now the king was so pleased herewith, that

he feasted with the people, and returned

thanks to God. But as the least of unleavened

bread was now come, when they had offered

that sacrifice which is called the passover,

they afterwards offered other sacrifices for

seven days. When the king had bestowed

on the multitude, beside what they sacrificed

of themselves, two thousand bulls, and seven

thousand other cattle; the same thing was

done by the rulers. For they gave them a

thousand bulls, and a thousand and forty

other cattle. Nor had this festival been ob­

served from the days of king Solomon, with

such great splendour and magnificence; and

when the festival was ended, they went out

into the country, and purged it, and cleansed

the city of all the pollution of the idols. The

king also gave order that the daily sacrifices

should be offered, at his own expense, and

according to the law; and appointed that the

tithes and the first fruits should be given by

the multitude to the priests and the Levites;

that they might constantly attend upon divine

service, and never be taken off from the

worship of God. Accordingly the multitude

brought together all sorts of their fruits to

* 2 Chron. xxx. 1.

t Asher, Hebrew and Septuagint.

j Moses, in the service of the tabernacle, did not ap­

point the use of many musical instruments; only he caused

some trumpets to be made, which upon solemn occasions,

were to be sounded, at the time when the burnt-offering

and peace-offering were upon the altar, Numb. x. 10.

But David, by the advice of the prophets Gad and Na­

than, introduced several kinds of music into the service of

the temple, as a thing highly conducive to inspire people

with respect, with joy, and with affection for the solem­

nities and assemblies of religion, 1 Chron. xxiii. 5. and

xxv. 1. and it is farther observable, that the institution of

music, in religious assemblies, is not a matter of human

invention, but was ordained by God, and has the sanction

and authority of his prophets to confirm it—for so was

the commandment of the Lord by his prophets, 2 Chron.

xxix. 25. B.

