424 [BOOK XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

artificially contrived vessels, which the king

sent to God; that all may see how great a

regard the king had for God. For he allow­

ed a vast deal of expenses for these vessels;

and came often to the workmen, and viewed

their works; and suffered nothing of careless­

ness or negligence to be any damage to their

operations. And I will relate how rich they

were, as well as I am able. Although per­

haps the nature of this history may not re­

quire such a description: but I imagine I

shall thereby recommend the elegant state

and magnanimity of this king to those who

read this history.

And first I will describe what belongs to

the table. It was indeed in the king's mind

to make this table vastly large in its dimen­

sions. But then he gave order, that they

should learn what was the magnitude of the

table which already was at Jerusalem; and

how large it was: and whether there was a

possibility of making one larger than it. And

when he was informed how large that was

which was already there; and that nothing

hindered, but a larger might be made: he

said, that he was willing to have one made

that should be five times as large as the pre­

sent table: but his fear was, that it might

be then useless in their sacred ministrations

by its too great largeness. For he desired

that the gifts he presented them, should not

only be there for shew; but should be use­

ful also in their sacred ministrations. Ac­

cording to which reasoning, that the former

table was made of so moderate a size for

use, and not for want of gold, he resolved,

that he would not exceed the former table

in largeness; but would make it exceed it

in the variety and elegance of its materials.

And as he was sagacious in observing the

nature of all things, and in having a just no­

tion of what was new and surprising; and

where there were no sculptures, he would

invent such as were proper by his own skill,

and would shew them to the workmen; he

commanded, that such sculptures should now

be made; and that those which were deline­

ated should be most accurately formed, by a

constant regard to their delineation.

When therefore the workmen had underta­

ken to make the table, they framed it in length

* Two cubits. Aristasus; as Exod. xxy. 23. xxxvii.  
10- and Antiq. iii. 6.

two cubits and a half,* in breadth one cubit,

and in height one cubit and a half: and the

entire structure of the work was of gold.

They also made a crown, of a hand breadth

round it; with wave-work wreathed about it:

and with an engraving which imitated a cord,

and was admirably turned on its three parts:

for as they were of a triangular figure, every

angle had the same disposition of its sculp­

tures: that when he turned them about, the

very same form of them was turned about,

without any variation. Now that part of the

crown work that was enclosed under the table,

had its sculptures very beautiful: but that

part which Went round on the outside, was

more elaborately adorned with most beautiful

ornaments; because it was exposed to sight,

and to the view of the spectators. For which

reason both those sides which were extant

above the rest were acute; and none of the

angles appeared less than another, when the

table was turned about. Now into the cord-

work thus turned, were precious stones insert­

ed, in rows parallel one to the other, enclosed

in golden buttons, which had ouches in them.

But the parts that were on the side of the

crown, and were exposed to the sight, were

adorned with a row of oval figures obliquely

placed, of the most excellent sort of precious

stones; which imitated rods laid close, and

encompassed the table round about. But un­

der these oval figures, thus engraven, the

workmen had put a crown all round it;

where the nature of all sorts of fruit was

represented, by the work of the engraver;

insomuch that the bunches of grapes hung up.

And when they had made the stones to re­

present all the aforementioned kinds of fruits,

and each in its proper colour; they made

them fast with gold round the whole table.

The like dispositions of the oval figures, and

of the engraved rods, was framed under the

crown; that the table might on each side

shew the same appearance of variety, and

elegance of its ornaments; that so neither the

position of the wave-work, nor of the cro"Wn

might be different; although the table were

turned on the other side; but that the pros­

pect of the same artificial contrivances might

be extended as far as the feet. For there

was made a plate of gold, four fingers broad,

through the entire breadth of the table; into

which they inserted the feet; and then fast­

