AN. 44.] 509 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

enemies, instead of rulers. For that they

would never suffer him to be set aside, whom

they had appointed to govern. And when

Antipater had said this to them, he settled

the affairs of this country.

And seeing that Hyrcanus was of a slow

and slothful temper, he made Phasaelus, his

eldest son, governor of Jerusalem, and of the

places adjacent; but committed Galilee to

Herod, his next son, who was then *fifteen

years of age. That youth of his, however,

was no impediment to him: but as he pos­

sessed a great mind, he presently met with an

opportunity of signalizing his courage. For

finding that there was one Hezekias, a cap­

tain of a band of robbers, who overran the

neighbouring parts of Syria, he seized and

slew him; as well as a great number of the

robbers that were with him. By this action

he acquired the love of the Syrians: for when

they were very desirous to have their country

freed from this nest of robbers, he purged it

of them. So they sang songs in his commen­

dation in their villages and cities, as having

procured them peace, and the secure enjoy­

ment of their possessions. And on this ac­

count it was that he became known to Sextus

Caesar, who was the relation of the great

Caesar's, and was now president of Syria.

Now Phasaelus, Herod's brother, was

moved with emulation at his actions; and

envied the fame he had acquired, and became

ambitious not to be behind-hand with him in

deserving it. So he made the inhabitants of

Jerusalem bear him the greatest good will;

while he held the city himself, but did neither

manage its affairs improperly nor abuse his

authority therein. This conduct procured

from the nation of Antipater such respect as

is due to kings; and such honours as he might

partake of if he were absolute lord of the

country. Yet did not this splendour of his, as

frequently happens, in the least diminish in

him that kindness and fidelity which he owed

to Hyrcanus.

But now, the principal men among the

Jews, when they saw Antipater and his sons

to grow so much in the good will of the na­

tion, and in the revenues which they received

out of Judea, and out of Hyrcanus's own

wealth; became ill disposed to him. For in­

deed Antipater had contracted a friendship

with the Roman emperors: and when he had

prevailed with Hyrcanus to send them money,

he took it to himself, and purloined the pre­

sent intended; and sent it, as if it were his

own, and not Hyrcanus's gift to them. Hyr­

canus heard of this management, but took no

care about it: nay he was rather glad of it.

But the chief men of the Jews were in fear

because they saw that Herod was a violent

and bold man, and very desirous of acting

tyrannically. So they came to Hyrcanus, and

accused Antipater openly, and said to him,

"How long wilt thou be quiet under such

actions as are now done? Or dost thou not

see that Antipater and his sons have already

seized upon the government, and that it is

* Take Reland's and Hudson's notes on this celebrated  
place. "Isaac Casaubon, in his Epistle to Thuanus,

which is the 936th in number, affirms, that instead of is

or 15, we should read xs or 25, where he thus writes:

"We affirm, and most evidently demonstrate, that the

reading ought to be xs 25. Nor are we to be dissuaded

by the consent of the copies, nor the assent of Photius to

them. He had said just before, that this place is of great

consequence for the discovery of the chronology of our

Saviour." So for Reland. To which Hudson adds,

"Since I have never allowed myself the liberty to change

any numbers, without the authority of MSS. neither have

I here set down xe 25, for is 15, which yet many very

learned men have asserted ought to be done; who are

cited by Casaubon in Exercit. contr. Baron. § 34. and

with whom Casaubon himself agrees in Epist. 299. as also

Montacutius, in Exercit. 10. page 34. and in Apparatu,

J>age 194. Lydiat. in Emendet. Temp, page 114. andKep-

er, De Ann. Nat. Christi. page 52. Nay indeed, that it

ought to be so read some have demonstrated: as Usher,

in Annal. Vet. Test, page 252. Edit. Lond. & Norris in

Cenotaphiis Pisanis. Disert. II. c. 6. page 160. The very

learned Antonius Pagi giving his assent to them, in Appa-

rat. ad Annal. Baron, page 12. which arguments induce us

to have no regard to Pere Harduin: who (in his book De

Nummis Herodiadum, page 334. Edit. Amst.) takes occa­

sion from the slip of the pen of the scribes to fall upon Jo-

sephus himself. And as for his defence from the words,

"When Herod was very young," all those who will com­

pare with him Is. Casaubon, and Antonius Pagi in the

places already cited, will see how indifferently he does it."

See the notes here on I. 12. and Of the War, I. 10. To

all which I shall venture to add, that those who will care­

fully observe the several occasional numbers and chrono­

logical characters in the life and death of this Herod, and

of his children hereafter noted, will see that 25 years, and

not 15, must certainly have been here Josephus's own

number, for the age of Herod, when he was made governor

of Galilee; and will not need to consult any of those

learned men for his satisfaction. See chap. 23 and 24. and

particularly XVII. 8. where about 44 years afterward

Herod dies an old man, at about seventy. Also XVI. 8,

10, and 11. Of the War, I. 30. where Herod is old, and

grey headed, and XVII. 4. where even his son Antipatei

is growing old in Herod's lifetime.

4L2

