374 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

because it was not probable that one who,

under such a want of all things, had failed of

nothing that was necessary Tor him, should

be found so wicked and ungrateful towards

his benefactor, that when it would be an in­

stance of wickedness in him not to save

him, had he been treacherously assaulted

by others, to endeavour to kill him with his

own hand. That, however, if he ought to

suppose this information to be true, it was

better for himself to be slain by the other,

than to destroy a man who fled to him for

refuge, and intrusted his own safety to him,

and committed himself to his disposal.

So Johanan and the rulers that were with

him, not being able to persuade Gedaliah,

went away. But after an interval of thirty

days, Ishmael came again to Gedaliah, to the

city Mispah, and ten men with him; and,

when he had feasted Ishmael, and those that

were with him in a splendid manner at his

table, and had given them presents, he be­

came disordered in drink, while he endea­

voured to be merry with them. And when

Ishmael saw him in that case, and that he was

drowned in his cups to a degree of insensi­

bility, and fallen asleep, he rose up on a

sudden, with his ten friends, and slew Geda­

liah, and those that were with him at the

feast. And when he had slain them, he went

out by night, and slew all the Jews that were

in the city, and those soldiers also that were

left therein by the Babylonians. But the

next day eighty men came out of the country

with presents to Gedaliah, none of them

knowing what had befallen him. When

Ishmael saw them he invited them in to

Gedaliah; and, when they were come in, he

shut up the court, and slew them, and cast

their dead bodies into a certain deep pit,

that they might not be seen. But of these

eighty men Ishmael spared those that in-

treated him not to kill them, till they had

delivered up to him what riches they had

concealed in the fields; consisting of their

furniture, garments, and corn. But he took

captive the people that were in Mispah, with

their wives and children; among whom were

the daughters of king Zedekiah, whomNebu-

zaradan the general of the army of Babylon

had left with Gedaliah. And when he had

done this, he came to the king of the Ammo­

nites.

But when Johanan, and the rulers with

him heard of what was done at Mispah, by

Ishmael, and of the death of Gedaliah, they

had indignation at it, and every one of them

took his own armed men, and came suddenly

to fight with Ishmael; and overtook him at

the fountain of Hebron. And when those

that were carried away captives by Ishmael

saw Johanan and the rulers, they were very

glad, and looked upon them as coming to

their assistance. So they left him that had

carried them captives, and came over to Jo­

hanan. Then Ishmael, with eight men, fled

to the king of the Ammonites. But Johanan

took those whom he had rescued out of the

hands of Ishmael, and the eunuchs, and their

wives, and children, and came to a certain

place called Mandra, and there they abode

that day; for they had determined to remove

from thence, and to go into Egypt; for fear

lest the Babylonians should slay them, in

case they continued in the country, and that

out of danger at the slaughter of Gedaliah,

who had been set over it for governor.

While they were under this deliberation,

Johanan the son of Kareah, and the rulers

that were with him, came to Jeremiah the

grophet, and desired that he would pray to

od, that because they were at an utter loss

about what they ought to do, he would dis­

cover it to them; and they sware that they

would do whatever Jeremiah should say to

them. And the prophet said he would be

their intercessor with God: it came to pass,

that after ten days, God appeared to him, and

said, he should inform Johanan, and the

other rulers, and all the people, that he

would be with them while they continued in

that country, and take care of them, and keep

them from being hurt by the Babylonians, of

whom they were afraid; but that he would

desert them if they went into Egypt; and

out of his wrath against them, would inflict

the same punishments upon them which they

knew their brethren had already endured.

So when the prophet had informed Johanan,

and the people, that God foretold these

things, he was not believed, when he said

that God commanded them to continue in

that country; but they imagined that he said

so to gratify Baruch, his own disciple, and

belied God; that he persuaded them to stay

there, that they might be destroyed by the

