an. 1532.] 71 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the assistance of the God of his fathers he

had escaped from the Egyptians.

When they were near the borders, Aaron,

his brother, by the command of God, met

him: to whom he declared what had befallen

him at the mountain, and the commands that

God had given him: but as they were going

forward, the chief men among the Hebrews

having learned that they were coming, met

them; to whom Moses declared the signs he

had seen, and when they could not believe

them, he made them see them; so they took

courage at these surprising and unexpected

sights, and conceived hopes of their entire

deliverance, as believing now that God took

care of their preservation.

Since then Moses found that the Hebrews

would be obedient to whatever he should

direct, as they promised, and that they were

in love with liberty; he came to the king,

who had indeed but lately* received the

government, and told him how much he had

done for the good of the Egyptians, when

they were despised by the Ethiopians, and

their country laid waste by them, and how he

had been the commander of their forces, and

had laboured for them, as if they had been

his own people; and he informed him in what

danger he had been during that expedition,

without having any proper returns made him,

as he had deserved. He also stated, dis­

tinctly, what things happened to him at Mount

Sinai, and what God said to him, and the

signs that were done by God in order to as­

sure him of the authority of those commands

which he had given him; he also exhorted

him not to disbelieve what he told him, nor to

oppose the will of God.

But when the king derided Moses, he made

him see the signs that were done at Mount

Sinai; yet was the king very angry, and

called him a wicked man, who had formerly

run away from his Egyptian slavery, and now

come back with deceitful tricks, and won­

ders, and magical arts, to astonish him. And

when he had said this, he commanded the

priests to let him see the same wonderful

sights; as knowing that the Egyptians were

skilful in this kind of learning, and that he

was not the only person who knew them, and

pretended them to be divine: he also told

him, that when he brought such wonderful

sights before him, he would only be believed

by the unlearned. Now when the priests

threw down their rods, they became serpents;

but Moses was not daunted at it, and said,

"O king, I do not myself despise the wisdom

of the Egyptians; but I say, that what I do is so

much superior to what these perform by magic

arts and tricks, as divine power exceeds the

power of man; but I will demonstrate that

what I do is not done by craft, or so counter­

feiting what is not really true, but that they

appear by the providence and power of God."

When he had said this, he cast his rod down

upon the ground, and commanded it to turn

itself into a serpent. It obeyed him, and went

all round and devoured the rods of the Egyp­

tians,f which seemed to be dragons, until it

had consumed them all. It then returned to

its own form, and Moses took it into his hand

again.

However, the king was no more moved

when this was done than before; but being

very angry, he said, that he should gain no­

thing by this cunning and shrewdness against

the Egyptians; at the same time commanding

the chief task-master over the Hebrews to

give them no relaxation from their labours,

but to compel them to submit to greater

oppressions than before; and though he al­

lowed them chaff before for making their

bricks, he would allow it no longer, but he

made them to work hard at brick-making in

the day time, and to gather chaff in the night.

Now when their labour was thus doubled,

they laid the blame upon Moses, because

their labour and their misery were on his

account become more severe. But Moses

did not let his courage sink for the king's

threatenings; nor did he abate of his zeal on

account of the Hebrews' complaints, but he

supported himself, and set his soul resolutely

against them both, and used his utmost dili­

gence to procure liberty to his countrymen:

so he went to the king and persuaded him to

let the Hebrews go to Mount Sinai, and there

to sacrifice to God, because God had en-

taken in this entire Egyptian chronology, and sp in the

king of Egypt, with whom Moses had to do.

* Josephus seems here mistaken in his Egyptian chro­  
nology, when he says that this Pharaoh, who was then

king, had but lately began his reign; nor is it any wonder,

since I have already observed, how greatly he was mis-

VOL. I.—No. 6.

t Exod. vii. 12.

