m [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

rect the young men, and to bring them to re­

pentance for what they had done.

But Zimri arose up after him, and said,

"Yes, indeed, Moses, thou art at liberty to

make use of such laws as thou art so fond of;

and hast, by accustoming thyself to them,

made them firm. Otherwise, if things had

not been thus, thou hadst often been punished

before now, and hadst known that the He­

brews are not easily put upon. But thou shalt

not have me.one of thy followers in thy tyran­

nical commands: for thou didst nothing else.

hitherto, but, under pretence of laws, and of

God, wickedly impose upon us slavery, and

gain dominion to thyself; while thou deprivest

us of the sweetness of life, which consists in

acting according to our own wills, and is the

right of free men, and of those that have no

lord over them. Nay, indeed, thou art harder

upon the Hebrews than were the Egyptians

themselves; as pretending to punish accord­

ing to law every one's acting as is most agree­

able to himself. But thou thyself better de-

servest to suffer punishment, who presumest

to abolish what every one acknowledges to be

good for him; and aimest to make thy single

opinion of more force than that of the rest,

and what I now do, and think to be right, I

shall not hereafter deny to be according to

my own sentiments. I have married, as thou

sayest rightly, a strange woman, and thou

hearest what I do from myself, as from one

that is free: for truly I did not intend to con­

ceal myself. I also own that I sacrifice to

those gods to whom you do not think fit to

sacrifice; and I think it right to acquire know­

ledge by inquiring of many people; and not,

like one that lives under tyranny, to suffer the

whole hope of my life to depend upon one

man. Nor shall any one find cause to rejoice

who declares himself to have more authority

over my actions than myself."

When Zimri had said these things, about

what he and some others had wickedly done,

the people held their peace: both out of fear

of what might come upon them, and because

they saw that their legislator was not willing

to bring his insolence before the public any

farther, or openly to contend with him. For

he avoided that, lest many should imitate the

impudence of his language, and thereby dis­

turb the multitude. Upon this, the assembly

was dissolved. However, this mischievous

attempt had proceeded farther, if Zimri had

not been slain on the following occasion:

Phineas, a man in other respects better than

the rest of the young men, and also one that

surpassed his contemporaries in the dignity of

his father; (for he was the son of Eleazar the

high-priest, and the grandson of Aaron, Mo­

ses's brother,) was greatly troubled at what

was done by Zimri. So he resolved to intlict

punishment on him, before his unworthy be­

haviour should grow stronger by impunity,

and in order to prevent this transgression

from proceeding farther: which would hap­

pen if the ringleaders were not punished.

He was of so great magnanimity, both in

strength of mind and body, that when he un­

dertook any very dangerous attempt, he did

not relinquish it till he got an entire victory.

So he came into Zimri's tent, and slew him

with his javelin; and with it he slew Cozbi

also. Upon which, all those young men that

had a regard to virtue, and aimed to do a

glorious action, imitated Phineas's boldness,

and slew those that were found to be guilty

of the same crime with Zimri. Accordingly

many of those who had transgressed perished

by the magnanimous valour of these young

men. The rest all perished by a plague,

which God himself inflicted upon them. So

that all those, who, instead of hindering them

from such wicked actions, as they ought to

have done, had persuaded them to go on,

were esteemed by God as partners in the

wickedness, and died. Accordingly there

perished out of the army no fewer than twenty-

four thousand at this time.

This was the cause why Moses was pro­

voked to destroy the Midianites; concerning

which expedition we will speak presently,

when we have first related what has been

omitted. For it is but just not to pass over

our legislator's due encomium, on account of

his conduct here: because, although Balaam,

who was sent for by the Midianites to curse

the Hebrews; and when he was hindered

from doing it by Divine Providence, did still

suggest that advice to them, by making use of

which our enemies had nearly corrupted the

multitude cf the Hebrews with their artifices;'

yet did he do him great honour, by setting

down his prophecies in writing. And while

it was in his power to claim this glory to

himself, and make men believe they were his

>

