aN. 277.] 429 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sian and Titus: who although they had been

at a great deal of pains in the war against

the Jews, and were exasperated against them

because they did not deliver up their wea­

pons, but continued the war to the very last;

yet did they not take away any of the privi­

leges belonging to them as citizens; but

restrained their anger, and overcame the

prayers of the Alexandrians and Antiochians,

who were a very powerful people: insomuch

that they did not yield to them, neither out

of their favour to these people, nor out of

their old grudge at those whose" wicked op­

position they had subdued in the war. Nor

would they alter any of the ancient favours

granted to the Jews: but said, that those who

ad borne arms against them, and fought

them, had suffered punishment already; and

that it was not just to deprive those that had

not offended of the privileges they enjoyed.

We also know, that Marcus Agrippa was

of the like disposition towards the Jews. For

the people of Ionia were very angry at them,

and besought Agrippa, that they, and they

only, might have those privileges of citizens,

which Antiochus, the grandson of Seleucus,

who by the Greeks was called* "the God,"

had bestowed on them; and desired that if

the Jews were to be joint partakers with

them, they might be obliged to worship the

gods they themselves worshipped; but when

these matters were brought to the trial, the

Jews prevailed, and obtained leave to make

use of their own customs, and this under the

patronage of Nicolaus of Damascus. For

Agrippa gave sentence, that "he could not

innovate. And if any one hath a mind to

know this matter accurately, let him peruse

the hundred and twenty-third, and hundred

and twenty-fourth books of the history of this

Nicolaus. Now as to this determination of

Agrippa, it is not to be admired; for that

time our nation had not made war against

the Romans. But one may well be astonished

at the generosity of Vespasian and Titus;

that after so great wars and contests which

they had with us, they should use such mode-"

ration. But I will now return to that part of

my history, whence I made the present di­

gression.

It happened in the reign off Antiochus

the Great, who ruled over all Asia, that the

Jews, as well as the inhabitants of Coelesyriaj

suffered greatly; and their land was sorely

harassed. For while he was at war with

PtolemyJ Eupator, and with his son, who was

called Epiphanes, it fell out, that these na­

tions were equally sufferers, both when he

was beaten and when he defeated the others.

So that they were like a ship in a storm,

which is tossed by the Waves on both sides:

and just thus as they were in their situation

in the middle between Antiochus's prosperity,

and its change to adversity. But at length

when Antiochus had beaten Ptolemy, he seiz­

ed upon Judea. And when Philopator was

dead, his son sent a great army under Scopas,

the general of his forces, against the inhabi­

tants of Coelesyria: who took many of their

cities, and in particular our nation; which

when he fell upon them, went over to him.

Yet was it not long afterward when Antiochus

overcame Scopas, in a battle fought at the

fountains of Jordan; and destroyed a great

part of his army. But afterward, when An-

tiochus subdued those cities of Coelesyria

which Scopas had gotten into his possession,

and Samaria with them; the Jews, of their

own accord, went over to him, and received

him into Jerusalem: and gave plentiful pro­

vision to all his army, and to his elephants:

and readily assisted him when he besieged

the garrison which was in the citadel of Je­

rusalem. Wherefore Antiochus thought it

but just to requite the Jews' diligence and

zeal in his service. So he wrote 'to the gene­

rals of his armies, and to his friends; and

gave testimony to the good behaviour of the

Jews towards him; and informed them what

rewards he had resolved to bestow on them

to the Jews and other conquered nations, afford us a very

good reason why Almighty God, upon the rejection of

the Jews for their wickedness, chose them for his people;

and first established Christianity in that empire. Of

which matter, see Constitut. Apost. V. 90. and Euseb. ap.

Prim. Christ. Revived, III. page 456, 457, and Josephus

XIV.10.XVI.il.

* That this Antiochus was Called Avtiox^ ©fos, or  
Antiochus the god, by the Milesians, see Appian Syriac.

p. 210, quoted in the notes on this place.

t Of this Antiochus the Great, and his wars with Pto­

lemy Philopator, and Ptolemy Epiphanes, Spanheim and

Hudson bid us here consult Polybius V. 85, and the Ex-

cerpta out of Polybius, published by Valesius, page 70,-

77, 79, and Hieronymus in Daniel xi. But note, that

those parts of Polybius's XVIth book that are quoted

presently by Josephus, are lost.

J Or rather Philopator.

4. A 1»

