an. 1056.] 269 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to such as were under any calamities; he

was also righteous and humane; which are

good qualities peculiarly fit for kings; nor

was he guilty of any offence in the exercise

of so great an authority, but in the business

of the wife of Uriah. He also left behind him

greater wealth than any other king either of

the Hebrews, or of other nations ever did.

He was buried by his son Solomon, in Je­

rusalem, with great magnificence,* and with

all the other funeral pomp which kings used

to be buried with; moreover he had immense

wealth buried with him;f the vastness of

which may be easily conjectured by what I

shall now say; Jfor a thousand and three

hundred years afterwards, Hyrcanus the high-

priest, when he was besieged by Antiochus,

that was called the Pious, the son of Deme­

trius, and was desirous of giving him money,

to get him to raise the siege, and draw offhis

army, and having no other method of raising

the money, opened one room of David's se­

pulchre, and took out three thousand talents;

and gave part of that sum to Antiochus; and

by this means caused the siege to be raised.

Nay, many years afterward, Herod the king

opened another room and took away a great

deal of money; and yet neither of them came

at the coffins of the kings themselves; for

their bodies were buried under the earth so

* 1 Kings ii. 10. 1 Chron. xxix. 26—30.

t Among several nations indeed it was customary to

bury, along with the princes and other great men, various

things of value, that they took delight in while they lived.

The Egyptians were used to this; and about their mum­

mies are frequently found very precious ornaments.

When Alexander the Great had Cyrus's tomb opened,

there was found therein a bed of gold, a very rich table,

drinking cups, and many fine vestments: but, notwith­

standing all this, several learned men look upon this

whole account of Josephus as a mere fable. For to what

purpose, say they, did Solomon bury all this treasure

under ground, when he had so much occasion for it, when

he was forced to borrow money of the king of Tyre, and

burthen his people with so many heavy taxes to supply

his excessive expenses? How came it, that the other

kings of Judah, who were frequently put to the necessity

of stripping the temple of its precious furniture to satisfy

their greedy enemies, never once adventured to lay hold

on this treasure? How came it to escape the hands of

the Chaldeans, and other nations, that so often had the

plundering of Jerusalem? Or why should Hyrcanus vio­

late this depositum, which his predecessors esteemed more

sacred than the holy vessels of the Lord? These are

questions that cannot easily be resolved; and, what is a

farther confutation of this story, in that very book, from

whence Josephus is supposed to have taken it, it is never

once said, that Hyrcanus broke open David's tomb. The

words of that spurious author are that " Hyrcanus, while

he was besieged by Antiochus, opened a treasure-chamber

which belonged to some of David's descendants, and that,

after he had taken a large sum of money out of it, he still

left a great deal in it, and sealed it up again:" but this

is quite a different thing, and has no manner of relation to

the sepulchre of David. As to the real sepulchre of

David, it is certain, that it was always held in great vene­

ration among the Jews. It was in being in St. Peter's

time,' for so he tells the people, Acts ii. 29. Dio (in

Adriani vita) informs us, that part of it was fallen down

in the emperor Adrian's reign. St. Jerom relates, that

he himself used frequently to go and pray at it; and

modern travellers, as we took notice before, describe

some magnificent monuments hewed in a rock, not far

from Jerusalem, which are doubtless very ancient; but

they themselves do not agree, that they were the sepul­

chres of the kings of Judah. It was somewhat unaccount­

able, however, that the place of this prince's sepulchre,

which both the Chaldeans and the Romans, when they

took Jerusalem, thought proper to spare, should now be

so entirely lost that we cannot find the least remains of it.

But though Providence has so ordered it, that the place

of David's sepulchre should not at present be known, yet

there does not want an eternal monument of his most ex­

cellent genius. The Book of Psalms, which for the

most part was composed by him, does publish the glory of

its author more than the most pompous eulogies; and the

author of Ecclesiasticus, chap, xlvii. 2. &c. has conse­

crated an epitaph to his memory, which is more durable

than either marble or brass:—As the fat is taken away

from the peace-offering, so was David chosen out of the

people of Israel. He played with lions as with kids, and

with bears as with lambs; he slew a giant when he was

young, and took away reproach from the people; for he

called upon the most high Lord, and he gave strength to

his right hand to slay this mighty warrior, and to set up

the horn of his people. So the people honoured him

with ten thousands, and praised him in blessings of the

Lord; for he destroyed the enemies on every side, and

brought to nought the Philistines his adversaries :—In all

his works he praised the Holy One most high, and blessed

the Lord with words of glory :—He set singers also before

the altar, that by their voices they might make sweet

melody, and daily sing praises in their songs. He beau­

tified their feasts, and set their solemn times in perfect

order:—The Lord took away his sons, and exalted his

horn for ever; he gave him a covenant of kings, and a

throne of glory in Israel. Calmefs Commentary, and his

Dictionary, under the word David. B.

J Instead of 1300 years, we are here, by Josephus's

own chronology, to read 980, or, at most, in a round and

large number, 1000 years. But as to some supposals as

if the burial of such riches in or near to David's sepulchre

were a thing incredible, I cannot but wonder at great men,

when they oppose some vain conjectures against the most

authentic evidence we have for these histories; and

that from the best contemporary authors. See XIII. 8.

XVI. 7. Of the War, 1, 2. and Authentic Records, part

I. page 207.

3D2

