an. 742.] 349 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

some to my readers. All which things hap­

pened to Nineveh a hundred and fifteen

years afterward.*

CHAP. XII.

OF THE DEATH OF JOTHAM, AND THE ACCESSION OF AHAZ;

THE INVASION OF JERUSALEM BY THE KINGS OF SYKIA

AND ISRAEL; AND THE SUBSEQUENT ASSISTANCE WHICH

AHAZ RECEIVED FROM TIOLATH-PILESER, KING OF AS­

SYRIA.

NOW Jotham died, when he had lived

forty-one years, and of them reigned

sixteen ;f and he was buried in the sepul­

chres of the kings. The kingdom then came

to his son Ahaz; who proved most impious

towards God,J and a transgressor of the

laws of his country. He imitated the kings

of Israel, and reared altars in Jerusalem,

and offered sacrifices upon them to idols; to

which also he offered his own son as a burnt-

offering;|| according to the practice of the

Canaanites. His other actions were also of

the same sort. Now as he was going on in

this mad course, Rezin, king of Syria and

Damascus, and Pekah, king of Israel, who

were now at amity, made war with him.

And when they had driven him into Jeru­

salem, they besieged that city a long while:

making but a small progress, on account of

the strength of its walls. And when the

king of Syria had taken the city Elath upon

the Red Sea, and had slain the inhabitants,

he peopled it with Syrians; and when he

had slain those in the other garrisons, and

the Jews in their neighbourhood, and had

driven away much prey, he returned with

his army back to Damascus.§ Now when

the king of Jerusalem knew that the Syrians

were returned home, he, supposing himself

a match for the king of Israel, drew out his

army against him, and joining battle with

him was beaten. And this happened be­

cause God was angry with him, on account

of his many and great enormities. Accord­

ingly there were slain by the Israelites one

hundred and twenty thousand of his men

that day: whose general, Amaziah, slew

Zachariah the king's son in this conflict with

Ahaz; as well as the governor of the king­

dom, whose name was Azricam. He also

carried Elkanah, the general of the troops of

the tribe of Judah, into captivity; together

with the women and children of the tribe of

Benjamin. And when they had got a great

deal of prey, they returned to Samaria.**

Now there was one Obed who was a pro­

phet at that time in Samaria; he met the

army, before the city walls: and with a loud

voice told them, that they had got the vic­

tory, not by their own strength, but by the

reason of God's anger against king Ahaz:

and he complained that they were not satis­

fied with the good success they had had

against him: but were so bold as to make

captives out of their kinsmen, the tribes of

Judah and Benjamin. He also gave them

counsel to let them go home, without doing

them any harm; for that if they did not obey

God herein, they should be punished. So

the people of Israel came together to their

assembly, and considered of these matters:

when a man whose name was Berechiah, and

who was one of chief reputation in the

* About an. 611.

t From an. 759 to 743.

J See what great light is given by the exact know­

ledge of this history of Ahaz, Pekah, Rezin, and Tig-

lath Pul Assur to the famous prophecy of Isaiah, chap,

vii. concerning the deliverance of the family of David

from destruction at this time; and its continuance till the

birth of the Messiah of this family, and that of a virgin

also, and concerning some other predictions here con­

cerned; in the Supplement to the Literal Accomplishments

of Prophecies, page 41—54.

II 2 Kings xvi. 3.

§ In the time of Abraham, Damascus was in being;

and some of the ancients inform us, that this patriarch

reigned there immediately after Damascus, its founder.

This much is certain, that one whom he had made free,

and appointed steward of his house, was of Damascus,

Gen. xv. 2. at the time that he pursued Chedorlaomer, and

the five confederated kings, as far as Hobah, which lies

northward of Damascus, Gen. xiv. 15. The Scriptures

say nothing more of this city, until the time of David,

when Hadad, who according to Josephus, Jewish Antiq.

lib. vii. c. 6. was the first who took upon him the title

of king of Damascus, sending troops to the assistance of

Hadadezer king of Zobah, was himself defeated by David,

and his country subdued. Towards the end of Solomon's

reign, Rezin recovered the kingdom of Damascus, and

shook off the Jewish yoke, 1 Kings xi. 23, &c. Some

time after this, Asa king of Judah implored the help of

Benhadad king of Damascus against Baasha king of Israel,

1 Kings xv. 18. And from his time the kings of Damas

cus were generally called Benhadad, till in this last con­

troversy with them, Ahaz called in the assistance of the

king of Assyria, who killed their king, and carried his

subjects into captivity, according to the predictions of

Isaiah, chap. vii. 9. and Amos, chap. vii. Calmefs Dic­

tionary, under the word. B.

** 2 Chron. xxviii. 8.

302

