450 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

livered themselves up upon the security of

oaths, that they should surfer no hard treat­

ment from the king. And when Antiochus

had thus taken the city, he did them no

other harm than sending them out naked.

He also placed a garrison of his own in the

city. But as for the temple of Jerusalem,

he lay at its siege a long time; while they

within bravely defended it. For whatso­

ever engines the king set against them, they

set other engines again to oppose them. But

then their provisions failed; what fruits of

the ground they had laid up were spent;

and the land not being ploughed that year,

continued unsowed, because it was the

seventh year; on which, by our law, we

are obliged to let it lie uncultivated. And

withal so many of the besieged ran away

for want of necessaries, that but a few only

were left in the temple.

U These happened to be the circumstances

of such as were besieged in the temple. But

then, because Lysias, the general of the ar­

my, and Antiochus, the king, were informed,

that Philip was coming upon them out of

Persia; and was endeavouring to gain the

management of public affairs to himself;

they came into these sentiments, to leave

the siege, and to make haste to go against

Philip. Yet did they resolve not to let this

be known to the soldiers or to the officers.

But the king commanded Lysias to speak

openly to the soldiers and the officers,

without saying a word about the business of

Philip; and lo intimate to them that the

siege would be very tedious; that the place

was very strong; that they were already in

want of provisions; that many affairs of the

kingdom wanted regulation; and that it was

much better to make a league with the be­

sieged, and to become friends to their whole

- nation, by permitting them to observe the  
laws of their fathers; while they broke out

into this war only because they were de­

prived of them; and so to depart home.

When Lysias had discoursed thus, both the

army and the officers were pleased with this

resolution.

Accordingly the king sent to Judas, and

* 1 Mace. vi. 62.

t If we here understand by Alcimus's or Jacirous's be­

ing made high-priest, his being confirmed in that dignity,

which he had claimed and usurped before; both in this

to those that were besieged with him; and

promised to give them peace, and to permit

them to make use of, and live according to,

the laws of their fathers. And they gladly

received his proposals. And when they had

gained security upon oath, for their per­

formance, they went out of the temple. But

when Antiochus came into it, and saw how

strong the place was, he broke his oaths,

and ordered his army that was there, to

pluck down the walls to the ground;* and

when he had so done, he returned to An-

tioch: he also carried with him Onias, the

high-priest, who was also called Menelaus.

For Lysias advised the king to slay Mene­

laus, if he would have the Jews be quiet,

and cause him no farther disturbance: for

that this man was the origin of all the mis­

chief the Jews had done them; by persuad­

ing his father to compel the Jews to leave

the religion of their fathers. So the king

sent Menelaus to Berea, a city of Syria;

and there had him put to death, when he

had been high-priest ten years. He had

been a wicked and an impious man; and,

in order to get the government to himself,

had compelled his nation to transgress their

own laws. After the death of Menelaus,f

Alcimus, who was also called Jacimus, was

made high-priest. But when king Antiochus

found that Philip had already possessed him­

self of the government, he made war against

him, and subdued him, and took him, and

slew him. Now as to Onias, the son of the

high-priest, who, as we before informed

you, was left a child when his father died;

when he saw that the king had slain his

uncle Menelaus, and given the high-priest­

hood to Alcimus, who was not of the high-

priests' stock; but as induced by Lysias

to translate that dignity from this family

to another house, he fled to Ptolemy, king

of Egypt. And when he found he was in

great esteem with him, and with his wife

Cleopatra, he desired, and obtained a place

in the Nomus of Heliopolis, wherein he

built a temple, like to that at Jerusalem;

of which therefore, we shall hereafter give

an account.

place, and in the parallel place, 1 Mace. vii. 5. whence

Josephus took the history; this will agree with the series

of the present transactions: otherwise not.

