502 [book xiv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

which had elevated itself so high before,

within its own bounds. Moreover he Re­

built Gadara, which had been demolished a

little before, to gratify Demetrius of Gadara,

who was his freed man; and restored the rest

of the cities, Hippos, Scythopolis, Pella,

Dios, and Samaria; as also Marissa, Ashdod,

Jamnia, and Arethusa, to their own inhabit­

ants: these were in the inland parts. Besides

those that had been demolished; and also

of the maritime cities, Gaza, Joppa, Dora,

and Strato's Tower: which last Herod re­

built after a glorious manner, and adorned

with havens and temples; and changed its

name to Caesarea. All these Pompey left in

a state of freedom; and joined them to the

province of Syria.

Now the occasions of this misery which

came upon Jerusalem, were Hyrcanus and

Aristobulus; by raising a sedition one against

the other. For now we lost our liberty ,t and

became subject to the Romans; and were

deprived of that country which we had gained

by our arms from the Syrians; and were com­

pelled to restore it to them. The Romans

also exacted of us, in a little time, above ten

thousand talents. And the royal authority,

which was a dignity formerly bestowed on

those that were high-priests, by the right of

their family, became the property of private

men. But of these matters we shall treat in

their proper places. Now Pompey committed

Coelesyria, as far as the river Euphrates and

Egypt, to Scaurus, with two Roman legions;

and then went away to Cilicia; and made

haste to Rome. He also carried with him

Aristobulus and his children. For he had

two daughters, and as many sons: one of

which ran away; but the younger, Antigonus,

w as carried to Rome, together with his sisters.

CHAP. V.

OF THE LEAGUE OF BTOTUAL ASSISTANCE WHICH SCAURUS

MADE WITH ARETAS J AND WHAT GABINIUS DID IN JCDF.A,

AFTER HE HAD CONQUERED ALEXANDER, THE SON OF

ARISTOBULUS.

SCAURUS now made an expedition!

against Petra, in Arabia, and set on fire

all the surrounding places, because of the

great difficulty of access to it. And as his

army was pinched by famine, Antipater fur­

nished him with corn out of Judea, and with

whatever else he wanted, and this at the com­

mand of Hyrcanus. And when he was sent

to Aretas, as an ambassador, by Scaurus, be­

cause he had lived with him formerly; he

persuaded Aretas to give Scaurus a sum of

money, to prevent the burning of his country;

and undertook to be his surety for three hun­

dred talents. So Scaurus, upon these terms,

ceased to make war any longer: which was

done as much at Scaurus's desire, as at the

desire of Aretas.

Some time afterward, when Alexander, the

son of Aristobulus, made an incursion into

Judea, Gabinius came from Rome to Syria,

as commander of the Roman forces. He did

* Of the destruction of Gadara, here presupposed, and  
its restoration by Pompey, see the note, On the War,

I. 7. Of this Demetrius of Gadara, Pompey's freed man,

we have mention both by Seneca and Plutarch, as Dr.

Hudson here notes; and from the restitution of these

cities, an aera of the Greeks takes date, in the Greek

collections for Eusebius, set down in Scaliger; and was

taken from the 179th Olympiad; as Spanheim observes.

t Before this, the government had been managed, under

the prince, by two sorts of councils, or courts of justice;

one consisting of twenty-three persons, called the Lesser

Sanhedrim; and the other, of seventy-two, called the

Greater Sanhedrim. Of the first sort there was one in

every city; only in Jerusalem, (because of the greatness

of the place,) there were two, which sat apart from each

other in two distinct rooms. Of the latter sort there was

only one in the whole land. The Lesser Sanhedrim des­

patched all affairs of justice arising within the respective

cities where they sat, and the precincts belonging to them.

The Great Sanhedrim presided over the affairs of the.

whole nation, received appeals from the Lesser Sanhedrims,

interpreted the laws, and, by new institutions from time to

time, regulated the execution of them. All this Gabinius

abolished; and, instead thereof, erected five courts, or

Sanhedrims, and invested them all with sovereign power,

independent of each other. The first of them he placed

at Jerusalem; the second at Jericho; the third at Gadara;

the fourth at Amathus; and the fifth at Sepphoris; and

having, under these five cities, divided the land into five

provinces, he ordered the inhabitants of each to repair to

the court which he had there erected, and from which

there was no appeal, except it was to Rome. Besides the

two sorts of Sanhedrims abovementioned, there was a

third court among the Jews, which was not affected by any

of these alterations, and that was the court of three, insti­

tuted for the deciding all controversies about bargains,

sales, contracts, and all other such matters of common

right between man and man. In all which cases, one of

the litigants chose one judge, and the other another, and

these two chose a third, which three constituted a court

to hear, and ultimately determine the matter in contest.

Talmud in Sanhedrim; Lightfoofs Prospect of the Tttnplt,

chap. 20 and 22; and Joseph. Antiq. lib. 14. C 10. B.

X An. 62.

