AN. 610,] 363 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

prive them of all the happiness they enjoyed;

which sentence none could set aside; since

it was passed on account of their transgres­

sion of the laws, and of their not having re-

Eented in so long a time while the prophets

ad exhorted them to amend, and had fore­

told the punishment that would ensue on

their impious practices; which threatening

God would certainly execute upon them;

that they might be persuaded that he was

God, and had not deceived them in any re­

spect, as to what he had denounced by the

prophets: that yet, because Josiah was a

righteous man, he would at present delay

those calamities; but that after his death he

would send on the multitude what miseries

he had determined for them."*

So the messengers, upon this prophecy of

the woman, came and told it to the king.

Whereupon he sent to the people every

where, and ordered that the priests and Le-

vites should come together to Jerusalem; and

commanded that those of every age should

be present. And when they were gathered

together, he first read to them the holy

books; after which he stood upon a pulpit,

in the midst of the multitude, and obliged

them to make a covenant, with an oath,

that they would worship God, and keep

the laws of Moses. Accordingly they gave

their assent willingly; and undertook to do

what the king had recommended. So they

immediately offered sacrifices, after an ac­

ceptable manner; and besought God to be

gracious and merciful to them. He also

enjoined the high-priest, that if there re­

mained in the temple any vessels dedicated

to idols, or to foreign gods, they should cast

them out. So when a great number of such

vessels were got together, he burnt them,

and scattered their ashes abroad; and slew

the priests of the idols, that were not of the

family of Aaron.

When he had done thus in Jerusalem, he

went into the country, and utterly destroyed

what buildings had been made therein, by

king Jeroboam, in honour of strange gods;

and he burnt the bones of the false prophets

upon that altar which Jeroboam first built, t

And as the prophet Jadon, who came to

Jeroboam, when he was offering sacrifice,

and when all the people heard him, fore­

told what would come to pass, viz. that a

certain man of the house of David, Josiah

by name, should do what is here mentioned.

And it happened that those predictions took

effect after three hundred and sixty-one

years.J

After the9e things, Josiah went to such

other Israelites as had escaped captivity unT

der the Assyrians; and persuaded them to

desist from their impious practices, and to

leave off the honours they paid to the

strange gods; but to worship rightly their

own Almighty God, and adhere to him. He

also searched the houses, the villages, and

the cities, out of a suspicion that somebody

might have idols in private. Nay indeed,

he took away the chariots of the sun|| that

were set up in his royal palace; which his

predecessors had framed; and what thing

soever there was besides which they wor­

shipped as a god: and when he had thus

purged all the country, he called the people

to Jerusalem, and there celebrated the feast

of unleavened bread, and that called the

passover.§ He also gave the people, for

paschal sacrifices, thirty thousand young

* That this book of the law of Moses, laid up in the  
holy house itself, was a small book of the principal laws of

righteousness, and not the entire Pentateuch itself, which

was laid up only in one of the courts of the temple, see

Horeb Covenant revived, page 107, 108.

t 2 Kings xxii. 15—20.

!2 Kings xxiii. 15.

It is difficult to reconcile the account in the second

book of Kings xxiii. 11. with this account in Josephus;

and to translate this passage truly in Josephus; whose

copies are supposed to be here imperfect. However,

the general sense of both seems to be this: that there

were certain chariots with their horses, dedicated to

the idol of the sun, or to Moloch; which idol might

be carried about in procession, and worshipped by the

people: these chariots were now taken away, as Jo-

voL. I.—NOS. 31 & 32.

sephus says; or, as the book of Kings says, burnt with

fire by Josiah.

§ The words of the text are—Surely there was not held

such a passover, from the days of the judges, nor in all

the days of the kings of Israel, and of the kings of Judah,

2 Kings xxiii. 22. which, taken in a literal sense, must

denote, that this passover, which was celebrated by two

tribes only, was more numerous, and more magnificent

than all those that were observed in the days of David

and Solomon, in the most happy and flourishing state of

the Jewish monarchy, and when the twelve tribes were

met together, to solemnize that feast. It may not be

amiss therefore to allow, that, in these expressions, there

is a kind of auxesis or exajjgeration, not unusual in sacred,

as well as in profane authors. For nothing is more com­

mon than to say, "Never was so much splendour and

3Q

