AN. 161.] 453 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

festival day. The Jewish nation were, for

some time afterward, free from wars, and en­

joyed peace. But they returned into their

former state of wars and hazards.

Now, as the high-priest, Alcimus, was re­

solving to pull down the wall of the sanctu­

ary, which had been there of old time, and

had been built by the holy prophets,* he was

smitten suddenly by God. This stroke made

him fall down speechless upon the ground;

and undergoing torments for many days, he

at length died; when he had been high-priest

four years. And when he was dead, the

people bestowed the high-priesthood on

fJudas. Who hearing of the powerJ of the

Romans, and that they had conquered in war

Galatia, Iberia, Carthage, and Libya; and

that, besides these, they had subdued Greece,

and the kings Perseus and Philip, and Anti-

ochus the Great; he resolved to enter into a

league of friendship with them. He there­

fore sent to Rome some of his friends; Eupo-

lemus the son of John, and Jason the son of

Eleazar; and by them desired the Romans

that they would assist them, and be their

friends; and would write to Demetrius that

he would not fight against the Jews. So the

senate received the ambassadors that came

to Rome from Judns, and discoursed with

them about the errand on which they came;

and then granted them a league of assistance.

They also made a decree concerning it, and

sent a copy of it into Judea. It was also laid

up in the capitol, and engraven in brass. The

decree itself was this:—

"The decree of the senate concerning a

league of assistance and friendship with the

nation of the Jews. It shall not be lawful

for any that are subject to the Romans to

make war with the nation of the Jews, nor to

assist those that do so; either by sending

them corn, ships, or money. And if any

attack be made upon the Jews, the Romans

shall assist them as far as they are able. And

again, if any attack be made upon the Ro­

mans, the Jews shall assist them. And if the

nation of the Jews have a mind to add to, or

to take away any thing from this league of

assistance, that shall be done with the com­

mon consent of the Romans. And whatso­

ever addition shall thus be made, it shall be

of force."

This decree was written by Eupolemus,

the son of John, and by Jason, the son of

Eleazar;|| when Judas was the high-priest

of the nation, and Simon, his brother, was

general of the army. And this was the first

league that the Romans made with the Jews.

CHAP. XI.

OF THE SECOND EXPEDITION OF BACCHIDES AGAINST THE

JEWS, AND THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEUS.

WHEN Demetrius was informed of the

death of Nicanor, and of the destruc­

tion of the army that was with him, he sent

Bacchides again with an army into Judea.

Accordingly, he marched out of Antioch, and

came into Judea, and pitched his camp at

Arbela, a city of Galilee; and having besieged

Megillath Taanith. They now fast on that day, in me­

mory of Esther's fast before the days of Purim." See

2 Mace. xv. 36.

* This account of the miserable death of Alcimus or  
Jacimus, the wicked high-priest, (the first that was not of

the family of the high-priest, and made by a vile heathen

Lysias ;) before the death of Judas; and of Judas's suc­

cession to him as high-priest, both here and at the con­

clusion of this book, directly contradicts 1 Mace. ix. 54

57. which places his death after that of Judas; and says

not a syllable of the high-priesthood of Judas. This ac­

count is also inconsistent with Josephus's own most accu­

rate scheme of the chronology of the Jewish high-priests,

at the end of the Antiquities: where, instead of any years'

high-priesthood ascrihed to Judas, which are three years

at the end of this 12th book, he makes an interregnum in

the pontificate after Alcimus or Jacimus, for seven years;

and allows Alcimus or Jacimus to have been high-priest

but three years, instead of four years here. These errors

seem to imply, that the copy of the first book of Macca­

bees, which Josephus used when he wrote this 12th book,

had the number four for the duration of Akimus's high-

priesthood; and had a dislocation of the verses above-

mentioned; which then appeared at the end of the 7th

chapter; and that afterwards he met with a better copy,

whence he corrected his former errors. Which is a

thing by no means unusual in the works of this author.

t That the Asmoneans might be the direct heirs of the

high-priesthood of Judea upon the extirpation of the old

family from Joshua, the son of Josedek, see Prideaux,

at the years 153 and 141.

J How well the Roman histories agree with this ac­

count of the conquests and powerful condition of the Ro­

mans at this time, see the notes in Havereamp's edition.

Only that the number of the senators of Rome was then

just 320, is, I think, only known from 1 Maccabees viii. 15.

II This subscription is wanting, 1 Mace. viii. 17, 29.

and must be the words of Josephus; who, by mistake,

thought, as we have just now seen, that Judas was at this

time high-priest; and accordingly reckoned his brother

Jonathan to be then general of the army; which yet he

seems not to have been till after the death of Judas.

4D2

