an. 1492.] 139 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them for what mischief they did them when

they were in the wilderness; and that when

they had got possession of the land of the

Canaanites, and when they had destroyed the

whole multitude of its inhabitants, as they

ought to do, they should erect an altar that

should face the rising sun, not far from the

city Shechem; between the two mountains,

that of Gerizim, situate on the right hand,

and that called Ebal, on the left;* and that

the army should be divided, that six tribes

should stand upon each of the two mountains,

and with them the Levites and the priests.

And that first, those that were upon mount

Gerizim should pray for the best blessings

upon those who were diligent about the wor­

ship of God, and the observance of his laws,

and who did not reject what Moses had said

to them, while the other wished them all

manner of happiness also. And when these

last put up the like prayers, the former

praised them. After this, curses were de­

nounced upon those who should transgress

those laws; they answering one another alter­

nately by way of confirmation of what had

been said. Moses also wrote their blessings

and their curses; that they may learn them

so thoroughly, that they might never be for­

gotten by length of time. And when he was

ready to die, he wrote these blessings and

curses upon the altar on each side of it;

where he says also the people stood, and then

sacrificed, and offered burnt offerings, though

after that day they never offered upon it any

other sacrifice, for it was not lawful so to do.

These are the constitutions of Moses, and the

Hebrew nation still live according to them.

On the next day Moses called the people

together, with the women and children, to a

congregation; so as the very slaves were pre­

sent also, that they might engage themselves

to the observance of these laws by oath; and

that duly considering the meaning of God in

them, they might not, either for favour of their

kindred, or out of fear of any one, or indeed

for any motive whatsoever, think any thing

ought to be preferred to these laws, and so

* Deut. xxvii. 12.

t Dr. Bernard well observes here, how unfortunate this

neglect of consulting the Urim was to Joshua himself, in

the case of the Gibeonites; who put a trick npon him,

and ensnared him, together with the rest of the Jewish

rulers with a solemn oath to preserve them; contrary to

voL. I.—NOS. 11 & 12.

might transgress them; that in case any one

of their own blood, or any city, should at­

tempt to confound or dissolve their constitu­

tion of government, they should take ven­

geance upon them both, all in general, and

each person in particular; and when they

had conquered them, should overturn their

city to the very foundations, and, if possible,

should not leave the least vestige of such

madness; but if they were not able to take

such vengeance, they should still demonstrate

that what was done was contrary to their

wills. So the multitude bound themselves by

oath so to do.

Moses taught them also by what means their

sacrifices might be most acceptable to God;

and how they should go forth to war, making

use off the stones in the high-priest's breast­

plate for their direction, as I have before sig­

nified. Joshua also prophesiedJ while Moses

was present. And when Moses had recapitu­

lated whatsoever he had done for the preser­

vation of the people, both in their wars and

in peace; and had composed them a body of

laws, and procured them an excellent form of

government, he foretold, as God had declared

to him, that if they transgressed that institu­

tion for the worship of God, they should ex­

perience the following miseries: their land

should be full of weapons of war from their

enemies, their cities should be overthrown,

and their temple should be burnt; that they

should be sold for slaves to such men as

would have no pity on them in their afflic­

tions; and that they would repent, when that

repentance would no way profit them under

their sufferings. "Yet," said he, "will that

God who founded your nation, restore your

cities to your citizens, with their temple also,

and you shall lose these advantages not once

only, but often."

Now when Moses had encouraged Joshua

to lead out the army against the Canaanites,

by telling him that God would assist him in

all his undertakings, and had blessed the

whole multitude, he said, "Since T am going

to my forefathers, and God has determined

his commission to extirpate all the Canaanites; which oath

yet he and the other rulers never durst break And this

snare they were brought into because they did not ask

counsel at the moutb of the Lord. Josh. ix. 14.

I Deut . xxxiv 9

LI

