AN.no.] 481 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

her generals Chelcias and Ananias, the sons

of that Onias who built the temple in the

prefecture of Heliopolis, like to that at Je­

rusalem; as we have *elsewhere related.

Cleopatra entrusted these men with her ar­

my; and did nothing without their advice; as

fStrabo of Cappadocia attests, when he saith

thus, "Now the greater part, both those that

came to Cyprus with us, and those that were

sent afterward thither, revolted to Ptolemy

immediately. Only those that were called

Onias's party, being Jews, continued faithful:

because their countrymen Chelcias and Ana­

nias were in chief favour with the queen."

This prosperous state of affairs however

moved the Jews to envy Hyrcanus; but they

that were the worst disposed to him were the

JPharisees, who are one of the sects of the

Jews, as we have ||observed already. These

have so great a power over the multitude,

that when they say any thing against the

king, or against the high-priest, they are pre­

sently believed. Now Hyrcanus was a dis­

ciple of theirs; and greatly beloved by them.

And when he once invited them to a feast,

and entertained them very kindly; when he

saw them in a good humour, he began to

say to them, that they knew he was desirous

to be a righteous man, and to do all things

whereby he might please God: which was the

£rofession of the Pharisees also. However,

e desired that if they observed him offending

in any point, and going out of the right way,

they would recall him back, and correct him.

On this occasion they attested to his being

entirely virtuous; with which commendation

he was well pleased. But still there was one

of his guests there, whose name was §Elea-

zar, a man of an ill temper, and delighting in

seditious practices. This man said: "Since

thou desirest to know the truth, if thou wilt

be righteous in earnest, lay down thy high-

priesthood, and content thyself with the civil

government of the people." And when he de­

sired to know for what cause he ought to lay

down the high-priesthood: the other replied,

"We have heard it from old men, that thy

mother had been a captive under the reign of

Antiochus Epiphanes." This story was false:

and both Hyrcanus and all the Pharisees had

a very great indignation against him.

Now there was one Jonathan, a great friend

of Hyrcanus's, but of the sect of the Saddu­

cees;** whose notions are quite contrary to

those of the Pharisees. He told Hyrcanus,

that "Eleazar had cast such a reproach upon

* Book XII. chap. 9.

t We may observe here, that this and nine more of

Josephus's citations out of Strabo, are not now extant:

nay, that no more than one of his ten citations out of him

are now extant: which is that taken out of his geography.

The occasion is evident; that though Strabo's geography

be extant, yet are all his historical writings lost. See

Fabricius on Strabo, Biblioth. Graec. IV. 1, 7.

I The origin of the Sadducees, as a considerable party,

among the Jews, being contained in this and the two fol­

lowing sections, take Dean Prideaux's note upon this

their first public appearance: which I suppose to be true.

"Hyrcanus," says he, "went over to the party of the

Sadducees; that is, by embracing their doctrine against

the traditions of the elders, added to the written law, and

made of equal authority with it: but not their doctrine

against the resurrection, and a future state. For this can­

not be supposed of so good and righteous a man as John

Hyrcanus is said to be. It is most probable, that at this

time the Sadducees had gone no farther in the doctrines

of that sect, than to deny all their unwritten traditions,

which the Pharisees were so fond of. For Josephus

mentions no other difference at this time between them:

neither doth he say that Hyrcanus went over to the Sad­

ducees in any other particular than in the abolishing of

all the traditionary constitutions of the Pharisees: which

our Saviour condemned as well as they."

II Chap. 5.

§ This slander, that arose from a Pharisee, has been

preserved by their successors, the Rabbins, to these latter

ages. For Dr. Hudson assures us, that David Ganz, in

his Chronology, S. Pr. page 77, in Vorstius's version, re­

lates that Hyrcanus's mother was taken captive in mount

Modiith. Sec chap. 13, and Reland in Palaestin. page 901.

** In what sense the Sadducees denied the existence of  
angels, it is difficult to determine, since they certainly

acknowledge the authority of the Pentateuch. Some

pretend, that they accounted the invention of angels but

a novel thing, and that their very name was never heard

of, until the return from the captivity, and therefore they

rejected them; whilst others suppose, that they looked

upon them as the inseparable powers of God, which,

like the rays of the sun, without being parted from that

planet, shine and shed their influence here below. But

now considering that the Sadducees received the five

books of Moses, they could hardly entertain any such

notions as these. As therein they read of frequent appa­

ritions of angels, they could not fancy them a new inven­

tion of Rabbins that had returned from the captivity.

As they saw in these books, that they properly came

down from heaven upon earth, they could not imagine

that they were beings inseparable from the Deity; and

therefore we may suppose, that they rather looked upon

them only as so many phantasms; and that, as the bodies,

which these angels put on, had perhaps only the appear­

ance of human bodies, the same notion they might have

of the spirits which animated them; because every thing

except God, in their opinion, was material. Basnage's

History of the Jews, lib. 1. c. 6. Mr. Basnage, though he

allows the question to be difficult, seems to be of a contrary

