an. 1097.] 219 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

body after the victory, supposing that the

battle with the enemy succeeded to their

mind: which promise of honour and confi­

dence he made on purpose to increase his

zeal for his service.

Now Saul, the king of the Hebrews, had

cast out of the country the fortune-tellers, the

necromancers, and all such as exercised the

like arts; excepting the prophets. But when

he heard the Philistines were already come,

and had pitched their camp very near to the

city Shunem, situate in the plain, he hastened

to oppose them with his forces. And when

he was come to a certain mountain called

Gilboa, he pitched his camp over against the

enemy. But when he saw the enemy's army

he was greatly troubled; because it appeared

to him to be numerous, and superior to his

own; and he inquired of God, by the pro­

phets, concerning the battle, that he might

know beforehand what would be the event.

And when God did not answer him, Saul was

under a still greater dread, and his courage

fell; foreseeing, as was but reasonable to sup­

pose, that mischief would befall him, now

God was not there to assist him. Yet did he

bid his servants to inquire for some woman

that was a necromancer, and called up the

souls of the dead; that so he might know

whether his affairs would succeed to his mind.

For this sort of necromantic women, who

bring up the souls of the dead, do by them

foretel future events to such as desire them.

And one of his servants told him, that there

was such a woman in the city Endor, but she

was known to nobody in the camp. Here­

upon Saul put off his royal apparel, and took

two of those servants whom he knew to be

most faithful to him, and came to Endor to the

woman, and intreated her to act the part of a

fortune-teller, and to bring up such a soul to

him as he should name. But the woman op­

posed his motion; and said, she did not de­

spise the king, who had banished this sort of

fortune-tellers; and that he did not do well

himself when she had done him no harm, to

endeavour to lay a snare for her, and to dis­

cover she exercised a forbidden art, in order

to procure her to be punished. Saul, how­

ever, sware that nobody should know what

she did; and that he would not tell any one

else what she foretold; but that she should

incur no danger. As soon, therefore, as he

had induced her by this oath to fear no harm,

he bade her bring up to him the soul of

Samuel. She not knowing who Samuel was,

called him out of Hades. When he appeared,

and the woman saw one that was venerable,

and of a divine form, she was in disorder;

and being astonished at the sight, she said,

"Art not thou king Saul?" for Samuel had

informed her who he was. When he had

owned that to be true, and had asked her,

whence her disorder arose? she said that she

saw a certain person ascend, who in his form

was like to a god. And when he bade her

tell him what he resembled; in what habit

he appeared; and of what age he was; she

told him he was an old man, and of a glorious

personage, and had on a sacerdotal mantle.*

So the king discovered by these signs that he

was Samuel; and he fell down upon the

ground, and saluted, and worshipped him.

And when the soul of Samuel asked him,

why he had disturbed him, and caused him

to be brought up, he lamented the necessity

he was under: for, he said, his enemies

pressed heavily upon him; that he was in

distress what to do in his present circum­

stances; that he was forsaken of God, and

could obtain no prediction of what was

coming, neither by prophets, nor by dreams.

And these were the reasons why he had re­

course to him. Butf Samuel seeing the end

of Saul's life was come, said, "It is in vain

for thee to desire to learn of me any thing

farther, when God hath forsaken thee. How­

ever, hear what I say:—David is to be king,

and to finish this war with good success, and

thou art to lose thy dominion and thy life;

because thou didst not obey God in the war

with the Amalekites, and hast not kept his

* 1 Sara zxviii. 14.

t This history of Saul's consultation, not with a witch,

as we render the Hebrew word here; but with a necro­

mancer, as the whole history shews, is easily understood;

especially, if we consult the recognitions of Clement, 1.

5. 11. 13. at large; and more briefly, and nearer the days

of Samuel, Ecclus. xlvi. 20. "Samuel prophesied after

his death; and shewed the king his end; and lift up his

voL. I.—NOS. 19 Jj 20.

voice from the earth in prophecy, to blot out the wicked­

ness of the people." Nor does the exactness of the ac­

complishment of this prediction the very next day, permit

us to suppose any imposition upon Saul in the present

history. For as to all modern hypotheses, against the

natural sense of such ancient and authentic histories, 1

consider them of very small value or importance.

Xx

