41$ [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

But the elders of Jerusalem being very un­

easy that the brother of Jaddua the high-

priest, though married to a foreigner, should

be a partner with him in the high-priesthood,

quarrelled with him. For they esteemed this

man's marriage a step to such as should be

desirous of transgressing about the marriage

of strange wives; and that this would be

the beginning of a mutual intercourse with

foreigners; although the offence of some

about marriages, and their having married

wives that were not of their own country, had

been an occasion of their former captivity,

and of the miseries they then underwent. So

they commanded Mauasseh to divorce his

wife, or not to approach the altar: the high-

priest himself joining with the people in their

indignation against his brother, and driving

him away from the altar. Whereupon Ma­

uasseh came to his father-in-law, Sanhallat,

and told him, that although he loved his

daughter Nicaso, yet he was not willing to be

deprived of his sacerdotal dignity on her ac­

count; which was the principal dignity in

their nation, and always continued in the

same family. But Sanballat promised not

only to preserve to him the honour of his

priesthood, but to procure for him the power

and dignity of a high-priest, and to make him

governor of all the places he himself now

ruled, if he would keep his daughter for his

wife. He also told him farther, that he would

build him a temple like to that at Jerusalem,

upon mount Gerizzim; which is the highest

of all the mountains that are in Samaria: and

he promised that he would do this with the

approbation of Darius the king. Manasseh

was elevated with these promises; and staid

with Sanballat; upon a supposal that he

should gain a high-priesthood, as bestowed

on him by Darius. For it happened that

Sanballat was then in years. But there was

now a great disturbance among the people of

Jerusalem, because many of those priests and

Levites were entangled in such matches.

For they all revolted to Manasseh: and San­

ballat afforded them money; and divided

among them land for tillage, and habitations

also; and all this in order to gratify his son-

in-law.

About this* time Darius heard how Alex-

* An. 334.

ander had passed over the Hellespont; and

had beaten his lieutenants, in the battle at

Granicum; and was proceeding farther.

Whereupon he assembled an army of horse

and foot, and determined that he would meet

the Macedonians, before they should assault

and conquer all Asia. So he passed over the

river Euphrates; and came over Taurus, the

Celician mountain; and at Issus of Cilicia he

waited for the enemy, as ready there to give

him battle. Now Sanballat was glad that

Darius was come down; and told Manasseh

that he would perform his promises to him as

soon as Darius should come back, after he

had beaten his enemies. For not he only,

but all those that were in Asia also, were per­

suaded that the Macedonians would not so

much as come to a battle with the Persians;

on account of their multitude. But the event

proved otherwise than they expected. For

the king joined battle with the Macedonians,

and was beaten, and lost a great part of his

army. His mother also, with his wife, and

children, were taken captives; and he fled

into Persia. So Alexander came into Syria,

and took Damascus: and when he had ob­

tained Sidon, he besieged Tyre. He then

sent an epistle to the Jewish high-priest, re­

quiring him to send him some auxiliaries; and

to supply his army with provisions: and that

what presents he formerly sent to Darius he

would now send to him; and choose the

friendship of the Macedonians: and that he

should never repent of so doing. But the

high-priest answered the messengers, that he

had given his oath to Darius, not to bear arms

against him: and he said he would not trans­

gress it, while Darius was in the land of the

living. Upon hearing this answer, Alexander

was very angry; and though he determined

not to leave Tyre, which was just ready to

be taken; yet as soc> o as he had taken it, he

threatened that he would make an expedition

against the Jewish high-priest, and through

him teach all men to whom they must keep

their oaths. So when he had, with a good

deal of pains, during the 6iege, taken Tyre,

and had settled its affairs, he came to the

city of Gaza, and besieged both the city, and

him that was governor of the garrison, whose

name was Babemeses.

But Sanballat thought he had now a proper

opportunity of making his attempt. So he

