506 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

these men are hindered from their depreda­

tions upon their neighbours, their custom is

to prey one upon another; insomuch that no

sort of injustice comes amiss to them. But

when Herod had received this grant from

Caesar, and was come into this country, he

procured skilful guides, and put a stop to

their wicked robberies, and procured peace

and quietness to the neighbouring people.

Hereupon Zenodorus was grieved, in the

first place, because his principality was taken

away from him; and still more so, because he

envied Herod, who had gotten it. So he

went up to Rome to accuse him; but returned

back without success. Now Agrippa was,

about this time, sent to succeed Caesar in the

government of the countries beyond the Ionian

sea; and Herod met with him when he was

wintering about *Mitylene; (for he had been

his particular friend and companion;) and

then returned into Judea again. Some of the

Gadarenes now came to Agrippa, and accused

Herod; but they were sent back bound to the

king, without a hearing. The Arabians, how­

ever, who of old bare ill will to Herod's go­

vernment, were incensed, and at that time

attempted to raise a sedition in his dominions;

and, as they thought, upon a more justifiable

occasion. For Zenodorus, despairing already

of success as to his own affairs, prevented his

enemies by selling to those Arabians a part of

his principality, called Auranitis, for the value

of fifty talents. But as this was included in

the donation of Caesar, they contested the

point with Herod, as unjustly deprived of

what they had bought. Sometimes they did

this by making incursions upon his territories,

sometimes by attempting force against him,

and sometimes by going to law with him.

They also persuaded the poorer soldiers to

help them, and were troublesome to him; out

of a constant hope that they should induce

the people to raise a sedition. In which de­

signs those that are in the most miserable cir­

cumstances of life are still the most earnest.

And although Herod had been a great while

apprised of these attempts; yet did not he in­

dulge any severity against them; but by ra­

tional methods aimed to mitigate things, as

not willing to give any handle for tumults.

Now4- when Herod had reigned for seven-

* These cities, Mitylene and Gadara, have both coins  
still extant; as Spanheim here informs us.

teen years, Caesar came into Syria: at which

time the greatest part of the inhabitants of

Gadara clamoured against Herod, as one that

was heavy in his injunctions, and tyrannical.

These reproaches they chiefly ventured upon

by the encouragement of Zenodorus; who

took his oath that he would never leave Herod

till he had procured that they should be sepa­

rated from Herod's kingdom, and joined to

Caesar's province. The Gadarenes were in­

duced hereby, and made no small cry against

him: and that the more boldly, because those

that had been delivered up by Agrippa, were

not punished by Herod; who let them go,

and did them no harm. For indeed he was

the principal man in the world who appeared

almost inexorable in punishing crime in his

own family; but very generous in remitting

the offences that were committed elsewhere.

And while they accused Herod of injuries,

and plunderings, and subversions of temples,

he stood unconcerned, and was ready to make

his defence. However, Caesar gave him his

right hand; and remitted nothing of his kind­

ness to him, upon this disturbance by the

multitude. And indeed these things were

alleged the first day: but the hearing pro­

ceeded no farther. For as the Gadarenes

saw the inclination of Caesar and of his asses­

sors; and expected, as they had reason to do,

that they should be delivered up to the king;

some of them, out of a dread of the torments

they might undergo, cut their own throats in

the night, and some of them threw themselves

down precipices; and others cast themselves

into the river, and destroyed themselves of

their own accord. Which accidents seemed

a sufficient condemnation of the rashness and

crimes they had been guilty of. Hereupon

Caesar made no longer delay, but cleared

Herod from the crimes he was accused of.

Another happy accident there was, which was

a farther great advantage to Herod at this

time. For Zenodorus's belly burst, and a

great quantity of blood issued from him in his

sickness, and he thereby departed this life at

Antioch in Syria. So Caesar bestowed his

country upon Herod. It lay between Trachon

and Galilee; and contained Ulatha, and Pa-

neas, and the country round about. He also

made him one of the procurators of Syria;

t An. 21.

