ah. 48.] 507 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

flight. He also took their camp, and con­

tinued in the pursuit of them. He then re­

called Mithridates who had been worsted,

and was retired a great way off! Of whose

soldiers eight hundred fell; but of Antipater's

fifty. So Mithridates sent an account of this

battle to Caesar; and openly declared, that

Antipater was the author of this victory, and

of his own preservation. Insomuch that Caesar

commended Antipater; and made use of him

in all the rest of that war in the most hazard­

ous undertakings: he happened also to be

wounded in one of those engagements.

However, when Caesar, after some time,

had finished that war, and was sailed away

for Syria, he honoured Antipater greatly; and

confirmed Hyrcanus in the high-priesthood;

and bestowed on Antipater the privilege of a

citizen of Rome, and a freedom from taxes

every where. It is reported indeed by many,

that Hyrcanus went along with Antipater in

this expedition, and came himself into Egypt:

and Strabo of Cappadocia bears witness to

this, when he says thus, in the name of Asi-

nius, "After Mithridates had invaded Egypt,

and with him Hyrcanus the high-priest of the

Jews." The same Strabo says thus again, in

another place, in the name of Hypsicrates:

that "Mithridates at first went out alone; but

Antipater, who had the care of the Jewish

affairs, was called by him to Ascalon; and

that he had three thousand soldiers ready to

go along with him; and encouraged other

governors of the country to go along with him

also; and Hyrcanus. the high-priest, was also

present in this expedition."

But Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, came

at this time to Caesar; and lamented his

father's fate; and complained that it was by

Antipater's means that Aristobulus was taken

off by poison, and his brother was beheaded

by Scipio; and desired that he would take

pity on him, who had been ejected out of that

principality which was due to him. He also

accused Hyrcanus and Antipater as governing

the nation by violence; and offering injuries

to himself. Antipater was present, and made

his defence, as to the accusations that were

laid against him. He demonstrated that An­

tigonus and his party were given to innova­

tion, and were seditious persons. He also

reminded Caesar of the difficulties and ser­

vices he had undergone when he assisted him

in his wars; and discoursed about what he

was a witness of himself. He added, that

Aristobulus was justly carried away to Rome,

as one that was an enemy to the Romans, and

could never be brought to be a friend to

them: and that his brother had no more than

he deserved from Scipio; as being seized in

committing robberies. And that this punish­

ment was not inflicted on him in a way of vio­

lence, or injustice by him that did it.

When Antipater had made this speech,

Caesar appointed Hyrcanus to be high-priest;

and gave Antipater what principality he

should choose; leaving the determination to

himself. So he made him procurator of Judea.

He also gave Hyrcanus leave to raise up the

walls of his own city, upon his asking that

favour of him; for they had been demolished

by Pompey And this grant he sent to the

consuls to Rome, to be engraven in the capi-

tol. *The decree of the senate was as follows:

"Lucius Valerius, the son of Lucius the

praetor, referred this to the senate, upon the

ides of December, in the temple of Concord.

There were present at the writing of this de­

cree Lucius Coponius, the son of Lucius, of

the Colline tribe; and Papirius. of theQuirine

tribe; concerning the affairs which Alexander

the son of Jason, and Numenius, the son of

* Take Dr. Hudson's note upon this place: which I  
suppose to be. the truth. "Here is some mistake in Jose-

phus. For when he had promised us a decree for the

restoration of Jerusalem, he brings in a decree of far

greater antiquity; and that a league of friendship and

union only. One may easily believe that Josephus gave

order for one thing, and his amanuensis performed ano­

ther; by transposing decrees that concerned the Hyrcani;

and as deluded by the sameness of their names. For that

belongs to the first high-priest of this name, [John Hyrca­

nus,] which Josephus here ascribes to one that lived later,

SHyrcanus the son of Alexander Janneus.] However, the

ecree which he proposes to set down, follows a little

lower, in the collection of Roman decrees, that concerned

VOL. I.—NOS. 43 & 44.

the Jews; and is that dated when Caesar was consul the

fifth time." But when he finds, at the beginning of this

decree, the ides of December; and here at the end of the

9th of Hyrcanus; and yet presently the month Panemus,

which answers to part of the Julian June and July, it is

clear these months December and Panemus are incon­

sistent. Petitus therefore seems to be in the right, when

he separates Panemus from the former decree, and refers

it to the next that follows it; which is certainly dated in

that month; and as esteeming both in the same year, the

9th of Hyrcanus. Though perhaps a word or two may

have been dropped out of our copies, that, if extant,

would have made some conjecture more certain. See

Dean Prideaux at the year !27.

4L

