280 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

twenty cubits every way, to be the most se­

cret chamber; but he appointed that of fifty

cubits to be the sanctuary.* And when he

had cut a door place out of the wall, he put

therein doors of cedar, and overlaid them

with a great deal of gold, that had sculptures

upon it. He also had veils of blue, and

purple, and scarlet, and the brightest and

softest linen, with the most curious flowers

wrought upon them, which were to be drawn

before those doors. He dedicated for the

most secret place, whose breadth was twenty

cubits, and its length the same; two cheru-

bims of solid gold;t the height of each of

them was five cubits; they had each of them

two wings stretched out as far as five cubits;

wherefore Solomon set them up not far from

each other; that with one wing they might

touch the southern wall of the secret place,

and with another the northern; their other

wings, which joined to each other, were a

covering to the ark; which was set between

them. But nobody can tell, or even conjec­

ture what was the shape of the cherubims.

He also laid the floor of the temple with

plates of gold. And he added doors to the

gate of the temple agreeable to the measure

of the height of the wall, but in breadth

twenty cubits; and on them fixed gold plates.

And, in a word, he left no part of the temple,

neither internal nor external, but what was

covered with gold. He also had curtains

drawn over these doors; in like manner as

they were drawn over the inner doors of the

most holy place. But the porch of the temple

had nothing of that sort.

Now Solomon sent for an artificer out of

Tyre, whose name was Hiram. He was by

birth of the tribe of Naphthali, on the mother's

side; but his father was JUr, of the stock of

the Israelites. This man was skilful in all

sorts of work; but his chief skill lay in work­

ing of gold and silver, and brass; by whom

were made all the mechanical works about

the temple, according to the will of Solomon.

Moreover, this Hiram made ||two hollow pil­

lars; whose outsides were of brass, and the

thickness of the brass was four fingers'

breadth; and the height of the pillars was

eighteen cubits, and their circumference

twelve cubits. But there was cast with each

of their chapiters lily-work that stood upon

the pillar, and it was elevated five cubits;

round about which there was net-work inter­

woven with small palms, made of brass, and

covered with lily-work. To this also were

hung two hundred pomegranates, in two

rows; the one of these pillars he set at the

entrance of the porch on the right hand, and

called it Jachin, and the other at the left

hand, and called it Booz.

Solomon also cast a brazen sea,§ whose

departed not from the temple, Luke i. 37. (i. e. lived in

that part of the court of the Israelites which was appropri­

ated to religious women,) the Greek word is 'ispov. And

this observation holds good all through the New Testa­

ment. La my, De Tabern. lib. v. c. 5. B.

* This temple itself, strictly so called, had two stories.  
The upper of which was raised quite above these little

houses, and their roofs; for their roofs reached no higher

than the top of the first story. The second story, which

had no building adjoining to its side, made a large room

over the sanctuary, and the holy of holies, of equal dimen­

sions with them; and it is no improbable opinion, that this

was the upper chamber, in which the Holy Ghost was

pleased to descend upon the Apostles in a visible manner.

This under room was appropriated to the pious laity as a

place for them to come and pay their devotions in; and

therefore it seems very likely, that the Apostles were here

with other devout persons, while the temple was full of

Jews of all nations, who were come to celebrate the feast

of the Pentecost, and that thereupon they below, hearing

the noise, which was occasioned by the shaking of the

place, ran up to see the cause of it, and, to their great

surprise, found the Apostles distinguished from the other

Jews about them, both by the cloven tongues which sat

upon each of them, and by the several different languages

that they spake. Lamy's Introduction, lib. i. c. 4. B.

t Josephus says here that the cherubims were of solid

gold; and only of five cubits high; while our Hebrew

copies 1 Kings vi. 23, 28. say they were of the olive-tree,

and the Septuagint of the cypress-tree; and only overlaid

with gold; and both agree they were ten cubits high. I

suppose the number is here falsely transcribed, and that

Josephus wrote ten cubits also.

| Josephus, in almost all his present copies, has Ovput

instead of TupiK; i. e. Ur, instead of a Tyrian in our other

copies: 1 Kings vii. 14. 2 Chron. ii. 14. which words in

the Greek are so alike, that it is not improbable Josephus

also wrote Tvpa; and that he here agreed with the other

copies.

II As for these two famous pillars, Jachin and Booz,

their height could be no more than 18 cubits; as here

and 1 Kings vii. 15. 2 Kings xxv. 17. Jer. lii. 21. Those

35 cubits in 2 Chron. iii. 15. being contrary to all rules

of architecture. It is supposed that a circumference of

12 cubits, or a diameter of" almost 4 cubits, is also not

agreeable to the rules of architecture. But the contrary

is shewn from Vitruvius; and this proportion of 6 to 1,

which is that of the pillars, including the chapiter, was the

oldest and strongest of all proportions in architecture.

See the description of the temples, chap. xiii.

§ It is not to be doubted, but that Solomon made all the

utensils and ornaments of the temple proportionable, both

'

