198 [BOOK VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Saul promised to do what he was com­

manded; and supposing that his obedience to

God would be shewn not only in making war

against the Amalekites, but more fully in the

readiness and quickness of his proceedings;

he immediately gathered together all his

forces. And when he had numbered them

in Gilgal, he found them to be about four

hundred thousand of the Israelites; besides

the tribe of Judah; for that tribe contained

by itself thirty thousand. Accordingly Saul

made an irruption into the country of the

Amalekites; and set many men and several

parties in ambush at the river; that so he

might not only do them a mischief by open

fighting; but might fall upon them unexpect­

edly in the ways, and might thereby surround,

and kill them. And when he had joined battle

with the enemy, he beat them, and pursuing

them as they fled, he destroyed them all.

And when that undertaking had succeeded,

according as God had foretold; he besieged

the cities of the Amalekites, and took them

by force; partly by warlike machines, partly

by mines dug under ground, and partly by

building walls on the outsides. Some they

starved out by famine, and some they gained

by other methods; and after all he betook

himself to slay the women and the children,

and thought he did not act therein either bar­

barously or inhumanly: first, because they

were enemies whom they thus treated; and

in the next place, because it was done by the

command of God; whom it was dangerous

-^ not to obey. He also took Agag, the enemies'  
-*; king, captive. The beauty and tallness of  
whose body he admired so much, that he

thought him worthy of preservation. Yet

was not this done according to the will of

God; but by giving way to human .passions,

and suffering himself to be moved with an

unseasonable commiseration, in a point where

it was not safe to indulge it. For God hated

the nation of the Amalekites, to such a de­

gree, that he commanded Saul to have no

pity even on those infants which we by nature

chiefly compassionate. Saul, however, pre­

served the king from the miseries which the

Hebrews brought on the people; as if he

preferred the tine appearance of the enemy

to the memory of what God had sent him

about. The multitude were also guilty, to­

gether with Saul; for they spared the herds

and the flocks, and took them for a prey;

when God had commanded they should not

spare them. They also carried off the rest

of their wealth and riches; but if there were

any thing that Was not worthy of regard, that

they destroyed.*

When Saul had conquered all these Amale­

kites that reached from Pelusium of Egypt,

to the Red Sea; he laid waste all the rest of

the enemies' country; but for the nation of

thef Sichemites, he did not touch them, al­

though they dwelt in the very middle of the

Country of Midian. For before the battle,

Saul had sent to them, and charged them to

depart thence, lest they should be partakers

of the miseries of the Amalekites. For he

had a just occasion for saving them, since

they were of the kindred of Raguel, Moses's

father-in-law.

Hereupon Saul returned home with joy for

the glorious things he had done, and for the

conquest of his enemies; as though he had

not neglected any thing which the prophet

had enjoined him to do when he was going to

make war with the Amalekites; and as though

he had exactly observed all that he ought to

have done. But God was grieved that the

king of the Amalekites was preserved alive;

and that the multitude had seized on the

cattle for a prey; because these things were

done without his permission. For he thought

it an intolerable thing that they should con­

quer their enemies by that power which he

gave them; and then that he himself should

be so grossly despised and disobeyed, that a

mere man that was a king would not bear it.

He therefore told Samuel, he repented that

he had made Saul king; while he did nothing

that he had commanded him, but indulged

his own inclinations. When Samuel heard

that, he was in confusion, and began to be­

seech God all that night to be reconciled to

Saul, and not to be angry with him. But he

larly seeking to injure, and utterly to destroy the nation

of Israel. See Exod. xvii. 8—16. Numb. xiv. 45. Dent,

xxv. 17, 18, 19. Judg. vi. 3, 6. vii. 12. x. 12. 1 Sam. xv.

33. xxx. 1, 2. Psal. Ixxxiii. 7. and above all, the most bar­

barous of all cruelties, that of Human the Agagite, or, one

of the posterity of Agag, the old king of the Amalekites.

Esth. iii. 1—15.

* 1 Sam. xv. 9.

t Kenites, 1 Sam. xv. 6.

