334 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. VI.

OF THE ANOINTING OF JEHU; THE DEATH OF JORAM AND

AHAZIAH; AND THE PUNISHMENT OF THE IDOLATROUS

ISRAELITES.

NOW* Joram, king of Israel, after the

death of Benhadad, hoped that he

might take Ramoth, a city of Gilead, from

the Syrians. Accordingly he made an ex­

pedition against it, with a great army. But

as he was besieging it, an arrow was shot at

him by one of the Syrians; but the wound

was not mortal. So he returned to have his

wound healed in Jezreel; but left his whole

army in Ramoth, and Jehu the son of Nimshi

for their general: for he had already taken

the city by force: and he proposed, after he

was healed, to make war with the Syrians.

But Elisha the prophet sent one of the dis-

ciplest to RamothJ to anoint Jehu;|| and to

tell him, that God had chosen him to be their

king. He also sent him to say other things

to him, and bade him take his journey, as if

he fled; that when he came away, he might

escape the knowledge of all men. So when

he was come to the city, he found Jehu sit­

ting in the midst of the captains of the army:

and said, that he desired to speak with him

about certain matters. And when he had fol­

lowed him into an inner chamber, the young

man took the holy oil, and poured it on his

head, and said, that God ordained him to be

king, in order to his destroying the house of

Ahab; and that he might revenge the blood

of the prophets, that were unjustly slain by

Jezebel, that so their house might utterly

perish; as those of Jeroboam the son of

Nebat. and of Baasha had perished for their

wickedness, and no seed might remain of

Ahab's family. And when he had said this,

he went hastily out of that chamber, and en­

deavoured not to be seen by any of the army.

When Jehu§ returned to the place where

he before sat with the captains, they asked

* An. 886.

t The Jewish doctors are of opinion, that the prophet

whom Elisha sent upon this message, was Jonah; but

upon this supposition, he must at this time, have been

a very young man, because Jeroboam the Second (in

whose reign Jonah prophesied, did not ascend the throne

till about fifty years after this unction of Jehu king of

Israel. However this be, it is reasonable to think, that

Elisha himself did not go to perform this office, either

because he was now grown old, and unfit for such a

journey, or because he was a person too well known,

and not so proper to be employed in an affair that re­

quired secrecy. Calmefs and Patrick's Commenta­

ries. B.

{ It is supposed by some interpreters, that the city

of Raraoth-Gilead was taken by Joram, before he de­

parted from it to be cured of his wounds. This they

gather from the mention made of the inner chamber,

2 Kings ix. 2. the top of the stairs, ver. 13. and from that

caution which Jehu thinks advisable, Let none go forth,

or escape out of the city, ver. 15. But these arguments

will not do. What we render out of the city, does sig­

nify, every whit as properly, from before the city, i. e.

out of the camp or army that is besieging the city. But

even, if this be not so, the Israelites might, at this time,

have the suburbs, or out-buildings belonging to the

city, in their possession, where the general might have

his head-quarters, and from whence he might give orders

o the picket-guard, (as we call it,) that none should be

permitted to move. For had the town been already in

their hands, we cannot see why Joram should have

kept all Israel there, ver. 14. i. e. all the military force of

Israel, when a strong garrison would have been sufficient.

Pool's Annotations. B.

II The Jews are of opinion, that none of the kings of

Israel were anointed, but those that were of the house of

David, and these only, when there was a question about

their succession, as Solomon, they say needed not to have

been anointed, had it not been for the faction of Ado-

nijah. But in the case of Jehu, in whom the succession

of the kingdom of Israel was to be translated out of the

right line of the family of Ahab, into another family which

had no right to the kingdom, but merely the appointment

of God, there was a necessity for his unction, in order

both to convey to him a title, and to invest him in the ac­

tual possession of the kingdom: for if that (which some

imagine from 1 Kings xix. 16) be true, viz. that the pro­

phet Elisha did, before this time, anoint Jehu, that unction

did only confer on him a remote right to the kingdom,

in the same manner as Samuel's unction did to David,

1 Sam. xvi. 13. Patrick's Commentary, and Pool's Anno­

tations. B.

§ The officers who were in company with Jehu, might

easily perceive by the habit, and air, and manner of

speech of the person who accosted Jehu so boldly, and

when he had done his business, vanished so suddenly,

that he was a prophet; but then there might be several

reasons which might induce men of the profession to

have a contemptible opinion of men of that order. The

rigid and obscure course of life which the prophets led,

their neglect of themselves, and of the things of this

world, might pass with them for a kind of infatuation;

and the holy exercises to which they devoted themselves,

for no more than a religious frenzy. Besides this, the

false prophets which they had seen in the court of Ahab

had given just offence; and by their affected gestures,

and studied contortions, (whereby they thought to re­

commend their crude enthusiasm,) made themselves

justly ridiculous and contemptible. And tkerefore it is

no wonder that these officers, at first sight, should censure

a true, as they thought they had reason to judge of the

false prophet, with whom they had been acquainted;

especially when we find some leading men in the tribe

of Judah treating the prophets of the Lord (as in the case

