an. 896.] 319 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

chief. But John was chief of two hundred

thousand.* The same man was chief of the

tribe of Benjamin; and had two hundred

thousand archers under him. There was

another chief, whose name was Jehozabad,

who had a hundred and eighty thousand

armed men. This multitude was distributed

to be ready for the king's service; besides

those whom he sent to the best fortified

cities.

Jehoshaphat took for his son Jehoram to

wife, Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab, king of

the ten tribes. And when, after some time,

he went to Samaria, Ahab received him cour­

teously, and treated the army that followed

him in a splendid manner; with great plenty

of corn and wine, and of slain beasts; and

desired that he would join with him in the war

against the king of Syria; that he might re­

cover from him the city of Ramoth, in Gilead.

For though it had belonged to his father, yet

had the king of Syria's father taken it away

from him. And upon Jehoshaphat's promise

to afford him his assistance; (for indeed his

army was not inferior to the other's,) and his

sending for his army from Jerusalem to Sa­

maria, the two kings went out of the city;

and each of them sat on his own throne, and

each gave their orders to the respective

armies. Now Jehoshaphat bade them call

the prophets, if there were any there; and

inquire of them concerning this expedition

against the king of Syria, whether they would

give them counsel to make the expedition at

this time. For there was peace at that time

between Ahab and the king of Syria, which

had lasted three years, from the time he had

taken him captive till that day.

So Ahab called his own prophets, being in

number about four hundred,f and bade them

inquire of God whether he would grant him

the victory, if he made an expedition against

Benhadad, and enable him to overthrow that

city, for whose sake it was that he was going

to war. Now these prophets gave their

counsel for making this expedition; and said,

that he would defeat the king of Syria, and,

as formerly, would reduce him under his

power. But Jehoshaphat, understanding by

their words that they were false prophets,

asked Ahab, whether there were not some

other prophet belonging to the true God?

that they might have surer information con­

cerning futurities. Ahab said, there was in­

deed such a one, but that he hated him, as

having prophesied evil to him; and having

foretold that he should be overcome, and

slain by the king of Syria; and that for this

cause he had him now in prison; and that his

name was Micaiah, the son of Imlah. But

upon Jehoshaphat's desire that he might be

produced, Ahab sent an eunuch, who brought

Micaiah to him. Now the eunuch had in­

formed him by the way, that all the other

prophets had foretold that the king should

gain the victory. But he said, it was not

lawful for him to lie against God; but that

he must speak what he should say to him

about the king, whatsoever it were. When

he came to Ahab, and he adjured him upon

oath, to speak the truth to him, he said that

God had shewn to him the Israelites running

away, and pursued by the Syrians, and dis­

persed upon the mountains by them, as arc £

flocks of sheep dispersed when their shep­

herd is slain. He said farther, that God sig­

nified to him,J that those Israelites should

return in peace to their own home, and that

he only should fall in the battle. When

Micaiah had thus spoken, Ahab said to Je­

hoshaphat, " I told thee a little while ago the

disposition of the man with regard to me, and

that he uses to prophesy evil to me." Upon

which Micaiah replied, that he ought to hear

all, whatsoever it be that God foretells; and

that in particular, they were false prophets

who encouraged him to make this war, in

hope of victory; whereas he must fight and

* Two hundred and eighty thousand, 2 Chron. xvii. 15.

t 1 Kings xxii. 6.

J Micaiah's answer to Ahab, inquiring of him the suc­

cess of his intended expedition, is, Go, and prosper; for

the Lord shall deliver the city into the hands of the king,

1 Kings xxii. 15. which does not at all contradict the

other prophets, had it been spoken in earnest; but we

have good reason to believe, that the words were spoken

ironically, and in mockery to the promises which the

other prophets made Ahab. Accordingly, we may oh-

serve by Ahab's reply, that he suspected Micaiah's sin­

cerity, and, either by his gesture or manner of speaking,

gathered, that his meaning was to traduce these false pro­

phets for their answers, so that Micaiah's answer is in

effect, as if he had said,—" Since thou dost not seek to

know the truth, but only to please thyself, go to the

battle, as all thy prophets advise thee; expect the success

which they promise thee, and try the truth of their pre­

dictions by thy dear bought experience." Pool's Jhmo

tations. B.

