an. 782.] 351 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

dom nine years;* but was a wicked man,

and a despiser of the divine worship. And

Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, made an expe­

dition against him, and overcame him (which

must have been because he had not God

favorable nor assistant to him,) and brought

him to submission, and ordered him to pay an

appointed tribute. Now in the fourth year

of the reign of Hoshea, Hezekiah,f the son

of Ahaz, began to reign in Jerusalem; and

his mother's name was Abijah, a citizen of

Jerusalem. His nature was good, and reli-

fious. For when he came to the kingdom

e thought nothing more necessary, or more

advantageous to himself, and to his subjects,

than to worship God. Accordingly he as­

sembled the people, and the priests and the

Levites, and made a speech to them, and

said, " You are not ignorant how by the sins

of my father, who transgressed that sacred

honour which was due to God, you have had

experience of many and great miseries; while

you were corrupted in your mind by him;

and were induced to worship those which he

supposed to be gods. I exhort you, there­

fore, who have learned by sad experience how

dangerous a thing impiety is, to put that imme­

diately out of your memory; and to purify

yourselves from your former pollutions; and

to open the temple to these priests and Le­

vites who are here convened; and to cleanse

it with the accustomed sacrifices, and to

recover all the ancient honour which our

forefathers payed to it. For by this means

we may render God favourable; and he will

remit the anger he hath had towards us."

When the king had said this, the priests

opened the temple; and when they had set

in order the vessels of God, and had cast out

what was impure, they laid the accustomed

years, verse, 33, it may be questioned, whether some of

the copies in the days of Josephus had not hereabouts

some different numbers; and that according to those

numbers Pekah might hare been slain about the same

time that Ahaz died; though possibly Josephus might

use these words, "about the same time," in a looser

acceptation.

* From an. 737 to 728.

t Of Ahaz it is recorded, that he was but twenty years

old when he began to reign, and that he reigned sixteen

before he died; so that in the whole he lived six and

thirty years, 2 Kings xvi. 2. Now his son Hezekiah is

said to have been five and twenty years old when he

began to reign, 2 Kings xviii. 2. and, consequently, his

father must have begot him when he was eleven years old,

which seems a HtUe incredible: and to solve this diffi­

culty, commentators have taken several ways. Some

have imagined that Hezekiah was not the real, but adopted

son only of Ahaz, and might therefore succeed his foster

father, at this or any other age; but this hypothesis, as

Bochart observes, spoils the descent of our Saviour from

David. Others suppose, that there was an interregnum

for some years occasioned by a sedition that happened in

Jerusalem. But there is no foundation for this hypothesis

in history; on the contrary it is much more likely, that,

as Hezekiah was a man grown, and greatly beloved by

the people, he should immediately succeed upon his

father's demise. Others imagine, that, in the detestation

of Ahaz's wickedness his reign is omitted in this account,

and that therefore the passage should be thus rendered :—

Ahaz was twenty years old when his father began to

reign. But this is reversing the order of the words in the

text, and turning them into a sense that is fir from being

natural. Others, not satisfied with any of these solutions,

will needs have it, that there is an error crept into the

text itself by the negligence of some transcriber, who

instead of twenty, made Hezekiah five and twenty years

old, when his reign commenced, merely by mistaking the

numerical letters, (which are most liable in variation,) to

find any fault with the text except where there is no other

tolerable solution, which is not the case here. In these

days, and long before, it was no unusual thing, upon se­

veral considerations, for kings to take the son who was to

succeed them into partnership with them before they died.

Now, Ahaz, by his mismanagement, had brought himself

into so many intanglements, 2 Chron. xxviii. 16, &.c. and

xxix. 7, &c. as to want an assistant in the government,

and, accordingly, it appears that he admitted his son in

that capacity. For, whereas, it is said of Hezekiah, that

he began to reign in the third year of Hoshea son of

Elah, 2 Kings xviii. 1. and of Hoshea, that he began to

reign in the twelfth year of Ahaz, 2 Kings xvii. 1. it is

evident that Hezekiah began to reign in the fourteenth

year of Ahaz his father, and so reigned two or three years

before his father's death. So that, at the first date of his

reign, which was in conjunction with his father, he might

be two or three and twenty, and his father consequently

when he begot him, two or three years older than the

common computation. But there is another way of solv­

ing this difficulty. It is a common thing, both in sacred

and profane authors, in the computation of time, to take

no notice, whether the year they mention be perfect or

imperfect, whether finished or but newly begun. Upon

this account Ahaz might be near one and twenty years

old when he began to reign, and near seventeen years

older when he died: and on the other hand, Hezekiah,

when he began to reign, might be but just entering into

his five and twentieth year, and by this means, Ahaz might

be near fourteen years old when he begat Hezekiah, which

is no extraordinary thing at all. Nay, even upon the

lowest supposition, that he was but eleven or twelve years

old, yet instances are innumerable (such as Bochart and

others have given) of persons that have procreated chil­

dren at that age: for it is not so much the number of

years, as the nature of the climate, the constitution of the

body, the stature of the person, the quality of the diet, &c

that ought to be considered in this affair. Bochart's Pha

leg. p. 920. Miller'$ History of the Church, p. 201. Bed

ford's Scripture Chronology; Patrick's and Caltntt't Com-

mentaries. B.

