an. 1064.] 249 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

bade him also to go out of the land, as an

impure and accursed wretch; and he thanked

God for depriving him of his kingdom, and

causing him to be punished for what injuries

he had done to his master Saul, and this by

the means of his own son. Now when they

were all provoked against him, and angry at

him, and particularly Abishai, who had a

mind to kill Shimei; David restrained his

anger. "Let us not," said he,* "bring upon

ourselves another fresh misfortune, to those

we have already; for truly I have not the

least regard nor concern for this dog that

raves at me; I submit myself to God, by

whose permission this man treats me in such

a wild manner. Nor is it any wonder that I

am obliged to undergo these abuses from

him; whde I experience the like from an

impious son of my own. But perhaps God

will have some commiseration upon us, if it

be his will to overcome them." So he went

on his way, without troubling himself with

Shimei, who ran along the other side of the

mountain, and threw out his abusive language

plentifully. But when David was come to

Jordan, he allowed those that were with him

to refresh themselves, for they were weary.

When Absalom, and Ahithophel his coun­

sellor were come to Jerusalem, with all the

people, David's friend Kushai came to them.

And when he had worshipped Absalom, he

withal wished that his kingdom might last a

long time, and continue for all ages: but

when Absalom said to him, " How comes this,

that he who was so intimate a friend of my

father's, and appeared faithful to him in all

things, is not with him now, but hath left him,

and is come over to me?" Hushai's answer

was very pertinent: for he said, "We ought

to follow God, and the multitude of the

people; while these therefore, my lord and

master, are with thee, it is fit that I should

follow them. For thou hast received the

kingdom from God. I will therefore, if thou

believest me to be thy friend, shew the same

fidelity and kindness to thee, which thou

know est 1 have shewn to thy father.f Nor is

there any reason to be in the least dissatisfied

with the present state of affairs; for the

kingdom is not transferred into another, but

remains still in the same family, by the son's

receiving it after his father." This speech

Sersuaded Absalom, who before suspected

[ushai. And now he called Ahithophel, and

consulted with him what he ought to do. He

persuaded him to go in unto his father's con­

cubines: for he said, "By this action the

people will believe that thy difference with

thy father is irreconcileable, and will thence

fight with great alacrity against thy father: for

hitherto they are afraid of taking up open

enmity against him, out of an expectation that

you will be reconciled again." Accordingly

Absalom was prevailed on by this advice, and

commanded his servants to pitch him a tent

upon the top of the royal palace, in the sight

of the multitude, and he went in and lay with

his father's concubines. Now this came to

pass, according to the prediction ofJ Nathan,

when he prophesied, and signified to him,

that his son would rise up in rebellion against

him.

And when Absalom had done what he was

advised to by Ahithophel, he desired his

advice in the second place, about the war

against his father. Now Ahithophel only

asked him to let him have ten thousand

chosen men; and he promised he would slay

his father, and bring the soldiers back again

in safety: and he said, that the kingdom

would be then firm to him when David was

dead; but not otherwise. Absalom was

* The words of David upon this occasion are, So let  
him curse, because the Lord hath said unto him, Curse

David: Let him alone, let him curse for the Lord hath

bidden him; not that God commanded it by his word, for

that severely forbids cursing, Exod. xxii. 28. nor moved

him to it by his Spirit; for neither was that possible, be­

cause God tempteth no man, James i. 13. But the

meaning is, that the secret providence of God did over­

rule and determine him so to do, i. e. God did not put any

wickedness into Shimei'a heart, (for he had of himself an

heart full of malignity and venom against David,) but only

left him to his own wickedness; took away that common

prudence, which would have restrained him from so dan­

gerous an action; directed his malice, that it should be

exercised against David, rather than any other man; and

brought him into so distressed a condition, that he might

seem a proper object of his scorn and contempt, which is

enough to justify the expression, "The Lord hath bidden

him," in the same manner that we read of his commanding

the ravens, 1 Kings xvii. 4. and sometimes inanimate

creatures, Psal. cxlvii. 15, 18. The short is, David

looked upon Shimei as an instrument in God's hands, and

therefore took all his abuses patiently, out of a conscious­

ness of his sinfulness, and a reverence to that Deity who

had brought him so low, as to deserve the insults of the

vile Benjamite. Pool's Annotations. B.

t 2 Sam. xvi. 19.

J 2 Sam. xii. 11.

