472 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

pho, when he should come against them.

He then called the people together into the

temple; and thence began thus to encourage

them:

"O my countrymen, you are not ignorant

that our father, myself, and my brethren, have

ventured to hazard our lives, and that wil­

lingly, for the recovery of your liberty. Since

1 have therefore such plenty of examples be­

fore me, and we of our family have deter­

mined with ourselves to die for our laws, and

our divine worship; there shall no terror be

so great as to banish this resolution from our

souls; nor to introduce in its place a love of

life, and a contempt of glory. Do you there­

fore follow me with alacrity, whithersoever I

shall lead you; as not destitute of such a

captain as is willing to suffer, and to do the

greatest things for you. For neither am I

better than my brethren, that I should be

sparing of my own life; nor so far worse than

they, as to avoid and refuse what they

thought the most honourable of all things; I

mean, to undergo death for your laws, and

for that worship of God which is peculiar to

you. I will therefore give such proper de­

monstrations as will shew that I am their own

brother. And I am so bold as to expect that

I shall avenge their blood upon our enemies;

and deliver you all, with your wives and chil­

dren, from the injuries they intend against

you; and, with God's assistance, to preserve

your temple from destruction by them. For

I see that these nations have you in contempt,

as being without a governor; and that they

hence are encouraged to make war against

you."

By this speech Simon inspired the multi­

tude with courage; and as they had been be­

fore dispirited through fear, they were now

raised to a good hope of better things; inso­

much, that the whole multitude cried out all

at once, that Simon should be their leader;

and that instead of Judas and Jonathan, his

brethren, he should have the government over

them:* and they promised that they would

readily obey him in whatsoever he should

command them. So he immediately assem­

bled all his own soldiers, that were fit for

war; and made haste in rebuilding the walls

of the city, and strengthened them by very

high and strong towers; and sent his friend

Jonathan, the son of Absalom, to Joppa, and

gave him order to eject the inhabitants out

of the city. For he was afraid lest they should

deliver up the city to Trypho. But he him­

self stayed to secure Jerusalem.

Now Trypho removed from Ptolemais, with

a great army, and came into Judea; and

brought Jonathan with him in bonds. Simon

also met him with his army at the city Adida,

which is upon a hill; and beneath it lie the

plains of Judea. And when Trypho knew

that Simon was made governor of the Jews,

he sent to him, and would have imposed upon

him by deceit and treachery; and desired

him if he would have his brother Jonathan

released, that he would send him a hundred

talents of silver, and two of Jonathan's sons,

as hostages; that when he should be released'

he might not make Judea revolt from the

king; for that at present he was kept in bonds

on account of the money that he had bor­

rowed of the king, and now owed to him.

But Simon was aware of the craft of Trypho;

and although he knew that if he gave him

the money he should lose it, and that Trypho

would not set his brother free, and withal

should deliver the sons of Jonathan to the

enemy; yet because he was afraid that he

should have a calumny raised against him

among the multitude, as the cause of his bro­

ther's death; if he neither gave the money,

nor sent Jonathan's sons; he gathered his

army together, and told them what offers

Trypho had made: and added, that the offers

joying without fear, the fruits of their labours, and be­

holding with pleasure the flourishing state of their coun­

try; their trade increased by the reduction of Joppa, and

other maritime places; their territories enlarged; their

armies well disciplined; their towns and fortresses well

garrisoned; their religion and liberties secured; their

land freed from Heathen enemies, and Jewish apostates;

and their friendship courted by all the nations about them,

even by the Romans and the Lacedaemonians. He ob­

serves, farther, that this Simon was no less zealous for the

service of God, in exterminating apostacy, superstition,

idolatry, and every thing else that was contrary to his

laws; that he was a great protector of the true Israelites,

and a friend to the poor; that he restored the service of

the temple to its ancient splendour, and repaired the

number of its sacred vessels: so that we need not wonder,

if the Jewish Sanhedrim thought no dignity of honour,

while he lived, and when he was so basely and barbarously

cut off, no grief and lamentation too great for a man of his

uncommon merit . Universal History, lib. 2. c. 11. B.

* 1 Macc. xiii. 8.

