I'M [book ▼. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tious to obtain the glory of wisdom, together

with the gains, desired him to propose his

riddle': he said, " A great devourer produced

sweet food out of itself; though itself were

very disagreeable." And when they were

not able in three days' time, to find out the

meaning of the riddle, they desired the damsel

to discover it by the means of her husband,

and tell it them; and they threatened to burn

her, if she did not tell it them. So when the

damsel intreated Sampson to tell it her, he at

first refused; but when she lay hard at him,

and fell into tears, and made his refusal to tell

it a sign of his unkindness to her, he informed

her of his slaughter of a lion, and how he

found bees in his breast, and carried away

three honey-combs, and brought them to her.

Thus he, suspecting nothing of deceit, in­

formed her of all; and she revealed it to those

that desired to know it. Then on the seventh

day, whereon they were to expound the riddle

proposed to them, they met together before

the sun setting, and said, "Nothing is more

disagreeable than a lion, to those that light

on it; and nothing is sweeter than honey to

Thy spousal ornament neglected lies:

Arise, prepare the bridal train, arise.

Odyas. vi. 29. Pope.

Dacier is of opinion, that the custom now alluded to pre­

vailed amongst the Israelites, and that the proposition made

by Sampson is grounded upon it. From this sentiment

Mr. Pope dissents: "I am rather of opinion," he says,

"that what is said of Sampson has relation to another cus­

tom amongst the ancients, of proposing an aenigma at fes­

tivals, and adjudging a reward to him that solved it. These

the Greeks called ygupxs ffufjwroTixos." B.

* There is reason to think that there was nothing new  
or uncommon in this operation, as it was most obvious for

the end proposed that the wit of man could devise. We

accordingly find that Ovid alludes to the practice, and

mentions that foxes and fire-brands were every year ex­

hibited at Rome, and killed in the Circus. For it was the

custom in many places to sacrifice by way of retaliation

every animal, whether goat or swine, which did particular

injury to the fruics of the earth. In consequence of this

they introduced these foxes, which had been employed

for that purpose with fire-brands.

Cur igitur missae vinctis ardentia teedis

Terga ferant vulpes causa docenda mihi.

He then mentions an instance of much injury done by a

fox so accoutred by fire.

Qua fugit incendit vestitos messibus agros,

Daninosis vires ignibus aura da bat.

On this account the whole race, according to the poet,

were condemned, at the festival called Cerealia, to be in

their turns set on fire.

those that make use of it." To which Samp­

son made this reply, "Nothing is more de­

ceitful than a woman; for such was the per­

son that discovered my interpretation to you."

Accordingly he gave them the presents he

had promised them; making such Askelonites

as met him upon the road his prey; who were

themselves Philistines also. But he divorced

his wife, and the girl despised his anger, and

was married to his companion, who made the

former match between them.

At this injurious treatment Sampson was so

provoked, that he resolved to punish all the

Philistines, as well as her. So it being then

summer time, and the fruits of the land being

almost ripe enough for reaping, he caught

three hundred foxes, and joining lighted

torches to their tails, he sent them into the

fields of the Philistines; by which means the

fruits of the land perished.* Now when the

Philistines knew that this was Sampson's

doing, and knew also for what cause he did

it, they sent their rulers to Timnath, and burnt

his former wife, and her relations; who had

been the occasion of their misfortunes.

Ut ne luat paenas gens haec, Cerealibus ardet,

Qjioque modo segetes perdidit ipsa perit.

Fast. lib. iv. 681, 707.

It is alluded to proverbially more than once by Lyco-

phron, and seems to have been well known in Greece.

He makes Cassandra represent Ulysses as a man both of

cunning and mischief, and styles him very properly

yafjwroupis, a fox with a fire-brand at his tail; for wherever

he went, mischief followed, v. 344. Suidas also takes

notice of this custom, when he speaks of a kind of beetle

which the Boeotians named Tipha. They imagined that

if to this they were to fasten some inflammable matter, it

would be easy to set any thing on fire. He adds, that this

was sometimes practised with foxes. Bryant's Observa­

tions, p. 164.

The Caliph Vathek being under the necessity, when on

his travels, of lighting torches, and making extraordinary

fires to protect himself and his attendants from the fury of

the wild beasts that were ready to make an attack on them,

set fire to a forest of cedar that bordered on their way.

Accidents of this kind in Persia are not unfrequent. Hist,

of Caliph Vathek, p. 250. "It was an ancient custom

with the kings and great men to set fire to large bunches

of dry combustibles, fastened round wild beasts and birds;

which being then let loose, the air and earth appeared one

great illumination; and as those terrified creatures natu­

rally fled to the woods for shelter, it is easy to conceive

that conflagrations would often happen, which must have

been peculiarly destructive." Richardson's Dissert, p.

185. This circumstance reminds us of the destruction

occasioned among the standing corn, the vineyards, and

olives of the Philistines. In Psalm Ixxxiii. 14. there is a

reference to one of these fires, though arising from another

cause. See also Homer, II. ii. 455. B.

