406 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he had indignation at him, and said within

himself, "Whereas the Persians, who are

free men, worship me; this man, who is no

better than a slave, does not vouchsafe to do

eo." And when he desired to punish Morde-

cai, he thought it too small a thing to request

of the king, that he alone might be punished.

He rather determined to extirpate the whole

nation. For he was naturally an enemy to

the Jews: because the nation of the Amale-

kites, of which he was, had been destroyed

by them.* Accordingly he came to the king,

and accused them, saying, "There is a cer­

tain wicked nation, and it is dispersed over

all the habitable earth that is under thy do­

minion: a nation separate from others, unso­

ciable; neither admitting the same sort of

divine worship that others do, not using laws

like the laws of others; at enmity with thy

people, and with all men, both in their man­

ners and practices. Now if thou wilt be a

benefactor to thy subjects, thou wilt give

order to destroy them utterly, and not leave

the least remains of them, nor preserve any

of them either for slaves or for captives."

But that the king might not be injured by

the loss of the tributes which the Jews paid

him, Haman promised to give him out of his

own estate forty thousand talents, whenever

he pleased. And he said, he would pay this

money very willingly, that the kingdom might

be freed from such a misfortune.

When Haman had made this petition,

the king both forgave him the money, and

granted him the men; to do what he would

with them. So Haman, having gained what

he desired, sentf out immediately a decree,

as from the king, to all nations, the contents

whereof were these: "Artaxerxes, the great

king, to the rulers of the hundred and twenty-

seven provinces, from India to Ethiopia, sends

this writing. Whereas I have governed many

nations, and obtained the dominion of all the

habitable earth, according to my desire; and

have not been obliged to do any thing that is

insolent or cruel to my subjects, by such my

power; but have shewn myself mild and gen­

tle, by taking care of their peace and good

order, and have sought how they might enjoy

those blessings for all time to come. And

whereas Haman, who, on account of his pru­

dence, and justice, is the first in my esteem,

and in dignity, and only second to myself,

for his fidelity and constant good will to me;

hath kindly informed me, that there is an ill

natured nation intermixed with all mankind,

that is averse from our laws, and not subject

to kings; and of a different conduct of life

from others; and of a disposition pernicious

to our affairs: I give order that all these men,

of whom Haman, our second father, hath in­

formed us, be destroyed, with their wives and

children; and that none of them be spared,

and that none prefer pity to them, before obe­

dience to this decree. And this I will to be

executed on the fourteenth day of the twelfth

month of this present year: so that when all

that have enmity to us are destroyed, and this

in one day, we may be allowed to lead the

rest of our lives in peace hereafter." Now

when this decree was brought to the cities,

and to the country, all were ready for the de­

struction and entire extirpation of the Jews,

against the appointed day. And they were

very hasty about it at Shushan in particular.

Accordingly the king and Haman spent their

time in feasting together, with good cheer

and wine: but the city was in Jdisorder.||

no sort of adoration to an Amalekite, which nation had

been such great sinners, as to have been universally de­

voted to destruction by God himself, Exod. xvii. 14, 15,

16. 1 Sam. xv. 18. or whether both causes occurred,

cannot now be entirely determined.

* See Exod. xvii. 8-—16. and 1 Sara. xv.

t The first institution of posts is generally ascribed to

the Persians; for the kings of Persia, (as Diodorus Sicu-

lus, lib. 19. observes,) that they might have intelligence

of what passed in all the provinces of their vast dominions,

placed sentinels on eminences, at convenient distances,

where towers were built, and these sentinels gave notice

of public occurrences to one another, with a very loud and

shrill voice, by which means news was transmitted from

one extremity of the kingdom to the other with great ex­

pedition But as this could be practised only in the case

of general news, which might be communicated to the

whole nation, Cyrus, (as Xenophon relates, Cyropaed.

lib. 8.) set up couriers, places for post-horses on all high­

roads, and offices, where they might deliver their packets

to one another. This, says our author, they did night

and day; so that no rain or hard weather being to stop

them, in the judgment of many, they went faster than

cranes could fly. The like is said in Herodotus, lib. 8.

And he acquaints us farther, that Xerxes, in his famous

expedition against Greece, planted posts from the jEgean

sea to Shushan, at certain distances, as far as a horse

could ride with speed, that thereby he might send notice

to the capital city of whatever might happen in his army.

Calmefs Dictionary under the word. B.

% Esther iii. 15.

11 Not only the Jews, but a great many others in Shu­

