430

ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

[book XII.

for that behaviour. I will set down presently

the epistles themselves, which he wrote to

his generals concerning them: but will first

f>roduce the testimony of Polybius of Mega-

opolis: for thus does he speak, in the six­

teenth book of his history, "Now Scopas,

the general of Ptolemy's army, went in haste

to the superior parts of the country, and in

the winter time overthrew the nation of the

Jews." He also saith in the same book,

"When Scopas was conquered by Antiochus,

Antiochus received Batanea, Samaria, Abila,

and Gadara: and that, some time afterwards,

there came in to him those Jews that inhabit­

ed near that temple which was called Jeru­

salem: concerning which although I have

more to say, and particularly concerning the

presence of God about that temple, yet do I

put off that history till another opportunity."

This it is which Polybius relates. But we

will return to the series of the history: when

we have first produced the epistles of king

Antiochus.

KING ANTIOCHUS, TO PTOLEMY, SENDETH GREET­

ING,

i

"Since the Jews, upon our first entrance

on their country, demonstrated their friend­

ship towards us; and when we came to their

city (Jerusalem) received us in a splendid

manner; and came to meet us with their

senate; and gave abundance of provisions to

our soldiers, and to the elephants; and joined

with us in ejecting the garrison of the Egyp­

tians, that were in the citadel; we have

thought fit to reward them, and to retrieve

the condition of their city, which hath been

greatly depopulated by such accidents as

have befallen its inhabitants, and to bring

those that have been scattered abroad back

to the city. And, in the first place, we have

determined, on account of their piety towards

God, to bestow on them, as a pension, for

^heir sacrifices of animals, that are fit for sa­

crifice; for wine, and oil, and frankincense,

the value of twenty thousand pieces of sil­

ver: and six sacred artabae of fine flour:

with one thousand four hundred and sixty

medimni of wheat; and three hundred and

seventy-five medimni of salt. And these pay­

ments I would have fully paid them as I have

sent orders to you. I would also have the

work about the temple finished, and the

cloisters; and if there be any thing else that

ought to be rebuilt. And for the materials of

wood, let them be brought out of Judea, and

out of the other countries, and out of Liba-

nus, tax free: and the same I would have ob­

served as to those other materials which will

be necessary in order to render the temple

more glorious. And let all of that nation live

according to the laws of their own country:

and let the senate, and the priests, and the

scribes of the temple, and the sacred singers,

be discharged from poll-money, and the

crown-tax; and other taxes also. And that

the city may the sooner recover its inhabit­

ants, I grant a discharge from taxes for three

years to its present inhabitants; and to such

as shall come to it until the month Hyperbe-

reteus. We also discharge them for the (u-

ture from a third part of their taxes: that the

losses they have sustained may be repaired.

And all those citizens that have been carried

away, and are become slaves, we grant them

and their children their freedom; and give

order that their substance be restored to,

them."

Antiochus also published a decree, through-

all his kingdom, in honour of the temple:

which contained what follows:—

"It shall be lawful for no foreigner to come

within the limits of the temple round about:

which thing is forbidden also to the Jews, un­

less to those who, according to their own cus­

tom, have purified themselves. Nor let any

flesh of horses, or of mules, or of asses, be

brought into the city, whether they be wild

or tame: nor that of leopards or foxes, or

hares: and in general, that of any animal

which is forbidden for the Jews to eat. Nor*

let their skins be brought into it: nor let any-

such animal be bred up in the city. Let

them only be permitted to use the sacrifices

derived from their forefathers: with which

they have been obliged to make acceptable

atonements to God. And he that transgress-

eth any of these orders, let him pay to the

Kriests three thousand drachmae of silver."

loreover this Antiochus bare testimony to

our piety and fidelity, in an epistle of his,

when he was informed of a sedition in Phry-

gia and Lydia, at which time he was in the

superior provinces; wherein he commanded

Zeuxis, the general of his forces, and his

most intimate friend, to send some of our ua­

