292 [BOOK Till ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

she was in: but openly confessed how wonder­

fully she was affected. For she proceeded to

discourse with the king, and thereby owned

that she was overcome with admiration at the

things before related; and said, "All things

indeed, O king, that come to our knowledge

by report, come with uncertainty as to our

belief of them; but as to those good things

that to thee appertain, both such as thou

possessest, 1 mean wisdom and prudence, and

the happiness thou hast from thy kingdom,

certainly the fame which came to us was no

falsity; it was not only a true report, but it

related thy happiness after a much lower

manner than I now see it to be before my

eyes. For as for the report, it only attempted

to persuade our hearing; but did not so make

known the dignity of the things themselves

as does the sight of them, and being present

among them. I indeed, who did not believe

what was reported, by reason of the multi­

tude and grandeur of the things I inquired

about, do see them to be much more nu­

merous than they were reported to be. Ac­

cordingly I esteem the Hebrew people, as

well as thy servants and friends, to be happy,

who enjoy thy presence, and hear thy wisdom

every day continually. One would therefore

bless God who hath so loved this country,

and those that inhabit therein, as to make

thee king over them."

Now when the queen had thus demon­

strated how deeply the king had affected

her, she made that disposition known by

certain presents. For she gave him *twenty

talents of gold, and an immense quantity of

spices and precious stones. They say also

that we possess the froot of that balsam

•which our country still bears by this wo­

man's gift. Solomon also repaid her with

many good things, and principally by be­

stowing upon her what she chose of her

own inclination; for there was nothing that

she desired which he denied her. And as

he was very generous and liberal in his own

temper, so did he shew the greatness of his

soul in bestowing upon her what she her­

self desired of him. So when this queen of

Egypt and Ethiopia had obtained what we

have already given an account of, and had

again communicated to the king what she

brought with her, she returned to her own

kingdom.J

CHAP. VII.

of Solomon's immense riches, his love of strange

women, the subsequent rebellion of ader and je­

roboam, and the death of solomon.

ABOUT the same time|| there were

brought to the king from the Aurea

Chersonesus, (a. country so called,) precious

stones and pine-trees: and these trees he

made use of for supporting the temple, and

the palace; as also for the materials of musi­

cal instruments, the harps and the psalteries;

that the Levites might make use of them in

their hymns to God. The wood which was

brought to him at the time, was larger and

liner than any that had ever been brought

before. But let no one imagine that these

pine-trees were like those which are now so

named, and which take their denomination

from the merchants, who so call them that

they may procure them to be admired by

those that purchase them. For those we

speak of were to the sight like the wood

of the fig-tree; but were whiter and more

shining.§ Now we have said thus much, that

nobody may be ignorant of the difference be­

* A hundred and twenty, Hebrew and Septuagint,  
which I suppose to be the true number.

t Some blame Josephus for supposing, that the balsam

tree might be first brought out of Arabia, or Egypt, or

Ethiopia, into Judea, by this queen of Sheba; since seve­

ral have said, that of old no country bore this precious

balsam but Judea. Yet, as my learned friend Mr. Barker

suggested to me from Bochart's Phaleg. II. 26, it is not

only false that this balsam was peculiar to Judea; but

both Egypt and Arabia, and particularly Sabxa had it:

which last was that very country whence Josephus, if

understood not of Ethiopia, but of Arabia, intimates this

queen might bring it first into Judea. This Bochart

proves from Agatharchides, Diodorus Siculus, and Arte-

midorus, in Strabo. Nor are we to suppose, that the

queen of Sabaea could well omit such a present as this

balsam tree would be esteemed by Solomon, in case it

were then almost peculiar to her own country. Nor is

the mention of balsam, as carried by merchants, and sent

as a present to Judea by Jacob, to the governor of Egypt,

Gen. xxxvii. 15. and xliii. 11. to be alleged to the con­

trary: since what we there render balm, or balsam, de­

notes rather that turpentine, which we now cull turpentine

of Chio or Cyprus, the juice of the turpentine-tree, than

this precious balsam. This last is also the same word that

we elsewhere render, by the like mistake, balm of Gilead.

It should be rendered the turpentine of Gilead, Jer. viii. 22.

J 1 Kings x. 13.

II About an. 1020.

§ We never read of ivory till about Solomon's dayB,

