AN. 84.] 491 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Adida: yet did he upon certain conditions

retire out of Judea.

But Alexander *marchcd again to the

tcity Dios, and took it; and then made an

expedition against Es3a, where was the best

part of Zeno's treasures: and there he encom­

passed the place with three walls. And when

he had taken the city he marched to Golan,

and Seleucia. And when he had reduced

them, he took that valley which is called the

valley of Antiochus; as also the fortress Ga-

mala. He also accused Demetrius, who was

governor of those places, of many crimes;

and turned him out. And after he had spent

three years in this war, he returned to his

own country: when the Jews joyfully re­

ceived him, upon this his good success.

At this time the Jews were in possession of

the following cities that had belonged to the

Syrians, Idumeans, and Phoenicians. At the

sea side Strato's Tower, A po I Ionia, Joppa,

Jamnia, Ashdod, Gaza, Anthedon, Raphia,

and Rhinocolura. In the middle of the

country near to Idumea, Adera, and Ma-

rissa; near the country of Samaria, mount

Carmel, and mount Tabor, Scythopolis, and

Gadara. Of the country of Gaulonitis, Se­

leucia, and Gabala. In the country of Moab,

Heshbon, and Medaba, Lemba, and Oronas,

Gelithon, Zara, the valley of the Cilices, and

Pella. The last of these they utterly de­

stroyed; because its inhabitants would not

bear to Jchange their religious rites for those

peculiar to the Jews. The Jews also pos­

sessed others of the principal cities of Syria,

which had been destroyed.

After this, king Alexander, although he fell

into a distemper by hard drinking, and had

a quartan ague, which held him three years,

yet would not leave off going out with his

army, till he was quite exhausted with the

labours he had undergone, and died in the

bounds of ||Ragaba, a fortress beyond Jor­

dan. But when his queen saw that he was

and at Damascus; as we learn from Josephus in many

places; and from St. Paul, 2 Cor. xi. 32. See the Note

on XVI. 9.

* An. 84 B. C.

t See Book XIV. chap. 1.

j We may here take notice, that whatever countries

or cities the Asmoneans conquered from any of the neigh­

bouring nations; or whatsoever countries or cities they

gained from them, that had not belonged to them before;

they, after the days of Hyrcanus, compelled the inhabi-

VOL. I.—NOS. 41 & 42.

ready to die, and had no longer any hopes

of surviving, she came to him weeping, and

lamenting; and bewailed herself and her

sons, on the desolate condition they should

be left in: and said to him,

"To whom dost thou thus leave me, and

my children: who are destitute of all other

supports; and this when thou knowest how

much ill will thy nation bears thee?"

He replied, that she need but follow what

he would suggest to her, in order to retain

the kingdom securely, with her children.

That she should conceal his death from the

soldiers, till she should have taken that place;

that after this she should go in triumph, as

upon a victory, to Jerusalem; and put some

of her authority into the hands of the Phari­

sees: for that they would commend her for

the honour she had done them; and would

reconcile the nation to her. For he told her,

that they had great authority among the Jews,

both to do hurt to such as they hated, and to

bring advantages to those to whom they were

friendly disposed. For that they are then

believed best of all by the multitude, when

they speak any severe thing against others:

though it be only out of envy at them. And

he said, that it was by their means that he

had incurred the displeasure of the nation,

whom indeed he had injured. "Do thou,

therefore," said he, "when thou art come to

Jerusalem, send for the leading men among

Ihem, and shew them my body: and, with

great appearance of sincerity, give them

leave to use it as they please: whether they

will dishonour me by refusing it burial, as

having severely suffered by my means; or

whether, in their anger, they will offer any

other injury to that body. Promise them

also, that thou wilt do nothing without them,

in the affairs of the kingdom. If thou dost

but act thus, I shall have the honour of a

more sumptuous funeral from them than thou

couldest have made for me: and when it is

tants to leave their idolatry, and to receive the law of

Moses, as proselytes of justice; or else banished them

into other lands. That excellent prince, John Hyrcanus,

did it to the Idumeans, as I have noted on chap. 9, al­

ready, who lived then in the promised land; and this I

suppose justly: but by what right the rest did it, even to

countries or cities that were no part of that land, 1 do not

know. This looks too like unjust persecution for religion'

II Or Argob. . - , . . j

41

