92 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

on the sides and behind, within one cubit of

the ground. There were other curtains of

the same breadth with these, but one more in

number, and longer; for they were thirty cu­

bits long: these were woven of hair, and

were extended loosely down to the ground,

appearing like a triangular front and elevation

at the gates; the eleventh curtain being used

for this very purpose. There were also other

curtains made of skins above these, which

afforded covering and protection to those

that were woven, both in hot weather and

when it rained. And great was the surprise

of those who viewed these curtains at a dis­

tance; for they seemed not at all to differ

from the colour of the sky. But those that

were made of hair, and of skins, reached

down in the same manner as did the veil at

the gates, and kept off the rain, and heat of

the sun: and after this manner was the taber­

nacle reared.

There was also an ark* made, sacred to

God, of wood that was naturally strong, and

could not be corrupted. This was called

Eron, in our own language. Its construction

was thus; its length was five spans,f but its

breadth and height was each of them three

spans. It was covered with gold, both within

and without: so that the wooden part was

not seen. It had also a cover united to it, by

golden hinges, after a wonderful manner:

which cover was every way evenly fitted to

it, and had no eminences to hinder its exact

conjunction. There were also two golden

rings, belonging to each of the longer boards,

and passing through the entire wood; and

through them gilded bars passed along each

board; that it might thereby be moved, and

carried about as occasion should require; for

it was not drawn in a cart by yokes of kine,

but borne on the shoulders of the priests.

Upon this cover were two images, called

cherubim. They are flying creatures, but

their form is not like to that of any of the

creatures which men have seen; though Mo­

ses said he had seen such beings near the

throne of God. In this ark he put the two

tables whereon the Ten Commandments were

written; five upon each table; and two and a

half upon each side of them: and this ark he

placed in the most holy place.

In the holy place he placed a table like

those at Delphi. Its length was two cubits,

its breadth one cubit, and its height three

spans. It had feet also, the lower half of

which were complete feet, resembling those

which the Dorians put to their bedsteads;

but the upper parts towards the table were

wrought into a square form. The table had

a hollow towards every side, having a ledge

of four fingers depth, that went round about,

like a spiral; both on the upper and lower

-.

* We meet with imitations of this divinely instituted  
emblem among several heathen nations, both in ancient and

modern times. Thus Tacitus (de Mor. German, cap. 40.)

informs us, that " the inhabitants of the north of Germany,

our Saxon ancestors, in general worshipped Herthum,

that is, the mother earth, and believed her to interpose in

the affairs of men, and to visit nations; that to her, within

a sacred grove, in a certain island of the ocean, a vehicle,

covered with a vestment, was consecrated, and allowed to

be touched by the priest alone, who perceived when the

goddess entered into this her sacred place, and with pro­

found veneration attended her vehicle, which was drawn

by cows. While the goddess was on her progress, days of

rejoicing were kept at every place which she vouchsafed

to visit. They engaged in no war, they meddled not with

arms, they locked up their weapons: peace and quiet­

ness only were then known, these only relished, till the

game priest reconducted the goddess, satiated with the con­

versation of mortals, to her temple."

Among the Mexicans, Vitziputzli, their supreme god,

was represented in a human shape, sitting on a throne,

supported by an azure globe, which they called heaven.

Four poles or sticks came out from two sides of this

globe, at the ends of which serpents' heads were carved,

the whole making a litter, which the priests carried on

their shoulders whenever the idol was shewn in public.

Picart's Ceremonies, vol. iii. p. 146.

In Lieutenant Cook's voyage round the world, pub

lished by Dr. Hawksworth, vol. ii. p. 252, we find that

the inhabitants of Huaheine, one of the islands lately dis­

covered in the South Sea, had " a kind of chest or ark, the

lid of which was nicely sewed on, and thatched very neatly

with palm-nut leaves. It was fixed upon two poles, and

supported upon little arches of wood, very neatly carved:

the use of the poles seemed to be to remove it from place

to place in the manner of our sedan chair: in one end of

it was a square hole, in the middle of which was a ring

touching the sides, and leaving the angles open, so as to

form a round hole within, a square one without. The

first time Mr. Banks saw this coffer, the aperture at the

end was stopped with a piece of cloth, which, lest he

should give offence, he left untouched. Probably there

was then something within: but now the cloth was taken

away; and upon lookipg into it, it was found empty. The

general resemblance between this repository, and the ark

of the Lord among the Jews, is remarkable: but it is

still more remarkable, that upon enquiring of the boy

what it was called, he said Ewharra no Eautau, the house

of God; he could, however, giye no. account of its sig­

nification or use." Parkhurst's Heb. Lex. p. 690, 4th

edit. 8.

t A cubit was about twenty-one inches; and a span

half a cubit. ;,

