462 [book XIII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

temple at Jerusalem was built according to

the laws of Moses: and to put Sabbeus and

Theodosius to death. And these were the

events that befell the Jews at Alexandria, in

the days of Ptolemy Philometor.

CHAP. IV.

OF THE HONOURS CONFERRED UPON JONATHAN BY ALEXAN­

DER, KING OF SYRIA; AND OF THE AFFAIRS OF DEME­

TRIUS, WHO AFTERWARD MADE A LEAQUE OF FRIENDSHIP

WITH JONATHAN.

DEMETRIUS being slain in battle, as

we have *already related, Alexander

took the kingdom of Syria; and wrote to

Ptolemy Philometor, desiring his daughter

in marriage; for he said it was but just that

he should be joined in affinity to one who

had now received the principality of his

forefathers; and had been promoted to it by

God's providence; and had conquered De­

metrius; and who was on other accounts not

unworthy of being related to him. Ptolemy

received this proposal gladly: and wrote

him an answer, saluting him on account of

his having received the kingdom of his fore­

fathers; and promising that he would give

him his daughter in marriage. and would ac­

company her as far as Ptolemais; where he

desired, that he would meet him. When

Ptolemy had written thus, he came suddenly

to Ptolemais, and brought his daughter Cleo­

patra along with him. And as he found Alex­

ander there before him, according as he had

desired, he gave him his child in marriage:

and for her portion gave her as much silver

and gold, as became such a king to give.

When the wedding was over, Alexander

wrote to Jonathan the high-priest; and de­

sired him to come to Ptolemais. So when

he came to these kings, and had made them

magnificent presents, he was honoured by

them both. Alexander compelled him also

to put off his own garments, and to take a

purple garment; and made him sit with him

in his throne: commanding his captains that

they should go with him into the middle of

the city, and proclaim, that it was not per­

mitted to any one to speak against him, or

to give him any disturbance. And when

the captains had thus done, those that were

prepared to accuse Jonathan, and who bare

him ill-will, when they saw the honour that

was done him by proclamation, and that by

the king's order, ran away, and were afraid

lest some mischief should befall them. Nay,

king Alexander was so very kind to Jona­

than, that he set him down as the principal

of his friends.

But upon the hundred and sixty-fifth year,

Demetrius, the son of Demetrius, came from

Crete, with a great number of mercenary sol­

diers, which Lasthenes, the Cretan, brought

him; and sailed to Cilicia. This cast Alex­

ander into great concern and disorder, when

he heard it. So he hastened immediately out

of Phoenicia, and came to Antioch; that he

might put matters in a safe posture there,

before Demetrius should come. He also left

fApollonius Daus governor of Coelesyria,J

about those men, in the plural, who were to dispute for

their temple at Jerusalem; whereas, it seems here, they

had but one disputant, Andronicus by name. Perhaps

more were prepared to speak on the Jews' side: but the

first having answered to his name, and overcome the Sa­

maritans, there was no necessity for any other defender

of the Jerusalem temple.

* Chap. II.

t This Apollonius Daus was, by his account, the son of

Apollonius, who had been made governor of Coelesyria

and Phoenicia by Seleucus Philopator; and was himself a

confidant of his son Demetrius the father; and restored to

his father's government by him; but afterwards revolted

from him to Alexander: but not to Demetrius the son.

J Apollonius was a common name among the Syro-

Macedonians and Greeks; and, in the history of the Mac­

cabees, we find so many mentioned of that name, that

for the prevention of mistakes, it may not be improper

to give some account of the several persons who bore it.

The first that we meet with of that name is Apollonius,

the son of Thraseas, 2 Mace. iii. 5. who was governor

•f Co?lesyri» and Phoenicia, under Seleucus Philopator

when Heliodorus came to Jerusalem, to rob the temple.

He was chief minister of state to Seleucus; but, on the

accession of his brother Antiochus Epiphanes to the

crown, he left Syria, and retired to Miletus. He had ;i

son of his own name, that was bred up at Rome, and re­

sided with Demetrius, (the son of Seleucus Philopator,)

who was then a hostage in that place. When Demetrius

recovered the crown of Syria, this Apollonius became his

prime favourite, and was made governor of Coelesyria and

Phoenicia, the same government which his father held un­

der Seleucus Philopator; and this I take to be the same

Apollonius, who being continued in the same government

by Alexander, now revolted from him to embrace the in­

terest of Demetrius, the son of his old master, and, to en­

gage Jonathan to do the like, marched his forces against

him. Another Apollonius is spoken of, 2 Mace. iv. 21. as

the chief minister of Antiochus Epiphanes, who from him

was sent as ambassador first to Rome, and afterwards to

Ptolemy Philometor, king of Egypt; and him I take to be

the same, that with a detachment of two and twenty thou­

sand men, was sent to destroy Jerusalem, and build a for­

tress on mount Acra. There are, besides these, two other

