AN. 21.] 567 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

and commanded that they should do every

thing with his approbation. And, in short,

he arrived at that pitch of felicity, that

whereas there were but two men that govern­

ed the vast Roman empire, first Caesar, and

Agrippa, who was his principal favourite:

Caesar preferred no one to Herod, besides

Agrippa: and Agrippa made no one his

greater friend than Herod, besides Caesar.

And when he had acquired such freedom, he

begged of Caesar a tetrarchy *for his brother

Pheroras; while he did himself bestow upon

him a revenue of a hundred talents, out of

his own kingdom: that in case he came to

any harm himself, his brother might be in

safety; and that his sons might not have

any dominion over him. So when he had

conducted Caesar to the sea, and was re­

turned home, he built a most beautiful temple

of the whitest stone, in Zenodorus's country,

near the place called Penium. This is a

very fine cave in a mountain, under which

there is a great cavity in the earth; and the

cavern is abrupt, and prodigiously deep, and

full of still water. Over it hangs a vast moun­

tain; and under the caverns arise the springs

of the river Jordan. Herod adorned this

place, which was already a very remarkable

one, still farther, by the erection of this tem­

ple, which he dedicated to Caesar.

At this time Herod released to his subjects

the third part of their taxes: under pretence

indeed of relieving them, after the dearth they

had had; but the main reason was, to recover

their good will, which he now wanted. For

they were uneasy because of the innovations

he had introduced in their practices; of the

dissolution of their religion; and of the disuse

of their own customs. And the people every

where talked against him, like those that were

still more and more provoked and disturbed

at his procedure. Against these discontents

however, he greatly guarded himself, and

took away the opportunities they might have

to disturb him; and enjoined them to be always

at work. Nor did he permit the citizens either

to assemble, or to walk, or eat together; but

watched every thing they did; and when any

were caught, they were severely punished.

And many there were who were brought to

the citadel Hyrcania, both openly and secret­

ly; and were there put to death. And there

were spies set every where, both in the city,

and in the roads, who watched those that met

together. Nay, it is reported, that he did not

himself neglect this part of caution; but that

he would oftentimes assume the habit of a

private man, and mix among the multitude,

in the night time: and make trial what opinion

they had of his government. And as for those

that could no way be reduced to acquiesce

under his scheme of government he prose­

cuted them all manner of way. But for the

rest of the multitude, he required that they

should be obliged to take an oath of fidelity

to him; and at the same time compelled them

to swear that they would bear him good will,

and continue certain so to do in his manage­

ment of the government. And indeed a great

part of them, either to please him, or out of

fear of punishments, yielded to what he re­

quired. But for such as were of a more open

and generous disposition, and had indignation

at the force he used to them, he by one means

or other made away with them. He endea­

voured also to persuade Pollio, the Pharisee,

and Sameans and the greatest part of their

scholars to take the oath. But these would

neither submit so to do; nor were they pu­

nished together with the rest, out of the rever­

ence he bore to Pollio. The Essenes also,

as we call a sect of ours, were excused from

this imposition. These men live the same

kind of life as do those whom the Greeks call

Pythagoreans: concerning whom I shall dis­

course more fully felsewhere. However, it

is proper to set down here the reasons where­

fore Herod had these Essenes in such honor,

and thought higher of them than their mortal

nature required. Nor will this account be un­

suitable to the nature of this history; as it will

shew the opinion men had of these Essenes.

* A tetrarchy properly and originally denoted the  
fourth part of an entire kingdom, or country: and a te-

trarch, one that was ruler of such a fourth part: which al­

ways implies somewhat less extent of dominion and power

than belong to a kingdom, and to a king. But this first

exactness has not always been adhered to in the use of

these words, and Pliny reckons no fewer than six

about Decapolis, as Noldius takes notice, De Herod,

page 368. But that Zenodorus was once tetrarch or go­

vernor of Trachonitis, we learn from Dio; as Spanheim

observes here. This tetrarchy of Pheroras was in Perea,

beyond Jordan,

t See Of the Wars.Book ii. chap. 8.

