326 (boo* tt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

"God hath said, since thou hast despised him

as not being God, and so unable to foretell

the truth about thy distemper, but hast sent

to the god of Ekron to inquire of him; know

this that thou shalt die."

Accordingly the king died in a very little

time,* as Elijah had "foretold; and Joram

his brother succeeded him in the kingdom,

for he died without children. This Joramt

was like his father Ahab in wickedness, and

reigned twelve years, indulging himself in all

sorts of wickedness and impiety towards God;

for leaving off his worship, he worshipped

foreign gods. But in other respects he was

an active man. Now at this time Elijah dis­

appeared from among men; and no one

knows of his death to this very day; but he

left behind him his disciple Elisha, as we

have formerly declared. And indeed, as to

Elijah, and as to Enoch, who lived before the

deluge, it was written in the sacred books

that they disappeared; but so, that nobody

knew they died.

chap. m.

OP AN EXPEDITION MADE BT JORAM AWn JF.MOSHAPHAT

AGAINST THE MOABITES; THE WORKS OF ELISHA, AND

THE DEATH OF JEHOSHAPHAT.

WHEN Joram had taken upon him J the

kingdom, he determined to make an

expedition against the king of Moab, whose

name was Mesha. For as we have said be­

fore, he was departed from his obedience to

his brother Ahaziah; while he payed to his

father Ahab, ||two hundred thousand sheep

with their fleeces of wool. When therefore

he had gathered his own army together, he

sent to Jehoshaphat, and intreated him, that

since he had from the beginning been a

friend to his father, he would assist him in

the war that he was entering into against the

Moabites, who had departed from their obe­

dience. Jehoshaphat readily promised that

he would assist him, and would oblige the

king of Edom, who was under his authority,

* An. 898.

t Josephus's character of Joram seems much worse

than that in our Hebrew and Greek copies; which say,

2 Kings iii. 2, 3. that although he followed the calves of

Jeroboam, yet did he not act like his father Ahab, (and

his mother Jezebel, because he put away the image of

Baal that his father had made.) Where we may note that

not only the Alexandrian MS. omits the last branch in­

to make the same expedition also. When

Joram had received these assurances, he

took his army with him, and came to Jeru­

salem; and when he had been sumptuously

entertained by the king of Jerusalem, it was

resolved upon by them to make their march

against their enemies through the wilderness

of Edom. And when they had taken a com­

pass of seven days' journey, they were in dis­

tress for want of water for the cattle, and for

the army; from the mistake of their roads

by the guides that conducted them; inso­

much that they were all in an agony, espe­

cially Joram; and cried to God, by reason of

their sorrow, and desired to know what

wickedness had been committed by them,

that induced him to deliver three kings to­

gether, without fighting, into the hands of the

king of Moab? But Jehoshaphat, who was a

righteous man, encouraged him, and bade

him send to the camp, and know whether

any prophet of God was come along with

them; that they might by him learn from God

what they should do. And when one of the

servants of Joram said, he had seen there

Elisha, the son of Shaphat, the disciple of

Elijah, the three kings went to him, at the

intreaty of Jehoshaphat. And when they

were come to the prophet's tent, without the

camp; they asked him, what would become

of the army? and Joram was particularly

pressing with him about it. And when he

replied to him, that he should not trouble

him; but go to his father's and mother's pro­

phets; for they, to be sure, were true pro­

phets; he still desired him to prophesy, and

to save them. So he sware by God, that he

would not answer him, unless it were on ac­

count of Jehoshaphat, who was a holy and

righteous man; and when, at his desire, they

brought him a man that could play on the

psaltery, the Divine Spirit came upon him,

as the music played; and he commanded

them to dig many trenches in the valley:

"For," said he," though there appear neither

cloud, nor wind, nor storm of rain, ye shall

closed in parentheses; but that the following characters,

and circumstances, and divine punishment of this Joram

in all our copies, favour the worse character in Josephus

See 2 Kings iii. 13, 14. vi. 31, 32. ix. 7, 8, 9, 10, 22—26

t An. 895.

II One hundred lambs, and one hundred thousand rams,

Hebrew and Septuagint

-.

1

