hs. 947.1 307 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

wealth from God, they returned to Jerusalem.

Now as they were corning, a prophet whose

name was Azariah, met them on the road, and

bade them stop their journey a little; and be­

gan to say to them, that the reason why they

had obtained this victory from God was that

they had shewn themselves righteous and

religious men, and had done every thing ac­

cording to the will of God; that therefore,

if they persevered therein, God would grant

that they should always overcome their ene­

mies, and live happily; but if they left off his

worship, all things would fall out on the con­

trary; and the #time should come, wherein no

true prophet should be left in their whole

multitude; nor a priest who should deliver a

true answer from the oracle: but their cities

should be overthrown, and their nation scat­

tered over the whole earth, and live the life

of strangers and wanderers. So he advised

them, while they had time, to be good, and

not to deprive themselves of the favour of

God. When the king and the people heard

this, they rejoiced; and all in common, and

every one in particular, took great care to

behave themselves righteousry.f The king

also sent some to take care, that those in

the country should observe the laws.

I now return to Baasha, king of the mul­

titude of the Israelites, who slew Nadab,

the son of Jeroboam, and retained the go­

vernment. He dwelt J in the city Tirzah;

having made that his habitation; and reigned

twenty-four years. He became more wicked

and impious than Jeroboam or his son: for he

did a great deal of mischief to the multitude;

and was injurious to God. The prophet Jehu

was therefore sent to tell him beforehand,

that his whole family should be destroyed,

and that God would bring the same miseries

on his house, which had brought that of Je­

roboam to ruin: because when he had been

made king by him, he had not requited his

kindness, by governing the multitude righ­

teously and religiously; which things in the

first place tended to their own happiness,

and in the next place were pleasing to God;

that he had imitated this very wicked king

Jeroboam; and although that man's soul had

perished, yet did he express to the life his

wickedness; and he said, that he should

therefore justly experience the like calamity

with him; since he had been guilty of the

like wickedness. But Baasha, though he

heard beforehand what miseries would be­

fall him and his whole family for their inso­

lent behaviour, yet did not he leave off his

wicked practices for the time to come; nor

did he care to appear to be other than worse

and worse till he died; nor did he even then

repent of his past actions, nor endeavour to

obtain pardon of God for them; but did as

those do, who have rewards proposed to

them, when they have once in earnest set

about their work, they do not leave off their

labours. For thus did Baasha grow worse

when the prophet foretold to him what would

come to pass: as if the threatened perdition

of his family, and the destruction of his house

were good things; and as if he were a com­

batant for wickedness, he every day took

more and more pains for it. And at last he

took his army, and assaulted a certain con­

siderable city called Ramah, which was forty

furlongs distant from Jerusalem; and when

he had taken it, he fortified it; having pre­

viously determined to leave a garrison in it,

that they might thence make excursions, and

do mischief to the kingdom of Asa.

Hereupon Asa was afraid of the attempts

the enemy might make upon him; and, con­

sidering with himself how many mischiefs this

army that was left in Ramah might do to the

country over which he reigned, he sent am­

bassadors || to the king of the Damascens,

with gold and silver, desiring his assistance,

and putting him in mind that they had a

friendship together,§ from the times of their

forefathers. So he gladly received that sum

of money; and made a league with him, and

brake the friendship he had with Baasha,

and sent the commanders of his own forces

unto the cities that were under Baasha's do­

minion; and ordered them to do them mis­

chief. So they went and burnt some of them,

and spoiled others: Ijon, Dan, and Abel-

maim,** and many others.

Now when the king of Israel heard this,

* Here is a very great error in our Hebrew copy in  
this place, 2 Chron. xvi. 3—6. as applying what follows

to times past, and not in times future.

t 2 Chron. xv. 8.

voL. I.—NOS. 25 & 26.

I An. 954.

II About an. 937.

§ See 1 Kings xix. 15—xx. 34.

** This Abelmaim, or in Josephus's copy, Abellane,  
3 1

