16 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

by the flood, the pillar of stone might remain,

and exhibit those discoveries to mankind;

and also inform them that there was another

pillar of brick erected by them. Now this

remains in the land of Siriad, to this day.

CHAP. III.

or the deluge: noah's'preservation is an ark, and

HIS SUBSEQUENT DEBARKATION AND DEATH.

THE posterity of Seth continued to esteem

God as the Lord of the universe, and to

have an entire regard to virtue for seven ge­

nerations; but in process of time they were

perverted, and forsook the practices of their

forefathers, and did neither pay those honours

to God which were appointed them, nor had

they any concern to justice towards men. But

for what degree of zeal they had formerly

evinced for virtue, they now shewed by their

actions a double degree of wickedness;

whereby they made God to be their enemy.

For many angels* of Godf accompanied with

women, and begat sons that proved unjust,

and despisers oi all that was good, on account

of the confidence they had in their own

strength; for the tradition is, that these men

did what resembled the acts of those whom

the Grecians call giants. But Noah was very

uneasy at what they did; and being dis­

pleased at their conduct, persuaded them to

change their dispositions and their actions

for the better. But seeing they did not yield

to him, but were slaves to their wicked plea­

sures, he was afraid they would kill him, to­

gether with his wife and children, and those

they had married, so he departed out of that

land.

Now God loved this man for his righteous­

ness, yet he not only condemned those other

men ibr their wickedness, but determined to

destroy the whole race of mankind, and to

make another race that should be pure from

wickedness, and cutting short their lives, and

making their years not so many as they for­

merly enjoyed, but one hundred and twentyJ

only, he turned the dry land into sea. And

thus were all these men destroyed. But Noah

alone was saved, for God suggested to him

the following contrivance and way of escape:

—That he should make an ark of four stories

high, three hundred cubits|| long, fifty cubits

broad, and thirty cubits high.S Accordingly

he entered into that ark, with his wife, and

his sons and their wives, and put into it; not

only provisions to support their wants there,

but also sent in with the rest, all sorts of

living creatures, the male and his female, for

the preservation of their kinds: and others of

them by sevens.** Now this ark had firm

walls, and a roof; and was braced with cross

beams, so that it could not be any way

drowned, or overturned by the violence of

the water: thus was Noah, with his family,

preserved. Now he was the tenth from Adam,

as being the son of Lamech, whose father

was Methusela: he was the son of Enoch, the

son of Jared; and Jared was the son of Ma-

laleel; who, with many of his sisters, were

the children of Cain, the son of Enos: now

Enos was the son of Seth, the son of Adam.

* This notion that the fallen angels were in some sense  
the fathers of the old giants, was the constant opinion of

antiquity.

t Gen. vi. 4.

J Josephus here supposes, that the life of these giants,

for of them only do I understand him, was now reduced

to one hundred and twenty years; for as to the rest of

mankind, Josephus himself confesses their lives were

much longer than one hundred and twenty years, for many

generations after the flood, as we shall see presently: and

Ee says they were gradually shortened till the days of Mo­

ses, and then fixed for some time at one hundred and twenty.

Nor indeed need we suppose, that either Enoch or Jose­

phus meant to interpret these one hundred and twenty

years for the life of men before the flood to be different

from the one hundred and twenty years of God's patience,

(perhaps while the Ark was preparing) till the deluge;

which I take to be the meaning of God when he threatened

this wicked world, that if they so long continued impenitent,

their days should be no more than one hundred and twenty

years.

|| A cubit is about twenty-one English inches.

§ The timber of which the Ark was framed, Moses calls

Gopher wood; but what tree this Gopher was, is not a little

controverted. Some will have it to be the cedar, others

the pine, others the box, and others (particularly the Ma­

hometans) the Indian plane tree. But our learned Fuller,

in his miscellanies, has observed, that it was nothing else

but that which the Greeks call Kwapitftfog, or the cypress

tree; for, taking away the termination, cupar andgopher dif­

fer very little in the sound. This observation the great

Bochart has confirmed, and shown very plainly, that no

country abounds so much with this wood, as that part of

Assyria which lies about Babylon. To this we may add the

observation of Theophrastus, who speaking of trees that

are least subject to decay, makes the cypress the most dura­

ble; for which Bitruvius gives this reason, that the sap,

which is in every part of the wood, has a peculiarly bitter

taste, and is so very offensive, that no worm or other corro­

ding animal will touch it, so that such things as are made of

this wood, will in a manner last for ever. Universal Hist. B.

** Gen. vii. 2

