382 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Cyrus, king of Persia, and Darius, king of

Media, make war. And when he was be­

sieged in Babylon, there happened a won­

derful and prodigious vision. He set down

at supper in a large room, and there were a

great many vessels of silver, such as were

made for royal entertainments; and he had

with him his concubines, and his friends.

Whereupon he commanded that those ves­

sels of gold, which Nebuchadnezzar had

taken out of Jerusalem, and had not made

use of, but had put them into his own temple,

should be brought out of that temple. He

also grew so haughty, as to proceed to use

them in the midst of his cups, drinking out

of them, and blaspheming against God. In

the mean time he saw a hand proceed out

of the wall, and writing certain syllables.*

At this sight he was disturbed, and called

the magicians and Chaldeans together, and

all that sort of men that were among these

harbarians, and were able to interpret sign?

and dreams, that they might explain the

writing to him.f But when the magicians

said they could discover nothing, nor did

understand it; the king was in great disor­

der of mind, and under great trouble at this

surprising accident.J So he caused it to be

proclaimed through all the country, and

promised that to him who could explain the

writing, and give the signification thereof, he

would give a golden chain for his neck, and

permission to wear a purple garment, as did

the kings of Chaldea; and would bestow

on him the third part of his own dominions.

When the proclamation was made, the ma­

gicians ran together more earnestly, and

were very ambitious to find out the import

of the writing, but still hesitated about it

as much as before. Now when the king's

grandmother|| saw him cast down at this

accident, she began to encourage him, and

after the hand-writing on the wall that Baltasar was

slain, does not so well agree with our copies of Da­

niel; which say it was the same night; Daniel v. 30.

But then it must be observed, that Theodoret directly

Snotes Josephus for the confirmation of our copies of

•aniel, and particularly for affirming that he was slain

the same night also. Whose testimony is here set down

at large by Dr. Hudson.

* Daniel v. 5.

t The writing very probably might be in a character

unknown to the Chaldeans, as the old Hebrew, Phoeni­

cian, and Samaritan were; or if they were acquainted

with the character, yet such is the genius of most of the

oriental languages, where so little use is made of vowels,

and where the pronunciation and sequel of the discourse

generally determine the signification of the letters, that a

man may be a perfect master of a language, and yet not

able to read and comprehend a word, when it stands

alone, and without any context, as it is in the case of

Mene. Tekel. Upharsin. A man, for instance, that un­

derstands the Hebrew tongue ever so well, were he to

meet dbr standing alone, would have much ado to read

them, because, according to the manner that we pro­

nounce them, the letters will admit of many different

significations; and it is much the same in the Chaldee

language, wherein the words we are now speaking of were

wrote. Calmet's Commentary on Daniel v. 7. B.

J The king's words are these,—Whosoever shall read

this writing, and shew me the interpretation thereof, shall

be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about

his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.

Daniel v. 7. From whence it appears, that the kings of

Babylon wore the same ornaments, and, in rewarding

their favourites, gave the same marks of honour that the

kings of Persia and their successors did. For purple, we

find, in several Greek authors, was the ordinary habits of

the kings of Persia, and of the princes of their court that

were in the highest posts of honour. The chain or collar

of gold was one of the greatest marks of distinction that

the Persian kings could bestow upon their subjects; and

to be the third ruler of the kingdom, was the same sub­

lime office that Darius the Mede put Daniel in, chap. vi.

1, 2. when he constituted him one of the presidents over

the hundred and twenty princes that he had made go­

vernors over provinces. Xenophon's Cyropadia, lib. viii.

Diodorus, lib. xviii. Josephui,s Antiquities, lib. xi. c. 6.

Brisson, De Regno Persar. lib. i. B.

|| This grandmother, or mother of Baltasar, the queen

dowager of Babylon, (for she is distinguished from his

queen, Daniel v. 10, 23.) seems to have been the famous

Nitocris, who fortified Babylon against the Medes and

Persians; and in all probability governed it under Bal­

tasar, who seems to have been a weak and effeminate

prince. Whether Baltasar were the son or grandson of

the great Nebuchadnezzar, will be best understood by

the following passage out of some observations 1 formerly

made, when I carefully read over Mr. Hutchinson's ex­

cellent edition of Xenophon's Ku£* TXtuSem, as follows:

"Xenophon, who made his Persian expedition not till one

hundred and twenty-eight years after the death of Cyrus,

and never seems to have been at Babylon, nor ever names

any king of Babylon; (as perhaps not knowing their

names; always and only calling each of them tiv Aottupiov,

the Assyrian king, in agreement with Ptolemy's Canon ;)

took the last king of Babylon to be the son of his prede­

cessor, and the same that injured Gobryas and Gadates,

page 307, 529. Berosus also, who lived still much later,

took Niricassolassar for the sister's husband, and puts in

Laborosoarchod, who is not in the Canon. Perhaps we

had better follow the Scripture, and the Canon, as elder,

and indeed contemporary records; and say, that Ilvaro-

damus or Evil-Merodach was the son, and Niricassolassar

the grandson of Nebuchadnezzar; and that Baltasar or

Nabonadius was the uncle of Niricassolassar, and the son

of Nebuchadnezzar, by another wife, Nitocris. See Ba-

ruch i. 11. 2 Chron. xxxvi. 20. Jer. xxvii. 7. Daniel

v. 18, 22. And perhaps Laborosoarchod was no more

than a first minister under Baltasar at first; as the queen

