562 [book xv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

distress obliged them also out of necessity to

eat many things that did not use to be eaten.

Nor was the king himself free from any dis­

tress any more than other men; as being de­

prived of that tribute he used to have from

the fruits of the grounds; and having already

expended what money he had in his liberality

to those whose cities he had built. Nor had

he any people that were worthy of his assist­

ance since this miserable state of things had

procured him the hatred of his subjects: for

it is a constant rule that misfortunes are still

laid to the account of those that govern.

In these circumstances he considered with

himself how to procure some seasonable help.

But this was a hard thing to be done; while

their neighbours had no food to sell them,

and their money also was gone; had it been

possible to purchase a little food at a great

{H'ice. However he resolved not to leave off

lis endeavours to assist his people. So he

cut off the rich furniture that was in his

palace, both of silver and gold; insomuch

that he did not spare the finest vessels he

had; or those that were made with the most

elaborate skill of the artificers; but sent the

money to *Petronius, who had been made

prefect of Egypt by Caesar. And as not a

few had already fled to him under their ne­

cessities; and as he was particularly a friend

to Herod, and desirous to have his subjects

preserved, he gave leave to them in the first

place to export corn, and assisted them every

way, both in purchasing, and exporting the

same: so that he was the principal, if not the

only, person who afforded them what help

they had. And Herod taking care the people

should understand, that this help came from

himself, did hereby not only remove the ill

opinion of those that formerly hated him;

but gave them the greatest possible demon­

stration of his good will. For in the first

place, as for those who were able to provide

their own food, he distributed to them their

portion of corn in the exactest manner: but

for those that were not able either by reason

of their old age, or any other infirmity, to pro-

well as then, the relief they had was from Egypt also:

then from Joseph, the governor of Egypt under Pharaoh

king of Egypt, and now from Petronius, the prefect of

Egypt, under Augustus the Roman emperor. See almost

the like case XX. 2 and 5. It also worth our observa­

tion here, that these two years were a sabbatic year, and

a yeai of Jubilee; for which Providence, during the

vide food for themselves, he made this pro­

vision for them; that the bakers should make

their bread ready for them. He also took

care that they might not be hurt by the dan­

gers of winter, since they were in great want

of clothing, by reason of the utter destruction

of their sheep and goats, till they had no wool

to make use of, nor any thing else to cover

themselves withal. And when he had pro­

cured these things for his own subjects, he

went farther, in order to provide necessaries

for their neighbours; and gave seed to the

Syrians; which thing turned greatly to his

own advantage also: this charitable assistance

being afforded most seasonably to their fruit­

ful soil: so that every one had now a plenti­

ful provision of food. Upon the whole, when

the harvest of the land was approaching he

sent no fewer than fifty thousand men, whom

he had sustained, into the country. By which

means he both repaired the afflicted condi­

tion of his own kingdom, with great genero­

sity and diligence; and lightened the afflic­

tions of his neighbours, who were under the

same calamities. For there was nobody who

had been in want that was left destitute of a

suitable assistance by him. Nay farther,

there were neither any people, cities, nor

private men, who were to make provision for

multitudes, and on that account were in want

of support, and had recourse to him, but re­

ceived what they stood in need of. Inso­

much, that it appeared upon a computation,

that the number of cori of wheat of ten Attic

medimni a piece, that were given to foreign­

ers, amounted to ten thousand; and the

number that were given in his own kingdom

was about eighty thousand. Now it happened,

that this care and seasonable benefaction had

such influence on the Jews, and was so ex­

tolled among other nations, as to wipe off that

old hatred which his violation of some of

their customs, during his reign, had pro­

cured him among all the nation, and that this

liberality of his assistance in this their great

necessity was a full satisfaction for all that he

had done of that nature, as it also procured

theocracy, used to provide a triple crop beforehand: but

became now, when the Jews had forfeited that blessing,

the greatest years of famine to them ever since the days

of Ahab. 1 Kings xvii. xviii.

* This Petronius, the prefect of Egypt, under Augustus  
Caesar, is mentioned by Strabo, XVII. page 778, and by

Dio Cassius, LIV. page 524, as Spanheimhere informs us.

