AN. 1219.] 171 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

But he did not admit of their intreaty; and

accused them, that they did not come to his

assistance when he was unjustly treated, and

this in an open manner, by his brethren. For

they cast him off, as not having the same

mother with the rest, but born of a strange

mother, that was introduced among them by

his father's fondness; and this they did out of

a contempt of his inability to vindicate him­

self. So he dwelt in the country of Gilead,

as it is called; and received all that came to

him, let them come from what place soever,

and paid them wages. However, when they

pressed him to accept the dominion, and

sware that they would grant him the govern­

ment all his life, he led them to the war.*

When Jephtha had taken immediate care of

their affairs,f he placed his army at the city

Mispeh, and sent a message to the Ammonite

king, complaining of his unjust possession of

their land. But that king sent a contrary

message, and complained of the exodus of the

Israelites out of Egypt; and desired him to

go out of the land of the Amorites, and yield

it up to him, as his paternal inheritance. But

Jephtha returned this answer; that he did not

justly complain of his ancestors about the

land of the Amorites, and ought rather to

thank them, that they left the land of the Am­

monites to them; since Moses could have ta­

ken it also; and that neither would he recede

from that land of their own, which God had

obtained for them; and they had now in­

habited:): above three hundred years; but

would fight with them about it.

When he had given this answer, he sent

the ambassadors away. And when he had

prayed for victory, and had|| vowed to per­

form sacred offices; and if he came home in

safety, to offer in sacrifice whatever living

creature should first meet him, he joined

battle with the enemy, and gained a great

victory; and in the pursuit slew the enemies

all along, as far as the city Minnith. He then

passed over the land of the Ammonites, and

overthrew many of their cities, and took their

prey, and freed his own people from that sla­

very which they had undergone for eighteen

years. But as he came back, he fell into a

calamity no way correspondent to the great

actions he had performed. For it was his

daughter that came to meet him; she was

also an only child, and a virgin. Upon this

Jephtha heavily lamented the greatness of his

affliction, and blamed his daughter for being

so forward in meeting him; for he had vowed

to sacrifice her to God. However, this acci­

dent that was to befall her, was not ungrateful

to her, since she should die upon occasion of

her father's victory, and the liberty of her

fellow-citizens. She only desired her father

to give her leave for two months to bewail her

youth, with her companions; and then she

agreed, that at the aforementioned time he

might do with her according to his vow.§

Accordingly when that time was over, he sa­

crificed his daughter as a burnt-offering; offer­

ing such an oblation as was neither conform­

able to the law, nor acceptable to God; nor

weighing with himself what opinion the

hearers would have of such a practice.

Now the tribe of Ephraim fought against

him. because he did not take them along with

him in his expedition against the Ammonites;

but because he alone had the prey, and the

glory of what was done to himself. In an­

swer to their accusation, he said, first, that

they were not ignorant, how his kindred had

fought against him, and that when they were

invited they did not come to his assistance;

whereas they ought to have come quickly,

even before they were invited. And in the

next place, that they were going to act un­

justly; for while they had not courage enough

* Judg. -xi. 11.

t An/1201.

J Most copies want the word above. By Josephus's

large chronology it was much above 300 years'; but by

the best chronology it was but 291 years; which in a

round number, are justly called 300 years.

II Josephu« justly condemns Jephtha, as do the Aposto­

lical Constitutions, VII. 37. for his rash vow; whether it

-were for sacrificing his daughter, as Josephus thought; or  
for dedicating her, who was his only child, to perpetual

virginity, at the tabernacle, or elsewhere ; which I rather

suppose. If he had vowed her for a sacrifice she ought

to have been redeemed; Levit. xxvii. 1—8, but of the

VOL. 1.—NOS. 15 & 16

sense of verses 28, 29, as relating not to things vowed to

God, but devoted to destruction, see note on V. 1.

N. B. It here deserves to be remarked, that in the

Apostolical Constitutions, VII. 37. we have it distinctly

observed among the many prayers of good men that were

heard of God, that the sacrifices and prayers of Gideon,

both at the rock and the fleeces, were accepted only be­

fore his sins: of Sampson in his thirst before his trans­

gression; of Jephtha in the war before his rash vow;

of Manasseh in the land of the Chaldeans after his trans­

gression was repented of; but not otherwise; which facts

are all true in the Old Testament History.

§ Judg. xi. 27.

