188 [flOOK VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

him, for that from him they should gain in­

telligence respecting their asses. Saul re­

plied, that they had nothing to give him as a

reward for his prophecy, for their subsistence-

money was spent; but the servant answered,

that he had still the fourth part of a shekel,*

and he would present him with that; for they

were mistaken out of ignorance, as not know­

ing that the prophet received no such re­

ward. So they went to him; and when they

were before the gates, they met with certain

maidens that were going to fetch water, and

they asked them which was the prophet's

house? They shewed them which it was,

and bade them make haste before he was set

down to supper, for he had invited many

guests to a feast, and that he used to sit down

before those that were invited. Now Samuel

had gathered many together to feast with him

on this very account; for while he every day

prayed to God to tell him beforehand whom

he would make king, he had informed him the

day before, that he would send him a certain

young man out of the tribe of Benjamin about

this hour; and he sat on the top of the house

in expectation of that time being come; and

when the time was completed he came down,

and went to supper, so he met with Saul, and

God discovered to him that this was he who

should rule over the people. Then Saul

went up to Samuel, and saluted him, and de­

sired him to inform him which was the pro­

phet's house; for he said he was a stranger,

"* Of this great mistake of Saul and his servant, as if a

true prophet of God would accept a gift or present for

foretelling what was desired of him, see the note on IV. 6.

t It seems not improbable, that these 70 guests of

Samuel, as here and in the Septuagint, with himself at the

head of them, were a Jewish Sanhedrim, and that hereby

Samuel intimated to Saul, that these 71 were to be his

constant counsellors, and that he was not to act like a sole

monarch, but with the advice and direction of these 71

members of that Jewish Sanhedrim upon all occasions,

which yet we never read that he consulted afterwards.

J This was with design to let Saul understand, that

what he was going to do was by the divine order and ap­

pointment; and that when it should come to the casting

of lots, as it did afterwards, 1 Sam. x. 20. he might per­

ceive that he was not chosen king by chance of a lot.

There might be likewise this further reason for Samuel's

bidding Saul to send away his servants, viz. lest the people,

suspecting Samuel to do this by his own will, more than

by God's appointment, might be inclined to mutiny. Since

this royal unction then was only designed for Saul's private

satisfaction, it was necessary not to have it published be­

fore the people had proceeded to a public election of their

king. Howell's Hist, in the notes. B.

and did not know it. Samuel told him that

he was himself the person, and led him in to

supper, assuring him that the asses were

found which he had been to seek, and that

the greatest of good things was assured to

him. Saul replied, " Sir, I am too inconside­

rable to hope for any such thing, and of a

tribe too small to have kings made out of it,

and of a family smaller than several other

families. But thou tellest me this in jest, and

makest me an object of laughter, when thou

discoursest with me of greater matters than

what I stand in need of." However, the pro­

phet led him unto the feast, and made him

sit down, him and his servant that followed

him, above the other guests that were invited,

which were seventy in number, f And he

gave order to the servants to set the royal

portion before Saul. But when the time of

going to bed was come, the rest rose up, and

every one of them went home; but Saul and

his servant stayed with the prophet, and slept

with him.

As soon as it was day, Samuel raised up

Saul out of his bed, and conducted him home­

ward; and when he was out of the city, he

desired him to cause his servant to go be­

fore,:}: but to stay behind himself, for that he

had somewhat to say to him, when nobody

else was present. Accordingly Saul sent

away his servant that followed him.|| Then

the prophet took a vessel of oil, and poured

it upon the head of the young man,§ and

I1 1 Sam. xi. 27.

§ We read of no express command for the anointing of

kings, and yet it is plain from the parable of Jotham, Judg.

ix. 8. that this was a custom two hundred years before this

time. Why oil, rather than any other liquid, was the

symbol of conveying a. regal authority, we are no where

informed. It is true, that God directed Moses to conse­

crate Aaron to the high-priest's office, by anointing his

head with oil, Exod. xxix. 7. But the anointing of kings,

we may presume, was of a prior date. Unction, indeed,

in the days of Jacob, was the common method of setting

apart from common use even things inanimate, Genesis

xxviii. 18. and therefore it may well be supposed that

persons of such designation, as kings were, were all along

admitted by the same ceremony, which might be of divine

appointment, perhaps at the first institution of government,

in the antediluvian world, and thence handed down, by a

long tradition, to future generations. This rite of unction,

in short, was so much the divine care, that we find G od

giving Moses a prescription how to make the consecrated

oil, Exod. xxx. 23. But though Solomon was anointed

with the oil taken from the tabernacle, yet since Samuel

was no priest, and could not therefore have any access to

the tabernacle, which at this time was at some distance

