AN. 1531.] Ill ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

afraid lest the enemies should grow insolent

upon this victory, and should attack them in

order to gain still greater glory, he resolved

that it was proper to withdraw the army into

the wilderness, to a farther distance from the

Canaanites. So the multitude gave them­

selves up again to his conduct; for they were

sensible that, without his care, their affairs

could not be in a good condition: and he

caused the host to remove, and he went far­

ther into the wilderness; as intending there

to let them rest, and not to permit them to

fight the Canaanites before God should afford

them a more favourable opportunity.

CHAP. II.

OF THE SEDITION OF CORAH AND OF THE MULTITUDE AGAINST

MOSES AND AARON, CONCERNING THE PRIESTHOOD.

THAT which is usually the case with

great armies, and especially upon ill

success, to be hard to be pleased, and go­

verned with difficulty, did now befal the

Jews:* for, being in number six hundred

thousand, and by reason of their great multi­

tude not readily subject to their governors,

even in prosperity, they at this time were

more than usually angry, both against each

other, and against their leader, because of

the distress they were in, and the calamities

they then endured: on which account such a

sedition overtook them as we have not the

like example either among the Greeks or the

Barbarians; by means of this they were in

danger of being all destroyed, but were not­

withstanding saved by Moses, who would not

remember that he had been almost stoned to

death by them. Nor did God neglect to pre­

vent their ruin; but notwithstanding the in­

dignities they offered their legislator, and the

laws, and their disobedience to the command­

ments which he had sent them by Moses, he

delivered them from those terrible calamities

-which, without his providential care, had  
been brought upon them by this sedition: so

I will first explain the cause whence this se­

dition arose, and then will give an account of

the sedition itself, as also of what settlements

Moses made for their government after it was

over.

* About an. 1512.

t Evil example is peculiarly influential, because it

strikes in with the corrupt propensities of human nature.

VOL. *-—No. 10.

Corah,f a Hebrew of principal account,

both by his family and by his wealth, one that

was also able to speak well, and that could

easily persuade the people by his speeches,

saw that Moses was in an exceeding great

dignity, and was uneasy at it, and envied him

on that account: he was of the same tribe

with Moses, and of kin to him. He was par­

ticularly grieved because he thought he bet­

ter deserved that honourable post, as being

more opulent, and not inferior to him in his

birth: so he raised a clamour against him

among the Levites, who were of the same

tribe, and especially among his kindred, say­

ing, that it was a very sad thing that they

should overlook Moses, while he hunted after,

and paved the way to glory for himself, and

by ill arts should obtain it under pretence of

God's command; while, contrary to the laws,

he had given the priesthood to Aaron, not by

the common suffrage of the multitude, but by

his own vote, as bestowing dignities in a ty­

rannical way upon whom he pleased. He

added, that that concealed way of imposing

on them was harder to be borne, than if it had

been done by an open force upon them, be­

cause he did not only take away their power

without their consent, but even while they

were unapprized of his contrivances against

them; for whosoever is conscious to himself

that he deserves any dignity, aims to' get it

by persuasion, and not by an arrogant method

of violence. But those that believe it impos­

sible to obtain those honours justly, make a

shew of goodness, and do not introduce force;

but by cunning tricks grow wickedly power­

ful. That it was proper for the multitude to

punish such men, even while they think them­

selves concealed in their designs, and not

suffer them to gain strength, till they have

them for their open enemies. "What ac­

count," said he, "is Moses able to give why

he has bestowed the priesthood on Aaron and

his sons? For if God determined to bestow

that honour on one of the tribe of Levi, I am

more worthy of it than he is; as being equal

to Moses, by my family, and superior to him

both in riches and in age. But if God had

determined to bestow it on the eldest tribe,

that of Reubel might have it more justly; and

When it is set in opposition to good pursuits, it is generally

most prevalent. This easily accounts for the success.of

the conspiracy of Corah. B.

Ff

