AN. 1104.] 207 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

a* goat's liver; and when her father, as soon

as it was day, sent to seize David, she said to

those that were there, that he had not been

well during that night; and shewed them the

bed cover; and made them believe, by the

leaping of the liver, which caused the bed­

clothes to move also, that David breathed

like one that was asthmatic. So when those

that were sent told Saul, that David had not

been well in the night, he ordered him to be

brought in that condition; for he intended to

kill him. Now when they came, and unco­

vered the bed, and found out the woman's

contrivance, they told it to the king. And

when her father complained that she had

saved his enemy and had put a trick upon

himself; she invented this plausible defence,

and" said, that when he threatened to kill her,

she lent him her assistance for his preser­

vation, out of fear, for which assistance she

ought to be forgiven, because it was not done

of her own free choice, but out of necessity.

"For," said she, " I do not suppose that thou

wast so zealous to kill thy enemy, as thou

wast that I should be saved." Accordingly

Saul forgave the damsel. But David, when

he had escaped his danger, came to the pro­

phet Samuel, at Ramah, and told him what

snares the king had laid for him; and how

he was very near to death by Saul throwing

a spear at him; although he had been no way

guilty with relation to him; nor had he been

cowardly in his battles with his enemies; but

had succeeded well in them all, by God's

assistance, which thing was indeed the cause

of Saul's hatred to David.

When the prophet was made acquainted

with the unjust proceedings of the king, he

left the city Ramah, and took David with him,

to a certain place called Naioth;t and there

he abode with him. But when it was told

Saul, that David was with the prophet, he

sent soldiers to him, and ordered them to take

him, and bring him to him. And when they

came to Samuel, and found there a congre­

gation of prophets, they became partakers of

the Divine Spirit, and began to prophesy.

Which when Saul heard of, he sent others to

David, who prophesying in like mariner as

did the first, he again sent others; which

third sort prophesying also, at last he was

angry, and went thither in great haste him­

self. But when he was just by the place,

Samuel, before he saw him, made him pro­

phesy also. And when Saul came to him,}

he was disordered in mind, and under the

vehement agitation of a spirit; and|| putting

off his garments, he fell down, and lay on the

ground all that day and night, in the presence

of Samuel and David.

And David went thence, and came to Jona­

than, the son of Saul, and lamented to him

what snares were laid for him by his father,

and said, that though he had been guilty of

no evil, nor had offended against him, yet he

was very zealous to get him killed. Here­

upon Jonathan exhorted him not to give credit

to such suspicions, nor to the calumnies of

those that raised those reports, if there were

any that did so; but to depend on him, and

take courage; for that his father had no such

intentions; since he would have acquainted

him with that matter, and take his advice,

had it been so; as he used to consult with

him in common when he acted in other affairs.

But David sware to him, that so it was; and

he desired him rather to believe him, and to

provide for his safety, than to despise what

* Since the modern Jews have lost the signification of  
the Hebrew word here used, Cebir; and since the Septu-

agint, as well as Josephus, render it the liver of the goat;

and since this rendering, and Josephus's account are here

so much more clear and probable than those of others; it

is most unaccountable that our commentators should hesi­

tate about its true interpretation.

t 1 Sam. xix. 18.

J It seems that these violent agitations of Saul were no

other than demoniacal; and that the same demon which

used to seize him, since he was forsaken of God, and which

the divine hymns and psalms which were sung to the harp

by David used to expel, was now in a judicial way brought

upon him; not only in order to disappoint his intentions

against innocent David, but to expose him to the contempt

of all that saw him, or heard of his agitations; such violent

and wild agitations being never observed in the true pro­

phets, when they were under the inspiration of the Spirit

of God. Our other copies, which say the Spirit of God

came upon him, seem not so right here, as Josephus's

copy, which mentions nothing of God at all. Nor does

Josephus seem to ascribe this impulse and ecstacy of Saul's

to any other than his own demoniacal spirit; which on all

accounts appears the most probable. Nor does the former

description of Saul's real inspiration by the Divine Spirit,

1 Sam. x. 9—12. Antiq. VI. 4. (which was before he was

become wicked,) well agree with the description before us.

II What is meant by Saul's lying down naked all that

day, and all that night, 1 Sam. xix. 24. and whether any

more than his laying aside his royal apparel, or upper

garments, as Josephus seems to understand it, is by no

means certain.

