AN. 145.] 467 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

others, as fighting from such an elevation;

they drove them out of the adjoining houses,

and immediately set them on fire. Where­

upon the flame spread itself over the whole

city, and burnt it all down. This happened

by reason of the closeness of the houses; and

because they were generally built of wood.

So the Antiochians, when tliey were not able

to help themselves, nor to stop the fire, were

put to flight. And as the Jews leaped from

the top of one house, to the top of another,

and pursued them after that manner; it

thence happened that the pursuit was very

surprising. But when the king saw that the

Antiochians were busied in saving their chil­

dren and their wives, and so did not fight any

longer, he fell upon them in the narrow pas­

sages, and fought them, and slew a great

many of them; till at last they were forced to

throw down their arms, and to deliver them­

selves up to Demetrius: so he forgave their

insolent behaviour, and put an end to the

sedition. And when he had given rewards

to the Jews of the rich spoils he had gotten,

and had returned them thanks, as the cause

of his victory, he sent them away to Jeru­

salem, to Jonathan, with an ample testimony

of the assistance they had afforded him. Yet

did he prove an ill man to Jonathan after­

ward, and brake the promises he had made:

and he threatened he would make war upon

him. unless he would pay all that tribute

which the Jewish nation owed to the first

kings of Syria. And this he had done, if

Trypho had not hindered him, and diverted

his preparations against Jonathan, to a con­

cern for his own preservation. For he now

returned out of Arabia into Syria, with the

child Antiochus; for he was yet in age but a

youth; and put the diadem on his head. And

as the whole forces that had left Demetrius,

because they had no pay, came to his assist­

ance, he made war upon Demetrius, and,

joining battle with him. overcame him in the

fight; and took from him both his elephants

and the city Antioch.

Upon this defeat Demetrius retired into

Cilicia; but the child Antiochus sent ambas­

sadors, and an epistle, to Jonathan; to make

him his friend, and confederate; and con­

firmed to him the high-priesthood, and yielded

up to him the four prefectures which had

been added to Judea. Moreover he sent him

vessels, and cups of gold, and a purple gar­

ment, and gave him leave to use them. He

also presented him with a golden button;

and styled him one of his principal friends;

and appointed his brother Simon to be the

general over the forces from the ladder of

Tyre, into Egypt.* So Jonathan was so

pleased with these grants made him by An­

tiochus, that he sent ambassadors to him, and

to Trypho, and professed himself their friend

and confederate: and he said he would join

with them in a war against Demetrius; for

that he had made no proper returns for the

kindnesses he had done him, but on the con­

trary he, for such good turns, had requited

him with injuries.

So Antiochus gave Jonathan leave to raise

a numerous army out of Syria, and Phoenicia,

and to make war against Demetrius's gene­

rals. Whereupon he went in haste to the

several cities; which received him splendidly

indeed, but put no forces into his hands. And

when he was come from thence to Ascalon,

the inhabitants of Ascalon came, and brought

him presents, and met him in a splendid man­

ner. He exhorted them, and every one of

the cities of Coclesyria, to forsake Demetrius

and to join with Antiochus; to endeavour to

punish Demetrius, for what offences he had

been guilty of against themselves; and told

them, there were many reasons for that pro­

cedure, if they had a mind so to do. And

when he had persuaded those cities to pro­

mise their assistance to Antiochus, he came

to Gaza, in order to induce them also to be

friends to Antiochus. But he found the in­

habitants of Gaza much more alienated from

him than he expected: for they had shut

their gates against him: and although they

had deserted Demetrius, they had not re­

solved to join themselves to Antiochus. This

provoked Jonathan to besiege them, and to

harass their country. For as he set a part of

his army round about Gaza itself, so with the

rest he overran their land, and spoiled it, and

burnt what was in it.f When the inhabitants

of Gaza saw themselves in this state of afflic­

tion; and that no assistance came to them

from Demetrius; that what distressed them

* 1 Mace. xi. 57—59.  
voL. I.—NOS. 39 & 40.

t 1 Mace. xi. 61.

4F

