540 [book TV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

■^

Herod now seemed to have healed the di­

visions in his family. Yet was he not without

suspicion; as is frequently the case of people

seeming to be reconciled to one another; but

as Alexandra had already made attempts

tending to innovations, so did he fear that she

would go on therein, if she found a fit oppor­

tunity for so doing. So he gave a command,

that she should dwell in the palace, and med­

dle with no public affairs. Her guards also

were so careful, that nothing she did in pri­

vate life every day was concealed. These

hardships gradually put her out of patience,

and she began to hate Herod. For as she

had the pride of a woman to the utmost de­

gree, she had great indignation at this sus­

picious guard that was about her, as desirous

rather to undergo any thing that could befall

her, than to be deprived of her liberty of

speech; and under the notion of an honorary

guard, to live in a state of slavery and terror.

She therefore sent to Cleopatra, and made a

long complaint of the circumstances she was

in; and entreated her to do her utmost for her

assistance. Cleopatra hereupon advised her

to take her son with her, and come away im­

mediately into Egypt. This advice pleased

her: and she had this contrivance for getting

away. She got two coffins made, as if they

were to carry away two dead bodies; and put

herself into one, and her son into the other;

and gave orders to such of her servants, as

knew of her intentions, to carry them away

in the night time. Now their road was to be

thence to the sea side: and there was a ship

ready to carry them into Egypt. Now Esop,

one of her servants, happened to meet with

Sabbion, one of her friends; and spake of thio

matter to him: as thinking he had known of

it before. When Sabbion knew this, (who

had formerly been an enemy of Herod's, and

been esteemed one of those that laid snares

for, and gave the poison to, his father Antipa-

ter;) he expected that this discovery would

change Herod's hatred into kindness. So he

told the king of this private stratagem of

Alexandra's. Whereupon he suffered her to

proceed to the execution of her project, and

caught her in the very fact. But still he

passed by her offence: and though he had a

great mind to do it, he durst not inflict any

thing that was severe upon her. For he knew

that Cleopatra would not bear that he should

have her accused, on account of her hatred

to him; but made a shew as if it were rather

the generosity of his soul, and his great mode­

ration, that made him forgive them. How­

ever he fully proposed to himself to put this

young man out of the way, by one means or

other. But he thought he might probably be

better concealed, if he did it not immediately

after what had lately happened.

Now, upon the approach of the feast of

tabernacles, which is a festival very much ob­

served among us, he let those days pass over:

and both he and the rest of the people were

very merry. Yet did the envy which at this

time arose in him cause him to hasten the

execution of his design. For when this youth

Aristobulus, who was now in the seventeenth

year of his age, went up to the altar, accord­

ing to the law, to offer the sacrifices, and this

with the ornaments of his high-priesthood:

and when he *performed the sacred offices,

he seemed to be exceeding comely; and

taller than men usually were at that age; and

to exhibit, in his countenance, a great deal of

that high family he was sprung from; and a

warm zeal and affection towards him ap­

peared among the people; and the memory of

the actions of his grandfather Aristobulus was

fresh in their minds. And their affections got

so far the mastery of them, that they could

not forbear shewing their inclinations to him.

They at once rejoiced, and were confounded,

and mingled with good wishes their joyful

acclamations which they made to him: till

the good will of the multitude was made too

evident: and they more rashly proclaimed the

happiness they had received from his family,

than was prudent under the existing govern­

ment. Hereupon Herod resolved to com­

plete what he had intended against the young

man. When therefore the festival was over,

and he was feasting at fJericho, with Alex­

andra; who entertained them there; he was

* This entirely confutes the Talmudists; who, as Re-  
land here notes, pretend that no one under twenty years

of age could officiate as high-priest among the Jews.

t A Hebrew chronicle, cited by Reland, says, this

drowning was at Jordan, not at Jericho; and this even

when he quotes Josephus. Which reading of Jericho is

yet fully confirmed by the last chapter of these Antiqui­

ties. I suspect the transcriber of the Hebrew chronicle

mistook the name, and wrote Jordan for Jericho.

