62 [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

having not been inferior to any of his ances­

tors in piety towards God; and having such

a recompence for it as it was fit those should

have, who were so good as these were. Jo­

seph, by the king's permission, carried his

father's dead body to Hebron, and there

buried it, at a great expense.* But his bre­

thren were at first unwilling to return back

with him; because they were afraid, lest now

their father was dead, he should punish them

for their secret practices against him; since

he was now gone, for whose sake he had

been so gracious to them. He persuaded

them, however, to fear no harm, and to en­

tertain no suspicions of him; so he brought

them along with him, and gave them great

possessions, and continually evinced the most

particular concern for them.t

Joseph also died when he had lived a

hundred and ten years ;J having been a man

of admirable virtue; who conducted all his

affairs by the rules of reason, and used his

authority with moderation; which was the

cause of his great felicity among the Egyp­

tians, even when he came from another coun­

try, and that in such ill circumstances as we

have already described. At length his bre­

thren died, after they had lived happily in

Egypt. Now the posterity and sons of these

men after some time carried their bodies, and

buried ||them at Hebron. But as to the bones

of Joseph, they carried them into the land of

Canaan afterwards,§ when the Hebrews went

out of Egypt; for so had Joseph made them

promise him upon oath. **But what became

of every one of these men, and by what toils

they got the possession of the land of Canaan,

shall be shewn hereafter; when I have ex-

nothing of them in the linen in which they were wrapped

but the bones, and those half rotten." [Letter vii. p. 281.)

Antique coffins of stone, and sycamore wood, are still to be

seen in Egypt. It is said that some were formerly made of

a kind of pasteboard, formed by folding and glueing cloth

together a great number of times; these were curiously

plaistered and painted with hieroglyphics. Thevenot, part

i. p. 137. B.

* Though there be something of a natural desire in  
most men to be buried in the places where their ancestors

lie; yet Jacob's aversion to have his remains deposited in

Egypt seems to be more earnest than ordinary, or other­

wise he would never have imposed an oath upon his sons,

and charged them all, with his dying breath, not to suffer

it to be done. For he very well knew, that had his body

been buried in Egypt, his posterity, upon that very ac­

count, would have been too much wedded to the country,

ever to attempt the acquisition of the promised land; and

therefore, to wean them from the thought of continuing in

Egypt, and to fix their minds and affections in Canaan, he

ordered his body to be carried thither beforehand, in tes­

timony that he died in full persuasion of the truth of the

promises which were given to him and his ancestors: nor

was it inconvenient, that future generations, after their re­

turn into Canaan, should have before their eyes the Sepul­

chre of their forefathers, for a record of their virtues, and

an incitement to the imitation of them. But the strongest

motive of all for Jacob's desiring to be buried in Canaan,

(supposing that he foreknew that our Saviour Christ was

to live and die, and with some others, rise again in that

country) was, that he might be one of that blessed number;

as it was indeed an ancient tradition in the church, that

among those, who came out of their graves after our Lord's

resurrection, Mat. xxvii. 53, the patriarch Jacob was one.

PooVs Annotations, and Bibliotheca Bibl. B.

T Gen. i. 21.

X When Joseph died he was not only embalmed, but

put into a coffin. This was an honour appropriated to

persons of distinction, coffins not being universally used in

Egypt. Maillet, speaking of the Egyptian repositories of

the dead, having given an account of several niches that

are found there, says, "it must not be imagined, that the

bodies deposited in these gloomy apartments were all en­

closed in chests, and placed in niches; the greatest part

were simply embalmed and swathed after that manner that

every one hath some notion of; after which they laid

them one by the side of another without any ceremony:

some were even put into these tombs without any em­

balming at all, or such a slight one, that there remains

II Of the burying places of Joseph, and of the other pa­

triarchs, as they are here rightly stated, see Test. Simeon,

§8. and Test. Benjamin, § 12, with the Note, in Authent.

Rec. Part 1, page 415, 416.

§ Exodus, xiii. 19. Acts vii. 16.

** There are several reasons which might induce Jo­  
seph not to have his dead body immediately carried into

Canaan, and buried as his father was. 1st, Because his

brethren, after his decease, might not have interest enough

at court to provide themselves with such things as were

necessary to set off the pomp and solemnity of a funeral

befitting so great a personage. Silly, Because he might

foresee,- that the Egyptians, in all probability, as long as

their veneration for his memory was warm, would hardly

have suffered his remains to have been carried into ano­

ther country. 3dly, Because the continuance of his re­

mains among them might be a means to preserve the re­

membrance of the services he had done them, and thereby

an inducement to them to treat the relations he had left

behind him with more kindness. 4thly, And chiefly, be­

cause the presence of his body with the Israelites might

be a pledge to assure them, and a means to strengthen and

confirm their faith, and hope in God's promises to their

progenitors, that he would infallibly put their posterity in

possession of the land of Canaan: and accordingly, when

Moses delivered them out of Egypt, he carried Joseph's

body along with him, (Exod. xiii. 19.) and committed it to

the care of the tribe of Ephraim, who buried it near She-

chem, (Josh. xxiv. 32.) in the field which Jacob, a little

before his death, gave to Joseph, as his peculiar property.

Pereius, and Patrick's Commentary; Pool's Annotations,

and Calmet's Dictionary under the word. B

