ao [book III ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK III.

Containing an Interval of Two Years.

FROM THE EXODUS OUT OF EGYPT, TO THE REJECTION OF THAT GENERATION.

CHAP. I.

OP THE VICISSITUDES EXPERIENCED BY THE HEBREWS IN

THEIR JOURNEY TO MOUNT SINAI.

WHEN the Hebrews had obtained such

a wonderful deliverance, the country

was a great trouble to them, for it was en­

tirely a desert, and had not water enough to

suffice any of the cattle; for it was parched

up, and had not moisture that might afford

nutriment to the vegetables. So they were

forced to travel over this country, as having

no other route. They had, indeed, carried

water with them from the land over which

they had travelled before, as their conductor

had bidden them; but when that was spent

they were obliged to draw water out of wells,

with pain, by reason of the hardness of the

soil. The water thus obtained, also, was

bitter, and unfit for drinking, and this in small

quantities. And as they thus travelled, they

came late in the evening to a place called

Marah,* from the badness of its waters: for

Mar denotes bitterness.f Thither they came

afflicted, both by the tediousness of the jour­

ney, and by want of food; for it entirely failed

them at that time. Now here was a well,

which induced them to stay in the place; for

although it was not sufficient to satisfy so

great an army, it afforded them some comfort

in such a desert place; for they heard from

those who had been to search, that there was

nothing to be found, if they travelled farther.

* Dr. Bernard takes notice here, that this place Mar,  
where the waters were bitter, is called by the Syrians

and Arabians, Mariri; and by the Syrians sometimes

Marath, all derived from the Hebrew Mar: as also he

takes notice, that it is called the bitter fountain, by Pliny

The water, however, was bitter, and not fit

for men to drink; and not only so, but it was

intolerable even to the cattle themselves.

When Moses saw how much the people

were cast down, and that the occasion of it

could not be contradicted; for the people

were not in the nature of a complete army of

men, who might oppose a manly fortitude to

the necessity that distressed them; and the

multitude of the children and of the women,

being of too weak capacities to be persuaded

by reason, blunted the courage of the men

themselves; Moses was in great difficulties,

and made every body's calamities to be his

own; for they all ran to him, and begged of

him; the women begged for their infants, and

the men for the women, that he would not

overlook them, but procure some way or

other for their deliverance. He therefore

betook himself to prayer to God, that he

would change the water, and make it fit for

drinking. And when God had granted him

that favour, he took the top of a stick that lay

at his feet, and divided it in the middle, and

made the section lengthways; he then let it

down into the well, and persuaded the He­

brews that God had hearkened to his prayers,

and had promised to render the water such

as they desired it to be, in case they would

be subservient to him in what he should en­

join them to do, and this not after a remiss or

negligent manner. And when they asked,

what they were to do in order to have the

himself. Which waters are bitter still, as Thevenot as­

sures us; as there are also abundance of palm-trees. See

his Travels, part I. chap. xxvi. page 166.

t Exod. xv. 23.

