an. 1493.] 131 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

cured, let the magistrates and senate of those

cities that lie near the place in which the

murder was committed assemble together,

and measure the distance from the place

where the dead body lies: then let the ma­

gistrate of the nearest city purchase a heifer;

and bring it to a valley, and to a place therein

where there is no land ploughed, or trees

planted; and let them cut the sinews of the

heifer: then the priests, and Levites, and

senate of that city, shall take water, and wash

their hands over the head of the heifer; and

they shall openly declare, that their hands

are innocent of this murder, and that they

have neither done it themselves, nor been

assisting to any that did it.* They shall also

beseech God to be merciful to them, that no

such horrid fact may any more be done in that

land.

Aristocracy, and the way of living under it,

is the best constitution. And may you never

have any inclination to any other form of go­

vernment: and may you always love that

form, and have the laws for your governors,

and govern all your laws according to them.

For you need no supreme governor, but God.

But if you shall desire a king, let him be one

of your ownt nation; let him be always care­

ful of justice, and other virtues perpetually;

let him submit to the laws, and esteem God's

commands to be his highest wisdom. But let

him do nothing without the high-priest, and

the votes of the senators: let him not have a

great number of wives, nor presume abun­

dance of riches, nor a multitude of horses;

whereby he may grow too proud to submit to

the laws. And ii he affect any such things,

let him be restrained; lest he become so po­

tent that his state be inconsistent with your

welfare.

Let it not be esteemed lawful to remove

boundaries; neither our own, nor of those

with whom we are at peace. Be careful that

you do "not take thoseJ landmarks away;

* Dent. xxi. 1—9.

t Dent. xvii. 16.

j Deut. xix. 14. It was the common practice both with

the Hebrews and with the Romans to erect landmarks to

distinguish the boundaries of particular estates; and in

setting apart land for any use, they erected a pillar, upon

which was marked its length and breadth. From many

ancient inscriptions it is evident that the Romans added

the following letters: H. M. H. N. S. Hoc monumentum

ha redes non sequitur. See Horace, b. i. sat. viii. 12.

voL. I. NOS. 11 & 12

which are, as it were, a divine and unshaken

limitation of rights made by God himself, to

last for ever; since this going beyond limits,

and gaining ground upon others, is the occa­

sion of wars and seditions: for those that re­

move boundaries are not far off an attempt U>

subvert the laws.

He that plants a piece of land, whose trees

produce fruits before the fourth year, is not

to bring thence any first-fruits to God: nor

is he to make use of that fruit himself, for it is

not produced in its proper season. For when

nature has a force put upon it at an unseason­

able time, the fruit is not proper for God, nor

for the master's use; but let the owner gather

all that is grown on the fourth year; for then

it is in its proper season. And let him that

has gathered it carry it to the holy city, and

spend that, together with the tythe of his other

fruits, in feasting with his friends, with the

orphans, and the widows. But on the filth

year the fruit is his own, and he may use it

as he pleases. ||

You are not to sow a piece of land with

seed, which is planted with vines; for it is

enough that it supply nourishment to that

plant, and be not harassed by ploughing also.

You are to plough your land with oxen, and

not to oblige other animals to come under the

same yoke with them; but to till your land

with those beasts that are of the same kind

with each other. The seeds are also to be

pure and without mixture, and not to be com­

pounded of two or three sorts: since nature

does not rejoice at the union of things that

are not in their own nature alike; nor are

you to permit beasts of different kinds to

gender together.§ For there is reason to

fear, that this unnatural abuse may extend

from beasts of different kinds to men; though

it takes its first rise from evil practices about

such smaller things. Nor is any thing to be

allowed by imitation, whereof any degree of

subversion may creep into the constitution.

The heathens had a deity called Jupiter Terminalig, ap­

pointed to preside over bounds and landmarks. Numa

Pompilius appointed stones to be set as bounds to every

man's land, and dedicated them to Jupiter Terminalis. He

ordered that those who removed them should be slain as

sacrilegious persons, and they and their oxen devoted to

destruction. B.

I! Levit. xix. 25.

§ Levit. xix. 19.

Kk

