AH. 1612.] fi.r> ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

as also to his sons by Ketura, Troglodytis;

and to Isaac, Canaan. "By my assistance,"

said he, " he did great exploits in war, which,

unless you be yourselves impious, you must

still remember. As for Jacob, he became

well known to strangers also, by the great­

ness of that prosperity in which he lived and

left to his sons, who came into Egypt with no

more than seventy souls, while you are now

become above six hundred thousand. Know

therefore, that I shall provide for you all in

common what is for your good, and particu­

larly for thyself what shall make thee famous;

for that child, out of dread of whose nativity

the Egyptians have doomed the Israelite chil­

dren to destruction, shall be this child of

thine,, and shall be concealed from those who

watch to destroy him, and when he is brought

up, in a surprising way he shall deliver the

Hebrew nation from the distress they are

under from the Egyptians. His memory shall

be famous while the world lasts; and this not

only among the Hebrews, but foreigners also;

all which shall be the effect of my favour to

thee, and to thy posterity. He shall also have

such a brother, that he shall himself obtain

my priesthood, and his posterity shall have it

after him to the end of the world."

When the Vision had informed him of these

things, Amram awaked, and told it to Joche-

bed, his wife: and now the fear increased

upon them, on account of the prediction in

Amram's dream, for they were under' con­

cern, not only for the child, but on account of

the great happiness that was to come to him

also. However,* the mother's labour was

such as afforded a confirmation to what was

foretold by God; for it was not known to those

who watched her by the easiness of her pains,

and because the throes of her delivery did

not fall upon her with violence; and now

they nourished the child at home privately

for three months. But after that time, Am­

ram fearing he should be discovered, and by

falling under the king's displeasure,- both he

and his child should perish, and so he should

make the promise of God of none effect, he

determined rather to trust the safety and cafe4

of the child to God, than to depend on his

own concealment of him, which he looked

upon as a thing uncertain, and whereby both

the :ohild, so privately to be nourished, ftnJF

-TTTTTT

T~r

■A£"iW.

-i—i-

himself, should be in imminent danger; but

he believed that God would some way for

certain procure the safety of the child, in

order to secure the truth of his own predic­

tions. When they had thus determined, they

made an ark of bulrushes, after the manner

of a cradle, and of a bigness sufficient for an

infant to be laid in, without being too much

straightened. They then daubed it over with

slime, which would naturally keep out the

water from entering between the bulrushes,

and put the infant into it, and setting it afloat

upon the river, they left its preservation to

God; so the river received the child, and

carried him along; but Miriam, the child's

sister, passed along upon the bank over

against him, as her mother had bid her, to

see whither the ark would be carried: where

God demonstrated that human wisdom was

nothing, but that the Supreme Being is able

to do whatsoever he pleases; that those, who,

in order to their own security, condemn others

to destruction, and use great endeavours

about it, fail of their purpose; but that others

are, in a surprising manner, preserved, and

obtain a prosperous condition, almost from

the very midst of their calamities: those 1

mean whose dangers arise by the appoint­

ment of God; and indeed such a Providence

iwas exercised in the case of this child as

shewed the power of God.

Thermuthis, the king's daughter was now

diverting herself by the banks of the river;

and seeing a cradle borne along by the cur­

rent, she sent some that could swim, and bid

them to bring the cradle to her. When those

that were sent on this errand came to her

with the cradle, and she saw the little child,

she was greatly in love with it, on account of

its largeness and beauty, for God had taken

such great care in the formation of Moses,

that he caused him to be thought worthy of

bringing up and providing for by all those

that had taken the most fatal resolutions, on

account of their dread of his nativity, for the

destruction of the rest of the Hebrew nation.

Thermuthis bid them bring her a Woman that

might suckle the child, yet would not the

child admit of her breast, but turned away

fripm it, and did the like to many other women.

Now. Miriam;Was by when this happened; not

to appear to be there on purpose, but only

as staying to see the child, and she'said, " It

