AN. Ub 165. J ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sight of the temple. So he chose out some

oi his soldiers, and gave them order to fight

against those guards that were in the citadel;

until he should have purified the temple.

When therefore he had carefully purged it,

and had brought in new vessels; the candle­

stick, the table of shew-bread, and the altar

of incense, which were made of gold; he

hung up the veils at the gates, and added

doors to them. He also took down the altar

of burnt-offering; and built a new one of

stones that he gathered together, and not

of such as are hewn with iron tools.* So on

the five and twentieth day of the month Cas-

leu, which the Macedonians call Apelleus,

they lighted the lamps that were on the can­

dlestick; and offered incense upon the altar

of incense; and laid the loaves upon the ta­

ble of shew-bread, and offered burnt-offerings

upon the new altar of burnt-offering. Now

it happened, that these things were done on

the very same day on which their divine

worship had fallen off, and was reduced to a

profane and common use, after three years'

time. For so it was, that the temple was

made desolate by Antiochus, and so con­

tinued for three years. For this desolation

happened to the temple in the hundred and

forty-fifth year; on the twenty-fifth day of the

month Apelleus; and on the first year of the

hundred and fifty-third Olympiad. But it

was dedicated anew, on the same day, the

twenty-fifth of the month Apelleus, on the

hundred and forty-eighth year; and on the

fourth year of the hundred and fifty-fourth

Olympiad. And this desolation came to pass

according to the prophecy of Daniel, which

was given ffour hundred and eight years

before. For he declared that the Macedo­

nians would dissolve that worship,! for some

time.

Now Judas celebrated the festival of the

restoration of the sacrifices at the temple for

eight days:|| and omitted no sort of pleasures

thereon: but he feasted the people upon very

rich and splendid sacrifices :§ and he honour­

ed God, and delighted them, by hymns and

psalms. Nay they were so very glad at the

revival of their customs, when, after a Ion

time of intermission, they unexpectedly hai

regained the freedom of their worship, that

they made it a law for their posterity, that

they should keep a festival on account of the

restoration of their temple-worship, for eight

days. And from that time to this we cele­

brate this festival, and call it Lights. I sup­

pose the reason was, because this liberty be­

yond our hopes appeared to us; and thence

was the name given to that festival. Judas

also rebuilt the walls round about the city;

and reared towers of great height against

the incursions of the enemies; and set guards

therein. He also fortified the city Beth-

sura, that it might serve as a citadel against

any distresses that might come from our

enemies.

* Exodus xx. 25.

t Therefore Daniel, in Josephus's copies, saw the

vision in his 8th chapter, not on the 3d of Belshazzar, but

on the first of Darius the Mede. Lit. Accompl. of Proph.

Suppl. page 106, 107, 108. And we may also take notice,

as we did before, on a like case, in the note on XI. 5. with

what an unusual accuracy Josephus here determines the

beginning and ending of these three years of Antiochus's

profanation of the temple; and adds to the exact num­

bers of the years of the Seleucidae, which he had out of

the first book of the Maccabees, the Olympiads, under

which both its beginning and ending fell: and this seems

done on purpose by him, because of the exact fulfilling of

Daniel's prophecy hereby; as he observes in this place.

I For 1096 days, or three years.

II This festival is commemorated in the Gospel, John

ii. 23. and our blessed Saviour, we are told, came up to

Jerusalem on purpose to bear a part in the solemnizing

of it. Some indeed are of opinion, that it was another

dedication feast, which Christ thus honoured with his pre­

sence: but besides that the dedications both of Solomon's

and Zerubbabel's temples who (though they were very

solemnly celebrated at the first erection of these temples,)

had never any anniversary feast afterwards kept in corn-

memoration of them, the very history of the Gospel

(which tells us, that it was kept in winter,) confines us to

this dedication of Judas only. That of Solomon was on

the seventh month, which fell about the time of the

autumnal equinox: and that of Zerubbabel was on the

twelfth month, which fell in the beginning of the spring;

but that of Judas Maccabeus was on their twenty-fifth day

of the ninth month, which fell in the middle of winter

So that the feast of the dedication which Christ was pre­

sent at in Jerusalem, was no other than that which was

instituted by Judas, in commemoration of his dedication

of the temple anew, after that it had been cleansed from

idolatrous pollutions: and from hence Grotius, (in his

Commentary on the Gospel of St. John, chap. x. 22,) very

justly observes, that festival days, in memory of public

blessings, may be piously instituted by persons in author­

ity, without a divine command. Prideaxuc1 $ Connection,

an. 166. B.

§ Sacrifices, as to their primary object, were designed

to appease or honour the Deity: and as the accomplish­

ment of that object was of great importance to those who

offered them, it appears a proper expression of their joy

that they should feast at the same time. Hence it became

universal to feast upon the sacrifices offered unto God. B

4C2

