536 [book xv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK XV.

Containing an Interval of Eighteen Years.

FROM THE DEATH OP ANTIGONUS, TO THE FINISHING OF THE TEMPLE BY HEROD.

CHAP. I.

CONCERNING FOLLIO, AND SAMEAS. HEROD SLAYS THE

PRINCIPAL OF ANTIOONUS'S FRIENDS, AND SPOILS THE

CITY OF ITS WEALTH. ANTONY BEHEADS ANTIGONUS.

HAVING already related the reduction

of Jerusalem by Sosius and Herod,

and the taking of Antigonus captive; we will

now proceed in the narration. And since

Herod had now the government of all Judea

put into his hands, he promoted such of the

private men in the city, as had been of his

party; but never left off avenging and punish­

ing, every day, those that had adhered to the

party of his enemies. But Pollio the Pha­

risee, and Sameas, a disciple of his, were

honoured by him above all the rest. For

when Jerusalem was besieged, they advised

the citizens to receive Herod: for which

advice they were well requited. But this

*Pollio, at the time when Herod was once  
upon his trial of life and death, foretold, in

way of reproach, to Hyrcanus, and the other

judges, how this Herod, whom they suffered

now to escape, would afterward inflict pun­

ishment on them all. Which had its com­

pletion in time; while God fulfilled the

words he had spoken.

Herod, having Jerusalem now under his

power, carried off all the royal ornaments, and

spoiled the wealthy men of what they had

gotten; and when, by these means, he had

amassed a great quantity of silver and gold, he

gave it to Antony and to his friends that were

about him. He also slew forty-five of the

principal men of Antigonus's party; and set

guards at the gates of the city, that nothing

might be carried out together with their dead

bodies. They also searched the dead; and

whatsoever was found either of silver or gold,

or other treasure, it was carried to the king.

Nor was there any end of the miseries he

brought upon them; and this distress was

partly occasioned by the covetousness of the

prince regnant; and partly by the sabbatic

year, which was still going on, and forced the

country to lie still uncultivated: since we are

forbidden to sow our land in that year. Now

when Antony had received Antigonus as his

captive, he determined to keep him against

his triumph. But when he heard that the na­

tion grew seditious: and that out of their ha­

tred to Herod, they continued to bear good

will to Antigonus, he fresolved to behead

him at Antioch; for otherwise the Jews could

no way be brought to be quiet.J And Strabo

* How Josephus could say, as it now stands in all his  
copies, but one, that it was Pollio, the master; and not

Sameas, the sdholar, who foretold that Herod would one

day slay the Sanhedrim of the Jews and Hyrcanus;

whereas he had lately told us, in all his copies, that it

was Sameas, and not Pollio, XIV. 9. does not appear. Yet

since one copy, even in this place, says it was Sameas;

that may well be supposed to be the true reading. Other­

wise it must be allowed as a slip of either Josephus's pen,

or memory: which now and then happens to the most

careful writers.

t That Antony put this Antigonus to death, is con­

firmed, (besides the testimony of Strabo, produced here

in the text, by Josephus himself,) by Plutarch and Dio;

as Dean Aldrich takes notice upon this occasion, in his

notes On the War, I. 18. and Hudson and Reland, on the

place before us.

I Herod not thinking himself safe in his kingdom, as

long as this remainder of the old royal family continued

alive, never left soliciting Antony, till at length by a great

sum of money he obtained that this poor prince should be

put to death: to which he having been condemned by a

