AN. 143.] 473 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

were ensnaring and treacherous; and yet

that it was more eligible to send the money,

and Jonathan's sons; than to be liable to the

imputation of not complying with Trypho's

offers, and thereby refusing to save his bro­

ther. Accordingly Simon sent the sons of

Jonathan, and the money. But when Trypho

had received them, he did not keep his pro­

mise, nor set Jonathan free; but took his

army, and went about all the country, and

resolved to go up afterward to Jerusalem by

the way of Idumea; while Simon went over

against him with his army; and invariably

pitched his own camp over against him.

When those that were in the citadel had

sent to Trypho, and besought him to make

haste, and come to them, and to send them

Erovisions, he prepared his cavalry, as though

e would be at Jerusalem that very night.

But so great a quantity of snow fell in the

night that it covered the roads, and made

them so deep, that there was no passing,

especially for the cavalry; and this prevented

him from coming to Jerusalem. Trypho there­

fore removed thence, and came into Coele-

syria; and falling vehemently upon the land

of Gilead, he slew Jonathan there, and when

he had given order for his burial, he returned

to Antioch.* However Simon sent some to

the city Basca, to bring away his brother's

bones; and buried them in their own city,

Modin. And all the people made great la­

mentation over him. Simon also erected a

very large monument for his father, and his

brethren, of white and polished stone; and

raised it a great height, and so as to be seen

at a considerable distance; and made clois­

ters about it, and set up pillars, which were

of one stone apiece. Moreover he built seven

pyramids for his parents, and his brethren,

* An. 143 B.C.

t There is some error in the copies here; when no

more than four years are ascribed to the high-priesthood

of Jonathan. We know by Josephus's last Jewish chro­

nology, XX. 10. that there was an interval of seven years

between the death of Alcimus. or Jacimns, the last high-

priest, and the real high-priesthood of Jonathan; to whom

yet those seven years seem here to be ascribed; as part

of them were to Judas before, XII. 10. Now since, be­

sides those seven years interregnum in the pontificate,

we are told, XX. 10. that Jonathan's real high-priesthood

lasted seven years more; these two seven years will make

up fourteen years; which I suppose was Josephus's own

number in this place, instead of the four in our present

copies.

one for each of them; which were made very

surprising, both for their largeness, and

beauty; and which have been preserved to

this day. And we know that it was Simon

who bestowed so much zeal about the burial

of Jonathan, and the building of these monu­

ments for his relations. Now Jonathan died

when he had been high-priest ffour years;

and had been also the governor of his nation.

And these were the circumstances that con­

cerned his death.

But Simon, who was made high-priest by

the multitude, on the very first year of his

high-priesthood set his people free from their

slavery under the Macedonians; and permit­

ted them to pay tribute to them no longer.

Which liberty and freedom from tribute they

obtained after a Jhundred and seventy years

of the kingdom of the Assyrians; which was

after Seleucus, who was called Nicator, got

the dominion over Syria. Now the affection

of the multitude toward Simon was so great,

that in their contracts one with another, and

in their public records, they wrote, "In the

first year of Simon, the benefactor and eth-

narch of the Jews." For under him they

were very happy, and overcame the enemies

that were round about them. For Simon

overthrew the cities Gazara, Joppa, and

Jamnia. He also took the citadel of Jerusa­

lem by siege, and cast it down to the ground;

that it might not be any more a place of re­

fuge to their enemies, when they took it, to

do them a mischief; as it had been till now.

And when he had done this, he thought it

advisable, and most for their advantage, to

level the very mountain itself, upon which

that citadel happened to stand; that so the

temple might be higher than it. And when

he had called the multitude to an assembly,

J These 170 years of the Assyrians, mean no more, as

Josephus explains himself here, than from the era of Se­

leucus; which as it is known to have begun on the 312th

year before the Christian era; from its spring in the first

book of Maccabees, and from its autumn in the second book

of Maccabees; so did it not begin at Babylon till the next

spring, on the 311th year. See Prideaux, at the year 312.

And it is truly observed by Dr. Hudson on this place, that

the Syrians and Assyrians are sometimes confounded in

ancient authors: according to the words of Justin the

Epitomizer of Trogus Pompeius; who says, that "The

Assyrians were afterwards called Syrians," I. 11. See

Of the War, V. 9. where the Philistines themselves, at

the very south limit of Syria, in its utmost extent, are

called Assyrians by Josephus, as Spanheim observes.

