346 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

When Jeroboam the king had passed his

life in great happiness, and had ruled forty

years,* he died, and was buried in Samaria;

and his son Zechariah took the kingdom.

After the same manner did Uzziah, the son

of Amaziah, begin to reign over the two tribes

in Jerusalem in the fourteenth year of the

reign of Jeroboam. He was a good man, and

by nature magnanimous, and very laborious

in taking care of the affairs of his kingdom.

He made an expedition against the Philis­

tines, and overcame them in battle, and took

the cities of Gath and Jabneh, and brake

down their walls. After which expedition

he assaulted those Arabs that adjoined to

Egypt . He also built a city upon the Red

Sea, and put a garrison in it; and, having

overthrown the Ammonites, and appointed

that they should pay tribute, he subdued all

the countries as far as to the bounds of Egypt;

and then began to take care of Jerusalem,

for the rest of his life. For he rebuilt and

repaired all those parts of the wall which

had either fallen down by length of time, or

by the carelessness of his predecessors; as

well as all that part which had been thrown

down by the king of Israel, when he took his

father Amaziah prisoner,! and entered with

him into the city. Moreover he built a great

many towers, of a hundred *and fifty cubits

high; and built walled towns in desert places,

and put garrisons into them, and dug many

channels for conveyance of water. He had

also many beasts of labour, and an immense

number of cattle; for his country was fit for

pasturage; and being addicted to husbandry,

he took care to cultivate the ground; and

planted it with all sorts of plants, and sowed

it with all sorts of seeds. He had also about

him an army composed of three hundred and

seventy thousand chosen men, who were

governed by two thousand general; officers,

and captains of thousands, who were men of

valour, and of unconquerable strength. He

also divided his whole army into bands, and

armed them; giving every one a sword, with

brazen bucklers and breast-plates, with bows

and slings; and besides these, he made for

them many engines of war,J for besieging of

cities; such as cast stones and darts, with

grapplers, and other instruments of that

sort .

While Uzziah|| was in this state, and ma­

king preparations for futurity, he was cor­

rupted in his mind by pride,§ and became

insolent; on account of that abundance which

he had of things that will soon perish; and

despised that power which is of eternal du­

ration, which consisted in piety towards

God, and in the observance of his laws: so he

fell by occasion of the success of his affairs,

and was carried headlong into those sins of

his fathers, which the splendour of that pros-

Eerity he enjoyed, and the glorious actions

e had done, led him into: while he was

unable to govern himself well about them.

Accordingly when a remarkable day was

come, and a general festival was to be cele­

brated, he put on the holy garment, and

went into the temple to offer incense to God

and Deaths of the prophets, (who goes under the name of

Epiphanus) tells us, returning from Nineveh, and being

ashamed to see that his prediction was not fulfilled, he

retired with his mother to the city of Tyre, where he

lived in the plain of Sear, until he died, and was buried

in the cave of Cenezeus, judge of Israel; but who the

author means by Cenezeus, unless it be Caleb, who is

frequently surnamed the Kenezite, (though we do not

read of his being ever a judge of Israel,) or rather Othniel,

who was the son of Kenez, and one that judged Israel,

we cannot tell. Calmet's Dictionary, under the word

Jonah; and Howell's History, in the notes. B.

* Forty-one years, Hebrew, from an. 826 to 785 B. C.

t See chap. ix.

I This is the first time that we read of any machine,

either for besieging or defending towns; which is plainly

the reason why sieges were of so long a continuance be­

fore the invention of these. Homer, who is the most

ancient Greek writer we know of that treats of sieges,

describes a kind of entrenchment, though a poor one,

some lines of circumvallation, and a ditch with palisades;

but we hear not one word of .any machines, such as the

ballistae and the catapultae, which were used for hurling

stones and throwing darts; and therefore we need less

wonder, that the famous siege of Troy continued so long.

Sardanapalus king of Assyria maintained himself in Nineveh

for seven years, because the besiegers, as Diodorus ob­

serves, lib. 2. wanted such engines as were fit for de­

molishing and taking of cities, they being not then invented.

Uzziah was certainly the first inventor of them; and

therefore it is said, that for these and other warlike pre­

parations, his name was spread abroad. From this time

they began to be employed, both in attacking and de­

fending towns; and therefore we find the prophet Ezekiel

describing the future sieges of Jerusalem and Tyre, where

he makes mention of battering-rams, and engines of war,

or, as it should be rendered, machines of cords, which, in

all probability, were what latter ages called their ballistic

and catapultae. Calmet's Dissertation sifr la milice des

anciens Hebreux. B.

II About an. 766.

§ 2 Cbron. xxvi. 16. et sequel.

