558 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Salome chose to follow not the law of her

country, but the law of her authority; and so .

renounced her wedlock; and told her brother

Herod, that she left her husband out of her

good will to him; because she perceived,

that he, with Antipater, and Lysimachus, and

Dositheus, were raising a sedition against him.

As an evidence of which she alleged the case

of the sons of Babas; that they had been by

him preserved alive already for the interval

of twelve years: which proved to be true.

But when Herod thus unexpectedly heard of

it, he was greatly surprised at it: and the

more so, because the relation appeared in­

credible to him. As for the fact relating to

these sons of Babas, Herod had formerly

taken great pains to bring them to punish­

ment, as being enemies to his government.

But they were now forgotten by him, on ac­

count of the length of time since he had or­

dered them to be slain. Now the cause of his

ill will and hatred to them arose hence; that

while Antigonus was king, Herod, with his

army, besieged the city of Jerusalem; where

the distress and miseries which the besieged

endured were so pressing, that the great

number of them invited Herod into the city,

and already placed their hopes on him. Now

the sons of Babas were of great dignity, and

had power among the multitude; and were

faithful to Antigonus, and were always raising

calumnies against Herod; and encouraged

the people to preserve the government to

that royal family which held it by inheritance.

So these men acted thus politically, and, as

they thought, for their own advantage. But

when the city was taken, and Herod had

gotten the government into his hands, and

Costobarus was appointed to hinder men

from passing out at the gates, and to guard

the city; that those citizens that were of the

party opposite to the king might not get out

of it; Costobarus, being sensible that the

sons of Babas were had in respect and honour

by the whole multitude, and supposing that

their preservation might be of great advan­

tage to him in the changes of government

afterward; set them by themselves, and con­

cealed them in his own farms. And when

the thing was suspected, he assured Herod

upon oath that he knew nothing of the matter:

and so overcame the suspicions that lay upon

him. Nay, after that, when the king had

publicly proposed a reward for the discovery,

and had put in practice all sorts of methods

for searching out this matter, he would not

confess it. But being persuaded that when

he had at first denied it, if the men were

found, he should not escape unpunished, he

was forced to keep them secret; not only out

of his good will to them, but out of a neces­

sary regard to his own preservation. But

when the king knew the thing, by his sister's

information, he sent men to the places where

he had the intimation they were concealed;

and ordered both them, and those that were

accused as guilty with them, to be slain.

Insomuch that there were now none left of

the kindred of Hyrcanus: and the kingdom

was entirely in Herod's power; and there was

nobody remaining of such dignity as could

put a stop to what he did against the Jewish

laws. v

CHAP. VIII.

OF A CONSPIRACY AGAINST HEROD, FOR THE FOREIGN

PRACTICES HE HAD INTRODUCED J AND OF THE BUILD­

ING OF SEBASTE, CESAREA, AND OTHER EDIFICES.

ON this account Herod revolted from the

laws of his country, and corrupted their

ancient constitution, by the introduction of

foreign practices: which constitution yet

ought to have been preserved inviolable.

By which means we became guilty of great

wickedness afterward; while those religious

observances, which used to lead the multi­

tude to piety, were now neglected. For, in

the first place, he appointed solemn games

to be celebrated every fifth year, in honour

of Caesar; and built a theatre at Jerusalem;

as also a very great amphitheatre in the

plain. Both of them were indeed costly

works; but opposite to the Jewish customs.

For we have had no such shews delivered

down to us fit to be used or exhibited by us.

Yet did he celebrate these games every five

years, in the most solemn and splendid man­

ner. He also made proclamation to the

neighbouring countries, and called men to­

gether out of every nation. The wrestlers

also, and the rest of those that strove for the

prizes in such games, were invited out of

every land; both by the hopes of the rewards

there to be bestowed; and by the glory of

victory to be there gained. So the principal

