468 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

was at hand, but what should profit them was

still at a great distance; and it was uncer­

tain whether it would come at all or not;

they thought it prudent to leave off any

longer continuance with him, and to cultivate

friendship with the other. So they sent to

Jonathan, and professed the)' would be his

friends, and afford him assistance. For such

is the temper of men, that before they have

had the trial of great afflictions, they do not

understand what is for their advantage: but

when they find themselves to be under such

afflictions, they then change their minds; and

what it had been better for them to have

done before they had been at all damaged,

they choose to do, but not till after they have

suffered such damages. However, he made

a league of friendship with them, and took

from them hostages for their performance of

it; and sent these hostages to Jerusalem:

while he went himself over all the country,

as far as Damascus.

Now the generals of Demetrius's forces

came to the city Cadesh, between the land

of the Tyrians and Galilee. For they sup­

posed they should hereby draw Jonathan out

of Syria, in order to preserve Galilee; and

that he would not overlook the Galileans,

who were his own people, when war was

made upon them. But Jonathan went to meet

them, having left Simon in Judea: who raised

as great an army as he was able out of the

country, and then sat down before Bethsura,

and besieged it; that being the strongest

place in all Judea, and a garrison of Deme­

trius's kept it: as we have *already related.

But as Simon was raising banks, and bringing

his engines of war against Bethsura, and was

very earnest about the siege of it, the gar­

rison was afraid lest the place should be ta­

ken of Simon by force, and they put to the

sword. So they sent to Simon, and desired

the security of his oath, that they should

come to no harm from him; and that then

they would leave the place, and go away to

Demetrius. Accordingly he gave them his

oath, and ejected them out of the city: and

he put therein a garrison of his own.

But Jonathan removed out of Galilee, and

from the waters which are called Gennesar;

* Chap. 2.

t 1 Mace. xi. 73.

(for there he was before encamped:) and

came into the plain that is called Asor: with­

out knowing that the enemy was there. When

therefore Demetrius's men knew a day be­

forehand that Jonathan was coming against

them, they laid an ambush in the mountain,

who were to assault him on the sudden; while

they themselves met him with an army in the

plain. Which army when Jonathan saw

ready to engage him, he also got ready his

own soldiers for the battle as well as he was

able. But those that were laid in ambush by

Demetrius's generals being behind them, the

Jews were afraid lest they should be caught

in the midst between two bodies, and perish.

So they ran away in haste: and indeed all

the forces forsook Jonathan, excepting about

fifty who stayed with him: and with them

Mattathias the son of Absalom, and Judas

the son of Chapseus, who were commanders

of the whole army. These marched boldly,

and like men desperate, against the enemy;

and so pushed them, that by their courage

they daunted them; and with their weapons

in their hands they put them to flight. And

when those soldiers of Jonathan, that had

retired, saw the enemy giving way, they got

together after their flight, and pursued them

with great violence. And this they did as

far as Cadesh, where the camp of the ene­

my lay.f

Jonathan having thus obtained a glorious

victory, and slain two thousand of the enemy,

returned to Jerusalem. So when he saw that

all his affairs prospered, according to his

mind by the providence of God, he sent am­

bassadors to the Romans; being desirous of

renewing that friendship which their nation

had with them Jformerly. He enjoined the

same ambassadors, that as they came back,

they should go to the Spartans; and put them

in mind of their friendship and kindred. So

when the ambassadors came to Rome, they

went into the senate, and said what they

were commanded by Jonathan the high-priest

to say: how he had sent them to confirm

their friendship. The senate then confirmed

what had been formerly decreed concerning

their friendship with the Jews; and gave

them letters to carry to all the kings of Asia

J See Book XII. chap. 10.

