380 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

he had seen this dream, he called the magi­

cians together again; and inquired of them

about it, desiring them to tell him what it sig­

nified. But when none of them could find

out the meaning of the dream, nor discover

it to the king, Daniel was the only person

that explained it. And as he foretold, so it

came to pass. For after he had continued

in the wilderness the aforementioned interval

of time, while no one durst attempt to seize

his kingdom, during those seven years; he

prayed to God that he might recover his

throne; and be returned to it. But let no

one blame me for writing down every thing

of this nature, as I find it in our ancient

books. For as to that matter, I have plainly

assured those that think me defective in any

such point, that I intended to do no more than

translate the Hebrew books into the Greek

language, and promised to explain those facts,

without adding any thing to them of my own,

or taking any thing away from them.

CHAP. XI.

OF NEBUCHADNEZZAR, AND HIS SUCCESSORS; THE DISSO­

LUTION OF THEIR GOVERNMENT BY THE PERSIANS, THE

AFFAIRS OF DANIEL, AND THE PROPHECIES HE DE­

LIVERED IN MEDIA.

OW when king Nebuchadnezzar had

reigned forty-three years,* he ended

N

his life.f He was an active man, and more

fortunate than the kings were before him.

Berosus makes mention of his actions in the

third book of his Chaldaic history, where

he says, "When his father Nabuchodonosor

[Nabopollassar] heard that the governor

whom he had set over Egypt, and the places

about Coele Syria and Phoenicia, had re­

volted from him, while he was not himself

able any longer to undergo the hardships of

War; he committed to his son Nebuchad­

nezzar, who was still but a youth, some parts

of his army; and sent him against them.

So when Nebuchadnezzar had given battle,

and fought with the rebel, he defeated him,

and reduced the country under subjection;

and made it a branch of his own kingdom.

But about that time it happened that his

father fell ill, and ended his life in the city

Babylon; when he had reigned twenty-one

years.J And when he was made sensible

that his father was dead, he settled the af­

fairs of Egypt, and other countries, as also

those that concerned the captive Jews, Phoe­

nicians, Syrians, and those of the Egyptian

nations; and having committed the convey­

ance of them to Babylon to certain of his

friends, together with the body of his army,

and the rest of their ammunition and pro­

visions; he went himself hastily, accompa­

probably must have understood those other parallel

phrnses, of a time, times, and a half, VII. 25. and XII.

9. of so many prophetic years also. Though he lets us

know, by his hint at the interpretation of the seventy

weeks, as belonging to the fourth monarchy, and the de­

struction of Jerusalem by the Romans, in the days of

Josephus, chap. 2. that he did not think those years to

be bare years; but rather days for years; by which

reckoning, and by which alone, could seventy weeks, or

four hundred and ninety days, reach to the age of Jose­

phus. But as to the truth of those seven years' banish­

ment of Nebuchadnezzar from men, and his living so long

among the beasts, the very small remains we have any

where else of this Nebuchadnezzar, prevent our expecta­

tion of any other full account of it. So far we know by

Ptolemy's Canon, a contemporary record, as well as by

Josephus's presently, that he reigned in all forty-three

years: that is eight years after we meet with any ac

count of his actions. One of the last of which was the

thirteen years' siege of Tyre, XI. 11. where yet the old

Latin has three years and ten months. Yet were his

actions before so remarkable, both in sacred and profane

authors, that such a vacuity of eight years at the least,

at the latter end of his reign, must be allowed to agree

very well with Daniel's accounts; that after a brfctal life

of seven years' duration, he might return to his reason,

and to the exercise of his royal authority for one whole

year at least before his death.

* These forty-three years for the duration of the reign  
of Nebuchadnezzar are, as I have just observed, the same

number as that in Ptolemy's Canon. Moses Chorenensie

also confirms this captivity of the Jews under Nebuchad­

nezzar; and adds, what is very remarkable, that one of

those Jews that were carried by him into captivity, got

away into Armenia; and raised the great family of the

Bagratidae there. See page 1, 58, 91, 98, 100, 109, 123,

124, 136, 180, 184.

t This prince died in the year of the world 3442, and

before Christ 562; after he had reigned, from the death

of his father, according to the Babylonish account, three

and forty years. He was certainly one of the greatest

princes that had appeared in the east for many ages be­

fore him, and according to Megasthenes, (as he is cited by

Josephus, Antiq. lib. X. c. 11.) both for his enterprises

and performances, far excelled even Hercules himself.

The same historian, (as he is quoted by Eusebius, Prep,

lib. IX. c. 41.) informs us, that a little before his death,

he foretold his subjects of the coming of the Persians,

and their subduing the kingdom of Babylon; but this he

might gather from the prophet Daniel, and especially

from the interpretation of his dreams. Prideavx's Con­

nection, anno 562. B.

J These twenty-one years here ascribed to Nabopol­

lassar, the father of the great Nebuchadnezzar, are the

same with those given him in Ptolemy's Canon. And

note here, that what Dr. Prideaux says, Connection, at

