524 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

suspecting no harm, complied with his pro­

posal: while Herod did not give his consent

to what was done, because of the perfidious-

ness of these Barbarians: but desired Pha-

saelus rather to fight those that were come

into the city.

So both Hyrcanus and Phasaelus went on

the ambassage. But Pacorus left with Herod

two hundred horsemen, and ten men, who

were called the free men; and conducted

the others on their journey. And when they

were in Galilee, the governors of the cities

there met them in their arms. Barzapharnes

also received them at first with cheerfulness,

and made them presents: though he after­

ward conspired against them. And Phasa­

elus, with hie horsemen, were conducted to

the sea side. But when they heard that An-

tigonus had promised to give the Parthians a

thousand talents, and five hundred women,

to assist him against them, they soon had a

suspicion of the Barbarians. Moreover there

was one who informed them that snares were

laid for them by night, while a guard came

about them secretly; and they had then been

seized upon, had they not waited for the

seizure of Herod by the Parthians, that were

about Jerusalem, lest, upon the slaughter of

Hyrcanus and Phasaelus, he should have an

intimation of it, and escape out of their

hands. And these were the circumstances

they were now in: and they saw who they

were that guarded them. Some persons, in­

deed, would have persuaded Phasaelus to

flee away immediately on horseback, and not

stay any longer. And there was one Ophel-

lius who, above all the reBt, was earnest for

him to do so. For he had heard of this

treachery from Saramalla, the richest of all

the Syrians at that time: who also promised

to provide him ships to carry him off: for the

sea was just by them. But he had no mind

to desert Hyrcanus, nor to bring his brother

into danger. But he went to Barzapharne6,

and told him, he did not act justly, when he

made such a contrivance: for that if he

wanted money, he would give him more than

Antigonus. And besides, that it was a hor­

rible thing to slay those that came to him

upon the security of their oaths; and that

when they had done them no injury. But

the Barbarians swore to him. that there was

no truth in any of his suspicions: but that he

Mas troubled with nothing but false suppo-

sals; and then went away to Pacorus.

But as soon as he was gone away, some

men came and bound Hyrcanus and Phasa­

elus: while Phasaelus greatly reproached the

Parthians for their perjury. However, that

butler, who was sent against Herod, had it in

command to get him without the walls of the

city, and seize upon him. But messengers

had been sent by Phasaelus to inform Herod

of the perfidiousness of the Parthians. And

when he knew that the enemy had seized

upon them, he went to Pacorus, and to the

most potent of the Parthians, as to the lords

of the rest. But, although they knew the

whole matter, they dissembled with him in a

deceitful way; and said, that he ought to go

out with them before the walls, and meet

those who were bringing him his letters: for

that they were not taken by his adversaries,

but were coming to give him an account of

the good success Phasaelus had had. Herod

did not give credit to what they said, for he

had heard that his brother was seized upon

by others also. And *the daughter of Hyr­

canus, whom he had espoused, also advised

him not to credit them; which made him still

more suspicious of the Parthians: for al­

though other people did not give heed to

her, yet did he believe her, as a woman of

very great wisdom.

Now while the Parthians were in consulta­

tion what was fit to be done, (for they did

not think it proper to make an open attempt

upon a person of his character,) and while

they put off the determination to the next

day, Herod was under great disturbance of

mind: and rather inclining to believe the re­

ports he had heard about his brother and

the Parthians, than to give heed to what was

said on the other side, he determined, that,

when the evening came on, he would make

use of it for his flight, and not make any

longer delay, as if the dangers from the enemy

were not yet certain. He therefore removed

with the armed men whom he had with him;

and set his wives upon the beasts: as also his

mother, and sister, and her whom he was

about to marry, Mariamne, the daughter of

Alexander, the son of Aristobulus; with her

mother, the daughter of Hyrcanus, and his

* Alexandra.

