,356 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

-r£?i *L£aw«~%«£'jj£j3^sag

fusing to admit his army into the city? Is it

on account of the Egyptians, and in hopes

that his army would be beaten by them?

Whereupon he lets him know, that if this be

what he expects, he is a foolish man, and

like one who leans on a broken reed;* while

such a one will not only fall down, but will

have his hand pierced and hurt by it: for

he ought to know, he makes this expedition

against him by the will of God; who hath

granted this favour to him, that he shall

overthrow the kingdom of Israel; arid that in

the very same manner he shall destroy those

that are his subjects also." When Rab-

shakeh had made this speech in the Hebrew

tongue, for he was skilful in that language,

Eliakim was afraid lest the multitude that

heard him should be disturbed. So he de­

sired him to speak in the Syrian tongue.

But the general, understanding what he

meant, and perceiving the fear that he was

in, replied with a louder voice in the He­

brew tongue; and said, "Since they all hear

what are the king's commands, they will

consult their own advantage in delivering up

themselves to us: for it is plain that both

you and your king dissuade the people from

submitting by vain hopes; and so induce

them to resist. But if you be courageous,

and think to drive our forces away, I am

ready to deliver to you two thousand of

these horses that are with me, for your use;

if you can set as many horsemen on their

backs, and shew their strength. But what

you have not, you cannot produce. Why

therefore do you delay to deliver up your­

selves to a superior force, who can take you

without your consent? although it will be

safer for you to deliver yourselves up volun­

tarily; while a forcible capture, when you

are beaten, must appear more dangerous,

and will bring farther calamities upon you."f

When the people, as well as the ambassa­

dors, heard what the Assyrian commander

L * The words in the text are,—Now behold thou trustest

upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt,

2 Kings xviii. 21. The comparison is excellent, to de­

note an ally that is not only weak and unable to help, but

dangerous likewise to those that rely upon him for suc­

cour; and his representing the power of Egypt to be as

brittle as the canes or reeds that grow on the banks of the

Nile, (for it is to this, no doubt, that the Assyrian orator

alludes,) is a great beauty in the similitude. This how­

ever must be allowed, that what he here speaks in con-

said, they related it to Hezekiah: who there­

upon put off his royal apparel, and clothed

himself with sackcloth, and took the habit

of a mourner; and, after the manner of his

country, he fell upon his face, and besought

God, and entreated him to assist them, now

they had no other hope of relief. He also

sent some of his friends, and some of the

priests to the prophet Isaiah, desiring that

he would pray to God, and offer sacrifices

for their common deliverance; and so put up

supplications to him, that he would have in­

dignation at the expectations of their enemies,

and have mercy upon his people. And when

the prophet had done accordingly, an oracle

came from God to him, and encouraged the

king and his friends that were about him:

and foretold, that their enemies should be

beaten without fighting, and should go away

in an ignominious manner; and not with that

insolence which they had now shewn: for

that God would take care they should be de­

stroyed. He also foretold that Sennacherib,

the king of Assyria, should fail of his purpose

against Egypt, and that when he came home

he should perish by the sword.

About the same time also, the king of As­

syria wrote an epistle to Hezekiah; in which

he said, he was a foolish man, in supposing

that he should escape from being his servant;

since he had already brought under many and

great nations; and he threatened, that when

he took him he would utterly destroy him, un­

less he now opened the gates, and willingly

received his army into Jerusalem. When he

had read this epistle, he despised it; on ac­

count of the trust that he had in God; but he

rolled up the epistle, and laid it up within the

temple. And as he made his farther prayers

to God for the city, and for the preservation

of all the people, the prophet Isaiah said, that

God had heard his prayer; and that he should

not be besiegedJ at this time by the king of

Assyria; that for the future he might be se­

tempt of the Egyptian strength, has more of ostentation

in it than truth; because the Assyrian army, having

lately made an attempt to subdue that kingdom, was now

returned into Judea with disgrace. Patrick's, Le Clerc'i,

and Calmet's Commentaries. B.

t 2 Kings xviii. 19—35.

J What Josephus says here, how Isaiah the prophet

assured Hezekiah, that "At this time he should not be

besieged by the king of Assyria; that for the future he

might be secure of being not at all disturbed by him; and

