aN. 1487.] 155 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

notice of the intentions of God, which had

been so gracious towards them; and told

them that the Deity would continue their

friend by nothing else but their piety, and

that it was proper for him, now he was about

to depart out of this life, to leave such an

admonition to them; and he desired that they

would keep in memory this his exhortation

to them.

So Joshua, when he had thus discoursed to

them, died; having lived an hundred and ten

years,* forty of which he lived with Moses,

in order to learn what might be for his ad­

vantage afterwards. He also became their

commander after Moses's deathf for twenty-

five years. He was a man that wanted no

wisdom nor eloquence to declare his inten­

tions to the people; but was eminent on both

accounts. He was of great courage and

magnanimity in action and in dangers; and

very sagacious in procuring the peace of the

people, and of great virtue at all proper sea­

sons. He was buried in the city of Timnath,

of the tribe of Ephraim.J Aboutj| the same

time died Eleazar, the high-priest; leaving

the high-priesthood to his son Phineas. His

monument also and sepulchre are in the city

Gabatha.

CHAP. II.

OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE ISRAELITES AFTER THE DEATH OF

JOSHUA J THEIR TRANSGRESSION OF THE LAWS OF THEIR

COUNTRY J AND THE DESTRUCTION OF THE TRIBE OF

BENJAMIN, EXCEPTING ONLY SIX HUNDRED MEN.

A

FTER the death of Joshua and Eleazar,

Phineas prophesied§ that, according to

God's will, they should commit the govern­

ment to the tribe of Judah, and that ibis tribe

should destroy the race of the Canaanites;

for then the people were concerned to learn

what was the will of God. They also took

to their assistance the tribe of Simeon; but

upon this condition, that when those that had

been tributary to the tribe of Judah should be

slain, they should do the like for the tribe of

Simeon.

But the affairs of the Canaanites were at

this time in a nourishing condition; and they

expected the Israelites with a great army at

the city Bezek; having put the government

into the hands of Adonibezek; which name

denotes the lord of Bezek, for Adoni in the

Hebrew tongue is called Lord. Now they

hoped to have been too hard for the Israel­

ites, because Joshua was dead; but when the

Israelites had joined battle with them, I mean

the two tribes before-mentioned, they fought

valiantly, and slew above ten thousand of

them, and put the rest to flight; and in the

Cursuit they took Adonibezek; who, when

is fingers and toes were cut off by them, said,

"Nay, indeed, I was not always to lie con­

cealed from God, as I find by what I now en­

dure; while I have not been ashamed to do

the same to** seventy-two kings."ff So they

carried him alive as far as Jerusalem; and

when he was dead they buried him in the

earth, and went on still in taking the cities;

and, when they had taken the greatest part

of them, they besieged Jerusalem; and when

they had taken the lower city, which was not

under a considerable time, they slew all the

inhabitants. But the upper city was not to

come to inhabit here." See the note there. Nor is it

unworthy our notice what Moses Chorenensis adds, page

53, and this upon a diligent examination, viz. that " One

of those eminent men among the Canaanites came at the

same time into Armenia, and founded the Genthunian

family or tribe; and that this was confirmed by the man­

ners of the same family or tribe, as being like those of the

Canaanites." •

§ By prophesying, when spoken of a high-priest, Jose-

phus, both here and frequently elsewhere, means no more

than consulting God by Urim; which the reader is still to

bear in mind upon all occasions. And if St. John, who

was contemporary with Josephus, and of the same country,

made use of his style, when he says that Caiaphas, being

high-priest that year, prophesied that Jesus should die for

that nation, and not for that nation only, but that also he

should gather together in one the children of God, that

were scattered abroad, xi. 51, 52, he may possibly mean,

that this was revealed to the high-priest by an extraordt-

Nn

* Josh. xxiv. 29.  
t From An. 1492 to An. 1467.

\ This place is, in Judges ii. 9. called Timnath Heres,

because of the image of the sun engraven on his sepulchre,

in memory of that famous day when the sun stood still till

be had completed his victory. This is asserted by several

of the Jewish authors, that memorials alluding to particu­

lar transactions in the lives of great men were frequently

made use of to adorn their tombs. Tully has recorded

concerning Archimedes, that a sphere and a cylinder were

-put upon his monument. B.

|| Since not only Procopius and Suidas, but an earlier

author, Moses Chorenensis, p. 52, 53, and perhaps from

.his original author, Mariba Catina, one as old as Alexander

the Great, sets down the famous inscription at Tangier,

concerning the old Canaanites driven out of Palestine by

Joshua, take it here in that author's own words: " We

are those exiles that were governors of the Canaanites;

but have been driven out by Joshua, the robber; and are

VOL I.—NOS. 13 & 14.

y

