AH. 38.] 533 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Pappus, who was encamped at a village call­

ed lsanas. And there ran in to him many out

of Jericho and Judea, near to which places

he was: and the enemy fell upon his men, so

stout were they at this time, and joined battle

with them. But he defeated them in the fight;

and in order to be revenged on them for the

slaughter of his brother, he pursued them

sharply, and killed them as they ran away.

And *as the houses were full of armed men,

and many of them ran as far as the tops of the

houses, he got them under his power, and

pulled down the roofs of the houses; and saw

the lower rooms full of soldiers that were

caught, and lay all on a heap. So they threw

stones down upon them, as they lay piled one

upon another; and thereby killed them. Nor

was there a more frightful spectacle in all the

war than this: where beyond the walls an

immense multitude of dead men lay heaped

one upon another. This action it was which

chiefly damped the spirits of the enemy; who

expected now what would come. For there

appeared a mighty number of people, that

came from places far distant, that were now

about the village, but then ran away. And

had it not been for the depth of winter, which

then restrained them, the king's army had pre­

sently gone to Jerusalem: as being very cou­

rageous at this good success: and the whole

work had been done immediately. For Anti-

gonus was already considering how he might

flee away, and leave the city.

At this time the king gave order that the

soldiers should go to supper, (for it was late at

night:) while he went into a chamber to use

the bath; for he was very weary. And here

it was that he was in the greatest danger:

which yet, by God's providence, he escaped.

For he was naked, and had but one servant

that followed him, to be with him while he

was bathing in an inner room; certain of the

enemy, who were in their armour, and had

fled thither out of fear, were then in the place.

And as he was bathing, the first of them came

out with his sword drawn, and went out at

the doors; and after him a second, and a

third armed in like manner; and were un-

der such a consternation, that they did no

hurt to the king; and thought themselves to

have come off very well in suffering no harm

themselves, in their getting out of the house.

However, on the next day, he cut off the

head of Pappus; (for he was already slain,)

and sent it to Pheroras; as a punishment

of what their brother had suffered by his

means: for he was the man that slew him

with his own hand.

Whenf the rigour of winter was over, He­

rod removed his army, and came near to Je­

rusalem, and pitched his camp hard by the

city. Now this was the third year since he

had been made king at Rome. And as he

remoi ed his camp, and came near that part

of the wall where he could be most easily

assaulted, he pitched that camp before the

temple: intending to make his attacks in the

same manner as did Pompey. So he encom­

passed the place with three bulwarks, and

erected towers, and employed a great many

hands about the work; and cut down the

trees that were round about the city: and

when he had appointed proper persons to

oversee the works, even while the army lay

before the city, he himself went to Samaria,

to complete his marriage; and to take to

wife the daughter of Alexander, the son of

Aristobulus. For he had betrothed her al­

ready; as I have Jbefore related.

CHAP. XVI.

HEROD, AFTER HIS MARRIAGE WITH MARIANNE, TAKES

JERUSALEM BV FORCE, WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF SO-

SIUS; AND PUTS AN END TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE

ASMONEANS.

AFTER the wedding was over, Sosius

came through Phoenicia; having sent

his army over the midland parts. He also,

who was their commander, came himself,

with a great number of horsemen and foot­

men. The king also came from Samaria,

and brought with him a numerous army; be­

sides that which was there before: for they

were about thirty thousand. And they all

met together at the walls of Jerusalem, and

* It may be worthy our observation here that these  
soldiers of Herod's coold not have gotten upon the tops of

these houses which were full of enemies, in order to pull

tip the upper floors, and destroy them beneath, but by

ladders from the outside: which illustrates some texts in

the New Testament, by which it appears that men used

to ascend thither by ladders on the outside. See Matt,

xxiv. 17. Mark xiii. 15. Luke v. 19. xvii. 31.

t An. 37.

J See chap. 12.

402

