70 [book u. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS-

on all occasions, promising to be with him,

and to assist him in his words when he was to

persuade men, and in his deeds when he was

lo perform wonders. He bid him also take

a signal of the truth of what he said, by

throwing his rod* upon the ground; which

when he had done, it crept along; and be­

came a serpent,f and rolled itself round in its

folds, and erected its head, as ready to re­

venge itself on such as should assault it, and

afterwards it became a rod again, as it was

before. After this God bid Moses put his right

hand into his bosom; be obeyed, and when

he took it out it was white, and in colour like

to chalk, but afterward it returned to its

wonted colour again. He also, upon God's

command, took some of the water that was

near him, and poured it upon the ground, and

saw the colour was that of blood. Upon the

surprise that Moses testified at these signs,

God exhorted him to be of good courage, and

to be assured that he would be the greatest

support to him, and bid him make use of those

signs in order to obtain belief among all men,

and to demonstrate that he did all things ac­

cording to the Divine commands. Accord­

ingly he was enjoined to make no more de­

lays, but to hasten to Egypt, and to travel

night and day, and not to draw out the time:

and so make the slavery of the Hebrews, and

their sufferings, to last no longer.

Moses, having seen and heard these won­

ders, that assured him of the truth of God's

■

promises, had no room left him to disbelieve

them; so he intreated him to grant him that

power when he should be in Egypt, and be­

sought him, since he had heard and seen him,

that he would also tell him his name, and

when he offered sacrifice he might invoke him

by such name in his oblations. Hereupon

God declared to him that name which had

never been discovered to men before, con­

cerning which it is not lawfulJ for me to say

any more. Now these signs accompanied

Moses, not then only, but always when he

prayed for them; of all which signs he attri­

buted the firmest assent to the fire in the

bush; and believing that God would be a

gracious supporter to him, he hoped he should

be able to deliver his own nation, and bring

calamities on the Egyptians.

CHAP. XIII.

OF THE RETURN OF MOSES AND AARON INTO EGYPT, TO

PHARAOH.

MOSES having understood that Pharaoh,

in whose reign he fled away, was dead,

asked leave of Raguel to go to Egypt, for the

benefit of his own people; and he took with

him Zipporah. the daughter of Raguel, whom

he had married, and the children he had by

her, Gersom and Eleazar, and hastened into

Egypt. Now the former of those names, Ger­

som, in the Hebrew tongue signifies that he

was in a strange land: and Eleazar, that by

* Wonderful are the stories which the Hebrew doctors  
tell us of this rod, viz. That it originally grew in Paradise,

was brought away by Adnm, from him passed to Noah,

and so through a succession of patriarchs, till it came to be

transplanted into Jethro's garden, and there took root

again, God knows how; that it was called Zaphir, (whence

Ziphorah his daughter had her name) and had the Tetra-

grammaton written upon it; that when Ziphorah fell in

love with Moses, her father consented that she should

nave him if he could pluck up this Zaphir-rod, at the same

time published a proclamation, that whoever did it first

should marry his daughter; that hereupon several lusty

young men came, and tried their strength in vain; but that

Moses, by being acquainted with the true pronunciation of

the name of God, in virtue thereof did it with ease, and

so not only obtained his daughter, but this rod into the bar­

gain, with which he wrought afterwards all his wonders in

Egypt. But how fictitious soever all this may be, it is

certain that in Exod. iv. 20. this staff is called the rod of

God; and that partly because it was appropriated to God's

special service, to be the instrument of all his glorious

works; and partly to shew that whatever was done by that

rod was not done by any virtue in it, or in the hand of

Moses, but merely by the power of God, who was pleased,

for the greater confusion of his enemies, to use so mean an

instrument. Nor is it an improbable conjecture, that the

wands which great ministers are wont to carry in their

hands, in token of their power and office, were originally

derived from this of Moses. Universal Hut. 1. c. 7; and

Pool's Annot. B.

t Exod. iv. 8.

I This superstitious fear of discovering the name with

four letters, which of late have been used falsely to pro­

nounce Jehovah, but-seems to have been originally pro­

nounced Jahoh, or Jao, is never, I think, heard of till this

passage of Josephus: and this superstition, in not pro­

nouncing that name, is continued among the Rabbinical

Jews to this day; though whether the Samaritans and

Canutes observed it so early does not appear. Josephus

also durst not set down the very words of the Ten Com­

mandments, as we shall see hereafter, III. 5. which super­

stitious silence, I think, has yet not been continued even

by the Rabbins. Both these cautious concealments,'bow-

ever, were probably taught Josephus by the Pharisees, a

body of men at once very wicked and very superstitious

