342 £&OOK IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

which they cut off from thy kingdom in the

reign of thy father. So when the king had

heard that, he departed; and a little while

after the prophet died. He was a man

celebrated for righteousness, and in eminent

favour with God: he also performed many

wonderful works by prophecy, and such as

were gloriously preserved in memory by

the Hebrews. He obtained a magnificent

funeral: such a one indeed as it was fit a

person so beloved of God should have. It

also happened that at that time certain rob­

bers cast a man, whom they had slain, into

Elisha's grave, and upon the dead corpse

coming close to Elisha's body, it revived

again.* And thus far have we enlarged

about the actions of Elisha the prophet;

both such as he did while he was living,

and how he had a divine power after his

death also.

Now upon the death of Hazael, king of

Syria, that kingdom came to Adad his son;

with whom Joash king of Israel made war;

and when he had beaten him in three battles,

he took from him all that country, and those

cities and villages which his father Hazael

had taken from the kingdom of Israel; which

came to pass according to the prophecy of

Elisha. But when Joash happened to die,

he was buried in Samaria: and the govern­

ment devolved on his son Jeroboam.

CHAP. IX.

of amaziah's expedition against the edomites and

amalekites; his defeat in the subsequent war

against joash, king of israel; and the accession

of uzziah.

IN the second year of the reign of Joash,t

over Israel, Amaziah reigned over the

tribe of Judah in Jerusalem. His mother's

* 2 Kings xiii. 21.  
t An. 840.

I The two murderers (mongrel fellows, whose fathers

were Jews, but their mothers aliens) perhaps were of his

bed-chamber, and having constant access to the king,

might more easily accomplish their design. However,

he was so weak and feeble, that he could make no re­

sistance, and had fallen into that contempt and dis-

esteem, that his guards minded not what became of him.

Patrick's Commentary. B.

II Deut. xxiv. 16.

§ If these be reckoned for talents of silver, as they

generally are, each talent, at a hundred and twenty-five

name was Jehoaddan, who was born at Je­

rusalem. He was exceeding careful of doing

what was right, and this when he was very

young. But when he came to the manage­

ment of affairs, and to the government, he

resolved that he ought first ol all to revenge

his father Jehoash; and to punish those

that had laid violent hands upon him. So

he seized upon them all, and put them to

death: J yet did he execute no severity on

their children; but acted therein according

to the law of Moses, who did not think it

just to punish the children for the sins of

their fathers.j| After this he chose an army

out of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, of

such as were in the flower of their age, and

about twenty years old. And when he had

collected about three hundred thousand of

them together, he set captains of hundreds

over them. He also sent to the king of

Israel, and hired a hundred thousand of his

soldiers, for a hundred talents of silver;§

for he had resolved to make an expedition

against the nations of the Amalekites, Edom­

ites, and Gebalites. But as he was pre­

paring for his expedition, and ready to go

out to the war, a prophet gave him counsel

to dismiss the army of the Israelites; because

they were bad men, and because God fore­

told that he should be beaten, if he made

use of them as auxiliaries; but that he should

overcome his enemies, though he had but a

few soldiers, when it so pleased God. And

when the king grudged at his having already

paid the hire of the Israelites, the prophet

exhorted him to do what God would have

him: because he should thereby obtain much

wealth from God. So he dismissed them, and

said that he still freely gave them their pay,

and went himself with his own army, and

made war with the aforementioned nations:

and when he had beaten them in battle, he

pounds weight, and each pound weight at four pounds

value, the whole will amount to fifty thousand pounds ster­

ling, which will be but ten shillings to each man, officers

included. Very low pay! unless we suppose, that this

whole sum was given to the king of Israel for the loan of

so many men, and that the men were to have no other

pay besides; or rather, that they were to have no other

pay but the booty which they took from the enemy; and

that this was the true reason why they were so exaspe­

rated at their dismission, as to fall upon the cities of Judah,

from Samaria even unto Beth-horon, 2 Chron. xxv. 13.

Patrick's and CalmeCs Commentaries. B.

s

