90 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and were not wanting in diligence according

to their ability; but they brought silver, and

gold, and brass, and the best sorts of wood,

and such as would not at all decay by putre­

faction; camels" hair also, and sheep-skins;

some of them dyed of a blue colour, and some

of a scarlet: some brought the flower for the

purple colour, and others for white, with wool

dyed by the aforementioned flowers; and fine

linen, and precious stones, which those that

use costly ornaments set in ounces of gold:

they brought also a great quantity of spices.

For of these materials did Moses build the

tabernacle: which did not at all differ from a

moveable temple. Now when these things

were brought together with great diligence,

(for every one was ambitious to further the

work, even beyond their ability,) he set ar­

chitects over the works, and this by the com­

mand of God: and indeed the very same

which the people themselves would have

chosen, had the election been allowed to

them. Now their names are set down in wri­

ting in the sacred books; and they were these,

Bazaleel, the son of Uri, of the tribe of Judah,

the grandson of Miriam, the sister of their

conductor; and Aholiab, the^on of Ahisa-

mach, of the tribe of Dan. Now the people

went on with what they had undertaken with

so great alacrity, that Moses was obliged to

restrain them, by making proclamation, that

what had been brought was sufficient, as the

artificers had informed him: so they fell to

work upon the building of the tabernacle.

Moses also informed them, according to the

direction of God, both what the measures

were to be, and its dimensions; and how

many vessels it ought to contain, for the use

of the sacrifices. The women also were

ambitious to do their parts about the garments

of the priests, and about other things that

would be wanted in this work, both for orna­

ment, and for the divine service itself.

When all things were prepared, the gold,

and the silver, and the brass, and what was

. woven, Moses having previously appointed

that there should be a festival, and that sacri­

fices should be offered according to every

one's ability, reared up the tabernacle. And

when he had measured the open court, fifty

cripts, omitted here the heinous sin of the Israelites, in

making and worshipping the golden calf, or the Egyptian

Apis, made of wood, but covered over with cast gold round

cubits broad, and a hundred long, he set up

brazen pillars, five cubits high; twenty on

each of the longer sides, and ten pillars for

the breadth behind. Every one of the pillars

also had a ring. Their chapiters were of

silver, but their bases were of brass; they

resembled the sharp ends of spears, and were

of brass, fixed into the ground. Cords were

also put through the rings, and were tied at

the farther ends to brass nails of a cubit long,

which at every pillar were driven into the

floor, and would keep the tabernacle from

being shaken by the violence of winds. But

a curtain of fine soft linen went round all

the pillars, and hung down in a flowing man­

ner from their chapiters, and enclosed the

whole space, forming a kind of wall about it.

Such was the structure of three of the sides

of this enclosure: but as for the fourth side,

which was fifty cubits in extent, and was the

front of the whole; twenty cubits of it were

for the opening at the gates, wherein stood

two pillars on each side, after the resem­

blance of open gates; these were made wholly

of silver, and polished all over, excepting the

bases, which were of brass. Now on each

side of the gates there stood three pillars,

which were inserted into the concave bases

of the gates, and were suited to them; and

round them was drawn a curtain of fine linen.

But to the gates themselves, which were

twenty cubits in extent, and five in height,

the curtain was composed of purple, and

scarlet, and blue, and fine linen; and em­

broidered with divers sorts of figures, except­

ing the figures of animals. Within these

gates was the brazen laver, for purification,

having a bason beneath of the like matter:

in which the priests might wash their hands,*

and sprinkle their feet. And this was the

ornamental construction of the enclosure

about the court of the tabernacle, which was

exposed to the open air.

As to the tabernacle itself, Moses placed it

in the middle of that court, with its front to

the east; that when the sun rose, it might

send its first rays upon it. Its length, when it

was set up, was thirty cubits, and its breadth

was ten cubits. One of its walls was on the

south, and the other was exposed to the north,

about it. See Isaiah xl. 19, 20. Jer. x. 3, 4, and Hab

ii. 19.

* Exod. xxx. 19.

