an. 587.] 375 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Babylonians. Accordingly both the people,

and Johanan, disobeyed the counsel of God,

which he gave them by the prophet, and re­

moved into Egypt, and carried Jeremiah and

Baruch along with them.*

While they were there, God signified to

the prophet, that the king of Babylon was

about making an expedition against the

Egyptians; and commanded him to foretell

to the people that Egypt should be taken,

and that the king of Babylon should slay

some of them, and should take others cap­

tive, and bring them to Babylon; which things

came to pass accordingly. For on the fifth

year after the destruction of Jerusalem, which

was the twenty-third of the reign of Nebu­

chadnezzar, he made an expedition against

Coele Syria; and when he had possessed

himself of it, he made war against the Am­

monites, and Moabites; and when he had

brought all those nations under subjection,

he fell upon Egypt, in order to overthrow it.

And he slew the fking that then reigned, and

set up another; and took those Jews that

were there captives, and Jled them away to

Babylon.|| And such was the end of the na­

tion of the Hebrews; it having twice gone

beyond Euphrates. For the people of the

ten tribes were carried out of Samaria by

the Assyrians, in the days of king Hoshea.

After which the people of the two tribes, that

remained after Jerusalem was taken, were

carried away by Nebuchadnezzar, king of

Babylon and Chaldea. Now as to Shalma-

* Jeremiah xliii. 6.

t Herodotus says, this king of Egypt, (Pharaoh Hophra,

or Apries,) was slain by the Egyptians; as Jeremiah fore­

told his slaughter by his enemies, xliv. 29, 30. and that

as a sign of the destruction of Egypt, by Nebuchadnezzar

Josephus says, this king was slain by Nebuchadnezzar

himself. Which assertion is supposed by Dr. Hudson to

contradict Herodotus. If it do, the question will remain,

whether Herodotus or Josephus had the more authentic

accounts of Egypt at that time. Nor is such a question

easily decided, for want of some more authentic and ori­

ginal monuments of that^country.

J Of this real captivity of the Jews in Egypt to Baby­

lon, and particularly as to Jeremiah and Baruch, contrary

to our common copies, Jer. xliv. 12, 13, 27. see Authent.

Rec. Part I. pages 6, 7.

II Since the people were thus carried into captivity, the

sons of the royal family, and of the nobility of the land,

made eunuchs and slaves in the palace of the king of

Babylon; the vessels of the temple carried thither, the

king made a tributary, and the whole land now brought

into vassalage under the Babylonians; from hence we

mast reckon the beginning of the seventy years' captivity

neser, he removed the Israelites out of their

country, and placed therein the nation of the

Cutheans; who had formerly belonged to the

interior of Persia and Media; but were then

called Samaritans; by taking the name of the

country to which they were removed. But

the king of Babylon, who brought out the

two tribes,§ placed no other nation in their

country. By which means all Judea, and

Jerusalem, and the temple, continued to be

a desert for seventy years. But the entire

interval of time which passed from the cap­

tivity of the Israelites, to the carrying away

of the two tribes, proved to be a hundred and

thirty years, six months, and ten days.

CHAP. X.

CONCERNING DANIEL, AND WHAT BEFELL HIM AT BABYLON.

NEBUCHADNEZZAR, king of Babylon,

took some of the most noble of the

Jews that were children, and the kinsmen of

Zedekiah their king; such as were remark­

able for the beauty of their bodies, and the

comeliness of their countenances; and de­

livered them into the hands of tutors, and to

the improvement to be made by them. He

also made some of them to be eunuchs; which

course he took also with other nations whom

he had taken in the flower of their age,** and

afforded them their diet from his own table;

and had them instructed in the institutes of

the country, and taught the learning of the

foretold by the prophet Jeremiah, chap. xxv. 11. and xxix.

10. and in the fourth year of Jehoiakim must be the first

year in that computation. Prideavx's Connection, an.

606. B.

§ We see here that Judea was left in a manner deso­

late, after the captivity of the two tribes, and was not

re-peopled with foreign colonies; perhaps as an indica­

tion of Providence that the Jews were to re-people it

without opposition themselves. I esteem the latter and

present desolate condition of the same country without

being re-peopled by foreign colonies, to be a like indica­

tion, that the same Jews are hereafter to re-people it

again at their long-expected restoration.

** That Daniel was made one of those eunuchs of whom  
Isaiah prophesied, xxxix. 7. and the three children his

companions also, seems to me plain, both here and in our

copies of Daniel, i. 3, 6, 7.—11, 18. Although it must

be granted, that some married persons, that had children,

were sometimes called eunuchs, in a general acceptation

for courtiers, on account that so many of the ancient

courtiers were real eunuchs. See Gen. xxxix. 1. with

Antiq. 6. X. 8, 9, and 10.

