460 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

wing, where Demetrius happened to be, was

beaten: and the rest ran away. Demetrius

indeed fought courageously, and slew great

numbers of the enemy: but as he was in pur­

suit of the rest, his horse carried him into

a deep bog, where it was hard to get out.

And there it happened, that upon his horse's

falling down, he could not escape being

killed. For when his enemies saw what

had befallen him, they returned back, en­

compassed him round, and all threw their

darts at him. He being now on foot, fought

bravely: but at length received so many

wounds, that he was not able to bear up any

longer, but fell.* And this is the end that

Demetrius came to, when he had reigned

feleven years.

CHAP. III.

OF THE FRIENDSHIP THAT SUBSISTED BETWEEN ONIAS AND

PTOLEMY PHILOMETOR J AND OF THE TEMPLE WHICH

ONIAS BUILT IN EGYPT, LIKE TO THAT AT JERUSALEM.

rilHE son of Qnias, the high-priest, who

I was of the same name with his father,

and who fled to Ptolemy Philometor, lived

now at Alexandria; as we have Jsaid al­

ready. When this Onias saw that Judea

was oppressed by the Macedonians, and their

kings; out of desire to purchase to himself

a memorial and eternal fame, he resolved to

send to king Ptolemy and queen Cleopatra,

to ask leave of them that he might build a

temple in Egypt, like to that at Jerusalem:

and might ordain Levites and priests out of

their own stock. The chief reason why he

was desirous so to do, was that he relied

upon the prophet Isaiah, who lived about

six hundred years before, and foretold that

there certainly was to be a temple built to

Almighty God in Egypt, by a man that was a

Jew. Accordingly Onias was elevated with

this prediction: and wrote the following

epistle to Ptolemy and Cleopatra:—

"Having done many and great things for

you in the affairs of the war, by the assistance

of God; and that in Coelesyria and Phoenicia:

I came at length with the Jews to Leontopo-

lis, and to other places of your nation. Where

I found that the greatest part of your people

had temples in an improper manner; and that

on this account they bare ill will one against

another: which happens to the Egyptians,

by reason of the multitude of the temples,

and the difference of opinions about divine

worship. Now I found a very fit place in a

castle that hath its name from the country

Diana; this place is full of materials of seve­

ral sorts, and replenished with sacred ani­

mals. I desire therefore that you will grant

me leave to purge this holy place: which be­

longs to no master, and is fallen down; and

to build there a temple to Almighty God,

after the pattern of that in Jerusalem, and

of the same dimensions: that may be for the

benefit of thyself, and thy wife, and children:

that those Jews which dwell in Egypt may

have a place whither they may come and

meet together in mutual harmony one with

another, and be subservient to thy advan­

tages. For the prophet Isaiah foretold that

jjthere should be an altar in Egypt to the

Lord God.§ And many such things did he

prophesy relating to that place."

* 1 Mace. x. 50.

t Since the rest of the historians now extant give this

Demetrius 13 years; and Josephus only 11 years; Dean

Prideaux does not amiss in ascribing to him the mean

number 12.

t Book XII. chap. 9.

II Isaiah xix. 19.

§ It seems to me, contrary to the opinion of Josephus,

and of the moderns, both Jews and Christians, that this

prophecy of Isaiah xix. 10, &c. "In that day there shall

be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt,"

&c. directly foretold the building of the temple of Onias

in Egypt, and was a sufficient warrant to the Jews for

building it, and for worshipping the God of Israel therein.

.See Authentic Records, part II. page 755. God indeed

seems to have better accepted of the sacrifices and prayers

here offered him, than of those at Jerusalem. And truly

the marks of Jewish corruption or interpolation in this

<ext in order to discourage their people from approving

of the worship of God here, are very strong; and highly

deserve our consideration and correction. The fore­

going verse in Isaiah runs thus, in our common copies':

"In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak

the language of Canaan [the Hebrew language; shall be

full of Jews whose sacred books were in Hebrew;] and

swear to the Lord of Hosts. One [or the first] shall be

called the city of Destruction," Isa. xx. 18. A strange

name, City of Destruction! upon so joyful an occasion!

and a name never heard of in the land of Egypt, or per­

haps any other nation! The old reading was evidently,

the City of the Sun, or Heliopolis; and Onkelos in effect,

and Symmachus, with the Arabic version, entirely con­

fess that to be the true reading. The Septuagint also,

though they have the text disguised in the common

copies, and call it Asedek, the City of Righteousness;

yet in two or three other copies the Hpbrew word itself

for the sun, Achares or Thares, is preserved. And since

Onias insists with the king and queen, that Isaiah's pro-

