w [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Now Saul's watchman told the king, that

the camp of the Philistines was in confusion.

Then he enquired, whether any body were

gone from the army? and when he heard that

his son, and his armour-bearer were absent,

he bade the high-priest take the pontifical

garments and predict what success they

should have. The high-priest said, they

shpuld get the victory, and prevail against

their enemies. So he went out after the Phi­

listines, and set upon them, as they were

slaying one another. Those also came run­

ning to him, who had fled before to dens and

caves; upon their hearing that Saul was

gaining a victory. When therefore the number

of the Hebrews that came to Saul amounted

to about ten thousand; he pursued the enemy,

who were scattered all over the country.

But then he fell into an action, which was a

very unhappy one, and liable to be very much

blamed. For whether out of ignorance, or

whether out of joy for a victory gained so

strangely, (for it frequently happens that per­

sons so fortunate are not able to use their

reason consistently,) he was so desirous to

avenge himself, and to exact a due punish­

ment of the Philistines, that he denounced a*

curse on the Hebrews, to this purport. "If

any one put a stop to his slaughter of the

enemy, and began eating, and left off the

slaughter, or the pursuit before night came

on, and obliged them so to do; he should be

accursed." Now after Saul had denounced

this curse, since they were in a wood be­

longing to the tribe of Ephraim, which was

thick and full of bees; Saul's son, who did

not hear his father denounce that curse, nor

hear of the approbation the multitude gave to

it; brake off a piece of a honey-comb, and

upon them; that the army of the Philistines, being made

up of different nations, might be in the greatest confusion,

as either not understanding or else suspecting one ano­

ther; and (what might complete their consternation) that

God at this time might send a panic fear upon them, which,

whenever he does it, even in the opinion of Heathens

themselves, is enough to make the stoutest tremble, and

the most heroic spirits betake themselves to flight.

'Ev yap <Sai/Aovioirfi <po?oij

*6uyov7ai£ xoi iraiJes ©suv.

Pind. Nemes. 9.

B.

ate part of it. But in the mean time, he was

informed with what a curse his father had

forbidden them to taste any thing before sun-

setting: so he left off eating, and said his

father had not done well in this prohibition;

because had they taken some food, they had

pursued the enemy with greater vigour and

alacrity, and had both taken and slain many

more of their enemies, f

When therefore they had slain many ten

thousands of the Philistines, they began

spoiling their camp, but not till late in the

evening. They also took a great deal of prey,

and cattle, and killed them and ate them with

their blood. The scribes therefore told their

sovereign that the multitude were sinning

against God, as they sacrificed; and were

eating before the blood was well washed

away, and the flesh was made clean. Then

did Saul give order, that a great stone should

be rolled into the midst of them, and he made

proclamation that they should kill their sacri­

fices upon it, and not feed upon the flesh with

the blood; for that was not acceptable to

God. And when all the people did as the

king commanded, SaulJ erected an altar, and

offered burnt-offerings to God. This was the

first altar that Saul built.||

So when Saul was desirous of leading his

men to the enemies' camp before it was day,

in order to plunder it; and when the soldiers

were not unwilling to follow him, but indeed

shewed great readiness to do as he com­

manded them; the king called Ahitub the

high-priest, and enjoined him to know of God

whether he would grant them permission to

go against the camp, in order to destroy those

that were in it. But the priest said, that God

would not give any answer. Then said Saul,

* This rash vow, or curse of Saul's, which Josephus  
*ays was confirmed by the people, and yet not executed,  
(I suppose principally because Jonathan did not know of

it,) is very remarkable; it being of the essence of the

obligation of all laws, that they be sufficiently known and

promulgated. Otherwise the conduct of Providence, as

to the sacredness of solemn oaths and vows, in God's re­

fusing to answer by Urim, till this breach of Saul's vow

or curse was understood and set right, and God propitiated

by public prayer, is here very remarkable; as indeed it is

every where else in the Old Testament. See Scripture

Politics, p. 54—65.

t t Sam. xiv. 29, 30.

\ Here we have still more indications of Saul's affecta­

tion of despotic power, and of his intrenching upon the

priesthood, and making and endeavouring to execute a

rash vow or curse without consulting Samuel or the San­

hedrim. In this view it is also that I look upon this erec­

tion of a new altar by Saul, and his offering of burnt-offer­

ings himself upon it, and not as any proper instance of de­

votion or religion.

II 1 Sam. xiv. 35.

