Air 1020.] 293 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tween these sorts of wood; nor unacquainted

with the nature of the genuine pine-tree.

Now the weight of gold that was brought

the king was six hundred and sixty-six

talents; not including what was brought by

the merchants; nor what the toparchs and

kings of Arabia gave him in presents; he also

cast two hundred targets of gold, each of

them weighing six hundred shekels. He

also made three hundred shields, every one

weighing three pounds of gold; and he had

them carried, and put into that house which

was called the forest of Lebanon. He also

made cups of gold, and of precious stones,

for the entertainment of his guests; and had

them adorned in the most curious manner;

and he contrived that all his other furniture

of vessels should be of gold; for there was

nothing then to be sold or bought for silver.

For the king had many ships which lay upon

the sea at Tarsus; these he commanded to

carry out all sorts of merchandise unto the

remotest nations; by the sale of which silver

and gold were brought to the king, and a

great quantity of ivory, and Ethiopians and

apes; and they finished their voyage, going

and returning, in three years' time.

Accordingly there went* a great fame all

round the neighbouring countries, which pro­

claimed the virtue and wisdom of Solomon;

insomuch that all the kings were desirous to

see him; as not giving credit to what was re­

ported, on account of its being most incre­

dible; they also demonstrated the regard

they had for him, by the presents they made

him. For they sent him vessels of gold and

silver, and purple garments, and many sorts

of spices, and horses, and chariots, and as

many mules for his carriages as they could

find proper to please the king's eyes, by their

strength and beauty. This addition that he

made to those chariots and horses which he

had before from these that were sent him,

augmented the number of his chariots by

above four hundred; for he had a thousand

before;f and augmented the number of his

horses by two thousand; for he had twenty

thousand before. These horses also were so

much exercised, in order to their making a

fine appearance, and running swiftly, that no

others could upon the comparison appear

either finer or swifter; but they were at once

the most beautiful of all others, and their

swiftness was incomparable also. Their

riders were a farther ornament to them,

being in the first place young men in the

most delightful flower of their age; and emi­

nent for their stature, far taller than other

men. They had also very long hair, hanging

down, and were clothed in garments of

Tyrian purple. They had also dust of gold

every day sprinkled on their hair; so that

their heads sparkled with the reflection of

the sun's beams from the gold. The king

himself rode upon a chariot in the midst of

these men, who were still in armour, and had

their bows fitted to them. He had on a white

garment; and used to take his progress out

of the city in the morning. There was a cer­

tain place about fifty furlongs distant from

Jerusalem, which is called JEtham; very

pleasant in fine gardens, and abounding with

rivulets of water. Thither did he use to go

out in the morning, sitting on high in his

chariot.

Now Solomon had a divine sagacity in all

who perhaps brought elephants out of India, or at least

took care to have a great deal of i?ory imported from

thence, for, in after ages, we read of ivory beds, and

ivory palaces, &c. At this time, however, it was every

whit as precious as gold: and therefore we must not sup­

pose that this throne of Solomon's was entirely overlaid

with gold, (for then it might as well be made of wood,)

but only in particular places, that so the mixture of gold

and ivory, which gave a lustre to each other, might make

the throne look more beautiful. The like to this, the text

says, there was not made in any kingdom, 1 Kings x. 20.

and perhaps it was so in those days; but, in after ages,

we read, that the throne of the Parthian kings was of gold,

encompassed with four golden pillars, beset with precious

stones; and that the Persian kings sat in judgment under

a golden vine, (and other trees of gold,) the bunches of

whose grapes were made of several sorts of precious

stones. Patrick's Commentary. B.

* About an. 1018.

t 1 Kings x. 26.

J Whether these fine gardens and rivulets of Etham,

about six miles from Jerusalem, whither Solomon rode so

often in state, be not those alluded to, Eccles. ii. 5, 6.

where he says, he made him gardens and orchards, and

planted trees in them of all kinds of fruits: he made him

pools of water, to water the wood that bringeth forth

trees: and to the finest part whereof he seems to allude,

when in the Canticles be compares his spouse to a garden

enclosed, to a spring shut up, to a fountain sealed, chap,

iv. 12. (part of which fountains are still extant, as Mr.

Maundrell informs us, page 87, 88.) cannot now be cer­

tainly determined; but may very probably be conjectured.

Rut whether this Etham has any relation to those rivers

of Etham, which Providence once dried up, in a miracu­

lous manner, Psal. Ixxiv. 15. in the Septuagint and Con-

stitut. Apost. VIII. 12. page 402. I cannot say.

3G2

