as. 1781-3 43 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ployed in ease and feasting, they fell upon

the watch when they were asleep, and en­

tering into the city,* slew all the males, as

also the king and his son with them, but

spared the women; and when they had done

this, without their father's consent, they

brought away their sister.

Now, while Jacob was astonished at this

daring act, and was severely blaming his sons

for it, God stood by him,f and bid him be of

good courage, but to purify his tents, and to

offer those sacrifices which he had vowed to

offer when he went first into Mesopotamia,

and saw his vision. As he was therefore

Eurifying his followers, he found the gods of

iaban, (for he did not before know they were

stolen by Rachel,) and he hid them in the

earth, under an oak, in Shechem; and de­

parting thence, he offered sacrifice at Bethel,

the place where he saw his vision when he

went first into Mesopotamia.

When he was gone thence, and was come

over against Ephrata, he there buried Ra­

chel,:}: who died in childbed; she was the

only one of Jacob's kindred that had not the

honour of burial at Hebron; and when he

had mourned for her a great while, he called

the son that was born of her Benjamin,|| be­

cause of the sorrow the mother had with him.

These are all the children of Jacob, twelve

males, and one female; of whom eight were

legitimate, viz. six of Leah, and two of Ra­

chel; and four were of the handmaids, two

of each, all whose names have been set down

already.

CHAP. XXII.

of Isaac's death and interment at hebron.

FROM thence Jacob went to Hebron, a

city situate among the Canaanites, and

the residence of Isaac; and there they lived

together for a little while: for as to Rebeka,

Jacob did not find her alive. Isaac also died

not long after the coming of his son, and was

buried, with his wife, in Hebron, where the

family had a monument belonging to them

from their forefathers. Now Isaac was a man

who was beloved of God, and was vouchsafed

great instances of providence by God, after

Abraham his father, and lived to be exceed­

ing old; for when he had lived virtuously one

hundred and eighty-five years, he then died.

* Why Josephus has omitted the circumcision of these  
Shechemites, as the occasion of their death; and of Jacob's

great grief, as in the testament of Levi, I cannot telh

t Gen. xxxv. 1.

% Gen. xxxv. 19.

II Since Benoni signifies the son of my sorrow, and

Benjamin the son of days, or one born in the father's old

age. Gen. xliv. 20, I suspect Josephus's present copies to

be here imperfect, and suppose that, in correspondence to

other copies, he wrote that Rachel called her son's name

Benoni, but his father called him Benjamin; Gen. xxxv.

18. As for Benjamin, as commonly explained, the son of

the right-hand, it makes no sense at all, and seems to be a

gross modern error only. The Samaritan always writes

this name truly, Benjamin, which probably is here of the

same signification, only with the Chaldee termination in

instead of im, in the Hebrew.

VOL. I.—NO. 4.

