an. 1769.] 47 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the night-time to the pit, resolved to save

Joseph without the privity of his brethren;

and when, upon his calling to him, he made

no answer, he was afraid that they had de­

stroyed him after he was gone; he accord­

ingly complained to his brethren, but was

pacified when they had told him what they

had done.

When Joseph's brethren had done thus to

him, they considered how they should escape

ihe suspicions of their father. Now they

had taken away from Joseph the coat which

.he had on when he came to them, at the time

they let him down into the pit; so they

thought proper to tear that coat to pieces,

and to dip it into goat's blood, and then to

carry it, and shew it to their father, that he

might believe he was destroyed by wild

beasts; and when they had so done, they

came to the old man, but this not till what

had happened to his son had already come

to his knowledge. Then they said that they

had not seen Joseph, nor knew what mishap

had befallen him, but that they had found his

coat bloody, and torn to pieces, whence they

had a suspicion that he had fallen among

wild beasts, and so perished, if that were the

coat he had on when he came from home.

Jacob had before some better hopes that his

son was only made a captive, but now he

laid aside that notion, and considered this

coat as a sufficient proof of his death, for he

well remembered that this was the coat he

had on when he sent him to his brethren.

He therefore lamented the lad as now dead,

. and as if he had been the father of no more

than one, without taking any comfort in the

rest; and so he was also affected with his

misfortune before he met with Joseph's

brethren, when he also conjectured that

Joseph was destroyed by wild beasts. He

sat down also clothed in sackcloth,* and in

heavy affliction, insomuch that he found no

ease when his sons comforted him,f neither

was his sorrow assuaged by length of time.

CHAP. IV.

or Joseph's signal continent.

NOW Potiphar, an Egyptian, who was

chief cook to king I'haraoh, bought

Joseph of the merchants.J He had him in

the greatest honour, taught him the learning

that became a free man, and gave him leave

to make use of a diet better than was allotted

to slaves; he also entrusted the care of his

house to him. Joseph, however, did not for­

get that virtue which he had before, upon

such a change of his condition; but he de­

monstrated that wisdom was able to govern

the uneasy passions of life, in such as have it

in reality, and do not only put it on for a shew,

under a present state of prosperity.

His master's wife soon fell in love with him

both on account of his beauty of body, and

his skilful management of affairs; and sup­

posed that if she should make it known to

him, she should easily persuade him to come

to her bed: and that he would consider it as

a piece of happy fortune that his mistress

should intreat him; as regarding that state

of slavery he was in, and not his moral cha­

racter, which continued after his condition

was changed. So she made known her illicit

inclinations: however he rejected her in-

treaties, not thinking it agreeable to religion

to yield so far to her, as to do what would

tend to the injury of one who had purchased

him, and vouchsafed him so great honours.

He therefore exhorted her to govern that

passion, and laid before her the impossibility

of obtaining her desires, which he thought

might be conquered, if she had no hope of

succeeding, and he said that, as to himself,

he would endure any thing whatever before

be. would be persuaded to it: for although it

was the duty of a slave, as he was, to do

nothing contrary to his mistress, he might

well be excused in a case where the contra­

diction was to such sort of commands: but

* Jacob is represented by Moses not only as being  
clothed in sackcloth, but as rending his clothes on this

occasion. Rending the clothes was an eastern way of ex­

pressing either grief for calamity, or horror for sin. Reuben

was the first we read of, who, to denote his exceeding sor­

row, rent his clothes; and as Jacob we find does the

like, we may well suppose that it was an usual manner

of expressing all grief and uneasiness of mind in those

days; and, by putting on sackcloth, (which Jacob is

voL. I. No. 4.

here the first precedent of doing, but was afterwards

commonly used upon all mournful occasions,) he seemed

to signify, that since he had lost his beloved son, he

looked upon himself as reduced to the meanest and

lowest condition of life. Bibliotheca Bibl. and HaweWs

History. B.

t Gen. xxxvii. 35.

t Gen. xxxix. 1.

