434 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

cern about that matter, and told him he might

retain her whom he loved without any danger,

and might have her for his wife; and opened

the truth of the matter to him, and assured

him that he chose rather to have his own

daughter abused, than to overlook him, and

see him come to public disgrace. So Joseph

commended him for his brotherly love, and

married his daughter; by whom he had a

eon, whose name was Hyrcanus, as we said

before. And when this his youngest son

shewed, at thirteen years old, a mind that was

both courageous and wise; and was greatly

envied by his brethren, as being of a genius

much above them, and such a one as they

might well envy; Joseph had once a mind to

know which of his sons had the best dispo­

sition to virtue; and when he sent them

severally to those that had then the best re­

putation for instructing youth, the rest of his

children, by reason of their sloth, and unwil­

lingness to take pains, returned to him foolish

and unlearned. After them he sent out the

youngest, Hyrcanus; and gave him three

hundred yoke of oxen, and bade him go two

days' journey into the wilderness, and sow

the land there, and yet kept back privately

the yokes of the oxen that coupled them

together. When Hyrcanus came to the place,

and found he had no yokes with him, he con­

temned the drivers of the oxen, who advised

him to send some to his father to bring them

some yokes; but thinking that he ought not

to lose his time, while they should be sent to

bring him the yokes, he invented a kind of

stratagem, and what suited an age elder than

his own. For he slew ten yoke of the oxen;

and distributed their flesh among the labour­

ers; and cut their hides into several pieces,

and made him yokes, and yoked the oxen

together with them. By which means he

sowed as much land as his father had ap­

pointed him to sow; and returned to him.

And when he was come back, his father was

mightily pleased with his sagacity; and com­

mended the sharpness of his understanding,

and his boldness in what he did. And he

still loved him the more, as if he were his

only genuine son; while his brethren were

much troubled at it.

But when* one told him that Ptolemy had

* An. 187.

a son just born: and that all the principal

men of Syria, and the other countries subject

to him were to keep a festival, on account of

the child's birth-day, and went away in haste

with great retinues to Alexandria; he was

himself hindered from going by old age; but

he made trial of his sons, whether any of them

would be willing to go to the king. And

when the elder sons excused themselves

from going, and said they were not courtiers

enough for such conversation; and advised

him to send their brother Hyrcanus, he gladly

hearkened to that advice, and called Hyr­

canus, and asked him whether he would go

to the king? And upon his promise that he

would go, and his saying that he should not

want much money for his journey, because

he would live moderately; and that accord­

ingly ten thousand drachma; would be suffi­

cient, he was pleased with his son's prudence.

After a little while, the son advised his father

not to send his presents to the king from

thence; but to give him a letter to his

steward at Alexandria, that he might furnish

him with money for purchasing what should

be most excellent and most precious. So he,

thinking that the expense of ten talents

would be enough for presents to be made the

king, and commending his son, as giving him

good advice, wrote to Arion, his steward, that

managed all his money matters at Alexan­

dria; which money was not less than three

thousand talents on his account. For Joseph

sent the money he received in Syria to Alex­

andria. And when the day appointed for the

payment of the taxes to the king came, he

wrote to Arion to pay them. So when the

son had asked his father for a letter to this

steward, and had received it, he hastened to

Alexandria. And when he was gone, his

brethren wrote to all the king's friends, that

they should destroy him.

But when he was come to Alexandria, he

delivered his letter to Arion; who asked him,

how many talents he would have? hoping he

would ask no more than ten or a little more.

He said, he wanted a thousand talents: at

which the steward was angry, and rebuked

him; as one that intended to live extrava­

gantly; and he let him know how his father

had gathered together his estate by pains­

taking, and resisting his inclinations: and

wished him to imitate the example of his

