396 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

first year of his reign commanded that the

temple should be built in Jerusalem, and the

altar, in height sixty cubits, and its breadth

of the same, with three edifices of polished

stone, and one edifice of stone of their own

country: and he ordained that the expenses

of it should be paid out of the king's revenue.

He also commanded that the vessels which

Nebuchadnezzar had pillaged out of the tem­

ple, and had carried to Babylon, should be

restored to the people of Jerusalem, and that

the care of these things should belong to Se-

nabassar, the governor, and president of Syria

and Phoenicia, and to his associates; that they

may not meddle with that place: but may

permit the servants of God, the Jews, and

their rulers, to build the temple. He also

ordained that they shoyld assist them in the

work, and that they should pay to the Jews,

out of the tribute of the country where they

were governors, on account of the sacrifices,

bulls, rams, lambs, and kids of the goats: and

fine flour, together with oil, and wine, and all

other things that the priests should suggest to

them, and that they should pray for the pre­

servation of the king and of the Persians;

and that for such as transgressed any of these

orders thus sent to them, he commanded that

they should be hung on a cross, and their

substance confiscated to the king's use. He

also prayed to God against them, that if any

one attempted to hinder the building of the

temple, God would strike him dead, and

thereby restrain his wickedness."

When Darius had found this book among

the records of Cyrus, he wrote the following

answer to Sisinnes, and his associates:—

"King Darius, to Sisinnes the governor,

and to Sathrabuzanes, sendeth greeting. Hav­

ing found a copy of this epistle among the

records of Cyrus, I have sent it you: and I

will that all things be done as is therein writ­

ten. Fare ye well."

So when Sisinnes,Pand those that were with

him, understood the intention of the king,

they resolved to follow his directions for the

time to come. So they forwarded the sacred

work, and assisted the elders of the Jews,

and the princes of the Sanhedrim: and the

structure of the temple was, with great dili-

* Ezra vi. 14.  
• t From an. 619 to an. 612. B. C.

gence brought to a conclusion; by the pro­

phecies of Haggai and Zachariah, according

to God's commands, and by the injunctions of

Cyrus and Darius* the kings. Now the tem­

ple was built in fseven years time. And in

the ninth year of the reign of Darius, on the

twenty-third day of the twelfth month, which

is by us called Adar, but by the Macedonians,

Dystrus; the priests and Levites, and the

multitude of the Israelites offered sacrifices;

as the renovation of their former prosperity,

after their captivity; and because they had

the temple rebuilt: a hundred bulls, two hun­

dred rams, four hundred lambs, and twelve

kids of the goats, according to the number of

their tribe :f (for so many are the tribes of

the Israelites) and this last for the sins of

every tribe. The priest also, and the Le­

vites, set the porters at every gate, according

to the laws of Moses. The Jews also built

the cloisters of the inner temple, that were

round about the temple itself. «

And as the feast of unleavened bread was

at hand, in the first month, which according

to the Macedonians is called Xanthicus, but

according to us Nisan: all the people ran to­

gether out of the villages to the city, and

celebrated the festival; having purified them­

selves with their wives and children, accord­

ing to the law of their country: and they of­

fered the sacrifice called the passover, on the

fourteenth day of the same month, and feasted

seven days, and spared no expense, but offer­

ed whole burnt-offerings to God, and per-,

formed sacrifices of thanksgiving, because

God had led them again to the land of their

fathers, and to the laws thereto belonging;

and had rendered the mind of the king of

Persia favourable to them. So these men of­

fered the largest sacrifices on these accounts,

and used great magnificence in the worship

of God; and dwelt in Jerusalem; and made

use of a form of government that was aristo­

cratic, but mixed with an oligarchy. For

the high-priests were at the head of the af­

fairs, until the posterity of the Asmoneans

set up regal government. For before their

captivity and the dissolution of their polity,

they at first had kingly government from Saul

and David, for five hundred and thirty-two

J; Ezra vi. 17.

