AN. 1030.] 289 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to light. Menander also, one who translated

the Tyrian archives out of the dialect of the

Phoenicians into the Greek language, makes

mention of these two kings, where he says:

"When Abibalus was dead, his son Hiram

received the kingdom from him: who when

he had lived fifty-three years, reigned thirty-

four. He raised a bank in a large place, and

dedicated the golden pillar which is in Ju­

piter's temple. He also went and cut down

materials of timber out of the mountain called

Li ban us, for the roofs of temples: and when

he had pulled down the ancient temples, he

both built the temple of Hercules, and that

of Astarte; and he first set up the temple

of Hercules in the Peritius; he also made

an expedition against the Euchii or *Titii,

who did not pay their tribute; and when he

had subdued them to himself he returned.

Under this king there was Abdemon, a youth

in age; who always conquered the difficult

{>roblems which Solomon king of Jerusa-

em commanded him to explain." Dius

also made mention of him, where he says,

"When Abibalus was dead, his son Hiram

reigned. He raised the eastern parts of the

city higher, and made the city itself larger.

He also joined the temple of Jupiter, which

before stood by itself, to the city, by raising

a bank in the middle between them; and he

adorned it with donations of gold. More­

over he went up to mount Libanus, and cut

down materials of wood for the building of

the temples.*' He says also, that "Solomon,

who was then king of Jerusalem, sent rid­

dles to Hiram, and desired to receive the

like from him; but that he who could not

solve them should pay money to him that

did solve them; and that Hiram accepted

the conditions, and when he was not able to

solve the riddles, he paid a great deal of

money for his fine. But that he afterward

did solve the proposed riddles by the means

of Abdemon, a man of Tyre: and that Hiram

proposed other riddles; which when Solo­

mon could not solve, he paid back a great

deal of money to Hiram." This is it which

Dius wrote.

CHAP. VI.

OF THE FORTIFICATIONS OF JERUSALEM, THE ERECTION

OF THE OTHER CITIES BY SOLOMON J HIS SUBJUGATION

OF SOME OF THE CANAANITES, AND HIS ENTERTAINMENT

OF THE QUEEN OF EGYPT AND ETHI0TIA.

NOWf when the king saw that the walls

of Jerusalem stood in need of being

better secured, and made stronger; (for he

thought the walls that encompassed Jerusa­

lem ought to correspond with the dignity of

the city;) he both repaired them and made

them higher, with great towers upon them:

he also built cities which might be counted

among the strongest, Hazor and Megiddo,

and the third Gezer; which had indeed be­

longed to the Philistines; but Pharaoh, the

king of Egypt, had made an expedition

against it, and besieged it, and taken it by

force; when he had slain all its inhabitants,

he utterly overthrew it, and gave it as a

present to his daughter, who had been mar­

ried to Solomon. For this reason the king

rebuilt it, as a city that was naturally strong,

and might be useful in wars, and the muta­

tions of affairs that sometimes happen. More­

over he built two other cities not far from it;

Beth-horon was the name of one of them, and

Baalath of the other. He also built other

cities that lay conveniently for these, in order

to the enjoyment of pleasures and delicacies

in them; such as were naturally of good tem­

perature of the air, and agreeable for fruits

ripe in their proper seasons, and well watered

with springs. Nay, Solomon went as far as

the desert above Syria, and possessed himself

of it, and built there a very large city, which

was distant two days' journey from the upper

Syria, and one day's journey from Euphrates,

and six long days' journey from Babylon the

great. Now the reason why this city lay so

remote from the parts of Syria that are inha­

bited is this, that below there is no water to

be had; and that it is in that place only that

there are springs and pits of water. When

he had therefore built this city, and encom­

passed it with very strong walls, he gave it

the name of Tadmor: J and that is the name

* Pr bably the Tyrians.

t About an. 1025.

J Tadmor, which, by the Greeks, is called Palmyra,

is situated in the wilderness of Syria, upon the borders

of Arabia Deserta, inclining towards the Euphrates. Jo-

sephus places it two days' journey from the upper Syria,

one day's journey from the Euphrates, and six days'

journey from Babylon: and the reason he gives why So­

lomon was inclined to build a city in this place, was, be­

cause in all the country round about, there was no such

