4G [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

have slain their own brother; by which act

the father must be treated unjustly in the

son's slaughter, and the mother* also be in

perplexity while she laments that her son is

taken away from her; and this not in a natural

way. He, therefore, intreated them to have

a regard to their own consciences, and wisely

to consider what mischief would befal them

upon the death of so good a child, and their

youngest brother; and they would also fear

God, who was already both a spectator, and

a witness of the designs they had against

their brother; that he would love them if they

abstained from this act, and yielded to re­

pentance and amendment. But in case they

proceeded to do the fact, all sorts of punish­

ments would overtake them from God; since

they polluted his providence, which was

every where present, and which did not over­

look what was done either in deserts or in

cities. For wherever a man is, there ought

he to suppose that God is also. He told them

farther, that their consciences would be their

enemies if they attempted to go through so

wicked an enterprise: which they never can

avoid, whether it be a good conscience, or

whether it be such a one as they will have

within them when once they have killed their

brother. He also added, that it was not a

righteous thing to kill a brother, though he

had injured them; that it was a good thing to

forget the actions of such near friends, even

in things wherein they might seem to have

offended; but that they were going to kill

Joseph, who had been guilty of nothing that

was ill towards them; in whose case the in­

firmity of his tender years should rather

procure him mercy, and induce them to unite

in the care of his preservation. He likewise

observed, that the cause of killing him made

the act itself much worse, while they deter­

mined to take him off out of envy at his future

prosperity, an equal share of which they

would naturally partake while he enjoyed it;

since they were to him not strangers, but the

nearest relations; for they might reckon upon

what God bestowed upon Joseph as their

own; and that it was fit for them to believe,

that the anger of God would for this cause

be more severe upon them if they slew him

who was judged by God to be worthy of that

prosperity which was to be hoped for; and

while by murdering him, they made it impos­

sible for God to bestow it upon him.

Reuben said these, and many other things,

and likewise used intreaties to divert them

from the murder of their brother; but when

he saw that his discourse had not mollified

them at all, and that they prepared to do the

fact, he advised them to alleviate the wicked­

ness they were going about in a manner of

taking Joseph off; for, as he had exhorted

them first when they were going to revenge

themselves, to be dissuaded from doing it; so

since the sentence for killing their brother

had prevailed, he said that they would not be

so grossly guilty, if they would be persuaded

to follow his present advice, which would in­

clude what they were so eager about, but

was not so very bad, but, in the distress they

were in, of a lighter nature. He begged of

them, therefore, not to kill their brother with

their own hands, but to cast him into the pit

that was hard by, and so to let him die, by

which they would gain so much, that they

would not defile their own hands with his

blood. To this the young men readily agreed;

so Reuben took the lad, and tied him to a

cord, and let him down gently into the pit,

for it had no water in it; and when he had

done this, he went his way to seek for such

pasturage as was proper for feeding their

flocks.

But Judas, being one of Jacob's sons also,

seeing some Arabians, of the posterity of

Ishmael, carrying spices and Syrian wares

out of the land of Gilead to the Egyptians

after Reuben was gone, advised his brethren

to draw Joseph out of the pit, and sell him

to the Arabians, for if he should die among

strangers, a great way off. they should be

freed from this barbarous action. This, there­

fore, was resolved on; so they drew Joseph

up out of the pit, and sold him to the mer­

chants for twenty pounds.f He was now

seventeen years old; but Reuben coming in

* We may here observe, that in correspondence to  
Joseph's second dream, which implied that his mother,

who was then alive as well as his father, should come and

bow down to him, Josephus represents her here as still

alive after she was dead, for the decorum of the dream

that foretold it, as the interpretation of that dream does

also in all our copies, Gen. xxxvii.

t The LXXII. have 20 pieces of gold; the testament

of God, 30; the Heb. and Samar. 20 of silver; the vulgar

Latin 30. What was the true number and true sum, can­

not therefore now tv% known

