284 [book Vllf. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

vessels that were for ministration to the sa­

crifices of God,* and removed them to the

temple. The king himself, and all the peo­

ple, and the Levites, went before, rendering

the ground moist with sacrifices,! and drink-

offerings, and the blood of a great number of

oblations, and burning an immens? quantity

of incense; and this till the circumambient

air was so full of these odours, that it met, in

a most agreeable manner, persons at a great

distance; and was an indication of God's pre­

sence, and of his habitation with them in this

newly built and consecrated place. For they

did not grow weary either of singing hymns,

or of dancing, until they came to the temple.

And in this manner did they carry the ark.

But when they should transfer it into the

most sacred place, the rest of the multitude

went away; and only those priests that car­

ried it set it between the two cherubims;

which embracing it with their wings, (for so

were they framed by the artificer,) covered

it as under a tent, or a cupola. Now the ark

contained nothing but those two tables of

stone that preserved the ten commandments,

which God delivered to Moses in Mount

Sinai; and which were engraven upon them.

But they set the candlestick, and the table,

and the golden altar in the temple, before the

most secret place, in the very same places

wherein they stood till that time in the taber­

nacle. So they offered up the daily sacrifices.

But for the brazen altar, Solomon set it be­

fore the temple, over against the door: that

when the door was opened, it might be ex­

posed to sight, and the sacred solemnities,

and the richness of the sacrifices might be

thence seen. And all the rest of the vessels

they gathered together, and put them within

the temple.

Now as soon as the priests had put all

things in order about the ark, and were gone

out, a thick cloud came down and spread it­

self, after a gentle manner, into the Jtemple:

such a cloud it was, as was diffused and tem­

perate; not such a rough one as we see full

of rain in the winter season.|| This cloud

so darkened the place, that one priest could

not discern another: but it afforded to the

minds of all a visible image, and glorious

secret place, (from whence, it is doubted, whether they

have ever yet been removed,) for fear of profanation.

Patrick's and Calmet's Commentaries. B.

* This solemn removal of the ark from Mount Sion to  
Mount Moriah, at the distance of almost three quarters of

a mile, confutes that notion of the modern Jews, and of

many Christians also, as if those two were one and the

same mountain; for which there is, I think, very little

foundation.

t The number of sacrifices which upon this occasion

are said to be offered, was two and twenty thousand oxen,

and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep, 1 Kings viii.

63. but we must not suppose, that these were offered all

on one day, much less on one altar. The continuance of

this meeting was for fourteen days, seven in the feast of

tabernacles, and seven in that of the dedication; and be­

cause the brazen altar, before the door of the temple,

was not sufficient to receive all these sacrifices, Solomon,

by a special license from God, ordered other altars to be

erected in the court of the priests, and perhaps in other

places which were to serve only during this present so­

lemnity, when such a vast number of sacrifices were to be

offered: for at other times, no other altar was allowed but

this brazen one, which Moses had made. It is no bad ob­

servation however of Josephus, (lib. viii. c. 2.) that during

the oblation of so many sacrifices, the Levites took care to

perfume the air with the fragrancy of incense, and sweet

odours, to such a degree, that the people were sensible of

it at a distance; otherwise the burning of so many beasts

at one time must have occasioned an offensive smell.

Patrick's Commentary. B.

J 1 Kings viii. 10.

II When Moses had finished the tabernacle, according

to the pattern which God had shewed him, and set it all

up, it is said, that a cloud covered the tent of the congre­

gation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, so

that Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the con­

gregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory

of the Lord filled the tabernacle, Exod. xl. 34, 35. And

therefore, when the temple was finished, and the ark

brought into the sanctuary, God gave the like indication

of his presence, and residence there. Hereby he testified

his acceptance of the building, and furnishing of the tem­

ple, as a service done to his name; and hereby he de­

clared, that as the glory of the ark (that sacred symbol

of his presence) had been long eclipsed by its frequent

removes, and mean habitations; so now his pleasure was

that it should be looked upon with the same esteem and

veneration as when Moses conducted it into the taber­

nacle. For this cloud, we must know, was not a heavy,

thick, opaque body, such as is engendered in the air,

and arises from vapours and exhalations, but a cloud that

was dark and luminous at the same time, whose darkness

was awful and majestic, and whose internal part was

bright and refulgent, darting its rays upon occasion, and

exhibiting its light through its obscurity: so that, ac­

cording to its different phasis, or position, it became to

the Israelites a pillar of a cloud by day, to screen them

from the heat, and at night a pillar of fire, to give them

light, Exod. xiii. 21. Whatever it was that constituted

this strange appearance, it is certain this mixture of light

and darkness was looked upon as a symbol of the divine

presence; for so the Scripture has informed us, that He

who dwelleth in light that is inaccessible, made darkness

his secret place, his pavilion round about him, with dark

water, and thick clouds to cover him, Psal. xviii. 11

Calmefs Commentary. B.

