am. 1076.] 243 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

arose and washed himself, and took a white

garment, and came into the tabernacle of God.

He also commanded them to set supper be­

fore him, and thereby greatly surprised his

kindred and servants; while he did nothing

of this when the child was sick; but did it all

when he was dead. Whereupon having first

begged leave to ask him a question, they be­

sought him to tell them the reason ot this

conduct. He then called them unskilful peo­

ple, and instructed them how he had hopes of

the recovery of the child while it was alive;

and accordingly did all that was proper for

him to do, as thinking by such means to ren­

der God propitious: but that when the child

was dead, there was no longer any occasion

for grief, which was then to no purpose.

When he had said this, they commended the

king's wisdom and understanding. He then

went unto Bathsheba his wife, and she con­

ceived and bare a son; and, by the command

of Nathan the prophet, called his name Solo­

mon.*

But Joab sorely distressed the Ammonites

in the siege, by cutting off their waters; and

depriving them of other means of subsistence:

till they were in the greatest want of drink

and meat, for they depended only on one

small well of water; and this they durst not

drink of too freely, lest the fountain should

entirely fail. So he wrote to the king and

informed him thereof; and persuaded him to

come himself and take the city, that he might

have the honour of the victory. Upon this

letter of Joab's, the king accepted of his

good will and fidelity; and took with him his

army, and came to the destruction of Rahab;

and when he had taken it by force, he gave it

to his soldiers to plunder it. But he himself

took the king of the Ammonites crown, whose

weight was a talent of gold;f and it had in

its middle a precious stone, called a sardonyx:

which crown David ever after wore on his

own head. He also found many other ves­

sels in the city, and those both splendid

and of great price, but as for the men, he

Jtormented them, and then destroyed them.

And when he had taken the other cities of

the Ammonites by force, he treated them

after the same manner.

CHAP. VIII.

OF THE VIOLATION OF TAMAR BV HER BROTHER AMNON;

THE REVENGE OF ABSALOM, AND HIS BANISHMENT AND

RECALL BY KING DAVID.

WHEN the king returned to Jerusalem,

a sad misfortune befell his house, on

the following occasion. He had a daughter

named Tamar,|| who was yet a virgin, and

very handsome; insomuch that she surpassed

all the most beautiful women. She had the

same mother with Absalom. Now Amnon,

David's eldest son, fell in love with her, and

being not able to obtain his desires, on ac­

count of the custody she was under, his grief

preyed upon him so much that he grew lean,

and his colour was changed. Now there was

one Jonadab, a kinsman and friend of his,

who discovered his passion; for he was an ex­

traordinary wise man, and of great sagacity

of mind. When therefore he saw that every

morning Amnon was not in body as he ought

to be, he came to him, and desired him to

* 2 Sam. xii. 24.

t A talent of gold was but about seven pounds weight.

Nor could Josephus well estimate it higher, since he here

says, that David wore it on his head perpetually.

J Whether Josephus saw the words of our other copies,

2 Sam. xii. 31. and 1 Chron. xx. 3. that David put the

inhabitants, or at least the garrison of Rabbah, and of the

other Ammonite cities, which he besieged and took, un­

der, or cut them with saws and under or with harrows of

iron, and under or with axes of iron, and made them pass

through the brick-kiln; is not here directly expressed.

If he saw them, as is most probable he did, he certainly

expounded them of tormenting these Ammonites to death,

who yet were none of those seven nations of Canaan,

whose wickedness had rendered them incapable of mercy.

Otherwise I should be inclined to think that the meaning,

at least as the words are in Samuel, might only be this,

that they were made the lowest slaves, to work in sawing

timber, or stone; in harrowing the fields; in hewing

VOL. I.—NOS. 21 k 22.

timber; in making and burning bricks; and the like hard

services; but without taking away their lives. We never

elsewhere, that I remember, meet with such methods of

cruelty in putting men to death in all the Bible, or in any

other ancient history. Nor do the words in Samuel seem

naturally to refer to any such thing.

II Virgins of the blood royal were kept secluse in apart­

ments, separate from the commerce of men, into which

not only strangers, but even their own fathers, were not

permitted to enter. Amnon, however, at some time or

other, had seen the beautiful Tamar, or otherwise he

could not have conceived so strong a passion for her.

Upon some certain ceremonial occasions indeed, it was

customary for the young women to walk out, and shew

themselves; but, considering their close confinement at

other times, it was hardly possible for Amnon to find an

opportunity of declaring his passion, much more of grati­

fying it; and therefore, out of pure despair, he pined

himself into a consumption; Calmet's Commentary. B.

3 A

