218 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

what a mighty misfortune was ready to over­

take you, in your very camp, without your

knowing of it." Now when Saul knew David's

voice, and understood that when he had him

in his power, while he was asleep, and his

guards took no care of him; yet did he spare

him, when he might justly have cut him off:

he said, that "He owed him thanks for his

preservation; and exhorted him to be of good

courage, and not to be afraid of suffering any

mischief from him any more, and to return to

his own home; for he was now persuaded,

that he did not love himself so well as he was

beloved by him; that he had driven away

him that could guard him, and had given

many demonstrations of his good will; that

he had forced him to live so long in a state of

banishment, and in great fears of his life; des­

titute of his friends and his kindred. While

still he was often saved by him, and fre­

quently received his life again when he was

evidently in danger of perishing." So David

bade them send for the spear, and the cruse

of water, and take them back; adding, that

God would be the judge of both their dispo­

sitions, and of the actions that flowed from

the same: "for he knows," said he, "that

when it was this day in my power to have

killed thee, I abstained from it."*

Saul, having thus escaped the hands of

David twice, returned to his royal palace, and

his own city. But David was airaid, if he

staid there, he should be caught by Saul. So

he thought it better to go up into the land of

the Philistines. Accordingly he came with

the six hundred men that were with him to

Achish the king of Gath; which was one of

their five cities. Now the king received both

him and his men, and gave them a place to

inhabit. He had with him also his two wives,

Ahinoam and Abigail; and he dwelt in Gath.

But when Saul heard this, he took no farther

care about sending to him, or going after him,

because he had been twice, in a manner,

caught by him, while he was himself endea­

vouring to catch him. However, David had

no mind to continue in the city of Gath, but

desired the king, that, since he had received

him with such humanity, he would grant him

* 1 Sam. xxvi. 23.

t This farther account is not, I think, found in Jose-

phus's present works.

J A year and four months, in the Hebrew and Septua-

another favour, and bestow upon him some

place in that country for his habitation, for

he was ashamed, by living in the city, to be

grievous and burdensome to him. So Achish

gave him a certain village, called Ziklag,

which David and his sons were fond of when

he was king, and reckoned it to be their pe­

culiar inheritance. But about those matters

we shall give the reader farther informationf

elsewhere.—Now the time that David dwelt

in Ziklag, in the land of the Philistines, was

fourJ months and twenty days. And now he

privately attacked these Geshurites and

Amalekites, that were neighbours to the Phi­

listines, and laid waste their country; and

took much prey of their beasts and camels;

and then returned home. But David ab­

stained from the men; as fearing they should

discover him to king Achish. Yet did he

send part of the prey to him as a free gift.

And when the king inquired whom they had

attacked, when they brought away the prey,

he said, those that lay to the south of the Jews,

and inhabited in the plain: whereby he per­

suaded Achish to approve of what he had

done; for he hoped that David had fought

against his own nation, and that now he should

have him for his servant all his life-time; and

that he would stay in his country.j)

CHAP. XIV.

of saul's application to a necromantic woman to

raise dp the soul of samuel; and of the death of

himself and his sons, upon the overthrow of the

hebrews in battle.

ABOUT the same time, the Philistines re­

solved to make war against the Israel­

ites, and sent to all their confederates that

they would go along with them to the war to

Reggan, near the city Shunem, whence they

might gather themselves together, and sud

denly attack the Hebrews. Then did Achish,

the king of Gath, desire David to assist them

with his armed men against the Hebrews.

This he readily promised; and said, that the

time was now come wherein he might requite

him for his kindness and hospitality. So the

king promised to make him the keeper of his

gint. See 1 Sam. xxvii. 7. and xxix. 3. though the words

are not very plain, even in them.

II 1 Sam. xxvii. 12.

