AN. 461 149.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

And this was what Onias wrote to king

Ptolemy; whose piety and that of his sister

and wife Cleopatra will appear, by that epis­

tle which they wrote in answer to it. For

they laid the blame and the transgression of

the Jaw upon the head of Onias. And this

was their reply: "King Ptolemy and queen

Cleopatra, to Onias send greeting. We have

read thy petition; wherein thou desirest per­

mission to purge that temple which is fallen

down at Leontopolis in the Nomus of Helio­

polis, and which is named from the country

Bubastis. On which account we cannot but

wonder that it should be pleasing to God to

have a temple erected in a place so unclean,

and so full of sacred animals. But since

thou sayest that Isaiah the prophet foretold

this long ago; we give thee leave to do it;

if it may be done according to your law;

and so that we may not appear to have at

all offended God herein."

Accordingly Onias took the place; and

built a temple, and an altar to God; like in­

deed to that in Jerusalem, but smaller, and

poorer. 1 do not think it proper for me now

to describe its dimensions, or its vessels:

which have been already described in my

seventh book of The Wars of the Jews.*

However, Onias found other Jews also like

to himself, together with priests and Levites

that there performed divine service.

Now it came to pass that the Alexandrian

Jews, and those Samaritans who payed their

worship to the temple that was built in the

days of Alexander at mount Gerizzim, did

now make a sedition one against another, and

disputed about their temples before Ptolemy

himself: the Jews saying, that, according to

the laws of Moses, the temple was to be built

at Jerusalem: and the Samaritans saying that

it was to be built at Gerizzim. They desired

therefore that the king would sit with his

friends, and hear the debates about these

matters; and punish those with death who

were baffled. Now Sabbeus and Theodosius

managed the argument of the Samaritans;

and Andronicus, the son of Messalamus,

for the people of Jerusalem. And they took

an oath by God and the king to make their

demonstrations according to the law. And

they desired of Ptolemy, that whosoever he

should find that transgressed what they had

sworn to, he would put him to death. Ac­

cordingly the king took several of his friends

into the council, and sat down in order to

hear what the pleaders said. Now the Jews

that were at Alexandria were in great con­

cern for those men, whose lot it was to con­

tend for the temple at Jerusalem. For they

took it very ill that any should pretend to

take away the reputation of that temple,

which was so ancient, and so celebrated,

all over the habitable earth. Now when

Sabbeus and Theodosius had given leave to

Andronicus to speak first, he began to demon­

strate out of the law, and out of the succes­

sions of the high-priests, how they every one

in succession from his father had received j~

that dignity, and ruled over the temple; and

how all the kings of Asia had honoured that

temple with their donations, and with the

most splendid gifts. But as for that at Ge­

rizzim, he made no account of it, nor re­

garded it as if it had ever had a being. By

this speech, and other arguments, Andronicus

persuaded the king to ^determine, that the

phecy contained many other predictions relating to this

place, besides the words by him recited, it is highly pro­

bable that these were especially meant by him; and that

one main reason why he applied this prediction to him­

self, and to his prefecture of Heliopolis, which Dean

Prideaux well proves was in that part of Egypt; and

why he chose to build in that prefecture of Heliopolis,

though otherwise an improper place, was, that he had

the same authority for building this temple in his own

prefecture of Heliopolis as in Egypt. Dean Prideaux

has much difficulty to avoid seeing this corruption of the

Hebrew. But it being in support of his own opinion

about this temple, he durst not see it: and indeed he

reasons here in the most injudicious manner. See him

at the year 149.

* See War of the Jews, Book VII. chap. 10.

t A very unfair disputation this! while the Jewish

disputant, knowing that he could not properly prove out

of the Pentateuch, that the place which the Lord their

God should choose to place his name there, so often re­

ferred to in the book of Deuteronomy, was Jerusalem

any more than Gerizzim: that being not determined till

the days of David: see VII. 13. proves only what the

Samaritans did not deny, that the temple at Jerusalem

was much more ancient, and much more celebrated and

honoured than that at Gerizzim: which was nothing to the

present purpose. The whole evidence, by the very oaths

of both parties being obliged to be confined to the law of

Moses, or to the Pentateuch alone. However, worldly

policy, and interest, and the multitude prevailing, the

court gave sentence, as usual, on the stronger side; and

Sabbeus and Theodosius, the Samaritan disputants, were

martyred: and this, so far as appears, without any direct

hearing at all. Which is like the usual practice of such

political courts about matters of religion. Our copies

say, that the body of the Jews were in great concern

4 E 2

