aN. 1780.] 45 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in prudence. This affection of his father ex­

cited the envy and the hatred of his brethren,

as did also his dreams which he related to

his father and to them; which foretold his

future happiness; it being usual with man­

kind to envy their very nearest relation such

prosperity. Now the visions which Joseph

saw in his sleep were these:

When they were in the middle of harvest,

and Joseph was sent with his brethren to

gather the fruits of the earth, he saw a vision

in a dream, greatly exceeding the customary

appearances that come when we are asleep;

which when he got up he told his brethren,

that they might judge what it portended. He

said, he saw the last night, that his wheat

sheaf stood still, in the place where he set it;

but that their sheafs ran to bow down to it,

as servants bow down to their masters.* But

as soon as they perceived the vision foretold

that he should obtain power and great wealth;

and that his power should be in opposition to

them, they gave no interpretation of it to

Joseph: as if the dream were not understood

by them. But they prayed, that no part of

what they suspected to be its meaning might

come to pass; and their hatred against him

-was augmented on that account.

But God in opposition to their envy sent

a second vision to Joseph, which was more

wonderful than the former; for it seemed to

him that the sun took with him the moon, and

the rest of the stars, and came down to the

earth, and bowed down to him.f He told

this vision to his father, and that, as sus­

pecting nothing of ill will from his brethren,

when they were there also; and desired him

to interpret what it should signify. Now

Jacob was pleased with the dream; for con­

sidering the prediction in his mind, and

shrewdly and wisely guessing at its meaning,

he rejoiced at the great things thereby sig­

nified; because it declared the future hap­

piness of his son: and that by the blessing

of God, the time should come when he should

be honoured, and thought worthy of worship

by his parents and brethren; as guessing that

the moon and sun were like his mother and

father—the former as she that gave increase

and nourishment to all things; and the latter,

he that gave form and all other powers

* Gen. xxxvii, 1.  
t Gen. xxxvii. 9.

to them; and that the stars were like his

brethren, since they were eleven in number,

as were the stars that receive their power

from the sun and moon.

And thus did Jacob make a shrewd judg­

ment of this vision; but these interpretations

caused great grief to Joseph's brethren; and

they were affected to him hereupon as if he

were a stranger that was to have those good

things which were signified by the dreams,

and not as one that was a brother, with whom

it was probable they should be joint par­

takers; and as they had been partners in the

same parentage, so should they be of the

same happiness. They also resolved to kill

the lad: and having fully ratified that in­

tention, as soon as their collection of the

fruits was over, they went to Shechem, which

is a country good for feeding of cattle, and

for pasturage; there they fed their flock,

without acquainting their father with their

removal. Jacob, therefore, had melancholy

suspicions about them, as being ignorant of

his sons' condition; and receiving no mes­

senger from the flocks that could inform him

of their true state, he sent Joseph to learn

the circumstances his brethren were in, and

to bring him word how they did.

CHAP. III.

of Joseph's cruel treatment by his brethren, his

slavery, and subsequent greatness in egypt.

NOW these brethren rejoiced as soon as

they saw their brother coming to them;

not, indeed, as at the presence of a near re­

lation, or even as one sent by their father;

but as at the presence of an enemy, and one

that by divine providence was delivered into

their hands; and they already resolved to kill

him, and not let slip the opportunity that lay

before them. But when Reubal, the eldest

brother saw them thus disposed, and that

they had agreed together to execute their

purpose, he tried to restrain them:£ shewing

them the heinous enterprise they were going

about, and the horrid nature of it; that this

action would appear wicked in the sight of

God, and impious before men; even though

they should kill one not related to them; but

more flagitious and detestable to appear to

\ Gen. xxxvii. 21.

