376 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Chaldeans; and they exercised themselves in

that wisdom which he had ordered they

should apply themselves to. Now among

these were four of the family of Zedekiah, of

most excellent dispositions; the one of whom

was called Daniel; another was called Ana­

nias; another Misael, and the fourth Azarias.

*And the king of Babylon changed their  
names, and commanded that they should

make use of other names. Daniel he called

Baltasar; Ananias, Shadrach; Misael, Me-

shach; and Azarias, Abednego.f These the

king had in esteem, and continued to love;

on account of their excellent temper, their

application to learning, and the progress

they had made in wisdom.

Now Daniel and his kinsmen had resolved

to use a severe diet, and to abstain from those

kinds of food which came from the king's

table; and entirely to forbear to eat of all

living creatures. So he came to Ashpenaz,

who was that eunuch to whom the care of

them was committed,J and desired him to

take and spend what was brought for them

from the king, but to give them pulse and

dates for their food, and any thing else, be­

sides the flesh of living creatures, that he

pleased; for that their inclinations were to

that sort of food, and that they disliked the

other. He replied, that he was ready to

serve them in what they desired; but he

suspected that they would be discovered by

the king, from their meagre bodies, and the

alteration of their countenances; because it

could not be avoided but their bodies and

complexions must be changed with their diet;

especially while they would be clearly dis­

covered by the finer appearance of the other

children, who would tare better; and thus

they should bring him into danger, and occa­

sion him to be punished. However, they

persuaded Arioch to give them what they

desired for ten days, by way of trial; and, in

case their habits of bodies were not altered,

to go on in the same way; as expecting that

they should not be hurt thereby afterwards;

but that if he saw them look worse than the

rest, he should reduce them to their former

diet. Now it appeared that they were so

far from becoming worse, by the use of this

food, that they grew plumper, and fuller in

body than the rest; insomuch that he thought

those who fed upon what came from the king's

table seemed less plump and full; while

those that were with Daniel looked as if they

had lived in plenty, and in all sorts of luxury.||

Arioch, therefore, from that time, securely

took himself what the king sent every day

from his supper, according to custom, to the

children; but gave them the aforementioned

diet; while they had their souls in some

measure more pure, and less burdened, and

s"o fitter for learning; and had their bodies

better adapted for labour. For they neither

had the former oppressed and heavy with

variety of meats; nor were the other effemi­

nate on the same account. So they readily

understood all the learning that was among

* It was a usual thing for conquerors to change the  
names of the persons they vanquished in war, in testi­

mony of their absolute power over them. Thus we find

the king of Babylon changing the name of Mattaniah into

Zedekiah, when he constituted him king of Judah,

2 Kings xxiv. 17. But our learned Usher has farther re­

marked that the king of Egypt gave Eliakim the name of

Jehoiakim, thereby to testify, that he ascribed his victory

over the Babylonians to Jehovah, the God of Israel, by

whose excitation, as he pretended, 2Chron. xxxv. 21, 22.

he undertook the expedition. Patrick's and Cahners

Commentary. B.

t It is very remarkable, that, as all their former names

related to the true God, so all the names which on this

occasion were imposed upon these four Jewish youths

had some reference or other to Babylonish idols. Daniel

in Hebrew, signifies God is my judge; Belteshazzar, in

Chaldee, is the treasure of Baal; Hananiah, in Hebrew,

is well pleasing to God; Shadrach, in Chaldee, the in­

spiration of the sun; Mishael, in Hebrew, proceeding

fro;n God; Meshach, in Chaldee, belonging to the god­

dess Sheshach; Azariah, in Hebrew, God is my help;

and Abednego, in Chaldee, the servant of Nego, i. e. the

sun or the morning-star, both deities among the Babylo­

nians, and so called because of their brightness. Colmef's

Commentary on Dan. i. 7. B.

\ What we render master of the eunuchs, may very

likely signify the chief minister of Nebuchadnezzar's

court. Such officers, in the palaces of eastern princes,

were usually called eunuchs; because they who had the

control of the king's household, as we say, were ordi­

narily such, though many times it might be otherwise

The Jews have a notion, that Daniel and his three com­

panions were, by the order of Nebuchadnezzar, made

eunuchs, that the prophecy of Isaiah might be fulfilled:—

Thy sons, that shall issue from thee, shall they take

away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king

of Babylon, chap, xxxix. 7. Buf that is no conclusive

reason; because, in that prophecy, as well as in the pas­

sage we are now upon, the name of eunuch might mean

no more than any person who had an employment at court.

Calmefs Commentary. B.

II Daniel i. 15.

