a*. 1096] 223 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tines sending after them those that threw

javelins and shot arrows, he lost all his com­

pany, except a few. As for himself he fought

with great bravery; and when he had re­

ceived so many wounds, that he was unable

to bear up, or to oppose any longer, and yet

was not able to kill himself; he bade his

armour-bearer draw his sword, and run him

through, before the enemy should take him

alive. But his armour-bearer not daring to

kill his master, he drew his own sword, and

placing himself over against its point, he

threw himself upon it; and when he could

neither run it through him, nor, by leaning

against it, make the sword pass through him;

he turned round, and asked a certain young

man that stood by, who he was? and when

he understood that he was an Amalekite, he

desired him to force the sword through him;

because he was not able to do it with his own

hands, and thereby to procure him such a

death as he desired. 1 his the young man

did accordingly; and he took the golden

bracelet that was on Saul's arm, and his royal

crown that was on his head, and ran away.

And when Saul's armour-bearer saw that he

was slain, he killed himself. Nor did any of

the king's guards escape; but they all fell

upon the mountain Gilboa. But when those

Hebrews that dwelt in the valley, beyond

Jordan, and those who had their cities in the

plain, heard that Saul and his sons were

fallen, and that the multitude about them

were destroyed; they left their own cities,

and fled to such as were best fortified. And

the Philistines finding those cities deserted,

came and dwelt in them.

On the next day, when the Philistines came

to strip their enemies that were slain; they

got the bodies of Saul, and of his sons, and

stripped them, and cut off their heads. And

they sent messengers all about their country,

to acquaint them that their enemies were

fallen. And they dedicated their armour in

the temple of Astarte; but hung their bodies

on crosses, at the walls of the city of Beth-

shan; which is now called Scythopolis. But

when the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard

that they had dismembered the dead bodies

of Saul, and of his sons, they deemed it so

horrid a thing to overlook this barbarity, and

to suffer them to be without funeral rights,

that the most courageous and hardy among

them; (and indeed that city had in it men

that were very stout, both in body and mind,)

journeyed all night, and came to Bethshan,

and approached the enemies' wall, and taking

down the bodies of Saul, and of his sons, they

carried them to Jabesh; while the enemy

were neither powerful, nor bold enough to

hinder them, because of their great courage.

So the people of Jabesh wept all in general,

and buried their bodies in the best place in

their country, which was named Aroura; and

they observed a public mourning for them

seven days, with their wives and children;

beating their breasts, and lamenting the king

and his sons without either tasting drink or

meat,* till the evening.

To this end did Saul come, according to the

prophecy of Samuel; because he disobeyed

the commandments of God,f about the Amale-

kites, and on the account of his destroying

the family of Ahimelech, the high-priest, with

Ahimelech himself, and the city of the high-

priests. Now Saul, when he had reigned eigh­

teen years,J while Samuel was alive, and after

his death two, ended his life in this manner.

* This way of speaking in Josephus, of fasting seven  
(1 lys, without meat or drink, is almost like that of St.

Paul's, Acts xzvii. 33. "This day is the fourteenth day

that ye have tarried, and continued fasting, having taken

nothing;" and as the nature of the thing, and the impos­

sibility of strictly fasting so long, require us here to un­

derstand both Josephus, and the sacred author of this

history, 1 Sam. xxxi. 13. from whom he took it, of only

fasting till the evening; so must we understand St. Paul,

either that this was really the fourteenth day that they

had taken nothing till the evening, or else that this was

the fourteenth day of their tempestuous weather in the

Adriatic sea, as verse 27, and that on this fourteenth daj

alone they had continued fasting, and had takon nothing

before the evening. The mention of their long absti­

nence, verse 21, inclines me to believe the former ex­

plication to be the truth, and that the case was then for a

fortnight, what it was here for a week, that they kept all

those days entirely as fasts till the evening, but not

longer. See Judg. xx. 26. xxi. 2. 1 Sam. xiv. 24. 2 Sam,

i. 12. Antiq. VII. 7.

t 1 Chron. x. 13. ^

% From an. 1114 to 1096 B. C.

