86 [boor III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

pains, by which they deemed every difficulty

might be surmounted: and this was the result

of the battle.

On the next day Moses stripped the dead

bodies of their enemies, and gathered to­

gether the armour of those that were fled,

and gave rewards to such as had signalised

themselves in the action, and highly com­

mended Joshua, their general, who was at­

tested to by all the army, on account of the

great actions he had done; nor was any one

of the Hebrews slain, though the slain of the

enemies' army were too many to be enume­

rated. So Moses offered sacrifice of thanks­

giving to God, and built an altar, which he

named, the Lord the conqueror. He also

foretold that the Amalekites should be utterly

destroyed, and that hereafter none of them

should remain, because they fought against

the Hebrews when they were in the wilder­

ness, and in their distress. Moreover he re­

freshed the army with feasting: and thus did

they fight this first battle with those that ven­

tured to oppose them, after they were gone

out of Egypt. But, when Moses had cele­

brated this festival for the victory, he per­

mitted the Hebrews to rest for a few days,

and then brought them out after the fight in

order of battle; for they had now many sol­

diers in light armour, and going gradually on,

he came to mount Sinai, and three months

after they were removed out of Egypt, at

which mountain, as we have before related,

the vision of the bush, and the other wonder­

ful appearances had happened.

CHAP. ffl.

OF RAOUEL's ARRIVAL AND RECEPTION BV MOSES AT MOUNT

SINAI.

WHEN Raguel, Moses's* father-in-law,

understood in what a prosperous con­

dition his affairs were, he willingly came to

meet him; and Moses took Zipporah his wife,

and his children, and pleased himself with his

coming: and when he had offered sacrifice,

he made a feast for the multitude, near the

bush he had formerly seen; everyone, accor­

ding to their families, partaking of the festi­

val. But Aaron and his family took Raguel,

and sung hymns to God, as to him who had

been the author and procurer of their deliver-

* Exod. xviii. 1.

ance, and their freedom. They also praised

their conductor, as him by whose virtue it

was that all things had succeeded so well

with them. Raguel, also, in his eucharistical

oration to Moses, made great encomiums

upon the whole multitude; and he could not

but admire Moses for his fortitude, and that

humanity he had shewed in the delivery of

his friends.

CHAP. IV.

OF RAGUEL's FRIENDLY SUGGESTIONS RESPECTING THE GO­

VERNMENT OF THE HEBREWS, WHICH WERE ADOPTED BV

MOSES.

THE next day, Raguel saw Moses in the

midst of a crowd of business,f for he

determined the differences of those that re­

ferred them to him, every one still going to

him, and supposing they should then only

obtain justice, if he were the arbitrator; and

those that lost their causes thought it no great

harm, while they thought they lost them justly,

and not by partiality. Raguel, however, said

nothing at that time, as not desirous to be any

hindrance to such as had a mind to make use

of the virtue of their conductor; but after­

ward he took Moses to himself; and when he

had him alone, he instructed him in what he

ought to do, and advised him to leave the

trouble of lesser causes to others, but himself

to take care of the greater, and of the people's

safety, for that others of the Hebrews might

be found that were fit to determine causes,

but that nobody but a Moses could take care

of the safety of many thousands. "Be not,

therefore," said he, " insensible of thine own

virtue, and what thou hast done by minister­

ing under God to the people's preservation.

Leave, therefore, the determination of com­

mon causes to others: but do thou reserve

thyself to the attendance on God only, and

look out for methods of preserving the multi­

tude from their present distress. Make use

of the method I suggest as to human affairs,

and take a review of the army, and appoint

chosen rulers over tens of thousands, and,

then over thousands; and then divide them

into five hundreds, and again into hundreds,

and into fifties, and set rulers over each of

them, who may distinguish them into thirties,

and keep them in order, and at last number

t Exod. xviii. 13.

