AN. 44.] 515 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

lus, the son of Publius, of the Veturian tribe;

of Caius Sentius, the son of Caius, of the

Sabhatine tribe; of Titus Atilius Bulbus, the

son of Titus, lieutenant and vice praetor; to

the magistrates, senate, and people, of the

Ephesians, sendeth greeting. Lucius Lentu-

lus, the consul, freed the Jews that are in

Asia from going into the armies, at my inter­

cession for them. And when I had made the

same petition some time afterward to Phanius,

the imperator, and to Lucius Antonius, the

vice-quaestor, I obtained that privilege of

them also: and my will is that you take care

that no one give them any disturbance."

The decree of the Delians. "The answer

of the praetors, when Beotus was archon; on

the twentieth day of the month Thargeleon.

While Marcus Piso, the lieutenant, lived in

our city, who was also appointed over the

choice of the soldiers, he called us, and

many others of the citizens, and gave order,

that if there be here any Jews, who are Ro­

man citizens, no one is to give them any dis­

turbance about going into the army: because

Cornelius Lentulus, the consul, freed the

Jews from going into the army, on account of

the superstition they are under. You are

therefore obliged to submit to the praetor."

And the like decree was also made respect­

ing us by the Sardians.

"Caius Phanius, the son of Caius, impera­

tor, and consul, to the magistrates of Cos,

sendeth greeting. I would have you know

that the ambassadors of the Jews have been

with me, and desired they might have those

decrees, which the senate had made about

them: which decrees are here subjoined.

My will is, that you have a regard to, and

take care of, these men, according to the

senate's decrees; that they may be safely

conveyed home through your country."

The declaration of Lucius Lentulus, the

consul. "I have dismissed those Jews who

are Roman citizens, and who appear to me to

have their religious rites, and to observe the

laws of the Jews at Ephesus, on account of

the superstition they are under. This act

was done before the thirteenth of the calends

of October."

"Lucius Antonius, the son of Marcus, vice-

quaestor, and vice-praetor; To the magistrates,

senate, and people of the Sardians, sendeth

greeting. Those Jews that are our fellow-

voL. I. NOS. 43 & 44.

citizens of Rome came to me, and demon­

strated, that they had an assembly of their

own, according to the laws of their fore­

fathers; and this from the beginning: as also

a place of their own, wherein they deter­

mined their suits and controversies with one

another. Upon their petition therefore to

me, that these might be lawful for them, I

give order that these privileges be preserved,

and they be permitted to do accordingly."

The declaration of Marcus Publius, the

son of Spurius; and of Marcus, the son of

Marcus, and of Lucius, the son of Publius.

"We went to the pro-consul, and informed

him of what Dositheus, the son of Cleopatrida

of Alexandria desired; that, if he thought

good, he would dismiss those Jews who were

Roman citizens, and were wont to observe

the rites of the Jewish religion, on account of

the superstition they were under. According­

ly he did dismiss them. This was done before

the thirteenth of the calends of October."

"In the month *Quintilis, when Lucius

Lentulus and Caius Marcellus were consuls;

and there were present Titus Appius Balbus,

the son of Titus, lieutenant, of the Horatian

tribe; Titus Tongius, of the Crustumine

tribe, Quintus Resius, the son of Quintus;

Titus Pompeius, the son of Titus; Cornelius

Longinus; Caius Servilius Bracchus, the son

of Caius, a military tribune, of the Tarentine

tribe; Publius Clusius Gallus, the son of Pub­

lius, of the Veturian tribe; Caius Teutius,

the son of Caius, a military tribune, of the

Emilian tribe; Sextus Antilius Serranus, the

son of Sextus, of the Esquiline tribe; Caius

Pompeius, the son of Caius, of the Sabbatine

tribe; Titus Appius Menander, the son of

Titus; Publius Servilius Strabo, the son of

Publius; Lucius Paccius Capito, the son of

Lucius, of the Colline tribe; Aulus Furius

Tertius, the son of Aulus; and Appius Me-

nas. In the presence of these persons Len­

tulus pronounced this decree: I have before

the tribunal dismissed those Jews that are

Roman citizens, and are accustomed to ob­

serve the sacred rites of the Jews at Ephe­

sus; on account of the superstition they are

under."

"The magistrates of the Laodiceans, to

Caius Rubilius, the son of Caius, the consul,

* July  
4M

