AM. 1800.J 41 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

in all that he desired, he promised him, that

of the young cattle which should be born, he

should have sometimes what was of a white

colour, and sometimes what should be of a

black colour; but when those that came to

Jacob's share proved numerous, he did not

keep his faith with him, but said he would

give them to him the next year, because of

his envying him the multitude of his posses­

sions. He promised him as before, because

he thought such an increase was not to be ex-

Eected: but when it appeared to be the fact,

e again deceived him.

But with regard to the sacred images,

Jacob bid them search for them; and when

Laban accepted of the offer, Rachel being

informed of it, put those images in that camel's

saddle on which she rode, and sat upon it;

and by a well-timed excuse* evaded the ne­

cessity of rising up; s0 Laban left off search­

ing any farther, not supposing that his daugh­

ter would conceal his images. He then made

a league with Jacob, that he would not bear

him any malice on account of what had hap­

pened; and Jacob made the like league, and

promised to love Laban's daughters; and

these leagues they confirmed with oaths upon

certain mountains, whereon they erected a

pillar, in the form of an altar; whence that

hill is called Gilead, and from thence they

call that land the Land of Gilead at this day.

Now when they had feasted,t after making

the league, Laban returned home.}:

CHAP. XX.

of Jacob's interview with his brother esau.

N

OW as Jacob was proceeding on his

journey to the land of Canaan, angels

appeared to him, and suggested to him good

hope of his future condition; and that place

he named the Camp of God; and being de­

sirous of knowing his brother's intentions, he

sent messengers to give him an exact account

of every thing, being afraid, on account of

the enmity between them. He charged those

that were sent, to say to Esau, that " Jacob

had thought it wrong to live together with

him, while he was incensed against him, and

so had gone out of the country; but now,

thinking the time of his absence must have

made up their differences, was returning; that

he brought with him his wives and his chil­

dren, with what possessions he had gotten,

and delivered himself, with what was most

dear to him, into his hands; and should think

it his greatest happiness to partake, together

with his brother, of what God had bestowed

on him.

When this message was delivered, Esau

was very glad, and met his brother with four

hundred men: but when Jacob heard that he

was coming to meet him with such a number,

he was greatly afraid. However, he com­

mitted his hope of deliverance to God: and

considered how in his present circumstances

he might preserve himself, and those that

were with him, and overcome his enemies,

if they attacked him injuriously. He there­

fore distributed his company into parts; some

he sent before the rest,|| and the others he

ordered to come close behind: that if the

first were overpowered, when his brother at­

tacked them they might have those that fol­

lowed as the refuge to flee unto; and when

he had put his company in this order, he sent

some of them to his brother, with presents

of cattle, and a great number of four-footed

beasts of many kinds, such as would be very

* Gen. xxxi. 35.

t Gen. xxxi. 55.

J This league appears to have been made with peculiar

circumstances: especially with the singular rite of making

an heap of stones, and eating upon it, and setting up one

stone for a pillar. Gen. xxxi. 45, 46. Niebuhr, relating

his audience with the rinam of Yemen, says, " I had gone

from mylod<*ings indisposed, and by standing so long found

myself so faint, that I was obliged to ask permission to quit

the room. I found near the door some of the principal

officers of the court, who were sitting in a scattered man­

ner, in the shade, upon stones, by the side of the wall.

Among them was the Nakit, (the general, or rather master

of the horse.) Cheir Allah, with whom I had some ac­

quaintance before. He immediately resigned nis place to

me, and applied himself to draw together stones into an

heap, to build himself a new seat." This management

might be owing to various causes. The extreme heat of

the ground might render sitting there disagreeable. The

same inconvenience might arise also from its wetness. It

was certainly a very common practice; and, as 't appears

from the instance of Jacob, a very ancient one. Harmer't

Observations, Vol. iii. p, 215. B.

II Jacob appears to have been very cautious in conduct­

ing both his family and his flocks in their journey. He

was particularly desirous of preserving them. They would

have been exposed to great danger by haste. Prepared

as the Arabs are for speedy flight, a quick motion is very

destructive to the young of their flocks. Chardin says

"Their flocks feed down, the places of their encampmen

