AN, 1106.] 201 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

should overthrow the Philistines; and that

against what nations soever he should make

war, he should be the conqueror, and survive

the tight; and that while he lived he should

enjoy a glorious name, and afterwards trans­

mit it to his posterity.

So Samuel, when he had given him these

admonitions, went away. But the divine

Eovver departed from Saul, and removed to

•avid; who upon this removal of the divine

spirit to him, began to prophesy. But as for

Saul, some strange and demoniacal disorders*

came upon him; and brought upon him such

suffocations, as were ready to choke him.

For when the physicians could find no other

remedy but this; if any person could charm

those passions by singing, and playing upon

the harp, they advised them to enquire for

such a one, and to observe, when these de­

mons came upon him, and disturbed him; and

to take care that such a person might stand

over him, andf play on the harp, and recite

hymns to him. Accordingly Saul did not

delay; but commanded them to seek out

such a man. And when a certain bystander

said, that he had seen in the city Bethlehem,

a son of Jesse, who was yet no more than a

child in age, but comely and beautiful, and in

other respects one that was deserving of great

regard; who was skilful in playing on the

harp, and in singing hymns; and an excellent

soldier in war; he sent to Jesse, and desired

him to take David away from the flocks, and

to send him to him; for he had a mind to see

him, as having heard an advantageous cha­

racter of his comeliness and his valour. So

Jesse sent his son, and gave him presents to

carry to Saul. And when he was come, Saul

was pleased with him, and made him his

armour-bearer, and held him in very great

esteem; for he charmed his passion, and was

the only physician against the trouble he had

from the demons, whenever it came upon

him; and this by reciting of hymns, and

playing upon the harp, and bringing Saul to

his right mind again. However, he sent to

the father of the child, and desired him to

permit David to stay with him; for that he

was delighted with his company. Which

stay, that he might not contradict Saul, Jesse

readily granted.

CHAP. IX.

OF ANOTHER EXPEDITION OF THE PHILISTINES AGAINST

THE HEBREWS, UNDER THE REIGN OF SAUL, AND OF

THEIR DEFEAT, BY DAVID SLAYING GOLIATH IN SINGLE

COMBAT.

NOW the Philistines gathered themselves

together again, no very long time after­

ward: and having assembled a great army,

they made war against the Israelites; and

having seized a place between Shochoh and

Azekah,J they there pitched their camp.

Saul also drew out his army to oppose them.

And by pitching his own camp on a certain

hill, he forced the Philistines to leave their

former station, and to encamp themselves

upon such another hill, over against that on

which Saul's army lay, so that a valley which

was between the two hills on which they lay,

divided their camps asunder. Now there

came down a man out of the camp of the

Philistines, whose name was Goliath, of the

city Gath; a man of vast bulk, for he was of jj

four cubits and a span in tallness;§ and had

* 1 Sam. xvi. 14.

t Spanheim takes notice here, that the Greeks had

such singers of hymns; and that usually children or youth

were chosen for that service. As also that those called

singers to the harp, did the same that David did here, i. e.

join their own vocal and instrumental music together.

J Soccoth and Azekah lay to the south of Jerusalem,

and the east of Bethlehem, about four leagues from the

former, and five from the latter, and the ancient valley of

Elah must consequently lie not far distant from them,

though later travellers place it at no more than a league's

distance from Jerusalem. Calmef s Commentary. B.

i! Six in the Hebrew; four in the Septuagint.

§ The words in the text are,—Wliose height was six

cubits and a span; so that taking a cubit to be twenty

inches and a half, and a span to be three inches, and a

little more, the whole will amount to about twelve feet

and a half. A stature above as tall again as usual! The

lowest computation of the cubit, however, brings it to near

ten feet, which is the standard that we have set it at;

though it must not be dissembled, that both the Septuagint

and Josephus have reduced it to little more than eight

feet, which badly comports with the weight and vastness

of his armour, though it might suit their design perhaps,

in accommodating their account to the credibility of their

Heathen readers. But be that as it will, several authors,

to shew this vast size of the man not to be beyond the

bounds of probability, have written, ex prqfesso de gigant-

ibus, among whom Hermannus Conringius, in his book

De antiquo statu Holmstadii, and in another De habitu cor-

porum Germanorum, have demonstrated, that the ancient

Germans were of a vast size, even as Cassar, De bello

Gall, testifies of them, by calling them, cimmani orporum

magnitudine homines, men of huge greatness of body.

Nay, even Josephus himself, who is quoted for denying

the existence of giants, furnishes us with an argument in

