112 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

then Dathan and Abiram, and On, the son of

Peleth would have it. For these are the old­

est men of that tribe, and potent on account

of their great wealth also."

Now Corah, when he said this, wished to

appear careful of the public welfare; but in

reality, he was endeavouring to procure to

have that dignity transferred by the multitude

to himself. And thus did he, out oi' a malig­

nant design, but with plausible words, dis­

course to those of his own tribe. And when

these words did gradually spread to more of

the people, and the hearers still added to

what tended to the scandals that were cast

upon Aaron, the whole army was full of them.

Now of those that conspired with Corah, there

were two hundred and fifty of the principal

men, who were eager to have the priesthood

taken from Moses's brother, and to bring him

to disgrace. Nay, the multitude themselves

were provoked to be seditious, and attempted

to stone Moses: and gathered themselves

together after an indecent manner, with con­

fusion and disorder. And now they all were

in a tumultuous manner, raising a clamour be­

fore the tabernacle of God, to prosecute the

tyrant, and to relieve the multitude from their

slavery under him, who, under colour of the

Divine commands, laid violent injunctions

upon them. For that had it been God who

chose *one that was to perform the office of a

priest, he would have raised a worthy person

to that dignity, and would not have produced

such an one as was inferior to many others,

nor have given him that office: and that in

case he had judged it fit to bestow it on

Aaron, he would have permitted the multi­

tude to bestow it, and not have left it to be

bestowed by his own brother.

Now although Moses had long foreseen this

calumny of Corah's, and had seen that the

people were irritated, yet was he not alarmed

at it. But being of good courage, because he

had given them good advice about their af­

fairs: and knowing that his brother had been

made partaker of the priesthood at the com­

mand of God, and not by his own favour to

him, he came to the assembly: and, as for

the multitude, he said not a word to them,

but spake as loud to Corah as he could; and

* Reland here observes, that although our Bibles say  
little or nothing of these riches of Corah, yet both the

being very eloquent, and having this natural

talent among others, that he could greatly

move the multitude with his discourses; he

said, "O Corah, both thou, and all those with

thee, (pointing to the two hundred and fifty

men,) seem to be worthy of this honour. Nor

do I pretend, but that this whole company

may be worthy of the like dignity: although

they may not be so rich, or so great, as you

are. Nor have I given this office to my bro­

ther, because he excelled others in riches;

for thou exceedest* us both in the greatness

of thy wealth: nor indeed because he was of

an eminent family; for God, by giving us the

same common ancestor, has made our families

equal: nay, nor was it out of brotherly affec­

tion, which another might yet have justly

done. For certainly, unless I had bestowed

this honour out of regard to God, and to hi&

laws, I had not passed by myself, and given it

to another; as having a closer intimacy with

myself, than I have with him. For, surely, it

would not be a wise thing for me to expose

myself to the dangers of offending, and to be­

stow the happy employment on this account

upon another. But I am above such practi­

ces: nor would God have overlooked this

matter, and seen himself thus despised: nor

would he have suffered you to be ignorant of

what you were to do, in order to please him.

But he hath himself chosen one that is to per­

form that sacred office to him; and thereby

freed us from that care. So that it was not a

thing that I pretended to give; but only ac­

cording to the determination of God: I there­

fore propose it still to be contended for by

such as please to put in for it; only desiring

that he who has already been preferred, and

has already obtained it, may be allowed now

also to offer himself a candidate. He pre­

fers your peace, and your living without sedi­

tion, to this honourable employment; although

in truth, it was with your approbation that he

obtained it. For though God were the donor,

yet do we not offend when we think fit to ac­

cept of it with your good will. Yet would it

have been an instance of impiety, not to have

taken that honourable employment when he

offered it: nay, it had been exceedingly un­

reasonable, when God had thought fit any

Jews and Mahometans, as well as Josephus, are full of it.

