AN. 164.] 447 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Bosor, and many other cities of the land of

Gilead.

But not long after this Timotheus prepared

a great army, and took many others as aux­

iliaries; and induced some of the Arabians,

by the promise of rewards, to go with him in

this expedition; and came with his army be­

yond the brook, over against the city Raphon.

And he encouraged his soldiers, if it came to

a battle with the Jews, to fight courageously,

and to hinder their passing over the brook:

for he said to them beforehand, "If they

come over it we shall be beaten." And when

Judas heard that Timotheus prepared himself

to fight, he took all his own army and went in

haste against his enemy: and when he had

passed over the brook, he fell upon his ene­

mies: and some of them he slew, and others

of them he so terrified, that he compelled

them to throw down their arms and fly. And

some of these escaped: but some of them

fled to what was called the temple at Car-

naim; and hoped thereby to preserve them­

selves. But Judas took the city, and slew

them, and burnt the temple, and so used

several ways of destroying his enemies.

When he had done this, he gathered the

Jews together, with their children and wives,

and the substance that belonged to them, and

was going to bring them back into Judea.

But as soon as he was come to a certain city,

called Ephron, that lay upon the road; (and

as it was not possible for him to go any other

way, he was not willing to go back again:)

he sent to the inhabitants, and desired that

they would open their gates, and permit them

to go on their way through the city: for they

had stopped up the gates with stones, and cut

oflT their passage through it. And when the

inhabitants of Ephron would not agree to this

proposal, he encouraged those that were with

him, and encompassed the city round, and

besieged it, and lying round it by day and

by night, took the city, and slew every male

in it, and burnt it down: and so obtained a

way through it. And the multitude of those

that were slain was so great, that they went

over the dead bodies. So they came over

Jordan; and arrived at the great plain; over

against which is situate the city Bethshan,

which is called by the Greeks *Scythopolis.

And going away hastily from thence, they

came into Judea: singing psalms and hymns

as they went; and indulging such tokens of

mirth as are usual in triumphs, upon victory.

They also offered thank-offerings both for

their good success, and for the preservation

of their army. For fnot one of the Jews

was slain in these battles.

But Joseph, the son of Zacharias, and Aza-

rias whom Judas left generals of the forces;

at the same time when Simon was in Galilee,

fighting against the people of Ptolemais, and

Judas himself, and his brother Jonathan, were

in the land of Gilead; did also affect the glory

of being courageous generals in war; in order

whereto they took the army that was under

their command, and came to Jamnia. There

Gorgias, the general of the forces of Jamnia,

met them: and upon joining battle with him

they lost Jtwo thousand of their army; and

fled away, and were pursued to the very bor­

ders of Judea. And this misfortune befell

them by their disobedience to Judas, who

had enjoined them not to fight with any one

before his return. For besides the rest of

Judas's sagacious counsels, one may won­

der that this concerning the misfortune that

befell the forces commanded by Joseph and

Azarias; which he understood would happen,

if they brake any of the injunctions he had

given them. But Judas and his brethren

* The reason why Bethshan was called Scythopolis, is  
well known from Herodotus, I. page 105, and Syncellus,

page 214, that the Scythians, when they over-ran Asia,

in the days of Josiah, seized on this city; and kept it

as long as they continued in Asia. From which time it

retained the name of Scythopolis, or the city of the Scy­

thians. It is so called by the author of the second book

of Maccabees, from Jason of Cyrene, xii. 29. as well as by

Josephus, and long before him: while yet Josephus could

not well take it from either of them; whose writings, or

any other such Greek sacred authors, he never appears

to have seen. See Essay on the Old Testament, page

184—195, and Supplement, page 45, 46.

t This most providential preservation of all the reli-

gious Jews in this expedition, which was according to the

will of God, is observable often among God's people the

Jews: and some very like it in the changes of the four

monarchies, which were also highly providential. See

Prideaux at the years 334, 333, and 331.

J Here is another great instance of Providence; that

when, even at the very time that Simon, and Judas,

and Jonathan were so miraculously preserved, and

blessed, in the just defence of their laws and religion;

these other generals of the Jews who went to fight for

honour, in a vain-glorious way, and without any commis­

sion from God, or the family he had raised up to deliver

them, were miserably disappointed and defeated. Sec

1 Mace. v. 61, 62.

