426 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

him, and delivered him the epistle which they

brought from the high-priest, and answered

all the questions he put to them by word of

mouth. He then hastened to meet the elders,

that came from Jerusalem, for the interpre­

tation of the laws; and he gave command

that other men who came on other occasions,

should be sent away: which was a thing sur­

prising, and what he did not use to do. For

those that were drawn thither upon such oc­

casions used to come to him on the fifth day:

but ambassadors at the month's end. But

when he had sent those away, he waited for

these that were sent by Eleazar. But as the

old man came in with the presents, which the

high-priest had given them to bring to the

king, and with the membranes, upon which

they had their laws written in golden let­

ters;* he put questions ta them concerning

those books. And when they had taken off

the covers wherein they were wrapt up, they

shewed him the membranes. So the king

stood admiring the thinness of those mem­

branes, and the exactness of the junctures;

which could not be perceived; so exactly

were they connected one with another: and

this he did for a considerable time. He then

said, that he returned them thanks for com­

ing to him, and still greater thanks to him

that sent them, arid above all to that God

whose laws they appeared to be. Then did

the elders, and those that were present with

them, cry out with one voice, and wished all

happiness to the king: upon which he was so

affected that he burst into tears. It being na­

tural to men to afford the same indications in

great joy, that they do under sorrows. And

when he had bidden them to deliver the books

to those who were appointed to receive them,

he saluted the men: and said that it was but

just to discourse in the first place of the errand

they were sent about: and then to address

himself to them. He promised, however, that

he would make this day on which they came

to him remarkable and eminent every year

through the whole course of his life. For

their coming to him, and the victory which he

gained over Antigonus by sea, proved to be

on the very same day. He also gave orders

that they should sup with him: and gave in

charge that they should have excellent lodg­

ings provided in the upper part of the city.

Now he that was appointed to take care of

the reception of strangers, Nicanor by name,

called for Dorotheus; whose duty it was to

make provisions for them; and bade him pre­

pare for every one of them what should be

requisite for their diet and way of living.

Which thing was ordered by the king after

this manner. He took care for those that

belonged to every city, which did not use

the same way of living, that all things should

be prepared for them according to the cus­

tom of those that came to him; that being

feasted according to the usual method of

their own way of living, they might be the

better pleased, and might not be uneasy at

any thing done to them, from which they

were naturally averse. And this was now

done in the case of these men by Dorotheus;

who was put into this office because of his

skill in such matters. For he took care of

all things which concerned this reception of

strangers; and appointed them double seats

for them to sit on, according as the king had

commanded. For he had ordered that half

of their seats should be set at his hand, and

the other half behind his table: and he took

care that no respect should be omitted that

could be shewn them. And when they were

thus set down, he bade Dorotheus minister

to all those who were come to him from Ju-

dea, after the manner they used to be minis­

tered to. For which cause he sent away their

sacred heralds; and those that slew the sacri­

fices, and the rest that used to say grace. But

called to one of those that were come to him,

whose name was Eleazar, who was a priest,

and desired him to say grace :| who then

stood in the midst of them, and prayed, "that

all prosperity might attend the king, and

those that were his subjects." Hereupon an

* The Talnradists say, that it is not lawful to write the  
law in letters of gold: contrary to this certain and very

ancient example. See Hudson's and Reland's notes

here.

| This is the most ancient example that I have met

with, of a grace, or a short prayer before meat: which

as it used to be said by a heathen priest, who was one of

these seventy-two interpreters. The next example I

have met with, is that of the Essenes, Of the War II. 8.

both before and after it. The next are those of our Sa­

viour before it, Mark viii. 6. John vi. 11, 23. and St. Paul,

Acts xxvii. 35. The next is a form of such a grace or

prayer for Christians, at the end of the 5th book of the

Apostolical Constitutions; which seems to have been in­

tended for both times, both before and after meat .

