aN. 1800.] 39 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

look upon yourself and God to be the sup­

porters of my travels, and think myself safe in

my present circumstances."

Laban now promised to treat him with

great humanity, both on account of his an­

cestors, and particularly for the sake of his

mother; towards whom he said he would shew

his kindness, even though she were absent,

by taking care of him. For he assured him

he would make him the head shepherd of his

flock, and gave him authority sufficient for

that purpose; and when he should be inclined

to return to his parents, he would send him

back with presents, and this in as honourable

a manner as their consanguinity should re­

quire. Jacob heard these promises gladly;

and said he would willingly undergo any sort

of pains while he tarried with him; but de­

sired as the reward of those pains that he

might be permitted to marry Rachel, who

was not only on other accounts esteemed by

him; but also because she was the means of

his coming to him; for he said he was forced

by the love of the damsel to make this pro­

posal. Laban was pleased with this agree­

ment, and consented to give the damsel to

him, if he would stay with him some time;

for he was not willing to send his daughter

to be among the Canaanites; for he repented

of the alliance he had made already by mar­

rying his sister there. And when Jacob had

given his consent to this, he agreed to serve

is father-in-law seven years, that by giving

a specimen of his virtue, it might be better

known what sort of a man he was. When

the stated time was expired, Laban made the

wedding feast, but when it was night, without

Jacob's perceiving it, he put his other daugh­

ter into bed to him; who was both elder than

Rachel, and of no comely countenance. Jacob

slept with her that night; but when it was

day he knew what had been done to him, and

complained of this unfair proceeding. Laban

asked pardon for that necessity which forced

him to do what he did; for he said he did not

give him Lea out of any ill design, but as

overcome by another greater necessity; that,

notwithstanding this, nothing should hinder

him from marrying Rachel; but that when he

had served another seven years he would

* Gen. xxix. 28.

t Here we have the difference between slaves for life,

and servants, such as we nOw hire for a time agreed upon

voL. I.—No. 4.

give him her whom he loved. Jacob sub­

mitted to this condition; for his loye to the

damsel did not permit him to do otherwise;

and when seven years more were expired, he

took Rachel to wife.*

Now each of these had handmaids, by their

father's donation. Zilpha was handmaid to

Lea, and Bilba to Rachel; by no means

slaves,f but subject to their mistresses. Now

Lea was sorely troubled at her husband's love

to her sister; and she expected she should

be better esteemed if she bare him children.

She, therefore in treated God perpetually, and

when she had borne a son, and her husband

was on that account better reconciled to her,

she named her son Reubel, because God had

had mercy upon her in giving her a son, for

that is the signification of this name. After

some time she bare three more sons; Simeon,

which name signifies that God had hearkened

to her prayer; Levi, the confirmer of their

friendship; and Judah, which denotes thanks­

giving. But Rachel, fearing lest the fruit-

fulness of her sister, should estrange Jacob's

affection from herself, gave him her handmaid

Bilba, by whom Jacob had Dan: one may

interpret that name into the Greek tongue, a

divine judgment; and after him Nephthalim,

as it were unconquerable in stratagems; since

Rachel tried to conquer the fruitfulness of her

sister by this stratagem. Accordingly Lea

took the same method, and used a counter

stratagem to that of her sister's; for she gave

Jacob her own handmaid Zilpha, by whom he

had a son, whose name was Gad, which may

be interpreted fortune; and after him Asher,

which may be called a happy man, because

he added glory to Lea.

Now Reubel, the eldest son of Lea, brought

apples of mandrakes to his mother. When

Rachel saw them, she desired that she would

give her the apples, for she longed to eat

them; but when she refused, and bid her be

content that she had deprived her of the be­

nevolence she ought to have had from her

husband, Rachel, in order to mitigate her

sister's anger, said she would yield her hus­

band to her that evening. She accepted of

the favour, and Jacob slept with Lea, who

bare then these sons; Issachar, denoting one

onboth sides, and dismiss again after the time contracted

for is over, who are no slaves, but free men and free

women.

