an. 902.] 313 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sent to Ahab, and desired him to go away

to the city before the storm of rain came

down. So he came to the city Jezreel. And

in a little time the air was all obscured, and

covered with clouds; and a vehement storm

of wind came upon the earth, and with it a

great deal of rain. And the prophet was

under a divine fury, and ran along with the

king's chariot unto Jezreel, a city of Izar.*

When Jezebel, the wife of Ahab, under­

stood what signs Elijah had wrought, and

how he had slain the prophets, she was angry,

and sent messengers to him; and by them

threatened to kill him,f as he had destroyed

her prophets. At this Elijah was affrighted,

and fled to the city called Beersheba; which

is situate at the utmost limits of the country

belonging to the tribe of Judah, towards the

land of Edom. And there he left his servant,

and went away into the desert.J He prayed

also that he might die: for that he was not

better than his fathers; nor therefore need

be very desirous to live when they were

dead: and he lay and slept under a certain

tree. And when somebody awakened him,

and he was risen up, he found food set by

him, and water. So when he had eaten,

and renewed his strength by that food, he

came to the mountain called Sinai ;|| where it

is related that Moses received his laws from

God. And finding there a certain hollow

cave, he entered into it, and continued to

make his abode in it. But when a certain

voice came to him, and asked, "Why he

came thither, and had left the city?" he

said, that because he had slain the prophets

of the foreign gods; and had persuaded the

people that he alone, whom they had wor­

shipped from the beginning was God, he was

sought for by the king's wife to be punished

for so doing. And when he had heard ano­

ther voice, telling him that he should come

out the next day into the open air, and

should thereby know what he was to do, he

came out of the cave the next day accord­

ingly. He then both heard an earthquake,

and saw the bright splendour of a fire; and

after a silence, a divine voice exhorted him

not to be disturbed with the circumstances he

was in; for that none of his enemies should

have power over him. The voice also com­

manded him to return home, and to ordain

Jehu, the son of Nimshi, to be king over

their own multitude; and Hazael, of Damas­

cus, to be over the Syrians; and Elisha, of

the city Abel, to be a prophet in his stead.

And that of the impious multitude, some

should be slain by Hazael, and others by

Jehu. So Elijah, upon hearing this charge,

returned into the land of the Hebrews. And

when he found Elisha, the son of Shaphat,

ploughing, and certain others with him

* For Izar, we may here read with Hudson and Coc-  
ceius, Isachar, i. e. of the tribe of Isachar, for to that

tribe did Jezreel belong: and presently, chap. xv. we

may read for Izar, with one MS. nearly, and the Scrip­

ture, Jezreel; for that was the city meant in the history

of Naboth.

t This certainly was the effect of her blind rage, and

not of any prudence in her; for prudence would have

advised her to conceal her resentment, until she had

been ready to put her design in execution; whereas this

sending him word was giving him notice of his danger,

and admonishing him to avoid it . But, since he had the

confidence to come where she was, she might think per­

haps, that he was as courageous as she was furious; that,

upon this notice he would scorn to fly; and she too, in

her pride, might scorn to kill him secretly or surrepti­

tiously, resolving to make him a public sacrifice. Patrick't

Commentary, and Pool's Annotations. B.

J 1 Kings xix. 3, 4.

II Elijah being now come to the same place, where

God had delivered the law to his servant Moses, God

was minded to communicate the like favour to his servant

the prophet, viz. to unveil his Majesty to him, and give

him some signal of his immediate presence: but there is

something very remarkable in the words of the text:—

And behold the Lord passed by, and a strong wind rent

the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks, hut the

Lord was not in the wind; and, after the wind, an earth­

quake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake; and

after the earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in the

fire; and, after the fire, a still small voice, 1 Kings xix,

11, &c. And various are the speculations which this ap­

pearance of the divine Majesty hath suggested to inter­

preters. The generality of them have looked upon this

as a figure of the gospel-dispensation, which came, not in

such a terrible manner as the law did, with storms, thun­

ders, lightnings, and earthquakes, (Exod. xix. 16.) but

with great lenity and sweetness, wherein God speaks to

us by his Son, who makes use of no other but gentle ar­

guments and soft persuasions. But, if we take this to be

a symbolical admonition to Elijah, according to the cir­

cumstances he was then in, we may reasonably suppose,

that herein God intended to shew him, that though he

had all the elements ready armed at his command to

destroy idolaters, if he pleased to make use of them, yet

he had rather attain his end by patience, and tenderness,

and long-suffering, (signified by that small still voice,

wherein the Deity exhibited himself,) and consequently,

that the prophet should hereby be incited to imitate him,

bridling that passionate zeal to which his natural com­

plexion did hut too much incline him. Le Clerc,>, Col*

wietf's, and Patrick's Commentaries.. B,

