378 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to discover his dream, he was undertaking to

inform him of it. For this was not by his

own skill, or on account of his having better

cultivated his undertaking than the rest:

"But," said he, "God hath had pity upon us,

when we were in danger of death; and when

I prayed for the life of myself, and of those of

my own nation, he hath manifested to me

both the dream and the interpretation thereof.

For I was not less concerned for thy glory,

than for the sorrow that we were by thee

condemned to die; while thou didst so un­

justly command men both good and excellent

in themselves to be put to death, when thou

enjoined them to do what was entirely above

the reach of wisdom; and required of them

what was only the work of God. Wherefore

as thou in thy sleep was solicitous concerning

those that should succeed thee in the govern­

ment of the whole world, God was desirous

to shew thee all those that should reign after

thee; and to that end exhibited to thee the

following dream:—Thou seemedst. to see a

great image standing before thee; the head

of which was of gold, the shoulders and arms

of silver, the belly and the thighs of brass;

but the legs and the feet of iron.* Thou

then sawest a stone broken off from a moun­

tain, which fell upon the image, and threw it

down and brake it to pieces, and did not

permit any part of it to remain whole; but

the gold, the silver, the iron, and the brass,

became smaller than meal; which, upon the

blast of a violent wind, was forcibly carried

away, and scattered abroad; but the stone

increased to such a degree, that the whole

earth beneath it seemed to be filled there­

with. This is the dream which thou sawest,

and its interpretation is as follows:—The

head of gold denotes thee, and the kings of

Babylon that have been before thee. But

the two hands and arms signify that thy go­

vernment shall be dissolved by two kings.

But another king that shall come from the

west, armed with brass, shall destroy that

government. And another government that

shall be like unto iron, shall put an end to the

power of the former, and shall have dominion

over all the earth; on account of the nature

of iron, which is stronger than that of gold,

of silver, and brass." Daniel also declared

the meaning of fthe stone to the king; but I

do not think it proper to relate it; since I

have only undertaken to describe things past,

or things present; but not the things that are

future. Yet if any one be so desirous of

knowing truth, as not to wave such points of

curiosity, and cannot curb his inclination for

understanding the uncertainties of futurity,

and whether they will happen or not, let him

diligently read the book of Daniel, which he

will find among the sacred writings.

* By these different emblems of metals and stone, God  
intended to signify to Nebuchadnezzar the several em­

pires that were to be in the world. The Assyrian or

Chaldean is represented by gold, because it was the first

and the most magnificent, if not the most extensive, and

Nebuchadnezzar, being then upon the throne, is said to be

head of it. That of silver is the Persian, founded by

Cyrus, upon the ruins of the Chaldean, but inferior to the

Chaldean in its duration at least, if not in its extent. That

of brass is the Grecian, founded by Alexander, upon the

ruins of the Persian, and its character is, that it should

bear rule over all the earth, Daniel ii. 39. which was

verified in its great founder; for, upon his return from

India to Babylon, the ambassadors of almost all the known

parts of the world resorted thither, to pay their homage

and acknowledgment of his dominion. That of iron is the

Roman empire, which is extinguished by its breaking in

pieces, and subduing all things, verse 40. For whilst it

was in its full strength and vigour, under its consuls and

first emperors, it brought under its dominion all the king­

doms and states that were then subsisting in Europe, Africa,

and a great part of Asia; but, from that time, it became a

mixture of iron and clay. Its emperors proved most of

them vicious and corrupt, either by their tyranny making

themselves hateful to their subjects, or, by their follies

and vices, contemptible. Lastly, that of the stone out of

the mountain, is the fifth monarchy, or the kingdom of

the Messiah's; which against all the power and policy of

the Roman empire, prevailed, not by an external force,

but by the powerful preaching of the gospel, to the sup­

pression and defeat of wickedness and impiety, idolatry,

and superstition, and it shall stand for ever, and never be

destroyed, Daniel ii. 44. which can be said of no other

kingdom but that of Jesus Christ, which, for these seven­

teen hundred years and upwards, has withstood the vio­

lence of persecutions, and all other contrivances formed

against it, and has the sure promises of its Almighty

Founder on its side, that the gates of hell should not pre­

vail against it, Matt. xvi. 18. Calmefs Commentary. B.

t This is a most remarkable passage in Josephus, con­

cerning the stone cut out of the mountain, and destroying

the image, which he intimated to be a prophecy of futurity;

and probably not safe for him to exclaim, as belonging to

the destruction of the Roman empire, by Jesus Christ,

the true Messiah of the Jews. Take here also the words

of Havercamp. "The place referred to by Josephus,"

says he, is " chap. 10. Nor is this to be wondered at,

that he would not meddle with things future. For he

had no mind to provoke the Romans, by speaking of the

destruction of the city, which they called the eternal city."

Note v. on X. 11.

