300 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

God to grant him that request. So the king

having his hand recovered to its natural

state, rejoiced at it; and invited the prophet

to sup with him. But Jadon said, he could

not endure to come into his house, nor to

taste of bread or water in that city.* For

that was a thing God had forbidden him to

do; as also to go back by the same way

which he came: but he said, he was to re­

turn by another way. So the king wondered

at the abstinence of the man; but was him­

self in fear, as suspecting a change of his

affairs for the worse, from what had been

said to him.

CHAP. IX.

or jadon's return to bethel at the instigation of a

FALSE PROPHET, AND HIS AWFUL END J THE EFFECT OF

THE LVINC PROPHET'S ARGUMENTS ON THE MIND OF

JEROBOAM, &C.

NOW there was a certain wicked man

in that city, who was a false prophet,

whom Jeroboam had in great esteem: but

he was deceived by him, and his flattering

words. This man was then bed-ridden, by

reason of the infirmities of old age. How­

ever he was informed by his sons concerning

the prophet that was come from Jerusalem,

and concerning the signs done by him: and

how when Jeroboam's right hand had been

enfeebled, at the prophet's prayer he had it

revived again. Whereupon he was afraid

that this stranger and prophet should be in

better esteem with the king than himself,

and obtain greater honour from him; and he

gave order to his sons to saddle his ass im­

mediately, and make all ready, that he might

go out. Accordingly they made haste to do

what they were commanded; and he got

upon the ass, and followed after the prophet.

And when he had overtaken him, as he was

resting himself under a thick and shady oak,

he at first saluted him, but presently he com­

plained of him, because he had not come

into his house, and partaken of his hospi­

tality. And when the other said, that God

had forbidden him to taste of any one's pro­

vision in that city, he replied, "Certainly

God had not forbidden that I should set food

before thee: for I am a prophet as thou art,

and worship God in the same manner that

thou dost: and I am now come, as sent by

him, in order to bring thee into mine house,

and make thee my guest." Now Jadon gave

credit to this lying prophet, and returned

back with him. But when they were at din­

ner, and were merry together, God appeared

to Jadon, and said, that he should sutler

punishment for transgressing his commands:

and he told him what that punishment should

be; for he said, that on his return "he should

meet with a lion, by which he should be torn

to pieces, and be deprived of burial in the

sepulchres of his fathers." Which things

came to pass, as I suppose, according to the

will of God: that so Jeroboam might not

give heed to the words of Jadon, as of one

that had been convicted of lying. However,

as Jadon was again going to Jerusalem, a

lion assaulted him, and pulled him off the

beast he rode on, and slew him: yet did he

not at all hurt the ass; but sat by him, and

kept him, as also the prophet's body. This

continued till some travellers that saw it

came and told it in the city to the false pro­

phet, who sent his sons, and brought the body

unto the city, and made a funeral for him, at

great expenses. He also charged his sons

to bury himself with him, and said, "that all

which he had foretold against that city, and

the altar, and priests, and false prophets,

would prove true:f and that if he were bu­

ried with him he should receive no injurious

* Why this prophet was forbid to eat or drink with the  
people of Bethel, the reason is obvious, because he was

to have no familiarity with idolaters; but why he should

not return by the same way that he went, is not so very

evident. There is a passage in Isaiah concerning Sen­

nacherib, which helps, as some think, to elucidate this

matter, where God tells him, that he would turn him back

by the same way that he came, Isaiah xxxvii. 29, 34, i. e.

he should return home without doing any thing. All his

threats and all his great projects should have no effect

against Jerusalem. And in like manner, when God com­

manded the prophet not to return by the same way, it

was at much as if he had said, "See that thou be constant,

and steadfast in executing the charge committed to thee;

let nothing hinder or divert thee, but take abundant care

that thou do thy business effectually." But this construc­

tion is a little too much strained; nor can I see, why we

may not say, that God enjoined his prophet not to return

by the same way, lest Jeroboam, or any other of the in­

habitants of Bethel, either to satisfy their curiosity upon

an occasion so uncommon, or to do him some mischief

for his severe denunciations against their altar and way ot

worship, might send men after him to bring him back.

Caltnefs and he Clerc't Commentaries. B.

t 1 Kings xiii. 32.

