ak. 958.] 30ft ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

to his servant, Jeroboam; and are now here

with him to fight against those who, by God's

own determination, are to reign, and to de-

Erive them of that dominion which they

ave still retained; for as to the greater

part of it, Jeroboam is unjustly in possession

of it. However, I do not suppose he will

enjoy it any longer; but when he hath suf­

fered that punishment which God thinks due

to him for what is past, he will leave off the

transgressions he hath been guilty of, and

the injuries he hath offered to him, and

which he hath still continued to offer; and

hath persuaded you to do the same. Yet,

when you were not any further unjustly

treated by my father, than that he did not

speak to you so as to please you; and this

only in compliance with the advice of wicked

men, you in anger forsook him, as you pre­

tended; but in reality you withdrew your­

selves from God, and from his laws. Although

it had been right for you to have given so

young a man not only some disagreeable

words; but if his youth and his unskilfulness

in affairs had led him into some unfortunate

actions; and that for the sake of his father

Solomon, and the benefits you received from

him. For men ought to excuse the sins of

posterity, on account of the benefactions of

parents. But you considered nothing of all

this then, neither do you consider it now;

but come with so great an army against us.

And what is it that you depend upon for

victory? Is it upon the golden heifers, and

the altars you have erected on high places,

which are demonstrations of your impiety,

and not of religious worship? Or is it the

exceeding multitude of your army which

gives you such good hopes? yet certainly

there is no strength in an army of many thou­

sands when the war is unjust. For we ought

to place our surest hope of success against

our enemies in righteousness alone, and in

piety towards God. Which hope we justly

have, since we have kept the laws from the

beginning, and have worshipped our own

God, who was not made by hands out of

corruptible matter; nor was he formed by a

wicked king, in order to deceive the multi­

tude; but who is *his own workmanship,

and the beginning and end of all things. I

therefore give you counsel even now to re­

pent, and to take better advice, and to leave

off the prosecution of the war; to call to

mind the laws of your country, and to reflect

what it hath been that hath advanced you to

so happy a state as you are now in."

This was the speech which Abijah made

to the multitude. But while he was still

speaking, Jeroboam sent some of his soldiers

privately to surround him on certain parts of

the camp that were not taken notice of. And

when he was thus within the compass of the

enemy, his army was affrighted, and their

courage failed them. But Abijah encouraged

them, and exhorted them to place their hopes

on God: for that he was not encompassed by

the enemy. So they all at once implored the

divine assistance; while the priests sounded

with the trumpets, and they made a shout,

and fell upon their enemies; and God brake

the courage and cast down the force of their

enemies, and made Abijah's army superior

to them. For God vouchsafed them a won­

derful and very famous victory; and such af

slaughter was now made of Jeroboam's army,

as is never recorded to have happened in any

other war; whether it were of the Greeks or

of the Barbarians; for they overthrew and

slew five hundred thousand of their enemies;J

and they took their strongest cities by force,

and spoiled them, and besides those they

did the same to Bethel and her towns; and

Jeshanah and her towns. And after this

defeat Jeroboam never recovered himself

during the life of Abijah; who yet did not

long survive: for he reigned but three years,|j

and was buried in Jerusalem, in the sepul­

* This is a strange expression in Josephus, that God  
is his own workmanship, or that he made himself; con­

trary to common sense, and to Christianity. Constitut.

Apost. VI. 11. Perhaps he only means that he was made

by none, but was unoriginated. See Cotelerius's note on

the forecited place of the Constitutions.

t By this terrible and unparalleled slaughter of 500,000

men of the newly idolatrous and rebellious ten tribes,

God's high displeasure and indignation against idolatry

and rebellion fully appeared; the remainder were thereby

seriously cautioned not to persist in them; and a kind of

balance or equilibrium was made between the ten and the

two tribes, for the time to come. While otherwise the

perpetually idolatrous and rebellious ten tribes would natu­

rally have been too powerful for the two tribes, which were

pretty frequently free both from such idolatry and rebellion.

Nor is there, by consequence, any reason to doubt the truth

of this prodigious number slain, upon so singular an occasion.

X 2 Chron. xiii. 17.

II From an. 959 to 957: two years and seven months

