244 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tell him what was the cause of it: however

he said, that he guessed it arose from the

passion of love. Amnon confessed that he

was in love with a sister of his, who had the

same father with himself. So Jonadab sug­

gested to him by what method and contri­

vance he might obtain his desires. For he

persuaded him to counterfeit sickness; and

bade him, when his father should come to

him, to beg of him that his sister might come

and minister to him; for if that were done he

should be better, and should quickly recover

from his distemper. So Amnon lay down on

his bed, and pretended to be sick, as Jona­

dab had suggested. And when his father

came, and inquired how he did, he begged of

him to send his sister to him. Accordingly

he presently ordered her to be brought to

him: and when she was come, Amnon bade

her make cakes for him, and fry them in a

pan, and do it all with her own hands; be­

cause he should take them better from her

than from any one else. So she kneaded the

flour in the sight of her brother, and made

him cakes, and baked them in a pan, and

brought them to him. But at that time he

would not taste them, but gave order to his

servants to send all that were there out of his

chamber; because he had a mind to repose

himself, free from tumult and disturbance. As

soon as what he had commanded was done,

he desired his sister to bring his supper to

him, into the inner parlour; which, when the

damsel had done, he took hold of her, and

endeavoured to persuade her to lie with him.

Hereupon the damsel cried out, and said,

"Nay, brother, do not force me, nor be so

wicked as to transgress the laws, and bring

upon thyself the utmost confusion. Curb this

thy unrighteous and impure lust: from which

our house will get nothing but reproach and

disgrace." She also advised him to speak to

his father about this affair, as he might pro­

bably permit him to marry her. This she

said, as desirous to avoid her brother's vio­

lent passion at present. But he would not

yield to her; but, inflamed with love, and

blinded with the vehemency of his passion,

he forced his sister. But as soon as Amnon

had gratified his desires he hated the object

of them: and giving her reproachful words,

bade her rise up and be gone.* And when

she said, that this was a more injurious treat­

ment than the former, because now he had

forced her, he would not let her stay with

him till the evening, but bid her go away in

the day time, and while it was light, that she

might meet with people that would be wit­

nesses of her shame; he commanded his ser­

vant to turn her out of his house. Hereupon

she was sorely grieved at the injury and vio­

lence that had been offered her:f and rent

her loose coat, (for the virgins of old time

wore such loose coats, tied at the hands, and

let down to the ankles, that the inner coats

might not be seen;) and sprinkled ashes on

her head; and went up the middle of the

city, crying out, and lamenting for the vio­

lence that had been offered her. Now Ab­

salom, her brother, happened to meet her,

and asked her, what sad thing had befallen

her, that she was in that plight? and when

* Interpreters seem to be at a great loss to find out the  
reason, why Amnon's love to his sister should so soon be

converted into such a hatred, as to make him act so

rudely, so brutally towards her; but it is no uncommon

thing for men of violent and irregular passions, to pass

from one extreme to another. The shame which accom­

panies every base action, the remorse and repentance,

and many bad consequences, that immediately pursue it,

make a recoil in every man's temper; and therefore it is

no wonder, that a libidinous young man, who would not

»pare so much as his own sister, should after fruition, and

when the ardour of his lust was satisfied, be seized with a

contrary passion, and hate the object he loved so much

before, when he came coolly to compare the pleasure and

the sin together, the shortness of the one, and the hei-

nousness of the other. He hated his sister, when he

should have hated himself; and as this outrageous treat­

ment made it impossible for his guilt to be concealed, so

God seems to have abandoned him to the tumult of his

intemperate mind, on purpose to make this punishment of

David's adultery more flagrant, and the prophet's predic-

tion of raising up evil to him out of his tmti house, 2 Sam.

xii. 11. more conspicuous; Calmet's and he Clerc's Com­

mentaries, and the History of the Life of King David. B.

t The manner of Tamar's signifying her vexation for

the injury and disgrace which her brother had put upon

her, is expressed by her putting ashes upon her head,

2 Sam. xiii. 19. And that this was an ancient custom,

whereby to denote one's grief and concern for any great

loss, or calamity, is evident from that passage of the prophet

concerning the people of Tyre: "They shall cry bitterly,

cast dirt upon their heads, and wallow themselves in the

ashes," Ezek. xxvi. 30. from Achilles's behaviour upon

the death of Patroclus, as we have it in Homer,

'Aft'I'OT^pTjd'i ae yfprfiv JXwv xoviv cbdaXosatfav

Xhalo xaxxeaak^s ya-osiv 5' »j<JVvvs tfpoffawrov.

Iliad. 18.

and from what Mezentius did upon the death of his Lausus,

according to Virgil:

Canitiem immundo deformat pulvere, et ambas

Ad caelum tendit palmaa - .dEneid. 10. H.'

