an. 2992.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

This calamity happened in the six hun-

dreth year of Noah's government or age, in

the second month,* called by the Macedo­

nians, Dius; but by the Hebrews, Marhesvan;

for so did they order their year in Egypt.

But Moses appointed that Nisan, which is the

same with Xanthicus, should be the first

month; so that this month began the year, as

to all the solemnities they observed in honour

of God: although he preserved the original

order of the months as to buying and selling,

and other ordinary affairs. Now he says,

that this flood began on the seventeenth day

of the before-mentioned month; and this was

one thousand five hundred and fifty-six years

from Adam the first man; and the time is

written down in our sacred books, thosef

who then lived having noted down, with great

accuracy, both the births and deaths of illus­

trious men.

For indeed Seth was born when Adam was

in his two hundred and thirtieth year: who

lived nine hundred and thirty years. Seth

begat Enoch in his two hundred and fifth

year; who, when he had lived nine hundred

and twelve years, delivered the government

to Cain his son; whom he had at his hundred

and ninetieth year. He lived nine hundred

and five years. Cain, when he had lived nine

hundred and ten years, had his son Malaleel,

who was born in his hundred and seventieth

year. This Malaleel having lived eight hun­

dred and ninety-five years, died, leaving his

son Jared, whom he begat when he was at his

hundred and sixty-fifth year. He lived nine

hundred and sixty-two years: and then his

son Enoch succeeded him; who was born

when his father was one hundred and sixty-

two years old. Now he, when he lived three

hundred and sixty-five years, departed and

went to God. Whence it is that they have

not written down his death. Now Mathusela,

the son of Enoch, who was born to him when

he was one hundred and sixty-five years old,

had Lamech for his son, when he was one

hundred and eighty-seven years of age; to

whom he delivered the government when he

had retained it nine hundred and sixty-nine

years. Now Lamech, when he had governed

seven hundred and seventy-seven years, ap­

pointed Noah his son to be ruler of the peo­

ple; who was born to Lamech when he was

one hundred and eighty-two years old, and

retained the government nine hundred and

fifty years. These years, collected together,

make up the sum before set down. But

let no one inquire into the deaths of these

men, for they extended their lives all along,

together with their children and grandchil­

dren: but let him have regard to their births

When God gave the signal, and it began to

rain, the water poured down forty intire days,

till it became fifteen cubitsJ higher than the

earth; which was the reason why there were

no greater number preserved, since they had

no place to fly to. When the rain ceased, the

water did but just begin to abate after one

hundred and fifty days, that is, on the seven­

teenth day of the seventh month. After this

the Ark rested on the top of a certain moun­

tain in Armenia; which, when Noah under­

stood, he opened it, and seeing a small piece

of land about it, he continued quiet, and con­

ceived some hopes of deliverance. But a few

days afterward, when the water was decreased

to a greater degree, he sent out a raven, as

desirous to learn whether any other part of

the earth was left dry by the water, and whe­

ther he might go out of the Ark with safety;

but the raven, finding all the land still over­

flowed, returned to Noah again. But after^

seven days"~Ee~ sent out a dove, to know the

state of the ground, which came back to him

covered with mud, and bringing an olive

branch. Hereby Noah learned that the earth

was become clear of the flood. So after he

had stayed seven more days, he sent the living

creatures out of the Ark, and both he and

his family went out; when he also sacrificed

* Josephus here truly determines, that the year at the  
flood began about the Autumnal Equinox. As to what day

of the month the flood began, our Hebrew and Samaritan,

and, perhaps, Josephus's own copy, more rightly placed it

on the 17th day instead of the 27th, as here; for Josephus

agrees with them as to the distance of one hundred and

fifty days to the 17th day of the Beventh month, as Gen.

vii. ult. with vin. 3.

t Josephus here takes notice, that these ancient gene-

alogies were first set down by those that then lived, and

from them were transmitted down to posterity: which I

suppose to be the true account of that matter; for there is

no reason to imagine that men were not taught to read and

write soon after they were taught to speak; and perhaps

all by the Messiah himself, who, under the father, was the

creator or governor of mankind, and who frequently, in

those early days, appeared to them.

X Gen. vii. 20.

