a^. 1460.] 159 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tribe, and gave it in charge to those that car­

ried them, to inform the tribes of those that

were the cause of his wife's death, and of the

violence they had offered her.

Upon this the people were greatly dis­

turbed at what they saw and heard; as never

having had the experience of such a thing

before. So they gathered themselves to Shi-

loli, out of a just anger; and, assembling in a

great congregation before the tabernacle,

they immediately resolved to take arms, and

to treat the inhabitants of Gibeah as enemies.

But the senate restrained them from doing so,

and persuaded them that they ought not so

hastily to make war upon people of the same

nation with them, before they discoursed with

them, by words, concerning the accusation

laid against them. It being* part of their law,

that they should not bring an army against

foreigners themselves, when they appear to

have been injurious, without sending an am-

bassage first, and trying thereby whether they

will repent or not; and accordingly they ex­

horted them to do what they ought, in obedi­

ence to their laws; that is, to send to the in­

habitants of Gibeah, to know whether they

would deliver up the offenders to them; and

if they should deliver them up, to rest satis­

fied with the punishment of those offenders;

but if they despised the message that was sent

them, to punish them, by taking up arms

against them. Accordingly they sent to the

inhabitants of Gibeah, and accused the young

men of the crimes committed in the affair of

the Levite's wife; and required of them, those

that had done what was contrary to the law,

that they might be punished; as having justlyf

deserved to die for what they had done. But

the inhabitants of Gibeah would not deliver

up the young men, and thought it too re­

proachful for them, out of fear of war, to sub­

mit to other men's demands upon them;

vaunting themselves to be no way inferior to

any in war, neither in their number, nor in

courage. The rest of their tribe also made

great preparation for war: for they were so

insolently mad also, as to resolve to repel

force by force.

When it was related to the Israelites, what

the inhabitants of Gibeah had resolved upon,

they took an oath that no one of them would

give his daughter in marriage to a Benjamite;

but that they would make war with greater

fury against them, than their forefathers had

made war against the Canaanites. Accord­

ingly they sent out an army of four hundred

thousand against them; while the Benjamites'

army wasJ twenty-five thousand and six hun­

dred; five hundred of whom were excellent

at slinging stones with their left hands. When

the battle was joined at Gibeah, the Benja­

mites beat the Israelites, and of them there

fell twenty-two thousand men; and probably

more had been destroyed had not the night

come on, and broken off the fight. So the

Benjamites returned to the city with joy, and

the Israelites returned to their camp in great

affliction at what had happened. On the next

day, when they fought again, the Benjamites

beat them, and eighteen thousand of the

Israelites were slain, and the rest deserted

their camp out of fear of a great slaughter.

So they came toll Bethel, a city that was near

the camp, and§ fasted on the next day, and

besought God, by Phineas, the high-priest,

that his wrath against them might cease; and

that he would be satisfied with these two de­

feats, and give them the victory over their

enemies. Accordingly God promised them

so to do, by the prophesying of Phineas.

When therefore they had divided the army

into two parts, they laid the one half of them

in ambush about the city Gibeah by night,

while the other half attacked the Benjamites;

these retiring upon the assault, the Benja­

mites pursued them; while the Hebrews re­

tired by slow degrees, as desirous to draw

them entirely from the city, and the other

followed them as they retired, till both the

old and young men that were left in the city

as too weak to fight, came running out toge­

ther as willing to bring their enemies under.

-'* See IV. 8. and Deut. xx. 10.

t Deut. xxii. 25.

j Jiidg. xx. 46, 47.

II Josephus seems here to have made a small mistake,

when he took the Hebrew word Beth-El, which denotes

the house of God, or the tabernacle, Judg. xx. 18, for the

proper name of a place, Bethel. It no way appearing that

the tabernacle was ever at Bethel. Only so far it is true,

that Shiloh, the place of the tabernacle in the days of the

Judges, was not far from Bethel.

§ See this account in Josephus, remarked as one of the

mo«t necessary and important emendations his temple copy

affords us, different from all our other copies. Liter

Accompl. of Proph. Supplement, pag. 76, 76, 77.

