AN. 1071.] 245 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

she told him, he comforted her, and desired

her to be quiet, and to take all patiently,

and not to esteem her being corrupted by

her brother, as an injury. So she yielded to

his advice, and left off crying out, and disco­

vering the force offered her to the multitude.

And she continued as a widow,* with her

brother Absalom a long time.

When David knew this, he was grieved at

the actions of Amnon. But because he had

an extraordinary affection for him, for he was

his eldest son, he was compelled not to af­

flict him. But Absalom watched for a conve­

nient opportunity of revenging this crime, for

he thoroughly hated him. Now the second

year after this wicked affair was over, and

Absalom was about to shear his own sheep at

Baalhazor, a city in the portion of Ephraim,

he besought his father, as well as his bre­

thren, to come and feast with him. But

when David excused himself, as not being

willing to be burdensome, Absalom desired

he would, however, send his brethren, whom

he did send accordingly. Then Absalom

charged his servants, that when they should

see Amnon disordered and drowsy with wine,

and he should give them a signal, they should

fear nobody, but kill him.

When they had done as they were com­

manded, the rest of his brethren were asto­

nished and alarmed for themselves. So they

immediately got on horseback, and rode away

to their father.f But somebody prevented

them, and told their father that they were

all slain by Absalom. Whereupon he was

overcome with sorrow, as for so many of his

sons that were destroyed at once, and by

this consideration, that it was their brother

that appeared to have slain them, he aggra­

vated his sorrow for them. So he neither

inquired what was the cause of this slaughter,

nor stayed to hear any thing else; which yet

it was but reasonable to have done, when so

very great, and by that greatness so in­

credible a misfortune was related to him.

He rent his clothes, and threw himself upon

the ground, and there lay lamenting the loss

of all his sons, both those who as he was in­

formed, were slain, and of him that slew them.

But Jonadab the son of his brother Shimeah,

intreated him not to indulge his sorrow so far;

for as to the rest of his sons he did not be­

lieve they were slain, for he found no cause

for such a suspicion. But he said it might

deserve inquiry as to Amnon. For it was not

unlikely that Absalom might venture to kill

him, on account of the injury he had offered

to Tamar. In the mean time a great noise

of horses, and a tumult of some people that

were coming, excited their attention. They

were the king's sons who were fled away

from the feast. So their father met them,

as they were in their grief, and he himself

grieved with them. But it was more than he

expected to see those his sons again, whom

he had a little before heard to have perished.

However, there were tears and groans on

both sides; they lamenting their brother who

was killed, and the king lamenting his son,

who was killed also: but Absalom fled to

Geshur, to his grandfather,^ by his mother's

side, who was king of that country, and he

remained with him three whole years.

Now David had a design to send to Ab­

salom ;|| not that he should come to be

punished, but that he might be with him. For

the effects of his anger were abated by length

of time. It was Joab, the captain of his host,

that chiefly persuaded him so to do. For he

suborned a woman that was stricken in age,

to go to the king in mourning apparel,§ who

said to him, that two of her sons had some

* 2 Sam. xiii. 20.

t 2 Sam. xiii. 29.

j 2 Sam. iii. 3.

II About an. 1068 B. C.

§ The art and contrivance of this widow of Tekoah's

speech is very remarkable. "When the woman of Te-

koah spake to the king, she fell on her face to the ground,

and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king! And the king

said to her, What aileth thee? And she said, I am indeed

a widow woman, and my husband is dead, and thy hand­

maid had two sons, and the two strove together in the

6eld, and there was none to part them, but the one smote

the other, and slew him; and behold this family is risen

against thy handmaid, and they say, Deliver him that

smote his brother, that we may kill him, for the life of

his brother, whom he slew, and we will destroy the heir

also; and so they shall quench my coal that is left, (i. e.

deprive me of the little comfort of my life which remains,

and is, as it were, a coal buried in the ashes,) and leave

to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the

earth." 2 Sam. xiv. 4, &c. Now the scope of all this

speech was to frame a case as like to David's as she could

devise, that by prevailing with him to determine it in her

favour, he might be convinced, how much more reasonable

it was to preserve Absalom. But, how plausible soever

the likeness might be, there was a wide difference be­

tween her case and his; for her son, as she pretended,

was slain in a scuffle with his brother; whereas Amnon

3A2

