»90 (book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

deaj of trouble. So when the people were

at a loss, and solicitous, because Saul disap­

peared; the prophet besought God to shew

where the young man was, and to produce

him before them. So when they had learned

the place where Saul was hidden, they sent

men to bring him; and when he was come,

they set him in the midst of the multitude.

Now was he taller than all of them, and his

stature was very majestic.

Then said the prophet, "God gives you

this man to be your king. See how he is

higher than all the people, and worthy of this

dominion."* So as soon as the people had

made acclamation, " God save the king," the

prophet wrote down what would come to

pass, in a book, and read it in the hearing of

the king, and laid by the book in the taber­

nacle of God; to be a witness to future gene­

rations of what he had foretold. So when

Samuel had finished this matter, he dismissed

the multitude; and came himself to the city

Ramah, in his own country. Saul also went

to Gibeah, where he was born; and many

good men there were who paid him the re­

spect that was due to him; but the greater

part were ill men, who despised him and de­

rided the others; who neither brought him

presents, nor attempted in affection, or even

in words, to please him.

CHAP. V.

of saul's expedition against the nation of the am­

monites, AND HIS SIGNAL VICTORY OVER THEM.

AFTER one month, the war which Saul

had with Nahash king of the Ammonites,

obtained him respect from all the people.

For this Nahash had done a great deal of

mischief to the Jew$, that lived beyond Jor­

dan; by the expedition he had made against

them, with a great and warlike army. He

also reduced their cities into slavery, and

that not only by subduing them for the pre­

sent, which he did by force and violence; but

weakening them by subtilty and cunning, that

they might not be able afterward to get clear

of their slavery, for he put out the rightf eyes

of those that either delivered themselves to

him upon terms4 or were taken by him in

war; and this he did that when their left eyes

were covered with their shields, they might

be wholly useless in war. Now when the

king of the Ammonites had served those be­

yond Jordan in this manner, he led his army

against those that were called Gileadites; and

having pitched his camp at the metropolis of

his enemies, which was the city Jabesh, he

sent ambassadors to them, commanding them

either to deliver themselves up, on condition

to have their right eyes plucked out; or to

undergo a siege, and to have their cities over­

thrown. He gave them their choice whether

they would cut off a small member of their

body, or universally perish. However, the

Gileadites were so affrighted at these offers,

that they had not courage to say any thing to

either of them; neither that they would de­

liver themselves up, nor that they would fight

him. But they desired that he would give

them seven days respite,|| that they might

send ambassadors to their countrymen, and

intreat assistance: and if they came to assist

them they would fight; but if that assistance

were impossible to be obtained, they would

deliver themselves up to suffer whatever he

pleased to inflict on them.§

* 1 Sam. x. 24.

t Take here Theodoret's note, cited by Dr. Hudson:

"He that exposes his shield to the enemy with his left

hand thereby hides his left eye, and looks at the enemy

with his right eye. He, therefore, that plucks out that

right eye, makes men useless in war."

J The reason why Nahash was for having their right

eye put out, was not only to bring a reproach upon Israel,

as himself declares, but to disable them likewise from

serving in war; for, as the manner of fighting in those

days was chiefly with bow and arrow, sword and shield,

the loss of the right eye made them incapable of either;

because, in combat, the left eye is covered with the shield,

and in shooting with the bow, it is usual to wink with it;

so that depriving them of their right eye, made them use­

less in war: and yet this barbarous king thought it not

proper to put out both their eyes; for then he would have

made them utterly incapable of doing him the service, or

acquiring the tribute for him, which he expected from

them. Calmet's Comment. B.

II It may seem a little strange, that this barbarous prince

should be willing to allow the Jabeshites the respite of

seven days; but Josephus assigns this reason for it, viz.

that he had so mean an opinion of the people, that he made

no difficulty to comply with their request. Saul indeed

had been appointed king, but having not as yet taken upon

him the government, he lived, just as he did before, in a

private condition, 1 Sam. xi. 5. So that had he, upon this

notice, endeavoured to levy an army, he could not think it

possible to be done in so short a space as seven days; and

therefore he thought he might grant them these conditions

without any danger, and without driving them to despera­

tion as he might have done, had he denied them their re­

quest. Patricks Comment. B.

§ 1 Sam. xi. 3.

