452 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

and irritated him against Judas, and accused

him; alleging that he had undergone many

miseries by his means; and that he would do

more mischief unless he were prevented, and

brought to punishment; which must be done

by sending a powerful force against him.

So Demetrius, being already of opinion

that it would be a thing pernicious to his

own affairs to overlook Judas, now he was

becoming so great, sent against him Nicanor,

the most faithful of all his friends. For he it

was who fled away with him from the city of

Rome. He also gave him as many forces as he

thought sufficient for him to conquer Judas;

and bade him not to spare the nation at all.

When Nicanor was come to Jerusalem, he

did not resolve to fight Judas immediately;

but judged it better to get him into his power

by treachery.* So he sent a pacific message,

and said, there was no manner of necessity

for them to fight, and hazard themselves; and

that he would give him his oath that he would

do him no harm. For that he only came with

some friends, in order to let him know what

king Demetrius's intentions were; and what

opinion he had of their nation. When Nica­

nor had delivered this message, Judas and his

brethren complied with him; and, suspecting

no deceit, they gave him assurances of friend­

ship, and received Nicanor and his army.

But while he was saluting Judas, and they

were talking together, he gave a certain signal

to his troops; upon which they were to seize

upon Judas. But he perceived the treachery,

and ran back to his own soldiers, and fled

away with them. So upon this discovery of

his purpose, and of the snares laid for Judas,

Nicanor determined to make open war with

him, and gathered his army together, and

prepared for fighting him; and upon joining

battle with him at a certain village called

Capharsalama, hef beat Judas, and forced

him to flee to that citadel, which was at Jeru­

salem.

When Nicanor came down from the citadel

unto the temple, some of the priests and

elders met him. and saluted him; and shewed

him the sacrifices which they said they

offered to God for the king. Upon this he

blasphemed; and threatened them, that un­

less the people would deliver up Judas to

him, upon his return, he would pull down the

temple.J And when he had thus threatened

them, he departed from Jerusalem. But the

priests fell into tears, out of grief at what he

had said; and besought God to deliver them

from their enemies. Now Nicanor, when he

was gone out of Jerusalem, and was at a cer­

tain village called Bethoron, he there pitched

his camp; another army out of Syria having

joined him. And Judas pitched his camp at

Adasa, another village, which was thirty fur­

longs distant from Bethoron; having no more

than ||one thousand soldiers. And when he

had encouraged them not to be dismayed at

the multitude of their enemies, nor to regard

how many they were against whom they were

going to fight; but to consider who they

themselves were; and for what great re­

wards they hazarded themselves, and to

attack the enemy courageously, he led them

out to fight; and joining battle with Nicanor

he overcame the enemy after a severe con­

flict, and slew many of them; and at last Ni­

canor himself fell, as he was fighting glori­

ously. Upon his fall the army did not stay;

but when they had lost their general, they

were put to flight, and threw down their

arms; Judas also pursued and slew them,

and gave notice by sound of trumpet to the

neighbouring villages, that he had conquered

the enemy. Which, when the inhabitants

heard, they put on their armour hastily, and

met their enemies in the face, as they were

running away, and slew them. Insomuch

that not one of them escaped out of this

battle: and they were in number nine thou­

sand. This victory happened on the thir­

teenth day of that month, which by the Jews

is called Adar, and by the Macedonians, Dys-

trus. And the Jews thereon ^celebrate this

victory every year; and esteem it to be a

* 1 Mace. vii. 27.

f Josephus's copies must have been corrupted, when

they here give the victory to Nicanor; contrary to the

words following: which imply that he who was beaten,

fled into the citadel; which belonged to the city of David,

or to mount Sion, and was in the possession of Nicanor's

garrison, and not of Judas's. As also it is contrary to the

express words of Josephus's original author, 1 Mace. vii.

32. who sayR. that Nicanor lost about 6000 men, and fled

to the city of David.

I 2 Mace. xiv. 33.

I! Three thousand, see 1 Mace. vii. 40.

§ Take Hudson's and Spanheim's notes on this place:

"This festival for a victory was annually celebrated by

the Jews, in memory of the conquest of Nicanor by Judas,

1 Mace. vii. 49. on the 13th of Adar. So do we read ip

