508 [book xiy ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

Antiochus, and Alexander, the son of Dosi-

theus, ambassadors of the Jews, good and

worthy men, proposed: who came to renew

that league of good will and friendship with

the Romans, which was in being before. They

also brought a shield of gold, as a mark of

confederacy; valued at fifty thousand pieces

of gold; and desired that letters might be

given them, directed both to the free cities,

and to the kings; that their country and their

havens might be at peace, and that no one

among them might receive any injury. It

therefore pleased the senate to make a league

of friendship and good will with them; and to

bestow on them whatsoever they stood in

need of; and to accept of the shield which

was brought by them. This was done in the

*ninth year of Hyrcanus, the high-priest and  
ethnarch, in the month of Panemus."

Hyrcanus also received honours from the

people of Athens; as having been useful to

them on many occasions. And when they

wrote to him, they sent him the following

decree:—

"Under the Prutaneia and priesthood of

Dionysius, the son of Esculapius; on the fifth

day of the latter part of the month Panemus;

this decree of the Athenians was given to

their commanders; when Agathocles was

archon, and Eucles the son of Menander of

Alimusia was the scribe. In the "fmonth

Munychion, on the eleventh day of the Pru­

taneia, a council of the presidents was held

in the theatre. Dorotheus the high-priest,

and the fellow presidents with him, put it to

the vote of the people; and Dionysius, the son

of Dionysius, gave the sentence. Since Hyr­

canus, the son of Alexander, the high-priest,

and ethnarch of the Jews, continues to bear

good will to our people in general, and to

every one of our citizens in particular, and

treats them with all sorts of kindness; and

when any of the Athenians come to him, either

as ambassadors, or on any private occasion,

he receives them in an obliging manner, and

sees that they are conducted back in safety;

of which we have had several former testimo­

nies: it is now decreed, at the report of The-

odosius, the son of Theodorus, and upon his

putting the people in mind of the virtue of this

man, and that his purpose is to do us all the

good that is in his power; to honour him with

a crown of gold, the usual reward according

to the law; and to erect his statue in brass

in the temple of Demus and of the graces

and that this present of a crown shall be pro­

claimed publicly in the theatre, in the Dio-

nysian shows, while the new tragedies are

acting; and in the Panathenean, Eleusinian.

and Gymnical shows also; and that the com­

manders shall take care, while he continues

in his friendship, and preserves his good will

to us, to return all possible honour and favour

to this man for his affection and generosity.

That by this treatment it may appear how

our people receive the good kindly, and re­

pay them a suitable reward; and he may be

induced to proceed in his affection towards

us, by the honours we have already paid him.

That ambassadors be also chosen out of all

the Athenians, who shall carry this decree to

him; and desire him to accept of the honours

we do him; and to endeavour always to be

doing some good to our city."

And this shall suffice as to the honours that

were paid by the Romans, and the people of

Athens to Hyrcanus.

CHAP. IX.

ANTIPATER BESTOWS THE GOVERNMENT OF GALILEE OS

HEROD; AND THAT OF JERUSALEM ON PHASAELUS. BUT

HEROD, UPON THE JEWS' ENVY AT ANTIPATER, IS AC­

CUSED BEFORE HYRCANUS.

NOWJ when Caesar had settled the af­

fairs of Syria, he sailed away. And as

soon as Antipater had conducted him out of

Syria, he returned to Judea. He then raised

up the wall which had been thrown down by

Pompey, and by coming thither he pacified

that tumult which had been in the country;

and this by both threatening, and advising

them to be quiet. For, he said, if they were

of Hyrcanus's side, they would live happily,

and lead their lives without disturbance, in

the enjoyment of their own possessions; but

if they were addicted to the hopes of what

might come by innovation, and aimed to get

wealth thereby, they should have him a severe

master, instead of a gentle governor; and

Hyrcanus a tyrant, instead of a king; and

the Romans, together with Caesar, their bitter

* An. 127.

t Read here the first of Munychion; and the 10th of

the Prutaneia.

X An. 44.

