526 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

more; because he was maimed: while the

*law required that this dignity should belong  
to none but such as had all their members

entire. But now one cannot but here admire

the fortitude of Phasaelus; who, perceiving

that he was to be put to death, did not think

death any terrible thing at all: but to die thus

by the means of his enemy, he thought most

pitiable and dishonourable: and therefore,

since he had not his hands at liberty, but the

bonds he was in prevented him from killing

himself thereby, he dashed his head against a

great stone, and thereby took away his own

life; which he thought to be the best thing

he could do in such distress as he was in. It

is also reported, that when he had made a

great wound in his head, Antigonus sent phy­

sicians to him, in order to cure it; and by

ordering them to infuse poison into the wound

killed him. However, Phasaelus hearing,

before he was quite dead, by a certain wo­

man, that his brother Herod had escaped the

enemy, underwent his death cheerfully; since

he now left behind him one who would re­

venge his death, and who was able to inflict

punishment on his enemies.

CHAP. XIV.

ov the ingratitude of the kino of arabia; and of

herod's successful application to the roman se­

nate; BY WHOM HE IS MADE KING OF THE JEWS.

THE great misfortunes of Herod did not

discourage his mind, but propelled him

to new and surprising undertakings. For he

went to Malchus, king of Arabia, whom he

had formerly been very kind to, in order to

receive somewhat by way of requital, now he

was in more than ordinary want of it; and

desired he would let him have some money;

either by way of loan, or as his free gift; on

account of the many benefits he had received

from him. For not knowing what was be­

come of his brother, he was in haste to re­

deem him out of the hand of his enemies; as

willing to give three hundred talents for the

price of his redemption. He also took with

him the son of Phasaelus, a child of but seven

years of age, that he might be a hostage for

the repayment of the money. But there came

messengers from Malchus to meet him, by

whom he was desired to be gone: for that

the Parthians had laid a charge upon him not

to entertain Herod. This, however, was only

a pretence, which he made use of, that he

might not be obliged to repay what he owed

him: and this he was farther induced to, by

the principal men among the Arabians; that

they might cheat him of what sums they had

received from his father Antipater, and which

he had committed to their fidelity. He made

answer that he did not intend to be trouble­

some to them by his coming thither; but that

he desired only to discourse with them about

certain affairs, that were to him of the greatest

importance.

Hereupon he resolved to go away, and

accordingly took the road to Egypt. And

then it was that he lodged in a certain tem­

ple; for he had left a great many of his fol­

lowers there. On the next day he came to

Rhinocolura; and there he heard what bad

befallen his brother. Though Malchus soon

repented of what he had done, and came run­

ning after Herod; but with no manner of

success. For he was gone a great way off,

and made haste into the road to Pelusium.

And when the stationary ships that lay there

hindered him from sailing to Alexandria, he

went to their captains: by whose assistance,

and that out of great regard to him, he was

conducted into Alexandria, and was retained

there by Cleopatra. Yet was she not able to

prevail with him to stay there, because he

was making haste to Rome; even though the

weather was stormy, and he was informed

that the affairs of Italy were very tumultuous

and in great disorder.

So he set sail for Pamphylia: and falling

into a violent storm, he had much difficulty

to escape to Rhodes; with the loss of the

ship's burden. And there it was that two of

his friends, Sappinas and Ptolemeus, met with

him. And as he found that city very much

damaged in the war against Cassius, though

he were in necessity himself, he neglected

not to do it a kindness; but did what he

could to recover it to its former state. He

also built there a three-decked ship: and set

sail thence, with his friends, for Italy; and

* This law of Moses, that the priests were to be with­  
out blemish, as to all the parts of their bodies, is in Lerit.

wi. 17—24. And Spanheim, on the parallel place of the

history Of the War, I. 9, 13. observes that the same law

obtained at Athens also.

