AN. 1158.] 177 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the)r sent for Sampson, and he was brought to

their feast, that they might insult him in their

cups. Hereupon he, thinking it one of the

greatest misfortunes if he should not be able

to revenge himself, when he was thus insult­

ed, persuaded the boy that led him by the

hand, that he was weary and wanted to rest

himself; and desired he would bring him

near the pillars. And as soon as he came to

them, he rushed with force against them; and

overthrew the house, by overturning its pil­

lars, with three thousand men in it,* who

were all slain, and himself with them. And

such was the end of Sampson, when he had

ruled over the Israelitesf twenty years. And

indeed this man deserves to be admired for

his courage, and strength, and his magna­

nimity at his death; and that his wrath against

his enemies went so far as to die himself with

them. But as for his being ensnared by a

woman, that is to be ascribed to human

nature, which is too weak to resist the temp­

tations to that sin. But we ought to bear

him witness, that in all other respects he was

one of extraordinary virtue. His kindred

took away his body, and buried it in Sarasai,

his own country, with the rest of his family.

CHAP. IX.

OF THE MARRIAGE OF BOOZ AND RUTH; FROM WHOM CAME

OBED, THE GRANDFATHER OF DAVID.

NOW after the death of Sampson, Eli, the

high-priest, was governor of the Israel­

ites. Under him.f when the country was af­

flicted with a famine, Elimelech, of Bethle­

hem, which is a city of the tribe of Judah,

being not able to support his family under so

sore a distress, took with him Naomi his wife,

and the children that were born to him by

her, Chilion and Mahlon; and removed his

habitation into the land of Moab; and upon

the happy prosperity of his affairs there, he

took for his sons wives of the Moabites,

Orpah for Chilion, and Ruth for Mahlon.

But in the compass of ten years both Eli­

melech, and a little while after him the sons,

died; and Naomi being very uneasy at these

accidents, and not able to bear her lonesome

condition, now those that were dearest to her

were dead, on whose account it was that she

had gone away from her own country, she

returned to it again; for she had been informed

that it was now in a flourishing condition.

However, her daughters-in-law were not able

to think of parting with her; and when they

had a mind to go out of the country with her,

she could not dissuade them from it. But

when they insisted upon it, she wished them

a more happy wedlock than they had with

her sons, and that they might have prosperity

in other respects also; and, seeing her own

affairs were so low, she exhorted them to

stay where they were, and not to think of

leaving their own country, and partaking

with her of that uncertainty, under which

she must return. Accordingly Orpah stayed

behind; but she took Ruth along with her, as

she could not be persuaded to stay behind,

but would share her fortune, whatsoever it

should prove.||

When Ruth was come with her mother-

in-law to Bethlehem, Booz, who was near

of kin to Elimelech, entertained her. And

when Naomi was so called by her fellow-

citizens, according to her true name, she

said, "You might more truly call me Mara."

Now Naomi signifies, in the Hebrew tongue,

Happiness; and Mara, Sorrow. It was now

reaping time; and Ruth, by the leave ol

altogether with some plain or cloistered buildings. Sev­

eral palaces and dau-wanas, as they called the courts of

justice in these countries, are built in this fashion; where

upon their festivals or rejoicings a great quantity of sand

is strewed upon the area for the wrestlers to fall upon,

whilst the roof of the cloisters round about is crowded

with spectators of their strength and agility. I have

often seen several hundreds of people diverted in this

imnner upon the roof of the dey's palace at Algiers,

which, like many more of the same quality and denomi­

nation, hath an advanced cloister over against the gate of

the palace, Esther v. 1. made in the fashion of a large

pent-house, supported only by one or two contiguous pil­

lars in the front, or else in the centre. In such open

structures as these, in the midst of their guards and

counsellors, are the bashas, kadeeSj and other great offi­

cers, assembled to distribute justice, and transact the

public affairs of their provinces. Here, likewise, they

have their public entertainments, as the lords and others

of the Philistines had in the house of Dagon. Upon a sup­

position, therefore, that in the house of Dagon, there was

a cloistered structure of this kind, the pulling down of the

front or centre pillars only, which supported it, would be

attended with the like catastrophe that happened to the

Philistines." Shaw't Travels, p. 283. B.

* Judg, xvi. 27, 30.

T From about 1158 to 1138 B. C.

t According to the date, (1350) it must have been long

before the government of Eli.

II Ruthi. 19

