384 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

had *another name among the Greeks.

Moreover, he took Daniel the prophet, and

carried him with him into Media, and ho­

noured him very greatly, and kept him with

him, for he was one of the three presidents

whom he set over his three hundred and sixty

provinces.

However, while Daniel was in so great

dignity, and in so great favour with Darius,

and was alone intrusted with every thing by

him, as having somewhat divine in him, he

was envied by the rest; for those that see

others in greater honour than themselves

with kings, envy them. And when those that

were grieved at the great favour Daniel was

in with Darius, sought for an occasion against

him, he afforded them no occasion at all.

For as he was above all the temptations of

money, and despised bribery, and esteemed

it a very base thing to take any thing by way

of reward, even when it might be justly given

him, he afforded those that envied him not

the least handle for an accusation. So when

they could find nothing for which they might

calumniate him to the king; and thereby de­

prive him of the honour he was in; they

sought for some other method whereby they

might destroy him. When therefore they

saw that Daniel prayed to God three times a

day,f they thought they had found an occa­

sion by which they might ruin him. So they

came to Darius, and told him, that the princes

and governors had thought proper to allow

the multitude a relaxation for thirty days;

that no one might offer a petition or prayer

either to himself, or to the gods; but that he

who should transgress this decree should be

cast into the den of lions, and there perish.J

Hereupon the king, not being acquainted

with their wicked design, nor suspecting that

it was a contrivance against Daniel, said he

was pleased with this decree; and promised

to confirm what they desired; he also pub­

lished an edict to promulgate that decree

which the princes had made. Accordingly

all the rest took care not to transgress those

injunctions, and rested in quiet. But Daniel

had no regard to them; but as he was wont

he stood and prayed to God in the sight of

them all. The princes having now met with

the occasion they so earnestly sought, came

presently to the king, and accused Daniel as

the only person who had transgressed the

decree; while not one of the rest durst pray

to their gods. This discovery they made,

not because of his impiety, but because they

had watched him and observed him out of

envy. For supposing that Darius did thus

out of a greater kindness to him than they

expected, and that he was ready to grant

him pardon for this contempt of his injunc­

tions; and envying this very pardon to Daniel,

they did not become more favourable to him,

but desired he might be cast into the den of

lions, according to the law. So Darius, ho­

ping that God would deliver him, and that

he would undergo nothing that was terrible

by the wild beasts; bade him bear this acci­

dent cheerfully: and when he was cast into

the den, he put his seal to the stone that lay

upon the mouth of the den, and went his way.

He then passed all the night without food,

and without sleep; being in great distress for

Daniel. But when it was day, he got up, and

came to the den; and found the seal entire,

which he had left the stone sealed withal;

he also opened the seal, and called to Daniel,

and asked him if he were alive? And as soon

as he heard the king's voice, and said, that

he had suffered no harm; the king gave order

that he should be drawn up out of the den.

Now when his enemies saw that Daniel had

suffered nothing which was terrible, they

would not own that he was preserved by God,

and by his providence; but they said, that

the lions had been filled with food, and on

that account it was, as they supposed, that

they would not touch Daniel, nor come to

him. And this they alleged to the king. Bat

the king, out of an abhorrence of their wick­

edness, gave order that they should throw in

a great deal of flesh to the lions; and when

* Cyaxares.

t It was a constant custom among the Jews, for those

that were in the country, or in any distant land, to turn

themselves towards Jerusalem; and for those that were at

Jerusalem, to turn towards the temple, when they prayed;

and the probable reason of this might be, the words of

Solomon, in his prayer to God, at the consecration of the

temple: If thy people, when led away captive, pray unto

thee toward their land which thou gavest unto their fa­

thers, the city, which thou hast chosen, and the house,

which 1 have built for thy name; then hear thou their

prayers, and their supplication, in heaven, thy dwelling

place, and maintain their cause, 1 Kings viii. 48, 49. B.

X Daniel vi. 7.

