AN. 237 1078.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the son of Jehoiada. His elder sons were near

his body, and had the care of it also.

He also called to mind the covenants and

the oaths he had made with Jonathan, the

son of Saul; and the friendship and affection

Jonathan had for him. For besides all the

rest of his excellent qualities, with which he

was endowed; he was also exceeding mindful

of such as had at other times bestowed

benefits upon him. He therefore gave order

that inquiry should be made, whether any of

Jonathan's lineage were living; to whom he

might make return of that familiar acquaint­

ance which Jonathan had had with him; and

for which he was still debtor. And when

one of Saul's freed men was brought to him,

who was acquainted with those of his family

that were still living, he asked him, whether

he could tell him of any one belonging to

Jonathan that was now alive; and capable

of a requital of the benefits he had received

from Jonathan? the man replied that a son

of his was remaining, whose name was Me-

phibosheth; but that he was lame of his feet,

for that when his nurse heard that the father

and grandfather of the child were fallen in

the battle, she snatched him up, and fled

away, and let him fall from her shoulders,

and his feet were lamed. So when he had

learned where, and by whom he was brought

up, he sent messengers to Machir, to the city

Lodebar; for with him was the son of Jona­

than brought up, and sent for him to come to

him. So when Mephibosheth came to the

king, he fell on his face, and worshipped him.

But David encouraged him, and bid him be

of good cheer, and expect better times. So

he gave him his father's house, and all the

estate which his grandfather Saul was in pos­

session of, and bade him come and diet with

him, at his own table, and never to be absent

one day. And when the youth had wor­

shipped him, on account of his words, and

gifts given to him; he called for Ziba, and

told him, that he had given the youth his

father's house, and all Saul's estate. He also

ordered that Ziba should cultivate his land,

and take care of it, and bring him the profits

of all to Jerusalem. Accordingly David

brought him to his table every day; and be­

stowed upon the youth, Ziba, and his sons,

who were in number fifteen, and his servants,

who were in number twenty. When the king

had made these appointments, and Ziba had

worshipped him, and promised to do all that

he had bidden him, he went his way. So that

this son of Jonathan dwelt at Jerusalem, and

dieted at the king's table, and had the same

care that a son could claim taken of him.

He also had himself a son.

Micha.

* whom he named

CHAP. VI.

OF THE WAR WAGED AGAINST THE AMMONITES, AND ITS

HAPPY CONCLUSION.

ABOUT thist time died Nahash, king of

the Ammonites, who was a friend of

David's.J And when his son had succeeded _

his father in the kingdom, David sent ambas­

sadors to him to comfort him; and exhorted

him to take his father's death patiently, and

to expect that he would continue the same

kindness to himself, which he had shewed to

his father. But the princes of the Ammonites

took this message in evil part, and not as

David's kind disposition, gave reason to take

it, and they excited the king to take it; and

said that David had sent men to spy out the

country, and what strength it had, under the

pretence of humanity and kindness. They

further advised him not to give heed to

David's words; lest he should be deluded by

him, and so fall into an inconsolable calamity.

Accordingly Nahash's son, the king of the

Ammonites, thought these princes spake what

was more probable than the truth would

admit; and so abused the ambassadors that

quently must be received into the inmost confidence.

For whether the office of a Lord Chancellor was con­

sistent with the constitution of the Jewish state, a modern

author seems to doubt. History of the Life of King David,

vol. 2. B.

* 1 Chron. viii. 34.

t About an. 1078 B. C.

I What the particular benefits which David had re­

ceived from Nahash were, we are no where told in Scrip­

ture; but some of the Jews say, that he fled to him,

when he durst stay no longer with Achish king of the

Philistines, and that he received him very kindly; others,

that he entertained his relations, when the king of Moab,

to whom he had committed them, slew some of them:

but the most likely opinion is, that as he was a bitter enemy

to Saul, who had given him a great overthrow, he, for

that very reason, became a friend to David, when he per­

ceived how Saul persecuted him, and thereupon might

send him relief and assistance, and perhaps offer him pro­

tection in his kingdom. Patrick's Commentary. B

Zz2

