182 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK VI.

Containing an Interval of Thirty-Two Year*.

FROM THE DEATH OF ELI TO THE DEATH OF SAUL.

CHAP. I.

OF THE DESTRUCTION THAT CAME UPON THE PHILISTINES,

BY THE WRATH OF GOD, ON ACCOUNT OF THEIR HAVING

CARRIED AWAY THE ARK; AND OF THE MANNER IN WHICH

THEY SENT IT BACK TO THE HEBREWS.

WHEN the Philistines had taken the ark

of the Hebrews, they carried it to the

city Ashdod, and put it by their own god, who

was called* Dagon, as one of their spoils.

But when they went into the temple the next

morning, to worship their idol, they found him

f>aying the same worship to the ark, for he

ay prostrate, as having fallen down from the

basis whereon he had stood. So they took him

up, and set him on his basis again, and were

much troubled at what had happened. And

as they frequently came to Dagon, and found

him still lying along in a posture of adoration

to the ark, they were in very great distress

and confusion. At length God sent a very

destructive disease upon the city and country

of Ashdod; for they died of the dysentery, a

sore distemper, that brought death upon them

very suddenly; for before they could, as usual

in easy deaths, be well loosed from the body,

they brought up their entrails, and vomited

up what they had eaten, and what was en­

tirely corrupted by the disease. And as to

the fruits of their country, a great multitude

of mice arose out of the earth and hurt them;

and spared neither the plants, nor the fruits.

Now while the people of Ashdod were under

these misfortunes, and were not able to sup­

port themselves under their calamities, they

* Dagon, a famous god or idol, is generally supposed to

perceived that they suffered thus because of

the ark; and that the victory they had gotten,

and their having taken the ark captive, had

not happened for their good. They there­

fore sent to the people of Ascalon, and de­

sired that they would receive the ark among

them. This desire was not disagreeable to

those of Ascalon; so they readily granted it;

but when they had gotten the ark, they were

in the same miserable condition; for the ark

carried along with it the disasters that the

people of Ashdod had suffered, to those who

received it from them. Those of Ascalon

also sent it away to others; %vho, being pur­

sued by the same disasters, again sent it to

the neighbouring cities. So that the ark went

round, after this manner, to the five cities of

the Philistines; as though it exacted these

disasters as a tribute for its coming among

them.

When those that had experienced these

miseries were tired out with them, and when

those that heard of them were taught thereby

not to admit the ark among them, since they

paid so dear a tribute for it; at length they

sought for some contrivance how they might

get free from it. So the governors of the five

cities, Gath, Ekron, Ascalon, Gaza, and

Ashdod, met together, and considered what

was fit to be done. And at the first they

thought proper to send the ark back to its

own people; as allowing that God had

avenged its cause, that the miseries they had

undergone came along with it, and that those

were sent on their cities upon its account,

have been like a man about the navel, and like a fish be

neath it.

