an. 1532.] 97 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. vin.

OF THE PRIESTHOOD OF AAROH.

WHEN what has been described was

brought to a conclusion, gifts not

being yet presented, God appeared to Moses,

and enjoined him to bestow the high-priest­

hood upon Aaron* his brother; as upon him

that best deserved to obtain that honour, on

account of his virtue; and when he had ga­

thered the multitude together, he gave them

an account of Aaron's virtue, and of his good

will to them, and of the dangers he had un­

dergone for their sakes, upon which, when

they had given testimony to them in all re­

spects, and shewed their readiness to receive

him, Moses said to them, "O ye Israelites,

this work is already brought to a conclusion,

in a manner most acceptable to God, and ac­

cording to our abilities: and now, since you

see that he is received into this tabernacle,

we shall first of all stand in need of one that

may officiate for us, and may minister to the

sacrifices, and to the prayers that are to be

put up for us. And, indeed, had the enquiry

after such a person been left to me, I should

have thought myself worthy of this honour,

both because all men are naturally fond of

themselves, and because I am conscious to

myself that I have taken a great deal of pains

for your deliverance: but now God himself

has determined that Aaron is worthy of this

honour, and has chosen him for his priest, as

knowing him to be the most righteous person

among you: so that he is to put on the vest­

ments which are consecrated to God; he is

to have the care of the altars, and to make

provision for the sacrifices; and he it is that

must, put up prayers for you to God, who will

readily hear them, not only because he is

himself solicitous for your nation, but also

because he will receive them as offered by

one that he hath himself chosen to this office."

The Hebrewsf were pleased with what was

said, and they gave their approbation to him

whom God had ordained; tor Aaron was the

most deserving of this honour, on account of

his own gift of prophecy, and his brother's

virtue. He had at that time four sons, Na-

dab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

Now Moses commanded them to make use

of all the utensils which were more than were

necessary to the structure of the tabernacle,

for covering the tabernacle itself, the candle­

stick, and altar of incense, and the other ves­

sels, that they might not be at all hurt when

they journeyed, either by the rain, or by the

rising of the dust; and when he had gathered

in the multitude together again, he ordained

that they should offer half a shekel for every

man as an oblation to God, which shekel is a

Hebrew coin, and is equal to four Athenian

drachmae;} whereupon they readily obeyed

what Moses had commanded, and the number

of offers was six hundred and five thousand,

five hundred and fifty. Now this money, that

was brought by the men that were free, wai

given by such as were above twenty years

old, but under fifty; and what was collected

was spent in the uses of the tabernacle.

Moses now purified the tabernacle and the

priest, which purification was performed after

the following manner. He commanded them

to take five hundred shekels of choice myrrh;

an equal quantity of cassia, and half the fore­

going weight of cinnamon, and a sort of sweet

spice, called calamus; to beat them small,

and wet them with a hin|| of olive oil; to mix

them together, and boil them, and prepare

them after the art of the apothecary, and

make them into a very sweet ointment; and

afterward to take it to anoint and purify the

priests themselves, and all the tabernacle, as

* Exod. xxviii. 1.

t It is worthy observation, that the two principal quali­

fications here required for the constitution of the first high-

priest, viz. that he should have an excellent character for

virtuous and good actions, as also that he should have the

approbation of the people, are here noted by Josephus,

even where the nomination belonged to God himself,

which are the very same qualifications which the Christian

religion requires in the choice of Christian bishops, priests,

and deacons, as the Apostolical Constitution informs us, II.

3, VIII. Nor is it unworthy of our notice, that Philo's

peculiar word here cited, apieivSriv, that the governor was

to be of a most excellent character, is also the peculiar

word of the Apostolical Constitutions on this occasion,

VIH. 4.

J This weight and value of the Jewish shekel, in the

days of Josephus, equal to about 2s. lOd. sterling, is by

the learned Jews owned to be one fifth larger than their

old shekels, which determination agrees perfectly with

the remaining shekels that have Samaritan inscriptions,

coined generally by Simon the Maccabee, about 230 years

before Josephus published his Antiquities, which never

weighed more than 2s. 4-Jd. and commonly but 2s. 4*d,

See Reland, De Nummis Samaritanorum, p. 188.

II This hin is a Hebrew measure, and contains two

Athenian choas, or congiuses.

