108 [BOOK III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

"N

turned home, having spent forty days in the

whole work. They also brought with them

of the excellent fruits which the land bare,

and gave an account of the great quantity of

the good things the country afforded, which

were motives to the multitude to go to war;

but then they terrified them again with the

great difficulty there was in obtaining it, say­

ing, that the rivers were so large and deep

that they could not be passed over, the hills

were so high that they could not travel along

for them, and the cities were strengthened

with walls and firm fortifications. They told

them also, that they found at Hebron the pos­

terity of the giants. Accordingly these spies,

who had seen the land of Canaan, when they

perceived that all these difficulties were

greater there than they had met with since

they came out of Egypt, were affrighted at

them themselves, and endeavoured to intimi­

date the multitude also.

From this account the people supposed that

it was impossible to get the possession of the

c( jntry,* and when the congregation was

dissolved, they, their wives, and children,

continued their lamentations, as if God would

not indeed assist them, but only promised

them fair; they also again blamed Moses,

and made a clamour against him and his

brother Aaron, the high-priest; accordingly

they passed that night very ill, and with con-

tumelous language against them; but in the

morning they ran to a congregation, intend­

ing to stone Moses and Aaron, and then to

return into Egypt/f

But of the spies there were Joshua the son

of Nun, of the tribe of Ephraim, and Caleb

of the tribe of Judah, who were afraid of the

consequence, and came into the midst of

them, and stilled the multitude: desiring them

to be of good courage, and neither to con­

demn God, as having deceived them, neither

to hearken to those who had affrighted them

by telling what was not true concerning the

Canaanites, but believe those that encouraged

them to hope for good success, and that they

should gain possession of the happiness pro­

mised them, because neither the height of

mountains, nor the depth of rivers, could

* This was the effect of their unhelief; a sin with  
which they are repeatedly charged in the Scriptures, and

which was the more aggravated in them, as they had wit-

hinder men of true courage from attempting

them, especially while God would take care

of them beforehand, and be assistant to them.

"Let us go then," said they, "against our

enemies, and have no suspicion of ill success,

trusting in God to conduct us, and following

those that are to be our leaders." Thus did

these two exhort them, and endeavour to pa­

cify the rage they were in; but Moses and

Aaron fell on the ground, and besought God,

not for their own deliverance, but that he

would now put a stop to what the people

were unwarily doing, and would bring their

minds to a quiet temper, which were now dis­

ordered by their present passion. The cloud

also now appeared, and stood over the taber­

nacle, declaring the presence of God to be

there. J

CHAP. XV.

OF THE PUNISHMENT THREATENED TO THE ISRAELITES ON

ACCOUNT OF. THEIR REBELLION: SKETCH OF THE POWER

AND INFLUENCE OF THE JEWISH LEGISLATOR.

MOSES now came boldly to the multi­

tude and informed them, that God was

moved at their abuse of him, and? would in­

flict punishment upon them, not indeed such

as they deserved for their sins, but such as

parents inflict on their children, in order to

their correction; for, he said, that when he

was in their tabernacle, and was bewailing

with tears that destruction which was coming

upon them, God put him in mind what things

he had done for them, and what benefits they

had received from him, and yet how ungrate­

ful they had proved: that just now they had

been induced by the timorousness of the spies

to think their words truer than his own pro­

mise to them, and that on this account, though

he would not destroy them all, nor utterly ex­

terminate their nation, which he had honoured

more than any other part of mankind; he

would not permit them to take possession of

the land of Canaan, nor enjoy its happiness,

but would make them wander in the wilder­

ness, and live without a fixed habitation, and

without a city, for forty years together, as a

punishment for their transgression; but at the

nessed so many signal and repeated exertions of the Divine

power. B.

t Numb. xiv. 4.

} Numb. xiv. 10.

