AN. 1532.] 87 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them by twenties and by tens. And let there

be one commander over each number, to be

nominated from the number of those over

whom they are rulers; but such as the whole

multitude have tried and approve* of, as be­

ing good and righteous men; and let these

rulers decide the controversies they have one

with another; if any great cause arise, let

them bring the cognizances of it before the

rulers of a higher dignity; and if any great

difficulty arise, that is too hard for even their

determination, let them send it to thee. By

these means two advantages will be gained;

that the Hebrews will have justice done

them, and thou wilt be able to attend con­

stantly on God, and procure him to be more

favourable to the people.

This was the admonition of Raguel, which

Moses received very kindly, and acted accor­

ding to his suggestion: nor did he conceal the

invention of this method, nor pretend to it

himself, but informed the multitude who it

was that invented it; nay, he has named Ra­

guel in the books he wrote, as the person

who invented the ordering of the people, as

thinking it right to give a true testimony to

worthy persons, although he might have ob­

tained reputation by ascribing to himself the

invention of other men; whence we may learn

the virtuous disposition of Moses; but of that

disposition we shall have occasion to speak in

other places.

CHAP. V.

OF MOSES S ASCENT TO MOUNT SINAI; AND OF THE DIVINE

LAWS WHICH HE RECEIVED FROM GOD, AND DELIVERED

TO THl HEBREWS.

N

OW Moses called the multitude together,

and told them that he was going unto

mount Sinai, to converse with God, to receive

and to bring back with him a certain oracle.

But he enjoined them to pitch their tents near

the mountain: and prefer the habitation that

was nearest to God, before one more remote.

When he had said this, he ascended up to

mount Sinai, which is the highest of all the

mountains,f that are in that country, and is

not only very difficult to be ascended by men

on account of its vast altitude, but because

of the sharpness of its precipices. Nay, in­

deed, it cannot be looked at without pain to

the eyes; and besides this, it was terrible and

inaccessible on account of a general rumour

that God dwelt there. But the Hebrews re­

moved the tents, as Moses had bidden them,

and took possession of the lowest parts of the

mountain; and were elevated in their minds,

in expectation that Moses would return with

promises of the good things he had proposed

to them. So they feasted, and waited for

their conductor, and kept themselves pure

foT three days, as he had before ordered them

to do. And they prayed to God, that he would

favourably receive Moses in his conversing

with him, and bestow some such gifts upon

them by which they might live well. They

also lived more plentifully as to their diet;

and put on their wives and children more

ornamental clothing than they usually wore.

Two days passed in this way of feasting;

but on the thirdJ day, before sun-rise, a cloud

spread itself over the whole camp of the He­

brews; such an one as none had before seen,

and encompassed the place where they had

pitched their tents. And while all the rest

of the air was clear, there came strong winds

that raised up large showers of rain, which

became a mighty tempest. There was also

such lightningjl as was terrible to those that

* This manner of electing the judges and officers of the  
Israelites by the testimonies and suffrages of the people,

before they were ordained by God or Moses, deserves to

be carefully noted, because it was the pattern of the like

manner of the choice and ordination of bishops, presby­

ters, and deacons, in the Christian church. See Constitut.

Apost. VIII. 4, 16, 18.

t Since this mountain Sinai is here said to be the high­

est of all the mountains in that country, it must be that

now called St. Catharine's, which is one third higher than

that within a mile of it now called Sinai, as Monsieur

Thevenot informs as, Travels, Part I. chap, xxviii. page

168, 169. The other name of it, Horeb, is never used by

-Tosephus, and perhaps was its name among the Egyptians  
only, whence the Iraelites were lately come, as Sinai

was its name among the Arabians. Oanaanites, and other

voL. I. No. 8.

nations. Accordingly, when 1 Kings, ix. 8, the Scripture

says that Elijah came to Horeb, the mount of God, Jose-

phus justly says, Anliq. VIII. 13, that he came to the

mountain called Sinai: and Jerome, here cited by Dr.

Hudson, says, that he took this mountain to have two

names, Sinai and Choreb. De Nomin. Heb. j age 427,

(Edit. Benedict.)

X Exod. xix. 16.

II That fire and lightning should attend the presence of

God is a notion so frequent in the most ancient and Orien­

tal theology, that it might possibly give occasion to the

worship of fire among the Chaldeans and Persians; to the

magi, among the Cappadocians, called Purrethi, which

Strabo mentions, and to the vestal fires among the Greeks

and Romans, as well as the ancient Britons.

