AN. 519.] 395 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

them leave to assist in building the temple.

"For," said they, "we worship your God, and

especially pray to him, and are desirous of

the same religious settlement; and this ever

since Shalnianezer, king of Assyria, trans­

planted us out of Cuthah and Media to this

place."* When they said thus, Zorobabel,

and Jeshua, the high-priest, and the heads of

the families of the Israelites replied, that it

was impossible to permit them to be their

partners, whilst they only had been appoint­

ed to build that temple at first by Cyrus, and

now by Darius :f although it was indeed law­

ful for them to come and worship there, if they

pleased; and that they could allow them no­

thing but that in common with them.

When the CutheansJ heard this, they had

indignation at it, and persuaded the nations

of Syria to desire of the governors, in the

same manner as they had done formerly in the

days of Cyrus, and in the time of Cambyses

afterwards, to put a stop to the building of the

temple; and to endeavour to delay and pro­

tract the Jews in their zeal about it. Now at

this time Sisinnes, the governor of Syria, and

Phoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes, with certain

Others, came up to Jerusalem, and asked the

rulers of the Jews, by whose grant it was that

they built the temple in this manner? since

it was more like a citadel than a temple.

And for what reason it was that they built

cloisters and walls, and those strong ones too,

about the city? Zorobabel, and Jeshua the

^high-priest, replied, that "they were the ser­

vants of God Almighty: that this temple was

built for him by a king of theirs, that lived in

great prosperity, and one that exceeded all

men in virtue; and that it continued a long

time; but that, because of the impiety of

their forefathers, Nebuchadnezzar, king of

the Babylonians and of the Chaldeans, took

their city by force, and destroyed it, and pil­

laged the temple, and burnt it down, and

transplanted the people whom he had made

captives, and removed them to Babylon: that

Cyrus, who, after him, was king of Babylonia

and Persia, wrote to them to build the tem­

ple; and committed the gifts and vessels, and

whatever Nebuchadnezzar had carried oat of

it, to Zorobabel, and Mithridates, the treasu-

* Ezra iv. 1, 2.  
t Ezra iv. 3.

voL. I.—NOS. 33 & 34.

rer; and gave order to have them carried to

Jerusalem, and to have them restored to their

own temple, when it was built. For he had

sent to them to have that done speedily; and

commanded Senabassar to go up to take care

of the building of the temple. Who upon

receiving that epistle from Cyrus, came, and

immediately laid its foundations. "And al­

though it hath been in building from that time

to this," said they, "it hath not yet been

finished, by reason of the malignity of our

enemies. If therefore you think proper, write

this account to Darius; that when he hath

consulted the records of the kings, he may

find that we have told you nothing that is false

about this matter."

When Zorobabel and the high-priest had

made this answer, Sisinnes, and those that

were with him, did not resolve to hinder the

building, until they had informed king Darius

of all this. So they immediately wrote to

him about these affairs; while the Jews were

under terror, and afraid lest the king should

change his resolution, as to the building of

Jerusalem, and of the temple. There were,

however, two prophets at that time among

them, Haggai and Zachariah,who encouraged

them, and bade them be of good cheer, and

to suspect no discouragement from the Per­

sians: for that God foretold this to them. So

in dependence on those prophets, they appli­

ed themselves earnestly to building, and did

not intermit one day.

Now the Samaritans, in their epistle to Da­

rius, had accused the Jews of fortifying the

city, and building the temple more like a

citadel than a temple; and said that their

doings were not expedient for the king's af­

fairs, and besides, they shewed the epistle of

Cambyses, wherein he forbade them to build

the temple. Darius therefore, when he un­

derstood that the restoration of Jerusalem was

not expedient for his affairs, and when he had

read the epistle that was brought him from

Sisinnes, and those that were with him, gave

order that what concerned these matters

should be sought for among the royal records.

Accordingly a book was found at Ecbatana,

in the tower that was in Media, wherein was

written as follows: "Cyrus the king, in the

I Samaritans.

3U

