26 [book I ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

rious actions." He answered, "And what

advantage will it be to me to have such re­

wards, when I have none to enjoy them after

me?" for he was hitherto childless. And

God promised that, he should have a son,

and that his posterity should be very nu­

merous; insomuch that their number should

be like the stars. When he heard that, he

offered a sacrifice to God, as he commanded

him. The manner of the sacrifice was

this:* He took an heifer of three years old,

and a she-goat of three years old, and a

ram in like manner of three years old, and a

turtle dove, and a pigeon; and as he was en­

joined, he divided the three former,f but the

birds he did not divide. After which, before

he built his altar, where the birds of prey

flew about as desirous of blood, a divine voice

came to him declaring that their neighbours

would be grievous to his posterity, when they

should be in Egypt, for four hundred years 4

during which time they should be afflicted,

but afterwards shall overcome their enemies,

should conquer the Canaanites in war, and

possess themselves of their land, and of their

cities.

Now Abram dwelt near the oak called

Ogyges: the place belongs to Canaan, not

far from the city of Hebron. But being un­

easy at his wife's barrenness, he intreated

God to grant that he might have male issue:

and God required of him to be of good

courage, and said, that he would add to all

the rest of the benefits he had bestowed upon

him, ever since he led him out of Mesopota­

mia, the gift of children. Accordingly Sarai,

at God's command, brought to his bed one of

her handmaidens, a woman of Egyptian de>

scent, in order to obtain children by her: and

when this handmaid was pregnant, she tri­

umphed, and ventured to affront Sarai, as if

the dominion were to come to a son to be

born of her. But when Abram resigned her

into the hands of Sarai, to punish her, she

contrived to flee away, as not able to bear

the instances of Sarai's severity to her: and

she intreated God to have compassion on

her. Now a divine angel met her as she was

going forward in the wilderness, and bid her

return to her master and mistress: for if she

would submit to that wise advice, she should

live better hereafter: for that the reason of

* It is worthy of remark, that God required no other  
sacrifices under the law of Moses, than what were taken

from these five kinds of animals which he here required

of Abram. Nor did the Jews feed upon any other do­

mestic animals than the three here named, as Reland ob­

serves on Antiq. iv. 4.

t It was a customary thing to cut the victim, which was

to be offered as a sacrifice upon the occasion, into two

parts, and so placing each half upon two different altars,

to cause those who contracted the covenant to pass be­

tween both. This rite was practised both by believers

and heathens at their solemn leagues: at first, doubtless,

with a view to the great sacrifice, who was to purge our

sins in his own blood: and the offering of these sacrifices,

and passing between the parts of the divided victim, was

symbolically staking their hopes of purification and salva­

tion on their performance of the conditions on which it

was offered. This remarkable practice may be clearly

traced in the Greek and Latin writers. Homer has the fol­

lowing expression: Opjpa ifica «f*ov«ff. II. ii. 124. Hav­

ing cut faithful oaths. Eustathius explains the passage by

saying, they were oaths relating to important matters, and

were made by the division of the victim. See also Virgil,

JEn. viii. ver. 640. The editor to the Fragments, Sup­

plementary to Calmet, No. 129. is of opinion that what is

yet practised of this ceremony may elucidate that passage

in Isaiah xxviii. 15. We have made a covenant with death,

and with hell are we at agreement: when the overflowing

scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us, for we

have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid

ourselves. That is, we have cut off a covenant sacrifice, a

purification offering with death, and With the grave we have

settled, so that the scourge shall not injure us. May not

such a custom have been the origin of (he following super­

stition related by Pitts: "If they (the Algerine Corsairs)

at any time happen to be in a very great strait or distress, as

being chased, or in a storm, they will gather money, light

up candles in remembrance of some dead marrabot (saint)

or other, calling upon him with heavy sighs and groans. If

they find no succour from their before-mentioned rites and

superstitions, but that the danger rather increases, then

they go to sacrificing a sheep, (or two or three upon occa­

sion as they think needful) which is done after this man­

ner: having cut off the head with a knife, they immedi­

ately take out the entrails, and throw them and the head

overboard; and then, with all the speed they can (without

skinning) they cut the body into two parts by the middle,

and throw one part over the right side of the ship, and the

other over the left, into the sea, as a kind of propitiation.

Thus those blind infidels apply themselves to imaginary

intercessors, instead of the living and true God." Travels,

p. 18. In the case here referred to, the ship passes be­

tween the parts thus thrown on each side of it. This be­

haviour of the Algerines may be taken as a pretty accurate

counterpart to that of making a covenant with death, and

with imminent danger of destruction, by appeasing the an­

gry gods. Festivities always accompanied the ceremonies

attending oaths. Isaac and Abimelech feasted at making

their covenant, Gen. xxvi. 30. and xxxi. 54. This prac­

tice was also usual among the heathen nations. Oriental

Customs, Vol. I. 294. B.

J As to this affliction of Abraham's posterity for four

hundred years, see II. 9

