560 [BOOK *▼, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

government, introduced such customs as

they had never been used to before: as in­

deed in pretence a king, but in reality one

that shewed himself an enemy to their whole

nation. On this account ten men, that were

citizens of Jerusalem, conspired together

against Herod, and swore to one another

to undergo any dangers in the attempt; and

took daggers with them, under their gar­

ments, for the purpose of killing him. Now

there was a certain blind man among these

conspirators, who had thus sworn, on ac­

count of the indignation he had against what

he heard to have been done. He was not

indeed able to afford the rest any great as­

sistance in this undertaking; but was ready

to undergo any suffering with them, in the

event of their sustaining any harm; insomuch

that he became a very great encourager of

the rest of the undertakers.

When they had taken this resolution, they

went up into the theatre; hoping that He­

rod himself could not escape them, as they

should fall upon him so unexpectedly; and

supposing that if they missed of him, they

should kill a great many of those that were

about him. And this resolution they took,

though they should die for it, in order to

suggest to the king what injuries he had

done to the multitude. These conspirators

standing thus previously prepared, went

about their design with great alacrity. But

there was one of those spies of Herod's that

were appointed to inform him of any con­

spiracies that should be made against him,

who found out the whole affair, and told the

king of it, as he was about to go into the

theatre. So when he reflected on the ha­

tred which he knew the majority of the peo­

ple bore him, and on the disturbances that

arose upon every occasion, he thought this

plot against him not to be improbable. Ac­

cordingly he retired into his palace; and

called those that were accused of this con­

spiracy before him by their several names.

And as upon the guards falling upon them,

they were caught in the very fact, and

knew they could not escape, they prepared

themselves for their ends with all the de­

cency they could; and so as not to recede

from their resolute behaviour. For they

shewed no shame for what they were about;

nor denied it: but when they were seized,

they shewed their daggers, and professed

that the conspiracy they had sworn to was

a holy and a pious action; that what they

intended to do was not for gain, nor out of

any indulgence to their passions; but prin­

cipally for those common customs of their

country, which all the Jews were obliged to

observe, or to die for them. This was what

these men said, out of their undaunted cou­

rage in this conspiracy. So they were led

away to execution by the king's guards, that

stood about them; and patiently underwent

all the torments inflicted on them till they

died. Nor was it long before that spy, who

had discovered them, was seized on by some

of the people, out of the hatred they bore

him, and was not only slain by them, but

pulled to pieces limb from limb, and given

to the dogs. This action was seen by many

of the citizens; yet would not one of them

discover the perpetrators of it; till upon

Herod's making a strict scrutiny after them,

by bitter and severe tortures, certain women

that were tortured confessed what they had

seen done. The authors of the fact were

then so terribly punished by the king, that

their entire families were destroyed for this

rash attempt. Yet did not the obstinacy of

the people, and that undaunted constancy

they shewed in the defence of their laws,

make Herod any easier to them; but he still

strengthened himself after a more secure

manner, and resolved to encompass the

multitude every way, lest such innovations

should terminate in an open rebellion.

Since, therefore, he had now the city for­

tified by the palace in which he lived, and

by the temple ? which had a strong fortress

by it called Antonia, and rebuilt by himself;

he contrived to make Samaria a fortress for

himself also against the people; and called

it Sebaste: supposing that this place would

be a strong hold against the country, not

inferior to the former. So he fortified that

f)lace, which was a day's journey distant

rom Jerusalem; and which would therefore,

be useful to him in common, to keep both

the country and the city in awe. He also

built another fortress for the whole nation.

It was anciently called Strato's tower, but

was by him named Caesarea. He chose out

some select horsemen, and placed them in

the great plain; and built for them a place

