AN. 44.] 517 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

were friendly to the Jews, even in the days

of Abraham; who was the father of all the

Hebrews; as we have also found it set down

in our public records."

"The decree of those of Halicarnassus.

When Memnon, the son of Orestidas, by de­

scent, but by adoption of Euonymus, was

priest in the month Aristerion, the decree of

the people, upon the representation of Mar­

cus Alexander, was this. Since we have ever

a great regard to piety towards God, and to

holiness; and since we aim to follow the peo­

ple of the Romans, who are the benefactors

of all men, and what they have written to us

about a league of friendship and mutual as­

sistance between the Jews and our city, and

that their sacred offices, and accustomed fes­

tivals and assemblies, may be observed by

them: we have decreed, that as many men

and women of the Jews as are willing so to

do, may celebrate their sabbaths, and per­

form their holy offices according to the Jew­

ish laws, and may* make their proseuchae at

the sea side; according to the custom of their

forefathers. And if any one, whether he be

a magistrate, or private person, hinder them

from so doing, he shall be liable to a fine; to

be applied to the uses of the city."

"The decree of the Sardians. This de­

cree was made by the senate and people,

upon the representation of the praetors.

Whereas those Jews who are our fellow citi­

zens, and live with us in this city, have ever

had great benefits heaped upon them by the

people; and have come now into the senate,

and desired of the people that, upon the res­

titution of their law, and their liberty by the

senate and people of Rome, they may assem­

ble together according to their ancient legal

custom; and that we will not bring any suit

against them about it; and that a place may

be given, where they may have their con­

gregations, with their wives and children;

and may offer, as did their forefathers, their

prayers and sacrifices to God: now the senate

and people have decreed to permit them to

assemble together on the days formerly ap­

pointed; and to act according to their own

laws: and that such a place shall be set

apart for them by the praetors, for the build­

ing and inhabiting the same, as they shall

esteem fit for that purpose. And that those

who take care of the provisions for the city,

shall take care that such sorts of food, as

they esteem fit for their eating, may be im­

ported into the city."

"The decree of the Ephesians. When

Menophilus was prytanis; on the first day of

the month Artemisius, this decree was made

by the people; and Nicanor, the son of Eu-

phemus, pronounced it, upon the representa­

tion of the praetors. Since the Jews that

dwell in this city have petitioned Marcus Ju­

lius Pompeius, the son of Brutus, the procon­

sul, that they may be allowed to observe their

sabbaths; and to act in all things according

to the customs of their forefathers, without

impediment from any body; the praetor hath

granted their petition. Accordingly it was

decreed by the senate and people, that, in

this affair that concerned the Romans, no

one of them should be hindered from keeping

the sabbath day, nor be fined for so doing:

but that they be allowed to do all things ac­

cording to their own laws."

Now there are fmany such decrees of the

senate and imperators of the Romans, and

those different from these before us, which

have been made in favour of Hyrcanus, and

of our nation; as also there have been more

and that the public acts of their city then extant confirmed

the same. This evidence is too strong to be evaded by

our present ignorance of the particular occasion of such

ancient friendship and alliance between those people. See

the like full evidence of the kindred of the Lacedaemoni­

ans and the Jews; and that because they were both the

posterity of Abraham: by a public epistle of these people

to the Jews, preserved in the first book of the Maccabees

xii. 19—23. and thence by Josephus, in his Antiquities,

XII. 4. both which authentic records are highly valuable.

It is also worthy of observation, what Moses Chorenensis,

the principal Armenian historian, informs us of, page 83.

that Arsaces, who raised the Parthian empire, was of the

seed of Abraham, by Chetura; and that thereby was ac­

complished that prediction, which said, "Kings of nations

shall proceed from thee." Gen. xvii. 6.

* See the note on Book XII. chap. 2.

t If we compare Josephus's former promises to produce

all the public decrees of the Romans in favour of the Jews,

with his excuse here, for omitting many of them; we

may observe, that when he came to transcribe all those

decrees he had collected, he found them so numerous,

that he thought he should too much tire his readers if he

had attempted it: which he thought a sufficient apology

for his omitting the rest of them. Yet do those by him

produced, afford such a strong confirmation to his history,

and give such great light to even the Roman antiquities

themselves; that I believe the curious are not a little

sorry for such omissions.

4M2

