an. 536.] 387 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

BOOK XL

Containing an Interval of Two Hundred and Fifty-three Years and Five Months.

FROM THE FIRST YEAR OF CYRUS TO THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT.

CHAP. I.

OF THE PERMISSION GRANTED TO THE JEWS BY CYRUS,

KING* OF PERSIA, TO RETURN TO THEIR OWN COUNTRY,

AND TO REBUILD THEIR TEMPLE.

IN the firstf year of the reign of Cyrus;

which was the seventieth from the day

that the Jews were removed out of their own

land into Babylon: God commiserated the

captivity and calamity of these poor people;

according as he had foretold by Jeremiah the

prophet,J before the destruction of the city;

that after they had served Nebuchadnezzar,

and his posterity, and after they had un­

dergone that servitude seventy years,|| he

would restore them again to the land of

their fathers, and they should rebuild their

temple, and enjoy their ancient prosperity.

And these things God did afford them. For

he stirred up the mind of Cyrus, and made

him write thus throughout all Asia: "Thus

saith Cyrus the king, Since* God Almighty

hath appointed me to be king of the habit­

able earth, I believe that he is that God

whom the nation of the Israelites worship:

for indeed he foretold my name by the pro­

phets; and that I should build him a house

at Jerusalem, in the country of Judea."§

This was known to Cyrus by his reading

the book which Isaiah left behind him of his

prophecies. For this prophet said, that God

had spoken thus to him in a secret vision:—

"My will is, that Cyrus, whom I have ap­

pointed to be king over many and great na­

tions, send back my people to their own land,

and build my temple."** This was foretold

by Isaiah one hundred and forty years before

the temple was demolished. Accordingly

'* N. B. Josephus never makes use of our Hebrew

book of Ezra, which probably he never saw; but only

of the first book of Esdras, by us called apocryphal: and

which he read in Hebrew; but which Hebrew copy has

been long lost; our book being now only extant in the

Septuagint, and vulgar Latin versions.

T 2 Chron. xxxvi. 22. Ezra i. 1.

j This Cyrus is called God's shepherd by Xenophon,

page 581, as well as by Isaiah xlv. 28, as also it is said of

him by the same prophet, "I will make a man more pre­

cious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge

of Ophir," Isa.xiii. 12. which character makes Xenophon's

most excellent history of him very credible.

II Jeremiah xxv. 11.

§ It is a good deal more than probable, that this decree

in favour of the Jews was, in a great measure, owing to

Daniel's good offices. Cyrus, at his first coming to Baby-

Ion, after he had taken the city, found him there an old

minister of state, famed for his great wisdom over all the

East, and in many things, for a knowledge superior to the

rest of mankind; and accordingly we find, that he not only

employed him as such, but, upon the settling of the govern-

voL. I.—NOS. 33 & 34.

ment of the whole empire, made him first superintendent

or prime minister of state over all the provinces of it. In

this station of life, Daniel must have been a person of great

authority at court, and highly in the esteem of his prince:

and therefore, as we find him earnest in his prayer to God

for the restoration of his people, Daniel ix. we cannot but

think, that he would be equally warm in his intercessions

for it with the king. To which purpose, it is not im­

probable, that he might shew him those passages in Isaiah,

which speak of him by name, (150 years before he was

born,) as a great prince and conqueror, the ruler of many

nations, and the restorer of his people, by causing his

temple to be built, and the city of Jerusalem re-inhabited.

For, that Cyrus had seen those prophecies, the thing is

plain, not only from the testimony of Josephus, Antiq. lib.

xi. c. 1. but from the recital that is made of them in the

decree itself, Ezra i. 2; and if so, who shall be so proper

to shew them to him, and to recommend the accomplish­

ment of them to his princely care, as Dataiel, who had so

great credit with him, and -so passionate a concern for the

restoration of Zion? Prideaux's Connection, anno 539. B

** Isaiah xliv. 28.

3T

