418 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

had given the high-priest his right hand, the

priests ran along by him; and he came into

the city.* And when he went up into the

temple, he offered sacrifice to God, according

to the high-priest's direction: and magnifi­

cently treated both the high-priest, and the

priests. And whenf the book of Daniel was

shewn to him, wherein Daniel declared that

one of the Greeks should destroy the empire

of the Persians, he supposed that himself was

the person intended. And as he was then

glad, he dismissed the multitude for the pre­

sent: but the next day he called them to him,

and bade them ask what favours they pleased

of him. Accordingly the high-priest desired

that they might enjoy the laws of their fore­

fathers, and might pay no tribute the seventh

year. This was readily granted. And when

they intreated that he would permit the Jews

in Babylon and Media to enjoy their own laws

also, he willingly promised to do hereafter

what they desired. And when he said to the

multitude, that if any of them would enlist

themselves in his army, on the condition that

they should continue under the laws of their

forefathers, and live according to them, he

was willing to take them with him; many

were ready to accompany him in his wars.

When Alexander had thus settled matters

at Jerusalem, he led his army into the neigh­

bouring cities. And when all the inhabitants,

to whom he came, received him with great

kindness, the Samaritans, who had then She-

chem for their metropolis, (a city situate at

mount Gerizzim, and inhabited by apostates

of the Jewish nation;) seeing that Alexander

had so greatly honoured the Jews, determined

to profess themselves Jews. For such is the

disposition of the Samaritans, as we have al-

readyJ declared, that when the Jews are in

adversity, they deny that they are of kin to

them; and then they confess the truth. But

when they perceive that some good fortune

hath befallen them, they immediately pretend

to have communion with them, saying, that

they belong to them; and derive their gene­

alogy from the posterity of Joseph, Ephraim,

and Manasseh. Accordingly, they made their

address to the king with splendour; and

shewed great alacrity in meeting him, at a

little distance from Jerusalem. And when

Alexander had commended them, the She-

chemites approached to him: taking along

with them the troops that Sanballat had sent

him: and they desired that he would come

to their city, and do honour to their temple

also. To whom he promised, that when he

returned he would come to them. And when

they petitioned that he would remit the tri­

bute of the seventh year to them, because

they did not sow thereon; he asked who they

were that made such a petition; and when

they said that they were Hebrews, but had

the name of Sidonians, living at Shechem:

he asked them again whether they were

Jews? And when they said they were not

Jews, "It was to the Jews," said he, "that

I granted that privilege: however, when I re­

turn, and am thoroughly informed by you

of this matter, I will do what I shall think

proper." And in this manner took leave of

the Shechemites: but ordered that the troops

of Sanballat should follow him into Egypt,

because there he designed to give them

lands, which he did a little after in Thebais,

when he ordered them to guard that country.

On the death of Alexander j| the government

was divided among his successors, but the

temple upon mount Gerizzim remained. And

if any one were accused by those of Jerusa­

lem of having eaten things§ common, or of

having broken the sabbath, or of any other

crime of the like nature, he fled away to the

Shechemites, and said that he was accused

unjustly. About this time it was that Jaddua,

the high-priest, died: and Onias, the son, took

the high-priesthood. This was the state of the

affairs of the people of Jerusalem at this time.

* The time of the year when Alexander came to Je­  
rusalem, seems rightly determined by the Rabbins in

Megillath Taanith; when they keep the 21st of Casleu, a

festival in memory of their superiority over the Samari­

tans'at this time: as Reland here informs us. See the

same discourse, page 56. Reland informs us farther that

the same book says, the principal Jews were in white gar­

ments; with other circumstances agreeing with Josephus.

( The passages shewn to the king upon this occasion

might be Dan. vii. 6. viii. 3—8, 20, 21, 22. xi. 3. some

or all of them very plain predictions of Alexander's con­

quests and successes.

J See Book IX. Chap. 14.

II An. 323.

§ Here Josephus uses the very word " eating Kwoipwym,

things common," for " eating things unclean;" as does our

New Testament, Acts x. 14,15, 28, xi. 8,9. Rom. xiv. 14.

See the like in Josephus, XII. 7.

