38 [book r. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

offer sacrifice upon them, if he lived and re­

turned safe: and if he came again in such a

condition, he would give the tithe of what he

had gotten to God. He also judged the place

to be honourable, and gave it the name of

Bethel; which, if explained in the Greek

tongue, is the House of God.

He then proceeded on his journey to Meso­

potamia, and at length came to Haran, and

meeting with Shepherds in the suburbs, with

boys grown up and maidens sitting round a

certain well, he stayed with them, as wanting

water to drink; and beginning to discourse

with them, he asked them whether they

knew such an one as Laban? and whether

he were still alive? they all said they knew

him, for he was not so inconsiderable a per­

son as to be unknown to any of them; and

that his daughter fed her father's flock

together with them: and that, indeed, they

wondered she was not yet come, " for by her

means," said they, " thou mightest learn

more exactly whatever thou desirest to know

about that family." While they were speak­

ing, the damsel came, and the other shep­

herds that came with her. Then they shewed

her Jacob, and told her, that he was a stran­

ger who came to inquire about her father's

affairs. But she, being pleased, after the

custom of children, with Jacob's coming,

asked him who he was? and whence he

came? and what it was he wanted, that he

came thither? She also wished it might be

in their power to supply his wants.

Jacob was quite overcome, not so much by

their kindred, nor by that affection which

might arise thence, as by his love to the

damsel, and his surprise at her beauty, which

was such as few of the women of that age

could vie with. He then said, "There is a

relation between thee and me, elder than

either of our births, if thou be the daughter

of Laban. For Abraham was the son of

Terah, as well as Haran and Nahor. Of the

last of whom, Nahor, Bethuel thy grandfather

was the son: Isaac my father was the son of

Abraham and of Sarah, who was the daughter

of Haran. But there is a nearer and later

* By this deprivation of the kingdom that was to be  
given Esau of God, as the first-born; it appears that Jose-

phus thought a kingdom to be derived of God was due to

him whom Isaac should bless as his first-born: which I

take to be that kingdom which was expected under the

cement of mutual kindred which we bear to

one another. For my mother Rebeka was

sister to Laban, thy father, both by the same

father and mother. I, therefore, and thou,

are cousin germans, and I am now come to

salute thee, and to renew that affinity which

is proper between us." At the mention of Re­

beka, the damsel wept, and that out of the

kindness she had for her father, and em­

braced Jacob: she having learned an ac­

count of Rebeka from her father, and knew

that her parents loved to hear her named;

and when she had saluted him, she said, that

he brought the most desirable and greatest

pleasure to her father, with all their family,

who was always mentioning his mother, and

always thinking of her, and her alone; "and

this," said she, "will make thee equal in his

eyes to any advantageous circumstance what­

soever." Then she bid him follow her, while

she conducted him to her father, not wishing

to deprive Laban of such a pleasure, by stay­

ing any longer away from him.

When she had said thus, she brought him

to Laban; and being owned by his uncle, he

was secure himself, as being among his

friends; to whom his unexpected arrival gave

great pleasure. But a little while afterward,

Laban told him that he could not express in

words the joy he had at his coming; but still

he inquired why he left his aged mother and

father, when they wanted to be taken care of

by him; and that he would afford him all the

assistance he wanted. Then Jacob gave him

an account of the whole occasion of his jour­

ney, and told him that Isaac had twin sons,

himself and Esau; and that his brother hav­

ing failed of his father's prayers, which by

his mother's wisdom were put up for him,

sought to kill him; as deprived of the king­

dom* which was to be given him of God;

and of the blessings for which their father

prayed; and that this was the occasion of his

coming hither, as his mother had commanded

him. "For," said he, "we are all brethren

one to another; but our mother esteems an

alliance with your family more than she does

one with the families of the country; so I

Messiah; who, therefore, was to be born of his posterity

whom Isaac should so bless. Jacob, therefore, by ob­

taining this blessing of the first-born, became the genuine

heir of that kingdom, in opposition to Esau.

