an. 1057.] 265 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the king had commanded that he should be

admitted, he came in, and asked him, whether

he had ordained Adonijah to be king,* and

delivered the government to him or not? for

that he had made a splendid supper, and in­

vited all his sons, except Solomon; as also

that he had invited Joab, the captain of the

host, and Abiathar the high-priest, who were

feasting with applauses, and many joyful

sounds of instruments, and wishing that the

kingdom might last for ever. "But," said

Nathan, "he hath not invited me, nor Zadok

the high-priest, nor Benaiah the captain of

the guards. And it is but fit that all should

know whether this be done by thy approba­

tion or not." When Nathan had said thus,

the king commanded that they should call

Bathsheba to him; for she had gone out of

the room when the prophet came. And when

Bathsheba was come, David said, "I swear

by Almighty God, that thy son Solomon shall

certainly be king, as I formerly swore; and

that he shall sit upon my throne this very

day." So Bathsheba worshipped him, and

wished him a long life: and the king sent for

Zadok the high-priest, and Benaiah the cap­

tain of the guards; and when they were come,

he ordered them to take with them Nathan

the prophet, and all the armed men about the

palace, and to set his son Solomon upon the

king's mule; and so carry him out of the city

to the fountain called Gihon,f and to anoint

him there with the holy oil, and to make him

king. This he charged Zadok the high-

priest, and Nathan the prophet to do; and

commanded them to follow Solomon through

the midst of the city, and to sound the trutn-

pets, and wish aloud, that "Solomon the

king might sit upon the royal throne for

ever," that so all the people might know that

he was ordained king by his father. He also

gave Solomon a charge concerning his go­

vernment, to rule the whole nation of the He­

brews, and particularly the tribe of Judah,

righteously. And when Benaiah had prayed

to God to be favourable to Solomon, they set

Solomon upon the mule4 and brought him

out of the city to the fountain, and anointed

him with the oil: and brought him into the

city again, with acclamations and wishes

that his kingdom might continue a long

time. And when they had introduced him

into the king's house, they set him upon the

throne. Whereupon all the people betook

themselves to make merry, and to celebrate

a festival; dancing, and delighting themselves

with musical pipes, till both the earth and

the air echoed|| with the multitude of the

instruments of music.

Now when Adonijah and his guests per­

ceived this noise, they were in disorder; and

Joab, the captain of the host, said he was not

pleased with these echoes, and the sound of

these trumpets. And when supper was set be­

fore them, nobody tasted of it; but they were

all very thoughtful, what should be the mat­

ter. Then Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, the

high-priest, came running to them; and when

Adonijah saw the young man gladly, and said

to him, that he was a good messenger, he de­

clared the whole matter about Solomon, and

the determination of king David. Hereupon

both Adonijah and all his guests rose hastily

from the feast, and every one fled to their

* In 2 Sam. vii. 12. God had promised David by Na­  
than, that he would set upon his throne a son that should

proceed from him, which plainly signified, that none of

his sons already born were to be the person; and in

1 Chron. xxii. 9, &c. he declared by the same prophet,

that after his father, Solomon should reign, and build him

a house. This Adonijah could not but know; and there­

fore his setting himself against the decree of heaven made

his sin the greater. Patrick's Commentary. B.

t Some commentators are of opinion, that Gihon was

the same with the fountain of Siloam; but this is a gross

mistake, since Gihon was manifestly to the west, and

Siloam to the east of Jerusalem. There is little or no

certainty likewise in the notions of some Rabbins, who

pretend that, in ancient times, kings were always anointed

by the side of a fountain, by way of good omen, or that

the perpetual running of the stream might be an emblem of

the perpetuity of the king's reign. In the history of Saul,

who was their first king, and of David, who was three

times anointed, we find no mention made of any spring

or fountain. As these fountains however were places of

great concourse, (for there were not many in Jerusalem,)

the chief reason, we may imagine, why David ordered

Solomon to be anointed at one of these, was, that the thing

might be done as publicly, and in the presence of as many

spectators as possible. Patrick's Commentary. B.

J All the rest of David's sons were wont to ride upon

mules, when they went abroad, 2 Sam. xiii. 29. but Dnvid

had a mule peculiar to himself, and the mounting Solo­

mon upon it was a sufficient declaration in his favour.

For, as it was capital, (according to Maimonides,) to ride

upon the king's mule, or sit on his throne, or handle hit

sceptre without his order; so, on the contrary, to have

the honour to ride upon the king's horse, by his appoint­

ment, was accounted the highest dignity among the Per­

sians, as appears by the story of Mordecai in the book of

Esther. Calmet's Commentary. B.

I I 1 Kings i. 40.

