238 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

were sent, after a very harsh manner. For

lie shaved the one half of their beards,* and

cut off one half of their garments; and sent

his answer not in words, but in deeds. When

the king of Israel saw this, he had indignation

at it; and shewed openly that he would not

overlook this injurious and contumelious

treatment; but would make war with the

Ammonites, and would avenge this wicked

treatment of his ambassadors on their king.

So that king's intimate friends and com­

manders understanding that they had violated

their league, and were liable to be punished

for the same, made preparations for war;

they also sent a thousand talents to the Syrian

king of Mesopotamia, and endeavoured to

prevail with him and fShobach, to assist

them for that pay. Now these kings had

twenty thousand footmen. They also hired

the king of the country called Maacah; and a

fourth king, by name Ishtob, which last had

twelve thousand armed men.

David was under no consternation at this

confederacy; nor at the forces of the Ammon­

ites. But putting his trust in God, because

he was going to war in a just cause, on ac­

count of the injurious treatment he had met

with, he immediately sent Joab,J the captain

of his host, against them, with the flower

of his army. Joab pitched his camp by

Rabbath, the metropolis of the Ammonites;

whereupon the enemy came out, and set

themselves in array; not all of them together,

but in two bodies. For the auxiliaries were

set in array in the plain by themselves; but

the army of the Ammonites at the gates, over

against the Hebrews. When Joab saw this,

he opposed one stratagem against another,

and chose out the most hardy part of his men,

and set them in opposition to the king of

Syria, and the kings that were with him; and

gave the other part to his brother Abishai,

and bade him set them in opposition to the

Ammonites; and said to him, in case he

should see that the Syrians distressed him,

and were too hard for him, he should order

his troops to turn about, and assist him: and

he said, that he himself would do the same to

him, if he saw him in the like distress from

the Ammonites. So he sent his brother be­

fore, and encouraged him to do every thing

courageously and with alacrity, which would

teach them to be afraid of disgrace, and to

fight manfully. And so he dismissed him to

fight with the Ammonites, while he fell upon

the Syrians. And though they made a strong

opposition for a while, Joab slew many of

them, and compelled the rest to betake them­

selves to flight; which when the Ammonites

saw, and were withal afraid of Abishai, and

his army, they staid no longer; but imitated

their auxiliaries, and fled to the city. So

Joab, when he had thus overcome the enemy,

returned with great glory to Jerusalem, to

the king.

This defeat did not still induce the Ammon­

ites to be quiet, nor to own those that were

superior to them to be so. But they sent to||

Chalaman, the king of the Syrians, beyond

Euphrates, and hired him for an auxiliary.

He had Shobach for the captain of his host,

with eighty thousand footmen, and ten thou­

^

* This was one of the greatest indignities that the  
malice of man could invent, in those countries where all

people thought their hair so great an ornament, that some

would rather have submitted to die than part with it.

What a foul disgrace and heavy punishment this was ac­

counted in ancient times, we may learn from Nicholaus

Damascenus, as mentioned by Stobaeus, (tit. 42.) who

says, that among the Indians, the king commanded the

greatest offenders to be shaven, as the heaviest punish­

ment that he could inflict upon them; and to the like pur­

pose Plutarch, (in Agesil.) tells us, that whenever a

soldier, among the Lacedemonians, was convicted of cow­

ardice, he was obliged to go with one part of his upper

lip shaved, and the other not. Nay, even at this day, no

greater indignity can be offered to a man of Persia, than

to cause his beard to be shaved; and therefore Taver-

nier, in his travels, relates the story, that when the Sophi

caused an ambassador of Arenge-zebe's to be used in this

manner, telling him, that he was not worthy to wear a

beard, the emperor, (even in the manner as David here

did,) most highly resented the affront that was done to

him in the person of his ambassador. And as shaving

David's ambassadors was deservedly accounted a grievous

affront, so the cutting off half the beard, (which made

them look still more ridiculous,) was a great addition to it,

where beards were held in great veneration; and where

long habits down to the heels were worn, (especially by

persons of distinction,) without any breeches or drawers,

the cutting their garments, even to the middle, thereby to

expose their nakedness, was such a brutal and shameless

insult, as would badly become a man of David's martial

spirit, and just sentiments of honour, to have tamely

passed by. Patrick's and Calmet's Commentaries. B.

t Josephus took this Shobach, and Ishtob, mentioned

presently, to be the names of princes or captains, and not

of countries, as they stand in the present Hebrew and

Septuagint copies. Which is in the right 1 cannot deter­

mine.

J 2 Sam. x. 7.

II About an. 1077.

