24 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. VIII.

OF ABRAM S DEPARTURE INTO EGYPT IN CONSEQUENCE OF A

FAMINE; AND OF HIS SUBSEQUENT RETURN.

NOW after this, when a famine* had in­

vaded the land of Canaan, and Abram

had discovered that the Egyptians were in a

flourishing condition, he was disposed to go

down to them; both to partake of the plenty

they enjoyed, and to learn what their priest

asserted concerning the gods: designing

either to follow them, if they had better no­

tions than he; or to convert them into a bet­

ter way, if his own notions proved the truest.

Now as he was to take Sarai with him, and

was afraid of the madness of the Egyptians

with regard to women, lest the king should

kill him on occasion of his wife's great beauty,

he contrived this device: He pretended

to be her brother, and directed her in a

dissembling way to pretend the same: for he

said, it would be for their benefit. Now as

soon as they came into Egypt, it happened to

Abram as he supposed. For the fame of his

wife's beauty was greatly talked of; for which

reason Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, would not

be satisfied with what was reported of her,

but would needs see her himself. But God

put a stop to his unjust inclinations, by send­

ing upon him a distemper, and a sedition

against his government. And when he en­

quired of his priests, how he might be freed

from those calamities, they told him, that his

miserable condition was derived from the

wrath of God, upon account of his inclination

to abuse the stranger's wife. He then, out

of fear, asked Sarai, who she was, and who

it was that she had brought along with her?

And when he had discovered the truth, he

excused himself to Abram, that supposing the

woman to be his sister, and not his wife, he

set his affections on her, as desiring an affinity

with him by marrying her, but not as incited

by lust to abuse her. He also made him a

large present in money; and gave him leave to

enter into conversation with the most learned

among the Egyptians. From which conver­

sation his virtue and reputation became more

conspicuous than they had been before.

For whereas the Egyptians were formerly

* Gen. xii. 10. **^ft

t Gen. xiii. 7.

addicted to different customs, and despised

each others sacred and accustomed rites, and

were angry one with another on that account:

Abram conferred with each of them, and con­

futing the reasonings they made use of for

their respective practices, he demonstrated

that such reasonings were vain, and void of

truth. Whereupon he was admired by them

in those conferences as a very wise man, and

one of great sagacity, when he discoursed on

any subject he undertook; and this, not only

in understanding it, but in persuading other

men also to assent to him. He communicated

to them arithmetic, and delivered to them the

science of astronomy. For before Abram

came into Egypt they were unacquainted

with some parts of learning; for that science

came from the Chaldeans into Egypt, and

from thence to the Greeks also.

As soon as Abram returned into Canaan, he

parted the land between him and Lot, upon

account of the tumultous behaviour of their

shepherds,t concerning the pastures wherein

they should feed their flocks. However, he

gave Lot his option, or leave to choose which

lands he would take; and he took, himself,

what the other left; which were the lower

grounds at the foot of the mountains: and he

himself dwelt in Hebron, which is a city seven

years ancienter than Tanis of Egypt.}: But

Lot possessed the land of the plain and the

river Jordan, not far from the kingdom of

Sodom: which was then a fine city, but is now

destroyed, by the will and wrath of God; as

will be shewn in its proper place hereafter.

CHAP. IX.

OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE SODOMITES BY THE ASSYRIAN

WAR.

AT this time, when the Assyrians had the

dominion over Asia, the people of Sodom

were in a flourishing condition; both as to

riches and the number of their youth. There

were five kings that managed the affairs of

this country; Ballas, Barsas, Senabir, and

Sumobor, with the king of Bela; and each

king led on his own troops. And the Assyri­

ans made war upon them, and dividing their

army into four parts, fought against them.

J Numbers xiii. 22.

