514 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

thers, and to persist therein. It will be there­

fore good for you, if you have made any de­

cree against these our friends and confede­

rates, to abrogate the same; by reason of

their virtue and kind disposition towards us."

Now after Caius was slain, when Marcus

Antonius and Publius Dolabella were con­

suls, they both assembled the senate, and in­

troduced Hyrcanus's ambassadors into it, and

discoursed of what they desired, and made a

league of friendship with them. The senate

also agreed to grant them all they desired.

I add the decree itself: that those who read

the present work, may have ready by them a

demonstration of the truth of what we say.

"The decree of the senate, copied out of

the treasury, from the public tables belonging

to the quaestors; when Quintus Rutilius, and

Caius Cornelius, were quaestors; and taken

out of the second table, of the first class. On

the third day before the ides of April, in the

temple of Concord. There were present at

the writing of this decree, Lucius Culpurnius

Piso, of the Menenian tribe; Servius Papi-

nius Potitus, of the Lemonian tribe; Caius

Caninius Rebilius, of the Tarentine tribe;

Publius Tidetius; Lucius Apulinus, the son

of Lucius, of the Sergian tribe; Flavius, the

son of Lucius, of the Lemonian tribe; Pub­

lius Platius, the son of Publius, of the Papy-

rian tribe; Marcus Acilius, the son of Mar­

cus, of the Mecian tribe; Lucius Erucius, the

son of Lucius, of the Stellatine tribe; Marcus

Quintius Plancillus, the son of Marcus, of the

Pollian tribe; and Publius Serius. Publius

Dolabella, and Marcus Antonius, the consuls,

made this reference to the senate; that as to

those things which, by the decree of the se­

nate, Caius Caesar had adjudged about the

Jews, and yet had not hitherto that decree

brought into the treasury; it is our will,

as it is also the desire of Publius Dolabella,

and Marcus Antonius, our consuls, to have

these decrees put into the public tables, and

brought to the city quaestors, that they may

take care to have them put upon the double

tables. This was done before the fifth of the

ides of February, in the temple of Concord.

Now the ambassadors from Hyrcanus the

high-priest were Lysimachus, the son of Pau-

sanias; Alexander, the son of Theodorus;

Patroclus, the son of Chereas; and Jonathan,

the son of Onias."

Hyrcanus sent also one of these ambassa­

dors to Dolabella, who was then the prefect

of Asia, and desired him to dismiss the Jews

from military services; and to preserve to

them the customs of their forefathers; and to

permit them to live according to them. And

when Dolabella had received Hyrcanus's let­

ter, without any farther deliberation, he sent

an epistle to all the Asiatics; and particularly

to the city of the Ephesians, the metropolis

of Asia, about the Jews. A copy of which

epistle here follows:—

"When Artemon was prytanis, on the first

day of the month Leneon, Dolabella, impera-

tor, to the senate, and magistrates, and people

of the Ephesians, sendeth greeting. Alexan­

der, the son of Theodorus, the ambassador of

Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander, the high-

priest and ethnarch of the Jews, appeared

before me, to shew that his countrymen could

not go into their armies, because they are not

allowed to bear arms, or to travel on the sab­

bath days; nor there to procure themselves

those sorts of food which they have been used

to eat, from the times of their forefathers. I

therefore grant them a freedom from going

into the army, as the former prefects have

done; and permit them to use the customs of

their forefathers, in assembling together for

sacred and religious purposes, as their law

requires; and for collecting oblations neces­

sary for sacrifices; and my will is, that you

write this to the several cities under your

jurisdiction."

Those were the concessions that Dolabella

made to our nation, when Hyrcanus sent an

ambassage to him. But Lucius the consul's

decree ran thus: "I have at my tribunal set

those Jews, who are citizens of Rome, and

follow the Jewish religious rites, and yet live

at Ephesus, free from going into the army, on

account of the superstition they are under.

This was done before the twelfth of the ca­

lends of October, when Lucius Lentulus and

Caius Marcellus were consuls. In the pre­

sence of Titus Appius Balgus, the son of Ti­

tus, and lieutenant, of the Horatian tribe; of

Titus Tongius, the son of Titus, of the Crus-

tamine tribe; of Quintus Resius, the son of

Quintus: of Titus Pompeius Longinus, the

son of Titus; of Caius Servilius, the son of

Caius, of the Tarentine tribe; of Brncchus,

the military tribune: of PuWiup Lucius Gal

