AN. 465 145.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

mans. So he called the people of Antioch

together, and persuaded them to receive

Demetrius; and assured them, that he would

not be mindful of what they did to his father,

in case he should now be obliged by them;

and lie undertook that he would himself be a

good monitor and governor to him; and pro­

mised that he would not permit him to at­

tempt any bad actions. But that for his own

part he was contented with the kingdom of

Egypt. By which discourse he persuaded

the people of Antioch to receive Demetrius.

In the mean time, Alexander assembled a

numerous army, and came out of Cilicia into

Syria, and burnt the country belonging to

Antioch, and pillaged it.* Whereupon Pto­

lemy, and his son-in-law Demetrius, brought

their army against him; (for he had already

given him his daughter in marriage;) and

beat Alexander, and put him to flight. And

accordingly he fled into Arabia. Now it hap­

pened in the time of battle that Ptolemy's

horse, upon hearing the noise of an elephant,

cast him off his back, and threw him on the

ground. Upon the sight of this accident his

enemies fell upon him, and gave him many

wounds upon his head, and brought him into

danger of death; for when his guards caught

him up, he was so very ill, that for four days'

time he was not able either to understand, or

to speak. However, Zabdiel, a prince among

the Arabians, cut off Alexander's head, and

sent it to Ptolemy. Who, recovering of his

wounds, and returning to his understanding

on the fifth day, heard at once a most agree­

able hearing, and saw a most agreeable sight;

which were the death, and the head of Alex­

ander. Yet a little after this joy for the death

of Alexander, with which he was so greatly

satisfied, he also departed this life. Now

Alexander, who was called Balas, reigned

over Asia five years.

But when Demetrius, who was styled fNi-

cator, had taken the kingdom, he was so

wicked as to treat Ptolemy's soldiers very

hardly; neither remembering the league of

mutual assistance that was between them, nor

that he was his son-in-law and kinsman, by

Cleopatra's marriage to him. So the soldiers

fled from his wicked treatment, to Alexandria.

But Demetrius kept his elephants. In the

mean time Jonathan, the high-priest, levied

an army out of all Judea, and attacked the

citadel at Jerusalem, and besieged it. It was

held by a garrison of Macedonians, and by

some of those wicked men who had deserted

the customs of their forefathers. These men

at first despised the attempts of Jonathan for

taking the place; as depending on its strength.

But some of those wicked men went out by

night, and came to Demetrius, and informed

him, that the citadel was besieged. He was

accordingly irritated with what he heard, and

took his army, and came from Antioch against

Jonathan. And when he was at Antioch, he

wrote to him, and commanded him to come

to him quickly, to Ptolemais. Jonathan did

not intermit the siege of the citadel; but took

with him the elders of the people, and the

priests; and carried with him gold, and silver,

and garments, and a great number of pre­

sents of friendship, and came to Demetrius,

and presented him with them, and thereby

pacified the king's anger. So he was ho­

noured hy him, and received from him the

confirmation of his high-priesthood, as he

had possessed it by the grants of the kings

his predecessors. And when the Jewish de­

serters accused him, Demetrius was so far

from giving credit to them, that when he pe­

titioned him that he would demand no more

than three hundred talents for the tribute of

all Judea, and the three toparchies of Sa­

maria, Perea, and Galilee, he complied with

the proposal, and gave him a letter confirm­

ing all those grants; whose contents were as

follow:—

"King DemetriusJ to Jonathan his hro­

* An. 145 B. C.

t This name, Demetrius Nicator, or Demetrius the

Conqueror, is so written on his coins still extant; as

Hudson and Spanheim informs us. The latter of whom

gives us here the entire inscription, " King Demetrius,

the god, Philadelphns, Nicator."

J Dr. Hudson observes, that Josephus gives us this

epistle of king Demetrius to Jonathan in purer Greek,

than does the translator of the first book of Maccabees;

where also it is preserved, 1 Mace. xi. 30—37. whence

he gathers, how careful Josephus was of elegance in the

Greek tongue. Nor is this other than Josephus's usual

custom, in producing his other ancient records; which he

loves to give us, as much as possible, in his own language.

However, as I take it, the most material reason of the

different purity of these two versions of the present

epistle is this, that Josephus wrote the purer Attic, and

the translator of the first book of Maccabees the coarser

Hellenistic dialect; which would naturally produce this

inequality.

