ak. 1056.] 271 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK VIII.

Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Sixty-three Years.

FROM THE DEATH OP DAVID TO THE DEATH OP AHAB.

CHAP. I.

of Solomon's conduct after he had received the

KINGDOM.

WE have already treated of David, and

his virtue, and of the benefits that he

was the author of to his countrymen; of his

wars also, and battles which he managed

with success; and then died an old man.

And when Solomon his son, who was but a

youth in age,* had taken the kingdom, and

whom David had declared, while he was

alive, the lord of that people, according to

God's will; when he sat upon the throne, the

whole body of the people made joyful accla­

mations to him, as is usual at the beginning

of a reign; and wished that all his affairs

might come to a blessed conclusion; and that

he might arrive at a great age, and at the

most happy state of affairs possible.

But Adonijah, who, while his father was

livings attempted to gain possession of the

government, came to the king's mother, Bath-

sheba, and saluted her with great civility;

and when she asked him, whether he came

to her, as desiring her assistance in any thing

or not? and bade him tell her if that were

the case, for that she would cheerfully afford

it him; he began to say, that she knew herself

that the kingdom was his, both on account of

his elder age, and of the disposition of the

multitude; and that yet it was transferred to

Solomon her son, according to the will of

God. He also said, that he was contented

to be a servant under him, and was pleased

withthe present settlement. But he desired

* About 12 or 14 years old.

her to be a means of obtaining a favour from

his brother to him, and to persuade him to

bestow on him in marriage Abishag; who had

slept by his father, but was still a virgin. So

Bathsheba promised to afford him her assist­

ance, and to bring this marriage about; be­

cause the king would be willing to gratify him

in such a thing; and because she would press

him to it very earnestly. Accordingly he

went away in great hopes of succeeding in

this affair. So Solomon's mother Went pre­

sently to her son, to speak about what she

had promised, upon Adonijah's supplication

to her. And when her son came forward to

meet her, and embraced her; and when he

had brought her into the house where his

royal throne was, he sat thereon, and bade

them set another throne on the right hand

for his mother. When Bathsheba was set

down, she said, "O son! grant me one re­

quest that I desire of thee, and do not do

any thing to me that is disagreeable or un­

grateful; which thou wilt do if thou deniest

me." And when Solomon desired her to lay

her commands upon him, because it was

agreeable to his duty, to grant her every

thing she should ask; and complained that

she did not at first begin her discourse, with

a firm expectation of obtaining what she de­

sired, but had some suspicion of a denial; she

intreated him to grant, that his brother Ado­

nijah might marry Abishag.

But the king was greatly offended at these

words, and sent away his mother, saying, that

Adonijah aimed at great things; and that he

wondered she did not desire him to yield up

the kingdom to him, as to his elder brother;

