A!T 229 1089.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

it to heart, to be deprived of a man that was

of his kindred, and had indeed given him the

kingdom, and Abner's death very much trou­

bled him. Nor did he himself survive any

long time; but was treacherously set upon

by the sons of Rimmon, Baanah and Rechab;

and was slain by them. For these being of

a family of the Benjamites, and of the first

rank among them, thought that if they should

slay Ishbosheth, they should obtain large

presents from David, and be made com­

manders by him, or at least should have some

other trust committed to them. So when they

once found him asleep, at noon, in an upper

apartment, when none of his guards were

there; and when the woman that kept the

door was not watching, but was fallen asleep

also; partly on account of the labour she had

undergone, and partly on account of the heat

of the day; these men went into the room in

which Ishbosheth, Saul's son, lay asleep, and

slew him;* they also cut off his head, and

took their journey all that night, and the next

day, as supposing themselves fleeing from

those that they had injured, to one that would

accept of this action as a favour, and would

afford thein security. So they came to He­

bron, and shewed David the head of Ishbo­

sheth, and presented themselves to him, as

his well-wishers, and such as had killed one

that was his enemy, and antagonist. Yet

David did not approve of what they had

done, as they expected; but said to them,

•'Vile wretches! you shall immediately re­

ceive the punishment you deserve. Did not

you know what vengeance I executed on him

that murdered Saul,t and brought me his

crown of gold; and this while he who perpe­

trated that action did it as a favour to him,

that he might not be caught by his enemies?

or do you imagine that I am altered in my

disposition, and suppose that I am not the

same man I then was? but am pleased with

men that are wicked doers? and esteem your

vile actions, when you are become murderers

of your master, as grateful to me, when you

have slain a righteous man upon his bed, who

never did evil to any body; and treated you

with great good will and respect; wherefore

you shall suffer the punishment due on his

account, and the vengeance I ought to inflict

upon you for killing Ishbosheth, and for sup­

posing that I should take his death kindly at

your hands; for you could not lay a greater

blot on my honour than the making such a

supposal." When David had said this, he

tormented them with all sorts of torments,

and then put them to death; and he bestowed

all accustomed rites on the burial of the

head of Ishbosheth, and laid it in the grave

of Abner. J

When these things were brought to this

conclusion, all the principal men of the He­

brews came to David, to Hebron, with the

heads of thousands, and other rulers, and de­

livered themselves up to him; putting him in

mind of the good will they had borne to him

in Saul's life-time; and the respect they then

had not ceased to pay him, when he was cap­

tain of a thousand; as also that he was

chosen of God by Samuel the prophet,|| he

and his sons; declaring besides how God had

fiven him power to save the land of the

lebrews, and to overcome the Philistines.

Whereupon he received kindly their alacrity

on his account; and exhorted them to con­

tinue in it, for that they should have no reason

to repent of being thus disposed to him.

So when he had feasted them, and treated

them kindly, he sent them out to bring all the

people to him. Upon which there came to

him about six thousand and eight hundred

armed men of the tribe of Judah; who bare

shields and spears of their weapons; for these

* 2 Sam. iv. 7.

t It may seem a little strange, that these two ruffians

were not discouraged by David's punishing the Amalekite

for killing of Saul, and by the detestation he had publicly

shewn of Joab's baseness in murdering Abner: but the

former of these cases, they might think, was not parallel

to theirs; because Saul was anointed king by God's imme­

diate direction, whereas Ishbosheth, having never had

such sacred unction, was no more than an usurper; and

as for the latter, they might think, that David's conduct,

in relation to Abner's death, proceeded from art and policy,

rather than any serious dislike to the tiling itself; and in

this opinion, they might the rather be confirmed, when

they saw Joab, instead of being punished, continuing in

the very same post and power that he had before. PooVs

Annotations. B.

t 2 Sam. iv. 12.

I This may be a true observation of Josephus's; that

Samuel, by command from God, entailed the crown on

David and his posterity; for no farther did that entail

ever reach. Solomon himself having never had any pro­

mise made him that his posterity should always have the

right to it.

Yy2

