454 [book XII, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

find taken those that were there in their

caves, (for many of the people had fled into

such places,) he removed, and made all the

haste he could to Jerusalem. And when he

had learned that Judas had pitched his camp

at a certain village whose name was Beth-

zetho, he led his army against him. They

were twenty thousand footmen, and two thou­

sand horsemen. Now Judas had no more

soldiers than *one thousand. When these

saw the multitude of Bacchides's men, they

were afraid, and left their camp, and fled all

away, excepting eight hundred. Now when

Judas was deserted by his own soldiers, and

the enemy pressed upon him, and gave him

no time to gather his army together, he was

disposed to fight with Bacchides's army,

though he had but eight hundred men with

him. So he exhorted these men to undergo

the danger courageously, and encouraged

them to attack the enemy. And when they

said they were not a body sufficient to fight

so great an army, and advised that they

should retire now, and save themselves; and

that when he had gathered his own men

together, he should fall upon the enemy after­

wards: his answer was this, "Let not the

sun ever see' such a thing, that I should shew

my back to the enemy: and although this be

the time that will bring me to my end, and I

must die in this battle, I will rather stand to

it courageously, and bear whatever comes

upon me, than by running away bring re­

proach upon my former great actions; or

tarnish their glory." This was the speech

he made to those that remained with him;

whereby he encouraged them to attack the

enemy.

But Bacchides drew his army out of their

camp, and put them in array for the battle.

He set the horsemen on both wings; and the

light soldiers and the archers he placed be­

fore the whole army; but he was himself on

the right wing. And when he had thus put

his army in order, and was going to join

battle with the enemy, he commanded the

trumpeter to give a signal, and the army to

make a shout, and to fall on the enemy. And

when Judas had done the same, he joined

battle with them; and as both sides fought

valiantly, and the engagement continued till

sun-set, Judas saw that Bacchides, and the

strongest part of the army was in the right

wing; and therefore took the most coura­

geous men with him, and ran upon that part

of the army, and fell upon those that were

there, and brake their ranks, and drove them

into the middle, forced them to run away,

and pursued them as far as to a mountain

called Aza. But when those of the left wing

saw that the right wing was put to flight,

they encompassed Judas, and pursued him,

and came behind him, and took him into the

middle of their army. So being not able to

flee, but encompassed round about with ene­

mies, he stood still, and he and those that

were with him fought. And when he had

slain a great many of those that came against

him, he at last was himself wounded and fell,

and gave up the ghost; and died in a way

like to his former famous actions. When

Judas was dead, those that were with him

had no one whom they could regard as their

commander; but when they saw themselves

deprived of such a general, they fled.f But

Simon, and Jonathan, Judas's brethren, re­

ceived his dead body by a treaty from the

enemy; and carried it to the village Modin;

where their father had been interred, and

there buried him; while the multitude la­

mented him many days, and performed the

usual solemnities of a funeral to him. And

this was the end that Judas came to. He

had been a man of valour, and a great war­

rior, and mindful of the commands of their

father Mattathias; and had undergone all

difficulties, both in doing and suffering, for the

liberty of his countrymen. And when his cha­

racter was so excellent, while he was alive,

he left behind him a glorious reputation, and

memorial: by gaining freedom for his nation;

and delivering them from slavery under the

Macedonians. And when he had retained

the high-priesthood three years, he died.

* That this copy of Josephus, as he wrote it, had here  
not 1000 but 3000, with 1 Mace. ix. 5. is very plain;

because though the main part ran away at first, even in

Josephus, as well as in 1 Mace. ix. 6. yet, as there, so

here, 800 are said to have remained with Judas. Which

would be absurd, if the whole number had been no more

than 1000.

t 1 Mace. iz. 18.

