an. 1492.] 141 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

cause of his extraordinary virtue he went to

God.

Now Moses lived in all one hundred and

twenty years,* a third part of which time,

abating one month, he was the people's ruler.

And he diedf in the last month of the year,

which is called by the Macedonians Dystrus;

but by us Adar; on the first day of the month.

He was one that exceeded all men in under­

standing, and made the best use of what that

understanding suggested to him. He had a

very pleasing way of speaking, and addressing

the multitude; and, as to his other qualifica­

tions, he had such a full command over his

passions, as if he hardly had any such in his

soul, and only knew them by their names; as

rather perceiving them in other men, than in

* Deut. xxxiv. 7.

t Nothing can be plainer from the text, than that Mo­

ses did die, and was really buried; nay, Josephus tells us,

that the Scripture affirms, that he died lest people should

think, because of the excellency of his person, that he

was still alive, and with God. And yet, notwithstanding

this, some of the Jewish doctors do positively affirm, that

he was translated into heaven, where he stands and minis­

ters before God: and of those who admit of his death,

himself. He was also such a general of an

army as is seldom seen, as well as such a pro­

phet as was never known,J and this to such a

degree, that whatsoever he pronounced, you

would think you heard the voice of God him­

self. So the people mourned for him thirty

days.

Nor did ever any grief so deeply affect the

Hebrews as did this upon the death of Mo­

ses. Nor were those that had experienced

his conduct the only persons that desired

him; but those also that perused the laws he

left behind him had a strong desire after him,

and by them gathered the extraordinary vir­

tue he was master of. And this shall suffice

for the declaration of the manner of the death

of Moses.

and that his soul and body were really separated, the ma­

jor part will not allow that he died a common death; for

their notion is, that his soul departed with a kiss, because

he is said to die, al pi, at the mouth, (as it is literally in the

Hebrew, i. e. according to the word) of God; but if there

be any sense in the expression, it must be, that he parted

with his soul with great cheerfulness and serenity of mind

Witsius's Miscel. lacra. B.

{ Deut. xxxiv. 10.

LIS

