438 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

retired to Antiochus, and informed him that

they were desirous to leave the laws of their

country, and the Jewish customs; and to fol­

low the king's laws, and the Grecian mode of

living. Wherefore they desired his permis­

sion to build them a gymnasium at Jerusalem.

Accordingly they left off all the customs that

belonged to their own country, and imitated

the practices of the other nations.

Now Antiochus, upon the agreeable situa­

tion of the affairs of his kingdom, resolved to

make an expedition against Egypt: both be­

cause he had a desire to gain it, and because

he contemned the sons of Ptolemy, as not yet

of abilities to manage affairs of such conse­

quence. So he came with great forces to

Pelusium, and circumvented Ptolemy Philo-

metor by treachery, and seized upon Egypt.

He then came to the places about Memphis;

and when he had taken them, he hastened

to Alexandria, in hopes of taking it by siege,

and of subduing Ptolemy, who reigned there.

But he was driven not from Alexandria, but

out of all Egypt by the declaration of the

Romans, who charged him to let that country

alone. I will now give a particular account

of what concerns this king, how he subdued

Judea and the temple. For in my former

work I mentioned those things very briefly

and have therefore now thought it necessary

to go over that history again, and that with

great accuracy.

King Antiochus* returning out of Egypt,

for ffear of the Romans, made an expedition

against the city of Jerusalem; and when he

was there, in the hundred and forty-thirdJ

year of the kingdom of the Seleucidse, he

took the city without fighting; those of his

own party opening the gates to him. And

when he had gotten possession of Jerusalem,

he slew many of the opposite party; and

when he had plundered it of a great deal of

money, he returned to Antioch.

Now it came to pass, after two years, in the

hundred and forty-fifth year, on the twenty,

fifth day of that month, which is by us called

Casleu, and by the Macedonians, Apelleus;

in the hundred and fifty-third Olympiad, that

the king came up to Jerusalem; and pretend­

ing peace, he got possession of the city by

treachery.|| At which time he spared not so

much as those that admitted him into it; on

account of the riches that lay in the temple.

But led by his covetous inclination, (for he

saw there was in it a great deal of gold, and

many ornaments that had been dedicated to

it of very great value,) and in order to plun­

der its wealth, he returned to break the

league he had made. So he left the temple

bare; and took away the golden candle­

sticks, and the golden altar of incense, and

table of shew-bread, and the altar of burnt-

offering; and did not abstain from even the

veils, which were made of fine linen and

scarlet. He also emptied it of its secret

treasures, and left nothing at all remaining;

and by this means cast the Jews into great

lamentation. For he forbade them to offer

those daily sacrifices which they used to

offer to God, according to the law. And

when he had pillaged the whole city, some

of the inhabitants he slew, and some he car­

ried captive, together with their wives and

children: so that the multitude of those

captives that were taken alive amounted to

about ten thousand. He also burnt down

* Hereabout Josephug begins to follow the first Book  
of the Maccabees; a most excellent and authentic his­

tory. And accordingly it is here, with great fidelity and

exactness, abridged by him. Between whose present

copies there seem to be fewer variations than in any other

sacred Hebrew book of the Old Testament whatsoever:

(for this book also was originally written in Hebrew;)

which is very natural: because it was written so much

nearer to the times of Josephus than the rest were.

t What Josephus says here, that Antiochus returned

out of Egypt from his first expedition thither, out of fear

of the Romans; if it refer to Popilius Laenas, and the

other Roman ambassadors' peremptory threatnings, is a

great mistake; that not happening till two years after­

wards at his second expedition. And that Antiochus now

assaulted Jerusalem, the 2d of the Maccabees says no­

thing. But since the words before us may possibly refer

to some other cause of fear from the Romans, of which

we know nothing from any other author now extant, we

cannot, with any certainty, pronounce it to be a mistake.

However, Spanheim takes notice of this second expedition

of Antiochus, as made mention of by Polybius, in Vale-

siu9's Excerpta, page 132, and out of Polybius, by Dio-

dorus Siculus, in the Supplement to those Excerps, page

312. By whom, and by Dr. Hudson, we are referred

for his exclusion out of Egypt by the Romans to Livy.

XIV. 18. and to Justin Histor. XXXIV. who give us re­

markable accounts of it. See the places already cited.

However, I cannot agree with Dean Prideaux, who mul­

tiplies these two expeditions into Egypt into four, at the

year 171, 170, 169, 168, B. C.

J See 1 Mace. i. 20. But verses 21, 22. contain what

Josephus ascribes to the second expedition of Antiochus

against Jerusalem.

I! 1 Mace. i. 29, 30.

