an. 1493.] 121 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

slew the sacrifices, and offered them as burnt

offerings, that he might observe some signal

of the Sight of the Hebrews. Then said he,

44 Happy is this people, on whom God be­

stows the possession of innumerable good

things; and grants them his own providence

to be their assistant and their guide: so that

there is not any nation among mankind, but

you will be esteemed superior to them in

virtue, and in the earnest prosecution of the

best rules of life, and of such as are pure from

wickedness; and will leave those rules to

your excellent children: and this out of the

regard that God bears to you, and the pro­

vision of such things for you as may render

you happier than any other people under the

sun. You shall retain that land to which he

hath sent you, and it shall be ever under the

command of your children; and both all the

earth, as well as the sea, shall be filled with

their glory. And you shall be sufficiently

numerous to supply the world in general, and

every region of it in particular, with inhabi­

tants out of your stock. However, O blessed

army! wonder that you are become so many

from one father! and truly the land of Canaan

can now hold you, as being yet comparatively

few. but know ye, that the whole world is

proposed to be your place of habitation for

ever. Your posterity shall also live in the

islands, as well as on the continent, and shall

be more numerous than the stars of heaven.

And when you are become so many, God will

not relinquish his care of you, but will afford

you an abundance of all good things in times

of peace, with victory and dominion in times

of war. May the children of your enemies

have an inclination to fight against you, and

may they be so hardy as to come to arms,

and to assault you in battle, for they will not

return with victory, nor will their return be

agreeable to their wives and children. To so

great a degree of valour will you be raised by

the providence of God, who is able to dimi­

nish the affluence of some, and to supply the

wants of others."

sacrifices to be prepared. The ancients were very super­

stitious about certain numbers, supposing that God de­

lighted in odd numbers.

Terna tibi haec primum triplici diversa colore

Licia circumdo; terque haec altaria circum

Effigiem duco; numero Deus impare gaudet.

Virg. Eclog. viii. 73,

Thus did Balaam speak by inspiration; as

not being in his own power, but moved to

say what he did by the Divine spirit. But

Balak was greatly displeased, and said, he

had broken the contract whereby he was to

come, as he and his confederates had invited

him, by the promise of great presents. For

whereas he came to curse their enemies, he

had pronounced an encomium on them; and

had declared they were the happiest of men.

To which Balaam replied; "O Balak, if thou

rightly considerest this whole matter, canst

thou suppose that it is in our power to be

silent, or to say any thing, when the Spirit ol

God seizes upon us? for he puts such words

as he pleases in our mouths, and such dis­

courses as we are not ourselves conscious of.

I well remember by what entreaties both you

and the Midianites brought me hither; and on

that account I took this journey. It was my

prayer that I might not put any affront upon

you, as to what you desired of me. But God

is more powerful than the purposes I had

made to serve you. For those that take upon

them to foretel the affairs of mankind, as from

their own abilities, are entirely unable to do

it; or to forbear to utter what God suggests

to them, or to offer violence to his will. For

when he prevents us, and enters into us, no­

thing that we say is our own. I then did not

intend to praise this army, nor to notice the

several good things which God intended to

do to their race. But since he was so favour­

able to them, and so ready to bestow upon

them a happy life, and eternal glory, he sug­

gested the declaration of those things to me.

But now, because it is my desire to oblige

thee thyself, as well as the Midianites, whose

entreaties it is not decent for me to reject;

let us again rear other altars, and offer the

like sacrifices that we did before; and I may

see whether I can persuade God to permit

me to bind these men with curses." Balak

readily agreed to this proposal; but God

would not even upon* second sacrifices con­

sent to his cursing the Israelites. Then fell

Around his waxen image first I wind

Three woollen fillets, of three colours join'd;

Thrice bind about his thrice devoted head,

Which round the sacred altar thrice is led.

Unequal numbers please the gods. Drvden. B.

* Whether Josephus had in his copy but two attempts  
of Balaam in all to curse Israel; or whether by his twice

