AK.457.] 403 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. VI.

concerning esther, mordecai, and hahan; and the

Imminent danger to which the whole nation of

the jews was exposed in the reign of artaxerxes.

AFTER the death of Xerxes,* the king­

dom came to be transferred to his son

Cyrus, whom the Greeks call Artaxerxes.f

When this man had obtained the government

over the Persians, the whole nation of the

Jews,J with their wives and children, were

in danger of perishing: the occasion whereof

we shall declare in a little time. For it is

proper in the first place to explain somewhat

relating to this king, and how he came to

marry a Jewish wife; who was also of the

royal family, and who is related to have saved

our nation. For when Artaxerxes had taken

the kingdom, and had set governors over the

hundred and twenty-seven provinces, from

India even unto Ethiopia, in the third year of

his reign,|| he made a costly feast for his

friends,§ and for the nations of Persia, and

for their governors: such a one as was proper

for a king to make, when he had a mind to

make a public demonstration of his riches;

and this for a hundred and eighty days. Af­

ter which he made a feast for other nations,

and for their ambassadors, at Shushan, for

seven days. Now this feast was ordered after

the following manner. He caused a tent to

be pitched, which was supported by pillars of

gold and silver, with curtains of linen and

purple spread over them; that it might afford

room for many thousands to sit down. The

cups which the waiters ministered were of

gold, and adorned with precious stones. He

also gave order to the servants, that they

should not force the guests to drink, by bring­

ing them wine continually, as is the practice

of the Persians; but to permit every one to

follow his own inclination. Moreover he sent

* About an. 457.

t This prince, to distinguish him from others of that

name, was called Maxpox"'p,orLongimanus, upon the sup­

posed length of his hands, with which it is said that he

could have touched his knees, even when he stood up­

right; but this notwithstanding, it is reported of him, that

he was both the handsomest person of the age in which he

lived, and a prince likewise of a very mild and generous

disposition. Prideaux's Connection, anno 465. B.

| Since some sceptical persons are willing to discard

this book of Esther, as no true history: and even our

learned and judicious Dr. Wall, in his late posthumous

critical notes upon all the other Hebrew books of the Old

Testament, gives us none upon the Canticles, or upon

Esther; and seems thereby to give up this book, as well

as the Canticles, as indefensible: I shall venture to say,

that almost all the objections against this book of Esther

are obviated at once, if, as we ought certainly to do, and

as Dean Prideaux has justly done, we place this history

under Artaxerxes Longimanus: as do both the Septuagint

interpreters, and Josephus. I mean in this case we also

take our true copies from the Septuagint, and from Jose­

phus; rather than from our Masorete Hebrew. I shall

here add farther, on its behalf, the words of the learned

Dr. Lee in his posthumous Dissertation on the second book

of Esdras, page 25, that "The truth of this history is

demonstrated by the feast of Purim, kept from that time

to this very day. See 2 Maccabees xv. 36. And this

surprising Providential revolution in favour of a captive

people, thereby constantly commemorated, standeth even

upon a firmer basis than that there ever was such a man

as Alexander the Great in the world: of whose reign

there is no such abiding monument at this day to be

found any where. Nor will they, I dare say, who quar­

rel at this, or any other of the sacred historians, find it a

very easy matter to reconcile the different accounts which

are given by historians of the affairs qf this king: or to

confirm any one fact of his whatever with the same evi­

dence which is here given for the principal fact in this

voL. I.—NOS. 33 & 34.

sacTed book: or even so much as to prove the existence

of such a person, of whom so great things are related, but

upon granting this book of Esther, or sixth of Esdras:

(as it is placed in some of the most ancient copies of the

Vulgate:) to be a most true and certain history."

N. B. The oldest and most authentic record we now

have of Alexander the Great, is contained in the first

seven verses of the first book of Maccabees.

I I An. 454.

§ The occasion of this great festival is, very likely, In­

timated to us in the phrase, When the king Ahasuerus sat

on the throne of his kingdom, chap. i. 2. i. e. enjoying

peace and tranquillity through his large dominions; for

the history of his accession to the throne is this:—Xerxes

his father was privately murdered by Artabanus, captain

of his guard. He coming to him, (who was then but the

third son,) made him believe, that Darius, his elder bro­

ther, had done it, to make his way to the throne, and had

a design likewise to cut him off, to secure himself in it.

This Ahasuerus believing, went immediately to his bro­

ther's apartment, and by the assistance of the wicked Ar­

tabanus and his guards, slew him, thinking all the while

that he acted but in his own defence. Artabanus's drift

was to seize on the throne himself; but for the present he

took Ahasuerus, and placed him thereon, with a design to

pull him down as soon as matters were ripe for his own

ascent: but when Ahasuerus understood this from Maga-

byzus, who had married one of his sisters, he took care to

counterplot Artabanus, and to cut him and his whole party

off before his treason was come to maturity; and for this,

and some other successes against his brother Hystaspes,

which settled him in a peaceable possession of the whole

Persian empire, very probably it was, that a festival-season

of above a hundred and fourscore days' continuance was

appointed, which, even to this day, according to some tra­

vellers, is no uncommon thing in those parts of the world.

Prideaux's Connection, anno 465, and Patrick's Commen­

tary on Esther, chap. i. B.

3X

