312 [book viii. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

the multitude made no answer to what he

said, Elijah desired, that for a trial of the

Sower ot the strange gods, and of their own

rod, he, who was his only prophet, while

they had four hundred, might take a heifer,

and kill it, as a sacrifice, and lay it on pieces

of wood, and not kindle any fire; and that

they should do the same things, and call

upon their own gods to set* the wood on

fire: for if that were done, they would

thence learn the nature of the true God.f

This proposal pleased the people. So Elijah

bade the prophets choose out a heifer first,

and kill it, and to call on their gods. But

when there appeared no effect of the prayer,

or invocation of the prophets upon their sa­

crifice, Elijah derided them, and bade them

call upon their gods with a loud voice; for

they might either be on a journey, or asleep.

And when these prophets had done so from

morning till noon, and cutJ themselves with

swords and lances,|| according to the custom

of their country, and he was about to offer

his sacrifice, he bade the prophets go away,

but desired the people to come near and ob­

serve what he did, lest he should privately

hide fire among the pieces of wood. So

upon the approach of the multitude, he

took twelve stones, one for each tribe of the

people of the Hebrews; and built an altar

with them, and dug a very deep trench.

And when he had laid the pieces of wood

upon the altar, and upon them had laid the

pieces of the sacrifice, he ordered them to

fill four barrels of the water of the fountain,

and to pour it upon the altar, till it ran over

it; and till the trench was filled with the

water poured into it. When he had done

this, he began to pray to God, and to intreat

him to manifest his power to a people that

had been in an error a long time. Upon

which words a fire came on a sudden from

heaven in the sight of the multitude, and

fell upon the altar, and consumed the sacri­

fice, till the very water was set on fire, and

the place was become dry.

Now when the Israelites saw this, they fell

down upon the ground, and worshipped one

God, and called him the only great and the

only true God: but they called the others

mere names, framed by the wild opinions of

men. So they caught their prophets; and,

at the command of Elijah, slew them. Elijah

also said to the king, that he should go to

dinner, without any farther concern; for that

in a little time he would see God send them

rain. Accordingly Ahab went his way; but

Elijah went up to the highest top of Mount

Carmel, and sat down upon the ground, and

leaned his head upon his knees; and bade

his servant go up to a certain elevated

place, and look towards the sea: and when

he should see a cloud rise any where, he

should give him notice of it; for till that

time the air had been clear. When the ser­

vant had gone up, and had said many times

that he saw nothing; at the seventh time of

his going up he said, that he saw a small

black thing in the sky, not larger than a

man's foot. When Elijah heard that, he

* This was the ancient way of God's declaring himself  
pleased with sacrifices. See Gen. xv. 17.

t This is not the first time wherein God had declared

his approbation of his worshippers, by sending down fire

to consume the sacrifices, Lev. ix. 24, and Judges vi. 21.

and though perhaps it may be possible for evil spirits, who

may have great knowledge how to manage meteors and

exhalations to their purposes, to make fire descend from

the clouds; yet, since they can do nothing without a

divine permission, it is absurd to think, that in a matter

of competition between him and false gods, he should

give evil spirits any license to rival him in his miracles.

he Clerc's Commentary. B.

I Mr. Spanheim takes notice here, that in the worship

of Mithra, the god of the Persians, the priests cut them­

selves in the same manner as did these priests in their

invocations of Baal, the god of the Phoenicians.

|| A strange method one would think to obtain the fa­

vour of their gods! And yet, if we look into antiquity we

shall find, that nothing was more common in the religious

rites of several nations than this barbarous custom. To

this purpose we may observe, that (as Plutarch, De Su-

perstitione, tells us) the priests of Bellona, when they sa­

crificed to that goddess, were wont to besmear the victim

with their own blood; but the Persian Magi (according

to Herodotus, lib. vii. c. 191.) used to appease tempests,

and allay the winds, by making incisions in their flesh;

that they who carried about the Syrian goddess, (as Apu-

leius, lib. viii. relates,) among other mad pranks, were,

every now and then, cutting and slashing themselves

with knives, till the blood gushed out: and that even to

this day some modern travellers tell us, that in Turkey,

Persia, and several parts of the Indies, there are a kind of

fanatics, who think they do a very meritorious thing, and

what is highly acceptable to the Deity, in cutting and

mangling their own flesh. "Dii autum nullo debent colli

genere" (says Seneca, as he is quoted by St. Austin De Civ.

Dei. vi. c. 10.) " si et hoc volunt. Tantus est perturbatae

mentis, et sedius suis pulsae furor, ut sic dii placentur,

quemadtnodum ne homines quidem saeviunt teterrimi, et

in fabulas traditae crudelitatis," &c. Calmet's and Le

CUrc1} Commentaries. B.

