an. 377.] 42$ ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

ened them to the table by buttons and button­

holes, at the place where the crown was

situate: that so on what side soever of the

table one should stand, it might exhibit the

very same view of the exquisite workman­

ship, and of the vast expense bestowed upon

it. But upon the table itself they engraved

a meander: inserting into it very valuable

stones, in the middle, like stars of various

colours; the carbuncle, and the emerald;

each of which sent out agreeable rays of

light to the spectators; with such stones of

other sorts also as were most curious, and

best esteemed, as being most precious in

their kind. This meander was surrounded

by a texture of net-work: the middle of which

appeared like a rhombus, into which were

inserted rock crystal, and amber: which, by

the appearance they made, gave wonderful

delight to those that saw them. The chapi­

ters of the feet imitated the first buddings of

lilies; while their leaves were bent, and laid

under the table: but so that the chives were

seen standing upright within them. Their

bases were made of a carbuncle; and the

plate at the bottom, which rested on that

carbuncle, was one palm deep, and eight

fingers in breadth. Now they had engraved

upon it, with a very fine tool, and with a great

deal of pains, a branch of ivy and tendrils of

the vine, sending forth clusters of grapes:

that you would guess they were no way dif­

ferent from real tendrils. For they were

eo very thin, and so far extended at their

extremities, that they were moved with the

wind, and made one believe they were the

product of nature, and not the represen­

tation of art. They also made the entire

workmanship of the table appear to be three­

fold; while the joints of the several parts

were so united together as to be invisible,

and the places where they joined could not

be distinguished. Now the thickness of the

table was not less than half a cubit. So that

this gift by the king's great generosity, by

the great value of the materials, and the va­

riety of its exquisite structure, and the arti­

ficers' skill in imitating nature with graving

tools, was at length brought to perfection:

while the king was very desirous, that

though in largeness it were not to be dif­

ferent from that which was already dedicated

to God; yet that in the exquisite workman­

ship, novelty of contrivance, and splendour

of construction, it should far exceed it.

Now there were two cisterns of gold; each

of which was engraven with scale-work, from

its basis to its belt-like circle, with various

sorts of stones inchased in the spiral circles.

Next to which there was upon it a meander,

of a cubit in height, and composed of stones

of all sorts of colours. And next to this was

the rod-work engraven; and next to that was

a rhombus, in a texture of net-work, drawn

out to the brim of the bason: while small

shields made of beautiful stones, and of four

fingers' depth, filled up the middle parts.

About the top of the bason were wreathed

the leaves of lilies, and of the convolvulus,

and the tendrils of vines, in a circular man­

ner. And this was the construction of the

two cisterns of gold; each containing two

firkins. But those which were of silver

were much more bright and splendid than

looking-glasses; and you might in them see

the images that fell upon them more plainly

than in the other. The king also ordered

thirty vials, those of which the parts that

were of gold, and not filled up with precious

stones, were shadowed over with the leaves

of ivy, and of vines artificially engraven. And

these were the vessels that were after an ex­

traordinary manner brought to this perfec­

tion; partly by the skill of the workmen, who

were admirable in such fine work; but much

more by the diligence and generosity of the

king; who not only supplied the artificer*

abundantly, and with what they wanted, but

even suspended public audiences for the time;

and came and stood by the workmen, and

saw the whole operation. And this was the

cause why the workmen were so accurate in

their performance: because they had regard

to the king, and to his great concern about

the vessels: and so the more indefatigably

attended to the work.

And these gifts were sent by Ptolemy to

Jerusalem, and dedicated to God there. But

when Eleazar, the high-priest, had devoted

them to God, and had paid due respects to

those that brought them; and had given them

presents to be carried to the king, he let them

go back to the king. And when they were

come, and the seventy elders were come also,

he presently sent for Andreas and Aristeus,

his ambassadors. Accordingly they came to

?/

V

