AN. 610.] 365 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

days.* And Jeremiah the prophet com­

posed! an elegy to lament him; which is

still extant. Moreover this prophet de­

nounced beforehand the sad calamities that

were coming upon the city. He also left

behind him in writing a description of that

destruction of our nation, which has lately

happened in our days, and the taking of

Babylon. Nor was he the only prophet who

delivered such predictions beforehand to

the multitude; but so did Ezekiel also; who

was the first person that wrote, and left be­

hind him in writing Jtwo books concerning

these events. Now these two prophets were

priests by birth. But of them Jeremiah

dwelt in Jerusalem, from the ||thirteenth

year of the reign of Josiah, until the city

and temple were utterly destroyed. How­

ever, as to what befell this prophet, we will

relate it in its proper place.

Upon the death of Josiah, his son, Jehoahaz

by name, took the kingdom, being about

twenty-three years old. He reigned in Jeru­

salem; and his mother was Hamutal, of the

city Libnah. He was an impious man, and

impure in his course of life. But as the king

of Egypt returned from the battle, he sent for

Jehoahaz to come to him, to the city of Ha-

math,§ which belongs to Syria; and when

he was come, he put him in bands, and de­

livered the kingdom to a brother of his by

the father's side, whose name was Eliakim;

and changed his name to Jehoiakim; and laid

a tribute upon the land of a hundred talents

of silver, and a talent of gold: and this sum

of money Jehoiakim paid by way of tribute.

But Necho carried away Jehoahaz into Egypt;

where he died, when he had reigned three

months and ten days. Now Jehoiakim's

mother was called Zebudah, of the city

Rumah. He was of a wicked disposition;

and prone to mischief: nor was he either re­

ligious towards God, or good-natured to­

wards men.**

CHAP. VI.

op Nebuchadnezzar's expedition against the kings of

egypt and judea j the death of jehoiakim, and the

succession of his son jehoiachin.

IN the fourth year of Jehoiakim, one whose

name was Nebuchadnezzar took the go­

vernment over the Babylonians; who at the

same time went up with a great army to the1

city Carchemish, which was at Euphrates;

upon a resolution that he had taken to fight

with Necho king of Egypt, under whom all

Syria then was. And when Necho under­

stood the intention of the king of Babylon,

and that this expedition was made against

him, he did not despise his attempt; but made

haste with a great band of men to Euphrates,

to defend himself from Nebuchadnezzar. And

when they had joined battle he was beaten,

and lost many thousands of his soldiers. So

the king of Babylon passed over the Eu­

phrates, and took all Syria, as far as Pelusium,

* The Jews were wont to make lamentations, or mourn­  
ful songs, upon the death of great men, princes, and

heroes, who had distinguished themselves in arms, or by

any civil art had merited well of their country. By an ex­

pression in 2 Chron. xxxv. 25. Behold they are written

in the lamentations, one may infer, that they had certain

collections of this kind of composition. The author of the

book of Samuel has preserved those which David made

upon the death of Saul and Jonathan, of Abner and Ab­

salom: but this mournful poem, which the disconsolate

prophet made upon this immature death of good Josiah,

we no where have, which is a loss the more to be de­

plored, because, in all probability, it was a master-piece

in its kind: since never was there an author more deeply

affected with his subject, or more capable of carrying it

through all the tender sentiments of sorrow and com­

passion. Calmet'a Commentary, and Preface sur les

Lamentations de Jeremie. B.

t Whether Josephus, from 2 Chron. xxxv. 25. here

means the book of the Lamentations of Jeremiah, still

extant; which chiefly belongs to the destruction of Je­

rusalem under Nebuchadnezzar: or any other melan­

choly poem now lost, but extant in the days of Josephus,

belonging peculiarly to Josiah, cannot now be deter­

mined.

J Of these two books of Ezekiel, see Authentic Re­

cords, part II. page 778.

II Jeremiah i. 2.

§ This ancient city, Hamath, which is joined with Ar-

pad or Aradus, and with Damascus, 2 Kings xviii. 34. Isa.

xxxvi. 19. Jer. xlix. 23. cities of Syria and Phoenicia,

near the borders of Judea, was also itself evidently near

the same borders: though long ago utterly destroyed.

Nor ought the moderns to dream here of Antioch at a

vast distance from those borders; or even of Epiphania, or

Emesa, or any other neighbours; as being still much too

remote for the situation of this city. It was, I think, in or

very near a famous passage between Judea and Libanus or

Antilibanus, so frequently called the entrance of Hamath«

see Antiq. VIII. 6. Reland, Palestin. lib. I. page 119, 120,

121, 122. and Maundrell, page 24, 25. who very well ob­

serves from 1 Mace. xii. 25, 30. that the river Eleutherus»

which ran somewhat north of Sidon, ran also through this

country of Amathis or Hamath. See Antiq. XIII. 4. which

accurately determines the situation of that country.

** 2 Chron. xxxvi. 5.

3Q2

