36 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

God to Jacob,' and" that without the consent

of Isaac, bade him kill kids of the goats, and

prepare a supper. Jacob obeyed his mother,

according to all her instructions, and when

the supper was ready, he took a goat's Bkin,

and put it about his arm, that by reason of

its hairy roughness, his father might believe

him to be Esau; for they being twins, and

in all things else alike, differed only in this

thing. This was done out of his fear, that

before Isaac had made his supplications, he

should be caught in his evil practice, and

thereby provoke his father to curse him. So

he brought in the supper to his father. Isaac

perceiving, by the peculiarity of his voice,

who he was, called his son to him; who gave

him his hand, which was covered with the

goat's skin. When Isaac felt that, he said,

"Thy voice is like the voice of Jacob; yet

because of the thickness of thy hair, thou

seemest to be Esau." So suspecting no deceit,

he ate the supper, and offered up his prayers

and intercession to God, and said, "O Lord

of all ages, and creator of all substance, it

was thou that didst propose to my father

great plenty of good things, and hast vouch­

safed to bestow on me what I have; and hast

promised to my posterity to be their kind

supporter, and to bestow on them still greater

blessings. Do thou therefore confirm these

thy promises, and do not overlook me because

of my present weak condition, on account of

which I more earnestly pray to thee. Be

gracious to this my son, preserve him, and

keep him from every thing that is evil. Give

him a happy life, and the possession of as

many good things as thy power is able to be­

stow. Make him terrible to his enemies, and

honourable and beloved among his friends."

Thus did Isaac pray to God, thinking his

prayers had been made for Esau. He had

but just finished them, however, when Esau

came in from hunting; and when Isaac per­

ceived his mistake, he was silent. Esau

earnestly requested that he might be made

partaker of the blessing which his brother

had received, but his father refused, because

all his prayers had been spent upon Jacob.

So Esau lamented the mistake; however, his

father being grieved at his weeping, said,

that " He should excel in hunting, in arms,

in strength of body; and should obtain glory

for ever on those accounts, he and his pos­

terity after him; but still should serve his

brother."

Now the mother delivered Jacob, when he

was afraid that his brother would inflict some

punishment upon him because of the mistake

about the prayers of Isaac: for she persuaded

her husband to take a wife for Jacob out of

Mesopotamia,* of her own kindred. Esau

having already married Basemmath, the

daughter of Ishmael, without his father's con­

sent: for Isaac, not liking the Canaanites, dis­

approved of Esau's former marriage, which

made him take Basemmath to wife, in order

to please him; and indeed he had a great

affection for her.

CHAP. XIX.

OF JACOB'S FLIGHT INTO MESOPOTAMIA.

NOW Jacob was sent by his mother into

Mesopotamia, in order to marry her

brother Laban's daughter, (which marriage

was permitted by Isaac, on account of his

obsequiousness to the desires of his wife,)

and he accordingly journeyed through the

land of Canaan; and because he hated the

people of that country, he would not lodge

with any of them, but took up his lodging in

the open air, and laid his head on a heap of

stones that he had gathered together.t Hav­

of his younger son, Jacob; as Josephus supposes, II. 7.

I certainly cannot say. If so, this might tempt Rebeka,

to contrive, and Jacob to practise, this imposition upon

him. However, Josephus says here, that it was Isaac,

and not Rebeka, who inquired of God at first, and re­

ceived the forementioned oracle ; which, if it be the true

reading, renders Isaac's procedure the more inexcusable.

Nor was it probable that any thing else, so much encou­

raged Esau formerly to marry two Canaanitish wives,

without his parents' consent, as Isaac's unhappy fondness

for him.

N. B. Upon this occasion it may be necessary to cau­

tion the reader against a common prejudice of the moderns;

as if the bare relation of what we should esteem the

faults and blemishes of the patriarchs, and other very

good men in the scripture, implied a justification of them.

The scripture affords us faithful accounts of the great

men with whom it is concerned; and relates their vices

and follies as impartially as their good and wise actions;

yet it does not always characterize those actions, but fre­

quently leaves them to the readers own judgment and

censure; to their imitation of the good, and avoidance of

the bad.

* Gen. xxvii. 46.

t Gen. xxviii. 11.

