412 [BOOK XL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

that are our faithful subjects, greeting. Many

men there are who, on account of the great­

ness of the benefits bestowed on them, and be­

cause of the honour which they have obtained

from the kind treatment of those that bestow­

ed it, are not only injurious to their inferiors,

but do not scruple to do evil to those who have

been their benefactors; as if they would take

away gratitude from among men. And by

their insolent abuse of such benefits as they

never expected, they turn the abundance they

have against those that are the authors of it;

and suppose they shall lie concealed fromGod

in that case, and avoid that vengeance which

comes from him. Some of these men, when

they have had the management of affairs com­

mitted to them by their friends, and bearing

private malice against some others, by de­

ceiving those that have the power, persuade

them to be angry at such as have done them

no harm; till they are in danger of perishing;

and this by lying accusations and calumnies.

Nor is this state of things to be discovered by

ancient examples, or such as we have merely

learned by report; but by some examples of

such impudent attempts under our own eyes.

So that it is not fit to attend any longer to ca­

lumnies, and accusations; nor to the persua­

sions of others; but to determine what any

one knows of himself to have been really done

and to punish what justly deserves it, and to

grant favours to such as are innocent. This

hath been the case of Haman, the son of

Amedatha; by birth an Amalekite, and alien

from the blood of the Persians: who, when he

was hospitably entertained by us, and partook

of that kindness which we bear to all men to

so great a degree, as to be called our father;

and to be all along worshipped, and to have

honour paid him by all in the second rank

after the royal honour due to ourselves, he

could not bear his good fortune, nor govern

the magnitude of his prosperity with sound

reason. Nay he made a conspiracy against

me, who gave him his authority: by endea­

vouring to take away Mordecai my benefactor,

and my saviour; and by basely and treache­

rously requiring to have Esther, the partner

of my life, and of my dominion, brought to

destruction. For he contrived by this means

to *deprive me of my faithful friends, and

transfer the government to others.

But since I perceived that these Jews that

were by this pernicious fellow devoted to

destruction, were not wicked men; but con­

ducted their lives in the best manner; and

were men dedicated to the worship of that

God who hath preserved the kingdom to me

and my ancestors: I do not only free them

from the punishment which the former epistle,

which was sent by Haman, ordered to be in­

flicted on them; to which if you refuse obe­

dience you shall do well: but I will that they

have all honour paid them. Accordingly I

have hanged up the man that contrived such

things against them, with his family, before

the gates of Shushan: that punishment being

sent upon him from God, who seeth all things.

And I give you in charge, that you publicly

propose a copy of this epistle through all my

kingdom, that the Jews may be permitted

peaceably to use their own laws; and that

you assist them: that at the same season

whereto their miserable estate did belong,

they may defend themselves the very same

day from unjust violence: the thirteenth day

of the twelfth month, which is Adar. For

God hath made that day a day of salvation,

instead of a day of destruction to them. And

may it be a good day to those that wish us

well; and a memorial of the punishment of

the conspirators against us! And I will that

properly revoke his former barbarous decree, for the uni­

versal slaughter of the Jews; but only empowered and

encouraged the Jews to fight for their lives, and to kill

their enemies, if they attempted their destruction, seems

to have been, that old law of the Medes and Persians, not

yet laid aside, that whatever decree was signed both by

the king, and his lords, could not be changed, but re­

mained unalterable, Daniel vi. 7, 8, 9, 12, IS, 17. Esther

i. 19. viii. 8. And Haman having engrossed the royal fa­

vour, might perhaps have himself signed this decree for

the Jews' slaughter, instead of the ancient lords; and so

might have rendered it, by their rulers, irrevocable.

* These words give an intimation, as if Artaxerxes sus­  
pected a deeper design in Haman than openly appeared:

viz. that knowing the Jews would be faithful to "him, and

that he could never transfer the crown to his own family,

who was an Agagite, Esther iii. 1, 10. or of the posterity

of Agag the old king of the Amalekites, 1 Sam. xv. 8, 32,

33. while they were alive, and spread over all his do­

minions, he therefore endeavoured to destroy them. Nor

is it to me improbable, that those 75,000 of the Jews*

enemies who were soon destroyed by the Jews, on the

permission of the king, which must be on some great

occasion, were Amalekites, their old and hereditary ene­

mies, Exod. xvii. 14, 15. and that thereby was fulfilled

Balaam's prophecy, "Amalek was the first of the na­

tions; but his latter end shall be that he perish for ever."

Numb. xxiv. 20.

