246 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

difference between them, and that in the

progress of that difference they came to an

open quarrel; and that one was smitten by

the other and was dead, and she desired him

to interpose in this case, and to save this her

son from her kindred, who were very zealous

to have him that had slain his brother put to

death; that so she might not be farther de­

prived of the hopes she had of being taken

care of in her old age by him; and that if he

would hinder this slaughter of her son, by

those that wished for it, he would do her a

great favour, because the kindred would not

be restrained from their purpose by any thing

else than by the fear of him.

And when the king had given his consent

to what the woman had begged of him, she

made this reply, "I owe thee thanks for thy

benignity to me in pitying my old age, and

preventing the loss of my only remaining

child. But in order to assure me of this thy

kindness, be first reconciled to thine own son,

and cease to be angry with him. For how

shall I persuade myself that thou hast really

bestowed this favour upon me, while thou

thyself continuest after the like manner in thy

wrath to thine own son? For it is a foolish

thing to add wilfully another to thy dead son;

while the death of the other was brought

about without thy consent." The king now

perceived that this pretended story was a

fabrication devised by Joab; and when upon

inquiry of the old woman, he understood it

to be so in reality, he called for Joab, and

told him, he had obtained what he requested,

according to his own mind; and he bade him

bring Absalom back,* for he was not now

displeased, but had already ceased to be

angry with him. So Joab bowed himself

down to the king, and went immediately to

Geshur, and brought Absalom with him to

Jerusalem.

However the king sent a message to his

son beforehand, as he was coming, and com­

manded him to retire to his own house; for

he was not yet in such a disposition as to

think fit to see him. Accordingly, upon the

father's command, he avoided coming into

his presence; and contented himself with the

respects paid him by his own family only.

Now his beauty was not impaired, either by

the grief he had been under, or by the want

of such care as was proper to be taken of a

king's son; for he still surpassed all men in

the tallness of his stature, and was more

eminent in a fine appearance, than those that

dieted the most luxuriously. And indeed

such was the thickness of the hair of his head,

that it was with difficulty he was polled every

eighth day, and his hairf weighed two hun­

dred shekels, which are five pounds. How­

ever, he dwelt in Jerusalem two years, and

became the father of three sons and one

beautiful daughter; which daughter}: Reho-

boam, the son of Solomon, took to wife after­

wards, and had by her a son named Abijah.

But Absalom sent to Joab, and desired him

to pacify his father towards him; and to be­

seech him to give him leave to come to see

him, and speak with him. But when Joab

neglected so to do, he sent some of his own

servants, and set fire to the field that adjoined

to him; which thing when Joab understood,

he came to Absalom, and accused him of

what he had done, and asked him the reason

why he did so? Absalom replied, " I have

found out this stratagem, that might bring

thee to me, while thou hast taken no care to

was taken off by a premeditated murder: he was slain in

the field, where there were no witnesses, whether the

fact was wilfully done or no; whereas all the king's sons

saw Amnon barbarously murdered by his brother. And,

lastly, he was her only son, by whom alone she could

hope to have her husband's name perpetuated; whereas

David's family was in no danger of being extinct, even

although he had given up Absalom to justice. But there

was a great deal of policy in not making the similitude too

close_and visible, lest the king should perceive the drift

pf the woman's petition, before she had obtained a grant

of pardon for her son, and came to make the application

to the king. And though, upon her making the applica­

tion, the king might have argued the disparity of the two

oases, yet he thought proper to wave this, and admit her

reasoning to be good, because he was as desirous to have

Absalom recalled as were any of his subjects. Patrick's

Commentary. B.

* 2 Sam. xiv. 21.

t Of this weight of Absalom's hair, how in twenty or

thirty years it might well amount to two hundred shekels,

or to somewhat above six pounds avoirdupois, see the

Literal Accomplishment of Prophecies, p. 77, 78. But

a late very judicious author thinks that the Septuagint

meant not its weight, but its value was two hundred she­

kels, Dr. Wall's critical notes on the Old Testament

upon 2 Sam. xiv. 26. It does not appear what was Jose-

phus's opinion. He sets the text down honestly, as he

found it in his copies. Only he thought, that at the end

of days when Absalom polled and weighed his hair, was

once a week.

} 2 Chron. xi. 20.

