a*. 1096.] 325 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

uame to him and ordained him their king.*

But when he heard that the inhabitants of

Jabesh Gilead had buried Saul and his sons

honourably, he sent to them and commended

them, and took what they had done kindly,

and promised to make them amends for their

care of those that were dead; and at the

same time he informed them that the tribe of

Judah had chosen him for their king.

But as soon as Abner, the son of Ner, who

was general of Saul's army, and a very active

and good natured man, knew that the king

and Jonathan and his two other sons were

fallen in battle, he hastened into the camp;

and taking away with him the remaining son

of Saul, whose name was Ishbosheth, he

passed over to the land beyond Jordan; and

ordained him king over the whole multitude,

excepting the tribe of Judah;f and made hi»

royal seat in a place called in our own lan­

guage Mahanaim,J but in the language of the

Grecians, The Camps. From whence Abner

made haste, with a select body of soldiers, to

fight with such of the tribe of Judah as were

disposed to it; for he was angry that this tribe

had set up David for their king. But Joab,

whose father was Suri, and his mother Ze-

ruiah, David's sister, who was general of

David's army, met him*, according to David's

appointment. He had with him aia brethren

Abishai, and Asahel; and also all David's

armed men. Now when he met Abner, at a

certain fountain, rn the city Gibeon, he pre­

pared to fight. And when Abner said to him,

that he had a mind to know whether of them

had the more valiant soldiers, it was mutually

agreed, that twelve soldiers on each side

should fight together. So those that were

chosen out by both generals for the fight,

came between the two armies; and throwing

their lances one against the other, they dreHf

their swords, and catching one another by

the head, they held one another fast, and ran

each other's swords into their groins, until

they all, as it were by mutual agreement,

perished together. When these were fallen,

the rest of the army came to an obstinate en­

gagement, and Abner's men were beaten;

and when they were beaten, Joab did not

leave off pursuing them, but he pressed upon

them, and excited the soldiers to follow them

closely, and not to grow weary of killing them.

His brethren also pursued them with great

alacrity; and especially the younger Asahel,

who was the most eminent of them. He was

very famous for his swiftness of foot; for he

couhi not e ily be too hard for men, but is re­

ported to Krave over-ron a horse, when they

had a raee together. This Asahel ran vio­

lently after Abner; and would not turn in the

least out of the straight way, either to one

side, or to the other. Hereupon Abner turned

back, and attempted artfully to avoid his

violence. Sometimes he bade him leave off

the pursuit, and take the armour of one of his

soldiers; and sometimes, when he could not

persuade him so to do* he exhorted him to

restrain himself and not to pursue him any

longer, lest he should force him to kill him,

and he should then not be able to look his

brother in the face. But when Asahel would

not admit of any persuasion, but still con­

tinued to pursue him; Abner smote him with

his spear|| as he held it in his flight, and by a

back stroke gave him a deadly wound, so that

he died immediately. But those that were

who espoused David's interests, it whs a very commodious

city for him to make the place of his residence at this

juncture, as being not insensible, that'the determination of

the metropolis in his favour would be of great Weight to

influence the whole tribe. And accordingly we find, that

he was soon invested" with the sovereignty thereof: For

the men of Judah, (suith the text) came, and there they

anointed David king over the house of Judah, 2 Sam. ii. 4.

The History of the lift of King David, vol. 2. B.

* 2 Sam. ii. 4.

t 2 Sam. u. 9.

+ This was a place in the tribe of Gad, which had its

name from the appearance of an host of angels to Jacob,

as he came with his family and all his substance to Padan-

aram, Gen. xxxii. 1.: and the reasons for Abner's retreat­

ing hither, in the beginning of the new king's reign, were,

that he might secure the people on that side of Jordan, and

especially the gallant inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead, who

were great lovers of Saul, and attached to his family; that

he might prevent (he Philistines from falling upon the

king, whom" fie had" under his protection, in the infancy of

his reign-; and chiefly, that he might be at a great distance

from David, have the new king more absolutely under his

command; and a better opportunity of raising recruits

among the people, not only brave and courageous, hot very

well affected to the cause which He had espoused. Cal-

met's Commentary, and Pool's Annotations* P.

|| The expression in the Bible is,—That with the hinder

part of the spear, he smote him under the fifth rib; which

Virgil, speaking of * mortal wound, has not unhappily

imitated:

—i—-—Haud'multa moratus

Excipit in latus, et, qua fata celerrima, .crudum

Transadigit costas et crates pectoris ensem.

6 JEn. 12. &

