as. 1088.] 231 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

citadel held out still. Whence it was that

the king knowing that the proposals of dig­

nities and rewards would encourage the sol­

diers to greater actions, promised that he who

should first go over the ditches that were be­

neath the citadel, and should ascend to the

citadel itself, and take it, should have the

command of the entire people conferred upon

him. So they all were ambitious to ascend;

and thought no pains too great, in order to

ascend thither, out of their desire of the chief

command. However Joab, the son of Ze-

ruiah, prevented the rest; and as soon as he

was got up to the citadel, cried out to the

king, and claimed the chief command.

When David had cast the Jebusites out of

the citadel, he rebuilt Jerusalem, and named

it the city of David; and abode there all the

time of his reign. But for the time that he

reigned over the tribe of Judah only in He­

bron, it was *seven years and six months.

Now when he had chosen Jerusalem to be his

royal city, his affairs did more and more pros­

per, by the providence of God; who took care

that they should improve and be augmented.t

Hiram also, the king of the Tyrians, sent

ambassadors, and made a league of mutual

friendship and assistance with him. He also

sent him presents,cedar-trees, and mechanics,

and men skilful in building and architecture;

that they might build him a royal palace at

Jerusalem. Now David made buildings round

about the lower city; he also joined the cita­

del to it, and made it one body; and when he

had encompassed all with walls, he appointed

Joab to take care of them. It was David

therefore who first cast the Jebusites out of

Jerusalem, and called it by his own name,

the city of David. For under our forefather

Abraham it was called Salem or $ Solyma.

But after that time some say that Homer

mentions it, by that name of Solyma. For

he named the temple Solyma, according to

the Hebrew language; which denotes secu­

rity. Now the whole time from the warfare

under Joshua our general, against the Ca-

naanites; and from that war in which he over­

came them and distributed the land among

the Hebrews: (nor could the Israelites ever

cast the Canaanites out of Jerusalem until

this time, when David took it by siege;) this

whole time was five hundred and fifteen

years.

I shall now make mention of Araunah, who

was a wealthy man among the Jebusites, but

was not slain by David in the siege of Jeru­

salem; because of the good will he bore to

the Hebrews; and a particular benignity and

affection which he had to the king himself;

which I shall take a more seasonable oppor­

tunity to speak of ||a little afterwards. Now

David married other wives over and above

those which he had before: he had also con­

cubines. The sons which he had were in

number eleven, whose names were§ Amnon,

Emnos, Eban, Nathan, Solomon, Jeban, Elien,

Phalna, Ennaphen, Jenae, Eliphale, and a

daughter, Tamar. Nine of these were born

other kings of Judah's sepulchres, which, as the authors of

the Books of Kings and Chronicles say, were in the city of

David, so does Josephus still say they were in Jerusalem.

Tbe sepulchre of David seems to have been a known

place in the several days of Hyrcanus, of Herod, and of

St. Peter. Antiq. XIII. 8. XIV. 7. Acts ii. 29. Now

no such royal sepulchres have been found about Mount

Sion: but are found close by the north wall of Jerusalem.

Which I suspect to be therefore these very sepulchres.

See the note on chap. 15. In the mean time Josephus's

explication of the lame and the blind, and the maimed, as

set to keep this city or citadel, seems to be the truth:

and gives the best light to that history in our Bible. Mr.

Ottiua truly observes, ap. Havercamp. p. 305. that Jose­

phus never mentions Mount Sion by that name; as taking

it for an appellative, as I suppose, and not for a proper

name. He still either styles it the citadel, or the upper

city. Nor do I see any reason for Mr. Ottius's evil sus­

picions about this procedure of Josephus's.

* From An. 1095 to 1088, B. C.  
t 2 Sam. v. 10.

J Some copies of Josephus have here Solyma or Sa-

lem; and others Hierosolyma or Jerusalem. The latter

best agrees to what Josephus says elsewhere, of tbe War,

VI. 10, that this city was called Solyma or Salem before

the days of Melchisedec, but was by him called Hieroso­

lyma or Jerusalem. I rather suppose it to have been so

called after Abraham had received that oracle Jehovah

Jireh, the Lord will see or provide, Gen. xxii. 14. The

latter word Jireh, with a little alteration prefixed to the

old name Salem, Peace, will be Jerusalem. And since

the expression, God will see, or rather God will provide

himself a lamb for a burnt-offering, verse 8, is there said

to have been proverbial till the days of Moses; this seems

to me the most probable derivation of that name: which

will then denote that God would provide peace by that

Lamb of God which was to take away the sins of the

world. However, that which is put into double brackets-

can hardly be supposed the genuine words of Josephus;

as Dr. Hudson well judges.

I! Chap. xiii.

§ This number (eleven) and most of these names differ

greatly from those in 1 Chron. iii. 1—9.

