556 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

tators; as it was principally by her the

poor woman was to suffer. For at the first

she gave her not a word, nor was discom­

posed at her peevishness; and only looked

at her: yet did she out of a greatness of soul

discover her concern for her mother's offence;

and especially for her exposing herself in a

manner so unbecoming. But as for herself,

she went to her death with an unshaken firm­

ness of mind and without changing colour:

and thereby evidently discovered the nobility

of her descent to the spectators, even in the

last moments of her life.

And thus died Mariamne: a woman of an

excellent character, both for chastity and

greatness of soul: but she wanted moderation,

and had too much of contention in her nature;

yet had she all that can be said in the beauty

of her body, and her majestic appearance in

conversation: and thence arose the greatest

part of the occasions why she did not prove

so agreeable to the king, nor live so pleasantly

with him, as she might otherwise have done.

For while she was most indulgently used by

the king, out of his fondness for her; and did

not expect that he could do any thing hard

to her; she took too unbounded a liberty.

Moreover, that which most afflicted her was,

what he had done to her relations: and she

ventured to speak of all they had suffered by

him. And at last greatly provoked both the

king's mother and sister, till they became

enemies to her: and even he himself also did

the same; on whom alone she depended for

her expectations of escaping the last of

punishments.

But when she was dead, the king's affec­

tions for her were kindled in a more outra­

geous manner than before: for his love to her

was not of a calm nature; nor such as we

usually meet with among other husbands.

For at its commencement, it was of an enthu­

siastic kind. Nor was it by their long co­

habitation and free conversation together

brought under his power to manage. But

at this time his love to Mariamne seemed to

seize him in such a peculiar manner, as

looked like divine vengeance upon him, for

the taking away her life. For he would fre­

quently call for her; and frequently lament

for her, in a most violent manner. He also

bethought him of every thing he could make

use of to divert his mind from thinking of

her; and contrived feasts and assemblies for

that purpose. But nothing would suffice.

He, therefore, laid aside the administration

of public affairs; and was so far conquered

by his passion, that he would order his ser­

vants to call for Mariamne; as if she were

still alive, and could still hear them. And

when he was in this way, there arose a pes­

tilential disease, and carried off the greatest

part of the multitude, and of his best and

most esteemed friends: and made all men

suspect, that this distemper was brought

upon them by the anger of God, for the in­

justice that had been done to Mariamne.

This circumstance affected the king still

more; till at length he forced himself to go

into desert places; and there under pre­

tence of going a hunting, bitterly afflicted

himself. Yet had he not borne his grief

there many days, before he fell into a most

dangerous distemper himself. He had an

inflammation upon him, and a pain in the

hinder part of his head, joined with madness.

And the remedies that were used, did him

no good at all; but proved contrary to his

case, and so at length brought him to des­

pair. All the physicians also that were about

him, partly because the medicines they

brought for his recovery could not at all con­

quer the disease; and partly because his diet

could be no other than what his disease in­

clined him to; desired him to eat whatever

he had a mind to; and so left the small hopes

they had of his recovery in the power of that

diet, and committed him to fortune. And

thus did his distemper go on while he was at

Samaria, now called Sebaste.

Alexandra, in the mean time, abode at Je­

rusalem: and being informed what condition

Herod was in, she endeavoured to get pos­

session of the fortified places that were about

the city, which were two, the one belonging

to the city, the other belonging to the temple.

And those that could get them into their

hands had the whole nation under their

power. For without the command of them" it

was not possible to offer their sacrifices. And

to think of leaving off those sacrifices, is to

every Jew plainly impossible; who are still

more ready to lose their lives, than to leave

off that divine worship which they have been

wont to pay unto God. Alexandra, there­

fore, discoursed with those that had the keep

•;

