U2 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

minded them of all that had passed: how the

Egyptians were destroyed when they at­

tempted to detain them, contrary to the com­

mand of God; and after what manner the very

same river was to the others bloody, and not

fit for drinking, but was sweet and potable

to them; and how they went a new road

through the sea, which fled a long way from

them: by which means they were themselves

preserved, but saw their enemies destroyed;

and that when they were in want of weapons,

God gave them plenty of them. Thus he re­

counted all the particular instances, when

they were in appearance, just going to be de­

stroyed, but God had saved them in a sur­

prising manner: that he had still the same

power, and that they ought not even now to

despair of his providence over them, and ac­

cordingly he exhorted them to continue quiet,

and to consider that help would not come too

late, though perhaps not immediately, if it

were present with them before they suffered

any great misfortune. "You ought," said he,

"to reason thus, that God delays to assist

you, not because he has no regard to you, but

because he will first try your fortitude, and

the pleasure you take in your freedom; that

he may learn whether you have souls great

enough to bear want of food, and scarcity of

water on its account; or whether you really

love to be slaves, as cattle are slaves to such

as own them, and feed them liberally, but

only in order to make them more useful in

their service. As for myself, I shall not be so

much concerned for my own preservation,

for if I die unjustly, I shall not reckon it any

affliction; but I am concerned for you, lest

by casting stones at me, you should be thought

to condemn God himself."

By this means looses pacified the people,

and restrained them from stoning him, and

brought them to repent of what they were

going to do. And because he thought the

necessity they were under made their passion

less unjustifiable, he thought it needful to ap­

ply to God by prayer and supplication; and

going up to an eminece, he requested some

succour for the people, and some way of de­

liverance from the want they were in; because

in God, and in him alone, was their hope of

salvation. He also desired that he would for­

give what necessity had forced the people to

do: since such was the nature of mankind,

hard to please, and very complaining under

adversities. Accordingly God promised he

would take care of them, and afford the suc­

cour they were desirous of. Now when Mo­

ses had heard this, he came down to the mul­

titude; and as soon as they saw him joyful at

the promises he had received from God, they

changed their sad countenances into gladness.

So he placed himself in the midst of them,

and "told them he came to bring them from

God a deliverance out of their present dis­

tress. Accordingly a little time after came a

vast number of quails, (which birds are more

plentiful in this Arabian Gulf than any where

else) flying over the'sea, and hovered over

them, till wearied with their laborious flight,

and indeed, as usual, flying very near to the

earth, they fell down among the Hebrews,

who caught them, and satisfied their hunger

with them, supposing this was the method

whereby God meant to supply them with food.

Hereupon, Moses returned thanks to God for

affording them assistance so suddenly, and

sooner than he had promised.

But soon after this first supply of food, they

received a second; for, as Moses was lifting

up his hands in prayer, a. dew fell down, and

Moses, when he found it adhere to his hands,

supposed this was also come for food from

God; he tasted it, and perceiving that the

people knew not what it was, but thought it

snowed, and that it was what usually fell at

that time of the year, he informed them, that

this dew did not fall from heaven after the

manner they imagined, but came for their

preservation and sustenance; so he gave them

some of it, that they might be satisfied about

what he had told them. They also imitated

their conductor, and were pleased with the

food, for it was like honey in sweetness, and

in substance like to bdellium, one of the sweet

spices, but in bigness equal to coriander seed.

The people were now very earnest in gather­

ing it; but they were enjoined to gather it

equally,* the measure of a homer for every

one every day, because this food should not

come in too small quantity, lest the weaker

* It seems to me from what Moses, Exod. xri. 18, St.  
Paul, 2 Cor. viii. 15, and Joaephus here says, compared

together, that the quantity of manna'that fell daily, and did

not putrefy was just so much as come to a homer a piece

through the whole host of Israel, and no more.

