aN. 1532.J 79 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

a song unto God, containing his praises, and

a thanksgiving for his kindness, in hexameter

verse.

As for myself, I have delivered every part

of this history as I found it in the sacred

books; nor let any one* wonder at the

strangeness of the narration, if a way were

discovered to those men of old time, who

were free from the wickedness of the modern

ages, whether it happened by the will of God,

or whether it happened of its own accord;

while, for the sake of those that accompanied

Alexander, king of Macedonia, who yet lived

comparatively but a little while ago, the

Pamphylian sea retired, and afforded them a

passage through itself, when they had no

other way to go; I mean, when it was the will

of God to destroy the monarchy of the Per­

sians; and this is confessed to be true by all

that have written about the actions of Alex­

ander; but as to these events let every one

determine as he pleases.

On the next day Moses gathered together

the weapons of the Egyptians, which were

brought to the camp of the Hebrews by the

current of the sea, and the force of the winds

assisting it; and he conjectured that this also

happened by Divine providence, that so they

might not be destitute of weapons. So when

he had ordered the Hebrews to arm them­

selves with them, he led them to Mount Sinai,

in order to offer sacrifice to God, and to ren­

der oblations for the salvation of the multi­

tude, as he had been previously commanded.

* Take here the original passages of the four old authors  
that still remain, as to the transit of Alexander the Great

over the Pamphylian Sea, (for most of the oldest authors,

seen by Josephus, are entirely lost,) I mean of Callis-

thenes, Strabo, Arrian, and Appian. As to Callisthenes,

who himself accompanied Alexander in this expedition,

Eustatius, in his notes upon the third Iliad of Homer, tells

us, that "this Callisthenes wrote how the Pamphylian

Sea did not only open a passage for Alexander, but by

rising and elevating its waters did pay him homage as its

king." Strabo's account is this, Geog. XIV. page 666,

** Now about Phaselis is that narrow passage by the sea­  
side, through which Alexander led his army. There is a

mountain called Climax, which adjoins to the sea of Pam-

phylia, leaving a narrow passage on the shore; which in

calm weather is bare, so as to be passable by travellers;

but when the sea overflows, it is covered to a great degree

by the waves. Now the ascent by the mountains being

round about, and steep, in still weather they make use of

the road along the coast. But Alexander fell into the

winter season, and committing himself chiefly to fortune,

he marched on before the waves retired; and so it hap­

pened that they were a whole day journeying over it,

and were under water up to the navel." Arrian's ac­

count is this, I. page 72, 73, "When Alexander removed

from Phaselis, he sent some part of his army over the

mountains to Perga, which road the Thracians shewed

him. A difficult way it was, but short. However, he

himself conducted those that were with him by the sea­

shore. The road is impassable at any other time than

when the north wind blows; but if the south wind prevail,

there is no passing by the shore. Now at this time, after

strong south winds, a north wind blew, and that not with­

out the Divine providence, as both he and they that were

with him supposed, and afforded him an easy and quick

passage." Appian, when he compares Caesar and Alex­

ander together, (DeBell. Civil. II. page 522,) says, " That

they both depended on their boldness and fortune, as

much as on their skill in war. As an instance of which,

Alexander journeyed over a country without water, in the

heat of summer, to the Oracle of Jupiter Ammon; and

quickly passed over the bay of Pamphylia, when by Di­

vine providence the sea was cut off; this Providence re­

straining the sea on his account, as it had sent him rain

when he travelled over the desert."

N. B. Since, in the days of Josephus, as he here assures

us, all the more numerous original historians of Alexander

gave the account he has here set down, as to the provi­

dential going back of the waters of the Pamphylian Sea,

when he was going with his army to destroy the Persian

monarchy, which the afore-named authors now remaining

fully confirm; it is without any foundation that Josephus

is here blamed, by some late writers, for quoting those

ancient authors upon the present occasion. Nor can the

reflections of Plutarch, or any other author later than

Josephus, be in the least here alledged to contradict him.

Josephus went by all the evidence he then had, and that

evidence of the most authentic sort. So that whatever

the moderns may think of the thing itself, there is hence

not the least colour for finding fault with Josephus. He

had rather been to blame had he omitted these quotations.

However, since the pretended epistles of Alexander

omitted what all the ancient historians asserted about this

matter, and which I know no sufficient grounds to con­

tradict, as Plutarch informs us, De Vit. Alexand. page

674: there will be reason to question those Epistles,

whether they were genuine, or at least to think they were

an imperfect collection of them.

VOL. I.—No. 7.

