IBERIA. IBKRIA. 9
p. 160; Ruche, Lex. Nvm. s. v.; Eckho], vol. 1. pp.
SO. 51; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. pp. 416, 417; Ford,
Haixlkook of Spain, p. 210.) [P. S.]
IBERIA (i) 'ISripia), the extensive tract of
country which lies between the Euxine and Caspian
■ear, to the S. of the great chain of the Caucasus,
and which, bounded on the W. by Colchis, on the £.
by Albania, and the S. by Armenia, ia watered by
the river Cyma (K&r). (Strab. xi. p. 499, comp. i.
pp. 45, 69; Pomp. Mel. iii. 5. § 6; Plin. vi. 11;
Ptol. v. 11.) From these limits, it will be seen
that the Iberia of the ancients corresponds very
nearly with modem Georgia, or Gruaia, as it is
called by the Russians. Strabo (p. 500) describes
it as being hemmed in by mountains, over which
there were only four passes known. One of these
crossed the Moschi'cki Momtes, whicli separated
Iberia from Colchis, by the Colchian fortress Sara-
fas a (Scharapani), and is the modern road from
Mingrelta into Georgia over Suram. Another, on
the N-, rises from the country of the Nomades in a
steep ascent of three days' journey (along the valley
of the Terek or TergT); after which the road passes
through the defile of the river Araous, a journey
of four days, where the pass is closed at the lower
end by an impregnable wall. This, no doubt, is
the pass of the celebrated Caucasian Gates [Cav-
casiae Portae], described by Pliny (vi. 12) as a
prodigious work of nature, formed by abrupt pre­
cipices, and having the interval closed by gates with
iron bars. Beneath ran a river which emitted a
strong smell (" Subter medias (fores), amne diri odoris
f.uente," Plin. /. c). It is identified with the great
central road leading from the W. of Georgia by the
pass of Darn/el, so named from a fortress situated
on a rock washed by the river Terek, and called by
the Georgians Shevis Kari, or the Gate of Shevi.
The third pass was from Albania, which at its
commencement was cut through the rock, but after­
wards went through a marsh formed by the river
which descended from the Caucasus, and is the same
as the strong defile now called Derbend or "narrow
pus," from the chief city of Daghettan, which is at
the extremity of the great arm which branches out
from the Caucasus, and, by its position on a steep
and almost inaccessible ridge, overhanging the
Caspian sea, at once commands the coast-road and
the Albanian Gates. The fourth pass, by which
Pompeius and Canidius entered Iberia, led up from
Armenia, and is referred to the high road from
Krzrxm, through Kan, to the N. [Aragus.]
The surface of the country is greatly diversified
with mountains, hills, plains, and valleys; the best
portion of this rich province is the basin of the Kir,
with the valleys of the Aragavi, Alazan, and other
tributary streams. Strabo (p. 499) speaks of the
numerous cities of Iberia, with their houses having
tiled roofs, as well as some architectural pretensions.
Besides this, they had market-places and other
public buildings.
The people of the Ibkres or Ibebi fICnpei,
Steph. B. J. r.) were somewhat more civilised than
their neighbours in Colchis. According to Strabo
(p. 500), they were divided into four castes :—
(1.) The royal horde, from which the chiefs, both
in peace and war, were taken. (2.) The priests,
who acted also as arbitrators in their quarrels with
the neighbouring tribes. (3.) Soldiers and husband­
men. (4.) The mass of the population, who were
•laves to the king. The form of government was
tatriarchaL. The people of the plain were peaceful,
and cultivated the soil; while their dress was the
same as that of the Armenians and Mcdes. The
mountaineers were more warlike, and resembled the
Scythians and Sarmatians. As, during the time of
Herodotus (iii. 9), Colchis was the N. limit of the
Persian empire, the Iberians were probably, in name,
subjects of that monarchy. Along with the other
tribes between the Caspian and the Kuxine, they
acknowledged the supremacy of Mithridates. The
Romans became acquainted with them in the cam­
paigns of Lucullus and Pompeius. In B. c. 65, the
latter general commenced his march northwards in
pursuit of Mithridates, and had to fight against the
Iberians, whom he compelled to sue for peace. (Plut,
Pomp. 34.) A. D. 35, when Tiberius set up Tiri-
dates as a claimant to the Parthian throne, he
induced the Iberian princes, Mithridates and his
brother Pharasmanes, to invade Armenia; which
they did, and subdued the country. Cl&c.Ann. vi. 33
—36; comp. Diet, of Biog. Pharasmanes.) In
A. i>. 115, when Armenia became a Roman province
under Trajan, the king of the Iberians made a furm
of submitting himself to the emperor. (Eutrop. viii.
3; comp. Dion Cass. lxix. 15; Spartian. Hadrian.
17.)
Under the reign of Constantino the Iberians were
converted by a captive woman to Christianity,
which has been preserved there, though mixed with
superstition, down to the present times. One of the
original sources for this story, which will be found
in Neander (Altgemein Gesch. der ChriitL Kelig.
vol. iii. pp. 234—236; comp. Milman, Hut. of
Christianity, vol. ii. p. 480), is Rufinus (x. 10),
from whom the Greek church historians (Socrat.
i. 20; Sozom. ii. 7; Theod. i. 24; Mos. Choren. ii. 83)
have borrowed it. In a. d. 365—378, by the
ignominious treaty of Jovian, the Romans renounced
the sovereignty and alliance of Armenia and Iberia.
Sapor, after subjugating Armenia, marched against
Sauromaces, who was king of Iberia by the per­
mission of the emperors, and, after expelling him,
reduced Iberia to the state of a Persian province.
(Aiuin. Marc, xxrii. 12; Gibbon, c xxv; Lc Beau,
Bat Empire, vol. iii. p. 357.)
During the wars between the Roman emperors and
the Sassanian princes, the Iberian Gates had
come into the possession of a prince of the Huns,
who offered this important pass to Anastasius; but
when the emperor built Darns, with the object of
keeping the Persians in check, Cobades, or Kobad,
seized upon the defiles of the Caucasus, and forti­
fied them, though less as a precaution against the
Romans than against the Huns and other northern
barbarians. (Procop. B. P. i. 10 ; Gibbon, c. xl.; Le
Beau, vol. vi. pp. 269, 442, vol. vii. p. 398.) For
a curious history of this pass, and its identification
with the fabled wall of Gog and Magog, see Hum­
boldt, Asie Centrale, vol.ii. pp.93—104; Eichwald,
Peripl. da Catp.Meeret, vol. i. pp. 128—132. On
the decline of the Persian power, the Iberian frontier
was the scene of the operations of the emperors
Manrice and Heraclius. Iberia is now a province of
Russia.
The Georgians, who do not belong to the Indo-
Enropean family of nations, are the same race as the
ancient Iberians. By the Armenian writers they
are still called Virk, a name of perhaps the same
original as "lSfipes. They call themselves Kartli,
and derive their origin, according to their national
traditions, from an eponymous ancestor, Kartlos.
Like the Armenians, with whom, however, there b
