380 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

cees are those that compose the second order, and take away

fate' entirel) , and suppose that God is not concerned in our do­

ing or not doing what is evil; and they say, that to act what is

good, or what is evil, is at men's own choice, and that the one

or the other belongs so to every one, that they may act as they

please. They also take away the belief of the immortal dura-

tion of the soul, and the punishments and rewards in Hades.

Moreover, the Pharisees are friendly to one another, and are for

the exercise of concord, and regard for the public; but the be­

haviour of the Sadducees one towards another is in some degree

wild, and their conversation with those that are of their own

party is as barbarous as if they were strangers to them. And

this is what 1 had to say concerning the philosophic sects among

the Jews,

CHAP. IX.

The death of Salome. The cities which Herod and Philip built.

Pilate occasions disturbances. Tiberius puts Agrippa into

bonds, but Cains frees him from them, and makes him king.

Herod Antipas is banished.

§ 1. A ND now as the ethnarchy of Archelaus was fallen in-

JT\. to a Roman province, the other sons of Herod, Philip,

and that Herod who was called Antipas, each of them took upon

them the administration of their own tetrarchies; for when Sa­

lome died, she bequeathed to Julia, the wife of Augustus, both

her toparchy, and Jamnia, as also her plantation of palm-trees

that were in Phasaelis *. But when the Roman empire was

translated to Tiberius, the son of Julia, upon the death of Au­

gustus, who had reigned fifty-seven years six months and two

days,

been virtuous or vicious in the present world; that to the bad is allotted an
eternal

prison, but that the good are permitted to live again in this world, are
nearly agree.

?ble to the doctrines of Christianity. Only Josephus's rejection of the return
of

the wicked into other bodies, or into this world, which he grants to the good,
looks

?omewhat like a contradiction to St Paul's account of the doctrine of the
Jews,

that " they themselves a] lowed that there should be a resurrection of the
dead, both

" of the just and ui'just," Acts ch. xxiv. (5. Yet because Josephus's account
is

that of the Pharisees, and St Paui'i that of t>,e Jews in general, and of
himself, the

Contradiction is not very certain.

* We have here, in that Greek MS. which was once Alexander Petavius's, but  
is now in the lib:ary at I'erden, two most remarkable additions to the common

Copies, though deemed worth little remark by the editor; which, upon the
mention

of Tiberius's coming to the empire, inserts first the famous testimony of
Josephus

corcerning Jesus Christ, as it stands verbatim in the Antiquities, B- XVIII'
chap'

iii. § 3' vol' III. with some parts of that excellent discourse or homily of
Jojephus

concerning Hades, annexed to the work. But, what is here principally to be
looted,

is this, that in this homily, Josephus, having just mentioned Christ, a> " God
tl.e

' Word, and the Judge of the world, appointed by the Father," &c adds' That

I* he had himself elsewhere spoken about him more nicely or particularly."

