.-> Chap. XXII. WAR THE QF JEWS. 443

<*

war with the Romans. Now in Jerusalem the high-priest

Ananus, and as many of the men of power as were not in the in­

terest of the Romans, both repaired the walls, and made a great

many warlike instruments, insomuch that in all parts of the

city darts and all sorts of armour were upon the anvil. Al­

though the multitude of the young men were engaged in exer­

cises, without any regularity, and all places were full of tu­

multuous doings: but the moderate sort were exceedingly sad,

and a great many there were who, out of the prospect they had

of the calamities that were coming upon them, made great la-

mentations. There were also such omens observed as were un­

derstood to be forerunners of evils, by such as loved peace, but

were by those that kindled thejwar interpreted so as to suit their

own inclinations ; and the very state of the city, even b.efore the

Romans came against it, was that of a place doomed to destruc­

tion. However, Ananus's concern was this, to lay aside, for a

while, the preparations for the war, and to persuade the seditious

to consult their own interest, and to restrain the madness of those

that had the name of zealots ; but their violence was too hard

for him, and what end he came to we shall relate hereafter.

2. But as for the Acrabbene tpparchy, Simon, the son of

Gioras, got a great number of those that were fond of innova*

tions together, and betook himself to ravage the country; nor

did he only harrass the rich mens houses, but tormented their

bodies, and appeared openly and before-hand to affect tyranny i^

his government. And when an army was sent against him by

Ananus, and the other rulers, he and his band retired to the

robbers that were at Masada, and staid there, and plundered the

country of Idumea^with them, till both Ananus, and his other

adversaries were slain, and until the rulers of that country were

go afflicted with the multitude of those that were slain, and with

the continual ravage of what they had, that they raised an army,

*ind put garrisons into th? villages, to secure them from those  
insults; and in this state were the affairs of Judea at that tipne.

PUP or VoLUM? THIRD.

