194 THE LIFE OF FLAVICS JOSEFHUS.

So when I had accomplished my desires, I returned back to the

city, being now nineteen years old, and began to conduct myself

according to the rules of the sect of the Pharisees, which is of

kin to the sect of the Stoics, as the Greeks call them.

3. But, when I was in the twenty-sixth year of my age, it

happened that 1 took a voyage to Rome, and this on the Occasion

which I shall now describe. At the time when Felix was pro­

curator of Judea, there were certain priests' of my acquaintance,

and very excellent persons they were, whom on a small and trif*

ling occasion he had put into bonds, and sent to Rome to plead

their cause before Caesar. These I was desirous to procure de­

liverance for, and that especially because I was informed that

they were not unmindful of piety towards God even under their

afflictions, but supported themselves with figs and nuts*. Ac­

cordingly I came to Rome, though it were through a great num­

ber of hazards by sea ; for, as our ship was drowned in the A-

driatic sea, we that were in it, being about six hundred in num­

ber f, swam for our lives all the night; when, upon the first ap­

pearance of the day, and upon our sight of a ship of Cyrene, I

and some others, eighty in all, by God's providence, prevented

the rest, and were taken up into the other ship. And when I

had thus escaped, and was come to Dicearchia, which the Italians

call Puteoli. I became acquainted with Aliturius, an actor of plays,

and much beloved by Nero, but a Jew by birth ; through his

interest became known to Poppea, Caesar's wife, and took care,

as soon as possible, to entreat her to procure, that the priests

might be set at liberty. And when, besides this favour, I had

obtained many presents from Poppea, I returned home again.

4. And now I perceived innovations were already begun, and

that there were a great many very much elevated in hopes of a

revolt from the Romans. 1 therefore endeavoured to put a stop

to these tumultuous persons, and persuaded them to change their

minds ; and laid before their eyes against whom it was that they

were going to fight, and told them that they were inferior to the

Romans not only in martial skill, but also in good fortune; and de­

sired them not rashly, and after the most foolish manner, to bring

on the dangers of the most terrible mischiefs upon their country,

upon their families, and upon themselves. And this I said with

vehement

* We may note here, that religions men among the Jews, or at least those  
that were priests, were sometimes asceticks also, and, like Daniel and his
com-

panions in Babylon, Dan. i. 8.—16. ate no flesh, but Jigs and nuts, &c. only.

This was like the \ip€*yi*, or austere diets of the Christian asceticks in
Passion

week. Constitut. V. iS.

t It hath been thought the number of Paul and his companions on ship-board,

Acts, xxvii. 38 which aie 776 in our copies, are too many; whereas wc find
here,

that Josephus and his companions, a very few years after the other, were about

60s.

