THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 203

that do as they ought to do, delivered me still out of the hands

of these my enemies, and afterward preserved me when I fell

into those many dangers which I shall relate hereafter.

16. Now the multitude of the Galileans had that great kind­

ness for me, and fidelity to me, that when their cities were taken

by force, and their wives and children carried into slavery, they

did not so deeply lament for their own calamities, as they were

solicitous for my preservation. But when John saw this, he en­

vied me, and wrote to me, desiring that I would give him leave

to come down, and make use of the hot-baths of Tiberias for

the recovery of the health of his body. Accordingly, I did not

hinder him, as having no suspicion of any wicked designs of

his ; and I wrote to those to whom I had committed the admi­

nistration of the affairs of Tiberias by name, that they should

provide a lodging for John, and for such as should come with

him, and should procure him what necessaries soever he should

stand in need of. Now at this time my abode was in a village

of Galilee, which is named Cana.

17. But when John was come to the city of Tiberias, he per­

suaded the men to revolt from their fidelity to me, and to adhere

to him ; and many of them gladly received that invitation of his,

as ever fond of innovations, and by nature disposed to changes,

and delighting in seditions ; but they were chiefly Justus and his

father Pistus, that were earnest in their revolt from me, and

their adherence to John. But I came upon them, and prevented

them ; for a messenger had come to me Irom Silas, whom I had

made governor of Tiberias, as I have said already, and had told

me of the inclinations of the people of Tiberias, and advised me

to make haste thither ; for that, if I made any delay, the city

would come under another's jurisdiction. Upon the receipt of

this letter of Silas, I took two hundred men along with me, and

travelled all night, having sent before a messenger to let the

people of Tiberias know that I was coming to them. When I

came near to the city, which was early in the morning, the mul­

titude came out to meet me ; and John came with them, and sa­

luted me, but in a most disturbed manner, as being afraid that

my coming was to call him to an account for what I was now

sensible he was doing. So he, in great haste, went to his lod­

ging. But when I was in the open place of the city, having dis­

missed the guards I had about me, excepting one, and ten armed

men that were with him, I attempted to make a speech to the

multitude of the people of Tiberias: and, standing on a certain

elevated place, I entreated them not to be so hasty in their re­

volt ; for that such a change in their behaviour would be to their

reproach, and that they would then justly be suspected by those

C c 2 ' that­

