Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS; 3T0

12. There are also those among them who undertake to *

foretel things to come, by reading the holy books, and using

several sorts of purifications, and being perpetually conversant

in the discourses of the prophets ; and it is but seldom that

they miss in their predictions. -

13. Moreover, there is another order of Essens, who agree

with the rest as to their way of living, and customs, and

laws, but differ from them in the point of marriage, as thinking

that by not marrying they cut off the principal part of human

life, which is the prospect of succession; nay rather, that if all

men should be of the same opinion, the whole race of mankind

would fail. However, they try their spouses for three years,

and if they find that they have their natural purgations thrice,

as trials that they are likely to be fruitful, they then actually

marry them. But they do not use to accompany with their

wives when they are with child, as a demonstration that they do

not marry out of regard to pleasure, but for the sake of poste,

rity. Now the women go into the baths with some of their

garments on, as the men do with somewhat girded about them.

And these are the customs of this ordej; of 'fesens.

14. But then as to the two other orders at first mentioned, the

Pharisees are those who are esteemed most skilful in the exact

explication of their laws, and introduce the first sect. These

ascribe all to fate, [or providence], and to God, and yet allow,

that to act what is right, or the contrary, is principally in th«

power of men; although fete does co-operate in every action.

They say, that all souls are incorruptible, but that the f souls

of good men only are removedintootherbodies,but thatthe souls

of bad men are subject to eternal punishment. But the Saddu.

cees

* Dean Aldrich reckons up three example* of this gift of prophecy in several  
of these Essens out of Josephns himself, viz. in the History of the War, B'
I.'ch.

iii. § 5. vol. HI. Judas foretold the death of Antigonus at Strato's Tower; B.
II.

chap. vii. § 3. Simon foretold that Archdaus should reign but nine or cen
years;

and Antiq. B. XV. «hap' x. § 4, 5. vol. II. Menehem foretold that Herod should

be king, and should reign tyrannically, and that for more thap twenty or even

thirty years. AH which came to pass accordingly.

f There is so much more here about the Essens' than ia cited from Josephus in

Porphyry and Eusebius, and yet so much lets about the Pharisees and Sadducees,

the two other Jewish sects, than would naturally be expected in proportion to
the

Essens or third sect, nay, than teems to be referred to by himself elsewhere,
that

one is tempted to suppose Josephus had at first written le-'E of the one, and
more

of the two others than his present copies afford UB; as also, that, by some
unknown

accident, our present copies are here made up of the larger edition in the
first case,

and of the smaller in the second. See the note in Havercamp's edition. Howe­

ver, what Josephus says in the name of the Pharisees, that only the souls of
good

men go out of one body into another, although all souls be immortal, and still
the

souls of the bad are liable to eternal punishment; as also what he says
afterwards,

Antiq. B. XVIII' chap. i. § 3. vol.111' that the soul's vigour is immortal,
and that

tr'd<:r the earth thsy receive rewards or punishments according as their lives
huv­

