Chap. XT. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWSt

cy, and the high-priests were intrusted with a dominion over

the nation. And thus much may suffice to be said concerning

our high-priests.

CHAP XI.

Concerning Florus the procurator, who necessitated the Jaw to take

up arms against the Romans. The conclusion.

$ 1. "IVTOW Gessius Florus, who was sent as successor to Albi-

•*•" nus by Nero, filled Judea with abundance of miseries.

He was by birth of the city of Claz'omenae, and brought along

with him his wife Cleopatra, (by whose friendship with Poppea,

Nero's wife, he obtained this government), who was no way dif­

ferent from him in wickedness. This Florus was so wicked, and

so violent in the use of his authority, that the Jews took Albi-

nus to have been [comparatively] their benefactor ; so excessive

Were the mischiefs that he brought upon them. For Albinus

concealed his wickedness, and was careful that it might not be

discovered to all men; but Gessius Florus, as though he had

been sent on purpose to shew his crimes to every body, made a

pompous ostentation of them to our nation, as never omitting

any sort of violence, nor any unjust sort of punishment; for he

was not to be moved by pity, and never was satisfied with any

degree of gain that came in his way ; nor had he any more re­

gard to great than to small acquisitions, but became a partner

with the robbers themselves. For a great many fell then into that

practice without fear, as having him for their security, and de­

pending on him, that he would save them harmless in their par-,

ticular robberies ; so that there were no bounds set to the nation'*

miseries ; but the unhappy Jews, when they were nqt able to bear

the devastations which the robbers made among them, were all

under a necessity of leaving their own habitations, and of flying

away, as hoping to dwell more easily any where else in the world

among foreigners, [than in their own country]. And what need

I say any more upon this head? since it was this Florus who ne­

cessitated us to take up arms against the Romans, while we

thought it better to be destroyed at once, than by little and little.

Now this war began in the second year of the government of

Florus, and the twelfth year of the reign of Nero. 3ut then*

what actions we were forced to do, or what miseries we were

enabled to suffer, may be accurately known by such as will peruse

those books which I have written about the Jewish war.

2. I shall now, therefore, make an end here of my Antiquities;

after the conclusion of which events, I began to write that account'

of the war ; and thess Antiquities contain what hath been deli-

• ' vered

