AttTIOJUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX.

CHAP. VII.

Felix is made procurator of 'Judea ; as also concerning Agrippa

junior and his sisters.

§ 1. CO Claudius sent Felix, the brother of Pallans, to take

^ care of the affairs of Judea ; and, when he had already

completed the twelfth year of his reign, he had bestowed

upon Agrippa the tetrarchy of Philip and Batanea, and added

thereto Trachonitis, with Abila; which last had been the tetrar-

'\ chy of Lysanias; but he took from him Chalcis, when he had

^ been governor thereof four years. And, when Agrippa had

received these countries as the'gift of Caesar, he gave his sister

IXrusilla in marriage to Azizus, king of Emesa, upon his con­

sent to be circumcised ; for Epiphaaes, the son of king An-

tiochus, had refused to marry her, because, after he had pro­

mised her father formerly to come over to the Jewish religion,

he would not now perform that promise. He also gave Ma-

riamne in marriage to Archelaus, the son of Helcias, to whom

she had formerly been betrothed by Agrippa her father ; from

which marriage was derived a daughter, whoie name was Ber*

nice.

2. But for the marriage of Drusilla with Azizus, it was in

no long time afterward dissolved upon the following occasion ;

While Felix was procurator of Judea, he saw this Drusilla, and

fell in love with her ; for she did indeed exceed all other women

in beauty ; and he sent to her a person whose name was Simon *,

one

* This Simon, a friend of Felix, a Jew, born in Cyprus, though he pretended  
to be a magician, and seems to have been wicked enough, could hardly be that

famous Simon the magician, in the Acts of the Apostles, viii. 9. &c as some
are

ready to suppose. This Simon mentioned in the Acts was not properly a Jew, bat

a Samaritan, of the town of Gittae, in the country of Samaria, as the
Apostolical

Constitutions, VI. 7. the Recognitions of Clement, II. 6. and Justin Martyr,
him-

self born in the country of Samaria, Apology, 1. 34. inform us. He was also
the

author, not of any ancient Jewish, but of the first Gentile heresies, as the
fore-

mentioned authors assure us. So I suppose him a different person from the
other.

I mean this only upon the hypothesis, that Josephus was not misinformed as
tohis

feeing a Cypriot Jew ; for otherwise the time, the name, the profession, and
the

wickedness of them both, would strongly incline one to believe them the very
same.

As to that Drusilla, the sister of Agrippa junior, as Josephus informs us
here,

:md a Jewess, as St Luke informs us, Acts, xxiv. 74. whom this Simon mentioned

by Josephus, persuaded to leave her former husband, Azizus, king of Emesa, a

proselyte of justice, and to marry Felix, the heathen procurator of Judea,
Tacit.

Hist. V. 9. supposes her to be an heathen, and the grand-daughter of Antonius

and Cleopatra, contrary both to St Luke and Josephus. Now Tacitus lived some­

what too remote, both as to time and place, to be compared with either of
those

Jewish writers, in a matter concerning the Jews in Judea in their own days,
and

concerning a sister of Agrippa junior, with which Agrippa Josephus was himself

so well acquainted. It is probable that Tacitus may say true, when he informs

us, that this Felix (who had in all three wives, or queens, as Suetonius in
Clau*

dius, sect. 28. assures us) did once marry such a grandchild of Antonius and

Cleopatra; and, finding the name of one of them to have been Drusilla, he mis­

took her for that other wife, whose name he did not know.

