6(3 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

out. Then did -Mundus leap out, ('for he was hidden therein),

and did not fail of enjoying her, who was at his service all the

night long, as supposing he was the god ; and when he was gone

away, which was before those priests who knew nothing of

this stratagem were stirring, Paulina came early to her husband,

and told him how the god Anubis had appeared to her. Among

her friends, also, she declared how great a value she put upon

this favour, who partly disbelieved the thing, when they reflect足

ed on its nature, and partly were amazed at it, as having no

pretence for not believing it, when they considered the modesty

and the dignity of the. person. But now, on the third day after

what had been done, Mundus met Paulina, and said, *' Nay,

" Paulina, thou hast saved me two hundred thousand drachmae,

f which sum thou mightest have added to thy own family ; yet

" hast thou not failed to be at my service in the manner I invi-

" ted thee. As for the reproaphes thou hast laid upon Mundus,

" I value not the business of names ; but I rejoice in the plea-

*' sure I reaped by what I did, while I took to myself the  
" name of Anubis." When he had said this, he went his way.

But now she began to come to the sense of the grossness of

what she had done, and rent her garments, and told her husband

of the horrid nature of this wicked contrivance, and prayed

him not to neglect to assist her in this case. So he discovered

the fact to the emperor; whereupon Tiberius inquired into the

matter thoroughly, by examining the priests about it, and or足

dered them to be crucified, as well as Ide, who was the occasion

of their perdition, and who had contrived the whole matter,

which was so injurious to the woman. He also demolished the

temple of Isis, and gave order that her statue should be thrown

into the river Tiber ; while he only banished Mundus, but did

no more to him, because he supposed that what crime he had

committed was done out of the passion of love. And these

were the circumstances which concerned the temple of Isis, and

the injuries occasioned by her priests. I now return to the re足

lation of what happened about this time to the Jews at Rome,

as I formerly told you I would.

5. There was a man who was a Jew, but had been driven a-

way from his own country by an accusation laid against him for

transgressing their laws, and by the fear he was under of punish足

ment for the same ; but in all respects a wicked man. He, then

living at Rome, professed to instruct men in the wisdom of the

laws of Moses. He procured also three other men, entirely of

the same character with himself to be his partners. These men

persuaded Fulvia, a woman of great dignity, and one that had

- - embraced

