Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 101

" our enemies were doing, nor will those enemies be injurious

" to people any longer. We are caught by their intrigues like

" brute beasts, and there is a large body of cavalry marching

*' upon us, while we are destitute of hands to defend ourselves  
M withal, because we are restrained from doing it by the

" prohibition of our law, which obliges us to rest [on this day]-"

But Asineus did not by any means agree with the opinion of his

spy as to what was to be done, but thought it more agreeable to

the law to pluck up their spirits .1 this necessity they were

fallen into, and break their law by avenging themselves, although

they should die in the action, than by doing nothing to please

their enemies in submitting to be slain by them. Accordingly

he took up his weapons, and infused courage into those that were

with him, to act as courageously as himself. So they fell upon

their enemies, and slew a great many of them, because they de­

spised them, and came as to a certain victory, and put the rest

to flight.

3. But when the news of this fight came to the king of Par-

thia, he was surprised at the boldness of these brethren, and was

desirous to see them, and speak with them. He therefore sent the

most trusty of all his guards to say thus to them, " That king Ar-

" tabanus, although he had been unjustly treated by you, who

" have made an attempt against his government, yet hath he more

" regard to your courageous behaviour, than to the anger he bears

" to you, and hath sent me to give you his right-hand *, and secu-

" rity, and he permits you to come to him safely, and without any

"violence upon the road, and he wants to have you address'

" yourselves to him as friends, without meaning any guile or

" deceit to you. He also promises to make you presents, and

" to pay you those respects which will make an addition of his

" power to your courage, and thereby be of advantage to you."

Yet did Asineus himself put off his journey thither, but sent

his brother Anileus with all such presents as he could procure.

So he 'went, and was admitted to the king's presence ; and when

Artabanus saw Anileus coming alone, he inquired into the rea­

son why Asineus avoided to come along with him ; and when

he understood that he was afraid, and staid by the lake, he took

an oath, by the gods of his country, that he would do them no

harm, if they came to him upon the assuranpes he gave them,

and gave them his right hand f- This is of the greatest force

there with all these barbarians, and affords a firm security to-

those

* The joining of the right hands was esteemed among the Persians [and Par.  
thiitis] in particular, a most inviolable obligation to fidelity, as Dr Hudson
here

observes, and refers to the commentary on Justin, B. XI. ch. xv. lor its
confirma­

tion. We often meet with the like use of it in Josephus.

t See the above note.

