£00 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

things, he also came to the citadel of Gamala ; and when he was

come, the multitude cried aloud, and desired him to resume the

government, and to make an expedition against Varus, and the

Syrians of Cesarea; for it was reported that they had slain the

king. But Philip restrained their zeal, and put them in mind

of the benefits the king-had bestowed upon them ; and told them

how powerful the Romans were, and said it was not for their

advantage to make war with them ; and at length he prevailed

with them. But now, whtn the king was acquainted with Va-

rus's design, which was to cut off the Jews of Cesarea, being

many ten thousands, with their wives and children, and all in

one day, he called to him Equiculus Modius, and sent him to

be Varus's successor, as we have elsewhere related. But still

Philip kept possession of the citadel of Gamala, and of the

country adjoining to it, which thereby continued in their alle­

giance to the Romans. •

12. Now, as soon as I was come into Galilee, and had learned

this state of things by the information of such as told me of them,

I wrote to the sanhedrim at Jerusalem about them, and required

their direction what 1 should do. Their direction was, that I

should continue there, and that, if my fellow-legates were will­

ing, I should join with them in the care of Galilee. But those

my fellow-legates, having gotten great riches from those tithes

which as priests were then" dues, and were given to rhem, deter­

mined to return to their own country. Yet when 1 desired them

to stay so long, that we might first settle the public affairs, they

complied with me. So I removed, together with them, from the

city of Sepphoris, and came to a certain village called Bethmaus,

four furlongs distant from Tiberias ; and thence I sent messen­

gers to the senate of Tiberias, and desired that the principal men

of the city would come to me : and when they were come, Justus

himself being also with them, I told them, that I was sent to them

by the people of Jerusalem as a legate, together with these other

priests, in order to persuade them to demolish that house which

Herod the tetrarch had built there, and which had the figures of

living creatures in it, although our laws have forbidden us to

make any such figures; and I desired, that they would give us

leave so to do immediately. But for a good while Capellus and the

principal men belonging to the city would not give us leave, but

were at length entirely overcome by us, and were induced to be

of our opinion. So Jesus the son of Sapphias, one of those whom

we have already mentioned as the leader of a seditious tumult of

mariners and poor people, prevented us, and (took with him cer­

tain Galileans, and set the entire palace on fire, and thought he

should get a great deal of money thereby, because he saw some

ef the roofs gilt with gold. They also plundered a great deal of

the

