128 AXTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

f

from their seats, and those that were within made a very great

disturbance ; the cause of which was this, that the spectators

were too hasty in getting away. There was also one Alcyon, a

physician, who hurried away, as if to cure those that were wound­

ed, and, under that pretence, he sent those that were with him to

fetch what things were necessary for the healing of those wound­

ed persons, but in reality to get them clear of the present dan.

gers they were in. Now the senate, during this interval, had

met, and the people also assembled together in the accustomed

form, and were both employed in searching after the murderers

of Caius. The people did it very zealously, but the senate in ap­

pearance only : for there was present Valerius of Asia, one that

had been consul ; this man went to the people, as they were in

disorder, and very uneasy that they could not yet discover who,

they were that murdered the emperor ; he was then earnestly

asked by them all, " Who it was that had done it ?" He replied,

'' I wish Ihad been the man." The consuls * also published an

edict, wherein they accused Caius, and gave order to the people

then got together, and to the soldiers, to go home, and gave the

people hopes of the abatement of the oppressions they lay under ;

and promised the soldiers, if they lay quiet as they used to do,

and would not go abroad to do mischief unjustly, that they

would bestow rewards upon them ; for there was reason to fear

lest the city might suffer harm by their wild and ungovernable

behaviour, if they should once betake themselves to spoil the

citizens, or plunder the temples. And now the whole multitude

of the senators were assembled together, and especially those that

had conspired to take away the life of Caius, who put on at this

time an air of great assurance, and appeared with great magna­

nimity, as if the administration of the public affairs were already

devolved upon them.

CHAP. II.

How the senators determined' to restore the democracy ; lut the sol­

diers were for preserving the monarchy. Concerning the slaugh­

ter of Caius's wife and daughter. A character of Caius''s mo­

rals.

$ !• 'V\/HEN tne public affairs were in this posture, Claudius

* was on the sudden hurried away out of his house :  
for the soldiers had a meeting together, and when they had de­

bated about what was to be done, they saw that a democracy

was-

« These consuls are named in the War of the Jews, B. II. ch. xi. sect. i. Se

tiu» Saturninus, and Pomponius Secundus, as Spanheim notes here. The spec0'1

of the former of them is set down in the next chapter, sect. a.

