365 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

|

strongly fortified; but so as to a void a direct conflict with them

in the plains. In Sepphoris also, a city of Galilee, there was one

Judas, (the son of that arch-robber Hezekias, who formerly over足

ran the country, and had been subdued by king Herod); this

tnan got no small multitude together, and brake open the place

where the royal armour was laid up, and armed those about him,

and attacked those that were so earnest to gain the dominion.

2. In Perea also, Simon, one of the servants to the king, re.

lying upon the handsome' appearance, and lallness of his body,

put a diadem upon his own head also; he also went about with

a cornpany of robbers that he had gotten together, and burnt

down the royal palace that was at Jericho, and many other costly

edifices besides, and procuredhimself very easily spoils by rapine,

as snatching them out of the fire. And he had soon burnt down

all the fine edifices, if Gratus, the captain of the foot of the king's

party, had not taken the Trachonite archers, and the most war足

like of Sebaste, and met the man. His footmen were slain in the

battle in abundance; Gratus also cut to pieces Simon himself, as

he was flying along a strait valley, when he gave him an oblique

Stroke upon his neck, as he ran away, and brake it. The royal

palaces that were near Jordan at Betharamptha were also burnt

down by some other of the seditious that came out of Perea.

3. At this time it was that a certain shepherd ventured to set

iiimself up for a king; he was called Atbrongeus, It was his

Strength of body that made him expect such a dignity, as well as

his soul, which despised death; and, besides these qualifications,

he had four brethren like himself. He put a troop of armed men

under each of these his brethren, and made use of them as his ge.

nerals and commanders, when he made his incursions, while he

did himself act like a king, and meddled only with the more im.

portant affairs: and at this time he put a diadem about his head,

and continued after that to over-run the Country for no little

time with his brethren, and became their leader in killing both

the Romans and those of the king's party; nor did any Jew

escape him, if any gain could accrue to him thereby. He once

ventured to encompass a whole troop of Romans at Emniaus,

who were carrying corn and weapons to their legion; his men

therefore shot their arrows and darts, and thereby slew their cen足

turion Arius, and forty of the stoutestof his men,whilethe restof

them, who were indanger of the same fate, upon the coming of Gra.

tus,with those of Sebaste, to their assistance, escaped. And when

these men had thus served both theirown countrymen andforeign-

crs, and thatthrough this whole war,threeof them were aftersome

time subdued, the eldest by Archelaus, the two next by falling

into the hands of Gratus and Ptolemeus; but the fourth deli足

vered

