Chap. V. Al?fl<iUlllES OF THE JEWS.' 169

CHAP V.

Concerning Theudas, and the sons of Judas the Galilean : as also

what calamity fell upon the Jews on the day ofthe passover.

j 1. "VJOW it came to pass, while Fadus was procurator of Ju-

,*•" dea, that a certain magician, whose name was Theu-

das *, persuaded a great part of the people to take their effects

with them, and follow him to the river Jordan ; for he told them

he was a prophet, and that he would, by his own command, di­

vide the river, and afford them an easy passage over it; and ma­

ny were deluded by his words. However, Fadus did not per­

mit them to make any advantage of his wild attempt' but sent a

troop of horsemen out against them ; who, falling upon them un­

expectedly, slew many of them, and took many of them alive.

They also took Theudas alive, and cut off his head, and carried

it to Jerusalem. This was what befel the Jews in' the time of

Cuspius Fadus's government.

2. Then came Tiberius Alexander as successor to Fadus ; he

was the son of Alexander the Alabarch of Alexandria, which A-

lexander was a principal person among all his contemporaries,'

both for his family and wealth : he was also more eminent for

his piety than this his son Alexander, for he did not continue in

the religion of his country. Under thes'e procurators that great

famine happened in Judea, in which queen Helena bought corn

inEgypt at a great expence, and distributed it to those that were in

want, as I have related already. And besides this, the sons of

Judas of Galilee were now slain, I mean of that Judas who cau­

sed the people to revolt, when Cyrenius came to take an account

of the estates of the Jews, as we have shewed in a foregoing book.

The names of those sons were JameS and Simon, whom Alex­

ander commanded to be crucified. But now Herod, king of

Chalcis, removed Joseph,' the son of Camydus, from the high-

priest-hood, and made Ananias, the sou of Nebedus,hissuccessor.

And now it was that Cumanus came a successor to Tiberius A-

lexander ; as also that Herod, brother of Agrippa the great king,

departed this life, in the eighth year of the reign of Claudius Cx-

sar. He left behind him three sons, Aristobulus, whom lie had

by his first wife, with Bemictanus, and Hircanus', both whoni

he had by Bernice his brother's daughter. But Claudius Caesar

bestowed his dominions on Agrippa junior.

3. Now, while the Jewish affairs were under the administra­

tion of Cumanus, there happened a great tumult at the city of Je-

VOL. III. Y rusalem,'

* This Theudas, who arose under Fadas the procurator, about A. D. 45. or  
46. could not bear that Theudas who arose in the days of the taxing, under Cy-

renius; or about A. D. 7. Acts, v. 36. 37. Who that 'earlier Theudas was, see

