ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX.

they would not hearken to them, but took their weapons, and

entreated the assistance of Eleazer, the son of Dineas, a robber,

/ who had many years made his abode in the mountains, with

which assistance they plundered many villages of the Samaritans.

When Cumanus heard of this action of theirs, he took the band

of Sebaste, with four regiments of footmen, and armed the Sa­

maritans, and marched out against the Jews, and caught them,

and slew many of them, and took a great number of them

alive ; whereupon those that were the most eminent persons at

»' Jerusalem, and that both in regard to the respect that was paid

V them, and the families they were of, as soon as they saw to what

^ an height things were gone, put on sackcloth, and heaped ashes

%yon their heads, and by all possible means besought the sedi­

tious,' and persuaded them that they would set before their eyes

the utter subversion * of their country, the conflagration of their

temple, and the slavery of themselves, their wixes and children,

which would be the consequences of what they were doing, an'd

would alter their minds, would cast away their weapons, and for

the future be quiet, and return to their own homes. These

persuasions of theirs prevailed upon them. So the people dis­

persed themselves, and the robbers went away again to tbejr

places of strength ; and after this time all Judea was over-run

with robberies.

2. But the principal of the Samaritans went to Ummidius

Quadratus, the president of Syria, who at that time was at

Tyre, and accused the Jews of setting their villages on fire, and

plundering them ; and said withal, That " they were not so

" much displeased at what they had suffered, as they were at the

'' contempt thereby shewed the Romans ; while, if they had re-

" ceived any injury, they ought to have made them the judges

" of what had been done, and not presently to make such de-

" vastation, as if they had not the Romans for their governors ;

" on which account they came to him, in order to obtain that

«' vengeance they wanted.'' This was the accusation which the

Samaritans brought against the Jews. But the Jews affirmed,

that the Samaritans were the authors of this tumult and fighting,

and that, in the first place,'Cumanus had been corrupted by their

gifts, and passed over the murder of those that were slain in si­

lence. Which allegations when £)uadi atus heard, he put oft" the

hearing of the cause, and promised that he would give sentence

when he should come into Judea, and should have a more exact

knowledge

* Our Saviour had fcretr'ld, that tlie Jews' rejection of his gnspcl xvculd bring  
upon them, among other miseries, these three, which, they themselves here
shew,

they exptcted would be the consequences of their present tumults ancl
seditions;

the utter subversion of" their country, the conflagration of their temple, and
the

Slavery of then selves, their wives, and children. See Luke, xxi. 6.—24.

