326 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

fear of being accused, if they should go out before the rest;

for they should not be sentenced according to the real intention

with which they went out, but according to the supposals of the

accusers, and of the judges.

17. But now a multitude of Germans had surrounded the

theatre with their swords drawn ; all the spectators looked for

nothing but death, and at every one's coming in a fear seized

upon them, as if they were to be cut in pieces immediately ; and

in great distress they were, as neither having courage enough to

go out of the theatre, nor believing themselves safe from dangers

if they tarried there. And when the Germans came upon them,

die cry was so great, that the theatre rang again with the entrea­

ties of the spectators to the soldiers, pleading that they were en­

tirely ignorant of every thing that related to such seditious con­

trivances, and that if there were any sedition raised, they knew

nothing of it; they therefore begged that they would spare them,

and not punish those that had not the least hand in such bold

crimes as belonged to other persons, while they neglected to

search after such as had really done whatsoever it be that hath

been done. Thus did these people appeal to God, and deplore

their infelicity with shedding of tears, and beating their faces,

and said every thing that the most imminent danger, and the ut­

most concern for their lives, could dictate to them. This brake

the fury of the soldiers, and made them repent of what they

minded to do to the spectators, which Would have been the

greatest instance of cruelty. And so it appeared to even these

savages, when they had once fixed the heads of those that were

slain with Asprenas upon the altar ; at which sight the specta­

tors were sorely afflicted, both upon the consideration of the dig­

nity of the persons, and out of a commiseration of their suf­

ferings ; nay, indeed, they were almost in as great disorder at

the prospect of the danger themselves were in, seeing it was still

uncertain whether they should entirely escape the like calamity.

Whence it was, that such as thoroughly and justly hated Caius,

could yet no way enjoy the pleasure of his death, because they

were themselves in jeopardy of perishing together with him ;

nor had they hitherto any firm assurance of surviving.

18. There was at this time, one Euaristus Arruntius, a pub­

lic crier in the market, and therefore of a strong and audible

voice, who vied in wealth with the richest of the Romans, and

was able to do what he pleased in the city, both then and after­

ward. This man put himself into the most mournful habit he

could, although he had a greater hatred against Caius than any

one else, his fear and his wise contrivance to gain his safety

taught him so to do, and prevailed over his present pleasure ; so

