. VIII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS, 93

*' mands of our law ; and as we depend upon the excellency of  
" our laws, and, by the labours of our ancestors, have continued

" hitherto without suffering them to be transgressed, we dare

" not by any means suffer ourselves to be so timorous as to

V transgress those laws out of the fear of death, which God

" hath determined are for our advantage ; and, if we fall into

1' misfortunes, we will' bear them in order to preserve our

" laws, as knowing, that those who expose themselves to dan-

? gers, have good hope of escaping thern ; because God will

'' stand on our side, when, out of regard to him, we undergo af-

" ftictior.s, and sustain the uncertain, turns of fortune. But, if

" we should submit to thee, we should be greatly reproached for

<' our cowardice, as thereby shewing ourselves ready to trans-

" gress our law ; and we should incur the great anger of God

'' also, who, even thyself being judge, is superior to Caius."

3. When Petvonius ?aw by their words that their determina­

tion was hard to be removed, and that, without a war, he should

not be able to be subservient to Caius in the dedication of his

statue, and that there must be a great deal of bloodshed, he took

his friends, and the servants that were about him, and hasted to

Tiberias, as wanting to know in what posture the affairs of the

Jews were ; and many ten thousands of the Jews met Petronius

again, when he was come to Tiberias. These thought they

must run a mighty hazard if they should have a war with the

Romans, but judged that the transgression of the law was of

much greater consequence, and made supplication to him, that he

would by no means reduce them to such distresses, nor defile their

city with the dedication of the statue. Then Petronius said to

them, " Will you then make war with Caesar, without consider-

'• ing his great preparations for war, and your own weakness ?"

They replied, " We will not by any means make war with him,

'' but still we will die before we see our laws transgressed." So

they threw themselves down upon their faces, and stretched out

their throats, and said they were ready to be slain ; and this they

did for forty days together, and in the mean time' left otf the tilling

of their ground, and that while the season * of the vear required

them to sow it. Thus they continued firm in their resolution,

and proposed to themselves to die willingly, rather than to see

the dedication of the statue.

4. When

* What Josephus here, and sect. 6. relates as done by the Jews Iff are feed-  
tine, is in Philo, not far off the time <wben the corn ifaj life, who, as Le
Clerc

notes' differ here one from the other. This is another indication that
Josephus,

when he wrote this account, had not seen Fhilo'i L«gat. ad Caiiun, otherwise
h*

would hardly have herein differed from him.

