Chap. VIII. AWTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 181

fire, and plundered by them. And then it was that the Sicarii,

as they were called, who were robbers, grew numerous. They

made use of small swords, not much different in length from

the Psrsian acwacte, but somewhat crooked, and like the Ro.

man note [or sickles], as they were called : and from these

weapons these robbers got their denomination ; and with those

weapons they slew a great many; for they mingled themselves

among the multitude at their festivals, when they were come up

in crowds from all pans to the city to worship God, as we said

before, and easily slew those that they had a mind to slay. They

also came frequently upon the villages belonging to their ene­

mies, vvith their weapons, and plundered them, and set them on

fire. So Festus sent forces, both horsemen and footmen, to fall

upon those that had been seduced by a certain impostor, who pro­

mised them deliverance and freedom from the miseries they were

under, if they would but follow him as far as the wilderness.

Accordingly those forces that were sent destroyed both him that

had deluded them, and those that were his followers also.

11. About the same time king Agrippa built himself a very

large dining-room in the royal palace at Jerusalem, near to the

portico. Now this palace had been erected of old by the chil­

dren of Asamoneus, and was situate upon an elevation, and afford­

ed a most delightful prospect to those that had a mind to take

a view of the city, which prospect was desired by the king;

and there he could lie down) and eat, and thence observe what

was done in the temple : vjhieh thing, when the chief men of

Jerusalem saw, they were very much displeased at it; for it

was not agreeable to the institutions of our country or law, that

what was done in the temple should be viewed by others, espe­

cially what belonged to the sacrifices. They therefore erected

a wall upon the uppermost building which belonged to the inner

court of the temple towards the west, which wall, when it was

built, did not only intercept the prospect of the dining-room in

the palace, but also of the western cloisters that belonged to the

outer court of the temple also, where it was that the Romans

kept guards for the temple at the festivals. At these doings

both king Agrippa, and principally Festus the procurator, were

much displeased ; and Festus ordered them to pull the wall

down again ; but the Jews petitioned him to give him leave to

send an ambassage about this matter to Nero ; for they said they

could not endure to live if any part of the temple should be de*

molished : and when Festus had given them leave so to do, they

sent ten of their principal men to Nero, as also Ismael the high-

priest, and Helcias, the keeper of the sacred treasure. And

when Nero had heard what they had to say, he not only for­

gave

