IPS TCHE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHtJS.

longed to Gadara and Hippos on fire ; which villages were si­

tuated on the borders of Tiberias, and of the region of Scytho-

polis.

10. And this was the state Tiberias was now in. But as for

Gischala, its affairs were thus : When John, the son of Livi,

saw some of the citizens much elevated upon their revolt from

the Romans, he laboured to restrain them, and entreated them,

that they would keep their allegiance to them. But he could

not gain his purpose, although he did his endeavours to the ut­

most ; for the neighbouring people of Gadara, and Gabara, and

Sogana, with the Tyrians, got together a great army, and fell

upon Gischala, and took Gischala by force, and set it on fire j

and when they had entirely demolished it, they returned home.

Upon which John was so enraged, that he armed all his men,

and joined battle with the people forementioned, and rebuilt

Gischala after a manner better than before, and fortified it with

walls for its future security.

11. But Gamala persevered in its allegiance to the Romans,

for the reason following : Philip the son of Jacimus, who was

their governor under king Agrippa, had been unexpectedly pre­

served when the royal palace at Jerusalem had been besieged ;

but, as he fled away, had fallen into another danger, and that was,

of being killed by Manahem, and the robbers that were with him ;

but certain Babylonians, who were of his kindred, and were then

in Jerusalem, hindered the robbers from executing their design.

So Philip staid there four days, and fled away on the fifth, ha­

ving disguised himself with fictitious hair, that he might not be

discovered ; and when he was come to one of the villages to him

belonging, but one that was situated at the borders of the citadel

of Gamala, he sent to some of those that were under him, and

commanded them to come to him. But God himself hindered

that his intention, and this for his own advantage also ; for had

it not so happened, he had certainly perished. For a fever having

seized upon him immediately, he wrote to Agrippa and Bernice,

and gave them to one of his freed-men to carry them to Varus,

who at this time was procurator of the kingdom, which the king

and his sister had intrusted them withal, while they were gone to

Berytus with an intention of meeting Gessius. When Varus had

received these letters of Philip, and had learned that he was pre­

served, he was very uneasy at it, as supposing that he should ap­

pear useless to the king and his sister, now Philip was come. He

therefore produced the carrier of the letters before the multitude,

and accused him of forging the same ; and said, that he spake

,falsely when he related that Philip was at Jerusalem, fighting 2­

