4tO WARS OF THE JEWS. Uook IL

was then common to see cities filled with dead bodies, still lying

unburied, and those of old men, mixed with infants, all dead,

and scattered about together; women also lay amongst them,

without any covering for their nakedness; you might then see

the whole province full of inexpressible calamities, while the

dread of still more barbarous practices which were threatened,

were every where greater than what had been already per­

petrated.

3. And thus far the conflict had been between Jews and

foreigners, but when they made excursions to Scythopolis, they

found Jews that acted as enemies; for as they stood in battle

array with those of Scythopqlis, and preferred their own safety

before their relation to us, theyfought against their own country­

men ; nay, their alacrity was so very great, that those of Scytho-

polis suspected them. These were afraid, therefore, lest they

should make an assault upon the city in the night time, and, to

their great misfortune, should thereby make an apology for

themselves to their own people for their revolt from them. So

they commanded them, that in case they would confirm their

agreement and demonstrate their fidelity to them, who were of

a different nation, they should go out of the city, with their fa­

milies to a neighbouring grove: and when they had done as

they were commanded, without suspecting any thing, the people

of Scythopolis lay still for the interval of two days, to tempt

them to be secure; but on the third night they watched their

opportunity, and cut all their throats, some as they lay unguard­

ed, and some as they lay asleep. The number that was slain was'

above thirteen thousand, and then they plundered them of all

that they had.

4. It will deserve our relation what befel Simon; he was

the son of one Saul, a man of reputation among the Jews. This

man was distinguished from the rest by the strength of his body,

and the boldness of his conduct, although he abused them both

to the mischieving of his countrymen; for he came every day

and slew a great many of the Jews of Scythopolis, and he fre­

quently put them to flight, and became himself alone the cause

of his army's conquering. But a-just punishment overtook him'

for the murders he had committed upon those of the same na­

tion with him; for when the people of Scythopolis threw their

darts at them in the grove, he drew his sword, but did not at­

tack any of the enemy; for he saw that he could do nothing

against such a multitude; but he cried out after a very moving

manner, and, " O, you people of Scythopolis, 1 deservedly suffer

" for what 1 have done with relation to you, when I gave you

" such security of my fidelity to you, by slaying so many of

-« those

