404 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book If.

they came sixty furlongs out of Jerusalem, and congratulated

both Agrippa and Neopolitanus ; but the wives of those that

had been slain, came running first of all and lamenting. The

people also, when they hard their mourning, fell into lamenta­

tions also, and besought Agrippa to assist them: thej also cried

out to Neopolitanus, and complained of them any miseries they

had endured under Florus, and they shewed them, when they

were come into the city, how the market-place was made deso­

late, and the houses plundered. They then pursuaded Neopoli­

tanus, by the means of Agrippa, that he would walk round

the city, with one only servant, as far as Siloam, that he might

inform himself that the Jews submmited to all the rest of the Ro­

mans, and were only displeased at Florus, by reason of his ex­

ceeding barbarity to them. So he walked round, and had suf­

ficient experience of the good temper the people were in, and

then went up to the temple, where he called the multitude to­

gether, and highly commended them for their fidelity to the

Romans, and earnestly exhorted them to keep the peace, and

having performed such parts of divine worship at the temple as

he was allowed to do, he returned to Cestius.

3. But as for the multitude of the Jews, they addressed them­

selves to the king, and to the high-priests, and desired they might

have leave to send ambassadors to Nero against Florus, and not

by their silence afford a suspicion that they had been the occa­

sions of such great slaughters as had been made, and were dis­

posed to revolt, alleging, that they should seem to have been the

first beginners of the war, if they did not prevent the report by

shewing who it was that began it; and it appeared openly that

they would not be queit, if any body should hinder them from

sending such an ambassage. But Agrippa, although he thought

it too dangerous a thing for them to appoint men to go as the

accusers of Florus, yet did he not think it fit for him to over­

look them, as they were in a disposition for war. He therefore

called the multitude together into a large gallery, and placed

his sister Bernice in the house of the Asamoneans, that she might

be seen by them, (which house was over the gallery, at Che pas­

sage to the upper city, where the bridge joined the temple to

the gallery), and spake to them as follows :

4. * " Had I perceived that you were all zealously disposed

" to

* In this speech of King Agrippa we have an authentic account of the extent  
and strength of the Roman empire when the Jewish war began. And this speech. '

with other circumstances in Josephus, demonstrate how wise, and how great a
perr

son Agrippa was, and why Josephus elsewhere calls him QxuiAxffiwr&'roSi a "
most

" wonderful" or " admirable man," Contr. Ap. I. 9, He is the same Agrippa

who said to Paul, «' Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian," Acts zxvi,
jg.

