AUTi<vuitiES oF tnt JEW9. Book XIX

that were at this consultation, had little regard to the punishment

Caius had suffered, because he justly deserved such his fortune ;

but they were rather considering their own circumstances, how

they might take the best care of themselves, especially while the

Germans were busy in punishing the murderers of Caius ; which

yet was rather done to gratify their own savage temper, than

for the good bf the public : all which things disturbed Claudius,

who was afraid of his own safety, and this particularly because

he saw the heads of Asprenas and his partners carried about.

His station had been on a certain elevated place, whither a few

steps led him, and whither he had retired in the dark by himself.

But when Gratus, who was one of the soldiers that belonged to

the palace, saw him, but did not well know by his countenance

who he was, because it was dark, though he could well judge that

it was a man who was privately there on some design, he came

nearer to him, and when Claudius desired that he would retire,

he discovered who he was, and owned him to be Claudius. So

he said to his followers, " This is a Germanicus* ; come on, let

" us chuse him for our emperor." But when Claudius saw they

were making preparations for taking him away by force, and

was afraid they would kill him, as they had killed Caius, he be­

sought them to spare him, putting them in mind how quietly he

had demeaned himself, and that he was unacquainted with what

had been done. Hereupon Gratus smiled upon him, and took

him by the right hand, and said, " Leave off, Sir, these low

" thoughts of saving yourself, while you ought to have greater

" thoughts, even of obtaining the empire, which the gods, out of

" their concern for the habitable world, by taking Caius out of

" the way, commit to thy virtuous conduct. Go to, therefore,

*' and accept of the throne of thy ancestors." So they took him  
up and carried him, because he was not then able to go on foot,

such was his dread and his joy at what was told him.

2. Now there was already gathered together about Gratus a

great number of the guards ; and when they saw Claudius car­

ried off, they looked with a sad countenance, as supposing that he

was carried to execution for the mischiefs that had been lately

done ; while yet they thought him a man who never meddled

with public affairs all his life-long, and one that had met with no

contemptible dangers under the reign of Caius ; and some of

them thought it reasonable, that the consuls should take cogni­

zance of these matters ; and, as still more and more of the sol­

diery

* How Claudius, another son of Drusus, which Drusus was the father of Oct-  
manicus, could be here himself called Germanicus, Suetonius informs us, when

he assures us, that, by a decree of the senate, the sirname of Germanicm w*s

bestowed upon Drusus, and his posterity also.—In Claud, ch. i.

