WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

BOOK II.

Containing the interval of Sixty-nine Years.

From the death o/Herod /;'// Vespasian was sent to

subdue tie Jews by Nero.

CHAP. I.

jirchelaus makes a funeralfeast for the people, on the account of

Herod. After ivbich a great tumult is raised by the multitude,

and he sends the soldiers out upon them, who destroy about three

thousand of them.

§ 1. VTOW the necessity which Archelaus was under of ta-

X\ king a journey to Rome was the occasion of new dis­

turbances; for when he had mourned for his father seven *days,

and had given a very expensive funeral feast to the multitude,

(which custom is the occasion of poverty to many of the Jews,

because they are forced to feast the multitude; for if any one

omits it, he is not esteemed an holy person), he put on a white

garment, and went up to the temple, where the people accosted

him with various acclamations. He also spake kindly to the

multitude from an elevated sear, and a throne of gold, and re­

turned them thanks for the zeal they had shewn about his

father's funeral, and the submission they had made to him,

as if he were already settled in the kingdom ; but he told

them withal, that " he would not at present take upon him

" either the authority of a king, or the names thereto belong-

*' ing, until Caesar, who is made lord of this whole affair by the  
** testament confirm the succession; for that when the soldiers  
** would have set the diadem on his head at Jericho, he would  
*< not accept of it; but that he would make abundant requitals,  
*' not to the soldiers only, but to the people for their alacrity  
and good-will to him, when the superior lords [the Romans]

'' should have given him a complete title to the kingdom; for

" that it should be his study to appear in all things better than

" his father."

2. Upon

* Hear Dean Aldrich's note on this place, " The law or custom of the Jews  
" (says hp) requires seven days mourning for the dead, Antiq. B. XVli. ch
viii.

" sect. iv. Vul. III. Whence the author of the book of Ecclesiasticus, ch.
xxii. x x,

u assigns seven days a? the proper time of mourning for the dead, and ch.
xxxviii.

" 17. enjoins men to mourn for the dead, that they may not be evil spoken of;

" for as Josephus says pretently, if any one omits this mourning [funeral
feast]

" he is not esteemed an holy person. Now it is certain that such a seven days

" mourning has been cus'omary from times of the greatest antiquity, Gen. J.
10.

" Funeral feasts are also mentioned as of a considerable antiquity, Ezek xxiv.
17.

'■ Jer. xvi. 7. Prov. xxxi. 6, Deut. iavi. 14. Josephus, Of the War, B. III.
ch. ix.

- sect. }' VoL HI."

