V7AKS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

ran together to Antigonus, and shewed themselves ready to make

an incursion into the country ; so he sent them before into that

place called *Drymus, £the wood-land^], to seize upon the place ;

whereupon a battle was fought between them, and they drove

thee neaiy away, and pursued them, and ran after them as far as

Jerusalem, and as their numbers increased, they proceeded as far

as the king's palace ; but as Hyrcanus and Phasaelus received

them with a strong body of men, there happened a battle in the

market-place, in which Herod's party beat the enemy, and shut

them up in the temple, and set sixty men in the houses adjoining

as a guard on them. But the people that were tumultuous against

the brethren came in, and burnt those men ; while Herod, in his

rage for killing them, attacked and slew many of the people, till

one party made incursions on the other by turns, day by day, in

the way of ambuihes, and slaughters were made continually

among them.

3. Now, when that festival which we call Pentecost was at

hand, all the places about the temple, and the whole city, was

full of a multitude of people that were come out of the country,

and which were the greatest part of them armed also, at which

time Phasaelus guarded the wall, and Herod, with a few, guarded

the royal palace ; and when he made an assault upon his ene­

mies, as they were out of their ranks, on the north quarter of the

city, he slew a very great number of them, and put them all to

flight, and some of them he shut up within the city, and others

within the outward rampart. In the mean time Antigonus de­

sired that Pacorus might be admitted to be a reconciler between

them ; and Phasaelus was prevailed upon to admit the Parthian into

the city with five hundred horse, and to treat him in an hospitable

manner, who pretended that he came to quell the tumult, but in

reality he came to assist Antigonus ; however, he laid a plot for

Fhasaelus, and persuaded him to go as an ambassador to Barza-

pharnes, in order to put an end to the war ; although Herod was

• very earnest with him to the contrary, and exhorted him to kill

the plotter, but not expose himself to the snares he had laid for

him, because the barbarians are naturally perfidious. However,

Pacorus went out and took Hyrcanus with him, that he might be

the less suspected ; he also left some of the horsemen f, called

the

* This large and noted wood, or woodland, belonging to Carmel, called  
by the Septuagint, is mentioned in the Old Testament, 2 Kings, xix. 23. and
Isa.

xxxviii. 24. and by Strabo, B. XVI. p. 758. as both Aldrich and Spanheim here

remark very pertinently.

t These accounts, both here fand Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiii. sect. 5. that the

Parthians fought chiefly on horseback, and that only some few of their sol­

diers were "freemen, perfectly agree with Trogus'Pompeius, in Justin, B. XI'!

z. 3. as Dean Aldrich well observes on this place.

