Chap. XIX- WARS OF THE JEWS. 429

thither did they come, in order to set open the gates, and to ad­

mit Cestius as their benefactor, who, had he but continued the

siege a little longer, had certainly taken the city ; but it was, I

suppose, owing to the * aversion God had already at the city,

and the sanctuary, that he was hindered from putting an end to

the war that very day.

7. It then happened that Cestius was not conscious either how

the besieged despaired of success, nor how courageous the peo­

ple were for him; and so he recalled his soldiers from the place,

and by despairing of any expectation of taking it, without having

received any disgrace, he retired from the city, without any

reason in the world. But when the robbers perceived this un­

expected retreat of his, they resumed their courage, and ran af­

ter the hinder parts of his army, and destroyed a considerable

number of both their horsemen and footmen; and now Cestius

lay all night at the camp which was at Scopus, and as he went

off farther next'day, he thereby invited the enemy to follow him,

who still fell upon the hindmost, and destroyed them; they also

fell upon the flank on each side of the army, and threw darts up­

on them obliquely, nor durst those that were hindmost turn back

upon those who wounded them behind, as imagining that the

multitude of those that pursued them was immense ; nor did

they venture to drive away those that pressed uport them on each

side, because they were heavy with their arms, and were afraid

of breaking their ranks to pieces, and because they saw the

Jews were light, and ready for making incursions upon them.

And this was the reason why the Romans suffered greatly, with-

»ut being able to revenge themselves upon their enemies ; so

they were galled all the way, and their ranks were put into

disorder, and those that were thus put out of their ranks were

slain ; among whom were Priscus, the commander of the sixth

legion, and Longinus the tribune, and Emilius Secundus, the

commander

* There may another very important, and very providential reason be here  
assigned, for this strange and foolish retreat of Cestius; which, if Josephus
had been

now a Christian, he might probably have taken notice of also; and that is, the
af­

fording the Jewish Christians in the city an opportunity of calling to mind
the pre­

diction and caution given them by Christ about thirty-three years and an half
before,

that " when they should see the abomination of desolation," [the idolatrous
Roman

npassed with armies," they i

By complying wifh which those Jewish Christians fled to the mountains of
Perea,

and escaped this destruction. See Lit. Accompl. of Proph' page 69, 70. Nor wa«

there, perhaps, any one instance of a more unpolitic, but more providential
con­

duct than this retreat of Cestius visible during this whole siege of
Jerusalem;

which yet was providentia'^v such a " great tribulation, as had not been from
the

" beginning of the world to that time; no, nor ever should be." Ibid' page*

7«, 71.

