2 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

ing his rivals as to the government, yet did he find it a very hard

thing, and almost impracticable, to come at the kingdom,' be­

cause the hatred of the nation against him on that account was

become very great ; and, besides this very disagreeable cir­

cumstance, the affair of the soldiery grieved him still more,

who were alienated from him, from which yet these kings

derived all the safety which they had, whenever they found-

the nation desirous of innovation : and all this danger was

drawn upon him by his destruction of his brethren. How­

ever, he governed the nation jointly with his father, being in­

deed no other than a king already ; and he was for that very

reason trusted, and the more firmly depended on, for the

which he ought himself to have been put to-death, as appear­

ing to have betrayed his brethren out of his concern for the

preservation of Herod, and not rather out of his ill-will to

them, and, before them, to his father himself; and this was

the accursed state he was in. Now, all Antipater's contri­

vances tended to make his way to take off Herod, that he

might have nobody to accuse him in the vile practices he was

devising ; and that Herod might have no refuge, nor any to

afford him their assistance, since they must thereby have An-

tipater for their open enemy ; insomuch that the very plots he

had laid against his brethren, were occasioned by the hatred

he bore his father. But at this time he was more than ever

set upon the execution of his attempts against Herod, because,

if he were once dead, the government would now be firmly se­

cured to him ; but if he were suffered to live any longer, he

should be in danger upon a discovery of that wickedness of

which he had been the contriver, and his father would of ne­

cessity then become his enemy. And on this account it was

that he became very bountiful to his father's friends, and be­

stowed great sums on several of them, in order to surprise

men with his good deeds, and take off their hatred against

him. And he sent great presents to his friends at Rome parti­

cularly, to gain their good-will; and above all to Saturninus,

the president of Syria. He also hoped to gain the favour of

Saturninus's brother with the large presents he bestowed on

him ; as also he used the same art to (Salome") the king's sis­

ter, who had married one of Herod's chief friends. Arid,

when he counterfeited friendship to those with whom he con­

versed, he was very subtle in gaining their belief, and very

. cunning to hide his hatred against any that he really did hate.

But he could not impose upon his aunt, who understood him'

of a long time, and was a woman not easily to be deluded';

especially while she bad already used all possible caution iii

preventing

