1"6 Book XX. ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

father was Germanicus, the brother of Caesar. Her husband

was Domitius ^Enobarbus, one of the most illustrious persons

that was in the city of Rome ; after whose death, and her long

continuance in widowhood, Claudius took her to wife. She

brought along with her a son, Domitius, of the same name with

his father. He had before this slain his wife Messalina, out of

jealousy, by whom he had his children Britannicus and Octavia ;

their eldest sister was Antonia, whom he had by Pelina his first

wife. He also married Octavia to Nero ; for that was the name

that Caesar gave him afterward, upon his adopting him for his

Son.

2. But now Agrippina was afraid, lest, when Britannicus should

come to man's estate, he should succeed his father in the govern­

ment, and desired to seize upon the principality beforehand for

her own son [Nero] ; upon which the report went, that she thence

compassed the death of Claudius. Accordingly she sent Burrhus,

the general of the army, immediately, and with him the tribunes,

and such also of the rreed-men as were of the greatest authority,

to bring Nero away into the camp, and to salute him emperor.

And when Nero had thus obtained the government, he got Bri­

tannicus to be so poisoned, that the multitude should not perceive

it; although he publicly put Jlis own mother to death not long

afterward, making her this requital, not only for being born of

her, but by bringing it so about by her contrivances, that he ob­

tained the Roman empire. He also slew Octavia his own wife,

and many other illustrious persons, under this pretence, that they

plotted against him.

3. But I omit any farther discourse about these affairs ; for

there have been a great many who have composed the history

of Nero; some of which have departed from the truth of facts

out of favour, as having received benefits from him ; while

others, out of hatred to him, and the great ill-will which they

bare him, have so impudently raved against him with their lies,

that they justly deserve to be condemned. Nor do I wonder at

such as have told lies of Nero, since they have not in their wri­

tings preserved the truth of history as to those facts that were

earlier than his time, even when the actors could have no way

incurred their hatred, since those writers lived a long time after

them. But as to those that have no regard to truth, they may

write as they please ; for in that they take delight: but as to

ourselves, who have made truth our direct aim, we shall brief­

ly touch upon what only belongs remotely to this undertaking,

but shall relate what hath happened to us Jews with great accu­

racy, and shall not grudge our pains in giving an account both of

the calamities we have suffered, and of the crimes we have been

guilty of. I will now therefore return to the relation of our

swn affairs. 4. For

