THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 205

'have no suspicion of him to his disadvantage. He also added

oaths and certain horrible curses upon himself, and supposed he

should be thereby believed in the points he wrote about to me.

21. But now another great number of the Galileans came to­

gether again with their weapons, as knowing the man how wick­

ed and how sadly perjured he was, and desired me to lead them

against him, and promised me that they would utterly destroy

both him and GIschala. Hereupon I professed, that I was ob­

liged to them for their readiness to serve me, and that I would

more than requite that their goodawill to me. However, I en­

treated them to restrain themselves, and begged of them to give

me leave to do what I intended, which was to put an end to these

troubles without bloodshed; and when I had prevailed with the

multitude of the Galileans to let me do so, I came to Sepphoris.

22. But the inhhitants of this city having determined to con­

tinue in their allegiance to the Romans, were afraid of my co­

ming to them, and tried, by putting me upon another action, to di­

vert me, that they might be freed from the terror they were in.

Accordingly they sent to Jesus, the captain of those robbers who

were in the confines of Ptolemais, and promised to give him a

great deal of money, if he would come with those forces he had

with him, which were in number eight hundred, and fight with

us. Accordingly he complied with what they desired, upon the

promises they had made him, and was desirous to fall upon us

when we were unprepared for him, and knew nothing of his co­

ming beforehand. So he sent to me, and desired that I would

give him leave to come and salute me. When 1 had given him

that leave, which I did without the least knowledge of his treach­

erous intentions beforehand, he took his band of robbers, and

made haste to come to me. Yet did not this his knavery suc­

ceed well at last; for, as he was already nearly approaching, one

of those with him deserted him, and came to me, and told me

what he had undertaken to do. When I was informed of this,

I went into the market-place, and pretended to know nothing of

his treacherous purpose. I took with me many Galileans that

were armed, as also some of those of Tiberias ; and, when I had

given orders that all the roads should be carefully gardeud, I

charged the keepers of the gates to give admittance to none but

Jesus, when he came with the principal of his men, and to ex­

clude the rest; and in case they aimed to force themselves in, to

use stripes [in order to repel them]. Accordingly, those that

had received such a charge did as they were bidden, and Jesus

came in with a few others ; and when I had ordered him, to throvy

down his arms immediately, and told him, that if he refused so

to do, he was a dead man, he seeing armed men standing all

round

