J32 ANTIQUITIES 01 THE JEWS. Book XIXf

which had a stone, with the image of Caius engraven upon it,

and which, in his zeal in speaking, and his earnestness in doing

what he was about, as it was supposed, he had forgotten to

take off himself. This sculpture was broken immediately.

But, as it was now far in the night, Che:rea demanded of the

consuls the watch-word, who gave him this word, Liberty.

These facts were the subjects of admiration to themselves, and

almost incredible ; for it was an hundred years * since the der

mocracy had been laid aside, when this giving the watch-word

returned to the consuls ; for, before the city was subject to ty­

rants, they were the commanders of the soldiers. But, when

Cherea had received \hat watch-word, he delivered it to those

who were on the senate's side, which were four regiments, who

esteemed the government without emperors to be preferable to

tyranny. So these went away with their tribunes. The

people also now departed very joyful, full of hope and of coni

rage, as having recovered their former democracy, and were na

longer under an emperor ; and Cherea was in very great esteem

,with them.

4. And now Cherea was very uneasy that Caius's daughtec

and wife were still alive, and that all his family did not perish

with him, since whosoever was left of them must be left for the

ruin of the city and of the laws. Moreover, in order to finish

this matter with the utmost zeal, and in order to satisfy his ha.

tred of Caius, he sent Julius Lupus, one of the tribunes, to kill

Caius's wife and daughter. They proposed this office to Lu­

pus as to a kinsman of Clement, that he might be so far a par­

taker of this murder of the tyrant, and might rejoice in the vir­

tue of having assisted his fellow-citizens, and that he might ap­

pear to have been a partaker with those that were first in their

designs against him. ' Yet did this action appear to some of the

conspirators to be too cruel, as to this using such severity to a

woman, because Caius did more indulge his own ill-nature', than

use her advice in all that he did ; from which ill-nature it was

that the city was in sp desperate a condition with the miseries

that were brought on it, and the flower of the city was destroy­

ed. But others accused her of giving her consent to these

things ; nay, they ascribed all that Caius had done to her as the

cause of it, and said, she had given a potion to Caius, which had

made him obnoxious to her, and had tied him down to love her

l>y such evil methods ; insomuch-that she, having rendered him

distracted, was become the author of all the mischiefs that had

, befallen

* Hence,we learn that, in tlie opinion of Sarurninus, the sovereign authority*  
of ihe consuls ant) senate had been taken iwuy justice years before ihe death
of

Caius. A. 1X41.^ in the <>&th year- before the Christian aers, when the

triumvirate began under Cu sar, 'Pwi)j)cj-x»Bii'

