294 WARS of the JEWS. Book I*

laid waste by the means of Antigonus's army, which had taken

all things away. By this he moved the army, and attempted to

get them off the siege; but Herod went to the captains that

were under Silo, and to a great many of the soldiers, and begged

of them not to leave him who was sent thither by Caesar, and

Antony, and the senate; for that he would take care to have

their wants supplied that very day. After the making of

which entreaty, he went hastily into the country, and brought

thither so great an abundance of necessaries, that he cut off all

Silo's pretences; and in order to provide that for the following

days they should not want supplies, he sent to the people that

were about Samaria^ which cityhad joined itself tohim),to bring

corn, and wine, and oil, and cattle to Jericho. When Antigonus

heard of this, he sent some of his party with orders to hinder,

and lay ambushes for these collectors of corn. This command

was obeyed, and a great multitude of armed men were gathered

together about Jericho, and lay upon the mountains, to watch

those that brought the provisions. Yet was Herod not idle, but

took with him ten cohorts, five of them were Romans, and five

were Jewish cohorts, together with some mercenary troops in­

termixed among them, and besides those a few horsemen, and

came to Jericho; and when he came he found the city deserted,

but that there were five hundred men, with their wives and chil­

dren,who had taken possession of thetopsof the mountains, these

he took and dismissed them, while the Romans fell upon the rest

of the city, and plundered it, having found the houses full of all

sorts of good things. So the king left a garrison at Jericho, and

came back, and sent the Roman army into those cities which

were come over to him, to take their winter quarters there, visa.

ints Judea, [or Idumea], and Galilee, and Samaria. Antigonus

also by bribes obtained of Silo to let a part of his army be re­

ceived at Lydda, as a compliment to Antonius.

CHAP. XVI.

Herod takes Sepphoru, and subdues the robbers that were in the

caves: be after that avenges himsilf upon Macheras, as upon

an enemy of his, and goes to Antony, as he was besieging

Samosata.

} 1, QO the Romans lived in plenty of all things, and rested

k3 from war. However, Herod did not lie at rest, but

seiied upon Idumea, and kept it, with two thousand footmen,

and four hundred horsemen; and this he did by sending his bro­

ther Joseph thither, that no innovation might be made by Anti­

gonus. He dso removed his mother, and all his relations, who

had beer, in Masada, to Samaria, and when he had settled them

securely,

