242 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

75. 'For, when the siege of Jotapata was over, and I was among

the Romans, I was kept with much care, by means of the great

respect that Vespasian shewed me. Moreover, at his command, I

married a virgin *, who was from among the captives of that

country : yet did she not live with me long, but was divorced,

npon my being freed from my bonds, and my going to Alex­

andria. 'However, I married another wife at Alexandria, and

was thence sent, together with Titus, to the siege of Jerusalem,

and was frequently in danger of being put to death ; while both

the Jews were very desirous to get me under their power, in

order to have me punished. And the Romans also, whenever

they were beaten, supposed that it was occasioned by my

treachery, and made continual clamours to the emperors, and

desired that they would bring me to that punishment, as a

traitor to them : but Titus Caesar was well acquainted with

the uncertain fortune of war, and returned no answer to the

soldiers vehement solicitations against me. Moreover, when

the city Jerusalem was taken by force, Titus Caesar persuaded

me frequently to take whatsoever I would of the ruins of my

country; and said that he gave me leave so to do. But

when my country was destroyed, I thought nothing else to be

of any value, which I could take and keep as a comfort under

my calamities ; so I made this request to Titus, that my family

might have their liberty : I had also the holy books f by Titus's

concession. Nor was it long after that I asked of him the life

of my brother, and of fifty friends with him, and was not de­

nied. When I also went once to the temple, by the permission

of Titus, where there were a great multitude of captive women

and children ; I got all those that I remembered as among my

own friends and acquaintance to be set free, being in number

about one hundred and ninety ; and so I delivered them without

their paying any price of redemption, and restored them to their

former fortune. And when I was sent by Titus Caesar with

Cerealius, and a thousand horsemen, to a certain village called

Thccoa, in order to know whether it were a place fit for a camp,

as I came back, I saw many captives crucified, and remembered

three of them as my former acquaintance. 1 was very sorry at

this

« Here Josephus, a priest, honestly confesses that he did that at the command

*of Vcspasian, which he had before told us was not lawful for a priest to do by

the law of Moses, Anti<j. B. 111. ch. xii. sect. 2. 1 mean, the taking a
captive

Woman to wife. See also against Appian, B. I. ch. vii. But he seems to have

been quickly sensible that his compliance with the commands of an emperor

xvould *iot excuse him, for he soon put her away, as Reland justly observes
here.

,t Of tliis most remarkable clause, and its most important consequences, see

Essay on the Uld Testament, page 1'93—195.

