j.ju* ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

it, to approve themselves to so many excellent persons as earnest­

ly wished to be partakers with them in their design, for the de-

Jivery of the city and of the government, even at the hazard of

their own lives. But still Cherea was the most zealous of them

all, both out of a desire of getting himself the greatest name, and

also by reason of his access to Caius's presence, with less danger,

because he was tribune, and could therefore the more easily kill

him.

4. Now, at this time came on the horse-races [Circensian

games] ; the view of which games was eagerly desired by the

people of Rome , for they come with great alacrity into the hip­

podrome [circus] at such times, and petition their emperors, in

great multitudes, for wJiat they stand in need of; who usually

did not think fit to deny them their requests, but readily and

gratefully granted them. Accordingly they most importunate­

ly desired, that Caius would now ease them in their tributes, and

abate somewhat of the rigour of the taxes imposed upon them ;

but he would not hear their petition ; and, when their clamours

increased, he sent soldiers, some one way, and some another, and

gave order, that they should lay hold on those that made the cla­

mours, and without any more ado, bring them out, and put them

to death. These were Caius's commands, and those who were

commanded execute the same ; and the number of those who

were slain on this occasion was very great. Now the people saw

this, and bore it so far, that they left off clamouring, because they

saw with their own eyes, that this petition to be relieved, as to

the payment of theirmoney, brought immediate death upon them.

These things made Cherea more resolute to go on with his plot,

in order to put an end to this barbarity of Caius against men.

He then at several times, thought to fall upon Caius even as he

was feasting ; yet did he restrain himself by some considerations ;

not that he had any doubt on him about killing him, but as

watching for a proper season, that the attempt might not be frus­

trated, but that he might give the blow so as might certainly

gain his purpose.

5. Cherea had been in the army a long time, yet was he not

pleased with conversing so much with Caius. But Caius had

set him to require the tributes, and other dues, which, when not

paid in due time, were forfeited to Caesar's treasury ; and he had

made some delays in requiring them, because those burdens had

been doubled, and hath rather indulged his own mild disposition,

than performed Caius's command; nay, indeed, he provoked

Caius to anger by his sparing men, and pitying the hard fortunes

of those from whom he demanded the taxes, and Caius upbraid­

ed him with his sloth and effeminacy in being so long about col­

lecting

