150 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW9. Book XlXi

his judgment about this man, and he considered how many la*

hours he had undergone tor his sake. So when Agrippa was

solemnizing his birth-day, and he gave festival entertainments to

all his subjects, he sent for Silas on the sudden to be his guest.

But, as he was a very frank man, he thought he had now a just

handle given him to be angry ; which he could not conceal from

those that came for him, but said to them, " What honour is

«' this the king invites me to, which I conclude will soon be over ?

" For the king hath not let me keep those original marks of the

" good-will 1 bore him, which I once had from him ; but he hath

" plundered me, and that unjustly also. Does he think, that I

" leave off that liberty of speech, which, upon the consciousness

" of my deserts, I shall use more loudly than before, and shall

" relate how many misfortunes I have delivered him from ; how

" many labours I have undergone for him, whereby I procured

" him deliverance and respect; as a reward for which I have

" borne the hardships of bonds, and a dark prison. I shall never

" forget this usage. Nay, perhaps, my very soul, when it is

" departed out of the body, will not forget the glorious actions

" I did on his account." This was the clamour he made, and

he ordered the messengers to tell it to the king. So he percei­

ved that Silas was incurable in his folly, and still suffered him to

lie in prison.

2. As for the walls of Jerusalem, that were adjoining to the

new city [Bez.etha], he repaired them at the expence of the public,

and built them wider in breadth, and higher in altitude ; and he

had made them too strong for all human power to demolish, un­

less Marcus, the then president of Syria, had by letter informed

Claudius Caesar of what he was doing. And, when Claudius

had some suspicion of attempts for innovation, he sent to Agrip­

pa to leave off the building of those walls presently. So he

obeyed, as not thinking it proper to contradict Claudius.

3. Now, this king was by nature very beneficent, and liberal

in his gifts, and very ambitious to oblige people with such large

donations ; and he made himself very illustrious by the many

chargeable presents he made them. He took delight in giving,

and.rejoiced in living with good reputation. He was not at all

like that Herod who reigned before him ; for that Herod was

ill-natured, and severe in his punishments, and had no mercy on

them that he hated ; and every one perceived, that he was more

friendly to the Greeks than to the Jews ; for he adorned foreign

cities with large presents in money ; with building them baths

and theatres besides; nay, in some of those places, he erected

temples, and porticoes in others ; but he did not vouchsafe to

raise one of the least edifices in any Jewish city, or make them

any

