218 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHU9.

42. But wonderful it was what a dream I saw that very

night; for when I had betaken myself to my bed, as grieved and

disturbed at the news that had been written to me, it seemed to

me, that a certain person stood by me*, and said, " O Josephus !

" leave off to afflict thy soul, and put away all fear ; for what

" now grieves thee will render thee very considerable, and in

" all respects most happy ; for thou shalt get over not only these

" difficulties, but many others, with great success. However,

" be not cast down, but remember that thou art to fight with

" the Romans." When I had seen this dream, I got up with an

intention of going down to the plain. Now, when the whole

multitude of the Galileans, among whom were the women and

children, saw me, they threw themselves down upon their faces,

and, with tears in their eyes, besought me not to leave them'

exposed to their enemies, nor to go away and permit their

country to be injured by them. But, when I did not comply

with their entreaties, they compelled me to take an oath, that I

would stay with them : they also cast abundance of reproaches

upon the people of Jerusalem, that they would net let tlieir

country enjoy peace.

43. When I heard this, and saw what sorrow the people were

in, I was moved with compassion to them, and thought it be足

came me to undergo the most manifest hazards for the sake of

so great a multitude ; so I let them know I would stay with

them. And when I had given order that five thousand of them

should come to me armed, and with provisions for their main足

tenance, I sent the rest away to their own homes ; and, when

those five thousand were come, I took them, together with three

thousand of the soldiers that were with me before, and eighty

horsemen, and marched to the village of Chabolo, situated in the

confines of Ftolemais, and there kept my forces together, pre足

tending to get ready to fight with Placidus, who was come with

two cohorts of footmen, and one troop of horsemen, and was sent

thither by Cestius Gallus to burn those villages of Galilee that

were near Ptolemais. Upon whose casting up a bank before

the city Ptolemais, I also pitched my camp at about the distance

of sixty furlongs from that village. And now we frequently

brought out our forces as if we would fight, but proceeded no

farther than skirmishes at a distance ; for, when Placidus per足

ceived that I was earnest to come to battle, he was afraid, and

avoided it. Yet did he not remove from the neighbourhood of

Ptolemais.

' '44. About

* This I take to be the Erst of Josephus's remarkable or divine dreams, which  
were predictive of the great things that afterward came to pass; of which see

more in the note on Antiq' B. III. chap. viii. sect. 5. The other is in the
War,

B. III. ch. viii. sect. 3. 5.

