578 Book llr WARS OF THE JEWS.

sity of their mind. And as for death, if it will be for their

gloryi they esteem it better than living always; and indeed our

war with the Romans gave abundant evidence what great souls

they had in their trials, wherein, although they were tortured

and distorted, burnt and torn to pieces, and went through all

kinds of instruments of torment, that they might be forced

either to blaspheme their legislator, or to eat what was forbid足

den them, yet could they not be made to do either of them, no,

nor once to flatter their tormentors, or to shed a tear; but they

smiled in their very pains, and laughed those to acorn who in足

flicted the torments upon them, and resigned up their souls with

great alacrity, as expecting to receive them again.

II. For their doctrine is this, That bodies are corruptible,

and that the matter they are made of is not permanent; but that

the souls are immortal, and continue for ever, and that they come

out of the most subtil air, and are united to their bodies as to

prisons, into which they are drawn by a certain natural entice足

ment; but that when they are set free from the bonds of the

flesh, they then, as released from a long bondage, rejoice and

mount upward. And this is like the opinion of the Greeks, that

good souls have their habitations beyond the ocean, in a region

that is neither oppressed with storms of rain, or snow, or with

intense heat, but that this place is such as is refreshed by the

gentle breathing of a weit wind, that is perpetually blowing from

the ocean i while they allot to bad souls a dark and tempestuous

den, full of never-ceasing punishments. And indeed the Greeks

seem to me to have followed the same notion, when they allot

the islands of the blessed to their brave men, whom they call he足

roes, and demigods; and to the souls of the wicked, the region

of the ungodly, in Hades, where their fables relate that certain

persons, such as Sisyphus, and Tantalus, and Ixion, and Tityus,

are punished; which is built on this first supposition, that souls

are immortal; and thence are those exhortations to virtue, and

dehortations from wickedness collected, whereby good men are

bettered in the conduct of their life by the hope they have of

reward after their death, and whereby the vehement inclination*

of bad men to vice are restrained, by the fear and expectation

they are in, that although they should lie concealed in this life,

they should suffer immortal punishment after their death. These

are the divine doctrines of the Essens * about the soul, which

lay an unavoidable bait for such as have once had a taste of their

philosophy.

IS}. There

* Of these Jewish or Essene, and indeed Christian, doctrines concerning souls,  
both good and bad, in Hades, see that excellent discourse or homily, of our
lots-

phus's concerning Hades, at the end of vol, IV.

