Ctap.X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS* 3»

sedition ; for, after Varns was gone away, Sabinus, Caesar's pro­

curator, staid behind, and greatly distressed the Jews, relying on

the forces that were left there, that they would by their multi­

tude protect him ; for he made use of them, and armed them as

his guards, thereby so oppressing the Jews, and giving them so

great disturbance, that at length they rebelled ; for he used force

in seizing the citadels, and zealously pressed on the search af­

ter the king's money, in order to seize upon it by force, on

account of his love of gain, and his extraordinary covetousness.

2. But the approach of Pentecost, which is a festival of ours so

called from the days of our forefathers, a great many ten thou­

sands of men got together ; nor did they come only to celebrate,

the festival, but out of their indignation at the madness of Sabi-

nns, and at the injuries he offered them. A great number there

was of Galileans, and Idumeans, and many men from Jericho,

and others who had passed over the river Jordan, and inhabited

those parts. This whole multitude joined themselves to all the

rest, and were more zealous than the others in making an assault

on Sabinus, in order to be avenged on him : so they parted them­

selves into three bands, and encamped themselves in the places

following : some of them seized on the Hippodrome, and of the

other two bands, one pitched themselves from the northern part

of the temple to the southern, on the east quarter; but the third

band held the western part of the city, where the king's palace

was. Their work tended entirely to besiege the Romans, and

to inclose them on all sides. Now, Sabinus was afraid of these

mens number, and of their resolution, who had little regard to

their lives, but were very desirous not to be overcome, while

they thopght it a point of puissance to overcome their enemies ;

so he sent immediately a letter to Varus, and, as he used to do, was

very pressing with him, and entreated him to come quickly to

his assistance ; because the forces he had left were in imminent

danger, and would probably, in no long time, be seized upon, and

cut to pieces ; while he did himself get up to the highest tower

of the fortress Fhasaelus, which had been built in honour of Pha-

saelus, king Herod's brother, and called so when the * Parthians

had brought him to his death. So Sabinus gave thence a signal

to the Romans to fall upon the Jews, although he ihd not him­

self venture so much as to come down to his friends, and thought

he might expect that the others should expose themselves first to

die on account of his avarice. However, the Romans ventured

to make a sally out of the place, and a terrible battle ensued ;

wherein, though it is true the Romans beat their adversaries,

yet

* See Anti<j. B. XIV. ch. xiii.J 10. and Of the War, B. H. ch. xii. § 9.

