113 Book XIX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

means their mutual hatred against Cains, and on that account

were not averse to a mutual kindness one towards another.

'9. When Minucianus and Cherea had met together, and sa­

luted one another ("as they had been used in former conversa­

tions to give the upper hand to Minucianus, both on account of

his eminent dignity, for he was the noblest of all the citizens,

and highly commended by all men, especially when he made

speeches to them,) Minucianus began first, and asked Cherea,

What was the watch-word he had received that day from

Caius ? for the affront, which was offered Cherea in giving the

watch-words, was famous over the city. But Cherea made

no delay, so long as to reply to that question, out of the joy

he had that Minucianus would have such confidence in him as

to discourse, with him. " But do thou," faid he, " give me the

" watch-word of liberty. And I return thee my thanks, that

" thou hast so greatly encouraged me to exert myr If after an

" extraordinary manner ; nor do I stand in need of many words

" to encourage me, since both thou and I are of the same mind,

" and partakers of the same resolutions, and this before we

M have conferred together. I have indeed but one sword girt

*' on, but this one will serve us both. Come on, therefore, let

us set about the work'. Do thou go first, if thou hast a mind,

** and bid me follow thee ; 'or else I will go first, and thou shalt  
" assist me, and we'will assist one another, and trust one another.

" Nor' is there a necessity for even one sword to such as have

" a mind disposed to such works, by which mind the sword uses

*' to be successful. I am zealous about this action, nor am I  
" solicitous what I may myself undergo ; for I am not at leisure

" to consider the dangers that may come upon myself, so deep-

" ly am I troubled at the slavery our once free country is now

" under, and at the contempt cast upon our excellent laws, and

" at the destruction which hangs over all men, by the means of

*' Caius. I wish that I may be judged by thee, and that thou  
" mayst esteem me worthy of credit in these matters, seeing we

" are both of the same opinion, and there is herein no difference

" between us."

10. When Minucianus saw the vehemency with which Che­

rea delivered himself, he gladly embraced him, and encouraged

'him in his bold attempt, commending him, and embracing him ;

so he let him go with his good wishes ; and some affirm, that he

'thereby confirmed Minuaianus in the prosecution of what had

been agreed among them ; for, as Cherea entered into the court,

the report runs, that a voice came from among the multitude to

encourage him, which bid him finish what he was about, and take

the opportunity that providence afforded; and that Cherea at

first

