Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ' Z1

he ordered them to be all shut up in the hippodrome *, and sent

for his sister Salome, and her husband Alexis, and spake thus to

them : " I shall die in a little time, so great are my pains ; which

" death ought to be chearfully borne, and to be welcomed by

" all men; but what principally troubles me is this, that I shall

" die without being lamented, and without such mourning as

«' men usually expect at a king's death. For that he was not

" unacquainted with the temper of the Jews, that his death

" would be a thing very desirable, and exceedingly acceptable

" to them ; because during his lifetime they were ready to re-

" volt from him, and to abuse the donations he had dedicated to

" God : that it therefore was their business to resolve to afford

" him some alleviation of his great sorrows on this occasion ;

" for that, if they do not refuse him their consent in what he

"desires, he shall have a great mourning at his funeral, and

" such as never any king had before him ; for then the whole

" nation would mourn from their very soul, which otherwise

'' would be done in sport and mockery only. He desired there-

" fore that as soon as they see he hath given up the ghost, they

" shall place soldiers round the hippodrome, while they do not

" know that he is dead; and that they shall not declare his

" death to the multitude till this is done, but that they shall

" give orders to have those that are in custody shot with their

"• darts; and that this slaughter of them all will cause that he

" shall not miss to rejoice on a double account: that as he

" is dying, they will make him secure that his will shall be exe-

" cuted in what he charges them to do ; and that he shall have

" the honour of a memorable mourning at his funeral. So he

" deplored his condition, with tears in his eyes, and obtested

" them by the kindness due from them, as of his kindred, and

" by the faith they otved to God, and begged of them that they

"would not hinder him of this honourable mourning tit his fu-

" neral." So they promised him not to transgress his com­

mands.

6. Now, any one may easily discover the temper of this man's

mind, which not only took pleasure in doing what he had done

formerly against his relations, out of'the love of life, but by

those commands of his which savoured of no humanity : since he

took care, when he was departing out of this life, that the whole

nation should be put into mourning, and indeed made desolate

of their dearest kindred, when he gave order that one out of

every family should be slain, although they had done nothing

rfiat was unjust, or that was against him, nor were they accused

of any other crimes; while it is usual for those who have any

D 2 regard

* A place for the horse-races.

