Chap. XIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 425

and gave order, that if they could take that city [by surprise]

they should keep it; but that in case the citizens should perceive

they were coming to attack them, that they then should stay for

him, and for the rest of the army. So some of them made a

brisk march by the sea side, and some by land, and so coming up­

on them On both sides, they took the city with ease: and as the

inhabitants had made no provision aforehand for a flight, nor had

gotten any thing ready for fighting, the soldiers fell upon them,

and slew them all, with their families, and then plundered and

burnt the city. The number of the slain was eight thousand

four hundred. In like manner Cestius sent also a considerable

body of horsemen to the toparchy of Narbatene, that adjoined

to Cesarea, who destroyed the country, and slew a great multi­

tude' of its people; they also plundered what they had, and burnt

their villages.

11. But Cestius sent Gallus, the commander of the twelfth

legion, into Galilee^ and delivered to him as many of his forces

as he supposed sufficient to subdue that nation. He was receiv­

ed by the strongest city of Galilee, which was Sepphoris, with

acclamations of joy; which wise conduct of that city occasioned

the rest of the cities to be in quiet; while the seditious part, and

the robbers ran away to that mountain which lies in the very-

middle of Galilee, and is situated over against Sepphoris; it is

called Asamon. So Gallus brought his forces against them:

but while those men were in the superior parts above the Ro-

iiians, they easily threw their darts upon the Romans, as they

made their approaches, and slew about two hundred of them.

But when the Romans had gone round the mountains, and were

gotten into the parts above their enemies, the others were soon

beaten; nor could they who had only light armour on, sustain

the force of them that fought them armed all over; nor when

they u'ere beaten could they escape the enemies horsemen; in­

somuch that only some few concealed themselves in certain places

hard to become at, among the mountains, while the rest, above

two thousand in number, were slain.

CHAP. XIX.

What Cestius did against the Jews ; and how, upon bis besieging

Jerusalem, he retreatedfrom the city, without any just occasion

in the world. As also -what severe calamities he under went from

the Jews in his retreat.

$ 1. A ND now Gallus seeing nothing more that looked to-

£\. wards an innovation in Galilee, returned with his

arany to Cesarea; but Cestius removed with his whole army,

VOL. III. 3 H and

