THE LIFE OF FLAVItIS JOSEPJIUS. 229

Very angry at them for this, for they perceived the wickedness

of the men, I understood that a tumult was going to arise ; and

being desirous to provoke the public to a greater rage against the

men, I said, " But if I have not done well in paying our ambas-

" sadors out of the public stock, leave off your anger at rr.e, for

* I will repaythe twenty pieces of gold myself."

58. When I had said this, Jonathan and his colleagues held

their peace ; but the people were still more irritated against them,

upon their openly shewing their unjust ill-will to me. When

Jesus saw this change in the people, he ordered them to depart,

but desired the senate to stay ; for that they could not examine

things of such a nature in tumult; and, as the people were cry足

ing out that they would not leave me alone, there came one and

told Jesus and his friends privately, that John and his armed

men were at hand : whereupon Jonathan and his colleagues,

being able to contain themselves no longer, ("and perhaps the pro足

vidence of God hereby procuring my deliverance, for, had not

this been so, I had certainly been destroyed by John), said, " O

" you people of Tiberias ! leave off this inquiry about the twenty

" pieces of gold ; for Josephus hath not deserved to die for them :

*' but he hath deserved it by his desire of tyrannizing, and by  
" cheating the multitude of the Galileans with his speeches, in

" order to gain the dominion over them." When he had said

this, they presently laid hands upon me, and endeavoured to kill

me : but, as soon as those that were with me saw what they did,

they drew their swords, and threatened to smite them, if they

offered any violence to me. The people also took up stones, and

were about to throw them at Jonathan; and so they snatched me

from the violence of my enemies.

59. But, I was going out a little way, I was just upon meet足

ing John, who was inarching with his armed men. So I was

afraid of him, and turned aside, and escaped by a narrow pas足

sage to the lake, and seized on a ship, and embarked in it, and

sailed over to Taricheae. So, beyond my expectation, I escaped

this danger. Whereupon I presently sent for the chief of the

Galileans, and told them after what manner, against all faith

given, I had been very near to destruction from Jonathan and

his colleagues, and the people of Tiberias. Upon which the mill- '

titude of the Galileans were very angry, and encouraged me to

delay no longer to make war upon them, but to permit them to

go against John, and utterly to destroy him, as well as Jonathan

and his colleagues. However, I restrained them, though they

were in such a rage, and desired them to tarry a while, till we

should be informed what orders those ambassadors, that were

sent by them to the city of Jerusalem, should bring thence ; for

