'Chap. XXI. WARS OF THJE JEWS. >15

those Laodiceans who lived by the sea side; and for those of

Ascalon he built baths and costly fountains, as also cloisters

round a court, that were admirable, both for their workman­

ship and largeness. Moreover, he dedicated groves and meadows

to some people; nay, not a few cities there were who had lands

of his donation, as if they were parts of his own kingdom. He

also bestowed annual revenues, and those for ever also, on the

settlements for exercises, and appointed for them, as well as for

the people of Cos, that such rewards should never be wanting.

He also gave corn to all such as wanted it, and conferred upon.

Rhodes large sums of money for building ships, and this he did

in many places, and frequently also. And when Apollo's

temple had been burnt down, he rebuilt it at his own charges,

after a better manner than it was before. What need I speak

of the presents he made to the Lycians and Samnians ? or of his

great liberality through all Ionia? and that according to every

body's wants of them. And are not the Athenians, and Lace­

demonians, and Nicopolitans, and that Pergamus which is in

Mysia, full of donations that Herod presented them withal? And

as for that large open place belonging to Antioch in Syria, did

not he pave it with polished marble, though it were twenty fur­

longs long? and this when it was shunned by all men before,

because it was full of dirt and filthiness, when he besides- adorn-

,ed the same place with a cloister of the same length.

12. It is true, a man may say, these were favours peculiar to

those particular places, on which he bestowed his benefits; but

then what favours he bestowed on the Eleans was a donation not

only in common to all Greece, but to all the habitable earth, as

far as the glory of the Olympic games reached. For when he

perceived that they were come to nothing, for want of money,

and that the only remains of ancient Greece were in a manner

gone, he not only became one of the combatants in that return

,of the fifth-year games, which in his sailing to Rome he hap.

pened to be present at, but he settled upon them revenues of

money for perpetuity, insomuch, that his memorial as a com­

batant there can rrever fail. It would be an infinite task if I

should go over his payments of people's debts, or tributes, for

them, as he eased the people of Phasaelus, of Batanea, and of the

small cities about Cilicia, of those annual pensions they before

paid. However, the fear he was in much disturbed the great­

ness of his soul, lest he should be exposed to envy, or seem to

hunt after greater things than he ought, while he bestowed

more liberal gifts upon these cities, than did their owners

themselves.

13. Now Herod had a body suited to his soul, and was

' R r 2 ' ever

