Chap. III. 9 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

off his anger against Pheroras on these accounts, although he

himself thereby underwent a very uneasy punishment. How­

ever, he forbade Antipater and his mother to have any con­

versation with Pheroras, and bid them to take care to avoid the

assemblies of the women : which they promised to do ; but

still got together when occasion served, and both Pheroras

and Antipater had their own merry meetings. The report

went also, that Antipater had criminal conversation with Phe-

roras's wife ; and that they were brought together by Antipater's

mother.

2. But Antipater had now a suspicion of his father, and was

afraid that the effects of his hatred to him might increase : so he

wrote to his friends at Rome, and bid them to send to Herod,

that he would immediately send Antipater to Caesar ; which,

when it was done, Herod sent Antipater thither, and sent most

noble presents along with him ; as also his testament, wherein

Antipater was appointed to be his successor : and that if Antipa­

ter should die first, his [Herod Philip] son by the high-priest's,

daughter should succeed. And, together with Antipater, there

went to Rome, Sylleus the Arabian, although ha had done no­

thing of all that Caesar had enjoined him. Antipater also accu­

sed him of the same crimes of which he had been formerly accu­

sed by Herod. Sylleus was also accused by Aretas, that without

his consent he had slain many of the chief of the Arabians at

Petra; and particularly Soemus, a man that deserved to be ho­

noured by all men, and that he had slain Fabatus, a servant of

Caesar's. These were the things of which Sylleus was accused,

and that on the occasion following: There was one CorintHus,

belonging to Herod, of the guards of the king's body, and one

who was greatly trusted by him. Sylleus had persuaded this man

with the offer of a great sum of money, to kill Herod ; and he

had promised to do it. When Fabatus had been acquainted

with this, for Sylleus had himself told him of it, he informed

the king of it ; who caught Corinthus, and put him to the tor­

ture, and thereby got out of him the whole conspiracy. He also

caught two other Arabians, who were discovered by Corinthus ;

the one the head of a tribe,- and the other a friend,to Sylleus,

who both were by the king brought to the torture, and confess­

ed, that they were come to encourage Corinthus not to fail of

doing what he had undertaken to do ; and to assist him with

their own hands in the murder, if need should require their as­

sistance. So Saturniuus, upon Herod's discovering the whole

to him, sent them to Rome.

3. At this time, Herod commanded Pheroras, that since he

was so obstinate in his affection for his wife, he should retire in- -

to his own tetrarchy ; which he did very willingly, and sware

Vol. III. B ~ ' many

