THE LlFfe OF FLAVJDS JOSEPHtfS.' 243

this in my mind, and went with tears in my eyes to Titus, and

told him of them ; so he immediately commanded them to be

taken down, and to have the greatest care taken of them, in or­

der to their recovery ; yet two of them died under the physi­

cian's hands, while the third recovered.

16. But, when Titus had composed the troubles in Judea, and

conjectured that the lands which Ihad in Judea Would bring me

in no profit, because a garrison to guard the country was after­

ward to pitch there, he gave me another country in the plain.

And, when he was going away to Rome, he made choice of mt:

to sail along with him, and paid me great respect: and, when

we were come to Rome, I had great care taken of me by Ves­

pasian ; for he gave me an apartment in his own house, which

he lived in before he came to the empire. He also honoured me

with the privilege of a Roman citizen, and gave me an annual

pension ; and continued to respect me to the end of his life,

without any abatement of his kindness to me ; which very

thing made me envied, and brought me into danger; for a cer­

tain Jew, whose name was Jonathan, who had raised a tumult in

Cyrene, and had persuaded two thousand men of that country

to join with him, was the occasion of their ruin. But, when he

was bound by the governor of that country, and sent to the em­

peror, he told him, that I had sent him both weapons and mo­

ney. However, he could not conceal his being a liar from Ves­

pasian, who condemned him to die ; according to which sentence

he was put to death. Nay, after that, when those that envied

my good fortune did frequently bring accusations against me, by

God's providence I escaped them all. I also'received from Ves­

pasian no small quantity of land, as free gift in Judea; about

which time I divorced mv wife also, as not pleased with her be­

haviour, though not till she had been the mother of three chil­

dren, two of which are dead, and one, whom I named Hyrca-

nus, is alive. After this I married a wife who had lived at

Crete, but a Jew by birth : a woman she was of eminent parents,

and such as were the most illustrious in all the country, and

whose character was beyond that of most other women, as her

future life did demonstrate. By her I had two sons, the elder's

name was Justus, and the next Simonides, who was also named

Agrippa. And these were the circumstances of my domestic

affairs. However, the kindness of the emperor to me continued

still the same ; for, when Vespasian was dead, Titus, who suc­

ceeded him in the government, kept up the same respect for me

which I had from his father; and, when I had frequent accusa­

tions laid against me, he would not believe them. And Domi-

tian, who succeeded, still augmented his respects to me ; for he

H h 2 punished

