Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 311

part of his magnanimity was extended tp the promotion of

piety. iJ'' .j :','' s.tw

CHAP. XXI.

Of the [temple and'\ cities that were built by Herod, and erected

from the very foundations; as also of those other ed.if.ces that

were erected by him: and what kiagnificence he shewed to fo­

reigners ; and how fortune was in all things favourable to him.

J 1. A CCORDINGLY, in the sixteenth year of his reign,

JT\. Herod rebuilt the temple, and encompassed a piece of

land about it with a wall, which land was twice as large' as that

before inclosed. The expences he laid out upon it were vastly

large also, and the riches about it were unspeakable. A sign of

which you have in the great cloisters that were erected about the

temple and*thecitadel which was on its north side. The cloisters

he built from the foundation, but the citadel he repaired at a vast

expence; nor was it other than a royal palace, which he called

jtntonia, in honour of Antony. He also built himself a palace

in the upper city, containing two very large and most beautiful

apartments. To which the holy house itself could not be com*

pared [in largeness]. The one apartment he named Ctesarevm,

and the other Agrippiwn, from his [two great] friends. . .

2. Yet did he not preserve their memory by particular build­

ings only, with their names given them, but his generosity went

as far as entire cities; for when he had built a most beautiful

wall round a country in Samaria, twenty furlongs long, and had

brought six thousand inhabitants into it, and had allotted to it

a most fruitful piece of land, and in the midst of this city, thus

built, had erected a very large temple to Caesar, and had laid

round about it a portion of sacred land of three furlongs and an

half, he called the' city Sebaste, from Sebastus or Augustus, and

settled the affairs of the city after a most regular manner.

3. And when Caesar had further bestowed upon him another

additional country, he built there also a temple of white marble,

hard by the fountains of Jordan: the place is called Panium,

where is a top of a mountain that is raised to an immense height,

and at its side, beneath, or at its bottom, a dark cave opens itself;

within which there is an horrible precipice, that descends abrupt­

ly to a vast depth; it contains a mighty quantity of water, which

is

* This fort was first built, as it is supposed, by John Hyrcanus. See Prid. at  
the year 107. and called Saris, the tower or citadel. It was afterwards
rebuilr,

with great improvements, by Herod, under the government of Antonius, and wai

named from him the Tower efAnttmia; and about the time when Herod rebuilt

the temple, he seems to have put his last hand to it. See Antiq. B. XVIII. ch.
v.

«ect. 4, voL III. Of the war, B. I. ch. iii. sect. 4. It lay; on the north-
west side of

the temple,. and was a quarter as large.

