Chap. VII. . - WARS OF THE JEWS. 269

in full peace, their daily sacrifices and purifications, and every

branch of their religious worship was still performed to God

with the utmost exactness. Nor indeed, when the temple was

actually taken, and they were every day slain about the altar,

did they leave off" the instances of their divine worship that were

appointed by their law ; for it was in the third month of the

siege before the Romans could even with'great difficulty overthrow

one of the towers, and get into the temple. Now he that first

df all ventured to get over the wall, was Faustus Cornelius the

son of Sylla ; and next after him were two centurians, Furius

and Fabius ; and every one of these was followed by a cohort

of his own, who encompassed the Jews on all sides, and slew

them, some of them as they were running for shelter to the tem­

ple, and others as they, for a while, fought in their own defence.

5. And now did many of the priests, even when they saw their

enemies assailing them with swords in their hands, without any

disturbance, go on with their divine worship, and were slain while

they were offering their drink-offerings, and burning their in­

cense, as preferring the duties about their worship to God, before

their own preservation. The greatest part of them were slain by

their own countrymen, of the adverse faction, and an innumerable

multitude threw themselves down precipices ; nay, some there

were who were so distracted among the insuperable difficulties

they were under, that they set fire to the buildings that were near

to the wall, and were burnt together with them. Now of the

Jews were slain twelve thousand ; but of the Romans very few

were slain, but a greater number was wounded.

6. But there was nothing that affected the nation so much, in

the calamities they were then under, as that their holy place,

which had been hitherto seen by none, should be laid open to

strangers ; for * Pompey, and those that were about him, went

into the temple itself, whether it was not lawful for any to enter

but the high-priest, and saw what was reposited therein, the can­

dlestick with its lamps, and the table, and the pouring vessels,

and the censers, all made entierly of gold, as also a great quanti­

ty of spices heaped together with two thousand talents of sacred

money. Yet did not he touch that money, nor any thing else that

was there reposited ; but he commanded the ministers about the

temple, the very next day after he had taken it, to cleanse it, and

to perform their accustomed sacrifices. Moreover, he made Hyr-

canus high-priest, as one that not only in other respects had

shewed great alacrity, on his side, during the siege, but as he had

been

* Thus says Tacitus, Cn. Pompeius first of all subdued the Jews, and went in­  
to their temple, by right of conquest, Hist. B. V. ch. ix. nor did he touch
any of

its riches, as has been observed on the parallel place of the Antiquities, B.
XIV.

ch. iv. sect. 4. out of Cicero himself.

