114 ANTIQJJ1TIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

body miserably disordered by the pains she had* undergone, freed

both her and Pompedius of the crime laid to their charge. He

also gave her money to make her an honourable amends, and

comfort her for that maiming of her body which she h-id suffers

ed, and for her glorious patience under such- unsufferable tor­

ments.

6. This matter sorely grieved Cherea, as having been the cause,

as far as he could, or the instrument of those miseries to men,

which seemed worthy of consolation to Caius himself ; on which

account he said to Clement and to Papinius (of whom Clement

was general of the army, and. Papinius was a tribune),- " To

" be sure, Clement, we have no way failed in Our guarding the

*« emperor ; for as to those that have made conspiracies against  
" his government, some have been slain by our care and pains,-

" and some have been by us tortured, and this to such a degree,

" that he hath himself pitied them. How great then is our vir-

" tue in submitting to conduct his armies !" Clement held his*

peace, but shewed the shame he was under in obeying Caius's

orders, both by his eyes and his blushing countenance, while he*

thought it by no means right to accuse the emperor in express

words, lest their own safety should be endangered thereby. Upon

which Cherea took courage, and spake to him without fear of the

dangers that were before him, and discoursed largely of the sore

calamities under which the city and the government then labour-;

ed, and said, " We may indeed pretend in words, that Caius is

" the person unto whom the cause of such miseries ought to be

" imputed ; but, in the opinion of such as are able to judge up-

" rightly, it is I, O Clement ! and this Papinius, and before us-

«' thou thyself who bring these tortures upon the Romans, and

" upon all mankind. It is not done by our being subservient to

«' the commands of Caius, but it is done by our own consent;

«' for whereas it is in our power to put an end to the life of this

" man, who hath so terribly injured the citizens and his subjects^

" we are his guard in mischief and his executioners, instead of

«' his soldiers, and are the instruments of his cruelty. We bear

" these weapons, not for our liberty, not for the "Roman govern-

" ment, but only for his preservation, who hath enslaved both

'' their bodies and their minds ; and We are every day polluted

«' with the blood that we shed, and the torments we inflict upon

" others ; and this we do, till somebody becomes Caius's instru-

" ment in bringing the like miseries upon ourselves. Nor does he

«' thus employ us, because he hath a kindness for us, but rather

" because he hath a suspicion of us, as also because when abun-

" dance more have been killed (for Caius will set no bounds to

«' his wrath, since he aims to do all, not out of regard to justice,

" but

