354 Book I . WARS OF THE JEWS.

whose command they had done it, they replied, at the command

of the law of their country; and when he farther asked them,

how they could be so joyful when they were to be put todeath,

they replied,* Because they should enjoy greater happiness after

they were dead.

4. At this the king was in such an extravagant passion, that

he overcame his disease [for the time], and went out, and spake

to the people; wherein he made a terrible accusation against

those men, as being guilty of sacrilege, and as making greater

attempts under pretence of their law, and he thought they de­

served to be punished as impious persons. Whereupon the peo­

ple were afraid lest a great number should be found guilty, and

desired that when he had first punished those that put them upon

this work, and then those that were caught in it, he would leave

off his anger as to the rest. With this the king con -plied, though

riot without difficulty, and ordered those that had let themselves

down, together with their Rabbins, to be burnt alive, but deli­

vered the rest that were caught to the proper officers to be put

to death by them/

5. After this, the distemper seized upon his whole body, and

greatly disordered all its parts with various symptoms; for there

was a gentle fever upon him, and an intolerable itching over all

the surface of his body, and continual pains in his colon, and

dropsical tumours about his feet, and an inflammation of the ab­

domen, and a putrefaction of his privy member, that produced

worms. Besides which, he had a difficulty of breathing upon

him, and could not breathe but when he sat upright, and had a

convulsion

* Since in these two sections we hare an evident account of the Jewish opinion*  
in the days of Josephui, about a future happy state, and the resurrection of
the

dead, as in the New Testament, John xi. 24.1 shall-here refer to to the other
placet

in Josephus, before he became a Catholic Christian, which concern the same
mat­

ters. Of the War, B. II. ch viii sect 10, 11. B. III. ch viii. sect. 4. Voi.
III.

B. VII. ch. vi. sect. 7. Contr. Apion, B. II. sect 30. Vol. III. where we may

observe, that none of these passages are in his Books of Antiquities, written
pecu­

liarly for the a'e of the Gentiles, to whom he thought it not proper to insist
on

t opics so much out of their way as these were. Nor is this observation to be
omit­

ted here, especially on account of the sensible difference we have now before
us ia

Josephus's representation of the arguments used by-the Rabbins to persuade
their

scholars to hazard their lives for the vindication of God's law, against
images, by

Moses, as well as of the answers those scholars made to Herod, when they Were

caught, and ready to die for the same ; I mean as)compared with the parallel
ar­

gument- and answers represented in the Antiquities, B. XVII. ch. vi. sect, a,
3.

Vol. III. A like difference between Jewish and Gentile notions, the reader
will

find in my notes on Antiquities, B III. ch. vii. sect. J. Vol. I. B. XV. ch.
be.

*ect. t. Vol II. See the like also in the case of the three Jewish sects in the Anti­  
quities, B XIII. ch. v. sect 9. and ch. x. sect. 4, and 5. Vol. II. book
XVIII. ch. i.

sect. .t. Vol. III. and compared with this in his Wars of. the Jews B II. ch.
viii.

sect, x—14. Vol. III. Nor does St Paul himself reason to Gentiles at Athens',

Acts xvii. 16, 34. as he does to Jews in his epistles.

