WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I

and Moabites, he enjoined them to pay him tribute, and return­

ed to Amathus; and, as Theodorus was surprised at his great

success, he took the fortress, and demolished it.

4. However, when he fought with Obodus, king of the Ara­

bians, who had laid an ambush for him near Golan, and a plot

against him, he lost his entire army, which was crowded together

in a deep valley, and broken to pieces by the multitudes of camels.

And, when he had made his escape to Jerusalem, he provoked the

multitude, which hated him before, to make an insurrection

against him, and this on account of the greatness of the calamity

that he was under. However, he was then too hard for them,

and in the several battles that were fought on both sides, he slew

not fewer than fifty thousand of the Jews, in the interval of six

years. Yet had he no reason to rejoice in these victories, since

he did but consume his own kingdom ; till at length he fell off'

fighting, and endeavoured to come to a composition with them,

by talking with his subjects. But this mutability and irregula­

rity of his conduct made them hate him still more. And, when

he asked them why they so hated him ? and what he should do

in order to appease them ? they said, by killing himself; for

that it would be then all they could do to be reconciled to him,

who had done such tragical things to them, even when he was

dead. At the same time they invited Demetrius, who was call­

ed Eucerus, to assist them; and, as he readily complied with

their requests, in hopes of great advantages, and came with his ar­

my, the Jews joined with those their auxiliaries about Shechem.

5. Yet did Alexander meet with these forces with one thousand

horsemen, and eight thousand mercenaries, that were on foot. He

had also with him that part of 'the Jews which favoured him, to

the number of ten thousand; while the adverse party had three

thousand horsemen, and fourteen thousand footmen. Now, before

they joined battle, the kings made proclamation, and endeavour­

ed to draw off each other's soldiers, and make them revolt t

while Demetrius hoped to induce Alexander's mercenaries to

leave him, and Alexander hoped to induce the Jews that were

with Demetrius to leave him. ' But, since neither the Jews

would leave off their rage, nor the Greeks prove unfaithful, they

came to an engagement, and to a close fight with their weapons.

In which battle Demetrius was the conqueror, although Alexan­

der's mercenaries shewed the greatest exploits, both in soul and

body. Yet did the upshot of this battle prove different from

what was expected, as to both of them ; for neither did those

that invited Demetrius to come to them continue firm to him,

though he were conqueror ; and six thousand Jews, out of pity

to the change of Alexander's condition, when he was fled to

