Chap. XVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 413

selves into the villages, and collected the tributes, and soongot

together forty talents, which was the sum that was deficient.

And thus did Agrippa then put a stop to that war which was

threatened. Moreover,he attempted to persuade the multitude

to obey Florus, until Caesar should send one to succeed him;

'but they were hereby more provoked, and cast reproaches upon

the king, and got him excluded out of the city; nay, some of

the seditious had the impudence to throw stones at him. So

when the king saw that the violence of those that were for in­

novations was not to be restrained, and being very angry at

the contumelies he had received, he sent their rulers, together

with their men of power, to Florus, to Cesarea, that he might

appoint whom he thought fit to collect the tribute in the coun­

try, while he retired into his own kingdom.

2. And at this time it was that some of those that principally-

excited the people to go to war, made an assault upon a certain

fortress called Massada. They took it by treachery, and slew

the Romans that were there, and put others of their own party

to keep it. At the same time Eleazar, the son of Ananias the

high-priest, a very bold youth, who was at that time governor

of the temple, persuaded those that officiated in the divine ser­

vice to receive no gift or sacrifice for any foreigner. And this

was the true beginning of our war with the Romans; for they

rejected the sacrifice of Caesar on this account: and when many

of the high-priests and principal men besought them not to

omit the sacrifice, which it was customary for them to offer

for their princes, they would not be prevailed upon. These

relied much upon their multitude, for the most flourishing

part of the innovators assisted them; but they had the chief re­

gard to Eleazar, the governor of the temple.

3. Hereupon the men of power got together, and conferred

with the high-priests, as did also the principal of the Pharisees;

and thinking all was at stake, and that their calamities were be­

coming incurable, took counsel what was to be done. Accord­

ingly they determined to try what they could do with the sedi­

tious by words, and assembled the people before the brazen-

gate, which was that gate of the inner temple [court of the

priests] which looked toward the sun rising. And, in the first

place, they shewed the great indignation they had at this attempt

for a revolt, and for their bringing so great a war upon their

country: after which they confuted their pretence as unjusti­

fiable, and told them, That " their forefathers had adorned their

" temple in great part with donations bestowed on them by fo-

" rejgners, and had always received what had been presented to

f'' tjiem frpm foreign Rations; and (hat they had been so far from

(l " rejecting

