THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 221

without success, and came to Sepphoris, the greatest city of all

Galilee. Now the men of that city who inclined to the Romans

in their sentiments, met them indeed, but neither praised nor re­

proached me ; and when they were gone clown from Sepphoris

to Asochis, the people of that place made a clamour against them,

as those of Japha had done. Whereupon they were able to con­

tain themselves no longer, but ordered the armed men that were

with them to beat those that made the clamour with their clubs.

And when they came to Gabara, John met them with three

thousand armed men ; but, as I understood by their letter, that

they had resolved to fight against me, I arose from Chabolo, with

three thousand armed men also ; but left in my camp one of my

fastest friends and came to Jotapata, as desirous to be near them,

the distance being no more than forty furlongs. Whence I wrote

thus to them : " If you are very desirous that I should come to

"' you, you know there are two hundred and forty cities and vil-

" lages in Galilee, I will come to any of them which you please,

" excepting Gabara and Gischala ; the one of which is John's

'' native city, and the other in confederacy and friendship with

". him."

46. When Jonathan and his partners had received this letter,

they wrote to me no more answers, but called a council of their

friends together, and taking John into their consultation, they

took counsel together by what means they might attack me.

John's opinion was, that they should write to all the cities and

villages that were in Galilee ; for that there must be certainly

one or two persons in every one of them that were at variance

with me, and that they be invited to come to oppose me as an

enemy. He would also have them send this resolution of theirs

to the city Jerusalem, that its citizens, upon the knowledge of my

being adjudged to be an enemy by the Galileans, might them­

selves also confirm that determination. He said also, that when

this was done, even those Galileans who were affected to me,

would desert me out of fear. When John had given them this

counsel, what he had said was very agreeable to the rest of

them. I was also made acquainted with these affairs about the

third hour of the night, by the means of one Saccheus, who had

belonged to them, but now deserted them and came over to me,

and told me what they were about; so I perceived that no time

was to be lost. Accordingly I gave command to Jacob, an armed

man of my guard, whom I esteemed faithful to me, to take two

hundred men and to guard the passages that led from Gabara to

Galilee, and to seize upon the passengers, and send them to me,

especially such as were caught with letters about them: I also

sent Jeremias himself, one of my friends, with six hundred arrced

men,

