ISO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX,

out upon them, and slew many of them, and took more of them

alive, and permitted his soldiers to plunder some of the houses

of the citizens, which were full of riches. Now those Jews

that were more moderate, and of principal dignity among them,

were afraid of themselves, and desired of Felix that he would

sound a retreat to his soldiers, and spare them for the future, and

afford them room for repentance for what they had done ; and

Felix was prevailed upon to do so.

8. About this time king Agrippa gave the high-priesthood to

Ismael, who was the son of Fabi. And now arose a sedition be­

tween the high-priests and the principal men of the multitude

of Jerusalem ; each of which got them a company of the bold­

est sort of men, and of those that loved innovations, about them,

and became leaders to them ; and when they struggled together,

they did it by casting reproachful words against one another,

and by throwing stones also. And there was no body to re­

prove them; but these disorders were done after a licentious

manner in the city, as if it had no government over it. And such

was the impudence * and boldness that had seized on the high

priests, that they had the hardiness to send their servants into

the threshing-floors, to take away those tithes that were due to

the priests ; insomuch that it so fell out that the poorer sort of

the priests died for want. To this degree did the violence of

the seditious prevail over all right and justice !

9- Now, when Porcius Festus was sent as successor to Felix by

Nero, the principal of the Jewish inhabitants of Cesarea went

up to Rome to accuse Felix ; and he had certainly been brought

1,1 punishment, unless Nero had yielded to the importunate so­

licitations of his brother Pallas, who was at that time had in

the greatest honour by him. Two of the principal Syrians in

Cesarea persuaded Bunhus, who was Nero's tutor, and secre­

tary for his Greek epistles, by giving him a great sum of mo­

ney, to disannul that equality of the Jewish privileges of citi­

zens which they hitherto enjoyed. So Burrhus, by his solici­

tations, obtained leave of the emperor, that an ejpistle should

be written to that purpose. This epistle became the occasion of

the following miseries that befel our nation ; for, when the Jews

of Cesarea were informed of the contents of this epistle to the

Syrians, they were more disorderly than before, till a war was

kindled. ' '

10. Upon Festus's coming into Judea, it happened that .Tudea

was afflicted by the robbers, while all the villages were set on

fire,

* The wickedness here was very peculiar and extraordinary, that the high-  
priests should so oppress their brethren the priests, as to starve the poorest
of

them to death. See the like presently, ch. ix. sect. a. Such fatal crimes are
co-

yetcusness s.nd tyranny in the clergy, as well as in the laity, in all ages,

