G80 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

than as he had hearkened to evil counsellors, and this no farther

than by bringing a shadow of injustice upon him. So Herod was

prevailed upon by these arguments, and supposed that what he

had already done was sufficient for his future hopes, and that he

had enough shewn his power to the nation.

10. In the mean time, there was a disturbance among the Ro­

mans about Apamia, and a civil war occasioned by the treacher­

ous * slaughter of Sextus Caesar, by Cicilius Bassus, which he

perpetrated out of his good-will to Pompey ; he also took the

authority over his forces ; but, as the rest of Caesar's command­

ers attacked Bassus with their whole army, in order to punish

him for the murder of Caesar, Antipater also sent them assistance

by his sons, both on account of him that was murdered, and on

account of that Caesar who was still alive, both of which were

their friends ; and as this war grew to be of a considerable

length, Marcus came of Italy as successor to Sextus.

CHAP. XI.

Herod it made procurator of all Syria ; Malichus is afraid of

him, and takes /Intipatcr off" by poison : whereupon the tribunes

of the soldiers are prevailed with to kill him.

$ 1. ' I 'HERE was at this time a mighty war raised among the

Romans, upon the sudden aud treacherous slaughter of

Caesar by Cassius and Brutus, after he had held the government

for f three years and seven months. Upon this murder there

were very great agitations, and the great men were mightily at

difference one with another, and every one betook himself to that

party where they had the greatest hopes of their own, of advan­

cing themselves. Accordingly, Cassius came into Syria, in or­

der to receive the forces that were at Apamia, where he procu­

red a reconciliation between Bassus and Marcus, and the legions

which were at difference with him ; so he raised the siege of

Apamia, and took upon him the command of the army, and

went about exacting tribute of the cities, and demanding their

money to such a degree as they were not able to bear.

2. So he gave command that the Jews should bring in seven

hundred talents : whereupon Antipater, out of his dread of Cas-

sius's threats, parted the raising of this sum among his sons, and

among others of his acquaintance, and to be done immediately ;

and

* Many writers of the Roman history give an account of this murder of Sex-  
tils Cxsar, and of the war of Apamia upon that occasion. They are cited in

Dean Aldrich's note.

t In the Antiquities, B. XIV. ch. xi. sect. i. the duration of the reign of
Julius

Cfesar, is three years six months; but here three years seven months,
beginning

rightly, says Desn Aldrich, from his second dictatorship. It is probable the

real duration might be three years, and between six and seven months.

