THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

£ity secured with walls, and commanded their inhabitants to take

their arms. They also sent for a great many soldiers from John

to assist them against me, if there should he occasion for them.

Now John was at Gischala. Jonathan, therefore, and those that

were with him, when they were departed from Tiberias, and as

soon as they were come to Dabaritta, a village that lay in the ut­

most parts of Galilee, in the great plain, they, about midnight,

fell among the guards I had set, who both commanded them to

lay aside their weapons, and kept them in bonds upon the placf,

as I had charged them to do. This news was written to me by

jl-evi, who had the command of that guard committed to him by

me. Hereupon I said nothing of it for two days ; and, pretend­

ing to know nothing about it, I sent a message to the people of

Tiberias, and advised them to lay their arms aside, and to dis­

miss their men, that they might go home. But, supposing that

Jonathan, and those that were with him, were already arrived at

Jerusalem, they made reproachful answers to me ; yet was I not

terrified thereby, but contrived another stratagem against them,

for I did not think it agreeable with piety to kindle the fire of

war against the citizens. As I was desirous to draw those men

away from Tiberias, I chose out ten thousand of the best of my

armed men, and divided them into three bodies, and ordered them

to go privately, and lie still as an ambush, in the villages. I

also led a thousand into another village, which lay indeed in

the mountains, as did the others, but only four furlongs distant

from Tiberias, and gave order, that when they saw my signal,

they should come down immediately; while I myself lay with

iny soldiers in the sight of every body. Hereupon the people

of Tiberias, at the sight of me, came running out of the city

perpetually, and abused me greatly. Nay, their madness was

come to that height, that they made a decent bier for me, and,

standing about it, they mourned over me in the way of jest

and sp6rt; and I could not but be myself in a pleasant humour

upon the sight of this madness of theirs-

63. And now being desirous to catch Simon by a wile, and

Joazar with him,"!1 sent a message to them, and desired them to

come a little way out of the city, with many of their friends to

guard them ; for I said I would come down to them, and make

a league with them, and divide the government of Galilee with

them. Accordingly, Simon was deluded on account of his im­

prudence, and out of the hopes of gain, and did not delay to come;

but Joazar, suspecting snares were laid for him, staid behind.

So, when Simon was come out, and his friends with him for his

guard, I met him, and saluted him with great civility, and pro­

fessed that I was obliged to him for his coming up to me: but a

little

