THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 337

G6. Now, when I had settled the affairs of Tiberias, and had

assembled my friends as a Sanhedrim, I consulted what I should

do as to John. Whereupon it appeared to be the opinion of all

the Galileans, that I should arm them all, and march against

John, and punish him as the author of all the disorders that had

happened. Yet was not I pleased with their determination ;

as purposing to compose these troubles without bloodshed. Up­

on this I exhorted them to use the utmost care to learn the names

of all that were under John ; which when they had done, and I

thereby was apprised who the men were, I published an edict,

wherein I offered security and my right hand to such of John's

party as had a mind to repent; and I allowed twenty days time

to such as would take this qiost advantageous course for them­

selves. I also threatened, that unless they threw down their

arms, I would burn their houses, and expose their goods to pub­

lic sale. When the men heard of this, they were in no small

disorder, and deserted John; and to the number of four thou­

sand threw down their arms, and came to me. So that no o-

thers staid with John but his own citizens, and about fifteen

hundred strangers that came from the metropolis of Tyre ; and,

when John sawrthat he had been 'outwitted by my stratagem, he

continued afterward in his own country, and was in great fear

of me.

67. But about this time it was that the people of Sepphoris

grew insolent, and took up arms, out of a confidence they had

in the strength of their walls, and because they saw me engaged

in other affairs also. So they sent to Cestius Gallus, who was

president of Syria, and desired that he would either come quick­

ly to them, and take their city under his protection, or send them

a garrison. Accordingly Gallus promised them to come, but

did not send word when he would come : and, when I had learn­

ed so much, I took the soldiers that were with me, and made

an assault upon the people of Sepphoris, and took the city by

force. The Galileans took this opportunity as thinking they

had now a proper time for shewing their hatred to them, since

they borfe ill-will to that city also. Then they exerted them­

selves, as if they would destroy them all utterly, with those that

sojourned there also. So they ran upon them, and set their

houses on fire, as finding them without inhabitants ; for the men

out of fear ran together to the citadel. So the Galileans carried

off every thing, and omitted no kind of desolation which they

could bring upon their countrymen. When I saw this, I was

exceedingly troubled at it, and commanded them to leave off,

and put them in mind that it was not agreeable to piety to do

Si*ch things to their countrymen : but since they neither would

hearken

