84 AN71^111125 OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

" tually befal thee, do not forget what misery I am in myself,

" but endeavour to deliver me." So, when the German had

said this, he made Agrippa laugh at him as much as he after- '

wards appeared worthy of admiration. But now Antonia took

Agrippa?s misfortune to heart ; however, to speak to Tiberius

on his behalf, she took to be a very difficult thing, and indeed

quite impracticable, as to any hope of success ; yet did she pro­

cure of Macro, that the soldiers that kept him should be of a

gentle nature, and that the centurion who was over them, and

was to diet with him, should be of the same disposition, and that

he might have leave to bathe himself every day, and that his

freed-men and friends might come to him, and that other things

that tended to ease him might be indulged him. So his friend

Silas came in to him, and two of his freed-men, Marsyras and

Stechus, brought him such sorts of food as he was fond of, and

indeed took great care of him ; they also brought him garments,

under pretenqe of selling them, and, when night came on, they

laid them under him ; and the soldiers assisted them, as Macro

had given them order to do beforehand. And this was Agrippa's

condition for six months time, and in this case were his affairs.

8. But for Tiberius, upon his return to Capreae, he fell sick,

At first his distemper was but gentle ; but, as that distemper

increased upon him, he had small or no hopes of recovery.

Hereupon he bid Euodus, who-was that freed-man whom he

most of all respected, to bring the children * to him ; for that

he wanted to talk to them before he died. Now he had at pre­

sent no sons of his own alive ; for Drusus, who was his only

son, was dead ; but Drusus' s son Tiberius was still living,

whose additional name was Gemellus : there was also living Caius,

the son of Germanicus, who was the sonf of his brother [Dru-

Sus]. He was now grown up, and had a liberal education,

and was well improved by it, and was in esteem and favour with)

the people, on account of the excellent character of his father

Germanicus, who had attained the highest honour among the

multitude, by the firmness of his virtuous behaviour, by the

easiness and agreeableness of his conversing with the multitude,,

and because the dignity he was in did not hinder his familiarity

with them all, as if they were his equals ; by which behaviour

he was not only greatly esteemed by the people and the senate,

but by every one of those nations that were subject to the Ro­

mans ; some of which were affected, when they came to him,

with the gracefulness of their reception by him, and others were

' affected

* Tiberius his own grandson, and Caius his brother Drusus's grandson.  
t So I correct Joseplius'-s copy, which calls Germanicus his brother, who WM

his brother'? son.

