386 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

" zeal for him, and that if he should do so, his own fortune

" would be in uncertainty: for that it was a dangerous case to

" have been once called to-the empire. He added farther, that

" he would administer the government as a good prince, and?

" not like a tyrant ;, for that he would be satisfied with the ho-

" nour of being called emperor, but would, in every one of his

" actions, permit theni all to give him their advice ; for that

" although he had not been by nature for moderation, yet would

" the death of Caius afford him a sufficient demonstration how

*' soberly he ought to act in that station."

3-. This message was delivered by Agrippa; to which the

senate replied, That " since they had arf army, and the wisest

«' consuls on their sitle, they would not endure a voluntary sk-

" very." And when Claudius-heard what answer the senate had

- made, he sent Agrippa to them again, with the following mes­  
sage, That " he could not bear the thoughts of betraying them

" that had given their oaths to be true to him ; and that

" he saw he must fight, though unwillingly, against such as he

" had no mind/to fight; that however, [if it must come to that],

" it was proper to choose a place without the city for the war ;

" because it wai not agreeable to piety to pollute the temples

" of their own city with the blood of their own countrymen,

" and this only on occasion of their imprudent conduct." And

when Agrjppa had heard this message, he delivered it to the

senators.

4. In the mean time, One of the soldiers belonging to the se­

nate drew his sword, and cried out, " O my fellow-soldiers,

*' what is the meaning of this choice of ours, to kill our brethren,  
" and to use violence to our kindred that are with Claudius ?

kl while we may have him for our emperor whom no one can'

" blame, and who hath so many just reasons [to lay claim to the

" government] ; and this with regard to those against whom

«' we are going to fight." When he had said this, he marched

through the whole senate, and carried all the soldiers along with

him. Upon which all the patricians were immediately at a

great fright nt their being thus deserted. But still, because

there appeared no other way whither they could turn themselves

for deliverance, they made haste the same way with the soldiers,

and went to Claudius. But those that had the greatest luck in

flattering the good fortune of Claudius betimes, met them be­

fore the walls with their naked swords, and there was reasonto

fear that those that came first might have been in danger, before

Claudius could know what violence the soldiers were going to

offer them, had not Agrippa ran before, and told him what a

dangerous thing they were going about, and that unless he re­

strained

