Chap. XX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 309

" deed, I did not desert my benefactor after the blow that was

" given him at Actium; but I gave him the best advice 1 was

" able, when I was no longer able to assist him in the war; and

" I told him that there was but one way of recovering his affairs,

'' and that was to kill Cleopatra; and I promised him, that it'

'* she were once dead, I would afford him money and walls for

" his security, with an army and myself to assist him in his

'' war against thee: but his affections for Cleopatra stopped his

" ears, as did God himself also, who hath bestowed the govern-

" ment on thee. I own myself also to be overcome together with

" him, and with this last fortune I have laid aside my diadem,

" and am come hither to thee, having my hopes of safety in thy

u virtue; and I desire that thou wilt first consider how faithful

" a friend^ and not whose friend I have been."

2. Caesar replied to him thus: " Nay, thou shalt not only be

" in safety, but shalt be a king, and that more firmly than thou

" wert before; for thou art worthy to reign over a great ma-

" ny subjects, by reason of the fastness of thy friendship : and

" do thou endeavour to be equally constant in thy friendship to

" me, upon my good success, which is what 1 depend upon from

" the generosity of thy disposition. However, Antony hath

" done well in preferring Cleopatra to thee; for by this means

" we have gained thee by her madness, and thus thou hast be-

" gun to be my friend before I began to be thine; on which ac-

" count Quintus Dedius hath written to me that thou sentest

" him assistance against the gladiators. I do therefore assure

" thee, that I will confirm the kingdom to thee by decree: I

" shall also endeavour to do thee some farther kindness here-

" after, that thou mayest find no loss in the want of Antony."

3. When Caesar had spoken such obliging things to the king,

and had put the diadem again about his head, he proclaimed what

he had bestowed on him by a decree, in which he enlarged in

the commendation of the man after a magnificent manner.

Whereupon He rod obliged him to be kind to him by the presents

he gave him, and he desired him to forgive Alexander, one of

Antony's friends, who was become a supplicant to him. But

Caesar's anger against him prevailed, and he complained of the

many and very great offences the man whom he petitioned for

had-been guilty of; and by what means he rejected his petition.

After this Caesar went for Egypt through Syria, when Herod

received him with royal and rich entertainments; and then did

he first of all ride along with Ceesar, as he was reviewing his

army about Ptolemais, and feasted him with all his friends, and

then distributed among the rest of the army what was-necessary

to feast them withal. He also made a plentiful provision ofwa''

. ' .I'll' • . ' " , ,*, ',, ;

•f ••' •.'.:.•( '.-. •••• ' , ',' t€

