Chap. VIII. ANTIQtTITIES OF THE JEWS, ITS

one of his friends ; a Jew he was, and by birth a Cypriot, and

one who pretended to be a magician, and endeavoured to persuade

her to forsake her present husband, and marry him ; and pro足

mised, that if she would not refuse him, he would make her a

happy woman. Accordingly she acted ill, and because she was

desirous to avoid her sister Bernice's envy, for she was very ill

treated by her on account of her beauty, was prevailed upon to

transgress the laws of-her forefathers, and to marry Felix ; and,

when he had had a son by her, he named him Agrippa. But after

what manner that young man, with his wife, perished at the

conflagration * of the mountain Vesuvius, in the days of Titus

Caesar, shall be related hereafter f.

3. But as for Bernice, she lived a widow a long while after

the death of Herod [king of Chalcis], who was both her hus足

band and her uncle ; but, when the report went that she had

criminal conversation with her brother, [Agrippa junior,] she

persuaded Polemo, who was king of Cilicia, to be circumcised,

and to marry her, as supposing, that by this means she should

prove those calumnies upon her to be false ; and Polemo was

prevailed upon, and that chiefly on account of her riches. Yet

did not this matrimony endure long ; but Bernice left Polenjo,

and, as was said, with impure intentions. So he forsook at once

this matrimony, and the Jewish religion : and, at the same time,

Mariamne put away Archelaus, and was married to Demetrius,

the principal man among the Alexandrian Jews, both for his fa足

mily and his wealth; and indeed he was then their alabarch.

So she named her son whom she had by him Agrippinus. But

of all these particulars we shall hereafter treat more exactly. J

CHAP. VIII.

After -what manner, upon the death of Claudius, Ifcro succeeded

in the government ; at also what barbarous things he did. Con足

cerning the robbers, murderers, and Impostors, that arose, while

Felix and Festus were procurators of Judea.

J 1. "VTOW Claudius Caesardied when he had reigned thirteen

-^ years, eight months, and twenty days | ; and a report

went about, that he was poisoned by his wife Agrippina. Her

father

* This eruption of Vesuvius was one of the greatest we have in history. See-  
Bianchini's curious and important observations on this Vesuvius, and its seven
se- '

veral great eruptions, with their remains vitrified, and still existing, in so
many

different ifata under ground, till the diggers came to the antediluvian
waters,

with their propqrtionabfe intersiices, implying the deluge to have been above
2500

years before the Christian aera, according to our exactest chronology.

+ This is now wanting.

J This also is now wanting.

|| This duration of the reign of Claudius agrees with Dio, as Dr Hudson here

remarks; as he also remarks, that Nero's name, which was at first L. Domitivt

JE.i:obarbus, after Claudius had adopted him, was Nero Claudius Ceesar Drnsn*.

