348 Book I. WARS OF THE JEWS.

" this Varus, who is very seasonably here, to be thy judge; and

* get thou thy defence ready against to-morrow; for I give  
" thee so much time to prepare suitable excuses for thyself."

And as Antipater was so confounded, that he was able to make

no answer to this charge, he went away; but his mother and

wife came to him, and told him of all the evidence they had

gotten against him. Hereupon he recollected himself, and con­

sidered what defence he should make against the accusations.

CHAP. XXXII.

Antipater is accused before Varus, and is convicted of laying a

plot [against his father] by the strongest evidence. Herod

puts off his punishment till he should be recovered, and, in the

mean time, alters his testament.'

j 1. "VTQW the day following the king assembled a court of

J_N hiskinsmenandfriends.andcalledinAntipater'sfriends

also: Herod himself, with Varus, were the presidents; and He­

rod called for all the witnesses, and ordered them to be brought

in; among whom some of the domestic servants of Antipater's,

mother were brought in also, who had but a little while before

been caught, as they were carrying the following letter from her

to her son: "Since all those things have been already discovered

" to thy father, do not thou come to him, unless thou canst pro--

" cure some assistance from Caesar." When this and the other

witnesses were introduced, Antipater came in, and failing on

his face before his father's feet, he said, " Father, I beseech

" thee do not condemn me before hand, but let thy ears be un-

" biassed, and attend to my defence; for if thou wilt give me

" leave, 1 will demonstrate that I am innocent."

2. Hereupon Herod cried out to him to hold his peace, and

spake thus to Varus, " I cannot but think that thou, Varus,

" and every other upright judge, will determine that Antipater

" is a vile wretch. I am also afraid that-thou wilt abhor my ill

" fortune, and judge me also myself worthy of all sorts of cala-

" mity, for begetting such children; while yet' I ought rather

, to be' pitied, who have been so affectionate a father to such

'* wretched sons: for when I had settled the kingdom on my

*' former sons, even when they were young, and when, be-  
** sides the charges of their education at Rome, I had made them  
'* the friends of Caesar, and made them envied by other kings, I

'* found them plotting against me, these have been put to death,

'* and that, in great measure, for the sake of Antipater ; for as

f* he was then young, and appointed to be my successors, I took

*' care chiefly to secure him from danger: but this profligate

