74 Book XVIII. ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

to this history, to speak of that matter, and partly because this

thing is a demonstration of the interposition of Providence, how

a multitude of children is of no advantage, no more than any

other strength that mankind set their hearts upon, besides those

acts of piety which are done towards God : for it happened, that,

within the revolution of an hundred years, the posterity of He­

rod, which were a great many in number, were, excepting a few,

utterly destroyed *. One may well apply this^ for the instrucr

tion of mankind, and learn thence how unhappy they were ; it

will also shew us the history of Agrippa, who, as he was a per­

son most worthy of admiration, so was he from a private man,

beyond all the expectation of those that knew him, advanced to

great power and authority. I have said something of them for,

merly, but I shall now also speak accurately about them.

4. Herod the Great had two daughters by Mariamne, the

[grand] daughter of Hyrcanus ; the one was Salampsio, who

was married to Phasaelus, her first cousin, who was himself the

fon of Phasaelus, Herod's brother, her- father making the match ;

the other was Cypros, wfio was herself married also to her first

cousin Antipater, the son of Salome, Herod's sister. Phasaelus

had five children by Salampsio, Antipater, Herod, and Alexan­

der, and two daughters, Alexandra, and Cypros, which last A-

grippa, the son of Aristobulus, married, and Timius of Cyprus

married Alexandra ; he was a man of note, but had by her no

children. Agrippa had by Cypros two sons, and three daugh­

ters, which daughters were named Bernice, Mariamne, and Dru-

silla ; but the names of the sons were Agrippa, and Drusus, of

which Drusus died before he came to the years of puberty ; but

their father, Agrippa, was brought up with his other brethren,

Herod and Aristobulus, for these were also the sons of the son

of Herod the Great, by Bernice ; but Bernice was the daughter

of Costobarus and of .Salome, who was Herod's sister. Aristo­

bulus left these infants, when he was slain by his father, to­

gether with his brother Alexander, as we have already related.

But when they were arrived at years of puberty, this Herod, the

brother of Agrippa, married Mariamne, the daughter of Olym-

pias, who was the daughter of Herod the king, and of Joseph,

the son of Joseph, who was brother to Herod the king, and had

by her a son, Aristobulus ; but Aristobulus, the third brother

of Agrippa, married Jotape, the daughter of Sampsigeramus,

. ' - - - king

* Whether this sudden extinction of almost the entire lineage cf Hercd the  
Great, which was very numerous., as we are both here and in the next section

inl'ormcd, was not in pari as a punishment lor the gross incests they were
fre.

quently guilty of, in marrying their own nephews and nieces, well deserves to
be

Considered. See Levit. xviii. 6. 7. xxi. 10. ar.d Noidius, De Herod, No.
26.9,^o.

