220 THE LIFE OF FLAV1US JOSEFHUS.

and drank a great deal of wine, in order to get the more money,

and was so drunk, that at last he could not keep the secrets he

was intrusted with, but discovered them, without my putting

questions to him, viz. that a treacherous design was contrived

against me, and that I was doomed to die by those that sent him.

When I heard this, I wrote back this answer : " Josephus, to

" Jonathan and those that are with him, sendeth greeting. Upon

" the information that you are come in health into Galilt e, 1 re-

" joice, and tKis especially because I can now resign the care of

" public affairs here into your hands, and return into my na-

" live country ; which is what I have desired to do a great

" while ; and I confess I ought not only to come to you as far.

" as Xaloth, but farther, and this without your commands.

" But I desire you to excuse me, because I cannot do it now,

" since I watch the motions of Placidus, who hath a mind to go

" up into Galilee ; and this I do here at Chabolo. Do you

«' therefore, on the receipt of this' epistle, come hither to me.

" Fare you well."

45.' When I had written thus, and given the letter to be car­

ried by the soldier,! sent along with them thirty of the Galileans

of the best characters, and gave the ji instructions to salute those

ambassadors, but to say nothing else to them. I also gave orders

to as many of those armed men, whom I esteemed most faith­

ful to me, to go along with the others, every one with him

whom he was to guard, lest some conversation might pass be­

tween those whom I sent and those who were with Jonathan.

So those men went [to Jonathan]. But, when Jonathan and

his partners had failed in this their first attempt, they sent me

another letter, the contents whereof were as follows : " Jona-

'' than and those with him, to Josephus, send greeting. We re-

" quire thee to come to us to the village Gabaroth, on the third

" day, without any armed men, that we may hear what thou

«' hast to lay to the charge of John [of Gischala]." When

they had written this letter, they saluted the Galileans whom I

sent, and came to Japha, which was the largest village of all

Galilee, and encompassed with very strong walls, and had a

great number of inhabitants in it. There the multitude of men,

with their wives and children, met them, and exclaimed loudly

against them, and desired them to be gone, and nor. to envy

them the advantage 'of an excellent commander. With these

clamours Jonathan and his partners were greatly provoked, al­

though they durst not shew their anger openly : so they made him

no answer, but went to other villages. But still the same cla­

mours met them from all the people, who said, " Nobody should

" persuade them to have any other commander besides Jose-

*' phus." So Jonathan and his partners went away from them

'

