Chap. Vllf. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 153'

and they added, " Be thou merciful to us; for although we have

" hitherto reverenced thee only as a man, yet shall we henceforth

" own thee as superior to mortal nature." Upon this the king

did neither rebuke them, nor reject their impious flattery. But

a:s he presently afterward looked up, he saw an owl * sitting on

a certain rope over his head, and immediately understood that this

bird was the messenger of ill tidings, as it had once been the mes­

senger of good tidings to him ; and fell into the deepest sorrow.

A severe pain also arose in his belly, and began in a most vio­

lent manner. He therefore looked upon his friends, and said,

^ l:, whom you call a god, am commanded presently to depart

" this life ; - while Providence thus reproves the lying words you

" just now said to me ; and I, who was by you called immortal,

" am immediately to be hurried away by death. But I am

" bound to accept of what Providence allots, as it pleases God ;

" for we have by no means lived ill, but in a splendid and hap-

" py manner." When he said this, his pain was become vio­

lent. Accordingly he was carried into the palace ; and the ru­

mour went abroad every where, that he Would certainly die in

a little time. But the multitude presently sat in sackcloth, with

their wives and children, after the law of their country, and

besought God for the king's recovery. All places were also full

of moUrning and lamentation. Now the king rested in a high

Vol. III. U chamber,

* \Ve have a mighty cry made here by some critics, as if (he great Eusebius  
had on purpose falsified this account of Josephus, so as to make it agree with
the

parallel accouiuin the Acts ot the Apostles; because the present copies of his
ci­

tation of it, Hist. Eccles. B. II. ch x. omit the words jSvCam—in ex°"' «»»,
i. e.

an onvl—on a certain rope, which Josephus's present copies retain, and only
have

the explicatory word iyiXor or angel; as if he meant that angel of the Lord

which St Luke mentions as smiting Herod, Acts, xii. 23. and not that owl which

Josephus called an any.ei or messenger formerly of good, but now of bad neixs,
to

Agrippa. This accusation is a somewhat strange one in the case of the great

E.isebius, who is known to have so accurately and faithfully produced a vast

ri'imber of other ancient records, and particularly not a few out of our
Josephus

also, without any suspicion of prevarication. Now, not to alledge how
uncertain,

we are, whether Jo&cphus's and Eusebius's copies of the fourth century were
just

like the present in tins clause, which we have indistinct evidence of, the
follow,

ing words, prf served still in Eusebius, .will not admit of any such
exposition.

" This [bird] (says Eusebius) Agrippa presently perceived to be the cause of
ill

" fortune, as it was once of good fortune to him;'' which can only belong to
tnat

bird, the anil, which, as it had formerly foreboded his happy deliverance from

imprisonment, Antiq. B. XV! 11. ch. vi. sect. 7. so was it then foretold to
prove

iUterward ihe unhappy tore runner of his death in five days time. If the im­

proper words signifying cause, be changed for Josephus's proper word ayiXn,
an-

g'l or messenger, and the foregoing words, #y*(iva— irt e^amivmi be inser eJ,

Euseoins's text will truly represent that in Josephus. Had tnis imperfection
been

in some heathen author that wns in good esteem with our modern critics, they

would have readily correced these as barely errors in the copies; but being
111

an ancient Christian writer, not so well relished by many of those critics,
no.

thing will serve but the ill-grounded supnosal of 'jtillfui corruption andprc-
uatU

a. tioti.

