266 WARS OF THE JEWS; Book T<

heard from others that his brother was seized ; and Alexandra**

the shrewdest woman in the world, Hyrcanus's daughter, begged

of him that he would not go out, nor trust himself to those bar­

barians, who now were come to make an attempt upon him

openly.

7. Now, as Pacorus and his friends were considering how

they might bring their plot to bear privately, because it was not

possible to circumvent a man of so great prudence, by openly

attacking him, Herod prevented them, and went off with the per­

sons that were the most nearly related to him by night, and this

without their enemies being apprised of it. But, as soon as the

Parthians perceived it, they purfued after them, and, as he gave

orders for his mother, and sister, and the young woman who was

betrothed to him, with her mother, and his youngest brother, to

make the best of their way, he himself, with his fervants, took

all the care'they could to keep off the barbarians ; and when, at

every assault, he had slain a great many of them, he came to

the strong hold of Masada.

8. Nay, he found by experience that the Jews fell more hea.

vily upon him than did the Parthians, and created him troubles

perpetually, and this ever since he was gotten sixty furlongs

from the city; these sometimes brought it to a sort of a regular

battle. Now, in the place where Herod beat them, and killed a

great number of them, there he afterward built a citadel, in me­

mory of the great actions he did there, and adorned it with the

most costly palaces, and erected very strong fortifications, and

called it from his own name Herodium. Now, as they were in

their flight, many joined themselves to him every day ; and, at a

place called Thressa of Idumea, his brother Joseph met him, and

advised him to ease himself of a great number of his followers;

because Masada would not contain so great a multitude, which

were above nine thousand. Herod complied with this advice,

and sent away the most cumbersome part of his retinue, that they

might go into Idumea, and gave them provisions for their jour­

ney ; but he got safe to the fortress with his nearest relations,

and retained Wlthjhitn only the stoutest of his followers; and there

it was that he left eight hundred of his men as a guard for the

women, and provisions sufficient for a siege, but he made haste

himself to Petra of Arabia.

9. As for the Parthians in Jerusalem, they betook themselves

to plundering, arid fell upon the houses of those that were fled,

and upon the king's palace, and spared nothing but Hyrcanus's

money, which was not above three hundred talents. They light

ef other men's money also, but not of so much as they hoped for;

for

« Mariamne here, in the copies.

