312 WARS OF THE JE1V9. Book I.

is immoveable; and when any body lets down any thing to mea.

sure the depth of the earth beneath the water, no length of cord

is sufficient to reach it. Now the fountains of Jordan rise at the

joots of this cavity outwardly; and, as some think, this is the

utmost origin of Jordan: but we shall speak of that matter more

accurately in our following history.

4. But the king erected other places at Jericho also, between

the citadel Cyprbs and the former palace, such as were better

and more useful than the former for travellers, and named them

from the same friends of his. To say all at once, there was not

any place of his kingdom fit for the purpose, that was permitted

to be without somewhat that was for Caesar's honour, and when

he had filled his own country with temples, he poured out the

like plentiful marks of his esteem into his province, and built

many cities which he called Cesareas. . , _

5. And when he observed that there was a city by the sea-side,

that was much decayed (its name was Strata's Tower), but that

the place, by the happiness of its situation, was capable of great

improvements from his liberality, he rebuilt it all with white

6tone, and adorned it with several most splendid palaces, wherein

he especially demonstrated his magnanimity ; for the case was

this, that all the sea shore between Dora and Joppa, in the mid­

dle, between which this city is situated, had no good haven, in­

somuch that every o.ie that sailed from Pheniciafor Egypt was

obliged to lie in the stormy sea, by reason of the south winds that

threatened them; which wind, if.it blew but a little fresh, such

vast waves are raised, and dash upon the rocks, that upon their

retreat, the sea is in a great ferment for a long way. But the

king, by the expences he was at, and the liberal disposal of them,

overcame nature, and built an haven larger than was the Pyree-

um * [at Athens]; and in the other retirements of the water he

built other deep stations [for the ships also].

6. Now although the place where he built was greatly oppo-

sitetohis purposes,yet did he so fully struggle with that difficul­

ty, that the firmness of his building could not easily be conquer­

ed by the sea ; and the beauty and ornament of the works was

such, as though he had not had any difficulty in the operation:

for when he had measured out asl.irge a space as we have before

mentioned, he let down stones into twenty fathom water,the great­

est part of which were fity feet in length, and nine in depth, and

ten

* That Joscphus speaks troth, when he assures us that " the haven of this Ce-  
" sarea was made byi Herod not less, nay rather largefythan that famous haven
at

* Athens called the Pytcum" will appear, says Dean Aldrich, to him who com­  
pares the descriptions' of that at Athens in Thucydides »nd Pausanias, with
this of

Ctsarea in Jo^ephus here,, and in the Antiq. B. XV. ch, is. stct. 6. Vol. II.
and

B. XVU. eh. ix. jsect. \. vol. lit. .'•--<--. .

