Chap. IX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 381

days, both Herod and Philip continued in their tetrachies, and

the latter of them built the city Caesarea, at the fountains of

Jordan, and in the region of Paneas; as also the city Julias, in

the lower Gaulanitis. Herod' also built the city Tiberias in

Galilee, and in Perea [beyond Jordan] another that was also

called Julias.

2. Now Pilate, who was sent as a procurator into Judea by

Tiberius, sent by night those images of Caesar that are called

tnsigns, into Jerusalem. This excited a very great tumult among

the jews when it was day; for those that were near them were

astonished at the sight of them, as indications that their laws

were trodden underfoot; for those laws do not permit any sort

of image to be brought into the city. Nay, besides the indigna­

tion which the citizens had themselves at this procedure, a vast

number of people came running out of the country. These came

zealously to Pilate to Cesarea, and besought him to carry those

ensigns out of Jerusalam, and to preserve them their ancient laws

inviolable ; but upon Pilate's denial of their request, they fell

down prostrate upon the ground, and continued immoveable in

that posture for five days and as many nights.

3. On the next day Pilate sat upon his tribunal, in the open

market place, and called to him the multitude, as desirous to

give them an answer; and then gave a signal to the soldiers,

that they should all by agreement at once encompass the Jews

with their weapons; so the band of soldiers stood round about

the Jews in three ranks. The Jews were under the utmost con­

sternation at that unexpected sight. Pilate also said to them,

that they should be cut in pieces, unless they would admit of

Caesar's images, and gave intimation to the soldiers to draw

their naked swords. Hereupon the Jews, as it were at one

signal, fell down in vast numbers together, and exposed their

necks bare, and cried out that they were sooner ready to be

slain, than that their law should be transgressed. Hereupon Pi­

late was greatly surprised at their prodigious superstition, and

gave order that the ensigns should be presently carried out of

Jerusalem.

4. After this he raised another disturbance, by expending that

sacred treasure which is called * Corban upon aqueducts, where­

by he brought water from the distance of four hundred fur­

longs. At this the multitude had indignation ; and when Pilate

was come to Jerusalem, they came about his tribunal, and made

a clamour at it. Now when he was apprised aforehand of this

disturbance,

* This use of the corban, or oblation, a? here applied to the sacred money dedi-  
eated to God in the treasury of the ternple, illustrates our Saviour's words,
Mark

V'i. II, I*. ".' -

