Chap. XXVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 335

like offences against him, which were heavier than death itself j

and when nobody contradicted him, he moved them to pity his

case, as though he had been condemned himself, now he had

gained a bitter victory against his sons. So he asked every one's

sentence, which sentence was first of all given by Saturninus,

and was this, Tiiat he condemned the young men, but not to

death; for that it was not fit for him, who had three sons of

his own now present, to give his vote for the destruction of the

son of another. The two lieutenants also gave the like vote;

some others there were also who followed their example; but

Volumnius began to vote on the more melancholy side, and all

those that came after him condemned the young men to die,

some out of flattery, and some out of hatred to Herod; but none

out of indignation at their crimes. And now all Syria and Ju-

dea was in great expectation, and waited for the last act of this

tragedy; yet did not nobody suppose that Herod would be so

barbarous as to murder his children; however, he carried them

away to Tyre, and thence sailed to Caesarea, and deliberated

with himself what sort of death the young men should suffer.

4. Now there was a certain old soldier of the king's, whose

name was Tcro, who had a son that was very familiar with, and

a friend to Alexander, and who himself particularly loved the

young men. This soldier was in a manner distracted out of the

excess of the indignation he had at what was doing; and at first

he criedoutaloud, ashehe went about, " That justicewas tramp-

" led under foot; that truth was perished, and nature confound-

" ed; and that the life of man was full of iniquity," and every

thing else that passion could suggest to a man who spared not

his own life; and at last he ventured to go to the king, and said,

" Truly, I think, thou art a most miserable man, when thou

" hearkenest to most wicked wretches, against those that ought

" to be dearest to thee; since thou hast frequently resolved that

" Pheroras and Salome sbould be put to death, and yet believest

" them against thy sons; while these, by cutting off the sac-

" cession of thine own sons, leave all wholly to Antipater, and

" thereby choose to have thee sueh a king as may be thorough-

" ly in their own power. However, consider whether this

" death of Antipater's brethren will not make him hated by the

" soldiers; for there is no body but commiserates the young

" men, and of the captains a great many shew their indignation-

" at it openly." Upon his saying this, he named those that

had such indignation; but the king ordered those men, with

Tero himself, and his son, to be seized upon immediately.

5. At which time there was a certain barber, whose name wa

This man leaped out from among the people in a kind

of

