,'WARS OF THE JEWS. .- Book I.

conceal the money he had used in hiring men [to write the let-

' ters]; for he brought in an aecount of his expences, amounting

' to two hundred talents, his main pretence for which was the

law-suit he had been in with Sylleus. So while all his rogue-

'! tits, even' those of a lesser sort also, were covered by his greater

villainy, while all the examinations by torture proclaimed his

attempt to murder his father, and the letters proclaimed his

second attempt to murder his brethren; yet did noone of those

that came to Rome inform him of his' misfortunes in Judea, al­

though seven months had intervened between his conviction and

his return, so great was the hatred which they all bore to him.

; And perhaps they were the ghosts of those-brethren of his that

had been murdered, that stopped the mouths of those that in­

tended to have told him. He then wrote from Rome, and in­

formed [his friends] that he would soon come to them, and how

he was dismissed with honour by Caesar.

3. Now the king,being desirous to get this plotter against him

intohishands,and berngalso afraid lest heshould some waycome

to the knowledge how his affairs stood, and be upon his guard,

he dissembled his anger in his epistle to him, as in other points,

he wrote kindly to him, and desired him to make haste, because,

if he came quit kly, he would then lay aside the complaints he

had against his mother; for Antipater was not ignorant that

his mother had been expelled out of the palace. However, he

had before received a letter, which contained an account of the

death of Pheroras, at * Tarentum, and made great lamentations

at it; for which some commended him, as being for his own

uncle; 'though probably this confusion arose on account of his

having thereby failed in his plot [on his father's life], and his

tears were more for the loss of him that was to have been sub­

servient therein, than for [an uncle] Pheroras: moreover, a

sort of fear came upon him as to his designs, lest the poison

should have been discovered. However, when he was in Cilicia,

he received the forementioned epistle from his father, and made

great haste accordingly. But when he had sailed to Celenderis,

a suspicion came into his mind relating to his mother's misfor­

tunes; as if his soul foreboded some mischief to itself. Those

therefore of his friends which were the most considerate, ad­

vised him not rashly to goto his father, till he had le irned what

were the occasions v/hy his mother had been ejected, because

they were afraid that he might be involved in the calumnies that

had been cast upon his mother: but those that were less con­

siderate, and had more regard to their own desires of seeing their

native country, than to Antipater's safety, persuaded him to

make haste home, and not, by delaying his journey, afford his-

father

*This Tarcntum ha« coins ctiil extant, as RehtiJ informs us here in his note.

