142 AffTIQJJITIES OF THE tews. Book XIX.

would become of them, because Claudius was very angry at

them; so they fell a-reproaching one another, and repented of

what they had done. At which juncture Sabinus, one of Caius's

murderers, threatened that he would sooner come into the midst

of them and kill himself, than consent to make Claudius empe­

ror, and see slavery returning upon them ; he also abused Cherea

for loving his life too well, while he who was the first in his con­

tempt of Caius, could think it a good thing to live, when, even

by all that they had done for the recovery of their liberty, they

found it impossible to do it. But Cherea said, he had no man­

ner of doubt upon him about killing himself; that yet he would

first sound the intentions of Claudius before he did it.

5. These were the debates [about the senate] ; but in the

camp every body was crowding on all sides to pay their court to

Claudius ; and the other consul, Quintus Pomponius, was re­

proached by the soldiery, as having rather exhorted the senate

to recover their liberty ; whereupon they drew their swords,

and were going to assault him, and they had done it, if Clau­

dius had not hindered them, who snatched the consul out of the

danger he was in, and set him by him. But he did not receive

that part of the senate which was with Quintus, in the like ho­

nourable manner ; nay, some of them received blows, and were

thrust away as they came to salute Claudius; nay, Aponius

went away wounded, and they were all in danger. However,

king Agrippa went up to Claudius, and desired he would treat

the senators more gently ; for if any mischief should come to the

•enate, he would have no others over whom to rule. Claudius

complied with him, and called the senate together into the palace,

and was carried thither himself through the city, while the soldiery

conducted him, though this was to the great vexation of the mul­

titude; for Cherea and Sabinus, two of Caius's murderers, went in

the fore-front of them, in an open manner, while Polio, whom

Claudius, a little before, had made captain of his guards, had sent

them an epistolary edict, to forbid them to appear in public.

Then did Claudius, upon his coming to the palace, get his friends

together, and desired their suffrages about Cherea. They said,

that the work he had done was a glorious one, but they accused

him that he did it of perfidiousness, and thought it just to in­

flict the punishment [of death] upon him, to discountenance such

actions for the time to come. So Cherea was led to his execu­

tion, and Lupus, and many other Romans with him ; now it is

(reported, that Cherea bore this calamity courageously, and this,

not only by the firmness of his own behaviour under it, but by the

repr.oaches he laid upon Lupus, who fell into tears; for when.

. , • Lupug

