Chap. Ilf. WARS OF THE JEWS. S6S

That " the slaughter in the temple could not be avoided; that

" those that were slain were become enemies not to Archelaus's

'• kingdom only, but to Caesar, who was to determine about

" him. He also demonstrated, that Archelaus's accusers had

" advised him to perpetrate other things of which he might

" have been accused. But he insisted that the latter testament

" should, for this reason, above all others, be esteemed valid, be-

" cause Herod had therein appointed Caesar to be the person

" who should confirm the succession; for he who shewed such

" prudence as to recede from his own power, and yield it up

".to the lord of the world, cannot be supposed mistaken in his

" judgment about him that was to be his heir ; and he that so

" well knew whom to choose for arbitrator of the succession,

" could not be unacquainted with him whom he chose for his

'' successor."

7. When Nicolaus had gone through all he had to say, Ar.

chelaus came, and fell down before Caesar's knees, without any

noise. Upon which he raised him up, after a very obliging

manner, and declared, that truly he was worthy to succeed his

father. However, he still made no firm determination in his

case ; but when he had dismissed those assessors that had been

with him that day, he deliberated by himself about the allega­

tions which he had heard, whether it were fit to constitute any

of those named in the testaments for Herod's successor, or whe­

ther the government should be parted among all his posterity,

and this because of the number of those that seemed to stand

in need of support therefrom.

CHAP. III.

The Jews Jigit agrtat battle with Sabinusjssolduri,andagreat

destruction it made at Jerusalem

J 1. "VTOWbefore Caesar had determinedanythingaboutthese

JL il affairs, Malthace, Archelaus's mother, fell sick and

died. Letters also were brought out of Syria from Varus,

about a revolt of the Jews. This was foreseen by Varus, who

accordingly, after Archelaus was sailed, went up to Jerusalem

to restrain the promoters of the sedition, since it was manifest

that the nation would not be at rest; so he left one of those le­

gions which he brought with him out of Syria in the city, and

went himself to Antioch. But Sabinus came, after he was

gone, and gave them an occasion of making innovations ; for he

compelled the keepers of the citadels to deliver them up to him,

and made a bitter search after the king's money, as depending

aot only oa the soldiers which were left by Varus, but on the

Z z 2 multitude

