WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

" no one who thirsts after my blood shall escape punishment,

" although the evidence should extend itself to all my sons."

9. Upon Herod's saying this, he was interrupted by the con­

fusion he was in ; but ordered Nicolaus, one of his friends, to

produce the evidence against Antipater. But in the mean time

Antipater lifted up his head (for he lay on the ground before

his father's feet), and cried out aloud, " Thou, O father, hast

" made my apology for me; for how can 1 be a parricide, w!iom

" thou thyself confessest to have always had for thy guardian?

" Thou callest my filial affection prodigious lies, and hypocrisy;

" how then could it be that I, who was so subtile in other

" matters, should here be so mad as not to understand that it

" was not easy that he who committed so horrid a crime should

*' be concealed from men, but impossible that he should be  
" concealed from the Judge of heaven, who sees all things, and

" is present every where? or did not I know what end my

" brethren came to, on whom God inflicted so great a punish-

" ment for their evil designs against thee? and indeed what

'f was there that could possibly provoke me against thee? Could

" the hope of being king do it? I was a king already. Could

1 suspect hatred from thee? No. Was not I beloved by thee ?

f* And what other fear could I have? Nay, by preserving thee

" safe, I was a terror to others. Did 1 want money? No; for

*' who was able to expend so much as myself? Indeed, father,  
*' had I been the most execrable of all mankind, and had I had  
** the soul of the most cruel wild beast, must 1 not have been  
*' overcome with the benefits thou hadst bestowed upon me ?

whom, as thou thyself sayest, thou broughtest [into the pa-

" lace]; whom thou didst prefer before so m»ny of thy sons ;

** whom thou madest a king in thine own lifetime, and by the  
f* vast magnitude of the other advantages thou bestowedst on

" me, thou madest me an object of envy.' O miserable man!

tl that thou shouldst undergo this bitter absence, and thereby af-

" ford a great opportunity for envy to arise against thee, and a

" long space for such as were laying designs against thee ! Yet

'* was I absent, father, on thy affairs, that Sylleus might not

" treat thee with contempt in thine old age. Rome is a witness

*' to my filial affection, and so is Caesar? the ruler of the habi-  
" table earth, who oftentimes called me * PhUopater. Take

*' here the letters he hath sent thee, they are more to be be-  
" lieyed than the calumnies raised here; these letters are my

" only apo'ogy; these 1 use as the demonstration of that natural

" affection 1 have to thee. Remember that it Wa3 against my

^ own choice that I sailed [to Rome], as knowing the latent

*f hatred

f A lover of his fathtjfc

