Chap. £ ." ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 109

BOOK XIX.

Containing the interval of three years and a half.

[From the departure of the JEWS out of Babylon, to FADUS tbt

Roman Procurator.'}

CHAP. I.

How Caius * was slain ty Chereas.

$ 1. "VTOW this Caiusf did not demonstrate his madness in of-

fering injuries only to the Jews at Jerusalem, or to

those that dwelt in the neighbourhood, but suffered it to extend

itself through all the earth and sea, so far as was in subjection to

the Romans, and filled it with ten thousand mischiefs; so many

indeed in number as no former history relates. But Rome it­

self felt the most dismal effects of what he did, while he deemed

that not to be anyway more honourable than the rest of the ci­

ties ; but he pulled and hauled its other citizens, but especially

the senate, and particularly the nobility, and such as had been

dignified by illustrious ancestors ; he also had ten thousand de­

vices against such of the equestrian order, as it was styled, who

were esteemed by the citizens equal in dignity and wealth with

the senators, because out of themthesenatorswere themselves cho­

sen ; these he treated after an ignominious manner, and removed

them out of his way, while they were at once slain, and their

wealth plundered; because he slew men generally in orderto seize

on their riches. He also asserted his own divinity, and insisted on

greater honours to be paid him by his subjects, than are due to

mankind. He also frequented that temple of Jupiter which they

style the Capitol, which is with them the most holy of all their

temples, and had boldness enough to call himself the brother of

Jupiter. And other pranks he did like a madman ; as when he

laid a bridge from the city Dicearchia, which belongs to Cam­

pania, to Misenum, another city upon the sea-side, from one pro­

montory

« In this and the three next chapters, we have, I think, a large and more dis.

tinct account of the slaughter of Gains, and the succession of Claudius, than
we

have of any such ancient. facts whatsoever elsewhere. Some of the occasions of

which probably were, Josephus's bitter hatred against tyranny, and the
pleasure

he took in giving the history of the slaughter of such a barbarous tyrant as
was

this Caius Caligula, as also the deliverance his own nation had by that
slaugh­

ter, of which he speaks sect. 2. together with the great intimacy he had with

Agrippa junior, whose father was deeply concerned in the advancement of Clau.

dius, upon the death of Caius; from which Agrippa junior, Josephus might be

fully informed of his history.

t Called Caligula by the Romans'

