408 WARS OF THE JEW3. Book II.

" Greeks, more numerous than all men upon the habitable

" earth ? What confidence is it that elevates you to oppose the

" Romans? Perhaps it will be said, it is hard to endure slave.

" ry. Yes, but how much harder is this to the Greeks, who

" were esteemed the noblest of all people under the sun. These,

" though they inhabit in a large country, are in subjection to

" six bundles of Roman rods. It is the same case with the Ma-

" cedonians, who have juster reason to claim their liberty than

" you have. What is the case of five hundred cities of Asia ?

" do they not submit to a single governor, and to the consular

" bundle of rods? What need I speak of the Heniochi, and

" Cholchi, and the nation of Tauri, those that inhabit the Bos-

" phori's, and the nations about Pontus, and Meotis, who for-

" merly knew not so much as a lord of their own, but are now

?' subject to three thousand armed men, and where forty long

" ships keep the sea in peace, which before was not navigable,

" and very tempestuous? How strong a plea may Bithynia,

" and Cappadocia, and the people of Pamphylia, the Lycians,

" and Cilicians, put in for liberty? But they are made tribu-

" tary without an army. What are the circumstances of the

" Thracians? whose country extends in breadth five days jour-

'' ney, aad in length seven, and is of a much more harsh consti.

" tution, and much more defensible than yours, and by the ri-

" gour of its cold sufficient to keep off armies from attacking

" them; do not they submit to two thousand men of the Ro-

" man garrisons? Are not the Illyrians, who inhabit the coun-

" try adjoining, as far as Dalmatia and the Danube, governed

" by barely two legions! by which also they put a stop to the

" incursions of the Dacians. And for the Dalmatians, who

" have made such frequent insurrections in order to regain their

'' liberty, and who could never before be so thoroughly sub-

" dued, but that they always gathered their forces together a-

gain, and revolted, yet are they now very quiet under one Ro-

mon legion. Moreover, if great advantages might provoke

any people to revolt, the Gauls might do it best of all,as being

' so thoroughly walled round by nature. On the east side by the

' Alps, on the north by the riverRhine, on the south by the Py-

' renean mountains,and on the westby theocean. Nowalthough

' theseGauls have such obstacles before them to prevent any at-

" "tack upon them, and have no fewer than three hundred and

'.' five nations among them, nay have, as one may say, the foun-

" tains of domestic happiness within themselves, and send out

" plentiful streams of happiness over almost the whole world,

" these bear to be tributary to the Romans, and derive their

" prosperous condition from them; and they undergo this, not

" became

