PREFACE. 247

4. However, I will not go to the other extreme, out of op.

position to those men who extol the Romans, nor will I determine

to raise the actions of my countrymen too high ; but I will pro­

secute the actions of both parties with accuracy. Yet shall I suit

my language to the passions I am under, as to the affairs I describe,

and must be allowed to indulge some lamentations upon the

miseries undergone by my own country. For that it was a se­

ditious temper of our own that destroyed it, and that they were

the tyrants among the Jews who brought the Roman power upon

us, who unwillingly attacked us, and occasioned the burning

of our holy temple, Titus Caesar, who destroyed it, is himself a

witness, who, during the entire war, pitied the people who were

kept under by the seditious, and did often voluntarily delay the

taking of the city, and allowed time to the siege, in order to let

the authors have opportunity for repentance. But if any one

makes an unjust accusation against us, when we speak so passion­

ately about the tyrants, or the robbers, or sorely bewail the mis­

fortunes of our country, let him indulge my affections herein,

though it be contrary to the rules for writing history ; because

it had so come to pass, that our city Jerusalem had arrived at au

higher degree of felicity than any other city under the Roman

government, and yet at last fell into the sorest of calamities again.

Accordingly it appears to me, that * the misfortunes of all men,

from the beginning of the world, if they be compared to these of

the Jews, are not so considerable as they were; while the authors

of them were not foreigners neither. This makes it impossible

for me to contain my lamentations. But, if any pne be inflexi­

ble in his censures of me, let him attribute the facts themselves

to the historical part; and the lamentations to the writer him­

self only.

5. However, I may justly blame the learned men among the

Greeks, who, when such great actions have been done in their

own times, which, upon the comparison, quite eclipse the old

wars, do yet sit as judges of those affairs, and pass bitter censures

upon the labours of the best writers of antiquity; which mo­

derns, although they may be superior to the old writers in elo­

quence, yet are they inferior to them in the execution of what

they intended to do. While these also write new histories about

the Assyrians and Medes; as if the ancient writers had not de­

scribed their affairs as they ought to have done ; although these

be as far inferior to them in abilities, as they are different in

their

* That these calamities of the Jews, who were our Saviour's murderers, were  
to be the greatest that had ever been since the beginning of the world, our
Sa­

viour had directly foretold, Matt. xxiv. n. Mark, xiii. 19. Luke, xxi. 23, 24
;

and that the/ proved to be such accordingly, Josephus is here a most authentic

Witness.

