Chap. XXXIII. WARS or THE jswrs. 955

convulsion of all his members, insomuch that the diviners said,

those diseases were a punishment upon him for what he had done

to the Rabbins. Yet did he struggle with his numerous disor­

ders, and still had a desire to live, and hoped for recovery, and

considered of several methods of cure. Accordingly, he went

over Jordan, and made use of those hot baths at Callirhoe,

whieh ran into the lake Asphaltitis, but are themselves sweet

enough to be drunk. And here the physicians thought proper

to bathe his whole body in warm oil, by letting it down into

a large vessel full of oil; whereupon his eyes failed him, and he

came, and went as if he were dying; and as a tumult was then

made by his servants, at their voice he revived again. Yet did

he after this despair of recovery, and gave orders that each sol­

dier should have fifty drachms a-piece, and that his comman­

ders and friends should have great sums of mo: ey given them.

6. He then returned back and came to Jericho, in such a me­

lancholy state of body as almost threatened him with present

death, when he proceeded to attempt an horrid wickedness; for

he got together the most illustrious men of the whole Jewish

nation, out of every village, into a place called the Hippodrome,

and there shut them in. He then called for his sister Salome,

and her husband Alexas, and made this speech to them: " I

" know well enough that the Jews will keep a festival upon

" my death; however it is in my power to be mourned for on

" other accounts, and to hav« a splendid funeral, if you willbe'

" but subservient to my commands. Do you but take care to

" send soldiers to encompass these men that are now in custody,

" and slay them immediately upon my death, and then all Ju-

" dea, and every family of them, will weep at it whether they

" will or no."

7. These were the commands he gave them: when there came

letters from his ambassadors at Rome, whereby information was

given that Acme was put to death at Caesar's command, and that

Antipater was condemned to die; however, they wrote withal,

that if Herod had a mind rather to banish him, Caesar permitted

him so to do. So he for a little while revived, andhad a desire to

live; but presently after he was overborne by his pains, and was

disordered by want of food, and by a convulsive cough, and

endeavoured to prevent a natural death; so he took an apple, and

asked for a knife, for he used to pare apples and eat them; he

then looked round about to see that there was nobody to hinder

him, and lift up his right hand as if he would stab himself; but

Achiabus, his first cousin, came running to him,andheld his hand,

and hindered him frotu so doing; on which occasion a very great

lamentation was made in the palace,as if the king were expiring.

Y r 2 As

