Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEV?s; 17T

4. For in the first year of the reign of Nero, upon the death

of Azizus, king of Emesa, Soemus *, his brother, succeeded in

his kingdom, and Aristobulus, the son of Herod, king of Chal-

cis, was intrusted by Nero, with the government of Lesser Ar­

menia. Caesar also bestowed on Agrippa a certain part of Ga­

lilee, Tiberias f, and Taricheae, and ordered them to submit to

his jurisdiction. He gave him also Julias, a city of Perea, with

fourteen villages that lay about it.

5. Now, as for the affairs of the Jews, they grew worse and

worse continually ; for the country was again filled with rob­

bers and impostors, who deluded the multitude. Yet did Felix

catch, and put to death, many of those impostors every day, to­

gether with the robbers. He also caught Eleazer, the son of

Dmeas, who had gotten together a company of robbers; and-

this he did by treachery ; for he gave him assurance, that he

should suffer no harm, and thereby persuaded him to come to him;

but when he came he bound him, and sent him to Rome. Felix

also bore an ill-will to Jonathan, the high-priest, because he

frequently gave him admonitions about governing the Jewish af­

fairs better than he did, lest he should himself have complaints

made of him by the multitude, since hs it was who had desired

Caesar to send him as procurator of Judea. So Felix contrived a

method whereby he might get rid of him, now he was become

so continually troublesome to him ; for such continual admoni­

tions are grievous to those who are disposed to act unjustly.

Wherefore Felix persuaded one of Jonathan's mostfaithful friends,

a citizen of Jerusalem, whose name was Doras, to bring the rob«

bers upon Jonathan, in order to kill him ; and this he did by

promising to give him a great deal of money for so doing. Do­

ras complied with the proposal, and contrived matters so, that the

robbers might murder him after the following manner: Certain

of those robbers went up to the city, as if they were going to

worship God, while they had daggers under their garments,

and, by thus mingling themselves among the multitude, they slew

Jonathan J, and as this murder was never avenged, the robbers

VOL. III. Z went

« This Soemus is elsewhere mentioned [by Josephns in his own life, sect. II.
as

also] by Dio Cassius and Tacitus, as Dr Hudson informs us.

t This agrees with Josephus's frequent accounts elsewhere in his own Life,

that Tiberias, and TaricheiE, and Gamala, were under this Agrippa junior, till

Justus, th6 son of Pistus, seized upon them for the Jews upon the breaking out
of

the u-ar.

J This treacherous and barbarous murder of the good high.priest Jonathan, by

r/ie contrivance of this wicked procurator Felix, was the immediate occasion
of

the ensuing murders by the Sicarii or ruffians, and one great cause of the
follow,

ing- horrid cruelties and miseries of the Jewish nation' as Josephus here sup.

s; whose excellent reflection on the gross wickedness of that nation, as the

ct cause of their terrible destruction, is well worthy the attention of every

