Chap. XVI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 4o5

" to go to war with the Romans, and that the purer and more

" sincere part of the people did not propose to live in peace, I

" had not come out to you, nor been so bold as to give you

" counsel; for all discourses that tend to persuade men to do

" what they ought to do is superfluous, when the hearers ard

" agreed to do the contrary. But because some are earnest to

" go to war, because they are young, and without experience of

'' the miseries it brings, and because some are for it, out of an

" unreasonable expectation of regaining their liberty, and be-

" cause others hope to get by it, and are therefore earnestly

" bent upon it, that in the confusion of your affairs they may

" gain what belongs to those that are too weak to resist them,

" I have thought proper to get you all together, and to say to

" you what I think to be for your advantage; that so the for-

" mer may grow wiser, and change their minds, and that the-

" best men may come to no harm by the ill conduct of some

'' others. And let not any one be tumultuous against me, in

" case what they hear me say do not please them; for as to

«' those that admit of no cure, but are resolved upon a revolt,

'' it will still be in their power to retain the same sentiments af-

'' ter my exhortation is over; but still my discourse will fall to

«' the ground, even with a relation to those that have a mind

" to hear me, unless you will all keep silence. I am well aware

" that they make a tragical exclamation concerning the inju—

" ries that have been offered you by your procurators, and con-

" cerning the glorious advantages of liberty ; but before I begin

" the inquiry, who you are that must goto war? and who they

" are against whom you must fight? 1 shall first separate those

" pretences that are by some connected together; for if you

" aim at avenging yourselves on those that have done you in-

" jury, why do you pretend this to be a war for recovering

" your

and of whom St Paul said, " He was expert in all the custom* and questions of
the

" Jews," ver. 3. See another intimation of the limits of the same Roman
empire,

of the War B. III' ch. v. § 7. vol. III. But what seems to me very remarkable

here is this, that when Josephus, in imitation of the Greeks and Romans, for
whose

use he wrote his Antiquities, did himself frequently compose the speeches
which

he put into their mouths; they appear by the politeness of their composition,
and

their flights of oratory, to be not the real speeches of the persons
concerned, who

usually were no orators, but of his own elegant composure: the speech before
us is

of another nature, full of undeniable facts, and composed in a plain and
unartful,

but moving way; so it appears to be King Agrippa's own speech, and to have

been given Josephus by Agrippa himself, with whom Josephus had the greatest

friendship. Nor may we admit Agrippa's constant doctrine here, that this vast

Roman empire was raised and supported by divine Providence, and that therefore

jt was in vain for the Jews, or any others, to think of destroying it. Nor may
we

neglect to take notice of Agrippa's solemn appeal to the angels here used; the

like appeals to which we have in St Paul, i Tim. v. n. and by the apostles, in

general, in the form of the ordination of Bishops, Constitut. Apost. VIII. 4-

