338 Hook. I. WARS OF THE JEW*.

port them. He also considered how be was himself hated by

the nation, and how they pitied these orphans; how great affec­

tion the Jews bare to those brethren of his when they were

alive, and how gladly they remembered them now they had

perished by his means. So he resolved by all the ways possi­

ble to get these espousals dissolved.

4. Now he was afraid of going subtilly about this matter

with his father, who was hard to be pleased, and was presently

moved upon the least suspicion: so he ventured to go to him di­

rectly, and to beg of him before his face, not to deprive him of

that dignity which he had been pleased to bestow upon him, and

that he might not have the bare name of a king, while the power

was in other persons; for that he should never be able to keep

the government, if Alexander's son was to have both his grand­

father Archelaus, and Fheroras for his curators; and he be­

sought him earnestly, since there were so many of the royal fa­

mily alive, that he would change those [intended] marriages,

Now the king had * nine wives, and children by seven of them;

Antipater was himself born of Doris, and Herod [Philip] of

Mariamne, the high-priest's daughter, Antipas also and Archer

laus were by Malthace, the Samaritan, as his daughterOly mpias,

which his brother Joseph's f son had married; by Cleopatra of

Jerusalem he had Herod and Philip, and by Pallas, Phasaelus,

he had also two daughters, Roxana and Salome, the one by

Phedra, and the other by Elpis; he had also two wives that had

no children, the one his first cousin, and the other his niece; and

, besides these he had two daughters, the sisters of Alexander and

Aristobulus, by Mariamne. Since, therefore, the royal family

was so numerous, Antipater prayed him to change these [in­

tended] marriages.

5. When the king perceived what disposition he was in to­

wards these orphans, he was angry at it, and a suspicion came

into his mind, as to these sons whom he had put to death,

whether that had not been brought about by the false tales of

Antipater; so at that time he made Antipater a long and a

peevish answer, and bid him be gone. Yet was he afterwards

prevailed

* Dean Aldrich take; nctice here, that these nine wives of Herod were alive at  
the same time, and that if the celebrated Mariamne, who was now dead, he reck­

oned, those wives were in all ten. Vet it is remarkable that he had no more
than

fifteen children by them all.

f To prevent confusien, it may not be amiss, with Dean Aldrich, to distinguish

' between four Josephs in the history of Herod. I. Joseph, Herod's uncle, and
the

[second] husband of his sister Salome, slain by Herod, on account of Mariamne.

»[Joseph, Herod's quaestor, or treasurer, (lain on the same account 3- Joseph,

Herod's brother, slain in battle against Antigonus. 4. Joseph, Herod'* nephew,

' the husband of Olympias, mentioned in this place.

