Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 441

routed those four commanders by stratagems, and had taken the

most potent of their warriors, he sent them to Jerusalem ; and

the people [of Galilee] had great indignation at them, and were

in a zealous disposition to slay, not only these forces, but those

that sent them also, had not these forces prevented it by running '

away.

8. Now John was detained afterward within the walls of

Gischala, by the fear he was in of Josephus; but within a few

days Tiberias revolted again, the people within it inviting King

Agrippa [to return to the exercise of his authority there]. And

when he did not come at the time appointed; and when a few

Roman horsemen appeared that day, they expelled Josephus out

of the city. Now this revolt of theirs was presently known at

Taricheae; and as Josephus had sent out all the soldiers that

were with him to gather corn, he knew not how either to march

out alone against the revolters, or to stay where he was, because

he was afraid the king's soldiers might prevent him if he tar足

ried, and might get into the city ; for he did not intend, to do

any thing on the next day, because it was the Sabbath day, and

would hinder his proceeding. So he contrived to circumvent

the revohers by a stratagem; and in the first place he ordered

the gates of Taricheae to be shut, that nobody might go out and

inform [those of Tiberias], for whom it was intended, what

stratagem he was about: he then got together all the ships that

were upon the lake, which were found to be two hundred and

thirty, and in each of them he put no more than four mariners.

So he sailed to Tiberias with haste, and kept at such a distance

from the city, that it was not easy for the people to see the ves足

sels, and ordered that the empty vessels should float up and down

there, while himself, who had but seven of his guards with him,

and those unarmed also, went so near as to be seen ; but when

his adversaries, who were still reproaching him, saw him from

the walls, they were so astonished that they supposed all the

ships were full of armed men, and threw down their arms,

and by signals of intercession they besought him to spare the city.

9. Upon this Josephus threatened them terribly, and reproach足

ed them, that when they were the first that took up arms against

the Romans, they should spend their force before-hand in civil

dissensions, and do what their enemies desired above all things;

and that besides they should endeavour so hastily to seize upon

him, who took care of their safety, and had not been ashamed to

shut the gates of their city against him that built their walls ;

that, however, he would admit of any intercessors from them

that might make some excuse for them, and with whom

he would make such agreements as might be for the city's se足

curity. Hereupon ten of the most potent men of Tiberias came

VOL. 111. 3 K down

