162 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.' ' Book XX.

him to forbear. And when he had related what she had said to

Ananias, he confirmed what his mother had said, and when he

had also threatened to leave him, unless he complied with him,

he went away from him, and said, that «' he was afraid lest such'

" an action being once become public to all, he should himself

" be in danger of punishment, for having been the occasion of

" it, and having been the king's instructor in actions that were

'« of ill reputation ; and he said, that he might worship God

" without being circumcised, even though he did resolve to fol-

" low the Jewish law entirely, which worship of God was of a

" superior nature to circumcision. He added, that God would

" forgive him, though he did not perform the operation, while

'l it was omitted out of necessity, and for fear of his subjects."

So the king at that time complied with these persuasions of A-

nanias. But afterwards, as he had not quite left off his desire of

doing this thing, a certain other Jew that came out of Galilee,

whose name was Eleazar, and who was esteemed very skilful in

the learning of his country, persuaded him to do the thing ; for

as he entered into his palace to salute him, and found him read­

ing the law of Moses,' he said to him, u Thou dost not consider,

" O king ! that thou unjustly breakest the principal of those

«« laws, and art injurious to God himself, [by omitting to be cir-

" cumcised] ; for thou oughtest not only to read them, but chiefly

«' to practise what they enjoin thee. How long wilt thou con-

" tinue uncircumcised ? But, if thou hast not yet read the law

" about circumcision, and dost not know how great impiety thou

" art guilty of by neglecting it, read it now." When the king

had heard what he said, he delayed the thing no longer, but re­

tired to another room, and sent for a surgeon, and did what he

was commanded to do. He then sent-for his mother, and Ana­

nias his tutor, and informed them that he had done the'thing j

upon which they were presently struck with astonishment and

fear, and that to a great degree, lest the thing should be openly

discovered and censured, and the king should hazard the loss of

his kingdom, while his subjects would not bear to be governed

by a man who was so zealous in another religion ; and lest they

should themselves run some hazard, because they would be sup­

posed the occasion of his so doing. But it was God * himself

who hindered what they feared from taking effect ; for he pre­

served both Izates Himself, and his sons when they fell into many

dangers, and procured their deliverance when it seemed to be

impossible, and demonstrated thereby, that the fruit of piety does

not

* Josephus is very full and express in these three chapters, iii. iv. and v. in  
observing how carefully Divine Providence preserved this Izates, king of Adi-

abene, and his sons, while he did what he tti%'ught was his bomideu duty, not­

withstanding the strongest political motives to the coutrary

