WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

came about him not fewer in number than* three millions:

these besought him to commiserate the calamities of their na­

tion, and cried out upon Floras as the bune of their country.

But as he was present, and stood by Cestius, he laughed at theu-

words. However Cestius, when he had quieted the multitude,

and had assured them, thut he would take care that Florus should

hereafter treat them in a more gentle manner, returned to An-

tioch : Fiorus also conducted him as far as Cesarea, and delud­

ed him, though he had at that very time the purpose of shewing

his anger at the nation, and procuring a war upon them, by

which means alone it was that he supposed he might conceal his

enormities; for heexpectedthat,if the peace continued,he should

have the Jews for his accusers before Caesar ; but that if he

could procure them to make a revolt, he should divert their

laying lesser crimes to his charge, by a misery that was so much

greater ; he therefore did every day augment their calamities,

in order to induce them to a rebellion.

4. Now at this time it happened, that the Grecians at Cesa­

rea had been too hard for the Jews, and had obtained of Nero

the government of the city, and had brought the Judicial deter­

mination ; at the same time began the war, in the twelfth year

of the reign of Nero, and the seventeenth of the reign of Agrip-

pa, in the month of Artemisius [Jyar]. Now the occasion of this

war was by no means proportionable to those heavy calamities

which it brought upon us. For the Jews that dwelt at Cesarea

had a synagogue near the place, whose owner was a certain Ce.

sareau Greek ; the Jews had endeavoured frequently to have

purchased the possession of the place, and had offered many times

its value for its price; but as the owner overlooked their of­

fers, so did he raise other buildings upon the place, in way of

affront to them, and made working shops of them, and left them

but a narrow passage, and such as was very troublesome for

them to go along to their synagogue. Whereupon the warm­

er part of the Jewish youth went hastily to the workmen, and

forbade them to build there : but as Florus would not permit

them to use force, the great men of the Jews, with John the pub­

lican, being in the utmost distress what to do, persuaded Floi us,

with the ofter of eight t-aler.ts, to hinder the work. He then,

being intent upon nothing but getting money, promised he would

do for them all they desired of him, and then went away from

Cesarea to Sebaste, and left the sedition to take its full course,

as if he hi.d sold a licence to the Jews to fight it out.

5. Now

* Heie we may note, that 3,000,000 of the Jews were present at the passover,  
A. D. 65, which confirms what Josephus elsewhere informs us of, that at a
passover

a little later, they counted 256,500 paschal lambs, which, at twelve to er'ch
lamb,

which is no immoderate calculation, come to 3,078,030' See B; VI. chup .9. §
3.

