Chap. XVIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 421

«' those that were related to me. Wherefore we very justly

" experience the perfidiousness of foreigners, while we acted

" after a most wicked manner against our own nation, I will

" therefore die, polluted wretch as I am, by mine own hands;

" for it is not fit I should die by the hand of our enemies ; and

" let the same action be to me both a punishment for my great

" crimes, and a testimony of my courage to my commendation,

" that so no one of our enemies may have it to brag of, that he

*' it was that slew me, and no one may insult upon me as I  
" fall." Now when he had said this, he looked round about

him upon his family with eyes of commiseration, and of rage,

(that family consisted of a wife, and children, and his aged pa­

rents); so, in the first place, he caught his father by the grey

hairs, and ran his sword through him, and after him he did the

same to his mother, who willingly received it; and after them he

did the like to his wife and children, every one almost offering

themselves to his sword, as desirous to prevent being slain by

their enemies; so when he had gone overall his family, he

stood upon their bodies to be seen by all, and stretching out his

right hand, that his action might be observed by all, he sheath­

ed his entire sword into his own bowels. This young man was

to be pitied on account of the strength of his body and the cour­

age of his soul; but since he had assured foreigners of his fideli­

ty [against his own countrymen]; he suffered deservedly.

5. Besides this murder at Scythopolis, the other cities rose up

against the Jews that were among them; those of Askalon slew

two thousand five hundred, and those of Ptolemaistwo thousand,

and put not a few into bonds; those of Tyre also put a great

number to death, but kept a greater number in prison ; more­

over, those of Hippos, and those of Gadara did the like, while

they put to death the boldest of the Jews, but kept those of

whom they were afraid in custody; as did the rest of the cities

of Syria, according as they every one either hated them, or were

afraid of them; only the Antiochians, the Sidonians, and Apa-

mians, spared those that dwelt with them, and would not en­

dure either to kill any of the Jews, or to put them in bonds.

And perhaps they spared them, because their own number was

so great that they despised their attempts; but I think the great­

est part of this favour was owing to their commiseration of those

whom they saw to make no innovations. As for the Gerasans,

they did no harm to those that abode with them, and for those

who had a mind to go away, they conducted them as far as their

borders reached.

6. There was also a plot laid against the Jews in Agrippa's

kingdom; for he was himself gone to Cestius Gallus, to An­

tioch,

