32P WARS or THE jews. Book I.

man in making speeches. And upon his saying at last, that if

bis father objected this crime to them, it was in his power to put '

them to death, he made all the audience weep; and he brought

Caesar to that pass, as to reject the accusations, and to reconcile

their father to them immediately. But the conditions of their

reconciliation were these, that they should in all things be obe­

dient to their father, and that he should have power to leave

the kingdom to which of them he pleased.

4. After this the king came back from Rome, and seemed to

have forgiven his sons upon these accusations; but still so, that

he was not without his suspicions of them. They were follow­

ed by Antipater, who was the fountain-head of those accusa­

tions ; yet did not he openly discover his hatred to them, as re­

vering him that had reconciled them. But as Herod sailed by

Cilicia, he touched at * Eleusa, where Archelaus treated them

in-the mostobligingmanner,'andgave him thanks for thedeliver-

ance of his son-in-law, and was much pleased at their reconcilia­

tion ; and this the more because he had formerly written to his

friends at Rome, that they should be assisting to Alexander at his

trial. So he conducted Herod as far as Zephyrium, and made

him presents to the value of thirty talents.

5. Now when Herod was come to Jerusalem, he gathered the

people together, and presented to them his three sons, and gave

them an apologetic account of his absence, and " thanked God

" greatly, and thanked Caesar greatly also, for settling his house

" when it was under disturbances, and had procured concord

" among his sons,whichwas of greater consequence than the king*

" dom itself, and which I will render still more firm; for Caesar

" hath put into my power to dispose of the government, and to

" appoint my successor. Accordingly, in way of requittal for

" his kindness, and in order to provide for mine own advantage,

*' I do declare, that these three sons of mine shall be kings. And,  
" in the first place, I pray for the approbation of God to what

** I am about; and, in the next place, ! desire your approbation  
" also. The age of one of them, and the nobility of the other

" two, shall procure them the succession. Nay, indeed, my king*

** dom is so large, that it may be sufficient for more kings.  
" Now do you keep those in their places whom Caesar hath

*' joined, and their father hath appointed; and do not you pay  
" undue or unequal respects to them, but to every one accord-

" ing

* That this island Eleuoa, afterward called Sebaste, near Cilicia, bad io it tfca

royal palace of this Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, Strabo testifies, B. XV.
page

671. Stephanus of Byzantium also calls it " an island of Cilicia, which is now

* Sebaste ;* both whose testimonies are pertinently cited here by Dr Hudson. $ee  
<he same history, Antiq.B. XVI. ch. x. sect. 7. Vol. II.

