719 . Book XX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

went up'with the greatest security at the festivals after this time,

and having weapons concealed in like manner as before, and min'-

gling themselves among the multitude, they slew certain of their

own enemies, and were subservient to other men for money, and

ilew others, not only in remote parts of the city, but in the tem­

ple itself also ; for they had the boldness to murder men there,

without thinking of the impiety of which they were guilty. And

this seems to me to have been the reasons why God, out of his

hatred of these men's wickedness, rejected ouf city ; and as for

the temple, he no longer esteemed it sufficiently pure for him to

inhabit therein, but brought the Romans upon us, and threw

a- fire upon the city to purge it, and brought upon us, our

wives and children, slavery, as desirous to make us wiser by

our calamities.

6. These works, that were done by the robbers, filled the city

with all sorts of impiety. And now these + impostors and de­

ceivers persuaded the multitude to follow them into the wilder­

ness, and pretended that they would exhibit manifest wonders

and signs, that should be performed by the providence of God;

And many that were prevailed on by tb<:m suffered the punish­

ments of th*ir folly ; For Felix brought them back, and then pu­

nished

Jewish, and of every Christian reader. And, since we are soon coming to the

catalogue of the Jewish high-priests, it may not be amiss, with Reland, to

insert this Jonathan among them, and to transcribe his particular catalogue of

the last twenty-eight high priests, taken out of Josephus, and begin with Ana-

nelus, who was made by Herod the Great. See Antiq. B. XV. ch. ii. sect 4. and

the note there.

X. Anafielus. 15. Theophilus, his brother, and son of

a. Aristabuhn. Ananus.

3. Jesus, the son of Fabus^ 16. Simon, the son of Boethus.

4. Simon, the son of Boethus. XJ. Matthias, the brother of Jonathan,

5. Matthias, the son of Theophilus, and son of Ananus.

6. Joazar, the son of Boethus. IS. Aljoneus.

7. Eleazar, the son of Boethus. ip. Josephus, the son of Camydus.

S. Jesus, the son of Sie. 20. Ananias, the son of Nebedeus.

9. [Annas, or] Ananus, the son of 2t. Jonathas.

Sethi 22. lsmael, the son of Fabi.

id. Ismael, the son of Fabus. 23. Joseph Cabi, the son of Simon*

11. Eleazar, the son of Ananus. 24. Ananus, the son of Ananus.

12. Simon, the son of Camithus. 25. Jesus, the son of Damneus.

13. Josephus Caiaphas, the son-in-law 26. Jesus, the son of Gamaliel.

to Ananus. 27. Matthias, the son of Theophilus.

14. Jonathan, the son of Ananus. 2S. Phannias, the son of Samuel.

As for Ananus, and Joseph Caiaphas, here mentioned about the middle of this

citalogue, there are no other than those Annas and Caiaphas, so often mention­

ed in the four gospels; and that Ananiasi the son of Ntbedeus, was that high-

priest before whom St Paul pleaded his own cause, Acts, xxiv.

t Of these Jewish impostors and false prophets, with many other circumstan­

ces and miseries of the Jews, till their utter destruction, foretold by our
Saviour.

See Lit. Accompl. of Proph. p. 58—75.

