Chap. I. "AVTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. / 125

to themselves; but for the women, and the youth, they had

been inveigled with shews, and the fightings of the gladiators,

and certain distributions of flesh-meat among them, which things

in pretence were designed for the pleasing of the multitude, but

in reality to satiate the barbarous cruelty and madness of Caius.

The slaves also were sorry, because they were by Caius allow­

ed to accuse, and t9 despise their masters, and they could have

recourse to his assistance, when they had unjustly affronted

them ; for he was very easy in believing them against their

masters, even when they accused them falsely; and, if they

would discover what money their masters had, they might soon

obtain both riches and liberty, as the rewards of their accusa­

tions, because the reward of these informers was the eighth *

part of the criminal's substance. As to the nobles, although

the report appeared credible to some of them, either because

they knew of the plot before-hand, or because they wished it

might be true ; however, they concealed not only the joy they

had at the relation of ir, but that they had heard any thing at

all about it. These last acted so out of the fear they had, that if

the report proved false, they should be punished, for having so

soon let men know their minds. But those that knew Caius

was dead, because they were partners with the conspirators,

they concealed all still more cautiously, as not knowing one ano­

ther's minds; and fearing lest they should speak of it to some

of those to whom the continuance of tyranny was advantageous :

and, if Caius should prove to be alive, they might be informed

against, and punished. And another report went about, that al­

though Caius had been wounded indeed, yet was not he dead,

but alive still, and under the physician's hands. Nor was any

one looked upon by another as faithful enough to be trusted,

and to whom any one would open his mind ; for he was either

a friend to Caius, and therefore suspected to favour his tyranny,

or he was one that hated him, who therefore might be suspect­

ed to deserve the less credit, because of his ill-will to him.—

Nay, it was said by some, (and this indeed it was that depri­

ved the nobility of their hopes, and made them sad), that Cai­

us was in a condition to despise the dangers he had been in, and

took no care of healing his wounds, but was gotten away into

the market-place, and, bloody as he was, was making an ha­

rangue to the people. And these were the conjectural reports

of those that were so unreasonable as to endeavour to raise lu-

rnults, which they turned different ways, according to ihe opi*

nions of the hearers. Yet did they not leave their seats, for

fear

* The rewards proposed by the Roman laws to informers, was sometimes an  
eighth part of the criminal's goodi, as here, and sometimes a fourth part, as

Spanheim assures us, from Suetonius and Tacitus.

