Chap. I. WARS «F THE JEWS. 359

2. Upon this the multitude were pleased, and presently made

9. trial of what he intended, by asking great things of him; for

some made a clamour that he would ease them in their taxes,

others, that he would take off the duties upon commodities, and

some, that he would loose those that were in prison; in all which

cases he answered readily to their satisfaction, in order to get

the good-will of the multitude; after which he offered [the pro­

per] sacrifices, and feasted with his friends. And here it was

that a great many of those that' desired innovations came in

crowds towards the evening, and began then to mourn on their

own account, when the public mourning for the king was over.

These lamented those that were put to death by Herod, because

they had cut down the golden eagle that had been over the gate

of the temple. Nor was this mourning of a private nature, but

the lamentations were very great, the mourning solemn, and

the weeping such as was loudly heard all over the city, as being

for those men who had perished for the laws of their country,

and for the temple. They cried out, that a punishment ought

to be inflicted for these men upon those that were honoured by

Herod, and that, in the first place, the man whom he had made

high-priest should be deprived, and that it was fit to choose a

person of greater piety and purity than he was.

3. At these clamours Archelaus was provoked, but restrained

himself from taking vengeance on the authors, on account of the

haste he was in of going to Rome, as fearing lest, upon his mak­

ing war on the multitude, such an action might detain him at

home. Accordingly, he made trial to quiet the innovators by

persuasion, rather than by force, and sent his general in a pri.

vate way to them, and by him exhorted them to be quiet. But

the seditious threw stones at him, and drove him away, as he

came into the temple, and before he could say any thing to them.

The like treatment they shewed to others, who came to them

after him, many of which were sent by Archelaus, in order to

reduce them to sobriety, andthese answered still on all occasions

after a passionate manner; and it openly appeared that they

would not be quiet, if their numbers were but considerable.

And indeed, at the feast of unleavened bread, which was now

at hand, and is by the Jews called the Passover, and used to be

celebrated with a great number of sacrifices, an innumerable

multitude of the people came out of the country to worship:

some of these stood in the temple bewailing the Rabbins [that

had been put to death J, and procured their sustenance by beg­

ging, in order to support their sedition. At this Archelaus was

affrighted, and privately sent a tribune, with his cohort of sol­

diers upon them, before the disease should spread over the

whole

