46 ANTIiJUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

themselves with him, out of their hatred to him ; and yet they

thought it too gross a thing for them to assist the ambassadors

£ against him], as supposing' it would be a disgrace to them in

Caesar's opinion to think of thus acting in opposition to a man of

their own kindred *. Philip also was come hither out of Syria,

by the persuasion of Varus, with this principal intention to as­

sist his brother [Archelaus] ; for Varus was his great friend:

but still so, that if there should any change happen in the form

,of government (which Varus suspected there would), and if

any distribution should be made on account of the number that

desired the liberty of living by their own laws, that he might

not be disappointed, but might have his share in it.

2. Now, upon the liberty that was given to the Jewish am­

bassadors to speak, they who hoped to obtain a dissolution of

kingly government, betook themselves to accuse Herod of his

iniquities; and they declared, " That he was indeed in name a

'' king, but that he had taken to himself that uncontroulable au-

*' thority which tyrants exercise over their subjects, and had  
'' made use of that authority for the destruction of the Jews, and

«' did not abstain from making many innovations among them, be-

" sides, according to his own inclinations ; and that whereas there

«' were a great many who perished by that destruction he brought

" upon them, so many indeed as no other history relates, they

" that survived were far more miserable than those that suffered

" under him, not only by the anxiety they were in from his

" looks and disposition towards them, but from the danger their

''' estates were in of being taken away by him. That he did

«' never leave off adorning these cities that lay in their neigh-

" bourhood, but were inhabited by foreigners ; but so that the

" cities belonging to his own government were ruined, and ut-

«' terly destroyed: that whereas, when he took the kingdom,

«' it was in an extraordinary flourishing condition, he had filled

« the nation with the utmost degree of poverty ; and when,

" upon unjust pretences, he had slain any of the nobility, he took.

*' away their estates i and when he permitted any of them to  
.' live, he condemned them to the forfeiture of what they pos-

*' sessed. And, besides the annual impositions which he laid  
*' upon every one of them, they were to make liberal presents  
" to himself, to his domestics and friends, and to such of his

*' slaves as were vouchsafed the favour of being his tax-gather-  
," ers ; because there was no way of obtaining a freedom from

«' unjust violence, without giving either gold or silver for it.

" Tjjat they would say nothing of the corruption of the chastity

." of their virgins, and the reproach laid on their wives for in-

«' contuiency,

# He was tetrarch afterward.

