4V2 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II,

down to him presently, and when he had taken them into one of

his vessels, he ordered them to be carried a great way off from

the city. He then commanded that fifty others of their senate,

such as were men of the greatest eminence, should come to him,

that they also might give him some security on their behalf.

After which, under one new pretence or another, he called forth

others, one after another, to make the leagues between them.

He then gave order to the masters of those vessels which he had

thus filled, to sail away immediately for Taricheae, and to con.,

fine those men in the prison there; till at length he took all

their senate, consisting of six hundred persons, and about two

thousand of the populace, and carried them away to Tarichea;.

10. And when the rest of the people cried out, that it was

one Clitus that was the chief author of this revolt, they desired

him to spend his anger upon him [only]; but Josephus, whose in.

tention it was to slay nobody, commanded one Levius, belonging

to his guards, to go out of the vessel in order to cut off both

Glitus's hands; yet was Levius afraid to go out by himself

alone, to such a large body of enemies, and refused to go. Now

Clitus saw that Josephus was in a great passion in the ship, and

ready to leap out of it, in order to execute the punishment him­

self; he begged therefore from the shore, that he would leave

him one of his hands, which Josephus agreed to, upon condition

that he would himself cut off the other hand; accordingly he

drew his sword, and with his right hand cut off his left, so great

was the fear he was in of Josephus himself. And thus he took

the people of Tiberias prisoners, and recovered the city again

with empty shius * and seven of his guard. Moreover, a few

days afterward he retook Gischala, which had revolted with the

Tropic of Sepphoris, and gave his soldiers leave to plunder it;

vet did he get all the plunder together, and restored it to the in­

habitants, and the like he did to the inhabitants of Sepphoris,

and Tiberias. For when he had subdued those cities, he had

a mind, by letting them be plundered, to give them some good

instruction, while at the same time he regained their good-will

by restoring them their money again.

CHAP. XXII.

The Jews mate all ready for the war. And Simon the son of

Gioras fulls to the plundering.

S. 1. A ND thus were the disturbances of Galilee quieted,

+ \. when, upon their ceasing to prosecute their civil dis­

sensions, they betook themselves to make preparations for the

war

* I cannot bat think this stratagem of Josephus,which is related both here a^J  
in his life, § 31, 33. Vol. III. to be one of the liiiesc thai i;ver wss
inyentijd atA

-•,-srutcd by any v;arr:or whatsoever.

