Chap. XVII. WARS OF THE j£xy»;

under Darius the master of his horse, and Philip the son of Ja»-

cimus, the general of his army.

5. Upon this the men of power, with the high priests, as also

all the part of the multitude that were desirous of peace, took

courage, and seized upon the upper city [Mount Sion] j for the

seditious part had the lower city and the temple in their power:

so they made use of stones and slings perpetually against one

another, and threw darts continually on both sides; and sometimes

it happened that they made incursions by troops, and fought it

jout hand to hand, while the seditious were superior in boldness,

but the king's soldiers in skill. These last strove chiefly to gain

the temple, and to drive those out of it who profaned it; as did

the seditious, with Eleazar, besides what they had already, la­

bour to gain the upper city. Thus were there perpetual slaugh­

ters on both sides for seven days time j but neither side would

yield up the parts they had seized on. : j

6. Now the next day was the festival of Xylophory, upon

which the custom was for every one to bring wood for the altar

(that there might never be a want of fuel for that fire which was

unquenchable audalways burning); upon that day they excluded

the opposite party from the observation of this part of religion.

And when they had joined to themselves many of the Sicarii,

who crowded in among the weaker people (that was the name

for such robbers as had under their bosoms swords called Sicx),

they grew bolder, and carried their undertaking farther ; inso-

much, that the king's soldiers were overpowered by their mul­

titude and boldness, and so they gave way, and were driven out

of the upper city by force. The others then set fire to the house

of Ananias the high-priest, and to the palaces of Agrippa and

Bernice: after which they carried the fire to the place where the

archives were reposited, and made haste to burn the contracts be­

longing to their creditors, and thereby to dissolve their obliga­

tions for paying their debts; and this was done in order to gain

.the multitude of those who had been deb tors, and that they might

persuade the poorer sort to join in their insurrection with safetv

against the more wealthy j so the. keepers of the records fled

away, and the rest set fire to them. And when they had thus

burnt down the nerves of the city, they fell upon their enemies;

at which time some of the men of power, and of the high-priests,

went into the vaults under ground, and concealed themselves,

while others fled with the king's soldiers to the upper palace,

and shut the gates immediately ; among whom were A nanias the

high-priest, and the ambassadors that had been sent to Agrippa.

And now the seditious were contented with the victory they had

gotten,

