Chap. VIII. WARS of f HE JEWS.

8. But for those that are caught in any heinous sins, they cast

them out of their society, and he who is thus separated from

them, does often die after a miserable manner; for as he is

bound by the oath he hath taken, and by the customs he hath

been engaged in, he is not at liberty to partake of that food that

he meets with elsewhere, but is forced to eat grass, and to fa足

mish his body with hunger, till he perish; for which reason they

receive many of them again, when they are at their last gasp>

out of compassion to them, as thinking the miseries they have

endured till they came to the very brink of death, to be a suf足

ficient punishment for the sins they had been guilty of.

9. But in the judgments they exercise they are most accurate

and just, nor do they pass sentence by the votes of acourt that is

fewer than an hundred. And as to what is once determined by

that number, it is unalterable. What they most of all honour,

after God himself, is the name of their legislator [Moses], whom'

if any one blaspheme, he is punished capitally. They also think

it a good thing to obey their elders, and the major part. Ac*

cordingly, if ten of them be sitting together, no one of them will

speak while the other nine are against it. They also avoid

spitting in the midst of them, or on the right side. Moreover,

they are stricter than any other of the Jews in restmg from

their labours on the seventh day; for they not only get their

food ready the day before, that they may not be obliged to

kindle a fire on that day, but they will not remove any vessel

out of its place, nor go to stool thereon. Nay, on other days

they dig a small pit, a foot deep, with a paddle, (which kind of

hatchet is given them, when they are first admitted among

them), and covering themselves round with their garment, that

they may not affront the divine rays ef light, they ease them-

selves into that pit, after which they put the earth that was

dug out again into the pit; and even this they do only in the

more lonely places, which they choose out for this purpose;

and although this easement of the body be natural, yet it is a

rule with them to wash themselves after it, as if it were a de足

filement to them.

10. Now after the time of their preparatory trial is over,

they are parted into four classes; and so far are the juniors in足

ferior to the seniors, that if the seniors should be touched by the

juniors, they must wash themselves, as if they had intermixed

themselves with the company of a foreigner. They are long-

lived also, insomuch that many of them live above an hundred

years, by means of the simplicity of their diet, nay, as 1 think,

by means of the regular course of life they observe also. They

contemn the miseries of life, ai}d are above pain, by thegenero-

Vot. III. 3 B sity

