28 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

regard to virtue, to lay aside their hatred at such a time, even

with respect to those they justly esteemed their enemies. -

CPIAP. VII.

Herod has thoughts of killing himself with his own hand ; and a

little afterwards he orders Antipater to be slain.

§ 1. A S he was giving these commands to his relations, there

,**, came letters from his ambassadors, who had been sent

to Rome unto Caesar, which, when they were read, their pur­

port was this; That " Acme was slain by Caesar, out of his in-

" dignation at what hand she had in Antipater's wicked prac-

" tices; and that as to Antipater himself, Coesar left it to He-

" rod to act as became a father and a king, and either to banish

" him or take away his life, which he pleased." When He­

rod heard this, he was somewhat better, out of the pleasure he

had from the contents of the letters, and was elevated at the

death of Acme, and at the power that was given him over his

son ; but, as his pains were become very great, he was now

ready to faint for want of somewhat to eat; so he called for an

apple, and a knife ; for it was his custom formerly to pare the

apple himself, and soon afterwards to cut it, and eat it. When

he had got the knife, he looked about, and had a mind to stab

himself with it; and he had done it, had not his first cousin,

Achiabus, prevented him, and held his hand, and cried out loud­

ly. 'Whereupon a woful lamentation echoed through the pa­

lace, and a great tumult was made, as if the king were dead.

Upon which Antipater, who verily believed his father was de­

ceased, grew bold in his discourse, as hoping to be immediately

and entirely released from his bonds, and to take the kingdom

into his hands, without any more ado; so he discoursed with

the jailor about letting him go, and in that case promised him

great things, both now and hereafter, as if that were the only

thing now in question. But the jailor did not only refuse to do

what Antipater would have him, but informed the king of his

intentions, and how many solicitations he had had from him [of

that nature.]. Hereupon Herod, who had formerly no affection

nor good will towards his son to restrain him, when he heard

what the jailor said, he cried out, and beat his head, although

he was at death's door, and raised himself upon his elbow, and

sent for some of his guards, and commanded them to kill Anti­

pater without any farther delay, and to do it presently, and to

bury him in an ignoble manner at Hyrcania.

CHAP.

