284r ' WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

* set tyrants over all Syria ; and out of hatred to Herod it was  
that he assisted Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, and principal-

ly on Fabius's account, whom Antigonus had made his assistant

by money, and had him accordingly on his side when he made

his descent; but it was Piolemy, the kinsman of Antigonus, that

supplied all that he wanted.

3. When Herod had fought against these in the avenues of Ju-

dea, he was conqueror in the battle, and drove away Antigonus,

returned to Jerusalem beloved by every body, for the glorious

action he had done; for those who did not before favour him,

did join themselves to him now, because of his marriage into the

family of Hyrcanus ; for as he had formerly married a wife out

of his own country of no ignoble blood, who was called Doris, of

whom he begat Antipater; so did he marry Mariamne, the daugh­

ter of Alexander, the son of Aristobulus, and the grand daugh­

ter of Hyrcanus, and was become thereby a relation of the king.

4. But when Caesar and Antony had slain Cassius near Philip-

pi, and Caesar was gone to Italy, and Antony to Asia, amongst the

rest of the cities which sent ambassadors to Antony unto Bithy-

nia, the great men of the Jews came also, and accused Phasae-

lus and Herod, that they kept the government by force, and that

Hyrcanus had no more than an honourable name. Herod ap­

peared ready to answer this accusation, and, having made Anto­

ny his friend by the large sums of money which he gave him,

he brought him to such a temper as not to hear the others speak

against him, and thus did they part at this time.

5. However, after this, there came an hundred of the princi­

pal men among the Jews to Daphne by Antioch to Antony, who

was already in love with Cleopatra to the degree of slavery ;

these Jews put those menthatwere the most potent, both indignity

and eloquence, foremost, and accused the brethren f. But Mes-

sala opposed them and defended the brethren, and that while Hyr­

canus stood by him, on account of his relation to them. When

Antony had heard both sides, he asked Hyrcanus which party

was the fittest to govern ? who replied, that Herod and his party

were the fittest. Antony was glad of that answer, for he had

been formerly treated in an hospitable and obliging manner by

his father Antipater, when he marched into Judea with Gabinius;

so he constituted the brethren tetrarchs, and committed to them

the government of Judea.

6. Butwhen the ambassadors had indignation at this procedure,

Antony

* Here we see that Cassius «et tyrants over all Syria; so that his assisting p  
f'rstroy Caesar does not seem to have proceeded from his true zeal for public
li­

berty, but from a desire to be a tyrant himself.

t Fhaiaelus and Herod.

