266 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

Aretas was terrified, and retired out of Judea to Philadelphia, as

did Scaurus return to Damascus again : nor was Aristobulus

satisfied with escaping [out of his brother's hands], but gather-

td all his forces together, and pursued his enemies, and fought

them at a. place 'called Papyron, and slew above six thousand of

them, and, together with them, Antipater's brother, Phalion.

4. When Hyrcanus and Antipater were thus deprived of their

hopes from the Arabians ; they transferred the same to their

adversaries ; and because Pompey had passed through Syria, and

was come to Damascus, they fled to him for assistance ; and *,

without any bribes, they made the same equitable pleas that they

had used to Aretas, and besought him to hate the violent be­

haviour of Aristobulus, and to bestow the kingdom upon him to

whom it justly belonged, both on account of his good character,

and on account of his superiority in age. However, neither was

Aristobulus wanting to himself in this case, as relying on the

bribes that Scaurus had received : he was also there himself, and

adorned himself after a manner the most agreeable to royalty

that he was able. But he soon thought it beneath him to come

in such a servile manner, and could not endure to serve his own

ends in a way so much more abject than he was used to ; so he

departed from Diospolis.

5. At this his behaviour Pompey had great indignation ; Hyr-

canus also and his friends made great intercession to Pompey ; sd

he took not only' his Roman forces, but many of his Syrian

auxiliaries, and marched against Aristobulus. But when he

had passed by Pella and Scythopolis, and was come to Corea,

where you enter into the country of Judea, when you go up to

it through the Mediterranean parts, he heard that Aristobulus

was fled to Alexandrum, which is a strong hold fortified with

the utmost magnificence, and situated upon an high mountain,

and he seiat to him, and commanded him to come down. Now

his inclination was to try his fortune in a battle, since he was

called in such an imperious manner, rather than to comply with

that call. However, he saw the multitude were in great fear,'

and his friends exhorted him to consider what the power of the

Romans was, and how it was irresistible ; so he complied with

their advice, and came down to Pompey ; and when he had made

that the 1

offered

sect. 6. ; although his remarkable abstinence from the 2000 talents that were
in

the Jewish temple, when he took it a little afterward, ch. vii. sect. 6. and
Antiq.

B. XIV. ch. iv. sect. 4. will hatdly permit us to desert the Greek cepits, all

which agree that h« did not take them.

