Chap. IX. ANTIQJHTIES OF THE JEWS. 185

to succeed him, he wa's desirous to appear to do somewhat that'

might be grateful to the pefople of Jerusalem ; so he brought out

all those prisoners who seemed to him to be the most plainly

worthy of death, and brdef&d fherii to be put to death according­

ly. But as to those who had been put into prison on some tri­

fling occasions, he took nioney of them, and dismissed them ; bv

which means the'prisons were emptied, but the country was filled

with 'robbers.' ,

6. Now,'as many ef the Levites*, which' is a tribe of ours, as

were singers of hymns,' persuaded the king to assemble a sanhe-

'drim, and to give them leave to wear linen garments, as well as

the priests ; for they said, that this would be a work worthy the

times of his government, that he might have a memorial of such

' a novelty, as being his doing. Nor did they fail of obtaining

their desire ; for the king, with the suffrages of those that canit:

into the sanhedrim, granted: the singers of hymns this privilege,

that they might lay aside their former garments, and wear such a

linen one as they desired ; and as a pan-of -this tribe ministered

in the temple, he also permitted them to learn those hymns as

they had besought him for. ' Now all this was contrary to the

laws of our country, whichy whenever they have been transgress­

ed, we have never been able to avoid the punishment of such

transgressions.

7. And now it was that the temple *j- was finished. So, when

the people saw that the workmen were unemployed, who were

above eighteen thousand, and that they, receiving no wages,

were in want, because they had earned their bread by their la­

bours about the temple, and while they were unwilling to keep

them by the treasures that were there deposited, out of fear of

f their being carried away by] the Romans: and while they had

a regard to the making provision for the workmen, they had a

mind to expend those treasures upon them; for if any one of

them did but labour for a single hour, tye received his pay im­

mediately ; so they persuaded him to rebuild the eastern clois­

ters. These cloisters belonged to the outer coart, and were si­

tuated in a deep valley, and had walls that reached four hundred

cubits [in length], and were built of square and very white

stones, the length of each of which stones was twenty cubits, and

their height six cubits. This was the work of king Solomon *,

VOL. III. A a who

* This insolent petition of some of the Levites, to wear the sacerdotal gar.  
ments, when they sung hymns to God in the temple, was very probably owing

to the great depression and contempt the haughty high-priests had nnwbrought

their brethren the priests i'nto; of which see chap. viii. sect. S. and chap.
ix.

sect. 2.

+ Of this finishing, not of the N«t«», or holy house, but of the /:j«, or
court*

it, called in general the ferrule, see the note on E. XVII. ch. x. sect. 2.

