52 ANTIQUITIES OF TJIE JEWS. Book XVIII,

'i

Alexander * the alabarch, and one not unskilful in philosophy,

WAS ready to betake himself to make his defence against those

Accusations ; but Cain? prohibited him, and bid him be gone :

}ie was also in such a rage, that it openly appeared he was about

to do them some very great mis.qhief. So Philo being thus af­

fronted, went out, and said to those Jews who were about him,

that " they should he of good courage, since Caius's words in-

" deed shewed anger at them, but in reality had already set God

" against himself."

2.. Hereupon Caius, taking it very heinously that he should

be thus despised by the Jews alone, sent Petronius to the presi­

dent of Syriaj and successor in the government to ViteHius, and

gave him order to make an invasion into Judea, with a great

body of troops, and, if they would admit of his statue willingly,

to erect it in the temple of God ; but, if they were obstinate, to

conquer them by wnr, and then to do it. Accordingly Petro­

nius took the government of Syria, and made haste to obey Ce­

sar's epistle. He got together as great a number of auxiliaries

as he possibly could, and took with him two legions of the Ro­

man army, and came to Ptolemais, and there wintered, as intend­

ing to set about the war in the spring. He also wrote word to

Cams what he had resolved to do, who commended him far bis

alacrity, and ordered him to go on, and to make war with them,

in case they would not obey his commands. But there came

many ten thousands of the Jews to Petronius, to Ptolemais, to'

bfflr their petitions to him, that " he would not compel them to

" transgress and violate the law of their forefathers ; but if, said

" they, thou art entirely resolved to bring this statue, and erect

*' it, do thou first kill us, and then do what thou hast resolved  
" on ; for, while we are alive, we cannot permit such things as

" are forbidden us to be done by the authority of our legislator,

" and by our forefathers determination, that such prohibitions are

" instances of virtue." But Petronitis was angry at them, and said,

" If indeed I were myself emperor, and were at liberty to follow

«' my own inclination, and then had designed to act thus, these

" your words would be justly spoken to me ; but now Ccesar hath

" sent to me, I am under the necessity of being subservient to

" his decrees, because a disobedience to them will bring upon me

" inevitable destruction." Then the Jews replied, " Since,

" therefore, thou art so disposed, O Petronius ! that thou wilt not

" disobey Caius's epistles, neither will we transgress the com-

" mands

* This Alexander, the a'.abarch, or governor of the Jews at Alexandria, and  
brother to t'hilo, is supposed by Bishop Pearson, in Act. Apost. p. 41. 47. to
b(J

the same with that Alexander who is mentioned by St. l.uke, as of the kindred

of the high-priests, Acts, iv. 6, . ;"

