Chap. XL WARS OF THE JEWS. „ 385

" rage, I will be ready to expose my own life for such a great

" number as you are." Whereupon he dismissed the multitude,

who prayed greatly for his prosperity ; and he took the .army

out of Ptolemais, and returned to Antioch ; from whence

he presently sent an epistle to Caesar, and informed him of the

irruption he had made into Judea, and of the supplications of the

nation ; and that unless he had a mind to lo'^e both the country,

and the men in it, he must permit them to keep their law, and

must countermand his former injunction. Cams answered that

epistle in a violent way, and threatened to have Petronius put

to death for his "being so tardy in the execution of what he had

commanded. But it happened that those who brought Caius's

epistJe were tossed by a storm, and were detained on the sea for

three months, while others that brought the news of Caius's

death had a good voyage. Accordingly, Petronius received the

epistle concerning'Caius seventand twenty days before he received

that which was against himself.

CHAP. XI.

Concerning tie government of Claudius, and the reign of Agrippa.

Concerning the deaths of Agrippa, and of Hero J, and what

children they both left behind them*

§ 1. "VTOW when Caius had reigned three years and eight

-L\ months, and had been slain by treachery, Claudius  
was hurried away by the armies that were at Rome to take

the government upon htm: but the senate' upon the reference of

the consuls, Sentius Saturninus, and Pomponius Secundus, gave

orders to the three regiments of soldiers that stayed with them to

keep the city quiet, and went up into the capitol in great num­

bers, and resolved to oppose Claudius by force, on account of

the barbarous treatment they had met with from Caius ; and

they determined either to settle the nation under an aristocracy,

as they had of old been governed, or at least to choose by vote

such an one for emperor as might be worthy of it.

2. Now it happened that at this time Agrippa sojourned at

Rome, and that both the senate called him to consult with them,

and at the same time Claudius sent for him out of the camp,

that he might be serviceable to him, as he should have occa­

sion for his service. So he, perceiving that Claudius was in

effect made Caesar already, went to him, who sent him as an

ambassador to the senate, to let them know what his intentions

were : That " in the first place, it was without his seeking,

" that he was hurried away by the soldiers; moreover, that he

" thought it was not just to desert those soldiers in such their

VOL. III. 3 C " zeal

