THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUSi 213

and follow him to the city of Tiberias. I also myself went on

board one of those ships, with my friends, and the seven arme '

men already mentioned, and sailed for Tiberias.

33. But now, when the people of Tiberias perceived that there

were no forces come from the king, and yet saw the whole lake

full of ships, they were in fear what would become of their city,

and were greatly terrified, as supposing that the ships were full

of men on board ; so then they changed their minds, and threw

down their weapons, and met me with their wives and children,

and made acclamations to me with great commendations ; tor

they imagined that I did not know their former inclinations [to

have been against me] ; so they persuaded me to spare the city.

But when I was come near enough, I gave order to the masters

of the ships to cast anchor a good way off the land, that the peo­

ple of Tiberias might not perceive that the ships had no men on

board ; but I went nearer to the people in one of the ships, and

rebuked them for their folly, and that they were so fickle as,

without any just occasion in the world, to revolt from their fide­

lity to me. However, I assured them, that I would entirely

forgive them for the time to come, if they would send ten of

the ringleaders of the multitude to me ; and when they com­

plied readily with this proposal, and sent me the men foremen-

tioned, I put them on board a ship, and sent them away to Ta-

richeae, and ordered them to be kept in'prison.

34. And by this stratagem it was, that I gradually got all the

senate of Tiberias into my power, and sent them to the city

forementioned, with many of the principal men among the po­

pulous, and those not fewer in number than the other. But,

when the multitude saw into what great miseries they had

brought themselves, they desired me to punish the author of

this sedition : his name was Clitus, a young man, bold and rash

in his undertakings. Now, since I thought it not agreeable to

piety to put one of my own people to death, and yet found ic

necessary to punish him, I ordered Levi, one of my own guards,

to go to him, and cut off one of ClitUs's hands ; but as he that

was ordered to do this, was afraid to go out of the ship alone,

among so great a multitude, I was not willing that the timo-

rousness of the soldier should appear to the people of Tiberias.

So I called to Clitus himself, and said to him, " Since thou de-

'« sefvest to lose both thine hands for thy ingratitude to me, be

" thou thine own executioner, lest, if thou refusest so to be,

" thou undergo a worse punishment." And, when he earnestly

begged

plainly ships; so that we need not wonder at our Evangelists, who still call
them

shipi; nor ought we to render them boats, ai some do. Their number was ia

all 130, as we learn from our author elsewhere, Of the War, B. II. ch. xxi.
sect. 8.

