Chap. IV. ANTKLUITIES OF THE JEWS. 141

on account of the dignity of their families, and that accruing to

the'tn by their marriages ; for Marcus Minutianus was illustri­

ous, both by his own nobility, and by his having married Julia,

the sister of Caius, who accordingly was very ready to claim

the government, although the consuls discouraged him, and made

one delay after another in proposing it: that Minucianus also,

who was one of Caius's murderers, restrained Valerius of Asia

from thinking of such things ; and a prodigious slaughter there

had been, if leave had been given to these men to set up for

themselves, and oppose Claudius. There were also a consider­

able number of gladiators besides, and of those soldiers who

kept watch by night in the city, and rowers of ships, who all

ran into the camp ; insomuch, that of those who put in for the

government, some left off their pretensions in order to spare the

city, and others out of fear for their own persons.

4. But as soon as ever it was day, Cherea, and those that

were with him, came into the senate, and attempted to make

speeches to the soldiers. However, the multitude of those sol­

diers, when they saw that they were making signals for silence

with their hands, and were ready to begin to speak to them, grew

tumultuous, and would not let them speak at all, because they

were all zealous to be under a monarchy; and they demanded of

the senate one for their rulers, as not enduring any longer delays:

but the senate hesitated about either their own governing, or

how they should themselves be governed, while the soldiers

would not admit them to govern, and the murderers of Caius

would not permit the soldiers to dictate to them. When they

were in these circumstances, Cherea was not able to contain the

anger he had, and promised, that if they desired an emperor,

he would give them one, if any one would bring him the watch­

word from Eutychus. Now, this Eutychus was charioteer of

the green-band faction, styled Prasirie, and a great friend of

Caius, who used to harass the soldiery with building stables for

the horses, and spent his time in ignominious labours, which oc­

casioned Cherea to reproach them with him, and to abuse them

with much other scurrilous language ; and told them, " he would

'' bring them the head of Claudius ; and that it was an amazing

" thing, that after their former madness, they should commit

" their government to a fool." Yet were not they moved with

his words, but drew their swords, and took up their ensigns, and

went to Claudius, to join in taking the oath of fidelity to him.

So the senate were left without any body to defend them, and

the very consuls differed nothing from private persons. They

also under consternation aad sorrow, men not knowing what

would

