PREFACE. 24!)

ter, dissolved their government, and brought Sosius upon them ;

as also how our people made a sedition upon Herod's death,

while Augustus was the Roman emperor, and Quintilius Varus

was in that country ; and how the war broke out in the twelfth

year of Nero, with what happened to Cestius ; and what places

the Jews assaulted in an hostile manner in the first sallies of the

war.

8. As also, p shall relate] how they built walls about the

neighbouring cities ; and how Nero, upon Cestius's defeat, was

in fear of the entire event of the war, and thereupon made Ves­

pasian general in this war ; and how this Vespasian, with the *

elder of his sons, made an expedition into the country of Judea ;

what was the number of the Roman army that he made use of ;

and how many of his auxiliaries were cut off in all Galilee ; and

how he took some of its cities entirely, and by force, and others

of them by treaty, and on terms. Now, when I come so far,

I shall describe the good order of the Romans in war; and the

discipline of their legions ; the amplitude cf both the Galilees,

with its nature, and the limits of Judea. And, besides this, I

shall particularly go over what is peculiar to the country, the

lakes and fountains that are in them, and what miseries happened

to every city as they were taken ; and all this with accuracy as

I saw the things done, or suffered in them. For 1 shall not

conceal any of the calamities I myself endured, since I shall

relate them to such as know the truth of them.

9. After this, [I shall relate] how, when the Jews affairs

were become very bad, Nero died, and Vespasian, when he was

going to attack Jerusalem, was called back to take the govern­

ment upon him ; what signs happened to him relating to his

gaining that government, and what mutations of government then

happened at Rome, and how he was unwillingly made emperor

by his soldiers, and how,' upon his departure to ligypt, to take

upon him the government of the empire, the affairs of the Jews

became very tumultuous ; as also how the tyrants rose up against

them, and fell into dissensions amongst themselves.

10. Moreover, [I shall relate] how Titus marched out of

Egypt into Judea the second time ; as also how, and where, and

how many forces he got together ; apd in what state the city was,

by the means of the seditious, at his coming; what attacks he maie,

and how many ramparts he c-j'st up ; of the three walls that en­

compassed the city, and of their measures ; of the strength of the

city, and the structure of the temple, and holy house ; and be­

sides, the measures of those edifices, and of the altar, and all ac­

curately determined. A description also of certain of their

III* I i festivals;

* Titus.

