372 Book II. WARS OF THE JEWS.

man to him. But when Caesar saw him, he immediately dis­

cerned a difference in his countenance, and when he had discover­

ed that his whole body was of a more robust texture, and like

that of a slave, he understood the whole was a contrivance. But

the impudence of what hesaid greatly provoked him to be angry

'at him; for when he was asked about Aristobulus, he said, That

** he was also preserved alive, and was left on purpose in Cy-  
*' prus, for fear of treachery, because it would be harder for  
*' plotters to get them both into their power while they were  
' separate." Then did Caesar take him by himself privately,

arid said tp him.," I will give thee thy life, if thou wilt discover

f* who it was that persuaded thee to forge such stories." So he

said, that he would discover him, and followed Caesar, and point­

ed to that Jew who abused the resemblance of his face to get

money; for that he had received more presents in every city

than ever Alexander did when he was alive. Caesar laughed

at the contrivance, and put this spurious Alexander among his

rowers, on account of the strength of his body, but ordered him

that persuaded him to be put to death. But for the people of

Melos, they had been sufficiently punished for their folly, by

the expences they had been at on his account.

3. And now Archelaus took possession of his ethnarchy, and

used not the Jews only, but the Samaritans also, barbarously;

and this out of his resentment of their old quarrels with him.

Whereupon they both of them sent ambassadors against him to

Caesar, and in the ninth year of his government he was banished

to Vienna, a city of Gaul, and his effects were put into Caesar's

treasury. But the report goes, that before he was sent for by

Caesar, he seemed to see nine ears of corn, full and large, but de­

voured by oxen. When, therefore, he had sent for the diviners,

and some of the Chaldeans, and inquired of them what they

thought it portended, and when one of them had one interpreta­

tion, and another had another, Simon, one of the sect of the EsT

sens, said, That t he thought the ears of corn denoted years, and

" the oxen denoted a mutation of- things, because by their

" ploughing they made an alteration of the country. That

f* therefore he should feign as many years as there were ears of

*' corn, and after he had passed through various alterations of  
f* fortune, should die.1' Now five days after Archelaus had

heard this interpretation, he was called to his trial.

4. I cannot also but think it worthy to be recorded, what

dream Glaphyra, the daughter of Archelaus, king of Cappado-

cia, had, who had at first been wife to Alexander, who was the

brother of Archelaus, concerning whom we have been discoursing.

This Alexander was the son of Herod the king, by whom he

