Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Ill

he sent soldiers immediately, and ordered them to plunder the

neighbouring villages, and to bring the most eminent persons a-

mong them in bonds to him. Now, as this devastation was

making, one of the soldiers seized the laws of Moses that lay in

one of those villages, and brought them out before the eyes of all

present, and tore them to pieces ; and this was done with re-

proachful language, and much scurrility. Which things when

the Jews heard of, they ran together, and that in great numbers,

and came down to Cesarea, where Cuvnanus then was,, and be­

sought him that he would avenge, not themselves, but God him-

self, whose laws had been affronted; for that they could not beat

lo live any longer, if the laws of their forefathers must be affront­

ed after this manner. Accordingly Cumanus, out of fear left

the multitude should go into a sedition, and by the advice of his

friends also, took care that the soldier who had offered the affront

to the laws should be beheaded, and thereby put a stop to the

'^edition which was ready to be kindled a second time.

CHAP. VI.

flo'ui there happened a quarrel between the Jews and the Samari­

tans, and how Claudius put an end to their differences.

$ 1. "TVTOW there arose a quarrel between the Samaritans and

,*-* the Jews on the occasion following : It was the custom

of the Galileans, when they came to the holy city at the festi­

vals, to take their journeys through the country of the Sama­

ritans * ; and at this time there lay, in the road they took, a

village that was called Ginoa, which was situated in the limits

of Samaria and the great plain, where certain persons thereto

belonging fought with the Galileans, and killed a great many of

them. But, when the principal of the Galileans were informed

of what had been done, they came to Cumanus, and desired him

to avenge the murder of those that were killed ; but he was in­

duced by the Samaritans, with money, to do nothing in the

matter; upon which the Galileans were much displeased, and

persuaded the multitude of the Jews to betake themselves to

arms, and to regain their liberty, saying, That " slavery was

" in itself a bitter thing, but that, when it was joined with di-

" rect injuries, it was perfectly intolerable." And when their

principal men endeavoured to pacify them, and promised to en­

deavour to persuade Cumanus to avenge those that were killed,

Y 2 ° they

* This constant passage of the Galileans through the country of Samaria, as  
they went to Judea and Jerusalem, illustrates several passages in the gospels
to

the same purpose, as Dr Hudson rightly observes. See Luke' xvii. i. John, iv.
4.

See also Josephus in his own life, sect. 52 where that journey is determined
t*

three davs.

