388 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

CHAP. XII.

Many tumults tinder Cumanus, luUch "were composed by ^ua-

dratus. Felix is procurator of Judea. dgrippa is advanced

from Clalcis to a greater kingdom.

$ 1. 'M'OW after the death of Herod, king of Chalcls, Claudius

set Agrippa, the son of Agrippa, over his uncle's king.

dom, while Cumanus took upon him the office of procurator of

the rest, which was a Roman province, and therein he succeeded

Alexander, under which Cumanus began the troubles, and the

Jews ruin came on; fur when the multitude were come together

to Jerusalem, to the feast of unleavened bread, and a Roman co­

hort stood over the cloisters of the temple, (for they always were

armed and kept guard at the festivals, to prevent any innovation,

which the multitude thus gathered together might make), one

of the soldiers pulled back his garment, and couring down after

an indecent manner, and turned his breech tothe Jews, and spake

such -words as you may expect upon such a posture. At thia

the whole multitude had indignation, and made a clamour to

Cumanus, that he would punish the soldier; while the rasher

part of the youth, and such as were naturally the most tumultu­

ous, fell to fighting, and caught up stones, and threw them at the

soldiers. Upon which Cumanus was afraid lest all the people

should make an assault upon him, and sent to call for more arm.

ed men, who, when they came in great numbers into the clois­

ters, the Jews were in a very great consternation, and being

beaten out of the temple, they ran into the city, and the vio­

lence with which they crowded to get out was so great, that

they trode upon each other, and squeezed one another, till ten

thousand of them were killed, insomuch that this feast became

the cause of mourning to the whole nation, and every family

lamented [their own relations}.

2. Now there followed after this another calamity, which a-

rose from a tumult made by robbers; for at the public road of

Beth-lioron, one Stephen, a servant of Caesar, carried some furni­

ture, which the' robbers fell upon, and seized; upon this Cuma­

nus sent men to go round about to the neighbouring villages, and

to bringtheir inhabitants to him bound, aslaying it totheircharge

that they had not pursued after the thieves, and caught them.

Now here it was that a certain soldier, finding the sacred book

of the law, tore it to pieces, and * threw it into the fire. Here­

upon the Jews were in great disorder, as if their whole country

were

* Reland notes here, that the Talmud, in recounting ten sad accidents for which  
the Jews ought to rend their garments, reckons this for or.e, " When they
htfcr

" that t}ie law of God is bjirn?,"

