THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 195

vehement exhortation, because I foresaw that the end of such a

war would be most unfortunate to us. But I could not persuade

them ; for the madness of desperate men was quite too hard for

me.

5. I was then afraid, lest, by inculcating these things so often,

I should incur their hatred and their suspicions, as if I were of

our enemies party, and should run into the danger of being sei­

zed by them, and slain ; -since they were already possessed of

Antonia, which was the citadel ; so I retired into the inner court

of the temple. Yet did I go out of the temple again, after Ma-

nahem and the principal of the band of robbers were put to death,

when I abode among the high-priests and the chief of the Pha­

risees. But no small fear seized upon us when we ?aw the peo­

ple in arms, while we ourselves knew not what we should do.,

and were not able to restrain their seditions. However, as the

danger was directly upon us, we pretended that we were of the

same opinion with them, but only advised them to be quiet for

the present, and to let the enemy go away, still hoping, that

-Gessius [Floras]'would not be long ere he came, and th^t with  
great forces, and so put an end to these seditious proceedings.

6. But, upon his coming and fighting, hewasbeaten, and a great

many of those that were with him fell. And this disgrace [which

,Gessius with Casfius] received, became the calamity of our whole

nation ; for those that were fond of the war were so far elevated

with this success, that they had hopes of finally conquering the

Romans. Of which war another occasion was ministered ;

•which was this, Those that dwelt in the neighbouring cities of

Syria seized upon such Jews as dwelt among them, with their

wives and children, and slew them, when they' had not the least

occasion of complaint against them ; for they did neither attempt

any innovation or revolt from the Romans, nor had they given

any marks of hatred or treacherous designs towards the Syrians.

But what was done by the inhabitants of Scythopolis was the

most impious and most highly criminal of all * ; for, when the

Jews their enemies came upon them from without, they forced

the Jews that were among them to bear arms against their own

countrymen, which it is unlawful for us to do-f-; and when, by

their assistance, they had joined battle with those that attacked

them, and had beaten them, after that victory they forgot the

B b 2 assurances

« See Of the War, B. II. ch. xviii. sect 3.

+ The Jews might collect this unlawfulness of fighting against their brethren

iram that law of Moses, Levit. xix. 16. " Thou i'halt not s.arul against the
blood

•• of thy neighbour ;" and that, ver. 17. " Thou shalt nor avenge, nor btar
any

" grudge against the children of thy people; but ihou shalt love ihy neighbour
as

." thvselt;'' as well as from many other places in the IV'Mtciich and
Prophets.

See Aatig. B. VHI.xh.viii. sect. 3.

