Chap. XI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 281

and among them he required one Malichus, who was at enmity

with him, to do his part also, which necessity forced him to do.

Now Herod, in the first place, mitigated the passion of Gassius,

by bringing his share out of Galilee, which was an hundred ta­

lents, on which account he was in the highest favour with him ;

and when he reproached the rest for being tardy, he was angry

at the cities themselves ; so he made slaves of Gophna and Em-

maus, and two others of less note ; nay, he proceeded as if he

would kill Malichus, because he had not made greater haste in

exacting his tribute ; but Antipater prevented the ruin of this

man, and of the other cities, and got into * Cassius's favour by

bringing in' an hundred talents immediately.

3. However, when Cassius was gone, Malichus forgot the

kindness that Antipater had done him, and laid frequent plots

against him that had saved him, as making haste to get him out

of the way, who was an obstacle to his wicked practices ; but

Antipater -was so much afraid of the power and cunning of the

man, that he went beyond Jordan in order to get an army to

guard himself against his treacherous designs ; but when Mali­

chus was caught in his plot, he put upon Antipater's sons by his

impudence, for he thoroughly deluded Phasaelus, who was the

guardian of Jerusalem, and Herod who was intrusted with the

weapons of war, and this' by a great many excuses and oaths, and

persuaded them to procure his reconciliation to his father. Thus

was he preserved again by Antipater, who dissuaded Marcus,

the then president of Syria, from his resolution of killing Mali­

chus, on account of his attempts for innpyation.

4. Upon the war between Cassius ancf Brutus on one side, a-

gainst the younger Caesar [Augustus] and Antony on the other,

Cassius and Marcus got together an army out of Syria ; and be­

cause Herod was likely to have a great share in providing neces­

saries, they then made him procurator of all Syria, and gave him

an army of foot and horse. Cassius promised him also> that after

the war was over, he would make him king of Judea ; but it so

happened, that tke power and hopes of his son became the cause

of his perdition ; for, as Malichus was afraid of this, he corrupt­

ed one of the king's cup-bearers with money, to give a poisoned

potion to Antipater; so he became a sacrifice to Malichus's wic­

kedness, and died at a feast. He was a man in other respects ac-

VOL. III. N n live

* It appears evidently by Josephus's accounts, both here and in his Antiquities  
B.'XIV. ch. xi. sect. i. that this Cassius, oneof Caesar's murderers, was a
bitter

oppressor, and exacter of tribute in .judea, these 700 talents amount to about

L. 300,000 Sterling, and are about half the yearly revenues of king Herod
after.

wards. See the note on Antiq. B. XVII. ch. xi. sect. 4. It abo appears that

Galilee then paid no more than 100 talents, or the 7th part of the entire sum
to

be levied in all the cpuntry.

