Chap. VI. ANTIOjnTIES OF THE JEWS. Ifl

knowledge of the truth of that matter. So these men went away '

without success. Yet was it not long ere Quadratus came to ,

Samaria, where, upon hearing the cause, he supposed that the \

Samaritans were the authors of that disturbance. But, when

he was informed' that certain of the Jews were making innova­

tions, he ordered those to be crucified whom Cumanus had taken

captives. From whence he came to a certain village called Lyd-

dn, which was not less than a city in largeness, and there heard

tlie Samaritan cause a second time before his tribunal, and there

learned from a certain .Samaritan, that one of the chief of the

Jews, whose name was Dortu't, and some other innovators with

him, four in number, persuaded the multitude to a revolt from

die Romans ; whom Quadratus ordered to be put to death : b^f

still he sent away Ananias the high-priest, and Ananus the com­

mander [of the temple], in bonds to Rome, to give an account

of what they had done to Claudius Caesar. He also ordered

the principal men, both of the Samaritans and of the Jews, as

also Cumanus the procurator, and Celer the tribune, to go to Italy

to th<e emperor, that he might hear their cause, and determine

their differences one with another. But he came again to the

city of Jerusalem, out of his fear that the multitude of the Jews

should attempt some innovations ; but he found the city in a

peaceable state, and celebrating one of the usual festivals of their

country to God. So he believed that they would not attempt

any innovations, and left them at the celebration of the festival,

and returned to Antioch.

3. Now Cumanus, and the principal of th£ Samaritans, who

were sent to Rome, had a day appointed them by the emperor,

whereon they were to have pleaded their cause about the quar­

rels they had one with another. But now Cfesar's freed-men,

and his friends, were very zealous on the behalf of Cumanus

and the Samaritans ; and they had prevailed over the Jews, un­

less Agrippa junior, who was then at Rome, had seen the prin­

cipal of the Jews hard set, and had earnestly entreated Agrip-

pina, the emperor's wife, to persuade her husband to hear the

cause, so as was agreeable to his justice, and to condemn those

to be punished who were really the authors of this revolt from

the Roman government. Whereupon Claudius was so well dis­

posed before-hand, that when he had heard the cause, and found

that the Samaritans had been the ringleaders in those mischie­

vous doings, he gave order, that those who came up to him should

be slain, and that Cumanus should be banished. He also gave

order, that Celer the tribune should'be carried back to Jerusa­

lem, and should be drawn through the city in the sight of all the

people, and then should be slair.

CHAP.

