426 WARS or THE JEWS. v Book 1L

and marched to Antipatris. And when he was informed that

there was a great body of Jewish forces gotten together in a cer­

tain tower called sJpbet:, he sent a party before to fight them;

but this party dispersed the Jews by affrighting them before it

came to a battle: so they came, and finding their camp deserted,

they burnt it, as well as the villages that lay about it. But when

Cestius had marched from Antipatris to Lydda, he found the

city empty of its men, for the * whole multitude were gone up

to Jerusalem to the feast of tabernacles; yet did he destroy fifty

of those that shewed themselves, and burnt the city, and so

marched forwards; and ascending by Bethoron, he pitched his

camp at a certain place called Ga&io, fifty furlongs distant from

Jerusalem.

2. But as for the Jews, when they saw the war approaching

to their metropolis, they left the feast, and betook themselves to

their arms; and taking courage greatly from their multitude,

went in a sudden and disorderly manner to the fight, with a great

noise, and without any consideration had of the rest of the seventh

day, although the Sabbath was the day to which they had the,

greatest regard; but that rage which made them forget the reli.

gious observation [of the Sabbath] made them too hard for their

enemies in the fight: with such violence therefore did they fall

upon the Romans, as to break into their ranks, and to march

through the midst of them, making a great slaughter as they

went, insomuch, that unless the horsemen, and such part of the

footmen as were not yet tired in the action, had wheeled round,

and succoured that part of the army which was not yet broken,

Cestius, with his whole army, had been in danger: however,

five hundred and fifteen of the Romans were slain, of which

number four hundred were footmen, and the rest horsemen,

while the Jews lost only twenty-two, of whom the most valiant

were

* Here we have in eminent example of that Jewish language, which Dr Wall  
truly observes we several times find used in the sacred writings; I mean where
the

words all or -whole multitude, &c. are used for much the greatest part only;
but not

so as to include every person, without exception; for when Josephus had said,
that

the -whole multitude [all the males] of Lydda were gone to the feast of
tabernacles,

he immediately adds, that however no fewer than fifty of them appeared, and

were slain by the Romans. Other examples somewhat like this I have observed

elsewhere in Josephus, but, as I think, npne so remarkable as this. See Wall's

Critical Obiervations on the Old Testament, pag. 49.-jo.

We have also in this and the next section, two eminent facts to be observed,
viz.

the first example, that I remember in Josephus, of the onset of the Jews'
enemies

upon their country when their males were gone up to Jerusalem to one of their

three sacred festivals; which, daring the theocracy, God had promised to
preserve

them from, Exod. xxxiv. 24. The second fact is this, the breach of the Sabbath

by the seditious Jews in an offensive fight, contrary to the universal
doctrine and

practice of their nation in these ages, and even contrary to what they
themselves

afterward practised in the rest of this war. See the aote on Antiq. B. XVI.
ch.

3. § 4. vol. H.

