Chap. XIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 305

the multitude eomply with those orders, but were so embold­

ened by their foregoing victory, that they presently attacked

the Arabians, and beat them at the first onset, and then pursu­

ed them; yet were there snares laid for Herod in that pursuit}

while Athenio, who was one of Cleopatra's'generals, and al­

ways an antagonist to Herod, sent out of Kanatha the men of

that country against him; for, upon this fresh onset, the Ara­

bians took courage, and returned back, and both joined their

numerous forces about stoney places, that were hard to be gone

over, and there put Herod's men to the rout, and made a great

slaughter of them: but those that escaped out of the battle fled

to Ormiza, where the Arabians surrounded their camp, and

took it, with all the men in it.

3. In a little time after this calamity, Herod came to bring

them succours; but he came too late. Now the occasion of that

blow was this, that the officers would not obey orders; for had

not the fight began so suddenly, Athenio had not found a proper

season for tbe snares he laid for Herod: however, he was even

with the Arabians afterward, and over-run their country, and

did them more harm than their single victory could compensate.

But as he was avenging himself on his enemies, there fell upon

him another providential calamity ; for in the * seventh year of

his reign, when the war about Actium was at the height, at the

beginning of the spring, the earth was shaken, and destroyed an

immense number of cattle, with thirty thousand men; but the

army received no harm, because it lay in the open air. In the

mean time, the fame of this earthquake elevated the Arabians to

greater courage, and thisby augmenting it to a fabulous height,

as is constantly the case in melancholy accidents, and pretending

that all Judea was overthrown; upon this supposal, therefore,'

that they should easily get a landthat was destituteof inhabitants

into their power, they first sacrificed those ambassadors who were

come to them from the Jews, and then marched into Judea im­

mediately. Now the Jewish nation were affrighted at this in­

vasion, andquite dispiritedatthegreatnessoftheircalamities one

after another; whom yet Herod got together, and endeavoured

to

* Th's seventh year of the reign of Herod [from the conquests or death of An-  
tigonus],-with the great earthquake in the beginning of the same spring, which

are here fully implied to be not much before the fight at Actium, between
Ocuvius

and Antony, and which is known from the Roman historians to have been in the

beginning of September, in the 3151 year before the Christian sra, determines
the

chronology of Joessphus as to the reign of Herod, viz' that he began in the
year ^ 7,

beyond rational contradiction. Nor is it quite unworthy of our notice, that
thi§

seventh year of the reign of Herod, or the jlst before the Christian jera,
con­

tained the latter part of a Sabbatic year; on which Sabbatic year, therefore,
it is

plain this great earthquake happened in Judea.

VOL. III.

