Chap. IX. WARS OF THE :EWSi 5275

laid against him before his tribunal, for the mischiefs he had

done to the Romans. But Ptolemy, the son of Menneus, who

was then ruler of Chaleis, under Libanus, took his brethren to

him, by sending his son Philippic for them to Ascalon, who took

Antigonus, as well as his sisters, away from Aristobulus's wife,

and brought them to his father; and falling in love with the

younger daughter, he married her, and was afterward slain by

his father, on her account; for Ptolemy himself, after he had

slain his son, married her, whose name was Alexandra ; on ac­

count of which marriage, he took the greater care of her brother

and sister.

3. Now, after Pompey was dead, Antipater changed sides, and

cultivated a friendship with Caesar. And, since Mithridates of

Pergamus, with the forces he led against Egypt, was excluded

from the avenues about Pelusium, and was forced to stay at As­

calon, he persuaded the Arabians, among whom he had lived, to

assist him, and came himself to him, at the head of three thousand

armed men^ He also encouraged the men of power in Syria to

come to his assistance, as also of the inhabitants of Libanus, Pto­

lemy, and Jamblicus, and another Ptolemy; by which means the

cities of that country came readily into this war; insomuch, that

Mithridates ventured now, iri dependence upon the additional

strength that he had gotten by Antipater, to march forward to

Pelusium ; ahd^ when they refused him a passage through it, he

besieged the city; in the attack of which place, Antipater prin­

cipally signalized himself, for he brought down that part of the

wall which was over against him, and leaped first Of all into the

city, with the men that were about him.

4. Thus was Pelusium taken. But still, as they were march­

ing on, those Egyptian Jews that inhabited the country, called

the country of Chiias, stopped them. Then did Antipater not

only pesuade them not to stop them, but to afford provisions for

their army ; on which account even the people about Memphis

would not fight against them, but, of their Own accord, joined

Mithridates. Whereupon he went round about Delta, and

fought the rest of the Egyptians At a place called the Jews

Camp : nay^ when he Was in danger in the battle with all his

right wing, Antipater wheeled about, and came along the bank

of the river to him ; for he had beaten those that opposed him

as he led the left wing. After which success he fell upon those

that pursued Mithridates, and slew a great many of them, and

pursued the remainder so far that he took their camp, while

he lost no more than fourscore of his own men; as Mithridates

lost, during the pursuit that was made after him, about eight

hundred. He was also himself saved unexpectedly, and became

M m2 an

