246 Book XIX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

" my kindness to them with moderation, and not to shew a con-

** tempt of the superstitious observances of other nations, but to  
** keep their own laws only. And I will that this decree of mine  
" be engraven on tables by the magistrates of the cities and colo-

" nies, and municipal places, both those within Italy, and those

" without it, both kings and governors, by the means pf the

" ambassadors, and to have them exposed to the public for full

" thirty days, in such a place *, whence it may plainly be read

from the ground.''

CHAP, VI.

What things were done by Agrippa at Jerusalem, when he was re-*

turned back into Judea : and what it was that Petronius wrote

to the inhabitants of Doris, in behalf of, the Jews.

§ 1. TVTOW Claudius Caesar, by these decrees of his which was

' sent to Alexandria, and to all the habitable earth, made

known what opinion he had of the Jews. So he soon sent

Agrippa away, to take his kingdom, now he was advanced to a

more illustrious dignity than before, and sent letters to the pre­

sidents and procurators of the provinces, that they should treat

him very kindly. Accordingly, he returned in haste, as was

likely he would, now he returned in much greater prosperity

than he had before. He also came to Jerusalem, and offered

all the sacrifices that belonged to him, and omitted nothing f

which the law required ; on which account he ordained that

many of the Nazarites should have their heads shorn. And

for the golden chain which had been given him by Caius, of

equal weight with that iron chain wherewith his royal hands had

been bound, he hung it up within the limits of the temple, over

the treasury t, that it might be a memorial of the severe fata

he had lain under, and a testimony of his change for the better ;

that it might be a demonstration how the greatest prosperity may

have a fall, and that God sometimes raises up what is fallen

down : for this chain thus dedicated afforded a document to all

men,

* This form was so known and frequent among the Romans, as Dr Hudson  
here tells us, from the great Selden, that it used to be thus represented at
the

bottom of their edicts by the initial letters only, U. D. P. R. L. Vnde De
Piano

Xecte Lrgi Poisit. ". Whence it may be plainly read from the ground."

f Josephus shews both here and ch. vii. sect. 3. that he had a much greater

opinion of kins; Agrippa I. than Simon the learned rabbi, than the people of
Ce.

sarea and Sebaste, ch. vii. sect. 4. and ch. ix. sect. t. and indeed than his
double

iiealing between the senate and Claudius, chap. iv. sect 2. than his slaughter
o£

lames, the brother of John, and his imprisonment of Peter, or his vain-
glorious

behaviour before he died, both in Acts xii. f, 1, 3. and here, ch. iv. sect.
t. will

justify or allow. Josephus's character was probably taken from his son Agrippa

J nior.

i. This treasury-chamber seems to have been the very same in which our Sa­

viour taught, and where the people offered their charity-money for the repairs

pr other uses of the temple. Mark, xii. 41. &c. Luke, xxii. I.John, viii. 20.

