Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 85

affected in the same manner by the report of the others that had

been with him : and, upon his death, there was a lamentation*

made by all men; not such an one as was to be made in way of

flattery to their rulers, while they did but counterfeit sorrow,

but such as was real; while every body grieved at his deathr

as if they had lost one that was near to diem. And truly such

had been his easy conversation with men, that it turned greatly

to the advantage of his son among all; and| among others, the

soldiery were so peculiarly affected to him, that they reckoned

it an eligible thing, if need were, to die themselves, if he might

but attain to the government.

9. But whe:i Tiberius had given order to Euodus to bring

the children to him the next day in the morning, he prayed to

his country-gods to shew him a manifest signal, which of those

children should come to the government; being very desirous to

leave it to his son's son, but still depending upon what God

should foreshew concerning them, more thanupon his own opi­

nion and inclination ; so he made this to be the omen, that the

government should be left to him who should come to him first

the next day. When he had thus resolved within himself, he

sent to his grandson's tutor, and ordered him to bring the child

to him early in the morning, as supposing that God would per­

mit him to be made emperor. But God proved opposite to his

designation ; for, while Tiberius was thus contriving matters,

and as soon as it was at all day, he bid Euodus to call in that child

which should be there ready. So he went out, and found Cai-

us before the door, for Tiberius was not yet come, but staid

waiting for his breakfast; for Euodus knew nothing of what his

lord intended ; so he said to Caius, " Thy father calls thee," and

then brought him in. As soon as Tiberius saw Caius, and not

before, he reflected on the power of God, and how the ability of

bestowing the government oa whom he would, was entirely taken

from him; and thence he was not able to establish what he had

intended. So he greatly lamented that his power of establishing

what he had before contrived was taken from him, and that his

grandson Tiberius was not only to lose the Roman empire by

his fatality, but his own safety also, because his preservatioa

would now depend upon such as would be more potent than him­

self, who would think it a thing not to be borne, that a kinsman

should live with them, and so his relation would not be able to

protect him : but he would be feared and hated by him who had

the supreme authority, partly on account of his being next to the

empire, and partly on account of his perpetually contriving to

get the governmenti both in order to preserve himself, and to be

at the head of affairs also. Now Tiberius had been very much

given

