Chap. XII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 51

of his mother's family. And when he was come, he was car.

Sried in a royal litter through the streets, and all the ornaments

about him was such as kings are adorned withal; and this was

at the expence of those that entertained him. The multitude

also flocked about him greatly, and made mighty acclamations

to him, and nothing was omitted which could be thought suit­

able to such as had been so unexpectedly preserved.

2. When this thing was told Caesar, he did not believe it, be­

cause Herod was not easily to be imposed upon in such affairs as

were of great concern to him ; yet, having some suspicion it

might be so, he sent one Celadus, a freed man of his, and one

that had conversed with the young men themselves, and bade him

bring Alexander into his presence : so he brought him, being no

more accurate in judging about him than the rest of the multi­

tude. Yet did not he deceive Caesar; for although there were

a resemblance between him and Alexander, yet was it not so ex­

act as to impose on such as were prudent in discerning ; for this

spurious Alexander had his hands rough, by the labours he had

been put to, and instead of that softness of body which the other

had, and this as derived from his delicate and generous educar

tion, this man, for the contrary reason, had a rugged body.

When, therefore, Caesar saw how the master and the scholar

agreed in this lying story, and in a bold way of talking, he in­

quired about Aristobulus, and asked what became of him, who

(it seems) was stolen away together with him, and for what

reason it was that he did not come along with him, and endea­

vour to recover that dominion which was due to his high birth

fclso? And when he said, That " he had been left in the isle

" of Crete, for fear of the dangers of the sea, that, in case any

«' accident should come to himself, the posterity of Mariamne

" might not utterly perish, but that Aristobulus might sur-

" vive, and punish those that laid such treacherous designs a-

'' gainst them." And when he persevered in his affirmations,

and the author of the imposture agreed in supporting it, Caesar

took the young man by himself, and said to him, «' If thou wilt

" not impose upon me, thou shalt have this for thy reward, that

" thou shalt escape with thy life ; tell me, then, who thou art!

" and who it was that had boldness enough to contrive such a

" cheat as this. For this contrivance is too considerable a piece

" of villany to be undertaken by one of thy age." According­

ly, because he had no other way to take, he told Caesar the con­

trivance, and after what manner, and by whom it was laid to­

gether. So Caesar, upon observing the spurious Alexander to

'be a strong active man, and fit to work with his hands, that he

Anight not break his promise to him, put him among those that

G 2 were

