364 Book II. WARS OF THE JEWS.

multitude of his own servants, all which he armed and used as

the instruments of hiscovetousness. Nowwhenthat feast, which

was observed after seven weeks, and which the Jews call Pente­

cost (i. e. the 50th day) was at hand, its name being takeufrom

the number of the days [after the passover], the people got to­

gether, but not on account of the accustomed divine worship,

but of the indignation they had [at the present state of affairs].

Wherefore an immense multitude ran together, out of Galilee,

and Idumea, and Jericho, and Perea, that was beyond Jordan ;

but the people that naturally belonged to Judea itself were above

the rest, both in number, and in the alacrity of the men. So

they distributed themselves into three parts, and pitched their

camps in three places; one at the north side of the temple, ano­

ther at the south side, by the Hippodrome and the third part

were at the palace on the west. So they lay round about the

Romans on every side, and besieged them.

2. Now Sabinus was affrighted, both at the multitude, and at

their courage, and sent messengers to Varus continually, and

besought him to come to his succour quickly, for that, if he

delayed, his legion would be cut to pieces. As for Sabinus

himself, he got up to the highest tower of the fortress, which

was ealled Phasaelus; it is of the same name with Herod's

brother, who was destroyed by the Parthians; and then he

made signs to the soldiers of that legion to attack the enemy;

for his astonishment was so great, that he durst not go down to

his own men. Hereupon the soldiers were prevailed upon, and

leaped out into the temple, and fought a terrible battle with the.

Jews; in which, while there were none over their heads to

distress thero, they were too hard for them, by their skill, and

the others' want of skill, in war; but when once many of the

Jews had gotten up to the tqp of the cloisters, and threw their

darts downwards, upon the heads qf the Romans, there were a

great many of them destroyed. Nor was it easy to avenge them-*.

Selves upon those that threw their weapons from on high, nor

Was it more easy for them to suitain those who came to fight

them hand to hand.

9. Since therefore the Romans were sorely afflicted by both

these circumstances, they set fire to the cloisters, which were

works to be admired, both;on account of their magnitude and

costliness. Whereupon those that were above them were pre­

sently encompassed with the flame, and many of them perished

therein; as many of them also were destroyed by the enemy,

who came suddenly upon them; some of them also threw them­

selves down from the walls backward, and some there were

Who, from the desperate condition they were in, prevented the

