&S AXTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

sent down great showers of rain, contrary to human expectation ;

for that day was a clear day, and gave no sign, by the appearance

of the sky, of any rain ; nay, the whole year had been subject to

a great drought, and made men despair of any water from above,

even when at any time they saw the heavens over-cast with

clouds ; insomuch, that when such a great quantity of rain came,

and that in an unusal manner, and without any other expectation'

of it, the Jews hoped that Petronius would by no means fail in

his petition for them. But as to Petronius, he was mightily sur­

prised when he perceived that God evidently took care of the

Jews, and gave very plain signs of his appearance*, and this to

such a degree, that those that were in earnest much inclined to

the contrary, had no power left to contradict it. This was also

among those other particulars which he wrote to Caius, which

all tended to dissuade him, and by all means to entreat him not to

make so many ten thousands of these men go distracted ; whom

if he should slay, (for without war they would by no means suf­

fer the laws of their worship to be set aside), he would lose the

revenue they paid him, and would be publicly cursed by them

for all future ages. Moreover, that God, who was their gover­

nor, had shewed his power most evidently on their account, and

that such a power of his as left no room for doubt about it.—•

And this was the business that Petronius was now engaged in.

1. But king Agrippa, who now lived at Rome, was more and

more in the favour of Caius ; and when he had once made him

a supper, and was careful to exceed all other, both in expenees

and in such preparations as might contribute most to his pleasure ;

nay, it was so far from the ability of others, that Caius himself

could never equal, much less exceed it, (such care had he taken

beforehand to exceed all men, and particularly to make all agree­

able to Ctesar) : hereupon Caius admired his understanding and

,magnificence, that he should force himself to do all to please him,

even beyond such expenees as he could bear, and was desirous

not to be behind Agrippa in that generosity, which he exerted

in order to please him. So Caius, when he had drank wine

plentifully, and was merrier than ordinary, said thus during the

feast, when Agrippa had drunk to him : " I knew before now

" f how great a respect thou hast had for me, and how great

" kindness thou hast shewed me, though with those hazards to

" thyself, which thou underwentest under Tiberius on that a.c-

" count; nor hast thou omitted any thing to shew thy good-will

" towards us, even beyond thy ability ; whence it would be a

" base thing for me to be conquered by thy affection. I am

" therefore

* See the preceding note.

t This behaviour of Caius to Agrippa, is very like that of Herod Antipas, his

uncle, to Herod i its, Agrippu's sister, about John the Baptist, Matt. ziv.
6—n.

