4 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

ever his brothers had been ; while Archelaus, a king, would

support his daughter's sons, and Pheroras, a tetrarch, would

accept of on? of the daughters as a wife to his son. What

provoked him also was this, that all the multitude would so

commiserate these fatherless children, and so hate him, [for

making them fatherless], that all would come out, since they

Were no strangers to his vile disposition towards his brethren.

He contrived, therefore, to overturn his father's settlements,

as thinking it a terrible thing that they should be so related to

him, and be so powerful withal. So Herod yielded to him,

and changed his resolution at his intreaty ; and the determina­

tion now was, that Antipater himself should marry Aristobu-

lus's daughter, and \ntipater's son should marry Pheroras's

daughter. So the espousals for the marriages were changed

after this manner, even without the king's real approbation.

Now Herod* the king had at this time nine wives; one of

them Antipater's mother, and another the high-priest's daugh­

ter, by whom he had a son of his own name. He had also

one who was his brother's daughter, and another his sister's

daughter ; which two had no children. One-of his wives also

was of the Samaritan nation, whose sons were Antipas and

Archelaus, and whose daughter was Olympias ; which daugh­

ter was afterward married to Joseph, the king's brother's son;

but Archelaus and Antipas were brought up with 'a certain

private man at Rome. Herod had also to wife Cleopatra of

Jerusalem, and by her he had his sons Herod and Philip ;

which last was also brought up at Rome: Pallas also was one

of his wives, which bare him his son Phasaelus. And besides

these, he had for his wives Phedra and Elpis, by whom he

had his daughters Roxana and Salome. As for his elder

daughters by the same mother with Alexander and Aristobu-

lus, and whom Pheroras neglected to marry, he gave the one

in marriage to Antipater, the king's sister's son, and the ether

to Phasaelus, his brother's son. And this was the posterity of

Herod.

CHAP.

* Those who have a mind to know all the family and descendants of An­  
tipater the Idumean, and of Herod the Great, his son, and have a memory

to preserve them all distinctly, may consult Josephus, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. v.

§ 4. vol. 11. and Of the War, B. I. ch. xxviii. § 4. vol. III. and Noldius in
Ha-

vercamp's edition, p. 336. and Spanheim, ib. p 402.—405. and Reland, Pales-

tin. Part I. p. 175. 276. , • ;,

