Chap. IT. , ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 131

" and are only accountable to one another, (which form of go-

" vernment affords us the hest assurance of our present concord,

" and promises us the best security from evil designs, and will

" be most for our own glory in settling the city in good order),

" you ought, every one of you in particular, to make provision

'' for his own, and in general for the public utility ; or, on the

" contrary, they may declare their dissent to such things as

" have been proposed, and this without any hazard of danger to

" come upon them ; because they "have now no lord set over

" them, who, without fear of punishment, could do mischief to

" the city, and had an uncontroulable porwer to ta'Tte off those

" that freely declared their opinions. Nor has any thing so

" much contributed to this increase of -tyranny of late as sloth,

" and a timorous forbearance of contradicting the emperor's

" will; while men had -an over-great inclination to the sweet-

" ness of peace, and had learned to live like 'slaves, and as many

" of us as either heard of intolerable calamities that happened

'•' at a distance from us, or saw the miseries that were -near us,

" out of the dread of dying virtuously, endured a death joined

" with the utmost infamy. V/e ought, t'hen, in the first place,

" to decree the greatest honours we are able to those that have

" taken off the tyrant, especially to Cherea Cassius ; for this

'' one man, with the assistance of the gods, hath, by his counsel,

11 and by his actions, been the procurer of our liberty. Nor

'• ought we to forget him now we have recovered our liberty,

" who, under the foregoing tyranny, took counsel before-hand,

" and before-hand hazarded himself for our liberties ; but ought

" to decree him proper honours, and thereby freely declare, that

" he from the beginning acted with our approbation. And cer-

" tainly it is a very excellent thing, and what becomes freemen,

" to requite their benefactors, as this man hath been a benefac-

'' tor to us a1!, though not at all like Cassius and Brutus, who

" slew Caius Julius [Caesar] ; for those men laid the foundations

«' of sedition and civil wars in -our city, but this man, together

" with his slaughter of the tyrant, hath set our city free from all

" those sad miseries which arose from the tyranny *."

3. And this was the purport of Sentius's oration, whfch was

received with pleasure by the senators, and by as many of the

equestrian order as were present. And now one Trebellius

Maximus rose up hastily, and took off Sentius's finger a ring,

R 2 which

*'ln this oration of Sentius Satiirninns, we may see the greit value virtuous  
'men put upon public liberty, and the sad misery they underwent, while they

were tyrannized over by such emperors as Caius. See Josephus's own short but

pithy reflection at the end of the chapter: " So difficult," fays he, " it is
for those

U:to obtain the virtue that is necessary to a wise man; who have the absolute

ffovrer 10 do what they please without controtU.'J

