Chap. XlII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 39*

procurator of Galilee, and Samaria, and Perea, and removed A-

grippa from Chalcis unto a greater kingdom; for he gave him

the tetrarchy which had belonged to Philip, which contained Ba-

tanea, Trachonitis, and Gaulanitis: he added to it the kingdom

of Lysanias, and that province [Abilene] which Varus had go­

verned. But Claudius himself, when he had administered the

government thirteen years, eight months, and twenty days, died,

and left Nero to be his successor in the empire, whom he had

adopted by his wife Agrippina's delusions, in order to be his

successor, although he had a son of his own, whose name was

Britannicus, by Messalina his former wife, and a daughter whose

name was Octavio, whom he had married to Nero; he had also

another daughter by Petina, whose name was Antonio.

CHAP. XIII.

Nero adds four cities to Agrippa's kingdom ; but the other parts

ofjudea were under Felix:. The disturbances which were rai­

sed by the Sicarii, the magiciam, and an Eygptain false pro­

phet. The Jews and Syrians have a contest at Cesarea.

§ 1. "^"T'OW as to the many things in whicn Nero acted like a

,l,\i madman, out of the extravagant degree of the felici­

ty and riches which he enjoyed, and by that means used his good

fortune to the injury of others; and after what maner he slew

his brother, and wife, and mother, from whom his barbarity

spread

Apostles, particularly from \iKtrcmHing when St Paul disconrwd of"
righteousness,

" chastity, and judgment to come," Acts xxiv. 15. and no wonder, when we

have elsewhere seen, that he lived in adultery with Brasilia, another man's
wife,

Antiq. B. XX. ch. vii. § i. Vol. III.) in the word* of Tacitus, produced here
by

Dean Aldrich; " Felix exercised, says Tacitus, the authority of a king, with
the

11 disposition of a slave, and relying upon the great power of his brother
Pallas at

" court, thought he might safely be guilty pf all kinds of wicked practices'"
Ob­

serve also the time when he was made procurator, A. D. 52, that when St Paul

pleaded his cause before him, A. D. 58, he might have been " many years a
judge

" unto that nation'" as St Paul says he had then been, Acts Jtxiv. 10. But as
to

what Tacitus here lays, that before the death of Cumanus, Felix was procurator

over Samaria only, does not well agree with St Paul's words, who would hardly

have called Samaria a Jeiuitt nation In short, since what Tacitus here says'
if a-

bout countries very remote from Rome, where he lived; since what he says of

two Roman procurators, the one over Galilee, the other over Samaria at the
same

«ime, is without all example else where, and since Josephus, who lived at that
very

lime in Judea, appears to have known nothing of this procuratorship of Felix,
be­

fore the death of Cumamis, T much suspect the story itself, as nothing better
than

a mistake of Tacitus, especially when it seems not only omitted, but
contradicted

by Josephs; as any one may find that compares their histoiies together. Possi­

bly Felix might have been a subordinate judge among the Jews sometime before

under Cumanus, but that he was in earnest a procurator of Samaria before, I do

not believe. Bi.-hop Pearson, as well as Bishop Lloyd, quote this account, but
with'

a doubtful clause; itfdit Tacito,lS we may believe Tacitui. Pears Annal.
Puulin,

J>ajje 8' Marshal's Table$, at A, D. 49.

