Charp. XXXITI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 353

fcim in his old age, and when he was in a melancholy condition;

for he was already almost seventy years of age, and had been

brought low by the calamities that happened to him about his

children, whereby he had no pleasure in life, even when he was

in health; the grief also that Antipater was still alive aggrava­

ted his disease, whom he resolved to put to death now not at

random, but as soon as he should be well again, and resolved

to have him slain [in a public manner].

2. There ako now happened to him, among bis other calami­

ties, a certain popular sedition. There were two men of learn­

ing in the city [Jerusalem], who were thought the most skilful

in the laws of their country, and were on that account had in

very great esteem all over the nation; they were, the one Judas,

the son of Sephoris, and the other Matthias, the son of Margalus.

There was a great concourse of the young men to these men,

when they expounded the laws, and there got together every

day a kind of an army of such as were growing up to be men.

Now when these men were informed that the king was wearing

away with melancholy, and with a distemper, they dropped

wards to their acquaintance, how it was now a very proper time

to defend the cause of God, and to pull down what had been

erected contrary to the laws of their country; fer it was unlaw­

ful there should be any such thing in the temple as images, or

faces, or the like representation of any animal whatsoever. Now

the king had put up a golden eagle over the great gate' of the

temple, which these learned men exhorted them to cut down,

and told them, that if there should any danger arise, it T-vas a glo­

rious thing to die for the laws of their country ; because that

the soul was immortal, and that an eternal enjoyment cf hap­

piness did await such as died on that account; while the mean

spirited, and those that were not wise enough to shew a right

love of their souls, preferred a death by a disease, before that

which is the result of a virtuous behaviour.

3. At the same time that these men made thie speech to their

disciples, a rumour was spread abroad, that the king was dying,

,which made the young men set about the work with greater

fcoldness ; they therefore let themselves down from the top of

the temple with thick cords, and this at mid-day, and while a

great number of people were in the temple, and cut down that

golden eagle with axes. This was presently told to the king's

captain of the temple, who came running with a great body of

'soldiers, and caught about forty of the young men, and brought

,them to the king. And when he asked them, first of all, whe­

ther they had been so hardy as to cut down the golden eagle ?

they confessed they had done so ; and when he as'ked them by

Vou III, v '-<' Y y whose

