Chap. XIV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 307

5. Now on the next day, which was the seventh day of the

week, when the Jews were crowding apace to their synagogue,

a certain man of Cesarea, of a seditious temper, got an earthen

vessel, and set it with the bottom upward at the entrance of that

synagogue, and sacrificed birds *. This thing provoked the

Jews to an incurable degree, because their laws were affronted,

and the place was polluted. Whereupon the sober and moder­

ate part of the Jews thought it proper to have recourse to their

governors again, while the seditious part, and such as were in

the fervour of their youth, were vehemently inflamed to fight.

The seditious also among the [Gentiles of] Cesarea stood ready

for the same purpose; for they had, by agreement, sent the

man to sacrifice beforehand, [as ready to support him;] so that

it soon came to blows. Hereupon Jucundus, the master of the

horse, who was ordered to prevent the fight, came'thither, and

took away the earthen vessel, and endeavoured to put a stop to

the sedition; but when he was overcome by the violence of the

people of Cesarea, the Jews 'caught up their books of the law,

and retired to Narbata, which was a place to them belonging,

distant from Cesarea sixty furlongs. But John, and twelve of

the principal men with him, went toFIorus, to Sebaste, and made

a lamentable complaint of their case, and besought him to help

them; and with all possible decency, put him in mind of the

eight talents they had given him; but he had the men seized

upon, and put in prison, and accused them for carrying the

books of the law out of Cesarea.

6. Moreover, as to the citizens of Jerusalem, although they took

this matter very ill, yet did theyrestraintheirpassionj but Florus

acted herein as it he had been lured, and blew up the war into a

flame, and sent sometotake seventeen talentsoutof the sacred trea­

sure, and pretended that Caesar wanted them. A t this the peeple

were in confusion immediately, and ran together to the temple,

with prodigious clamours, and called upon Caesar by name, and

besought him to free them from the tyranny of Florus. Some

also of the seditious cried.out upon F.lorus, and cast the great­

est reproaches upon him, and carried a basket about, and begged

some spills of money for him, as for'one that was destitute of

possessions, and in a miserable condition. Yet was not he made

ashamed hereby of his love of money, but was more enraged,

and provoked to get still more; and instead of coming to Ce­

sarea,

* Take hen Dr Hudson's very pertinent note. " By this action, sayi he, the  
!' killing of a bird over an earthen vessel, the Jews were exposed as a
leprous peor

" pie; for that was to be done by the law in the cleansing of a leper, (Levit.
ch.

" xiv.) It is a'•o known that the Gentiles reproached the Jews as nibject to
the

" leprosy, and belfeted that they were driven out of Egypt on that account.
Thi»

" that eminent person Mt Reland suggested to me."

