Chap. IX. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 37

" a dying condition, both of body and mind, while Aniipas was

" called when he was ripest in his judgment, and of such strength

" of body as made him capable of managing his own affairs:

" and if his father had the like notion of him formerly that lie

«' hath now shewed, yet hath he given a sufficient specimen what

" a king he is likely to be, when he hath [in effect] deprived

" Caesar of that power of disposing of the kingdom, which he

" justly hath, and hath not abstained from making a terrible

«' slaughter of his fellow-citizens in the temple, while he was

" but a private person." ' '

C. So when Antipater had made this speech, and had confirm-.

ed what he had said by producing many witnesses from among

Archelaus's own relations, he made an end of his pleading. Up­

on which Nicolaus arose up to plead for Archelaus, and said,

" That what had been done at the temple was rather to be at-

" tributed to the mind of those that had been killed, than to the

" authority of Archelaus ; for that those who were the authors

" of such things, are not only wicked in the injuries they do of

" themselves, but in forcing sober persons to avenge themselves

" upon them. Now, it is evident, that what these did in way

" of opposition was done under pretence, indeed, against Arche-

" laus, but in reality agninst Caesar himself, for they, after an in-

" jurious manner, attacked and slew those who were sent by Ar-

" chelaus, and who came only to put a stop to their doings.

" They had no regard, either to God or to the festival, whom

" Antipater yet is not ashamed to patronize, whether it be out

" of his indulgence of an enmity to Archelaus, or out of his

" hatred of virtue and justice. For as to those who begin such

" tumults, and first set about such unrighteous actions, they are

" the men who force those that punish them to betake them-

" selves to arms even against their will. So that Antipater in

" effect ascribes the rest of what was done to ail those who were

" of counsel to the accusers, for nothing which is here accused

" of injustice has been done, but what was derived from them

" as its authors ; nor are those things evil in themselves, but so

" represented only in order to do harm to Archelaus. Such

" is these men's inclinations to do an injury to a man that is of

" their kindred, their father's benefactor, and familiarly ac-

" quainted with them, and that hath ever lived in friendship

" with them ; for that, as to this testament, it was made by the

" king when he was of a sound mind, and so ought to be of more

" authority than his former testament; and that for this reason,

" because Caesar is therein left to be the judge and disposer of

" all therein contained ; and for Caesar he will not, to be sure,

f at all imitate the unjust proceedings of those men, who, du­

" ring

