Chap. IV. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 67

embraced the Jewish religion, to send purple and gold to the

temple at Jerusalem, and, when they had gotten them, they em­

ployed them for their own uses, and spent the money them­

selves ; on which account it was that they at first required it of

her. Whereupon Tiberius, who had been informed of the

thing by Saturninus, the husband of Fulvia, who desired inqui­

ry might be made about it, ordered all the Jews to be banished

out of Rome; at which time the consuls listed 4000 men out

of them, and sent them to the island Sardinia ; but punished a

greater number of them, who were unwilling to become soldiers,

on account of keeping the laws of their forefathers *. Thus

were these Jews banished out of the city by the wickedness of

four irien:

CHAP. iv.

*

How the Samaritans made a tumult, and Pilate destroyed many of

them : bow Pilate was accused, and what things were done by

Vitellius relating to the Jews and the Parthians. •

J 1. T>UT the nation of die Samaritans did not escape without

-"-^ tumults. The man who excited them to it, was one  
who thought lying a thing of little consequence, and who con­

trived every thing so that the multitude might be pleased ; sd

he bid them to get together upon Mount Gerixzim, which is

by them looked upon as the most holy of all mountains, and

assured them, that when they were come thither, he would

shew them those sacred vessels which were laid under that place,

because Moses f put them' there. So they came thither armed,

I 2 and

* Of the banishment of these 4000 Jews into Sardinia by Tiberius, see Stieto-  
aius in Tiber' seel. 36. But as for Mr Reland's nore here, which supposes,
that

Jews could not, consistently with their laws, be soldiers, it is contradicted
by

One branch of the history before us, and contrary to innumerable instances of

their fighting, and proving excellent soldiers in war; and indeed many of the

best of them, and even under heathen kings themselves, did so,' those, 1 mean,

who allowed them their rest on the Sabbath-day, and other soiemn festivals,
and

let them live according to their own laws, as Alexander the Great and the Pto­

lemies of Egypt did. It is true, they could not always obtain those
privileges,

and then they got excused as well as they could, or sometimes absolutely
refused

to fight, which seems to have been the case here, as to the major part of the

Jews now banished, but nothing more. See several of the Roman decrees hi

their favour as to such matters, B. XIV. ch. jt.

t Since Moses never came himself bc'yond Jordan, nor particularly to Mount

Gerizzim, and since these Samaritans have a tradition among them, related here

by Dr Hudson, from Reland, who was very skilful in Jewish and Samaritan

learning, that in the days of Uzzi or Ozzi the high priest, i Chron. vi. 6'
the ark

and other sacred vessels were, by God's command, laid up or hidden in Mount

Gerizzim, it is highly probable that this was the foolish foundation the
present;

Samaritans went upon, in the sedition here described, and that we Should read

here anas, instead of MVWIM, in the text of Josephus.

