Chap. X. WARS or -fHE JEWS. 383

desire to be so called also, and to cut off those of the greatest

nobility out of his country. He also extended his impiety as

far as the Jews. Accordingly, he sent Petronius with an army

to Jerusalem, to place his * statues in the temple, and com­

manded him that in case the Jews would not admit of them, he

should slay those that opposed it, and carry all the rest of the-

nation into captivity; but God concerned himself with these

his commands. However, Petronius marched out of Antioch

into Judea, with three legions, and many Syrian auxiliaries.

Now as to the Jews, some of them could not believe the sto­

ries that spake of a war, but those that did believe them were

in the utmost distress how to defend themselves, and the terror

diffused itself presently through them all; for the army was al­

ready come to Ptolemais.

2. This Ptolemais is a maritime city of Galilee, built in the

great plain. It is encompassed with mountains; that on the east

side, sixty furlongs off, belongs to Galilee; but that on the south

belongs to Carmel, which is distant from it an hundred and

twenty furlongs; and that on the north is the highest of them

all, and is called by the people of the country, the Ladder of

the Tyriant, which is at the distance of an hundred furlongs.

The very small river f Belus runs by it, at the distance of two

furlongs; near which there isj Memnon'smonument, and hath

near it a place no larger than an hundred cubits, which deserves

admiration; for the place is round and hollow, and affords such

sand as glass is made of, which place, when it hath been emp­

tied by the many ships there loaded, it is filled again by the

winds, which bring into it, as it were' on purpose, that sand

which lay remote, and was no more than bare common sand,

while this mine presently turns it into glassy sand. And what

is to me still more wonderful, that glassy sand which is super­

fluous, and is once removed out of the place, becomes bare com-v

mori sand again. And this is the nature of the place we are

speaking of.

3. But now the Jews got together in great numbers with

their wives and children into that plain that was by Ptolemaisj

and made supplication to Petronius, first for their laws, and, in

the next place, for themselves. So he was prevailed upon by

the

* Tacitus owns that Caius commanded the Jews to place his effigies in their  
temple, though he be mistaken when he adds, that the Jews thereupon took arms.

t This account of a place near the mouth of the river Belus in Phenicia,
whence

came that sand out of which the ancients made their glass, is a known thing in

history, particularly in Tacitus and Strabo, and more largely in Pliny.

\ This Memnon had several monuments, and one of them appears, both by

Strabo and Diodorui, to have b«en in Syria, and nut improbably in this very

{dace.

