208 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS.

mon that persuaded them so to do, one who was both the prin­

cipal man in the city, and a particular friend and companion of

John. It is true, these did not openly own the making a re-

Tolt, because they were in great fear of the Galileans, and had

frequent experience of the good-will they bore to me ; yet did

they privately watch for a proper opportunity to lay snares for

me ; and indeed I thereby came into the greatest danger, on

the occasion following.

26. There were some bold young men of the village Da-

baritta, who observed that the wife of Ptolemy, the king's pro­

curator, was to make a progress over the great plain with a

mighty attendance, and with some horsemen that followed, as a

guard to them, and this out of a country that was subject to the

king and queen, into the jurisdiction of the Romans ; and fell'

upon them on the sudden, and obliged the wife of Ptolemy to fly

away, and plundered all the carriages. They also came to me

to Taricheae, with four mules loading of garments, and other

furniture ; and the weight of the silver they brought was not

small, and there were five hundred pieces of gold also. Now I

had a mind to preserve these spoils for Ptolemy, who was my

countryman ; and it is prohibited * us by our laws even to spoil

our enemies ; so I said to those that brought these spoils, that

they ought to be kept in order to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem

with them, when they came to be sold. But the young men took

it very ill that they did not receive a part of these spoils for

themselves, as they expected to have none ; so they went among

the villages, in the neighbourhood of Tiberias, and told the

people, that I was going to betray their country to the Romans,

and that I used deceitful language to them, when I said, that

what had been thus gotten by rapine should be kept for the re­

building of the walls of the city of Jerusalem ; although I had

resolved to restore these spoils again to their former owner.

And indeed they were herein not mistaken as to my intentions ;

for when I had gotten clear of them, I sent for two of the prin­

cipal men, Dassion, and Janneus the son of Levi, persons that

were

* How Joseplius could say here that the Jewish laws for bade them to " spoil  
«' even their enemies," while yet, a little before his time, our Saviour had
mention­

ed it as then a current maxim with them," Thou shalt love thy neighbour/and
hate

" thine enemy," Matt. v. 43. is worth our inquiry. 1 take it that Josephus,
hav­

ing been now for many years an Ebionite Christian, had learned this
interpreta­

tion of the law of Moses from Christ, whom he owned for the true Messiah, as

it follows in the succeeding verses, which, though he might not read in St
Mat­

thew's gofpel, yet might he have read much the same exposition in their own

Ebionite or Nazarene gospel itself; of which improvements made by Josephuj,

after he was become a. Christian, we have already had several examples in
tliis

his life, sect. 3. M. 15. 19. 21. 23. and shall have many more therein before
ill

conclusion, as well as we have them elsewhere in all his latter writings.

