330" ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. -. fiocfc XIX..

" live virtuously, than which nothing can be more to our ad--

" vantage ; which course of virtue it is alone that can preserve

" our liberty ; for, as to our ancient state, I have heard of it by

" the relations of others, but as to our later state, during my

" life-time, I have known it by experience, and learned thereby

" what mischiefs tyrannies have brought upon this common-

" wealth, discouraging all virtue, and depriving persons of mag-'

" nanimity of their liberty, and proving the teachers of flattery

"' and slavish fear, because it leaves the public administration not

" to be governed by wise laws, but by the humour of those that

" govern. For since Julius Caesar took it into his head to dissolve

rt our democracy, and, by overbearing the regular system of our

" laws, to bring disorders into our administration, and to get

" above right and justice, and to be a slave to his own inclina-

" tions, there is no kind of misery but what hath tended to

« the subversion of this city ; while all those that have succeed-

" ed him have striven one with another to overthrow the ancient

*« laws of their country,- and have left it destitute of sueh citizens  
" as were of generous principles; because they thought it tend-

(< ed to their safety to have vicious men to converse withal, and

" not only tp break the spirits of those that were best esteemed

" for their virtue, but to resolve upon their utter destruction.

" Of all which emperors, who have been many in number, and

" who laid upon us insufferable hardships during the times of

* their government, this Caius, who hath been slain to-day,  
«' hath- brought more terrible calamities upon us than did all

*' the rest, not only by exercising his ungoverned rage upon his  
" fellow-citizens, but also upon his kindred and friends, and a.

" like upon all others, and by inflicting still greater miseries up-

" on them, as punishments, which they never deserved, he being

" equally furious against men, and against the gods. For ty-

" rants are. not content to gain their sweet pleasure, and this by

" acting injuriously, and in the vexation they bring both upon

*' men's estates, and their wives ; but they look upon that to  
•" be their principal advantage, when they can utterly overthrow

«' the entire families of their enemies ; while all lovers of li-

" berty are the enemies of tyranny. Nor can those that pa-

" tiently endure what miseries they bring on them, gain their

" friendship ; for as they are conscious of the abundant mis-

" chiefs they have brought on these men, and how magnani-

" mously they have borne their hard fortunes, they cannot

" but be sensible what evils they have done, and thence only

** depend on security from what they are suspicious of, if it  
** may be in their power to take them quite out of the world.  
" Since, then, v,Te are now gotten clear of such great misfortune3,

f- and

