£32 Book T; WARS OF THE JEWS.

to keep their infants uncircumcised, and to sacrifice swine's flesh

upon the altar; against which they all opposed themselves, and

the most approved among them were put to death. Bacchides

also, who was sent to keep the fortresses, having these wicked,

commands, joined to his own natural barbarity, indulged all sorts

of the extremest wickedness, and tormented the worthiest of the

inhabitants, man by man, and threatened the city every day with

open destruction ; till at length he provoked the poor sufferers

by the extremity of his wicked doings to avenge themselves.

3. Accordingly Matthias, the son of Asamonus, one of the

priests who lived in a village called Modin, armed himself, toge­

ther with his own famil}-, which had five sons of his in it, and

slew Bacchadas with daggers ; and thereupon, out of the fear of

the many garrisons [of the enemy], he fled to the mountains;

and so many of the people followed him, that he was encoura­

ged to come down from the mountains, and to give battle to An-

tiochus's generals, when he beat them, and drove them out of Ju-

dea. So he came to the government by this his success, and

became the prince of his own people by their own free consent,

and then died, leaving the government to Judas, his eldest son.

4. Now, Judas, supposing that Antiochus would not lie still,

gathered an army out of his own countrymen, and was the first

that made a league of friendship with the Romans, and drove

Kpighanes out of the country when he had made a second expe­

dition into it, and this by giving him a great defeat there ; and

when he was warmed by this great success, he made an assault

upon the garrison that was in the city, for it had not been cut off

hitherto ; so he ejected them out of the Upper City, and drove

the soldiers into the Lower, which part of the city was called the

Citadel. He then got the temple under his power, and cleansed

the whole place, and walled it round about, and made new ves­

sels forsacred ministrations, and brought theminto thetemple,be-

cause the former vessels had been profaned. - He also built ano­

ther altar, and began to offer the sacrifices ; and when the city

had already received its sacred constitution again, Antiochus

died ; whose son Antiochus succeeded him in the kingdom, and

in his hatred to the Jews also.

5. So this Antiochus eot together fiftv thousand footmen, and

jive thousand horsemen, and fourscore elephants, and marched

through Judea into the mountainous parts. He then took Beth-

sura, which was a small city ; but at a place called Bethzacha-

rias, where the passage vyas narrow, Judas met him with his army.

However, before the forces joined battle, Judas's brother Eleai

zar, steingthc very highest of the elephants adorned with a large

tower, and with military trappings of gold to guard him, and sup­

posing

