20 x ANTIQJIITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

out of suspicion of any danger they were in ; but they spake

what they knew, because they thought such actions very wick­

ed, and that Antipater deserved the greatest punishment; and

indeed not so much for Herod's safety, as on account of the

man's own wickedness. Many things were also said, that those

by a great number of persons, who were no way obliged to say

them; insomuch, that Antipater, who used generally to be very

shrewd in his lies and impudence, was not able to say one

word to the contrary. When Nicolaus had left off speaking,

and had produced the evidence, Varus bid Antipater to betake

himself to tlie making his defence, if he had prepared any thing

whereby it might appear that he was not guilty of the crimes

he was accused of; for that, as he was himself desirous, so did

he know that his father was in like manner desirous also, to have

him found entirely innocent. But Antipater fell down on his

face, and appealed to God, and to all men, for testimonials of

his innocency, desiring that God would declare, by some evident

signals, that he had not laid any plot against his father. This

being the usual method of all men destitute of virtue, that,

when they set about any wicked undertakings, they fall to work

according to their own inclinations, as if they believed that God

was unconcerred in human affairs ; but when once they are found

out, and are in danger of undergoing the punishment due to their

crimes, they endeavour to overthrow all the evidence against

them, by appealing to God ; which was the very thing which

Antipater now did ; for whereas he had done every thing as if

there were no God in the world, when he was on all sides dis­

tressed by justice, and when he had no other advantage to ex­

pect from any legal proofs, by which he might disprove the ac.

cusations laid against him, be impudently abused the majesty of

God, and ascribed it to his power, that he had been preserved

hitherto ; and produced before them all what difficulties he had

ever undergone in his bold acting for his father's preservation.

7. So when Varus, upon Asking Antipater what he had to

say for himself, found that he had nothing to say besides his ap­

peal to God, and saw that there was no end of that, he bid them

bring the potion before the court, that he might see what vir­

tue still remained in it; and when it was brought, and one that

was condemned to die had drunk it by Varus's command, he

died presently. Then Varus got up, and departed out of the

court, and went away the day following to Antioch, where his

u iual residence was, because that was the palace of the Syrians ;

u^on which Herod laid his son in bonds. But.what were Va-

^ r'as's discourses to Herod, was not known to the generality, and

upon what ivords it was that he went away ; though it was

also

