422 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book It.

tioch, but had left one of his companions, whose name was

Noarus, to take care of the public affairs; which Noarus was

of kin to king Sohemus *. Now there came certain men, se­

venty in number, out of Batanea, who were the most considera­

ble for their families and prudence of the rest of the people ;

these desired to have an army put into their hands, that if any

tumult should happen, they might have about them a guard

sufficient to restrain such as might rise up against them. This

Noarus sent out some of the king's armed men by night, and

slew all those [seventy] men; which bold action he ventured up­

on without the consent of Agrippa, and was such a lover of mo­

ney, that he chose to be so wicked to his own countrymen, tho'

he brought ruin on the kingdom thereby: and thus cruelly did

he treat that nation, and this contrary to the laws also, until

Agrippa was informed of it, who did not indeed dare to put

him to death, out of regard to Sohemus, but still he put an end

to his procuratorship immediately. But as to the seditious,

they took the citadel which was called Cypros, and was above

Jericho, and cut the throats of the garrison, and utterly demo­

lished the fortifications; this was about the same time that the

multitude 'of the jews that were at Macherus persuaded the

Romans who were in garrison to leave the place, and deliver it

up to them. These Romans being in great fear, lest the place

should be taken by force, made an agreement with them to de­

part upon certain conditions; and when they had obtained the

security they desired, they delivered up the citadel, into which

the people of Macherus put a garrison fer their own security,

and held it in their own power.

7. But for Alexandria, the sedition of the people of the place

against the Jews was perpetual, and this from that very time

when Alexander [the Great], upon unding the readiness of the

Jews in assisting him against the Egyptians, and as a reward for

such their assistance, gave them equal privileges in this city

with the Grecians themselves. Which honourary reward con­

tinued among them under his successors, who also set apart for

them a particular place, that they might live without being

polluted [by the Gentiles], and were thereby not so much in­

termixed with foreigners as before: they also gave them this

farther privilege, that they should be called Macedonians. Nay,

when the Romans got possession of Egypt, neither the first Cae­

sar, nor any one that came after him, thought of diminishing the

honours

* Of this Eohemus we have mention made by Tacitus. We also learn from Dio,  
that his father was king of the Arabians of Iturea, [which Iturea is mentioned
by

St Luke, iii. i.], both whose testimonies are quoted here by Dr Hudson. Sec

Noldius, No. 371.

