ISO ANTIOJJ1TIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX.

who first of all built the entire temple. But king Agrippa, who

had the care of the temple committed to him by Claudius Caesar,

considering that it is easy to demolish any building, but hard to

build it up again, and that it was particularly hard to do it to

these cloisters, which would require a considerable time, and

great sums of money, he denied the petitioners their request

about that matter ; but he did not obstruct them when they de­

sired the city might be paved with white stone. He also depri­

ved Jesus, the son of Gamaliel, of the high-priesthood, and gave

it to Matthias, the son of Theophilus, under whom the Jews

war with the Romans took its beginning,

CHAP. X.

jtn enumeration of tie Higl-prifsts.

$ 1. A ND now I think it proper, and agreeable to this his-

"^^ tory, to give an account of our high-priests ; how they

began, who those are which are capable of that dignity, and

how many of them there had been at the end of the war. In

the first place, therefore, history informs us, that Aaron, the

brother of Moses, officiated to God as an high-priest, and that,

after his death, his sons succeeded him immediately ; and that

ihis dignity hath been continued down from them all to their

posterity. Whence it is a custom of our country, that no one

should take the high.priesthood of God, but he who is of the

blood of Aaron, while every one that is of another stock, though

he were a king, can never obtain that high-priesthood. Ac­

cordingly, the number of all the high-priests from Aaron, of

whom we have spoken already, as of the first of them, until Pha-

nas, who was made high-priest during the war by the seditious,

was eighty-three ; of whom thirteen officiated as high-priests in

the wilderness, from the days of Moses, while the tabernacle

was standing, until the people came into Judea, when king So­

lomon erected the temple to God : for at the first they held the

high-priesthood till the end of their life, although afterward

they had successors while they were alive. Now these thirteen,

who were the descendants of two of the sons of Aaron, received

this dignity by succession, one after another; for their form of

government was an aristocracy, and after that a monarchy, and

in the third place the government was regal. Now, the number

of years during the rule of these thirteen, from the day when

our fathers departed out of Egypt, under Moses their leader,

until the building of that temple which king Solomon erected

at

* Of these cloisters of Solomon, see the description of the temple, ch. xiii.—  
They KCID, by josephus's words, to Imvc beenli.ih from the bottom of the
valley.

