Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 123

he said about it, he got the dispersed conspirators together; he

prepared every thing after a prudent manner, and by suggesting

good advice, shewed himself far superior to the rest, and made

obliging speeches to them, insomuch that he even compelled them

all to go on, who otherwise had not courage enough for that pur­

pose ; and when opportunity served to use his sword in hand,

he appeared first of all ready so to do, and gave the first blow in

this virtuous slaughter ; he also brought Caius easily into the

power of the rest, and almost killed him himself, insomuch that

it is but just to ascribe all that the rest did to the advice, and

•bravery, and labours, of the hands of Cherea.

15. Thus did Caius come to his end, and lay dead, by the

many wounds which had been given him. Now Cherea and

his associates, upon Caius's slaughter, saw that it was impos­

sible for them to save themselves, if they should all go the same,

way, partly on account of the astonishment they we.re under ;

for it was no small danger they had incurred by killing an em­

peror, who was honoured and loved by the madness of the

people, especially when the soldiers were likely to make a bloody

inquiry after his murderers. f The passages also were narrow

wherein the work was done, which were also crowded with a

great multitude of Csius's attendants, and of such of the soldiers

as were of the emperor's guard that day ; whence it was that

they went by other ways, and came to the house of Germani-

cus, the father of Caius, whom they had now killed, (which

house adjoined to the palace ; for while the edifice was one, it

was built in its several parts by those particular persons who

had been emperors, and those parts bare the names of those that

built them, or the name 01 him who had begun to build any of

its parts.) So they got away from ttie insults of the multitude,

and then were for the present out of danger, that is, so long as

the misfortune which had overtaken the emperor was not known.

The Germans were the first that perceived that Cams was slain.

These Germans were Caius's guard, and carried the name of the

country whence they were chosen, and composed the Celtic le­

gion. The men of that country are naturally passionate, which

is commonly the temper of some other of the barbarous nations

also, as being not used to consider much about what they do ;

they are of robust bodies, and fall upon their enemies as soon as

ever they are attacked by them ; and which way soever they go,

they perform great exploits. When, therefore, these German

guards understood that Caius was slain, they were very sorry

for it, because they did not use their reason in judging about

public affairs, but measured all by the advantages themselves re-

teived, Ca'us being beloved by them, because of the money he

