48 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS; Book XVII.

" ed to Syria, and be put under the authority of such presidents

" of theirs as should be sent to them; for that it would thereby

" be made evident, whether they be really a seditious people,

" and generally fond of innovations, or whether they would

'« live in an orderly manner, if they might have governors of

" any sort of moderation set over them."

3. Now, when the Jews had said this, Nicolaus vindicated

the kings from those accusations, and said, That " as for Herod,

" since he had never been thus accused * all the time of his life,

" it was not fit for those that might have accused them of lesser

" crimes than those now mentioned, and might have procured him.

" to be punished during his life-time, to bring an accusation.

" against him now he is dead. He also attributed the actions

" of Archelaus to the Jews injuries to him, who, affecting to go-

" vern contrary to the laws, and going about to kill those that

" would have hindered them from acting unjustly, when they

" were by him punished for what they had done, made their

" complaints against him ; so he accused them of their attempts

" for innovation, and of the pleasure they took in sedition, by

" reason of their not having learned to submit to justice, and

'« to the laws, but still desiring to be superior in all things."

This was the substance of what Nicolaus said.

4. When Caesar had heard these pleadings, he dissolved the

assembly ; but a few days afterwards he appointed Archelaus,

not indeed to be king of the whole country, but ethnarch of the

one half of that which had been subject to Herod, and promised

to give him the royal dignity hereafter, if he governed his part

virtuously. But as for the other half, he divided it into two

parts, and gave it^to two other of Herod's sons, to Philip and

to Antipas, that Antipas who disputed with Archelaus for the

whole kingdom. Now, to him it was that Perea and Galilee

paid their tribute, which amounted f annually to two hundred ta­

lents,

* This is not tnie. See Antiq. B. XIV. cli. ix. sect. 3. 4. and ch' xii. sect' i,  
and ch. xiii. sect. i. i. Antiq. B. XV. ch. iii. sect. 5. and ch. z. sect. ».
3. An­

tiq. B. XVI. ch. ix. sect. 3. "

t Since Josephus here informs us that Archelaus had one-half of the kingdom

of Herod, and presently informs us farther, that Archelaus's annual income,
after

an abatement of one quarter for the present, was 600 talents, we may therefore

gather pretty nearly what was Herod the Great's yearly income, I mean about

1600 talents, which, at the known value of 3000 shekels to a talent, and about

is. lod. to a shekel, in the days of Josephus, see the note on Antiq. B. III.
ch. viii.

«ect. 2. amounts to L. 680,000 Sterling per annum ; which income, tjiough
great

in itself, bearing no proportion to his vast expences every where visible in
Jose,

phus, and to the vast sums he left behind him in his will, chap. viii. sect.
i. and

chap. xii. sect. i. the rest must have arisen either from his confiscation of
those

great men's esiates whom he put to death, or made to pay fine for the saving
of

their lives, or from some other heavy methods of oppression Which such savage

tyrants usually exercise upon their miserable subjects; or rather from these
sere­

