432 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

2. In the mean time, the people of Damascus, when they

were informed of the destruction of the Romans, set about the

slaughter of those Jews that were among them; and as they had

them already cooped up together in the place of public exercises,

which they had done out of the suspicion they had of them,

they thought they should meet with no difficulty in the attempt;

yet did they distrust their own wives, which were almost all

of them addicted to the Jewish religion; on which account it

was that their greatest concern was, how they might conceal

these things from them; so they came upon the Jews, and cut

their throats, as being in a narrow place, in number ten thou­

sand, and all of them unarmed, and this in one hour's time,

without any body to disturb them.

3. But as to those who had pursued after Cestius, when they

were returned back to Jerusalem, they overbore some of those

that favoured the Romans by violence, and some they persuad­

ed [by entreaties] to join with them, and got together in great

numbers in the temple, and appointed a great many generals for

the war. * Joseph also the son of Gorion, and Ananus the high-

priest, were chosen as governors of all affairs within the city,

and with a particular charge to repair the walls of the city; for

they did not ordain Eleazar the son of Simon to that office, al­

though he had gotten into his possession the prey they had taken

from the Romans, and the money they had taken from Cestius,

together with a great part of the public treasures, because they

saw he was of a tyrannical temper, and that his followers were,

in their behaviour, like guards about him. However, the want

they were in of Eleazar's money, and the subtile tricks used by

him, brought all so about, that the people were circumvented,

and submitted themselves to his authority in all public affairs.

4. They also chose other generals for Idumea, Jesus the son

of Sapphias, one of the high-priests, and Eleazar the son of

Ananias, the high-priest; they also enjoined Niger, the then

governor of f Idumea, who was of a family that belonged to

Perea, beyond Jordan, and was thence called the Peraite, that he

should be obedient to those forenamed commanders. Nor did

they

* From this name of Joseph the son of Gorion, or Gorion the son of Joseph,  
as B. IV. ch. iii. § 9. Vol. IV. one of the governors of Jerusalem, who was
slain

at the beginning of the tumults by the zealots, B. IV. ch. vi. § i. the much
t»t«c

Jewish author of an history of that nation takes his title, and vet personates
our

true Jnsephus, the son of Matthias: but the cheat is too gross to be put upon
the

learned world.

f We may observe here, that the Idumeans, as having been proselytes of justice

since the days of John Hyrcanus, duriug about 195 years, were now esteemed as

part of a Jewish nation, and here provided of a Jewish commander accordingly,

See the note upon Antiq. B. XIII. ch. a'. § I. Vol. II.

