Hi ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

cf taxes. Of which matter I shall treat more accurately in

the progress of this history *.

3. At length Zamaris the Babylonian, to whom Herod had

given that country for a possession, died ; having lived vir­

tuously, and left children of a good character behind him;

one of whom was Jacim, who was famous for his valour, and

taught his Babylonians how to ride their horses ; and a troop

. of them were guards to the fore-mentioned kings. And when

Jzicim was dead in his old age, he left a son, whose name was

Philip, one of great strength in his hands, and in other re­

spects also more eminent for his valour than any of his con­

temporaries ; on which account there was a confidence and

firm friendship between him and King Agrippa. He had also

an army which he maintained, as great as that of 'a king ;

which he exercised and led wheresoever he had occasion to

inarch.

4. When the affairs of Herod were in the condition I have

described, all the public affairs depended upon Antipater ; and

his power was such, that he could do good turns to as many

as he pleased, and this by his father's concession, in hopes of

.his good will and fidelity to him; and this till he ventured to

.use his power still farther, because his wicked designs were

concealed from his father, and he made him believe every

thing he said. He was also formidable to all, not so much

'jpn account of the power and authority he had, as for the

shrewdness of his vile attempts before-hand: but he who

principally cultivated a friendship with him was Pheroras,

who received the like marks of his friendship ; while Anti-

.pater had cunningly encompassed him about by a company of

women, whom he placed as guards about him : for Pheroras

was greatly enflaved to his wife, and to her mother, and to

her sister ; and this notwithstanding the hatred he bare them,

ior the indignities they had offered to his virgin daughters.

Yet did he bear them, and nothing was to be done without

the women, who had got this man into their circle, and con­

tinued still to assist each other in all things, insomuch that

Antipater was entirely addicted to them, both by himself and

by his mother ; for these four women f said all one and the

same thing ; but the opinions of Pheroras and Antipater were

different in some points of no consequence. But the king's

sister [Salome] was their antagonist, who for a good while

had looked about all their affairs, and was apprifed that this

their friendship was made in order to do Herod some mischief,

and

» This is now wanting.

t Pheroras's wife, and her mother and sister, and Doris, Antipater'« nm.

then

