Chap. XIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 3O7

" force limited by themselves, [without foreboding any other

" calamity]. And indeed what greater mischief can the war,

" though it should be a violent one, do to us, than the earth-

" quake hath done ? Nay, there is a signal of our enemies de, '

" struction visible, and that a very great one also; and this is

" not a natural one, nor derived from the hand of foreigners

" neither, but it is this, that they have barbarously murdered

" our ambassadors, contrary to the common law of mankind ;

" and they have destroyed so many, as if they esteemed them

" sacrifices for God, in relation to this war. But they will

" not avoid his great eye, nor his invincible right hand; and we

" snail be revenged of them presently, in case we still retain

" any of the courage of our forefathers, and rise up boldly to

" punish these covenant breakers. Let every one therefore go

" on and fight, not so much for his wife or his children, or for

" the danger his country is in, as for these ambassadors of ours;

" those dead ambassadors will conduct this war of ours better

" than we ourselves who are alive. And if yoil will be ruled

" by me, I will myself go before you into danger ; for yon

" know this well enough, that your courage is irresistible, unless

" you hurt yourselves by acting rashly *."

5. When Herod had encouraged them by this speech, and he

saw with what alacrity they went, he offered sacrifice to God;

and after that sacrifice, he passed over the river Jordan with his

army, and pitched his camp about Philadelphia, near the enemy,

and about a fortification that lay between them. He then shot

' at them at a distance, and was desirous to come to an cngage,-

ment presently ; for some of them had been sent beforehand to

seize upon that fortification : but the king sent some who im­

mediately beat them out of (he fortification, while he himself

went in the forefront of the army, which he put in battle array

every day, and invited the Arabians to fight. But as none ot

them came out of their camp, for they were in a terrible fright,

and their general, Elthemus, was not able to say a word for fear;

so Herod came upon them, and pulled their fortification to pieces,

by which means they were compelled to 'come out to fight,

which they did in disorder, and so that the horsemen and foot­

men were mixed together. They were indeed superior to the

Jews in number, but inferior to their alacrity, although they were

obliged to expose themselves to danger by their very despair of

victory;.,

,..,,.:'.„' 6. Now

* This speech of Herod is set down twice by Josephus, here and Antiq. B. XV.  
ch. v. sect. 3. Vol. II. to the very came purpose, but by no means in the same

words; whence it appears, that the sense WES Herod's, but the composition

Josephus's.

QJ12

