224 THE LIFE OF FLAVlUS JOSEPHUS.

/

" is plain yon had been forced, upon the examination of their

" characters beforehand, to discharge the accusations: that

" therefore you may be informed that I have acted well in

" the affairs of Galilee, I think three witnesses too few to be

" brought by a man that hath done as he ought to do ; so I gave

" you all these for witnesses. Inquire of them * how I have

«' lived, and whether I have not behaved myself with all decen-

'' cy, and after a virtuous manner, among them. And I farther

" conjure you, O Galileans ! to hide no part of the truth, but to

" speak before these men as before judges, whether I have in

" any thing- acted otherwise than well."

50. While I was thus speaking, the united voices of all the

people joined together, and called me their benefactor and sa­

viour, and attested to my former behaviour, and exhorted me to

continue so to do hereafter ; and they all said , upon their oaths,

that their wives had been preserved free from injuries, and that

no one had ever been aggrieved by me. After this, I read to

the Galileans two of those epistles which had been sent by Jona­

than and his colleagues, and which those whom I had appointed to

guard the road had taken, and sent to me. These were full of

reproaches, and of lies, as if I had acted more like a tyrant than a

governor against them, with many other things besides therein

contained, which were no better indeed than impudent falsities.

I also informed the multitude how I came by these letters, and

that those who carried them delivered them up voluntarily ; for

I was not willing that my enemies should know any thing of the

guards I had set, lest they should be afraid, and leave off writing

hereafter.

5J- When the multitude heard these things, they were great­

ly provoked at Jonathan, and his colleagues that were with him,

and were going to attack them, and kill them ; and this they had

certainly done, unless I had restrained the anger of the Galileans,

and said, That " I forgave Jonathan and his colleagues what was

" past, if they would repent, and go to their own country, and

" tell those who sent them the truth, as to my conduct." When I

had said this, 1 let them go, although I knew they would do no­

thing of what they had promised. But the multitude were very

much enraged against them, and entreated me to give them leave

to punish them for their insolence ; yet did I try all methods to

persuade them to spare the men ; for I knew that every instance

of sedition was pernicious to the public welfare. But the mul­

titude

« This appeal to the whole body of the Galileans by Josephns, and the testi­

mony they gave him of integrity in his conduct.e as their governor, is very
like

that appeal and tetsimony in the case of the prophet Samuel, i Sam. xii. I—5.

and perhaps Mas done by Josephus in imitation of him.

