212 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

caped at length, and king Agrippa forgave them their offences.

And this'was the conclusion of what concerned th'ese men.

32. But as for the inhabitants of the city of Tiberias, they

wrote to the king, and desired him to send them forces sufficient

to be guard to their country ; for that they were desirous to come

over to him: this was what they wrote to him. But when I came

to them, they desired me to build their walls, as I had promised

them to do; for they had heard that the walls of Tarichea e were

already built. I agreed to the proposal accordingly ; and when

I had made preparation for the entire building, I gave order to

the architects to go to work ; but on the third day, when I was

gone to Taricheae, which was thirty furlongs distant from Tibe­

rias, it so fell out, that some Roman horsemen were discovered on

'tbeir march, not far from the city, which made it to be supposed

that the forces were come from the king; upon which they shout­

ed, and lifted up their voices in commendations of the king, and

in reproaches against me. Hereupon one came running to me,

and told me what their dispositions were, and that they had re­

solved to revolt from me ; upon hearing which news I was very

much alarmed; for I had already sent away my armed men

from Taricheae to their own homes, because the next day was

our Sabbath ; for I would not have the people of Taricheae dis­

turbed [on that day] by a multitude of soldiers; and indeed,

whenever I sojourned at that city, I never took any particular

care for a guard about my own body, because I had had frequent

instances of the fidelity its inhabitants bore to me. I had now

about me no more than seven armed men, besides some friends,

and was doubtful what to do ; for to send to recall my own for­

ces I did not think proper, because the present day was almost

over ; and had those forces been with me, I could not take up

arms on the next day, because our laws forbade us so to do, even

though our necessity should be Tery great; and if I should per­

mit the people of Taricheae, and the strangers with them, to guard

the city, I saw that they would not be sufficient for that purpose,

and I perceived that I should be obliged to delay my assistance a

great while ; for I thought with myself that the forces that came

from the. king would prevent me, and that I should be driven

out of the city. I considered, therefore, how to get clear of these

forces by a stratagem ; so I immediately placed those my friends

of Taricheae, on whom I could best confide, at the gates, to watch

those very carefully who went out at those gates ; I also called

to me the heads of families, and bid every one of them to seize

upon a ship *, to go on board it, and to take a master with them,

and

* In this section, as well as sect. 18. and sect. 33. those small vessels that saii-  
ed on the sea of Galilee, are called by JosephuJ Nw, and na.««, and mafn, i.
e.

