Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 313

ten in breadth, and some still larger. But when the haven was

filled up to that depth, he enlarged that wall which was thus al­

ready extant above the sea, till it was two hundred feet wide :

one hundred of which had buildings before it, in order to break

the force of the waves, whence it was called Procumasia, or the

first breaker of the waves; but the rest of the space was under

a stone wall that ran round it. On this wall were very large

towers, the principal and most beautiful of which was called

Drusium, from Drusus, who was son-in-law to Caesar.

7. There was also a great number of arches, where the mari­

ners dwelt; and all the places before them round about was a

large valley, or walk, for a key for landing place] to those that

came on shore; but the entrance was en the north, because the

north wind was there the most gentle of all the winds. At the

mouth of the haven were on each side three great Colossi, sup­

ported by pillars, where thoseCollossi that arejonyour left hand

as you sail into the port, are supported by a solid tower, but

those on the right hand are supported by two upright stones

joined together, which stones were larger than that tower which

was on the ether side of the entrance. Now there were con­

tinual edifices joined to the haven, which were also themselves

of white stone; and to this haven did the narrow streets of the

city lead, and were built at equal distances one from anotheq.

And over against the mouth of the haven, upon an elevation,

there was a temple for Caesar, which was excellent both in beau­

ty and largeness; and therein was a Colossus of Caesar, not less

than that of Jupiter Olympius, which it was made to resemble.

The other Colossus of Rome was equal to that of Juno at Argos.

So he dedicated the city to the province, and the haven to the

sailors there; but the honour of the building he ascribed to *

Caesar, and named it Cesarea accordingly.

8. He also built the other edifices, the amphitheatre, and thea­

tre, and market place, in a manner agreeable to that denomina­

tion; and appointed games every fifth year, and called them in

like manner, Cedar's Games, and he first himself proposed the

largestprizes upon the hundred ninty-secondOlympiad; in which

not only the victors themselves, but those thatcamenext to them,

and even those that came in the third place, were partakers of

his royal bounty. He also rebuilt Anthedon, a city that lay on

the coast, and had been demolished in the wars, and named it

Agrippeum.

« These building« of cities by the name of Cssar/ and institution of solemn

game* in honour of Augustus Cassar, as here, and in the antiquities, related
of Her

rod by Josephus, the Roman historians atteit to' as things then frequent in
the

provinces of that empire, as Dean Aldrich observes on this chapter.

VOL. III. R r

