Chap. XX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 431

find gave order, that when they went up to the morning guard,

they should erect their ensigns, that the Jews might be made to

believe that the entire army was there still, while he himself

took the rest of his forces with him, and marched, without any

noise, thirty furlongs. But when the Jews perceived, in the

morning, that the camp was empty, they ran upon those four

hundred who had deluded them, and immediately threw their

darts at them, and slew them, and they pursued after Cestius.

But he had already made use of a great part of the night in his

flight, and still marched quicker when it was day. Insomuch

that the soldiers, through the astonishment and fear they were

in, left behind them their engines for sieges, and for throwing

of stones, and a great part of the instruments of war. So the

Jews went on pursuing the Romans as far as Antipatris, after

which, seeing they could not overtake them, they came back,

and took the engines, and spoiled the dead bodies, and gathering

their prey together which the Romans had left behind them,

and came back running and singing to their metropolis. While

they had themselves lost a few only, but had slain of the Ro­

mans five thousand and three hundred footmen, and three hund­

red and eighty horsemen. This defeat happened on the eighth

day of the month Dius, [Marhesvan], in the twelfth year of

the reign of Nero.

CHAP. XX.

Cestius sends ambassadors to Nero. The people of Damascus

slay those Jews that lived with them. The,people of Jerusa­

lem, after they had \Jeft off] pursuing Cestius, return to the

city, and get things ready for its defence, and make a great

many generals for their armies, and particularly Joscphus, the

writer of these looks. Some account of his administration.

§ I. A FTER this calamity had befallen Cestius, many of the

./JL most eminent of the Jews swam away from the city,

as from a ship when it was going to sink; Costobarus, therefore,

and Saul, who were brethren, together with Philip, the son of

Jacimus, who was the commander of King Agrippa's forces, ran

,away from the city, and went to Cestius. But then how Anti-

pas, who had been besieged with them in the king's palace, he

yvould not fly away with them, was afterward slain by the sedi­

tious, we shall relate hereafter. However, Cestius sent Saul

and his friends, at their own desire, to Achaia, to Nero, to in­

form him of the great distress they were in, and to lay the blame

of their kindling the war upon Florus, as hoping to alleviate

Shis own danger, by provoking his indignation against Florus.

2. In

