Chap. Vt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 81

she were still a young woman, she continued in her widowhood,

and refused all other matches, although Augustus had enjoin,

ed her to be married to some body else ; yet did she all

along preserve her reputation free from reproach. She had

also been the greatest benefactress to Tiberius, when there

was a very dangerous plot laid against him by Sejanus, a mart

who had been her husband's friend, and who had the great­

est authority, because he was general of the army, and when

many members of the senate, and many of the freed-men

joined with him, and the soldiery was corrupted, and the plot

was come to a great height. Now Sejanus had certainly gain­

ed his point, had not Antonia's boldness been more wisely

conducted than Sejanus's malice ; for» when she had discover­

ed his designs against Tiberius, she wrote him an exact account

of the whole, and gave the letter to Pallas, the most faithful of

her servants, and sent him to Capreas to Tiberius, who, when

he understood it, slew Sejanus and his confederates; so that Ti­

berius, who had her in great esteem before, now looked upon

her with still greater respect, and depended upon her in all things.

So, when Tiberius was desired by this Antonia to examine Euty-

chus, he answered, " If indeed Eutychus hath falsely accused

" Agrippa in what he hath said of him^ he hath had sufficient

" punishment by what I have done to him already ; but if, upon

" examination, the accusation appears to be true, let Agrippa

" have a care, lest, out of desire of punishing his freed-man, he

" do not rather bring a punishment upon himself." Now, when

Antonia told Agrippa of this, he was still much more pressing

that the matter might be examined into ; so Antonia, upon

Agrippa*s lying hard at her continually to beg his favour, took

the following opportunity : As Tiberius lay once at his ease upon

his sedan, and was carried about, and Caius, her grandson, and

Agrippa, were before him after dinner, she walked by the sedan,

and desired him to call Eutychus, and have him examined ; to

which he replied, " O Antonia! the gods are my witnesses, that

" I am induced to do what I am going to do, not by my own

" inclination, but because I am forced to it by thy prayers."

When he had said this, he ordered Marco, who succeeded Seja­

nus, to bring Eutychus to him ; accordingly, without any de-

Vot. III. L * lay,

Conitit. Apost. B. II. sect. i. 2. B. VI. sect. 17. Can. B. XVII. Grot' in
Luc. ii. 36".

and Respons. ad Consult Cassand' p. 44. a>nd Cotelet. in Constit' B. Vi. sect.
17.

And note, That Tertullian owns this law, against second marriages of the cler­

gy, had been once at least executed in his time ; and heavily complains el5<
where,

that the breach thereof had not been always punished by the Cathol'c.j' as it

ought to have been. Jerome, speaking of the ill reputation of marrying twice,

says, That no such p-rson could be chosen into the clergy in his days ; which

Augustine testifies also; and for Epiphanius, rather earlier, he is clear and
full

to the same purpose, and says, that law obtained over the whole Catholic
Church

in his days; as the places in the fore-cited authors inform us.

