40 ANTIOJttTES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIf.

yet were not the Jews daunted in their resolutions, even when

they had the sight of that terrible slaughter that was made of

them ; but they went round about, and got upon those cloisters,

which encompassed the outer court of the temple, where a great

fight was still continued, and they cast stones at the Romans,

partly with their hands, and partly with slings, as being much

used to those exercises. All the archers also in array did the

Romans a great deal of mischief; because they used their

hands dextrously from a place superior to the others, and because

the others were at an utter loss what to do; for when they tried

to shoot their arrows against the Jews upwards, these arrows

could not reach them, insomuch that the Jews were easily too

hard for their enemies. And this sort of fight lasted a great

while, till at last the Romans, who were greatly distressed by what

was done, set fire to the cloisters so privately, that those who

were gotten upon them did not perceive it. This fire * being

fed by a great deal of combustible matter, caught hold imme­

diately on the roof of the cloisters ; so the wood, which was full of

pitch and wax, and whose gold was laid on it with wax, yielded

to the flame presently, and those vast works which were of the

highest value and esteem, were destroyed utterly, while those that

were on the roof unexpectedly perished at the same time ; for as

the roof tumbled down, some of these men tumbled down with

it, and others of them were killed by their enemies who encom­

passed them. There was a great number more, who, out of de­

spair of saving their lives, and out of astonishment at the mise­

ry that surrounded them, did either cast themselves into the fire,

or threw themselves upon their own swords, and so got out of

their misery. But as to those that retired behind the same way

by which they ascended, and thereby escaped, they were all kill­

ed by the Romans, as being unarmed men, and their courage

failing them ; their wild fury being now not able to help them,

because they were destitute of armour, insomuch that, of those

that wen-t up to the top of the roof, not one escaped. The Ro­

mans also rushed through the fire, where it gave them room so

to do, and seized on that treasure where the sacred money was

reposited ; a great part of which was stolen by the soldiers, and

Sabinus got openly four hundred talents.

3. But this calamity of the Jews friends, who fell in this battle,

grieved them, as did also this plundering of the money dedicated to

God

* These great devastations made about the temple here, and of the War, B.  
II. ch. Hi. J 3. seem uot to have been fully re-edified in the days of Nero;
nil

whose time there were 18,000 workmen continually employed in rebuilding and

repairing that temple, as Josephus informs us, Antig. B. XX. ch. ix. j 7. Se«
&»

note on that place.

