Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 19

4' put to the torture thyself, while thou alledgest, that the tor-

" tures of those already examined thereby have made them tell

'' lies ; that those that have been the deliverers of thy father may

«' not be allowed to have spoken the truth : but that thy tortures

" may be esteemed the discoverers of truth. Wilt not thou, O Va-

'' rus ! deliver the king from the injuries of his kindred ? Wilt not

" thou destroy this wicked wild beast, which hath pretended kind-

"'' ness to his father, in order to destroy his brethren ; while yet he

'' is himself alone ready to carry off the kingdom immediately,

" and appears to be the most bloody butcher to him of them all ?

" For thou art sensible, that parricide is a general injury both to

" nature and to common life ; and that the intention of parricide

" is not inferior to its preparation -, and Tie who does not punish

" it, is injurious to nature itself."

6. Nicolaus added farther what belonged to Antipater's mo­

ther, and whatsoever she had prattled like a woman ; as also a-

hout the predictions and the sacrifices relating to the king ; and

whatsoever Antipater had done lasciviously in his cups and his

amours among Pheroras's women ; the examination upon tor­

ture ; and whatsoever concerned the testimonies of the witnes­

ses, which were many, and of various kinds ; some prepared

beforehand, and others were sudden answers, which farther de­

clared and confirmed the foregoing evidence. 'For those men.

who were not acquainted with Antipater's practices, but had'

concealed them out of fear, when they saw that he was exposed

to the accusations of the former witnesses, and that his great

good fortune, which had supported him hitherto, had now evi­

dently betrayed him into the hands of his enemies, who were

now insatiable in their hatred to him, told all they knew of him.

And his ruin was now hastened, not so much by the enmity of

those that were his accusers, as by his gross, and impudent, and

wicked contrivances, and by his ill-will to his father and his

brethren ; while he had filled their house with disturbance, and

caused them to murder one another ; and was neither fair in

his hatred, nor kind in his friendship, but just so far as served

his own turn. Now, there 'were a great number who for a

long time beforehand had seen all this, and especially such as

were naturally disposed to judge of matters by the rules of vir­

tue, because they were used to determine about affairs without

passion, but had been restrained from making any open complaints

before ; these, upon the leave now given them, produced all

that they knew before the public. The demonstrations also of

these wicked facts could no way be disproved : because the ma­

ny witnesses there were did neither speak out of favour to He­

rod, nor were they obliged to keep what they had to say silent,

C 2 " out

