Chap. V. WARS OF THE JEWS. 3<n

vered himself up to Archelaus, upon his giving him his right

hand for his security. However, this their end was not till after­

ward, while at present they filled all Judea with a piratic war.

CHAP. V.

Varus composes tbt tumults in Judea, and crucifies about two

thousand of the seditious.

j 1. T 7 PON Varus's reception of the letters that were written

V/ by Sabinus, and the captains, he could not avoid being

afraid for the whole legion [he had left there}. So he made

haste to their relief, and took with him the other two legions,

with the four troops of horsemen to them belonging, and inarch,

ed to Ptolemais; having given orders for the auxiliaries that

were sent by jhe kings and governors of cities to meethim there.

Moreover, he received from the people of Berytus, as he pas­

sed through their city, fifteen hundred armed men. Now as

soon as the other body of auxiliaries were come to Ptolemais,

as well as Aretas the Arabian, (who, out of the hatred he bore

to Herod, brought a great army of horse and foot), Varus sent

a part of his army presently to Galilee, which lay near to>

Ptolemais, and Caius one of his friends, for their captain. This

Cains put those that met him to flight, and took the city Sep-

phoris, and burnt it, and made slaves of its inhabitants; but as

for Varus himself, he marched to Samaria with his whole army,

where he did not meddle with the city itself, because he found

that it had made no commotion during these troubles, but pitch­

ed his camp about a certain village which was called Arut* It

belonged- to Ptolemy, and on that account was plundered by the

Arabians, who were very angry even at Herod's friends also.

He thence marched on to the village Sampho, another fortified

place, which they plundered, as they had done the other. As

they carried off all the money they light upon belonging to the

public revenues, all was now full of fire and bloodshed, and no­

thing could resist the plunders of the Arabians. Emmaus was

also burnt, upon the flight of its inhabitants, and this at the com­

mand of Varus, out of his rage at the slaughter of those that

were about Arius.

2. Thence he marched on to Jerusalem, and as soon as he was

but seen by the Jews, he made their camps disperse themselves:

they also went away, and fled up and down the country; but

the citizens received him and cleared themselves of having any-

hand in this revolt, and said, that they had raised no commotions,

but had only been forced to admit the multitude because of the

festival, and that they were rather besieged together with the

Romans,

