THE LIFE OP FLAVHJS JOSEPHU9. 193

tnong the Jews against the Romans. So he slew him. And

when this freed-man of Philip did not return again, Philip was

doubtful what should be the occasion of his stay, and sent a se­

cond messenger with letters, that he might, upon his return, in-

fcrrn him what had befallen the other that had been sent before,

and why he tarried so long. Varus accused this messenger also,

when he came, of telling a falsehood, and slew him. For he was

puffed up by the Syrians that were at Cesarea, and had great ex­

pectations ; for they said that Agrippa would be slain by the Ro­

mans for the crimes which the Jews had committed, and that he

should himself take the government, as derived from their kings ;

for Varus was, by the confession of all, of the royal family, as be­

ing a descendant of Sohemus, who had enjoyed a tetrarchy about

Libanus ; for which reason it was that he was puffed up, and

kept the letters to himself. He contrived, also, that the king

should not meet with those writings, by guarding all the passes,

lest any one should escape, and inform the king what had been

done. He moreover slew many of the Jews, in order to gratify

the Syrians of Cesarea. He had a mind also to join with the

Trachonites in Batanea, and to take up arms and make an assault

upon the Babylonian Jews that were at Ecbatana; for that was

the name they went by. He therefore called to him twelve of

the Jews of Cesarea, of the best character, and ordered them to

go to Ecbalana, and inform their countrymen who dwelt there,

that Varus hath heard, that " you intend to march against the

" king ; but, not believing that report, he hath sent us to per-

" suade you to lay down your arms, and that this compliance

" will be a sign, that he did well not to give credit to those that

" raised the report concerning you." He also enjoined them to

send seventy of their principal men to make a defence for them

as to the accusation laid against them. So when the twelve

messengers came to their countrymen at Ecbatana, and found

that they had no designs of innovation at all, they persuaded

them to send the seventy men also ; who not at all suspecting

what would come, sent them accordingly. So these seventy *

went down to Cesarea, together with the twelve * ambassadors;

where Varus met them with the king's forces, and slew them

all, together with the [twelve] ambassadors, and made an ex­

pedition against the Jews of Ecbatana. But one there was of the

seventy who escaped, and made haste to inform the Jews of their

coming ; upon which they took their arms, with their wives and

children, and retired to the citadel at Gamala, leaving their own

villages full of alll sorts of good things, and having many ten

thousands of cattle therein. When Philip was informed of these

things,

* The famous Jevrhh numbers of twelve and seventy are here remarkaWe.

