Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 99

Whereupon he rejoiced at this coincidence as to the death of Cai­

ns, and admired God's providence, who without the least delay,

and immediately, gave him a reward for the regard he had to

the temple, and the assistance he afforded the Jews for avoiding

the dangers they were in. And by this means Petronius. esca­

ped that danger of death which he could not foresee.

CHAP. IX.

What lifel the Jews that were in Babylon, on occasion of Asineiii •

and Atnleuif two brethren.

$ 1. A very sad calamity now befel the Jews that were in

-^Mesopotamia, and especially those'that dwelt in Baby­  
lonia. Inferior it was to none of the calamities which had gone

before, and came together with a great slaughter of them, and

that greater than upon any record before ; concerning all which

1 shall speak accurately, and shall explain the occasions whence

these miseries came upon them. There was a city in Babylo­

nia called Neerda ; not only a very populous one, but one that

had a good and a large territory about it, and, besides its other

advantages, full of men also. It was, besides, not easily to be

assaulted by enemies, from the river Euphrates encompassing it

nil round, and from the walls that were built about it. Ihere

was also the city Nisibis, situate on the same current of the ri­

ver. For which reason, the Jews, depending on the natural

strength of these places, deposited in them that half shekel which

every one, by the custom of our country, offers unto God, as well

as they did other things devoted to him, for they made use of

these cities as a treasury, whence, at a proper time, they were

transmitted to Jerusalem ; and many ten thousand men.under­

took the carriage of those donations, out of fear of the ravages

of the Parthians, to whom the Babylonians were then subject.

Now, there were two men, Asineus and Anileus, of the city

Neerda by birth, and brethren to one another. They were des­

titute of a father, and their mother put them to learn the art of

weaving curtains, it not being esteemed a disgrace among them

for men to be weavers of cloth. Now, he that taught them that

art, and was set over them, complained that they came too late

to their work, and punished them with stripes : but they took

this just punishment as an affront, nnd carried oft" all the weapons

which were kept in that house, which were not a few, and went

into a certain place where was a partition of the rivers, and was

a place naturally very fit for the feeding of cattle, and for pre­

serving such fruits as were usually laid up against winter. The

poorest sort of the young men also resorted to them, whom they

N 2 armed

