Chap. XXIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. :941

pater with all his might, as to that law-suit which Nicolaus had

with him before. This Sylleus had also a great contest with

Aretas his own king; for he had slain many others of Aretas's

friends, and particularly Sohemus, the most potent man in ihe

city Petra. Moreover, he had prevailed with Phabatus, who

was Herod's steward,' by giving him a great sum of money to

assist him against Herod; but when Herod gave him more, he

induced him to leave Sylleus, and by his means he demanded of

him all that Caesar had required of him to pay. But when Syl­

leus paid nothing of what he was to pay, and did also accuse

Phabatus to Caesar, and said that he was not a steward for Cae­

sar's advantage, but for Herod's, Phabatus was angry at him on

that account, but was still in very great esteem with Herod, and

discovered Sylleus's grand secrets,and told the king that Sylleus

had corrupted Corinthus, one of the guards of his body, by

bribing him, and of whom he must therefore have a care. Ac­

cordingly the king complied, for this Corinthus, though he

were brought up in Herod's kingdom, yet was he by birth an

Arabian, so they king ordered him to be taken up immediately,

and not only him, but two other Arabians, who were caught

with him; the one of them was Sylleus's friend, the other the

head of a tribe. The last being put to the torture, confessed

that they had prevailed with Corinthus, for a large sum of mo­

ney to kill Herod; and when they had been farther examined

before Saturninus the president of Syria, they were sent to Rome.

4. However, Herod did not leave off importuning Pheroras,

but proceeded to force him to put away his wife; yet could he

not devise any way by which he could bring the woman herself

to punishment, although he had many causes of hatred to her ;

till at length he was in such great uneasiness at her, that he cast

both her and his brother out of his kingdom. Pheroras took this

injury very patiently, and went away into his own tetrarchy

[Perea beyond Jordan], and sware that there should be but one

end put to his flight, and that should be Herod's death ; and that

he would never return while he was alive. Nor indeed would

he return when his brother was sick, although he earnestly sent

for him to come to him, because he had a mind to leave some

injunctions with him before he died; but Herod unexpectedly

recovered. A little afterward Pheroras himself fell sick, when

Herod shewed great moderation ; for he came to him and pitied

his case, and took care of him; but his affection for him did him

ho good, for Pheroras died a little afterward. Now, though

Herod had so gi'eat an affection for him to the last day of his

life, yet was a report spread abroad that he had killed him by

poison. However, he took care to have his dead body carried

• to

