228 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

on account of ray stratagem, which was opposite to their under­

takings.

56. Now there was one whose name was Ananias, a wicked

man he was, and very mischievous ; he proposed that a general

religious fast * should be appointed the next day fpr all the peo­

ple, and gave order that at the same hour they should come

to the same place, without any weapons, to make it manifest

before God, thatwhile they obtained his assistance, they thought

all these weapons useless. This he said, not out of piety, but

that they might catch me and my friends unarmed. Now, I was

] .reupon forced to comply, lest I should appear to despise a pro­

posal that tended to piety. As soon, therefore, as we were gone

home, Jonathan and his colleagues wrote to John, to come to

them in the morning, and desiring him to come with as many

soldiers as he possibly could, for that they should then be able

easily to get me into their hands, and to do all that they desired to

do. When John had received this letter, he resolved to com­

ply with it: As for myself, on the next day, I ordered two of

the guards of my body, whom I esteemed the most courageous,

and most faithful, to hide daggers under their garments, and to

go along with me, that we might defend ourselves, if any attack

should be made upon us by our enemies. I also myself took my

breast-plate, and girt on my sword, so that it might be, as far as

was possible, concealed, and came into the Proseucha.

57. Now Jesus, who was the ruler, commanded that they

should exclude all that came with me, for he kept the door him­

self, and suffered none but his friends to go in. And while we

were engaged in the duties of the day, and had betaken ourselves

to our prayers, Jesus got up, and inquired of me what was

become of the vessels that were taken out of the king's palace,

when it was burnt down, [and] of that uncoined silver : and in

whose possession they now were ? This he said, in order to drive

nway time till John should come. I said that Capellus, and the

ten principal men of Tiberias had them all; and I told him that

they might ask them whether I told a lie or not. And when

they said they had them, he asked me, what is become of those

twenty pieces of gold which thou didst receive upon the sale of a

certain weight of uncoined money ? I replied, that I had given

them to those ambassadors of theirs, as a maintenance for them,

when they were sent by them to Jerusalem. So Jonathan and

his colleagues said, that I had not done well to pay the ambassa­

dors out of the public money. And, when the multitude were

very

* One mavo'nserve here, that this lay-Pharisee Ananias, as we have seen he  
xvas, sect. 3>p. took upon him to appoint a fast at Tiberias, and was obeyed;

tho''igh iniked ii was not cut of religion, but knavish polic/.

