Chap. XIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 285

Antony took fifteen of them and put them into custody, whom

he was also going to kill presently, and the rest he drove away

with disgrace, on which occasion a still greater tumult arose at

Jerusalem ; so they sent again a thousand ambassadors to Tyre,

where Antony now abode, as he was marching to Jerusalem;

upon these men, who made a clamour, he sent out the governor

of Tyre, and ordered him to punish all that he could catch of

them, and to settle those in the administration whom he had made

tetrarchs.

7. But before this, Herod and Hyrcanus went out upon the

sea-shore, and earnestly desired of these ambassadors that they

would neither bring ruin upon themselves, nor war upon their

native country, by their rash contentions ; and when they grew

still more outrageous, Antony sent out armed men, and slew a

great many, and wounded more of them ; of whom those that

were slain were buried by Hyrcanus, as were the wounded put

under the care of physicians by him; yet would not those that

had escaped be quiet still, but put the affairs of the city into such

disorder, and so provoked Antony, that he slew those whom he

had in bonds also.

CHAP. XIII.

The Parthians firing Antigonus lack into Judca, and cast Hyrca­

nus and Phasaelus into prison. The flight of Herod, and the

taking of Jerusalem, and what Hyrcanus and Phasaelus suffer­

ed.

$ 1. "VTOW two years afterward, when Barzapharnes, a gover-

-*• nor among the Parthians, and Pacorus, the king's son,  
had possessed themselves of Syria, and when Lysanias had al­

ready succeeded upon his father Ptolemy the son of Menneus's

death, in the government [of Chalcis], he prevailed with the go­

vernor, by a promise of a thousand talents, and five hundred wo­

men, to bring back Antigonus to his kingdom, and to turn Hyr­

canus out of it. Pacorus was by these means induced so to do,

and marched along the sea coast, while he ordered Barzapharnes

to fall upon the Jews as he went along the Mediterranean part

of the country ; but of the maritime people the Tyrians would

not receive Pacorus, although those of Ptolemais and Sidon had

received him ; so he committed a troop of his horse to a certain

pup-bearer belonging to the royal family, of his own name [Pa­

corus], and gave him orders to march into Judea, in order to

learn the state of affairs among their enemies, and to help Anti-

gpnus when he should want his assistance.

2. Now, as these men were ravaging Carmel, many of the Jews

ran

