Chap. II. ANTIQJJITES OF THE JEWS. 161

"* * I

" Izates ; but desired that they would however defer the execu. •

" tion of this slaughter of Izates's brethren till he should be there

" himself, and give his approbation to it." So, since these men

had not prevailed with her, l^hen they advised her to slay them,

they exhorted her at least to keep them in bonds till he should

come, and that for their own security ; they r-lso gave her coun­

sel to set up some one whom she should put the greatest trust in,

as a governor of the kingdom in the mean time. So Queen: He­

lena complied with this counsel of theirs, and setup Monobazus,

the eldest son, to be king, and put the diadem upon his head,

and gave him his father's ring, with its signet; as also the orna­

ment which they call Sampscr, and exhorted him to administer

the affairs of the kingdom till his brother should come ; who

came suddenly upon hearing that his father was dead, and suc­

ceeded his brother Monobazus, who resigned up the government

to him.

3. Now, during the time Izates abode at Charax-Spasini, a

certain Jewish merchant, whose name was Ananias, got amoag

the women that belonged to the king, and taught them to wor­

ship God according to the Jewish religion. He, moreover, by

their means, became known to Izates, and persuaded him, in

like manner, to embrace that religion ; he also, at the earnest

entreaty of Izates, accompanied him when he was sent for by

his father to come to Adiabene ; it also happened, that Helenu,

about the same time, was instructed by a certain other Jew, and

went over to them. But, when Izates had taken the kingdom,

and was come to Adiabene, and there saw his brethren, and

other kinsmen in bonds, he was displeased ;it it; and as he thought

it an instance of" impiety either to slay or imprison them, but

_ still thought it an hazardous thing for to let them have their li­

berty, with the remembrance of the injuries that had been offer­

ed them, he sent some of them and their children for hostages to

Rome, to Claudius Ceesar, and sent the others to Artabanus, the

king of Parthia, with the like intentions.

4. And when he perceived that his mother was highly plea­

sed with the Jewish customs, he made haste to change, and to em­

brace them entirely ; and, as he supposed that he could not be

thoroughly a Jew unless he were circumcised, he was ready to

have it doae. But, when his mother understood what he was

about, she endeavoured to hinder him from doing it, and said to

him, that " this thing would bring him into danger, and that, as

" he was a king, he would thereby bring himself into greac

" odium among his subjects, when they should understand that

" he was so fond of rites that were to them strange and foreign ;

" and that they would never bear to be ruled over by a Jew."

This it was that she said to him, and for the present persuaded

VOL. III. X^ *

