ANTIQJJItlES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

Gaulonite, of a city whose name was Gamala, who, taking with

him Saddouk *, a Pharisee, became zealous to draw thenv to a

revolt, who both said, that this taxation was no better than an

introduction to slavery, and exhorted the nation to assert their

liberty ; as if they could procure them happiness and security

for what they possessed, and assured enjoyment of a still great­

er good, which was that of the honour and glory they would

thereby acquire for magnanimity. They also said, that God

would not otherwise be assisting to them, than upon their joiiv

ing with one another in such counsels as might be successful,

and for their own advantage ; and this especially, if they would

set about great exploits, and not grow weary in executing the

same ; so men received what they said with pleasure, and this

bold attempt proceeded to a great height. All sorts of misfor­

tunes also sprang from these men, and the nation was infected

with this doctrine to an incredible degree ; one violent war

came upon us after another, and we lost our friends which used

to alleviate our pains ; there were also, very great robberies and

murders of our principal men. This was done in pretence indeed

for the public welfare, but in reality from the hopes of gain to

themselves; whence arose seditions, and from them murders of

men, which sometimes fell on those of their own people, (by the

madness of these men towards one another, while their desire was

that none of the adverse party might be left), and sometimes on

their enemies ; a famine also coming upon us reduced us to the

last degree of despair, as did also the taking and demolishing of

cities; nay, the sedition at last increased so high, that the very-

temple of God was burnt down by their enemies fire. Such

were the consequences of this, that the customs of our fathers

were altered, and such a change was made, as added a mighty

weight toward bringing all to destruction, which these men oc­

casioned by their thus conspiring together, for Judas and Saddu-

cus f, who excited a fourth philosophic sect among us, and had

a great many followers therein, filled our civil government with

tumults at present, and laid the foundations of our future mise­

ries by this system of philosophy, which we were before unac­

quainted withal; concerning which I will discourse a little, and

this

* It seems not very improbable to me, that this Sadduc, the Pharisee, was the  
very same man of whom the Rabbins speak, as the unhappy, but undesigning oc­

casion of the impiety or infidelity of the Sadducees; nor perhaps had the men

this name of Sadducees till this very time, though they were a distinct sect
long

before. See the note on B. XIII. ch. x. sect. 5. and Dean Prideaux, as there

quoted; nor do we, that I know of, find the least footsteps of such impiety or

infidelity of these Sadducees before this time, the Recognitions assuring us,
that

they began about the. days of John the Baptist, B. I. ch. Iiv.

, • f See Note above.

