Chap. XXXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 3-4T;

father ground for an ill suspicion, and give an handle to those

that raised stories against him; for that in case any thing had .

beenmovedtohisdisadvantage,itwasowing to hisabsence,which

durst not have been done had he been present. And they said,

it was absurd to deprive himself of certain happiness, for the

sake of an uncertain suspicion, and not rather to return to his

father, and take the royal authority upon him, which was in

a state of fluctuation on his account only. Antipater compli­

ed with this last advice, for Providence hurried him on [to his

destruction]. 80 he passed over the sea, and landed at Sebas-

tus, the haven of Cesarea. .

4. And here he found a perfect and unexpected solitude, while

every body avoided him, and no body durst come at him; for

he was equally hated by all men; and now that hatred had

liberty to shew itself, and the dread men were in at the king's

anger made men keep from him; for the whole city [of Jerusa­

lem] was filled with the rumours about Antipater, and Anti-

pater himself was the only person who was ignorant of them;

for as no man was dismissed more magnificently when he began

his voyage to Rome, so was no man now received back with

greater ignominy. And indeed he began already to suspect

what misfortunes there were in Herod's family; yet did he cun­

ningly conceal his suspicion; and while he was inwardly ready.

to die for fear, he put on a forced boldness of countenance. Nor

could he now fly any whither, nor had he any way of emerg­

ing out of the difficulties which encompassed him; nor indeed

had he even there any certain intelligence of the affairs of the

royal family, by reason of the threats the king had given out:

yet had he some small hopes of better tidings; for perhaps no-­

thing had been discovered; or, if any discovery had been made,

perhaps he should be able to clear himself by impudence, and

artful tricks, which were the only things he relied upon for his

deliverance. /

5. And with these hopes did he screen himself, till he came

to the palace, without any friends with him; for these were

affronted, and shutout at the first gate. Now Varus, the pre­

sident of Syria, happened to be in the palace [at this juncture]:'

sp Antipater went in to his father, and, putting on a bold face,

he came near to salute him; but Herod stretched out his hands,

and turned his head away from him, and cried out, "Even this

" is an indication of a parricide, to be desirous to g-:t me into

M his arms, when he is under such heinous accusations. God

" confound thee, thou vile wretch, do not thou touch me, till

" thou hast cleared thyself of these crimes that are charged uport

ff thee. J appoint thee a court where thou art to be judged, and

X x 2 " this

