134 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

of wickedness ; a slave to his pleasures, and a lover of calumny;

greatly affected by every terrible accident, and on that account

wf a very murderous disposition, where he durst shew it. He

enjoyed his exorbitant power to this only purpose, to injure those

who least deserved it, with unreasonable insolence, and got his

wealth by murder and injustice. He laboured to appear above

regarding either what was divine or agreeable to the laws, but

was a slave to the commendations of the populace ; and whatso­

ever the laws determined to be shameful, and punished, that he

esteemed more honourable than what was virtuous. He was

unmindful of his friends, how intimate soever, and though they

were persons of the highest character; and, if he was once angry

at any of them, he would inflict punishment upon them on the

smallest occasions, and esteemed every man that endeavoured to

lead a virtuous life his enemy. And whatsoever he command­

ed, he would not admit of any contradiction to his inclinations ;

whence it was that he had criminal conversation with his own

sister * ; from which occasion chiefly it was also, that a bitter ha­

tred first sprang up against him among the citizens, that sort of

incest not having been known of a long time ; and so this provo­

ked men to distrust him, and to hate him that was guilty of it.

And for any great or royal work that he ever did, which might

be for the present and for future ages, nobody can name any

such, but only the haven that he made about Rhegium and Si­

cily, for the reception of the ships that brought corn from E-

gypt; which was indeed a work without dispute very great in

itself, and of very great advantage to the navigation. Yet was

not this work brought to perfection by him, but was the one

half of it left imperfect, by reason of his want of application

to it; the cause of which was this, that he employed his stu­

dies about useless matters, and that by spending his money

upon such pleasures as concerned no one's benefit but his

own, he could not exert his liberality in things that were

undeniably of great consequence. Otherwise he was an ex­

cellent orator, and thoroughly acquainted with the Greek

tongue, as well as with his own country or Roman language.

He was also able, off-hand and readily, to give answers to

compositions made by others, of considerable length and ac­

curacy. He was also more skilful in persuading others to very

great things than any one else, and this from a natural affa­

bility

» Spanheim here notes from Suetonius, that the name of Caius's sister, with

whom he was guilty of incest, was Tirusilla ; and that Suetonius adds, he was

guilty of the same crime with all his sisters also. He notes farther, that
Suete.

nius omits the mention of the haven for ships, which our author esteems the
en.

ly public work for the good of the present and future ages which Caius left
be-

Vuid him, though in an imperfect condition.

