3$2 WARS OF THE JEWS'. Book I.

stay. The king also bound Antipater, and sent away to inform

Caesar of his misfortunes. . -

6. Now after this, it was discovered that Antipater had laid

a plot against Salome also; for one of Antiphilus's domestic

servants came, and brought letters from Rome, from a maid­

servant of Julia, [Caesar's wife], whose name was Acme. By

her a message was sent to the king, that she had found a let­

ter written by Salome, among Julia's papers, and had sent it to

him privately, out of her good-will to him. This letter of Sa­

lome contained the most bitter reproaches of the king, and the

highest accusations against him. Antipater had forged this let­

ter, and had corrupted Acme, and persuaded her to send it to

Herod. This was proved by her letter to Antipater, for thus

did this woman write to him: " As thou desirest, I havewrit-

** ten a letter to thy father, and have sent that letter, and am  
** persuaded that the king will not spare his sister when he reads  
** it. Thou wilt do well to remember what thou hast promised  
" when all is accomplished."

7. When this epistle was discovered, and what the epistle for­

ged against Salome contained, a suspicion came into the king's

mind, that perhaps the letters against Alexander were also for­

ged: he was moreover greatly disturbed, and in a passion, be­

cause he had almost slain his sister on Antipater's account. He

did no longer delay therefore to bring him to punishment for

all his crimes; yet when he was eagerly pursuing Antipater,

he was restrained by a severe distemper he fell into. However,

he sent an account to Caesar about Acme, and the' contrivances

against Salome, he sent also for his testament, and altered it,

and therein made Antipas king, as taking no care of Archelaus

and Philip, because Antipater had blasted their reputations

with him ; but he bequeathed to Caesar, besides other presents

that he gave him, a thousand talents ; as also to his wife, and

children, and friends, and freed-men, about five hundred: he

also bequeathed to all others a great quantity of land, and of

money, and shewed his respects to Salome his sister, by giving

her most splendid gifts. And this was what was contained in

his testament, as it was now altered.

CHAP. XXXIII.

» The golden eagle is cut to pieces. Herod1 s barbarity when he

-was ready to die. He attempts to kill himself. He commands  
Antipater to be slain. He survives him Jive days, and then dies.

§ 1. "\TOW Herod's distemper became more and more severe

±\ to him, and this because these his disorders fell upon

him

