SO* WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

0. Now while they made opposition, they had not a great

number slain ; but as soon as they turned their backs, a great

many were trodden to pieces by the Jews, and a great many by

themselves, and so perished, tilf five thousand were fallen down

dead in their flight, wliile the rest of the multitude prevented

their immediate death, by crowding into the fortification. He­

rod encompassed these round, and besieged them; and while they

were ready to be takenby their enemies in arms, they had

another additional distress upon them, which was thirst and want

of water; for the king was above hearkening to their ambassa­

dors, and when they offered five hundred talents, as the price

of their redemption, he pressed still harder upon them. And as

they were burnt up by their thirst, they came out and volun­

tarily delivered themselves up by multitudes to the Jews, till ia

five days time four thousand of them were put into bonds ; and

on the sixth d=y the multitude that were left despaired of saving

themselves, and came out to fight; with these Herod fought, and

slew again about seven thousand, insomuch, that he punished

Aribia so severely, and so far extinguished the spirits of the

men, that he was chosen by the nation for their ruler.

, «

CHAP. XX.

Herod is confirmed In his kingdom by Ccesar, and cultivates a

friendship with the emperor by magnificent presents ; while

Caesar returns bis /kindness by bestowing on him that part of

his kingdom which had bten taken away from it by Cleopatra,

ivith the addition of Zenodorus's country also.

§ 1. T)UT now Herod was under immediate concern about

-U a most important affair, on account of his friendship  
with Antony, who was already overcome at Actium by Caesar ;

yet he was more afraid than hurt; for Caesar did not think he

had quite undone Antony, while Herod continued his assistance

to him. However, the king resolved to expose himself to dan­

gers : accordingly he sailed to Rhodes, where Caesar then abode,

and came to him without his diadem, and in the habit and ap­

pearance of a private person, but in his behaviour as a king. So

he concealed nothing of the truth, but spake thus before his

face : " O Caesar, as I was ma,de king of the Jews by Antony,

<e so do I profess that 1 have used my royal authority in the best

" manner, and entirely for his advantage ; nor will I conceal

" this farther, that thou hadst certainly found me in arms, and

*' an inseparable companion of his, had not the Arabians hin-  
*' dered me. However, 1 sent him as many auxiliaries as I  
*' was able, and many tea thqusand [cori] of corn. Nay, inr

'

