Chap; XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 431.

I

for Ptolemy, who was'Agrippa's and Bernice's steward, and took

from him all that he had with him, among which things there

were a great many costly garments, and no small number of sil­

ver cups, and six hundred pieces of gold, yet were they notable

to conceal what they had stolen, but brought it all to Josephns,

to Taricheae. Hereupon he blamed them for the violence they

had offered to the king and queen, and deposited what they

brought to him with Eneas, the most potent man of Tariche«B,

with an intention of sending the things back to the owners at a

proper time; which act of Josephus brought him into the greatest

danger; for those that had stolen the things, had an indignation

at him, both because they gained no share of it for themselves,

and because they perceived before hand what was Josephus's in­

tention, and that he would freely deliver up what had cost them

so much pains to the king and queen. These ran away by night

to their several villages, and declared to all men that Josephus

was going to betray them: they also raised great disorders in all

the neighbouring cities, insomuch that in the morning an hun­

dred thousand armed men came running together', which multi­

tude was crowded together in the hippodrome at Taricheae, and

made a very peevish clamour against him; while some cried

out, That " they should depose the traitor;" and others, " That

" they should burn him." Now John irritated a great many,

as did also one Jesus, the son of Sapphias, who was then go­

vernor of Tiberias. Then it was that Josephus's friends, and

the guards of his body, were so affrighted at this violent assault

of the multitude, that they all fled away but four; and as he

was asleep, they awaked him, as the people were going to set

fire to the house. And although those four that remained with

him persuaded him to run away, he was neither surprised at

his being himself deserted, nor at the great multitude that came

against him, but leaped out to them with his clothes rent, and

ashes sprinkled on his head, with his hands behind him, and his

sword hanging at his neck. At this sight his friends, especially

those of Taricheae, commiserated his condition; but those that

came out of the country, and those in their neighbourhood, to

whom his government seemed burdensome, reproached him, and

bid him produce the money which belonged to them all imme­

diately, and to Confess the agreement he had made to betray

them; for they imagined from the habit in which he appeared,

that he would deny nothing of what they suspected concerning

him, and that it was in order to obtain pardon, that he had put

himself entirely into so pitiable a posture. But this humble ap­

pearance was only designed as preparatory to a stratagem of his,

who thereby contrived to set those that were so angry at him

at

