14 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE iews. Book XVIL

his anger against him, and wrote back to him, and bid him not

delay his journey, lest any harm should befal himself in his ab­

sence. At the same time also he made some little complaint

about his mother, but promised that he would lay those com­

plaints aside when he should return. He withal expressed his

entire affection for him, as fearing lest he should have some sus­

picion of him, and defer his journey to him ; and lest, while he

lived at Rome, he should lay plots for the kingdom, and, more­

over, do somewhat against himself. This letter Antipater met

with in Cilicia ; but had received an account of Pherofas's death

before at Tarentum. This last news affected him deeply ; not

out of any affection for Pheroras, but because he was dead with­

out having murdered his father, which he had promised him to

do. And when he was at Celenderis in Cilicia, he began to de­

liberate with himself about his sailing home, as being much grie­

ved with the ejection of his mother. Now, some of his friends

advised him that he should tarry a while somewhere, in expec­

tation of farther information. But others advised him to sail

home without delay ; for that if he were once come thither, he

would soon put an end to all accusations, and that nothing af­

forded any weight to his accusers at present but his absence. He

was persuaded by these last, and sailed on, and landed at the ha­

ven called Sebastus, which Herod had built at vast expences in

honour of Caesar, and called Sebastus. And now was Antipater

evidently in a miserable condition, whjle no body came to him

nor saluted him, as they did at his going away, with good wishes

or joyful acclamations ; nor was there now any thing to hinder

them from entertaining him, on the contrary, with bitter curses,

while they supposed he was come to receive his punishment for

the murder of his brethren.

2. Now, Quintilius Varus was at this time at Jerusalem, be­

ing sent to succeed Saturninus as president of Syria, and was

come as an assessor to Herod, who had desired his advice in his

present affairs ; and as they were sitting together, Antipater

came upon them, without knowing any thing of the matter ; so

he came into the palace clothed in purple. The porters indeed

received him in, but excluded his friends. And now he was in

great disorder, and presently understood the condition he was in,

while upon his going to salute his father, he was repulsed by

him, who called him a murderer of his brethren, and a plotter

of destruction against himself, and told him that Varus should

be his auditor and his judge the very next day; so he found, that

what misfortune he now heard of was already upon him, with

the greatness of which he went away in confusion; upon which

his mother and. his wife met him, (which wife was the daugh­

ter of Antigonus, who was king of the Jews before Herod), from

whom

