374 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II,

3. These men are despisers of riches, and so very communi­

cative as,raises our admiration. Nor is there any one to be

found among them who hath more than another; for it is a law

among them, that those who come to them must let what they

have be common to the whole order, insomuch that among them

all there is no appearance of poverty, or excess of riches, but

every one's possessions are intermingled with every other's pos­

sessions, and'so there is, as it were, one patrimony among all the

brethren. They think that oil is a defilement; and if any one

of them be anointed, without his own approbation, it is wiped

off his body; for they think to be sweaty is a good thing, as

they do also to be clothed in white garments. They also have

stewards appointed to take care of their common affairs, who

every one of them have no separate business for any, but what

is for the uses of them all.

4. They have no one certain city, but many of them dwell in

every city; and if any of their sect come from other places,

what they have lies open for them, just as if it were their own,

and they go into such as they never knew before, as if they had

been ever so long acquainted with them. For which reason they

carry nothing at all with them when theytravel into remote

parts, though still they take their weapons with them, for fear

of thieves. Accordingly, there is, in every city where they live,

one appointed particularly to take care of strangers, and to pro­

vide garments and other necessaries for them. But the habit

and management of their bodies is such as children use who are

in fear of their masters. Nor do they allow of the change of

garments, or of shoes, till they be first entirely torn to pieces,

or worn out by time. Nor do they either buy or sell any thing

to one another, but every one of them gives what he hath to

him that wanteth it, and receives from him again in lieu of it

what may be convenient for himself; and although there be no

icquittal made, they are fully allowed to take what they want of

whomsoever they please.

' 5. And as for their piety towards God, it is very extraordi­

nary: for before sun-rising they speak not a word about profane

matters, but put up certain 'prayers, which they have received

from their forefathers, as if they made a supplication for its ri­

sing. After this every one of them are sent away by their cura­

tors to exercise some of thoce arts wherein they are skilled, in

which they labour with great diligence till the fifth hour. , Af­

ter which they assemble themselves together again into one place,

and when they have clothed themselves in whits veils, they then

bathe their bodies in cold water. And aitcv this purification is'

ever, they every one meet together in an apartment of their own,

into

