Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 127

he put on such a mournful dress as be would have done had he

lost his dearest friends in the world ; this man came into the thea­

tre, and informed them of the death of Caius, and by this means

put an end to that state of ignorance the men had been in. Ar-

runtius also went round about the pillarSi and called out to the

Germans, as did the tribunes with him, bidding them put up

their swords, and telling them that Cams was dead. And this

proclamation it was plainly which saved those that were collect­

ed together in the theatre, and all the rest who any way met the

Germans; for, while they had hopes that Caius had still any

breath in him, they abstained from no sort of mischief ; and such

an abundant kindness they still had for Caius, that they would

willingly have prevented the plot against him, and procured his

escape from so sad a misfortune, at the expcnce of their own

lives. But they now left off the warm zeal they had to punish

his enemies, now they were fully satisfied that Caius was dead,

because it was now in vain for them to-shew their zeal and kind­

ness to him, when he that should reward them was perished. They

were also afraid that they should be punched by the senate, if

they should go on in doing such injuries, that is, in case the au­

thority of the supreme governor should revert to them. And

thus at length a stop was put, though not without difficulty, to

that rage which possessed the Germans on account of Caius's

death.

19. But Cherca was so much afraid for Minucianus, lest he

should light upon the Germans, now they were in their fury,

that he went and spake to every one of the soldiers, and prayed

them to take care of his preservation, and made himself great in­

quiry about him, lest he should have been slain. And for Cle­

ment, he let Minucianus go when he was brought to him, and,

with many other of the senators, affirmed the action was right,

and commended the virtue of those that contrived it, and had

courage enough to execute it; and said, that " tyrants do indeed

" please themselves and look big for a while, upon having the

" power to act unjustly ; but do not however go happily out of

" the world, because they are hated by the virtuous ; and that

" Caius, together with all his unhappiness, was become a con-

"spirator against himself, before these other men who attacked

" him did so ; and by becoming intolerable, in setting aside thfc

" wise provision the laws had made, taught his dearest friends

" to treat him as an enemy ; insomuch, that although in com-

" mon discourse thess conspirators were those that slew Caius.,

" yet that, in reality, he lies now dead as perishing by his own

*' self." ' ' ' .'.. ''.

' 20. Now by this lime the people in the theatre were arisen

from

