262 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

live in the management of affairs, and one that recovered the go­

vernment to Hyrcanus, and preserved it in his hands.

5. ^However, Maliclms, when he Was suspected of poisoning

Antipater, and when the multitude was angry with him for it, de­

nied it, and made the people believe he was not guilty. He also

prepared to make a greater figure, and raised soldiers ; for he did

not suppose that Herod would be quiet, who indeed came upon

him with an army presently, in order to revenge his father's

death ; but, upon hearing the advice of his brother Phasaelus,

not to punish him in an open manner, lest the multitude should

fall into a sedition, he admitted of Malichus's apology, and pro-i

fessed that he cleared him of the suspicion ; he also made a pom­

pous funeral for his father.

6. So Herod went to Samaria, which was then in a tumult,

and settled the city in peace; after which, at the [Pentecost}

festival, he returned to Jerusalem, having his armed men with

him : hereupon Hyrcanus, at the request of Malichus, who fear­

ed his reproach, forbade them to introduce foreigners to mix

themselves with the people of the country, while they were pu­

rifying themselves ; but Herod despised the pretence, and him

that gave that command, and came in by night. Upon which

Malichus came to him, and bewailed Antipater; Herod also

made him believe [he admitted of his lamentations as real], al­

though he had much ado to restrain his passion at him ; however,

he did himself bewail the murder of his father, in his letters to

Cassius, who, on other accounts, also hated Malichus ; Cassius

sent him word back tha£,'he should avenge his father's death upon

him, and privately gave order to the tribunes that were under him,

that they should assist Herod in a righteous action he was about.

T. And because, upon the taking of Laodicea by Cassius, the

men of power were gotten together from all quarters, with pre­

sents and crowns in their hands, Herod allotted this time for the

punishment of Malichus. When Malichus suspected that, and

was- at Tyre, he resolved to withdraw his son privately from a-

rr.ong the Tynans, who was an hostage there, while he got ready

to fly away into Judea ; the despair he was in of escaping, ex­

cited him to think of greater things ; for he hoped that he should

raise the nation to a revolt from the Romans, while Cassius was

busy about the war against Antony, and that he should easily

depose Hyrcanus, and get the crown for himself. ,

8. But fate laughed ct'the hopes he had ; for Herod foresaw

what he vyassp icalqus about, and invited both Hyrcanus and him

to supper ; , but calling one of the principal servants that stood by

him, to him, he sent him out, as though it Xvere to get things rea­

dy for supper, but in reality to give notice beforehand, about the

plot

