WARS OF TH£ JEWS. Book I.

ever a most excellent hunter, where he generally had good suc­

cess, by the means of his great skill in riding horses; for in one

day he caught forty wild beasts *; that country breeds also

bears, and the greatest part of it is replenished with stags, and

wild asses. He was also such a warrior as could not be with­

stood: many men therefore there are who have stood amazed at

ai& readiness in his exercises, when tbey saw him throw the

javelin directly forward, and to shoot the arrow upon the mark.

And then besides these performances of his, depending on his

own strength of mind and body, fortune was also very favour­

able to him; for he seldom failed of success in his wars; and

when he failed, he was not himself the occasion of such failings,

but he either was betrayed by some, or the rashness of his own

soldiers procured his defeat. . -

GHAP. XXII.

The Murder of Ar'ntohuhts, and Hyrcanvt, the high-priest*^ as

also- of Mariamne the queen.

i i. YTCfWEVER, fortune was avenged on Herod in his

_Ll eternal great successes, by raising him up domestical

troubles, and he began to have wild disorders in his family, on

account of his wife, of whom he was so very fond. For when

he came to the government, he sent away her whom he had be­

fore married, when he was a private person, and who was born

at Jerusalem, whose name was Doris, and married Mariamne,

the daughter of Alexander, the son of Aristobulus; on whose

account disturbances arose in his family, and that in part very

soon, but chiefly after his return from Rome. For first of all,

he expelled Antipater the son of Doris, for the sake of his sons

by Mariamne, out of the city, and permitted him to come thither

at no other times than at the festivals. After this he slew his

wife's grandfather, Hyrcanus, when he was returned out of Par-

thia to him, under this pretence, that he suspected him of plot­

ting against him. Now this Hyrcanus had been carried captive

to Barzapharnes, when he over-ran Syria; but those of his own

country beyond Euphrates were desirous he would stay with

them, and this out of the commiseration they had for his condi­

tion ; and had he complied with their desires, when they exhort­

ed him not to go over the river to Herod, he had not perished:

. but themarriage of his grand-daughter [to Herod] was his tempt­

ation ;. for as he relied upon him,and was over fond of his own coun-

'. -. ' tT7r

• Here seems to be a small defect in the copies, which describe the wild
beasw-

which were hunted in a certain country by Hired, without noising any such
coun­

try at all.

r< 1

