Chap. VI. ASTIQJJIT1ES OF THE JEWS. 25

" it with very valuable donations ; on which account he hoped

'' that he had left himself a memorial, and procured himself a

" reputation after his death. He then cried out, that these men

" had not abstained from affronting him, even in his life time,

" but that, in the very day-time, and in the sight of the multi-

" tude, they had abused him to that degree, as to fall upon what

" he had dedicated, and in that way of abuse, had pulled it down

" to the ground. They pretended, indeed, that they did it to

" affront him ; but if any one, considering the thing truly, they

" will find that they were guilty of sacrilege against God

" therein."

4. But the people, on account of Herod's barbarous temper,

and for fear he should be so cruel as to inflict punishment on

them, said, " What was done, was done without their approba-

" tion, and that it seemed to them that the actors might well be

" punished for what they had done." But as for Herod, he dealt

more mildly with others [of the assembly] ; but he deprived

Matthias of the high-priesthood, as in part an occasion of this

action, and made Joazar, who was Matthias's wife's brother,

high-priest in his stead. Now it happened, that during the time

of the high-priesthood of this Matthias, there was another per­

son made high-priest for a single day, that very day which the

Jews observed as a fast. The occasion was this : This Matthias

the high-priest, on the night before that day, when the fast was

to be celebrated, seemed, in a dream *, to have conversation

with his wife ; and because he could not officiate himself on that

account, Joseph, the son of Ellemus, his kinsman, assisted him

in that sacred office. But Herod deprived this Matthias of the

high-priesthood, and burnt the other Matthias, who had raised

the sedition, with his companions, alive. And that very night

tbere was an eclipse of the moon f.

VOL. III. D -5. But

* This fact, that one Joseph was made high-priest for a single day, on occa­  
sion of the action here specified, that befel Matthias, the real high-priest,
in his

sleep, the night before the great day of expiation, is attested tobo;h in the
Mish-

na and Talmud, as Dr Hudson here informs us' And indeed, from this fact,

thus fully attested, we may confute that pretended rule in the Talmud here
men­

tioned, and endeavoured to be excused by Reland, that the high'priest was not

suffered to ileep the night before that great day of expiation; which watching

would surely rather unfit him-for the many important duties he was to perform

on that solemn day, than dispose him duly to perform them. Nor do such Tal.

tnudical rules, when unsupported by better evidence, much less when
contradict,

ed thereby, seem to me of weight enough to deserve that so great a man as Re-

land should spend his time in endeavours at their vindication.

t This eclipse of the moon (which is iheonly eclipse of either of the
luminarie*

mentioned by our Josephus in any of his writings), isof the greatest
consequence

for the determination of the time for the death of Herod and Antipater, and
for

the birth and entire chronology of Jesus Christ. It happened March I3th, in
the

