102 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

those who converse with them ; for none of them will deceive

you, when once they have given you their right hands, nor will

any one doubt of their fidelity, when that is once given, even

though they were before suspected of injustice. When Arra-

banus had done this, he sent away Anileus to persuade his bro­

ther to come to him. Now this the king did, because he want­

ed to curb his own governors of provinces by the courage of

these Jewish brethren, lest they should make a league with

them ; for they were ready for a revolt, and were disposed to

rebel, had they been sent on an expedition against them. He

was also afraid, lest when he was engaged in a war in order to

subdue those governors of provinces that had revolted, the party

of Asineus, and those in Babylonia, should be augmented, and

either make war upon him, when they should hear of that re­

volt, or, if they should be disappointed in that case, they would

not fail of doing farther mischief to him. .

4. When the king had these intentions, he sent away Anileus,

and Anileus prevailed on his brother [to come to the king], when

he had related to him the king's good-will, and the oath that he

had taken. Accordingly they made haste to go to Artabanus,

who received them, when they were come with pleasure, and

admired Asineus's courage in the actions he had done, and this

because he was a little man to see to, and at first sight appeared

contemptible also, and such as one might deem a person of no va­

lue at all. He also said to his friends, how, upon the comparison,

he shewed his soul to be, in all respects, superior to his body ;

and when, as they were drinking together, he once shewed Asi­

neus to Abdagases, one of the generals of his army, and told him

his name, and described the great courage he was of in war, and

Abdagases had desired leave to kill him, and thereby to inflict

on him a punishment for those injuries he had done to the Par­

thian government, the king replied, " I will never give thee

" leave to kill a man who hath depended on my faith, especially

" not after I have sent him tny right hand, and endeavoured to

" gain his belief by oaths made by the gods. But, if thou beest

** a truly warlike man, thou standest not in need of my perjury.  
" Go thou then, and avenge the Parthian government; attack

** this man, when he is returned back, and conquer him by the  
f forces that are under thy command, without my privity."

Hereupon the king called for Asineus, and said to him, " It is.

** time for thee, O thou young man ! to return home, and not  
f provoke the indignation of my generals in this place any far-

" ther, lest they attempt to murder thee, and that without my ap-

*! probation. I commit to thee the country of Babylonia in trust,  
M that it may, by thy care, be preserved free from robbers, and.

" from.

