Chap. XXIV. WARS or THE JEWS. .

fences, if they would amend for the time to come. But they

refuted the calumnies that had been raised of them, and said they

were false, and alleged that their actions were sufficient for their

vindication, and said withal, that he himself ought to shut his

ears against such tales, and not to be too easy in believing them,

for that there would never be wanting those that would tell lies

to their disadvantage, as long as any would give ear to them.

5. When they had thus soon pacified him, as being their fa­

ther, they got clear of the present fear they were in. Yet did

they see occasion for sorrow in some time afterward; for they

knew that Salome, as well as their uncle Pheroras, were their

enemies; who were both of them heavy and severe persons, and

especially Pheroras, who was a partner with Herod in all the af­

fairs of the kingdom, excepting his diadem. He had also an

hundred talents of his own revenue, and enjoyed the advantage

of all the land beyond Jordan, which he had received as a gift

from his brother, who had asked of Caesar to make him a te-

-trarch, as he was made accordingly. Herod had also given him  
a wife out of the royal family, who was no other than his owa

wife's sister, and after her death had solemnly espoused to him

his own eldest daughter, with a dowry of three hundred talents ;

but Pheroras refused to consummate this royal marriage out

of his affection to a maid servant of his. Upon whkh account

Herod was very angry, and gave that daughter in marriage to

a brother's son of his [Joseph], who was slain afterward by the

Parthians; but in some time he laid aside his anger against Phe­

roras, and pardoned him, as one cot able to overcome his fool­

ish passion for the maid-servant.

6. Nay, Pheroras had been accused long before, while the

queen [Mariamne] was alive, as if he were in a plot to poison

Herod; and there came then so great a number of informers,

that Herod himself, though he was an exceeding lover of hia

brethren, was brought to believe what was said, and to be afraid

of it also: and when he had brought many of those that were

under suspicion to the torture, he came at last to Pheroras'sown

friends; none of which did openly confess the crime, but they

owned that he had made preparation to take her whom he loved,

and ran away to the Parthians. Costobarus also, the husband of

Salome, to whom the king had given her in marriage, after her

former husband had been put to death for adultery, was instru­

mental in bringing about this contrivance and flight of his. Nor

did Salome escape all calumny upon herself; for her brother

Pheroras accused her, that she had made an agreement to marry

Silleus, the procurator of Obodas, king of Arabia, who was at

bitter enmity with Herod; but when she was convicted of this,

and

