Chap. XIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 393

these prevailed with the multitude to act like madmen, and

went before them into the wilderness, as pretending that God

would there shew them the signals of liberty. But Felix

thought this procedure was to be the beginning of a revolt; so

he sent some horsemen and footmen both armed, who destroy­

ed a great number of them.

. 5. But there was an Egyptian false prophet that did the Jews

more mischief than the former: for he was a cheat, and pre­

tended to be a prophet also, and got together thirty thousand

men that were deluded by him; these he led round about from

the wilderness to the mount which was called the Mount of O-

lives, and was ready to break into Jerusalem by force from that

place; and if he could but once conquer the Roman garrison,

and the people, he intended to domineer over them by the assis­

tance of those guards of his that were to break into the city

with him. But Felix prevented his attempt, and met him with

his Roman soldiers, while all the people assisted him in his at­

tack upon them, insomuch that, when it came to a battle, the

Egyptian ran away, with a few others, while the greatest part

of those that were with him were either destroyed or taken

alive; but the rest of the multitude were dispersed every one

to their own homes, and there concealed themselves.

6. Now, when these were quieted, it happened, as it does in

a diseased body, that another part was subject to an inflammation,

for a company of deceivers and robbers got together, and per­

suaded the Jews to revolt, and exhorted them to assert their li­

berty, inflicting death on those that continued in obedience to

the Roman government, and saying, that such as willingly chose

slavery, ought lo be forced from such their desired inclinations;

for they parted themselves into different bodies, and lay in wait

up and down the country, and plundered the houses of the great

men, and slew the men themselves, and set the villages on fire;

a>id this till all Judea was filled with the effects of their mad­

ness. And thus the flame was every day more and more blown

up, till it came to a direct war.

7. There was also another disturbance at Cesarea, those Jews

who were mixed with the Syrians that lived there, raising a

tumult against them. The Jews pretended that the city was

theirs, and said, that he who built it was a Jew, meaning king

Herod. The Syrians confessed also, that its builder was a Jew,

but they still said, however, that the city was a Grecian city;

for that he who set up statues and temples in it could not design

it for Jews. On which account both parties had a contest with

one another; and this contest increased so much, that it came

at last to arms, and the bolder sort of them marched out to fight;

VOL. Ill, 3 D for

