430 WARS OF THE JEHTS. Book II.

commander of a troop of horsemen. So it was not without dif­

ficulty that they got to Gabao, their former camp, and that not

without the loss of a great part of their baggage. There it was

that C--stiiis staid two days, and was in great distress to know

what he should do in these circumstances ; but when, on the

third day, he saw a still much greater number of enemies, and

all the parts round about him full of Jews, he understood that

his delay was to his own detriment, and that if he stayed any

longer there, he should have still more enemies upon him.

8. That therefore he might fly the faster, he gave orders to

cast away what might hinder his army's march, so they killed

the mules, and other creatures, excepting thosethat carried their

darts, and machines, which they retained for their own use, and

this principally because they were afraid lest the Jews should

sieze upon them. He then made his army march on as far as

Bethoron. Now the Jews did not so much press upon them

when they were in large open places, but when they were

penn'd up in their descent through narrow passages, then did

some of them get before, and hindered them from getting out

of them, and others of them thrust the hinder most down into the

lower places, and the whole multitude extended themselves over

against the neck of the passage, and covered the Roman army

with their darts. In which circumstances, as the footm enknew

not how to defend themselves, so the danger pressed the horse­

men still more, for they were so pelted, that they could not

march along the road in their ranks, and the ascents were so high,

that the cavalry were not able to march against the enemy; the

precipices also, and valleys into which they frequently fell, and

tumbled down, were such on each side of them, that there were

neither place for their flight, nor any contrivance could be

thought of for their defence ; till the distress they were at last

in was so great, that they betook themselves to lamentations,

and to such mournful MICH as men use in the utmost despair;

the joyful acclamations of the Jews also, as they encouraged one

another, echoed the sounds back again, these last composing a

noise of those that at once rejoiced, and were in a rage. Indeed,

things were come to such a pass, that the Jews had almost taken

Cestius's entire army prisoners, had not the night come on, when

the Romans fled to Bethoron, and the Jews seized upon all the

places round about them, and watched for their coming out [in

the morning].

0. And then it was that Cestius, despairing of obtaining room

for a public march, contrived how he might best run away; and

when he had selected four hundred of the most courageous of his

soldiers, he placed them at the strongest »: their fortifications,

