230 THE LIFE OF FLAV1US IOSEPHUS.

observed the truth of the facts ; and as I expected to have their

attestation to them, so I was not deceived in such expectation.

Moreover, I immediately presented my history to many other

persons, some of which were concerned in the war, as was king

Agrippa and some of his kindred. Now the emperor Titus was

so desirous that the knowledge of these affairs should be taken

from these books alone, that he subscribed his own hand to them,

and ordered that they should be published ; and -for Agrippa, he

wrote me sixty-two letters, and attested to the truth of what I

had therein delivered ; two of which letters I have here subjoin­

ed, and thou mayest thereby know their contents. " King A-

" gr'PPa t0 Josephus, his dear friend, sendeth greeting. I have

f' read over thy book with great pleasure, and it appears to me,

" that thou hast done it much more accurately, and with great-

" er care, than have the other writers. Send me the rest of

" these books. Farewell, my dear friand." " King Agrippa

" to Josephus* his dear friend, sendeth greeting. It seems by

f what thou hast written, that thou standest in need of no in-

i " struction, in order, to our information from the beginning.

" However, when thou comest to me, I will inform thee of a great

" many things which thou dost not know." So when this histo­

ry was perfected, Agrippa, neither by way of flattery, which was

not agreeable to him, nor by way of irony, as thou wilt say, (for

he was entirely a stranger to such an evil disposition of mind),

but he wrote this by way of attestation to what was true, as all

that read histories may do. And so much shall be said concern­

ing Justus*, which I am obliged to add by way of digression.

o'6. Now,

* The character of this history qf Justus of Tiberias, the rival of our Josephus.  
which is now losr, with irs only remaining fragment, are given us by a very
able

critic, Photius, who read that history. It is in the 33d code of his
Bibliotheca,

and runs thus: " 1 have read (say s Phctius) the chronology of Justus of
Tiberias,

" whose title is this, [The chronolongy of ] the Kings of Judith, which
succeeded

" one another. This [Justus] canie out of the city Tiberias in Galilee. He be-

" gins his history from Moses, and ends it not till the death of Agrippa the
sc.

" venth [ruler] of the family of Herod, and the last king of the Jews ; who
took

" the government under Claudius, had it augmented under-Nero, and still more

" augmented by Vespasian. He died in the third year of Trajan, where also his

" history ends. He is very concise in his language, and slightly passes ever
those

" alFairs that were most necessary to be insisted on; and being under the
Jewish

"prejudices, as indeed he was himself also a Jew by birth, he makes not the

" least mention of the appearance of Christ, or of what things happened to
him,

" or of the wonderful works that he did. He was the son of a certain Jew,

" whose name was Pittus. He was a man, as he is described by Josephus, of a

" must profligate character; a slave both to money and to pleasures. In public

" affairs he was opposite to Josephus; and it is related, that he laid many
plots

" against him, but that Jo;eplius, though he had this his enemy frequently
under

" his power, did only reproach him in words, and so let him go without farther

*' punishment. He says ako, that the history which this man wrote is. for the  
" main, fabulous, and chiefly as to those parts where he describes the Roman

" war with the Jevs, and the taking of Jerusalem."

1

