32* Boot I. WARS «T THE JEWS.

Temenus, and by her mother's side from D'arius, the son of

Hystaspes. She also frequently reproached Herod's sister and

wives, with the ignobility of their descent; and that they werer

every one chosen by him for their beauty, but not for their fa­

mily. Now those wives of his were not a few; it being of old

permitted to the Jews to * marry many wives t, and this king

delighting in many, all which hated Alexander, on account of

Glaphyra's boasting and reproaches.

3. Nay, Aristobulus had raised a quarrel between himself

and Salome, who was his-mother-in-law, besides the anger he

had conceived at Glaphyra's. reproaches -T for he perpetually up­

braided bis wife with the meanness of her family, and com­

plained, that as he had married a woman of a low family, so-

had his brother Alexander married one of royal blood. At this-

Salome's daughter wept, and told it her with this addition, that.

Alexander threatened the mothers of his other brethren, that

when he should come to the crown,he would make them weave

with their maideps,and would make those brothers of his coun­

try schoolmasters, and brake this jest upon them, that they

had been very carefully instructed to fit them for such an em­

ployment. Hereupon Salome could not contain her anger, but

told all to Herod; nor could her testimony be suspected, since

it was against her own son-in-law. There was also another ca­

lumny that ran abroad, and inflamed the king's mind; for he

heard that these sons of his were perpetually speaking of their

mother, and, among their lamentations for her, did not abstain

from cursing him; and tha t when he made presents of any of

Mammae's garments to his later wives, these threatened, that

in a little time, instead of royal garments, they would clothe

them in no better than hair-cloth.

4. Now upon these accounts, though Herod was somewhat

afraid of the young men's high spirit, yet did he not despair of

reducing them to a better mind; but before he went to Rome,,

whether he was now going by sea, he called them to him, and

partly threatened them a little, as a king? but for the main, he

admonished them as a father, and exorted them to love their

breihren, and told them that he would pardon their former of­

fences,

• That it was an immemorial custom among the Jews, and their forefathers, the

patriarchs, to have sometimes more wires, or wives and concubines, than one at

the same time, and that this polygamy was not directly forbidden in the law of

Moses, is e»ident; but that ptlygamy was ever properly and distinctly
permitted in

that law of Moses, in the places here cite'd by Dean Aldrich, Deut xvii. 16,
17.

or xxi. 15. or indeed any where else, does not appesr to me. And what our Sa­

viour says about the common Jewish divorces, which may lay much greater claim

to such a permission than ptlygaay, seems to me true in this case also: that
Moses,

for the hardness of their hearts, suffered them to have several wives at the
same

time, but that " from the beginning it was not so," Matt. xix, 8. Mark x. 5.

/

