Chap. I. Ill ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

accusations and miseries, and had occasioned the greatest insult

of slaves against their masters, who indeed in a great measure

ruled them, there were many secret plots now laid against him ;

some in anger, and in order for men to revenge themselves, on

account of the miseries they had already undergone from him ;

and others made attempts upon him, in order to take him off be­

fore they should fall into such great miseries, while his death

came -very fortunately for the preservation of the laws of all men,

and had a great influence upon the public welfare ; and this hap­

pened most happily for our nation in particular, which had al­

most utterly perished if he had not been suddenly slain. And I

confess I have a mind to give a full account of this matter, par­

ticularly because it will afford great assurance of the power of

God, and great comfort to those that are under afflictions, and

wise caution to those who think their happiness will never end,

nor bring them at length to the most lasting miseries, if they do

not conduct their lives by the principles of virtue.

3. Now there were three several conspiracies made in order

to take off Caius, and each of these three were conducted by ex­

cellent persons. Emilius Regulus, born at Corduba in Spain,

got some men together, and was desirous to take Caius off, either

by them, or by himself. Another conspiracy there was laid by

them, under the conduct of Cherea Cassius, the tribune [of the

Pretorian band] ; Minucianus Annius was also one of great con­

sequence among those that were prepared to oppose his tyranny.

Now the several occasions of these men's several hatred and con­

spiracy against Caius were these : Regulus had indignation and

hatred against all injustice, for he had a mind naturally angry,

and bold, and free, which made him not conceal his counsels ; so

he communicated them to many of his friends, and to others, who

seemed, to him persons of activity and vigour : Minucianus en­

tered into this conspiracy, because of the injustice done to Lepi-

dus his particular friend, and one of the best character of all the

citizens, whom Caius had slain, as also because he was afraid of

himself, since Caius's wrath tended to the slaughter of all alike :

and for Cherea, he came in, because he thought it a deed worthy

of a free ingenious man to kill Caius, and was ashamed of the re­

proaches he lay under from Caius, as though he were a coward ;

as also because he was himself in danger every day from his

friendship with him, and the observance he paid him. These

men proposed this attempt to all the rest that were concerned,

who saw the injuries that were offered them, and were desirous

that Caius's slaughter might succeed by their mutual assistance

of one another, and they might themselves escape being killed

by the taking off Caius ; that perhaps they should gain their

point, and that it would be an happy thing if they should gain

