Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S3

violent manner, and thought all to be lawful and right which

tended to please them, and being unskilful in foreseeing what

dangers they incurred ; and when they had suspicion of such a

thing, yet did the present pleasure they took in the punilhment

of those they deemed their enemies, overweigh all such consi­

derations ; and although Archelaus sent many to speak to them,

yet they treated them not as meflengers sent by him, but as

persons that came of their own accord to mitigate their anger,

and would not let one of them speak. The sedition, also, was

made by such as were in a great passion ; and it was evident

that they were proceeding farther in seditious practices, by the

multitude's running so fast upon them.

3. Now, upon the approach of that feast of unleavened bread,

which the law of their fathers had appointed for the Jews at this

time, which feast is called the Passover *, and is a memorial of

'their deliverance out of Egypt, (when they offer sacrifices with

great alacrity ; and when they are required to slay more sacrifi­

ces in number than at any other festival; and when an innu­

merable multitude came thither out of the country, nay, from

beyond its limits also, in order to worfliip God) ; the seditious

lamented Judas and Matthias, those teachers of the laws, and

kept together in the temple, and had plenty of food, because

these seditious persons were not ashamed to beg it. And as

Archelaus was afraid lest some terrible thing should spring up

by means of these men's madness, he sent a regiment of armed

men, and with them a captain of a thousand, to suppress the vio­

lent efforts of the seditious, before the whole multitude should

be infected with the like madness ; and gave them this charge,

that if they found any much more openly seditious than others,

and more busy in tumultuous practices, they should bring them

to him. But those that were seditious on account of those

teachers of the law, irritated the people by the noise and cla­

mours they used to encourage the people in their designs^ so

they made an assault upon the soldiers, and came up 'to them,

and stoned the greatest part of them, although some of them ran

away wounded, and their captain among them'; :and when they

had thus done, they returned to the sacrifices which were already

in their hands. Now Archelaus thought there was no way to

preserve the entire government, but by cutting off those who

made this attempt upon it; so he sent out the whole army upon

•them, and sent the horsemen to prevent those that had their

tents without the temple, from assisting those that were within

VOL. III.*..- : • E' /, the

. '), ' * i • . • ,

* This pissover, when the sedition here mentioned was moved against Ar.  
<helaus, was not one, but thirteen months after the eclipse of the moon
already

mentioned. '

