274 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

over Euphrates, he perished himself, and his army with him ;

concerning which affairs this is not a proper time to speak [more

largely].

y. But now Cassius, after Crassus, put a stop to the Parthians,

who were marching in order to enter Syria. Cassius had fled in­

to that province, and when he had taken possession of the same,

he made an hasty march into Judea ; and, upon his taking Ta-

richeae, he carried thirty thousand Jews into slavery. He also

slew Pitholaus, who had supported the seditious followers of A-

ristobulus, and it was Antipater who advised him 50 to do. Now

this Antipater married a wife of an eminent family among the

Arabians, whose name was Cypros, and had four sons born to

him by her, Phasaelus and Herod, who was afterwards king, and,

besides these, Joseph and Pheroras ; and he had a daughter whose

name was Salome. Now, as he made himself friends among the

men of power every where, by the kind offices he did them, and

the hospitable manner that he treated them ; so did he contract

the greatest friendship with the king of Arabia, by marrying his

relation ; insomuch, that when he made war with Aristobulus,

he sent and intrusted his children with him. So, when Cassius

had forced Alexander to come to terms and to be quiet, he return­

ed to Euphrates, in order to prevent the Parthians from repass-

ing it; concerning which matter * we shall speak elsewhere.

CHAP. IX.

Aristobulus is taken off" by Pompey1* friends, as is Ms son Alexan-

dert 1y Scipio. Antipater cultivates a friendship with Cxsar,

after Pompey''s death ; 'he also performs great actions in that

war, wherein he assisted Mithridates.

§ 1. "VT'OW, upon the flight of Pompey, and of the senate, be-

•^ yorid the Ionian Sea, Caesar got Rome and the empire

under his power, and released Aristobulus from his bonds. He

also committed two legions to him, and sent him in haste into

Syria, as hoping that by his means he should easily conquer that

country, and the parts adjoining to Judea. But envy prevented

any effect of Aristobulus's alacrity, and the hopes of Caesar ; for

he was taken off by poison given him by those of Pompey's par­

ty, and, for a long while, he had not so much as a burial vouch­

safed him in his' own country ; but his dead body lay [aboxe

ground], preserved in honey, until it was sent to the Jews by

Antony, in order to be buried in the royal sepulchres.

2. His son Alexander also was beheaded by Scipio at Antioch.

and that by the command of Pompey, and upon an accusation

laid

« This citation is now wanting.

