JCO .ANTIQJJITIES: OF .THE JEWS. Book

these their paffions, yet did he forgive them, as not indulging

those passions out of art ill disposition, but out of a desire each

of them had to be beloved by their father. However, he sent

Izates with many presents, to Abennerig, the king of Charax-

Spasini, and that out of the great dread he was in about him, lest

he should come to some misfortune by the hatred his brethren

bore him ; and iie committed his son's preservation to him.

Upon which Abennerig gladly received the young man, and had

a great affe&ion for him, and n&arried him to his own daughter,

whose name was Samacba : he also bestowed. a country upon

him, from which he received large revenues. .' .,,

2. But when Monobazus was grown old, and saw that he had

but a little time to live, he had a mind to come to the sight of

his son before he died. So he seat for him, and embraced him

after the most affectionate manner, add bestowed on him the coun­

try called Carrx; it was a soil that bare ammomUm in great

plenty : there are also in it the remains of that ark, wherein it

is related that Noah escaped the' deluge, and where they are still

shewn to such' as are desirous' to see them *. Accordingly IzateS

abode in that country until' his father's death. But the very day

that Monobazus died, queen:Helena sent for all the grandees, and

governors of the kingdom, and for those that had the armies com­

mitted to their command ; and when they were come, she made

the following speech to them ; " I believe you are not unac-

" quainted that mv husband was desirous Izates should succeed

" him in the government, and thought him worthy so to do. How-

" ever, I wait your determination ; for happy is he who receives

" a kingdom not from a single person only, hut from the willing

" suffrages of a great many." This she said in order to try those

that were invited, and to discover their sentiments. Upon the

hearing of which, they first of all paid their homage to the queen,

as their custom was, and then they said, That " they confirmed

«' the king's determination, and would submit to'it; and they

" rejoiced that Izates's father had preferred htm before the rest

" of his brethren, as being agreeable to all their wishes^: but that

" they were desirous first of all to slay his brethren and kins-

" men, that so the government might come securely to Izates;

l< because if they were once destroyed, all that fear would

'' be over which might arise from their hatred and envy

" to him." Helena replied to this, That " she returned

'' them their thanks for their kindness to herself, and to

" Izates ;

* It is here very remarkable, that the remains of Noah's ark were believed to  
<x stH! Jn beifij in the days of josephus. Set the nctc on B. I. cli. 3. sect.
5.

