Chap. Vll. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW3. 14&

' nations, although God hath judged that I am not at all worthy

' of the high-priesthood. I am satisfied with having once put

' on the sacred garments ; for I then put them OH after a more

' holy manner, than. I should now receive them again. But, if

' thou desirest that a person more worthy than myself should

' have this honourable employment, give me leave to name thec

*' such a one. I have a brother that is pure from all sin

" against God, and of all offences against thyself; I recommend

" him to thee, as one that is fit for this dignity." So the king

was pleased with these words of his, and passed by Jonathan, and,

according to his brother's desire, bestowed the high-priesthood

upon Matthias. Nor was it long before Marcus succeeded Pe-

tronius, as president of Syria.

CHAP. VII.

Concerning Silas, and on what account it was that King Agrippa

•was angry at him. How Agrippa began to encompass Jerusa­

lem with a wall ,• and what benefits he bestowed on the inhabi­

tants of Berytus.

J 1. TVj OW Silas, the general of the king's horse, because he

,*^ had been faithful to him under all his misfortunes, and

had never refused to be a partaker with him in any of his dan­

gers, but had oftentimes undergone the most hazardous dangers

for him, was full of assurance, and thought he might expect a

sort of equality with the king, on account of the firmness of

the friendship he had shewed to him. Accordingly, he would

no where let the king sit as his superior, and took the like li­

berty in speaking to him upon all occasions ; till he became trou­

blesome to the king, when they were merry together, extolling

himself beyond measure, and of putting the king in mind of the

severity he had undergone, that he might, by way of ostentation,

demonstrate what zeal he had shewed in his service ; and was

continually harping upon this string, what pains he had taken

for him, and much enlarged still upon that subject. The repe­

tition of this so frequently seemed to reproach the king, inso­

much that he took the ungovernable liberty of talking very ill

at his hands. For the commemoration r.f times, when men have

been under ignominy, is by no means agreeable to them ; and he

is a very silly man, who is perpetually relating to a person what

kindness he had done him. At last, therefore, Silas had so

thoroughly provoked the king's indignation, that he acted rather

out of passion than good consideration, and did not only turn Si•«

las out of his place, as general of his horse, but sent him in bonds

into his own country. But the edge of his anger wore off by

length of time, and made room for more just reasonings as to

his

