Gbap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. , 163

not perish as to those that have regard to him, and fix their faith

upon him only. But these events we shall relate hereafter.

5. But as to Helena, the king's mother, when she saw that the

affairs of Izates's kingdom were in peace, and that her son was

an happy man, and admired among all men, and even among fo­

reigners, by the means of God's providence over him, she had

a mind to go to the city Jerusalem, in order to worship at that

temple of God which was so very famous among all men, and

to offer her thank-offerings there. So she desired her son to give

her leave to go thither : upon which he gave his consent to what

she desired very willingly, and made great preparations for her

dismission, and gave her a great deal of money, and she went down

to the city Jerusalem, her son conducting her on her journey a

great way. Now her coming was of very great advantage to

the people of Jerusalem ; for whereas a famine did oppress them

at that time, and many people died for want of what was neces­

sary to procure food withal, queen Helena sent some of her ser­

vants to Alexandria with money to buy a great quantity of corn,

and others of them to Cyprus, to bring a cargo of dried figs.

And as soon as they were come back, and had brought those pro­

visions, which was done very quickly, she distributed food to

those that were in want of it, and left a most excellent memo­

rial behind her of this benefaction, which she bestowed on our

whole nation. And when her son Izates was informed of this

famine, he sent great sums of money to the principal men in

Jerusalem. However, what favours this queen and king confer­

red upon our city Jerusalem, shall be farther related hereafter *.

CHAP. III.

How Artabanus, the king of Partbia, nut of fear of the secret con­

trivances of his subjects against Kth, went to Izatcs, and was by

him reinstated in his government ; as also how Bardanes, Us son,

denounced war against Izates.

§ 1. 13UT now Artabanus, king of the Parthians, perceiving

-*-^ that the governors of the provinces had framed a plot  
against him, did not think it safe for him to continue among them,

but resolved to go to Izates, in hopes of finding some way for his

preservation by his means, and, if possible, for his return to his

X 2 own'

* This farther account of the benefactions of Izates and Helena to the Jerusa­  
lem Jews, which Josephus here promises, is, I think, no where performed by him

'in his present works. But of this terrible famine itself in Judea, take Dr
Hud­

son's note here:—" This (says he) is that famine foretold by Agabus, Acts, xi.

" 28. which happened when Claudius was consul the fourth time; and not that

" other which happened when Claudius was consul the second tinie, and Cc^sina

" was his colleague, asScaliger says upon Eusebitis, p. 174." Now, when Jose­

phus had said a little afterward, ch. v. sect. 2. that " Tiberius Alexander
sue.

" ceeded Cuspius Fadiis as piocurator," he immediately subjoins, that ' under

