.WARS OF THE JEWS. . ' ' Book L

nay, on the contrary, they pretended to quarrel one with another

when the king was within hearing. The like dissimulation

did Antipater make use of, and when matters were public, he

opposed Pheroras; but still they had private cabals, andmsrry

meetings in the night-time ; nor did the observation of others

do any more than confirm their mutual agreement. However,

Salome knew every thing they did, and told every thing to

Herod.

2. But he was inflamed with anger at them, and chiefly at

Pheroras's wife; for Salome had principally accused her. So

he got an assembly of his friends and kindred together, and there

accused this woman of many things, and particularly of the af足

fronts she had offered his daughters; and that she had supplied

the Pharisees with money, by way of rewards for what they had

done against him, and had procured his brother to become his

enemy, by giving him love potions. At length he turned his

speech to Pheroras, and told him, That " he would give him

". his choice of these two things, whether he would keep in with

"his brother, or with his wife?" And when Pheroras said,

that he would * die rather than forsake his wife, Herod not

knowing what to do farther in that matter, turned his speech

to Antipater, and charged him to have no intercourse either witk

Pheroras's wife, or with Pheroras himself, or with any one be足

longing to her. Now, though Antipater did not transgress that

his injunction publicly, yet did he in secret come to their night-

meeting j and because he was afraid that Salome observed what

he did, he procured, by the means of his Italian friends, that he

might go and live at Rome: for when they wrote that it was

proper for Antipater to be sent to Caesar for some time, Herod

made no delay,but sent him, and that with a splendid attendance,

and a great deal of money, and gave him his testament to carry

with him, wherein Antipater had the kingdom bequeathed to

him, and wherein Herod was named for Antipater's successor,

that Herod, I mean, who was the son of Mariamne, the high-

priest's daughter.

3. Sylleus also, the Arabian, sailed to Rome, without any

regard to Caesar's injunctions, and this in order to oppose Anti足

pater

11 This strange obstinacy of Pheroras in retaining his wife, who was one of a

low family, and refusing to marry one nearly related to Herod, though he so
ear足

nestly desired it, as also that wife's admission to the counsels of the other
great

cotrt hdies, together with Herod's own importunity as to Pheroras's divorce
and

other marriage, all so remarkable here, or in the Antiquities, B. XVII. ch.
ii. sect.

4. Vol. III. and ch. iii. sect. 3. cannot be well accounted for, but on the
supposal

that Pheroras believed, and Herod suspected, that the Pharisees prediction, as
if

the crown of Judea should be translated from Herod to Pheroras's posterity,
and

that most probably to Pheroras's posterity by this his wife, also would prove
true.

See Anticj. B. XVII. ch. ii. secc, 4. and ch' iii. sect. I. Vol. III.

