it ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book. XVII.

son, who, when he was tortured, among other things said, That

Antipaterhad prepared a deadly potion, and given it to Pheroras,

with his desire that he would give it to his father during his ab­

sence, and when he was too remote to have the least suspicion cast

upon him thereto relating ; that Antiphilus, one of Antipater's

friends, brought that potion out of Egypt; and that it was sent

to Pheroras by Theudion, the brother of the mother of Antipa-

ter the king's son, and by that means came to Pheroras's wife,

her husband having given it her to keep. And when the king

asked her about it, she confessed it; and as she was running to

fetch it, she threw herself down from the house-top ; yet did she

not kill herself, because she fell upon her feet: by which means,

when the king had comforted her, and.had promised her and her

domestics pardon, upon condition of theirconcealingnothingof the

truth from him, but had threatened her with the utmost miseries

if she proved ungrateful, [and concealed any thing] ; so she pro*

mised and swore that she would speak out every thing, and tell

after what manner every thing was done ; and said what many

took to be entirely true, that " the potion was brought out of

*' Egypt by Antiphilus; and that his brother, who was a pby-  
*' sician, had procured it; and that when Theudion brought it  
*' us, she kept it upon Pheroras's committing it to her ; and that  
*' it was prepared by Antipater for thee. When, therefore,  
" Pheroras was fallen sick, and thou cafnedst to him and tookedst

*' care of him, and when he saw the kindness thou hadst for him,  
" his mind was overborne thereby." So he called me to him,

and said to me, " O woman.! Antipater hath circumvented me

*' in this, affair of his father .and my brother, by persuading me  
" to' have a murderous intention to him, and procuring a potion

" to be subservient thereto : do thou, therefore, go and fetch my

" potion, ('since my brother appears to have still the same vir-

" tuous disposition towards me which he had formerly, and I do

f< not expect to live long myself, and that I may not defile my

*' forefathers by the murder of a brother), and burn it before my  
" face : that accordingly she immediately brought it, and did as

" her husband bade her ; and that she burnt the greatest part

" of the potion ; but that a little of it was left, that if the king,

" after Pheroras's death, should treat her ill, she might poison

" herself, and thereby get clear of her miseries." Upon her say­

ing thus, she brought out the potion, and the box in which it was,

before them all. Nay, there was another brother of Antiphilus's,

and his mother also, who, by the extreme of pain and torture,

confessed the same things, and owned the box [to be that which

bad been brought out of Egypt]. The high-priest's daughter

als6? who was the king's wife, was accused to have been con­

scious

