15* Book XX: ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

junctions of Fadus should force the Jews to rebel), that they

might, in the first place, have leave to send ambassadors to Cae-

sar, to petition him that they may have the holy vestments un­

der their own power, and that, in the next place, they would

tarry till they knew what answer Claudius would give to that

their request. So they replied, that they would give them leave

to send their ambassadors, provided they would give them their

sons as pledges [fortheir peaceable behaviour]. And when they

had agreed so to do, and had given them the pledges they desi­

red, the ambassadors were sent accordingly. But when, upon

their coming to Rome, Agrippa junior, the son of the deceased,

understood the reason why they came, (for he dwelt with Clau­

dius Caesar, as we said before), he besought Caesar to grant the

Jews their request about the holy vestments, and to send a mes­

sage to Fadus accordingly.

2. Hereupon Claudius called for the ambassadors, and told

them, that " he granted their request;" and bade them to re­

turn their thanks to Agrippa for this favour, which had been

bestowed on them upon his entreaty. And, besides these an­

swers of his, he sent the following letter by them : " Claudius

** Caesar, Germanicus, tribune of the people the fifth time, and  
" designed consul the fourth time, and imperator the tenth time,

*' the father of his country, to the magistrates, senate, and  
" people, and the whole nation of the Jews, sendeth greeting.

" Upon the presentation of your ambassadors to me by Agrippa,

" my friend, whom I have brought up, and have now with me,

" and who is a person of very great piety, who are come to give

*' me thanks for the care I have taken of your nation, and to en-  
** treat me, in an earnest and obliging manner, that they may  
u have the holy vestments, with the crown belonging to them,

*' under their power; I grant their request, as that excellent  
" person Vitellius, who is very dear to me, had done before me.

* And I have complied with your desire, in the first place, out  
f* of regard to that piety which I profess, and because I would

** have every one worship God according to the laws of their  
** own country; and this I do also because I shall hereby highly  
'* gratify king Herod, and Agrippa junior, whose sacred regards to

w me, and earnest good-will to you, I am well acquainted with, and

** with whom I have the greatest friendship, and whom I high-  
" ly esteem, and look on as persons of the best character. Now

" 1 have written about these affairs to Cuspius Fadus, my procu-

u rator. The names of those that brought me your letter are,

" Cornelius, the son of Cero, Trypho, the son of Theudio, Do-

" rotheus, the son of Nathaniel, and John, the son of John. This

<. . was

