8-a ANTI-<4JJITIES OF THE JEW?, Book

given to astrology *, and the calculation of nativities, and Jiad

jpent his life in the esteem of what predictions had proved true,

more than those whose profession it was. Accordingly, when

he once saw Galba coming in to him, he said to his most intimate

friends, that " there came in a man that would one day have the

" dignify of the Roman empire." So that this Tiberius was

more addicted to all such sorts of diviners than any other of the

Roman emperors, because he had found them to have told him

truth in his own affairs. And indeed he was now in great dis­

tress upon this accident that had befallen him, and was very

much grieved at the destruction of his son's son, which he foresaw,

and complained of himself, that he 'should have made use of such,

a method of divination tef ore hand, while it was in his power

to haye died without grief by this knowledge of futurity ; where­

as he was now tormented by his foreknowledge of the misfor-

Ijtme of such as were dearest to him, and must die under that tor­

ment. Now, although he were disordered at this unexpected re­

volution of the government to those for whom he did not intend

it, he spake thus to Caius, though unwillingly, and against his

own inclination : " O child 1 although Tiberius be nearer related

" to me than thou art, I, by my own determination, and the con-

" spiring suffrage of the gods, do give, and put into thy hand,

," the Roman empire • and I desire thee never to be unmindful

*' when thou comest to it, either of my kindness to thee, who set  
«' thee in so high a dignity, or of thy relation to Tiberius. But

" as thou knowest that I am, together with and after the gods,

«' the procurer of so great happiness to thee, so I desire that

" thou wilt make me a return for my readiness to assist thee,

«' and will take care of Tiberius because of his near relation to

«' thee. Besides which, thou art to know, that, while Tiberius

" is alive, he will be a security to thee, both as to empire and

" as to thy own preservation ; but, if he die, that will be but a

" prelude to thy own misfortunes ; for, to be alone, under the

*' weight of such vast affairs, is very dangerous ; nor will the  
*' gods suffer those actions which are unjustly done, contrary to  
*' that law which directs men to act otherwise, to go off unpu-  
',' rtished." This was the speech which Tiberius made, which

did not persuade Caius to act accordingly, although he promised

so to do ; but, when he was settled in the government, he took

off this Tiberius, as was predicted by the other Tiberius ; as he

-was also himself, in no long time afterward, slain by a secret  
plot laid against him.

10. So when Tiberius had at this time appointed Caius to be

his

* This is a known thing among the Roman historians and poets, that Tit«-  
TIUS was greatly given to astrology and divination.

