Chap. V. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

should advise), thought it best, by putting him to death, to

prevent any mischief he might cause, and not bring himself into

-difficulties, by sparing a man who might make him repent of it  
when it should be too late. Accordingly he was sent a prisoner,

out of Herod's suspicious temper, to Macherus, the castle I be­

fore mentioned, and was there put to death. Now, the Jews had

an opinion that the destruction of this army was sent as a pu­

nishment by Herod, and a mark of God's displeasure to him.

3. So Vitellius prepared to make war with Aretas, having

with him two legions of armed men ; he also took with him all

those of light armature, and of the horsemen which belonged

to them, and were drawn out of those kingdoms which were un­

der the Romans, and made haste for Petra, and came to Ptole-

mais. But as he was marching very busily, and leading his ar­

my through Judea, the principal men met him, and desired that

he would not thus march through their land ; for that the laws

of their country would not permit them to overlook those ima­

ges which were brought into it, of which there were a great ma-

ny in their ensigns ; so he was persuailid by what they said, and

changed that resolution of his, which he had before taken in this

matter. Whereupon he ordered the army to march along the

great plain, while he himself, with Herod the tetrarch, and his

friends, went up to Jerusalem to offer sacrifice to God, an ancient

festival of the Jews being then just approaching ; and when he had

been there, and been honourably entertained by the multitude of

the Jews, he made a stay there for three days, within which time

he deprived Jonathan of the high-priesthood, and gave it to his

brother Theopbilus. But when on the fourth day letters came

to him, which informed him of the death of Tiberius, he obliged

the multitude to take an oath of fidelity to Caius ; he also recall­

ed his army, and made them every one go home, and take their

winter-quarters there, since, upon the devolution of the empire

upon Caius, he had not the like authority of making this war

which he had before. It was also reported, that when Aretas

heard of the coming of Vitellius to fight him, he said, upon his

consulting the diviners, that it was impossible that this army of

Vitellius's could enter Petra ; for that one of the rulers would

die, either he that gave orders for the war, or he that was

marching at the other's desire, in order to be subservient to his

will, or else he against whom this army is prepared. So Vitel­

lius truly retired to Antioch ; but Agrippa, the son of Aristobu-

lus, went up to Rome, a year before the death of Tiberius, in

order to treat of -some affairs with the emperor, if he.might be

ermitted so to do. 1 have now a mind to describe Herod and

is family, how it fared with them, partly because it is suitable

Vol. III. K tp

