THE LITE OF FLAVIUI JOSEPHU3. 223

ceived what snares they had laid for me. No<v, as soon as I was

got off my journey, I took up my lodgings over against them,

and pretended to be asleep ; so Jonathan and his party thinking

that I was really asleep, and at rest, made haste to go down into

the plain, to persuade the people that I was an ill governor. But

the matter proved otherwise ; for upon their appearance there

was a cry made by the Galileans immediately, declaring their

good opinion of me as their governor ; and they made a clamour

against Jonathan and his partners, for coming to them when they

had suffered no harm, and as though they would overturn their

happy settlement; and desired them by all means to go back a-

gain, for that they would never be persuaded to have any other

to rule over them but myself. When I heard of this, I did riot

fear to go down into the midst of them ; I went, therefore, my­

self down presently to hear what Jonathan and his companions

said. As soon as I appeared, there was immediately an accla­

mation made to me by the whole multitude, and a cry in my

commendation by them, who confessed their thanks was owing

to me for my good government of them..

49. When Jonathan and his companions heard this, they were

in fear of their own lives, and in danger lest they should be as­

saulted by the Galileans on my account ; so they contrived how

they might run away. But as they were not able to get off, for

I desired them to stay, they looked down with concern at my

words to them. I ordered, therefore, the multitude to restrain en­

tirely their acclamations, and placed the most faithful of my arm­

ed men upon the avenues, to be a guard to us, lest John should

unexpectedly fall upon us ; and I encouraged the Galileans to

take their weapons, lest they should be disturbed at their ene­

mies, if any sudden insult should be made upon them. And

then, in the first place, I put Jonathan and his partners in mind

of their [former] letter, and after what manner they had written

to me, and declared they were sent by the common consent of

the people of Jerusalem, to make up the differences I had with

John, and how they had desired me to come to them ; and as I

spake thus, I publicly shewed that letter they had written,

till they could not at all deny what they had done, the letter itself

convicting them. I then said, " O Jonathan ! and you that are

" sent with him as his colleagues, if I were to be judged as to

" my behaviour, compared with that of John's, and had brought

" no more than two * or three witnesses, good men and true, it

" is

* We here learn the practice of the Jews, in the days of Josenhus, to inquire  
into the characters of witneses, before they were admitted, and that their
num­

ber ought to be three, or two at the least, also exactly as in the law of
Moses, and

in the Apostolical Constitutions, B. II. ch. 37. See Horeb Covenant Revived,

paje 9-j. 98.

