Chap. <XXVIII. WAKS OF-THE JEWS. 837

when she had been at variance with him, contrived this match:

he also got into Pheroras's favour, and into the favour of Cae­

sar's friends by presents, and other ways of obsequiousness, and

«ent no small sums of money to Rome: Saturninus also, and his

friends in Syria, were all well replenished with the presents he

made them^ yet the more he gave, the more he was hated, as

not making these presents out of generosity, but spending his

money out of fear. Accordingly, it so fell out, that the receivers

bore him no more good-will than before, but that those to

whom he gave nothing were his more bitter enemies. How­

ever, he bestowed his money every day more and more pro­

fusely, on observing that, contrary to his expectations, the king

was taking care about the orphans, and discovering at the same

time his repentance for killing their fathers, by his commisera­

tion of those that sprang from them.

2. Accordingly, Herod got together his kindred and friends;

and set before them the children, and with his eyes full of tears,

said thus to them: " It was an unlucky fate that took away

" from me these children's fathers, which children are recom-

" mended to me by that natural commiseration which their or-

'" phan condition requires; however, I will endeavour, though

" 1 have been a most unfortunate father, to appear a better

" grandfather, and to leave these children such curators after

" myself as are dearest to me. I therefore betroth thy daughter,

u Pheroras, to the elder of these brethren, the children of Alex-

" ander, that thou mayest be obliged to take care of them. I

" also betroth to thy son, Antipater, the daughter of Aristobu-

«' lus; be thou therefore a father to that orphan, and my son

" Herod [Philip] shall have her sister, whose grandfather, by

" the mother's side, was high-priest. And let every one that

," loves me be of my sentiments in these dispositions, which

" none that hath an affection for me will abrogate. And I pray

" God that he will join these children together in marriage, to

" the advantage of my kingdom, and of my posterity, and may

" he look down with eyes more serene upon them than he

M looked' upon their fathers."

3.-While he spake these words, he wept, and joined the child­

ren's right hands together; after which he embraced them every

one after an affectionate manner, and dismissed the assembly.

Upon this, Antipater was in great disorder immediately, and

lamented publicly at what was done; for he supposed that this

dignity which was conferred on these orphans was for his own

destruction, even in his father's lifetime, and that he should run

another risk of losing the government, if Alexander's son should

,bavfi both Archelaus [a king], and Pheroras a tetarch, to sup-

VOL. III. U u port

