£06 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS*

round about him, was terrified, and complied ; and as for those

of his followers that were excluded, when they were informed

that he was seized, they ran away. I then called Jesus to me by

himself, and told him, that " I was not a stranger to that treach-

" erous design he had against me, nor was I ignorant by whom

** he was sent for ; that, however, I would forgive what he had  
*' done already, if he would repent of it, and be faithful to me  
** hereafter."' And thus, upon his promise to do all that I de­  
sired, I let him go, and gave him leave to get those whom he

had formerly had with him together again. But I threatened

the inhabitants of Sepphoris, that, if they would not leave off

their ungrateful treatment of me, I would punish them sufficiently.

23. A( this time it was that two great men, who were under

the jurisdiction of the king [Agrippa], came to me out of the

region of Trachonitis, bringing their horses and their arms, and

carrying with them their money also ; and when the Jews would

force them to be circumcised, if they would stay among them, I

would not permit them to have any force put upon them *, but

said to them, u Every one ought to worship God according to

rt his own inclinations, and not to be constrained by force ; and

u that these men, who had fled to us for protection, ought not

*' to be so treated as to repent of their coming hither." And  
when I had pacified the multitude, I provided for the men that

were come to us whatsoever it was they wanted, according to

their usual way of living, and that in great plenty also.

24. Now king Agrippa sent an army to make themselves

masters of the citadel of Gamala, and over it Equiculus Modius;

but the forces that were sent were not enow to encompass the

citadel quite round, but lay before it in the open places, and be­

sieged it. But when Ebutius the decurion, who was intrusted

with the government of the great plain, heard that I was at Si-

monias, a village situated in the confines of Galilee, and was dis­

tant from him sixty furlongs, he took an hundred horsemen that

were with him by night, and a certain number of footmen, a-

bout two hundred, and brought the inhabitants of the city Gi-

bea along with him as auxiliaries, and marched in the night,

and came to the village where I abode. Upon this I pitched my

camp over against him, which had a great number of forces in

it; but Ebutius tried to draw us down into the plain, as great­

ly depending on his horsemen t but we would not come down ;

for

* Josephns's opinion is here welllworth noting, that every one is to be permit t-  
ed to worship God according to his own conscience, and is not to be compelled
in

matters of religion ; as one may here observe on the contrary, that the rest
of the

Jews were still for obliging all those who married Jews to be circumcised, and

become Jews, and were ready to destroy all that would not submit to do so. See

lest, 31. and Luke, ix. 54.

