S99 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

upon one Galilean only. The Jews complied with these persua­

sions of theirs, and dispersed themselves; but still there were a

great number who betook themselves to robbing, in hopes of

impunity, and rapines and insurrections of the bolder sort hap­

pened over the whole country; and the men of power among

the Samaritans came to Tyre, to * Ummidius Quadratus, the

president of Syria, und desired that they that had laid waste the

country might be punished: the great men also of the Jews, and

Jonathan the son of Ananlis, the high-priest, came thither, and

said, that the Samaritans were the beginners of the disturbance,

oa account of that murder they had committed, and that Cuma-

nus had given occasion to what had happened, by his unwilling­

ness to punish the original authors of that murder.

6". But Quadratus put both parties off for that time, and told

them, that when he should come to those places he would make

,a diligent inquiry after every circumstance. After which he

went to Cesare?!, and crucified all those whom Cumanus had

taken alive; and when from thence he was COITC to the city

Lydda, he heard the affair of the Samaritans, and sent for eigh.

,teen of the Jews whom he had learned to have been concerned

in that fight, and beheaded them; but he sent two others of

those that were of the greatest power among them, and both Jo­

nathan and Ananias, the high-priests, as also Ananus the son of

this Ananias, and certain others that were eminent among the

Jews, to Caesar; as he did in like manner by the most illustrious

of the Samaritans. He also ordered that Cumanus [the procu­

rator] and Celer the tribune should sail to Rome, in order to give

an account of what had been done to Caesar. When he had fi­

nished these matters, he went up from Lydda to Jerusalem, and

finding the multitude celebrating their feast of unleavened bread

without any tumult, he returned to Antioch.

7. Now when Caesar at Rome had heard what Cumanus and

the Samaritans had to say (where it was done in the hearing of

Agrippa, who zealously espoused the cause of the Jews, as, in

like manner, many of the great men stood by Cumanus), he

condemned the Samaritans, and commanded that three of the

most powerful men among them should be put to death; he ba­

nished Cumanus, and sent Celer bound to Jerusalem, to be de­

livered over to the Jews to be tormented, that he should be

drawn round the city, and then beheaded.

6. After this Caesar sent Felixf, the brother of Pallas, to be

procurator

* This Ummidius, or Numidiiw, or, as Tacitus calls him, VhiJixs QuaJratiu, is  
mentioned in an ancient inscription, still preserved, as Spanheim here inform
us.

»?hich calls him UMMIDIUS QUADRATUS.

t Take the character of this Felix (who is well known from the Acts of the

