Chap. XVI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 297

th'ately, and destroyed a great number of the seditious,and raised

the sieges of all those fortresses they had besieged: he also exact­

ed the tribute of an hund'-ed talents of his enemies, as a penalty

,or the mutations they had made in the country.

6. By this time the Parthians being already driven out of

the country, and Pacorus slain, Ventidius, by Antony's command,

sent a thousand horsemen, and two legions, as auxiliaries to He.

rod, against Antigonus. Now Antigonus besought Macheras,

who was their general, by letter, tocome tohisassistance.andmade

a great many mournful complaints about Herod's violence, and

about the injuries he did to the kingdom; and promised to give

him money for such his assistance: but he complied not with his

invitation to betray his trust, for he did not contemn him that

sent him, especially while Herod gave him more money [than

the other offered}- So he pretended friendship to Antigonus, but

came as a spy to discover his affairs: although he did not here­

in comply with He-rod, who dissuaded him from so doing. But

Antigonus perceived what his intentions were before-hand,

and excluded him out tjf the city, and defended himself against

him, as against an enemy from the walls ; till Macheras was

ashamed of what he had done, and retired to Emmaus to Herod;

and, as he was in a rage at his disappointment, he slew all the

Jews whom he met with, without sparing those that were for

Hero'd, but using them all as if they were for Antigonus.

1. Hereupon Herod was very angry at him, and was going to

fight against Macheras as his enemy; but he restrained his indig­

nation, and marched to Antony to accuse Macheras of maj-

administration. But Macheras was made sensible of his offences,

andfollowed after the king immediately, andearnestly begged and

obtained that he would be reconciled to him. However, Herod

did not desist from his resolution of going to Antony; but wheu

he heard that he was besieging * Samosata with a great army,

.which is a strong city near to Euphrates, he made the greater

haste; as observing that this was aproper opportunity for shew­

ing at once his courage, and for doing what would greatly oblige

Antony. Indeed, when he came, he soon made an end of that

siege, and slew a great number of the barbarians, and took from

them a large prey ; insomuch that Antony, who admired his

courage formerly, did now admire it still more. Accordingly he

heaped many more honours upon him, and gave him more as­

sured hopes that he should gain his kingdom: and now king

Antiochus was forced to deliver up Samosata.

CHAP.

« -This Samosata, the metropolis of Commagena, is well known from its coins,

,as Spanheim here as'ures us. Dean Aldrich also confirms what Josephus here
notes,

that Herod was a great meaiis of taking the city by Antony, and that from Pk«

Orch and D10.

VOL. III. P p

