Chap. XI. ANTIOJUTlES OF THE JEWS. 49

lents, while Batanea, with Trachonitis, as well as Auranitis,

with a certain * part of what was called the house of Zenodorus,

paid the tribute of one hundred talents to Philip ; but Idumea,

and Judea, and the country of Samaria, paid tribute to Arche-

laus, but had now a fourth part of that tribute taken off by the

order of Caesar, who decreed them that mitigation, because they

did not join in this revolt with the rest of the multitude. There

were also certain of the cities which paid tribute to Archelaus,

Strato's tower, and Sebaste, with Joppa and Jerusalem ; for as

to Gaza and Gadara, and Hippos, they were Grecian cities,

which Caesar separated from his government, and added them

to the province of Syria. Now the tribute money that came to

Archelaus every year from his own dominions, amounted to six

hundred talents.

5. And so much came to Herod's sons from their father's in­

heritance. But Salome, besides what her brother left her by

his testament, which were Jamnia and Ashdod, and Phasaelis,

and five hundred thousand [drachmae] of coined silver, Caesar

made her a present of a royal habitation at Askelon 5 in all, her

revenues amounted to sixty talents by the year, and her dwell­

ing-house was within Archelaus's government. The rest, also,

of the king's relations received what his testament allotted them.

Moreover, Caesar made a present to each of Herod's two virgin-

daughters, besides what their father left them, of two hundred

and fifty thousand [drachmae ^ of silver, and married them to

Pheroras's sons ; he also granted all that was bequeathed to him­

self to the king's sons, which was one thousand five' hundred ta­

lents, excepting a few of the vessels, which he reserved forhim-

VOL. III. « • G self;

ral methods put together, all which yet seem very much too small for his
exprn-

ces being drawn from no larger a nation than that of the Jews, which was very

populous, but without the advantage of trade, to bring them riches; so that I
can­

not but strongly suspect that no small part of this his wealth arose from
another

source, I mean from some vast sums he took out of David's sepulchre, but con­

cealed from the people. See tlie note on Antiq. B. Vli. ch. xv. sect. 3.

* Take here a very useful note of Grotius, on Luke, B. 111. ch. i. here quoted  
by Dr Hudson : " When Josephuss ays that some part of the house (or
possession)

" of Zenodorus (i' e. Abilene), was allotted to Philip, he thereby declares
that

" the larger part of it belonged to another; this 01 her was Lysanias, who:ii

" Luke mentions, of the posterity of that Lysanias who was possessed of the

" same country called dbiievc, from the city Abila, and by others Chalcidene,

" from the city Chalcis, when the government of the cast was under Antonius,

" and this after Ptolemy, the son of Mennius; trom which Lysanias. this coun-

" try came to be commonly cilltd the Country of Lyianiat; and as, after the

" death of the former Lysanias, it was called the tetrarcby of Zencilorus, it*

" after the death of Zenodorus, or wttih the time for which h& hired it was

" ended, when another Lysanias, of the same name with the former, wai posv

" sessed of the same country, it begun to be called the trtiurchy of
iysanini."-

However, since Josephuselsewhere, Antiq. B. XX. ch. vii. $ i. clearly
distinguiJh-

e» Abilene from Chaicidine, Grotius must be here so far misukcn.

