Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

lectiug the taxes. And indeed he did not only affront him in other

respects, but when he gave him the watch-word of the day, to

whora it was to be given by his place, he gave him feminine

words, and those of a nature very reproachful; and these watch­

words he gave out, as having been initiated in the secrets of cer­

tain mysteries, which he had been himself the author of. No>-% al­

though he had sometimes put on women's clothes, a::d had been

wrapt in some embroidered garments to them belonging, and

done a great many other things, in order to make the company

mistake him for a woman ; yet did he, byway of reproach, object

the like womanish behaviour to Cherea. But when Ch ere a re­

ceived the watch-word from him, he had indignation at it, hut'

had greater indignation at the delivery of it to others, as being

laughed at by those that received it; insomuch that his fellow-

tribunes made him the subject of their drollery ; for they would

foretell that he would bring them some of his useful watch-words,

when he was about to take the watch-word from Caesar, and

would thereby make him ridiculous ; on which accounts he took

the courage of assuming certain partners to him, as having just

reasons for his indignation against Caius. Now there was one

Pompedius, a senator, and one who had gone through almost all

posts in the government, but otherwise an Kpicurian, and for

that reason loved to lead an inactive life. Now Timidius, an

enemy of his, had informed Caius that he had used indecent re J

proaches against him, and he made use of Quintilia 'for a wit­

ness to them ; a woman she was much beloved by many that fre­

quented the theatre, and particularly by Pompedius, on account of

her great beauty. Now this woman thought it an horrible thing

to attest to an accusation that touched the life of her lover, which

was also a lie. Timidius, however, wanted to have her brought

to the torture. Caius was irritated at this reproach upon hlm,

and commanded Cherea, without any delay j to torture t£uintiliaf

as he used to employ Cherea in such bloody matters, and those

that required the torture, because he thought he would do it the

more barbarously, in order to avoid that imputation of effemina­

cy which he had laid upon him. But Quintilia, when she was

brought to the rack, trod upon the foot of one of her associates,

and let him know, that he might be of good courage, and not be

afraid of the consequence of her tortures ; for that she would'

bear them with magnanimity. Cherea tortured this woman

after a cruel manner; unwillingly indeed) but because he

could not help it. He then brought her, without being in

the least moved at what she had suffered, into the presence of

Cains, and that in such a state as was sad to behold ; and Caius,

being somewhat affected with the sight of Quintilia> who had her

VOL. III. ¥ * body

