22 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

slain immediately, as a turbulent person in the most important

concerns, and as one that had laid a plot not only against him­

self, but against his sister also, and even corrupted Caesar's own

domestics. Salome also provoked him to it, beating her breast,

and bidding him kill her, if he could produce any credible testi­

mony that she had acted in that manner. Herod also sent for

his son, and asked him about this matter, and bid him contradict

it if he could, and not suppress any thing he had to say for him­

self ; and, when he had not one word to say, he asked him, since

he was every way caught in his villainy, that he would make

no farther delay, but discover his associates in these his wicked

designs. So he laid all upon Antiphilus; but discovered no­

body else. Hereupon Herod was in such great grief, that he was

ready to send his son to Rome to Caesar, there to give an ac­

count of these his wicked contrivances. But he soon became

afraid, lest he might there, by the assistance of his friends, es­

cape the danger he was in : so he kept him bound as before, and

sent more ambassadors and letters [to Rome] to accuse his son,

and an account of what assistance Acme had given him in his

wicked designs, with copies of the epistles before mentioned.

CHAP. VL

Concerning the disease that Herod fell into, and the sedition'

which the Jews raised thereupon ; with the punishment of the

seditious.

§ i. TVTOW Herod's ambassadors made haste to Rome ; but

,* ' went as instructed beforehand what answers they

were to make to the questions put to them. They also carried

the epistles with them. But Herod now fell into a distemper,

and made his will, and bequeathed his kingdom to [Antipas] his

youngest son ; and this out of that hatred to Archelaus and Phi­

lip, which the calumnies of Antipater had raised against them.

He also bequeathed a thousand talents to Caesar, and five hun­

dred to Julia, Caesar's wife, to Caesar's children, and friends and

freed men. He also distributed among his sons and their sons

his money, his revenues, and his lands. He also made Salome

his sister very rich, because she had continued faithful to him

in all his circumstances, and was never so rash as to do him any

harm : and as he despaired of recovering, for he was 'about the

seventieth year of his age, he grew fierce, and indulged the bit­

terest anger upon all occasions ; the cause whereof was this, that

he thought himself despised, and that the nation was pleased with

his misfortunes; besides which, he resented a sedition which some

of

