Ghap. V-III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Q-f

* therefore desirous to make thee amends for every thing in  
•' which I have been formerly deficient, for all that I have be-

«' stowed on thee, that may be called my gifts, is but little.

" Every thing that may contribute to thy happiness shall be at

" thy service, and thM chearfully, and so far as my ability will

" reach." And this was what Caius said to Agrippa, thinking he

would ask for some large country, or the revenues of certain ci­

ties. But, although he had prepared before-hand what he would

ask', yet had he not discovered his intentions, but made this an­

swer to Caius immediately: That '' it was not out of any ex-

" pectation of gain that he formerly paid his respects to him,

" contrary to the commands of Tiberius, nor did he now do any

" thing relating to him out of regard to his own advantage, and

" in order to receive any thing from him : that the gifts he had

" already bestowed'upon him were great, and beyond the hopes

" of even a craving man ; for, although they may be beneath thy

" power, [who art the donor], yet are they greater than my in-

" clination and dignity, who am the receiver." And, as Cains

was astonished at Agrippa's inclinations, and still the more pres­

sed him to make his request for somewhat which he might gra­

tify him with, Agrippa replied, " Since thou, O my Lord ! de-

" clarest such is thy readiness to grant, that I am worthy of thy

" gifts, I will ask nothing relating to my own felicity ; for what

" thou hast already bestowed on me has made me excel therein;

" but I desire somewhat which may rriaki thee glorious for piety,

" and render the Divinity assistant to thy designs, and may be for

" an honour to me among those that inquire about it, as shewing

" that I never once fail of obtaining what I desire of thee ; for

" my petition is this. That thou wilt no longer think of the de-

" <!ication of that statue which thou hast ordered to be fet up in

" the Jewish temple by Petronius."

8. And thus did Agrippa venture to cast the die upon this oc­

casion, so great was the affair in his opinion, and in reality, though

he knew how dangerous a thing it was so to speak ; for, had not

Caius approved of it, it had tended to no less than the loss of hL;

life. So Caius, who was mightily taken with Agrippa's oblig­

ing behaviour, and on other accounts thinking it a dishonourable

thing to be guilty of falsehood before so many witnesses, in points

wherein he had with such alacrity forced Agrippa to become a.

petitioner, and that.it would look as if he had already repented'

of what he had faid, and because he greatly admired Agrippa's

virtue, in not desiring him at all to augment his own dominion?,

either with larger revenues, or other authority, but took care of

'he public tranquillity, of the laws, and of the Divinity itself, lit;

granted him what he had requested. He also wrote thus to Pc-

. VOL. III. N tronius,

