Chap. XIX. WARS or THE JEWS. / 437

were the kinsmen of Monobazus king of Adiabene, and their

names were Monobazus and Kenedius; and next to them were

Niger of Perea, and Silas of Babylon, who had deserted from

King Agrippa to the Jews; for he had formerly served in his

army. When the front of the Jewish army had been cut off,

the Jews retired into the city; but still Simon, the son of Gio-

ra fell upon the backs of the Romans, as they were ascending

up Bethoron, and put the hindmost of the army inta disorder,

and carried off many of the beasts that carried the weapons of

war, and led them into the city. But as Cestius tarried there

three days, the Jews seized upon the elevated parts of the city,

and set watches at the entrances into the city, and appeared o-

penly resolved not to rest, when once the Romans should begin

to march.

3. And now when Agrippa observed that even the affairs of

the Rorhans were likely to be in danger, while such an immense

multitude of their enemies had seized upon the mountains round

about, he determined to try what the Jews would agree to by

words, as thinking that he should either persuade them all to de足

sist from fighting, or, however, that he should cause the sober

part of them to separate themselves from the opposite party. So

he sent Borceus and Phebus, the persons of his party that were

the best known to them, and promised them, that Cestius should

give them his right hand, to secure them of the Romans entire

forgiveness of what they had done amiss, if they would throw

away their arms, and come over to them; but the seditious,

fearing lest the whole multitude, in hopes of security to them足

selves, should go over to Agrippa, resolved immediately to fall

upon and kill the ambassadors: accordingly they slew Phebus

before he said a word, but Borceus was only wounded, and so

prevented his fate by flying away; and when the people were

very angry at this, they had the seditious beaten with stones

and clubs, and drove them before them into the city.

4. Sftit now Cestius, observing that thedisturbances that were

begun among the Jews afforded him a proper opportunity to at足

tack them, took his whole army along with him, and put the

Jews to flight, and pursued them to Jerusalem. He then pitch足

ed his camp upon the elevation called Scopus, [or watch tower],

which was distant seven furlongs from the city; yet did not he

assault them in three days time, out of expectation that those

within might perhaps yield a little; and in the mean time he

sent out a great many of his soldiers into neighbouring villages,

to seize upon their corn. And on the fourth day, which was

the thirtieth of the month Hyperbereteus [TisriJ, when he had

put his army in array, he brought it into the city. Now for

3 H 2 the

