Chap. XVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 41T

thought it would be a reproach to them, and besides, if they

should give it them, they durst not depend upon it; so they de­

serted their camp, as easily taken, and ran away to the royal

towers, that called Hippicus, that called Phas&lus, and that call­

ed Mariamne. But Manahem and his party fell upon the place

whence the soldiers were fled, and slew as many of them as they

could catch, before they got up to the towers, and plundered

what they left behind them, and set fire to their camp. This

was executed on the sixth day of the month Gorpieus, [Elul].

9. But on the next day the high-priest was caught, where he

had concealed himself in an aqueduct; he was slain, together

with Hezekiah his brother, by the robbers: hereupon the sedi­

tious besieged the towers, and kept them guarded, lest any one

of the soldiers should escape. Now the overthrow of the places

of strength, and the death of the high-priest Ananias, so puffed

up Manahem, that he became barbarously cruel, and, as he

thought he had no antagonist to dispute the management of af­

fairs with him, he was no better than an insupportable tyrant:

but Eleazar and his party, when words had passed between

them, how " It was not proper when they revolted from the

" Romans, out of the desire of liberty, to betray that liberty to

" any of their own people, and to bear a lord, who though he

" should be guilty of no violence, was yet meaner than thern-

" selves; as also, that, in case they were obliged to set some one

" over their public affairs, it was fitter they should give that

" privilege to any one rather than to him," they made an as­

sault upon him in the temple; for he went up thither to worship

in a pompous manner, and adorned with royal garments, and had

his followers with him in their armour. But Eleazar and his

party fell violently upon him, as did also the rest of the people,

and taking up stones to attack him withal, they threw them at

the sophister, and thought, that if he were once ruined, the en­

tire sedition would fall to the ground. Now Manahem and his

party made resistance for a while, but when they perceived that

the whole multitude were falling upon them, they fled which

way every one was able, those that were caught were slain, and

those that hid themselves were searched for. A few there were

of them who privately escaped to Masada, among whom was

Eleazar, the son of Jairus, who wasof kin to Manahem,andacted

the part of a tyrant at Masada afterward: as for Manahem him­

self, he ran away to the place called Ophla, and there lay skulk­

ing in private; but they took him alive, and drew him out be­

fore them all; they then tortured him with many sorts of tor­

ments, and after all slew him, as they did by those that were

VOL. III. 3 G captains

