'Chap. VII. ' WARS or THE JEWS. 371

queathed to them in his testaments; but, besides that, Caesar

granted to Herod's two virgin daughters five hundred thousand

[drachmae] of silver, and gave them in marriage to the sons of

Fheroras: but after this family distribution, he gave be足

tween them what had been bequeathed to him by Herod, which'

was a thousand talents, reserving to himself only some inconsi足

derable presents, in honour of the deceased.

CHAP. VII.

The history of the spurious Alexander. Archelaus is banished,

and Glaphyra dies, after what was to happen to both of them

had been shewed them in dreams.

f 1. TN the mean time there was a man, who was by birth a

X "Jew, but brought up at Sidon with one of the Roman

freed-men, who falsely pretended, on account of the resemblance

of their countenances, that he was that Alexander who was slain

by Herod. This man came to Rome, in hopes of not being de足

tected. He had one who was his assistant, of his own nation, and

who knew all the affairs of the kingdom, and instructed him to

say, how those that were sent to kill him and Aristobulus had

pity upon them, and stole them away, by putting bodies that

were like theirs in their places. This man deceived the Jews

that were at Crete, and got a great deal of money of them for

travelling in splendour; and thence sailed to Melos, where he was

thought so certainly genuine, that he got a great deal more mo足

ney, and prevailed with those that had treated him to sail along*

with him to Rome. So he landed at Dicearchia, [Piiteoii], and

got very large presents from the Jews who dwelt there, and was

conducted by his father's friends as if he were a king; nay, the

resemblance ia his countenance procured him so much credit,

that those who had seen Alexander, and had known him very

well, would take their oaths that he was the very same person.

Accordingly, the whole body of the Jews that were atRome, ran

out in crowds to see him, and an innumerable multitude there

was which stood in the narrow places, through which he was

carried; for those of Melos were so far distracted, that they

carried him in a sedan, and maintained a royal attendance for

him at their own proper charges.

2. But Caesar, who knew perfectly -well the lineaments of

Alexander's face, because he had been accused by Herod before

him, discerned the fallacy in his countenance, even before he saw

the man. However, he suffered the agreeable fame that went

of him to have some weight with him, and sent Celedus, one

who well knew Alexander, and ordered him to bring the young

3 A 2 map

