$4 AtfTIQUITlES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIf.

the temple, and to kill such as run away from the footmen

when they thought themselves out of danger, which horsemen

slew three thousand men, while the rest went to the neighbour­

ing mountains. Then did Archelaus order proclamation to be

made to them all, that they should retire to their own homes ;

so they went away, and left the festival out of fear of some­

what worse which would follow, although they had been so

bold by reason of their want of instruction. So Archelaus went

down to the sea with his mother, and took with him Nicolaus

and Ptolemy, and many others of his friends, and left Philip his

brother as governor of all things belonging both to his own fa­

mily, and to the public. There went out also with him Saldme,

Herod's sister, who took with her her children, and many of her

kindred were with her ; which kindred of hers went, as they

pretended, to assist Archelaus in gaining the kingdom, but in

reality to oppose him, and chiefly to make loud complaints of

what he had done in the temple. But Sabinus, Caesar's steward

for Syrian affairs, as he was making haste into Judea, to pre­

serve Herod's efle&s, met with Archelaus at Caesarea ; but Va-

rus ("president of Syria) came at that time, and restrained him

from meddling witji them, for he was there as sent for by Av-

chelaus, by the means of Ptolemy. And Sabinus, out of re­

gard to Varus, did neither seize upon any of the castles that

were among the Jews, nor did he seal up the treasures in them,

but permitted Archelaus to have them, until Caesar should de­

clare his resolution about them ; so that, upon this his promise,

he tarried still at Caesarea. But after Archelaus was sailed for

Rome, and Varus was removed to Antioch, Sabinus went to

Jerusalem, and seized on the king's palace. He also sent for the

keepers of the garrisons, and for all those that had the charge

of Herod's effects, and declared publicly, that he should require

them to give an account of what they had; and he disposed of

the castles jn the manner he pleased ; but those who kept them

did not neglect what Archelaus had given them in command,

but continued to keep all things in the manner they had been

enjoined them ; and their pretence was, that they kept them all

for Caesar. ,,

4. At the same time also did Antipas, another of Herod's sons,

sail to Rome, in order to gain the government; being buoyed

up by Salome with promises, that he should take that govern­

ment ; and that he was a much honester and fitter man than Ar­

chelaus for that authority ; since Herod had, in his former tesr

tament, deemed him the worthiest to be made king, which ought

to be esteemed more valid than his latter testament. Antipas

also brought with him his mother, and Ptolemy the brother' of

Nicolaus.

