THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 211

/

they had sent in one of the boldest of them all, I had him whip­

ped severely, and I commanded that one of his hands should be

cut off, and hung about his neck ; and in this case was he put

out to those that sent him. At which procedure of mine they

were greatly affrighted, and in no small consternation, and were

afraid that they should themselves be served in like manner, if

they stayed there ; for they supposed that I had in the house

more armed men than they had themselves; so they ran away

immediately, while I, by the use of this stratagem, escaped this

their second treacherous design against me.

31. But there were still some that irritated the multitude

against me, and said that those great men that belonged to the

king, ought not to be suffered to live, if they would not change

their religion to the religion of those to whom they fled for safe­

ty : they spake reproachfully of them also, and said, that they

were wizards*, and such as called in the Romans upon them.

So the multitude was soon deluded by such plausible pretences

as were agreeable to their own inclinations, and were prevailed

on by them. But when I was informed of this, I instructed ths

multitude again, that those that fled to them for refuge ought

not to be persecuted : I also laughed at the allegation about

witchcraft *, and told them that the Romans would not maintain'

so many ten thousand soldiers, if they could overcome their ene­

mies by wizards. Upon my saying this, the people assented for

a while ; but they returned afterward, as irritated by some ill

people, against the great men : nay, they once made an assault

upon the house in which they dwelt at Taricheae, in order to kill

them ; which, when I was informed of, I was afraid lest so hor­

rid a crime should take effect, and no body else would make that

city their refuge any more. I therefore came myself, and some

others with me, to the house where these great men lived, and

locked their doors, and had a trench drawn from their house

leading to the lake, and sent for a ship, and embarked therein

with them, and sailed to the confines of Hippos : I also paid them.

the value of their horses, nor in such a flight could I have their

horses brought to them. I then dismissed them, and begged of

them earnestly that they would courageously bear this distress

which befel them. I was also myself greatly displeased that I

was compelled to expose those that had fled to me to go again in­

to an enemy's country ; yet did I think it more eligible that they

should perish among the Romans, if it should so happen, than in

the country that was under my jurisdiction. However, they es-

D d 2 caped

* Here we may observe the vulgar Jewish notions of witchcraft; but that our  
Joscphus was too wise to give any countenance to.

