38 ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

" ring Herod's whole life, had on all occasions been joint parta-

«' kers of power with him, and yet do zealously endeavour to

'' injure his determination, while they have not themselves had

'' the same regard to their kinsman, [which Archelaus had],

" Casar will not therefore disannul the testament of a man

" whom he had entirely supported, of his friend and confede.

" rate, and that which is committed to him in trust to ratify :

" nor will Caesar's virtuous and upright disposition, which are

" known and uncontested through all the habitable world, imi-

" tate the wickedness of these men in condemning a king as a

" madman, and as having lost his reason, while he hath bequeath.

«' ed the succession to a good son of his, and to one who flies

" to Ccesar's upright determination for refuge. Nor can He-

" rod at any time have been mistaken in his judgment about a

" successor, while he shewed so much prudence as to submit all

'' to Caesar's determination."

7. Now when Nicolaus had laid these things before Caesar, he

ended his plea; whereupon Caesar was so obliging to Arche­

laus, that he raised him up when he had cast himself down at his

feet, and said, that " he well deserved the kingdom ;" and he soon

let them know, that he was so far moved in his favour, that he

would not act otherwise than his father's testament directed, and

than was for the advantage of Archelaus. However, while he

gave this encouragement to Archelaus to depend on him secure­

ly, he made no full determination about him ; and, when the as­

sembly was broken up, he considered by himself, whether he

should confirm the kingdom to Archelaus, or whether he should

part it among all Herod's posterity ; and this because they all

stood in need of much assistance to support them.

CHAP. X.

A /edition of the Jews against Sabinus ; and how Varus brought

the authors of it to punishment. ' .

J I. "DUT before these things could be brought to a settlement,

-*-* Malthace, Archelaus's mother, fell into a distemper,  
and died of it; and letters came from Varus, the president of

Syria, which informed Caesar of the revolt of the Jews; for, af­

ter Archelaus was sailed, the whole nation was in a tumult. So

Varus, since he was there himself, brought the authors of the

disturbance to punishment; and when he had restrained them for

the most part from this sedition, which was a great one, he took

his journey to Antioch, leaving one legion of his army at Jeru­

salem to keep the Jews quiet, who were now very fond of inno­

vation. Yet did not this at all avail to put an end to that their

sedition ;

