Chap. XV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 401

that were ascending from Cesarea, whence two cohorts were

coming; and while these men were exhorting the multitude so

to do, he sent before-hand, and gave directions to the centurions

of the cohorts, that they should give notice to those that were

under them, not to return the Jews' salutations, and that if they

made any reply to his disadvantage, they should make use of

their weapons. Now the high-priests assembled the multitude

in the temple, and desired them to go and meet the Romans, and

to salute the cohorts very civilly, before their miserable case

should become incurable. Now the seditious part would not

comply with these persuasions, but the consideration of those

that had been destroyed made them incline to those that were

the boldest for action.

4. At this time it was that every priest, and every servant of

God, brought out the holy vessels, and the ornamental garments

wherein they used to minister in sacred things. The harpers

also, and the singers of hymns, came out with their instruments

of music, and fell down before the multitude, and begged of

them that they would preserve those holy ornaments to them,

and not provoke the Romans to carry off those sacred treasures.

You might also see then the high-priests themselves, with dust

sprinkled in great plenty upon their heads, with bosoms depri­

ved of any covering, but what was rent; these besought every

one of the eminent men by name, and the multitude in com-

mon, that they would not for a small offence betray their coun­

try to those that were desirous to have it laid waste ; saying,

" What benefit will it bring to the soldiers to have a saluta-

" tion from the Jews? or what amendmenlfof your affairs will

" it bring you, if you do not now go out to meet them ? and

" that if they saluted them civilly, all handle would be cut off

" from Florus to begin a war; that they should thereby gain

" their country, and freedom from all farther sufferings ; and

" that, besides, it would be a sign of great want of command of

" themselves, if they should yield to a few seditious persons,

" while it was fitter for them who were so great a people, to

" force the others to act soberly."

5. By these persuasions, which they used to the multitude,

and to the seditious, they restrained some by threatenings, and

others by the reverence that was paid them. After this they

led them out, and they met the soldiers quietly, and after

a composed manner, and when they were come up with them,

,they saluted them, but when they made no answer, the se­

ditious exclaimed against Florus, which was the signal given

for falling upon them. The soldiers therefore encompassed

them presently, and struck them With their clubs, and as

VOL. III. 3 E ' the/

