434 WARS or THE JEWS. Book II.

against external violence; and as he knew the Romans would

fall upon Galilee, he built walls in proper places about Jatapata

and Barsabee, and Selamis; and besides these about Capharec-

cho, and Japha, and Sigo, and what they call Mount Tabor, and

Tariqheae, and Tiberias. Moreover, he built walls about the

caves near the lake of Gennesar, which places lay in the Lower

Galilee; the same he did to the places of Upper Galilee, as well

as to the rock called the Rock of the Achabari, and to S-ph, and

Jamneh, and Meroth; and in Gaulanitis he fortified Selucia, and

Sogane, and Gamala; but as to those of Sepphoris, they were

the only people to whom he gave leave to build their own walls,

and this because he perceived they were rich and wealthy, and

ready to go to war, without standing in need of any injunctions

for that purpose. The case was the same with Gischala, which

had a wall built about it by John the son of Levi himself, but

with the consent of Josephus: but for the building of the rest

of the fortresses, he laboured together with all the other build­

ers, and was present to give all the necessary orders for that

purpose. He also got together an army out of Galilee, of more

than an hundred thousand young men, all of which he armed

with the old weapons, which he had collected together, and pre­

pared for them.

7. And when he had considered that the Roman power became

invincible, chiefly by their readiness in obejing orders, and the

constant exercise of their arms, he despaired of teaching these

his men the use of their arms, which was to be obtained by ex­

perience; but observing that their readiness in obeying orders,

was owing to the multitude of their officers, he made his parti­

tions in his army more after the Roman manner, and appointed

a great many subalterns. He also distributed the soldiers into

various classes, whom he put under captains of tens, and captains,

of hundreds, and then under captains of thousands; and besides

these he had commanders of largerbodies of men. Healsotaught

them to give the signals one to another, and to call and recal the

soldiers by the trumpets, how to expand the wings of an army,

and make them wheel about, and when one wing hath had suc­

cess, to turn again andassist those that were hard set, and to join

in the defence of what had most suffered. He also continually

instructed them in what concerned the courage of the soul, and

the hardiness of the body; and above all he exercised them for

war, by declaring to them distinctly the good order of the Ro­

mans, and that they were to fight with men who, both by the

strength of their bodies, and courage of their souls, had con­

quered in a manner the whole habitable earth. He told them

that he should make trial of the good order they would observe in

war,

i

