Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 271 .

Petra. However, he laid waste the country about the Pella,

though even there he was under great hardship ; for his army

was afflicted with famine. In order to supply which want,

Hyrcanus afforded him some assistance, and sent him provisions

by the means of Antipater; whom also Scaurus sent to Aretas,

as one well acquainted with him, to induce him to pay him mo­

ney to buy his peace. The king of Arabia * complied with

the proposal, and gave him three hundred talents ; upon which

Scaurus drew his army out of Arabia.

2. But as for Alexander, that son of Aristobulus who ran a-

way from Pompey, in some time he got a considerable band of

men together, and lay heavy upon Hyrcanus, and over-ran Judea,

and was likely to overturn him quickly ; and indeed he had

come to Jerusalem, and had ventured to rebuild its wall that

was thrown down by Pompey, had not Gabinius, who was sent

as successor to Scaurus into Syria, shewed his bravery, as in

many other points, so in making an expedition against Alexan­

der ; who, as he was afraid that he would attack him, so he got

together a large army, composed of ten thousand armed foot­

men, and fifteen hundred horsemen. He also built walls about

proper places, Alexandrium, and Hyrcanium, and Macherus,

that lay upon the mountains of Arabia.

3. However, Gabinius sent before him Marcus Antonius, and

followed himself with his whole army ; but for the select body

of'soldiers that were about Antipater, and another body of Jews

under the command of Malithus and Pitholaus, these joined

themselves to those captains that were about Marcus Antonius,

and met Alexander ; to which body came Gabinius, with his

main army soon afterward ; and as Alexander was not able to

sustain the charge of the enemies forces, now they were joined,

he retired. But when he was come near to Jerusalem, he was.

forced to fight, and lost six thousand men in the battle ; three

thousand of which fell down dead, and three thousand were taken,

alive ; so he fled with the remainder to Alexandrium.

4. Now, when Gabinius was come to Alexandrium, because

he found a great many there encamped, he tried, by promising

them pardon for their former offences, to induce them to come

over to him, before it came to a fight; but when they would

hearken to no terms of accommodation, he slew a great number of

them,

* Take the like attestation to the truth of this submission of Aretas king of  
Arabia, to Scaurus the Roman general, in the words of Dean Aldnch. " Hence

" (says he) is derived that old and famous Denarius belonging tothg Emilian
fa-

" mily [represented in Havercamp's edition], wherein Aietas appears in a pos.

" tare of supplication, and taking hold of a camel's bridle with his left
hand, and

" with his right hand presenting a branch of the frankincense tree, with this
m,

" scription, M. SCAURUS EX t>. C. and beneath, REX ARETAS."

