Chap. III. 139 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

sion of king Agrippa, who exhorted him not to let such a do­

minion slip out of his hands, when it came thus to him of its

own accord. Now, this Agrippa, with relation to Caius, did

what became one that had been so much honoured by him; for

he embraced Caius's body after he was dead, and laid it upon a

bed, and covered it as well as he could, and went out to the

guards, and told them that Caius was still alive ; but he said that

they should call for physicians, since he was very ill of his

wounds. But when he had learned that Claudius was carried

away violently by the soldiers, he rushed through the crowd to

him, and when he found that he was in disorder, and ready to

resign up the government to the senate, he encouraged him, and

desired him to keep the government; but when he had said this

to Claudius, he retired home. And, upon the senate's sending

for him, he anointed his head with ointment, as if he had lately

accompanied with his wife, and had dismissed her, and thea

came to them : he also asked of the senators what Claudius did ;

who told him the present state of affairs, and then asked his opi­

nion about the settlement of the public. He told them in

words, that he was ready to lose his life for the honour of the

senate, but desired them to consider what was for their advantage,

without any regard to what was most agreeable to them; for

that those who grasp at government, will stand in need of

weapons, and soldiers to guard them, unless they will set up

without any preparation for it, and so fall into danger. And

when the senate replied, That " they would bring in weapons

'f in abundance, and money, and that as to an army, a part of

" it was already collected together for them, and they would

" raise a larger one by giving the slaves their liberty." Agrip­

pa made answer, " O senators ! may you be able to compass

what you have a mind to ; yet will I immediately tell you

" my thoughts, because they tend to your preservation : take

*' notice, then, that the army which wiil fight for Claudius hath  
" been long exercised in warlike affairs ; but our army will be

" no better than a rude multitude of raw men, and those such

" as have been unexpectedly made free from slavery, and ungo-

" vernable ; we must then fight against those that are skilful in

" war, with men who know not so much as how to draw their

a swords. So that my opinion is, that we should send some

" persons to Claudius, to persuade him to lay down the govern-

" ment, and I am ready to be one of your ambassadors."

2. Upon this speech of Agrippa, the senate complied with

him, and he was sent among others, and privately informed

Claudius of the disorder the senate was in, and gave insructions

'to answer them in a somewhat commanding strain, and as one in-

S 2 vested

