Chap. XVI. WAfts OF THE JEWS. 409

« because they are of effeminate minds, or because they are of

" an ignoble stock, as having borne a war of eighty years, in

" order to preserve their liberty: but by reason of the great

" regard they have to the power of the Romans, and their good

" fortune, which is of greater efficacy than their arms. These

" Gauls, therefore, are kept in servitude by twelve hundred sol-

" diers, which are hardly so many as are their cities; nor hath

" the gold dug out of the mines of Spain been sufficient for the

" support of a war to preserve their liberty, nor could their

" vast distance from the Romans by land and by sea do it; nor

" could the martial tribes of the Lusitanians and Spaniards

" escape; no more could the ocean, with its tide, which yet was

" terrible to the ancient inhabitants. Nay, the Romans have

" extended their arms beyond the pillars of Hercules, and have

«' walked among the clouds, upon the Pyrenean mountains, and

" have subdued these nations. And one legion is a sufficient

" guard for these people, although they were so hard to be con-

" quered, and at a distance so remote from Rome. Who is

" there among you who hath not heard of the great number of

" the Germans ? You have, to be sure, yourselves seen them

" to be strong and tall, and that frequently, since the Romans

" have them among their captives every where; yet these

" Germans who dwell in an immense country, who have minds

" greater than their bodies, and a soul that despises death,

" and who are in rage more fierce than wild beasts, have the

Rhine for the boundary of their enterprises, and are tamed

by eight Roman legions. Such of them as were taken cap­

tive became their servants ; and the rest of the entire nation

were obliged to save themselves by flight. Do you also, who

depend on the walls of Jerusalem, consider what a wall the

Britons had; for the Romans sailed away to them, and sub*

" dued them while they were encompassed by the ocean, and in-

" habited an island that is not less than the [continent of this]

" habitable earth; and four legions are a sufficient guard to so

" large an island. And why should I speak much more about

«' this matter? while the Parthians, that most warlike body of

" men, and lords of so many nations, and encompassed with such.

" mighty forces, send hostages to the Romans; whereby you

" may see if you please, even in Italy, the noblest nation of the

*' east, under the notion of peace submitting to serve them. Now,  
•' when almost all people under the sun submit to the Roman

" arms, will you be the only people that make war against

" them? and this without regarding the fate of the Carthagi-

" nians, who, in the midst of the brags of the great Hannibal,

«« and the nobility of their Phenician original, jfell by the hand

VOL. III. 3 F gf

