Chap. III. ANTIQJJIT1E3 OF THE JEWS. S3

• ..' '. CH A P. III.

A sedition of the Jews 'against Pontius Pilate. Concerning Christ,

and what ieftl Paulina and the Jews at Rome.

J 1. T>UT now Pilate, the procurator of Judea, removed the

-^ army from Cesarea to Jerusalem, to take their winter-  
quarters there, in order to abolish the Jewish laws. So he in­

troduced Caesar's effigies, which were upon the ensigns, and

brought them into the city ; whereas our law forbids us the very

making of images; on which account the former procurators

were wont to make their entry into the city with such ensigns

as had not those ornaments. Pilate was the first who brought

those images to Jerusalem, and set them up there ; which was

done without the knowledge of the people, because it was done

in the night-time ; but as soon as they knew it, they came in

multitudes to Cesarea, and interceded with Pilate many days,

that he would remove the images ; and when he would not grant

their requests, because it would tend to the injury of Caesar,

while yet they persevered in their request, on the sixth day he

ordered his soldiers to have their weapons privately, while he

came and sat upon his judgement-seat; which seat was so prepa.

red in the open place of the city, that it concealed the army that

lay ready to oppress them ; and when the Jews petitioned him.

again, he gave a signal to the soldiers to encompass them round,

and threatened that their punishment should be no less than im­

mediate death, unless they would leave off disturbing him, and

go their ways home. But they threw themselves upon the

ground, and laid their necks bare, and said they would take

their death very willingly, rather than the wisdom of their laws

should be transgressed ; upon which Pilate was deeply affected

with their firm resolution to keep their laws inviolable, and pre­

sently commanded the images to be carried back from Jerusa­

lem to Cesarea.

2. But Pilate undertook to bring a current of water to Jeru-

s lem, and did it with the sacred money, and derived the origin

of the stream from the distance of two hundred furlongs. How­

ever, the Jews * were not pleased with what had been done a-

bout

* These Jews, as they are here called, whose blood Pilate shed on this occasion,  
may very well be those very Galilean Jews whose blood Pilate had mingled tuitb

their sacrifices, Luke, xiii. i i.; these tumults being usually excited at
some of the

Jews great festivals, when they slew abundance ot sacrifices, and the
Galileans

being commonly much more busy in such tumults than tho-e of Judea and Jerusa­

lem, as we learn from the history of Archelaus, Antiq' B' XVII. ch. ix. sect.
3.

and ch. x. sect. 2. 9. ; though, indeed, Josephus's present copies say not one
won!

«f tboir eightecn upon •whom the tower in Siham fell, anit situ' them, which
the

4"> verse of the same isth chapter of St Luke informs us of. B'^t since our
go­

