*\6 THE Lr»E OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

Pharisees, which are supposed to excel others in the accurate

knowledge of the laws of their country. He was a man of great

wisdom and reason, and capable of restoring public affairs by his

prudence, when they were in an ill posture. He was also an old

friend and companion of John ; but at that time he had a differ­

ence with me. When therefore he had received such an exhor­

tation, he persuaded the high-priests, Ananus, and Jesus the son

of Gamala, and some others of the same seditious faction, to cut

me down, now I was growing so great, and not to overlook me

while I was aggrandizing myself to the height of glory ; and he

said, that it would be for the advantage of the Galileans, if I

were deprived of my government there. Ananus also, and his

friends, desired them to make no delay about the matter, lest I

should get the knowledge of what was doing too soon, and should

come and make an assault upon the city with a great army. This

was the counsel of Simon; but Ananus the high-priest demonstra­

ted to them, that this was not an easy thing to be done, because

many of the high-priests and of the rulers of the people bore wit­

ness that I had acted like an excellent general, and that it was

the work of ill men to accuse one against whom they had nothing

to say.

39. When Simon heard Ananus say this, he desired that the

messengers would conceal the thing, and not let it come among

many ; for that he would take care to have Josephus removed

out of Galilee very quickly. So he called for John's brother

[Simon], and charged him, that they should send presents to A-

nanus and his friends ; for, as he said, they might probably by

that means persuade them to change their minds. And indeed

Simon did at length thus compass what he aimed at; for Ananus,

and those with him, being corrupted by bribes, agreed to expel

me out of Galilee, without making the rest of the citizins ac­

quainted with what they were doing. Accordingly they resol­

ved to send men of distinction as to their families, and of distinc­

tion as to their learning also. Two of these were of the popu­

lace, Jonathan * and Ananias, by s^-ct of Pharisees ; while the

third, Jozar, was of the stock of the priests, and a Pharisee also ;

and Simon, the last of them, was of the youngest of the high-

priests. These had it given them in charge, that, when they

were come to the multitude of the Galileans, they should ask

them, what was the reason of their love to me ? and if they

said, that it was because I was born at Jerusalem, that they

should reply, that they four were all born at the same place ;

and if they should say, it was because I was well versed in their

law, they should reply, that neither were they unacquainted with

the

« This Jonathan is also taken notice of in the Latin notes, as the same that
is

mentioned by the rabbins in Porta Mosis,

