Chap. I. 'ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 117

first suspected that some one of the conspirators had betrayed

him, and he was caught, but at length perceived that it was by

way of exhortation. Whether somebody *, that was conscious

of what he was about, gave a signal for his encouragement, or

whether it were "God himself, who looks upon the actions of

men, that encouraged him to go on boldly in his design, is uncer­

tain. The plot was now co'mmunicated to a great many, and

they were all in their armour ; sAme of the conspirators being

senators, and some of the equestrian order, and as many of the

soldiery as were made acquainted with it; for there was not one

of them who would not reckdn it a part of his happiness to kill

Caius, and on that account they were all very zealous in the af­

fair, by what means soever any one could come at it, that he

might not be behind-hand in these virtuous designs, but might

be ready with all his alacrity or power, both by words and ac­

tions, to complete this slaughter of a tyrant. And besides these

Callistus also, who was a freed-man of Caius, and was the only

man that had arrived at the greatest degree of power under him ;

such a power, indeed, as was in a manner equal to the power of

the tyrant himself, by the dread that all men had of him, and by

the great'riches he had acquired ; for he took bribes most plen-

teously, and committed injuries without bounds, and was more ex-

travagant in the use df his power in unjust proceedings than any

pther. He also'knew the disposition of Caius to be implacable,

and never to be turned from what he had resolved on. He had

withal many other reasons why he thought himself in danger,

and the vastness of his wealth was not one of the least of them :

on which account he privately ingratiated himself with Claudius,

and transferred his courtship to him, out of this hope, that in

case, upon the removal of Caius, the government should come

to him, his interest in such changes should lay a foundation for

his preserving his dignity under him, since he laid in before.hand

a stock of merit, and did Claudius good offices in his promotion.

He had also the boldness to pretend, that lie had been persuaded

to make away Claudius-, by poisoning him, but had still invented

ten thousand excuses for delaying to do it. But it seems pro­

bable to me, that Callistus only counterfeited this, in order to in­

gratiate himself with Claudius ; for, if Caius had been in ear­

nest resolved to take off Claudius, he would not have admitted

of Callistus's excuses, nor would Callistus, if he had-been en­

joined to do such an act as was desired by Caius, have put it off,

nor, if he had disobeyed those injunctions of his master, had he e-

scaped immediate punishment; while Claudius was preserved

from

, * Just such a voice as this is related to be, came, ami from an unknown ori­

ginal also, to the famous'Polycarp, as he was going to martyrdom, bidding him

*' play the'man ;" as the church of Smyrna assures us in their account of that  
his mart) rdom, sect.'- 9.

