Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 430

put them, and then had them whipped till every one of their in­

ward parts appeared naked. In the mean time the multitude

stood round the house, and supposed that he had a long discourse

with those that were gone in, about what they claimed of him.

He had then the doors set open immediately, and sent the men

out all bloody, which so terribly affrighted those that had before

threatened him, that they threw away their arms and ran away.

6. But as for John, his envy grew greater [upon this escape

of Josephus], and he framed a new plot against him; he pre­

tended to be sick, and by a letter desired that Josephus would

give him leave to use the hot baths that were at Tiberias, for

the recovery of his health. Hereupon Josephus, who hitherto

suspected nothing of John's plots against him, wrote to the go­

vernors of the city, that they would provide a lodging and

necessaries for John; which favours, when he had made use

of, in two days time he did what he came about; some he cor­

rupted with delusive frauds, and others with money, and so per­

suaded them to revolt from Josephus. This Silas who was ap­

pointed guardian of the city by Josephus, wrote to him imme­

diately, and informed him of the plot against him; which epistle

when Josephus had received, he marched with great diligence

all night, and came early in the morning to Tiberias; at which

time the rest of the multitude met him. But John, who sus­

pected that coming was not for his advantage, sent however one

of his friends, and pretended that he was sick, and that being

confined to his bed he could not come to pay him his respects.

But as soon as Josephus had got the people of Tiberias to­

gether in the Stadium, and tried to discourse with them a-

bout the letters that he had received, John privately sent

some armed men, and gave them orders to slay him. But

when the people saw that the armed men were about to draw

their swords, they cried out; at which cry Josephus turned him­

self about, and when he saw that the swords were just at his

throat, he marched away in great haste to the sea shore, and left

off that speech which he was going to make to the people, upon

an elevation of six cubits high. He then seized on a ship which

lav in the haven, and leaped into it, with two of his guards, and

fled away into the midst of the lake.

1. But now the soldiers he had with him took up their arms,

immediately, and marched against the plotters; but Josephus

was afraid lest a civil war should be raised by the envy of a few

men, and bring the city to rum; so he sent some of his party to

tell them, that they should do no more than provide for their own

safety, that they should not kill anybody, nor accuse any for the

occasion they had afforded [of a disorder]. Accordingly these

jnen obeyed his orders, and were quiet; but the people of the

neighbouring

