Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 41*

God in the temple. Accordingly, that body of them which con­

tinued best together, and was the most warlike, encompassed the

palace, and threatened to set fire to it, and kill all that were in it.

Yet still they commanded them to go out presently, and promi­

sed, that if they would do so, they would not hurt them, nor Sa-

binus neither ; at which time the greatest part of the king's

troops deserted to them, while Rufus and Gratus, who had three

thousand of the most warlike of Herod's army with them, who

were men of active bodies, went over to the Romans. There

was also a band of horsemen under the command of Rufus, which,

itself went over to the Romans also. However, the Jews went

on with the siege, and dug mines under the palace-walls, and

besought those that were gone over to the other side, not to be

their hindrance, now they had such a proper opportunity for the

recovery of their country's ancient liberty ; and for Sabinus,

truly he was desirous of going away with his soldiers, but was

not able to trust himself with the enemy, on account of what

mischief he had already done them ; and he took this great [pre­

tended] lenity of theirs for an argument why he should not com­

ply with them : and so, because he expected that Varus was co­

ming, he still bore the siege.

4. Now, at this time there were ten thousand other disorders

in Judea, which were like tumults; because a great number put

themselves into a warlike posture, either out of hopes of gain to

themselves, or out of enmity to the Jews. In particular, two

thousand of Herod's old soldiers, who had been already disband­

ed, got together in Judea itself, and fought against the king's

troops ; although Achiabus, Herod's first cousin, opposed them ;

but as he was driven out of the plains into the mountainous parts

by the military skill of those men, he kept himself in the fast­

nesses that were there, and saved what he could.

5. There was also Judas, * the son of that Ezekias who had

been head of the robbers ; which Ezekias was a very strong man,

and had with great difficulty been caught by Herod. This Ju-

VOL. III. F ' das

« Unless this Judas, the son of Ezekias, be the same with that Thendas men. '

tioned. Acts v. 36. Josephus must have omitted him; for that 01 her Theudas,

whom he afterwards mentions under Fadus, the Roman governor, B. XX. ch. v.

$ i. is much too late to correspond to him that is mentioned in the Acts. The

names Theudas, Thaudeui, and Judas, differ but little. Src Abp. Usher's An­

nals at A. M. 4001. However, since Josephus does not pretend to reckon up

the heads of all those ten thousand disorders in Judea, which he tells us were

then abroad, see sect. 4. and 8. the Theudas of the Acts might be at the head
of

one of those seditions, though not particularly named by him Thin he informs

us here, sect. 6. and Of the War. B. 11. ch. iv. sect. 2. that certain of the
sedi­

tious came and burnt the royal palace at Amathus, or Betharamphta, upon

the river Jordan. Perhaps their leader, who is not namsd by Josephus, might

titt this Theudas.

