Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 313

was put to death, as we have already related. This Gkphyra

was married, after his death, to Juba, king of Lybia, and, af­

ter his death, was returned home, and lived a widow with her

father. Then it was that Archelaus, the ethnarch, saw her,

and fell so deeply in love with her, that he divorced Mariamne,

who was then his wife, and married her. When, therefore,

she was come into Judea, and had been there for a little while,

she thought she saw Alexander stand by her, and that he said to

her, " Thy marriage with the king of Lybia might have been

" sufficient for thee; but thou was not contented with him,

" but art returned again to my family, to a third husband, and

" him, thou impudent woman, hast thou chosen for thine hus-

" band, who is my brother. However, I shall not overlook

" the injury thou hast offered me; I shall [soon] have thee

" again, whether thou wilt or no." Now Glaphyra hardly sur­

vived the narration of this dream of her's two days.

.

CHAP. VIII.

Archelaus's etinarchy is reduced into a [Roman] province. The

sedition of Judas of Galilee. The three sects of the Jeias.

f 1. A ND now Archelaus's part of Judea was reduced into a

i'V province, and Coponius, one of the equestrian order

among the Romans, was sent as a procurator, having the power

of [life and] death put into his hands by Caesar. Under his ad­

ministration it was, that a certain Galilean, whose name was

Judas, prevailed with his countrymen to revolt, and said they

were cowards if they would endure to pay a tax to the Romans,

and would, after God, submit to mortal men as their lords.

This man was a teacher of a peculiar sect of his own, and was

not at all like the rest of those their leaders.

2 For there are three philosophical sects among the Jews.

The followers of the first of which are the Pharisees, of the se­

cond the Sadducees, and the third sect, which pretends to a se­

verer discipline, are called Essens. These last are Jews by birth,

and seem to have a greater affection for one another than the

other sects have. 'I hese Essens reject pleasures as an evil, but

esteem continence, and the conquest over our passions, to be vir­

tue. They neglect wedlock, but choose out other persons chil­

dren while they are pliable, and fit for learning, and esteem

them to be of their kindred, and form them according to their

own manners. They do not absolutely deny the fitness of mar-<

riage, and the succession of mankind thereby continued; bat

they guard against the lascivious behaviour of women, and are

persuaded that none of them preserve their fidelity to one man.

» 3. These

