00 ANTIQUITIES or THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

manner as he was able, and spared for nothing, and went up to

Rome, and took Herodias along with him. But Agrippa,- when

he was made Sensible of their intentions and preparations, he

also prepared to go thither; and as soon as they heard they set sail,

he sent Fortunatus, one of his freed-mea, to Rome, to carrv pre­

sents to the emperory and letters against Herody and to give Caius

a particular account of those matters, if he should have any op­

portunity. This man followed Herod so-quick, and had so pros­

perous a voyage, and came so little after Herod, that while He­

rod was with Caius, he came himself, and delivered his letters;

for they both sailed to Dicearchiaj and found Caius at Baiae,

which is itself a little city of Campania, at the distance of about

five furlongs from Dicearehia. There are in that place royal

palaces, with sumptuous apartments, every emperov still endea­

vouring to out-do his predecessor's magnificence : the place also

affords warm baths, that spring out of the ground of their own

accord, which are of advantage for the recovery of the health of

those that make use of them, and, besides, they minister to men's

luxury also. Now Caius saluted Herod, for he first met with

him, and then looked upon the letters which Agrippa had seat

him, and which were written in order to accuse Herod ; where­

in he accused him, that he had been in confederacy with Sejanus,

against Tiberius's government, and that he was now confederate

with Artabanus, the king of Parthia, in opposition to the govern­

ment of Caius ; as a demonstration of which he alledged, that he

had armour sufficient for seventy thousand men ready in his ar­

moury. Caius was moved at this- information and asked He­

rod, whether what w&s said about the armour was true ? and

when he confessed there was such armour there, for he could not

deny the same, the truth of it being too notorious, Caius took that

to be a sitfficient proof of the accusation, that he intended to revolt.

So he took away from him his tetrarchy, and gave it by way of

addition to Agrippa's kingdom ; he also gave Herod's money to

Agrippa, and, by way of punishment, awarded him a perpetual

banishment, and appointed Lyons, a city of Gaul, to be his place

of habitation. But when he was informed that Herodias was

Agrippa's sister, he made her a present of what money was her

own, and told her, that u it was her brother who prevented her

" being put under the same calamity with her husband." But

she made this reply; " Thou, indeed, O emperor ! actest after a

" magnificent manner, and as becomes thyself in what thou of-

" ferest me ; but the kindness which I have for my husband bin-

" ders me from partaking of the favour of thy gift; for it is not

" just, that I, who have been made a partner in his prosperity,

" should forsake him in his misfortunes." Hereupon Gaiiis was

'angry

