Chap. V. ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 15

whom he learned all circumstances which concerned him, and

then prepared himself for his trial.

3. On the next day Varus and the king sat together in judge­

ment, and both their friends were also called in, as also the

king's relations, with his sister Salome, and as many as could

discover any thing, and such as had been tortured ; and besides

these, some slaves of Antipater's mother, who were taken up a «

little before Antipater's coming, and brought with them a writ­

ten letter, the sum of which was this, that " he should not come

" back, because all was come to his father's knowledge; and

" that Caesar was the only refuge he had left to prevent both

" his and her delivery into his father's hands." Then did An-

tipater fall down at his father's feet, and besought him " not to

" prejudge his cause, but that he might be first heard by his fa-

" ther, and that his father would keep him still unprejudised."

So Herod ordered him to be brought into the midst, and then

" lamented himself about his children, from whom he had suf-

" fered such great misfortunes ; and because Antipater fell up-

" on him in his old age. He also reckoned up what mainte-

" nance, and what education he had given them ; and what sea-'

" sonable supplies of wealth he had afforded them, according to

" their own desires, none of which favours had hindered them.

" from contriving against him, and from bringing his very life

" into danger, in order to gain his kingdom, after an impiousman-

" ner, by taking away his life before the-course of nature, their

" father's wishes, or justice, required that that kingdom should

" come to them ; and that he wondered what hopes could ele-

" vate Antipatcr to such a pass as to be hardy enough to at-

" tempt such things ; that he had by his testament in writing

" declared him his successor in the government; and while he

" was alive, he was in no respect inferior to him, either in his

" illustrious dignity, or in power and authority, he having no

" less than fifty talents for his yearly income, and had received

" for his journey to Rome no fewer than thirty talents. He

" also objected to him the case of his brethren whom he had ac-

" cused; and if they were guilty, he had imitated their exam-

" pie ; and if not, he had brought him groundless accusations

" against his near relations ; for that he had been acquainted

" with all those things by him, and by no body else, and had

" done what was done by his approbation, and whom he now

" absolved from all that was criminal, by becoming the inheri-

" tor of the guilt of such their parricide."

4. When Herod had thus spoken, he fell a-weeping, and was

not able to say any more; but at his desire Nicolaus of Damas­

cus, being the king's friend, and always conversant with him,

and

