Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 2»

*

CHAP. VIII.

Concerning Herod's death, and testament, and burial.

* I. A ND now Herod altered his testament upon the altera-  
** tion of his mind 5 for he appointed Antipas, to whom  
he had before left the kingdom, to be tetrarch of Galilee and

Perea, and granted the kingdom to Archelaus. He also gave

Gaulonitis, and Trachonitis, and Paneas to Philip, who was his

son, but own brother * to Archelaus, by the name of tetrarchy ;

and bequeathed Jamnia, and Ashdod, and Phasaelis, to Salome

his sister, with five hundred thousand [drachmae] of silver that

was coined. He also made provision for all the rest of his kind­

red, by giving them sums of money and annual revenues, and so

left them all in a wealthy condition. He bequeathed also to Cae­

sar ten millions [of drachmae] of coined money, besides both ves­

sels of gold and silver, and garments exceeding costly, to Julia,

Caesar's wife ; and to certain others, five millions. When he

had done these things, he died, the fifth day after he had caused

Antipater to be slain; having reigned, since he had procured An-

tigonus f to be slain, thirty-four years ; but since he had been

declared king by the Romans, thirty-seven. A man he was of

great barbarity towards all men equally, and a slave to his pas­

sion ; but above the consideration of what was right: yet was

he favoured by fortune as much as any man ever was, for from

a private man he became a king ; and though he were encom­

passed with ten thousand dangers, he got clear of them all, and

continued his life till a very old age. But then, as to the affairs

of his family and children, in which indeed, according to his

own opinion, he was also very fortunate, because he was able to

conquer his enemies, yet, in my opinion, he was herein very

unfortunate.

2. But then Salome and Alaxis, before the king's death was

made known, dismissed those that were shut up in the hippo­

drome,

* When it is here said, that Philip the tetrarch, and Archelaus the king, or  
fthnarch, were &Ktfm yntui, or genuine brothers, if those words mean own

brothers, or born ot the same father and mother, there must be here some mis­

take; because they had indeed the same father, Herod, but different mothers;

the former Cleopatra, and Archelaus Malthace, They were indeed brought sp

altogether at Some like own brothers; and Philip was Archelaus's deputy when

he went to have his kingdom confirmed to him at Rome: ch. ix. § 5. Of the War,

B. IF. ch ii. § I.; which intimacy is perhaps all that Josephus intended by
the

words before us.

t These numbers of years for Herod's reign, 34 and 37, are the very same

with those of the War, B. 1. ch. xxxiii. § 8. and are among the principal
chro­

nological characters belonging to the reign or death of Herod. See,Harm. of

the Evang-. page 150—155.

