. III. WARS OF THE JEWS.

He also put his mother in bonds, for her contesting the govern­

ment with him; for John had left her to be the governess of

public affairs. He also proceeded to that degree of barbarity as

,to cause her to be pined to death in prison.

2. But vengeance circumvented him in the affiiir of his bro­

ther Antigonus, whom he loved, and whom he made his part­

ner in the kingdom; for he slew him by the means of the qalum'--

nies which ill men about the palace contrived against him. At

first, indeed, Aristobulus would not believe their reports, partly

out of the affection he had for his brother, and partly because

he thought that a great part of these tales were owing to the en- -

vy of their relaters: however, as Antigonus came once in a

splendid manner from the army to that festival, wherein our

ancient custom is to make tabernacles for God, it happened, ill

those days, that Aristobulus was sick, and that, at the conclu­

sion of the feast, Antigonus came up to it, with his armed men

about him; and this, when he was adorned in the finest manner

possible, and that, in a great measure, to pray to God on the

behalf of his brother. Now, at this very time it was that these

ill men came to the king, and told him in what a pompous man­

ner the armed men came, and with what insolence Antigonus

marched, and that such his insolence was too great for a private

person, and that accordingly he was come with a great band of

men to kill him ; for that he could not endure this bare enjoy­

ment of royal honour, when it was in his power to take the

kingdom himself.

3. Now Aristobulus, by degrees, and unwillingly, gave credit

to these accusations ; and accordingly he took care not to disco­

ver his suspicion openly, though he provided to be secure against

any accidents : so he placed the guards of his body in a certain

dark subterranean passage ; for he lay sick in a place called for­

merly the Citadel, though afterwards its name was changed to

Antonia; and he ga"ve orders, that if Antigonus came unarmed,

they should let him alone ; but if he came to him in his armour,

they should kill him. He also sent some to let him know before­

hand, that he should come unarmed. But, upon this occasion,

the queen very cunningly contrived the matter with those that

plotted his ruin, for she persuaded those that were sent to con­

ceal the king's message ; but to tell Antigonus how his brother

had heard he had got a very fine suit of armour, made with fine

martial ornaments, in Galilee ; and because his present sickness

hindered him from coming and seeing all that finery, he very

much desired to see him now in his armour; because, said he, in

3. little time thou art going away from me.

4. As soon as Antigonus heard this, the good temper of his

VOL. III. K k " brother

