Chap. X. WARS Ot THE JEWS.

11 innovations and seditions, that he should undertake t accuse

" other men before the Roman governor, and endeavour to gairi

" some advantages to himself, when he ought to be contented

" that he was suffered to live ; for that the reason of his desire

" of governing public affairs, was not so much because he was in

" wantof it, butbecause, if he could once obtain the same, he might

" stir up a sedition among the Jews, and use what they should gain

" from the Romans, to the disservice of those that gave it him."

3. When Caesar heard this, he declared Hyrcanus to be the most

worthy of the high-priesthood, and gave leave to Antipater td

choose what authority he pleased ; but he left the determination

of such dignity to him that bestowed the dignity upon him ; so

he was constituted procurator of all Judea, and obtained leave,

moreover, to rebuild * those walls of his country that had been

thrown down. These honorary grants Ccesar sent orders to

have engraved in the capitol, that they might stand there as in­

dications of his own justice, and of the virtue of Antipater.

4. But as soon as Antipater had conducted Caesar out of Sy­

ria, he returned to Judea, and the first thing he did, was to re­

build that wall of his own country, [Jerusalem], which Pompey

had overthrown, and then to go over the country, and to quiet

the tumults that were therein ; where he partly threatened, and

partly advised every one, and told them, that, " in case they

" would submit to Hyrcanus, they would live happily and

" peaceably, and enjoy what they possessed, and that with uni-

" versal peace and quietness ; but that, in case they hearkened to

" such as had some frigid hopes, by raising new troubles to get

" themselves some gain, they should then find him to be their

" lord, instead of their procurator ; and find Hyrcanus to be a

" tyrant, instead of a king ; and both the Romans and Caesar to

" be their enemies, instead of rulers ; for that they would not suf-

" fer him to be removed from the government, whom they had

" made their governor." And, at the same time that he said

this, he settled the affairs of the country by himself, because lie

saw that Hyrcanus was inactive, and not fit to manage the af­

fairs of the kingdom. So he constituted his eldest son, Phasaelus,

governor of Jerusalem, and of the parts about it; he also sent

his next son, Herod, who wasf very young, with equal authori­

ty into Galilee.

5. Now

* What is here noted by Hudson and Spanheim, that this grant of leave to  
rebuild the walls of the cities of Judea was made by Julius Cnrsar, not as
here

to Antipater, but to Hyrcanus, Ajuiq. B. XIV. ch. viii. sect. 5. has hardly an
t[>-

pearance of a contradiction; Antipater being now perhaps considered only as

Hyrcanus's deputy and minister; although he afterwards made a cypher of Hyr­

canus, and, under great decency of behaviour to him, took the real authority
to

himself.

f Or 25 years gf age. See the(nate on Antiq. E. I, ch, xii. sect. 3. and on B.

