. ANTIQUITIES OFTHE'JECT-SW- 457

BOOK XX.

Containing the interval of twenty-two years.

[From FADUS the Procurator to FLORTJS.]

CHAP. I.

A Sedition of the PJnladelpiians against the Jews ; and also con足

cerning the vestments of the high-priest.

\ 1. TTPON the death of king Agrippa, which we have rela-

*-^ ted in the foregoing book, Claudius Caesar sent Cas-  
sius Longinus, as successor to Marcus, out of regard to the me足

mory of king Agrippa, who had often desired of him by letters,

while he was alive, that he would not suffer Marcus to be any

longer president of Syria. But Fadus, as soon as be was come

procurator into Judea, found quarrelsome doings between the

Jews that dwelt in Perea, and the people of Philadelphia, about

their borders, at a village called Mia, that was filled with men

of a warlike temper ; for the Jews of Perea had taken up arms

without the consent of their principal men, and had destroyed

many of the Philadelphians. When Fadus was informed df

this procedure, it provoked him very much that they had not

left the determination of the matter to him, if they thought that

the Philadelphians had done them any wrong, but had rashly

taken up arms against them. So he seized upon three of their

principal men, who were also the causes of this sedition, and

ordered them to be bound, and afterward had one of them

slain, whose name was Hannibal, and he banished the other two,

Amram and Eleazar. Tholotny also, the arch robber, was,

after some time, brought to him bound, and slain, but not till

he had done a world of mischief to Idumea and the Arabians.

And indeed, from that time, Judea was cleared of robberies by

the care and providence of Fadus. He also at this time senf for

the high-priests and the principal citizens of Jerusalem, and

this at the commands of the emperor, and admonished them,

that they' should lay up the long garment, and the sacred vest足

ment, which it is customary for nobody but the high.priest to

wear, in the tower of Antonia, that it might be under the power

of the Romans, as it had been formerly. Now the Jews durst

not contradict what he had said, but desired Fadus, however,

and Longinus, (which last was come to Jerusalem, and had

brought a great army with him, out of a fear that the frigid] in足

junctions

