Chap. XVI. WARS OF THE JEWS.

" war, nor, if they should follow such ill advice, will the Par-

" thians permit them so to do; for it is their concern to main-

" tain the truce that is between them and the Romans, and-

" they will be supposed to break the covenants between-

" them, if any under their government march against the Ro-

" mans. What remains, therefore, is this, that you have re-

" course to divine assistance; but this is already on the side of

'1 the Romans; for it is impossible that so vast an empire should

" be settled without God's providence. Reflect upon it how

" impossible it is for your zealous observations of your religi-

'' ous customs to be here preserved, which are hard to be ob-

" served even when you fight with those whom you are able to

' conquer; and how can you then most of all hope for God's

'' assistance, when, by being forced to transgress his law, you

,' will make him turn his face from you? and if you do ob-

' serve the custom of the Sabbath days, and will not be prevailed

'' on to do any thing thereon, you will easily be taken, as were

'' your forefathers by Pompey, who was the busiest in his siege

" on those days on which the besieged rested. But if in time

" of war you transgress the law of your country, I cannot tell

" on whose account you will afterward go to war; for your con-

" cern is but one, that you do nothing against any of your fore-

" fathers-, and how will you call upon God to assist you, when

" you are voluntarily transgressing against his religion ? Now

all men that go to war do it either as depending on divine, or

" on human assistance; but since your going to war will cut off

" both those assistances, those that are for going to war choose

" evident destruction. What hinders you from slaying your

" children and wives with your own hands, and burning this

" most excellent native city of yours? for by this mad prank

" you will, however, escape the reproach of being beaten. But

" it were best, O my friends, it were best, while the vessel is

" still in the haven, to foresee the impending storm, and not to

"set sail out of the port into the middle of the hurricanes; for

" we justly pity those who fall into great misfortunes without

" foreseeing them ; but for him. who rushes into manifest ruin,

" he gains reproaches [instead of commiseration]. But cer-

" tainly no one can imagine that you can enter into a war as by

" agreement, or that when the Romans have got you under their

" power, they will use,you with moderation, or will not ratherj

" for an example to other nations, burn your holy city, andjut-

" terly destroy your whole nation; for those of you who shall

" survive the war, will not be able to find a place whither to

',' flee, since all men have the Romans for their lords already, or

" are afraid they shall have hereafter. Nay indeed, the danger

3 F 2 " concerns

