342 Book I. wars of the jewS.

to Jerusalem, and appointed a very great mourning to the whole

nation for him, and bestowed a most pompous funeral upon him.

And this was the end that one of Alexander's and Aristobulus's

murderers came to.

CHAP. XXX..

When Herod made enquiry about Pheroras* s death, a discovery^

was made that Antipater had prepared a poisonous draught

for him. Herod casts Doris and her accomplices, as aha

Mariamne, out of the palace, and blots her son Herod out of

his testament.

f l. T) UT now the punishment was transferred unto the ori-

-D ginal author, Antipater, and took its rise from the  
death of Pheroras: for certain of his freed-men came with a sad

countenance to the king, and told him, That " his brother had

" been destroyed by poison, and that his wife had brought him

" somewhat that was prepared after an unusual manner, and

" that upon his eating it, he presently fell into bis distemper;

" that Antipater's mother and sister, two days before, brought a

" woman out of Arabia that was skilful in mixing such drugs,

" that she might prepare a love potion for Pheroras; and that

" instead of a love potion, she had given him deadly poison ;

*' and that this was done by the management of Sylleus, who  
*' was acquainted with that woman."

2. The king was deeply affected with somany suspicious, and

had the maid servants and some of the free women also tortured;

one of which cried out iu her agonies, " May that God that go-

*' verns the earth and the heaven, punish this author of all these  
" our miseries, Antipater's mother I" The king took a handle

from this confession, and proceeded to inquire farther into the

truth of the matter. So this woman discovered the friendship

of Antipater's mother to Pheroras and Antipater's women, as

also their secret meetings, and that Pheroras and Antipater had

drunk with them fox a whole night together as they returned

from the king, and would not suffer any body, either man-ser­

vant or maid-servant, to be there; while one of the free women

discovered the matter.

3. Upon this Herod tortured the maid-servants every one by

themselves separately, who all unanimously agreed in the fore­

going discoveries, and that accordingly by agreement they went

away, Antipater to Rome, and Pheroras ta Perea: for that

they oftentimes talked to one another thus, " That after Herod

" had slain Alexander and Aristobulus, he would fall upon- them,

" and upon their wives, because, after he, had not spared Ma-

" riarnne

