Chap. XXIV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 323

points, and wrought himself a passage by his calumnies with the

greatest shrewdness; while he put on a face as if he were a kind

brother to Alexander and Aristobuliis, but suborned other men

to inform of what they did td Herod, And when any thing was

told against Alexander, he would come in and pretend [to be of

his side], and would begin to contradict what was said; but

would afterward contrive matters so privately, that the king

should have an indignation at him. His general aim was this,

to lay a plot, and to make it believed that Alexander lay in-wait

to kill his father ; for nothing afforded so great a Confirmation

to these calumnies as did Antipater's apologies for him.

2. By these methods Herod was inflamed, and, as much as

his natural affection to the young men did every day diminish,

so much did it increase towards Antipater. The Courtiers also

inclined to the same conduct, some of their own accord, and

others by the king's injunction, as particularly did Ptolemy , the

king's dearest friend, as also the king's brethern, and all his

children ; for Antipater was all in all: and what was the bit足

terest part of all to Alexander, Antipater's mother was also all

in all; she was one that gave counsel against them, and Was more

harsh than a stepmother, and one that hated the queen's sons

more than is usual to hate sons-in-law. All men did therefore

already pay their respects to Antipater, in hopes of advantage;

and it was the king's command whieh alienated every body

[from the brethren], he having given this charge to his most

intimate friends, that they should not come near, nor pay any

regard to Alexander, or to his friends. Herod was also become

terrible, not only to his domestics about the court, but to his

friends abroad; for Caesar had given such a privilege td no other

king as he had given to him, which was this, that he might

fetch back any one that fled from him, even out of a city that

was not under his own jurisdiction. Now the young men were*'

not acquainted with the calumnies raised against them ; fot1

which reason they could not guard themselves against them, but

fell under them; for their father did not make any publie com足

plaints against either of them; though in a little time they per足

ceived how things were by his coldness to them-, and by the

great uneasiness he shewed upon any thing that troubled him.

Antipater had also made their uncle Pheroras to be their enemy,

as well as their aunt Salome, while he was always talking with

her, as with a wife, and irritating her against them. Moreover,

Alexander's wife, Glaphyra, augmented this hatred against

them, by deriving her nobility and genealogy [from great per足

sons], and pretending that she was a lady superior to all others

in that kingdom, as being derived by her father's side from

S s 2 Temenus,

