S38 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS."

4

hearken to what I exhorted, nor to what I commanded them to

do, (for the hatred they bore to the people there was too hard for

my exhortations to them), I bid those my friends, who were

most faithful to me, and were about me, to give out reports, as if

the Romans were falling upon the other part of the city with a

great army ; and this I did, that, by such a report's being spread

abroad, I might restrain the violence of the Galileans, and pre­

serve the city of Sepphoris. And at length this stratagem had

its effect; for, upon hearing this report, they were in fear for

themselves, and so they left off plundering and ran away ; and

this more especially, because they saw me, their general, do the

same also , for, that I might cause this report to be believed, I

pretended to be in fear as well as they. Thus were the inhabi­

tants of Sepphoris unexpectedly preserved by this contrivance

of mine.

68. Nay, indeed, Tiberias had like to have been plundered by

'the Galileans also upon the following occasion : The chief men

of the senate wrote to the king, and desired that he would come

to them, and take possession of their city. The king promised

to come, and wrote a letter in answer to theirs, and gave it to

one of his bed-chamber, whose name was Crispus, and who was

by birth a Jew, to carry it to Tiberias. When the Galileans

knew that this man carried such a letter, they caught him, and

brought him to me ; but as soon as the whole multitude heard

of it, they were enraged, and betook themselves to their arms.

So a great many of them got together from all quarters the

next day, and came to the city Asochis, where I then lodged,

and made heavy clamours, and called the city of Tiberias a

traitor to them, and a friend to the king ; and desired leave of

me to go down, and utterly destroy it; for they bore the like

ill-will to the people of Tiberias, as they did to those of Sep­

phoris.

69. When I heard this, I was in doubt what to do, and he­

sitated by what means I might deliver Tiberias from the rage

-of the Galileans ; for I could not deny that those of Tiberias  
had written to the king, and invited him to come to them ; for

his letters to them, in answer thereto, would fully prove the

truth of that. So 1 sat a long while musing with myself, and

then said to them, " I know well enough that the people of

'' Tiberias have offended ; nor shall I forbid you to plunder the

«' city. However, such things ought to be done with discretion ;

" for they of Tiberias have not been the only betrayers of our

*' liberty, but many of the most eminent patriots of the Gah-  
" leans, as they pretended to be, have done the same. Tarry

*' therefore till I shall thoroughly find out those authors of our

" danger,

