Chap.'II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS,

CHAP. II.

Concerning Zamaris, the Babylonian Jew. Concerning the plots

laid by Antipater against bis father ; and somewhat about the

Pharisees.

§ 1. A ND now it was that Herod, being desirous of secu-f

-t*- ring himself on the side of the Trachonites, resolved  
-fo build a village as large as a city for the Jews, in the middle  
of that country, which might make his own country difficult

to be assaulted, and whence he might be at hand to make

sallies upon them, and do them a mischief. Accordingly,

when he understood that there was a maa that was a Jew coine

out of Babylon, with five hundred horsemen, all of whom

could shoot their arrows as they rode on horseback, and with

an hundred of his relations, had passed over Euphrates, and

now abode at Antioch by Daphne of Syria, where Saturni-

nus, who was then president, had given them a place for ha­

bitation, called Valatha, he sent for this man, with the mul­

titude that followed him, and promised to give him land in

the toparchy called Batanca^ which country is bounded with

Trachonites, as desirous to make that his habitation a guard

to himself. He also engaged to let h;m hold the country free

from -tribute, and that they should dwell entirely without pay.

ing such customs as used to be paid, and' gave it him tax-

cfree.

2. The Babylonian was induced by theae offers to come hi­

ther ; so he took possession of the land, and built in it for­

tresses and a village, and named it Bathyra. Whereby this

tnan became a safeguard to the inhabitants against the Tra­

chonites, and preserved those Jews who came out of Babylon,

to offer their sacrifices at Jerusalem, from being hurt by the

Trachonite robberies ; so that a great number came to him

from all those parts where the ancient Jewish laws were ob­

served, and the country became full of people, by reason of

their universal freedom' from taxes. This continued during

the life of Herod ; but when Philip, who was [tetrarch] after

him, took the government, he made them pay some small

taxes, and that for a little while only ; and Agrippa the Great,

and his son of the same name, although they harassed -them

greatly, yet would they not take their liberty away. From

whom, when the Romans have now taken the government

into their own hands, they still gave them the privilege of

their freedom, but oppress them entirely with the imposition

1 • of

