1(56 Book XX, ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

intentions, and how he had-determined to make war with the

Romans, slew him, and gave his kingdom to his brother Gotar-

zes. He also, in no long time, perished by a plot made against

him, and Vologases, his brother, succeeded him, who committed

two of his provinces to two of his brothers, by the same father i

that of thg Medes to the elder, Pacorus, and Armenia to the

younger, Tiridates. ...

CHAP IV.

How Izates was betrayed by his own subjects, and fought against

by the Arabians : and bow Izates, by the providence of God,

was deiivered out of their hands.

§ i. 'VTOW when the king's brother, Monobazus, and his other

-1- kindred, saw how Izates, by his piety to God, was  
become greatly esteemed by all men, they also had a desire to

leave the religion of their country, and to embrace the customs

of the Jews; but that act of theirs was discovered by Izates'p

subjects. Whereupon the grandees were much displeased, and

could not contain their anger at them ; but had an intention,

when they should find a proper opportunity, to inflict a punish-

inent upon them. Accordingly, they wrote to A.bia, king of the

Arabians, and promised him great sums of money, if he would

make an expedition against their king ; and .they farther promi­

sed him, that, on the first onset, they would desert their king,

because they were desirous to punish him, by reason of the ha­

tred he had to their religious worship,: then they obliged them­

selves, by oaths, to be faithful to each other, and desired that he

would make haste in this design. The king of Arabia complied

with their desires, and brought a great army into the field,

and marched against Izates ; and, in the. beginning of the first

onset, and before they came to a close fight, those grandees, as if

they had a panic terror upon them, all deserted Izates, as they

had agreed to do, and, turning their backs upon their enemies,

ran away. Yet was not Izates dismayed at this ; but when he

understood that the grandees had betrayed him, he also retired

into his camp, and made inquiry into the matter ; and as soon as

he knew who they were that had made this conspiracy with the

king of Arabia, he cut oft0 those that were found guilty ; and

renewing the fight on the next day, he slew the greatest part of

his enemies, and forced all the rest to betake themselves to

flight. He also pursued their king, and drove him into a for­

tress called Arsamus, and, following on the siege vigorously, he

.took that fortress, i And, when he had plundered it of all the

.prey that was in it, which was not small, , he returned to Adia-

'i- . bene;

I

