Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THF JEWS. .. 59

I have said of them should be disbelieved, but rather fear, that

what I have said is beneath the resolution they shew when they

undergo pain. And it was in Gessius Florus's time that the na­

tion began to grow mad with this distemper, who was our pro­

curator, and who occasioned the Jews to go wild with it by the

abuse of his authority, and to make them revolt from the Ro­

mans. And these are the sects of Jewish philosophy.

CHAP. II.

• • ... j.'

How Herod and Philip luilt several cities in honour of Cccsar.

Concerning the succession of priests and procurators ; as also

•what befel Phraates and the Parthians.

J i. TTTHEN Cyrenius had now disposed of Archelaus's

* * money, and when the taxings were come to a conclu­  
sion, which were made in the thirty-seventh of Caesar's victory

over Antony at Actium, he deprived Joazar of the high-priest­

hood, which dignity had been conferred on him by the multi-

tude, and he appointed Ananus, the son of Seth, to be high-priest;

while Herod and Philip had each of them received their own

tetrarchy, and settled the affairs thereof. Herod also built a wall

about Sepphoris, (which is the security of all Galilee), and made

it the metropolis of the country. He also built a wall round Beth-

aramphtha, which was itself a city also, and called it Julias, from

the name of the emperor's wife. When Philip, also, had built

Paneas, a city at the fountains of Jordan, he named it Cerarea.

He also advanced the village Bethsaida, situate at the lake of

Gennesareth, unto the dignity of a city, both by the number of

inhabitants it contained, and its other grandeur, and called it by

the name of Julias, the same name with Caesar's daughter.

2. As Coponius, who we told you was sent along with Cyre­

nius, was exercising his office of procurator, and governing Judea,

the following accidents happened. As the Jews were celebra­

ting the feast of unleavened bread, which we call the Passover, it

was customary for the priests to open the temple-gates just after

midnight. When, therefore, those gates were first opened, some

of the Samaritans came privately into Jerusalem, and threw a-

bout dead men's bodies in the cloisters; on which account the Jews

afterward excluded them out of the temple, which they had not

used to do at such festivals ; and on other accounts also they

watched the temple more carefully than they had formerly done.

A little after which accident, Coponius returned to Rome, and

Marcus Ambivius came to be his successor in that government;

.under whom Salome, the sister of king Herod, died, and left to

Julia

