THE LIFE Of FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 227

<fatne to Taricheae, and found the multitude ready assembled in

Proseucha ; but on what account they were gotten together,

those that were assembled did not know. But, when Jonathan

and his colleagues saw them there unexpectedly, they were in dis­

order ; after which they raised a report of their own contrivance',

that' Roman horsemen were seen at a place called Union, in the

borders of Galilee, thirty furlongs distant from the city. Upon

which report, Jonathan and his colleagues cunningly exhorted

me not to neglect this matter, nor to suffer the land to be spoiled

by the enemy. And this they said with a design to remove me

out of the city, under the pretence of the want of extraordinary

assistance, while they might dispose the city to my enemy,

55. As for myself, although I knew of their design, yet did I

comply with what they proposed, lest the people of Tiberias

should have occasion to suppose, that I was not careful of their

-Security. I therefore went out; but, when I was at the place, I  
found not the least footsteps of any enemy, so I returned as fast

as ever I'could, and found the whole council assembled, and the

body of the people gotten together, and Jonathan and his col­

leagues bringing vehement accusations against me, as one that had

no concern to ease them of the burdens of war, and as one that

lived luxuriously. And as they were discoursing thus, they produ­

ced four letters as written to them, from some people that lived

at the borders of Galilee, imploring that they would come to

their assistance, for that there was an army of Romans, both

frorse'men and footmen, who would come and lay waste the coun­

try on the third day ; they desired them also to make haste, and

,not to overlook them. When the people of Tiberias heard this,

they thought they spake truth, and made a clamour against me,

and said, 1 ought not to sit still, but to go away to the assistance

of their countrymen. ' Hereupon I said, (for I understood the

meaning of Jonathan and his colleagues), that I was ready to com­

ply with what they proposed, and without delay to march to the

war which they spake of, yet did I advise them, at the same time,

that since these letters declared that the Romans would make

their assault in' four several places, they should part their forces

into five bodies, and make Jonathan and his colleagues generals

of each body of them, because it was fit for brave men, not only

to give counsel, but to take the place of leaders, and assist their

countrymen when such a necessity pressed them ; for, said I, it is

not possible for me to lead more' than one party. This advice of

mine greatly pleased the multitude ; so they compelled them to

go forth to war. But their designs were put into very much

disorder, beca-ase they IICK! not done what they designed to do,

F f 2 " on

