Chap. It. WARS OF THE JEWS. 3di

affairs], he tried to sift out the accounts of the money, and to

take possession of the citadels. But the governors of those cita足

dels were not unmindful of the commands laid upon them by

Archelaus, and continued to guard them, and said, the custody

of them rather belonged to Caesar, than to Archelaus.

3. In the mean time Antipas went also to Rome, to strive for

the kingdom, and to insist that the former testament, wherein

he was named to be king, was valid before the latter testa足

ment. Salome had also promised to assist him, as had many of

Archelaus's kindred, who sailed along with Archelaus himself

also. He also carried along with him his mother, and Ptolemy,

the brother of Nicolaus, who seemed one of great weight, on'

account of the great trust Herod put in him, he having been one

of his most honoured friends. However, Antipas depended

chiefly uponlreneus, the orator; upon whose authority he had

rejected such as advised him to yield to Archelaus, because he

was his elder brother, and because the second testament gave

the kingdom to him. The inclinations also of all Archelaus's

kindred, who hated him, were removed to Antipas, when they

came to Rome, although in the first place every one rather de足

sired to live under their own laws, [without a king], and to be

under a Roman governor; but if they should fail in thatpoint^

these desired that Antipas might be their king.

4. Sabinus did also afford these his assistance to the same

purpose, by the letters he sent, wherein he accused Archelaus

before Caesar, and highly commended Antipas. Salome also>

and those with her, put the crimes which they accused Arche^

laus of in order, and put them into Caesar's hands: and after

they had done that, Archelaus xyrote down the reasons of his

claim, and, by Ptolemy, sent in his fathers ring, and his father's

accounts. And when Caesar had maturely weighed by himself

what both had to alledge for themselves, as also had considered

of the great burden of the kingdom, and largeness of the reve-

fiues, and withal the number of the children Herod had left be-i

hind him, and had moreover read the letters he had received

from Varus and Sabinus on this occasion, he assembled the;

principal persons among the Romans together; (in which as足

sembly Caius, the son of Agrippa, and his daughter Julias, but

by himself adopted for his own son, sat in the first seat), and

gave the pleaders leave to speak.

5. Then stood up Salome's son, Antipaterj (Vho of all Ar<-

chtlaus's antagonists was the shrewdest pleader), and accused

him in the following speech: " That Archelaus did in words

" contend for the kingdom, but that in deeds he had long exer.a

" cised royal authority, and so did but insult Gaesar in desiring

VOL. JIL " Z -L "to

