296 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

4. In the mean time Antony abode at Athens, while ,•

dius called for Silo andHerod to come to the war against the Par-

thians, but ordered them first to settle the affairs of Judea: so

Herod willingly dismissed Silo to go to Ventidius, but he made

an expedition himself against those that lay in the caves. Now

these caves were in the precipices of craggy mountains, and

could not be come at from any side, since they had only some

winding path-ways, very narrow, by which they got up to

them; but the rock that lay on their front had beneath it val­

leys of a vast depth, and of an almost perpendicular declivity;

insomuch that the king was doubtful for a long time what to

do, by reason of a kind of impossibility there was of attacking

the place. Yet did he at length make use of a contrivance that

was subject to the utmost hazard; for he let down the most

hardy of his men in chests, and set them at the mouths of the

dens. Now these men slew the robbers and their families, and

when they made resistance, they sent in fire upon them, [and

burnt them] ; and as Herod was desirous of saving some of them,

he had proclamation made, that they should come and deliver

themselves up to him; but not one of them came willingly to

him, and of those that were compelled to come, many preferred

death to captivity. And here a certain old man, the father of

seven children, whose children, together with their mother, de­

sired him to give them leave to go out, upon the assurance and

right hand that was offered them, slew them after the following

manner: He ordered every one of them to go out, while he

stood himself at the cave's mouth, and slew that son of his per­

petually who went out. Herod was near enough to see this

sight, and his bowels of compassion were moved at it, and he

stretched out his right hand to the old man, and besought him

to spare his children; yet did not he relent at all upon what he

said, but over and above reproached Herod on the lowness of

his descent, and slew his wife as well as his children; and when

be had thrown their dead bodies down the precipice, he at last

threw himself down after them.

5. By this means Herod .subdued these caves, and the robbers

that were in them. He then left there a part of his army, as

many as he thought sufficient to prevent any sedition, and made

Ptolemy their general,and returned to Samaria: heled also with him

three thousand armed footmen, and six hundred horsemen against

Antigonua» Now here those that used' to raise tumults in Ga­

lilee, having liberty so. to do upon his departure, fell unexpected­

ly upon Ptolemy, the general of his forces, and slew him: they

also laid the country waste, and then retired to the bogs, and to

places not easily to be found. But when Herod was informed of

this insurrection, he came to the assistance of the country imme­

diately

