Chap. XIII,' ANTIQUHfES Of THE JEWS. 'fj8

could make, both banished him, and appointed Vienrra, a city of

Gaul, to be the place of his habitation, and took his money a-

way from him.

3. Now, before Archelaus was gone up to Rome upon this

message, he related this dream to his friends, that " he saw cars

" of corn, in number ten, full of wheat, perfectly ripe, which

" ears, as it seemed to him, were devoured by oxen." And

when he was awake and gotten up, because' the vision appeared

to be of great importance to him, he sent for the diviners, whose

study was employed about dreams. And while some were of

one opinion, aud some of another, (for all their interpretations

did not agree), Simon, a man of the sect of the Essens, desired

leave to speak his mind freely, and said, that " the vision deno-

" ted a change in the affairs of Archelaus, and that not for the

" better ; that oxen, because that animal takes uneasy pains in

" his labours denoted afflictions, and indeed denoted, farther, a

" change of affairs ; because that land which is ploughed by ox-

" en cannot remain in its former state ; and that the ears of corn

" being ten, determined the like number of years, because an

" ear of corn grows in one year ; and that the time of Arche-

" laus's government was over." And thus did this man ex­

pound the dream. Now, on the fifth day after this dream came

first to Archelaus, the other Archelaus, that was sent to Judea

by Caesar to call him away, came hither also.

4. The like accident befel Glaphyra his wife, who was the

daughter of king Archelaus, who, as I said before, was married,

while she was a virgin, to Alexander, the son of Herod, and bro­

ther of Archelaus; but since it fell out so that Alexander was slain

by his father, she was married to Juba, the king of Lydia, and

when he was dead, and she lived in widowhood in Cappadocia

with her father, Archelaus divorced his former wife Mariamne,

and married her, so great was his affection for this Glaphyra ;

who, during her marriage to him, saw the following dream. She

thought " she saw Alexander standing by her, at which she re-

" joiced, and embraced him with great affection ; but that he

" complained of her, and said, O Glaphyra ! thou provest that

" saying to be true, which assures us, that women are not to be

" trusted. Didst not thou pledge thy faith to me ? and wast not

" thou married to me when thou wast a virgin ? and had we not

" children between us ? Yet hast thou forgotten the affection

" I bare to thee, out oi the desire of a second husband. Nor hast

" thou been satisfied with that injury thou didst me, but thou

" hast been so bold as to procure thee a third husband to lie by

",thee, and in au indecent and imprudent manner hast entered in-

«tQ

