CO ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

Julia [Caesar's wife], Jatnnia, all its toparchy, and Phasaelis in

the plain, and Archelais, where is a great plantation of palm-

trees, and their fruit is excellent in its kind. After him came

Annius Rufus, under whom died Caesar, the second emperor of

the Romans, the duration of whose reign was fifty-seven years,

besides six months and two days, (of which time Antonius ruled

together with him fourteen years ; but the duration of his life

was seventy. seven years) ; upon whose death Tiberius Nero,

his wife Julia's son, succeeded. He was now the third emperor;

and he sent Valerius Gratus to be procurator of Judea, and to

succeed Annius Rufus. This man deprived Annus of the high-

priesthood, and appointed Ismael, the son of Phabi, to be high-

priest. He also deprived him in a little time, and ordained Elea-

zar, the son of Ananus who had been high-priest before, to be

high-priest; which office, when he had held for a year, Gratus

deprived him of it, and gave the high-priesthood to Simon, the

son of Camithus; and, when he had possessed that dignity no

longer than a year, Joseph Caiaphas was made his successor.

When Gratus had done those things, he went back to Rome,

after he had tarried in Judea eleven years, when Pontius Pilate

came as his successor^ '

3. And now Herod the tetrarch, who was in great favou^

with Tiberius, built a city of the same name with him, and call­

ed it Tiberias. He built it in the best part of Galilee, at the lake

of Gennesareth. There are warm baths at a little distance from

it, in a village named E-mmaus. Strangers came and inhabited

this city ; a great number of the inhabitants %vere Galileans also j

and many were necessitated by Herod to come thither out of the

country belonging to him, and were by force compelled to be its

inhabitants ; some of them were persons of condition. He also

admitted poor people, such as those that were collected from all

parts, to dwell in it. Nay, some of them were not quite free­

men ; and these he xyas a benefactor to, and made them free in

great numbers; but obliged them not to forsake the city, by

building them very good houses at his own expences, and by

giving them land also ; for he was sensible, that to make this

place an habitation was to transgress the Jewish ancient laws,

because many sepulchres were to be here taken away, in order

to make room for the city Tiberias * ; whereas our laws pro­

nounce, that such inhabitants are unclean for seven days f.

4. About

* We may here take notice, aswell as in the parallel parts of the hooks Of the  
War, B. II, ch. ix. sect. i. that after the death of Herod the Great, and ihe
sue-

cession of Archelaus, Josephus is very brief in his accounts of Judea, till
near

his own time. I suppose the reason is, that after the large history of
N'icolaus

of Damascus, including the life of Herod, and probably the succession and
first

actions of his sons, he had but few good histories of those times before him.

"f- Numb. xfc. 11—14.

