WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

dn iinreproachable witness to Caesar of the great actions of

Antrpater.

5. "Whereupon Citsar encouraged Antipater to undertake

other hazardous enterprises for him, and that by giving him

great commendations, and hopes of reward. In all which en­

terprises he readily exposed himself to many dangers, and be­

came a most courageous warrior ; and had many wounds almost

all over his body, as demonstrations of his valour. And, when

Co:sar had settled the affairs of Egypt, and returning into Syria

again, he gave him the privilege of a Roman citizen, and free­

dom from taxes, and rendered him an object of admiration by

the honours and marks of friendship he bestowed upon him.

On this account it was that he also confirmed Hyrcanus in the

high-priesthood.

CHAP.. X.

Cxsar makes Antipattr procurator of Judta ; as does Antipater

appoint Phasael to be governor of Jerusalem, and Herod gover­

nor of Galilee ; who, in same time, was called to answer for

himself [before the Sanhedrim'\t -where he is acquitted. Sextus

Cifsar is treacherously tilled by Bassus, and is succeeded by

Marcus.

j 1. A BOUT this time it was that Antigonus, the son of Aris-

•**• tobulus, came to Caesar, and became, in a surprising

manner, the occasion of Antipater's farther advancement; for,

whereas he ought to have lamented that his father appeared to

have been poisoned on account of his quarrels with Pompey, and

to have complained of Scipio's barbarity towards his brother, and

not to mix any invidious passion when he was suing for mercy ;

besides those things, he came before Coesar, and accused Hyrca­

nus and Antipater, how they had driven him and his brethren en­

tirely out of their native country, and had acted in a great many

instances unjustly and extravagantly with relation to their nation,

and that as to the assistance they had sent him into Egypt, it was

not done out of good-will to him, but out of the fear they were

in from former quarrels, and in order to gain pardon for their

friendship to [his enemy] Pompey.

2. Hereupon Antipater threw away his garments, and shewed

the multitude of the wounds he had, and said, that " as to his

" good-will to Caesar, he had no occasion to say a word, because

«' his body cried aloud. though he said nothing himself : that he

«' wondered at Antigonus's boldness, while he was himself no

" other than the son of an enemy to the Romans, and of a fugi-

'• tive, and had it by inheritance from' his father to be fond of

" innovations

