182 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX.

gave * them what they had already done, but also gave them

leave to let the wall they had built stand. This was granted

them in order to gratify Poppea, Nero's wife, who was a re­

ligious woman, and had requested these favours of Nero, and

who gave order to the ten ambassadors to go their way home ;

but retained Helcias and Ismael as hostages with herself. As

soon as the king heard this news, he gave the high-priesthood to

Joseph, who was called Cabi, the son of Simon, formerly high-

priest.

CHAP. IX.

Concerning Albinus, under whose procuratorship James was slain ?-

as also what edifices were built by Agrippa.

§ 1. A ND now Caesar, upon hearing the death of Festus, sent

Albinus into Judea, as procurator. But the king de­

prived Joseph of the high-priesthood, and bestowed the succession

to that dignity on the son of Ananus, who was also himself called

Ananas. Now the report goes, that this eldest Ananus proved

a most fortunate man i for he had five sons, who had all perform­

ed the office of an high-priest to God, and who had himself en­

joyed that dignity a long time formerly, which had never hap­

pened to any other of our high-priests. But this younger Ananus,

who, as we have told you already, took the high-priesthood, was

a bold man in his temper, and very insolent; he was also of the

sect of the Sadducees f, who are very rigid in judging offenders

above all the rest of the Jews, as we have already observed ;

when, therefore, Ananus was of this disposition, he thought he

had now a proper opportunity [to exercise his authority]. Fes­

tus was now dead, and Albinus was put upon the road ; so he

assembled the sanhedrim of judges, and brought before them

the brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, whose name was

fames, and some others, [or, some of his companions]. And

when he had formed an accusation against them as breakers of

the

* We have here one eminent example of Nero's mildness and goodness in his  
government towards the Jews, during the five first years of his reign, so
famous

in antiquity; we have perhaps another in Josephus's own Life, sect. 3. and a
third,

though of a very different nature here, in sect. 9. just before. However, both

the generous acts of kindness were obtained of Nero by his queen Poppea, who

was a religious lady, and perhaps privately a Jewish proselyte, and so were
not

owing entirely to Nero's own goodness.

t It hence evidently appears, that Sadducees might be high.priests in the days

of Josephus, and that these Sadducees were usually very severe and inexorable

judges, while the Pharisees were much milder, and more merciful, as appears by

Iceland's instances in his note on this place, and on Josephus's Life, sect.
34. and

those taken from the New Testament, from Josephus himself, and from the rab­

bins; nor do we meet with any Sadducees later than this high-priest in all
Jost-

phes.

