Chap. III. 165 AWfIQJJITIES OF THE Ir.WS.

fuse to receive him again, but pleaded that it was not now in

their power so to do ; because they had committed the govern­

ment to another person, who had accepted of it, and whose name

was Cinnamus, and that they were afraid lest a civil war should

^rise on this account. When Cinnamus understood their inten­

tions, he wrote to Artabanus himself, for he had been brought

up by him, and was of a nature good and gentle also, and de­

sired him to put confidence in him, and to come and take his

own dominions again. Accordingly Artabanus trusted him, and

returned home ; when Cinnamus met him, worshipped him, and

saluted him as a king, and took the diadem off' his own head, and

put it on the head of Artabanus.

3. -And thus was Artabanus restored to his kingdom again by

the means of Izates, when he had lost it by the means of the

grandees of the kingdom. Nor was he unmindful of the bene­

fits he had conferred upon him, but rewarded him with such ho­

nours as were of greatest esteem among them ; for he gave him

leave to wear his tiara upright *, and to sleep upon a golden

bed, which are privileges and marks of honour peculiar to the

kings of Parthia. He also cut off a large and fruitful country

from the king of Armenia, and bestowed it upon him. The name

of the country is Nisibis, wherein the Macedonians had formerly

built that city which they called' Antioch of Mygdonia. And

these were the honours that were paid Izates by the king of the

Parthians.

4. But in no long time, Artabanus died, and left his kingdom

£o his son Bardanes. Now this Bardanes came to Izates, and

would have persuaded him to join him with his army, and to as­

sist him in the war he was preparing to make with the Romans ;

but he could not prevail with him. For Izates so well knew

the strength and good fortune of the Romans, that he took Bar­

danes to attempt what was impossible to be done ; and having

besides sent his sons, five in number, and they but young also,

to learn accurately the language of our nation, together with our

learning, as well as he had sent his mother to worship at our

temple, as I have said already, was the more backward to a com­

pliance ; and restrained Bardanes, telling him perpetually of the

great armies and famous actions of the Romans, and thought

thereby to terrify him, and desired thereby to hinder him from

that expedition. But the Parthian king was provoked at this

his behaviour, and denounced war immediately against Izates.

Yet did he gain no advantage by this war, because God cut off

all his hopes therein ; for the Parthians, perceiving Bardanes's

intentions,

* This privilege of -wearing the tiara upright, or with the tip of the cone  
erect, is known to have been of old peculiar to (great) kings, from Xenophon

and others, as Dr. Hudson obsei ve» here.

