Chap. XI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 381

strained the violence of these men, who were in a fit of madness

against the patricians, he would lose those on whose account it

was most desireable to rule, and would be emperor over a desert.

5. When Claudius heard this, he restrained the violence of

the soldiery, and received the senate into the camp, and treated

them after an obliging manner, and went out with them present­

ly to offer their thank-offerings to God, which were proper up­

on his first coming to the empire. Moreover, he bestowed on

Agrippa his whole paternal kingdom immediately, and added to

it, besides those countries that had been given by Augustus to

Herod,' Trachoniti-s and Auranitis, and still besides these, that

kingdom which was called the kingdom of Lysaniat, This gift

he declared tothe people by a decree, but ordered the magistrates

to have the donation engraved on tables of brass, and to be set

ap in the capitol. He bestowed on his brother Herod, who was

also his son-in-law, by marrying [his daughter] Bernice, the

kingdom of Chalcis.

6. So now riches flowed in to Agrippa by his enjoyment of

so large a dominion, nor did he abuse the money he had on

small matters, but he began to encompass Jerusalem with such

a wall, which, had it been brought to perfection, had made it im­

practicable for the Romans to take it by siege; but his death,

which happened at Cesarca, before he had raised the walls to

their due height, prevented him. He had then reigned three

years,as he had governed his tetrarchies three other years. He

left behind him three daughters, born to him by Cyprus, Ber­

nice, Mariamne, and Brasilia, and a son born of the same mo­

ther, whose name was Agrippa: he was left a very young child,

so that Claudius made the country a Roman province, and sent

Cuspius Fadus to be its procurator, and after him Tiberias

Alexander, who, making no alterations of the ancient laws,

kept the nation in tranquillity. Now after this, Herod the king

of Chalcis died, and left behind him two sons, born to him of

his brother's daughter Bernice; their names were Bernicianus,

and Hyreanm. £He also left behind him] Aristobulus, whom

he had by his former wife, Mariamne. There was besides ano­

ther brother of his that died a private person, his name was al­

so Aristobulus, who left behind him a daughter, whose name

was Jotape: and these, as I have formerly said, were the chil­

dren of Aristobulus the son of Herod, which Aristobulus and

Alexander were born to Herod by Mariamne, and were slain

by him. But as for Alexander's posterity, they reigned in

Armenia.

3 C 3 CHAP.

