264 WARS OF THE JEWS; Book I.

tra, by agreements and presents, to go away. Accordingly Ti-

granes soon arose from the siege, by reason of those domestic tu­

mults which happened upon Lucullus's expedition into Armenia.

4. In the mean time, Alexandra fell sick, and Aristobulus, her

younger son, took hold of this opportunity, with his domestics,

of which he had a great many, who were all of them his friends,

on account of the warmth of their youth, and got possession of all

the fortresses. He also used the sums of money he found in

them, to get together a number of mercenary soldiers, and made

himself king ; and, besides this, upon Hyrcanus's complaint to

his mother, she compassionated his case, and put Aristobulus's

wife and sons under restraint in Antonia, which was a fortress

that joined to the north part of the temple. It was, as I have

already said, of old called the Citadel; but afterwards got the

name of Antonia, when Antony was lord [of the East], just as

the other cities, Sebaste and Agrippias, had their names changed,

and these given them, from Sebastus and Agrippa. But Alex­

andra died before she could punish Aristobulus, for his disinherit­

ing his brother, after she had reigned nine years.

CHAP. VI.

When Hyramus, who was Alexander's heir, receded from his claim

of the crown, Aristobulus is made king, and afterward the same

Hyrcanus, by the means of Antipater, is brought back by Are-

tas. At last Pompey is made the arbitrator of the dispute be­

tween the brothers.

j 1. "VTOW Hyrcanus was heir to the kingdom, and to him did

*^ his mother commit it before she died : but Aristobulus  
was superior to him in power and magnanimity ; and when there

was a battle between them, to decide the dispute about the king­

dom, near Jericho, the greatest part deserted Hyrcanus, and went

over to Aristobulus; but Hyrcanus, with those of his party who

staid with him, fled to Antonia, and got into his power the hos­

tages that might be for his preservation (which were Aristobu-

lus's wife, with her children) ; but they came to an agreement,

before things should come to extremities, that Aristobulus should

be king, and Hyrcanus should resign that up, but retain all the

rest of his dignities, as being the king's brother. Hereupon they

were reconciled to each other in the temple, and embraced one

another in a very kind manner, while the people stood round

about them: they also changed their houses, while Aristobulus

went

mais, and that he took the city, the Antiquities inform us, yet does he no
where

intimate that he now took the queen herself; so that both the narrations of
Stra-

bo and Josephus may still be true notwithstanding.

