WARS OF THE JEWS. Book !.

CHAP. XV.

Antigonus besieges tlose that -were in Masada, ivhom Herod frets

from confinement, when he came back from Rome, and present­

ly marches to "Jerusalem, where he findt Silo corrupted by

bribes.

$ 1. T^T'OW during this time Antigonus besieged those that

J,N were in Masada, who had all other necessaries in suffi­

cient quantity, but were in want of water ; on which account

Joseph, Herod's brother, was disposed to run away to the Ara­

bians, with two hundred of his own friends, because he had

heard that Malichus repented of his offences with regard to

Herod ; and he had been so quick as to have been gone out of the

fortress already, unless, on that very night when he was going

away, there had fallen a great deal of rain, insomuch that his re­

servoirs were full of water, and so he was under no necessity of

running away. After which, therefore, they made an irruption

upon Antigonus's party, and slew a great many of them, some

in open battles, and some in private ambush; nor had they al­

ways success in their attempts, for sometimes they were beaten

and ran away.

2. In the mean time Ventidius, the Roman general, was sent

out of Syria, to restrain the incursions of the^Parthians, and after

he had done that, he came into Judea, in pretence indeed to assist

Joseph and his party, but in reality to get money of Antigonusj

and when he had pitched his camp very near to Jerusalem, as

soon as he had got money enough, he went away with the great-

estpart of his forces; yet still did he leave Silo with some part

of them, lest if he had taken them all away, his taking of bribes

might have been too openly discovered. Now Antigonus hoped

that the Parthians would come again to his assistance, and there-

O *

fore cultivated a good understanding with Silo in the mean time,

lest any interruption should be given to his hopes.

3. Now by this time Herod had sailed out of Italy, and was

come to Ptolemais : and as soon as he had gotten together no

small army of foreigners, and of his own countrymen, he march­

ed through Galilee against Antigonus, wherein he was assisted by

Ventidius andSilo7bothwbom*Dtllius, a person sent by Antony,

persuaded to bring Herod [into his kingdom]. Now Ventidius

was at tills time among the cities, and composing the disturban­

ces which had happened by means ot the Parthians, as was Silo

in Judea corrupted by the bribes that Antigonus had given him;

yet was not Herod himself destitute of power, but the number of

his

« This Dellius U famors, or rather infamous, in the history of Mark AMony..

ai Spanheim and Aldrich here note, from the coins from Plutarch and Die.

