Chap. IX. .' ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 105

for the future to leave them off, and send the woman back to

her relations. But nothing was gained by these reproofs ; for,

as the woman perceived what a tumult was made among the

people on her account, and was afraid for Anileus, lest "he should

come to any harm for his love to her, she infused poison into A-

sineus's food, and thereby took him off, and was now secure of

prevailing, when her lover was to be judge of what should be

done about her.

So Anileus took the government upon himself alone, and

led his army against the villages of Mithridates, who was a man

of principal authority in Parthia, and had married king Arta-

banus's daughter; he also plundered them, and among that prev

was found much money, and many slaves, as also a great number

of sheep and many other things, which, when gained, make

men's condition happy. Now, when Mithridates, who was there

at this time, heard that his villages were taken, he was very

much displeased to find that Anileus had first begun to injure him,

and to affront him in his present dignity, when he had not offer­

ed any injury to him before-hand ; and he got together the great­

est body of horsemen he was able, and those out of that number

which were of an age fit for war, and came to fight Anileus ; and

when he Was arrived at a certain village of his own, he lay still

there, as intending to fight him on the day following, because it

was the Sabbath, the days on which the Jews rest. And when

Anileus was informed of this by a Syrian stranger of another

village, who not only gave him an exact account of other cir­

cumstances, but told him where Mithridates would have a feast,

he took his supper at a proper time, and marched by night, with

an intent of falling upon the Parthians while they were unap-

prised what they should do; so he fell upon them about the fourth

watch of the night, and some of them he slew while they were

asleep, and others he put to flight, and took Mithridates alive^

and set him naked upon an ass *, which, among the Parthians,

is esteemed the greatest reproach possible. And, when he had

brought him into a wood with such a resolution, and his friends

desired him to kill Mithridates, he soon told them his own mind

to the contrary, and said, that " it was not right to kill a man

" who was one of the principal families among the Parthians,

" and greatly honoured with matching into the royal family j

" that so far as they had hitherto gone was tolerable ; for al-

VOL. III. O . '' though

* This custom in Syria and Mesopotamia, of setting men upon an ass, by way  
tof disgrace, is still kept up at Damascus in Syria; where, in order to show
their

despite against the Christians, the Turks will not suffer them to hire horses,

but asses only, when they go abroad to see (he country, as Mr Maundrell
asiures

Us, p. 128.

