wars or the jews. Book II.

condemed. They also take great pains in studying the writings

of the ancients, and choose out of them what is most for the

advantage of their soul and body, and they enquire after such

roots and medicinal stones as may cure their distempers.

7. But now, if any one hath a mind to come over to their

sect, he is not immediately admitted, but he is prescribed the

same method of living which they use, for a year, while he con­

tinues excluded, and they give him also a small hatchet, and the

forementioned girdle, and the white garment. And when he

hath given evidence, during that time, that he can observe their

continence, he approaches nearer to their way of living, and is

made a partaker of the waters of purification; yet is he not even

now admitted to live with them; for after this demonstration of

his fortitude, his temper is tried two more years, and if he ap­

pear to be worthy, they then admit him into their society. And

before he is allowed to touch their common food, he is obliged

to take tremendous oaths, that, in the first place, he will exercise

piety towards God, and then that he will observe justice towards

men, and that he will do no harm to any one, either of his own

accord, or by the command of others; that he will always hate

the wicked, and be assistant to tbe righteous; that he will evei.-

shew fidelity to all men, and especially to those in authority ;

because no one obtainsthe government without God's assistance;

and that ifhebein authority, he will at no time whatever abuse

his authority, nor endeavour to outshine his subjects, either in

his garments, or any other finery; that he will be perpetually

a lover of truth, and propose to himself to reprove those that

tell lies; that he will keep his hands clear from theft, and his

soul from unlawful gains; and that he will neither conceal any

thing from those of his own sect, nor discover any of their doc­

trines to others, no, not though any one should compel him so*

to do at the hazard of his life. Moreover he swears to com­

municate their doctrines to no one any otherwise than as he re­

ceived them himself; that he will abstain from robbery, and

will equally preserve the books belonging to their sect, and the

names of the * angels [or messengers]. These are the oaths by

which they secure their proselytes to themselves.

8. But

» This mention of the nanus vf angds, so particularly preserved hir the
Essens,

(If it means more than those messengers which were employed' to bring them the

peculiar books of their sect), looks iilce a prelude to that -warsbiffing of
angels

blamed by St Paul, as superstitious and unlawful, in some such, sort of people
as

these Essetw were.Coloss. ii. 8. as is the prayer to, or towards the sun for
his

rising every morning, mentioned before, § 5. very like those not much later
obser­

vances made mention of in the preaching of Peter, Authent. Rcc. Pt II. page
669.

and regarding a kindfof worship of angels, of the month, and of the moon, and
not.

celebrating the new moons, or other festivals, unless the moon appeared. Which
in-^

deed seems to me the earliest mention of any regard to the moon's phasis-in
fixing

the Jewish calendar, of which the Talmud and later Rabbins talk so much,and

upon so very little ancient foundation.

