Chap. XV. WARS or THE JEWS.

ket Place, and to slay such as they met with. So the soldiers*

taking this exhortation of their commander in a sense agreeable

to their desire of gain, did not only plunder the place they were

sent to, but forcing themselves into every house, they slew its

inhabitants; so the citizens Red along the narrow lanes, and the

soldiers slew those that they caught, and no method of plunder

was omitted; they also caught many of the quiet people, and

brought them beforeFlorus, whom he first chastised with stripes,

and then crucified. Accordingly, the whole number of those

that were destroyed that day, with their wives and children

(for they did not spare even the infants themselves), was about

three thousand and six hundred. And what made this calami­

ty the heavier, was this new method of Roman barbarity: for

Florus ventured then to do what no one had done before, that

is, to have men of the * equestrian order whipped, and nailed to

the cross before his tribunal; who although they were by birth

Jews, yet were they of Roman dignity notwithstanding.

CHAP. XV.

Concerning Bernice'j petition to Florus, to spare the Jews, lut

in vain ; as also how, after the seditious flame was quenched,

it was kindled again by Florus.

J !• A BOUT this very time king Agrippa was going to Alex.

J^\. andria, to congratulate Alexander upon his having

obtained the government of Egypt from Nero; but as his sister

Bernice was come to Jerusalem, and saw the wicked practices

of the soldiers, she was sorely affected at it, and frequently sent

the masters of her horse, and her guards, to Florus, and begged

of him to leave off these slaughters; but he would not comply

with her request, nor have any regard either to the multitude

of those already slain, or to the nobility of her that interceded,

but only to the advantage he should make by this plundering;

nay, this violence of the soldiers brake out to such a degree of

madness, that it spent itself on the queen herself; for they did

not only torment and destroy those whom they had caught un­

der her very eyes, but indeed had killed herself also, unless she

had prevented them by flying to the palace, and had stayed there

all night with her guards, which she had about her for fear of

an insult from the soldiers. Now she dwelt then at Jerusalem,

in

* Here we have examples of native Jews who were «f the equestrian order a-  
mong the Romans, and so ought never to have been whipped or crucified, ac­

cording to the Roman laws. See almost the like case in St Paul himielf, Acts

liii. tf,—i.

