5S ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

ven for ; and when they send* what they have dedicated to God

into the temple, they do not offer sacrifices, because they have

more pure lustrations of their own ; on which account they are

excluded from the common court of the temple, but offer their

sacrifices themselves ; yet is their course of life better than

that of other men ; and they entirely addict themselves to hus­

bandry. It also deserves our admiration, how much they exceed

all other men that addict themselves to virtue, and this in righ­

teousness ; and indeed to such a degree, that as it hath never

appeared among any other men, neither Greeks nor Barbarians,

no not for a little time, so hath it endured for a long while among

them. This is demonstrated by that institution of theirs, which

will not suffer any thing to hinder them from having all things

in common; so that a rich man enjoys no more of his own

wealth than he who hath nothing at all. There are about four

thousand men that live in this way, and neither marry wives,

nor are desirous to keep servants ; as thinking the latter tempts

men to be unjust, and the former gives the handle to domestic

quarrels ; but as they live by themselves, they minister one to

another. They also appoint certain stewards to receive the in­

comes of their revenues, and of the fruits of the ground ; such

as are good men and priests, who are to get their corn and their

food ready for them. They none of them differ from others of

the Essens in their way of living, but do the most resemble

those Dacae, who are called Polistis\, [dwellers in cities].

6. But of the fourth sect of Jewish philosophy, Judas the Ga­

lilean was the author. These men agree in all other things with

the Pharisaic notions; but they have an inviolable attachment

to liberty, and say, that God is to be their only Ruler and Lord.

They also do not value dying any kinds of death, nor indeed do

they heed the deaths of their relations and friends, nor can any

such fear make them call any man lord. And since this immove­

able resolution of theirs is well known to a great many, I shall

speak no farther about that matter; nor am I afraid that anything

I

* It seems by what Josephus says here, and Philo himself elsewhere, Op.  
p. 679, that these Essens did not use to go to the Jewish festivals at
Jernsalem,

or to offer sacrifices there, which may be one great occasion why they are
never

mentioned in the ordinary books of the New Testament; though, in the Apostoli.

cal Constitutions, they are mentioned at those that observed the customs of
their

forefathers, and that without any such ill character laid upon them, as is
there

laid upon the oiher sects among that people.

t Who these ntXiml in Josephus, or Kt<>«< in Strabo, among the Pythagoric

Dacae were, it is not easy to determine. Scaliger offers no improbable
conjecture,

that some of these Dace lived alone, like monks, in tents or caves, but that

others of them lived together in built cities, and thence were called by suck

names as implied the same.

