170 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX.

rusalem, and many of the Jews perished therein. But I shall

first explain the occasion whence it was derived. When that

feast, which is called the Passover, was at hand, at which time

our custom is to use unleavened bread, and a great multitude was

gathered together from all parts to that feast, Cumanus was a-

fraid lest some attempt of innovation should then be made by

them ; so he ordered that one regiment of the army should take

their arms,.. and stand in the temple cloisters, to repress any at­

tempts of innovation, if perchance any such should begin ; and

this was no more than what the former procurators of Judea did

at such festivals. But on the fourth day of the feast. a certain

soldier let down his breeches, and exposed his privy members to

the multitude, which put those that saw him into a furious rager

and made them cry out, that this impious action was not done to

reproach them, but God himself; nay, some of them reproach­

ed Cumanus, and pretended that the soldier was set on by him,

which, when Cumanus heard, he was also himself not a little

provoked at such reproaches laid upon him ; yet did he exhort

them to leave off such seditious attempts, and not to raise a tu­

mult at the festival. But when he could not induce them to be

quiet, for they still went on in their reproaches to him, he gave

order that the whole army should take their entire armour, and

come to Antonia, which was a fortress, as we have said already,

which overlooked the temple ; but when the multitude saw the

soldiers there, they were affrighted at them, and ran away hasti­

ly ; but as the passages out were but narrow, and as they thought

their enemies followed them, they were crowded together in their

flight, and a great number were pressed to death in those narrow

passages ;. nor indeed was the number fewer than twenty thou­

sand that perished in this tumult. So, instead of a festival, they

had at last a mournful day of it; and they all of them forgot

their prayers and sacrifices, and betook themselves to lamentation

and weeping ; so great an afHiction did the impudent obscene-

ness of a single soldier bring upon them *.

4. Now before this their first mourning was over, another

mischief befell them also ; for some of those that raised the fore­

going tumult, when they were travelling along the public road,

about an hundred furlongs from the city, robbed Stephanus, a

servant of Caesar, as he was journeying, and plundered him of all

that he had with him. Which things when Cumanus heard of,

he

* This, and many more tumults and seditions, which arose at the Jewish festi­  
vals, in Josephus, illustrate the cautious procedure of the Jewish governors,
when,

they said, Matt. xxvi. 5. " Let us not take Jesus on the feast- day, lest
there be

" an uproar among the people;" as Reland well observes on this place.
Josephus.

also takes notice of the same thing. Of the War, B. I. ch. iv. sect 3.

