298 Book t. WARS OF THE JEWS.

CHAP. XVII.

The death of Joseph, [Herod's brother], which had been signified

to Herod in dreams. How Herod was preserved twice, after

, a wonderful manner. He cuts off'the head, of Pappus, who was

the murderer of his brother, and sends that head to [his other

brother] Pheroras. Andin no long time he besieges Jerusalem,

and marries Mariamne.

} 1. TN the mean time Herod's affairs in Judea were in an ill

X state. He had left his brother Joseph with full power,

but had charged him to make no attempts against Antigonus, till

his return; for that Macheraswould not be such an assistantas he

could depend on, as it appeared by what he had done already ;

but as soon as Joseph heard that his brother was at a very great

distance, he neglected the charge he had received, and marched

towards Jericho with five cohorts, which Macheras sent with,

him. This movement was intended for seizing on the corn, as

it was now in the midst of summer ; but when his enemies at­

tacked him in the mountains, and in places which were difficult

to pass,he was both killed himself, as he was very bravely fighting

inthebattle,andtheentireRomancohortswere destroyed; forthese

cohorts were new-raised men, gathered out of Syria, and there

was no mixture of those called veteran soldiers among them,

who might have supported those that were unskilful in war.

2. This victory was not sufficient for Antigonus, but he pro­

ceeded to that degree of rage, as to treat the dead body of Jo­

seph barbarously: for when he had gotten possession of the bodies

of those'that were slain, he cut off his head, although his brother

Pheroras would have given fifty talents as a price of redemption

for it. And now the affairs of Galilee were put in such disorder

after this victory of Antigonus's that those of Antigonus's party

brought the principal men that were on Herod's side to the lake,

and there drowned them. There was a great change made also

in Idumea, where Macheras was building a wall about one of

the fortresses, which was called Gittha. But Herod had not

yet been informed of these things ; for after the taking of Samc-

sata, and when Antony had set Sosius over the affairs of Syria,

and given him orders to assist Herod against Antigonus, he de­

parted into Egypt; but Sosius sent two legions before him into

Judea, to assist Herod, and followed himself soon after with the

rest of his army.

3. Now when Herod was atDaphne, by Antioch, he had some

dreams which clearly foreboded his brother's death, and as he

leaped outof hisbedin a disturbedmanner,therecame messengers

that acquainted him with that calamity. So whenhe had lament­

ed

