124 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX;

gave them, by which he had purchased their kindness to him :

so they drew their swords, and Sabinus led them on. He was

one of the tribunes, not by the means of the virtuous actions of

his progenitors, for he had been a gladiator, but he had obtained

that post in the army by his having a robust body. So these

Germans marched along the houses in quest of Cassar's murder­

ers, and cut Asprenas to pieces, because he was the first man they

fell upon, and whose garment it was that the blood of the sacri­

fices stained, as 1 have said already, and which foretold that this

his meeting the soldiers would not be for his good. Then did

Norbanus meet them, who was one of the principal nobility of

the cfty, and could shew many generals of armies among his an­

cestors ; but they paid no regard to his dignity ; yet was he of

such great strength, that he wrested the sword of the first of those

that assaulted him out of his hands, and appeared plainly not to

be willing to die without a struggle for his life, until he Was sur­

rounded by a great number of assailants, and died by the multi­

tude 'of the wounds which they gave him. The third man

was Anteius, a senator, and a few others with him. He did not

meet with these Germans by chance, as the rest did before, but

came to shew his hatred to Caius, and because he loved to see

Caius lie dead with his own eyes, and took a pleasure in that

fight; for Caius had banished Antcius's father, who was of the

same name with himself, and, being not satisfied with that, he

sent out his soldiers, and slew him; so he was come to rejoice at

the sight of him, now he was dead. But as the house was now

all in a tumult, when he was aiming to hide himself, he could

not escape that accurate search which the Germans made, while

they barbarously slew those that were guilty, and those that were

not guilty, and this equally also. And thus were these [three}

persons slain.

. 10. Bnt when the rumour that Caius was slain reached the

theatre, they were astonished at it, and could not believe it :

even some that entertained his destruction with great pleasure,

and were more desirous of its happening than almost any other

satisfaction that could come to them, were under such a fear,

that they could not believe it. There were also those who

greatly distrusted it, because they were unwilling that any such

thing should come to Caius, nor could believe it, though it were

ever so true, because they thought no man could possibly have

so much power as to kill Caius. These were the women, and

the children, and the slaves, and some of the soldiery. This last

sort hud taken his pay, and in a manner tyrannized with him,

and h;id abused the best of his citizens, in being subservient to

his.unjust commands, in order to gaiu honours and advantages

to

