Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. tl

this the rather, because the infection which spread thence among

the younger sort, who were zealous for it, brought the public

to destruction.

2. The Jews had for a great while had three sects of philoso­

phy peculiar to themselves, the sect of the Essens, and the sect

of the Sadducees, and the third sort of opinions was that of those

called Pharisees ; of which sects, although I have already spoken

in the second book of the Jewish war, yet will I a little touch

upon them now.

3. Now, for the Pharisees, thty live meanly, and despise de­

licacies in diet; and they follow the contract of reason ; and what

that prescribes to them as good for them, they do ; and they think

they ought earnestly to 'strive to observe reason's dictates foe

practice. They also pay a respect to such as are in years ; nor

are they so bold as to contradict them in any thing which they

have introduced; and, when they determine that all things are

done by fate, they do not take away the freedom from men of

acting as thej think fit; since their notion is, that it hath pleased

God to make a temperament, whereby what he wills is done,

but so that the will of man can act virtuously or viciously. They

also believe, that souls have an immortal vigour in them, and

that under the earth there will be rewards or punishments, ac­

cording- as they have lived virtuously or viciously in this life; and

the latter are to be detained in an everlasting prison, but that the

former shall have power to revive and live again ; on account of

which doctrines, they are able greatly to persuade the body of

the people ; and whatsoever they do about divine worship,

prayers, and sacrifices, they perform them according to their

direction ; insomuch that the cities gave great attestations t6

them on account of their entire virtuous conduct, both in the

actions of their lives, and their discourses also.

4. But the doctrine of the Sadducees is this, That souls die

with the bodies ; nor do they regard the observation of any thing

besides what the law enjoins them ; for they think it an instance

of virtue to dispute with those teachers of philosophy whom they

frequent; but this doctrine is received but by a fewj yet by those

still of the greatest dignity. But they are able to do almost no­

thing of themselves ; for when they become magistrates* as they

are unwillingly and by force sometimes obliged to be, they ad­

dict themselves to the notions of the Pharisees, because the mul­

titude would not otherwise bear them.

5. The doctrine of the Essens is this, That all things are best

ascribed to God. They teach the immortality of souls, and e-

Steem that the rewards of righteousness are to be earnestly stri-

Voi'. III. H ^ vea

