Ghap. V. WARS OF THE JEWS;' 360

was what he had himself built and adorned, at a vast expence);

the multitude of the Jews stood with the ambassadors, and on

the other side stood Archelaus, with his friends; but as for thfe

kindred of Archelaus, they stood on neither side; for to

stand on Archelaus'a side, their hatred to him, and envy at

him, would not give them leave, while yet they were afraid to

be seen by Caesar with his accusers. Besides these, there were

present, Archelaus's brother, Philip, being sent thither befoffe

hand out of kindness by Varus, for two reasons ; the one was

this, that he might be assisting to Archelaus, and the other was

this, that in case Caesar should make a distribution of what He­

rod possessed among his posterity, he might obtain some share

of it.

2. And now, upon the permission that was given the accusers

to speak, they, in the first place, went over Herod's breaches of

their law, and said, That " he was not a king, but the most

" barbarous of all tyrants, and that they had found him to be

" such by the sufferings they underwent from him: that when a

" very great number had been slain by him, those that were

" left had endured such miseries, that they called those that

" were dead happy men: that he had not only tortured the bodies

" of his subjects, but entire cities, and had done much harm to

" the cities of his own country, while he adorned those that be-

" longed to foreigners, and he shed the blood of Jews, in order

" to do kindness to those people that were out of their bounds:

" that he had filled the nation full of poverty, and of the greatest

" iniquity, instead of that happiness, and those laws which they

" had anciently enjoyed: that, in short, the Jews had borne

" more calamities from Herod, in a few years, than had their

" forefathers during all that interval of time that had passed

" since they had come out of Babylon, and returned home, ih the

" reign of * Xerxes: that, however, the nation was come to so

" low a condition, by being inured to hardships, that they sub-

" mittedto his sncesso'r of their own accord, though he brought

" themintobitterslavery: thata-ccordinglytheyreadilycalledAr-

" chelaus,. though he was the son of so great a tyrant, king, after

«* the decease of his father, and joined with him in mourning fo*

*' the death of Herod, and in wishing him good success in that his

'' succession'; while yet this Archelaus, lest he should be in dan-«

" ger of not being thought the genuine son of Herod, began his

-" reign with the murder of three thousand citizens; as if he had

*« a mind to offer so many bloody sacrifices to God for his go-

" vemment,'and to fill the temple with the like nurftber of dead

" bodies

* H*re we hava a strong confirmation that it was Xerxes, and not Artaxerte^  
under whom the main part of the Jews returned out of the Babylonian captivity;

i. e. in the days of Ezra and Nehemiah. The same thing ii in the Antiquities,

B. XI. chap. v. sect. i. Vol. II.

VOL. III. 3 A

