363 WARS or THE JEWS, Book II,

Romans, than assisted those that had revolted. There had be­

fore this met him Joseph, the first cousin of Archelaus, and

Gratus, together with Rufus, who led those of Sebaste, as well

as the king's army: there also met him those of the Roman le­

gion, armed after their accustomed manner; for as to Sabinus,

he durst not come into Varus's sight, but was gone out of the

city before this, to the sen-side; but Varus sent a part of his

army into the country, against those that had been the authors of

this commotion, and as they caught great numbers of them,

those that appeared to have been the least concerned in these tu­

mult he put into custody, but such as were the most guilty he

crucified; these were in number about two thousand.

3. He was also informed, that there continued in Idumeaten

thousand men still in arms; but when he found that the Ara­

bians did not act like auxiliaries, but managed the war accord­

ing to their own passions, and did mischief to the country other­

wise than he intended, and this out of their hatred to Herod,

he sent them away, but made haste, with his own legions, to

march against those that had revolted; but these,by the advice

of Achiabus, delivered themselves up to him before it came to a

battle. Then did Varus forgive the multitude their offences,

but sent their captains to Caesar to be examined by him. Now

Caesar forgave the rest, but gave orders that certain of the

king's relations (for some of those that were among them who

were Herod's kinsmen), should be put to death, because they

had engaged in a war against a king of their own family. When

therefore Varus had settled matters at Jerusalem after this

manner, and had left the former legion there as a garrison, he

returned to Antioch.

CHAP. VI.

The Jews greatly complain of Archelaus, and desirf flat tley

may be made subject to Roman governors. But when Ccesar

had heard what they had to say, he distributed Herod's do­

minions among his sons, according to his own pleasure,

j 1. TJUT now came another accusation from the Jews against

-t) Archelaus at Rome, which he was to answer to. It  
was made by those ambassadors, who, before the revolt, had

come, by Varus's permission, to plead for the liberty of their

country; those that came were fifty in number, but there were

more than eight thousand of the Jews at Rome who supported

them. And when Caesar had assembled a council of the prin­

cipal Romans in * Apollo's temple, that was in the palace (this

was

* This holding a council in the temple of Apollo, in the *mperer's pake* at  
Rome, by Augustus, and even the building of this temple magnificently by him­

self in that palace, »re exactly agreeable to Augustus, in his elder years, as
Aldiiieh

and Srauhci.il observe and prove, frosn Suetonius and Propenius.

