THE LIFE OF -FLAVJDS JOSEFHUS. 197

persons before named gave their advice, that the city should then

continue in their allegiance to the Romans, and to the king. But

Pistus, who was guided by his son Justus, did not acquiesce in

that resolution ; otherwise he was himself naturally of a good

and virtuous character. But the second faction was composed

of the most ignoble persons, and was determined for war. But

as for Justus, the son of Pistus, who was the head of the third

faction, although he pretended to be doubtful about going to war,

yet was he really desirous of innovation, as supposing that he

should gain power to himself by the change of affairs. He there足

fore came into the midst of them, and endeavoured to inform the

multitude, That " the city Tiberias had ever been a city of

" Galilee, and that in the days of Herod the tetrarch, who had

" built it, it had obtained the principal place, and that he had or-

" dered that the city Sepphoris should be subordinate to the city

" Tiberias ; that they had not lost this pre-eminence even under

." Agrippa the father, but had retained it until Felix was procu-

" rator of Judea. But he told them, that now they had been so

" unfortunate as to be made a present by Nero to Agrippa jn-

f nior ; and that, upon Sepphoris's submission of itself to the

" Romans, that was become the capital city of Galilee, and that

" the royal treasury and the archives were now removed from

" them." When he had spoken these things, and a great many

more against Agrippa, in order to provoke the people to a revolt,

lie added, That " this was the time for them to take arms, and

" join with the Galileans as their confederates (whom they might

" command, and who would now willingly assist them out of the

'.' hatred they bare to the people of Sepphoris, because they pre-

" served their fidelity to the Romans), and to gather a great ntun-

',' ber of forces in order to punish them." And, as he said this, he

exhorted the multitude [,to go to war] ; for his abilities lay in

making harangues to the people, and in being too hard in his

speeches for such as opposed him, though they advised what was

more to their advantage, and this by his craftiness and his falla足

cies, for he was not unskilful in the learning of the Greeks,

and in dependence on that skill it was, that he undertook te

write an history of these affairs, as aiming by this way of ha足

ranguing to disguise the truth. But as to this man, rmd how ill

were his character and conduct of life, and he and his brother

were, in great measure, the authors of our destruction, I shall

give the reader an account in the progress of my narration. So

when Justus had, by his persuasions, prevailed with the citizens

of Tiberias to take arms, nay, and had foreed a great many so to

do against their will, he went out, and set the villages that be足

longed

