Chap. IV. WARS OF THE Jfiws. 259

" I have committed ; bat the vengeance of the blood of my kins-

" man pursues me hastily. O thon most impudent body ! how

" long xvilt thoa retaia a soul that ought to die 0:1 account of that

> " punishment it ought to suffer for a mother and a brother slain !

" how long shall I myself spend my blood drop by drop ? let

" them take it all at once ; and let their ghosts no longer be dis-

" appointed by a few parcels of my bowels offered to them."

As soon as he had said these words, he presently died, when he

had reigned no longer than a year.

CHAP. IV.

What actions "Mere done by Alexander jf&nneuS) who reigned

.• • twenty-seven years.

§ 1, AND now the king's wife loosed the king's brethren,

•j' and made Alexander king, who appeared both elder

i;i age, and more moderate iu his temper than the rest; who,

when he came to the government, slew one of his brethren, as

affecting to govern himself; but had tl>e other of them in great

esteem, as loving a quiet life, without meddling with public af-

fairs.

2. Now it happened, that there was a battle between him and

Ptolemy, who was called Lathyrus, who had taken the city Aso-

chis. He' indeed slew a great many of his enemies, but the vie.

tory rather inclined to Ptolemy. But, when this Ptolemy was

pursued by his mother Cleopatra, and retired into Egypt, Alex­

ander besieged Gadara, and took it; as also he did Amathus,

which was the strongest of all the fortresses that were about

Jordan, and therein were the most precious of all the posses­

sions of Theodorus, the sou of Zeno. Whereupon Theodoras

marched against him, and took what belonged to himself, as

well as the king's baggage, and slew ten thousand of the .Tews.

However, Alexander recovered this blow, and turned his force

towards the maritime parts, and took Raphia, and Gaza, with

Anthedon also, which was afterwards called Agrippias by king

Herod.

3. But when he had made slaves of the citizens of all these ci­

ties, the nation of the Jews made an insurrection against him at a

festival; for at those feasts seditions are generally begun, and it

looked as if he should not be able to escape the plot they had laid

for him, had not his foreign auxiliaries, the Pisidians and Cici-

lians, assisted him; for, as to the Syrians, he never admitted them

among his mercenary troops, on account of their innate enmity

against the Jewish nation. And when he had slain more than six

thousand of the rebels, he made an incursion into Arabia, and

ivhen he had taken that country, together with the Gileadites

K k a and

