184 ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, , Book XX.

were wont to be supported with those tithes, died for want of

food.

3. But now the Sicarii went into the city by night, just be.

fore the festival, which was now at hand, and took the scribe

belonging to the governor of the temple, whose name was Elea-

's&art who was the son of Ananus [Ananias] the high-priest, and

bound him,' and carried him away with them ; after which th^r

sent to Ananias, and said that they would send the scribe to him,

if he would persuade Albinus to release ten of those prisoners

which he had caught of their party; so Ananias was plainly

forced to persuade Albinus, and gained his request of him. This

was the beginning of greater calamities ; for the robbers perpe­

tually contrived to catch some of Ananias's servants, and when

they had taken them alive, they would not let them go, till they

thereby recovered some of their own Sicarii. And as they were

again become no small in number, they grew bold, and were a

great affliction to the whole country.

4. About this time it was that king Agrippa built Cesarea

Philippi larger tha.i it was before, and, in honour of Nero, named

it Neronias. And when he had built a theatre at Berytus, with

vast expences, he bestowed on them shows, to be exhibited every

year, and spent therein many ten thousand [drachmae] ; he also

gave the people a largess of corn, and distributed oil among them,

and adorned the entire city with statues of his own donation, and

with original images made by ancient hands; nay, he almost trans­

ferred all that was most ornamental in his own kingdom thither.

This made htm more than ordinarily hated by his subjects ; be­

cause he took those things away that belonged to them, to adorn

a foreign city. And now Jesus, the son of Gamaliel, became

the successor of Jesus, the son of Damneus, in the high-priesthood,

which the king had taken from the other ; on which account a

sedition arose between [the high-pr-iests, with regard to one an­

other ; for they got together bodies of the boldest sort of the

people, and frequently came, from reproaches, to throwing of

stones at each other. But Ananias was too hard for the rest, by

his riches, which enabled him to gain those that were most ready

to receive. Costobarus also, and Saulus, did themselves get to­

gether a multitude of wicked wretches, and this because they

were of the royal family ; and so they obtained favour among

them, because of their kindred to Agrippa ; but still they used:

violence with people, and were very ready to plunder those that

were weaker than themselve's. And from that it principally

came to pass, that our city was greatly disordered, and that all

things grew worse and worse among us. . .

5. But when Albinus heard that Gcssins Floras was coming

to

