392 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

spread itself to others that were most nearly related to him j and

how, at last, he was so distracted that he became an actor in the

scenes, and upon the theatre, I omit to say any more about them,

because there are writers enough upon those subjects every

where; but I shall turn myself to those actions of his time in

which the Jews were concerned.

2. Nero therefore bestowed the kingdom of the lesser Ar­

menia upon Aristobulus, * Herod's son, and he added lo Agrip-

pa's kingdom four cities, with the toparchies to them belong­

ing: I mean Abila, and that Julias which is in Perea, Tarichea

also, and Tiberias of Galilee; but over the rest of Judea he

made Felix procurator. This Felix took Eleazar the arch-rob­

ber, and many that were with him, alive, when thev had rava­

ged the country for twenty years together, and sent them to

Rome; but as to the number of the robbers he caused to be

crucified, and of those who were caught among them, and whom

he brought to punishment, they were a multitude not to be

enumerated.

3. When the country was purged of these, there sprang up

another sort of robbers in Jerufalem, which were called Sicarii,

who slew men in the day time, and in the midst of the city;

this they did chiefly at the festivals, when they mingled them­

selves among the multitude, and concealed daggers under their

garments, with which they stabbed those that were their ene­

mies ; and when any fell down dead, the murderers became a

part of those that had indignation against them, by which means

they appeared persons of such reputation that they could by no

means be discovered. The first man who was slain by them was

Jonathan the high-priest, after whose death many were slain e-

very day, while the fear men were in of being so served was

more afflicting than the calamity itself, and while c-.very body

expected death every hour, as men do in war, so men were o-

bliged to look before them, and to take notice of their enemies

at a great distance; nor, if their friends were coming to them,

durst they trust them any longer; but, in the midst of their

suspicions and guarding of themselves, they were slain. Such

was the celerity of the plotters against them, and so cunning

was their contrivance.

9. There was also another body of wicked men gotten toge­

ther, not so impure in their actions, but more wicked in their

intentions, which laid waste the happy state of the city no less

than did these murderers. These were such men ss deceived and

deluded the people under pretence of divine inspiration, but were

for procuring innovations and changes of the government; and

these,

* i. e. Herod king ef Chalet:.

