Chap. I. 35 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

BOOK XVIII.

Containing the interval of thirty-two years.

[From the banishment of Archelaus, to the departure of the

Jews from Babylon.]

CHAP. I.

/

Mow Cyrenius was sent by Ccesar to make a taxation of Syria and

Judea ; and how Coponius was sent to be procurator of Judea ;

concerning Judas of Galilee, and concerning the sects that were

among the Jews.

( I. 'VTOW, Cyrenius, a Roman senator, and one who had

gone through other magistracies, and had passed through

them till he had been consul, and ope who, on other accounts,

was of great dignity, came at this time into Syria, with a few-

others, being sent by Caesar to be a judge of that nation, and to

take an account of their substance : Coponius also, a man of the

equestrian order, was sent together with him, to have the su­

preme power over the Jews. Moreover, Cyrenius came him­

self into Judea, which was now added to the province of Syria,

to take an account of their substance, and to dispose of Ar"he-

laus's money : but the Jews, although, at the beginning, they

took the report of a taxation heinously, yet did they leave off

any farther opposition to it, by the persuasion of Joazar, who

was the son of Eoethus, and high-priest; so they being over

persuaded by Joazar's words, gave an account of their estates,

without any dispute about it. Yet was there one Judas *, a

Gaulonite,

* Since St Luke, once, Acts v. 37. and Josephus four several times, once here,  
§ 6. and B. XX. ch. v..$ 2. Of the War, R. II. ch. viii. $ 1. and ch. xvii. S
S. calls

this Judas, who was the pestilent author of that seditious doctrine and temper

'which brought the Jewish nation to ntter destruction, a Galilean, but here §
1.

Josephus calls him a Gaulonite, of the city of Gamali. It is a great question

where this Judas was born, whether in Galilee on the west side, or in
Gaulonitis,

*n the east side of the river Jordan; while, in the place just now cited out of the  
Antiquities, B. XX. ch. v. § 2. he is not only called a Galilean, but it is
added

to his story, as I have signified in the books that go befirt these, as if he
had

still called him a Galilean in those Antiquities before, as well as in that
particu­

lar place, as Dean Aldrich observes, On the War, B. II. ch. viii. § 1. Nor can

one well imagine why he should here call him a Gaulonite, when in the 6th
sect,

following here, as well as twice Of the War, he still calls him a Galilean. As

for the city of Gamala, whence this !udas was derived, it determines nothing-,

since there were two of that name, the one in Gaulonitis, the other in
Galilee.

See Reland on the city or town of that name.

