166 Book XX. ANTIQJJIIUS OF THE JEWS..

himself upon the ground, and put ashes upon his head, in testi­

mony of his confusion, and fasted, together with his wives and

children. When he called upon God, and said, " O Lord and

" Governor, if I have not in vain committed myself to thy

** goodness, but have justly determined that thou only art the  
" Lord and principal of all beings, come now to my assistance,

" and defend me from my enemies, not only on my own account,

'< but on account of their insolent behaviour with regard to thy

M power, while they have not feared to lift up their proud and

" arrogant tongue against thee." Thus did he lament and be.

moan himself, with tears in his eyes ; whereupon God heard his

prayer. And immediately that very night Vologases received

letters, the contents of which were these, that a great band of

Dahae and Sahae, despising him, now he was gone so long a jour­

ney from home, had made an expedition, and laid Parthia waste ;

so that he [was forced to] retire back, without doing any thing.

And thus it was that Izates escaped the threatenings of the Par­

tisans, by the providence of God.

3. It was not long ere Izates died, when he had completed

fifty-five years of his life, and had ruled his kingdom twenty-

four years. He left behind him twenty-four sons and twenty-

four daughters. ' However, he gave order that his brother Mo-

nobazus should succeed in the government, thereby requiting

him, because, while he was himself absent, after their father's

death, he had faithfully preserved the government for him. But

when Helena, his mother, heard of her son's death, she was in

great heaviness, as, was but natural upon her loss of such a most

dutiful son ; yet was it a comfort to her, that she heard the

succession came to her eldest son. Accordingly she went to him

in haste ; and when she was come into Adiabene, she did not long

outlive her son Izates. But Monobazus sent her bones, as well

as those of Izates, his brother, to Jerusalem, and gave order that

they should be buried at the pyramids * which their mother had

erected ; they were three in number, and distant more than three,

furlongs from the city Jerusalem. But for the actions of Mo­

nobazus the king, which he had during the rest of his life, we

will relate them hereafter f. , - .

CHAP.

* These pyramids or pillars, erected by Helena, queen of Adiabene, near Je­  
rusalem, three in number, are mentioned by Eusebius, in his Eccles. Hist. B.
II.

ch. ii. for which Dr. Hudson refers us to Valesius's notes upon that place.—

They are also mentioned by Pausanias, as hath been already noted, chap. ii.
sect.

-0. Eel and guesses that that now called Absalom's pillar may be one of them.

f This account is now wanting;.

