!• ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

many oaths that he would not come again, till he heard that

Herod was dead. And indeed, when, upon a sickness of the

king's, he was desired to come to him before he died, that he

might intrust him with some of his injunctions, he had such a

regard to his oath, that he would not come to him ; yet did not

Herod so retain his hatred to Pheroras, but remitted of his pur­

pose [not to see him,] which he before had, and that for such

great causes as have been already mentioned: but as soon as he

began to be ill he came to him, and this without being sent for ;

and when he was dead, he took care of his funeral, and had his

body brought to Jerusalem, and buried there, and appointed a

solemn mourning for him. This [death of Pheroras] became

the origin of Antipater's misfortunes, although he were already

sailed for Rome, God now being about to punish him for the

murder of his brethren. I will explain the history of this mat­

ter very distinctly, that it may be for a warning to mankind,

that they take care of conducting their whole lives by the rules

of virtue.

CHAP. IV.

Pberoras's -wife is accused by bis freed-men, as guilty of poison­

ing him ; and how Herod, upon examining of the matter by tor­

ture, found the poison ; but so that it had been prepared for him­

self by his son Antipater : and, upon an enquiry by torture} he

Discovered the dangerous designs of jintipater.

1. A S soon as Pheroras was dead, and his funeral was over,

•**• two of Pheroras's freed-men, who were much esteemed

by him, came to Herod, and intreated him not to leave the mur­

der of his brother without avenging it, but to examine into such

an unreasonable and unhappy death. When he was moved with

these words, for they seemed to him to be true, they said, That

" Pheroras supped with his wife the day before he fell sick, and

" that a certain'potion was brought him in such a sort of food

" as he was not used to eat; but that when he had eaten he died

«' of it: that this potion was brought out of Arabia by a wo-

" man, under pretence indeed as a love-potion, for that was its

" name, but in reality to kill Pheroras ; for that the Arabian

" women are skilful in making such poisons : and the woman to

" whom they ascribe this, was confessedly a most intimate friend

" of one of Sylleus's mistresses ; and that both the mother and

" the sister of Pheroras's wife had been at the places where she

"'lived, and had persuaded her to sell them this potion, and had

" come

