WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

the temple, which was within that valley, was itself encompas­

sed with a very strong wall, insomuch that if the city were

taken, the temple would be a second place of refuge for the ene­

my to retire to. .. .'

2. Now, as he was long in deliberating about this matter, a

sedition arose among the people within the city ; Aristobulus's

party being willing to fight, and to set their king at liberty,

while the party of Hyrcanus were for opening the gates to Pom-

pey ; and the dread people were in, occasioned these last to be

a very numerous party, when they looked upon the excellent

order the Roman soldiers were in. So Aristobulus's party was

worsted, and retired into the temple, and cut off the communi­

cation between the temple and the city, by breaking down the

bridge that joined them together, and prepared to make an op­

position to the utmost; but as the others had received the Ro­

mans into the city, and had delivered up the palace to him, Pom-

pey sent Piso, one of his great officers, into that palace with an

army, who distributed a garrison about the city, because he could

not^ persuade any one of those that had fled to the temple, to

come to terms of accommodation ; he then disposed all things

that were round about them so as might favour their attacks, as

having Hyrcanus's party very ready to afford them both counsel

and assistance.

3. But Pompey himself filled up the ditch that was on the

north side of the temple, and the entire valley also, the army it­

self being obliged to carry the materials for that purpose. And

indeed it was an hard thing to fill up that valley by reason of its

immense depth, especially as the Jews used all the means pos­

sible to repel them from their superior station : nor had the Ro­

mans succeeded in their endeavours, had not Pompey taken no­

tice of the seventh days on which the Jews abstain from all sorts

of work on a religious account, and raised his bank, but restrain­

ed his soldiers from fighting on those days; for the Jews only

acted defensively on Sabbath days. But as soon as Pompey had

filled up the valley, he erected high towers upon the bank, and

brought those engines which they had fetched from Tyre, near to

the wall, and tried to batter it down ; and the slingers of stones

beat ofFthose that stood above them, and drove them away : but

the towers on this side of the city made very great resistance, and

were indeed extraordinary both for largeness and magnificence.

4. Now, here it was that upon the many hardships which the

Romans underwent, Pompey could not but admire not only at

the other instances of the Jews fortitude, but especially that they

did not at all intermit their religious services, even when they

were encompassed with darts on all sides ; for, as if the city were

