Chap. XXXII. WARS OF TflE JEWS. - . 349

«' wild beast, when he had beenover and above satiated with that

" patience which I shewed him, he made use of that abundance I

" had given him against myself; for I seemed to him to live too

'' long, and he was very uneasy at the old age I was arrived at;

"nor could he stay any longer, but wouldbe a king by parricide.

" And justly I am served by him for bringing him back out of the

f country to court, when he was of no esteem before, and/or

" thrustingoutthosesonsof mine that were born of the queen, and

'.' for making him a successor to my dominions. I confess to

" thee, O Varus, the great folly I was guilty of; for I provoked

'.' those sons of mine to act against me, and cut off their just es-

'.' pectations for the sake of Antipater; and indeed what kind-

" ness did I do to them, that could equal what I have done to

" Antipater? to whom I have, in a manner, yielded upmy-

' royal authority while I am alive, and whom I have openly'

named for the successor to my dominions in my testament, and

given him a yearly revenue of his own fifty talents, and sup-'

plied him with money to an extravagant degree out of myown'

revenue; and when he was about to sail to Rome, I gave him

" three hundred talents, and recommended him, andhim alone of

" all my children, to Caesar, as his father's deliverer. Now

" what crimes were those other sons of mine guilty of like these

" of Antipater? and what evidence was there brought against-

" them so strong as there is to demonstrate this son to have plot-

" ted against me? Yet does this parricide presume to speak for

«' himself, and hopes to obscure the truth by his cunning tricks.

" Thou, O Varus, must guard thyself against him; for I know

" the wild beast, and 1 foresee howplausibly he will talk, and his

" counterfeit lamentation. This was he who exhorted me to

" have a care of Alexander, when he was alive, and not to in- •

" trust my body with all men! This was he who came to my

" very bed, and looked about lest any one should lay snares for

" me! This was he who took care of my sleep, and secured me

" from any fear of danger, who comforted me under the trouble

" I was in upon the slaughter of my sons, and looked to

" see what affection mysurviving brethren bore me! This was

" my protector, and the guardian of mybody! And when Icallto

" mind, O Varus, his craftiness upon every occasion, and his art

" of dissembling, I can hardly believe that I am still alive, and I

" wonder how I have escaped such a deep plotter of mischief.

f However, since some fate or other makes my house desolate,

" and perpetually raises up those that are dearest to me against

" me, I will, with tears, lament my hard fortune, and private-

" ty groan under my lonesome condition; yet am 1 resolved that'

,- " no

