Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 71

after he had been tetrarch of Trachonitis and Gaulanitis, and of

the nation of the Bataneans also, thirty-seven years. He had

shewed himself a person of moderation and quietness in the con­

duct of his life and government; he constantly lived in that coun­

try which was subject to him * ; he used to make his progress

with a few chosen friends; his tribunal also, on which he sat in

judgment, followed him in his progress; and when any one met

him who wanted his assistance, he made no delay, but had his

tribunal set down immediately, wheresoever he happened to be,

and sat down upon it, and heard his complaint: he there ordered

the guilty that were convicted to be punished, and absolved those

that had been accused unjustly. He died at Julias ; and when

he was carried to that monument which he had already erected

tor himself before-hand, he was buried with great pomp. His

principality Tiberius took, for he left no sons behind him, and

added it to the province of Syria, but gave order that the tri­

butes which arose from it should be collected, and laid up in his

tetrarchy.

CHAP V.

Herod the tetrarch makes war with Gretas, the king of Arabiar

and is beaten by him ; as also concerning the death of ^jfohn the

Baptist: bow Vitellius went up to Jerusalem ; together with

some account of sigrippa, and of the posterity of Herod the Great.

§ 1. A BOUT this time, Aretas, the king of Arabia Petrea,

,**• and Herod, had a quarrel on the account following :—

Herod the tetrarch had married the daughter of Aretas, and had

lived with her a great while, but when he was once at Rome,

he lodged with Herod f, who was his brother indeed, but not

by the same mother ; for this Herod was the son of the high-

priest Simon's daughter. However, he fell in love with Hero-

dias, this last Herod's wife, who was the daughter of Aristobu-

lus their brother, and the sister of Agrippa the Great; this man

ventured to talk to her about a marriage between them, which

address when she admitted, an agreement was made for her to

change

* An excellent example this.

t This Herod seems to have had the additional name of Philip, as Antipas

was named Herod-Antipas, and as Antipas and Antipater seem to be in a manner

the very same name, yet were the names of two sons of Herod the Great; so

might Philip the tetrarch and this Herod-Philip be two different sons of the
same

father, all which Grotius observes on Matt. xiv. 3. Nor was it, as 1 agree
with.

Grotius and others of the learned, Philip the tetrarch, but this Herod-Philip,

Whose wife Herod the tetrarch had married, and that in her first husband's
life­

time, and when her first husband had issue by her; for which adulterous and

incestuous marriage, John the Baptist justly reproved Herod the tetrarch, and

for which reproof Salome, the daughter of Herodias, by her first husband
Herod.

Philip, who was still alive, occasioned him to be unjus'ly beheaded.

