62 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

soon changed their minds, they "being natural! j of a mutable

uisposition, upon the supposal, that this man was not worthy

to be their governor ; for they could not think of obeying the

commands of one that had b?en a slave, (for so they called those

that had been hostages), nor could they bear the ignominy of that

name; and this was the more intolerable, because then the Par-

1 iii'i''.s must have such a king set over them, not by right of war,

but in time of peace. So they presently invited Artabanus, king

of Media, to be their king, he being also of the race of Arsaces.

Artabanus complied with the offer that was made him, and came

to them with an army. So Vonones met him ; and at first the

multitude of the Parthians stood on his side, and he put his army

in array; but Artabanus was beaten, and fled to the moun­

tains of Media. Yet did he a little after gather a great army

together, and fought with Vonones, and beat him ; whereupon.

Vonones fled away on horseback, with a few of his attendants

nbout him, to Seleucia [upon Tigris]. So when Artabanus had

slain a great number, and this after he had gotten the victory by

reason of the very great dismay the barbarians were in, he re-

fired to Ctesiphonwith a great number of his people ; and so he

now reigned over the Parthians. But Vonones fled away to Ar­

menia ; and as soon as he came thither, he had an inclination to

have the government of the country given him, and sent ambas­

sadors to Rome [for that purpose]. But because Tiberius refu­

sed it him, and because he wanted courage, and because the Par­

thian king threatened him, and sent ambassadors to him to de­

nounce war against him if he proceeded, and because he had no

ivay to take to regain any other kingdom, (for the people of au­

thority among the Armenians about Niphates joined themselves

to Artabanus), he delivered up himself to Silanus, the president

of Syria, who, out of regard to his education at Rome, kept him

in Syria, while Artabanus gave Armenia to Orodes, one of his

own sons.

5. At this time died Antiochus, the king of Commagene ;

whereupon the multitude contended with the nobility, and both

sent ambassadors to [Rome] ; for the men of power were desi­

rous that their form of government might be changed into that

of a [Roman] province ; as were the multitude desirous to be

under kings, as their fathers had been. So the senate made a

decree, that Germanicus should be sent to settle the affairs of the

east, fortune hereby taking a proper opportunity for depriving^

him of his life ; for when he had been in the east, and settled

all affairs there, his life was taken away by the poison which

Piso gave him, as hath been related elsewhere *.

CHAP.

* This citation is now wanting.

