55 ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVHL

her husband, and at the other instances of her virtue, so she un­

dertook to repay it. Accordingly, Alexander paid them five ta­

lents at Alexandria, and promised to pay them the rest of that

sum at Dicearchia [Puteoli]; and this he did out of the fear he

was in that Agrippa would soon spend it. So this Cypros set

her husband free, and dismissed him to go on with his naviga­

tion to Italy, while she and her children departed for Judea.

4. And now Agrippa was come to Puteoii, whence he wrote

a letter to Tiberius Caesar, who then lived at Capreoe, and told

him, that he was come so far in order to wait on him, and to pay

him a visit; and desired that he would give him leave to come

over to Caprese ; so Tiberius made no'difficulty, but wrote to

him in an obliging way in other respects, and withal told him,

he was glad of his safe return, and desired him to come to C*-

preae ; and, when he was come, he did not fail to treat him as

kindly as he had promised him in his letter to do. But the next

day came a letter to Caesar from Herenr.ius Capito, to inform

him, that Agrippa had borrowed 300,cc j drachmae, and not paid

it at the time appointed ; but, when it was demanded of him,

he ran away like a fugitive, out of the places under his govern­

ment, and put it out of his power to get the money of him.

When Caesar had read this letter, he was much troubled at it,

and gave order that Agrippa should be excluded from his pre­

sence, until he had paid that debt: upon which he was no way

daunted at Caesar's anger, but entreated Antonia, the mother'of

Germanicus, and of Claudius, who was afterward Caesar him­

self, to lend him those 300,000 drachmae, that he might not be

deprived of Tiberius's friendship ; so, out of regard to the me­

mory of Bernice his mother, (for those two women were very

familiar with one another), and out of regard to his and Clau­

dius's education together, she lent him the money ; and, upon

the payment of this debt, there was nothing to hinder Tiberius's

friendship to him. After this, Tiberius Caesar recommended

to him his grandson *, and ordered that he should always accom­

pany him when he went abroad. But, upon Agrippa's kind re­

ception by Antonia, he betook himself to pay his respects to

Caius, who was her grandson, and in very high reputation by

reason of the good-will they bare his father f. Now there was

one Thallus, a freed-man of Caesar, of whom he borrowed a

million of drachmae, and thence repaid Antonia the debt he owed

her; and by sending the overplus in paying his court to Caius,

became a person of great authority with him.

5. Now, as the friendship which Agrippa had for Caius was

come to a great height, there happened some words to pass be-

tweed

* Tiberius junior. f Germanicus.

