Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 69

no innovations against him. The like to what HeroJ did was

done by his son Archelaus, who was made king after him ; after

whom the Romans, when they entered on the government, took

possession of these vestments of the high-priest, and had them

reposited in a stone-chamber, under the seal of the priests, and

of the keepers of the temple, the captain of the guard lighting a

lamp there every day ; and * seven days before a festival they

were delivered to them by the captain of the guard, when the

high-priest having purified them, and made use of them, laid

them up again in the same chamber where they had been laid

up before, and this the very next day after the feast was over.

This was the practice at the three yearly festivals, and' on the

fast-day ; but Vitellius put these garments into our own power,

as in the days of our forefathers, and ordered the captain of the

guard not to trouble himself to inquire where they were laid,

or when they were to be used ; and this he did as an act of kind­

ness, to oblige the nation to him. Besides which, he also depri­

ved Joseph, who was also called Caiapbas, of the high-priest­

hood, and appointed Jonathan, the son of Ananus, the former

high-priest, to succeed him. After which, he took his journey

back to Antioch.

4. Moreover, Tiberius sent a letter to Vitellius, and com­

manded him to make a league of friendship with Artabanus, the

king of Parthia ; for, while he was his enemy, he terrified him,

because he had taken Armenia away from him, lest he should

proceed farther, and told him he should no otherwise trust

him than upon his giving him hostages, and especially his

fon Artabauus. Upon Tiberius's writing thus to Vitellius,

by the offer of great presents of money, he persuaded both the

king of Iberia, and the king of Albania, to make no delay, but to

fight against Artabanus ; and although they would not do it them­

selves, yet did they give the Scythians a passage through their

country, and opened the Caspian gates to them, and brought them

upon Artabanus. So Armenia was again taken from the Parthi-

ans, and the country of Parthia was filled with war, and the prin­

cipal of their men were slain, and all these things were in disorder

among them : the king's son also himself fell in these wars,

together with many ten thousands of his army. Vitellius had

also sent such greac sums of money to Artabanus's father's kins­

men and friends, that he had almost procured him to be slain by

the

* This mention of the high priest's sacred garments received seven days be'  
fore a festival, and purified in those days against a festival, as having been
pol­

luted by being in the custody- of heathens, in Josephus, agrees well with the

traditions of Talmudists, as Reland here observes. Nor is there any question
but

the three feasts here mentioned, were the Passover, Pentecost, and Feast of
Ta­

bernacles ; and the Fust, so called by way of distinction, as Acts, xxvii. y.
wat

the great day of expiation.

