110 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

montory to another, of the length of thirty furlongs, as measu­

red over the sea. And this was done, because he esteemed it to

be a most tedious thing to row over it in a small ship, and thought

withal, that it became him to make that bridge, since he was

lord of the sea, and might oblige it to give marks of obedience as

well as the earth ; so he inclosed the whole bay within his bridge,

and drove his chariot over it, and thought that, as he was a god,

it was fit for him to travel over such roads as this was. Nor did

he abstain from the plunder of any of the Grecian temples, and

gave order that all the engravings and sculptures, and the rest of

the ornaments of the statues and donations therein dedicated,

should be brought to him, saying, that " the best things ought

" to be set no where but in the best place, and that the city of

'' Rome was that best place." He also adorned his own house

and his gardens with the curiosities brought from those temples,

together with the houses he lay at when he travelled all over

Italy; whence he did not scruple to give a command, that the

statue of Jupiter Olympius, so called because he was honoured

at the Olympian games by the Greeks, which was the work of

Phidias the Athenian, should be brought to Rome. Yet did not

he compass his end, because the architects told Memmius Regu-

lus, who was commanded to remove that statue of Jupiter, that the

workmanship was such as would be spoiled, and would not bear

the removal. It was also reported that Memmius, both on that

account, and on account of some such mighty prodigies as are of

an incredible nature, put off the taking it down, and wrote to

Caius those accounts, as his apology for not having done what

his epistle required of him ; and that when he was thence in dan­

ger of perishing, he was saved by Caius, being dead himself,

before he had put him to death.

2. Nay, Caius's madness came to this height, that when he

had a daughter born, he carried her into the capitol, and put her

upon the knees of the statue, and said, that the child was com­

mon to him and to Jupiter, and determined that she had two fa­

thers, but which of these fathers were the greatest, he left un­

determined ; and yet mankind bore him in such his pranks. He

also gave leave to slaves to accuse their' masters of any crimes

whatsoever they pleased ; for all such accusations were terrible,

because they were in great part made to please him, and at his

suggestion, insomuch that Pallux, Claudius's slave, had the bold.

ness to lay an accusation against Claudius himself, and Caius was

not ashamed to be present at his trial of life and death, to hear

that trial of his own uncle, in hopes of being able to take him

off, although he did not succeed to his mind. But when he had

filled the whole habitable world, which he governed, with false

, , accusations

