Chap. II. WARS OF THE JEWS. 255

in other respects, but was overcome by him as to the Just af­

fection [he had for his relations] ; for when Ptolemy was dis­

tressed, he brought forth his mother, and his brethren, and set

them upon the wall, and beat them with rods in every body's-

sight, and threatened, that unless he would go away immediate­

ly, he would throw them down headlong ; at which sight Hyr-

canus's commiseration and concern were too hard for his anger.

But his mother was not dismayed, neither at the stripes she re­

ceived, nor at the death with which she was threatened ; but

stretched out her hands, and prayed her son not to be moved with

the injuries that she had; suffered to spare the wretch ; since it

was to her better to die by the means of Ptolemy than to live

ever so long, provided he might be punished for the injuries he

had done to their family. Now John's case was this ; when he

considered the courage of his mother, and heard her entreaty,

he set about his attacks ; but when he saw her beaten, and torn

to pieces withthe stripes, he grew feeble, and was entirely over­

come by his affections. And as the seige was delayed by this

means, the year of rest came on, upon which the Jews rest every

seventh year as they do on every seventh day. On this year,

therefore, Ptolemy was freed from being besieged, and slew the

brethren of John, with their mother, and fled to Zeno, who wa*

also called Cotylas, who was the tyrant of Philadelphia.

5. And now Antiochus was so angry at what he had suffered

from Simon, that he made an expedition into Judea, and sat

down before Jerusalem, and besieged Hyrcanus ; but Hyrcanus

opened the sepulchre of David, who was the richest of all kings,

and took thence about three thousand talents in money, and' in­

duced Antiochus, by the promise of three thousand talents, to

raise the siege-. Moreover, he was the first of the Jews that had

money enough, and began to hire foreign auxiliaries also.

6. However, at another time, when Antiochus was gone upon

an expedition against the Medes, and so gave Hyrcanus an op­

portunity of being revenged upon him, he immediately made

an attack upon the cities of Syria, as thinking what proved ta

be the case with them, that they would find them empty of good

troops. So he took Medeba and Samea, with the towns in their

neighbourhood, as also Sechem and Gerizaim; and besides thess

[he subdued] the nation of the Chutheans, who dwelt round about

that temple which was built in imitation of the temple at Jeru­

salem ; he also took a great many other cities of Idumea, with

Adoreon and Marissa.

7. He also proceeded as far as Samaria, where is now the

city Sebaste, which was built by Herod the king, and encom­

passed it all round with a wall, and set his sons, Aristobulus and

Anti'gonuSj

