.Ii' : ,r'\- i i-ii' .

L I F E

. - ' . . '.. . or . - .-v

FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

) 1. HPHE family from which I am derived is not an ignoble

4i one, but hath descended all along from the priests ; and

as nobility among several people is of a different origin, so with

us to be of a sacerdotal dignity, is an indication of the splendour

of a family. Now, I am not only, sprung from a sacerdotal far

mily in general, but from the first of the twenty-four* courses;

and as among us there is not only a considerable difference be­

tween one family of each course and another, 1 am of the chief

family of that first course also; nay, farther, by my mother I

am of the royal blood ; for the children of Asamoneus, from

whom that family was derived, had both the office of the high-

priesthood, and the dignity of a king, for a long time together. I

will accordingly set down my progenitors in order. My grand­

father's father was named Simon, with the addition of Psellus :

he lived at the same time with that son of Simon the high-priest,

who first of all the high-priests was named Hyrcanus. This Si­

mon Psellus had nine sons, one of which was Matthias, called

Ephlias ; he married the daughter of Jonathan the high-priest,

which Jonathan was the first of the sons of Asamoneus who

was high-priest, and was the brother of Simon the high-priest

also. This Matthias had a son called Matthias Curtus, and that

in the first year of the government of Hyrcanus ; his son's name

was Joseph, born in the ninth year of the reign of Alexandra:

his son Matthias was born in the tenth year of the reign of Ar-

chelaus:

* We may hence correct the error of the Latin copy of the second book  
against Apion, sect. 7. 8. '(for the Greek is there lost), which says, there
were

then only four tribes of courses of the priests instead of twenty-four. Nor is

this testimony to be disregarded, as if Josephus there contradicted what he
had

affirmed here i because even the account there given better agrees to twenty-
four

than to four courses, while he says that each of those courses contained above

5000 men, which, multiplied by only four, will make not more than 20,000

priests: whereas the number 120,000, as multiplied by 14, seems much the most

probable, they being about one-tenth of the whole people, even after the
capti­

vity. See Ezra. ii. 36—30—Nehem. vii. 39.—42. 1. Esd. v. 24, 25. with Ezra,

ii. 64. Nehem. vii. 66. 1 Esd. v. 41. Nor will this common reading or notion

of but four courses of priests, agree with Josephus's own farther assertion
else­

where, Antiq. B. VII. ch. xiv. sect. 7. that David's partition of the priests
into

twenty.four courses had continued to that day.

