330 WARS OF THE JEWS. -Book I.

to discourse with Caesar, because he had already written a full

account to him of this whole matter.

6. Thus a period was put to Archelaus's stratagem, whereby

ie delivered his son-in-law out of the dangers he was in : but

when these reconciliations were over, they spent their time in

feastings and agreeable entertainments. And when Archelaus

was going away, Herod made him a present of seventy talents,

with a golden throne set with precious stones, and some eunuchs,

and a concubine who was called Pannychis. He also paid due

honours to every one of his friends according to their dignity.

In like manne'r did all the king's kindred, by his command, make

glorious presents to Archelaus; and so he was conducted on

his way by Herod and his nobility as far as Antioch.

CHAP. XXVI.

How* Eurycles calumniated the sons of Mariamne : and bt,v>

Euaratus of Cos's apology for them bad no effect.

f 1. "^T"O W a little afterward there came into Judea a man that

J.^1 was much superior to Archelaus's stratagems, who did

not onlyoverturnthatreconciliation that had ber.nsowiselymade

with Alexander, but proved the occasion of his ruin. He was a

Lacedemonian, and his name was Eurycles. He was so corrupt

a man, that out of the desire of getting money, he chose to live

under a king, for Greece could not suffice his luxury. He pre­

sented Herod with splendid gifts, as a bait which he laid in order

to compass his ends,and quickly receiving them back again mani­

fold; yet did he esteembare gifts asnothing, unless he imbrued the

kingdom in blood by his purchases. Accordingly, he imposed

upon the king by flattering him, and by talking subtily to him,

as also by the lying encomiums which he made upon him ; for

as he soon perceived Herod's blind side, so he said and did every

thing that might please him, and thereby became one of his most

intimate friends ; for both the king and all that were about him,

had a great regard for this+ Spartan, on account of his country.

2. -Now as soon as this fellow perceived the rotten parts of the

family, and what quarrels the brothers had one with another,

and

* This vile fellow, Eurycles the Lacedemonian, seems to have been the same  
who is mentioned by Plutarch, as is years before a companion to Mark Antony,

and as living with Herod ; whence he might easily insinuate himself into the
ac­

quaintance ef Hertd's sons, Antipater and Alexander, as Usher, Hudson, and

Spanheim justly suppose. The reason why his being a Spartan rendered him ac­

ceptable to the Jews, as we here see he was, is visible from the public
records of

the Jews and Spartans, owning those Spartans to be of kin to the Jews, and de»

rived from their common ancestor Abraham, the first patriarch of' the Jewish
na­

tion. Anfiq. B. XII. ch. iv. sect. 10. B. XIII. ch. v. sect. 8. Vol. II. and
I.

B' XII. ch. vil.

f See the preceding note.

