278 WARS OF THE JEW9. Book I.

5. Now Herod was an active man, and soon found proper

materials for his active spirit to work upon. As therefore he

found that Hezekias, the head of the robbers, ran over the neigh­

bouring parts of Syria with a great band of men, he caught him

and slew him, and many more of the robbers with him ; which

exploit was chiefly grateful to the Syrians, insomuch that hymns

were sung in Herod's commendation, both in the villages and in

the cities, as having procured their quietness, and having pre­

served what they possessed to them ; on which occasion he be­

came acquainted with Sextus Caesar, a kinsman of the great Cae­

sar, and president of Syria. A just emulation of his glorious

actions excited Phasaelus also to imitate him. Accordingly, he

procured the good-will of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, by his

own management of thecity-aiFairs, and did not abuse his power

in any disagreeable manner ; whence it came to pass, that the

nation paid Antipater the respects that were due only to a king,

and the honours they all yielded him were equal to the honours

due to an absolute lord; yet did he not abate any part of that

good-will or fidelity which he owed to Hyrcanus.

6. However, he found it impossible to escape envy in such

his prosperity ; for the glory of these young men affected even

Hyrcanus himself already privately, though he said nothing of it

to any body ; but what he principally was grieved at, was the

great actions of Herod, and that so many messengers came one be­

fore another, and informed him of the great reputation he got in

all his undertakings. There were also many people in the royal

palace itself, who inflamed his envy at him ; those, I mean, who

were obstructed in their designs by the prudence either of the

young men, or of Antipater. These men said, that by com­

mitting the public affairs to the management of Antipater and of

his sons, he sat down with nothing but the bare name of a king,

without any of its authority; and they asked him, how long he

would so far mistake himself, as to breed up kings against his

own interest ? for that they did not now conceal their government

of affairs any longer, but were plainly lords of the nation, and had

thrust him out of his authority ; that this was the case when He­

rod slew so many men without his giving him any command to

do it, either by word of mouth, or by his letter, and this in con­

tradiction to the law of the Jews ; who therefore, in case he be

not a king, but a private man, still ought to come to his trial, and

answer it to him, and to the laws of his country, which do not

permit any one to be killed, till he hath been condemned in judge­

ment.

7. Now

XIV. ch. ix. sect. i. and Of the W*r, B. II. eh. xi. sect. 6. and Polyb. B.
XVII,

P- 72-J- -

