232 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS.

little while afterward I walked along with him, as though I

would say something to him by himself, and, when I had drawn

him a good way from his friends, I took him about the middle,

and gave him to my friends that were with me, to carry him

into a village ; and, commanding my armed men to come down,

I wvth them made an assault upon Tiberias. Now, as the fight

grew hot on both sides, and the soldiers belonging to Tiberias

were in a fair way to conquer me, (for my armed men were al­

ready fled away), I saw the posture of my affairs ; and encoura­

ging those that were with me, I pursued those of Tiberias, even

when they were already conquerors, into the city. 1 also sent

another band of soldiers into the city by the lake, and gave them

orders to set on fire the first house they could seize upon. When

this was done, the people of Tiberias thought that their city was

taken by force, and so threw down their arms for fear, and im­

plored, they, their wives and children, that I would spare their

pity. So I was over-persuaded by their entreaties, and restrained

the soldiers from the vehemency with which they pursued them ;

while I myself, upon the coming on of the evening, returned

back with my soldiers, and went to refresh myself. I also invi­

ted Simon to sup with me, and comforted him on occasion of

what had happened ; and I promised that I would send him safe

and secure to Jerusalem, and withal would give him provision

for his journey thither. ,

64. But, on the next day, I brought ten thousand men with

me, and came to Tiberias. I then sent for the principal men of

the multitude into the public place, and enjoined them to tell me

who were the authors of the revolt; and when they had told

me who the men were, I sent them' bound to the city Jotapa.

But, ns to Jonathan and Ananias, I freed them from their bonds,

and gave them provisions for their journey, together with Simon'

and Joazar, and five hundred armed men who should guard them,

and so I sent them to Jerusalem. The people of Tiberias also

came to me again, and desired that I would forgive them for

what they had done, and they said they would amend what they

had done amiss with regard to me, by their fidelity for the time

to come ; and they besought me to preserve what spoils remain­

ed upon the plunder of the city, for those that had lost them.—

Accordingly, I enjoined those that had got them, to bring them

all before us ; and when they did not comply for a great while,

and I saw one of the soldiers that were about me with a garment

on that was more splendid than ordinary, I asked him whence he

had it; and he replied that he had it out of the plunder of the

city, I had him punished with stripes, and I threatened all the rest

to inflict a severer punishment upon them, unless they produced

before

