83 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIll.

soner, and this upon the news of the death of Caesar ; so he thrust

Agrippa from the couch whereon he lay, and said, " Dost thou

" think to cheat me by a lie about the emperor without punish-

'' ment ? and shall not thou pay for this thy malicious report

" at the price of thine head?" When he had so said, he ordered

Agrippa to be bound again, (for he had loosed him before), and

kept a severer guard over him than formerly, and in that evil

condition was Agrippa that night ; but the next day the rumour

increased in the city, and confirmed the news that Tiberius was

certainly dead ; insomuch that men durst now openly and freely

talk about it; nay, some offered sacrifices on that account. Se­

veral letters also came from Gains, one of them to the senate,

which informed them of the death of Tiberius, and of his own

entrance on the government; another to Piso, the governor of the

city, which told him the same thing. He also gave order that A-

grippa should be removed out of the camp, and go to that house

where he lived before he was put in prison ; so that he was now

1 out of fear as to his own affairs; for, although he were still in

custody, yet it was now with ease to his own affairs. Now, as

soon as Caius was come to Rome, and had brought Tiberius's

dead body with him, and had' made a sumptuous funeral for him,

according to the laws of his country, he was much disposed to

set Agrippa at liberty that very day, but Antonia hindered him ;

not out of any ill-will to the prisoner, but out of regard to decency

in Caius, lest that should make men believe that he received the

death of Tiberius with pleasure, when he loosed one whom he

Lad bound immediately. However, there did not many days

pass ere he sent for him to his house, and had him shaved, and

made him change his raiment, after which he put his diadem up­

on his head, and appointed him to be king of the tetrarchy of

Philip. He also gave him the tetrarchy of Lysanias *, and

changed his iron chain for a golden one of equal weight. He

also sent Marullus to be procurator of Judea.

11. Now, in the second year of the reign of Caius Caesar, A-

grippa desired leave to be given him to sail home, and settle the

affairs of his government, and he promised to return again, when

he had put the rest in order, as it ought to be put. So, upon the

emperor's permission, he came into his own country, and appear­

ed to them all unexpectedly as a king, and thereby demonstrated

to the men that saw him, the power of fortune, when they com­

pared his former poverty with his present happy affluence ; sg

some called him an happy man, and others could not well be­

lieve that things were so much changed with him for the better.

C H A P.

* Although Caius now promised to give Agrippa the tetrarchy of Lysanias,  
yet was it not actually conferred upon him till the reign of Claudius, a* we

learn, Antiq. B' XIX. chap. v. sect. i.

