82 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

lay, he was brought. Then Tiberius asked him, what he had to

say against a man who had given him his liberty ? Upon which

he said, " O my lord ! this Caius, and Agrippa with him, were

" once riding in a chariot, when I sat at their feet, and among

" other discourses that passed, Agrippa'said to Cains, O that the

" day would once come, when this old fellow will die, and

" name thee for the governor of the habitable earth ! for then

" this Tiberius, his grand-son, would bs no hindrance, but

" would be taken off by thee, and that earth would be happy,

" and I happy also." Now, Tiberius took these to be truly

Agrippa's words, and bearing a grudge withal at Agrippa, be­

cause, when he had commanded him to pay his respects* to Ti--

berius, his grandson, and the son of Drusus, Agrippa had not

paid him that respect, but had- disobeyed his commands, and

transferred all their regard to Caius ; he said to Macro, " Bind

'' this man." But Macro, not distinctly knowing which of them

it Was whom he bid him bind, and not expecting that he would

have any such thing done to Agrippa, he forbore, and eame to

ask more distinctly what it was that he said ? But, when Caesar

had gone round the hippodrome, he found Agrippa standing :

«' For certain," said he, " Macro, this is the man I meant to

" have bound:" and when he still asked, " Which of these is to

" be bound ?" he said, " Agrippa." Upon which Agrippa be­

took himself to make supplication for himself, putting him in

mind of his son, with whom he was brought up,' and of Tiberius

[his grandson] whom he had educated : but all to no purpose';

for they led him about bound even in his purple garments.

It was also very hot weather, and they had but little wine

to their meal, so that he was very thirsty ; he was also in a

sort of agony, and took this treatment of him heinously, as Ire

therefore saw one of Caius's slaves, whose name Was Tkuumat-

tus, carrying some water in a vessel, he desired that he would

let him drink ; so the servant gave him some water to drink,

and he drank heartily, and said, " O thou boy ! this service of

"thine to me will be for thy advantage; for, if I once get

*' clear of these my bonds, I will soon procure thee thy fre'6-  
" dom of Caius, who has not been wanting to minister to me

" now I am in bonds, in the same manner as when I was in

" my former state and dignity." Nor did he deceite him in

what he promised him, but macje him amends for what he had

now done ; for, when afterward Agrippa was come to the king*

dom, he took particular care of Thaumastus, and got him his li­

berty from Caius, and made him the steward over his own

estate ; and when he died, he left him to Agrippa his son, and to

Bernice his daughter, to minister to them in the same capacity.

The

