246 PREFACE.

language of our country, and sent to the Upper Barbarians *; I'

Joseph, the son of Matthias, by birth an Hebrew, a priest also,

and one who at first fought against the Romans myself, and was

forced to be present at what was done afterwards, [am the author

of this work].

2. Now at the time when this great concussion of affairs happen足

ed, the affairs of the Romans were themselves in great disorder.

Those Jews also, who were for innovations, then arose when the

limes were disturbed ; they were also in a flourishing condition

for strength and riches, insomuch that the affairs of the east were

then exceeding tumultuous, while some hoped for gain, and

others were afraid of loss in such troubles ; for the Jews hoped

that all of their nation which were beyond Euphrates would

have raised an insurrection together with them. The Galls al足

so, in the neighbourhood of the Romans, were in motion, and the

Celta e were not quiet ; but all was in disorder after the death of

Nero. And the opportunity now offered induced many to aim

at the royal power ; and the soldiery affected change, out of the

hopes of getting money. L thought it therefore an absurd thing

to see the truth falsified in affairs of such great consequence,

and to take no notice of it; but to suffer those Greeks and Ro足

mans that were not in the wars to be ignorant of these things, and

to read either flatteries or fictions, while the Parthians, and the

Babylonians, and the remotest Arabians, and those of our nation

beyond Euphrates, with the Adiabeni, by my means, knew accu足

rately both whence the war begun, what miseries it brought

upon us, and after what manner it ended.

3. It is true, these writers have the confidence to call their

accounts histories ; wherein yet they seem to me to fail of their

own purpose, as well as to relate nothing that is found. For

they have a mind to demonstrate the greatness of the Romans,

while they still diminish and lessen the actions of the Jews; as not"

discerning how it cannot be that those must appear to be great

who have only conquered those that were little. Nor are they

ashamed to overlook the length of the war, the multitude of the

Roman forces who so greatly suffered in it, or the might of the

commanders; whose great labours about Jerusalem will be.

deemed inglorious, if what they atchieved be reckoned but a:

small matter.

4. However,

* Who these Upper Barbarians, remote from the sea, were, Josephus himself  
will inform us, sect. 2. viz. the Parthians and Babylonians, and remotest
Arabi.

ans [or the Jews among them] ; besides the Jews beyond Euphrates, and the

Adiabeni, or Assyrians. Whence we also learn, that these Parthians, Babylo.

nians, the remotest Arabians [or at least the Jews among them], as also the

Jews beyond Euphrates, and tiie Adiibeni, or Assyrians, understood Josephus's

Hebrew, or rather Chaldiac, books of the Jewish War, before they were put into

the Greek language.

,

