THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS IOSEPHUS. 193

chelaus ; as was I born to Matthias on the first year of the rcigtl

of Caius Caesar. I have three sons ; Hyrcanus, the eldest, was

born on the fourth year of the reign of Vespasian, as was Justus

born on the seventh, and Agrippa on the ninth. Thus have I

set down the genealogy of my family as I have found it descri­

bed* in the public records, and so bid adieu to those who ca.

lumniate me, [as of a lower original.]

2. Now my father Matthias was not only eminent on account

of his nobility, but had a higher commendation on account of

his righteousness, and was in great reputation in Jerusalem, the

greatest city we have. I was myself brought up with my bro­

ther, whose name was Matthias, for he was my own brother,

by both father and mother ; and I made mighty proficiency in

the improvements of my learning, and appeared to have both

a great memory and understanding. Moreover, when I was a

child, and about fourteen years of age, I was commended by all

for the love 1 had to learning ; on which account the high-priests

and principal men of the city came then frequently to me toge­

ther, in order to know my opinion about the accurate understand­

ing of points of the law. And when I was about sixteen years old,

I had a mind to make trial of the several sects that were among

us. These sects are three ; the first is that of the Pharisees, the

second that of the Sadducees, and the third that of the Essens, as

we have frequently told you ; for I thought that by this means

I might chuse the best, if I were once acquainted with them all;

so I contented myself with hard fare, and underwent great diffi­

culties, and went through them all f. Nor did I content myself

with these trials only ; but when I was informed that one whose

name was Banus, lived in the desart, and used no other cloathing

than grew upon trees, and had no other food than what grew of

its own accord, and bathed himself in cold water frequently, both

by night and by day, in order to preserve his chastity, 1 imita­

ted him in those things, ;md continued with him three years f-

VOL. III. B b So

* An eminent example of the care of the Jews about their genealogies, espe -  
eially as to the priests See Contr. Ap' B. I. ch. 7."

t When Joseplms here says, that from sixteen to nineteen, or for three years,

he made trial of the three Jewish sects, the Pharisees, the Sadducecs, and the

Essens, and yet says presently, in all our copies, that he stayed besides with
one

particular ascetick, called Eanus, ira} iu-ru, with him, and this still before
he

was nineteen, there is little room left lor his trial of the thi ee other
sects. I

suppose, therefore, that for axf aura' uiitb him, the old reading might be
«,«/> iu-

vtil, with them; which is a very small emendation, and takes away the diffi­

culty before us. Nor is Dr Hudson's conjecture, hinted at by Mr H'all in his
pre­

face to the doctor s edition of Josephus, at all improbable, that this Banus,
by

this his description, might well be a follower of John the Baptist, and that
from

him Josephus might easily imbibe such notions, as afterward prepared him to

have a favourable opinion about Jesus Christ himself, who was attested to by

John the Bsptist.

