THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. £33

before us whatsoever they had plundered; and when a great

many spoils were brought together, I restored to every one of

Tiberias what they claimed to be their own.

65. And now I am come to this part of my narration, I have

a mind to say a few things to Justus, who hath himself written

an history concerning these affairs, as also to others who profess

to write history, but have little regard to truth, and are not

afraid, either out of ill-will or good-will to some persons, to re­

late falsehoods. These men do, like those who compose forged

deeds and conveyances ; and because they are not brought to the

like punishment with them, they have no regard to truth. When,

therefore, Justus undertook to write about these facts, and about

the- Jewish war, that he might appear to have been an industrious

man, he falsified in what he related about me, and could not speak

truth even about his own country ; whence it is, that being be­

lied by him, I am under a necessity to make my defence ; and so

I shall say what I have concealed till now. And let no one won­

der that I have not told the world these things a great while ago.

For although it be necessary for an historian to write the truth,

yet is such an one not bound severely to animadvert on the wick­

edness of certain men ; not out of any favour to them, but out

of an author's own moderation. How, then, comes rt to pass,

O Justus ! thou most sagacious of writers, (that I may address

myself to him as if he were here present), for so thou boastest

of.thyself, that 1 and the Galileans have been the authors of that

sedition which thy country engaged in both against the Romans

and against the king [Agrippa junior] ? For before ever I was

appointed governor of Galilee by the community of Jerusalem,

both thou and all the people of Tiberias had not only taken up

arms, but had made war with Dccapolisof Syria. Accordingly,

thou hadst ordered their villages to be burnt, and a domestic ser­

vant of thine fell in the battle. Nor is it I only who say this ;

but so it is written in the commentaries of Vespasian the empe­

ror, as also how the inhabitants of Decapolis came clamouring

to Vespasian at Ptolemais, and desired that thou, who wast the

author [of that war], mightest be brought to punishment. And

thou hadst certainly been punished at the command of Vespasian,

had not king Agrippa, who had power given him to have thee

put to death, at the earnest entreaty of his sister Bernice, chan­

ged the punishment from death into a long imprisonment.

Thy political administration of affairs afterward do also clearly

discover both thy other behaviour in life, and that thou wast the

occasion of thy country's revolt from the'Romans ; plain signs

of which I shall produce presently. 1 have also a mind to say

a few things to the rest of the people of Tiberias on thy account,

Irt.FoL. HI. " G g » and

