Chap. 1. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. , 119

regular times for these shews were now over, they had much ado

to get the business done on the last day. Then Cherea called the

conspirators together, and spake thus to them: " So much time

" passed away without e.ffect is a reproach to us, as delaying to

" go through such a virtuous design as we are engaged in ; but.

tc more fatal will this delay prove, if we be discovered, and the

" design be frustrated ; for Caius will then become more cruel

" in his unjust proceedings. Do not we see how long we de-

" prive all our friends of their liberty, and give Caius leave still

" to tyrannize over them ? while we ought to have procured

«' them security for the future, and, by laying a foundation for

" the happiness of others, gain to ourselves great admiration and

" honour for all time to come." Now, while the conspirators

had nothing tolerable to say by way of contradiction, and yet did

not quite relish what they were doing, but stood silent and asto­

nished, he said farther, " O, my brave comrades ! why do we

*' make such delays ? Do not you see that this is the last day of  
<* these shews, and that Caius is about to go to sea ? for he is

" preparing to sail to Alexandria, in order to see Egypt. Is'it

" therefore for your honour to let a man go out of your hands

" who is a reproach to mankind, and to permit him to go after

'1 a pompous manner, triumphing both at land at sea ? shall

" not we be justly ashamed of ourselves, if we give leave to

" some Egyptian or other, who shall think his injuries insuffer-

M able to free-men, to kill him ? As for myself, I will no longer

" bear your slow proceedings, but will expose myself to the dan-

'' gers of the enterprise this very day, and bear chearfully what-

" soever shall be the consequence of the attempt; nor, let them

" be evet so great, will I put them off any longer ; for, to a wise

'1 and courageous man, what can be more miserable than that,

«' while I am alive, any one else should kill Caius, and deprive

" me of the honour of so virtuous an action."

13. When Cherea had spoken thus, he zealously set about the

work, and inspired courage into the rest to go on with it, and

they were all eager to fall to it without farther delay. So he

was at the palace in the morning, with his equestrian sword girt

on him ; for it was the custom that the tribunes should ask for

the watch-word with their swords on, and this was the day on

which Cherea was, by custom, to receive the watch-word ; and

the multitude were already come to the palace, to be soon

enough for seeing the shews, and that in great crowds, and one

tumultuously crushing another, while Caius was delighted with

this eagerness of the multitude ; for which reason there was no

order observed in the seating men, nor was any peculiar place

appointed for the senators, or for the equestrian order; but

they

