152 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW3. Book XIX.

CHAP. VIII.

What other acts were done by Agrippa until his death ; and after

what, manner he died.

$ l-WHEN Agrippa had finished what I have above related

* * at Berytus, he removed to Tiberias, a city of Gali­  
lee. Now he was in great esteem among other kings. Accor­

dingly there came to him Antiochus, king of Commagena, Samp-

sigeramuSiking of Emesa, andCotys, who was king of the lesser

Armenia, and Polemo, who was king of Pontus, as also Herod his

brother, who was king of Chalcis. All these he treated with

agreeable entertainments, and after an obliging manner, and so

to exhibit the greatness of his mind, and so as to appear worthy

of those respects which the kings paid to him, by coming thus,

to see him. However, while these kings staid with him, Mar­

cus, the president of Syria, came thither. So the king, in order

to preserve that respect that was due to the Romans, went out of

the city to meet him, as far as seven furlongs. But this proved

to be the beginning of a difference between him and Marcus ;

for he took with him in his chariot those other kings as his as­

sessors. But Marcus had a suspicion what the meaning could be

of so great a friendship of these kings one with another, and did

not think so close an agreement of so many potentates to be for

the interest of the Romans. He therefore sent some of his do­

mestics to every one of them, and enjoined them to go their

ways home without farther delay. This was very ill taken by

Agrippa, who after that became his enemy. And now he took

the- high-priesthood away from Matthias, and made Elioneus,

the son of Cantheras, high-priest in his stead.

2. Now, when Agrippa had reigned three years all over Ju-

dea, he came to the city Cesarea, which was formerly called,

Strato's Tower ; and there he exhibited shows in honour of Cae­

sar, upon his being informed that there was a certain festival ce­

lebrated to make vows for his safety. At which festival, a great

multitude was gotten together of the principal persons, and such

as were of dignity through his province. On the second day of

which shows he put on a garment made wholly of silver, and of

a contexture truly wonderful, and came into the theatre early in

the morning; at which time the silver of his garment being il­

luminated by the fresh reflection of the sun's rays upon it, shone

out after a surprising manner, and was so resplendent as to spread

an horror over those that looked intently upon him ; and pre.

sently -his flatterers cried out, one from one place, and another

from another, (though not for his good), that " he was a god ;"

and

