290 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

however borrow of him zs much as might redeem his brother,

aiid put into his hands, as a pledge, the son of him that was to

be redeemed ; accordingly he led his brother's son along with

him, who was of the age of seven years. Now he was ready to

give three hundred talents for his brother, and intended to desire

the intecession of the Tyrians, to get them accepted ; however

fate had been too quick for his diligence ; and since Phasaelus

was dead, Herod's brotherly love was now in vain. Moreover,

he was not able to find any lasting friendship among the Arabi足

ans; for their king, Mali thus,,sent to him immediately, and com足

manded him to returnback out of his country, and used the name

of the Parthenians as a pretence for so doing, as though these had

denounced to him by their ambassadors to cast Herod out of

Arabia ; while in reality they had amind to keep back what they

owed to Antipater, and not be obliged to make requitals to his

sons for the free gifts the father had made them. He also

took the impudent advice of those who, equally with himself,

were willing to deprive Herod of what Antipater had deposited

among them ; and these men were the most potent of all whom

he had in his kingdom.

2. So when Herod had found that the Arabians were his ene足

mies,and this for those very reasons whence he hoped they would

have been the most friendly, and had given them such an answer as

hispassion suggested,he returnedback and went for Egypt. Now

he lodged the first evening at one of the temples of that country, in

order to meet with those whomhe left behind; but on the next day

word was brought him, as he was going to Rhinocurura, that his

brother was dead, and how he came by his death ; and when he

had lamented him as much as his present circumstances could

bear, he soon laid aside such cares, and proceeded on his journey.

But now, after some time, the king of Arabia repented of what

he had done, and sent presently away messengers to call him back:

Herod had prevented them, and was come to Pelusium, where he

could not obtain a passage from those that lay with the fleet, so

he besought their captains to let him go by them ; accordingly,

out of the reverence they bore to the fame and dignity of the

man, they conducted him to Alexandria; and when he came in足

to the city, he was received by Cleopatra with great splendour,

who hoped he might be persuaded to be commander of her for-*

ces in the expedition she was now about; but he rejected the

queen's solicitations,and being neither affrighted at the height of

that storm which then happened, nor at the tumults that were

now in Italy, he sailed for Rome. i

3. But as he was in peril about Pamphilia, and obliged to cast

cm the greatest part of the ships lading, he, with difficulty, got

