Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 191

will briefly run over this war again, with what befel us therein

to this very day, which is the thirteenth year of the reign of

Caesar Domitian, and the fifty-sixth year of my own life. I have

also an intention to write three books concerning our Jewish

opinions about God and his essence, and about our laws; why, ac­

cording to them, some things are permitted us to do, and others

are prohibited.

THE

where, whether he performed what he now intended or not. Some of the rea­

sons of this design of his might possibly be, his observation of the many
errors

he had been guilty of in the two first of those seven books of the War, which

were written when he was comparatively young, and less acquainted with the

Jewish antiquities than he now was, and in which abridgement we might have

hoped to find those many passages which himself, as well as those several
passa­

ges which others refer to, as written by him, but which are not extant in his

present works. However, since many of his own references to what he had

written elsewhere, as well as most of his own errors, belong to such early
times

as could not well come into this abridgement of the Jewish war i and since
none

of those that quote things not now extant in his works, including himself as
welt

as others, ever cite any such abridgement, 1 am forced rather to suppose that
he

never did publish any such work at all; I mean, as distinct from his own life,

written by himself, for an appendix to these Antiquities, and this at least
seven

years after these Antiquities were finished. Nor indeed does it appear to me

that Josephus ever published that other work here mentioned, as intended by
him

for the public also. I mean the three or four books concerning Cod and his «-

settee, and concerning the Jewish laws; why, according to them, some things

•were permitted the 'Jews, and others prohibited; which last seems to be the
same

work which Josephus had also promised, :/ God pirmitttd, at the conclusion of

his preface to these Antiquities; nor do 1 suppose that Tie ever published any
of

them. The death of all his friends at court, Vespasian, Titus, and Domitian,

and the coining of those he had no acquaintance with to the crown, I mean

fc'erva and Trajan, together with his removal from Rome to Judea, with what

followed it, might easily interrupt such his intentions, and prevent his
publica­

tion of those works.

