382 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

disturbance, he mixed his own soldiers in their armour with

the multitude, and ordered them to conceal themselves under

the habits of private men, and not indeed to use their swords,

but with their staves to beat thnSe that made the clamour. He

then gave the signal from his tribunal [to do as he had bidden

them]. Now the Jews were so sadly beaten, that many of

them perished by the stripes they received, and many of them

perished as trodden to death by themselves; by which means the

multitude was astonished at the calamity of those that were

slain, and held their peace.

5. In the mean time Agrippa, the son of that Aristobulus,

who had been slain by his father Herod, came to Tiberius, to

accuse Herod the tetrarch ; who not admitting of his accusa­

tion, he stayed at Rome, and cultivated a friendship with others

of the men of note, but principally with Caius the son of Ger-

manicus, who was then but a private person. Now this Agrippa>

at a certain time, feasted Caius; and .as he was very complai­

sant to him on several other accounts, he at length stretched out

his hands, and openly wished that Tiberius might die, and that

he might quickly see him emperor of the world. This was told

to Tiberius by one of Agrippa's domestics, who thereupon was

very angry, and ordered Agrippa to be bound, and had hint

very ill treated in the prison for six months, until Tiberius died,

after he had reigned twenty-two years six months and three days.

6. But when Caius was made Caeiar, he released Agrippa

from his bonds, and made him king of Philip's tetrachy, who

was now dead; but when Agrippa had arrived at that degree of

dignity, he euflaincd the ambitious desires of Herod the tetrarch,

who was chiefly induced to hope for the royal authority by his

wife Herodias, who reproached him for his sloth, and told him

that it WHS only because he would not sail to Caesar, that he was

destitute of that great dignity; forsince Caesar had made Agrippa

a king, from a private person, much more would he advance

him from a tetrarch to that dignity. These arguments pre­

vailed with Herod, so that he came to Caius, by whom he was

punishei for his ambition, by being banished into Spain ; for

Agrippa followed him, in order to accuse him; to whom also

Caius gave his tetrarchy, by way of addition. So Herod died

in Spain, whither his wife had followed him,

CHAP. X.

Caius commands that his statue should le set up in the temple

itself; and what Petronius did thereupon.

• 1- T^fO^ Caius Caesar did so grossly abuse the fortune he

had arrived at, as to take himself to be a god, and- to

desire

