Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 23

of the lower sort of men excited against him, the occasion of

which was as follows.

2. There was one Judas, the son of Saripheus, and Matthias,

the son of Margalothus, two of the most eloquent men among

the Jews, and the most celebrated interpreters of the Jewish'

laws, and men well beloved by the people, because of their edu­

cation of their youth ; for all those that were studious of virtue

frequented their lectures every day. These men, when they

found that the king's distemper was incurable, excited the young

men that they would pull down all those works which the king

had erected contrary to the law of their fathers, and thereby ob­

tain the rewards which the law will confer on them for such,

actions of piety ; for that it was truly on account of Herod's

rashness in making such things as the law had forbidden, that

his other misfortunes, and this distemper also, which was so un­

usual among mankind, and with which he was now afflicted, came

upon him : for Herod had caused such things to be made, which

were contrary to the law, of which he was accused by Judas and

Matthias ; for the king had erected over the great gate of the

temple a large golden eagle, of great value, and had dedicated it

to the temple. Now, the law forbids those that propose to live

according to it, to erect images * or representations of any living

creature. So these wise men persuaded [their scholars] to pull

down the golden eagle ; alledging, that '' although they should

" incur any danger, which might bring them to their deaths,

" the virtue of the action now proposed to them would appear

" much more advantageous to them than the pleasures of life;

u since they would die for the preservation and observation of

" the law of their fathers ; since they would also acquire an ever-

w lasting fame and commendation ; since they would be both

" commended by the present generation, and leave an example

" of life that would never be forgotten to posterity ; since that

" common calamity of dying cannot be avoided by our living so>

" as to escape any such dangers ; that therefore it is a right thing

'' for those who are in love with a virtuous conduct, to wait for

" that fatal hour by such a behaviour as may carry them out of

" the world with praise and honour ; and that this will alleviate

" death to a great degree, thus to come at it by the perform-

" ance of brave actions, which bring us into danger of it; and

" at the same time, to leave that reputation behind them to their

" children, and to all their relations, whether they be men or

" women, which will be of great advantage to them afterward."

j. And with such discourses as this- did these men excite the

young

* That the making of images, without an intention to worship them, was not  
unlawful to the Jews, see the note on Antiq' B. V'Ul. ch. vii. { 5.

