Chap. VIII. AN-TIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. ©1

angry at her, and sent her with Herod into banishment, and gave

her estate to Agrippa. And thus did God punish Herodias for

her envy at her brother, and Herod also for giving ear to the

vain discourses of a woman. Now, t/aius managed public af­

fairs with great magnanimity, during the first and second year of

his reign, and behaved himself with such moderation, that he

gained the good-will of the Romans themselves, and of his other

subjects. But, in process of time, he went beyond the bounds of

human nature, in his conceit of himself, and by reason of the vast-

ness of his dominions, made himself a god, and took upon him-

«elf to a'ct in 'all -things to the reproach of the Deity itself.

CHAP. VIII.

Concerning * the amlassqge of the Jews to Caius ,- and Ixw Caius

sent Petronius into Syria to make war against the Jew, unless

they would receive bis statue.

§ 1. ' I 'HERE was now a tumult arisen al Alexandria, between

the Jewish inhabitants and the Greeks ; and three f

ambassadors were chosen out of each party that were at variance,

who came to Caius. Now, one of these ambassadors from the

people of Alexandria, was Apion, who uttered many blasphemies

against the Jews ; and, among other things that he said, he char­

ged them with neglecting the honours that belonged to Caesar; for

that while all who were subject to the Roman empire b,uilt altars

and temples to Caius, and in other regards universally received

him as they received the gods. these Jews alone thought it a dis­

honourable thing for them to erect statues in honour of him, as

well as to swear by his name. Many of these severe things were

said by Apion, by which he hoped to provoke Caius to anger at

the Jews, as he was likely to be ; but Philo, the principal of

the Jewish ambassage, a man eminent on all accounts, brother to

M 2 Alexander

» This is a most remarkable chapter, as containing such instances of the in-

terpocition of Providence, as have been always 'very rare among the other ido­

latrous nations, but of old very many among the pos erify ot Abraham, the wor­

shippers of the time God; nor do these seem much inferior to those in the OM

Testament, which are the more remarkable, because, among all other follies and

vices, the Jews were not at this time idolaters; and the deliverances here
men-

tioned were done in order to prevent their relapse into that idolatry'

t Josephus here assures us. that the ambassadors from Alexandria to' Cains

were on each part no more than three in number, for the Jews, and for the Gen.

tiles' which are but six in all: whereas Philo, who was the principal ambassa­

dor from the Jews, as Josepnus here confesses (as was Apion for the Gentiles),

viys, the Jews ambassadors were themselves no fewer than five, towards the end

of his legation to Caius; which, if there be no nrstake in the copies, must be

Supposed the truth ; nor, in that case, would Josephus have contradicted so
au­

thentic a witness, had he sven that account of Philo's«; which that he ever
did,

Mies not appear.

