Chap. XXIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 9S9

prevailed upon cunningly by his flatteries, and changed the mar­

riages ; he married Aristobulus's daughter to him, and his son

to Pheroras's daughter.

0. Now one may learn, in this instance, how very much this

flattering Antipater could do, even what Salome in the like cir­

cumstances could not do ; for when she, who was his sister, and

who, by the means of Julia, Caesar's wife, earnestly desired leave

to be married to Sylleus the Arabian, Herod swore he would

esteem her his bitter enemy, unless she would leave off that pro­

ject: he also eaused her, against her own consent, to be married

to Alexas^ a friend of his, and that one of her daughters should

be married to Alexas's son, and the other to Antipater's uncle

by the mother's side. And for the daughters the king had by

Mariambe, the one was married to Antipater, his sister's son,

and the other to his brother's son, Phasaelus.

CHAP. XXIX.

Antipater becomes Intolerable. He is sent to Rome, and carries

Herod's testament viith him- Pheroras leaves his brother,

that be may keep his wife. He dies at home.

J 1. '^^T'OW when Antipater had cut off the hopes of the or-

JL.NI phans, and had contracted such affinities as would be

most for his own advantage, he proceeded briskly, as having a

certain expectation of the kingdom, and as he had now assur­

ance added to his wickedness, he became intolerable ; for not

being able to avoid the hatred of all people, he built his security

Upon the terror he struck into them. Pheroras also assisted him

in his designs, looking upon him as already fixed in the kingdom.

There Was also a company of women in the court, which ex­

cited new disturbances ; for Pheroras's wife, together with her

mother and siste^ as also Antipater's mother, grew very im­

pudent in the palace. She also was so insolent as to affront the

king's * two daughters, on which account the king hated her to

a great degree; yet although these women were hated by him, '

they domineered over others: there was only Salome who op­

posed their good agreement, and informed the king of their

meetings, as not being for the advantage of his affairs. And

when those women knew what calamities she had raised against

them, and how much Herod was displeased, they left off their

public meetings, and friendly entertainments of one another;

« These daughters of Herod, whom Pheroras's wife affronted, were Salome and

Roxana, two virgins, who were born to him of his two wives, Elpide and Phedra.

S«e Herod's genealogy, Antiq. B. XVII. ch. i. sect 3. Vol. III.

- U U 2'

