. XX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 433

they neglect the care of other parts of the country, but Joseph

the son of Simon, was sent as a general to Jericho, as was Ma-

nasseh to Perea, and John, the Essene, to the toparchyof Thama-

na; Lydda was also added to his portion, and Joppa, and Em-

maus. But John, the son of Matthias, was made governor of

the toparchies of Gophnitica, and Acrabattene, as was Josephus,

the son of Matthia-s of both the Galilees. Gamala also, which

was the strongest city in those parts, was put under his com-

mand.

5. So every one of the other commanders administered the af­

fairs of his portion with that alacrity and prudence they were

masters of; but as to Josephus, when he came into'Galilee, his

first care was to gain the good-will of the people of that country,

as sensible that he should thereby have in general good success,

although he should fail in other points. And being concious to

himself that if he communicated part of his power to the great

men, he should make them his fast friends; and that he should

gain the same favour from the multitude, if he executed his

commands by persons of their own country, and with whom

they were well acquainted; he chose out * seventy of the most

prudent men, and those elders in age, and appointed them to be

rulers of all Galilee, as he chose seven judges in every city to

hear the lesser quarrels; for as to the greater causes, and those

wherein life and death were concerned, he enjoined they should

be brought to him, and the seventy elders.

6. Josephus also, when he had settled these rulesfor determin­

ing causes by the law, with regard to the people's dealings one

with another, betook himself to make provisions for their safety

against

* We §ee here, and in Josephus's account of his own life, § 14. Vol' HI. how ex­  
actly he imitated his legislator Moses, or perhaps only obeyed wh»t he took to
be

Tiis perpetual law, in appointing seven lesser judges, for smaller causes, in
particu­

lar cities, and peihapsfor the first hearing of greater causes, with the
liberty of an

appeal to seventy-one supreme judges, especially in those causes where life
and

death were concerned; as Antiq. B. IV. ch. viii. § 14. Vol. 1. and of his
life, §

14. See also Of the War, B. IV. ch. v. § 4. Vol. IV. Moreover we find, § 7.

that he imitated Moses, as well as the Romans, in the number and distribution
of

the subaltern officers of his army, as Exod. xviii. 25. Deut. i. 15. and in
his charge

against the offences common among soldiers, as Deut. xxiii' 6. in all which he

shewed his great wisdom, and piety, and skilful conduct in martial affairs.
Yet

may we discern in his very high character of Ananus the high-priest, B. IV.
ch. v.

§ a. who seems to have been the same who conducted St James, Bishop of
Jerusa>-

Jem, to be stoned, under Albinus the procurator, ttiat when he wrote these
book*

of the War, he was not so much as an Ebionite Christian; otherwise he would

not have failed, according to his usual cnstom, to have reckoned this his
barbarous

murder, as a just punishment upon him for that his cruelty to the chief, or
rather

,only Christian bishop of the circumcision. Nor, had he been then a Christian,

could he immediately have spoken so movirgly of the causes of the destruction
of

Jerusalem, without one word of either jhe condemnation of James, or c

.of Ohrist, as he did when he was become a Christian afterward.

VOL, III. 3 I

