38* WARS OF THE JEWS. Book 1L

the multitude of the supplicants, and "by their supplications,

and left his army ai:d the statues at Ptolemais, and then went

forward into Galilee, and called together the multitude, and all

the men of note to Tiberias, and shewed them the power of the

Romans, and the threatenings of Caesar; and, besides this,

proved that their petition was unreasonable, because while all

the nations in subjection to them had placed the images of Cae­

sar in their several cities, among the rest of their gods, for

them alone to oppose it, was almost like the behaviour of re-

volters, and was injurious to Ccesar.

4. And when they insisted on their law, and the custom of

their country, and how it was not only not permitted them to

make either an image of God, or indeed of a man, and to put

it in any despicable part of their country, much less in the

temple itself; Petronius replied, " And am not I also, said he,

" bound to keep the law of my own lord? For if I transgress

" it, and spare you, it is but just that 1 perish; while he that

" sent me, and not I, will commence a war against you; for I

" am under command as well as you." Hereupon the .whole

multitude cried out, That " they are ready to suffer for their

" law." Petronius then quieted them, and said to them,

" Will you then make war against Caesar?" The Jews said,

" We offer sacrifices twice every day for Caesar, and for the Ro-

" man people; but that if he would place the images among

" them, he must first sacrifice the whole Jewish nation; and

" that they were ready to expose themselves, together with

" their children arid wives, to be slain." At this Petronius

was astonished, and pitied them on account of the inexpressible

sense of religion the men were under, and that courage of theirs

which made them ready to die for it; so they- were dismissed

without success.

5. But on the following flays, he got together the men of

power privately, and the multitude publicly, and sometimes he

used persuasions to them, and sometimes he tave them his ad­

vice; but he chiefly made use ot threatening^ to them, and insisted

upon the power of the Romans, and the anger of Caius; and be­

sides, upon the necessity he was himself unler [to do as he was

enjoined]. But as they could be no way prevailed upon, and

he saw that the country was iu danger of lying without tillage;

for it was about seed time that the multitude continued for fifty

days together idle; so he at last got them together, and told

them, That " it was best for him to run some hazard himself;

" for either, by the divine assistance, I shall prevail with Caesar,

" and shall myself escape the danger as well as you, which will

'•' be matter of joy to us both; or, in case Caesar continue in hi*

