Chap. XXXII. 351 WARS &F THE JEWS.

** hatred that was in the kingdom against me. It was thou, O  
" father, however unwillingly, who hast been my ruin, by

forcing me to allow time for calumnies against me, and envy

" at me. However, I am come hither, and am ready to hear

" the evidence there is against me. If 1 be a parricide, 1 have

" passed by land and by sea, without suffering any misfortune

" on either of them : but this method of trial is no advantage

" to me; for it seems, O father, that I am already condemned,

" both before God and before thee; and as 1 am already con-

demned, I beg that thou wilt not believe the others that have

" been tortured, but let fire be brought to torment me; let the

" racks march through im bowels; have no regard to any

" lamentations that this polluted body can make; for if I be

" a parricide, I ought not to die without torture." Thus did

Antipater cry out with lamentation and weeping, and moved

all the rest, and Varus in particular, to commiserate his case-

Herod was the only person whose passion was too strong to per*

mit him to weep, as knowing that the testimonies against hira.

were true. . :\

4. And now it was, that at the king's command, Nicolaus,

when he had premised a great deal about the craftiness of Anti-

pater, and had prevented the effects of their commiseration to

him, afterwards brought in a bitter and large accusation against

him, ascribing all the wickedness that had been in the kingdom

to him, and especially the murder of his brethren, and demon­

strated that they had perished by the calumnies he had raised

against them- He also said that he had laid designs against them

that were still alive, as if they were laying plots for the succes­

sion; and (said he) how can it be supposed that he who pre­

pared poison for his father, should abstain from mischief as to

his brethren? He then proceeded to convict him of the attempt

to poison Herod, and gave an account in order of the several

discoveries that had been made, and had great indignation as tj

the affair of Pheroras, because Antipater had been for making-

him murder his brother, and had corrupted those that were

dearest to the king, and filled the whole palace with wickedness;

and when he had insisted on many other accusations, and the

proofs for them, he left off.

5. Then Varus bid Antipater make his defence; but he lay

along in silence, and said no more but this, " God is my witness

" that I am entirely innocent." So Varus asked for the potion,

and gave it to be drunk by a condemned malefactor, who was

then in prison, who died upon the spot. So Varus, when he

had had a very private discourse with Herod, and had written

an account of this assembly to Csesar, went away, after a days

