202 THE LIFE OF F1AVIUS IOSEPHU3.

voluntarily, but only out of fear of the multitude, since, if I'

had forbidden him, I should have been stoned by them. -When

I had therefore permitted this to be done by John, he gained

vast sums of money by this his knavery.

14. But when I had dismissed my fellow-legates, and sent

them back to Jerusalem, I took care to have arms provided, and

the cities fortified. And, when 1 had sent for the most hardy

among the robbers, I saw that it was not in my power to take

their arms from them ; but I persuaded the multitude to allow

them money as pay, and told them it was better for them to

give them a little willingly, rather than to [be forced to] over­

look them when they plundered their goods from them. And

when I had obliged them to take an oath not to come into that

country, unless they were invited to come, or else when they

had not their pay given them, I dismissed them, and charged

them neither to make an expedition against the Romans, nor

against those their neighbours that lay round about them ; for

my first care was to keep Galilee in peace. So I was willing

to have the principal of the Galileans, in all seventy, as hostages

for their fidelity, but still under the notion of friendship. Ac­

cordingly, I made them my friends and companions as I jour­

neyed, and set them to judge causes; and with their approba­

tion it was that I gave my sentences, while I endeavoured not

to mistake what justice required, and to keep my hands clear of

all bribery in these determinations.

15. I was now about the thirtieth year of my age ; in which

time of life it is a hard thing for any one to escape the calumnies

of the envious, although he restrain himself from fulfilling any

unlawful desires, especially where a person is in great authority.

Yet did I preserve every woman free from injuries ; and, as to

what presents were offered me, I despised them, as not standing

in need of them. Nor indeed would I take those tithes, which

were due to me as a priest, from those that brought them. Yet

do I confess, that I took part of the spoils of those Syrians which

inhabited the cities that adjoined to us, when I had conquered

them, and that I sent them to my kindred at Jerusalem; although,

when I twice took Sepphoris by force, and Tiberias four times,

and Gadara once, and when I had subdued and taken John, who

, often laid treacherous snares for me, I did not punish [with

death] either him or any of the people fore-named, as the pro-

gress of this discourse will shew. And on this account, I sup­

pose, it was that God *, who is never unacquainted with those

that

* Our Josephus shews, both here and every where, that he was a most religious  
person' and one that had a deep sense of -od and his providence upon his mind,

and ascribed all his numerous and wonderful escapes and preservations, in
times

*[' i'anger, to God's blessing him, and taking care of him, and this on account  
of bis acts of piety, justice, humanity, and charity, to the Jews his
brethren.

