. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 45

fus, who brought their soldiers along with them, together with

those Romans who had been besieged : but Sabinus did not come

into Varus's presence, but stole out of the city privately, and

went to the sea-side.

' 10. Upon this Varus sent a part of his army into the country,

to seek out those that had been the authors of the revolt; and

when they were discovered, he punished some of them that were

most guilty, and some he dismissed : now the number of those

that were crucified on this account we're two thousand. After

which he disbanded his army, which he found nowise useful to

him in the affairs he came about; for they behaved themselves

very disorderly, and disobeyed his orders, and what Varus de­

sired them to do, and this out of regard to that gain which they

made by the mischief they did. As for himself, when he was

informed that ten thousand Jews had gotten together, he mad*

haste to catch them ; but they did not proceed so far as to fight

him, but, by the advice of Achiabus, they came together, and

delivered themselves up to him : hereupon Varus forgave the

prime of revolting to the multitude, but sent their several com­

manders to Caesar, many of whom Caesar dismissed ; but for the

several relations of Herod who had been among these men in this

war, they were the only persons whom he punished, who, with,

put the least regard to justice, fought against their own kindred.

CHAP. XI.

,rf« anibatsage of the Jews to Casar ; and imu Casar confirmed

Herod's testament,

§ i. CO when Varus had settled these affairs, and had placed

^ the former legion at Jerusalem, he returned back to

Antioch ; but as for Archelaus, he had new sources of trouble

come upon him at Rome, on the occasions following : for an am-

bassage of the Jews was come to Rome, Varus having permit­

ted the nation to send it, that they might petition for the liberty

of living by their own laws *. Now, the number of the am­

bassadors that were sent by the authority of the nation was fifty,

to which they joined above eight thousand of the Jews that were

at Rome already. Hereupon Caesar assembled his friends, and

'the chief men among the Romans, in the temple of Apollo f,

which he had built at a vast charge ; whither the ambassadors

came, and a multitude of the Jews that were there already, came

with them, as did also Archelaus and his friends ; but as for

the several kinsmen which Archelaus had, they would not join

themselves

« See Of the War, B. II. ch. ii. sect. 3.

t Set the note, Of the Ww, B. It. eh. vi. sect' i.

