400 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II,

in order to perform a * vow which she had made to God; for

it is usual with those that had been either afflicted with a dis­

temper, or with any other distresses, to make vows ;' and for

thirty days before they are to offer their sacrifices, to abstain

from wine, and to shave tire hair of their head. Which things

Bernice was now performing, and stood barefoot before Florus's

tribunal, and besought him [to spare the Jews]. Yet could she

neither have any reverence paid to her, nor could she escape

without some danger of being slain herself.

2. This happened upon the sixteenth day of the month Arte-

misius, [Jyar]. Now on the next day, the multitude, who were

hi a great agony, ran together to the upper market-place, and

made the loudest lamentations for those that had perished; and

the greatest part of the cries were such as reflected on Florus;

at which the men of power were affrighted, together with the

high-priests, and rent their garments, and fell down before each

of them, and besought them to leave off, and not to provoke

Florus to some incurable procedure, besides what they had al­

ready suffered. Accordingly, the multitude complied imme­

diately, out of reverence to those that had desired it of them,

and out of the hope they had that Florus would do them no

more injuries.

3' So Florus was troubled that the disturbances were over,

and endeavoured to kindle that flame again, find sent for the high-

priests, with the other eminent persons, and said, The only de­

monstration that the people would not make any other innova­

tions should be this, that they must go out and meet the soldiers

that

* This vow which Bernice (here and elsewhere called Queen, not only as daugh­  
ter and sister to two kings, Agrippa the Great, and Agrippa junior, but the
wi­

dow of Herod king of Chalci'-) came now to accomplish at Jerusalem, was not

that of a Nazarite, but such an one as religious Jews used to make in hopes of
any

deliverance from a disease, or other danger, as Josephus here intimates.
However,

these thirty days abode at Jerusalem, for fasting and preparation against the
obla­

tion of a proper saoifice, seems to be too long, uij!«ss it were wholly
voluntary in

this great lady. It is not required in the law of Moses relating to Nazarites,
Numb.

vi. and is very different from St Paul's time for tuch preparation, which was
but

one day, Acts xxi 26. So we want already the continuation of the Antiquities,

to afford us light here, as they have hitherto done, on so many occasions
elsewhere.

Perhaps in this age the traditions of the Pharisees had obliged the Jews to
this de­

gree of rigour, not only as to these thirty days preparation, but as to the
going

barefoot all that time, which here Bernice submitted to also. For we know that

ei God's and our Siviour's yoke is usually easy, and his burden comparatively
light,

in such positive injunctions, Mat. xi. 30. so did the Scribes and Pharisees
some­

times " bind upon men heavy burdens, and grievous to be born," even when

" they themselves would not touch them with one of their fingers," Mat. xxiii.
4.

Luke xi. 46. However, Noldius well observes, Be Herod. No. 404, 414. that

Juvenal, in his sixth satire, alludes to this remarkable ptnance of submission
of this

Bernice to Jewish discipline,'and jests upon her for it; as do Tacitus, Dio,
Sueto­

nius, and Sextus Aurelius mention her as one well known at Rome, it:j'

