424 WARS OF THE JEWS, Book II.

thousand of them lay dead upon heaps ; nor had the remainder

been preserved,had they not betaken themselves to supplication.

So Alexander commiserated their condition, and gave orders to

the Romans to retire: accordingly, these being accustomed to

obey orders, left off killing at the first intimation ; but the po­

pulace of Alexandria bare so very great hatred to the Jews, that

it was difficult to recal them, and it was an hard thing to make

them leave their dead bodies.

0. And this was the miserable calamity which at this time

befel the Jews at Alexandria. Hereupon Cestius thought fit no

longer to lie still, while the Jews were every where up in arms;

so he lookout of Antioch the twelfth legion entire, and out of each

of the rest he selected two thousand, with six cohorts of footmen,

and four troops of horsemen,besides those auxiliaries which were

sent by the kings; of which* Antiochus sent two thousand horse­

men, and three thousand footmen, with as many archers ; and

Agrippa sent the same number of footmen, and one thousand

horsemen ; Sohemus also followed with four thousand, a third

part whereof were horsemen, but most part were archers, and

thus did he march to Ptolemais. There were also great num­

bers of auxiliaries gathered together from the [free] cities, who

indeed had not the sameskillin martial affairs,but madeupin their

alacrity,andin their hatred to the Jews what they wanted in skill.

There came also along with Cestius, Agrippa himself, both as a

guide in his march of the country, and a director what was fit to

be done; so Cestius took part of his forces, and marched hastily

to Zabulon, a strong city of Galilee, which was called the city

of men, and divides the country of Ptolemais from our nation:

this he found deserted by its men, the multitude having fled to

the mountains, but full of all sorts of good things j those he gave

leave to the soldiers to plunder, and set fire to the city, although

it was of admirable beauty, and had its houses built like those in

Tyre, and Sidon, and Berytus. After this he over-ran all the

country, and seized upon whatsoever came in his way, and set

fire to the villages that were round about them, and then return­

ed to Ptolemais. But when the Syrians, and especially those of

Berytus, were busy in plundering, the Jews pulled up their cou­

rage again, for they knew that Cestius was retired, and fell upon

those that were left behind unexpectedly, and destroyed about

two thousand of them.

10. And now Cestiushimself marched from Ptolemais and came

to Cesarea; but he sent part of his army before him to Joppa,

and

* Spanheim notes on the place, that this later Antiochui, who wai called Efi-  
ptamei, is mentioned by Dio, LIX. page 645. and that he is mentioned by Josi
phus-

elsewhere twice al»o, B. V. ch' xi. § 3. vol. 111. and Aatiq. B, XIX, cb,
tiii. $ it

vol III.

