43-6 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

great things, and he encouraged his hopes from those mean wick­

ed tricks which he was the author of. He had a peculiar knack

at thieving; but in some time he got certain companions in his

impudent practices; at first they were but few, but as he pro­

ceeded on in his evil course, they became still more and more

numerous. He took care that none of his partners should be

easily caught in their rogueries, but chose such out of the rest

as had the strongest constitutions of body, and the greatest cou­

rage of soul, together with great skill in martial affairs; so he

got together a band of four hundred men, who came principally

out of the country of Tyre, and were vagabonds that had run

away from its villages; and by the means of these he laid waste

all Galilee, and irritated a considerable number, who were in,

great expectation of a war then suddenly to arise among them.

2. However John's want of money had hitherto restrained him

in his ambition after command, and in his attempts to advance

himself. But when he saw that Josephus was highly pleased

with the activity of his temper, he persuaded him, in the first

place, to intrust him with the repairing of the walls of his na­

tive city [Gischala], in which work he got a great deal of mo­

ney from the rich citizens. He after that contrived a very

shrewd trick, and pretending that the Jews who dwelt in Syria

were obliged to make use of oil that was made by others than

those of their own nation, he desired leave of Josephus to send

oil to their borders: so he bought four amphorae with such Ty-

rian money as was of the value of four Attic drachmae, and1

sold every half amphoric at the same price. And as Galilee

was very fruitful in oil, and was peculiarly so at that time, by

sending away great quantities, and having the sole privilege so

10 do, he gathered an immense sum of money together, which

money he immeditatelyusedtothe disadvantage of him who gave

him that privilege; and, as he supposed, that if he could once

overthrow Josephus, he shouldhimself obtain the government of

Galilee, so he gave order to the robbers that were under his

command, to be more zealous in their thievish expeditions, that

by the rise of many that desired innovations in the country, he

might either catch their general in his snares, as he came to the

country's assistance, and then kill him; or if he should overlook'

the robbers, he might accuse him for his negligence to the peo­

ple of the country. He also s-pread abroad a report far and near;

that Josephus was delivering up the administration of affairs

to the Romans; and many such plots did he lay, in order t»

ruin him.

3. Now at the same time that ceftian young men of the vil­

lage Dabaritta, who kept guard in the great plain, laid snar&S

for

