Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 435

war, even before it came to any battle, in case they would ab­

stain from the crimes they used to indulge themselves in, such

as theft, and robbery, and rapine, and from defrauding their

own countrymen, and never to esteem the harm done to those

that were so near of kin to them, to be any advantage to them­

selves ; for that wars are then managed the best when the war­

riors preserve a good conscience ; but that such as are ill men

in private life, will not only have those for enemies which at­

tack them, but God himself also for their antagonist.

8. And thus did he continue to admonish them. Now he chose

for the war such an army as was sufficient, i. e. sixty thousand

footmen, and* two hundred and fifty horsemen: and besides

these, on which he put the greatest trust, theie were about four

thousand five hundred mercenaries; he had also six hundred men

as guards of his body. Now the cities easily maintained the rest

of his army, excepting the mercenaries, for every one of the ci­

ties enumerated above sent out half their men to the army, and

retained the other half at home, in order to get provisions for .

them; insomuch that the one part went to the war, and the

other part to their work, and so those that sent out their corn

were paid for it by those that were in arms, by that security

which they enjoyed from them.

CHAP. XXI.

Concerning 'John ofGiscbala. Jotepbus uses stratagems against

the plots John laid against him ; and recovers certain cities

,which bad revolted from him.

§ 1. "V'TO Was Josephus was thusengagedin the administration "

.LNI of the affairs of Galilee, there arose a treacherous

person, a man of Gischala, the son of Levi, whose name was

John. His character was that of a very cunning, and very

knavish person, beyond the ordinary rate of the other men of

eminence there, and for wicked practices he had not his fellow

any where. Poor he was at first, and for a long time his wants

were an hinderance to him in his wicked designs. He was a ready

liar, and yet very sharp in gaining credit to his fictions; he

thought it a point of virtue to delude people, and would delude

even such as were the dearest to him. He was an hypocritical

pretender to humanity, but where he had hopes of gain, he

spared not the shedding of blood: his desires were ever carried to

great

* I should think that an army of 60,000 footmen should require many more  
than 2'co hortemen ; and we find Josephus had more horsemen under his command'

than 250 in his f-n'ire history. 1 suppose [he number of the thousands is
dropt

in our present copies.

3 I 2

