TO ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

the means of those bribes which they had taken. And when

Artabanus perceived that the plot laid against him was not to be

avoided, because it was laid by the principal men, and those a

great many in number, and that it would certainly take effect;

when he had estimated the number of those that were truly

faithful to him, as also of those who were already corrupted, but

were deceitful in the kindness they professed to him, and were

likely, upon trial, to go over to his enemies, he made his escape

to the upper provinces, where he afterwards raised a great army

out of the Dabae and Sacae, and fought with his enemies, and re­

tained his principality.

5. When Tiberius had heard of these things, he desired to have

a league of friendship made between him and Artabanus; and

when, upon this invitation, he received the proposal kindly, Ar­

tabanus and Vitellius went to Euphrates, and as a bridge was laid

over the river, they each of them came with their guards about

them, and met one another on the midst of the bridge. And when

they had agreed upon the terms of peace, Herod the tetrach erect­

ed a rich tent on the midst of the passage, and made them a feast

there, Artabanus also, not long afterward, sent his son Darius, as

an hostage, with many presents, among which there was a man

seven cubits tall, a Jew he was by birth, and his name was Elect-

zar, who, for his tallness, was called a giant. After which Vi­

tellius went to Antioch, and Artabanus to Babylon ; but Herod

Tthe tetrarch] being desirous to give Caesar the first information

that they had obtained hostages, sent posts with letters, wherein

he had accurately described all the particulars, and had left no­

thing for the consular Vitellius to inform him of. But when

Vitellius's letters were sent, and Caesar had let him know that he

was acquainted with the affairs already, because Herod had given

him an account of them before, Vitellius was very much troubled

at it; and supposing that he had been thereby a greater sufferer

than he really was, he kept up a secret anger upon this occasion,

till he could be revenged on him, which was after Caius had

taken the goverment.

6. About this time it was that Philip, Herod's brother, de­

parted this life, in the twentieth year * of the reign of Tiberius,

after

* This calculation from all Josephus's Greek copies, is exactly right i for since  
Herod died about September, in the 4th year before the Christian aera, and Ti­

berius ,began, it is well known, Aug. 19. A. D. 14. it is evident that the
37th

year of Philip, reckoned from his father's death, was the 20th of Tiberius, or

near the end of A. D. 33. (the very year of our Saviour's death also), or,
how.

ever, in the beginning of the next year, A.D. 34. This Philip the tetrarch
seems

to have been the best ot all the posterity of Herod, for his love of peace,
and his

love of justice.

