Chap. I. THE ANTIQJJITIES Of THE JEWS. ' . S

preventing his pernicious designs. Although Antipafer's

uncle by the mother's side were married to her daughter, and

,this by his own connivance and management, while she had

before been married to Aristobulus, and while Salome's other

daughter by that husband were married to the son of Calleas ;

yet that marriage was no obstacle to her, who knew how

wicked he was, in her discovering his designs, as her former

kindred to him could not prevent her hatred of him. Now

Herod had compelled Salome, while she was in love with Syl-

leus the Arabian, and had taken a fondness for him, to marry

Alexas.; which match was by her submitted to at the instance

of Julia, who persuaded Salome not to refuse it, lest she should

herself be their open enemy, since Herod had sworn that he

would never be friends with Salome, if she would not accept

of Alexas for her husband ; so she submitted to Julia as being

Caesar's wife, and, besides that, she advised her to nothing

but what was very much for her own advantage. At this

time,' also, it was that Herod sent back King Archelaus's

daughter, who had been Alexander's wife, to her father, re­

turning tiie portion he had with her out of his own estate, that

there might be no dispute between them about it.

Now 'Herod brought up his son's children with great care ;

for Alexander had two sons by Glaphyra ; and Aristobulus

had three sons by Bernice, Salome's daughter, and two daugh­

ters ; and, as his friends were one with him, he presented the

children before them ; and deploring the hard fortune of his

own sons, he prayed that no such ill fortune would befal these

who were their children, but that they might improve in vir­

tue, and obtain what they justly deserved, and might make

him amends for his care of their education. He also caused

them to be betrothed against they should come to the proper

age of marriage ; the .elder of Alexander's sons to Pheroras's

daughter, and Antipater's daughter to Aristobulus's eldest

son. He also allotted one of Aristobulus's daughters to An­

tipater's son, and Aristobulus's other daughter to Herod, a

son of his own, who was born to him by the high-priest's

daughter ; for it is the ancient practice among us to have

many wives at the same time. Now, the king made these

espousals for the children, out of commiseration of them now

they were fatherless, as endeavouring to render Antipater kind

to them by these intermarriages. But Antipater did not fail

'to bear the same temper of mind to his brothers' children,

which he had borne to his brothers themselves ; and his fa­

ther's concern about them provoked his indignation against

•them upon this supposal, that they would become greater than

A 2 , ever

