Chap. XVIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 393

same time, the spoiling of the city, asking Sosius in the most

earnest manner, whether the Romans, by thus emptying the ci­

ty of money and men, had a mind to leave him king of a desertj

and told him, That " he judged the dominion of the habitable

" earth too small a compensation for the slaughter of so many ci-

" tizens." Andwhen Sosius said, " That it was but just to allow

" the soldiers this plunder as a reward for what they suffered

during the siege," Herod made answer, that" he would give e-

" very one of the soldiers a reward out of his own money.',' So

he purchased the deliverance of his country, and performed his

promises to them, and made presents after a magnificent man­

ner to each soldier, and proportionably to their commanders, and

with a most royal bounty to Sosius himself, whereby nobody

went away but in a wealthy condition. Hereupon Sosius dedi­

cated a crown of gold to God, and then went away from Jerusa­

lem, leading Antigonus away in bonds to Antony; then did the

* ax bring him to his end, who still had a fond desire of life,  
and some frigid hopes of it to the last, but by his cpwardly be­

haviour well deserved to die by it.

4. Hereupon king Herod distinguished the multitude that

was in the city, and for those that were of his side, he made

them still more his friends by the honours he conferred on them;

but for those of Antigonus's party he slew them; and as his

money ran low, he turned all the ornaments he had into money,

and sent it to Antony, and to those about him. Yet could he

not hereby purchase an exemption from all sufferings; for An­

tony was now bewitched by his love to Cleopatra, and was en­

tirely conquered by her charms. Now Cleopatra had put to

death all her kindred, till no one near her in blood remained a-

live, and after that she fell a slaying those no way related to her.

So she calumniated the principal men among the Syrians to An-

tony,andpersuaded him to have them slain, that so she might ea­

sily gain to be mistress of what they had; nay, she extended her

avaricious humour to the Jews and Arabians, and secretly la­

boured to have Herod and Malichus, the kings of both those

nations, slain by his order.

5. Now as to these her injunctions to Antony, he complied in

part; for though he esteemed it too abominable a thing to kill

such good and great kings, yet was he thereby alienated fromthe

friendship he had for them. He also took away a great deal of

their country; nay, even the plantation of palm trees at Jericho,

where also grows the balsam tree, and bestowed them upon her':

as

* This death of Atuiponus is confirmed by Plutarch and Strabo; the latter of  
whom is cited for it by Josephu* himself, Antiq. B. XV. cli. i. sect. z. Vol.
II.

as Dean Aldrich here observes.

