«o« WAts or THE JEWS. , • Book II,

" your liberty? but if you think all servitude intolerable, to

* what purpose serve your complaint against your particular  
«' governors? for if they treated you with moderation, it would

" still be equally an unworthy thing to be in servitude. Con-

" sidernow the several cases that may be supposed, how little oc-

" casion there is for your going to war. Your first occasion is the

" accusations you have to make against your procurators: now

" here you ought to be submissive to those in authority, and

" not give them any provocation: but when you repfoach men

" greatly for small offences, you excite thos^e whom you re-

" proach to be your adversaries; for this will only make them

" leave off hurting you privately, and with some degree of mo-

" desty, and to lay what you have waste openly. Now no-

" thing so much damps the force of strokes as bearing them

" with patience, and the quietness of those who are injured di-

" verts the injurious persons from afflicting. But let us tak*

" it for granted, that the Roman ministers are injurious to you,

" and are incurably severe; yet are they not all the Romans

" who thus injure you; nor hath Caesar, against whom you

" are going to make war, injured you; it is not by their com-

" n iand that any wicked governor is sent to you; for they who

" are in the west cannot see those that are in the east; nor in.

" deed is it easy for them there, even to hear what is done in

" those parts. Now it is absurd to make war with a great many,

" for the sake of one; to do so with such'mighty people, for

" a small cause;' and this when these people are not able to

«' know of what you complain; nay, such crimes as we com-

" plain of may soon be corrected, for the same procurator will

" not continue for ever ; and probable it is, that the successors

" will come with more moderate inclinations. But as for war,

'' if it be once begun, it is not easily laid down again, nor borne

" without calamities coming therewith. However, as to the

" desire of recovering your liberty, it is unseasonable to indulge

'' it so late ; whereas you ought to have laboured earnestly in

" old time that you might never have lost it; for the first ex-

" perience of slavery was hard to be endured, and the struggle

'< that you might never have been subject to it would have been

" just; but that slave who hath been once brought into subjee-

" tion, and then runs away, is rather a refractory slave than a

" lover of liberty, for it was then the proper time for doing all

" that was possible, that you might never have admitted the

" Romans [into your city], when Pompey came first into the

" country. But so it was, that so our ancestors and their kings,

" who were in much better circumstances than we are, both as

" to money and [strong] bodies, and [valiant J souls, did not

" bear

