Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF TtfE JEWS. 47

" continency, and those things acted after an insolent and in-

" human manner; because it was not a smaller pleasure to the

* sufferers to have such things concealed, than it would have  
" been to have suffered them. That Herod had put such ab-

" uses upon them as a wild beast would not have put on them,

" if he had power given him to rule over us ; and that although

" their nations had passed through many subversions and altera-

" tions of government, their history gave no account of any ca-

" lamity they had ever been under, that could be compared with

" this which Herod had brought upon their nation ; that it was.

" for this reason, that they thought they might justly and gladly

" salute Archelaus as king, upon this supposition, that whoso.

'' ever should be set over their kingdom, he would appear more

" mild to them than Herod had been ; and that they had joined

" with him in the mourning for his father, in order to gratify

" him, and were ready to oblige him in other points also, if they

" could meet with any degree of moderation from him ; but

" that he seemed to be afraid lest he should not be deemed He-

" rod's own son ; and so, without any delay ; and he immediate-

" ly let the nation understand his meaning, and this before his

" dominion was well established, since the power of disposing of

" it belonging to Caesar, who could either give it to him or not,

" as he pleased. That he had given a specimen of his future

" virtue to his subjects, and with what kind of moderation and

" good administration he would govern them, by that his first ac-

" tion which concerned them, his own citizens, and God himself

" also, when he made the slaughter of three thousand of his own

" countrymen at the temple. How, then, could they avoid the

" just hatred of 'him, who, to the rest of his barbarity, hath add-

" ed this as one of our crimes, that we have opposed and con-

" tradicted him in the exercise of his authority ?" Now, the main

thing they desired was this, "That they might be delivered from

" kingly* and the like forms of government, and might be add-

" ed

* If any ore compare that divine prediction concerning the tyrannical power  
which Jewifli kings would exercise over them, if they would be so foolifli as
to

prefer it before their ancient theocracy or aristocracy, i Sara. viii. i—^^.
An-

tiq. B. 1. ch' iv. $ 4. he will soon find that it was super-abundantly
fulfilled in

the days of Herod, and that to such a degree, that the nation now at last seem

sorely to repent of such their ancient choice, in opposition to God's better
choice

for them, and had much rather be subject to even a Pagan Roman government,

and their deputies, than to be any longer under the oppression of the family
of

Herod; which request of theirs Augustus did not now grant them, bnt did it for

the one-half of that nation in a few years afterward, upon fresh complaints

made by the Jews against Archelaus, who, under the more humble name of aii

eihnarch, which Augustus only would now allow him, soon took upon him the

insolence and tyranny of his father king Herod, as the remaining part of thi*

kouk will inform us, and particularly chap. xiii. sect. 2'

