220 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

coming they were in fear for themselves, and came to me, an$

when they had saluted me, they said, that I was an happy

man in having behaved myself so well in the government of Ga­

lilee ; and they congratulated me upon the honours that were

paid me : for they said that my glory was a credit to them,

since they had been my teachers and fellow-citizens; and they

said farther, that it was but just that they should prefer my

friendship to them rather than John's, and that they would have

immediately gone home, but that they staid that they might de­

liver up John into my power ; and when they said this they

rook their oaths of it, and those such as are most tremendous

amongst u's, and such as I did not think fit to disbelieve. How­

ever, they desired me to lodge some where else ; because the

next day was the Sabbath, and that it was not fit the city of Ti­

berias should be disturbed [on that day].

54. So I suspected nothing, and went away to Taricheae ; yet

did 1 withal leave some to make inquiry in the city how matters'

went, and whether any thing was said about me: I also set many

persons all the way that led from Taricheae to Tiberias, that

they might communicate from one to another, if they learned

any news from those that were left in the city. On the next

day, therefore, they all came into the Proseucha * ; it was a

large edifice, and capable of receiving a great number of people ;

thither Jonathan went in, and though he durst not openly speak

of a revolt, yet did he say that their city stood in heed of a better

governor than it then had. But Jesus, who was the ruler, made

no scruple to speak out, and said openly, " O fellow citizens ! it is

'• better for you to be in subjection to four than to one ; and

" those such as are of high birth, and not without reputation for

" their wisdom ;" and pointed to Jonathan and'his colleagues.

Upon his saying this, Justus came in and condemned him for

what he had said, and persuaded some of the people to be of his

mind also. But the multitude were not pleased with what was

said, and had certainly gone into a tumult, unless the sixth hour,

which was now come, had dissolved the assembly, at which hour

our laws require us to go to dinner on Sabbath-days ; so Jona­

than and his colleagues put off their council till the next day, and

went off without success. When I was informed of these af­

fairs, I determined to go to the city of Tiberias in the morning.

Accordingly, on the next day, about the'first hour of the day, 1

