230 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

I told them, that it was best for them to act according to their de­

termination ; whereupon they were prevailed on. At which

time also, John, when the snares he had laid did not take effect,

returned back to Gischala.

GO. Now, in a few days those ambassadors whom he had sent,'

came back again and informed us, that the people were greatly

provoked at Ananus, and Simon, the son of Gamaliel, and their

friends ; that, without any public determination, they had sent to

Galilee' and had done their endeavours that I mitjht be turned otit

' O

of the government. The ambassadors said farther, that the people

were ready to burn their houses. They also brought letters, where­

by the chief men of Jerusalem, at the earnest petition of the

people, confirmed me in the government of Galilee, and enjoin

Jonathan and his colleagues to return home quickly. When I

had gotten these letters, I came to the village Arbela, where I

procured an assembly of the Galileans to meet, and bid the am­

bassadors declare to them the anger of the people of Jerusalem

at what had been done by Jonathan and his colleagues, and how

much they hated their wicked doings, and how they had con­

firmed me in the government of their country, as also what re­

lated to the order they had in writing for Jonathan and his col­

leagues to return home. So I immedie.tely sent them the letter,

and bid him that carried it to inquire, as well as lie could, how

they intended to act [on this occasion.]

til. Now, when they had received that letter, and were there­

by greatly disturbed, they sent for John, and for the senators of

Tiberias, and for the principal men of the Gabarens, and propo­

sed to hold a council, and desired them to consider what was to-

be done by them. However, the governors of Tiberias were

greatly disposed to keep the government to themselves ; for they

said it was not fit to desert their city, now it was committed td

their trust, and that otherwise I should not delay to fall upon

them ; for they pretended falsely that so I had threatened to do.

Now John was not only of their opinion, but advised them, that

two of them should go to accuse me before the multitude [at Je­

rusalem], that I do not manage the affairs of Galilee as I ought'

to do; and that they would easily persuade the people, because of

their dignity, and because the whole multitude are very mutable.

When, therefore, it appeared that John had suggested the wisest

advice to them, they resolved that two of them, Jonathan and A-

nanias, should go to the people of Jerusalem, and the other two

[Simon and Joazar] should be left behind to tarry at Tiberias.

f They also took along with them an hundred soldiers for their

guard.

62. However, the governors of Tiberias took care to have their

city

