THE LIFE OF FLAVIU3 JOSEPHUS. 209

were among the chief friends of the king, and commanded them

to take the furniture that had been plundered, and to send it to

him ; and I threatened that I would order them to be put to

death, by way of punishment, if they discovered this my com­

mand to any other person.

27. Now, when all Galilee was filled with this rumour, that

their country was about to be betrayed by me to the Romans,

and when all men were exasperated against me, and ready tu

bring me to punishment, the inhabitants of Taricheae did also

themselves suppose that what the young men said was true, and

persuaded my guards and armed men to leave me when 1 was

asleep, and to come presently to the hippodrome, in order there

to take counsel against me their commander. And, when they

had prevailed with them, and they were gotten together, they

found there a great company assembled already, who all joined in

one clamour, to bring the man who was so wicked to them as to

betray them, to his due punishment; and it was Jesus, the sou

of bappluas, who principally set them on. He was ruler in 1 i.

berias, a wicked man, and naturally disposed to' make disturb,

ances in matters of consequence ; a seditious person he was in.

deed, and an innovator beyond every body else. He then took.

the laws of Moses into his hands, and came into the midst of the

people, and said, " O my fellow citizens 1 if you are not disposed

" to hate Josephus on your own account, have regard, however,

" to these laws of your country, which your commander in chief

" is going to betray ; hate him therefore on both these accounts

" and bring the man who hath acted thus insolently, to his de-

" served punishment."

28. When he had said this, and the multitude had openly ap_

plauded him for what he had said, he took some of the armed

men, and made haste away to the house in which 1 lodged, as it'

he would kill me immediately, while I was wholly insensible of

all till this disturbance happened; and by reason of the pains 1 had

been taking, was fallen fast asleep. But Simon, who was intrusted

with the care of my body, and was the only person that stayed

with me, and saw the violent incursion the citizens made upon

me, he awaked me, and told me of the danger I was in, and de­

sired me to let him kill me, that I might die bravely, and like a

general, before my enemies came in, and forced me [to kill my­

self], or killed me themselves. Thus did he discourse to me •

but I committed the care of my life to God, and made haste to

go out to the multitude. Accordingly, I put on a black gar­

ment, and hung my sword at my neck, and went by such a dif­

ferent way to the hippodrome, wherein I thought none of my ad-

yersaries would meet me j so I appeared among them on the sud-

Vet. III. Dd den,

