3f 2 WAKS OF THE Jf WS. Book 1.

obliging manner, he dismissed the multitude; some of which

gave their assent to what he had said, and wished it might take

effect accordingly} but for those who wished for a change of

affairs, they pretended they did not so much as hear what he

said.

CHAP. XXIV.

The mahce of Antipater and Doris. Alexander is very uneasy

on Glaphyrd's account. Herod pardons Pberoras whom he

suspected, and Salome, vihom be knew to make mischief among

them. Herod's eunuchs are tortured, and Alexander is bound.

j 1. TQUT now the quarrel that was. between them, still ac-

-L' companied these brethren when they parted, and the  
suspicions they had one of the other grew worse. Alexander

and Aristobulus were much grieved that the privilege of the

first-born was confirmed to Antipater; as was Antipater very

angry at his brethren, that they were to succeed him. But then

this last being of a disposition that was mutable and politic, he

l:-iev.' how to hold his tongue, and used a great deal of cunning,

and thereby concealed the hatred he bore to them; while the

former, depending on the nobility of their births, had el-ery

thing upon their tongues which was in their minds. Many also

there nvere who provoked them farther, and many of their

[seeming] friends insinuated themselves into their acquaintance,

to spy out what they did. Now every thing that was said by

Alexander was presently brought to Antipater, and from Anti足

pater it was brought to Herod with additions. Nor could the

young man say any thing in the simplicity of his heart, with足

out giving offence, but what he said was still turned to calumny

against him. And if he had been at any time a little free in his

conversation, great imputations were forged from the smallest

occasions. Antipater also was perpetually setting some to pro足

voke him to speak, that the lies he raised of him might seem to

have some foundation of truth; and if, among the many stories

that were given out, but one of them could be proved true, that

was supposed to imply the rest to be true also. And as to An-

tipater's friends, they were all either naturally so cautious in

speaking, or had been so far bribed to conceal their thoughts,

that nothing of these grand secrets got abroad by their means.

Nor should one be mistaken if he called the life of Antipater a

mystery of wickedness; for he either corrupted Alexander's ac足

quaintance with money, or got into their favour by flatteries;

by which two means he gained all his designs, and brought them

to betray their master, and to steal away, and reveal what he

either did or said. Thus did he act a part very cunningly in all

points,

