THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUSV

and to demonstrate to those that light upon this history, that you!

bare no good-will, neither to the Romans, nor to the king. To'

bs sure, the greatest cities of Galilee, O Justus ! were Sepphoris,

and thy country Tiberias. But Sepphoris, situated in the very

midst of Galilee, and having many villages about it, and able

with ease to have been bold and troublesome to the Romans, if

they had so pleased, yet did it resolve to continue faithful to those

their masters, and at the same time excluded me out of their ci足

ty, and prohibited all their citizens from joining with the Jews in

the war, and that they might be out of danger from me, they by

a wile got leave of me to fortify their city with walls ; they al足

so, of their own accord, admitted of a garrison of Roman legionsr

sent them by Cestius Gallus, who was then president of Syria,

and so had me in contempt, though I was then very powerful,

and all were greatly afraid of me ; and at the same time that the

greatest of our cities, Jerusalem, was besieged, and that temple

of ours, which belonged to us all, was in danger of falling under

the enemy's power, they sent no assistance thither, as not willing

to have it thought they would bear arms against the Romans^

But as for thy country, O Justus! situated upon the lake of Gen-

nesareth, and distant from Hippos thirty furlongs, from Gadara

sixty, and from Scythppolis, which was under the king's juris-

diction-, an hundred and twenty ; when there was no Jewish city

near, it might easily have preserved its fidelity [to the Romans],

if it had so pleased them to do ; for the city and its people had

plenty of weapons. But, as thou sayest, I was then the author

[of thtir revolt]. And pray, O Justus ! who was that author

afterwards? For thou knowest that I was- in the power of the

Romans before Jerusalem wasbesieged, and before the same time

Jotapata was taken by force, as well as many other fortresses,

and a great many of the Galileans fell in the war. It was there足

fore then a proper time, when you were certainly freed from

any fear on my account, to throw away your weapons, and to

demonstrate to the king and to the Romans, that it was not of

choice, but as forced by necessity, that you fell into the war a-

gainst them ; but you staid till Vespasian came himself as far as

your walls, with his whole army ; and then you did indeed lay

aside your weapons out of fear, and your city had for certain

been taken by force, unless Vespasian had'complied with the

king's supplication for you, and had excused your madness. It

was not 1, therefore, who was the author of this, but your own

inclinations to war. Do not you remember how often 1 got you

under my power, and yet put none of you to death ? nay, you

once fell into a tumult one against another, and slew one hundred

and eighty.fivj of your citizens,' not on account of your good足

will

