Chap. XXVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 333

did not they confess any thing of what the king had been inform­

ed; but a certain letter was produced, as written by Alexander

to the governor of a castle, to desire him to receive him and A-

ristobulus into the castle when he had killed his father, and to

give them weapons, and what other assistance he could, upon that

occasion. Alexander said, that this letter was a forgery of Dio-

phantus. ThisDiophantuswasthe king's secretary, a bold man,

and cunning in counterfeiting any one's hand; and after he had

counterfeited a great numberj^he was at last put to death for it.

Herod did also order the governor of the castle to be tortured,

but got nothing out of him of what the accusations suggested.

4. However, although Herod fonnd the proofs too weak, he

gave order to have his sons kept in custody; for till'now they

had been at liberty. He also called that pest of his family, and

forger of all this vile accusation, Eurycles, his saviour and be­

nefactor, and gave him a reward of fifty talents. Upon which

he prevented any accurate accounts that could come of what he

had done, by going immediately into Cappadocia, and there he

got money of Archelaus, having the impudence to pretend that

he had reconciled Herod to Alexander. He thence passed over

into Greece, and used what he had thus wickedly gotten to the

like wicked purposes. Accordingly, he was twice accused be­

fore Caesar, that he had filled Achaiawith sedition, and had plun­

dered its cities; and so he was sent into banishment. And thus

was he punished far what wicked actions he had been guilty of

,about Aristobulus and Alexander.

5. But it will be now worth while to put Euaratos of Cos in

Opposition to this Spartan ; for as he was one of Alexander's

most intimate friends, and came to him in his travels at the same

time that Eurycles came, so the king put the question to him,

whetherthose things of which Alexander was accusedweretrue?

He assured him upon oath, that he had never heard any such

things from the young men; yet did this testimony avail no­

thing for the clearing those miserable creatures; for Herod

was only disposed and most ready to hearken to what made a-

gainst them ; and every one was most agreeable to him, that

would believe they were guilty, and shewed their indignation at

them.

CHAP. XXVII.

Herod, ly Cxsar's direction, accuses hit sons at fcerytus. Tt>ey

are not produced before the court, but yet are condemned; and

in a little time they are sent to Sebaste, and strangled thert.

§ 1. A/T OREO VER Salome exasperated Herod's cruelty a-

i-YJL gainst his sons; for Aristobulus was desirous tobring

her,

