310 Book I. WARS OF THE JEWS.

rer for them, when they were to march as far as Pelusium,

through a dry country, which he did also in like manner at their

return thence; nor were there any necessaries wanting to that

army. It was therefore the opinion, both of Caesar and of his

soldiers, that Herod's kingdom was too small for those generous

presentshe made them; for which reason, when Caesar was come

into Egypt, and Cleopatra and Antony were dead, he did not

only bestow other marks of honour upon him, but made an ad­

dition to his kingdom, by giving him not only the country which

had been taken from him by Cleopatra, but besides that, Gada-

ra, and Hippos, and Samaria; and moreover, of the maritime

cities, * Gaza and Anthedon, and Joppn, and Strato's Tower.

He also made him a present of four hundred Galls [Galatians]

as a guard for his body, which they had been to Cleopatra be­

fore. Nor did any thing so strongly induce Caesar to make these

presents as the generosity of him that received them.

4. Moreover, after the first games at Actium, he added to his

kingdom both the region called Trachonitis, and what lay in its

neighbourhood, Batanea, and the country of Auranitis; and that

on the following occasion: Zenodoru3, who had hired the house

of Lysanias,had all along sent robbersout of Trachonitis among

the Damascens; who thereupon had recourse to Varro, the

president of Syria, and desired of him thathe would representthe

calamity they were in to Caesar: when Caesar was acquainted

with it, he sent back orders that this nest of robbers should be

destroyed. Varro therefore made an expedition against them,

and cleared the land of those men, and took it away from Zeno-

dorus. Caesar did also afterward bestow it on Herod, that it

might not again become a receptacle for those robbers that had

come against Damascus. He also made him a procurator of all

Syria, and this on the tenth year afterward, when he came a.

gain into that province; and this was so established, that the

other procurators could not do any thing in the administration

without his advice: but when Zenodorus was dead, Caesar be­

stowed on him all that land which lay between Trachonitis and

Galilee. Yet what was still of more consequence to Herod, he

was beloved by Caesar next after Agrippa, and by Agrippa next

after Caesar; whence he arrived at a very great degree of feli­

city. Yet did the greatness of his soul exceed it, and the main

part

* Since Josephus, both here, and in his Antiq. B. XV. ch. vii. sect. 3. Vol. II.  
reckons G,iza, which had been a free city, among the cities given Herod by Au­

gustus, and yet implies that Herod had made Costobarus a governor of it
before.

Antiq. B. XV. ch. viil sect. 9. Harduin has some pretence for saying that
Jose­

ph us here contradicted himself. But perhaps Herod thought he had sufficient
au­

thority to put a governor into Gaza, after he was made tetrarch or king, in
times

0! war, before the city was entirely delivered into his hands by Augustus,

