Chap XXII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 317

try, he came back to it. Herod's provocation was" this, not

that Hyrcanus made any attempt to gain the kingdom, but that

it was fitter for him to be their king than for Herod. .,-

2. Now of the five children which Herod had by Mariamtw,

two of them were daughters, and three were sons; and the young­

est of these sons was educated at Rome, and there died; but the

two eldest he treated as those of royal blood, on account of the

nobility of their mother, and because they w«re not born till he

was king. But then what was stronger than all this, was the

love that he bare to Mariamne, and which inftamed him every­

day to a great degree, and so far conspired with the other mo­

tives, that he felt no other troubles on account of her he loved

so entirely'. But Mariarane's hatred to him, was not inferior to

his love to her. She had indeed but too just a cause of indigna­

tion, from what he had done, while her boldness proceeded from

his affection to her; so she openly reproached him with what he

had done to her grandfather Hyrcaaus, and to her brother A-

ristobulus; for he had not spared this Aristobulus, though he

were but a child; for when he had given him the high-priest­

hood at the age of seventeen, he slew him quickly after he had

conferred that dignity upon him; but when Aristobulus had p«t

on the holy vestments, and had approached to the altar, at a festi­

val, the multitude, in great crowds, fell into tears; whereupon the

child was s«nt by night to Jericho, and was there dipped by

the Gall^ at Herod's command, in a pool till be was drowned.

3- For these reasons Mariamne reproached Herod, and his

sister and mother, after a most contumelious manner, while he

was*dumb on account of his affection for her; yet had the wo­

men great indignation at her,'and raised a calumny against her,

that she was false to his bed; which thing they thought most

likely to move Herod to anger. They also contrived to have

many other circumstances believed, in order to make the thing

more credible, and accused her of having sent her picture into

Egypt to Antony, and that her lust was so extravagant, as to have

thus shewed herself, though she was absent, to a man that ran

mad after women, and to a man that had it in his power to use

violence to her. This charge fell like a thunderbolt upon He­

rod, and put him into disorder; and that especially, because his

love to her occasioned him to be jealous, and because he consi­

dered with himself that Cleopatra was a shrewd woman, and

that on her account Lysanias the king was taken off, as well as

Malichus the Arabian; for his fear did not only extend to the

dissolving of his marriage, but to the danger of his life.

4. When th&refore he was about to take a journey abroad,

he committed his wife to Joseph, his sister SalotBe's husband, as

to

