838 WARS OF THE JEWS. ^ • ' Book I.

of madness, and accused himself, and said, " This Tero endea-

" voured to persuade me also to cut thy throat with my ra-

" zor, when I trimmed thee, and promised that Alexander

" should give me large presents for so doing." When Herod

heard this, he examined Tero, with his son and the barber, by

the torture; but as the others denied the accusation, and he

said nothing farther, Herod gave order that Tero should be

racked more severely; but his son, out of pity to his father,

promised to discover the whole to the king, if he would grant

[that his father should be no longer tortured]; when he had

agreed to this, he said, That " his father, at the persuasion of

" Alexander, had an intention to kill him." Now some said

this was forged, in order to free his father from his torments,

and some said it was true.

6. And now Herod accused the captains, and Tero, in an as­

sembly of the people, and brought the people together in a body

against them ; and accordingly there were they put to death, to­

gether with [Trypho] the barber; they were killed by the pie­

ces of wood, and the stones, that were thrown at them. He also

sent his sons to Sebaste, a city not far from Caesarea, and order­

ed them to be there strangled: and as what he had ordered was

executed immediately, so he commanded that their dead bodies

should be brought to the fortress Alexandrium, to be buried

with Alexander, their grandfather by the mother's side. And

this was the end of Alexander and Aristobulus.

CHAP. XXVIII.

How dntipater is hated of all men ; and iow the king espouses

the sons of those that had been slain to his kindred: 'But that

Antipater made him change them Jor other women. Of He­

rod's marriages, and children.

§ 1. TJUT an intolerable hatred fell upon Antipater from the

-D nation, though he had now an indisputable title to the  
succession; because they all knew that he'was the person who

contrived all the calumnies against his brethren. However, he

feegan to be in a terrible fear, as he saw the posterity of those

that had been slain growing up; for Alexander had two sons by

Glaphyra,Tigranesand Alexander; and Aristobulus had Herod,

-gnd Agrippa, and Aristobulus, his sons, with Herodias and Ma-  
riamne, his daughters, and all by Bernice, Salome's daughter; as

tor Glaphyra, Herod, as soon as he had killed Alexander, sent

her back, together with her portion, to Cappadocia. He married

Bernice, Aristobulus's daughter^ to Antipater's uncle by his mo­

ther, and it was Antipater, who, in order to reconcile her to him,

' ' * when

