306 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

to defend them elves by the following speech which he made

to them.

4. " The present dread you are under, seems to me to hara

" seized upon you very unreasonably. It is true, you might

" justlybedismayedat that providential chastisement whichhath

" befallen you; but to suffer yourselves to be equally terrified

" at the invasion of men, is unmanly. As for myself, I am so

" far from being affrighted at our enemies after this earthquake,

*' that I imagine that God hath thereby laid a bait for the Ara-  
*' bians, that we may be avenged on them, for their present  
" invasion proceeds more from our accidental misfortunes, than

" that they have any great dependence on their 'weapons, or

" their own fitness for action. Now that hope which depend*

" not on men's own power, but on others ill success, is a very

" ticklish thing; for there is no certainty among men, eithefr

" in their bad or good fortunes; but we may easily observe,

" that fortune is mutable, and goes from one side to another:

" and this you may readily learn from examples among our-

" selves ; for when you were once victors in the former fight,

" your enemies overcame you at last; and very likely it will

" now happen so, that these who think themselves sure of beat-

*' ing you, will themselves be beaten. For, when men are very  
" confident, they are not upon their guard, while fear teaches

" men to act with caution; insomuch, that I venture to prove

*' from your very timorousness, that you ought to take cour-  
** age; for when you were more bold than you ought to have  
*' been, and than I would have had you, and marched on,  
'* Athenio's treachery took place; but your present slowness

" and seeming dejection of mirftl, is to me a pledge and assurance

" of victory. And indeed it is proper before hand to be thus

" provident; but when we come to action, we ought to erect*

" our minds, and to make our enemies, be they ever so wicked,

" believe< that neither any human, no, nor any providential

" misfortune, can evef depress the courage of Jews while they

" are alive ; nor will any of them ever overlook an Arabian,

" or suffer such an one to become lord of his good things, whom

" he has in a manner taken captive, and that many times also.

" And do not you disturb yourselves at the quaking of inani-

" mate creatures, nor do you imagine that this earthquake is

" another sign of another calamity; for such affections of the

" elements are according to the course af nature, nor does it

" import any thing farther to men, than what mischief it does

" immediately of itself. Perhaps there may come some short

" sign before hand in the case of pestilences, and famines, and

" earthquakes ; but these calamities themselves have their

" force

