Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 273

and about two thousand fled to a certain little hill, but the thou­

sand that remained with Aristobulus brake' through the Roman

army, and marched together to Macherus; and, when the king

had lodged the first night upon its ruins, he was in hopes of rai­

sing another army, if the war would but cease a while ; accor­

dingly, he fortified that strong hold, though it were ilone after a

poor manner. But, the Romans falling upon him. he resisted,

even beyond his abilities, for two days, and then was taken, and

brought a prisoner to Gabinius, with Antigonus his son, who had

fled away together with him from Rome, and from Gabinus he

was carried to Rome again. Wherefore the senate put him.

under confinement, but returned his children back to Judea, be­

cause Gabinius informed them by letters, that he had promised'

Aristobulus's mother to do so, for her delivering the fortresses

up to him.

1. But now as Gabinius was marching to the war against the

Farthians, he was hindered by Ptolemy, whom, upon his return

from Euphrates, he brought back into Egypt, making use of

Hyrcanus and Antipatcr, to provide every thing that was neces­

sary for this expedition ; for Antipater furnished him with mo­

ney, and weapons, and corn, and auxiliaries ; he also prevailed

with the Jews that were there, and guarded the avenues at Pe-

lusium, to let them pass. But now, upon Gabinius's absence, the

other part of Syria was in motion, and Alexander, the son of

Aristobulus, brought the Jews to revolt again. Accordingly, he

got together a very great army, and set about killing all the Ro­

mans that were in the country ; hereupon Gabinius was afraid,

(for he was come back already out of Egypt, and obliged to

come back quickly by these tumults), and sent Antipater, who

prevailed with some of the revoltersto be quiet. However, thir­

ty thousand still continued with Alexander, who was himself

eager to fight also ; accordingly, Gabinius went out to fight, when

the Jews met him, and, as the battle was fought near Mount Ta­

bor, ten thousand of them were slain, and the rest of the multi­

tude dispersed themselves, and fled away. So Gabinius came to

Jerusalem, and settled the government as Antipater would have

it ; thence he marched, and fought and beat the Nabateans ; as

for Mithridates and Orsanes, who fled out of Parthia, he sent

them away privately, but gave it out among the soldiers that

they had run away.

8. In the mean time, Crassus came as successor to Gabinius in

Syria. He took away all the rest of the gold belonging to the

temple of Jerusalem, in order to furnish himself for his expedi­

tion against the Parthians. He also took away the two thousand

talents which Pompey had not touched ; but when he had passed

VOL. III. M m over

