Chap. XIV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 289

for Herod, having a long while had a suspicion of the perfidious-

ness of the barbarians, had taken care to have what was most

splendid among his treasures conveyed into Idumea, as every one

belonging to him had in like manner done also. But the Par-

thians proceeded to that degree of injustice, as to fill all the coun­

try with war without denouncing it, and to demolish the city

Marissa, and not only to set up Antigonus for king, but to deli­

ver Phasaelus and Hyrcanus bound into his hands, in order to

their being tormented by him. Antigonus himself also bit off

Hyrcanus'sears with his own teeth, as he fell down upon his knees

to him, that so he miyht never be able, upon any mutation of

affairs, to take the high-priesthood again ; for the high-priests

that officiated were to be complete and without blemish.

10. However, he failed in his purpose of abusing Phasaelus, by

reason of his courage, for though he neither had the command of

his sword nor of his hands, he prevented all abuses by dashing

his head against a stone ; so he demonstrated himself to be He­

rod's own brother, and Hyrcanus a most degenerate relation, and

died with great bravery, and made the end of his life agreeable to

the actions of it. There is also another report about his end,

viz. that he recovered of that stroke, and that a surgeon, who

was sent by Antigonus to heal him, filled the wound with poi­

sonous ingredients, andsokilledhim; which soever of these deaths

he came to the beginning of it was glorious. It is also report­

ed, that before he expired he was informed by a certain poor

woman how Herod had escaped out of his hands, and that he

.said thereupon, " 1 now die with comfort, since I leave behind

" me one alive, that will avenge me of mine enemies."

H. This was the death of Phasaelus; but the Parthians, al­

though they had failed of the woman they chiefly desired, yet

did they put the government of Jerusalem into the hands of An­

tigonus, and took away Hyrcanus, and bound him', and carried

him to Parthia.

CHAP. XIV.

When Herod is rejected in Arabia, ie makes laste to Rome,

where Antony and C<ssar join their interest to make him king

of the Jews.

§ 1. '^TOW Herod did the more zealously pursue his journey

.LN into Arabia, as making has'te to get money of the king,

while his brother was yet alive, by which money alone it was

that he hoped to prevail upon the covetous temper of the barba­

rians to spare Phasaelus; for he reasoned thus with himself, that

if the Arabian king was too forgetful of his father's friendship

with him, and was too covetous to make him a free gift,he would

VOL. III. O o however

