THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 225

titude was too angry with them to be dissuaded, and all of them

went immediately to the house in which Jonathan and his col­

leagues abode. However, when I perceived that their rage

could not be restrained, I got on horseback, and ordered the mul­

titude to follow me to the village Sogane, which was twenty fur­

longs off Gabara ; and by using this stratagem, I so managed my­

self, as not to appear to begin a civil war amongst them.

52. But when 1 was come near Sogane, I caused the multitude

to make an halt, and exhorted them not to be so easily provoked

to anger, and to the inflicting such punishments as could not be

afterwards recalled : I also gave order, that an hundred men,

who were already in years, and were principal men among theui,

should get themselves ready to go to the city Jerusalem, and

should make a complaint before the people, of such as raised se­

ditions in the country. And I said to them, that " in case they

" be moved with what you say, you shall desire the community

«' to write to me, and to enjoin me to continue in Galilee, and to

" order Jonathan and his colleagues to depart out of it." When

I had suggested these instructions to them, and while they were

getting themselves ready as fast as they could, I sent them on

this errand the third day after they had been assembled : I also

sent five hundred armed men with them [as a guard]. I then

wrote to my friends in Samaria, to take care that they might

safely pass through the country : for Samaria was already under

the Romans, and it was absolutely necessary for those that go

quickly [to Jerusalem], to pass through that country ; for in that

road you may, in three days time, go from Galilee to Jerusa­

lem. I also went myself, and conducted the old men as far as

the bounds of Galilee, and set guards in the roads, that it might

not be easily known by any one that these men were gone. And

when I had thus done, I went and abode at Japha.

53. Now Jonathan and his colleagues- having failed of accom­

plishing what they would have done against me, they sent John

back' to Gischala, but went themselves to the city Tiberias, expect­

ing it would submit itself to them ; and this was founded on a letter

which Jesus, their then governor, had written them, promising,

that if they came, the multitude would receive them, and choose

to be under their government ; so they went their ways with

this expectation. But Silas, who, as I said, had been left curator

of Tiberias by me, informed me of this, and desired me to make

haste thither. Accordingly, I complied with his advice imme­

diately, and came thither ; but found myself in danger of my life,

from the following occasion : Jonathan and his colleagues had

been at Tiberias, and had persuaded a great many of such as had

a quarrel with me to desert me ; but when they heard of my

VOL, III. F f coming

