Chap. XXIII. WAftS OF THE JEWS. 321

'' ing to the prerogative of their births; for he that pays such

" respects unduly, will thereby not make him that is honoured

" beyond what his age requires so joyful, as he will make him

" that is dishonoured sorrowful. As for the kindred and friends

" that are to converse with them. 1 will appoint them to each

" of them, and will .so constitute them, that they may be se-

" curities for their concord: as well knowing, that the ill

" tempers o€ those with whom they converse, will produce

u quarrels and contentions among them; but that, if these with

" whom they converse be of good tempers, they will preserve

*'' their natural affections for one another. But still I desire,  
" that not these only, but all the captains of my army, have for

*' the present their hopss placed on me alone; for I do not give  
" away my kingdom to these my sons, but give them royal hon-

" ours only:; whereby it will come to pass, that they will en-

" joy the sweet parts of government as rulers themselves, but

" that the burden of administration will rest upon myself

" whether I will or not. And let every one consider what age

" I am of, how I have conducted my life, and what piety I have

'1 exercised? for my age is not so great, that men may soon ex-

" pect the end of my life; nor have I indulged such a luxuri-

" ous -way of living as cuts men off when they are young; and

" we have been so religious towards God, that we [have rea-

«' son to hope we] may arrive at a very great age. But for

'' such as cultivate a friendship with my sons, so as to aim at

" my destruction, they shall be punishedby me on their account.

" I am not one who envy my own children, and therefore forbid

,«' men to pay them great respect; but 1 know that such [ex-

" travagant] respe»ts are the wayto make them insolent. And if

" every one that comes near them does but revolve this in his

" mind, that if he prove a good man, he shall receive a reward

" from me, that if he proves seditious, his ill intended com-.

*« plaisance shall get him nothing from him to whom it is shewn,  
"•I suppose they will all be of my side, that is of my sons sidej

'« for k will be for their advantage that I reign, and that 1 be

'' at concord with them. But do you, O my good children,

" reflect upon the holiness of nature itself, by whose means

" natural affection is preserved, even among wild beasts; in the

" next place, reflect upon Caesar, who hath made this reconcilia-

" tion among us; and, in the third place, reflect upon me who

" entreat you to do what I have power to command you; con-

«« tinue brethren. I give you royal garments, and royal honours;

" and I pray to God to preserve what I have determined, in

'' case you be at concord one with another." When the king

had thus spoken, and had saluted every one of his sons after an

VOL. III. S s " obliging

