Chap. if. ANTltjUITIES Of THE JEWS. Isgft

was incapable of managing such a vaft weight of public affairs ;

and that if it should be set up, it would not be for their advan­

tage ; and in case any one of those already in the government

should obtain the supreme power, it would in all respects be to

their grief, if they were not assisting to him in this advancement:

that it would therefore be right for them, while the public af­

fairs were unsettled, to chuse Claudius emperor, who was uncle

to the deceased Cains, and of a superior dignity and worth to

every one of those that were assembled together in the senate,

both on account of the virtues of his ancestors, and of the learn­

ing he had acquired in his education, and who, if once settled in

the empire, would reward them according to their deserts, and

bestow largesses upon them. These were their consultations,

and they executed the same immediately. Claudius was there­

fore seized upon suddenly by the soldiery. But Cneas Sentius

Saturninus, although he understood that Claudius was seized,

and that he intended to claim the government, unwillingly in­

deed in appearance, but in reality by his own free conSentj stood

tip in the senate, and, without being dismayed, made an exhor-

tatory oration to them, and such an one indeed as was fit for men

of freedom and generosity, and spake thus : I

2. *' Although it be a thing incredible, O Romans ! because

" of the great length of time, that so unexpected an event hath

" happened, yet are we now in possession of liberty. How long

" indeed this will last is uncertain, and lies at the disposal of the

" gods, wlrose grant it is; yet such it is as is sufficient to make

" us rejoice, and be happy for the present, although we may soon

" be deprived of it ; for one hour is sufficient to those that are

" exercised in virtue, wherein we may live with a mind account-

" able to ourselves, in our own country, now free, and governed

" by such laws as this country once flourished under. As for

*' myself, I cannot remember our former time of liberty, as  
*' being born after it was gone ; but I am beyond measure filled  
u with joy at the thoughts of our present freedom. I also

*' esteem those that were born and bred up in that our former  
" liberty happy men, and that those men are worthy of no less

" esteem than the gods themselves, who have given us a taste of

" it in this age; and I heartily wish, that this quiet enjoyment of

" it, which we have at present, might continue to all ages. How-

" ever, this single day may suffice for our youth, as well as for

" us that are in years. It will seem an age to our old men, if

" they might die during its happy duration : it may also be for

" the instruction of the younger sort, what kind of virtue those

"men, from whose loins we are derived, w'ere. exercised in.

" As for ourselveSi our business is, during the space of time,-to

Vol. IH. R ** live

