9 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIL

were not concealed from Salome, but were told the king ; as

also how ;hey I- id perverted some persons about the palace

itself: so the kmg slew such of the Pharisees as were princi­

pally a<- , ised, and Bagoas the eunuch, and one Cams, who

exceede i all trie'1 of that time in comeliness, and one that was

his catai'nte. He slew also all those of his own family who

had consente.1 to what the Pharisees foretold; and for Bagoas,

he had been puffed up by them, as though he should be na­

med the father and the benefactor of him who, by the pre­

diction, was foretold to be their appointed king ; for that

this king would have all things in his power, and would en-

ablt Bagoas to marry, and to have children of his own body

begotten.

CHAP. III.

4

Concerning the enmity lctwcei\ Herod and PJjeroras ; bow: Herod

sent Antipater to desar ; and of the death of Pheroras.

$ 1. 'VI/'HEN Herod had punished those Pharisees who had

been convicted of the foregoing crimes, he gather­

ed an assembly together of his friends, and accused Pheroras's

wife ; and ascribing the abuses of the virgins to the impu­

dence of that woman, brought an accusation against her for

the dishonour she had brought upon them : That " she had

" studiously introduced a quarrel between him and his bro.

" ther, and, by her ill temper, had brought them into a state

" of war, both by her words and actions ; that the fines which

" he had laid had not been paid, and the offenders had

" escaped punishment by her means ; and that nothing which

'" had of late been done had been done without her : for which'

«« reason Pheroras would do well, if he would, of his own

«' accord, and by his own command, and not at my intreaty,

" or as following my opinion, put this his wife away, as one

" that will still be the occasion of war between thee and me.

" And now, Pheroras, if thou valuest thy relation to me, put

" this wife of thine away ; for by this means thou wilt con-

" tinue to be a brother to me, and wilt abide in thy love to

" me." Then said Pheroras, (although he were pressed

hard by the former words), that tl as he would not do so un-

" just a thing as to renounce his brotherly relation to him, so

«' would he not leave off his affection for his wife ; that he

" would rather chuse to die than to live, and be deprived of

«' a wife that was so dear unto him." Hereupon Herod put

off

