Chap. XIV. ' WARS OF THE JEWS. 291

Safe to Rhodes, a place which had been grievously harassed in the

war with Cassius. He was there received by his friends, Pto­

lemy and Sappinius ; and, although he was then in want of

money, he fitted up a three decked ship of very great magnitude,

wherein he and his friends sailed to * Brundusium, and went

thence to Rome with all speed : where he first of all went to

Antony, on account of the friendship his father had with him,

and laid before him the calamities of himself and his family, and

that he had left his nearest relations besieged in a fortress, and

had sailed to him through a storm, to make supplication to him

for assistance.

4. Flereupon Antony was moved to compassion at the change that

had been made in Herod's affairs, and this both upon his calling to

mind how hospitably he had been treated by Antipater,but more

especially on account of Herod's own virtue; so he then resolved

to get him made king of the Jews, whom he had himself former­

ly made tetrach. The contest also that he had with Antigonus

was another inducement, and that of no lessweight than the great

regard he had for Herod; for he looked upon Antigonus as a se­

ditious person, and an enemy of the Romans : and as for Caesar,

Herod found him better prepared than Antony, as remembering

very fresh the wars he had gone through together with his fa­

ther, the hospitable treatment he had met with from him, and

the entire good will he had shewed to him: besides the activity

which he saw in Herod himself. So he called the senate toge­

ther, wherein Messalas, and after him Atratinus, produced He­

rod before them, and gave a full account of the merits of his fa­

ther, and his own good-will to the Romans. At the same time

they demonstrated that Antigonus was their enemy, not only be­

cause he soon quarrelled with them, but because he now over­

looked theRomans,and took thegovernment by the means of the

Parthians. These reasons greatly moved the senate; at which

juncture Antony came in and told them that it was for their

advantage in the Parthian war that Herod should be king; so

they all gave their votes for it. And, when the senate was se­

parated, Antony and Csesar went out, with Herod between them;

while the consul and the rest of the magistrates went before

them in order to offer sacrifices, and to lay the decree in the

capitol : Antony also made a feast for Herod on the first day

of his reign.

« This Brentesium or Biundusium has coin still preserved, on which ii written

Sfir^if""t aa Spanheim here informs us.

O o 2 CHAP-

