*i6 Book XVIIL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

conversed with Drusus, the Emperor Tiberius's son, and con­

tracted a friendship with Antonia, the wife of Drusus the Great,

who had his mother Bernice in great esteem, and was very desi­

rous of advancing her son. Now, as Agrippa was by nature

magnanimous and generous in the presents he made, while his

mother was alive, this inclination of his mind did not appear,

that he might be able to avoid her anger for such his extrava­

gance ; but when Bernice was dead, and he was left to his own

conduct, he spent a great deal extravagantly in his daily way of

living, and a great deal in the immoderate presents he made, and

those chiefly among Caesar's freed-men, in order to gain their

assistance, insomuch that he was, in a little time, reduced to po­

verty, and could not live at Rome any longer. Tiberius also

forbade the fiiendsof his deceased son to come into his sight,

because on seeing them he should be put in mind of his son, and

his grief would thereby be revived.

2. For these reasons he went away from Rome, and sailed to

Judea, but in evil circumstances, being dejected with the loss of

that money, which he once had, and because he had not where­

withal to pay his creditors, who were many in number, and such

as gave him no room for escaping them. Whereupon he knew not

what to do ; so, for shame of his present condition, he retired to

a certain tower, at Malatha, in Idumea, and had thoughts of

killing himself; but his wife Cypres perceived his intentions,

and tried all sorts of methods to divest him from his taking such

a course : so she sent a letter to his sister Herodias, who was

now the wife of Herod the tetrarch, and let her know Agrip-

pa's present design, and what necessity it was which drove him

thereto, and desired her, as a kinswoman of his, to give him her

help, and to engage her husband to do the same, since .she saw

how she alleviated these her husband's troubles all she could, al­

though she had not the like wealth to do it withal. So they sent

him, and allotted him Tiberias for his habitation, and appointed

him some income of money for his maintenance, and made him

a magistrate of that city, by way of honour to him. Yet did not

Herod long continue in that resolution of supporting him, though

even that support was not sufficient for him for, as once they

were at a feast at Tyre, and in their cups, and reproaches were

cast upon one another, Agrippa thought that was not to be borne,

while Herod hit him in the teeth with his poverty, and with his

owing his necessary food to him. So he went to Flaccus, one

that had been consul, and had been a very great friend to him at

Rome formerly, and was now president of Syria.

3. Hereupon Flaccus received him kindly, and he lived with

him. Flaccus had also with him there Aristobulus, who was

indeed

