360 wars or the jews. Book II.

whole multitude, and gave orders that they should constrain

those that began the tumult, by force, to be quiet. At these

the whole multitude were irritated, and threw stones at many

of the soldiers, and killed them : but the tribune fled away

wounded, and had much ado to escape so. After which they

betook themselves to their sacrifices, as if they had done no mis -

chief; nor did it appear to Archelaus that the multitude could

be restrained without bloodshed; so he sent his whole army up足

on them, the footmen in great multitudes, by the way of the

city, and the horsemen by the way of the plain, who, falling

upon them on the sudden, as they were offering their sacrifices,

destroyed about three thousand of them; but the rest of the

multitude were dispersed upon the adjoining mountains; these

-were followed by Archelaus's heralds, who commanded every  
one to retire to their own homes, whither they all went, and

left the festival.

CHAP. II.

Archelaus goes to Rome with a great number of his kindred- He

is there accused before C<esar by Antipater ; but is superior to

his accusers in judgment, by the means of that defence which

Nicolaus made for him.

f 1. \ RCHELAUS went down now to the sea side, with

JTjl his mother and his friends, Poplas, and Ptolemy, and

Nicolaus, and left behind him Philip, to be his steward in the

palace, and to take care of his domestic affairs. Salome went

also along with him with her sons, as did also the king's

brethren and sons-in-law. These, in appearance, went to give

him all the assistance they were able, in order to secure his

- succession, but in reality to accuse him for his breach of the  
laws, by what he had done at the temple.

2. But as they were come to Cesarea, Sabinus, the procura足

tor of Syria, met them: he was going up to Judea, to secure

Herod's effects; but Varus, [president of Syria], who was come

thither, restrained him from going any farther. This Varus

Archelaus had sent for, by the earnest entreaty of Ptolemy. At

this time indeed, Sabinus, to gratify Varus, neither went to the

citadels, nor did he shut-up the treasuries where his father's mo足

ney was laid up, but promised that he would lie still, until

Caesar should have taken cognisance of the affair. So he abode

at Cesarea; but as soon as those that were his hindrance were

gone, when Varus was gone to Antioch, and Archelaus was

sailed to Rome, he immediately went on to Jerusalem, and

seized upon the palace. And when he had called for the go足

vernors of the citadels, and the Stewards [of the king's private

affairs],

