Chap. IV. AVTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 143

Lupus laid his garment aside and complained of the cold *, he

said, that cold was never hurtful to Lupus, [i. e. a. wolf]. And,

as a great many men went along with them to see the sight, when

Cherea came to the place, he asked the soldier who was to be

their executioner, whether this office was what he was used to ?

or whether this was the first time of his using his sword in that

manner, and desired him to bring him that very sword with'

which he himself slew Caius. So he was happily killed at one

stroke. But Lupus did not meet with such good fortune in goinsj

out of the world, since he was timorous, and had many blows

levelled at his neck, because he did not stretch it out boldly, [as

he ought to have done.]

6. Now, a few days after this, as the parental solemnites were

just at hand, the Roman multitude made their usual oblations to

their several ghosts, and put portions into the fire, in honour of

Cherea, and besought him to be merciful to them, and not con­

tinue his anger against them for their ingratitude. And this was

the end of the life that Cherea came to. But, for Sabinus, al­

though Claudius not only set him at liberty, but gave him leave

to retain his former command in the army, yet did he think it

would be unjust in him to fail of performing his obligations to

his fellow confederates; so he fell upon his sword, and killed

himself, the wound reaching up to the very hilt of the sword f-.

CHAP.

* This piercing cold here complained of by Lupus, agrees well to the time of  
the year when Claudius began his reign ; it being for certain about the months

of November, December, or January, and most probably a few days after Jan.

24th, and a few days before the Roman Pareiifalia.

t It is both here and elsewhere very remarkable, that the murderers of the

vilest tyrants who yet highly deserved to die, when those murderers were under

oaths, or other the like obligations of fidelity to them, were usually
revenged,

and the murderers were cut off themselves, and that after a remarkable manner;

and this sometimes, as in the present case, by those very persons who were not

sorry for such murders, but got kingdoms by them. The examples are very nu­

merous, both in sacred and profane histories, and seem generally indications
of

divine vengeance on such murderers. Nor is it unworthy of remark, that such

murderers of tyrants do it usually on such ill principles, in such a cruel
manner,

and as ready to involve the innocent with the guilty, which was the case here,

chap. i. sect. 14. and chap. ii. sect. 4. as justly deserved the divine
vengeance

upon them. Which seems to have been the case of Jehu also, when, besides the

house of Ahab, for whose slaughter he had a commission from God, without any

such commission, any justice or commiseration, he killed Ahab's great men, and

acquaintance, and priests, and forty-two of the kindred of Ahaziah, 2 Kings x.

ii—14. SeeHos. i. 4. I do not mean here to condemn Ehud or Judith, or the

like executioners of God's vengeance on those wicked tyrants, who had unjustly

oppressed God's own people under their theocracy; who, as they appear still to
have

had no selfish designs nor intentions to slay the innocent, so had they still
a di­

vine commission, or a divine impulse, which was their commission for what they

did, Judges, iii. 15, jp, 20. Judith, ix. 2. Test. Levi, sect.,;;' in Authent.
Rec. p

312. Se.e also page 432.

