Chap, II. ANTIOJJITIIS OF THE JEWS. 1

and was disposed to inform the king of it. And since these

people knew that their friendship was very disagreeable to

Herod, as tending to do him a mischief, they contrived that

their meetings should not be discovered ; so they pretended

to hate one another, and to abuse one another when time ser­

ved, and especially when Herod was present, or when any

one was there that would tell him ; but still their intimacy

was firmer than ever, when they were private. And this was-

the course they took ; but they could not conceal from Salome

neither their first contrivance, when they set about these their

intentions, nor when they had made some progress in them ;

but she searched out every thing ; and, aggravating the rela­

tions to her brother, declared to him, " As well their secret

" assemblies and compotations, as their counsels taken in a

" clandestine manner, which, if they were not in order to

" destroy him, they might well enough have been open and

" public. But, to appearance, they are at variance, and

" speak about one another as if they intended one another a

" mischief, but agree so well together when they are out of

" the sight of the multitude ; for when they are alone by

" themselves, they act in concert, and profess that they will

" never leave off their friendship, but will fight against those

" from whom they conceal their designs." And thus did

she search out these things, and get a perfect knowledge of

them, and then told her brother of them, who understood

also of himself a great deal of what she said, but still durst

not depend upon it, because of the suspicions he had of his

sister's calumnies. For there was a certain sect of men that

were Jews, who valued themselves highly upon the exact

skill they had in the law of their fathers, and made men be­

lieve they were highly favoured by God, by whom this- set

of women were inveigled. These are those that are called

the sect of the Pharisees, who were in a capacity of greatly-

opposing kings. A cunning sect they were, ami soon eleva­

ted to a pitch of open fighting, and doing mischief. Accord­

ingly, when all the people of the Jews gave assurance of their

good-will to Caesar, and to the king's government, these very

men did not swear, being above six thousand ; and when the

king imposed a fine upon them, Pheroras's wife paid their

fine for them. In order to requite which kindness of her's,

since they were believed to have the foreknowledge of things

to come by divine inspiration, they foretold how God had de­

creed, that Herod's government should cease, and his posterity

should be deprived of it; but that the kingdom should come

lo her and Pheroras> and to their childcen. These predictions

were

