Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 151

any donation that was worth mentioning. But Agrippa's tem­

per was mild, and equally liberal to all men. He was humane

to foreigners, and made them sensible of his liberality. He was

in like manner rather of a gentle and compassionate temper.

Accordingly, he loved to live continually at Jerusalem, and was

exactly careful in the observance of the laws of his country.—

He therefore kept himself entirely pure ; nor did any day pass

over his head without its appointed sacrifice.

4. However, there was a certain man of the Jewish nation at

Jerusalem, who appeared to be very accurate in the knowledge

of the law. His name was Simon. This man got together an

assembly, while the king was absent at Cesarea, and had the inso­

lence to accuse him as not living holily, and that he might justly

be excluded out of the temple, since it belonged only to native

Jews. But the general of Agrippa's army informed him, that

Simon had made such a speech to the people. So the king sent

for him ; and, as he was sitting in the theatre, he bid him sit

down by him, and said to him with a low and gentle voice,

'' What is there done in this place that is contrary to the law ?"

But he had nothing to say for himself, but begged his pardon.

So the king was more easily reconciled to him than one could

ha-ve imagined, as esteeming mildness a better quality in a king

than anger, and knowing that moderation is more becoming in'

great men than passion. So he made Simon a small present, and

dismissed him.

5. Now, as Agrippa was a great builder in many places, he

paid a peculiar regard to the people of Berytus; for he erected

a theatre for them, superior to many other of that sort, both in

sumptuousness and elegance, as also an amphitheatre, built at

vast expences ; and besides these, he built them baths and porti­

coes, and spared for no costs in any of his edifices, to render them

both handsome and large. He also spent a great deal upon their

dedication, and exhibited shows upon them, and brought thither

musicians of all sorts, and such as made the most delightful

music of the greatest variety. He also shewed his magnificence

upon the theatre, in his great number of gladiators ; and there it

was that he exhibited the several antagonists, in order to please

the spectators ; no fewer indeed than seven hundred men to fight

with seven hundred other men * ; and allotted all the malefactors

he had for this exercise, that both the malefactors might receive

their punishment, and that this operation of war might be a re­

creation in peace. And thus were these criminals all destroyed

at once.

CHAP.

« A strange number of condemned criminals to be under the sentence of death

it once; no fewer, it seems, than 1400 !

