42 Book XVII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

das having gotten together a multitude of men of a profligate-

character about Sephoris in Galilee, made an assault upon the pa­

lace [there], and seized upon all the weapons] that were laid upi

in it, and with them armed every one of those that were with

him, and carried away what money was left there ; and he be­

came terrible to all men, by tearing and rending those that came-

near him ; and all this in order to raise himself, and out of art

, ambitious desire of the royal dignity ; and he hoped to obtain

that as the reward, not of his virtuous-skill in war, but of his

extravagance in doing injuries.

6. There was also Simon, who had been a slave of Herod the

king, but in other respects a comely person, of a tall and robust

body ; he was one that was much superior to others of his order,

and had had great things committed to his care. This man was

elevated at the disorderly state of things, and was so bold as to

put a diadem on his head, while a certain number of the people

stood by him, and by them he was declared to be a king, and

thought himself more worthy of that dignity than any one else.

He burnt down the royal palace at Jericho, and plundered what

was left in it. He also set fire to many other of the king's hou­

ses in several places of the country, and utterly destroyed them,,

and permitted those that were with him to take what was left

in them for a, prey and he would have done greater things,

unless care had been taken to repress him immediately ; for

Gratus, when he had joined himself to some Roman soldiers,

took the forces he had with him, and met Simon, and after a great

and a long fight, no small part of those that came from Perea,.

who were a disordered body of men, and fought rather in a bold

than in a skilful manner, were destroyed; and although Simon had

saved himself by flying away through a certain valley, yet Gra­

tus overtook him, and cut off his head. The royal palace, also,-

at Amathus, by the river Jordan, was burnt down by a party of

men that were got together, as were those belonging to Simon.

And thus did a great and wild fury spread itself over the na­

tion, because they had no king to keep the multitude in good

order, and because those foreigners, who came to reduce the se­

ditious to sobriety, did, on the contrary, set them more in a

flame, because of the injuries thay offered them, and the avari­

cious management of their affairs.

7. But because Athronges, a person neither eminent by the

dignity of his progenitors, nor for any great wealth he was pos-

sessed'of,. but one that had in all respects been a shepherd only,,

and was not known by any body ; yet because he was a tall man,,

and excelled others in the strength of his hands,, he was so bold

as to set up for king. Tin's man thought it So sweet- a thing to

