Chap. II. ANTIOJJITES OF THE JEWS. r

befallen the Romans, and that habitable world which was sub­

ject to them. So that at length it was determined that she must

die ; nor could those of the .contrary opinion at all prevail to

have her saved ; and Lupus was sent accordingly. Nor was

there any delay made in executing what he went about, but he

was subservient to those that sent him on the first opportunity,

as desirous to be no way blameable in what might be done for

the advantage of the people. So, when he was come into the

palace, he found Cesonia, who was Cains'a wife, lying by iier

husband's dead body, which also Jay down on the ground, and

destitute of all such things as the law allows to the dead, and all

over herself besmeared with the blood of her husband's wounds,

and bewailing the great affliction she was under, her daughter

lying by her also : and nothing else was heard in these her cir.

cumstances, but her complaint of .Caius, as if he had not regard­

ed what she had often told him of before-hand ; which words

of hers were taken in a different sense even at that time, and are

now esteemed equally ambiguous by those that hear of them,

and are still interpreted according to the different inclinations of

people. Now some said that the words denoted, that she had ad­

vised him to leave off his mad behaviour and his barbarous

cruelty to the citizens, and to govern the public with modera­

tion and virtue, lest he should perish by the same way, upon

their using him as he had used them. But some said, that, as

certain words had passed concerning the conspirators, she desi­

red Caius to make no delay, but immediately to put them all to

death, and this whether they were guilty or not, and that there­

by he would be out of the fear of any danger; and that this

was what she reproached him for, when she advised him so to do,

but he was too slow and tender in the matter. And this was

what Cesonia said, and what the opinions of men were about it.

But, when she saw Lupus approach, she shewed him Caius's

dead body, and persuaded him to come nearer, with lamentation

and tears; and as she perceived that Lupus was in disorder, and

approached her in order to execute some design disagreeable to

himself, she was well aware for what purpose he came, and

stretched out her naked throat, and that very chearfully to him,

bewailing her case, like one utterly despaired of her life, and

bidding him not to boggle at finishing the tragedy they had re­

solved upon relating to her. So she boldly received her death's

wound at the hand of Lupus, as did the daughter after her. So

Lupus made haste to inform Cherea of what he had done.

5. This was the end of Caius, after he had'reigned four years,

within four months. He was, even before he came to be em­

peror, ill-natured, and one that had arrived at the utmost pitch

' flf

