302 WARS OT THE JEWS. Book If.

" to be now heard on that account; since he had not staid for

" his determination about the succession, and since he had sub-

" orned certain persons, after Herod's death, to move for put-

" ting the diadem upon his head; since he had set himself down

" in the throne, and given answers as a king, and altered the

«' disposition of the army, and granted to some higher dignities:

«' that he had also complied in all things with the people in the

" requests they had made to him as to their king, and had also

'' dismissed those that had been put into bonds by his father,

" for most important reasons. Now, after all this, he desires

«' the shadow of that royal authority, whose substance he had al-

" ready seized to himself, and so- hath made Caesar lord, not of

*' things, but of words. He also reproached him farther, that  
" his mourning for his father was only pretended, while he put

" on a sad countenance in the day time, but drank to great ex-

«' cess in the night, from which behaviour, he said, the late

" disturbance among the multitude came, while they had an in-

" dignation thereat. And indeed the purport of his whole dis-

" course was to aggravate Archelaus's crime in slaying such a

" multitude about the temple, which multitude came to the fes-

" tival, but were barbarously slain in the midst of their own sa-

" crifices; and he said, there was such a vast number of dead

" bodies heaped together in the temple, as even a foreign war,

that should come upon them [suddenly], before it vras de­

nounced, could not have heaped together. And he added,

that it was thefore sight his father had of that his barbarity,

which made him never give him any hopes of the kingdom,

but when his mind was more infirm than his body, and he

" was not able to reason soulidly, and did not well know what

" was the character of that son, whom in his second testament

«« he made his successor; and this was done by him at a time

«« when he had no complaints to make of him whom he had

«« named before when he was sound in body, and when his mind

«' was free from all passion. That, however, if any one should

«« suppose Herod's judgment, when he was sick, was superior

" to that at another time, yet had Archelaus forfeited his

" kingdom by his own behaviour, and those his actions, which

" were contrary to the law, and to its disadvantage. Or what

" sort of a kingwill this man be, when he hath obtained the

" government from Caesar, who hath slain so many before he

" hath obtained it."

6. When Antipater had spoken largely to this purpose, and

had produced a great number of Archelaus's kindred as witnes­

ses, to prove every part of the accusation, he endedhis discourse.

Then stood up Nicolaus to plead for Arehelaus. He alleged,

V That

