30 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

drome, and told them that the king ordered them to go away to

their own lands, and take care of their own affairs, which was

ssteemed by the nation a great benefit. And now the king's

death was made public, when Salome and Alexis gathered the

soldiery together in the amphitheatre at Jericho ; and the first

thing they did was, they read Herod's letter, written to the sol­

diery, thanking them for their fidelity and good will to him, and

exhorting them to afford his son Archelaus, whom he had ap­

pointed for their king, like fidelity and good will. After which

Ptolemy, who had the king's seal entrusted to him, read the

king's testament, which was to be of force no otherwife than as

it should stand when Caesar had inspected it: fo there was pre­

sently an acclamation made to Archelaus, as king, and the sol­

diers came by bands, and their commanders with them, and pro­

mised the same good will to him, and readiness to serve him,

which they had exhibited to Herod ; and they prayed God to be

assistant to him.

3. After this was over, they prepared for his funeral, it being

Archelaus's care that the procession to his father's sepulchre

should be very sumptuous. Accordingly he brought out all

his ornaments to adorn the pomp of the funeral. The body was

carried upon a golden bier, embroidered with very precious

stones of great variety, and it was covered over with purple, as

well as the body itself: he had a diadem upon his head, and

above it a crown of gold ; he also had a sceptre in his right hand.

About the bier were his sons and his numerous relations ; next

to these was the soldiery, distinguished according to their seve­

ral countries and denominations ; and they were put into the

following order : First of all went his guards ; then the band of

Thracians ; and after them the Germans; and next the band of

Galatians, every one in their habuiliments of war ; and behind

these marched the whole army in the same manner as*they used

to go out to war, and as they used to be put in array by their

muster-masters and centurions ; thefe were followed by five hun­

dred of his domestics, carrying spices. So they went eight fur­

longs*, to Herodium ; for there, by his own command, he was

to he buried. And thus did Herod end his life.

4. Now Archelaus paid him so much respect, as to continue

his mourning till the seventh day ; for so many days are ap­

pointed for it by the law of our fathers. And when he had

given a treat to the multitude, and left off his mourning, he

went

* At eiglit stadia or furlongs a-day, as here, Herod's funeral, conducted to  
Herodium, (which lay at the distance from Jericho, where he died, of 100
stadia

or furlongs; Of the War, B' I. ch. xxxiii' J p.) must have taken up no less
than

twenty five days. ,

