Chap. IX» ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. '^55

life, the inhabitants of Cesarea and of Sebaste forgot the kind­

nesses he had bestowed on them, and acted the part of riie bitter­

est enemies ; for they cast such reproaches upon the deceased as

are not fit to be spoken of; and so many of them as were then

soldiers, which were a great number, went to his house, and has­

tily carried off the statues* of this king's daughters, and all at

once carried them into the brothel-houses, and, when they hart

set them on the tops of those houses, they abused them to the

utmost of their power, and did such -things to them as are too inf-

decent to be related. They also laid themselves down in public

places, and celebrated general feastings, with garlands on their

heads, and with ointments and libations to Charon, and drinking

to one another for joy that the king was expired. Nay, they

were not only unmindful of Agrippa, who had extended his li­

berality to them in abundance, but of his grandfather Herod also,

who had himself rebuilt their cities, and had raised them havens

and temples at vast expences.

2. Now Agrippa, the son of the deceased, was at Rome, and

brought up with Claudius' Caesar. And when Caesar was in­

formed that Agrippa was dead, and that the inhabitants of Se­

baste and Cresarea had abused him, he was sorry for the first news,

and was displeased with ihe ingratitude 'of those cities. He was

therefore disposed to send Agrippa junior away presently to suc­

ceed his father in the kingdom, and was willing .to confirm him

in it by his oath. But those freed-men and friends of his, who

had the greatest authority with him, dissuaded him from it, and

said, that " it was a dangerous experiment to permit so large a

*• kingdom to come under the government of so very young a  
" man, and one hardly yet arrived at years of discretion, who

«' would not be able to take sufficient care of its administration ;

" while the 'weight of a kingdom is heavy enough to a grown

" man." So Caesar thought what they said to be reasonable.

Accordingly he sent Cuspios Fadus to be procurator of Judea,

and of the entire kingdom, and paid that respect to the deceased,

as not to introduce Marcus, who had been at variance with him,

into his kingdom. But he determined, in the first place, to send

orders to Fadus, that he should chastise the inhabitants of Cesa­

rea and Sebaste for those abuses they had offered to him that was

deceased, and their madness towards his daughters that were still

alive ; and that he should remove that body of soldiers that were

at Cesarea and Sebaste, with the five regiments, into Pontus, that

they might do their military duty there, and that he should chdse

U 2 an

* Photius, who made an extract out of this section, says, they were not the  
statues or images, but the ladies themselves, who were thus basely abused by
the

soldiers. Cod. CCXXXV1U.

