554 AWTIQJJFTIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX,

chamber, and as he saw them below lying prostrate on the ground,

he could not himself forbear weeping. And when he had been

quite- worn out by the pain in his belly for five days, he depart­

ed this Life, being in the fifty-fourth year of his age, and in the

seventh year of his reign ; for he reigned four years under Gains

Caesar, three of them were over Philip's tetrarchy only, and on

the fourth he had that of Herod added to it; and he reigned,

besides those, three years under the reign of Claudius Caesar. In

which time he reigned over the fore-mentioned countries, and

also had Judea added to them, as well as Samaria and Cesarea.

The revenues that he received out of them were very great, no*

less than twelve * millions of drachmae. Yet did he borrow

great sums from others; for he was so very liberal that his ex-

pences exceeded his incomes, and his generosity was boundless f.

3. But before the multitude were made acquainted with A-

grippa's being expired, Herod the king of Chaldis, and Helcias

the master of his horse, and the king's friend, sent Aristo, one of

the king's most faithful servants, and slew Silas, who had been

their enemy, as if it had been done by the king's own command.

CHAP. IX,

What things were done after the death of Agrippa ; and JJO'M

Claudius, on account of the youth and unskilfulness of Agrippa

junior, sent Cuspius Fadus to be procurator of Judea, and of

the entire kingdom.

§ 1. A ND thus did king Agrippa depart this life. But he

•*"*, left behind him a son, Agrippa by name, a youth in

the seventeenth year of his ager and three daughters ; one of

which, Berniee, was married to Herod his father's brother, and

was sixteen years old ; the other two, Mariamne and Drusilla,

were still virgins ; the former was ten years old, and Drusilla

six. Now these his daughters were thus espoused by their fa­

ther, Mariamne to Julius Archelaus Epiphanes, the son of An-

tiochus, the son of Chelcias, and Drusilla to the king of Comma-

gena. But when it was known that Agrippa was departed this

life,

•

* This sum of 12,000,000 dvachmz, which is equal to 3,000,000 shekels, i.e.  
at is. led. a shekel, equal to L. 425,000 Sterling, was Agrippa the Great's
year-

ly income, or about three quartersot his grandfather Herod's income; he having

abated the tax upon houses at Jerusalem, ch. vi. sect. 3. and was not so
tyranni­

cal as Herod had been to the Jews. See the cote on Amiq. B. XVII. ch. xi.
sect.

4. A large sum this ! but not, it seems, sufficient for his extravagant
expences.

,f Reland takes notice here, not improperly, that Josejjhus omits the reconcu

li<uinn of this llerod-Agrippa to the Tyrians and bidonians, by the means of

Bfastus the king s chamberlain, mentioned Acts, xii. 20. Kor is there any
histo­

ry in the world so complete, as to omit nothing that other historians take
nutica

»j', ua.kas ilit ons; be taksa out of the other, ami accorcraodated to it.

