106 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

" though they had injured Mtthridates, yet if they preserved

" his life, this benefit would be remembered by him to the ad-

" vantage of those that gave it him ; but that if he were once

" put to death, the king would not be at rest till he had made a

«' great slaughter of the Jews that dwelt at Babylon ; to whose

" safety we ought to have a regard, both on account of our re-

" lation to them, and because, if any misfortune befal us, we have

" no other place to retire to, since he hath gotten the flower of

" their youth under him." By this thought, and this speech of

his made in council, he persuaded them to act accordingly ; sd

Mithridates was let go. But, when he was got away, his wife

reproached him, that although he was son-in-law to the king, he"

neglected to avenge himself on those that had injured him, while

he took no care about it, but was contented to have been made a

captive by the Jews, and to have escaped them ; and she bid him

" either to go back like a man of courage, or else she sware by

" the gods of their royal family, that she would certainly dissolve

«' her marriage with him." Upon which, partly because he

could not bear the daily trouble of her taunts, and partly because

he was afraid of her insolence, lest she should in earnest dissolve

her marriage, he unwillingly, and against his inclinations, got

together again as great an army as he could, and marched along

with them, as himself thinking it a thing not to be borne any

longer, that he, a Parthian, should owe his preservation to the

Jews, when they had been too hard for him in the war.

7. But as soon as Anileus understood that Mithridates was

marching with a great army against him, he thought it too igno­

minious a thing to tarry about the lakes, and not to take the

first opportunity of meeting his enemies, and he hoped to have

the same success, and to beat their enemies as they did before )

as also he ventured boldly upon the like attempts. Accordingly

he led out his army, and a great many more joined themselves

to that army, in order to betake themselves to plunder the

people, and in order to terrify the enemy again by their numbers.

But when they had marched ninety furlongs, while the road had

been through dry [and sandy] places, and about the midst of the

day, they were become very thirsty ; and Mithridates appeared,

and fell upon them, as they were in distress for want of water,-

on which account, and on account of the time ot the day, they were

not able to bear their weapons. So Anileus and Lis men were put

to an ignominious rout, while men in despair were to attack those

that were fresh, and in good pKght; so great slaughter was made,

and many ten thousand men fell. Now Anileus, and all that

stood iirm about him, ran away, as fast as they were able, into a

wood, and afforded Mithridates the pleasure of having gained a

great

