99 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

I

tronius, " commending him for his assembling his army, and the«

" consulting him about these aiFairs. It' therefore, said he, thou

" hast already erected my statue, let it stand ; but, if thou hast

" not yet dedicated it, do not trouble thyself farther about it, but

" dismiss thy army, go back, and take care of those affairs which

" I sent thee about at first, for I have now no occasion for the

" erection of that statue. Thus I have granted as a favour to

" Agrippa, a man whom I honour so very greatly, that I am not

" able to contradict what he would have, or what he desired me

" to do for him." And this was what Caius wrote to Petro-

nius, which was before he received his letter, informing him that

the Jews were very ready to revolt about the statue, and that

they seemed resolved to threaten war against the Romans, and

nothing else.' When therefore Caius was much displeased that

any attempt should be made against his government, as he was a

slave to base and vicious actions on all occasions, and had no re­

gard to what was virtuous and honourable, and against whomso­

ever he resolved to shew his anger, and that for any cause what­

soever, he suffered not himself to be restrained' by any admoni­

tion, but thought the indulging his anger to be a real pleasure,

he wrote thus to Petronius : " Seeing thou esteemest the presents

" made thee by the Jews, to be of greater value than my com-

" mantis, and art grown insolent enough to be subservient to

" their pleasure, I charge thee to become thy own judge, and to

" consider what thou art to do, now thou art under my displea-

''' sure ; for I will make thee an example to the present and to

" all future ages, that they may not dare to contradict the com-

*' mands of their emperor."

P. This was the epistle which Caius wrote to Petronius, but

Petronius did not receive it while Caius was alive, that ship

which carried it sailed so slow, that other letters came to Petro­

nius before this, by which he understood that Caius was dead ;

for God would not forget the dangers Petronius had undertaken

on account of the Jews, and of his own honour. But when he had

taken Caius away, out of his indignation of what he had so inso­

lently attempted in assuming to himself divine worship, both

Rome and all that dominion conspired with Petronius, especially

those that were of the senatorian order, to give Caius his due re­

ward, because he had been unmercifully severe to them ; for he

died not long after he had written to Petronius that epistle which

threatened him with death. But as for the occasion of his death,

and the nature of the plot against him, I shall relate them in the

progress of this narration. Now, that epistle which informed

Petronius of Caius's death came first, and a little afterward came

that which commanded him to kill himself with his own hands.

Whereupon

