402 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

they fled away, the horsemen trampled them down, so that a

great many fell down dead by the strokes of the Romans, and

more by their own violence in crushing one another. Now

there was a terrible crowding about the gates, and while every

body was making haste to get before another, the flight of them

all was retarded, and a terrible destruction there was among

those that fell down, for they were suffocated, and broken to

pieces by the multitude of those that were uppermost; nor could

any of them be distinguished by his relations in order to the

care of his funeral; the soldiers also who beat them, fell upon

those whom they overtook, without shewing them any mercy,

and thrust the multitude through the place called* Bezetha, as

they forced their way in order to get in and seize upoa the

temple, and the tower Antonia. Florus also being desirous to

get those places into his possession, brought such as were with

liim out of the king's palace, and would have compelled them to

get as far as the citadel [Antonia.]; but his attempt failed, for

the people immediately turned back upon him, and stopped the

violence of his attempt, and as they stood upon the tops of their

houses, they threw their darts at the Romans, who, as they

were sorely galled thereby, because those weapons came from

above, and they were not abl« to make a passage through the

multitude, which stopped up the narrow passages, they retired

to the camp which was at the palace.

6. But for the seditious, they were afraid lest Florus should

come again, and get possession of the temple, through Antonia;

so they got immediately upon those cloisters of the temple that

joined to Antonia, and cut them' down. This cooled the ava­

rice of Florus, for whereas he was eager to obtain the treasures

of God [in the temple], and on that account was desirous of get­

ting into Antonia, as soon as the cloisters were broken down,

he left off his attempt; he then sent for the high-priests and the

Sanhedrim, and told them, that he was indeed himself going out

of the city, but that he would leave them as large a garrison as

they should desire. Hereupon they promised that they would

make no innovations, in case he would leave them one band;

but

* I take this Bezetha to be that small hill adjoining to the north side of the  
temple, whereon was the hospital with live porticoes or cloisters, and beneath

which was the sheep pool of Bethesda, into which an angel or messenger, at a

certain season, descended, and where he or they, who were the " first put into

" the pool," were cured,!John v. I, &c. This situation of Bezetha, in
Josephus,

on the north side of the temple, and not far off the tower Antonia, exactly
agrees

to the place of the same pool at this day. Only the remaining cloisters are
but

three. See Maundrel, page 106. The entire buildings seem to have been called

the Ntia City, and this part, where was the hospital, peculiarly Bezetha or
Beth-

See chap. six. § 4.

