Chap VIII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

nished them. Moreover, there came out of Egypt * about this

time to Jerusalem, one that said he was a prophet, and advised the

multitude of the common people to go along with him to the

Mount of Olives, as it was called, which lay over against the city,

and at the distance of five furlongs. He said farthei, that he

would shew them from hence, how, at his command, the walls

of Jerusalem would fall down ; and he promised them, that he

would procure them an entrance into the city through those

walls, when they were fallen down. Now, when Felix was in­

formed of these things, he ordered his soldiers to take their wear

pons, and came against them with a great number of horsemen

and footmen, from Jerusalem, and attacked the Egyptian and the

people that were with him. He also slew four hundred of them,

and took two hundred alive. But the Egyptian himself escaped

out of the fight, but did not appear any more. And again the

robbers stirred up the people to make war with the Romans, and

said, they ought not to obey them at all ; and when any person

would not comply with them, they -set fire io their villages, and

plundered them.

7. And now it was that a great sedition arose between the

Jews that inhabited Cesarea, and the Syrians who dwelt there

also, concerning their equal right to the privileges belonging to

citizens, for the Jews claimed the pre-eminence, because Herod

their king was the builder of Cesarea, and because he was bv

birth a Jew. Now, the Syrians did not deny what was alledged

about Herod; but they said, that Cesarea was formerly called

Strato's tower, and that then there was not one Jewish inhabitant.

When the presidents of that country heard of these disorder.,

they caught the authors of them on both sides, and tormented

them with stripes, and by that means put a stop to the distur­

bance for a time. But, the Jewish citizens, depending on their

wealth, and on that account despising the Syrians, reproached

them again, and hoped to provoke them by such reproaches.

However, the Syrians, though they were inferior in wealth, yet

valuing themselves highly on this account, that the greatest part

of Roman soldiers that were there, were either of Cesarea or

Sebaste, they also for some time used reproachful language to

the Jews also ; and thus it was, till at length they came to throw­

ing stones at one another, and several were wounded, and fell on

both sides, though still the Jews were the conquerors. But when

Felix saw that this quarrel was become a kind of war, he came

upon them on the sudden, and desired the Jews to desist; and

when they refused so to do, he armed his soldiers, and sent them

Z 2 out

« Of this Egyptian impostor, and the number of his followers, in Josephus, ses

^cts, xxi. 38.

