214 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.'

begged of me to spare him one of his hands, it was with difficult

ty that I granted it. So, in order to prevent the loss of both his

hands, he willingly took his sword, and cut off his own left

hand ; and this put an end to the sedition.

35. Now the men of Tiberias, after I was gone to Taricheae,

perceived what stratagem I had used against them, and they ad­

mired how I had put an end to their foolish sedition, without

shedding of blood. . But now, when I had sent for some of those

multitudes of the people of Tiberias out of prison, among whom

were Justus and his father Pistus, I made them to sup with me ;

and during our supper-time I said to them, that I knew the

power of the Romans was superior to all others, but did not say

so [publicly] because of the robbers. So I advised them to do

as I did, and to wait for a proper opportunity, and not to be

uneasy at my being their commander ; for that they could not

expect to have another who would use the like moderation that

I had done. I also put Justus in mind how the Galileans had

cut off his brother's hands, before ever I came to Jerusalem,

upon on accusation laid against him, as if he had been a rogue,

and had forged some letters ; as also how the people of Gamala,

in a sedition they raised against the Babylonians, after the de­

parture of Philip, slew Chares, who was a kinsman of Philip,

and withal how they had wisely punished Jesus, his brother Jus­

tus's sister's husband, [with death]. When I had said this to them

during supper-time, I in the morning ordered Justus, and all the

rest that were in prison, to be loosed out of it, and sent away. .

36'. But before this, it happened that Philip, the son of Jaci-

mus, went out of the citadel of Gamala upon the following oc­

casion : When Philip had been informed that Varus was put out

of his government by king Agrippa, and that Modius Equieo-

lus, a man that was of old his friend and companion, was come

to succeed him, he wrote to him, and related what turns of for­

tune he had had, and desired him to forward the letters he sent

to the king and queen. Now, when Modius had received these

letters, he was exceedingly glad, and sent the letters to the king

and queen, who were then about Berytus. But when king A-

grippa knew that the story about Philip was false, (for it had

been given out, that the Jews had begun a war with the Ro­

mans, and that this Philip had been their commander in that

wax), he sent some horsemen to conduct Philip to him, and,

when he was come, he saluted him very obligingly, and shewed

him to the Roman commanders, and told them that this was the

man of whom the report had gone about as if he had revolted

from the Romans. He also bid him to take some horsemen with

him, and to go quickly to the citadel of Gamala, and to bring

out

