20* THE LIFE Of FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

that should be their governors hereafter, as if they were not

likely to be faithful to them neither.

18. But, before I had spoken all I designed, I heard one of

my own domestics bidding me come down ; for that it was not a

proper time to take care of retaining the good-will of the people

of Tiberias, but to provide for my own safety, and escape my

enemies there ; for John had chosen the most trusty of those armed

men that were about him out of those thousand that he had with

him, and had given them orders, when he sent them, to kill me,

having learned that I was alone, excepting some of my domestics.

So those that were sent came as they were ordered, and they had

executed what they came about, had I not leaped down from the

elevation I stood on, and with one of my guards, whose name

was James, been carried [out of the crowd] upon the back of

one Herod of Tiberias, and guided by him down to the lake,

where I seized a ship, and got into it, and escaped my enemies

unexpectedly, and came to Taricheae.

19. Now, as soon as the inhabitants of that city understood the

perfidiousness of the people of Tiberias, they were greatly pro­

voked at them. So they snatched up their arms, and desired me

to be their leader against them ; for they said they would avenge

their commander's cause upon them. They also carried the re­

port of what had been done to me to all the Galileans, and ea­

gerly endeavoured to irritate them against the people of Tibe­

rias, and desired that vast numbers of them would get together,

and come to them, that they might act in concert with their com­

mander, what should be determined as fit to be done. Accord­

ingly, the Galileans came to me in great numbers, from all parts,

with their weapons, and besought me to assault Tiberias, to take

it by force, and to demolish it, till it lay even with the ground,

and then to make slaves of its inhabitants, with their wives and

children. Those that were Josephus' friends also, and had esca­

ped out of Tiberias, gave him the same advice. But I did not

comply with them, thinking it a terrible thing to begin a civil

war among them ; for I thought that this contention ought not

to proceed farther than words ; nay, I told them that it was not

for their own advantage to do what they would have me to do,

while the Romans expected no other than that we should- de­

stroy one another by our mutual seditions. And by saying this,

I put a stop to the anger of the Galileans.

20. But now John was afraid for himself, since his treachery

had proved unsuccessful. So he took the armed men that were

about him, and removed from Tiberias to Gischala, and wrote to

me to apologise for himself concerning what had been done, as

if it had been done without his approbation, and desired me to

have

