XIV. WAHS OF THE JEWS. • 395

Albums ; and every one of those wicked wretches was encom­

passed with his own band of robbers, while he himself, like an

.arch-robber, or a tyrant, made a figure among his company, and

,abused his authority over those about him, in order to plunder

those that lived quietly. The effect of which was this, that

those who lost their goods were forced to hold their peace, when

they had reason to shew great indignation at what they had suf­

fered ; but those who had escaped, were forced to flatter him

that deserved to be punished, out of the fear they were in of

suffering equally with the others. Upon the whole, no body

durst speak their minds, but tyranny was generally tolerated ;

and at this time were those seeds sown which brought the city

to destruction.

2. And though such was the character of Albinus, yet did

Gessius * Florus, who succeeded him, demonstrate him to have

1»een a most excellent person, upon the comparison ; for the for-

mer did the greatest part of his rogueries in private, and with

a sort of dissimulation ; but Gessius did his unjust actions to

the harm of the nation after a pompous manner : and as though

he had been sent as an executioner to punish condemned male­

factors, he emitted no sort of rapine, or of vexation ; where the

case was really pitiable, he was most barbarous, and in things

-of the greatest turpitude he was most impudent. Nor could  
any one outdo him in disguising the truth, nor could any one con­

trive more subtle ways of deceit than he did. He indeed thought

it but a petty offence to get money out of single persons ; so he

spoiled whole cities, and ruined entire bodies of men at once,

snd did almost publicly proclaim it all the country over, that

they had liberty giv«n them to turn robbers, upon this condi­

tion, that he might go shares with them in the spoils they got.

Accordingly, this his greediness of gain was the occasion that

,entire toparchies were brought to desolation, and a great many

of the people left their own country, and fled into foreign pro­

vinces.

3. And truly, while Cestius Oallus was president of the pro­

vince of Syria, nobody durst do so much as send an embassage to

him against Florus ; but when he was come to Jerusalem, up­

on the approach of the feast of unleavened bread, the people

came

* Net long after this beginning of Floras, the wickedest of all the Roman pro­  
curators of Judea, and the immediate occasion of the Jewish war, at the nth
year

of Nero, and the i?th of Agrippa, or A. D. 66. the history in the XX books of

Josephus* Antiquities ends ; although Josephus did not finish the^e books tiil
the

1.1th of Domitian,or A. D' 93, twenty-seven years afterward; as he did not
finish

their Appendix, containing an account of his own life, till Agrippa was dead,

which happened in the 3d year of Trajan, or A. D. 100, as 1 have several time»

otserved before.

3 D2

