#56 WARS OF THE JEWS'. Book 1,

As soon as ever Autipater heard that, he took courage, and with

joy in his looks, besought his keepers, for a sum of money, to

loose him and let him go; but the principal keeper of the prison

did not only obstruct him in that his intention, but ran and told

the king what his design was; hereupon the king cried out

louder than his distemper would well bear, and immediately

sent some of his guards and slew Antipater; he also gave order

to have him buried at Hyrcanium, and altered his testament

again, and therein made Archelaus his eldest son, and the bro­

ther of Antipas, his successor, and made Antipas tetrarch.

8. So Herod having survived the slaughter of his sou five days,

died, having reigned thirty-four years, since he had caused An-

tigonus to be slain, and obtained his kingdom; but thirty-seven;

years since he had been made king by the Romans. Now as for

his fortune, it was prosperous in all other respects, if ever any

other man could be so, since, from aprivate man, he obtained the

kingdom, and kept it so long, and left it to his own sons ; but

still in his domestic affairs, he was a most unfortunate man.

Now before the soldiers knew of his death, Salome and her hus­

band came out and dismissed those that were in bonds, whom the

king had commanded tobe slain, and told them that he had alter­

ed his mind, and would have every one of them sent to their own

homes. When these men were gone, Salome told the soldiers-

[the king was dead}, and got them and the rest of the multitude

together to an assembly, in the ar -phitheatre at Jericho, where

Ptolemy, who was intrusted by the king with his signet-ring,

came before them, and spake of the happiness the king had at­

tained, and comforted the multitude, and read the epistle which

had been left for the soldiers, wherein he earnestly exhorted them

to bear good-will to his successor; and after he had read the e-

pistle, he opened and read his testament, wherein Philip was to

inherit Trachonitis, and the neighbouring countries, and Antipas

was to be tetrarch, as we said before, and Archelaus was made

king. He had^also been commanded to carry Herod's ring to

Caesar, andthe settlements he had made.sealed up,because Caesar

was to be lord of all the settlements he had made, and was to con­

firm his testament; and he ordered that the dispositions he had

made were to be kept as they were in his former testament.

9. So there was an acclamation made to Archelaus, to congra­

tulate him upon his advancement, and the soldiers, with the mul­

titude, went round about in troops, and promised him their good

will, and besides, prayed God to bless his government. After

this, they betook shemselves to prepare for the king's funeral;

and Archelaus omitted :.othing of magnificence therein, but

brought out all the royal ornaments to augment the pomp of the

deceased.

