WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

I

" of Scipio. Nor indeed have the Cyrenians, derived from the

" Lacedemonians, nor the Marmaridae, a nation extended as far

'' as the regions uninhabitable for want of water, nor have the

'' Syrtes, a place terrible to such as barely tear it described,

" the Nasamons and Moors, and the immense multitude of the

'' Numidians, been able to put a stop to the Roman valour.

'' And as for the third part of the habitable earth, [Africa},

'' whose nations are so many that it is not easy to number them,

" and which is bounded by the Atlantic sea and the pillars of

" Hercules, and feeds an innumberable multitude of Ethiopians,

'' as far as the Red Sea, these have the Romans subdued entire-

" ly. And besides the annual fruits of the earth, which main-

'' tain the multitude of the Romans for eight months in the

'' year, this, over and above, pays all sorts of tribute, and af-

" fords revenues suitable to the necessities of the government?

" Nor do they, like you, esteem such injunctions a disgrace to

'' them, although they have but one Roman legion that abides

'' among them. And indeed what occasion is there for shew-

" ing you the power of the Romans over remote countries,

1? when jt is so easy to learn it from Egypt, in your neighbour-

'' hood ? This country is extended as far as the Ethiopians,

"' and Arabia the Happy, and borders upon India; it hath se-

" ven millions five hundred thousand men, besides the inhabi-

'' tants of Alexandria, as may be learned from the revenue of

"' 'the pole tax; yet it is not ashamed to submit to the Roman

'' government, although it hath Alexandria as a grand tempta-

'' tion to a revolt, by reason it is so full of people and of rich-

" es, and is besides exceeding large, its length being thirty fur-

'' longs, and its breadth no less than ten; and it pays more tri-

" bute to the Romans in one month than you do in a year; nay,

" besides what it pays in money, it sends corn to Rome that

" supports it for four months [in the year]: it is also walled

" round on all sides, either by almost impassible deserts, or seas

11 that have no havens, or by rivers, or by lakes; yet have none

" of these things been found too strong for the Roman good

« fortune; however, two legions that lie in that city are a bri-

" die both for the remoter parts'of Egypt, and for the parts in-

" habited by the more noble Maced -mans. Where then are

" those people whom you are to have for your auxiliaries ?

" Must they come from the parts of the world that are uiiin-

«« habited? for all that are in the habitable earth are [under the}

'' Romans. Unless any of you extend his hopes as far as beyond

" the Euphrates, and suppose that those of your own nation that

" dwell in Adiabene will come to your assistance; but certain.

** ly those will not embarrass themselves with an unjustifiable

"war,

