Chap. VIIL ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS* 95

had wrth him opposite to them; but did not discover his own

meaning, but the commands of the emperor, aud told them,

That " his wrath would^ without delay, be executed on such as

"had the courage to disobey what he had commanded, and

" this immediately ; and that it was fit for him, who had received

" so great a dignity by his grant, not to contradict him in anv

" thing : yet," said he, '« I do not think it just to have such a

" regard to my own safety and honour, as to refuse to sacrifice

" them for your preservation, who are so many in number, and

" endeavour to preserve the regard that is due to your law,

" which, as it hath come down to von from your forefathers, so

" do you esteem it worthy of your utmost contention to preserve

" it: nor, with the supreme assistance and power of God, will

'« I be so hardy as to suffer your temple to fall into contempt bv

" the means of tire imperial authority. I will, therefore, send

«' to Cains, and let him know what your resolutions are, and

" will assist your suit as far as I am able, that you may not be

" exposed to suffer on account of the honest designs you have

" proposed to yourselves -' and may God be your assistant, for

" his authority is beyond all the contrivance arid power of men;

" and may he procure you the preservation of your ancient

" laws, and may not he be deprived, though without your con-

" sent, of his accustomed honours. But, if Caius be irritated,

' and turn the violence of his rage upon me, I will rather i*n-

" dergo all that danger and that affliction that may come either

" oa my body or my soul, than see so many of you to perish,

" while you are acting in so excellent a manner. Do you, there-

" fore, every one of you, go your way about your own occupa-

*' tions, and fall to the cultivation of your ground ; J will my.  
" self send to Rome, and will not refuse to serve you in all

" things, both by myself and by my friends."

6. When Petronius had said this, and had dismissed the as­

sembly of the Jews, he desired the principal of them to take care

of their husbandry, and to speak kindly to the people, and en­

courage them to have good hope of their affairs. Thus did be

readily bring the multitude to be ehearful again. And now did

God shew his presence* to Petronius, and signify to him, that

he would afford him his assistance in his whole design ; for he had

no sooner finished the speech that he made to the Jews, but God

sent

* Josephui here uses the Solemn New Tesl ament words, •ntixirix and }«£««««, the  
frttencc and appearance of God, for the extraordinary manifestation oi his
puw<*r

and providence to Petronius' by sending rain in a time of distivba,
immediate')*

upon the resolution he had raken to preserve the temple unpolluted' at
thehazard

of his own life, without any other miraculous appearance at a I in that cas; :

which well deserves to be taken notice of here, and gvtaily illuiira'fs
several

fexts, both in the Old and New Testament.

