196 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS.

assurances they had given these their fellow-citizens and confe­

derates, and slew them all, being in number many ten thousand

[l 3,000]. The like miseries were undergone by those Jews

that were the inhabitants of Damascus. But we have given a

more accurate account of these things in the books of the Jew­

ish war. I only mention them now, because I would demon­

strate to my readers, that the Jews war with the Romans was

not voluntary, but that, for the main, they were forced by ne­

cessity to enter into it.

7. So when Gessiushad been beaten, as we have said already,

the principal men of Jerusalem, seeing that the robbers and in­

novators had arms in great plenty, and fearing lest they, while

they were unprovided of arms, should be in subjection to their

enemies, which also carne to be the case afterward; and, being

informed that all Galilee had not yet revolted from the Romans,

but that some part of it was still quiet, they sent me and twq

others of the priests, who were men of excellent characters, Jozar

and Judas, in order to persuade the ill men there to lay down

theityarms, and to teach them this lesson, that it were betler to

have those arms reserved for the most courageous men that the

nation had, [than to be kept there] ; for that it had been resolved,

that those our best men should always have their arms ready

against futurity, but still so, that they should wait to see what

the Romans would do.

8. When I had therefore received these instructions, I came

into Galilee, and found the people of Sepphorisin no small agony

about their country, by reason that the Galileans had resolved

to plunder it, on account oi the friendship they had with the Ro­

mans, and because they had given their right-hand, and made a

league with Cestius Gallus, the president of Syria. But I de­

livered them all out of the fear they were in, and persuaded the

multitude to deal kindly with them, and permitted them to send

to those that were their own hostages with Gessius to Dora,

which is a city of Phenicia, as often as he pleased ; though" I

still found the inhabitants of Tiberias ready to take arms, and

that on the occasion following :

9. There were three factions in this city. The first was com­

posed of men of worth and gravity ; of these Julius Capellus was

the head. Now he, as well as all his companions, Herod the

son of Miarus, and Herod the son of Gamalus, and Compsus the

son of Compsus, (for as to Compsus's brother Crispus, who had

once been governor of the city under the great king * [Agrip-

pa], he was beyond Jordan in his own possessions^ ; all these

, ' persons

* That this Herod.Agrippa, the father, was of old called a Great King, as  
here appears by his coins still remaining ; to which Havtrca/rp refers us.

