26 Book XVII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

5. But now Herod's distemper greatly Increased upon him

after a severe manner, and this by God's judgement upon him

for his sins; for a fire glowed in him slowly, which did not so much

appear to the touch outwardly, as it augmented his pains in­

wardly ; for it brought upon him a vehement appetite to eating,

which he could not avoid to supply with one sort of food or

other. His entrails were also exulcerated, and the chief vio­

lence of his pain lay on his colon ; an aqueous and transparent

liquor also had settled itself about his feet, and a like matter af­

flicted him at the bottom of his belly. Nay, farther, his privy-

member was putriiied, and produced worms ; and when he sat

upright, he had a difficulty of breathing, which was very loath­

some, on account of the stench of his breath, and the quickness

of its returns; he had also convulsions in all parts of his body,

which increased his strength to an unsufierable degree. It was

said by those who pretended to divine, and who were endued

with wisdom to foretel such things, that God inflicted this pu-

nishment on the king on account of his great impiety ; yet was

he still in hopes of recovering, though his afflictions seemed

greater than any one could bear. He also sent for physicians,

and did not refuse to follow what they prescribed for his assist­

ance, and went beyond the river Jordan, and bathed himself in

the warm baths that were at Callirrhoe, which, besides their

other general virtues, were also fit to drink ; which water runs

into the lake called Asphaltitis. And when the physicians once

thought fit to have him bathed in a vessel full of oil, it was sup­

posed that he was just dying ; but, upon the lamentable cries of

his domestics, he revived ; and having no longer the least hopes

of recovering, he gave order that every soldier should be paid

fifty drachmae ; and he also gave a great deal to their command­

ers, and to his friends, and came again to Jericho, where he grew

so choleric, that it brought him to do all things like a madman ;

and though he were near his death, he contrived the following

wicked designs. He commanded that all the principal men of

the entire Jewish nation, wheresoever they lived, should be call­

ed to him. Accordingly, they were a great number that came,

because the whole nation was called, and all men heard of this

call, and death was the penalty of such as should despise the

epistles that were sent to call them. And now the king was in

a wild rage against them all, the innocent as well as those that

had afforded ground for accusations; and when they were come,

he

year of the Julian period 4710, and the 4th year before the Christian aera.
See

its calculation by the rules of astronomy, at the end of the Astronological
Lec.

rares, edit. Lat. p. 451. 451.

