120 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

they sat at random, men and women together, and free-men were

mixed with the slaves. So Caius came out in a solemn manner,

and offered sacrifice to Augustus Ciesar, in whose honour in­

deed these shews were celebrated. Now it happened, upon the

fall of a certain priest, that the garment of Asprenas, a' senator,

was filled with blood, which made Caius laugh, although this

was an evident omen to Asprenas, for he was slain at the same

time with Caius. It is also related, that Caius was that day,

contrary to his usual custom, so very affable and good-natured

in his conversation, that every one of those that were present

were astonished at it. After the sacrifice was over, Caius be­

took himself to see the shews, and sat down for that purpose, as,

did also the principal of his friends sit near him. Now the parts.

of the theatre were so fastened together, as it used to be every

year, in the manner following : It had two doors, the one door

led to the open air, the other was for going into, or going out

of the cloisters, that those within the theatre might not be there­

by disturbed ; but out of one gallery there went an inward pas­

sage, partly into partitions also, which led into another gallery,

to give room to the combatants, and to the musicians to go out

as occasion served. When the multitude were set down, and

Cherea, with the other tribunes also, were set down also, and

the right corner of the theatre was allotted to Caesar, one Va-

tinius, a senator, commander of the pretorian band, asked of

Cluvius, one that sat by him, and was of consular dignity alsQj

" Whether he had heard any thing of news or not ?" but topk:

care that nobody should hear what he said ; and when Cluvius'

replied, That " he had heard no news," " Know then," said

Vatinius, " that the game of the slaughter of tyrants is to b,e

" played this day." But Cluvius replied, " O brave comrade r.

lf hold thy peace, lest some other of the Achaians hear thy

" tale." And, as there was abundance of autumnal fritit

thrown among the spectators, and a great number of birds, that

were of great value to such as possessed them, on account of

their rareness, Caius was pleased with the birds fighting for

the fruits, and with the violence wherewith the spectators seized

upon them ; and here he perceived two prodigies that happened

there ; for an actor was introduced, by whom a leader of rob­

bers was crucified, and the pantomime brought in a play called

Cinyras, wherein he himself was to be slain, as well as- his

daughter Myrrha, and wherein a great deal of fictitious blood

was shed, both about him that was crucified, and also about

Cinyras. It is also confessed, that this was the same day where­

in Pausanias, a friend of Philip, the son of Amyntas, who was

king of Macedonia, slew him, as he was entering into the theatre.

And'

