25O KtEPACT."

festivals, and * seven purifications of- purity, and" the sacred1

ministrations of the priests, with the garments of the priests,

and of the high-priests ; and of the nature of the most holy place

of the temple, without concealing any thing, or adding any

thing to the known truth of things.

11. After this, I shall relate the barbarity of the tyrants to­

wards the people of their own nation, as well as the indulgence

of the Romans in sparing foreigners ; and how often Titus, out

of his desire to. preserve the city and the temple, invited the se­

ditious to come to terms of accommodation. I shall also distin­

guish the sufferings of the people, and their calamities; how

far they were afflicted by the sedition, and how far by the fa­

mine, and at length were taken. Nor shall omit to mention the

misfortunes of the deserters, nor the punishments inflicted on

the captives; as also, how the temple was burnt, against the

consent of Caesar, and how many sacred things that had been

laid up in the temple, were snatched out of the fire ; and the de­

struction also of the entire city, with the signs and wonders that

went before it; and the taking the tyrants captives, and the

multitude of those that were made slaves,'and into what different

misfortunes they were every one distributed. Moreover, what

the Romans did to the remains of the war ; and how they de­

molished the strong holds that were in the country; and how

Titus went over the whole country, and settled its affairs ; to.

gether with his return into Italy, and his triumph.

12. I have comprehended all these things in seven books; and

have left no occasion for complaint or accusation to such as have

been acquainted with this war; and I have written it down for

the sake of those that love truth, but not for those that please

themselves [with fictitious relations]. And I will begin my ac­

count of these things, with what I call my First Chapter.

* Tbe;e seven, or rather five, degrees of purily, or purification, are enumera­  
ted hereafter, B. V. ch. v. sect. 6. The rabbins make ten degrees of them, a»

StUnd there informs Us.

BOOK

