Gfcap. VII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. *9

CHAP. VII.

How Herod lhe tetrarch was banished'.

| 1. "DUT Herodias, Agrippa's sister, who now lived as wife

•^ to that Herod who was tetrarch of Galilee and Perea,

took this authority of her brother in an envious manner, parti­

cularly when she saw that he had a greater dignity bestowed on

him than her husband had ; since when he ran away, it was be­

cause he was in a way of -dignity, and of great good fortune.

She was therefore grieved, and much displeased, at so great a

mutation of his affairs, and chiefly when she saw him marching

among the multitude with the usual ensigns of royal authority,

She was not able to conceal how miserable she was, bv reason

of the envy she had towards him ; but she excited her husband,

and desired him that he would sail to Rome, to court honours

equal to his : for she said, that " she could not bear to live any

" longer, while Agrippa, the son of that Aristobulus who was

" condemned to die by his father, one that came to her husband

'' in such extreme poverty, that the necessaries of life were

"forced to be entirely supplied him day by day ; and whsn he

*' fled away from his creditors by sea, he now returned a king :  
" while he was himself the son of a king, and while the near

" relation he bare to royal authority, called upon him to gain

" the like dignity, he sat still, and was contented with a pri-

" vater life. But then, Herod, although thou wast formerly

" not concerned to be in a lower condition than thy father, from

"' whom thou wast derived, had been j yet do thou now seek

" after the dignity which thy kinsman hath attained to ; and do

" not thou bear this contempt, that a man who admired thy

" riches should be in a greater 'honour than thyself, nor suffer

" his poverty to shew itself able to purchase greater things than

" our abundance ; nor do thou esteem it other than a shameful

*' thing to be inferior to one, who, the other day, lived upon thy  
"'charity. But, let us go to Rome, and let us spare no pains

" nor expences, either of silver or gold, since they cannot be kept

" for any better use, than for the obtaining of a kingdom,"

2. But, for Herod, he opposed her request at this time, out of

the love of ease, and having a suspicion of the trouble he should

have at Rome ; so he tried to instruct her better. But the mora

sh£ saw him draw back, the more she pressed him to it, and de-

Sired him to leave no stone unturned in order to be king: and at

last she left not off till she engaged him, whether he would or not,

to be of her sentiments, because he could no otherwise avoid her

importunity. So he got all things ready, after as sumptuous a

VOL. III. M

