Chap. VI. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 15

king of Emesa * ; they had a daughter who was deaf, whose

name also was Jotape ; and these hitherto were the children of

the male-line. But Herodias, their sister, was married to He­

rod [Philip]j the son of Herod the Great, who was born of Ma-

riamne, the daughter of Simon the high-priest, who had adaugh-

ter, Salome ; after whose birth Herodias took upon her to con­

found the laws of our country, and divorced herself from her

husband while he was alive, and was married to Herod [Anti-

pas], her husband's brother by the father's side ; he was tetrarch

of Galilee ; but her daughter Salome was married to Philip, the

son of Herod, and tetrarch of Tranchonitis, and, as he died child­

less, Aristobulus, the son of Herod, the brother of Agrippa,

married her ; they had three sons, Herod, Agrippa, and Aristo-

buluSj and this was the posterity of Phasaelus, and Salampsio.

But the daughter of Antipater by Cypros, was Cypros, whom

Alexis Selcias, the son of Alexas, married ; they had a daugh­

ter, Cypros ; but Herod and Alexander, who, as we told you,

were the brothers of Antipater, died childless. As to Alexan­

der, the son of Herod the king, who was slain by his father, he

had two sons, Alexander and Tigranes, by the daughter of Ar-

chelaus, king of Cappadocia ; Tigranes, who was king of Ar­

menia, was accused at Rome, and died childless ; Alexander had

a son of the same name with his brother Tigranes, and was sent

to take possession of the kingdom of Armenia by Nero : he had'

a son, Alexander, who married Jotape f, the daughter of Antio-

chus, the king of Commagena ; Vespasian made him king of an.

island m Cicilia. But these descendants of Alexander, soon after

their birth, deserted the Jewish religion and went over to that of

the Greeks ; but for the rest of the daughters of Herod the king,

it happened that they died childless. And as these descendants

of Herod, whom we have enumerated, were in being at the same

time that Agrippa the Great took the kingdom, and I have now-

given an account of them, it now remains that I relate the seve­

ral hard fortunes which befel Agrippa, and how he got clear of

them, and was advanced to the greatest height of dignity and

powert

C H A P. VI.

Of the navigation of king dgrippa to Rome, to Tiberius Casar ;

and bow, upon his being accused l>y bis own freed-man, he il>as

bound: bow also be was set at liberty by Cams, after Tiler ius's

death, and was made king of the tetrarchy of Philip.

$ 1. A LITTLE before the death of Herod the king, Agrip-

-^,*- pa lived at Rome, and was generally brought up and

K 2 conversed

* There are coins still extant of this Emess, as Spnnheim informs us.  
+ Spanheim also informs us of a coin still extant ol this Jotape, daughter of

the king of '

