Chap. IX. ANTTQtJITlES OF THE JEWS." 183

the law, he delivered them to be stoned : but as for those who

seemed the most equitable of the citizens, and such as were the

most uneasy at the breach of the laws, they disliked what was

done ; they also sent to the king, [Agrippa], desiring him to send

to Ananus that he should act so no more, for that what he had

already done was not to be justified : nay *, some of them went

also to meet Albinus, as he was upon his journey,from Alex­

andria, and informed him, that it was not lawful for Ananus

to assemble a sanhedrim without his consent. Whereupon Al­

binus complied with what they said, and wrote in anger to

Ananus, and threatened that he would bring him to punishment

for what he had done ; on which king Agrippa took the high-

priesthood from him, when he had ruled but three months, and

made Jesus, the son of Damneus, high-priest.

2. Now, as soon as Albinus was come to the city of Jerusalem,

he used all his endeavours and care that the country might be

kept in peace, and this by destroying many of the Sicarii. But

as for the high-priest Ananias f, he increased in glory every day,

and this to a great degree, and had obtained the favour and

esteem of the citi?.ens in a signal manner ; for he was a great

hoarder up of money : he therefore cultivated the friendship of

Albinus, and of the high-priest [Jesus], by making them pre­

sents ; he also had servants who were very wicked, who joined

themselves to the boldest sort of the' people, and went to the

threshing-floors, and took away the tithes that belonged to the

priests by violence, and did not refrain from beating such as would

not give these tithes to them. So the other high-priests acted in

the like manner, as did those his servants, without any one's being

able to prohibit them; so that [some of the] priests, that of old

were

* Of this condemnation of James the Just, and its causes, as also that he did  
not die till long afterwards, see Prim. Christ. Revived, Vol. III. ch. 43.—46.

The sanhedrim condemned our Saviour, but could not put him to deaih without

the approbation of the Roman procurator; nor could therefore Ananias and

his sanhedrim do more here, since they never had Albinus's approbation for the

putting this James to death.

t This Ananias was not the son of Nebedeus, as I take it, but he who was

called Annas or Ananus the elder, the 9th in the catalogue, and who had been

esteemed high.priest for a long time; and besides, Caiaphas his son-in-law had

five of his own sons high-priests after him, which were those of numbers 11,
14.

15,. 17, 14, in the foregoing catalogue. Nor ought we to pass slightly over
what

Josephus here says of Annas or Ananias, that he was high-priest a long time
be­

fore his children were so ; he was the son of Seth, and is set down first for
high.

priest in the foregoing catalogue, under number 9. He was made by Quirinus,

and continued till Ismael, the loth in number, for about 23 years, which long

duration of his high-priesthood, joined to the successions of his son-in-law,
and

five children of his own, made him a sort of perpetual high-priest, and was
pen.

haps the occasion that former high-priests kept their titles ever afterwards i
fa*

! believe it is hardly met with before him.

