-64 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. - Book XVIII.

bout this water ; and many ten thousands of the people got to­

gether, and made a clainour against him, and insisted that he

should leave off that design. Some of them also ussd reproaches,

and abused the man, as crowds of such people usually do. So

he habited a great number of his soldiers in their habit, who

carried daggers under their garments, and sent them to a place

where they might surround them. So he bid the Jews himself

go away j but they boldly casting reproaches upon him, he gave

the soldiers that signal which had been beforehand agreed oa ;

who laid upon them with much greater blows than Pilate had

commanded them, and equally punished those that were tumul­

tuous, and those that were not; nor did they spare them in the

least; and since the people were unarmed, and were caught by

men prepared for what they were about, there were a great

number of them slain by this means, and others of them ran

away wounded. And thus an end was put to this sedition.

3. Now, there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it be

lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful works,

a teacher of such men as receive the truth with pleasure. He

drew over to him both many of the Jews, and many of the

Gentiles. He was [the] Christ. And when Pilate, at the sug­

gestion of the principal men amongst us, had condemned hioi to

(he cross *, those that loved him at the first did not forsake him ;

for he appeared to them alive again the third day f ; as the di­

vine prophets had foretold these and ten thousand other wonder­

ful things concerning him. And the tribe of Christians, so

iiamed from him, are not extinct at this day.

4. About the same time, also, another sad calamity put the

Jews into disorder, and certain shameful practices happened

about the temple of Isis that was at Rome. 1 will now first take

notice of the wicked attempt about the temple of Isis, and will

then give an account of the Jewish affairs. There was at Rome

a woman whose name was Paulina ; one who, on account of the

dignity of her ancestors, and by the regular conduct of a vir­

tuous life, had a great reputation : she was also very rich ;. and

although she were of a beautiful countenance, and in that flower

of her age wherein women are the most gay, yet did she lead a

life of great inodcstv. She was married to Saturninus, one that

was

spel teaches us, I.'jfce, xxiii. 6. 7. that, " when Pilate heard of Galilee,
he asked

whether Jesus were a Galilean! And as soon as he knew that he belonged to He-

rocl's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod." And, ver. 12. " The same day
Pilate

and Herod were nude friends together; for before they had been at enmity be-

tween themselves'" Take the very probable key of this matter in the words of

the learned Noldins de Herod, No. 149. " The cause of the enmity between He-

" rod and Pilate (says he) seems to have been this, that Pilate had
intermeddled

" with the tetrar ch's jurisdiction, and had slain some of his Galilean
subjects,

"' Luke, xiii. i.; and, as he was willing to correct that error, he sent
Christ to

" Herod at this time.''

* A. 0.33. April 3. t April 5.

