Chap. XVII. Wars of the Jews. 299

ted this misfortune for a while, he put off the main part of his

mourning, and made haste to march against his enemies; and

when he had performed a march that was above his strength,

end was gone as far as Libanus, he got him eight hundred men

of those that lived near to that mountain, as his assistants, and

joined with them one Roman legion, with which, before it was

day, he made an irruption into Galilee, and met his enemies, and

drove them back to the place which they had left. He also

made an immediate and continual attack upon the fortress. Yet

was he forced by a most terrible storm to pitch his camp in the

neighbouring villages, before he could take it: but when, after

a few days time, the second legion, that came from Antony*

joined themselves to him, the enemy were affrighted at his-

power, and left their fortifications in the night time.

4. After this he marched through Jericho, as making what

haste he could to be avenged on his brother's murderers: where

happened to him a providential sign, out of which, when he had

unexpectedly escaped, he had the reputation of being very dear

to God, for that evening there feasted with him many of the

principal men, and after that feast was over, and all the guests

were gone out, the house fell down immediately. And as he

judged this to be a common signal of what dangers he should un­

dergo, and how he shouldescape them in the war that he was go­

ing about, he, in the morning, set forward with his army, when

about six thousand of his enemies came running down from the

mountains, and began to fight with those in his forefront; yet

durst they not be so very bold as to engage the Romans hand to

hand, but threw stones and darts at them at a distance; by which

means they wounded a considerable number ; in which action

Herod's own side was wounded with a dart.

5. Now as Antigonus had a mind to appear to exceed Herod,

not only in the courage, but in the number of his men, he sent

Pappus, one of his companions, with an army against Samaria,

whose fortune it was to oppose Macheras; but Herod over-ran

the enemies country, and demolished five little cities, and des­

troyed two thousand men that were in them, and burned their

houses, and then returned to his camp; but his head quarters

were at the village called Carta.

5. Now a great multitude of Jews resorted to him every day,

both out of Jericho, and the other parts of the country. Some

were moved so to do out of their hatred to Antigonus, and some

out of regard to the glorious actions Herod had done; but others

Were led on by an unreasonable desire of change; so he fell upon

them immediately. As for Pappus and his party, they were not

terrified either at their number, or at their ieal, but marched out

Pp2 with

