118 ANTIQJJIT1ES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX,

from the madness of Caius by a certain divine providence, and

Callistus pretended to such a piece of merit as he no way deserved.

11. However, the execution of Cherea's designs was put off

from day to day, by the sloth of many therein concerned ; for as

to Cherea himself, he would hot willingly make any delay in

that execution, thinking every time a fit time for it; for fre­

quent opportunities offered themselves ; as when Caius went up

to the capitol to sacrifice for his daughter, or when he stood

upon his royal palace, and threw gold and silver pieces of money

among the people, he might be pushed down' headlong, because

the top of the palace, that looks toward the market-place, was

very high ; and also when he celebrated the mysteries, which he

had appointed at that time ; for he was then no way secluded

from the people, but solicitous to do every thing carefully and

decently, and was free from all suspicion, that he should be then

.assaulted by any body ; and although the gods should afford him

no divine assistance to enable him to take away his life, yet had

he strength himself suflicient to dispatch Caius, even without a

sword. Thus was Cherea angry at his fellow-conspirators, for

fear they should suffer a proper opportunity to pass by ; and they

were themselves sensiblethathehad just causeto be angry at them,

and that his eagerness was for his advantage; yet did they desire

he would have a little longer patience, lest, upon any disappoint­

ment they might meet with, they should put the city into disorder,

and an inquisition should be made after the conspiracy, and should

render the courage of those that were to attack Caius without

success, while he would then secure himself more carefully than

ever against them; that it would therefore be the best to set about

the work when the shews were exhibited in the palace. These

shews were acted in honour of that Caesar * who first of all chan­

ged the popular government, and transferred it to himself; gal­

leries being fixed before the palace, where the Romans that were

Patricians became spectators, together with their children and

their wives, and Caesar himself was to be also a spectator; and

they reckoned among those many ten thousands, who would there

be crowded into a narrow compass, they should have a favour­

able opportunity to make their attempt upon him as he came in ;

because his guards that should protect him, if any of them

should have a mind to do it, would not here be able to give him'

any assistance.

12. Cherea consented to this delay, and when the shews were

exhibited, it was resolved to do the work the first day. But for­

tune, which allowed a farther delay to his slaughter, was too

hard for their foregoing resolution ; and, as three days of the

regular

* Here Josephus supposes that it was Augustus, and not Julius Caesar, who first  
changed the Roman commonwealth into a monarchy! for these shows were ift.

honour of Augustus, as we shall )e»ra in the next sec-ion but one.

