Chap. X. WARS OF THE JEWS. 27a

7. Now Hyrcanus was, by degrees, inflamed with these dis­

courses, and at length could bear no longer, but he summoned

Herod to take his trial. Accordingly, by his father's advice, and

as soon as the affairs of Galilee would give him leave, he came

up to [Jerusalem], when he had first placed garrisons in Galilee :

however, he came with a sufficient body of soldiers, so many in­

deed that he might not appear to have with him an army able to

overthrow Hyrcanus's government, nor yet so few as to expose

him to the insults of those that envied him. However, Sextus

Caesar was in fear for the young man, lest he should be taken

by his enemies, and brought to punishment; so he sent some to

denounce expressly to Hyrcanus, that he should acquit Herod

of the capital charge against him ; who acquitted him according­

ly, as being otherwise inclined also so to do, for he loved Herod.

8. But Herod, supposing that he had escaped punishment, with

the consent of the king, retired to Sextus, to Damascus, and got

every thing ready in order not to obey him, if he should summons

him again ; whereupon those that were evil disposed irritated

Hyrcanus, and told him, that Herod was gone away in anger,

and was prepared to make war upon him ; and as the king be­

lieved what they said, he knew not what to do, since he saw his

antagonist was stronger than he was himself. And now, since

Herod was made general of Celefyria, and Samaria, by Sextus

Caesar, he was formidable, not only from the good-will which the

nation bore him, but by the power he himself had ; insomuch,

that Hyrcanus fell into the utmost degree of terror, and expect­

ed he would presently march against them with his army.

9. Nor was he mistaken in the conjecture he made, for He­

rod got his army together, out of the anger he bare him for his

threatening him with the accusation in a public court, and led it

to Jerusalem, in order to throw Hyrcanus down from his king­

dom ; and this he had soon done, unless his father and brother

had gone out together and broken the force of his fury, and this

by exhorting him to carry his revenge no farther than to threat­

ening and affrighting, but to spare the king, under whom he had

been advanced to such a degree of power ; and that he ought not

to be so much provoked at his being tried, as to forget to be

thankful that he was acquitted ; nor so long to think upon what

was of a melancholy nature, as to be ungrateful for his deliver­

ance ; and if we ought to reckon that God is the arbitrator of

success in war, an unjust cause is of more disadvantage than an.

army can be of advantage ; and that therefore he ought not to

be entirely confident of success in a case where he is to fight

against his king, his supporter, and one that had often been his be­

nefactor, and that had never been severe to him, any otherwise

than

