so Book XVIIT. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

" drive them away for him ; but he prayed him to let them a-

" lone : the other, by way of reply, asked him the reason of such

" a preposterous proceeding, in preventing relief from his pre-

" sent misery ; to which he answered, If thou drivest these flies

" away, thou wilt hurt me worse ; for, as these are already full

" of my blood, they do not crowd about me, nor pain me so

" much as before, but are sometimes more remiss, while the

" fresh ones that come almost famished, and find me quite tired

" down already, will be my destruction. For this cause, there.

" fore, it is, that I am myself careful not to send such new go-

" vernors perpetually to those my subjects, who are already

" sufficiently harrassed by many oppressions, as may, like these

" flies, farther distress them ; and so, besides their natural desire

" of gain, may have this additional incitement to it, that they

*' expect to be suddenly deprived of that pleasure which they  
" take in it." And, as a farther attestation to what I say of die

dilatory nature of Tiberius, I appeal to this his practice itself;

for, although he were emperor twenty-two years, he sent in all

but two procurators to govern the nation of the Jews, Gratus,

and his successor in the government, Pilate. Nor was he in one

way of acting with respect to the Jews, and in another with re­

spect to the rest of his subjects. He farther informed them, that

even in the hearing of the causes of prisoners, he made such de­

lays, " because immediate death to those that must be condemned

*' to die, would be an alleviation of their present miseries, while  
,£ those wicked wretches have not' deserved any such favour ;

*' but I do it, that, by being harassed with the present calamity,  
" they may undergo greater misery."

0. On this account it was, that Eutychus could not obtain an

hearing, but was kept still in prison. However, some time af­

terward, Tiberius came from Capreae to Tusculanum, which

is about aa hundred furlongs from Rome. Agrippa then de­

sired of Antonia, that she would procure an hearing for Euty­

chus, let the matter whereof he accused him prove what it would.

Now, Antonia was greatly esteemed by Tiberius on all accounts,

from the dignity of her relation to him, who had been his bro­

ther Drusus's wife, and from her eminent chastity* ; for though

, she

* This high commendation of Antonia for marrying but once, given here, and  
supposed elsewhere, Anttq. B. XVII. ch. xiii. sect. 4. and this,
notwithstanding

the strongest temptations, shews how honourable single marriages were both

among the Jews and Romans, in the days of Josephus and of the apostles, and

takes away much of that surprise which the modern Protestants have at those

Jaws of the apostles, where no widows, but those who had been the wives of

one husband only, are taken into the church-list, and no bishops, priests, or
dea­

cons, are allowed to marry more than once, without leaving oif to officiate as

clergyman any longer. See Luke ii. 36. 1 Tim. v. II. u. iii- 3. 13. Tit. i.
10.

Constitut*

