Chap. XXTII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 319

grew up to be men, and when they were come to an age fit for

marriage, the one of them married their aunt Salome's daughter,

which Salome had been the accuser of their mother; t!ie other

married the daughter of Archelaus, king of Cappadocia. And

now they used boldness in speaking, as well as bore hatred in

their minds. Now those that calumniated them took a handle

from such their boldness, and certain of them spake now more

plainly to the king that there were treacherous designs laid against

him by both his sons, and he that was son-in-law to Archelaus,

relying upon his father-in-law, was preparing to fly away, in

order to accuse Herod before Caesar'; and when Herod's head had

beenlong enough filled with these calumnies,hebroughtAntipater,

whom he had by Doris, into favour again, as a defence to him'

against his other sons, and began all the ways he possibly could

to prefer him before them.

2. But these sons were not able to bear this change in their af足

fairs, but when they saw him that was born of a mother of no

family, the nobility of their birth made them unable to contain

their indignation; but whensoever they were uneasy, they shew足

ed the anger they had at it. And as these sons did day after day

inprove in thattheiranger, Antipateralreadyexercisedallhisown

abilities, which were very great, in flattering his father, and in

contrivingmany sorts of calumnies against his brethren, while he

told some stories of them himself, and put it upon other proper

persons to raise other stories against them, till at length he entire足

ly cut his brethern off from all hopes of succeeding to the king足

dom ; for he was already publicly put into his father's will as

his successor* Accordingly, he was sent with royal ornaments,

and other marks of royalty, to Caesar, excepting the diadem.

He was also able in time to introduce his mother again into Mar-

riamne's bed. The two sorts of weapons he made use of against

his brethern, were flattery and calumny, whereby be brought

matters privately to such a pass, that the king had thoughts of

putting his sons to death.

3. So the father drew Alexander as far as Rome, and charged

him with an attempt of poisoning him before Caesar. Alexander

could hardly speak for lamentation, but having a judge that was

more skilful than Antipater,and more wise than Herod, hemodest-

ly avoided laying any imputation upon his father, but with great

strength of reason confuted the calumnies laid against him; and

when he had demonstrated the innocencyof his brother, who was

in the like danger with himself, he at last bewailed the craftiness

of Antipater, and the disgrace they were under. He was enabled

also to justify himself, not only by a clear conscience, which he

carried with him, but by his eloquence; for he was a shrewd

man

