Chap. -VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 83

The man also grew eld in that honourable post, and therein

died. But all this happened a 'good while later. ,

7. Now Agrippa stood in his bonds before the royal palace,

and leaned on a certain tree for grief, with many others, who

were in bonds alio ; and as a certain bird sat upon the tree on

which Agrippa leaned, (the Romans call this bird bulo), [an owl],

one of those :that were bound, a German by nation, saw him,

and asked a soldier what that man in purple was ? and when he

was informed that his name was Agrippa, and that he was by

nation a Jew, and one of the principal men of that nation, he

asked leave of the soldier to whom he was bound *, to let him

come nearer to him, to speak with him'; for that he had a mind

to inquire of him about some things relating to his country ;

which liberty when he had obtained, and as he stood near him,

he said thus to him by an interpreter, That" this sudden change

" of thy condition, O young man ! is grievous to thee, as bring*

«' ing on thee a manifold and very great adversity ; nor wilt

" thou believe me, when I foretell how thou wilt get clear of

" this misery which thou art now under, and how divine Pro-

f vide nee will provide for thee. Know therefore (and I ap-

" peal to my own country-gods, as well as to the gods of this

" place, who have awarded these bonds to us), that all I am

" Somg to say about thy concerns, shall neither be said for fa-

" vour nor bribery, nor out of an endeavour to make thee chear-

" ful without cause ; for such predictions, when they come to

" fail, make the grief at last, and in earnest, more bitter than

" if the party had never heard of any such thing. However,

" though 1 run the hazard of my own self, I think it fit to de-

" dare to thee the prediction of the gods. It cannot be that

" thou shouldst long continue in these bonds ; but thou wilt

" soon be delivered from them, and wilt be promoted to the

" highest dignity and power, and thou wilt be envied by all

" those who now pity thy hard fortune ; and thou wilt be hap-

" py till thy 'death, and wilt leave thine happiness to the

" children whom thou shalt have. But, do thou remember,

" when thou seest this bird again, that thou wilt then live but

" five days longer. This event will be brought to pass by that

" God who hath sent this bird hither to be a sign unto thee.

" And I cannot but think it unjust to conceal from thee what I

" foreknow concerning thee, that, by thy knowing beforehand

" what happiness is coming upon thee, thou mayest not regard

" thy present misfortunes. But, when this happiness shall ac-

L 2 " tually

* Dr Hudson here takes notice, out of Sebeca, Epistle V. that this was the  
,sustom of Tiberius, to couple the prisoner and the soldier that guarded him
to.

Jtther in the same chain.

