Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. #T

his successor, he outlived but a few days, and then died, after he

had held the government twenty-two years five months and three

days: now Caius was the fourth emperor. But, when the Ro­

mans understood that Tiberius was dead, they rejoiced at the

good news, but had not courage to believe it j not because they

,frere unwilling it should be true, for they would have given

large sums of money that it might be so, but because they were

afraid, that if they had shewed their joy when the news proved

false, their joy should be openly known, and they should be ac­

cused for it, and be thereby undone. For this Tiberius had

brought a vast number of miseries on the best families of the

Romans, since he was easily enflamed with passion in all cases,

and was of such a temper as rendered his anger irrevocable, till

he had executed the same, although he had taken an hatred

against men without reason ; for he was by nature fierce in afl

{he sentences he gave, and made death the penalty for the lightest

offences;' insomuch that when the Romans heard the rumour

about his death gladly, they were restrained from the enjoymerit

of that pleasure by the dread of such miseries as they foresaw

ifrould follow, if their hopes proved ill-grounded. Now, Mar.

4yas, Agrippa'sfreed-man, as soon as he heard of Tiberius's death,

Came running to tell Agrippa the news ; and finding him going

Out to the bath, he gave him a nod, and said, in the Hebrew-

tongue, " The lion * is dead :" who, understanding his meaning,

and being overjoyed at the news, " Nay, said he, but nil sorts of

" thanks and happiness attend thee for this news of thine ; only

" I wish that what thou sayest may prove true." Now the

centurion, who was set to keep Agrippa, when he saw with what'

haste Marsyascame, and what joy Agrippa had from what he said,

he had a suspicion that his words implied some great innovation

of affairs, and he asked them about what was said. They at first

diverted the discourse ; but upon his farther pressing, Agrippa,

without more ado, told him, for he was already become hrs

friend ; so he joined with him in that pleasure which this news

Occasioned, because it would be fortunate to Agrippa, and made

him a supper. But, as they were feasting, and the cnps went

about, there came one who said, That " Tiberius was still alive,

" and would return to the city in a few days." At which news

the centurion was exceedingly troubled, because he had done

what might cost him his life, to have treated so joyfully a pri­

soner,

* This nam6 of a lion is often given to tyrants, especially by the Jews, such as  
Agrippa, and probably his freed-man Marsyas, in effect were, Ezek. xix. I. 9.

Esth' xiv. 13. 2 Tim. iv' 17. They are also sometimes compared to, or repre.

sented by wild beasts, of which the lion is the principal. Dan. vii' 3. 8.
Apoc.

xiii. r. 2.

