328 - WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

and of all that Pheroras had accused her of, she obtained her par足

don. The king also pardoned Pheroras himself the crimes he

had been accused of.

7. But the storm of the whole family was removed to Alexan足

der, and all of ic rested upon his head. There were three eunuchs

who were in the highest esteem with the king, as was plain by

the offices they were in about him; for one of them was ap足

pointed to be his butler, another of them got his supper ready

for him, and the third put him into bed, and lay down by him.

Now Alexander had prevailed with these men, by large gifts,

to let him use them after an obscene manner: which, when it

was told to the king, they were tortured, and found guilty, and

presently confessed the criminal conversation he had with them.

They also discovered the promises by which they were induced

so to do, and how they were deluded by Alexander, who had

told them, That " they ought not to fix their hopes upon He-

" rod, an old man, and one so shameless as to colour his hair,

** unless they thought that would make him young again; but  
" that they ought to fix their attention to him, who was to be his

** successor in the kingdom whether he would or not; and who  
" in no long time would avenge himself on his enemies, and

" make his friends happy and blessed, and themselves in the first

" place: that the men of power did already pay respects to

" Alexander privately, and that the captains of the soldiery, and

" the officers, did secretly come to him." ' *

8. These confessions did so terrify Herod, that he durst not

immediately publish them; but he sent spies abroad privately

by night and by day, who should make a close inquiry after ail-

that was done and said; and when any were but suspected [of

treason] he put them to death, insomuch that the palace was full

of horriblyunjust proceedings; for everybody forged calumnies,

as they were themselves in a state of enmity or hatred against

others; and many there were who abused the king's bloody

passion to the disadvantage of those with whom they had quar-*

rels, and lies were easily believed, and punishments were inflic足

ted sooner than the calumnies were forged: he who had just

then been accusing another, was accused himself, and was led

away to execution together with him whom he had convicted;

for the danger the king was in of his life made examinations

be very short. He also proceeded to such a degree of bitterness,

that he could not look on any of those that were not accused'

with a pleasant countenance, but was in the most barbarous

disposition towards his own friends. Accordingly, he forbade a

great many of them to come to court, and to those whom he had

not power to punish actually, he spake harshly; but for Anti--

pater.

