222 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHtTS.

men, to the borders of Galilee, in order to watch the roads that led

from the country to the city Jerusalem, and gave him charge to

lay hold of such as travelled with letters about them, to keep the

men in bonds upon the place, but to send me the letters.

47. When I had laid these commands upon them, I gave them

orders, and bid them to take their arms and bring three days

provision with them, and be with me the next day. I also part­

ed those that were about me into four parts, and ordained those

of them that were most faithful to me to be a guard to my bo­

dy. I also set over them centurions, and commanded them to

take care that not a soldier which they did not know should

mingle himself among them. Now, on the fifth day following,

when I was at Gabaroth, I found the entire plain that was before

the village full of armed men, who wer'e come out of Galilee to

assist me : many others of the multitude, also, out of the village,

ran along with me. But as soon as I had taken my place, and

began to speak to them, they all made an acclamation, and call­

ed me the benefactor and saviour of the country. And when I

had made them my acknowledgements, and thanked them [for

their affection to me], I also advised them to fight * with no

body, nor to spoil the country ; but to pitch their tents in the

plain, and be content with their sustenance they had brought with

them ; for I told them I had a mind to compose these troubles

without shedding any blood. Nowit came to pass, that on thevery

same day those who were sent by John with letters, fell among

the guards whom I appointed to watch the roads ; so the men

were themselves kept upon the place, as my orders were, but I

got the letters, which were full of reproaches and lies ; and 1 in­

tended to fall upon these men, without saying a word of these

matters to any body.

48. Now, as soon as Jonathan and his companions heard of

my coming, they took all their own friends, and John with them,

and retired to the house of Jesus, which indeed was a large castle,

and no way unlike a citadel; so they privately laid a band

of armed men therein, and shut all the other doors but one, which

they kept open, and they expected that I should come out of the

road to them, to salute them. And indeed they had given or­

ders to the armed men, that when I came they should let no

body besides rue come in, but should exclude others 5 as sup­

posing that, by this means, they should easily get me under their

power : but they were deceived in their expectation ; for I per­

ceived

» Josephus's directions to his soldiers here are much the same that John the

Baptist gave, Luke, iii. 14. " Do Violence to no man, neither accuse any
falsely,

" and be content with your wages." Whence Dr Hudson confirms this conjec­

ture, that Josephus, in some things, was, even now, a follower of John the Bap

tist, which is no way improbable. See the note on sect. z.

