THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPH^S. 211

the practices of their country ; but if, besides these, they should

say, they loved me because I was a priest, they should reply,

that two of these were priests also.

40. Now, when they had given Jonathan and his companions

these instructions, they gave them forty thousand [drachmae]

out of the public money : but when they heard that there was

a certain Galilean that then sojourned at Jerusalem, whose name

was Jesus, who had about him a band of six hundred armed men,

they sent for him, and gave him three month's pay, and gave

him orders to follow Jonathan and his companions, and be obe足

dient to them. They also gave money to three hundred men

that were citizens of Jerusalem, to maintain them all, and order足

ed them also to follow the ambassadors ; and when they had

complied, and were gotten ready for the march, Jonathan and his

companions went out with them, having along with them John's

brother, and an hundred armed men. The charge that was

given them by those that Sent them was this, that if I would

voluntarily lay down my arms, they should send me alive to the

city Jerusalem, but that, in case I opposed them, they should kill

me, and fear nothing ; for that it was their command for them

so to do. They also wrote to John to make all ready for fight足

ing me, and gave order to the inhabitants of Sepphoris and Ga-

bara, and Tiberias, to send auxiliaries to John.

41. Now, as my father wrote me an account of this, (for

Jesus the son of Gamala, who was present in that council, a

friend and companion of mine, told him of it), I was very much

troubled, as discovering thereby, that my fellow-citizens pro足

ved so ungrateful to me, as, out of envy, to give order that I

should be slain ; my father earnestly pressed me also in his letter

to come to him, for that he longed to see his son before he died.

I informed my friends of these things, and that in three days

time I should leave the country, and go home. Upon hearing

this, they were all very sorry, and desired me, with tears in their

eyes, not to leave them to be destroyed; for so they thought

they should be, if I were deprived of the command over them :

but as I did not grant their request, but was taking care of my

own safety, the Galileans, out of their dread of the consequence

of my departure, that they should then be at the mercy of the

robbers, sent messengers over all Galilee to inform them of my

resolution to leave them. Whereupon, as soon as they heard it,

they got together in great numbers, from ail parts, with their

wives and children ; and this they did, as it appeared to me, not

more out of their affection to me, than out of their fear on their

own account; for, while I staid with them, they supposed that

they should suffer no harm. So they all came into the great

.plain, wherein I lived, the name of which was AsoMs.

VOL. III. E e 42. But

