558 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

brother not allowing him to suspect any harm from him, he came

along with his armour on, to shew it to his brother; but when

he was going ''along that dark passage, which was called Strato's

Tower, he was slain by the body-guards, and became an eminent

instance how calumny destroys all good-will and natural affection,

and how none of our good affections are strong enough to resist

enyy perpetually.

5. And truly any one would be surprised at Judas upon this

occasion. He was of the sect of the Es'sens, and had never failed

or deceived men in his predictions before. Now, this man saw

Antigonus as he was passing along by the temple, and cried out

lp his acquaintance, (they were not a few who attended upon

liim as his scholars^,' " P strange'! said he, it is good for me to

V die now, since truth is dead before me, and somewhat that I

" have foretold hath proved false ; for this Antigonus is this day

" alive, who ought to have died this day ; and the place where

«' he ought to be slain, according to that fatal decree, was Strato's

" Tower, whrch is at the distance of six hundred furlongs from

«' this place ;' and yet four hours of this day are over already,

<V which point of time renders the prediction impossible to be

'' fulfilled." A'nd, when the old man had said this, he was de­

jected in hi? mind, and so continued- But, in a little time, news

came,-that Antigonus was slain in a subterraneous place, which

was itself also called Strato's Tower, by the same name with

thai Cesarea which lay by the serf-side, and this ambiguity it

was which caused the prophet's disorder. ' '' ' ,

6. Hereupon Aristohulus repented of the great crime he had

been guilty of, and this gave occasion to the increase of his dis-

femper. He also grew worse .and worse, and his soul was con­

stantly disturbed at the thoughts'of what he had done," till his

very .bowels being torn to pieces'by the intolerable grief he was

under, he threw up a great quantity of blood. And, as one of

those servants that attended him carried out that blood, he, , by

some supernatural providence, slipped and fell down in the very

.place where Antigonus had been slain ; and so he spilt some of

the murderer's blood upon the spots-of the blood of him that had

been murdered, which' still appeared. Hereupon a lamentable

cry arose airiohg the' spectators,- as if the servant had spilled the

blood on purpose in that place ; and, as the king heard that cry,

he inquired what Was the cause of it ? and while no body durst

leli him, he pressed them so-much the more to let him know

what was the matter; so, at length, when he had threatened

them, and forced them to sjjeak out, they told ; whereupon he

burst into tears, and groaned, and said, " So I perceive 1 am noi

*.' like to escape thf) all-seeing eye-of God, as to the great crimes

.'. " ,'*'." " I have

