Chap. IV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 261

the mountains, came over to him. Yet could not Demetrius

bear this turn of affairs, but supposing that Alexander was al­

ready become a match for him again, and that all the nation

would [at length] run to him, he left the country, and went his

way.

6. However, the rest of the [Jewish] multitude did not lay

aside their quarrels with him, when the [foreign] auxiliaries were

gone ; but they had a perpetual war with Alexander, until he

had slain the greatest part of them, and driven the rest into the

city Bemeselis; and when he had demolished that city, he carried

the captives to Jerusalem. Nay, his rage was grown so extra­

vagant, that his barbarity proceeded to the degree of impiety ;

for, when he had ordered eight hundred to be hung upon crosses

in the midst of the city, he had the throats of their wives and

children cut before their eyes ; and these executions he saw as he

was drinking and lying down with his concubines. Upon which

so deep a surprise seized on the people, that eight thousand of his

opposers fled away the very next night, out of all Judea, whose

flight was only terminated by Alexander's death; so at last,

though not till late, and with great difficulty, he, by such actions,

procured quiet to his kingdom, and left off fighting any more.

7. Yet did that Antiochus, who was also called Dionysus, be­

come an forigin of troubles again. This man was the brother

of Demetrius, and the* last of the race of the Seleucidae. Alex­

ander was afraid of him, when he was marching against the Ara­

bians ; so he cut a deep trench between Antipatris, which was

near the mountains, and the shores of Joppa ; he also erected an

high wall before the trench, and built wooden towers, in order

to hinder any sudden approaches. But still he %vas not able to

exclude Antiochus, for he burnt the towers, and filled up the

trenches, and marched on with his army. And as he looked upon,

taking his revenge on Alexander, for endeavouring to stop him,

as a thing of less consequence, he marched directly against the A-

rabians, whose king retired into such parts of the country as were

fittest for engaging the enemy, and then on the sudden made his

horse turn back, which were in number ten thousand, and fell

upon Antiochus's army, while they were in disorder, and a ter­

rible battle ensued. Antiochus's troops, so long as he was alive,

fought it out, although a mighty slaughter was made among them

by the Arabians; but when he fell, for he was in the fore-front,

in the utmost danger in rallying his troops, they all gave ground,

and

« Joseplius here calls this Antiochus the last of the Seleutidae, although
thera

,remained still a shadow of another king of that family, Antiochus Asiaticus,
or

Commagenus, who reigned, or rather lay hid, till Pompejr <juite turned him
out,

as Dean Aldrich here notes, from Apphn and Jihtin.

