Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW3.

indeed Agrippa's brother, but was at variance with him ; yet

. did not their enmity to one another hinder the friendship of Flac-

cus to them both, but still they were honourably treated by him.

However, Aristobulus did not abate of his ill-will to Agrippa,

till at length he brought him into ill terms with Flaccus: the

occasion of bringing on which estrangement was this : The Da-

mascens were at difference with the Sidonians about their limits,

and when Flaccus was about to hear the cause between them, they

understood that Agrippa had a mighty influence upon him ; so

they desired that he would be of their side, and for that favour

promised him a great deal of money ; so he was zealous in assist­

ing the Damascens as far as he was able. Now, Aristobulus

had gotten intelligence of this promise of money to him, and ac­

cused him to Flaccus of the same ; and when, upon a thorough

examination of the matter, it appeared plainly so to be, he re­

jected Agrippa out of the number of his friends. So he was re­

duced to the utmost necessity, and came to Ptolemais ; and be.

cause he knew not where else to get a livelihood, he thought to

sail to Italy; but as he was restrained from so doing by want of

money, he desired Marsyas, who was his freed-man, to find some

melhod for procuring him so much as he wanted for that pur­

pose, by borrowing such a sum of some person or other. So

Marsyas desired of Peter, who was the freed-man of Bernice,

Agrippa's mother, and by the right of her testament was be­

queathed to Antonia, to lend so much upon Agrippa's own bond

and security ; but he accused Agrippa of having defrauded him

of certain sums of money, and so obliged Marsyas, when he

made the bond of 20,000 Attic drachma:, to accept of 2500

drachmae * less than what he desired, which the other allowed of,

because he could not help it. Upon the receipt of this money,

Agrippa came to Anthedon, and took shipping, and was going

to set sail; but Herc-nnius Capito, who was the procurator of

Jamnia, sent a band of soldiers to demand of him 300,000 drach­

mae of silver, which were by him owing to Caesar's treasury

while he was at Rome, and so forced him to stay. He then pre­

tended that he would do as he bid him : but when night came

on, he cut his cables, and went off, and sailed to Alexandric,

where he desired Alexander the Alabarch f to send him 200,0co

drachmae ; but he said he would not lend it to him, but would

not refuse it to Cypros, as greatly astonished at her affection to

her

* Spanheim observes, that we have here an instance of the Atlic quantity of  
use-money, which was the eighth part of the original sum, or la per cent, for

such is the proportion of 2500 to 20,coo.

f The governor of the Jews there.

