THE LIFE OF FLAVIU S JOSEPHUS. 241

Hand, I continued feverish that day ; and as the physicians di­

rected, I was that night removed to Taricheae.

T3. When Sylla and his party were informed what happened

to me, they took courage again ; and understanding that the

watch was negligently kept in our camp, they by night placed

a body of horsemen in ambush beyond Jordan, and when it was

day they provoked us to fight; and as we did not refuse it, but

came into the plain, their horsemen appeared out of that ambush

in which they had lain, and put our men into disorder, and

made them run away; so they slew six. men of our side. Yet

did they not go off with the victory at last; for when they heard

that some armed men were sailed from Taricheae to Julias, they

were afraid, and retired.

14. It was not now long before Vespasian came to Tyre, and

king Agrippa with him ; but the Tyrians began to speak re­

proachfully of the king, and called him an enemy to the Ro­

mans. For they said, that Philip, the general of his army, had

betrayed the royal palace, and the Roman forces that were in

Jerusalem, and that it was done by his command. When Ves­

pasian heard of this report, he rebuked the Tyrians for abusing

a man who was both a king, and a friend to the Romans; but he

exhorted the king to send Philip to Rome, to answer for what he

had done before Nero. But, when Philip was sent thither, he

did not come into the sight of Nero, for he found him very near

death, on account of the troubles that then happened, and a civil

war ; and so he returned to the king. But, when Vespasian was

come to Ptolemais, the chief men of Decapolis of Syria made

a clamour against Justus of Tiberias, because he had set their

villages 6n fire : so Vespasian delivered him to the king, to be

put to death by those under the king's jurisdiction ; yet did the

king [only] put him into bonds, and concealed what he had done

from Vespasian, as I have before related. But the people of

Sepphoris met Vespasian, and saluted him, and had forces sent

him, with Placidus their commander: he also went up with

them, as I also followed them, till Vespasian came into Galilee.

As to which coming of his, and after what manner it was or­

dered, and how he fought his first battle with me near the vil­

lage Taricheae, and how from thence they went to Jotapata, and

how I was taken alive, and bound, and how I was afterward'

loosed, with all that was done by me in the Jewish war, and

during the siege of Jerusalem ; I have accurately related them

in the books concerning the War of the Jews. However, it

v ill, I think, be fit for me to add now an account of those ac­

tions of my life, which I have not related in that book of the

Jewish War.

VOL. III. H h 75.

