AVTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

armed with the weapons they had gotten, and became their cap­

tains ; and nothing hindered them from being their leaders into

mischief; for, as soon as they were become invincible, and had

built them a citadel, they sent to such as fed cattle, and ordered

them to pay them so much tribute out of them as might be suffi­

cient for their maintenance, proposing also that they would be

their friends, if they would submit to them, and that they would

defend them from all their other enemies on every side, but that

they would kill the cattle of those: that refused to obey them. So

they hearkened to their proposals (for they could do nothing else),

and sent them as many sheep as were required of them ; where­

by their forces grew greater, and they became lords over all they

pleased, because they marched suddenly, and did them a mischief,

insomuch that every body who had to do with them, chose

to pay them respect, and they became formidable to such as

came to assault them, till the report about them came to the ears

of the king of Parthia himself.

'2. But when the governor of Babylonia understood this^ and

had a mind to put a stop to them before they grew greater, and

before greater mischiefs should arise from them, he got together

:is great an army as he could, both of Parthiaus and Babylonians,

and marched against them, thinking to attack them,' and destroy

them before any one should carry them the news that he had got

an army together. He then encamped at a lake, and. lay still ;

but, on the next day, (it was the Sabbath, which is among the

Jews a day of rest from all sorts of work), he supposed that the

enemy would not dare to fight him thereon, but that he'would

take them and carry them away prisoners, without lighting. He

therefore proceeded gradually, and thought to fall upon them on

the sudden. Now Asirieus was silting with the rest, and their

weapons la}- by them ; upon which he said,«' Sirs, I hear a fteigh-

" ing of horses; not of such as are feeding, but such as have

" men on their backs; I also hear such a noise of their bridles,

'< that 1 am afraid that some enemies are coming upon us to en-

"> compass us round. However, let somebody go to look about,

" and make report of what reality there is in the present * state

'« of things; and may what I have said prove a false alarm."

And, when he had said this, some of them Went out to spy out

what 'was the matter, and they came again immediately and said

to him, that "neither hast thou been mistaken in telling us what

« our

* 'Ejifwro» is here, and in very many other places of Josepluis, immcdtafe-  
ly at bani, and is 10 be bo expounded, '- T'hess. ii.- 4. when s->me falsely
pre­

tended that St Paul had said, cither by word oi mouth or by an epistle, or by
both,

tliat r;'v any of CLrist was immediately at hard; for still St Paul did then
plam-

)j think that day not very many years future.' ...'

