WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

sarea, as he ought to have done, and quenching the flame of war

which was beginning thence, and so taking away the occasion of

any disturbances, on which account it was that he had received

a reward [of eight talents], he marched hastily with an army

of horsemen and footmen against Jerusalem, that he might gain

his will by the arms of the Romans, and might hy his terror,

and by his threatenings, bring the city into subjection.

7. But the people were desirous of making Florus ashamed of

his attempt, and met his soldiers with acclamations, and put

themselves in order to receive him very submissively. But he sent

Capito, a centurion, before hand, with fifty soldiers, to bid them

go back, and not now make a shew of receiving him in an o-

bliging manner, whom they had so fondly-reproached before;

and said, that it was incumbent on them, in case they had ge­

nerous souls, and were free speakers, to jest upon him to his

face, and appear to be lovers of liberty, not only in words, but

with their weapons also. With this message was the multitude

amazed, and upon the coming of Capito's horsemen into the

midst of them, they were dispersed before they could salute Flo­

rus, or manifest their submissive behaviour to him. Accord­

ingly, they retired to their own houses, and spent that night in

fear and confusion of face.

8. Now at this time Florus took up his quarters at the pa-

lace; and on the next day he had his tribunal set before it, and

sat upon it, when the high-priests, and the men of power, and

those of the greatest eminence in the city, came all before that

tribunal; upon which Florus commanded them to deliver up

to him those that had reproached him, and told them that they

should themselves partake of the vengeance to them belonging,

if they did not produce the criminals; but these demonstrated

that the people were peaceably disposed, and they begged for­

giveness for those that had spoken amiss; for that it was no

wonder at all that in so great a multitude there should be some

more daring than they ought to be, and by reason of their young­

er age foolish also; and that it was impossible to distinguish those

that offended from the rest, while every one was sorry for what

he had done, and denied it out of fear of what would follow;

that he ought, however, to provide for the peace of the nation,

and to take such counsels as might preserve the city for the

Romans, and rather for the sake of a great number of innocent

people, to forgive a few that were guilty, than for the sake of

a few of the wicked, to put so large and good a body of men in­

to disorder.

9. Florus was more provoked at this, and called out aloud to

the soldiers to plunder that which was called Tie Upper Mar­

ket

