Chap. XVI. yrARS OF THE JEWS. 295

securely, he marched to take the remaining parts of Galilee, and

to drive away the garrisons placed there by Antigonus.

2. But when Herod had reached * Sepphoris, in a very great

snow, he took the city without any difficulty; the guards that

should have kept it, flying away before it was assaulted; where

he gave an opportunity to his followers that had been in distress

to refresh themselves,there bein'g in that city a great abundance

of necessaries. After which he hasted away to the robbers that

were in the caves, who over.ran a great part of the country,

and did as great mischief to its inhabitants as a war itself could

have done. Accordingly, he sent before-hand three cohorts of

footmen, and one troop of 'horsemen' to the village Arbela,

and came himself f forty days afterwards with the rest of his

forces. Yet were not the enemy affrighted at his assault,' but

met him in arms; for their skill was that of warriors, but theif

boldness was the boldness of robbers: when, therefore, it cam6

to a pitched battle, they put to flight Herod's left wing with

their right one; but Herod, wheeling about on the' sudden from

his own right wing, came to their assistance, and both made

his own left wing return back from its flight, and fell upon the

pursuers, and cooled their courage, till they could not bear the

attempts that were made directly upon them, and so turned

back and ran away.

3. But Herod followed them, and slew them as he followed

them, and destroyed a great part of them, till those that re.i

mained were scattered beyond the river [Jordan], and Galilee

was freed from the terrors they had been under, excepting

from those that remained, and lay concealed in caves, which re­

quired longer time ere they could be conquered. In order to

which Herod, in the first place, distributed the fruits of their

former labours to the soldiers, and gave every one' of them an

hundred and fifty drachmae of silver, and a great deal more to

their commanders, and sent them into their winter quarters.

He also sent to his youngest brother Pheroras, to take care of a

good market for them, where they might buy themselves pro­

visions, and to build a wall about Alexandrium, who took care

of both those injunctions accordingly.

4. In

* This Sepphoris, the metropolis of Galilee, so often mentioned by Josephu»t  
has coins still remaining, rsvptapwair, as Spanheim here informs U3.

f This way of speaking, after 40 dayi, is interpreted by Josephus himself, on

the &fitb day; Aiitiq. B. XIV. ch. xv. sect. iv. Vol. TI. In like manner,
when.

Josephus Says, ch. xxxiii. &ect. 8. that Herod lived after he had ordered
Antipater

to be slain 5 da\s; this is by himself interpreted, Anriq. B. XV11. ch. viii.
sect. i.

Vol. HI. that he died on the 5/A day afterivard. See also what is in this
book, chap'

xiii. sect. I. after ttvo years, is, Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiii. sect. 3. Vol.
II. on Ibt

ear. And Dean Aldrich here notes that this way of speaking is familiar te,

' , '

