, I. AN17QJJIT1ES Of THE JEWS. 115

" but to his own pleasure), we shall also ourselves be exposed to

" his cruelty ; whereas we ought to be the means of confirming

" the security and liberty of all, and at the same time to resolve

«« to free ourselves from dangers."

7. Hereupon Clement openly commended Cherea's intentions;

but bid him " hold his tongue ; for that in case his words

" should get out among many, and such things should be spread

'* abroad as were fit to be concealed, the plot would come to

" be discovered before it was executed, and they should be

" brought to punishment; but that they should leave all to

" futurity, and the hope which thence arose, that some fortunate

«' event would come to their assistance : that, as for himself, his

" age would not permit him to make any attempt in that case.

" However, although perhaps I could suggest what may be

" safer than what thou, Cherea, hast contrived and said, yet

" how is it possible for any one to suggest what is more for

" thy reputation ?" So Clement went his way home, with

deep reflections on what he had heard, and what he had himself

said. Cherea also was under a concern, and went quickly to

Cornelius Sabinus, who was himself one of the tribunes, and

whom he otherwise knew to be a worthy man, and a lover of

liberty, and on that account very uneasy at the present manage­

ment of public affairs, he being desirous to come immediately

to the execution of what had been determined, and thinking it

right for him to propose it to the other, and afraid lest Clement

should discover them, and besides looking upon delays and put­

tings off to be the next to desisting from the enterprise.

8. But as all was agreeable to Sabinus, who had himself,

«qually with Cherea, the same design, but had been silent for

want of a person to whom he could safely communicate that

design, so having now met with one, who not only promised to

conceal what he heard, but who had already opened his mind

to him, he was much more encouraged, and desired of Cherea,

that no delay might be made therein. Accordingly they went

to Minucianus, who was as virtuous a man, and as zealous to

do glorious actions as themselves, and suspected by Cains on

occasion of the slaughter of Lepidus ; for Minucianus and Lepi-

dus were intimate friends, and both in fear of the dangers that

they were under; for Caius was terrible to all the great men,

as appearing ready to act a mad part towards each of them in

particular, and towards all of them in general; and these men

were afraid of one another, while they were yet uneasy at the

posture of affairs, but avoided to declare their mind and their

hatred against Caius to one another, out of fear of the dangers

fhey might be in thereby, although they perceived by other

P 2 means

