Chap. VIII. .WARS or THE JEWS. 373

into which it is not permitted to any of another sect to enter;

while they go, after a pure manner, into the dining-room, as in­

to a certain holy temple, and quietly set themselves down; up­

on which the baker lays them loaves in order; the cook also

brings a single plate of one sort of food, and sets it before every

one of them; but a priest says grace before meat, and it is un­

lawful for any one to taste of the food before grace be said. The

same priest, when he hath dined, says grace again after meat,

and when they begin, and when they end, they praise God, as

he that bestows their food upon them; after which they lay

aside their [white] garments, and betake themselves to their la­

bours again till the evening; then they return home to supper,

after the same manner, and if there be any strangers there, they

sit down with them. Nor is there ever any clamour or distur­

bance to pollute their house, but they give every one leave to

speak in their turn; which silence thus kept in their house, ap­

pears to foreigners like some tremendous mystery; the cause of

which is that perpetual sobriety they exercise, and the same set­

tled measure of meat and drink that is allotted them, and that

such as is abundantly sufficient for them.

6. And truly, as for other things, they do nothing but accord­

ing to the injunctions of their curators; only these two things

are done among them at every one's own free will, which are

to assist those that want it, and to shew mercy; for they are per­

mitted of their own accord to afford succour to such as deserve

it, when they stand in need of it, and to bestow food on those

that are in distress; but they cannot give any thing to their kin­

dred without the curators. They dispense their anger after a

just manner, and restrain their passion. They are eminent for

fidelity, and are the ministers of peace; whatsoever they say al­

so is firmer than an oath; but swearing is avoided by them,

and they esteem it * worse than perjury; for they say, that he

who cannot be believed, without [swearing by] God, is already

condemned.

* This practice of the Essens, in refusing to siviar, and esteeming rwtaring on  
ordinary occasions, worse than perjury, is delivered here in general words, as
are

the parallel injunctions of our Saviour, Matt' vi. 34. xxiii. 16. and of St
lames, v.

II. but all admit of particular exceptions, for solemn causes, and on great
and ne­

cessary occasions. Thus these very Essens, who here do so zealously avoid
swear­

ing, are related, in the very next sec:ion, to admit none till they take
tremtndaut

catbt to perform their several duties to God, and to their neigh''our, without
sup­

posing they thereby break this rule not to swear at all. The case is the same
in

Christianity, as we learn from the Apostolical Constitutions, which although
they

agree with Christ, and St James, in forbidding to swear in general, ch< v. II.
ch.

vi. 23. yet do they explain it elsewhere, by avoiding to " swear falsely, and
to swear

" often and in vain," ch. ii. 36. and again, by " not swearing at all," but
withal

adding, that " if that cannot be avoided, to swear truly," ch. vii. 3. which
abun­

dantly explain to us the nature of the measures of this general injunction.

