®4 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII,

4. When matters were in this state, Aristobulus, king Agrip..

pa's brother, and Kelcias the Great, and the other principal men

of that family with them, went in unto Petronius, and besought

him, that " since he saw the resolution of the multitude, he

" would not make any alteration, and thereby drive them to

" despair; but would wrire to Caius, that the Jews had an in-

" superable aversion to the reception of the statue, and how

" they continued with him, and left off the tillage of their

"• ground : that they were not willing to go to war with him,

" because they were not able to do it, but were ready to die with

«* pleasure, rather than suffer their laws to be transgressed : and

-"• how, upon the lands continuing unsown, robberies would  
" grow up, on the inability they would be under of paying their

" tributes; and that perhaps Caius might be thereby moved to

" pity, and not order any barbarous action to be done to them,

'' nor think of destroying the nation : that if he continues inflexi-

" ble in his former opinion to 'bring a war upon them, he may

" then -set about it himself." And thus did Aristobulus, and the

rest with him, supplicate Petronius. So Petronius*, partly on

account of the pressing instances which Aristobulus and the nest

with him made, and because of the great consequence of what

they desired, and the earnestness wherewith they made their sup-,

plication ; partly on account of the firmness of the oppositioa

made by ihe Jews, which he saw, while he thought it an hor­

rible thing for him to be such a slave to the madness of Caius, as

to slay so many ten thousand men, only because of their religiou?

disposition towards God, and after that to pass his life in'expec­

tation of punishment; Petronius, I say, thought it much better

to send to Caius, and to let him know how intolerable it was to

him to bear the anger he might have against him for not serving

Jhim sooner, in obedience to his-«pistle, for that perhaps he might

persuade him ; and that if this mad resolution continued, he might

then begin the war against them; nay, that in case he should

turn his hatred against himself, it was .fit for virtuous persons

even to die for the sake of such vast multitudes of men. ACT

cordiugly he determined to -hearken to the petitioners in this

matter.

5. He then called the Jews together to Tiberias, who came,

many ten thousands in number ; he also olaced that army he now

had

* This Publius Petronius was after this still president of Syria, under Clau.  
rfius, and, at the desire of Agrippa, published a severe decree against the
inha­

bitants of Dora, who, in a sort of imitation of Caius, had set up a statue of

Claudius in a Jewish synagogue there. This decree is extant, B. XIX ch. vi.

sect. 3. and greatly confirms the present accounts of Josephus, as do the
other

decrees of Claudius, relating to the like Jewish affairs, B. XIX. ch. T. sect.
2, 3,

to «jrhich I refer the inquisitive reader.

