Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 147

men, that king Agrippa had been once bound in a chain for a

small cause, but recovered his former dignity again ; and a little

while afterward got out of his bonds, and was advanced to be a

more illustrious king than he was before. Whence men may un­

derstand, that all that partake of human nature, how great soever

they are, may fall; and that those that fall may gain their for­

mer illustrious dignity again.

2. And when Agrippa had entirely finished all the duties of

the divine worship, he removed Theophilus, the son of Ananus,

from the high«priesthood, and bestowed that honour of his on Si­

mon, the son of Boethus, whose name was also Cantheras, whose

daughter king Herod had married, as I have related above. Si­

mon, therefore, had the [high] priesthood with his brethren, and

with his father, in like manner as the sons of Simon, the son of

Onias, who were three, had it formerly under the government of

the Macedonians, as we have related in a former book.

3. When the king had settled the high-priesthood after this

manner, he returned the kindness which the inhabitants of Jeru­

salem had shewed him ; for he released them from the tax upon

houses, every one of which paid it before, thinking it a good

thing to requite the tender affection of those that loved him. He

also made Silus the general of his forces, as a man who had par­

taken with him in many of his troubles. But after a very little

while the young men of Doris, preferring a rash attempt be­

fore piety, and being naturally bold and insolent, carried a statue

of Ca'sar into a synagogue of the Jews, and erected it there. This

procedure of theirs greatly provoked Agrippa 5 for it plainly

tended to the dissolution of the laws of his country. So he came

without delay to Publius Petronius, who was then president of

Syria, and accused the people of Doris. Nor did he less resent

what was done than did Agrippa ; for he judged it a piece of

impiety to transgress the laws that regulate the actions of men.

So he wrote the following letter to the people of Doris in an an­

gry strain : " Publius Petronius, the president under Tiberius

'' Claudius Caesar Augustus, Germanicus, to the magistrates of

" Doris, ordains as follows .• Since some of you have had the

" boldness, or madness rather, after the edict of Claudius Csesar

" Augustus Germanicus was published, for permitting the Jews

" to observe the laws of their country, not to obey the same,

" have acted in entire opposition thereto, as forbidchng the Jews

" to assemble together in the synagogue, by removing Caesar's

" statue, and setting it up therein, and thereby have offended

" not only the Jews, but the emperor himself, whose statue is

" more commodiously placed in his own temple, than in a fo-

" reign one, where is the place of assembling together; while

T2 ' " "it

