440 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

neighbouring country, when they were informed of this plot,

and of the plotter, they got together in great multitudes to op­

pose John. But he prevented their attempt, and fled away to

Gischala, his native city, while the Galileans came running out

of their several cities to Josephus; and as they were now become

many ten thousands of armed men, they cried out, that they were

come against John the common plotter against their interest, and

would at chesame time burn him,and that city which had received

him. Hereupon Josephus told them that he took their good,

will to him kindly, but still he restrained their fury, and intend­

ed to subdue his enemies by prudent conduct, rather than by

slaying them ; so he excepted those of every city which had join­

ed in this revolt with John, by name, who had readily been

shewed him by these that came from every city, and caused pub­

lic proclamation to be made, that he would seize uppn the effects

of those that d id not forsake J ohn within five days time, and would

burn both their houses and their families with fire. Whereupon

three thousand of John's party left him immediately, who came

to Josephus, and threw their arms down at his feet. John then

betook himself, together with his two thousand Syriaan runa­

gates, from open attempts, to more secret ways of treachery.

Accordingly he privatelysent messengers to Jerusalem, to accuse

Josephus, as having too great power, and to let them know that

he would soon come, as a tyrant, to their metropolis, unless

they prevented him. This accusation the people were aware of

beforehand, but had no regard to it. However, some of the

grandees, out of envy, and some of the rulers also, sent money to

John privately, that he might be able to get together mercenary

soldiers, in order to fight Josephus; they also made a decree of

themselves, and this for recalling him from his government, yet

did they not think that decree sufficient; so they sent withal two

thousand five hundred armed men, and four persons of the high­

est rank amongst them; Joarar, the son of Nomicus, and Ana­

nias, the son of Sadduk,as alsoSimon and Judas,the sons of Jona­

than,all veryablemen in speaking.that these personsmightwith­

draw the good-will of the people from Josephus. These had itin

charge if he would voluntarily come away, they should permit

him to [come and] give an account of his conduct,but if he obstinr

ately insisted upon his continuing in his government,they should

treat him as an enemy. Now Josephus's friends had sent him

word that an army was coming against him, but they gave no

notice beforehand what the reason of their coming was, that being

oily known among some secret councils of his enemies; and

by this means it was that four cities revolted from him imme­

diately, Sepphoris, and Gamala, and Gischala, and 1 iberias.

Ytt did he recover these cijies without war, and when he had

routed

