140 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

vested with dignity and authority. Accordingly Claudius said

to the ambassadors, That «' he did not wonder the senate had no

" mind to have an emperor over them, because they had .been'

"• harassed by the barbarity of those that had formerly been at

'« the head of their affairs ; but that they should taste of an

" equitable government under him, and moderate times, while

" he should only be their ruler in name, but the authority

" should be equally common to them all ; and since he had pass-

" ed through many and various scenes of life before their eyes,

«' it would be good for them not to distrust him." So the am­

bassadors, upon their hearing this his answer, were dismissed.

But Claudius discoursed with the army which was there gather­

ed together, who took oaths that they would persist in their

fidelity to him ; upon which he gave the guards every man

five thousand * drachmae a-piece, and a proportionable quantity

to their captains, and promised to give the same to the rest of

the armies wheresoever they were.

3. And now the consuls called the senate together, into the

temple of Jupiter the Conqueror, while it was still night; but

some of those senators concealed themselves in the city, being

uncertain what to do, upon the hearing of this summons, and

some of them went out of the city to their own farms, as fore­

seeing whether the public affairs were going, and despairing of

liberty ; nay, these supposed it much better for them to be

slaves without danger to themselves, and to live' a lazy and in­

active life, than by claiming the dignity of their forefathers, to

run the hazard of their own "safety. However, an hundred,

and no more, were gotten together ; and as they were in consul­

tation about the present posture of affairs, a sudden clamour was

made by the soldiers that were on their side, " desiring that

'' the senate would choose them an emperor, and not bring the

*' government into ruin by setting up a multitude of rulers." So  
they fully declared themselves to be for the giving the govern­

ment not to all, but to one ; but they gave the senate leave to look

out for a person worthy to be set over them, iiisomuch, that now

the affairs of the senate were much worse than before ; because

they had not only failed in the recovery of their liberty, which

they boasted themselves of, but were in dread of Claudius also.

Yet were there those that hankered after the government, both

on

* This number of drachma to be distributed to each private soldier, 5000  
drachma; equal to 20,000 sesterces, or L.i6i Sterling, seems much too large,
ami

directly contradicts Suetonius, ch. x. who makes them in aJl but 15 sesterces,
or

4s. 4d. Vet might Joseph us have this number from Agrippa junior, thought

doubt the thousands, or at least the hundreds have been added by the transori-

licrs, of which we have had several examples already in Josephus.

