THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHU3. 201

the furniture, which was done without our approbation ; for,

after we had discoursed Capellus and the principal men of the

city, we departed from Bethmaus, and went into the upper Ga­

lilee. But Jesus and his party slew all the Greeks that were

inhabitants of Tiberias, and as many others as were their ene­

mies before the war began.

13. When 1 understood this state of things, I was greatly pro­

voked, and went down to Tiberias, and took all the care I could

of the royal furniture, to recover all that could be recovered

from such as had plundered it. They consisted of candlesticks

made of Corinthian brass, and of royal tables, and of a great

quantity of uncoined silver ; and I resolved to preserve whatso­

ever came to my hand for the king. So I sent for ten of the prin­

cipal men of the senate, and for Capellus the son of Antyllus,

and committed the furniture to them, with this charge, that

they should part with it to nobody else but to myself. From

thence I and my fellow-legates went to Gischala to John, as de­

sirous to know his intentions, and soon saw that he was for in­

novations, and had a mind to the principality ; for he desired me

to give him authority to carry off that corn which belonged to

Caesar, and lay in the villages of Upper Galilee ; and he pretend­

ed that he would expend what it came to in building the walls

of his own city. But when I perceived what he endeavoured

at, and what he had in his mind, I said I would not permit him

so to do; for that I thought either to keep it for the Romans,

or for myself, now I was entrusted with the public affairs there

by the people of Jerusalem. But, when he was not able to

prevail with me, he betook himself to my fellow-legates ; for

they had no sagacity in providing for futurity, and were very

ready to take bribes. So he corrupted them with money to de­

cree, that all that corn which was within his province should be

delivered to him; while I, who was but one, was outvoted by

two, and held my tongue. Then did John introduce another

cunning contrivance of his ; for he said, that those Jews who in­

habited Cesarea Philippi, and were shut up by the order of the

king's deputy there, had sent to him to desire him, that, since

they had no oil that was pure for their use, he would provide

a sufficient quantity of such oil that came from the Greeks, and

thereby transgress their own laws. Now this was said by John,

not out of his regard to religion, but out of his most flagrant

desire of gain ; for he knew, that two sextaries were sold with

them of Cesarea for one drachma, but that at Gischala four­

score sextaries were sold for four sextaries. So he gave order,

that all the oil which was there should be carried away, as ha­

ving my permission for so doing ; which yet I did not grant him

VOL. III. Cc voluntarily,

