340 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.

dered a considerable number of my soldiers to scale them with

ladders, 1 became master of the greatest part of the city. But

soon after, our unacquaintedness with the places forced us to re­

tire, after we had killed twelve of the Roman footmen, and two

horsemen, and a few of the people of Sepphoris, with the less

of only a single man of our own. And when it afterward came

to a battle in the plain against the horsemen, and we had un­

dergone the dangers of it courageously for a long time, we were

beaten ; for upon the Romans encompassing me about, my sol­

diers were afraid, and fled back. There fell in that battle one

of those that had been intrusted to guard my body, his name

was Justus, who at this time had the same post with the king.

At the same time also there came forces, both horsemen and

footmen, from the king, and Sylla their commander, who was

the captain of this guard ; this Sylla pitched his camp at five

furlongs distance from Julias, and set a guard upon the roads,

both that which led to Cana, and that which led to the fortress

Gamala, that he might hinder their inhabitants from getting

provisions out of Galilee.

72. As soon as I had gotten intelligence of this, I sent two

thousand armed men, and a captain over them, whose name was

"Jtremiab, who raised a bank a furlong off Julias, near to the

river Jordan, and did no more than skirmish with the enemy ;

till I took three thousand soldiers myself, and came to them.

But on the next day, when I had laid an ambush in a certain'

valley, not far from the banks, I provoked those that belong­

ed to the king to come to a battle, and gave orders to rny own

soldiers to turn their backs upon them, until they should have

drawn the enemy away from their camp, and brought them

out into the field, which was done accordingly ; for Sylla, sup­

posing that our party did really run away, was ready to pursue

them, when our soldiers that lay in ambush took them on their

backs, and put them all into great disorder. I also imme­

diately made a sudden turn with my own forces, and met

those of the king's party, and put them to flight. And I had

performed great things that day, if a certain fate had not

been my hindrance ; for the horse on which I rode, and

upon whose back 1 fought, fell into a quagmire, and threw

me on the ground, and I was bruised on my wrist, and carried

into a village named Cepharnome, or Capernaum. When my

soldiers heard of this, they were afraid I had been worse hurt

than I was : and so they did not go on with their pursuit any

further, but returned in very great concern for me. I there­

fore sent for the physicians, and while 1 was under their

hand,

