Chap. XVf. WARS or THE JEWS. 403

but not that which had fought with the Jews, because the mul

titude bare ill will against that band on account of what they

had suffered from it; so he changed the band as they desired,

and, with the rest of his forces, returned to Cesarea.

CHAP. XVI.

Cettias sends Neopolitanus the tribune to see in what condition the

affairs ofthejewt were. Agrippa makes a speech to the peo­

ple of the Jews, that he may divert them from their intentions

of making war with the Romans.

§ l, TTO WE VER, Floras contrived another way to oblige

A JL the Jews to begin the war, and sent to Cestius, and

accused the Jews falsely of revolting [from the Roman govern­

ment], and imputed the beginning of the former fight to them,

and pretended they had been the authors of that disturbance,

wherein they were only the sufferers. Yet were not the go­

vernors ef Jerusalem silent upon this occcasion, but did themselves

write to Gestius, as did Bernice also, about the illegal practices

of which Floras had been guilty against the city ; who, upon

reading both accounts, consulted with his captains [what he

'should do]. Now some of them thought it best for Cestius to

go up with his army, either to punish the revolt, if it was real,

or to settle the Roman affairs on a surer foundation, if the Jews

continued quiet under them ; but he thought it best himself to

send one of his intimate friends before hand, to see the state of

affairs, and 'to give him a faithful account of the intention of

the Jews. Accordingly he sent one of his tribunes, whose name

Was Neopolitanus, who met with king Agrippa, as he was re­

turning from Alexandria at Jamnia, and told him who it was

that sent him, and oa what errands he was sent.

2. And here it was that the high-priests, and men of power

among the jews, as well as the sanhedrim, came to congratulate

the king [upon his safe return], and after they had paid him

their respects, they lamented their own calamities, and related

to him what barbarous treatment they had met with from

Florus. At which barbarity Agrippa had great indignation,

but transferred after a subtle manner, his anger towards those

Jews whom he really pitied, that he might beat down their high

thoughts of themselves, and would have them believe that they

had not been so unjustly treated, in order to dissuade them from

avenging themselves. So these great men, as of better under-

Standing than the rest, and desirous of peace, because of the pos­

sessions they had, understood that this rebuke which the king

gave them was intended for their good-, but as to the people,

3 E 2 they

