12 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII.

change her habitation, and come to him as soon as he should re­

turn from Rome : one article of this marriage also was this,

that he should divorce Aretas's daughter. So Antipas, when he

had made this agreement, sailed to Rome ; but when he had done

there the business he went about, and was returned again, his

wife having discovered the agreement he had made with Hero-

dias, and having learned it before he had notice of her knowledge

of the whole design, she desired him to send her to Macherns,

which is a place in the borders of the dominions of Aretas and

Herod, without informing him of any of her intentions. Ac­

cordingly Herod sent her thither, as thinking his wife had not

perceived any thing ; now, she had sent a good while before to

Macherus, which was subject to her father, and so all things ne­

cessary for her journey were made ready for her by the general

of Aretas's army ; and by that means she soon came into Ara­

bia, under the conduct of the several generals, who carried her

from one to another successively, and she soon came to her father,

and told him of Herod's intentions. So Aretas made this the

first occasion of his enmity between him and Herod, who had

also some quarrel with him about their limits at the country of

Gemalitis. So they raised armies on both sides, and prepared

for war, and sent their generals to fight instead of themselves ;

and, when they had joined battle, all Herod's army was destroyed

by the treachery of some fugitives, who, though they were of

the tetrarchy of Philip, joined with Herod's army. So Herod

wrote about these affairs to Tiberius, who being very angry at

the attempt made by Aretas, wrote to Vitellius, to make war

upon him, and either to take him alive, and bring him to him in

bonds, or to kill him, and send him his head. This was the

charge that Tiberius gave to the president of Syria.

2. Now, some of the Jews thought that the destruction of He­

rod's army came from God, and that very justly, as a punish­

ment of what he did against John, that was called the Baptist,

for Herod slew him, who was a good man, and commanded the

Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness towards one

another, and piety towards God, and so to come to baptism; for

that the washing [with water] would be acceptable to him, if

they made use of it, not in order to the putting away [or the

remission] of some sins [only], but for the purification of the

body ; supposing still that the soul was thoroughly purified be­

forehand by righteousness. Now, when [many] others came in

crowds about him, for they were greatly moved [or pleased]

by hearing his words, Herod, who feared lest the great influence

John had over the people might put it into his power and incli­

nation to raise rebellion, (for they seemed to do any thing he

should

