. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.' 187

at Jerusalem, were six hundred and twelve. After those thir­

teen high-priests, eighteen took the high-priesthood at Jerusa­

lem, one in succession to another, from the days of king Solo­

mon, until Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, made an expedi­

tion against that city, and burnt the temple, and removed our

nation into Babylon, and then took Josadek, the high-priest, cap­

tive ; the times of these high-priests were four hundred sixty-

six years, six months, and ten days, while the Jews were still un­

der the regal government. But after the term of seventy years

captivity under the Babylonians, Cyrus, king of Persia, sent the

Jews from Babylon to their own land again, and gave them leave

to rebuild their temple ; at which time, Jesus, the son of Josadek,

took the high-priesthood over the captives when they were re­

turned home. Now he and his posterity, who were in all fif­

teen, until king Antiochus Eupator, were under a democratical

government for fourteen years ; and then the forementioned An­

tiochus, and Lysia the general of his army, deprived Onias, who

was also called Menelaus, of the high-priesthood, and slew him

at Berea, and driving away the son [of Onias the third], put Ja-

cimus into the place of the high-priest, one that was indeed of the

stock of Aaron, but not of that family of Onias. On which ac­

count, Onias, who was the nephew of Onias that was dead, and

bore the same name with his father, came into Egypt, and got

into the friendship of Ptolemy Philometor, and Cleopatra his

wife, and persuaded them to make him the high-priest of th;.t

temple which he built to God in the prefecture of Heliopolis,

and this in imitation of that at Jerusalem ; but as for that tem­

ple which was built in Egypt, we have spoken of it frequently

already. Now, when Jacimus had retained the priesthood three

years, he died, and there was no one that succeeded him, that

the city continued seven years without an high-priest •, but then

the posterity of the sons of Asamoneus, who had the government

of the nation conferred upon them, when they had beaten the

Macedonians in war, appointed Jonathan to be their high-priest,

who ruled over them seven years. And when he had been slain

by the treacherous contrivance of Trypho, as we have related'

somewhere, Simon his brother took the high-priesthood ; and

when he was destroyed at a feast by the treachery of his son-in-

law, his own son, whose name xvasllyrcanus, succeeded him, af­

ter he had held the high-priesihood one year longer than his bro­

ther. This Hyrcanus enjoyed that dignity thirty years, and died

an old man, leaving the succession to Judas, who was also called

Aristobukis, whose brother Alexander was his heir ; which Ju­

das died of a sore distemper, after he had kept the priesthood, to­

gether with the royal authority ; for this Judas was the first that

A a 2 put

