Chap XXXI. , WARS OF THE JEWS. 345

came the inquisitors and discoverers of what could not otherwise

have been found out, and brought such as were the freest from

suspicion to be examined; whereby it was discovered, that Ma-

riamne,the high-priest's daughter, was conscious of this plot,and

her very brothers, when they were tortured, declared it so to

be. Whereupon the king avenged this insolent attempt of the

mother upon her son, and blotted Herod, whom he had by her,

out of his testament, who had been before named therein as

successor to Antipater.

CHAP. XXXI.

Antipater is convicted by Bathyllus : But be still returns from

Rome without knowing it. Herod brings him to bis trial.

§ 1. A FTER these things were over, Bathyllus came under

JL\. examination, in order to convict Antipater, who pro­

ved the concluding attestation to Antipater's designs; for indeed

he was no other than his freed man. This man came, and brought

another deadly potion, the poison of asps, and the juices of other

serpents, that if the first potion did not do the business, Pheroras

and his wife might be armed with this also to destroy the king.

He brought also an addition to Antipater's insolent attempt against

his father, which was the letters which he wrote against his

brethren, Archelaus and Philip, which were the king's sons, and

educated atRome,beingyet youths,but of generous dispositions.

Antipater set himself to get rid of these as soon as he could, that

they might not be prejudicial to his hopes, and to that end he

forged letters against them in the name of his friends at Rome.

Some of these he corrupted by bribes to write how they grossly

reproached their father, and did openly bewail Alexander and

Aristobulus, and were uneasy at their being recalled; for their

father had already sent for them, which was the very thing

that troubled Antipater.

2. Nay indeed, while Antipater was in Judea, and before he

was upon his journey to Rotne, he gave money to have the like

letters against them sent from Rome, and then came to his father,

who as yet had no suspicion of him, and apologized for his breth­

ren, and alleged on their behalf, that some of the things contain­

ed in those letters were false, andothers of themwere onlyyouth-

ful errors. Yet at the same time that he expended a great deal

of his money, by making presents to such as wrote against his

brethren,didheaimtobringhis accounts intoconfusion,bybuying

cos tly garments, andcarpets of various contextures,withsilver and

gold cups, and a great many more curious things, that so, among

the very great expences laid out upon such furniture, he might

VOL. HI. X x conceal

