304 Book I. WARS OF THE JEWS.

as also all the cities on this side the river Eleutherus, Tyre and

Sidon * excepted. And when she was become mistress of these,

and had conducted Antony in his expedition against the Par-

thians, as far as Euphrates, she came by Apamia and Damas­

cus into Judea; and there did Herod pacify her indignation at

him by large presents. He also hired of her those places that

had been torn away from his kingdom, at the yearly rent of

two hundred talents. He conducted her also as far as Pelusium,

and paid all the respects possible. Now it was not long after

this that Antony was come back from. Parthia, and led with

him Artabazes, Tigranes's son, captive, as a present for Cleo­

patra ; for this Parthian was presently given her, with his money,

and all the prey that was taken with him.

CHAP. XIX.

ffow Antony, at the persuasion of Cleopatra, sent Herod to fight

against the Arabians; and how, after several battles, he at

length got the victory. As also concerning a great earthquake.

f l. '^T'OW when the war about Actium was begun, Herod

-L^i prepared to come to the assistance of Antony, as being  
already freed from his troubles in Judea, and having gained

Hyrcania, which was a place that was held by Antigonus's sis­

ter. However, he was cunningly hindered from partaking of

the hazards that Antony went through by Cleopatra; for since,

as we have already noted, she had laid a plot against the kings

£of Judea and Arabia], she prevailed with Antony to commit

the war against the Arabians to Herod; that so, if he got the^

better, she might become mistress of Arabia, or, if he were

worsted, of Judea i and that she might destroy one of those

kings by the other.

2. However, this contrivance tended to the advantage of He­

rod; for at the very first he took hostages from the enemy, and

got together a great body of horse, and ordered them to march

against them about Diospolis, and he conquered that army al­

though it fought resolutely against him. After which defeat,

the Arabians were in great motion,and assembledthemselvesto­

gether at Kanatha, a city of Celesvria, in vast multitudes, and

waited for the Jews. And when Herod was come thither, he

tried to manage this war with particular prudence, and gave or­

ders that they should build a wall about their camp; yet did not

the

• This ancient libety of Tyre and Sidon under the Romans, taken notice of by

Josephus, both here and Antiq B XV. ch. iv. sect. I. Vol. II. is confirmed by

the testimony oi Strabo, B. XVI. p. 757, as Dean Aldrich remarks; although, a*

he justly adds, this liberty lasted but a little while lorger, when Augustus
took jr.

away from them. - 1

