37fl WARS OF THE JEWS. Book IT.

" bodies at that festival: that, however, those tliat were left af-

" ter so many miseries, had just reason to consider now at last

" the calamities they had undergone, and to oppose themselves,

" like soldiers in war, to receive those stripes upon their faces;

'1 [but not upon their backs, as hitherto]. Whereupon they

" prayed that the Romans would have compassion upon the [poor]

" remains of Judea, and not expose what was left of them to

'« such as barbarously tore them to pieces, and that they would

" join their country to Syria, and administer the government

" by their own commanders; whereby it would [soon] be de-

" monstrated that those who arc under the calumny of seditious

" persons, and lovers of war, know how to bear governors that

" are set over them, if thev be but tolerable ones." So the Jews

concluded their accusation with this request. Then rose up

Nicolaus, and confuted the accusations which were brought a-

gainst the kings, and himself accused the Jewish nation, as hard

to be ruled, and as naturally disobedient to kings. He also re­

proached all those kinsmen of Archelaus who had left him, and

were gone over to his accusers.

3. SoC:esar,after he had heard both sides,dissolved the assem­

bly for that time-, but a few days afterward, he gave the one

half of Herod's kingdom to Archelaus, by the name of Etbnarcb,

and promised to make him king also afterward, if he rendered

himself worthy of that dignity. But as to the other half, he di­

vided it into two tetrarchies, and gave them to two other sons of

Herod, the one of them to Philip, and the other to that Antipas

who contested the kingdom with Archelaus. Under this last was

Perea, and Galilee, with a revenue of two hundred talents: but

Batanea, and Trachonitis, and Auranitis, and certain parts of

Zeno's house about Jamnia, with a revenue of an hundred ta­

lents, were made subject to Philip j while Idume?', and all Ju­

dea, and Samaria, were parts of the ethnarchy of Archelaus, al­

though Samaria was eased of one quarter of its taxes, out of re­

gard to their not having revolted with the rest of the nation.

He also made subject to him the following cities, viz. Strato's

Tower, and Sebaste, and Joppa, and Jerusalem; but as to the

Grecian cities, Gaza, and Gadara, and Hippos, he cut them off

from the kingdom, and added them to Syria. Now the revenue

of the country that was given to Archelaus, was four hundred

talents. Salome also, besides what the king had left her in his

testaments, was now made mistress of Jamnia, and Ashdod, and

Phasaelis. Caesar did moreoverbestow uponher the royal palace

of Ascalon; by all which she got together a revenue of sixty ta­

lents; buthe put her house under the ethnarchyof Archelaus. And

for the rest of Herod's offspring, they received what was be­

queathed

