THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPIIUS. 215

r

out tlieiice all his domestics, and to restore the Babylonians to

Batanea again. He also gave it him in charge to take all possi足

ble cape that none of his subjects should be guilty of making any

innovation. Accordingly, upon these directions from the king,

he made haste to do what he was commanded.

37. Now there was one Joseph, the -son of a female physician,

who excited a great many young men to join with him. He al足

so insolently addressed himself to the principal persons at Gamala,

and persuaded them to revolt from the king, and take up arms,

and gave them hopes that they should, by his means, recover

their liberty. And some they forced into the service ; and those

that would not acquiesce in what they had resolved on, they

slew. They also slew Chares, and with him Jesus, one of his

kinsmen, and a brother of Justus of Tiberias, as we have already

said. Those of Gamala also wrote to me, desiring me to send

them an armed force, and workmen to raise up the walls of their

city ; nor did I reject either of their requests. The region of

Gaulonitis did also revolt from the king, as far as the village So-

lyma. I also built a wall about Seleucia and Soganni, which

are villages naturally of very great strength. Moreover, I, in

like manner, walled several villages of Upper Galilee, though

they were very rocky of themselves. Their names are, Jamnia,

and Meroth, and Achabaru. I also fortified, in the Lower Ga足

lilee, the cities Taricheae, Tiberias, Sepphoris, and the villages,

the Cave of Arbela, Bersobe, Selamin, Jotapata, Caphareccho,

and Siggo, and Japha, and Mount Tabor *. I also laid up a great

quantity of corn in these places, and arms withal, that might be

for their security afterward.

38. "But the hatred that John, the son of Levi, bore to me, grew

now more violent, while he could not bear my prosperity with

patience. So he proposed to himself, by all means possible, to

make away with me, and built the walls of Gischala, which was

the place of his nativity. He then sent his brother Simon, and

Jonathan the son of Sisenna, and about an hundred armed men to

Jerusalem, to Simon the son of Gamaliel f, in order to persuade

him to induce the commonalty of Jerusalem to take from me ^

the government over the Galileans, and to give their suffrages

for conferring that authority upon him. This Simon was of

the city Jerusalem, and of a very noble family, of the sect of the

Pharisees,

* Part of these fortifications on Mount Tabor may be those still remaining,  
and which were Seen lately by Mr Maundrel. See his Travels, p. i iz.

t This Gamaliel may be the very same that is mentioned by the rabbins in the

Mishna in Juchasin and in Porto Mosis, as is observed in the Latin notes. He

might be also that Gamaliel 11. whose grandfather was Gamaliel I. who is men足

tioned Acts, v. 34. and at whose feet St I'aul wai brought up. Acts, xxii. 3.
See

d. at the year 445.

