Chap. V. WARS OF THE 3EWSi 203

younger Aristobulus with her, as a private person, by reason of

the warmth of his temper.

2. And now the Pharisees joined themselves to her, to assist

her in the government. These are a certain sect of the Jews

that appear more religious than others, and seem to interpret the

laws more accurately. Now, Alexandra hearkened to them to

an extraordinary degree, as being herself a woman of great piety

towards God. But these Pharisees artfully insinuated them­

selves into her favour by little and little, and became themselves

the real administrators of the public affairs: they banished and

reduced whom they pleased ; they bound and loosed [men] at

their pleasure * f, and, to say all at once, they had the enjoy­

ment of the ro}-al authority, whilst the expences and the difficul­

ties of it belonged to Alexandra. She was a sagacious woman in

the management of great affairs, and intent always upon gather­

ing soldiers together ; so that she increased the army the one

half, and procured a great body of foreign troops, till her own

nation became not only very powerful at home, but terrible also

to foreign potentates, while she governed other people, and the

Pharisees governed her.

3. Accordingly they themselves slew Diogenes, a person of

figure, and one that had been a friend to Alexander ; and accused

him as having assisted the king with his advice, for crucifying

the eight hundred men [before-mentioned]. They also pre­

vailed with Alexandra to put to death the rest of those who had

irritated him against them. Now, she was so superstitious as to

comply with their desires, and accordingly they slew whom

they pleased themselves ; but the principal of those that were in

danger fled to Aristobulus, who persuaded his mother to spare

the men on account of their dignity, but to expel them out of

the city, unless she took them to be innocent ; so they were

suffered to go unpunished, and were dispersed all over the coun­

try. But, when Alexandra sent out her army to Damascus,

under pretence that Ptolemy was always oppressing that city,

she got possession of it ; nor did it make any considerable re­

sistance. She also prevailed with Tigranes, king of Armenia,

who lay with his troops about Ptolemais, and besieged J Cleopa­

tra,

* Matt. xvi. 19. xviii. 18.

,f Here we have the oldest and most authentic Jewish exposition of binding

and loosing, for punishing or absolving men, not for declaring actions lawful
or

unlawful, as some more modern Jews and Christians vainly pretend.

$ Strabo, B. XVI. p. 740. relates, that this Selene Cleopatra was besieged by

Tigranes, not in Ptolemais, as here, but after she had left Syria in Seleucia,
a

citadel in Mesopotamia; and adds, that when he had kept her a while in prison,

he put her to death. Dean Aldrich supposes here that Strabo contradicts Jose-

phus, which does not appear to me ; for although josephus says both here and
in

the Antiquities, B. XIII. ch.xvi. sect. 4. that Tigranes besieged her now in
Ptole.

