818 WARS oF THE JEWS. Book I.

to one who would be faithful to him, and bare him good-will on

account of their kindred : he also gave him a secret injunction,

that if Antony slew him, he would slay .her. But Joseph, with­

out any ill design, and only in order to demonstrate the king's

love to his wife, how he could not bear to think of being separa­

ted from her, even by death itself, he discovered this grand se­

cret to her ; upon which, when Herod was come back, and as

they talked together, confirmed his love to her by many oaths,

and assured her that he had never such an affection for any other

woman as he had for her. " * Yes, says she, thou didst, to be

" sure, demonstrate thy love to me by the injunctions thou gavest

" Joseph, when thou commandedst him to kill me."

5. When he heard that this grand secret was discovered, he

was like a distracted man, and said, that Joseph would never have

disclosed that injunction of his, unless he had debauched her.

His passion also made him stark mad, and leaping out of his bed,

he ran about the palace after a wild manner; at which time his

sister Salome took the opportunity also to blast her reputation,

and confirmed his suspicion about Joseph; whereupon, out of his

ungovernable jealousy and rage, he commanded both of them to

be slain immediately; but as soon as ever his passion was over, he

repented of what he had done, and as soon as his anger was worn

off, his affections were kindled again. And indeed the flame

of his desires for her was so ardent, that he could not think

she was dead, but would appear under his disorders to speak

to her as if she were still alive, till he were better instructed

by time, when his grief and trouble, now she was dead, appeared

as great as his affection had been for her while she was living.

CHAP. XXIII.

Calumnies against the sons of Marianne. Antipater is prefer­

red before them. They are accused before Ccesar, and Herod

is reconciled to them.

§ 2. '\TOW Mariamne's sons were heirs to that hatred which

_L\ had been borne their mother, and when they consider­

ed the greatness of Herod's crime towards her, they were suspi­

cious of him as of an enemy of theirs; and this first while they

were educated at Rome, but still more when they were returned

to Judea. This temper of theirs increased upon them, as they

grew

* Here is either a defect, or a great mistake in Josephus's pretest copies, or  
memory, for Mariamne did uot i:ow reproach Herod with this his first
injunction

to Joseph to k:!l her, if he himself were slain by Antony, but that he had
given

the like command a second time to Soemus alsn, when he was afraid of being
slain

by Augustus. Antiq' B. XV. ch' iii. sect. j. Vol. II. &C,

