Chap. XXX. WARS OF THE JEWS. , 343

** riamne and her children, he would spare nobody; and that  
" for this reason it was best to get as far off the wild beast as

" they were able." And that Antipater oftentimes lamented

his own case before his mother, and said to her, That" he had

" already grey hairs upon his head, and that his father grew

" younger again every day, and that perhaps death Would over-

" take him before he should begin to be a king in earnest; and

f that in case Herod should die, which yet nobody knew when

P it would be, the enjoyment of the succession could certainly

." be but for a little time; for that these heads .of Hydra, the

ff sons of Alexander and Aristobulus, were growing up: that

'* he was deprived by his father of the hopes of being succeed*

*' ed by his children, for that his successor after his death^was  
H not to be anyone of his own sons,but Herod the son ofMari-

f* amne: that in this point Herod was plainly distracted, to think

" that his testament should therein take place; for he would

" take care that not one of his posterity should remain, because

he was of all fathers the greatest hater of his children. Yet

" does he hate his brother still worse, whence it was that he a

u while ago gave himself an hundred talents, that he should not

" have any intercourse with Pheroras. And when Pheroras

H said, Wherein have we done him any harm? Antipater repli-

H ed, I wish he would but deprive us of all we have, and leave

" us naked and alive only; but it is indeed impossible to escape

" this wild beast, who is thus given to murder, who will not

permit us to love any person openly, although we be togeth-

" er privately, yet may we be so openly too, if we have but

" the courage and the hands of men."

4. These things were said by the women upon the torture;

as also that Phertfras resolved to fly with them to Perea. NoW

Herod gave credit to all they said on account of the affair of

the hundred talents; for he had had no discourse with any body

about them, but only with Antipater. So he vented his anger

first of all against Antipater's mother, and took away from her

all the ornaments which he had given her, which cost a great

many talents, and cast her out of the palace a second time. He

also took care of Pheroras's women after their tortures, as be­

ing now reconciled to them; but he was in great consternation

himself, and inflamed upon every suspicion, and had many in­

nocent persons led to the torture out of his fear, lest he should

leave any guilty person untortured.

5. And now it was that he betook himself to examine Anti­

pater of Samaria, who was the steward of [his son] Antipater;

and upon torturing him, he learned, that Antipater had sent for

J potion of deadly poison for him opt of Egypt, by Antiphilus,

a com.

