6hap. XXV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 327

pater, Jie insulted Alexander, now he was under his misfortunes,

and got a stout company of his kindred together, and raised all

sorts of calumny against him: and for the king, he was brought

to such a degree of terror by those prodigious slanders and con­

trivances, that Tie fancied he saw Alexander coming to him with

a drawn sword in his hand; so he caused him to be seized up­

on immediately and bound, and fell to examining his friends

by torture, many of whom died [under the torture], but would

discover nothing, aor say any thing against their consciences;

but some of them, being forced to speak falsely by the pains

they endured, said that Alexander, and his brother Aristobulus,

plotted against him, and waited for an opportunity to kill him.

as he was hunting, and then fly away to Rome. These acci .-

sations, though they were of an incredible nature, and only

framed upon the great distress they were in, were readily be­

lieved by the king, who thought it some comfort to him, after

he had bound his son; that it might appear he had not dqne it

unjustly.

;: CHAP. XXV.

Archelaus procures a reconciliation between Alexander, Pheroras,

and Herod.

§ 1. "VTOW as to Alexander, since he perceived it impossible

JL\J to persuade his father [that he was innocent], he re­

solved to meet his calamities, how severe soever they were; so

he composed four books against his enemies, and confessed that

jiehadbeen in aplotjbut declared withal that the greatest part [of

the courtiers] were in a plot with him, and chiefly Pheroras, and

Salome ; nay, that Salome once came and forced him to lie with

her in the night time, whether he would or no. These books

were put into Herod's hands, and made a great clamour against

the men in power. And now it was that Archelaus came hasti­

ly into Judea, as being affrighted for his son-in-law, and his

daughter; and he came as a proper assistant, and in a very pru­

dent manner, and by a stratagem he obliged the king not toexe-

cute what he had threatened; for when he was come to him,

he cried out, " Where in the world is this wretched son-in-law

" of mine? Where shall I see the head of his which contrived

f' to murder his father, which I will tear to pieces with my

" own hands. I will do the same also to my daughter, who

«' hath such a fine husband: for although she be not a partner in

*'' the plot, yet, by being the wife of such a creature, she is pol  
«' luted. And I cannot but admire at thy patience, against

" whom this plot is laid, if Alexander be still alive ; for as I

" eame;

