Chap. X. 43 ANTIQU-iTIES OF THE JEWS.

do more then ordinary injuries to others, that although he should

be killed, he did not much care if he lost his life in so great a de­

sign. He had also four brethren, who were tall men themselves,

'and were believed to be superior toothers in the strength of their

hands, and thereby were encouraged to aim at great things, and

thought that strength of theirs would support them in retaining

the kingdom. Each of these ruled over a band of men of their

-own; for those that got together to them were very numerous.  
They were every one of them also commanders.; but, when they

came to fight, they were subordinate to him, and fought for him,

while he put a diadem about his head, and assembled a council

.to debate about what things should be done, and all things were

done according to his pleasure. And this man retained his

power a great while ; he was also called king, and had nothing

to hinder him from doing what he pleased. He also, as well as

his brethren, slew a great many both of the Romans, and of the

king's forces, and managed matters with the like hatred to each

of them. The king's forces they fell upon, because of the li­

centious-conduct they had been allowed under Herod's govern­

ment.; and they fell upon the Romans, because of the injuries

they had so lately received from them. But in process of time,

they grew more cruel to all sorts of men ; nor could any one

'escape from one or other of these seditions, since they slew some

out of the hopes of gain, and others from a mere custom of slay­

ing men. They once attacked a company of Romans at Emmaus,

who were bringing corn and weapons to the army, and fell up­

on Arius, the centurion, who commanded the company, and shot

forty of the best of his foot-soldiers ; but the rest of them were

affrighted at their slaughter, and left their dead behind them,

but saved themselves by the means of Gratus, who came with

the king's troops that were about him to their assistance. Now,

these four brethren continued the war a long while by such sort

of expeditions, and much grieved the Romans ; but did their

own nation also a great deal of mischief. Yet were they after­

ward subdued; one of them in a fight with Gratus, another

with Ptolemy ; Archelaus also took the eldest of them prisoner ;

while the last of them was so dejected at the other's misfortune,

and saw so plainly that he had no way now left to save himself,

his army being worn away with sickness and continual labours,

that he also delivered himself up to Archelaus, upon his promise

and oath to God [to preserve his life]. But these things came

to pass a good while afterward.

8. And now Judea was full of robberies; and, as the several

-companies of the seditious light upon any one to head them, be  
was created a king immediately, in order to do mischief to the

F 2 public.

