210 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUs JOSEPHUS.

den, and fell dovra flat on the earth, and bedewed the ground

with my tears: then I seemed to them all an object of compas­

sion. And when I perceived the change that was made in the mul­

titude, Itried todivide their opinions, before the armed men should

return from my house; so I granted them, that I had been as wick-

sed as they supposed me to be ; but still I entreated them to let me

first inform them for what use I had kept that money which arose

from the plunder, and that they might then kill me if they plea­

sed : and, upon the multitude's ordering me to speak, the armed

men came upon me, and when they saw me, they rah to kill me;

but, when the multitude bid them hold their hands, they com­

plied, and expected that as soon as I should own to them that I

kept the money for the king, it would be looked on as a confes­

sion of my treason, and they should then be allowed to kill me.

29. When, therefore, silence was made by the whole multi^

tude, I spake thus to them : M O my countrymen ! I refuse not

" to die, if justice so require. However, I am desirous to tell

*' you the truth of this matter before I die ; for as I know that  
" this city of yours [Taricheae] was a city of great hospitality,

" and filled with abundance of such men as have left their own

'' countries, and are come hither to be partakers of your for-

*< tune whatever it be, I had a mind to build walls about it, out  
*' of this money, for which you are so angry with me, while  
** yet it was to be expended in building your own walls." Upon my  
saying this, the people of Taricheae and the strangers cried out,

That " they gave me thanks, and desired me to be of good cou-

" rage." Although the Galileans and the people of Tiberias

continued in their wrath against me, insomuch that there arose

a tumult among them, while some threatened to kill me, and

some bid me not to regard them.; but when I promised them

that I would build them walls at Tiberias, and at other cities

that wanted them, they gave credit to what I promised, and re­

turned every one to his own home. So I escaped the foremention-

ed danger, beyond all my hopes, and returned to my own house,

accompanied with my friends, and twenty armed men also.

30. However, these robbers and other authors of this tumult,

who were afraid on their own account, lest I should punish them

for what they had done, took six hundred armed men, and came

to the house where I abode, in order to set it on fire. When

this their insult was told me, I thought it indecent for me to run

away, and I resolved to expose myself to danger, and to act with

some boldness; so I gave orders to shut the doors, and went up

into an upper room, anddesired that they would sendsome of their

men in to receive the money [from the spoils] ; for I told them

{hey would then have no occasion to be angry with me; and when

