Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 103

" from other mischiefs. I have kept my faith inviolable to

" thee, and that not in trifling affairs, but in those that concern-

** ed thy safety, and do therefore deserve thou shouldst be kind  
" to me." When he had said this, and given Asineus some pre­

sents, he sent him away immediately ; who, when he was come

home, built fortresses, and became great in a little time, and ma­

naged things with such courage and success, as no other person,

that had no higher a beginning, ever did before him. Those

Parthian governors also, who were sent that way, paid him great

respect; and the honour that was paid him by the Babylonians

seemed to them too small, and beneath his deserts, although he

were in no small dignity and power there : nay, indeed, all the

affairs of Mesopotamia depended upon him, and he more and

more flourished in this happy condition of his for fifteen years.

5. But as their affairs were in so flourishing a state, there

sprang up a calamity among them on the following occasion.

When once they had deviated from that course of virtue where­

by they had gained so great power, they affronted and transgress­

ed the laws of their forefathers, and fell under the dominion of

their lusts and pleasures. A certain Parthian, who came as ge­

neral of an army into those parts, had a wife following him, who

had a vast reputation for other accomplishments, and particular­

ly was admired above all other women for her beauty ; Auileus,

the brother of Asineus, either heard of that her beauty from

others, or perhaps saw her himself also, and so became at once her

lover and her enemy ; partly because he could not hope to en­

joy this woman but by obtaining power over her as a captive,

and partly because he thought he could not conquer his inclina­

tions for her ; as soon therefore as her husband had been decla­

red an enemy to them, and was fallen in the battle, the widow

of the deceased was married to this her lover. However, this

woman did not come into their house without producing great

misfortunes both to Anlleus himself, and to Asineus also ; but

brought great mischiefs upon them on the occasion following.

Since she was led away captive, upon the death of her husband,

she concealed the images of those gods which were their country

gods, common to her husband and to herself: now, it is the cus­

tom * of that country for all to have the idols they worship in

their own houses, and to carry them along with them when they

go

* This custom of the Mesopotamians to carry their household-gods along with  
them wherever they travelled, is as old as the days cf Jacob, when Kacluiel
his

wife did the same, Gen. xxxi. 19. 3c—35.nor is it to pass here unobserved,
what

great miseries came on these Jews, because they sitfirred one of their leaders
to

marry an idolatrous wife, contrary 10 the law of Moses, d which matter see­

the note on B. XIX. ch. v. sect. 3.

