Chap. IV. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 11

«' come back and brought it with them the day before that his

" supper." Hereupon the king was provoked, and put the wo­

men-slaves to the torture, and some that were free with them :

and as the fact did not yet' appear, because none of them would

confess it, at length one of them, under the utmost agonies, said

no more but this, That " she prayed that God would send the

«' like agonies upon Antipater's mother, who had been the oc-

" casion of these miseries to all of them." This prayer induced

Herod to increase the women's tortures, till thereby all was dis­

covered : '" Their merry meetings, their secret assemblies, and

«' the disclosing of what he had said to his son alone, unto Phe-

" roras's * women." (Now what Herod had charged Antipa-

ter to conceal, was, the gift of an hundred talents to him not to

have any conversation with Pheroras). " And what hatred he

" bore to his father ; and that he complained to his mother how

" very long his father lived ; and that he was himself almost an

" old man, insomuch, that if the kingdom should come to him, it

" would not afford him any great pleasure; and that there were a

" great many of his brothers, or brother's children, bringing up,

" that might have hopes of the kingdom as well as himself, all

" which made his own hopes of it uncertain ; for that even

" now, if he should himself not live, Herod had ordained that the

" government should be conferred, not on his son, but rather on

" a brother. He also had accused the king of great barbarity,

" and of the slaughter of his sons ; and that it was out of the

" fear he was under, lest he should do the like to him, that

" made him contrive this his journey to Rome, and Pheroras

'' contrive to go to his own tetrarchy."

2. These confessions agreed with what his sister had told him,

and tended greatly to corroborate her testimony, and to free

her from the suspicion of her unfaithfulness to him. So the

king having satisfied himself of the spite which Doris, Antipa­

ter's mother, as well as himself, bore to him, took away from

her all her fine ornaments, which were worth many talents, and

then sent her away, and entered into friendship with Pheroras's

women. But he who most of all irritated the king against his

son, was one Antipater, the procurator of Antipater the king's

B 2 son,

• His wife, her mother and sister.

It seems to me, by this whole story put together, that Pheroras was not
himself

poisoned, as is commonly supposed; for Antipater had persuaded him to poison

Herod, ch. v. (j i. which would fall to the ground, if he were himself
poisoned;

nor could the poisoning of Pheroras serve any design that appears now going

forward; it was only the supposal of two of his freed-men, that this love-
potion,

or poison, which they knew was brought to Pheroras's wife, was made use of for

'poisoning him ; whereas it appears to have been brought for her husband to
poi­

son Herod withal, as the future examinations demonstrate .

