412 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

" concerns not those Jews that dwell here only, but those of

** them which dwell in others cities also; for there is no people  
*' upon the habitable earth which have not some portion of you  
" among them, whom your enemies will slay, in case you go to

" war, and on that account also; and so every city which hath

" Jews in it will be filled with slaughter for the sakeof afew men,

" and they who slay them will be pardoned: but if that slaugh-

" ter be not made by them, consider how wicked a thing it is

" to take arms against those that are so kind to you. Have pity,

" therefore, if not on your and children wives, yet upon this

" your metropolis, and its sacred walls; spare the temple, and

" preserve the holy house, with its holy furniture, for yourselves;

" for if the Romans get you under their power, they will no

" longer abstain from them when their former abstinence shall

" have been so ungratefully requitted. I call to witness your

" sanctuary, and the holy angels of God, and this country com-

" mon to us all, that I have not kept back any thing that is for

" your preservation ; and if you will follow that advice which

" you ought to do, you will have that peace which will be

" common to you and to me; but if you indulge your pas-

«' sions, you will run those hazards which I shall be free from."

5. When Agrippahadspoken thus,both he and hissister wept,

and by their tears repressed a great deal of the violence of the

people, but still they cried out. That " they would not fight a-

« gainst the Romans, but against Florus, on account of what

« they had suffered by his means." To which Agrippa replied,

« that what they had already done was like such as make war

«i against the Romans; for you have not paid the * tribute

«« which is due to Caesar; and you have cut off the cloisters [of

«i the temple] from joining to the tower Antonia. You will

'« therefore prevent any occasion of revolt if you will but join

« these together again, and if you will but pay your tribute;

" for the citadol does not now belong to Florus, nor are you to

" pay the tribute money to Florus.^'

* '.*"

CHAP. XVII.

Hotv tie war of tbf Jews with the Romans began. And con­

cerning Manabem.

9 1. r I i HIS advice the people hearkened to, and went up into

• ,L the temple with the king and Bernice, and began to

rebuild the cloisters: the rulers also and senators divided them-

,i selves

* Julius C.tsar had decreed, that the Jew: of Jerusalem should pay an annual  
tribute to the Romans, excepting the city Joppa, and for the Sabbatical year ;
a*

Spanheim observes from the Antiq. B, XIV. ch. x. § 6. vol. II.

