Chap. XVIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 419

CHAP. XVIII.

The calamities and slaughters that came upon tbt Jews.

• § l. 1VTOW the people of Cesarea had slain the Jews that were

J- ^ among them on the very same day and hour [when

the soldiers were slain], which one would think must have come

to pass by the direction of Providence; insomuch, that in one

hour's time above twenty thousand Jews were killed, and all

Cesarea was emptied of its Jewish inhabitants; for Florus

caught such as ran away and sent them in bonds to the gallies.

Upon which stroke that the Jews received at Cesarea, the whole

nation was greatly enraged; so they divided themselves into

several parties, and laid waste the villages of the Syrians, and

their neighbouring cities, Philadelphia, and Sebonitis, and

Gerasa, and Pella, and Scythopolis, and after them Gadara,

and Hippos; and falling upon Gaulanitis, some cities they de­

stroyed there, and some they set on fire, and then went to Keda-

sa, belonging to the Tyrians, and to Ptolemais, and to Gaba, and

to Gesarea, nor was either Sebaste [Samaria], or Askelon able

to oppose the violence with which they were attacked; and

when they had burnt these to the ground, they entirely demolished

Anthedon and Gaza; many also of the villages that were about

every one of those cities were plundered, and an immense

slaughter was made of the men who were caught in them.

2. However the Syrians were even with the Jews in the mul­

titude of the men whom they slew; for they killed those whom

they caught in their cities, and that not only out of the hatred

they bear them, as formerly, but to prevent the danger under

which they were from them; so that the soldiers in all Syria

were terrible, and every city was divided into two armies en­

camped one against another, and the preservation of the one

party was in the destruction of the other; so the day time was

spent in shedding of blood, and the night in fear, which was of the

two the more terrible; for when the Syrians thought they had

ruined the Jews, they had the Judaizer's in suspicion also; and as

each side did not care to slay those whom they only suspected on

the other, so did they greatly fear them when they were ming­

led with the other, as if they were certainly foreigners. More­

over, greediness of gain was a provocation to kill the opposite

party, even to such of old as had appeared very mild and gentl*

towards them; for they without fear plundered the effects of

the slain, and carried off the spoils of those whom they slew to

their own houses, as if they had been gained in a set battle; and

he was esteemed a man of honour who got the greatest share, as

having prevailed over the greatest number of his enemies. It

3 G 2 was

