Chap. II, ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 61

4. About this time died Phraates, king of the Parthians, by

the treachery of Phraataces his son, upon the occasion following.

When Phraates had had legitimate sons of his own, he had also

an Italian maid-servant, whose name was Thermusc, who had

been formerly sent to him by Julius Caesar, among other pre足

sents. He first made her his concubine ; but he being a great

admirer of her beauty, in process of time having a son by herr

whose name was Paraataces, he made her his legitimate wife,

and had a great respect for her. Now, she was able to persuade

him to do any thing that she said, and was earnest in procuring

the government of Parthia for her son ; but still she saw that her

endeavours would not succeed, unless she could contrive how to

remove Phraates's legitimate sons [out of the kingdom] ; so she

persuaded him to send those his sons as pledges of his fidelity to

Rome; and they were sent to Rome accordingly, because it was

not easy for him to contradict her commands. Now, while

Fhraataces was alone brought up in order to succeed in the go.

vernment, he thought it very tedious to expect that government

by his father's donation [as his successor] ; he therefore formed

a treacherous design against his father, by his mother's assist足

ance, with whom, as the report went, he had criminal conver足

sation also. So he was hated for both these vices, while his

subjects esteemed this [wicked] love of his mother to be no

way inferior to his parricide ; and he was by them, in a sedi-.

tion, expelled out of the country before he grew too great, and

died. 'But, as the best sort of Parthians agreed together, that it

was impossible they should be governed without a king, while

also it was their constant practice to chuse one of the family of

Arsaces, [nor did their law allow of any others ; and they

thought this kingdom had been sufficiently injured already by

the marriage with an Italian concubine, and by her issue], they

sent ambassadors, and called Orodes [to take the crown] ; for

the multitude would not otherwise have borne them ; and

though he were accused of very great cruelty, and was of an

untraciable temper, and prone to wrath, yet still he was one of

the family of Arsaces. However, they made a conspiracy ru

gainst him, and slew him, and that, as some say, at a festival,

and among their sacrifices ; (for it is the universal custom there

to carry their swords with them) ; but, as the more general re足

port is, they slew him when they had drawn him out a-hunt-

ing. So they sent ambassadors to Rome, and desired they

would send one of those that were there as pledges, to be their

king. Accordingly, Vonones was preferred before the rest,

and sent to them; (for he seemed capable of such great fortune,

which two of the greatest kingdoms under the sun now offered

him, his own, and a foreign one^ However, the barbarians

sooa

