IS8 . ASTIOPITIES OF THE JEWS.' Book XX.

put on his head a diadem for one year. And when Alexander:

had been both king and high-priest twenty-seven years, he de­

parted this life, and permitted his wife Alexandra to appoint him

that should be high-priest ; so she gave the high-priesthood to

Hyrcanus, but retained the kingdom herself nine years, and then

departed this life. The like duration [and no longer] did her

son Hytcanus enjoy the high-priesthood ; for after her death his

brother Aristobulus fought against him, and beat him, and de-

o O ' *

prived him of his principality ; and he did himself both reign,

and perform the office of high-priest to God. But when he had

reigned three years, and as many months, Pompey came upon

him, and not only took the city of Jerusalem by force, but put

him and his- children in bonds, and sent them to Rome. He alsa

restored the high-priesthood to Hyrcanus, and made him governor

of the nation, but forbade him to wear a diadem. This Hyrca­

nus ruled, besides his first nine years, twenty-four years more,

when Barzapharnes and Parcorus, the generals of the Parthians,

passed over Euphrates, and fought with Hyrcanus, and took him

alive, and made Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, king ; and

' when he had reigned three years and three months, Sosius and

Herod besieged him, and took him, when Antony had him brought

• to Antioch, and slain there. Herod was then made king by the

Romans, but did no longer appoint high-priests out of the fami­

ly of Asamoneus •, but made certain men to be so that were of

no eminent families, but barely of those that were priests, except­

ing that he gave that dignity to Aristobulus; for when he had

made this Aristobulus, the grandson of that Hyrcanus who was

then taken by the Parthians, and had taken his sister Mariamne

to wife, he thereby aimed to win the good-will of the people,

who had a kind remembrance of Hyrcanus [his grandfather].

Yet did he afterward, out of his fear lest they should all bend

their inclinations to Aristobulus, put him to death, and that by

contriving how to have him suffocated, as he was swimming at

Jericho, "as we have already related that matter; but after this

man he never intrusted the'high-priesthood to the posterity of

the sons of Asamoneus. Archelaus also, Herod's son,.did like

his father in the appointment of the high-priests, as did the Ro­

mans also, who took the government over the Jews into their

hands afterward. Accordingly the number of the high-priests,

from the days of Herod until the day when Titus took the tem­

ple and the city, and burnt them, were in all twenty-eight; the

time also "that belonged to them was an hundred and seven years.

Some of these were the political governors of the people under

the reign of Herod, and under the reign of Archelaus his son^

although, after their death, the government became an aristocra­

