Chap. V. ANTIQJTITIES OF THE JEWS. 145

'' have been joint inhabitants in the earliest times with the Alex-

" andnans, and have obtained from their kings equal privileges

" with them, as is evident by the public records ih it are in

" their possession, and the edicts themselves ; and that after

" Alexandria had been subjected to our empire by Augustus,

" their rights and privileges have been preserved by those pre-

" sidents who have at divers times been sent thither ; and tint

" no dispute had been raised about those rights and privileges,

"even when Aquila was governor of Alexandria; and that

" when the Jewish ethnarch was dead, Augustus did not pro-

" hibit the making such ethnarchs, as willing that all men should

" be so subject [to the Romans] as to continue in the observa-

" tion of their own customs, and not be forced to transgress the'

'' ancient rules of their own country religion ; but that in the

" time of Caius, the Alexandrians became insolent towards the

" Jews that were among them, which Caius, out of his great

" madness, and want of understanding, reduced the nation of the

" Jews very low, because they would not transgress the religious

" worship of their country, and call him a god. I will, there -

" fore, that the nation of the Jews be not deprived of their

" rights and privileges, on account of the madness of Caius ;

11 but that those rights and privileges, which they formerly en.

" joyed, be preserved to them, and that they may continue in

" their own customs. Ai-.d I charge both parties to take very

" great care that no troubles may arise after the promulgation'

«' of this edict."

3. And such were the contents of thi-s edict 0:1 behalf of the,

Jews that were sent to Alexandria. But the edict that was sent

into the other parts of the habitable earth was this which fol­

lows: «' Tiberius Claudius Caesar, Augustus, Germanicus,

" high-priest, tribune of the people, chosen consul the second

" time, ordains thus. Upon the petition of king Agrippa, and

" king Herod, who are persons very dear to me, that I would

" grant the same rights and privileges, should be preserved to

" the Jews which are in all the Roman empire, which I have

" granted to those of Alexandria, I very willingly comply there-

" with ; and this grant I make not only for the sake of the pe-

" titioners, but as judging those Jews for whom I have been

" petitioned worthy of such a favour, on account of their fidelity

" and friendship to the Romans. I think it also very just that

" no Grecian city should be deprived of such rights and privi-

" leges, since they were preserved to them under the great Au.

" gustus. It will therefore be fit to permit the Jews, who are

" in all the world under us, to keep their ancient customs without

" being hindered so to do. And I do charge them also to use this

VOL. III. T u nvy

