Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 159

" was dated before the fourth of the kalends of July, when Rufus

" and Pompeius Sylvanus are consuls."

3. Herod also, the brother of the deceased Agrippa, who was

then possessed of the royal authority over Chalcis, petitioned

Claudius Caesar for the authority over the temple, and the

money of the sacred treasure, and the choice of the high-priests,

and obtained all that he petitioned for. So that after that time

this authority continued among * all his descendants till the end

of the war. Accordingly Herod removed the last high-priest,

called Cantberas, and bestowed that dignity on his successor Jo­

seph, the son. of Camus.

CHAP. II.

How Helena, the !j>ueen of Adialene, and her son I-zates, embraced

tie Jewish religion ; and how Helena supplied the poor with

corn, ivben there was a great famine at Jerusalem.

$ 1. A BOUT this time it was that Helena, queen of Adiabene,

,**- and her son Izates, changed their course of life, and

embraced the Jewish customs, and this on the occasion follow­

ing : Monobazus, the king of Adiabene, who had also the name

of Bazeus, fell in love with his sister Helena, and took her to be

his wife, and begat her with child. But as he was in bed with

her one night, he laid his hand upon his wife's belly, and fell a-

sleep, and seemed to hear a voice, which bid him take his hand

off his wife's belly, and not hurt the infant that was therein,

which, by God's providence, would be safely born, and have an

happy end. This voice put him into disorder ; so he awaked

immediately, and told the story to his wife ; and when his son

was born, he called him I-zatet. He had indeed Monobazus, his

elder brother, by Helena also, as he had other sons by other

wives besides. Yet did he openly place all his affections on this

his only begotten \ son Izates, which was the origin of that envy

which his other brethren, by the same father, bore to him ;

while on this account they hated him more and more, and were

all under great affliction that their father should prefer Izates be­

fore all them. Now although their father were very sensible of

these

* Here is some error in the copies, 'or mistake in Josephus; for the power of  
appointing high-priests, after Herod king of Chalcis was dead, and Agr'.ppa
ju.

nior was made king of Chalcis in his room, belonged to him, and he exercised

the same all along till Jerusalem was destroyed, as Josephus elsewkere inform!

us. ch. viii. sect. 8. 11. ch. ix. sect. I. 4. 6. 7.

t Josephus here ufes the word /tnvytn, an only begotten son, for no other than

one best beloved, as does both the Old and New Testament, I mean where there

were one or more sons besides, Gen. xxii. 2. Heb. xi. 17. See the note on IS.
1.

ch. xiii. sect. i.

