Chap. III. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 137

diery got together, the crowd about' him ran away, and Clau­

dius could hardly go on, his body was then so weak ; and those

who carried his sedan, upon an inquiry that was made about his

being carried off, ran away and saved themselves, as despairing

of their lord's preservation. Bat, when they were come into

the large court of the palace, (which, as the report goes about

it, was inhabited first of all the parts of the city of Rome), and

had just reached the public treasury, many more soldiers came

about him as glad to see Claudius's face, and thought it exceed­

ing right to make him emperor, on account of their kindness for

Germanicus, who was his brother, and had left behind him a vast

reputation among all that were acquainted with him. They re­

flected also on the covetous temper of the leading men of the se­

nate, and what great errors they had been guilty of, when the se­

nate had the government formerly ; they also considered the im­

possibility of such an undertaking, as also what dangers they

should be in, if the government should come to a single person,

and that such an one should possess it, as they had no hand in ad­

vancing, and not to Claudius, who would take it as their grant,

and as gained by their good-will to him, and would remember

the favours they had done him, and would make them a sufficient

recoinpence for the same.

3. These were the discourses the soldiers had one with ano­

ther by themselves, and they communicated them to all such as

came into them. Now, those that inquired about this matter,

willingly embraced the invitation that was made them to join

with the rest : so they carried Claudius into the camp, crowding

about him as his guard, and encompassing him about, one chair­

man still succeeding another, that their vehement endeavours might

not be hindered. But, as to the populace and senators, they dis­

agreed in their opinions. The latter were very desirous to recover

their former dignity, and were zealous to get clear of the slavery

that had been brought on them by the injurious treatments of the

tyrants, which the present opportunity afforded them ; but for

the people, who were envious against them, and knew that the

emperors were capable of curbing their covetous temper, and

were a refuge from them, they were veYy glad that Claudius had

been seized upon, and brought to them, and thought, that if

Claudius were made emperor, he would prevent a civil war,

such as there was in the days of Pompey. But, when the se­

nate knew that Claudius was brought into the camp by the sol­

diers, they sent to him those of their body which had the best

character for their virtues, that they might inform him, " that

" he ought to do nothing by violence, in order to gain the gc-

" vernment; that he who was a single person, one either already,

VOL. III. S " or

