'Chap. |. WA*S OF THE JEWS. 251

BOOK I.

Containing the interval of one hundred fixty-feven years.

\From the taking of Jerusalem By Antiochus Epiphanes, to

the death of Herod the Great.J

CHAP. L

How the city Jerusalem was taken, and the temple pillaged \ly An­

tiochus Epiphanes.] As also concerning the actions of the Mac­

cabees, Matthias, and Judas and concerning the death of Ju­

das.

i i. AT the same time that Antiochus, who is called Epipha-

res, had a quarrel with the sixth Ptolemy about his

right to the whole country of Syria, a great-sedition fell among

the men of power in Judea, and they had a contention about ob­

taining the government,; while each of those that were of digni­

ty could not endure to be subject to their equals. However, O-

nias, one of the high-priests, got the better, and ca-st the sons of

Tobias out of the city; who fled to Antiochus, and besought him

to make use of them for his leaders, and to make an expedition

into Judea. The king being thereto disposed beforehand, com­

plied with them, and came upon the Jews with a great army, and

took their city by force, and slew a great multitude of those that

favoured Ptolemy, and sent out his soldiers to plunder them with­

out mercy. He also spoiled the temple, and put a stop to the

constant practice of offering a daily sacrifice of expiation for three

years and six months. ButOni&s, the high-priest, fled to Ptole­

my, and received a place from him in the Nomus of Heliopolis,

where he built a city resembling Jerusalem, and a temple that

was like * its temple ; concerning which we shall speak more

in its proper place hereafter.

2. Now Antiochus was not satisfied either with his unexpect­

ed taking the city, or with its pillage, or with the great slaugh­

ter he had made there ; but being overcome with his violent

passions, and remembering what he had suffered during the siege,

he compelled the Jews to dissolve the laws of their country, and

I i 2 to

* I see little difference in the several accounts in Josephus about the Egyptian  
t«mple Onion, of which large complaints are made by his commentators. Onias,

it seems, hoped to have made it very like that at Jerusalem, and of the same
di­

mensions; and so he appears to have really done, as tar as he was able, and

thought proper. Of this temple, see Antiq.B. XUI. chap. iii. sect, i, i. 3.
and Of

the War, B. VII. ch. x. sect. 3.

