262 Book r WARS OF THE JEWS.

and the greatest part of his army were destroyed, either in tjte

action or the flight; and for the rest, who fled to the village of

Cana, it happened that they were all consumed by want of ne­

cessaries, a few only excepted. . ,

8. About this time it was that the people of Damascus, out of

their hatred to Ptolemy, the son of Menneus, invited Aretas [to

take the government],, and made him king of Ceiesyria. This

man also made an expedition against Judea, and beat Alexander

in battle ; but afterwards retired by mutual agreement. But

Alexander, when he had taken Pella, marched to Gerasa again,

out of the covetous desire he had of Theodorus's possessions ;

and when he had built a triple wall about the garrison, he took

the place by force. He also demolished Golan, and Seleucia,

and what was called The trolley of Antiochus ; besides which, he

took the strong fortress of Gamala, and stripped Demetrius,

who was governor therein, of what he had, on account of the

many crimes laid to his charge, and then returned into Judea,

after he had been three whole years in this expedition. And

now he was kindly received of the nation, because of the good

success he had. So, when he was at rest from war, he fell into

a distemper ; for he was arBicted with a quartan ague, and sup­

posed that byexercising himself again in martial affairs, he should

-get rid of this distemper ; but, by making such expeditions at  
unseasonable times, and forcing his body to undergo greater

hardships than it was able to bear, he brought himself to his

end. He died, therefore, in the midst of his troubles, after ho

had reigned seven and twenty years. ,

CHAP V.

Alexandra reigns nine years, during which time the Pharisees vecre

the real rulers of the nation.

§ 1. 'VTOW Alexander left the kingdom to Alexandra his wife,

and dependedupon it, that the Jews would nowvery rea­

dily submit to her ; because she had been very averse to such

cruelty as he had treated them with, and had opposed his viola­

tion of their laws, and had thereby got the good-will of the

people. Nor was he mistaken as to his expectations; for this

woman kept the dominion, by the opinion that the people had

of her piety ; for she chiefly studied the ancient customs of her

country, and cast those men out of the government that offended

v against their holy laws. And, as she had two sons by Alexan­

der, she made Hyrcanus the elder high-priest, on account of his

age, as also, besides that, on account of his inactive temper, no

way disposing him to disturb the public. But she retained the

younger

