ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX.

" it is but a part of natural justice, that every one should have

" the power over the place belonging peculiarly to themselves,

" according to the determination of Caesar; to say nothing of

" my own determination, which it would be ridiculous to men-

" tion after the emperor's edict, which gives the Jews leave to

(i make use of their own customs, as also gives order, that they

" enjoy equally the rights of citizens with the Greeks themselves.

" J therefore ordain, that Proculus Vitelius, the centurion, bring

" those men to me, who, contrary to Augustus's edict, have been

" so insolent as to do this thing, at which those very men, who

" appear to be of principal reputation among them, have an m-

" dignation also, and alledge for themselves, that it was not done

" with their consent, but by the violence of the multitude, that

** they might give an account of what hath been done. I also  
*' exhort the principal magistrates among them, unless they have  
" a mind to have this action esteemed to be one with their con-

* sent, and to inform the centurion of those that were guilty of  
*' it, and take care that no handle be hence taken for raising a  
" sedition or quarrel among them ; which those seem to me to

" hunt after, who encourage such doings; while both I myself,

** and king Agrippa, for whom I have the highest honour, have  
*' nothing more under our care, than that the nation of the Jews  
" may have no occasion given them of getting together under

*' the pretence of avenging themselves, and become tumultuous.  
" And that it may be more publicly known what Augustus

*r hath resolved about this whole matter, I have subjoined those  
" edicts which he hath lately caused to be published at Alexan-

** dria, and which, although they may be well known to all,  
" yet did king Agrippa, for whom I have the highest honour,

" read them at that time before my tribunal, and pleaded that

"the Jews ought not to be deprived of those rights which Au-

" gustus hath granted them. I therefore charge you, that yon

" do not, for the time to come, seek for any occasion of sedition

" or disturbance, but that every one be allowed to follow their

" own religious customs."

4. Thus did Petronius take care of this matter, that such d>

breach of the law might be corrected, and that no such thing

might be attempted afterwards against the Jews. And now

king Agrippa took the [high] priesthood away from Simon

Cantheras, a'nd put Jonathan, the son of Ananus, into it again,

and owned that he was more worthy of that dignity than the

other. But this was not a thing acceptable to him, to recover

that his former dignity. So he refused it, and said, " O king ! £

" rejoice in the honour that thou hast for me, and take it kindly

" that thou wpuldest give me such a dignity of thy own incli-

" nations,

