Chap. VI. WARS or THE JEWS. 267

a long apology for himself, and for the justness of his cause in'

taking the government, he returned to the fortress. And when

his brother invited him again [to plead his cause], he came down

and spake about the justice of it, and then went away without

any hindrance from Pompey : so he was between hope and fear.

And when he came down, it was to prevail with Pompey to

allow him the government entirely ; and when he went up to

the citadel, it was that he might not appear to debase himself

4oo low. However, Pompey commanded him to give up his

fortified places, and forced him to write to every one of their

governors to yield them up ; they having had this charge given

them, to obey no letters but what were of his own hand-writing.

Accordingly he did what he was ordered to do ; but had still an

indignation in what was done, and retired to Jerusalem, and pre­

pared to fight with Pompey.

6. But Pompey did not give him time to make any prepara­

tions [for a siege], but followed him at his heels : he was also

obliged to make haste in his attempt, by the death of Mithri-

dates, of which he was informed about Jericho. Now here is the

most fruitful country of Judea, which bears a vast number of*

palm-trees, besides the balsam-tree, whose sprouts they cut with

sharp stones, and at the incisions they gather the juice, which

drops down like tears. So Pompey pitched his camp in that

place one night, and then hasted away the next morning to Jeru­

salem ; but Aristobulus was so affrighted at his approach, that he

came and met him by way of supplication. He also promised

him money, and that he would deliver up both himself and the

city into his disposal, and thereby mitigated the anger of Pompey.

Yet did not he perform any of the conditions he had agreed to ;

for Aristobulus's party would not so much as admit Gabinius

into the city, who was sent to receive the money that he had

promised.

CHAP. VII.

How Pompey iad the city 'Jerusalem delivered up to Jnm, lut

took the temple [byforce'\. Hoiv be vent into the Holy of

Holies ; as a/so what were his other exploits in Judea.

5 1. A T this treatment Pompey was very angry, and took

"^^ Aristobulus into custody. And when he was come to

the city he looked about where he might make his attack ; for

he saw the walls were so firm that it would be hard to overcome

them, and that the valley before the walls was terrible ; and that

L 1 2 the

* Of the famous palm-trees and balsam about Jericho and Engaddi, seethe  
notes in Havercamp's edition, both here and B. 11 ch. U. sect. i. The/ are
some,

what too long to be transcribed in this place.

