334 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book f.

her, who was his mother-in-law and his aunt, into the like dan­

gers with themselves; so he sent to her to take care of her own

safety, and told her, that the king was preparing to put her to

death, on account of the accusation that was laid againt her, as

if when she formerly endeavoured to marry herself to Sylleus

the Arabian, she had discovered the king's grand secrets to him,

who was the king's enemy; and this it was that came as the

last storm, and entirely sunk the young men when they were

in great danger before. For Salome came running to the king,

and informed him of what admonition had been given her, where­

upon he could bear no longer, but commanded both the young

men to be bound, and kept the one asunder from the other. He

also sent Volumnius, the general of his army, to Caesar imme­

diately, as also his friend Olympus with him, who carried the

informations in writing along with them. Now as soon as they

had sailed to Rome, and delivered the king's letters to Caesar,

Caesar was mightily troubled at the ease of the young men; yet

did not he think he ought to take the power from the father of

condeming his sons; so he wrote back to him, and appointed him

to have the power over his sons; but said withal, that " he would

'* do well to make an examination into this matter of the plot

" against him, in a public court, and to take for his assessors

'« his own kindred, and the governors of the province. And if

" those sons be found guilty, to put them to death; but if they

«« appear to have thought of no more than fly ing away from him,

" that he should moderate their punishment."

2. With these directions Herod complied, and came to B«ry-

tus, where Caesar had ordered the court to be assembled, and

got the judicature together. The presidents sat first, as Caesar'9

letters had appointed, who were Saturninus, and Pedanius, and

their lieutenants that were with them, with whom was the pro­

curator Volumnius also; next to them sat the king's kinsmen

and friends, with Salome also, and Pheroras; after whom sat

the principal men of all Syria, excepting Archekus; for Herod

had a suspicion of him, because he was Alexander's father-in-

law. Yet did not he produce his sons in open court; and this

was done very cunningly, for he knew well enough that had

they but appeared only, they would certainly have been pitied;

and if withal they had been suffered to speak, Alexander would

easily have answered what they were accused of; but they were

in custody at Platane, a village of the Sidoniaiis.

3. So the king got up, and inveighed against his sons as if they

were present ; and as for that part of the accusation that they

had plotted p.gainst him, he urged it but faintly, because he was

destitute of proofs; but he insisted before the assessors on the re­

proaches, and jests, and injurious carriage, and ten thousand the

like

