Chap. XII. -WARS OF TH£ JEWS. SS9

were in a flame, and assembled themselves so many of them by

their zeal for their religion, as by an engine, and ran together

with united clamour to Cesarea, to Cumanus, and made suppll-

cation to him, that he would not overlook this man, who had

offered such an affront to God, and to his law, but punish him

for what he had done. Accordingly, he, perceiving that the mul­

titude would not be quiet unless they had a comfortable answer

from him, gave order that the soldier should be brought, and

drawn through those that required to have him punished to ex­

ecution, which being done, the Jews went their ways.

3. After this there happened a fight between the Galileans and

the Samaritans; it happenedatavillage called Geman, which is si­

tuate in the great plain of Samaria, where, as a great number of

Jews were going up to Jerusalem to the feast [of tabernacles],

a certain Galilean was slain; and besides a vast number of people

ran together out of Galilee, in order to fight with the Samaritans j

but the principal men among them came to Cumanus, and be­

sought him, that before the evil became incurable, he would

come into Galilee,and bring the authorsof thismurdertopunish­

ment, for that there was no other way to make the multitude se­

parate without coming to blows. However, Cumanus postpon­

ed their supplications to the other affairs he Mas then about, and

sent the petitioners away without success.

4. But when the affair of this murder came to be told' at Je­

rusalem, it put the multitude into disorder, and they left the feast,

and without any generals to conduct them, they marched with

great violence to Samaria; nor would they be ruled by any of

the magistrates that were set over them, but they were mana­

ged by one Eleazar, the son of Dineus, and by Alexander, in

these their thievish and seditious attempts. These men fell up­

on those that were in the neighbourhood of the Acrabatene top-

archy, and slew them, without sparing any age, and set the vil­

lages on fire.

5. But Cumanus took one troop of horsemen, called the troop

of Sebaste, out of Cesarea, and came to the assistance of those

that were spoiled; he also seized upon a great number of those

that followed Eleazar, and slew more of them. And as for the

rest of the multitude of those that went so zealously to fight with

the Samaritans, the rulers of Jerusalem ran out clothed with

sackcloth, and having ashes on their head, and begged of them

to go their ways, lest by their attempt to revenge themselves

upon the Samaritans, they should provoke the Romans to come

against Jerusalem; to have compassion upon their country and

temple, their children and their wives, and not bring the utmost

dangers of destruction upon them, in order to avenge themselves

upon

