Chap. V. THE ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ' 21

also generally supposed, that whatsoever Herod did afterward

about his son, was done with his approbation. But, when He­

rod had bound his son, he sent letters to Rome to Caesar about

him, and such messengers withal as should, by word of mouth,

inform Caesar of Antipater's wickedness. Now, at this very

time there was seized a letter of Antiphilus, written to Anti-

pater out of Egypt, (for he lived there) ; and, when it was

ppened by the king, it was fsund to contain what follows: " I

«' have sent thee Acme's letter, and hazarded my own life ; for

f« thou knowest that I am in danger from two families, if I be

" discovered. I wish thee good success in thy affair." These

were the contents of this letter; but the king made inquiry

about the other letter also, for it did not appear, and Antiplnlusjs

slave, who brought that letter which had been read, denied that

he had received the other. But, while the king was in doubt

about it, one of Herod's friends seeing a seam upon the inner

coat of the slave, and a doubling of the cloth, (for he had two

coats on), he guessed that the letter might be within that doub­

ling ; which accordingly proved to be true. So they took out

the letter, and its contents were these: " Acme to Antipater.'

" I have written such a letter to thy father as thou desirest me.

'f I have also taken a copy and sent it, as if it came from Sa-

" lome to my lady [Livia] ; which, when thou readest, I know

" that Herod will punish Salome, as plotting against him." Now,

this pretended letter of Salome's to her lady was composed by

Antipater, in the name of Salome, as to its real meaning, but in

the words of Acme. The letter was this : " Acme to king He-

" rod. I have done my endeavour that nothing that is done

" against thee should be concealed from thee. So, upon my find-

" ing a letter of Salome written to my lady against thee, I have

" written out a copy, and sent it to thee ; with hazard to myself,

f but for thy advantage.' The reason why she wrote it was this,

" that she had a mind to be married to SyIleus, Do thou there-

" fore tear this letter in pieces, that I may not come into dan-

" ger of my life." Now Acme had written to Antipatsr him­

self, and informed him, that, in compliance with his command,

she had both herself written to Herod, as if Salome had laid a

sudden plot entirely against him, and had herself sent a copy of

an epistle, as coming from Salome to her lady. Now, Acme

was a Jew by birth, and a servant to Julia, Caasar's wife ; and

did this out of her friendship for Antipater, as having been cor­

rupted by him with a large present of money, to assist in his

pernicious designs against his father and his aunt.

8. Hereupon Herod was so amazed at the prodigious wicked­

ness of Antipater, that he was ready to have ordered him to be

slain

