pg ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Bopk XVII.

were to row among the mariners; but slewJiim that induced

him to do what he had done ; for as for the people of Melos,

he thought them sufficiently punished, in having thrown away

so much of their money upon this spurious Alexander. And

such was the ignominious conclusion of this bold contrivance a-r

bout the spurious Alexander^ . • . ,.-. -r.. .:

i. • , - . • .

CHAP. XIII.

How ArcT}elaust upon a second Accusation, -Mas latusbed to

Vienna.

Archelaus was entered on his ethnarchy, and

was come into Judea, he accused .loazar, the son of

Boethus, of assisting the seditious, and took away the high-priest-

hood from him, and put Eleazer his brother in his place. He

also magnificently rebuilt the royal palace that had been at Jeri­

cho, and he diverted half the water with which the village of

Neara used to be watered, and drew off that water into the plain,

to water those palm-trees which he had there planted , he also

built a village, and put his own name upon it, and called it

Archekis. Moreover, he * transgressed the law of our fathers,

and married Glaphyra, the daughter of Archelaus, who had

been the wife of his brother Alexander, which Alexander had

three children by her, while it was a thing detestable among the

Jews, to marry the brother's wife ; nor did this Eleazer abide

long in the high-priesthood, Jesus, the son of Sie, being put in

his room while he was still living.

2. But in the tenth year of Archelaus's government, both his

brethren, and the principal men of Judea and Samafia, not

being able to bear his barbarous and tyrannical usage of them;

accused him before Caesar, and that especially because they knew

he had broken the commauds of Caesar, which obliged him to

behave himself with moderation among them. Whereupon

Caesar, when he heard it, was very angry, and called for Arche­

laus's steward, who took care of his affairs at Rome, and whose

name was Archelaus also, and thinking it beneath him to write

to Archelaus, he bid him sail away as soon as possible, and bring

him to us ; so the man made haste in his voyage, and when he

came into Judea he found Archelaus feasting with his friends ;

BO he told him what Ctcsar had sent him about, and hastened him

away. And when he was come [to Rome], Caesar, upon hear­

ing what certain accusers of his had to say, and what reply he

could

* Spanheim seasonably observes here, that it was forbidden th'e Jews to marry  
their brother's wife, when she had children by her first husband, and that 2p-

aoras (cites, or) interprets the clause before us accordingly.

