144 Book XIX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP V.

How Claudius restored to Agrippa his grandfather's kingdoms,

and augmented hts dominions : and how he published an edict in

behalf of the Jews.

$ 1. 'VTOW, when Claudius had taken out of the way all those

^ soldiers whom he suspected, which he did immediate­

ly, he published an edict, and therein confirmed that kingdom to

Agrippa, which Caius had given him, and therein commended

the king highly. He also made an addition to it, of all that coun­

try over which Herod, who was his grandfather, had reigned,

that is, .Tudea and Samaria ; and this he restored to him as due to

his family. But for Abila * -of Lysanias, and all that lay at

mount Libanus, he bestowed them upon him, as out of his own

territories. He also made a league with this Agrippa, confirm­

ed by oaths, in the middle of the forum, in the city of Rome:

he also took away from Antiochus that kingdom which he was

possessed of, but gave him a certain part of Cilicia and Com-

magena : he also set Alexander Lysimachus, the alabarch, at li­

berty, who had been his old friend, and steward to his mother

Antonia, but had been imprisoned by Caius, whose son [Marcus]

married Bernice, the daughter of Agrippa. But when Marcus,

Alexander's son, was dead, who had married her when she was

a virgin, Agrippa gave her in marriage to his brother Herod,

and begged for him of Claudius the kingdom of Chalcis.

2. Now, about this time, there was a sedition between the Jews

and the Greeks, at the city of Alexandria ; for, when Caius was

dead, the nation of the Jews, which had been very much morti­

fied under the reign of Cains, and reduced to very great distress

by the people of Alexandria, recovered itself, and immediately

took up their arms to fight for themselves. So Claudius sent

an order to the president of Egypt, to quiet that tumult; he al­

so sent an edict, at the requests of king Agrippa and king He­

rod, both to Alexandria and to Syria, whose contents were as

follows : '* Tiberius Claudius Ciesar, Augustus, Germanicus,

*' high-priest, and tribune of the people, ordains thus. Since I  
<* am assured that the Jews of Alexandria, called Alexandrians,

** have

" Here St Luke is in some measure confirmed, when he informs us, ch. iii. i.

that Lysanias was some time before tetrarch of Abilene, whose capital was
Abila;

as he is farther confirmed by Ptolemy, the great geographer, which Spanheim

here observes, when he calls that city Abila of Lysaniat. See the note on B.

XVII. ch. xi. sect. 4 and Prid. at the years 36. and 22. I esteem this
principa­

lity to have belonged to the land of Canaan originally, to have been the
burying

place of Abel, and referred to as such, Matt, xx-iii. 35. Luke xi. 51. See Au-

thent. Rec. Part II. p. 883—885.

