418 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book If.

gotten, and the buildings they had burnt down, and proceeded

no farther.

7. But on the next day, which was the fifteenth of the month

Lous, [Ab], they made an assault upon Antonia, and besieged

the garrison which was in it two days, and then took the garri­

son, and slew them, and set the citadel on fire; after which they

inarched to the palace, whither the king's soldiers were fled, and

parted themselves into four bodies, and made an attack upon the

walls. As for those that were within it, no one had the courage

to sally out, because those that assaulted them were so numerous,

but they distributed themselves into the breast-works and tur­

rets, and shot at the besiegers, whereby many of the robbers fell

under the walls; nor did they cease to fight one with another

either by night or by day, while the seditious supposed that those

within would grow weary for want of food, and those without

supposed the others would do the like by the tediousness of the

siege.

8. In the mean time one Manahem, the son of Judas, that was

called the Galilean ^who was a very cunning sophister, and had

formerly reproached the Jews under Cyrenius, that after God

they were subject to the Romans,), took some of the men of note

with him, and retired toMassada, where he broke open King He­

rod's armoury, and gave arms not only to his own people, but to

other robbers also. These he made use of for a guard, and re­

turned in the state of a king to Jerusalem; he became the leader

of the sedition, and gave orders for continuing the siege, but they

wanted proper instruments, and it was not practicable to under­

mine the wall, because the darts came down upon them from,

above. But still they dug a mine from a great distance under one

of the towers, and made it totter, and having done that, they set

fire on what was combustible, and left it, and when the founda­

tions were burnt below, the tower fell down suddenly. Yet did

they then meet with another wall that had been built within, for

the besieged were sensible beforehand of what they were doing,

and probably die tower shook as it was undermining; so they

provided themselves of another fortification ; which, when the

besiegers unexpectedly saw, while they thought they had already-

gained the place, they were under some consternation. However,

those that were within sent to Manahem, and to the other lead*

ers of the sedition, and desired they might go out upon a capitu­

lation : this was granted to the king's soldiers, and their own

countrymen only, who went out accordingly ; but the Romans

that were left alon« were greatly dejected, for they were not

able to force their way-through such a multitude ; and to desire

them to give them their right hand for their security, they

thought

