THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS. 235

to the king and to the Romans, but en account of your

own wickedness, and this while 1 was besieged by the Romans

in Jotapata. Nay, indeed, were there not reckoned up two

thousand of the people of Tiberias during the siege of Jerusa­

lem, some of which were slain, and the rest caught and cacried

'captives ? But thou wilt pretend that thou didst not engage 'in

the War, since thou didst ilee to the king. Yes, indeed, thou

didst flee to him ; but I say it was out of fear of me. 'Thou

sayest, indeed, that it is I who am a wicked man. But then,

for what reason was it that king Agrippa, who procured thee

ihy life when .thou wast condemned to die by Vespasian, and

.who bestowed so muck riches upon thee, did twice afterward put

thee into bonds, and as often obliged thee to run away from thy

country, and, when he had once ordered thee to be put to death,

he granted thee a pardon at the earnest request of Bernice ? and

when (after so many of thy wicked pranks) he had made thee

his secretary, he caught thee falsifying his epistles, and drove

thee away from his sight. But I shall not inquire accurately in­

to these matters of scandal against thee. Yet cannot I but won-

.der at thy impudence, when thou hast the assurance to say, that

thou hast better related these affairs [of the war] than have all

he others that have written about them, whilst thou didst not

,know what was done in Galilee ; for thou wast -then at Bcrytus

with the king ; nor didst 'thou know how much the Romans sut-

fered at the siege of Jotapata, or what miseries they brought up­

on us ; nor couldst thou learn by inquiry what I did during that

siege myself; for all those that might afford such information

were quite destroyed in that siege. But perhaps thou wilt ?;ay,

thou hast written of what was done against the people of Jerusa­

lem exactly. But how should that be ? for neither wast thou

concerned in that war, nor hast thou read the commentaries of

Caesar ; of which we have evident proof, because thou hast con­

tradicted those commentaries of Caesar in thy history. But if

thou art so hardy as to affirm, that thou hast written that history

bstter than all the rest, why didst thou not publish thy history

while the emperors Vespasian and Titus, the generals in that

war, as well as king Agrippa and his family, who were men very

well skilled in the learning of the Greeks, were til alive ? for

thou hast had at written these twenty years, and then mightest

thou have had the testimony of thy accuracy. But now when

these men are no longer with us, and thou thinkest thou canst

not be contradicted, thou venturest to publish it. But then I

,was not in like manner afraid of my own writing, but I offered

any books to the emperors themselves, when the facts were al-

'»ost under men's eyes ; for I was conscious to myself, that I had

G g 2 observed

