Chap. VI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 265

went to the royal palace, and Hyrcanus retired to the house of

Aristobulus.

2. Now, those other people which were at variance with Ari­

stobulus were afraid upon his unexpected obtaining the govern­

ment ; and especially this concerned * Antipater, whpm Aristo­

bulus hated of old. He was by birth an Idumean, and one of the

principal of that nation on account of his ancestors and riches,

and other authority to him belonging : he also persuaded Hyr-

canus to fly to Aretas, the king of Arabia, and to lay claim to

the kingdom ; as also he persuaded Aretas to receive Hyrcanus,

and to bring him back to his kingdom : he also cast great re­

proaches upon Aristobulus, as to his morals, and gave great com­

mendations to Hyrcanus, and ^exhorted Aretas to receive him,

and. told him how becoming a thing it would be for him, who

ruled so great a kingdom, to afford his assistance to such as are

injured ; alleging that Hyrcanus was treated unjustly, by being

deprived of that dominon which belonged to him by the prero­

gative of his birth. And when he had predisposed them both

to do what he would have them, he took Hyrcanus by night>

and ran awayfrom the city, and, continuing his flight with great

swiftness, he escaped to the place called Petra, which is the

royal seat of the king of Arabia, where he put Hyrcanus into

Aretas's hand ; and by discoursing much with him, and gaining

upon him with many presents, he prevailed with him to give

him an army that might restore' him to his kingdom. This

army consisted of fifty thousand footmen and horsemen, against

which Aristobulus was not able to make resistance, but was de­

serted in his first onset, and was driven to Jerusalem : he also

had been taken at first by force, if Scaurus, the Roman general,

had not come and seasonably interposed himself, and raised the

siege. This Scaurus was sent into Syria from Armenia by

Pompey the Great, when he fought against Tigranes ; so Scaurus

came to Damascus, which had been lately taken by Metellus

and Lollius, and caused them to leave the place ; and, upon his

hearing how the affairs of Judea stood, he made haste thither as

to a certain booty.

3. As soon, therefore, as he was come into the country, there

came ambassadors from both the brothers, each of them desiring

his assistance ; but Aristobulus's three hundred talents had more

weight with him than the justice of the cause ; which sum,

when Scaurus had received, he sent an herald to Hyrcanus and

the Arabians, and threatened them with the resentment of the

-Romans, and of Pompey, unless they would raise' the siege. So

VOL. Hit-.v LI , J>: ,': , Aretas

* That this Antipater, the father of Herod the Great, was an Idumean, as Jo.  
SNepJius affirms here; see the note on Amiq B. XIV. ch. xv. sect. z.

