438 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II.

at variance one with another about the things they were angry

at. However, he promised he would confess all: hereupon he

was permitted to speak, when he said, " I did neither intend to

" send this money back to Agrippa, nor to gain it myself; for

" I did never esteem one that was your enemy to be my friend,

" nor did 1 look upon what would tend to your disadvantage, to

" be my advantage. But, O you people of Taricheae, I saw

'' that your city stood in more need than others of fortifications

" for your security, and that it wanted money in order for the

" building it a wall. I was also afraid lest the pepoleof Tibe-

" Has and other cities should lay a plot to seize upon these spoils,

" and therefore it was that I intended to retain this money pri-

" vately, that I might encompass you with a wall. But if this

" does not please you, 1 will produce what was brought me,

" and leave it to you to plunder it; but if I have conducted

" myself so well as to please you, you may if you please punish

" your benefactor."

4. Hereupon the people of Taricheae loudly commended him,

but those of Tiberias, with the rest of the company, gave him

hard names, and threatened what they would do to him; so both

sides left off quarrelling with Josephus, and fell on quarrelling

with one another. So he grew bold upon the dependence he had

on his friends, which were the people of Taricheae, and about

forty thousand in number, and spake more freely to the whole

multitude, and reproached them greatly for their rashness, and

told them, That " with this money he would build walls about

" Taricheae, and would put the other cities in a state of secu-

" rity also; for that they should not want money, if they would

" but agree for whose benefit it was to be procured, and would

" not suffer themselves to be irritated against him who procured

" it for them."

5. Hereupon the rest of the multitude that had been deluded

retired; but yet so that they went away angry, and two thou­

sand of them made an assault upon him in their armour; and as

he was already gone to his own house, they stood without Mid

threatened him. On which occasion Josephus again used a second

stratagem to escape them; for he got upon the top of his house,

and with his right hand desired them to be silent, and said to them,

" I cannot tell what you would have, nor can hear what you say,

" for the confused noiseyoumake: but hesaidthathe would com-

" ply with all their demands, in case they would but send some

" of their number in to him that might talk with him about it."

And when the principal of them, with their leaders, heard this,

they came into the house. He then drew them to the most re­

tired part of the house, and shut the door of that hall where he

put

