68 Book XVIII. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS.

and thought the discourse of the man probable ; and as they

abode at a certain village, which was called Tirathaba, they got

the rest together to them, and desired to go up the mountain in

a great multitude together ; but Pilate prevented their going up,

by seizing upon the roads with a great band of horsemen and

footmen, who fell upon those that were gotten together in the

village ; and when it came to an action, some of them they slew,

and others of them they put to flight, and took a great many

alive, the principal of which, and also the most potent of those

that fled away, Pilate ordered to be slain.

2. But when this tumult was appeased, the Samaritan senate

sent an embassy to Vitellius, a man that had been consul, and

who was now president of Syria, and accused; Pilate of the mur­

der of those that were killed; for that they did not go to Tira­

thaba in order to revolt from the Romans, but to escape the

violence of Pilate. So Vitellius sent Marcellus, a friend of hisr

to take care of the affairs of Judea, and ordered Pilate to go to

Rome, to answer before the emperor to the accusations of the

Jews. So Pilate, when he had tarried ten years in Judea, made

haste to Rome, and this in obedience to the orders of Vitellius,

which he durst not contradict; but before he could get to Rome,.

Tiberius was dead.

3. But Vitellius came into Judea, and went up to Jerusa­

lem ; it was at the time of that festival which is called the Pass­

over. Vitellius was there magnificently received, and released

the inhabitants of Jerusalem from all the taxes upon the fruits,

that were bought and sold, and gave them leave to have the care

of the high-priest's vestments, with all their ornaments, and to-

have them under the custody of the priests in the temple, which

power they used to have formerly, although at this time they

were laid up in the tower of Antcnia, the citadel so called, and

that on the occasion following : There was one of the [high}

priests, named Hyrcanus, and as there were many of that name,

he was the first of them t this man built a tower near the temple,

and when he had so done, he generally dwelt in it, and had

these vestments with him ; because it was lawful for him alone

to put them on, and he had them there reposited when he went

down into the city,, and took his ordinary garments; the same

things were continued to be done by his sons, and by their sons

after them. But when Herod came to be king, he rebuilt this

tower, which was very conveniently situated, in a magnificent

manner j and because he was a friend to Antonius, he called it

by the name of Antonia. And as he found these vestments

lying there, he retained them in the same place, as believing,

that while he had them in his custody, the people would make

no­

