THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS.' 539

u danger, and then you shall have them all at once under your

" power, with all such as you shall yourselves bring in also."

Upon my saying this, I pacified the multitude, and they left oft'

their anger, and went their ways ; and I gave orders that he who

brought the king's letters should be put into bonds ; but in a few-

days I pretended that I was obliged, by a necessary affair of my

own, to go out of the kingdom. I then called Crispus privately,

and ordered him to make the soldier that kept him drunk, and

to run away to the king. So, when Tiberias was in danger of

being utterly destroyed a second time, it escaped the danger by

my skilful management, and the care that I had for its preser­

vation.

70. About this time it was that Justus, the son of Pistus,

without my knowledge, ran away to the king; the occasion of

which I will here relate. Upon the beginning of the war be­

tween the Jews and the Romans, the people of Tiberias re­

solved to submit to the king, and not to revolt from the Ro­

mans ; while Justus tried to persuade them to betake themselves

to their arms, as being himself desirous of innovations, and

having hopes of obtaining the government of Galilee, as well as

of his own country [[Tiberias] also. Yet did he not obtain what

he hoped for ; because the Galileans bore ill-will to those of

Tiberias, and on this account of their anger at what miseries

they had suffered from them before the war ; thence it was,

that they would not endure that Justus should be their governor.

I myself also, who had been intrusted by the community of Jeru­

salem with the government of Galilee, did frequently come to

that degree of rage at Justus, that I had almost resolved to kill

him, as not able to bear his mischievous disposition. He was

therefore much afraid of me, lest at length my passion should

come to extremity ; so he went to the king, as supposing that he

should dwell better and more safely with him.

71. Now, when the people of Sepphoris had, in so surprising

a manner, escaped their first danger, they sent to Cestius Gal-

lus, and desired him to come to them immediately, and take

possession of their city, or else to send forces sufficient to repress

all their enemies incursions upon them ; and at the last they

did prevail with Gallus to send them a considerable army, both

of horse and foot, which came in the night-time, and which

they admitted into the city. But when the country round a-

bout it was harassed by the Roman army, I took those soldiers

that were about me, and came to Garisme, where I cast up a

bank, a good way off the city Sepphoris ; and when I was at

twenty furlongs distance, I came upon it by night, and made

an assault upon its "walls with my forces; and,when I had or­

dered

