Chap. IV. WA?S OF THE JEW?. SS5

fire, by killing themselves with their own swords ; but so many

of them as crept out from the walls, and came upon the Romans,

were easily mastered by them, by reason of the astonishment

they were under ; until at last some of the Jews being destroyed,

and others dispersed by the terror they were ii., the soldiers fell

upon the treasure of God, which was now deserted, and plun­

dered about four hundred talents, of which sum Sabinus got

together all that was not carried away by the soldiers.

4. However, this destructionof the works [about the temple],

and of the men, occasioned a much greater number, and those

of a more warlike sort, to get together, to oppose the Romans.

These encompassed the palace round, and threatened to destroy

all that were in it, unless they went their ways quickly; for

they promised that Sabinus should come to no harm, if he would

go out with his legion. There were also a great many of the

king's party who deserted to the Romans, and assisted the Jews;

yet did the most warlike body of them all, who were three thou­

sand of the men of Sebaste, go over to the Romans. Rufus also,

and Gratus, their captains, did the same, (Gratus having the

foot of the king's party under him, and Rufus the horse), each

of whom, even without the forces under them, were of great

weight, on account of their strength and wisdom, which turn the

scales in war. Now the Jews persevered in the siege, and tried

to break down the walls of the fortress, and cried out to Sabinus

and his party, That they should go their ways, and not prove an

hinderance to them, now they hoped, after a long time, to reco­

ver that ancient liberty which their forefathers had enjoyed. Sa­

binus indeed was well contented to get out of the danger he was

in, but he distrusted the assurances the Jews gave him, and sus­

pected such gentle treatment was but a bait laid as a snare for

them: this consideration, together with the hopes he had of

succour from Varus, made him bear the siege still longer.

CHAP. IV.

Herod's "veteran soldiers become tumultuous. The robberies of

Jtidas. Simon and Atbrongeus take the name of king upon

tlem.

§ 1. A T this time there were great disturbances in the coun-

J-JL try, and that in many places ; and the opportunity

that now offered itself induced a great many to set up for kings.

And indeed in Idumea two thousand of Herod's veteran soldiers

got together, and armed themselves, and fought against those of

the king's party; against whom Achiabus, the king's first com-

sin; fought,and that out of some of the places that we; e the most

strongly

