Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 65

was every way answerable to her in an excellent character.

Decius Mundus fell in love with this woman, who was a man

very high in the equestrian order ; and as she was of toa great

dignity to be caught by presents, and had already rejected them,

though they had been sent in great abundance, he was still more

inflamed with love to her, insomuch that he promised to give

her two hundred thousand Attic drachmae for one night's lod-

- ging ; and when this would not prevail upon her, and he was not­  
able to bear this misfortune in his amours, he thought it the

best way to famish himself to death for want of food, on account

of Paulina's sad refusal ; and he determined with himself to die

after such a manner, and he went on with his purpose according­

ly-. Now, Mundus had a freed woman, who had been made free

by his father, whose name was Ide, one skilful in all sorts of

mischief. This woman was very much grieved at the young

man's resolution to kill himself, (Tor he did not conceal his in­

tentions to destroy himself from others), and came to him, and

,encouraged him by her discourse, and made him to hope, by some

promises she gave him, that he might obtain a night's lodging

with Paulina ; and when he joyfully hearkened to her entreaty,

she said, she wanted no more than fifty thousand drachmae for

the entrapping of the woman. So when she had encouraged the

young man, and gotten as much money as she required, she did

not take the same methods as had been taken before, because she

perceived that the woman was by no means to be tempted by

money, but as she knew that she was very much given to the

worship of the goddess Isis, she devised the following stratagem :

She went to some of Isis's priests, and upon the strongest assuran­

ces [of concealment], she persuaded them by words, but chiefly

by the offer of money, of 25,000 drachmae in hand, and as much

more when the thing had taken effect; and told them the pas­

sion of the young man, and persuaded them to use all means pos­

sible to beguile the woman. So they were drawn in to promise

so to do, by that large sum of gold they were to have. Accord­

ingly, the oldest of them went immediately to Paulina, and upon

his admittance, he desired to speak with her by herself. Wheij

that was granted him, he told her, that " he was sent by the god

" Anubis, who was fallen in love with her, and enjoined her to

" come to him." Upon this she took the message very kindly,

and valued herself greatly upon this condescension of Anubis,

and told her husband, that she had a message sent her, and was

to sup and lie with Anubis ; so he agreed to her acceptance o£

the offer, as fully satisfied with the chastity of his wife. Accord­

ingly, she went to the temple, and after she had supped there,

and it was the hour to go to sleep, the priest shut the doors cf

the temple, when in the holy part of it, the lights were also pv.t

VOL. III. I " out,

