Chap. XV. WARS or THE JEWS. 2Q3

his forces increased every day as he went along, and all Galilee

with few exceptions joined themselves to him. So he proposed

to himself to set about his most necessary enterprise, and that

was Masada, in order to deliver his relations from the siege they

endured. But still Joppa stood in his way, and hindered his go足

ing thither; for it was necessary to take that city first, which

was in the enemies hands, that when he should go to Jerusalem,

no fortress'might be left in the enemies' power behind him. Silo

also willingly joined him, as having now a plausible occasion

of drawing off his forces [from Jerusalem]; and when the Jews

pursued him and pressed upon him, [in his retreat], Herod made

an excursion upon then with a small body of his men, and soon

put them to flight, and saved Silo when he was in distress.

4. After this Herod took Joppa, and then made haste to Masa足

da to free his relations. Now as he was marching, many came

in to him, induced some by their friendship to his father, some

by the reputation he had already gained himself, and some in

^rder to repay the benefits they had received from them both;

but still what engaged the greatest number on his side, was the

hopes from him, when he should be established in his kingdom ;

so that he had gotten together already an army hard to be con足

quered. But Antigonus laid an ambush for him as he marched

out, in which he did little or no harm to his enemies. However,

he easily recovered his relations again that were in Masada, as

well as the fortress Ressa, and then marched to Jerusalem, where

the soldiers that were with Silo joined themselves to his own,

as did many out of the city, from a dread of his power.

5. Now when he had pitched his camp on the west side of the

city, the guards that were there shot their arrows, and.threw

their darts at them, while others ran out in companies, and at足

tacked those in the forefront; but Herod commanded procla mation'

to be made at the wall, that " he was come for the good of the

" people and the preservation of the city, without any design to

" be revenged on his open enemies,but to grant oblivion to them,

" though they had been the most obstinate against him." Now

the soldiers that were for Antigonus made a contrary clamour,

and did neither permit any body to hear that proclamation, nor

to change their party; so Antigonus gave order to his forces

to beat the enemy from the walls; accordingly, they soon threw

their darts at them from the towers, and put them to flight.

6. Andhere it wasthatSilo discovered hehad taken bribes; for

he set many of the soldiers to clamour about their want of ntces-

saries, and to require their pay, in order to buy themselves food,

and to demand that he would lead them into places convenientfor

their winter quarters; because all the parts about the city were

