256 . WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I*

Antigonus, over the siege ; who pushed it on so hard, that a fa.

mine so far prevailed within the city, that they were forced to

eat what never was esteemed food. They also invited Anti-

ochus, who was called Cyzicenus, to come to their assistance ;

whereupon he got ready, and complied with their invitation,

but was beaten by Aristobulus and Antigonus ; and indeed he

Was pursued as far as Scythopolis by these brethren, and fled

away from them. So they returned back to Samaria, and shut

the multitude again within the wall; and when they had taken

the city, they demolished it, and made slaves of its inhabitants.

And, as they had still great success in their undertakings, they

did not suffer their zeal to cool, but marched with an army as far

as Scythopolis, and made an incursion upon it, aud laid waste all

the country that lay within Mount Carmel.

8. But then, these successes of John and of his sons made them

be envied, and occasioned a sedition in the country, and many

there were who got together, and would not be at rest till they

brake out into open war, in which war they were beaten. So

John lived the rest of his life very happily, and administered the

government after a most extraordinary manner, and this for thir­

ty-three entire years together. He died, leaving five sons be­

hind him. He was certainly a very happy man, and afforded no

occasion to have any complaint made of fortune on his account.

He it was who alone had three of the most desirable things in

the world, the government of his nation, and the high-priest­

hood, and the gift of prophecy. For the Deity conversed with

him, and he was not ignorant of any thing that was to come af­

terward ; insomuch, that he foresaw and foretold that his two

eldest sons would not continue masters of the government ; and

it will highly deserve our narration, to describe their catas­

trophe, and how far inferior these men were to their father in

felicity.

CHAP. III.

How Aristobulus wa.t the Jirst that put a diadem about Ms lead,

and after he had put his mother and brother to dsath, died him­

self, when he had reigned no more than a year.

§ 1. T^OR after the death of their father, the elder of them, A-

-*- ristobnlus, changed the government into a kingdom, and  
was the first that put a diadem upon his head, four hundred se­

venty and one years, and three months, after oar people came

down into this country, when they were set free from the Baby­

lonian slavery. Now, of his brethren, he appeared to have an af­

fection for Antigonus, who was next to him, and made him his

ermal ; but, for the rest, he bound them, and pnt them in prison.

He!

