44 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

public. They were in some small measure indeed, and in small

matters, hurtful to the Romans ; but the murders they commit­

ted upon their own people lasted a long while.

0. As soon as Varus was once informed of the state of .Tudea

by Sabinus's writing to him, he was afraid for the legion he had

left there ; so he took the two other legions, (for there were

three legions in all belonging to Syria), and four troops of horse­

men, with the several auxiliary forces which either the kings or

certain of the tetrarchs afforded him, and made what haste he

could to assist those that were then besieged in Judea. He also

gave order, that all that were sent out for this expedition, should

make haste to Ptolemais. The citizens of Berytus also gave him

1500 auxiliaries, as he passed through their city. Aretas also,

the king of Arabia Petrea, out of his hatred to Herod, and in

'order to purchase the favour of the Romans, sent him no small

assistance, besides their footmen and horsemen: and, when he had

riow collected all his forces together, he committed part of them,

to his son, and to a friend of his, and sent them upon an expe­

dition into Galilee, which lies in the neighbourhood of Ptole­

mais ; who made an attack upon the enemy, and put them to

'flight, and took Sephoris, and made its inhabitants slaves, and

burnt the city.' But Varus himself pursued his march for Sa­

maria with his whole army : yet did not he meddle with the ci­

ty of that name, because it had not at all joined with the sedi­

tious ; but pitched his camp at a certain village that belonged to

Ptolemy, whose name was Arus, which the Arabians burnt, out

of their hatred to Herod, and out of the enmity they bore to his

,fnends; whence they marched to another village, whose name

-was Sampho, which the Arabians plundered and burnt, although  
it was a fortified and a strong place ; and all along this march

-nothing escaped them, but all places were full of fire and of  
slaughter. Emmaus was also burnt by Varus's order, after its

inhabitants had deserted it, that he might avenge those that had

there been destroyed. From thence he now marched to Jeru­

salem ; whereupon those .lews whose camp lay there, and who

<had besieged the Roman legion, not bearing the coming of this

army, left the siege imperfect: But as to the Jerusalem-Jews,

'when Varus reproached them bitterly for what had been done,

they cleareu themselves of the accusation, and alledged, that the

conflux of the people was occasioned by the feast; that the war

-was not made with their approbation, but the rashness of .the  
strangers, while they were on the side of the Romans, and be­

sieged together with them, rather than having any inclination to

besiege them. There also came before-hand to meet Varus, Jo­

seph, the cousin-german of king Herod, as also Gratus and Ru­

