Chap. IT. WARS OF THE JEWS. 253

posing that Antiochus himself was upon him, he ran a great

I « way before his own army, and cutting his way through the ene­

mies troops, he got up to the elephant; yet could not reach him

who seemed to be the king, by reason of his being so high ; but

still he ran his weapon into the belly of the beast, and brought

him down upon himself, and was crushed to death, having done

no moire than attempted great things, and shewed that he pre­

ferred glory before life. Now he that governed the elephant was

but a private man, and had he proved to be Antiochus, Eleazar

had performed nothing more by this bold stroke than that it

might appear he chose to die, when he had the bare hope of

thereby doing a glorious action ; nay, this disappointment pro­

ved an omen to his brother [Judas] how the entire battle would

end. It is true that the Jews fought it out bravely for a long

time, but the king's forces, being superior in number, and having

fortune on their side, obtained the victory. And when a great

many of his men were slain, Judas took the rest with him, and

fled to the toparchy of Gophra. So Antiochus went to Jerusa­

lem, and staid there but a few days, for he wanted provisions,

and so he went his way. He left indeed a garrison behind him,

such as he thought sufficient to keep the place, but drew the rest

of his army off, to take their winter-quarters in Syria.

6. Now, after the king was departed, Judas was not idle ; for

as many of his own nation came to him, so did he gather those

that had escaped out of the battle together, and gave battle again

to Antiochus's generals at a village called Adasa ; and being too

hard for his enemies in the battle, and, killed a great number

of them, he was at last himself slain also. Nor was it many days

afterward that his brother John had a plot laid against him by

Antiochus's party, and was slain by them.

CHAP. II.

Concerning the successors of Judas, ivho were Jonathan and Simeon t

and John Hyrcanus.

$ 1. \T7'HEN Jonathan, who was Judas's brother, succeeded

v r him, he behaved himself with great circumspection

in other respects, with relation to his own people ; and he corro­

borated his authority by preserving his friendship with the Ro­

mans. He also made a league with Antiochus the son. Yet

was not all this sufficient for his security ; for the tyrant Trypho,

who was guardian to Antiochus's son, laid a plot against him ;

and, besides that, endeavoured to take of his friends, and caught

Jo.natb.an by a wile, as he was going to Ptolemais to Antiochus,

jyith a few persons in his company, and put them in bonds, and

then

