S54 WARS OF THE JRW3. Book I.

then made an expedition against the Jews ; but when he was af­

terward driven away by Simeon, who was Jonathan's brother,

and was enraged at his defeat, he put Jonathan to death.

2. However, Simeon managed the public affairs after a cou­

rageous manner, and took Gazara, and Joppa, and Jamnia, which

were cities in the neighbourhood. He also got the garrison un­

der, and demolished the citadel. He was afterward an auxiliary

to Antiochus, against Trypho, whom he besieged in Dora, before

lie went on his expedition against the Medes ; yet could not he

make the king ashamed of his ambition, though he had assisted

him in killing Trypho ; for it was not long ere Antiochus sent

Cendebeus his general with an army to lay waste Judea, and to

-subdue Simeon ; yet he, though he were now in years, conduct­  
ed the war as if he were a much younger man. He also sent his

hons with a band of strong men against Antiochus, while he took

part of the army himself with him, and fell upon him from ano­

ther quarter : lie also laid a great many men in ambush in many

places of the mountains, and was superior in all his attacks upon

them ; and when he had been conqueror after so glorious a man­

ner, he was high-priest, and also freed the Jews from the domi­

nion of the Macedonians, after an hundred and seventy years of

the empire [of Seleucus],

3. This Simeon also had a plot laid against him, and was slain

at a feast by his son-in-law Ptolemy, who put his wife and two

sons into prison, and sent some persons to kill John, who was al-

'so * called Hyrcanus. But when the young man was informed

of their coming beforehand, he made haste to get to the city, as

having a very great confidence in the people there, both on ac­

count of the memory of the glorious actions of his father, and

of the hatred they could not but bear to the injustice of Ptolemy.

Ptolemy also made an attempt to get into the city by another

gate ; but was repelled by the people, who had just then admit­

ted' Hyrcanus ; so he retired presently to one of the fortresses

that were about Jericho, which was called Dagon. Now, when

.Hyrcanus had received the high-priesthood, which Uis father

had held before, and had offered sacrifice to God, he made

great haste to attack Ptolemy, that he might afford relief to his

mother and brethren.

4. So he laid siege to the fortress, and was superior to Ptolemy

in

* Why this Johntbe son of Simeon, the high-priest, and governor of the Jews,  
was called Hyrcanus, Josephus no where informs us; nor is he called other than

John at the end of the first book of the Maccabees. However, Sixtus Senensis,

when he gives us an epitome of the Greek version of the book here abridged by

Josephus, or of the Chronicles of this John Hyrcanus, then extant, assures us
that

he was called Hyrcanus from his conquest of one of that name. See Authent.
Rec.

' Part I. p. 27. Bat of this younger Antiochus, see Dean Aldrich's note here.

