Chap. XIII. WARS OF THE Jtws. 287

the Freemen, with Herod, and conducted Phasaelus with the

rest.

4. But now, when they were come to Galilee, they found that

the people of that country had revolted, and were in arms, who

came very cunningly to their leader, and besought him to conceal

his treacherous intentions by an obliging behaviour to thetn;

accordingly, he at first made them presents, and afterward, as they

went away, laid ambushes for them ; and, when they were come

to one of the maritime cities called Ecdippon, they perceived that

a. plot was laid for them ; for they were there informed of ths

promise of a thousand talents, and how Antigonus had devoted the

greatest number of the women that were there with them, among

the five hundred, to the Parthians ; they also perceived that an

ambush was always laid for them by the barbarians in the night­

time ; they had also been seized on before this, unless they had

waited for the seizure of Herod first at Jerusalem, because, if he

were once informed of this treachery of theirs, he would take care

of himself; nor was this a mere report, but they saw the guards

already not far off them.

5. Nor would Phasaelus think of forsaking Hyrcanus and

flying away, although Ophellius earnestly persuaded him to it;

for this man had learned the whole scheme of the plot from Sa-

ramalla, the richest of all the Syrians. But Phasaelus went up

to the Parthian governor, and reproached him to his face, for

laying this treacherous plot against thetn, and chiefly because he

had done it for money ; and he promised him, that he would

give him more money for their preservation, than Antigonus had

promised to give for the kingdom. But the sly Parthian endea­

voured to remove all this suspicion by apologies and by oaths,

and then went [to the other] Pacorus; immediately after which,

those Parthians who were left, and had it in charge, seized upon

Phasaelus and Hyrcanus, who could do no more than curse their

perfidiousness and their perjury.

6. In the mean time the cup-bearer was sent [back], and laid

a plot how to seize upon Herod, by deluding him, and getting

him out of the city, as he was commanded to do. But Herod sus­

pected the barbarians from the beginning, and having then re­

ceived intelligence that a messenger, who was to bring him the

letters that informed him of the treachery intended, had fallen

among the enemy, he would not go out of the city ; though Pa­

corus said very positively, that he ought to go out, and meet the

messengers that brought the letters, for that the enemy had not

them, and that the contents of them were not accounts of any

plots upon them, but of what Phasaelus had done ; yet had he

heard

