16\ ' avtiqtiities of THE iews. Book XX.

own dominions. So he came to Jzates, and brought a thousand

of his kindred and secants with him, and met him upon the

road, while he well knew lzates, but lzates did not know

him. When Artabaiuis stood near him, and,' in the first place,

worshipped him, according to the custom, he then said to himi

" O king ! do not thou overlook me thy servant, nor do thou

" proudly reject the suit I make thee ; for, as I am reduced to

*' a low estate, by the change of fortune, and of a king am be-  
" come a private man, I stand in need of thy assistance. Have

** regard, therefore, unto the mcertainty of fortune, and esteenl  
" the care thou shalt take of me to be taken of thyself also ; for

*f if I be neglected, and my subjects go off unpunished, litany  
" other subjects will become the more insolent towards other

*' kings also." And this speech A'tabanus made with tears in  
his eyes, and with a dejected countenance. Now, as soon as lza­

tes heard Artabanus's names, and saw him stand as a supplicant

before him, he leaped down from his horse immediately, and said

to him, " Take courage, O king ! nor be disturbed at thy pre-

" sent calamity, as if it were'incurable ; for the Change of thy

" sad condition shall be sudden ; for thou shalt find me to be

" more thy friend and thy assistant than thy hopes can promise

" thee ; for I will either re-establish thee in the kingdom of

*' Parthia, or lose my own."

2. When he had said this, he set Artabanus upon his horse,

and followed him on foot, in honour of a king whom he owned

as greater than himself; which, when Artabanus' saw, he was

very uneasy at it, and sware, by his present fortune and honour,

that he would get down from his horse, unless lzates would get

upon his horse again, and go before him. So he complied with

his desire, and leaped upon his horse ; and, when he had brought

him to his royal palace, he shewed him all soyts of respect, when

they sat together, and he gave him the upper place at festivals

also, as regarding not his present fortune, but his former dig-

ftity, and that upon this consideration also, that the changes of

fortune are common to all men. He also wrote to the Parthi-

ans, to persuade them to receive Artabanus again ; and gave

them his right hand and his faith, that he should forget what was

past and done, and that he would undertake for this as a media­

tor between them. Now the Parthians did not themselves re­

fuse

" these procurators there happened a great famine in Judea." Whence it is

plain that this famine continued for many years, on account of its duration

under those two procurators. Now Fadus was not sent into Judea till after the

death of king Agrippa, i. e. towards the latter end of the 4th year of
Claudius;

so that this famine foretold by Agabus, happened upon the 5th. 6th, and 7th

years of Claudius, as says Valesius on Euseb. II. 12. Of this famine also, and

queen Helena's supplies, and her monument, see Moses Chorenensis, p. 144. 145-

where it is observed in the notes, that Pausanias mentions that her monument

also.

