WARS Of THE JEWS. Book II.

" rejecting any person's sacrifice (which would be the highest

" instance of impiety), that they had themselves placed those

" donations about the temple which were still visible, and had

" remained there so long a time: that they did now irritate the

" Romans to take arms against them, and invited them to make

" war upon them, and brought up novel rulersof a strange divine

" worship, and determineci to run the hazard of having their

" city condemned for impiety, while they would not allow any

" foreigner but Jews only either to sacrifice or to worship there-

'" in. And if such a law should be introduced in the case of a

tf single private person only, he would have indignation at it, as

«' an instance of inhumanity determined against him; while they

" have no regard to the Romans or to Ceesar, and forbid even

" their oblations to'be received also: that however they cannot

" but fear, lest by his rejecting their sacrifices, they shall not

"be allowed to offer their own; and that this city will lose its

" principality, unless they grow wiser quickly, and restore the

."sacrifices as formerly, and indeed amend the injury [they

" have offered foreigners] before the report of it comes to the

"ears of those that have been injured."

4. And as they said these things, they produced those priests

that Were skilful in the customs of their country, who made the

report, That " all their forefathers had received the sacrifices

" from foreign nations." But still not one of the innovators

would hearken to what was said; nay, those that ministered a-

bout the temple would not attend their divine service, but were

preparing matters for beginning the war. So the men of power,

perceiving that the sedition was too hard for them to subdue,

and that the danger which would arise from the Romans would

come upon them first of all; endeavoured to save themselves, and

sent ambassadors, some to Florus, the chief of which was Simon

the son of Ananias; and others to Agrippa, among whom the

most eminent were Saul and Antipas, and Costobarus, who were

of the king's kin'dred; and they desired of them both that they

would come with an army to'the city, and cut off the sedition be­

fore it should be too hard to be subdued. Now this terrible

message was good news to Florus; and because his design was

to have a war kindled, he gave the ambassadors no answer at all.

But Agrippa was equally Solicitous for those that were revolt­

ing, and for those against whom the war was to be made, and

was 'dtesirous to preserve the Jews for the Romans, and the tem­

ple a,n<J metropolis for the Jews; he was also sensible that it was

not'for his own advantage that: 'the disturbances should proceed;

so'he sent three thousand horsemen to the assistance of the peo-

j^out'of^Auranitis and'Ba'tanea, and Trachonitis, and"these

• d-i^rj-j. under

