Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW&.

bility of temper, which had been improved by much exercise

and pains-taking: for as he was the grandson* of the brother

of Tiberius, whose successor he was, this was a strong induce­

ment to his acquiring of learning, because Tiberius aspired after

the highest pitch of that sort of reputation ; and Cains aspired

after the like glory for eloquence, being induced thereto by the

letters of his kinsman and his emperor. He was also among the

first rank of his own citizens. But the advantages he received

from his learning did not countervail the mischief he brought

upon himself in the exercise of his authority; so difficult it is

for those to obtain the virtue that is necessary for a wise man,

who have the absolute power to do what they please without

controul. At the first he got himself such friends as were in

all respects the most worthy, and was greatly beloved by them,

while he imitated their zealous application to the learning and

to the glorious actions of the best men ; but when he became

insolent towards them, they laid aside the kindness they had for

him, and began to hate him ; from which hatred came that plot

which they raised against him, and wherein he perished.

CHAP. III.

How Claudius was seized upon, and brought out of his house, and

brought to the camp, and how the Senate sent an embassage

to him.

§ 1. "VTOW Claudius, as I said above, went out of that way

•*• ' along which Caius was gone ; and, as the family was

in a mighty disorder upon the sad accident of the murder of

Caius, he was in great distress how to save himself, and was

found to have hidden himself in a certain narrow place f, though

he had no other occasion for suspicion of any dangers, besides the

dignity of his birth ; for, while he was a private man, he beha­

ved himself with moderation, and was contented with his present

fortune, applying himself to learning, and especially to that of

the Greeks, and keeping himself entirely clear from every thing

that might bring on any disturbance. But as at this time the

multitude were under a consternation, and the whole palace was

full of the soldiers madness, and the very emperor's guards seem­

ed under the like fear and disorder with private persons, the band

called pretonan, which was the purest part of the army, was in

consultation what was to be done at this juncture. Now all those

that

* This Caius was the son of that excellent person Germanicus, who was the  
son of Drusus, the brother ot Tiberius the emperor.

,f The first place Claudius came to was inhabited, and called llcr/neum, as

Spanheim here inform* ui from Suetonius, in Claud, ch. x.

