314 WARS OF THE JEWS." ." Book I.

Agrippeum. Moreover, he had so very great a kindness for

his friend Agrippa, that he had his name engraved upon that

gate which he had himself erected in the temple.

9. Herod was also a lover of his father, if any other person

ever was s'o; for he made a monument for his father, even that

city which he built in the finest plain that was in his kingdom,

and whicli had rivers and trees in abundance, and named it Anti-

patris. He also built a wall about a citadel that lay above Je­

richo, and was a very strong and very fine building, and dedi­

cated it to his mother, and called it Cypros. Moreover, he dedi­

cated a tower that was at Jerusalem, and called it by the name

of his brother Phasaelus, whose structure, largeness, and mag­

nificence, we shall describe hereafter. He also built another

city in the valley that leads northward from Jericho, and named

it Phasaelis.

10. And as he transmitted to eternity his family and friends,

so did he not neglect a memorial for himself,but built a fortress

upon a mountain towards Arabia, and named it from himself *

Jferodiums and he called that hill that was the shape of a

woman's breast, and was sixty furlongs distant from Jerusalem,

by the same name. He also bestowed much curious art upom

it, with great ambition, and built round towers all about the top

of it, and filled up the remaining space with the most costly pa­

laces round about, insomuch, that not only the sight of the in­

ner apartments was splendid, but great wealth was laid out on

the outward walls, and partitions, and roofs also. Besides this,

he brought a mighty quantity of water from a great distance,

and at vast charges, and raised an ascent to it of two hundred

steps of the whitest marble, for the hill was itself moderately

high, and entirely factitious. He also built other palaces about

the roots of the hill, sufficient to receive the furniture that was

put into them, with his friends also, insomuch, that on account

of its containing all necessaries, the fortress might seem to be a

city, but, by the bounds it had, a palace only.

Jl. And when heliad built so much, he shewed the greatness

of his soul to no small number of foreign cities. He built

places for exercise at Tripoli, and Damascus, and Ptolemais; he

built a wall about Byblus, as also large rooms, and cloisters,

and temples, and market places at Berytus and Tyre, with

theatres at Sidpn and Damascus. He also built aqueducts for

those

* Ther« were two cities, or citadels, called Herodiums, in Judea, and both men-  
tioned by Josephus, not only here, but Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiii. sect. 9.6. XV.

ch. ix. sect. 6. Vol. II. Of the War, B. I. chap. xiii. sect. 8. B. III. ch.
iii. sect. 'J.

One of them wai ioo,and the other 60 furlongs distant from Jerusalem. One of

them is mentioned by Pliny, Hist. Nat. B. V. chap. xiv. as Dean Aldrich
observes

here.

