WARS OF TOE JEWS. Book tf.

for the elders of the Jews were not able to put a stop to their

own people that were disposed to be tumultuous, and the

Greeks thought it a shame for them to be overcome by the Jews.

Now these Jews exceeded the others in riches, and strength of

body; but the Grecian part had the advantage of assistance from

the soldiery ; for the greatest part of the Roman garrison was

raised out of Syria, and being thus related to the Syrian part,

they were ready to assist it. However, the governors of the-

city were concerned to keep all quiet, and whenever they caught

those that were most for fighting on either side, they punished

them with stripes and bands. Yet did not the sufferings of

those that were caught affright the remainder, or make them

desist; but they were still move and more exasperated, and deep

engaged in the sedition. And as Felix came once into the mar­

ket-place, and commanded the Jews, when they had beaten the

Syrians, to go their ways, and threatened them if they would

not, and they would not obey him, he sent his soldiers out upon

them, and slew a great many of them, upon which it fell out

that what they had was plundered. And as the sedition still

continued, he chose out the most eminent men on both sides as

ambassadors to Nero, to argue about their several privileges.

CHAP. XIV.

Festus succeeds Ftlix, wlo is succeeded by Albinus, as he is by

Floras; who, by the barbarity of his government, forces tie

into the war.

§ 1 . "VTO W it was that Festus succeeded Felix, as procurator,

JLN and made it his business to correct those that made dis­

turbances in the country. So he caught the greatest part of

the robbers, and destroyed a great many of them. But then

Albinus, who succeeded Festus, did not execute his office as the

other had done; nor was there any sort of wickedness that could

be named but he had an hand in it. Accordingly, he did not on­

ly, in his political capacity, steal and plunder every one's sub­

stance, nor did he only burden the whole nation with taxes, but

he permitted the relations of such as were in prison for robbery,

and had been laid there, either by the senate of every city, or by

the former procurators, to redeem them for money; and no bo­

dy remained in the prisons, as a malefactor, but he who gave

him nothing. At this time it was, that the enterprises of the

seditious at Jerusalem, were very formidable ; the principal men

among them purchasing leave of Albinus to go on with their

seditious practices; while that part of the people who delighted

in disturbances joined themselves to such as had fellowship with

Albinus ;

