32 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII.

CHAP. IX.

How the people raised a sedition against jArcielaus, and l>ow Jje

sailed to Home,

J I. AT this time also it was, that some of the Jews got to-

-^*- gather, out of a desire of innovation. They lamented  
Matthias, and those that were slain with him by Herod, who had

not any respect paid them by a funeral mourning, out of the fear

men were in of that man ; they were those who had been con­

demned for pulling down the golden eagle. The people made a

great clamour and lamentation hereupon, and cast but some re­

proaches against the king also, as if that tended to alleviate the

miseries of the deceased. The people assembled together, and

desired of Archelaus, that, iu way of revenge on their account,

he would inflict punishment on those who had been honoured by

Herod ; and that, in the first and principal place, he would de­

prive that high-priest whom Herod had made, and would choose

one more agreeable to the law, and of greater purity, to officiate

as high-priest. This was granted by Archelaus, although he

was mightily offended at their importunity, because he proposed

to himself to go to Rome immediately, to look after Caesar's

determination about him. However, he sent the general of his

forces to use persuasions, and to tell them that the death which

was inflicted on their friends, was according to the law ; and to

represent to them, that their petitions about these things were

carried to a great height of injury to him ; that the time was

not now proper for such petitions, but required their unanimity

until such time as he should be established in the government by

the consent of Caesar, antf should then be come back to them ;

for that he would then consult with them in common concern­

ing the purport of their petitions, but that they ought at pre­

sent to be quiet, lest they should seem seditious persons.

2. So when the king had suggested these things, and instruct­

ed his general in what he was to say, he sent him away to the

people ; but they made a clamour, and would not give him leave

to speak, and put him in danger of his life, and as many more

as were desirous to venture upon saying openly any thing which

might reduce them to a sober mind, and prevent their going on

in their-present courses ; because they had more concern to have

all their own wills performed, than to yield obedience to their

governors ; thinking it to be a thing insufferable, that, while

Hercd was alive, they should lose those that were the most dear

to them, and that when he was dead, they could not get the ac­

tors to be punished. So they went on with their designs after a

violent

