2TO WARS OF THE JEWS. . Book I.

been the means of hindering the multitude that was in the coun­

try from fighting for Aristobulus, which they were otherwise

very ready to have done ; by which means he acted the part of

a good general, and reconciled the people to him more by bene­

volence than by terror. Now, among the captives, Aristobulus's

father-in-law was taken, who was also his uncle : so those that

were the moft guilty he punished with decollation ; but reward­

ed Faustus, and those with him that had fought so bravely, with

glorious presents, and laid a tribute upon the country and upon

Jerusalem itself.

7. He also took away from the nation all those cities they had

formerly taken, and that belonged to Celesyria, and made them

subject to him that was at that time appointed to be the Roman

president there, and reduced Judea within its proper bounds.

He also rebuilt* Gadara, that had been demolished by the Jews,

in order to gratify one Demetrius, who was of Gadara, and was

one of his own freed-men. He also made other cities free from

their dominion, that lay in the midst of the country, such, I

mean, as they had not demolished before that time, Hippos, and

Scythopolis, as also Pella, and Samaria, and Marissa ; and be­

sides these, Ashdod, and Jamnia, and Arethusa ; and in like man­

ner dealt he with the maritime cities, Gaza, and Joppa, and Do­

ra, and thnt which was anciently called Strata1* Tower; but was

afterward rebuilt with the most magnificent edifices, and had

its name changed to Cesarta by king Herod. All which he re­

stored to their own citizens, and put them under the province of

.Syria ; which province, together with Judea, and the countries

as far as Egypt and Euphrates, he committed to Scaurus as their

governor, and gave him two legions to support him ; while he

made all the haste he could himself .to go through Celicia, in his

way to Rome, having Aristobulus and his children along with

him, as his captives. They were two daughters and two sons ;

the one of which sons, Alexander, ran away as he was going ; but

the younger, Antigonus, with his sisters, were carried to Rome.

CHAP. VIII.

Alexander, the son of Aristobulus,, who ran away from Pompey,

makes an expedition against Hyrcanus ,• but being overcome by

Gabinius, be delivers up the fortresses to Jnm. After this Aris­

tobulus escapes from Rome, and gathers an army together ,- but

being beaten by the Romans, be is brought back to Rome ; -with

other things relating to Gabinius, Crassus, and Cassiut.

§ 1. 1N the mean time, Scaurus made an expedition into Arabia,

•*, but was stopped by the difficulty of the places about

Petra.

* The coin of this Gadara, still extant, with its date from this aera, is a cer-  
tain evidence of this its rebuilding by Pompey, as Spanheirn here assures us.

