Chap. XXV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 329

" kindness for him; but that if he would do so, he would afford

" him all the assistance he was able."

4. With this advice Pheroras complied, and, putting himself

into such a habit as might most move compassion, he came with

black cloth upon his body, and tears in his eyes, and threw him­

self down at Herod's feet, and begged his pardon for what he had

done, and confessed that he had acted very wickedly, and was

guilty of every thing that he had been accused of, and lamented

that disorder of his mind, and distraction which his love to a wo­

man, he said, had brought him to. So when Archelaus had

brought Pheroras to accuse and bear witness against himself, he.

then made an excuse for him, and mitigated Herod's anger to-

wards-him, and this by using certain domestical examples; " For

" that when he had suffered much greater mischiefs from a bro-

" ther of his own, he preferred the obligations of nature, before

'•' the passion of revenge; because it is in kingdoms, as it is in

'' gross bodies, where some member or other is ever swelled by

" the bodies weight, in which case it is not proper to cut off

" such member, but to heal it by a gentle method of cure."

5. Upon Archelaus's saying this, and much more to the same

purpose, Herod's displeasure against Pheroras was molified; yet

did he persevere in his own indignation against Alexander, and

said, he would have his daughter divorced, and taken away from

him, and this till he had brought Herod to that pass, that, con.

trary to his former behaviour to him, he petitioned Archelaus

for the young man, and that he would let his daughter continue

espoused to him: but Archelaus made him strongly believe that

he would permit her to be married to any one else, but not to

Alexander, because he looked upon it as a very valuable advan­

tage, that the relation they had contracted by that affinity, and

the privileges that went along with it might be preserved. And

when the king said, that his son would take it for a great favour

to him, if he would not dissolve that marriage, especially since

they had already children between the young man and her, and

since that wife of his was so well beloved by him, and that as

while she remains his wife she would*be a great preservative to

him, and keep him from offending, as 'he had formerly done; so

if she should be once torn away from him, she would be the cause

of his falling into despair; because such young men's attempts

are best molified, when they are diverted from them by settling

their affections at home. So Archelaus complied with what

Herod desired, but not without difficulty, and was both himself

reconciled to the young man, and reconciled his father to him al­

so. However, he said he must, by all means, be sent to Rome

VOL. III. T t to

