Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 107

great victory over them. But there now came in to Anileus a

conflux of bad men, who regarded their own lives very little, if

they might but gain some present ease, insomuch that they, by

thus coming to him, compensated the multitude of those that

perished in the fight. Yet were not these men like to those that fell,

because they were rash, and unexercised in war ; however, with

these he came upon the villages of the Babylonians, and a mighty

devastation of all things was made there by the injuries that An­

ileus did them. So the Babylonians, and those that had already

been in the war, fentto Neerda to the Jews there, and demanded

Anileus. But, although they did not agree to their demands,

(for if they had been willing to deliver him up, it was not in

their power so to do) ; yet did they desire to make peace with

them. To which the other replied, that they also wanted to set­

tle conditions of peace with them, and sent men together with the

Babylonians, who discoursed with Anileus about them. But the

Babylonians, upon taking a view of his situation, and having learn­

ed where Anileus and his men lay, fell secretly upon them as

they were drunk, and fallen asleep, and slew all that they caught

of them, without any fear, and killed Anileus himself also.

8. The Babylonians were now freed from Anileus's heavy

incursions, which had been a great restraint to the effects of that

hatred they bore to the Jews ; for they were almost always at

variance, by reason of the contrariety of their laws ; and which

party soever grew boldest before the other, they assaulted the

other : and at this time in particular it was, that, upon the ruin

of Anileus's party, the Babylonians attacked the Jews, which

made those Jews so vehemently to resent the injuries they re­

ceived from the Babylonians, that being neither able to fight them,

nor bearing to live with them, they went to Seleucia, the princi­

pal city of those parts, which was built by Seleucus Nicator.

It was inhabited by many of the Macedonians, but by more of

the Grecians ; not a few of the Syrians also dwelt there ; and

thither did the Jews fly, and lived there five years, without any

misfortunes. But, on the sixth year, a pestilence came upon these

at Babylon, which occasioned new removals of men's habitation?

out of that city ; and because they came to Seleucia, it happened

that a still heavier calamity came upon them on that account,

which I am going to relate immediately.

9. Now the way of living of the people of Seleucia, which

were Greeks and Syrians, was commonly quarrelsome, and full

of discords, though the Greeks wefe too hard for the Syrians.

When, therefore, the Jews were come thither, and dwelt among

them, there arose a sedition, and the Syrians were too hard for

the other, by the assistance of the Jews, who are men that despise

O 2 dangers,

