302 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book f.

the engines of the enemy, nor had they so much success any

way as in the mines under ground.

2. Now, as for the robberies which were committed, the king

contrived that ambushes should be so laid, that they might re­

strain their excursions; and as for the want of provisions, he

provided that they should be brought to them from great dis­

tances. He was also too hard for the Jews, by the Romans skill

in the art of war; although they were bold to the utmost degree,

now they durst not come to a plain battle with the Romans,

which was certain death, but through their mines under ground

they would appear in the midst of them on the sudden, and be­

fore they could batter down one wall, they built them another in

its stead; and to sum up all at once, they did not shew any want

either of pains taking, or of contrivances, as having resolved to

hold out to the very last. Indeed though they had so great an ar­

my lying round about them, they bore a siege of five months, till

some of Herod's chosen men ventured to get upon the wall, and

fell into the city, as did Sosius's centurions after them; and now

they first of all seized upon what was about the temple, and up­

on the pouring in of the army, there was slaughter of vast mul­

titudes every where, by reason of the rage the Romans were in

at the length of this siege, and by reason that the Jews who were

about Herod earnestly endeavoured that none of their adversa­

ries might remain; so they were cut to pieces by great multitudes,

as they were crowded together in narrow streets, and in houses,

or were running away to the temple; nor was there any mercy

shewed either to infants, or to the aged, or to the weaker sex;

insomuch, that although the king sent about and desired them

to spare the people, nobodycouldbe persuaded to withhold their

right hand from slaughter, but they slew people of all ages like

madmen. Then it was that Antigonus, without any regard to

his former or to his present fortune, came down from the cita­

del and fell down at Sosius's feet, who, without pitying him at

all, upon the change of his condition, laughed at him beyond

measure, and called him dntigona *. Yet did he not treat him

like a woman, or let him go free, but put him into bonds, and

kept him in custody.

3. But Herod's concern at present, now he had gotten his ene­

mies under his power, was to restrain the ieal of his foreign aux­

iliaries; for the multitude of the strange people were very eager

to see the temple, and what was sacred in the holy house itself;

but the king endeavoured to restrain them, partly by hisexhorta-

tions, partly by his threntemngs, nav, partly by force, as think­

ing the victory worse than a defeat to him, if any thing that

ought not to be seen were seen by them. He also forbade, at the

same

, * That is, A woman, not a man.

