Chap.V. 13 THE ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

scious of all this, and had resolved to conceal it; for which rea­

son Herod divorced her, and blotted her son out of his teftament,

wherein he had been mentionecVas one that was to reign after

him ; and he took the high-priesthood away from his father-in-

law, Simeon the son of Boethus, and appointed Matthias the son

of Theophilus, who was born at Jerusalem, to be high-priest

in his room.

3. While this was doing, Bathyllus, also Antipater's freed-man,

came from Rome, and, upon the torture, was found to have

brought another potion, to give it into the hands of Antipater's

mother, and of Pheroras, that if the former potion did not ope­

rate upon the king, this at least might carry him off. There came

also letters from Herod's friends at Rome, by the 'approbation

and at the suggestion of Antipater, to accuse Archelaus and Phi­

lip, as if they calumniated their father on account of the slaugh­

ter of Alexander and Aristobulus, and as if they commiserated

their deaths, and as if, because they were sent for home, (for

their father had already recalled them), they concluded they were

themselves also to be destroyed. These letters had been procu­

red by great rewards, by Antipater's friends ; but Antipater

himself wrote to his father about them, and laid the heaviest

things to their charge ; yet did he entirely excuse them of any

guilt, and said, they were but young men, and so imputed their

words to their youth. But he said, that he had himself been

very busy in the affair relating to Sylleus, and in getting interest

among the great men ; and on that account had bought splendid

ornaments to present them withal, which cost him two hundred

talents. Now, one may wonder how it came about, that while

'so many accusations were laid against him in Judea during seven

months before this time, he was not made acquainted with any

of them. The causes of which were, that the roads were ex­

actly guarded, and that men hated Antipater; for there were

no body who would run any hazard himself, to gain him any

advantages.

CHAP. V.

Antipater's navigation from Rome to his father ; and how he was

accused by Nicolaus of Damascus, and condemned to die by his

father, and by ®hiintilius Varus, who was then president of Sy­

ria ; and how he was then bound till Ceesar should be informed

of his cause.

$ i» 'VTOW Herod, upon Antipater's writing to him, that ha-

-*• * ving done all that he was to de, and this in the man­  
ner he was to do it, he would suddenly come to him, concealed

his

