Chap. XXVI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 331

I

and in what disposition the father was towards each of them, he

Chose to take his lodging at the first in the house of Antipater,

but deluded Alexander with a pretence of friendship to him, and

falsely claimed to be an old acquaintance of Archelaus; for which

reason he was presently admitted into Alexander's familiarity

as a fathful friend. He also soon recommended himself to his

brother Aristobulus. And when he had thus made trial of these

several persons, he imposed upon one of them by one method,

and upon another by another. But he was principally hired by

Antipater, and so betrayed Alexander, and this by reproaching

Antipater, because, while he was the eldest son, he overlooked

the intrigues of those who stood in the way of his expectations;

and by reproaching Alexander, because he who was born of a

queen, and was married to a king's daughter, permitted one that

was born of a mean woman to lay claim to the succession, and

this when he had Archelaus to support him in the most complete

manner. Nor was his advice thought to be other than faithful

by the young man, because of his pretended friendship with Ar足

chelaus: on which account it was that Alexander lamented to

him Antipater's behaviour with regard to himself, and this with足

out concealing any thing from him; and how it was no wonder

if Herod, after he had killed their mother, should deprive them

of her kingdom. Upon this Eurycles pretended to commiser足

ate his condition, and to grieve with him. He also, by a bait

that he laid for him,procured Aristobulus tosay thesame things.

Thus did he inveigle both the brothers to make complaints of

their father, and then went to Antipater, and carried these grand

secrets to him. He also added a fiction of his own, as if his

brothers had laid a plot against him, and were almost ready to

come upon him with their drawn swords. For this intelligence

he received a great sum of money, and on that account he com足

mended Antipater before his father, and at length undertook the

work of bringing Alexander and Aristobulus to their graves,

and accused them before their father. So he came to Herod and

told him, That " he would save his life, as a requital for the

" favours he had received from him, and would preserve his

"light [of life] by wayof retribution for his kind entertainment:

a for that a sword had been long whetted,and Alexander's right

" hand had been long stretched out against him; but that he had

" laid impediments in his way, prevented his speed, and that bv

" pretending to assist him in his design: how Alexander said,

" that Herod was not contented to reign in a kingdom that be-

" longed to others, and to make delapidations in their mother's

" government, after he had killed her; but besides all this, that

" he introduced a spurious successor, and proposed to give the

T t 2 " kingdom

