272 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I.

them, and shut up a great number of them in the citadel. Now

Marcus Antonius, their leader, signalised himself in this battle,

who, as he always shewed great courage, so did he never shew it

so much as now ; but Gabinius, leaving forces to take the cita­

del, went away himself, and settled the cities that had not been

demolished, and rebuilt those that had been destroyed. Accord­

ingly, upon his injunctions, the following cities were restored.

Scythopolis, and Samaria, and Anthedon, and Appolinia, and Ja-

minia, and Raphia, and Marissa, and Adoreus, and Gamala,

and Ashdod, and many others; while a great number of men

readily ran to each of them, and became their inhabitants.

5. When Gabinius had taken care of these cities, he returned

to Alexandrium, and pressed on the siege. So when Alexander

despaired of ever obtaining the government, he sent ambassadors

to him, and prayed him to forgive what he had offended him in,

and gave up to him the remaining fortresses, Hyrcaniutn, and

Macheras, as he put Alexandrium into his hands afterwards : all

which Gabinius demolished, atthe persuasion of Alexander's mo.

ther, that they might not be receptacles of men in a second war.

She was now there in order to mollify Gabinius, out of her con­

cern for her relations that were captives at Rome, which were

her husband and her other children. After this Gabinius brought

Hyrcanus to Jerusalem, and committed the care of the temple to

him ; but ordained the other political government to be by an

aristocracy. He also parted the whole nation into five conven­

tions, assigning one portion to Jerusalem, another to Gadara, that

another should belong to Amathus, a fourth to Jericho, and to

the fifth division was allotted Sepphoris, a city of Galilee. So

the people were glad to be thus freed from monarchical govern­

ment, and were governed for the future by an aristocracy.

6. Yet did Aristobulus afford another foundation for new

disturbances. He fled away from Rome, and got together again

many of the Jews that were desirous of a change, such as had

borne an affection to him of old ; and when he had taken Alex­

andrium in the first place, he attempted to build a wall about it;

but as soon as Gabinius had sent an army against him under Si-

senna, and Antonius, and Servilius, he was aware of it, and re­

treated to Macherus. And as' for the unprofitable multitude, he

dismissed them, and only marched on. with those that were arm­

ed, being to the number of eight thousand, among whom was Pi-

tholaus, who had been the lieutenant at Jerusalem, but deserted

to Aristobulus with a thousand of his men : so the Romans fol-

Jowed him, and when it came to a battle, Aristobulus's party for

a long time fought courageously;' but at length they were over­

borne by the Romans, and of them five thousand fell down dead,

and

