Chap. XVIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. SOI

sent it to his brother Pheroras, by way of punishment for their

slain brother, for he was the man that slew Joseph. Now as

winter was going off, Herod marched to Jerusalem, and brought

his army to the wall of it; this vas the third year s>ince he

had been made king at Rome; so he pitched his camp before

the temple, for on that side it might be besieged, and there it

was that Pompey took the city. So he parted the work among

the army, and demolished the suburbs, and raised three banks,

and gave orders to have towers built upon those banks, and left

the most laborious of his acquaintance at the works. But he

went himself to Samaria, to take the daughter of Alexander,

the son of Aristobulus to wife, who had been betrothed to him

before, as we have already said; and thus he accomplished this

by the bye, during the siege of the city, for he had his enemy

in great contempt already.

9. When he had thus married Mariamne, he came back to Je­

rusalem w ith a greater army; Sosius also joined him with a

large army, both of horsemen and footmen, which he sent be­

fore him through the midland parts, while he marched himself

along Phenicia; and when the whole army was gotten together,

which were eleven regiments of footmen, and six thousand

horsemen, besides the Syrian auxiliaries, which was no small

part of the army, they pitched their camp near to the north wall.

Herod's dependence was upon the decree of the senate, by which

he was made king, and Sosius relied upon Antony, who sent

the army that was under him to Herod's assistance.

CHAP. XVIII.

How Herod and Sosius took Jerusalem by force; and what death

Antigonus came to. Alto concerning Cleopatra's aiiariciout

temper.

§ 1. "^T'OW the multitude of the Jews that were in the city

-L\l were divided into several factions; for the people ihat  
crowded about the temple, being the weaker part of them,

gave it out, that as the times were, he was the happiest and

most religious man who should die first. But as to the more

bold and hardy men, they got together in bodies, and fell a rob­

bing others after various manners, and these particularly plun­

dered the places that were about the city, and this because there

was no food left either for the horses or the men; yet some of

the warlike men xvlio were used to fight regularly, were ap­

pointed to defend the city during the siege, and these drove

those that raided the banks aivay from the wall, and these were

always inventing one engine or another to be an hindrance to

tl*

