Chap, XVI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 44 T

" bear the onset of a small body of the Roman army. And yet

" you who have not accustomed yourselves to obedience from

',' one generation to another, and who are so much inferior to

" those who first submitted, in your circumstances, will venture

'' to oppose the entire empire of the Romans; while those A-

" thenians, who, in order to preserve the liberty of Greece,

" did once set fire to their own city; who pursued Xerxes,

" that proud prince, when he sailed upon the land, and walked

" upon the sea, and could not be contained by the seas, but

" conducted such an army as was too broad for Europe, and

" made him run away like a fugitive in a single ship, and brake

" so great a part of Asia at the lesser Salamis, are yet at this

'rtime servants to the Romans; and those injunctions which

" are sent from Italy, become laws to the principal governing

" city of Greece. Those Lacedemonians also, who got the

" great victories at Thermopylae and Platea, and had Agesilaus

" [for their king}, and searched every corner of Asia, are con.

" tented to admit the same lords. These Macedonians alsoj who

" still fancy what great men their Philip and Alexander were,

" and see that the latter had promised them the empire over

'' the world, these bear so great a change, and pay their obe-

'' dience to those whom fortune hath advanced in their stead.

'' Moreover, ten thousand other nations there are, who had

" greater reason than we to claim their entire liberty, and yet

'' do submit. You are the only people who think it a 'disgrace

'« to be servants to those to whom all the world hath submitted'.

'« What sort of an army do you rely on? What are the arms

" you depend on ? Where is your fleet, that may seize upon

'« the Roman seas; and where are those treasures which may

" be sufficient for your undertakings ? Do you suppose, I pray

" you, that you are to make war with the Egyptians, and with

" the Arabians? Will you not carefully reflect upon the Ro-

«' man empire? Will you not estimate your own weakness?

'' Hath not your army been often beaten even by your neigh-

'' bouring nations? while the power of the Romans is invinci-

'' ble in all parts of the habitable earth; nay rather, they seek

" for somewhat still beyond that; for all Euphrates is not a sufti-

" cient boundary for them on the east side, nor the Danube on

" the north, and for their southern limit, Libya hath beensearch-

'' ed over by them, as far as countries uninhabited, as is Cadiz

" their limit on the west; nay,indeed, they have sought for an-

" other habitable earth, beyond the ocean, and have carried

'«their arms as far as such British islands as were never known

" before. What therefore do you pretend to? Are you richer

" than the Gauls, stronger than the Germans, wiser than the

" Greeks,

