Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 121

And now Gaius was in a doubt whether he should tarry to the

end of the shews, because it was the last day, or whether he

should not go first to the bath, and to dinner, and then return

and sit down as before. Hereupon Minucianus, who sat over

Caius, and was afraid that the opportunity should fail them, got

up, because he saw Cherea was already gone out, and made

haste out, to confirm him in his resolution ; but Gaius took hold

of his garment, in an obliging way, and said to him, " O brave

K man ! whither art thou going ?" Whereupon, out of-reverence

to Caesar, as it seemed, he sat down again 5 but his fear prevail­

ed over him, and in a little time he got up again, and then

Caius did no way oppose his going out, as thinking that he went

out to perform some necessities of nature. And Asprenas, who

was one of the confederates, persuaded Caius to go out to the

bath, and to dinner, and then to come in again, as desirous that

what had been resolved on misrht be brought to a conclusion im-

O O ,*

mediately.

14. So Cherea's associates placed themselves in order, as the

time would permit them, and they were obliged to labour hard,

that the place which was appointed them should not be left by

them ; but they had an indignation at the tediousness of the de­

lays, and that what they were about should be put off any longer,

for it was already about the ninth * hour of the day ; and

Cherea, upon Caius's tarrying so long, had a great mind to go

in, and fall upon him in his seat, although he foresaw that this

could not be done without much bloodshed, both of the senators,

and of those of the equestrian order that were present ; and al­

though he knew this must happen, yet had he a great mind to

do so, as thinking it a right thing to procure security and free­

dom to all, at the expence of such as might perish at the same

time. And as they were just going back into the entrance to

the theatre, word was brought them that Caius was arisen,

whereby a tumult was made ; hereupon' the conspirators thrust

away the crowd, under pretence as if Caius was angry at them,

but in reality as desirous to have a quiet place, that should have

none in it to defend him, while they set about Caius's slaughter.

Now Claudius, his uncle, was gone out before, and Marcus Vi-

nitius, his sister's husband, as also Valerius of Asia ; whom

though they had such a mind to put out of their places, the re­

verence to their dignity hindered them so to do ; then followed

Caius, with Paulus Arruntius : and because Caius was now got­

ten within the palace, he left the direct road, along which those

his servants stood that were in waiting, and by which road Clau-

VOL. III. £ " dius

« Suetonius says Caius was slain about the seventh hour of the d»y, Josephus

atom the ninth. The series of the narration favours Josephus.

