THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPflUS. 219

44. About this time it was that Jonathan and his fellow-

legates came. They were sent, as we have said already, by

Simon, and Ananus the high-priest. And Jonathan contrived

how he might catch me by treachery ; for he durst not make

any attempt upon me openly. So he wrote me the following

epistle : " Jonathan and those that are with him, and are sent

" by the people of Jerusalem, to Josephus, send greeting. We

" are sent by the principal men of Jerusalem, who have heard

" that John of Gischala hath laid many snares for thee, to re-

" buke him, and to exhort him to be subject to thee hereafter.

u We are also desirous to consult with thee about our common

" concerns, and what is fit to be done. We therefore desire

',' thee to come to us quickly, and to bring only a few men

'> with thee ; for this village will not contain a great number of

" soldiers." Thus it was that they wrote, as expecting one of

these two things, either that I should come without armed men,

and then they should have me under their power; or, if I

came with a great number, they should judge me to be a pub-

Hc enemy. Now it was an horseman who brought the letter,

a man at other times bold, and one that had served in the army

under the king. It was the second hour of the night that he

came, when I was feasting with my friends, and the principal

of the Galileans. This man, upon my servant's telling me,

that a certain horseman of the Jewish nation was come, was

called in at my command, but did not so much as salute me

at all, but held out a letter, and said, " This letter is sent

," thee by those that are come from Jerusalem ; do thou write

" an answer to it quickly, for I am obliged to return to them

" very soon." Now my guests could not but wonder at the

boldness of the soldier. Uut 1 desired him to sit down and

sup with us ; but when he refused so to do, I held the letter

in my hands as I received it, and fell talking with my guests

about other matters. But a few hours afterwards, I got up, and,

when I had dismissed the rest to go to their beds, I bid only

four of my intimate friends to stay, and ordered my servant to

get some wine ready. I also opened the letter so, that nobody

could perceive it ; and understanding thereby presently the pur­

port of the writing, I sealed it up again, and appeared as if I

had not yet read it, but only held it in my hands. I ordered -

twenty drachma should be given the soldier for the charges of

his journey ; and when he took the money, and said he thank­

ed me for it, I perceived that he loved money, and that he was

to be caught chiefly by that means, and I said to him, " If thou

," wilt but drink with us, thou shall have a drachma for every

*,' glass thou drinkest." So he gladly embraced the proposal,

E e 2' " and

