Chap. XII. WARS OF THE JEWS. '283

plot that was laid against him ; accordingly they called to mind

what orders Cassius had given them, and went out of the city

with their swords in their hands upon the sea-shore, where they

encompassed Malichus round about, and killed him wiih many

wounds. Upon which Hyrcanus was immediately affrighted, till

he swooned away, and fell down at the surprise he was in ; and it

was with difficulty that he was recovered, when he asked xvho

it was that had killed Malichus ? and when one of the tribunes

replied that it was done by the command of Cassias, " Then,

" said he, Cassius hath saved both me and my country, by cutting

" off one that was laying plots against them both." Whether h,e

spake according to his own sentiments, or whether ITS fear was

such, that he was obliged to commend the action by saying so,

is uncertain ; however, by this method Herod inflicted punish足

ment upon Malichus.

CHAP. XII.

Pbasaelus is too iard for Felix ; Herod also overcomes Antigomn

in battle ; and the Jews accuse both Herod and Phasaelus t but

Antonius acquits them, and makes them tetrarcis.

$ 1. "1X/"HEN Cassius was gone out of Syria, another sedition

arose at Jerusalem, wherein Felix assaulted Phasaelus

with an army, that he might revenge the death of Malichus up足

on Herod, by falling upon his brother. Now Herod happened

then to be with Fabius, the governor of Damascus, and as he was

going to his brother's assistance, he was detained by sickness j m

the mean time, Phasaelus was by himself too hard for Felix, and

reproached Hyrcanus on account of his ingratitude, both for what

assistance he had afforded Malichus, and for overlooking Mali-

chus's brother, when he possessed himself of the fortresses; for

he had gotten a great many of them already, and among them

the strongest of them all, Masada.

2. However, nothing could be sufficient for him against the

force of Herod, who, as soon as he was recovered, took the

other fortresses again, and drove him out of Masada in the pos足

ture of a supplicant; he also drove away Marion, the tyrant of

the Tyrians, out of Galilee, when he had already possessed him足

self of three fortified places; but as to those Tyrians whom he

had caught, he preserved them all alive ; nay, some of them he

gave presents to, and so sent them away, and thereby procured

good-will to himself from the city, and hatred to the tyrant. Ma-

lion had indeed obtained that tyrannical power of Cassius, who

N n 2 set

