248 PREFACE.

th«ir notions from them. For of old, every one took upon th'eni

to write what happened in his own time ; where their imme­

diate concern in the actions made their promises of value ; and

where it must be reproachful to write lies, when they must be

known by the readers to be such. But then, an undertaking to

preserve the memory of what hath not been before recorded, and

to represent the affairs of one's own time to those that come af­

terwards, is really worthy of praise and commendation. Now,

he is to be esteemed to have taken good pains in earnest, not

who does no more than change the disposition and order of other

men's works, but he who not only relates what had not been re­

lated before, but composes an entire body of history of his own :

accordingly, I have been at great charges, and have taken very

great pains [about this history], though I be a foreigner ; and do'

dedicate this work, as a memorial of great actions, both to the

Greeks and to the Barbarians. But, for some of our own prin­

cipal men, their mouths are wide open, and their tongues loosed

presently, for gain and law-suits, but quite muzzled up when

they are to write history, where they must speak truth and ga­

ther facts together with a great deal of pains ; and so they leave

the writing such histories to weaker people, and to such as are

not acquainted with the actions of princes. Yet shall the real

truth of historical facts be preferred by us, how much soever it

be neglected among the Greek historians.

6'. To write concerning the Antiquities of the Jews, who

they were [originally], and how they revolted from the Egyp­

tians, and what country they travelled over, and what country

they seized upon afterward, and how they were removed out of

them, I think this not to be a fit opportunity, and, on other ac­

counts, also superfluous; and this because many Jews before me

have composed the histories of our ancestors very exactly j as

have some of the Greeks done it also, and have translated our

histories into their own tongue, and have not much mistaken the

truth in their histories. But then, where the writers of these af­

fairs, and our prophets leave off, thence shall I take my rise,

and begin my history. Now, as to what concerns thatwar which

happened in my own time, 1 will go over it very largely, and

with all the diligence I am able ; but, for what preceded mine

own age, that I shall run over briefly.

7. [For example, I shall relate], how Antiochus, who was

named Epiphanes, took Jerusalem by force, and held it three

years and three months, and was then ejected out of the country

by the sons of Asamoneus ; after that, how their posterity quar­

relled about the government, and brought upon their settlement

the Romans and Pompey ; how Herod also, ths son of Antipa-

ter,

