tlhap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF 1HE JEWS.

bene : yet did not he take Abii alive ; because, 'when he foiitd

himself encompassed on 'every side, he slew himself.

2. But although the grandees of Adiabene had failed in their

first attempt, as being delivered .UpJ by Gfod into their kind's

hands, yet would they not even thence 'quiet,' but wrote again

to Vologases, who was then king of'Panliia, and desired that

he would kill Izates, and set over fherri some other potentate,

who should be of a Parthian family ;'for they said, That " they

M hated their own king for abrogating the laws of their fore­

fathers, and embracing foreign custonfts1.j" When the king of

Parthia heard this,' he boldly made war upon Izates ; and he had

just pretence for this'war; he sent to .hint, and demanded back

those honourable privileges whfch had'btefr bestowed on him by

his father, and threatened, on his refrfsftlj, to mnke war upon

him. Upon hearing of this, liat^s was'under no small trouble

of mind, as thinking it would be a reproach upon him to ap­

pear to resign those privileges that had been bestowed upon him,

out of cowardice ; yet, because he knew, that though the king of

Parthia should receive back those honours, yet would he not be

quiet, he resblvcd to commit himself to God, his protector, in

the present danger he was in of his life ; and as he esteemed

him to be his principal assistant, he entrusted his children and

his wives'to a very strong fortress, and laid up his corn in his

citadels, and' set the hay and the grass on fire. And when he

had thus put things in order, as well as he could, he awaited

the coming of the enemy. And when the king of Parthia was

come, with a great army of footmen and horsemen, which he

did sooner than was expected (for'he'iniarehed in great haste),

and had cast up a bank at the river that-parted Adiabene from

Media; Izates also pitched his camp-not'' far off, having with

him six thousand horsemen. But there came a messenger to

Izates, sent by the king of Parthia} who told him, « How large

" his dominions were, as reaching from the river Euphrates to

" Bactria, and enumerated that king's subjects : he also threaten*- '

" ed him, that he should be punished, as a person ungrateful to

" his lords ; and said, that the God whom he worshipped could

" not deliver him of the king's hands."- -When the messenger

had delivered this his message, Izates replied, That " he knew

" the king of Parthia's power was much greater than his own ;

" but that he knew also that God was- 'much more powerful

" than all men." And when he had returned him this answer,

he betook himself to make supplication* to God, and threw

,.-" • ', himself

* This mourning, and fasting, and praying, used by Izates, with prostration nf  
his body, and ashes upon liis head, are plain signs that he was become either
a.

Jew, or an Ebionite Christian, who indeed differed not much from proper Jews'

bee chap. vi. sect. i. However, his supplications were heard, .and he was pro.

videmialJy delivered from that imminent dapger he was in.

