372 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VI1I.

only of the weakest ships, and those ranged at too great

a distance from one another; especially as in number

of vessels they were quite inferior, and as the coast

round the Cynos-sema was sharp, and in an acute angle

runs out into the water, so that part of the line on one

side was out of fight of the other. The Peloponne-

sians, therefore, charging the center, drove at once the

ships of the Athenians upon the beach; and, being so

far manifestly victors, leaped boldly on shore to pursue

them. But neither those under Thrasybulus could assist

the center from the right, because of the multitude

of ships that stood in to awe them; nor could

those under Thrasyllus do it from the left, be­

cause the interposition of cape Cynos-sema hid from him

the view of what had passed; and at the same time the

Syracusans and others, who, equal in strength, lay hard

upon him, prevented his moving. At length, the Pe-

loponnesians, presuming the victory their own, broke

their order to give different chace to single ships, and

in too heedless a manner threw confusion upon a part of

their own line. And now those under Thrasybulus,

finding the squadron opposed to them began to slacken,

stopped all farther extension of their line a-head; and,

tacking upon them, resolutely engaged, and put them

to flight. Charging next the dispersed ships of the Pe-

loponnesians, which composed the squadron that pre­

sumed itself victorious, they made havoc; and, by stri­

king them with a panic, routed the greater part without

resistance. Now also the Syracusans were beginning to

give way before the squadron under Thrasyllus ; and,

feeing others in open flight, were more easily tempted

to follow their example. The defeat now being mani­

festly given, and the Peloponnesians flying away for

shelter, first towards the river Pydius, and afterwards

to Abydus, the Athenians made prize of only an incon­

siderable number of shipping; for the Hellespont, be­

ing narrow, afforded short retreats to the enemy. How­

ever they-gained a victory by sea, most opportune in­

deed

