B.V* THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 3

das, the Lacedæmonian, (who was commandant,) and

the garrison under his command, exerted themselves in

its defence. But, when they could no longer maintain

it, and at the same time the ships, sent round on pur­

pose, had entered the harbour, Pasnelidas, fearing left

the ships might take the town now left defenceless, and,

when the rampart was carried by the enemy, he himself

might be intercepted, abandons it immediately, and re­

tired with all speed into the town: But the Athenians

were already disembarked and masters of the place.

The land-force also broke in instantly at his heels, by

rustling along through the aperture in the old wall; and

some, as well Peloponnesians as Toroneans, they flew

in the moment of irruption. Some also they took alive,

amongst whom was Pasnelidas, the commandant. Bra-

sidas was indeed coming up to its relief, but, receiving

intelligence on his march that it was taken, he retired;

since he was *forty stadia off, too great a distance to

prevent the enemy,.

ButCleon and the Athenians now erected two tro­

phies; one upon the harbour, the other at the rampart.

They farther doomed to slavery the wives and children

of the Toroneans. The male-inhabitants, together with

the Peloponnesians and every Chalcidean that was found

amongst them, amounting in all to seven hundred, they

sent away captives to Athens. The Peloponnesians in­

deed Were afterwards released, by virtue of the subse­

quent treaty; the rest were fetched away by the Oiyn-

thians, who made exchanges for them, body for body.

About the fame time, the Bœotians, by treachery,

got possession of Panactum, a fort upon the frontier,

belonging to the Athenians.

As for Cleon, having established a garrison at To-

rone, he departed thence, and sailed round Athos, as

bound against Amphipolis.

But two vessels about this time, bound for Italy and

Sicily, sailed out of the harbour of Athens, having on-

* A bout 4 miles.

B 2 board

