B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 229

"who had any meat to sell to offer it instantly on the

"beach, that the mariners might come ashore and dine

"under the sides of their vest" Is; so that, after a short

*' repast, they might this same day unexpectedly fall  
"upon the Athenians." This counsel being approved,

the necessary orders were dispatched away, and the

market was furnished out. Then suddenly the Syracu-

san fleet fell back, and stood away towards the city;

where, disembarking with all possible haste, they took

their repast.

But the Athenians, who ascribed this dropping-off of

the enemy to a consciousness of their own inferiority,

quitting their own ships as if there was nothing farther

to be done, diverted their attention to their own affairs,

and especially to prepare a refreshing meal for them­

selves, consident there would be no engagement on this

day. But, on a sudden, the Syracusans, repairing on­

board, stood out a second time to give them battle.

Then the Athenians, in much hurry and confusion,

and most of them still fasting, re-embarking without

any regularity or order, with great difficulty, after a

considerable interval, stood out to receive them. For

a certain space, each side stood upon their guard, and

declined the charge. At length it occurred to the Athe­

nians, that it was imprudent to dally so long, and ex­

haust their spirits by the mere labour of the oar, which

ought rather to be exerted on an expeditious attack.

Upon which, animating one another with a shout, they

darted upon the enemy, and the engagement began.

The Syraculans received the shock without giving

way, and, keeping the heads of ti.eir vessels right a-

gainst the enemy, executed their project, and with their

strengthened beaks shattered the forecastles of the Athe­

nian Ihips; whilst their darters, who were ranged along

the dei.ks, galled the Athenians sorely with their mis­

sive weapons; though not near so much as did the

crews of some light Syratusan boats, which scoured a-

bout the enemy's fleet; sometimes getting under their

. . Q^3 wards

