B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 43

ence upon the multitude, and an alliance with the Ar-

gives might prove abortive.

But Alcibiades now contriveth to baffle them by art.

He prevaileth upon the Lacedæmonians, by solemnly

pledging his faith to them, that, ** in case they would

** disown, before the people, the full powers with which  
"they were invested, he would engage for the restitu-

"tion ofPylus; for he himself would then persuade

** the Athenians to it with as much zeal as he now dis-  
"suaded, and would get all other points adjusted to

"their satisfaction." His view in acting thus was to

detach them from Nicias, and to gain an opportunity

of inveighing against them, in the assembly of the people,

as men who had nothing sincere in their intentions, and

whose prosessions were dissonant with themselves; and

so to persect an alliance with the Argives, and Eleans,

and Mantineans. And this artifice in the sequel took

effect: For, when they were admitted to an audience

before the people, and replied to the demand, when put,

contrary to what they had said in the senate, that;

"they had no such powers," the Athenians in an in­

stant lost all patience. And now, Alcibiades roaring

out aloud against the Lacedæmonians with much more

Vehemence than he had ever done before, they listened

greedily to all he said, and were ready instantly to call

in the Argives and their companions, and to make them

confederates. But, the shock of an earthquake being

felt before any thing could be formally concluded, the

assembly was adjourned.

At the next day's assembly, Nicias, though the

Lacedæmonians had been thus overreached, and he

himself ensared by their public acknowledgement that

they had no full powers,—spoke, however, on the Lace­

dæmonian side, insisting ** on the necessity os maintain-

** ing a good correspondence with them, and deserring  
** all agreement with the Argives, till they could send  
** to the Lacedæmonians, and be distinctly informed  
f* of their final resolutions." — "It maketh, said he,

lor

