B.VIIl, THE PELOFONNESIAN WAR. £99

the fame plates. He hoped the MechymneaoB, upon

the \sight t>f ©his succour, would -refumae their spirks and

abide by thbir revolt. But, whenevery thing in Lesbos

seemed to act <in concert against his scheme, be took his

Jandmen again on-board, arid -made the best of his way

back -again to Chios. The f©r«es» farther* that had

aftflUNkd the motions of his squadron, and which

*rere to have proceeded with him to Hellespont*  
-w&re'difmfffwdto-rheir respective cities. After this, they  
were joined at Chios 'by six flails, which were sent thi­

ther by the confederate fleet of Pesopon restarts afiembled

ctt Cenchreae.

The Athenians in the mean time were employed in

-resettling the state of affairs in Lesbos. Standing acrose  
•frdm thenoe, and demolishing Polichne, -on the conti­

nent, lately fortified by the Cktaomenians, they memo-

ved all the latter back Again to-their city in -the isle, ex­

cepting rfiioh as were authors -of the revolt 4 for these

'had retired co Daphnus. And thus Clazomenæ once

>teore -became subject to the Athenians.

The fame summer, the Athenians, who with twenty

'ships had ftatidned themselves at Lade to awe Miletus,

having made a descent at Banormus in the Milesian-ter-

'rieory, kill Chalcideus the 'Lacedæmonian, who with a

4iandful of men endeavoured to repulse them. The

third day after this action, they re-embarked; but first

'erected a trophy; which the Milesians thought proper

'loidemohsh, as not fixed on a spot which was the pro­

sperity of the victors.

Leon also and Diomedon, at the head of the Athe­

nian-fleet on the station of Lesbos, assembling together

what force they-could from the Oinussæ-isknds, which

;lie before Chios, and from Sidufa and Pteleum, for­

tresses of their Own in Erythræa, stood away from Lesbos

'in a body, and carried on the war by sea against the

X^hians. The land-soldiers on-board them were some

«if the heavy-armed of the public roll of Athens, now

pressed into this service. At Cardamyle they landed;

and

