B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 145

Hipparchus got the title, and passed in the opinion of

succeeding ages for one of the tyrants.

On Harmodius therefore, who was deaf to his solicita­

tions, he executed his resentment in the manner pre­

determined. For, a summons having been delivered to

a sister of his, a young virgin, to attend and carry the

basket in some public procession, they afterwards reject­

ed her; alledging, she never had nor could have been

summoned, because flie was unworthy of the honour.

This affront highly provoked Harmodius; but Aristo-

giton, out of zeal for him, was far more exasperated at

it. The points needful to their intended revenge were

concerted with the party who concurred in the design.

But they waited for the great Panathenæa to strike the

blow; on which festival alone, without incurring suspi­

cion, such of the citizens as assisted in the procession

might be armed and gathered together in numbers. It

was settled, that they themselves should begin; and

then, the body of their accomplices were to undertake

their protection against the guards of the tyrant's family.

The persons made privy to this design were but few,

from a view to a more secure execution of it. For they

presumed that even such as were not in the secret,

•when the attempt was once in whatever manner begun,

finding themselves armed, would seize the opportunity,

and readily concur to assert their own freedom. When

therefore the festival was come, Hippias, repairing

without the walls to the place called Ceramicus, and

there attended by his guards, was prescribing and ad­

justing the order of the procession. Harmodius and

Aristogiton, each armed with a dagger, advanced to

execute their parts. But, when they saw one of their

accomplices in familiar conversation with Hippias, (for

Hippias was affable and courteous to all men,; they

were struck with fear; they imagined the whole of

their plot had been betrayed, and that already they were

only nor apprehended. Now therefore, by a sudden turn

of resolution, they determined, if possible, to snatch a

Vol. II. L * timely

1

