Contents of the Second Volume.

CONTENTS of Book V,

YEAR X. The truce endeth. Cleon sent commander Into

Thrace; his proceedings there. The battle of Arophipolis,

in which Brasidas and Cleon are killed. A general peace, Ailed

the Nician. An alliance, offensive and defensive, between the

Athenians and Lacedæmonians. — — P, I

Year Xs. The peace merely nominal; and Thucydides proceedeth

in his history of the Peloponnesian war. The Corinthians prac­

tise against the Lacedæmonians. An Argive league. No confi­

dence between the principal States. A train of negotiations,

A separate alliance between the Lacedæmonians and Bœotians,

contrary to article. Panactum demolished. — P. 23

Year XII, The demolition of Panactum and the separate alliance

highly resented'at Athens. Many are scheming a rupture, but

especially Alcibiades. By his means a negotiation is brought on

at Athens, and an alliance formed with the Argives. The La­

cedæmonians forbidden to assist at the Olympic games. P. 36

Year XIII. War between the Argives and Epidaurians. The La­

cedæmonians throw a garrison into Epidaurus; and the Atheni­

ans replace the Helots and Messenians in Pylus. P. 51

Year XIV. The Lacedæmonians take the field against the Argives.

Two large Arm/es face one another within sight of Argos, yet

part without engaging. The Lacedæmonians take the field a

second time. The battle of Mantinea, The Argives enter into

leagu* with the Lacedæmonians. — — ^* 54-

Year XV. Fresh stirs at Argos in favour of the Athenians. P. 74.

Year XVI. Expedition of the Athenians against the isli of Melos.

The conserence in form, by way of dialogue. The Athenians

become masters of that island. — — P. 76

CONTENTS of Book VI.

The Athenians resolve on the expedition to Sicily. Description of

that island. — — — — P. 92

Year XVII. The debate in the assembly of the people at Athens a-

bout the expedition. The generals nominated with full powers.

The affair of the Mercuries. Departure of the grand fleet for Si­

cily. Proceedingsat Syracuse. The Athenian fleet arrives on

the coast of Italy. Alcibiades recalled, to take his trial about

the Mercuries and profanation of the Mysteries. A digression,—

containing the true account of a former revolution at Athens, be­

gun by Harmodius and Aristogiton. Alcibiades flies, and is

proclaimed a traitor. . The Athenians land at Syracuse. A battle

ensues, in which the Athenians are victorious; but, soon after,

they return to Catana. The negotiations at Camarina. Alcibi­

ades at Sparta. — — — P. 99

Year XVIII. The Athenians land again at Syracuse, take Epipolæ

by surprize, and begin to invest Syracuse in form. Battles: The

Athenians carry on their works; counterwork of the Syracusans.

Aid sent to Syracuse from Peloponnesus, under the command of

. . . Gylippus;

