B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WA?. 95

protection of his party; yet, being ejected by them,

and then having founded Thapsus, he dies. His fol­

lowers, upon this, removed from Thapsus; and, Hy-

blon, a Sicilian king, betraying another pjace into their

hands, and becoming himself their conductor, they fet­

tled those Megareans who are called Hyblæan; and, af­

ter a continued possession of two hundred forty-five years,

they were expeljed out of their city and territory by Ge»

Ion, tyrant of the Syracusans. Yer, before this eject­

ment, about a hundred years after thejr settlement

there, they-had sent out Pammilus, and built the city

pf Selinus. Pammilus had come thither more lately

from Megara, their mother-city, and assisted them in

making this new settlement at Selinus.

Antiphemus from Rhodes, and Entimus from Crete,

each leading a separate colony, founded Gfcla in con­

junction, in the forty-fifth year after the foundation of

Syracuse. The name of this npw city was taken from

the river Gela: Yet the spot where the city now stands,

and which was first walled round, is called Lindii. But

their polity was framed upon the Doric model.

In the hundred and eighth year, as near as possible,

after this last settlement, the Geloans built Acragas, gi­

ving the city its name from the river Acragas. They

declared Aristonous and Pystilus to be its founders, and

gave it the civil institutions of Gela.

Zancle was originally founded by a band of pirates,

who arrived there from Cyme, a Chalcidic city in Opi-

cia; though afterwards a numerous reinforcement, from

Chalcis and the rest of Eubcea, joined them, and pos­

sessed that district in community. The founders were

Perieres and CratæmeneSi one of them from Cyme,

the other from Chalcis. But the name of Zancle was

first of all gi ven it by the Sicilians, becauie in shape it

bears relemblance to a scythe, and the Sicilians call n

scythe zamlum. But, in procels of time, these people

were driven from thence by the Samians and other Io-

nians, who, flying from the Medes, had landed in Sici­

