14. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B,V,

suspicion that some cities of Peloponnesus would revolt

from them to the Argives, which proved afterwards

true.

Both parties, then, being respectively influenced by

such considerations, an accommodation was judged to be

expedient. The anxiety of the Lacedæmonians about

it was not the least, as they were eagerly bent on reco­

vering their prisoners that had been taken at Sphacteria;

for they were all citizens of Sparta, of the first rank,

and allied to the most honourable families. They had

begun to solicit their liberty so soon as ever they were

taken; but the Athenians, flushed with conquest, at

that time disdained to treat. Yet, after the blow recei­

ved at Delium, the Lacedæmonians, knowing then they

were become more tractable, laid hold of the favourable

juncture, and obtained a cessation of arms for a year,

in which space they were, by article, to hold mutual

conferences, in order to settle an accommodation for a

longer time. And since the Athenians had now again

more lately been totally defeated at Amphipolis, and as

well Cleon as Brafidas was dead, both of whom had most

strenuously opposed an accommodation; the latter, be­

cause he was successful and reaped glories in war; the

former, because, in a season of tranquillity, his villa-

nies must needs be detected, and his bold calumniations

lose all credit; the persons, who at present were chief in

the management of either state, were more strongly dis­

posed than ever to adjust disputes. These were, Pleisti-

onax, the son of Pausanias, king of the Lacedæmonians,

and Nicias, the son of Niceratus, by far the most suc­

cessful general of that age. Nicias desired it, as hither­

to he had never been deseated, and was bent on securing

his own prosperity on a lasting foundation, on obtaining

a relaxation of toils for himself, and of their present bur­

dens for his fellow-citizens, and on leaving his name il-

Justrious to posterity, as one who had never involved

his country in cala'mity. These views, he judged,

could only be accomplished by vacuity from danger, by

exposing

