3S4 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIH.

** in order that those who served in the armies of the  
** State might be better subsisted, he praised them alto-  
** gether. He then recommended to them a steady re-  
*( sistance, and by no means in any shape to give way  
** to the enemy: For, could the State once be secured  
** from its public fops, a reconciliation amongst its  
"members might easily be hoped for; but, should

** either party be once destroyed, either this at Samos,  
"or theirs at Athens, none would soon be left to be

** reconciled at all."

There were present at this audience embassadors from

the Argives, who brought assurances of aid to the peo­

ple of Athens at Samos. Alcibiadcs commended them

for their zeal j and then, exhorting them to hold them­

selves in readiness to come upon a summons sent, he

civilly dismissed them. These Argives came to Samos

in company with the Paralians, who had been lately

turned over by the four-hundred into a vessel of war, to

cruize round Eubcea, and to carry to Lacedæmon the

embassadors, Læspodias, Aristophon, and Melesius,

sent thither from the four-kundred. But, when ad­

vanced to the height of Argos, they put the embassa­

dors under arrest, as chief agents in pulling down the

democracy, and delivered them up to the Argives. They

had no business now at Athens, and so came from Argos

to Samos, convoying the Argive embassadors in the

trireme which they had seized.

The fame summer, Tissaphernes, — about that junc­

ture of time in which the Peloponnesians were most fu­

rious against him, for the other reasons, and the recall-

ment of Alcibiades, as having now pulled off the mask

and declared for the Athenians, —- desirous, as in truth

it appeared, to efface the bad impressions they had en­

tertained of him, got ready to go to Aspendus to the

Phœnician fleet, and prevailed with Lichas to bear him

company. In regard to the Peloponnesians, he decla­

red that he substituted his own lieutenant, Tamas^ to

pay them their subsistence, whilst he himself should be

absent.

