no THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR; B.VL

parting decorums where their several attachments claim­

ed it; some to their friends, some to their relations,

some to their own sons. The whole company moved

along with a medley of hope and lamentation; with hope,

that success would attend their course; with lamentation,

lest they might never meet again. The lad recollecti­

on occurred — to how great a distance from their native

soil they were going to be sent! And now that the hour

of departure was come, and when this moment they were

going to be dismissed into scenes of danger, the impressi­

ons of terror were felt with much keener fense than when

the expedition was only decreed. However, at the sight

.of their present strength, of the numerous expedients of

a prosperous enterprise which their eyes beheld, their

spirits were again elated. . ><

As for the strangers and bulk of the crowd, they at­

tended merely for the pleasure of gazing at the means

intended to accomplish a great and stupendous design.

For never did any one State of Greece, before this time,

equip by its own strength such a powerful armament.

It was the finest and most glorious fleer, that to this day

the world had seen. It is true, in number of ships and

heavy-armed on-board, that which sailed against Epi-

daurus under command of Pericles, and that also against

Pottdæa under Agnon, where by no means inferior.

For those carried four thousand heavy-armed soldiers, all

native Athenians, with three hundred horsemen: The

number of their triremes was a hundred; fifty more were

furnished by the Lesbians and Chians, besides a large

number, of confederates who attended those expeditions.

But then they were fitted for a voyage in comparison

trifling, and in a flight and penurious manner.

On the contrary, the present equipment was calcula­

ted for a length of time, and completely fitted out for

both services, as occasion might demand, either of the

sea or of the land. The shipping, at the great expence

of the captains of the several triremes and of the State,

was quite elaborate. The pay assigned by the public to

every

