B. VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 259

And now Demosthenes, and Menander, and Euthy-

demus, (for these went on-board to command the fleet,)

getting clear from their moorings, stood away directly

towards the barricade of the harbour, and that interval

of its mouth not yet completely barred, in order to

clear the passage. The Syracusans also and their allies

had now launched forth against them with their usual

number of ships. A detachment of these were so sta­

tioned as to guard the passage; the rest were spread cir­

cularly quite round the harbour, that on all sides at once

they might attack the Athenians, and their land-army on

the beach might second them on approaches to the shore.

The Syraculan fleet was commanded by Sicanus and A-

gatharcus, who were respectively stationed in each of the

wings, whilst Py then and the Corinthians composed the

center.

When the Athenians were come up to the barricade,

they run boldly at it; and by the violence of the first

shock they beat off the vessels ranged about it, and

were intent on clearing away the whole barricade. But

here, the Syracusans and allies falling in amongst them

from every quarter, a general engagement ensued, not

only at the barricade, but in every part of the harbour.

Obstinate it really proved, and such a battle as they

had never fought before. Great, in truth, was the ar­

dour of the seamen on both sides, in running upon the

enemy, whenever the word was given; and great was

the art exerted by the officers, in attack, and defence,

and reciprocal contention. The soldiers on-board ex­

erted all their efforts, that, when ship came to close

with ship, no stretch of military skill mould be omitted

on the hatches. Every individual, abiding firmly in

hrs post, strained all his diligence to signalize his own

behaviour. But, as numerous ships were falling in to­

gether amongst one another in little sea-room, and so

large a number never fought before in so small a space,

(since she amount of both fleets fell little short of two

hundred,) the direct incursions with the beak were few,

S 2 because

