236, THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII.

On the day following, the Syracusans erected two

trophies on Epipolæ; one on the summit of the pass,

and the other where the Bœotians first stopped the ene­

my's progress. The Athenians also obtained a truce,

to setch osf their dead the number or which was large,*

both in their own troops and thole of their aHies; and

yet more arms were taken by the enemy than bore pro­

portion to the slain: for, of the number of light-armed

who were pushed to the brink of the precipices, and,

throwing away their shields, were obliged to leap down,

though some perished by the fall, yet others escaped

with life.

But, after this, the Syracusans, highly animated a-

gain with this fresh unexpected turn in their favour,

sent out Sicanus, at the head os fifteen fail, to Agri-

gentum, now embroiled in a sedition, with orders to

exert the utmost of his power to reduce it to their obe­

dience. Gylippus also made once more the tour of Si­

cily, to levy another army; consident that, with such

a reinforcement, he could carry the very intrenchments

of the enemy by storm, since affairs had taken such a

favourable turn on Epipolæ.

In the mean time, the Athenian generals were em­

ployed in the needful consultations since the last misfor­

tune and the present universal dejection of their troops.

They law that all their attempts were blasted by ill suc­

cess, and that the soldiers were chagrined at the con­

tinuance of so fruitless a service: tor a sickness spread

amongst their people from a double cause ; from the

prelent season of the year, in which the human body is

most subject to disorders, and the marshy unwholesome

ground on which they were encamped; besides that, in

every respect, their situation appeared desperate and

quite beyond the power of redress.

The opinion of Demosthenes was therefore totally re­

pugnant to a longer continuance before Syracule. He

* Plutarch puts it at two thousand j but Diodwus Siculm says it was two thousand  
five hundred.

urged

