3t» THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.Vlft

ranged against them; and the Milesians did the some

by the Atgives. But now, after erecting a trop&y, as

the town was seated on an isthmus, the Athenians were

preparing to cut it off by a work of circi*mva>latioa;

concluding that, " if they once could get possession of

*' Miletus, they should easily complete she reduction  
"of the other Slates"

It was now about the Chut of evening, and advice is

brought them that " five and fifty fail of ships from

*' Peloponnesus and Sicily are only not at hand." For,  
from Sicily, where Hermocrates the Syracusao strenu­

ously advised to go on with what yet remained in re­

gard to the total demolition of the Athenians, twenty

fail of Syracusans and two of Selingntians came over.

The Peloponnesian fleet, which had been fitting e,ut,

was now ready for service; and both these were sent

out in conjunction, under the orders of Theramenes the

Lacedæmonian, who was to carry them to Astyochus

the admiral in chief. They arrived first at Eleus, an

island before Miletus. Being there informed that the

Athenians lay before Miletus, they departed thence;

and, steering first into the gulf of Iisus, were desirous

to pick up information how things went at Miletus.

Alcibiades had now rode to Teichiussa in the Milesian;

in which quarter of the gulph the fleets had come to

anchor for the night, and receive there a full account

of the battle. Alcibiades had been present at it, and

had given his assistance to the Milesians and Tissapher*

nes. He therefore earnestly pressed them, "unless

*' they were desirous to see all Ionia lost, and all their  
*' great expectations blasted at once, to repair with all  
*' possible expedition to the succour of Miletus, and by  
"no means to suffer it to be invested by a circumval-

** lation." In pursuance of this it was resolved, that at  
the first dawn of day they would stand away to its suc­

cour.

But Phrynichus, the Athenian commander, when

advised from Lerus of the certain arrival of this united

fleet.

