B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 63

spective commands. The orders, when any such are re­

quisite, are in this method dispersed and circulated with

the greatest expedition: For, in the Lacedæmonian

armies, almost the whole soldiery, few only excepted,

have a command assigned in regular subordination;

and the care of executing orders is incumbent upon

numbers.

In their present array, the left wing consisted os the

Skiritæ, who, of all the Lacedæmonians, ever claim

this post as their peculiar right; next them were posted

the Brasidean soldiers who had served in Thrace, accom­

panied by those who had lately been honoured with the

freedom of Sparta; then, along the line, were regularly

posted all the troops which were composed of pure La­

cedæmonians; next to them stood the Hereans of Arca­

dia, and beyond them the Mænalians. In the right

wing were the Tegeatæ, but in the utmost extent of ie

some sew Lacedæmonians. Their cavalry was equally

posted on both the wings: And in this form was the

Lacedæmonian disposition made.

On the side of the enemy, the Mantineans had the

right wing, because the business fell upon their ground;

next to them were the allies from Arcadia; then a pick­

ed body of Argives, to the number of a thousand, who

long had been exercised in the study of arms at the pub­

lic school at Argos; and next to them stood the rest of

the Argive forces: These were followed by their own

consederates, the Cleoneans and Orneatæ. The Athe­

nians were ranged in the outermost body, and composed

the left wing, supported by their own cavalry. Such

was the order and disposition on both sides.

The army of the Lacedæmonians had the appearance

of superior numbers: But exactly to write the number,

either of the several bodies on each side, or of their

whole force, I own myself unable. The amount of the

Lacedæmonians was not known, because of the profound

secrecy observed in their polity, and the amount of their

enemies, because of the ostentation ordinary to mankind

in

