B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 36$

brought over from Cyme about fifty heavy-armed who

were' most firmly attached to their cause, and hired o-

thers from the continent, which increased their number

to about three hundred,— AnaxarchuSj the Theban, irt

respect of consanguinity, being chosen their leader* —

assaulted first Methymne j and, being repulsed in the

attempt by the Athenian garrison which came up from

Mitylene, and then driven quite off by a battle fought

in the field, they retired across the mountain, and make

Eressus revolt. Thrasyllus, therefore, steering with

his fleet against Eressus, projected an assault. But

Thrasybulus, with five ships from Samos, arrived there

before him, upon information received of the re-passage

of the exiles; yet, coming too late before Eressus to

prevent a revolt, he lay at anchor before it. Two other

ships, also, bound homewards from the Hellespont,

came in, and the Methymnean. All the ships in the

fleet amounted now to sixty-seven, from which they

draughted an army for the operations of land, as fully

bent, if possible, to take Eressus by a bold assault, with,

engines and all the arts of attack.

In the mean time, Mindarus and the Peloponnesiarl

fleet at Chios, after two whole days employment in ta­

king in provisions, and receiving from the Chians every

man on-board three Chian *teJseracofts, on the the third

day with urgent dispatch launch out from Chios into

the wide sea, that they might not be deserted by the

fleet before Eressus and, leaving Lesbos on the left,

stood over to the continent. There, putting into the

harbour of Crateræi on the coast of Phocea, and taking

their noon repast, they proceeded along the coast

of Cyme, and supped at Arginusæ of the continent,

over-against Mitylene. From thence, at dead of night,

they went forwards along the shore > and, being arrived

* This, according to Spanheim, was a month's pay, fince be explains it by forty-  
three Chian draebmat. But the words will not bear such a construction: A
ttjserdcojl

was, it is most probable, a coin peculiar to the Chians ; but of what Talue is
not

known, nor is it of any great importance.

Vol. II. B b at

