B.V1I. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 271

fame time, that some claps of thunder were heard, ac­

companied with rain, esfects not unusual in this season,

as the year was now in autumn; and yet these accidents

contributed still more to dispirit the Athenians, who con­

cluded that every thing now acted in combination for

their destruction. During this interval of inaction, Gvt

lippus and the Syracusans send off" a detachment of their

forces, to throw up a work in their rear, where the

enemy had already pasted. But the Athenians sent also

a detachment of their own body, which prevented its

execution; and, after this, wheeling off with their

whole body more into the plains, they halted there for

the night.

The next morning they began to move forwards a-

gain. And now the Syracusans, besetting them quite

round in a circle, poured vollies os darts and arrows

amongst .them, and wounded numbers. If, indeed,

the Athenians sallied out against them, they retreated;

but, when the Athenians drew back, they then pressed

upon their retreat i and, falling in chiefly amongst their

rear, if at any time they put small parties to flight, they

struck a consternation into the whole army. But for

a long time, in such a train of skirmishings, the Athe­

nians made good their ground; and, advancing after­

wards the kogth of *five or six stadia, they halted in a

plain. Here also the Syracusans no longer molested

them, but withdrew to their own camp.

This night it was determined by Nicias and Demos­

thenes, that, — since the army was reduced to so low a

condition, and began already to be pressed with a total

failure of provisions; since, farther, large numbers had

been wounded in the many incidental assaults of the

enemy ; — they stiould first kindle a great number of

fires, and then march the whole army off, no longer by

the route which they had first projected, but by another

towards the sea, quite contrary to that which the Syra­

cusans had already preoccupied and guarded. The re-

* About I a milt. .

sidue

