38 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.V.

Lacedæmonians to agree to these proposals; that, "for

"the present, a peace mould be concluded for the term

K of fifty years; provided, notwithstanding, that liber-

"ty remain to either party to send a challenge, when

"neither was embarrassed by plague or war, and the

** right of this district be then decided by arms between  
*f Lacedæmon and Argos, as had formerly been done *  
"when the victory was equally claimed on both sides;

*f and that, in this case, it be not lawful to carry the  
*f pursuit beyond the boundaries of either Argos or La-  
cedæmon." These proposals, it is true, appeared at

first to the Lacedæmonians to be foolish; but, ac

length, as their necessary interest made them vastly desi­

rous of the Argive friendship, they complied with the

demand, and the terms agreed on were digested into

writing. But the Lacedæmonians, before they put the

last hand to the treaty, insisted on their previous return

to Argos, and reporting it to the people; and, in cafe

the ratification was given, to repair again to Lacedæ­

mon, at the Hyacinthian festival, and swear obser­

vance. And upon this they returned to Argos.

* Herodotus relates this remarkable piece of history in Clio. "They had a con-  
f* ference, (fays he,) and came to an agreement, that three hundred men on
each

"fide should decide the point by combat, and the land contested should remain
the

'* property of the victors; that both armies in the mean time should retire
within

"their respective dominions, nor be present at the combat, lest, by being
spectators

"of it, either of them, seeing their countrymen defeated, might run to their
assist-

*' ance. When articles were settled both armies drew off: those selected on each  
"fide for the combat staid behind aud engaged. They fought it out with equal
reso-

U lution and fortune: Of fix hundred men only three were left alive; two of
them

'* Argives, Alcinor and Chromius j and one Lacedæmonian, Othryadcs: These

*! weie all the survivors when night came on. The Argives, as victors, ran in  
"haste to Argos; but Othryades, for the Lacedæmonians, having stripped the
dead

f bodies of the Argives, and carried off their arms lo the place where his own
fide

"had encamped^ continued upon the field of battle. Next morning both parties

"came to learn the eyent; and then, truly, each party also claimed the victory
j

"one averring, that a majority survived on their fide; the other maintaining,
that

"even those had fled, whilst their own combatant had kept his ground and
spoiled

f* the dead. In short, from wrangling they came again to blows and a general
engage-

"ment; in which, after great slaughter on bojh fides, the Lacedæmonians
obtained

f the victory."

Whilst

