B.VJIL THE PELOPONNESUS WAft. $jt

informed of the enemy's motions, than, instantly quit足

ting Eressqs, they advanced with the utmost expedi足

tion to secure the Hellespont. They also pick up ttyo

ships of the Peloponnesians; which, running out too

boldly to sea in the lafe pursuit, fell in amongst them i

And, coming up only c-ne day aster them, they anchor

at Elieus, and r.e-afieflible from Imbrus the ships which

had fled thither. Five whole days they spend here in

getting every thing in readiness for a general engage足

ment: And after this respite they came to an action in

the following manner.

The Athenians, ranged In linp of battle a-headj

stood along shore towards Sestus. The PeloponnesianSj

aware of their design, stood out to sea from Abydus,

to be ready to receive them. And, as both sides werp

determined to engage, they unfolded their lines to a

greater length; the Athenians, along the ChersonefiiSj

reaching from Idacus to Arrhianse, in all sixty-eight

Iail; and the Peloponnesians, over-against them, from

Abydust to Dardanus, being eighty-six. The line of

the Peloponnesians was thus formed: The Syracusans

had the right; and on the left was ranged Mindaru$j

and the ships most remarkable for beipg good sailors.

Amongst the Athenians, Thrasyllps had the left, and

Thrasybulus the right,: The rest of the commanders

were regularly posted according to their rank. The

Peloponnesians, shewing most eagerness to begin the

engagement, endeavoured with their left to over-reach

the right of the Athenians, in order to exclude them,

if possible, from stretching out into the main sea, and,

by keeping them cramped up, to force their center a-

gainst the shore, which was not far distant. The Athe*

mans, aware ot the enemy's design to shut them up,

plying up a-head, forced themselves an opening, and

in velocity beat them all to nothing.

By these motions, the left of their line became ex*

tended beyond the cape called Cynos-sema. The con足

sequence of which was exposing their center, composed

B b 2 only

