THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B-VII.

From this time the Syracusans rushed upon them from

thence, and awed all their motions. The convoys could

no more get in without fighting their way. Besides that,

in all other respects, it struck a great consternation,

and even a dejection of mind, amongst the troops.

The next step taken by the Syracusans was to send

out to sea a squadron of twelve ships, under the com­

mand of Agatharcus, a Syracusan. One of these ships

was to proceed to Peloponnesus, and land an embassy

there, which had instructions, ** to notify a present

"hopeful posture of affairs, and to press the prosecu,t

M tion of the war in Greece with all possible vigour."

The other eleven stood over to the Italian coast, having

received intelligence, that a number of small vessels,

laden with stores for the Athenians, were coming up..

They intercepted and intirely destroyed most of these i

and the timber on-board them, which was ready

wrought for the Athenians to frame together into ships,

they burnt to ashes on the shore of Caulonia. This

done, they stood away for Locri; and, whilst they lay

in that road, one of the transports from Peloponnesus,

having on-board the heavy- armed from Thespiæ, came

in. The Syracusans removed those heavy-armed into

their own ships, and returned with them to Syracuse.

. The Athenians with twenty fail were stationed at

Megara, in order to intercept their return; where one

ship alone, with all the crew, fell into their hands,

They were not able to come up with the rest; since, e-

luding all pursuit, they recover with security their own

harbours.

There happened also a skirmish, in the harbour of Sy­

racuse, about the piles which the Syraculans had drove

down in the sea before their old docks, that their vessels

might ride in sasety behind them, the Athenians be un­

able to stand in amongst them and do any damage to

fheir shipping. Close up to those piles the Athenians

had towed a raft of prodigious size, on which turrets

and parapets to cover the defendants were erected,

.. .' whilst

