*34 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII.

rally into a body, — the Bœotians first put a flop to

their career; and, rustling boldly upon them, routed

and put them to flight. By this turn the Athenians

were thrown into so much disorder and confusion, that

the particulars which followed cannot easily be gathered,

neither from themselves nor their antagonists: for, even

in day light, when objects are clearest to the sight, men

present in a battle are not able to fee all that paffeth;

each single combatant can barely relate what happened

about his own person. When, therefore, armies en­

gage amidst the darkness of the night, (though this is

the only instance of it between powerful armies in the

present war,) how is it possible to come at the know­

ledge of the several incidents? The moon indeed

{hone at this time ; but then they only saw one another

as objects appear by moon-light, so as to discern the

appearance of human bodies, but not to distinguish be­

tween friends and enemies. The heavy-armed, far­

ther, numerous on both sides, were too much crouded

for want of room. One party of the Athenians was al­

ready clearly defeated; another, unbroken by the first

attack upon them, was pushing forwards. Of the re­

mainder of their army, a great part had already mounted

the ascent; yet some were still busied in mounting up;

but none of these, when they were got upon the emi­

nence, knew which way to advance: for, before them,

(as the rout was begun,) there was one grand medley

of confusion, and the tumult was so loud that no sounds

could be distinctly heard. The Syraculans and their

confederates were animating one another with loud ex­

ultations (for the season of the night made all signals

useless) to complete the blow, and were clearing before

them all that came in their way: but the Athenians

were prying about for one another, and regarded every

thing they met, even though they fell in with their own

friends, as the flight was now begun, for an assured

enemy. Obliged, farther, by frequent iterations to de­

mand the word, as the only method to distinguish one

another*

