CONTENTS. _

Gylippus; he arrives at Tarentum. The Athenians, by openly

joining the Argives against the Lacedæmonians, violate th*.

treaty of peace in Greece. — — P. i8i

CONTENTS of Book Vis.

The siege of Syracuse is carried oh so vigorously by Nicias, that the

Syracusans think of a surrender. At this crisis arrive the Pelo-

ponnesian succours and Gylippus the Spartan, which giveth a.

new turn to the siege. A counterwork is raised, to stop the A-

thenian circumvallation; engagements ensue. Nicias is now in

a bad situation. He sendeth home a succinct detail of affairs by

letter. A reinforcement is ordered him from Athens, under the

command of Demosthenes. The Lacedæmonians resolve to re­

new the war at home. — — — P. 194.

Year XIX. Attica invaded, and Decelea fortified.— A naval en­

gagement in the harbour of Syracuse, in which the Athenians

are superior. In the mean time Athens is sadly distressed by the

enemy.—A massacre at Mycalessus. — A sea fight on the coast of

Achaia.—A second engagement in the harbour of Syracuse, to.

the advantage of the Syracusans. The reinforcement arriveth

from Athens. Demosthenes attempts Epipolæ without success.

Debates about raising the siege, which at length is resolved. The

instant they are embarking the moon is eclipsed; upon which su­

perstition detaineth them. The Syracusans attack them both by

land and water. The Athenians are worsted in every engage­

ment; at length lose all their shipping. They retreat by land,

are pursued, sadly distressed, and totally subdued. Nicias and

Demosthenes are taken prisoners and put to death. P. 209

CONTENTS of Book VIII.

The news of the overthrow in Sicily causeth a great consternation

at Athens. All Greece is in combination against them; and

their dependents are meditating revolts. P. 281

Year XX. Revolt of the Chians. An alliance between Darius No-

thus and the Lacedæmonians. The war transferred to Ionia.

Battle of Miletus. A second alliance between Darius and the

Lacedæmonians. Proceedings at Chios. Revolt of Rhodes.

The politic conduct of Alcibiades: His intrigues. A sedition

among the Athenians at Samos in favour of an oligarchy. Phry­

nichus counterplots Alcibiades. A third alliance between Da­

rius and the Lacedæmonians. — — P. 287

Year XXI. Proceedings at Chios. The democracy overturned in

several places of the Athenian jurisdiction; and at Athens, by

the influence of Antipho, Phrynichus, and Theramencs. A

council of four hundred take upon them the government. The

army at Samos declares for the democracy, recals Alcibiades,

and elects him General. Athens full of factions. Phrynichus

stabbed. A tumult; in the midst of which the fleet of the enemy

appears in sight. Battle of Eretria; and revolt of Eubœa. The

four-hundred are deposed: And a new form of government settled

at Athens. The banishment of Alcibiades repealed. Battle of

Cynos-Sema. — — — P. 331

