B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 77

The Athenians also undertook the reduction of Me-

los with a naval force, consisting of thirty fail of Athe­

nians, six of Chians, and two of Lesbians; on-board

of which were transported twelve hundred heavy-armed

Athenians, three hundred archers, and twenty who drew

the bow on horseback. The number also of their depen­

dents, from the continent and islands, which attended, was

about fifteen hundred heavy-armed. The Melians* are

a colony of the Lacedæmonians, and had therefore refu­

sed to receive law from the Athenians in the fame manner

as the inhabitants of the other islands received it. Atfirst,

however, they observed a strict neutrality; but, in procels

of time, when the Athenians, by ravaging their country,

would have obliged them to act osfensively, they open­

ly took part in the war against them.

With a force so strong as hath been described, Cleo-

medes, the son of Lycomedes, and Tisias, the. son of Ti-

* The original of this colony is curious, according to the account given of it by  
Plutarch.-—" When the Tyrrhenes were masters of Lemnos and Imbrus, and made

•* a practice of ravishing the wives of the Athenians at Brauron, a mixed
breed was

"the consequence; whom, as half-barbarjan*, the Athenians drove out of the
iflts.

u Thus exiled, they repaired to Tænarus, and were useful to the Spartans in
their

*« war against the Heloss. They were afterwards rewarded for their good service*  
"with the freedom of Sparta and liberty of intermarriage. Yet, not being al-

"lowed the honour of serving the offices of the state, or a scat in the
council, they

"became afterwards suspected, as caballing together for bad designs, and
projecting

"to overthrow the constitution: The Lacedæmonians therefore apprehended them

*« all 5 and, throwing them into prison, kept them confined under a strong guard,  
u till they could find out clear and incontestable evidence against them. The
wives

"of the prisoners came in a body to the prison, and, after much prayer and
intreaty,

.** were at length admitted by the guard to the sight and discourse of their
husbands.

"When once they had gained access, they ordered them immediately to strip, and

** change clothes with them; to leave them their own, and, dressed in those of their  
"wives, to make their escape d:'rectly-in that disguise. It was done; the
women

"staid behind, determined to endure whatever might be the consequence; and the

"guards, deceived by appearances, let out the hulbands instead of the wives.
They

marched off and seized Taygeta; then seduced the Helots to revolt, and
promised

'* to support them; which struck a great terror amongst the Spartans. They
sent to

".treat with them, and made up the matter on these conditions: That they
siiould

(e have their wives restored safe to them; should be furnilhed with money and
vessels

"for removal j and, when fettled in another, country, should be reckoned a
colony

"and kinsmen of the Lacedæmonians. — A body of them settled some time after in

** the ifle of Melos." Of tit ,virtues us •ujimm,

> • * fimachus,

