B. VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 355

absent. Various accounts are vented about this step i

nor can it certainly be known with what view he re­

paired to Aspendus, or why, when there, he did not

bring up the fleet. That a Phœnician fleet, confiding

of one hundred forty-seven sail was now come up to

Aspendus, is allowed on all sides; but, why they did

not come forwards, is variously conjectured. Some

think he went out of sight merely to carry on his old

scheme of wearing away the Peloponnesians ; and, in

consequence of this, Tamas paid in their subsistence

which he was ordered to pay, not better but even worse

than Tissaphernes. Others fay it was, that, since he

save large sums by dismissing them there, as he never

had sincerely designed to make use of their service.

Others, again, attribute it to a desire to quiet the cla­

mours against him at Lacedæmon, and to get himself

represented there as one abounding in good faith, and

who is actually gone to bring up a fleet fairly and ho­

nestly fitted out for service.

But, in my opinion, the true solution of the mystery

is this: He would not bring them up, merely to wear

out and to balance the strength of the Grecians, that,

during his absence and this studied prolongation, the

latter might be running into ruin and, farther, for the

fake of balancing, to join with neither party, for fear

of making them too strong; for, had he once determi­

ned to join heartily in the war, the consequence was cer­

tain beyond a doubt. Had he brought them up to join

the Lacedæmonians, he must in all probability have gi­

ven them the victory, since already their naval strength

was rather equal than inferior to that of their opponents.

But, that their ruin alone was designed by him is plain

from the excuse he made for not bringing up that fleet:

He pretended they were fewer in number than the king

bad ordered to be assembled: yet, if this were so, he

might have ingratiated himself more abundantly with

the kingy if he made a great saving of money for his mas*

Phœnicians to Aspendus, he might

A a 2

ter,

