;io THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VI.

*' have never had less hopes of being a match for us than  
"at this very juncture, even though their strength be in

"all its maturity of vigour. It is true, they have it

"ever in their option to make inroads into our domini-

*' ons, even though we wave this expedition; but, at  
"sea, they never can be able to hurt us: The fleet we

"shall leave behind will be amply sufficient to make

"head against them.

"By what plausible arguments, therefore, can we ex-

*' cuse our behaviour, should we now pufillanimoufly  
"desist? what evasion can we find to deny our confcde-

"rates the succour they demanded? We are bound in

'* honour, by the oaths we have sworn, to undertake

*' their redress. Unavailing is the pretext, that they  
"have never done such good offices for us. Our alii-

** ance with them was not made on the condition of their  
"sailing hither to bring us succour, but of giving such

"full employ to our enemies there, as might effectu-

"ally deter them from coming hither. The ready

"road to empire, as not Athenians only, but every

"people who have risen to a summit of power, by ex-

"perience know, is ever to succour those who implore

*' our protection, whether they be Greeks or barba-  
*' rians. For, had it been the constant method to che-  
"rifh indolent inactive measures, or minutely to liti-

"gate who in justice ought to be protected, the en-

"largement of our empire had been but trifling, or ra-

"ther we had been liable to the loss of our original

"portion. For a Stale invested with superior power

"is not only openly opposed in the field, but recourse

** is had to every precaution to prevent their appear-  
*' ance in it. Neither is it in our power to prescribe ex*  
"act or arbitrary limitations to our own empire; but

"we are by necessity compelled to cabal against some,

"and with a high hand to keep others in subjection

"because, should we relax our command over others,.

"we endanger our own authority, and those we will

"not awe may become our mailers, Nor, farther,

"ought

