B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR; 93

suffice, or such information as every man picks up for

his own use.

The Sicanians appear to be the first people who,

next to those, inhabited this country; though, accord­

ing to their own accounts, they are prior-, because they

claim to themselves the original tenure: But, according

to the truest discoveries, they are found to have been I-

berians, who were compelled to remove from the banks

of the Sicanus, in Iberia, by the Libyans. And from

them, at that time, this island received the name of Si-

cania, having before been called Trinacria. They con­

tinue, to this day, to inhabit the western parts of Sicily.

After the taking of Troy, some of the Trojans, who

had escaped the Achæans, arrive in their vessels upon

the Sicilian shore, and, forming a settlement adjacent to

the Sicanians, they all took jointly the name of Ely mi;

and their cities were Eryx and Egesta. They were also

increased by the accession of some Phocians from Troy,

who, having first been driven to Libya by a storm,

passed over afterwards from thence into Sicily*

The Siculi passed over first into Sicily from Italy, for

there they originally dwelled. They fled before the O-

pici; and, as the story is told, not without probability,

having observed how the current set within the strait

and seized a favourable gale, they crossed over upon

rafts, and perhaps by some other methods. There are,

even to this very day, a people in Italy called Siculi;

and that region, in a similar manner, obtained its name

of Italy from a certain Arcadian king, who bore the

name of Italus. These, crossing into Sicily with for­

midable numbers, and vanquishing the Sicanians in bat­

tle, drove them into the southern and western parts,

caused the name of the island to be changed from Sica-

nia to Sicily, settled themselves in, and kept possession

of, the richest tracts in the country, since their passage

hither was near three hundred years earlier than the

landing of any Grecians in Sicily. Nay, they continue,

