B.V1T. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 241

deavoured that it should not be determined in public

council, they issued out orders, with the utmost secrecy,

that the whole armament should hold themselves in rea­

diness to put to sea upon a signal given. But, all things

now ready, the very moment they are going to embark

the moon is eclipsed, for it was now the time of the full.

The bulk of the army, struck with the awful appear­

ance, called out upon the generals to halt; and Nicias,

always addicted too much to superstition and such vul­

gar scruples, positively declared, that " it should no

"more be debated whether they should remove or not,

"till the three times nine days were past which the

*' soothsayers prescribe on such occasions." So* for  
this reason, a longer stay was forced upon the Athe­

nians, who had been too dilatory already.*

Vol. II. R The

* That the bulk of an army or a fleet should be frightened at such appearances, is  
no wonder at all: They are ever ignoiant; and the most daring of them in other

respects have been much addicted to superstition. But one cannot help being
surpri­

sed at the ignorance and superstition of Nicias j one cannot help pitying and
deplo­

ring the foible of a man who had so good a heart. Plutarch expatiates hugely
on this)

occasion. "Even the vulgar, fays he, at this time were well apprised that an
ec-

"lipse of the sun was often occasioned, about the time of the change, by an
inter-

"position of the moon: but, as to the moon, by the interposition of what body,
and

*' bow on a sudden, at the full, its light fades away or emits variety of colour, waa  
"not easy for them to conceive. They thought it a strange occurrence, and sent

"from God as a prognostic of great calamities. The first person, who wrote a
clear

"and bold solution of the enlightening and obscuration of the moon, was Anaxa-

f< goras, who now bad not been long dead; nor was his account in every body'*

"hands, but concealed, imparted only to a few, and that with caution and aiTu-

"ranees of secrecy. The world could not bear that Naturalists and Meteor-mnn-

"gers, as they were then stiled, should seem to restrain the divine power by
quaint

** argumentations, invisible operations, and necessary consequences. For such at-  
"tempts Protagoras was banished; and Pericles, with much ado, procured the re-

*' lease of Anaxagoras when thrown into prison. Nay, Socrates, who never med-  
"died with any of these points, was however put to death upon the charge of
pbi*

*' hsopbix'mg. It was not till late that the glory of Plato shone abroad j who, by  
"his irreproachable life, and subjecting natural necessities to a divine and
sovereign

*' power, cleared away all bad imputations from studies of this kind, and by a ma-  
** thematical beginning opened a field to other sciences. And thus his friend D on,  
** at what time he was setting fall from Zacynthus against Dionyfius, was not at all  
*' disheartened by an eclipse of the moon, but landed safe at Syracuse, and ejrcted  
"the tyrant, It was the misfortune of Nicias, at this juncture, not to have
even

