ai2 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VII,

the whole was ready for service, Gylippus, by favour

of the night, at the head of his land-army, marched

down to the forts at Plemmyrium, intending to assault

them on the land-side. The triremes of the Syracu-

sans, at the fame instant of time, as had been concerted

beforehand, to the number of thirty-five, are sailing up

out of the great harbour, whilst forty-five were going

about out of the lesser harbour where their dock lay.

The latter went round, designing to complete their

junction with the other squadron, and then in a body to

stand against Plemmyrium, that the Athenians on both

fides might be thrown into confusion. The Athenians

lost no time, but instantly manned out sixty vessels.

With twenty-five of the number they engaged the thirty-

five Syracusan in the great harbour; with the rest they

went to meet the other squadron, that was coming a-

bout from the dock. A smart engagement immedi­

ately ensued, in the mouth os the great harbour. The

dispute was a long time obstinately maintained; one side

exerting themselves to clear the passage, but the other

to obstruct it.

In the the mean time, Gylippus, — as the Athenians

posted at Plemmyrium had flocked down to the sea-side,

and with their utmost attention were looking at the bat­

tle on the water, — Gylippus seizeth the opportunity;

and, no sooner had the morning dawned, than, to the

great surprise of the enemy, he attacks the forts. He

first makes himself master of the largest of the three,

and afterwards carries the two lesser, the desendants

of which, seeing the largest so easily taken, had aban­

doned their posts: Nay, on the surprisal of the first,

those who had manned it, throwing themselves on-board

the boats and a transport that lay at hand, found no

small disficulty in getting away to the camp; for, as

the Syracusans had now the better of the engagement

with their squadron in the great harbour, they detached

one of their nimblest triremes to pursue the fliers. But,

at the time the other two forts were carried, the Syra­

cusans

