kft THE TELOPONWESIAN WAR. B.VIH.

importance was taTccn in hand, as the point in agitation

was no less than the recovery of Chios.

In the mean time, Strombichides, with the eight fail

of ships, arrived at Samos j and, taking with him tune

Samian vessel, stood onwards to Teos, and required of

them " to have no participation in the present commo-

** lions." From Chios, also, Chakideus was now co-  
filing over to Teos, with a fleet of three and twenty

fail; and the land-force of the Clazomenians, and also

of the Erythræans, attending his motions, was march­

ing thither by land: But Strombichides, having timely

notice of their approach, pot out again before thefrr ar*

rival. Standing out aloos into open sea, he had a view

of this numerous fleet in their course from Chios; upon

Which he fled amain to Samos. But the enemy fol­

lowed in pursuit.

The Teians, who at first refused admittance to the

land-forces, when now the Athenians plainly fled,

thought proper to open their gates. Here the busk of

them were inactive for a time, attending the return of

Chalcideus from the pursuit. But, when time wore on

without his appearing, they demolished of their'own

accord the wall'Which the Athenians had built on the

•fide of Teos facing the continent. In this they were

also assisted by a small party of Barbarians, who in 'this

'interval had joined them, and were commanded by

Tages, the deputy of TissaphernCs.

But Chalcideus and Alcibiades, when they had chased

Strombichides into Samos, having furnished the mari­

ners of the Peloponnesian vessels with proper arms,

leave them as a garrison in Chios. Having manned

their vessels afresh at Chios, with an additioivof twenty

others, they stood away for Miletus, as meditating its

revolt. This was owing to Alcibiades; who, having

:an interest in persons of the first rank among the Mile­

sians, made it a point to effectuate their accession before

the fleet should come up from Peloponnesus, and to'fe*

cure the whole honour to the Chians and himself, and

Chalcideus

