B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 365

ing compelled to sheer off, they are pursued to land;

and as many of them as ran for sasety to the city of the

Eretrians suffered the most cruel treatment, in being

murdered by the hands of men whom they supposed

their friends. Such, indeed, as could reach the fort

of Eretria, which was garrisoned by Athenians, arc

safe as also the vessels which could make Chalcis.

But the Peloponnesians, after making prizes of two

and twenty Athenian vessels, and either butchering or

making prisoners all on-board them, erected a trophy.

And, no long time after, they caused all Eubœa to re­

volt, excepting Oreus, which an Athenian garrison se­

cured, and then settled the state of that island at their

own discretion.

When advice of what was done at Eubœa reached

Athens, the greatest consternation ensued of all that-

had to this day been known. Not even the dreadful

blow received in Sicily, though great concern, in truth,

it gave them, nor any other public disaster, caused so

terrible an alarm amongst them. For, at a time when

their army at Samos was in open revolt, when they had

no longer either shipping in store or mariners to go on­

board, when they were distracted with intestine sedi­

tion, and ready each moment to tear one another to

pieces; — and on the neck of all these this great cala­

mity supervened, in which they lost their fleet, and

(what was more of consequence) Eubœa, which had

better supplied their necessities than Attica itself, — had

they not ample reason now to fall into utter dejection?

But what alarmed them most was the proximity of

ruin, in case the enemy, flushed with their late success,

should stand immediately into the Piræus, now utterly

destitute of ships. Not a moment passed but they ima­

gined they were only not in the very harbour; which,

in truth, had they been a little more daring, they might

easily have been. Nay, had they made this step and

blocked up the city, they must infallibly have increased

the seditions within it; must have necessitated the fleet

to

