B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 221

road of Phia of the Eleans, on-board of whicsra num­

ber of heavy-armed Corinthians were to pass over into

Sicily, finks that vessel. But the mariners, having

saved themselves by flight, found afterwards another

vessel, and proceeded in the voyage.

From hence Demosthenes came up to Zacynthus and

,Cephallene; where he took their heavy-armed on­

board, and sent for those of the Messenians from Nau-

pactus. He also crossed over to the opposite continent

of Acarnania, to Alyzia and Anactorium, both be­

longing to the Athenians. Thus employed as he was

in augmenting his force, Eurymedon, returning from

Sicily, whither he had been sent in the winter to carry

a supply of money for the army, meets him; and, a-

mongst other intelligence, relates, that " he had heard,

*' since he was upon his return, that Plemmyrium had  
** been taken by the Syracusans." Conon also, who  
commanded at Naupactus, came to them, with advice,

that " the five and twenty fail of Corinthians which

"lay over-against their squadron had not quitted that

"station, and even threatened them with an engage-

"ment." He exhorted, therefore, these commanders

to detach some vessels thither, since their squadron at

Naupactus, consisting only of eighteen ships, was not a

match for the enemy, whose squadron amounted to

twenty-five. Upon this, Demosthenes and Euryme­

don detach ten of the prime sailors, amongst those un­

der their own command, to follow Conon for the re­

inforcement of the squadron at Naupactus.

The two former continued to assemble forces for the

grand expedition. Eurymedon, for this purpose,

sailed to Corcyra, commanded them to man out fifteen

ships, and selected himself the heavy-armed for the ser­

vice; for, as he was returned from carrying the stores,

he joined himself with Demosthenes in the command,

in pursuance of the prior nomination. Demosthenes

was collecting a body of slingers and darters from the

towns of Acarnania.

The

