266 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII.

or an old comrade, moving off; throwing their arms

about their necks, and fo dragged along whilst they

could keep their hold; but, when strength and bodily

vigour tailed and left them destitute or resource, they

gave them the last adieu, not without a shower of cur­

ses and a hideous howl. By such cutting incidents the

whole army was silled with tears and a wild irresolution;

fo that they could not depart without the highest regret,

though from a spot so hostile, where they had suffered

more than tears could alleviate; and the dread,of more,

which yet might be impending, was inexpressible. De­

jection of the head and self-accusation were general

through all the troops; and they resembled nothing less

than a large subjugated city, whose numerous inhabi-

tants were escaping from the fury of a sack; for the a-

mountof those, who were now marching off together,

was not less than forty thousand men.

Of these, the generality carried off merely what ne­

cessary subsistence they had scraped together; but the

heavy-armed and horsemen, contrary to custom, were

now obliged to carry their own sustenance themselves

beneath their armour; some, because they had none;

others, because they durst not trust their servants. The

desertions had for a long time been large, but of late in

greater numbers than ever. Neither were they thus

provided with susficient stores for there was no longer

any corn to be found in the camp. Nay, truly, the

general calamity and equability of misfortunes, which

in many cafes alleviate the pain as numbers are in­

volved, were unable to render the present evils in any

degree supportable; especially when the thought oc­

curred, srom what a height of splendor and preceding

glory, to what a plunge and miserable state they were

now reduced! For, a most cruel turn of fortune this

really proved to a Grecian army; who, coming hither

to inflave others, were departing now with the fad al­

ternative of fearing to be made slaves themselves; and,

instead of the prayers and pæans with which they first

began

