B. VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 247

as by mere compulsion, (hey now followed their mas­

ters against; Dorians. To these were added Æolians;

the Methymneans, for instance, who were to furnish

shipping, but were exempted from tribute; the Tene-

dians, farther, and Ænians, who were tributaries: But

these, being Æolians, were now compelled to fight a-

gainst other Æolians; namely, their own founders, the

Bœotians, who adhered to the Syracusans. The Pla-

tæans. did the same, and were the only Bœotians that

acted against Bœotians upon the justisiable pretext of las­

ting enmity. The Rhodians, farther, and Cytherians,

attended, though both of Doric descent: The Cythe­

rians, truly, who are a Lacedæmonian colony, bore

arms at this juncture on the Athenian side, against the

Lacedæmonians under the command of Gylippus and

the Rhodians, Argives by descent, were obliged to

turn their arms against the Doric Syracusans; nay, a-

gainst the Geloans, a colony of their own, now acting in

concert with the Syracusans. Of the people of the lfles

on the coast of Peloponnesus came the Cephallenians

and Zacynthians independent in fact, but through

their situation controuled in some measure by the Athe­

nians, who are masters of the sea. The Corcyreans,

farther, who were not only of Doric, bur, what is more,

were even of Corinthian, original, as being a colony of the

latter, and by blood allied to the former, from compul­

sion, as they gave out for a colour, though in truth

from deliberate malice, since opposing the Corinthians,

whom they hated, followed the Athenians with an ar­

dour inferior to none. The Messenians also, now stiled

Meflenians of Naupactus, and those from Pylus, which

was still held by the Athenians, were brought along to

the war; to whom must be added a small party of Me-

garean exiles, who by a sad reverse of fortune now took

part against the Selinuntians, who were also Megarean.

The residue of the confederates were engaged rather up­

on free and spontaneous choice. The Argives, for in­

stance, not more from obligations of lubsilting treaties,

R 4 than

