356 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIII.

ter, and with less expence had accomplished his service.

To Aspendus, however, whatever was his view, Tissa-

phernes repairs, and joins the Phœnicians; nay, far­

ther, at his own desire, the Peloponnesians sent Philip-

pus, a noble Lacedæmonian, with two triremes, to

take charge of this fleet.

Alcibiades had no sooner received intelligence that

Tissaphernes was at Aspendus, than, taking with him

thirteen sail, he hastened thither after him, promising

to those at Samos an assured and important piece of ser­

vice: For, " he would either bring the Phœnician

"fleet to the Athenians, or at least prevent their junc-

"tion with the Peloponnesians." It is probable that,

from a long acquaintance, he was privy to the whole

intention of Tissaphernes never to bring up this fleet;

and his project was now, to render Tissaphernes still

more odious to the Peloponnesians for the regard he

shewed to himself and the Athenians, that so he might

at last be necessitated to strike in with the latter. He

stood away therefore directly by Phaselis and Caunus,

and held oh his course upwards.

The deputation, sent from the/car hundred, being re­

turned from Samos to Athens, reported the answer

of Alcibiades; how " he encouraged them to hold

*' out, and give way in no shape to the enemy; and  
"that his confidence was great, he should be able tho-

"roughly to reconcile them with the army, and give

"them victory over the Peloponnesians." By this re­

port they very much revived the spirits of many of those

who had a share in the oligarchy, and yet would gladly

extricate themselves from the business upon assurances

of indemnity. They had already begun to hold sepa­

rate cabals, and shew open discontent at the train of af­

fairs. They were headed by some of principal authori­

ty even in the present oligarchy, and who filled the great

offices of state, namely, Theramenes, * the son of Ag-

non,

* Theramenes was very expert at turning about and shifting his party. He got  
by it the nick-name of Cothurnus, or the Bujkin; because the tragedians'
bulkin was

made

