3i* THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIII.

And to this situation were brought the Athenian affairs

at Chios.

Their squadron also at Samos made several visits to

the squadron of the enemy at Miletus; but, as the lat­

ter refused to come out to engage them, they returned

again to Samos, wirhout committing any hostilities.

From Peloponnesus, in the same winter, twenty-

seven sail of ships, equipped by the Lacedæmonians

for Pharnabazus, at the instances of his agents, Calli-

gitus the Megarean and Timagoras the Cyzicene, put

out to sea, and made over to Ionia, about the solstice.

Antisthenes the Spartan was onboard as admiral. With

him the Lacedæmonians sent also eleven Spartans, to

be a council to Aflyochus; in the number of whom was

Lichas, the son of Arcesilaus. To these an order was

given, that, " when arrived at Miletus, they should

.** in concert act in all respects as might be best for the

*' service; and this squadron, or one equal in strength,  
*' or larger or smaller, at their own discretion, should  
"proceed to Hellespont for the service of Pharnabazus,

and be sent away under the command of Clearchus

"the son of Ramphias, who accompanied them in the

'* voyage; and, in cafe it was judged expedient by the

'* council of eleven, to dismiss Astyochus from the chief

,f command, and substitute Antisthenes." On account

of the letters of Pædaritus, they began to suspect the

former. This squadron, therefore, standing out to

sea from Malea, arrived first at Melos; and, falling in

with ten sail of Athenians, they take and burn three of

them, which their crews had abandoned. But, appre­

hensive that those Athenian ships which had escaped

might advertise the fleet at Samos of their approach, as

was actually the case, they stretched away for Crete;

and, for better security, keeping a good look-out, and

taking more time, they made land first at Caunus of

Asia. From thence, as being now beyond the reach of

danger, they dilpatch a messenger to the fleet at Mile-

Jus., to attend and bring them up,

