284 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VHL

Instantly, therefore, Agis their king, though in the

depth of winter,sallying forth with a body of troops from

Decelea, marched round the confederacy, levying sums

of money for the service of the marine. Turning his route

to the Melian gulf, he took a large booty from the CE-

tæans, against whom their enmity had been of long dura­

tion, which he converted into money. He also compel­

led those Achæanswho were seated in the Pthiotis, and

other States in this quarter dependent on Theslaly, spite

of all the complaints and murmurs of the Thessalians, to

give him some hostages for their good behaviour, and to

furnish him with money. He disposed of these hostages

into safe custody at Corinth, and spared no pains to get

them over into the alliance.

The Lacedæmonians, farther, circulated an order

among the States, for the building of one hundred fail

of ships. They taxed themselves and the Bœotians to

furnish, respectively, twenty-five •, the Phocians and

Locrians fifteen; the Corinthians fifteen; the Arca­

dians, and Pellenians, and Sicyonians, ten; the Me-

gareans, and Trcezenians, and Epidaurians, and Her-

mionians, ten. They went to work with all other

needful preparations, that they might prosecute the war

briskly upon the first approach of spring.

The Athenians, on the other hand, were not remiss

in preparing for their own defence; since, in pursuance

of the plan they had formed, they were busy during all

the winter in building of ships, having collected proper

quantities of timber; and in fortifying Sunium, that

the navigation of their victuallers round that cape might

be preserved from molestation. They also evacuated

the fortress in Laconia which they had raised in the

voyage to Sicily; and in all respects, where they jud­

ged themselves involved in any less needful expence,

they contracted their disbursements with the utmost fru­

gality. But their principal care was keeping a close eye

upon their dependents, that they might not revolt.

Amidst

