348 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIII.

ment with the enemy. But, as nothing stirred out

against them, they also returned to Samos.

In the same summer, immediately after the former

movements, the Peloponnesians — who had waved

coming out to an engagement, since with the whole of

their strength they thought themselves by no means a

match for their enemy, and were now reduced to great

perplexities about the methods of procuring subsistence

for so numerous a fleet, especially as Tissaphernes was

so remiss in his payments — fend away to Pharnabazus

(pursuant to the prior instructions from Peloponnesus)

Clearchus the son of Ramphias, with a detachment of

forty sail: For Pharnabazus had demanded such a

force, and was ready to support the expences of it; and

it had been farther notified to them in form that By­

zantium was ripe for a revolt. And thus this detach­

ment of Peloponnesians, having run out far to sea to

get clear of the Athenians during the course, met with

very tempestuous weather. The bulk of them, it is

true, with Clearchus, rode it out to Delos, and from

thence return again to Miletus. But Clearchus, setting

out again, travelled over land to Hellespont, and took

upon him the command. Ten ships, however, of rhe

detachmenr, under Elixus the Megarean, who was

joined in the command, reached the Hellespont without

damage, and effectuate the revolt of Byzantium. The

Athenians at Samos, informed of these incidents, fend

away a detachment to the Hellespont, to support and

guard the adjacent cities: And a small engagement

happens before Byzantium, between eight ships on a

fide.

Those who were in the management at Samos, and

above all Thrasybulus, adhering still to the sentiments

they had entertained ever since the last turn of affairs

there, that Alcibiades must needs be recalled; the lat­

ter at last obtained, in full assembly, the concurrence

of the soldiery. Accordingly, when they had voted

a return and an indemnity to Alcibiades, Thrasybulus

repaired

