*76 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VII.

others, entangled in the croud, were carried away by the

current. The hither bank of the river was now rilled

with Syracusans; and, it being naturally steep, they

poured down their darts upon the Athenians, numbers

of whom were drinking greedily of the stream, confu­

sedly hampered together in the hollow of the channel.

The Peloponnesians, plunging in after them, made a

great slaughter of those who were in the river. The

water was immediately discoloured with blood: But the

stream, polluted with mud and gore, deterred them not

from drinking it greedily, nor many of them from fight­

ing desperately for a draught of it. But, in short, when

the carcases of the dead began to lie heaped one upon

another in the river, and the whole army was become a

continued carnage;* of some in the river; of those who

were making off from the banks, by the horsemen of

the foe; Nicias surrenders himself prisoner to Gylip-

pus, into whose power he chose to fall sooner than into

that of the Syracusans. He told him, that " he him-

** self and the Lacedæmonians might decide his fate as  
** best pleased themselves; but intreated that a stop  
** might be put to the slaughter of his soldiers." Upon  
this, Gylippus issued out orders to give quarter; and

thus they carried off the remnants of this body as pri­

soners of war, such excepted as were secreted by their

captors, the number of which was large. Having, far­

ther, detached a party in pursuit of the three hundred,

who in the night had broke through the guard, they

also made them prisoners. The whole number now

collected together as the public prize was not large>

but very numerous were they who were clandestinely

secreted. Not a town in Sicily but was crouded with

them, fince these had not surrendered upon terms like

thole under Demosthenes. A considerable number had

also perished: For this was a terrible slaughter; nay,

there was no one greater in the course of the Sicilian

* According to DUderut Siculus, the number of the slain amounted to eightttn  
thousand men.

war:

