B. VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 185

dred of the choicest men amongst the heavy-armed, to

be commanded by Diomilus, an exile from Andrus.

These were appointed for the guard of Epipolæ, and to

be ready for service, as they were always to keep in a

body, on any sudden emergence. But the Athenians,

who had mustered their forces on the preceding day,

had stood away from Catana, and were come in the

night undiscovered to the spot called Leon, which is

distant * six or seven stadia from Epipolæ, where they

disbarked their land-forces, and then serit their ships to

lie in the station of Thapsus. Thapsus is a peninsula,

joined to the main-land by a narrow isthmus, and jut­

ting out into the sea, at no great distance from the city

of Syracuse either by land or water. The naval force

of the Athenians, having secured their station by a pa-

lisado across the isthmus, Jay quiet in their posts: But

the land-army, without loss of time, made a running

march towards Epipolæ; and mounted by the pals

of Euryalus, before the Syracusans, who were yet in

the meadow busied in their review, discovered or were

able to advance to prevent them. And now their whole

force was in motion to distodge them; each man wich

all possible alacrity, and more particularly the seven

hundred commanded by Diomilus: But, from the mea­

dow to the nearest spot where they could come up with

the enemy, was a march of no less than -j- twenty-five

stadia. To this it was owing that the Syracusans came

to the charge in a disorderly manner; and, being plain­

ly repulsed in battle at Epipolæ, were forced to retire

within the city. Diomilus also and about three hun­

dred more lose their lives in this engagement.

In pursuance of this, the Athenians, having erected a

trophy, and given up the bodies of the stain tinder truce

to the Syracusans, marched down the next day in order

of battle to the very gates of the city: But, as the Sy-

* Above half a mile.  
<j- Two miles and a bi\s,

raculans

1

