B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 243

But, on the day following, they stand out with their

* fleet, to the number of seventy-six ships; and, at the  
fame time, the land-army marched up to the intrench-

ments. The Athenians launched out, with fourscore

and six, to give them a reception; and thus, charging

one another, an engagement ensued. Eurymedon

commanded the right wing of the Athenian fleet, and

endeavoured to over-reach and surround the ships of

the enemy. For this purpose, he opened his line, and

stood along too close to the land; which gave the Sy­

racusans and their allies, who had now defeated the

center of the Athenians, an opportunity to intercept

him in the bottom and recess of the harbour, where

they slay Eurymedon himself, and destroy the ships

which had separated in his company: and, this done,

they gave chace to the whole Athenian fleet, and drove

them ashore.

Gylippus, now, perceiving that the ships of the ene­

my were defeated and drove aground quite wide of the

piles and their camp, formed instantly a design to make

slaughter of the men as they were leaping on shore, and

of giving the Syracusans an opportunity easily to draw

off all the ships from land of which they were entire

masters. At the head, therefore, of one division of

the land-force, he marched down to the pier to second

the fleet. The Tyrrhenes happened to have been posted

nearest by the Athenians; who, seeing a body of the

enemy running down thither in a dilbrderly manner,

advanced eagerly to meet them; and, charging briskly

on the van, put them to flight and drive them into the

lake of Lysimclia. But, soon after, a reinforcement of

Syracusans and their allies coming up, the Athenians

* Plutarch adds, that, " on this occasion, the very lads came out in fishing-  
** boats and fleiffs, taunting and insulting the Athenians. One of these lads, Hera-  
"elides, of a noble family, who had advanced too near, was in great danger of
be-

** ing intercepted by an Athenian vessel. But Pollichus, the uncle of the hi', a-  
«* Jarmed for his safety, charged instantly with the ten triremes he had under
his

«* command. The rest of the Syracusan fleet, now alarmed for Pollichus, ran in

** mi once, and brought on a general engagement," Life of Nitiet,

R 2 also

