B.VIL THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 233

by Eurymedon and Menander, marched towards Epi-

pola;. But Nicias was left behind in the intrench-

ments. '. .

When now they were advanced to the pass of Eury-

alus, by which the first army gained formerly the as­

cent, they are yet undiscovered by the Syracusan guards;

and, mounting the heights, surprise the fort which was

there manned by the Syracusans, and slaughter some

of the desendants. But the majority flying amain to­

wards the camps, of whicli there were three among the

advanced intrenchments of Epipolæ, (one of Syracu­

sans, a second of other Sicilians, and a third of the con­

federates,) they spread the alarm, and also notified the

enemy's approach to the six hundred Syracusans, who

at first were selected for the guard of this quarter of E-

pipolæ. These sallied out instantly to stop their pro­

gress; and Demosthenes, with his Athenians, falling

in with them, put them to flight, after they had made

a gallant stand. Upon this success, they immediately

pushed forwards, that they might improve the present

ardour of the soldiers to the immediate completion of

those points for which they had made this bold attempt.

Another party, which had been advancing all along

without a check, surprised the counterwork of the Sy­

racusans; of which, since abandoned by its desendants,

they were throwing down the battlements.

But now the Syracusans, and their consederates, and

Gylippus with the body under his command, marched

out of their intrenchments: yet, having been attacked

in so daring a manner amidst the darkness of the night,

they had not recovered their surprise when they sell in

with the Athenians j and thus, not able to stand the

first shock, they were obliged to give way for a time.

But, as the Athenians pushed forwards with great irre­

gularity, as if the victory was quite their own; eager,

farther, to make themselves masters of all the tract not

yet cleared of the enemy, for sear lest, should they

slacken in their ardour, the enemy might have time to

