B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 309

In the mean time, the armament of the Athenians,

having sailed round from Corycus to Arginum, falls

in with three long vessels of the Chians, and no sooner

had descried than they, gave them chace. And now a

violent storm ariseth, and the vessels of the Chians with

great difficulty escape into harbour: But, of the Athe­

nian squadron, three, which had molt briskly followed

the chace, are disabled and drive ashore at the city of

the Chians: The crews of them were partly made pri­

soners, and partly put to the sword. The rest of the

fleet got into a safe harbour, which is known by the

name of Phcenicus, under the Mimas. From hence

they afterwards took their course to Ltsbos, and got all

in readiness to raise fortifications.

From Peloponnesus, the same winter, Hippocrates

the Lacedæmonian, putting out to sea, with ten sail of

Thurians commanded by Doricus, the son of Diagoras,

and two collegues, with one ship of Laconia and one of

Syracuse, arriveth at Cnidus. This place was now in

revolt from Tissaphernes. Those at Miletus were no

sooner advised of the arrival of this squadron, than thay

sent them orders, with one moiety of their ships to keep

guard upon Cnidus, and with the other to post them­

selves at the Triopium, in order to take under their

convoy the trading-vessels which were in their course

from Egypt. The Triopium is a point in the territory

of Cnidus, jutting out into the sea, and a temple of

Apollo. But the Athenians, informed of their designs,

and standing away from Samos, take six of the ships

which were stationed at the Triopium: The crews, in­

deed, quit their ships, and reach the shore. This be­

ing done, the victors sailed directly to Cnidus; and,

making an assault upon that city which was quite un­

fortified, had very nearly taken it, On the next day

they renewed the assault. Yet, as the inhabitants had

taken care to make it more secure by favour of the

night, and the men escaped from the vessels taken at

Triopium had thrown themselves into the place, they

X 3 did

