B*.V. THE !PELOPONNESIAN WAR. ag

bute of a *talent to Olympian Jove. This was regular­

ly paid till the Athenian war; but, that war being then

made a pretence of its discontinuance, the Eleans would

have exacted it by force. The others had recourse to

the Lacedæmonians. The dispute was referred to the

Lacedæmonian arbitration i but the Eleans, taking up

a suspicion that they should not have justice, would not

abide the reference, but began to ravage the territory

of the Lapreatæ. The Lacedæmonians, notwithstand­

ing this, proceeded to a sentence :—that " theLeprea-

tæ were masters of their own conduct, and that the

"Eleans were guilty of injustice;" and, as the latter

would not abide by their arbitration, they threw a gar­

rison of heavy-armed into Lepreum; but the Eleans,

regarding this step as the reception of a city by the La­

cedæmonians which had revolted from them, and alled­

ging the treaty in which it was stipulated, — that, "of

"whatever places the parties were possessed upon the

*' commencement of the Attic war, the same they  
"should continue to hold at its expiration," as if they

had met with injustice, they revolt to the Argives; and

the Eleans entered into that league offensive and defen-

iive as hath been already related.

The Corinthians soon followed their example, and,

with the Calcideans, also of Thrace, became the allies

of Argos. But the Bœotians and Megareans, though

they had threatened the same thing, thought proper to

drop it. They had been ill used by the Lacedæmo^

nians, but judged however that the democracy of the

Argives would be less compatible with their interests,

whose form of government was oligarchical, than the

polity of the Lacedæmonians.

About the same time of this summer, the Athenians,

becoming masters of the Scioneans after a long block­

ade, put all who were able to bear arms to the sword,

and made their wives and children staves, and gave the

land to be cultured by the Platæans.

* 193I. 15s. sterling.

They

