37* THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VltJ

sidue of the march was no longer pointed towards Ca-

tana, but to the other coast of Sicily, towards Cama-

rina, and Gela, and the cities in that quarter, both Gre­

cian and Barbarian. In pursuance of this, a large num­

ber of fires being kindled, they dislodged in the dead of

night.

This part of their retreat (as is the general fate of ar­

mies, but especially of the greatest, ever subject to fears

and panics, particularly when moving in the night and

on hostile ground, and conscious, farther, that the

enemy is close at their heels) was made in a fad and

disorderly manner. The column, indeed, under Ni-

cias, which composed the van, kept firm together in a

body, and quite out-matched the rest of the army: but

that under Demosthenes, being one half at least, if not

the major part, of the whole force, was separated from

the van, and came on in great confusion and disorder.

However, by the dawn of day, they reach the coast;

and, gaining the great road which is called the Helorine>

took their route along it, that, after they had reached

the river Cacyparis, they might pierce upwards along

the course of that river into the heart of the country;

for thus they hoped to meet with the Siculi, whom they

had summoned to be ready on their route. But, when

they had gained the fight of that river, they found its

banks already occupied by a Syracusan guard, busy in

throwing up a rampart and palisado to defend its pas­

sage. This party they soon dispersed, and passed the

river, and from thence advanced towards another river,

the Erineus; for thus their guides had planned their

route.

In the mean time the Syracusans and allies, when the

day was clearly broke, and they knew the Athenians

were stole off, began in general to throw heavy impu­

tations on Gylippus, as if the Athenians had made their

escape through his connivance. Yet, beginning the

pursuit with all possible expedition, (and it was easily

discoverable what route they had taken,) they come up

with

