I'ga THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VL

truth, that " Syracuse was completely invested on all

** sides." Gylippus upon this gave up all hopes of sa­  
ving Sicily; but, having the preservation of Italy still

at heart, he and Pythen, the Corinthian, with the small

squadron at hand, consisting only of two Laconic and

two Corinthian vessels, crossed over the Ionian gulf with

all possible dispatch to Tarentum. The Corinthians,

besides their own ten now fitting out, were to man two

belonging to the Leucadians, and three more belong­

ing to the Ambraciots, and follow them as soon as pos­

sible.

The first step of Gylippus, now arrived at Tarentum,

was to go in quality of embassador to Thuria, claiming

privilege for it, as his father had been a denison of that

State; but, finding himself unable to gain their concur­

rence, he weighed from thence and stood along the

coast of Italy. But in the Terinean gulf he met with a

hard gale of wind, which in this gulf, when in a nor­

therly point, blows generally with great and lasting vi­

olence, and now drove him from his course, and blew

him out into the open sea, where he stood again the

rebuff of another violent storm, but at length reached

Tarentum. He there laid his vessels on-ground which

had been damaged in the foul weather, and resitted

them for service.

When Nicias found that he was in his passage, he be­

trayed an open contempt of so trifling a squadron, as

the Thurians had already done before him. It appear­

ed to him, that so petty a squadron could only be fitted

out for piratical cruizes, and therefore he sent out no

detachments to hinder his approach.

About the fame time of this summer, the Lacedæmo­

nians, with their own domestic forces augmented by the

junction of their allies, made an irruption into Argos, and

ravaged great part of that territory. The Athenians

put out to lea with thirty fail to succour the Argives,

which procedure was, beyond all denial, the clearest

Violation of the treaties between them and the Lacedæ­

monians.

