B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 141

soldiers, without giving any alarm, pulled down a little

gate of a very sorry structure, and then, entering the

city, walked up and down in the market. But, such of

the Cataneans as were of the Syracusan party no

sooner found that the army was got in, than, struck into

a sudden consternation, they stole presently out of the

city. The number of these was but trifling. The rest

of the inhabitants decreed an alliance with the Athenians,

and encouraged them to fetch over the remainder of

their armament from Rhegium.

This point being carried, the Athenians, having pas足

sed to Rhegium, were soon with the whole of their fleet

under sail for Catana, and, on their arrival there, they

formed a proper station for their ships and men.

But now intelligence was brought them from Cama-

rina that" if they would come to countenance them,

"that city would declare on their sidei" and that

"the Syracusans are busy in manning their fleet."

With the whole armament therefore they steered along

the coast, touching first at Syracuse. And, when they

found that no fleet was there in readiness to put to sea,

they stood off again for Camarina; and there, approach足

ing the shore, they notified their arrival by the voice

of a herald. Admittance was however refused them,

the Camarineans alledging that" they were bound by

u solemn oaths to receive only one single ship of

"the Athenians, unless of their own accord they should

"require a larger number." Thus disappointed they put

out again to sea; and, having made a descent on some

part of the Syracusan territory, they picked up a booty,

till the Syracusan cavalry making head against therfl

and cutting off some of their light-armed who were strag足

gled to a distance, they re-embarked, and went again

to Catana.

On their return thither they find the Salaminian ar-

rived from Athens to fetch back Alcibiades, by pub足

lic order of the State, to take his trial for the crimes

charged against him by his country, and also soms

Gihtfs

