B.V1IL THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 321

"the king might be made their friend, and supply them

"with money, were Alcibiades recalled, and the de-

"mocracy suspended." The effect of these declarations

on the many was this, that, though for the present they

were chagrined at the scheme in agitation, yet, soothed

by the flattering hope of the royal subsidies, they re­

frained from all manner of tumult.

But the set which was caballing in favour of an oli­

garchy, after such open declarations to the multitude, re­

considered the promises of Alcibiades amongst them­

selves, and with a larger number of their associates.

The scheme was judged by all the rest to be feasible

and sure; but Phrynichus, who was yet in the com­

mand, declared a total dislike of it. It appeared to

him (which was really the case) that " Alcibiades

"cared as little for an oligarchical as a democratical

'* government; and that no other thought lay seri-

"oufly at his heart than to throw the present govern-

"ment into some state of confusion, which his friends

*' might so far improve as to carry his recallrrlent. Of  
"consequence, the first point themselves should guard

"against was, not to be thrown into seditions for the

** benefit of the king. It was not probable, (he plainly  
"told them,) when the Peloponnesians had gained a

"power by sea equal to their own, and were masters of

"cities not the most inconsiderable amidst the king's do-

"minions, that the latter should turn the balance in

"favour of the Athenians, in whom he hath no confi-

"dence at all, whilst he might firmly depend upon the

"friendship of Peloponnesians, who had never done

"him any harm. As for confederate States, to whom

"they were to give a certain pledge of future oligar-

** chy By setting up that government amongst them-  
"selves, he told them he was well assured thac on that

"account neither such as had revolted would the sooner

*' return, nor such as were at present their own would  
** the longer continue in their duty; since the point on  
** which their wishes turned was, not to be enslaved by

Vol. II. Y an

