B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 373

deed in their present situation: For hitherto, afraid of

the naval strength of the Peloponnesians, because of the

rebusfs they had lately received from it, and the cala­

mitous event of the Sicilian expedition, from this mo­

ment they stopped all fruitless self-accusations or ground­

less exaggerations of the enemy's ability by sea. Some

ships of the enemy in fact they take; for instance, eight

Chian, five Corinthian, two Ambraciot, two Bœotian;

but, of Leucadian, and Lacedæmonian, and Syracu-

san, and Pellenean, a single one of each: But then they

sufsered the loss of fifteen ships of their own.

After erecting a trophy upon the cape of Cynos-sema,

and picking up the shatters of the fight, and giving up,

under truce, their dead to the enemy, they dispatched

a trireme to Athens, to notify the victory. On the ar­

rival of this vessel, those at home, after hearing the

news of this unhoped-for success, greatly resumed their

spirits, which had been dejected by the recent misfor­

tunes at Eubœa and the fad efsects of their sedition,

and hoped the State might again resume its power if

they cheerfully exerted their efforts in its behalf.

On the fourth day after the battle, the Athenians,

having diligently resitted their fleet at Sestus, sailed a-

gainst Cyzicus, which had revolted: And, descrying

eight ships from Byzantium riding at anchor under

Harpagium and Priapus, they crouded fail towards

them j and, having in battle upon the shore deseated

their crews, made prizes of them all. Repairing thence

against Cyzicus, which was quite unfortified, they re­

duced it once more, and exacted large contributions

from it.

But, during this interval, the Peloponnesians made

a trip from Abydus to Eleus, and brought off as many

of their own ships which had been taken as were able to

, fail j the residue the Eleusians burnt. They also dis­

patched Hippocrates and Epicles to Eubcea, to setch

up their fleet from thence.

B b 3 About

