a4i THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VII.

The Syracusans, who had soon an intelligence of their

designs, were now more animated than ever to press

briskly on the Athenians, as on men who had given

prools of their own inward conviction that they were

no longer a match for their foes cither by sea or on

land; fincei with other thoughts, they never could

have projected a re-embarkation. Apprehensive, at

the lame time, that, mould they remove to any other

quarter of Sicily, they would become more disficult of

reduction, they saw the necessity of engaging them by

sea without a moment's loss, whilst yet they had an

advantage in compelling them to sight. Upon this,

they ordered the complements of men on-board their

ships, and exercised their crews as many days as Was

judged susficient. But, when opportunity offered of

acting with advantage, on the first day they assaulted

the Athenian intrenchments; and, a party of heavy-

armed and horsemen, though not numerous, sallying

out at some of the ports to beat them off, they cut off

some of the heavy-armed from the rest of that party,

As the spot, farther, on which the assault is made, was

narrow, the Athenians lose seventy horses and a small

number of their heavy-armed. Nothing more hap­

pened on this day, as the army of the Syracusans now

made their retreat.

"a sleilfu) soothsayer with him; for his intimate, Stilbidet, who had cured
much

"of his superstition, had died a little before j since this portent (as
Philochoru*

"fays) was not a bad one, but an excellent good one, for a flying army; since
act,

"which are accompanied with fear stand in need of concealment, and light it
ever

"an adversary to them. Besides, after eclipses of the son or moon, it was the
u-

« soat custom (as Autoclidrs hath informed us) to hold only a three days
cessation

"from business. But Nicias persuaded himself that a complete revolution of the

"moon ought to be waited for; as if with his own eyes he had not seen her
shine

"bright again, when the had passed the sliadow and the earth's interposition.
Yet,

"throwing up all attention to other points, he minded nothing hot sacrificing,
till

and, having

them to flight, follow the pursuit.

"his enemies attacked him." Life of Nie'uu.

But,

