20 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. V,

cannot be exactly known in what determinate part, whe­

ther in the beginning or middle, or any other portion,

of a magistracy, any important event occurred. But, if

the computation proceed by summers and winters, which

method I have observed, such an inquirer will find,

that these two halves being equivalent to a whole year,

ten complete summers, and the same number of winters,

elapsed in the course of this first part of the war.

The Lacedæmonians, for to them it fell by lot to

make the first restitutions, released immediately what

prisoners they had in their hands; and, having dispatch­

ed Ischagoras, and Menas, and Philocharidas, in the

quality of their embassadors to the cities of Thrace, or­

dered Clearidas to deliver up Amphipolis to the Athe­

nians, and all the consederates there to submit to the

terms of the treaty, according to the stipulation given

for them. But this they positively refused, as they

judged the treaty prejudicial. Clearidas also, to ingra­

tiate himself with the Chalcideans, would not deliver up

Amphipolis, alledging, that, without their concurrence,

he could not possibly do ir. He himself returned in

person soon after with the embassadors, in order to make

his defence at Lacedæmon, mould Ischagoras accuse

him there of disobeying orders. His view was, farther,

to try if the accommodation could by any means be eva­

ded. But, when he found it fast confirmed, he posted

back with all speed to his government, having expresi

orders from the Lacedæmonians to deliver up Amphi­

polis; or, if that was beyond his power, to cause all the

Peloponnesians within that garrison instantly to evacuate

the place.

The confederates happened, at this juncture, to be

at Lacedæmon, where such of them, as had hitherto

refused to accept the treaty, were ordered by the Lace­

dæmonians to accede to it. But this they positively re­

fused, alledging the same reason as before; and plainly

affirming, that " they would not come in, till better

"terms than the present were obtained for them."

Their

