B. VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 197

When the land-army had quitted Teos, Tiflaphernes

in person came thither with a body, and, after com­

pletely demolishing those parts of the wall before Teos

which were yet left standing, marched away.

Not long after his departure, Diomedon, arriving

there with ten fail of Athenians, in order to gain a re­

ception, made a truce with the Teians. From thence

he coasted along to Eras, and assaulted the place; but,

not being able to take it, he sailed away.

Coinciding with this in point of time, an insurrection

was made at Samos by the people against the nobility.

The Athenians, who with three ships were then lying

at Samos, assisted the former. On this occasion the

S&m'ian people massacred about two hundred persons, all

of the nobility. Four hundred others they condemned

to exile; and, having divided amongst themselves their

lands and houses, and obtained from the Athenians a

decree of being governed by their own constitutions, as

men whose sidelity was no longer to be suspected, they

assumed the whole civil administration, leaving no share

of it in the hands ofthe landed gentry, and absolutely

prohibiting to the people all alliance for the future with

them, so as neither to give their daughters to them nor

ever to marry theirs. . - .

After these transactions, during the same summer,

the Chians, proceeding with unabating ardour, left no­

thing undone to compass the revolt of the cities. Even

without Peloponnesian aid they made them visits with

their own single force; and, desirous at the same time

to involve as large a number as possible in their own

dangers, they undertake a voyage with thirteen fail

of ships to Lesbos. This squared exactly with the La­

cedæmonian plan 1 which was to make the second ac-

tempt upon that island, and from thence to proceed to

Hellespont. The land-force, at the same time, of such

Peloponnesians as were at hand, and their adjacent allies,

attended their motions by the route of Clazomenæ and

Cyme: These were commanded by Eualas, a Spartan;

