A,V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 69

greatest part of the picked band of Argives completed

their escape.

The flight however was not precipitate, nor the dis­

tance to a place of safety great. For the Lacedæmoni­

ans, till the enemy flieth, maintain their combats with

long and steady toil; but, after a rout, pursue them

neither long nor far.

And thus, or very nearly thus, was the procedure

of the whole battle, the greatest that for many ages had

been fought amongst Grecians, and where the competi­

tion lay between most renowned and flourishing Stales.

The Lacedæmonians, amassing together the arms of

their enemies who had been stain, immediately erected a

trophy, and rifled the bodies of the dead. They also

took up their own dead, and carried, them to Tegea,

where they received the rights of sepulture; and also de­

livered, upon truce, the slain of their enemy. There

fell, of the Argives, and Orneatæ, and Cleoneans, se­

ven hundred; and two hundred of the Mantineans;

two hundred also of the Athenians, including the Ægi-

netæ and their several commanders. On the Lacedæ- (

monian fide,—as the consederates were never hard pres­

sed, what loss they suffered is scarcely deserving of no­

tice; and the exact number of their own dead it is diffi­

cult to discover, but it was reported to have been about

three hundred.

When a battle was certainly to be fought, Pleistio-

nax, the other king, marched out to their support, with

the whole body of citizens, both old men and youths.

But, when he was advanced as far as Tegea, he recei­

ved the news of a victory, and returned to Sparta.

The Lacedæmonians also sent messengers to countermand

their aljies from Corinth, and from without the isthmus.

And, being themselves returned to Sparta, after giving

dismission to their allies, as the Carneian solemnities

were at hand, they celebrate the sestival. The imputa­

tion also of cowardice, at that time laid to their charge

by the rest of Greece, because of their misfortune at

F 3 Sphacteria,

