334 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIff.

The present alteration, therefore, fell out exactly to

their own wish; their State was restored to its ancient

form without any trouble; and the people, who alone

were able to disconcert them, were divested of their

power. In Thasus, therefore, the event took an op­

posite turn to what those Athenians who labcired the

oligarchy had at heart ; and, in my judgement, the

cafe was the fame with many other of their dependent

States: For, having now their eyes open to their own

welfare, and being exempted from the dread of suffer­

ing for what others did, they ran into the scheme of a

total independence, which they preferred before the

precarious situation of being well governed by the A-

thenians.

Pisander and his collegues in the course of their voy­

age observed their instructions, and dissolved the popular

governments in the cities where they touched. From

some of these they also procured parties of heavy-armed

to aid them in the grand project, and so landed at A-

thens. Here they find affairs in great forwardness,

through the activity of their accomplices: For, some of

the younger fort having combined together in a plot

against Androcles, who had the greatest sway amongft

the 'people, and had also been deeply concerned in ba­

nishing Alcibiades, they secretly dispatch him. Oil

him, for a double reason, because of his influence with

the people, and with the thought that it might oblige

Alcibiades, whose recallment was now expected, and

through his interest the friendsliip of Tiflaphernes, they

chose first to wreak their fury. Of some others also,

whose instability they doubted, they had rid them­

selves by the same practices. A specious harangue had,

farther, been dresled up for the purpose, that " none

"ought to receive the public money but such as served

*» the State in war with their persons; that affairs of  
*' state ought not to be communicated to more than  
** five thousands and those to be * men who were best  
. .. ** qualified,

