B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 275

** reimbursed, on condition the forces under his com-  
"mand might have free departure; bur, till the mo-

"ney could be paid, he would leave with them a num-

*' ber of Athenians as hostages for performance, a maa  
*' for a talent."

Gylippus and the Syracusans refused the offer; and,

resuming offensive measures, ranged their parties quite

round the eminence, and poured in their missive wea­

pons upon them till the evening. This body of troops

was also sadly distressed for wane of bread and necessary

subsistence. Watching, however, for the dead and si­

lent hours of the night, they were then determined to

continue their march. They accordingly take up their

arms; the Syracusans perceive it, and sing the pæan of

alarm. The Athenians were thus convinced that they

could not dislodge without being discovered, and so

grounded their arms again, all but one party of three

hundred men; for these, having forced themselves a

passage through the guards, made off in the night as

fast as it was possible.

So soon as the day appeared, Nicias, at the head of

his troops, led them forwards. But the Syracusans and

allies pressed upon him on all sides in the usual manner,

pouring in vollies of darts and javelins. The Atheni­

ans made the best of their way to reach the river Assina-

rus; not only because, annoyed on all sides by the ir­

ruption of the numerous cavalry and skirmishing par­

ties, they concluded they should be eated of these could

they once pass that river, but also through bodily fa­

tigue and a vehement desire to extinguish their thirst.

"When, therefore, they are upon the bank, they rush

into the river; no longer observant of order, but each

single soldier intent on passing the first of the army.

And the enemy, who now prefled hard upon them, had

rendered the passage already a business of toil:For, obli­

ged as they were to go down in confused'heaps, they fell

and trampled upon one another; some, embarrassed by

their spears and luggage, met with instant destruction

T 2 others,

