igo THE PELOPONNESTAN WAR. B.VI,

or six of thole by whom he was accompanied. The Sy-

racusans caught up their bodies with al] possible expe.

dition, and bore them off to a place of security on the

other side of the river. They were in great measure

obliged to make a precipitate retreat, since the rest of

the Athenian army was now coming up to attack them.

But now, such of the Syracusans as had fled at first

towards the city, having gained leisure to observe such

turns in their favour, caught fresh courage from the

fight; and, forming again into order, stood their

ground against that body of Athenians which faced them.

They also send a detachment to attempt the circle on

Epipolæ, concluding it to be unmanned for the present,

and might at once be taken. This detachment in fact

made itself master of the out-work, and demolishad it

for about ten pktbres in length; but the circle itself

was defended by Nicias from all their attempts. Ni-

cias, being much out of order, had been left to repose

himself within the circle. He therefore issued orders to

bis servants to set fire to all the machines arid the tim­

ber which were lying before the wall; for he was con­

vinced that thus alone, in such a toral wane of hands

for their defence, any safety could be earned. The

event answered his expectation; for,, when the flames

began to mount, the Syracusans durst not any longer

come near, but thought proper tc desist and march a-

way.

For now the Athenians, who by this time had chaced

the enemy from off the plain, were remounting the

ascent to defend their circle; and, at the same instant

of time, their fleet, conformable to the orders they had

received, was standing into the great harbour. The

Syraculans upon the high-ground beheld the sight}

which occasioned them and the whole Syracufan army

to retire precipitately into the city ; concluding them­

selves no longer able, without an augmentation of their

present strength, to hinder the completion ot the Artie*

nian works quite down to the sea.

