IB. VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 135

eighty; and, of these, eighty were Cretans. There were

seven hundred Rhodian flingers, and a hundred and

twenty light-armed Megarean exiles. And one horse-

transport attended, which carried thirty horsemen.

So great an equipment sailed out at first to begin the

war. And, in the train of this equipment, went thirty

storefhips laden with corn, and carrying on-board the

bakers, and masons, and carpenters, and all things re­

quisite in the works of fortification; and also a hundred

sail of small vessels, which necessity demanded to attend

the (hips that carried the stores. A large number also

of small craft and trading vessels sailed voluntarily in

company with the fleet, for the sake of traffic. All

which now, in one collected body, stood away from

Corcyra across the Ionian gulf.

The whole armament being got over to cape Japygia,

or to Tarentum, as they severally could make the passage,

sailed along the coast of Italy, — where not one city

would receive them, would grant them a marker, or suf­

fer them to land, barely permitting them to anchor and

to water,—though at Tarentum and Locri even that was

denied them, — till they arrived at Rhegium, a promon­

tory of Italy. At Rhegium the whole fleet was now

assembled; and without the city (for an admission intoic

•was refused them) they formed an incampment within

the verge of Diana's temple, where also they were ac­

commodated by the Rhtgians with a market.

Here, having drawn their vessels on-shore, they lay

some time for refreshment; and had a conference with

the Rhegians, in which they pressed them, as they were

of Chalcidic descent, to succour the Leontines who were

also Chakideans. Their answer was, that " they should

*' side with neither party, but, whatever measures were  
** judged expedient by the other Italians, they should  
"conform to those." The Athenians counsels were now

solely bent on the affairs of Sicily, in what manner they

might most successfully make their approaches. They

allo waited for the return of the three vessels from

K-4 Hgeita,

