B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 57

** fair and equitable arbitration, in case the Lacedæmo-  
*' nians had any charge against them; and for the fu-  
"ture would live at peace, if a present accommoda-

"tion could be effected."

In this manner these Argives presumed to talk, mere­

ly of themselves, and without the public authority. A-

gis also, by his own private determination, accepted

the proposals; and, without reporting them to the

council of war, without canvassing things maturely him­

self, or at least communicating only with one person of

the number which had authority in the army, grants

them a four months truce, "in which space they were

*' to make good what engagements they had now made;"  
and then instantly drew off the army, without impart­

ing the reasons of his conduct to the other consederates.

The Lacedæmonians, indeed, and confederates, follow*

ed when he led them off, because their laws exacted

such obedience; yet, amongst themselves, were lavish,

of their censure against Agis, that, when so fine an op­

portunity of engaging was in their power, when their

enemies were hemmed in on all sides, both by their

horse and their foot, they were drawn off, without per­

forming any thing worthy of such mighty preparations;

for, to this very day, a finer army of Grecians had never

appeared in the field. A most gallant figure in truth it

made, whilst they were all together at Nemea. The

Lacedæmonians were there to be seen with the whole

collected force of their State, accompanied by the Arca­

dians, and Bœotians, and Corinthians, and Sicyonians,

and Pellenians, and Phliasians, and Megareans. The

troops which compoled their several quotas were all pick­

ed men, and were judged a match in the field of battle,

not only for the whole Argive alliance, but the addi­

tion of double strength. This great army, however,

laying all the time most heavy imputations on the con­

duct of Agis, drew off, and were disbanded to their se­

veral habitations.

On

