34 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.V.

"rous to have the friendship of Argos, consistently

"with their honour; knowing it would facilitate the

"success of their war without Peloponnesus." — They

also requested the Bœotians " to deliver up Panactum to

"the Lacedæmonians, that, exchanging it if possible

lt for Pylus, they might get clear of the main obstacle

"to a fresh rupture with the Athenians."

The Bœotians and Corinthians, instructed by Xena-

res and Cleobulus, and the party in their interest at La­

cedæmon, departed, botht to report this scheme to their

principals. But two persons, of the greatest authority

in the State of Argos, were attending upon the road

for their return. They met, and conferred with them

"about the means of gaining the concurrence of the

*' Bœotians in this league, upon the same footing with  
"the Corinthians, and Eleans, and Mantineans: For

"they were confident, were this point once completed,

"they might easily become the arbiters of war or peace,

"either in relation to the Lacedæmonians, (if they so

*' determined, and would act together with firm una-  
"nimity,) or to any other State whatever."

The Bœotian embassadors were highly delighted with

this discourse. The solicitations of these Argives hap­

pened to coincide with the instructions recommended to

them by their friends at Lacedæmon. And the Argives,

finding them satisfied with their motion, assured them

they would send embassadors to the Bœotians, and so

they parted.

But the Bœotians, at their return, reported to the

Rulers of Bœotia the proposals from Lacedæmon, and

those from the Argives upon the road. The Bœotian-

rulers were delighted, and grew now more zealous than

ever; became, on both sides, from their Lacedæmo­

nian friends and also from the Argives, the solicitations

were concurrenr. And, very soon after, the Argive

embassadors arrived to forward the dispatch of the trea­

ty. The Bœotian-rulers, however, at present, gave

only a veibal approbation of the scheme, and then dif-

. i ..i missed

