B.VIT. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 197

the herald to move off. And now both sides were busy

in marshalling and disposing their men for battle.

But Gylippus, who had made an observation that

the Syracusans were in great confusion and could not

easily be formed into proper order, made his army fall

back into more open ground. Nicias gave them no

disturbance whilst they were making this motion; but,

without advancing, stood close under his works: and,

when Gylippus found that the enemy would not move

forwards to attack him, he made his forces wheel off to

the high-ground called Temenites, where they reposed

themlelves for the night.

The next morning he drew up the greatest part of

his army before the works of the Athenians, to prevent

their sending out succours to more distant posts: for he

had detached a party to attack the fort of Labdalum,

which he carried by storm, and put all the garrison

found within it to the sword. Labdalum was so situ­

ated, in regard to the Athenian posts, that they could

have no view of what was transacting there. The same

day also an Athenian trireme, as it was entering the

harbour, is taken by the Syracusans.

After so much success, the Syracusans and allies set

about raising a counterwork along Epipolæ. Begin-

ning at the city, they carried it upwards towards the

single wall which had an oblique inclination; and in­

tended that, in cafe the Athenians could not stop its

completion, it mould entirely exclude them from per­

fecting their circumvallation, The Athenians, having

perfected their works to the sea, had now remounted

the eminence; and, as some parts of their work were

but weak, Gylippus drew out his army by night, and

was marching to demolish those: but the Athmians,

•who passed the night without their worus, were no

sooner aware of it, ihan they also marched away to de­

fend them. Upon which, Gylippus, finding them a-

larmtd, desisted, and made his army retreat to their

former posts. This however occasioned the Atheni-

O 3 ans

