7o THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.W

Sphacteria, and some other instances of impolitic and di­

latory conduct, by this one action they completely pur­

ged away. Now it was determined that their depression

had been merely the result of fortune, but that in in­

ward bravery they were still themselves.

The day before this battle was fought, it happened

that the Epidaurians, with the whole of their strength,

had made an incursion into Argia, as left defenceless,

and had done great execution on the guards, left behind

at the general march of the Argives.

Three thousand heavy-armed Eleans, as auxiliaries to

the Mantineans, came up after the battle; as did also a

thousand Athenians to join the former body; upon

which the whole alliance marched immediately against

Epidaurus, whilst the Lacedæmonians were solemnizing

the Carneian festival. Afcer an equal distribution of

the work, they began to raise a circumvaliation around

that city. The rest, indeed, soon desisted; but the A-

thenians, conformably to their orders, completed theirs

round the eminence on which stood the temple of Juno.

To guard this, work, the whole alliance left behind a

sufficient number draughted from their several bodies,

and then departed to their respective homes. And the

summer was now at an end.

In the first commencement of the succeeding winter,

and after the celebration of the Carneian festival, the

Lacedæmonians immediately took the field; and,

advancing as far as Tegea, sent from thence to Argos

proposals for an accommodation. There was already

in that city a party in their intelligence, who were also

bent on overturning the popular government at Argos;

and, since the event of the late fatal battle, they were

enabled to use more cogent arguments to persuade the

many into the accommodation. Their scheme was, first

to enter into truce with the Lacedæmonians, as prepara­

tory to an alliance offensive and defensive, which was

next in agitation; and, this point carried, then imme­

diately to execute thtir plot against the people.

Lichas,

