B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 53

far as the frontiers of Epidauria, and then refused to

act. And, during the space of time that the Argives

were in Epidauria, embassies from the several States

held a congress at Mantinea, ac the request of the A-

thenians; and, proceeding to a conserence, Epharru-

das, the Corinthian, remonstrated, that "their words

** were by no means consistent with their actions; for,  
** whilst they were here sitting together upon the terms  
"of peace, the Epidaurians and allies and the Argives

** were opposing one another in arms: That, consc-  
** quently, the first thing to be done was to send depu-  
** tations on both sides to disband those armies, and  
"then orderly to proceed to treat of peace." Yield­

ing, therefore, to the justice of such a remonstance,

they fetched the Argives out of Epidauria; and, retur­

ning to the congress, they were not able even then ta

agree together: Upon which the Argives once more en­

tered Epidauria, and resumed the ravage.

The Lacedæmonians now had taken the field, and

were advanced to Caryæ •> but, as now again the vic­

tims sacrificed portended no success to a campaign, they

once more withdrew.

The Argives also, after ruining about a third of the

territory of Epidauria, were returned home. In this

incursion they were assisted by one thousand heavy-armed

Athenians, with Alcibiades at their head; who, having

heard that the Lacedæmonians had now left the field,

as their service was now no longer needful, marched a-

way. And in this manner the summer passed.

In the beginning of the next winter, the Lacedæmo­

nians, unknown to the Athenians, threw a body of men

to the number of three hundred, with Agesippidas as

commandant, into Epidaurus by sea. Upon this, the

Argives repaired instantly to Athens, with remonstran­

ces, that, " though it was explicitly mentioned in the

** treaty that no enemy should be suffered to pass  
"through their respective dominions, yet they had

** permuted the Lacedæmonians to make this passage

E 3 "by

