3o6 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIIL

and, for the rest, as many as exceeded that number,

pay was to be furnished at the race of only three oboli a

day.

The fame winter, the Athenians now lying at Samos

had been reinforced by the arrival of five and thirty fail

from Athens, under the command of Charminus, and

Strombichides, and Euctemon j and they had farther

assembled all their ships from Chios, and others. A

resolution was therefore taken, after assigning each his

peculiar command by lot, to make up against it with at

naval force, and awe Miletus j but to send against Chios

both a naval and a land force; and this accordingly

they put in execution. For, in fact, Strombichides,

and Onomacles, and Euctemon, with a squadron

of thirty sail and a body of transports, which had on足

board a detachment from the thousand heavy-armed

which came against Miletus, stood away for Chios, as

this service had fallen to them by lot; but the rest of the

commanders who now remained at Samos, having un足

der them seventy-four ships, were quite lords of the sea,

and sailed boldly up to awe Miletus.

Astyochus, who happened at this juncture to be in

Chios, selecting hostages as a prevention against treache足

ry, thought proper for the present to desist, when he

heard of the arrival of the squadron under Theramenes,

and that their engagements with ThTaphernes were

above three Mi a day. And hence it seems pretty clear, that the complement rf

a Fcloponnesian skip of war was two hundred men.

; I hare another proof ac hand, which will confirm what bath already .been
said,

and seive at the same time to ascertain the number of men on-board a ship of
war.

In the sixth book Thucydidet fays, the Egesleans brought to Athens sixty
talents, as

a month's pay for sixty (hips. He fays also, that in the Sicilian expedition
the daily pay

-ps the Athenian seamen was raised to a drachma a man. Now a talent a month,  
reckoning thirty days to the month, is two mime a day; and two mirnt are just
two-

hundred drachmas. Hence, it is plain, the complement of an Athenian thip was
two

hundred men; and, according to the former computation, that of a
Peloponnefiast

ihip was, as might reasonably be expected, exactly the fame. This is a farther
con足

firmation that there is a mistake in the printed copies of the original, as
was (aid

abort; where, instead of three talents, which amount but to 581/.
51.sttrssttg, daould

have been read thirty talents, amounting in Englisli money to 5812/, 101.

much

