B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 55

ded in the field by the.Tegeatæ, and all the other Ar­

cadians whatever confederated with the Lacedæmonians.

But the allies of the other parts of Peloponnesus, and

those without the isthmus, were assembled at Phlius;-—

the Bœotians, consisting of five thousand heavy-armed,

and the same number of light-armed ; five hundred

horsemen, each attended by a soldier on foot:—the Co­

rinthians of two-thousand heavy-armed ;—the other con­

federates with their several quotas ; — but the Phliasians

with the whole of their force, because the army was as­

sembled in their district.

The Argives, who had sometime before intelligence

of the Lacedæmonian preparations, and that since they

were filing towards Phlius in order to join the forces as­

sembled there, now took the field themselves. They

were joined by a succour of the Mantineans, strength­

ened by the addition of their dependents, and three

thousand heavy-armed Eleans. Upon their march, they

fell in with the Lacedæmonians at Methydrium of Ar­

cadia. Each party posts itself upon a rising ground.

The Argives got every thing in readiness to attack the

Lacedæmonians whilst yet they were alone; but Agis,

dislodging by night and stealing a march, completed

his junction with the body of confederates at Phlius.

When this was perceived by the Argives, they drew

off early the next dawn, first cf all to Argos, and then

to the pass on the route of Nemea, by which they ex­

pected the Lacedæmonians, with their confederates,

would faU into their country. Yet Agis took not that

route which they expected; but, having communicated

his design to the Lacedæmonians, and Arcadians, and

Epidaurians, be took a different route, though much

less practicable, and descended into the plains of Argos.

The Corinthians, and Pellenians, and Phliasians, fol­

lowed by another more direct route; and orders had

been given to the Bœotians, and Megareans, and Sicyo-

riians, to take the route which leadeth to Nemea, on

which the Argives were posted, that, in case the Ar-

E 4 glves

