42 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. V.

spoke before the senate,* notifying at the same time that

"they were come with full power to put an end to all

"disputes;" by which they gave fome alarm to Alci-

biades, lest, should they make the same declaration be­

fore the assembly of the people, it might have an influ-

* The Lacedæmonian embassy have, on this occasion, their first audience from I be  
serali. The business of this history hath been hitherto transacted in the
assembly os

the people t For, as the generals of the State were the chief ministers in
time of war,

and had a power of convening the people at their own discretion, all points
that re­

quired a speedy determination were brought before the people in the first
instance;

and the influence of the senate, which operated on ordinary occasions, was
checked

and suspended in time of war, which starts many extraordinary occasions, or
left it in

the will of the generals of the Stale to call and treat as extraordinary
whatever they

pleased. By these means the people had ingtoffed the power, the balance which
Solon

designed always to preserve was in a great measure loll, and the
aristocratical influence

was quite suspended.

As, therefore, the popular assembly had its note at first setting out, the
form and

constitution of the senate now requires an explanation.—-At this time it
consisted of

five hundred persons, and for that reason is often stiled the council of five
hundred,

and sometimes, by Thucycides, the council of the bean, from the manner of
their e-

lection. Every year, on an appointed day, each tribe returned the names of
their

members who were qualified and stood candidates for this honour. The names
were

engraved on pieces of brass, and cast into a vessel; the fame number of beans
were

cast into another vessel, fifty of which were w hite and the rest black. They
then

proceeded to draw out a name and a bean, and the persons to whom the white
beans

were drawn became the senators of the year. Each senator had a drachma, that
is,

seven pence three farlbings, a day for his salary.

In the next place, the names of the tribes were thrown into a vessel, and into
ano­

ther nine black beans and one white one ; the tribe, to whose name the white
bean

was drawn, took the first course of presidency for a tenth part of the year,
and the or­

der of the succeeding courses was determined in the fame manner by the bean.
How

the fifty in course were again subdivided into tent, and from these tern a
chairman cho­

sen for a day, hath been already explained, in the note on the popular
assembly,

Book T.

ThesenateUt every day in the prytaneum, ar slate-bouse, where the prtfidtntl
had al­

so their diet. They were the grand council of state, took into consideration
all the

affairs os the commonwealth, debated, and voted by beans; and whatever
determina­

tions werethus made in the senate were afterwards carried down to the assembly
os the

people, to be ratified and passed into laws. • By Solon's original
constitution, nothing

was to be proposed to the people before it had been canvassed and approved in
the se­

nate: But this seems to have been eluded by the generals of the state, who had
all

the military business in their department, and a power to convene the people
at their

pleasure, and lay matters before them in the first instance. To restore the
aristocrati­

cal power, and reduce that of the people, occasioned an usurpation and fad
consusion in

/ithenE, as will bescen in the eighth book of this history,

ence

