,'B.Vl. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 147

attempt was executed by Harmodius and Aristogiton,

from the impulse of a sudden consternation. But, after

this, the tyranny became more grievous upon the Athe­

nians. Hippias, who was now more than ever alarmed,

.put many os the citizens to death; and cast his thoughts

about towards foreign powers, to secure himself an

asylum abroad in case of a total reverse at home. To

Æantidas therefore; the son of Hippoclus, tyrant of

Lampsacus, — to a Lampsacene though he himself was

an Athenian, — he married his daughter Archedice,

knowing that family to have a powersul interest with

king Darius. And the monument of that lady is now

at Lampsacus, and hath this inscription:

From Hippias sprung, with regal pow'r array'd,

- 'Within this earth Archedice is lay'd $

By father, husband, brothers, sons, ally'd

To haughty thrones, yet never stain'd with pride.

For the space of three years after this, Hippias con­

tinued in possession of the tyranny at Athens; but, being

deposed in the fourth by the Lacedæmonians, and the

exiled Aicmæotnidæ, he retired by agreement to Si-

gæum: from thence, to Æantidas at Lampsacus; and,

from thence, to king Darius: and, with a command un­

der him, he marched twenty years aster to Marathon; and,

though much advanced in years, ierved in that war with

the Medes.

The People of Athens, reflecting on these past trans­

actions, and recollecting all the dilmal narratives about

them which tradition had handed down, treated with

great severity, and deep suspicions, all such as were in­

formed against, in relation to the mysteries: and they con­

strued the whole procedure as the dawning of a plot to

Plutarch hath preserved a smart reply of Antipho the orator, who will appear
in

this history, to the elder Dionyfius, tyrant of Syracuse. The latter had put
the ques­

tion, which was the finest kind of brass? ".That, replied Antipho, of which
the

** fbtucs of HaraK'dms and Arifiofiton were made."'

L 2 erect

