B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 5

He met also in his course with those Locrians, who

were going to another settlement, after expulsion from

Messene. They had been driven to this necessity by se­

ditious factions at Messene, one of which had invited

them thither since the joint-accommodation among the Si­

cilians; and now they were forced to shift again, though

Messene had for a time been entirely in their power.

Phæax therefore, meeting with these in their removal,

gave them no annoyance; for the Locrians had been at

a conference with him, to concert the measures of an a-

greement with the Athenians. These, however, were

the only party of all the consederates, who, when the

Sicilians had amicably ended their disputes, refused to

treat with the Athenians, and were brought to such

submission since merely by a war, in which they were

embroiled against the Itonians and Meleans, who bor­

dered upon them, and were colonies of their own. And,

some time after this, Phæax truly returned to Athens.

But Cleon, who from Torone was gone about by sea

against Amphipolis, marching away fron Ei'on, makeih

an assault upon Stagirus, a colony of Andrians, but

without success; yet Galepfus, a colony of the Thasians,

he taketh by storm. He sent farther embassadors to

'Perdiccas, to summon his attendance in the expedition,

according to the tenor of the new alliance. He sent o-

thers into Thrace to Polles, king of the Odomantians,

that he would hire as large a body of Thracians as could

begot, and bring them up under his own orders. And,

during this interval, he himself lay quiet at Eton.

But Brasidas, informed of these proceedings, placed

himself in an opposite post at Cerdilium. This place be-

longeth to the Argilians, and is seated on an eminence

on the other side of the river, and at no great distance

from Amphipolis. From hence he had a perfect view

of all Clton's motions; so that now it was impossible for

the latter to make any approach with his army, from

thence to Amphipolis, without being discovered. Bra­

sidas, however, suspected that Cleon would approach,

B 3 and,

