B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 207

•twenty talents of silver; impowered, farther, to as­

sure them, that "a large reinforcement will soon come

"up, as the State had seriously interested itself in their

"welsare." Demosthenes stayed behind to forward

the equipment, and was intended to set out on the first

approach of spring. He was busied in assembling to­

gether their contingents from the dependent States, and

in levying amongst them both money, and shipping,

and soldiers.

The Athenians farther send out twenty fail, to cruize

on the coasts os Peloponnesus, and to take care that no

one passed over from Corinth and Peloponnesus into Si­

cily. For the Corinthians, upon the arrival of the em­

bassadors, and the advice they brought, that "the face

"of affairs was much altered for the better," (priding

themselves in the reflexion that their former equipment

had arrived in time to contribute to this turn,) became

now more alert than ever, and got transports in readi­

ness to carry over a body of their own heavy-armed into

Sicily, whilst the Lacedæmonians were intent on doing

the fame from other parts of Peloponnesus. The Co­

rinthians, sarther, manned out five and twenty fail; de­

signing to hazard an engagement with the guard-ships

stationed at Naupactus, or to disable the Athenians who

lay there from giving their transports the least molesta­

tion, by keeping their own triremes ready ranged in or­

der of battle in the very face of that squadron.

. The Lacedæmonians also were preparing for an inva­

sion of Attica, in pursuance of a former resolution, and

in compliance farther with the pressing instances of both

Syraculans and Corinthians. They had no sooner heard

ot the reinforcement intended to be sent by the Athe­

nians to Sicily, than, by making a diversion, they de­

signed to stop its execution. Alcibiades also continued

warmly importuning them to execute his plan of forti­

fying Decelea, and to proceed briskly with the war.

* 3875/. Stirling,

But

