i5o THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VI.

Salaminian to Sicily, to order him and such others as they

had informations against to repair to Athens. But it

had been given them in charge to notify to him, that

"he should follow them home in order to make his de-

"fence," and by no means to put him under arrest.

This management was owing to a desire of preventing

all stirs in the army or in the enemy; and, not least of

all, to their willingness that the Mantineans and Argives

should continue in the service, whose attendance in the

expedition they wholly ascribed to the interest Alcibiades

had with them.

In pursuance of this, Alcibiades on-board his own

ship, and accompanied by all those who were involved

in the same accusation, sailed away from Sicily with the

Salaminian for Athens. And, when they were got to the

height os Thuria, they no longer followed; but quitting

their ship were no longer to be seen. Censured as they

were, they durst not in fact undergo a trial. The crew

of the Salaminian exerted themselves immediately in the

search after Alcibiades and his companions: But, when

they found the search was ineffectual, they gave ic up,

and steered away for Athens. And Alcibiades, now be­

come a fugitive, passed over in a vessel soon after from

Thuria * to Peloponnesus. But the Athenians, upon

his thus abandoning his defence, pronounced the sen­

tence of death against him and his asfociates.

After these transactions, the Athenian generals who

remained in Sicily, having divided their whole arma­

ment into two squadrons and taken the command of

each by lot, set sail with all their united force for Seiinus

> and Egesta. They were desirous to know, whether the

Egesteans would pay down the money: to discover also

the

* Somebody at Thuria, who knew AIciMades, aiked him, why he would not  
stand a trial, and trust hit country?" In other points I would; but, when roy
life

"is concerned, 1 would not trust my own mother, lest flie should make a
mistake,

"and put in a black bean instead of a white one." And, when he was afterwards

told, that his countrymen had passed the sentence of death against him, he
b'ilkly

replied—" But I'll make them know that 1 am alive." Plutarch in Akibiada,

