B.VL THE PELOPONNEStAN WAR. 127

"It is my firm opinion, that, amidst that great per-

*' plexity of thought which must result from these ob-  
"structions, they will never presume to sail from Cor-

"cyra; or, at least, whilst they are agitating the forms

"of procedure and sending out spy-boats to discover

*' our numbers and position, the season of the year must  
"be protracted to winter; or, utterly dispirited at so

"unexpected a resistance, they will give up the voyage.

"This I more readily expect, as I am informed that'

"their most experienced commander hath been forced

"into office against his inclination, and would gladly

'* lay hold of the pretext to desist, if such a show of

** resistance could be made by us as would preserve his  
"honour from suspicion. And I am perfectly convin-

"ced that rumour will increase and aggravate our

"strength. Now the sentiments of mankind are con-

"stantly adjusted by rumours: Parity of danger is

"supposed, when an enemy declares he is ready to be-

"gin the attack; and such an enemy is always more

*' dreaded than he, who betrays an intention merely to  
*' defend himself against an enemy's assaults. "Such ex-  
"cess of fear must now fall to the lot of the Athenians.

"They are invading us, with the fond presumption

"that we shall not fight. They think they have

** grounds for such a presumption, because we have not  
"concurred with the Lacedæmonians in their demoli-

"tion. But when, to their bitter disappointment, they

"find we have the courage to act offensively, the sud-

"denness of our efforts will terrify them more than all

** the reality of our expected strength could have done.

"Determine therefore to execute with bold and rea-

"dy resolution the plan I have proposed or, if this

*' must not prevail, with the utmost expedition to gee  
*' all things at home in readiness for war. And let  
*' each Syracusan be firmly convinced, that contempc  
«' of an enemy ought never to be shewn but in the heat

«* of action; that the conduct of those men must tend

'* most highly to the public preservation, who, alarmed

T by

