262 THE PELOPONNESTAN WAR. B.VII.

noises was heard together ;—Jkrieking—shouting—victory!

—undone I —undone! — and all other sounds, of various

import, which, in such extremity of danger, a nume­

rous body of men may be forced to utter.

Those, farther, on-board, were equally sensible of all

the quick alternatives of passion; till at last, after the

battle had for a long time been obstinately maintained,

the Syracusans and allies put the Athenians to open

flight; and, plying briskly in the chace, with obstrepe­

rous clamour and loud exultations drove them upon the

beach. And here, the land-soldiers which had served

on-board, excepting such as had been taken in the deep­

er water, leaping in all parts, as they severally could,

on the shore, run in great confusion for shelter to the

diversified, but with one and the same uniform vehe­

mence, having expressed their resentment of the horrible

conclusion by a loud skriek and a hearty groan, some

hurried along the beach to succour the shipping; others

todesend what yet remained of their intrenchments; whilst

a third party, and the bulk of the army, confined their

whole care to themselves, and were solely intent on

their own personal preservation. The horrid consterna­

tion, in which this moment they were universally plun­

ged, was greater than Athenians had ever felt before.

They suffered now what on a former occasion they had

made others sufser at Pylus. There the Lacedæmonians,

having first lost their fleet, had the farther mortification

to see all their gallant Spartans in the island undone. And

now the desperate condition of the Athenians offered no

glimmering of sasety on the land, unless some miracu­

lous contingency should take place in their favour.

After an engagement so hardy and well disputed, as*

ter the sinking of a large number of ships,and the death

of numbers on both sides, the Syracusans and their al­

lies, who were masters of the day, took up the shatters

and the dead. This being done, they sailed in triumph

to the city, and erected a trophy.

But

