*78 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII.

not least of all, the Corinthians, lest as he was rich he

might purchase the connivance of his keepers to get his

liberty, and then again might have influence enough to

foment fresh stirs to their prejudice; obtained the con­

currence of their allies, and put him to death. For

these, or reasons most nearly neighbouring to these,

was Nicias doomed to destruction •, though the man, of

all the Grecians in the present age, who least deserved

so wretched a catastrophe, since his whole life was one

uniform series of piety towards the Deity.*

As for those who were doomed to the quarries, the

Syracusans treated them at first with outrageous seve­

rity. As great numbers were crouded together in this

hollow dungeon, the beams of the fun, in the first place,

and then the suffocating air, annoyed them in a more

terrible manner, because the aperture was left unco­

vered; and each succeeding night, the reverse of the

preceding day, autumnal and nipping, through such

vicissitudes threw them into strange disorders. Thus

straitened as they were for room, they did whatever

they had to do on one and the same spot; and the car­

cases of those who died lay heaped up promiscuously to­

gether, as some expired of their wounds, and others

perished through the viciflitudes of air they suffered, or

some other such deadly cause. At length the stench be­

came intolerably noisome; and they were farther op­

pressed with hunger and thirst i For, during the space

of eight months, the allowance to each was only a \ co-

tyl of water and two J cotyls of bread a day. Nay,

whatever species of misery numbers cooped up in ib

close a confinement might be liable to suffer, not one of

these but pressed cruelly upon them. They were all

thus thronged and dieted together for seventy days:

But, after this term, all but the Athenians, and such

* Mr. Hobbes, in his translation, has omitted this last comma,  
.f Little more than half a pint,

\ About 32 solid inches,

of

