B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 157

himself in their company. The Syracusans, to do them

justice, were not desicient in alacrity or courage, neither

in the present battle nor any of the following.

They maintained their ground gallantly so long as -

their competence of skill enabled them; but, when

that failed them, they were forced, though with re­

luctance, to slacken in their ardour. However, though

far from imagining that the Athenians would presume

to begin the attack, and though obliged in a hurry to

stand on their defence, they took up their arms, and

advanced immediately to meet their foe.

In the first place, therefore, the stingers of stones with

either the hand or the sling, and the archers, on both

sides, began the engagement; and alternately chased

one another, as is generally the cafe among the bodies

of the light-armed. In the next place, the soothsayers

brought forwards and immolated the solemn victims;

and the trumpets summoned the heavy-armed to close

firm together, and advance. t'

All sides now began to face; the Syracusans to fight

for their countrv; each soldier amongst them for his

native foil, to earn, for the present his preservation, and

for the future his liberty. — On their enemies side; the

Athenians, to gain possession of a foreign country, and

not to damage their own by a dastardly behaviour:

The Argives, and voluntary part of the confederates,

to procure for the Athenians a happy accomplishment of

their schemes, and again to visit their own country, to

•which they were endeared, victorious and triumphant;

and that part of the confederacy, which attended in

obedience to the orders of- their masters, were highly

animated by the thought, that they must earn their

safety now at once, or, is defeated now, must for the fur

ture deipair, and then, secretly actuated perhaps by the

distant hope, that, were others reduced to the Athenian

yoke, their own bondage might be rendered more light

and easy.

.1 •. i.-.:..... The

