368 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIH.

payments; and nothing could be seen either of Tissapher-

nes or the Phœnician fleet; and Philippus, who accompa­

nied him, sent advice to Mindarus, the admiral in chief;

and Hippocrates, farther, a citizen of Sparta, who was

then at Phaselis, advised him also, that '. this fleet

"would never join him, and in all respects they were

"shamefully abused by Tissaphernes ;"— as Pharnaba-

zus had made them an invitation, and declared him­

self ready, if aided by the consederate fleet, to engage

as strongly as Tiflaphernes for the revolt of what cities

yet remained in subjection to the Athenians ; — Minda­

rus, hoping to find more punctuality in the latter, with

notable conduct, and by a sudden signal to the fleer,

that his motions might not be discovered at Samos,

weighs from Miletus with seventy-three sail, and bent

his course to the Hellespont. But, earlier this sum­

mer, sixteen ships had steered their course thither, and

ravaged part of the Chersonesus. Mindarus met with

tempestuous weather in his passage, which forced him

to put into Icarus; and, after staying there five or six

days for want of weather to keep the sea, he arrives at

Chios.

Thrasyllus, so soon as informed of the departure from

Miletus, stood after him wich five and fifty sail, ma­

king the best of his way lest the other should enter the

Hellespont before he reached him. But, gaining intel­

ligence that he was put into Chios, and concluding he

designed to remain there, he sixed his scouts at Lesbos

and the opposite continent; that, if the Peloponnesian

fleet put out, their motions might be delcried. He

himself, repairing to Methymne, ordered quantities

of meal and other necessaries to be prepared, that, in

case he should be forced to stay in these parts, he might

make frequent cruises from Lesbos against Chios.

But, as Eressus in Lesbos had revolted, his design

was farther to attempt its reduction, in cafe it were fea­

sible. For some of the Methynean exiles, and those

not the most inconsiderable of the number, having

brought

