362 THE PELOPONNESIAtt WAR. fc.VIII.

done. Nay, they demanded aloud from Therarrieries,

— " If, in his judgement, these new Works were raised

*' with a good design, or would not better be derilo-  
"lifhed?" His reply was this — That, " if they

'* thought it expedient to demolish them, his opinion

"should concur with theirs." Hereupon, at a signal

given, the heavy-armed and many others who belonged

to the Piræus rushed on in a moment, and pulled down

all the new fortification.

The watch-word now published to the multitude was

this — " Whosoever would have the administration

"lodged in the five-thousand instead of the four hundred

"let him join in the work." For even still they judged

it politic to veil their design under the name of the

five-thousand, and not to say downright— " Whosoever

"would have the democracy restored," — lest possibly

the former might have been actually in force, and a

person speaking to any one of them might spoil all by

some inadvertent expressions. And, on the same ac­

count, the four-hundred would neither have the five-

thousand declared, nor yet have it known that they had

never been appointed. To admit so large a number

into a share of the government, they judged was in sact

a mere democracy; but that leaving the matter in sus­

pense would strike a dread of his neighbour into every

Athenian.

The next morning, the four-hundred, though highly

disordered in their politics, assembled however in coun­

cil. But those in the Piræus, after enlarging Alexietes,

wnom they had put under confinement, and comple­

ting the demolition of the new works, marched to the

theatre of Bacchus in Munichia, and there, all armed

as they were, held a formal assembly; and then, in

pursuance of what had been resolved, marched directly

into the upper-city, and posted themselves in the Ana-

ceum. Here they were accosted by a select committee

sent from the four-hundred, who man to man reasoned

calmly with them; and, perceiving any to be tracta­

