292 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VIII,

prevailed upon the Ephoriand Endius, and sailed away

wich the five ships, in company with Chalcideus, the

Lacedæmonian ; and the voyage they performed with

all possible expedition.

About the fame time, the sixteen ships, which had

been at the war of Sicily under the orders of Gylippus,

regained in sasety the Peloponnesian ports. They had

been intercepted near Leucadia, and terribly harrasscd

by twenty-seven sail of Athenians, commanded by Hip-

pocles, the son of Menippus, who was stationed there

to watch the return of the fleet from Sicily. Yet only

a single ship was lost. The rest, escaping the Athe->

nian chace, arrived sase in the harbour of Corinth.

But Chalcideus and Alcibiades, who were now upon

their voyage, stopped and detained whatever they met,

that their course might not be divulged: And, touch­

ing first at Corycus on the' main, and there setting at

liberty such as they had detained, and gaining a conse­

rence wich some of the Chians who were privy to their

designs, by whom being advised to make directly for

the harbour of Chios, without any formal notification,

they arrive there, entirely unexpected by the Chians.

By this, the many were thrown at once into astonish­

ment and terror; but the few had so conducted mat­

ters, that the council was that moment sitting; in which

Chalcideus and Alcibiades being admitted to speech it —

that ** many other ships are coming up," — but, sup­

pressing all mention of the squadron blocked up at Pi­

ræus, the Chians declare a revolt from the Athenians;

and the Erythræans soon follow their example.

So far successful, they passed on with three ships to

Clazomenæ, and cause that city also to revolt. In­

stantly upon this, the Clazomenians crossed over into

the continent, and fortified Polichne, to be a place of

had been trained from his birth in the severe discipline of Lycurgus. He was a
tbermgk

Spartan,—(laved close, plunged into cold water,could make a roeal'on dry
bread, and

feast on black broth. One would think, says Plutarch, he had never kept a cook
fa

his life, never seen a perfumer, nor ever worn a Milesian robe, Life
oiAltibiada.

fase

