B.VlI. THE PELOPONNESlAN WAR; 277

War: And in the preceding skirmishes, which had hap*

pened very frequently during the march, not a few

had been slain. Yet, notwithstanding all this, many

made their escape; some from the scenes of action, and

others from their prisons, from whence they afterwards

gained an opportunity to run away. These repaired to

Catana, as a safe resort.

And now the Syracusans and allies in one grand col­

lective body, having amassed together as large a num*

ber of prisoners as they possibly could> and all the spoils*

returned in triumph to Syracuse. The bulk of pri­

soners, whether of the Athenians or their confederates*

whom they had taken, they thrust down into the quar­

ries, concluding that from such a confinement they

could not possibly make escapes; but Nicias and De*

mosthenes, in spite of all the remonstrances of Gylip-

pus, they butchered: For Gylippus imagined, that the

finishing of this war would invest himself with pre­

eminent degrees of glory, if, besides the rest of his at-

chievements, he could carry home to the Lacedæmo­

nians the generals of the enemy. It had, farther, la

happened, that one of these, that is, Demosthenes*

was regarded as their most inveterate enemy, because

of his exploits against them in the island Sphacteria and

Pylus; and the other (Nicias) as their most sincere

well-wisher, from his behaviour on those very inci­

dents. For Nicias had strenuously exerted himself in

behalf of those Lacedæmonians who were made pri­

soners in the island. It was he who prevailed with the

Athenians to sign the treaty, in pursuance of which they

were released. For such services done them, the Lace­

dæmonians had a kindness for him; and it had been

chiefly owing to his assurance of this that he surren­

dered himself prisoner to Gylippus. But a party of the

Syracusans, as was generally reported, fearful, because

they had kept up a correspondence with him, lest, if

put to the torture, he might now, amidst the general

prosperity, involve them in trouble j others also, and*

T 3 hot

