B.VI.; THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. i9c

After this, the Athenians erected a trophy, and, in

pursuance of a truce, delivered up their flam to the Sy-

racusans, and received in exchange the body of Lama-

chus, and of those who fell with him.

The junction of their whole armament, both of their

land and naval force, being now completed, they be­

gan again, from Epipolæ and the crag, to invert the

Syracusans with a double wall, which they were to

continue quite down to the sea. The necessary provi­

sions to supply their army were brought in from all the

coasts of Italy. Many also of the Siculi, who had hi­

therto stood aloof, declared now for the Athenians, and

came into their alliance, who were farther joined by

three vessels with fisty oars from Hetruria.

All other points equally contributed to elevate their

hopes. For the Syracusans had begun to despair of be­

ing able to sustain the siege, as they had no glimpse of a-

ny approaching succour from Peloponnesus. They

were toffing to and fro amongst themselves some propo­

sals for an accommodation, and had even sounded Ni-

cias upon that head, who, by the death of Lamachus.

'was left invested with the sole command. Nothing de­

finitive was however concluded, though (as might rea­

sonably be expected from men in high perplexity, and

more straitly besieged than ever) many proposals were

made to him, and many more were agitated within the

city. The distresses, also, which environed them ac

present, struck into them mutual suspicions of one ano­

ther: Nay, they even divested of their charge the ge­

nerals who were in authority when these distresses came

upon them, as if all was owing to their misconduct or

treachery, and chose in their stead Heraclides, and Eu-

cles, and Tellias.

In the mean time, Gylippus, the Lacedæmonian,

and the ships from Corinth, were come up to Leucas,

designing with the utmost expedition to .pass over from

thence to Sicily. But terrible accounts came thick up­

on them here, and all agreed in broaching the fame un­

truth,

