94 THE PELOPONNESUN WAR. 8.

to this very day, in posieffion.of the midland and north"

erly parts of the island.

The Phœnicians also had settlements quite round the

coast of Sicily. They secured the capes on the sea and

the small circumjacent isles, for the fake of trafficking

with the Sicilians. But, when the Grecians, in consi­

derable numbers, began to cross over and six their resi­

dence here, the Phœnicians abandoned their other set­

tlements, and, uniting together, seated themselves at

Motya, and Soloeis, and iPanormus, near to the Ely mi)

secure of their own continuance in these quarters from

their friendship with the Elymi, and because, from this

part of Sicily, the passage to Carthage is exceeding

short. — So many were the barbarians seated in Sicily j

and such the order of their setdements.

The first Grecians who came hither were the Chalci-

deans of Eubœa. Thucles led the colony, which set­

tled at Naxus, and erected the altar of Apollo the

Guide, which is still to be seen without the city; and on

which the Reputations, sent from hence to the oracles, r

offer sacrifice before they begin their voyage.

In the year following, Archias, a Corinthian, of the

race of Hercules, founded Syracuse, having previously

expelled the Sicilians out of that island on which the

inner-city is seated, though now no longer washed round

about by the sea. And, in process of time, the upper-

city also, being taken in by a wall, became exceeding

populous.

In die fifth year after the foundation of Syracuse,

Thucles and his Chalcideans sallied forth out of Naxus)

and having, by force of arms, drove away the Sicilians,

they build Leontium, and afterwards Catana. But the

Cataneans themselves declared Evarchus their founder.

About the same point of time, Lamis also, leading a

colony from Megara, arrived in Sicily, and planted them

on a spot called Trotilus, upon the river Pantacias. But,

removing afterwards from thence to 1 eontium, he aslo-

ciated himself a short time with the Cataneans for the

protection

