to THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR; B.V.

his succours were arrived; and though he knew his mo­

tions could not be concealed, he went off, and ordered

the signal to be given fora retreat; commanding farther

that the lest wing should file off first, which indeed was

the only method of drawing off securely to E'ion. But

as they seemed to him to be long about it, he wheeled

off himself at the head of the right \ and thus, exposing

his men to the missive weapons of the enemy, was draw­

ing off his army.

At this instant Brasidas, perceiving it was time to at­

tack, since the army of the Athenians was already in

motion, says to those about him, and to all that were

near, —" These gentlemen wait not for us; that plainly

"appeareth by the shaking of their spears and heads;

"for those who make such motions are not used to stay

"for the enemy's approach. But let somebody throw me

"open the appointed gates, and letus boldly and with all

"speed sally out against them." In effect, Brasidas,

issuing at the gates of the intrenchment, and the first of

what was then the long-wall, advanced with all speed di­

rectly along the road, where now standeth the trophy,

to be seen by those who pass along by the strongest part

of the town, and, falling upon the Athenians, dismayed

not only at their own irregular situation, but also terri­

fied at his bold attack in the very center of their army,

he putteth them to the rout. And now Clearidas, sal­

lying out according to order at the Thracian gates, was

advancing to second him. The consequence was, that,

by such an unexpected and sudden assault on both sides,

the Athenians were thrown into the highest confusion.

Their left wing, which inclined the most towards Eton,

as having filed-off first, was instantly broken, and fled.

These were no sooner dispersed in flight, than Brasidas,

advancing to the attack of the right, is wounded: — He

dropped;—but the Athenians are not sensible of it.

Thole who were near him took him up, and carried him

off. This accident, however, enabled the right wing

of the Athenians to maintain their ground the longer;

though

