4 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. V.

board Phæax, the son of Erasistratus, with'whom two

other persons were joined in commission, to execute an

embassy there. For the Leontines, after the departure

of the Athenians from Sicily, in consequence of the

joint-accommodation, had inrolled many strangers as

denizens of their city, and the populace had a plan in z-

gitation for a distribution of the lands. The noble,

alarmed at this, gain the concurrence of the Syracusans

and eject the commons. They were dispersed, and wan­

dered up and down as fo many vagabonds; whilst the

noble, striking up an agreement with the Syracusans, a-

bandoned and left in desolation their own city, settling

at Syracuse as free citizens of that place. And yet,

foon after, some of this number, dissatisfied even here,

forsook Syracuse again, and seize upon Phoceæ, a quar­

ter of the old city of the Leontines, and upon Bricin-

niæ, which is a fortress in the Leontine. Hither the

greater part of the ejected commons resorted to them j

and, adhering firmly together, from these strong holds

they annoyed the country by their hostilities.

"When the Athenians had intelligence of this, they

fend out Phæax, to persuade, by all proper methods,

their old allies in that country, and to gain, if possible,

the concurrence of the other Sicilians, to take up arms,

for the preservation of the people of Leontium, against

the incroaching power of the Syracufans. Phæax, up­

on his arrival, recommendeth the scheme successfully to

the Camarineans and Agrigentines. But his negotiations

meeting with fome obstacles at Gela, he desisted from

addressing himself to the rest, since he was assured he

could not possibly succeed. Retiring therefore through,

the district of the Siculi to Catane, and calling on his

road at Bricinniæ, and having encouraged the malcon­

tents there totpersevere, he departed. Not but that,

in this Sicilian voyage, both passing and repaffing, and

also upon the coast of Italy, he had urged to several ci­

ties " how expedient for them was the Athenian

"friendship."

