26 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.V.

I

infallibly come in. And, after suggesting such a course,

the Corinthians also returned home.

The persons at Argos, who had listened to these insi­

nuations, reported the scheme, in the next place, to the

whole magistracy and people of Argos. The Argives

resolved accordingly, and elected a committee of twelve,

with whom such Grecians, as desired it, might agree upon

an alliance, the Athenians and Lacedæmonians excepted.

Neither of these States were permitted to treat with the

Argives, without the public consent of the whole peo­

ple.

The Argives were, the more readily persuaded to such

a measure, as they plainly saw a war was unavoidable

between themselves and the Lacedæmonians; for the

truce between them was on the point of expiring. They

were also animated by the hope of gaining into their

hands the sovereignty of Peloponnesus. For, at

this juncture of time, Lacedæmon lay under the great­

est discredit, and was fallen into utter contempt upon ac­

count of their late disasters; whereas the Argives were

in the high vigour of their strength in all respects, as

they had never intersered in the Attic war; and, having

observed an exact neutrality with both, had been thri­

ving in peace and plenty. The Argives, therefore, in

this manner invited those Grecians who were willing to

enter into their alliance. . -

The Mantineans and allies were the first who, out of

a dread of the Lacedæmonians, accepted the proposal.

For these Mantineans, in the heat of the war against the

Athenians, had seized and appropriated to themselves

a certain district of Arcadia subject to Lacedæmon, and

now concluded that the Lacedæmonians would never

leave them in the quiet possession of it, when they were

at liberty to act for its recovery. This readily induced

them to have recourse to the league of Argos, regarded

by them as a powerful State, which had ever been at va­

riance with Lacedæmon, and, like their own, was de-

mocratical. - ...

