B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 337

was Antipho, a man who in personal merit was second

to no Athenian then alive, and the greatest genius of his

time to devise with sagacity, and ingeniousty to express

what he had once devised. At the assemblies of the

people, or any public debate, he never assisted, if he could

possibly decline it, since the »»«////«^wasjealous of the great

reputation he had gained: Yet, in the courts of judicature

or appeals to the people, he was the only person who was

able effectually to serve those clients who could get him

for their patron. And this same Antipho, when in pro­

cess of time the government of the four hundred was quite

demolished, and severely prosecuted by ihepeople, is judged

to have defended their conduct, and plt-aded in a cause

where his own life was at stake, the best of any person

that down to this time was ever heard to speak.

Phrynichus also was another who singularly distin­

guished himself in his zeal for the oligarchy. He dreaded

Alcibiades, as conscious that he was privy to the whole

of the correspondence he had carried on with Astyo-

chus. He proceeded thus, on the supposition that Al­

cibiades would never be restored by an oligarchical go­

vernment. And then he was a man in whose capacity

and zeal, if once engaged, the greatest considence might

reasonably be placed. ,

Theramencs, farther, the son of Agnon, a man who

both in speaking and acting made no ordinary figure,

had a principal share in the dissolution of the popular

government: No wonder, therefore, as the business

was managed by so many and so able agents, that,

spite of every obstacle, it was brought to effect. Grie­

vous, indeed, it was to the Athenian people to submic

to the loss of their liberty a century after the expulsion

of their tyrants, during which period they had not only

been independent, but accustomed, for above half that

space, to give law to others.

To return. When, in the assembly of the people,

not a soul was heard to oppose the motion, it passed into

a law, and the assembly was adjourned. They aster-

Vol. II. Z wards

