26p THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII.

because room was wanting for tacks and passages; but

boardings were frequent, as the vessels were continu­

ally running Foul on one another, or in sheering off met

with others which were coming on. And, so long as a

vessel was in her approach, thole on the hatches poured

plentifully against her whole showers of javelins, and

arrows, and stones; but, when they were once come to

grappling, the soldiers, closing in firm battalion, en­

deavoured by force to board one another. Nay, it

most frequently happened, through the straitness of sea-

room, that, the very moment one party boarded the

enemy, the very same moment they were also boarded

themselves, as two vessels lay often along-side of an

enemy; nay, sometimes more, by necessity mingled

and squeezed sast together. In the mean time, the care

of the officers was not confined to one single point, but

distracted < n all sides by a whole round of perils: they

were here intent on their own defence, and there on the

annoyance of the enemy. And, farther, the prodi­

gious crash that was made by such a number of strips,

running at the same instant upon one another, struck

such dismay and loss of hearing, that the voices of those

who issued out orders could no longer be distinguished.

Loud, besides, were the exhortations and shouts of the

officers on both sides, partly in conformity to rule,

though swelled at present by the ardour of contention.

Amongst the Athenians it was shouted amain — *' To

*'• force the passage, and now or never to exert their  
"utmost stretch of bravery to earn a safe return to

"their native country :" — Amongst the Syracusans

and their allies —- " How glorious it would be to hin-

"der their escape, and by present victory for every one

"amongst them to increase the growing honours of his

"country!" The commanders also, on both sides, if

they saw a vessel dropping off before it was overpow­

ered by the enemy, called out aloud by name on the

captain, demanding, on the Athenian side, " Did they

*' retire on the wild presumption that yonder most hostile

"shore

