96 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.Vf,

]y. And, after a short interval, Anaxilas, tyrant of the

Rhegians, ejected the Samians, repeopled the city with

a number of mixed inhabitants, and changed its name

to Meslene, in honour of the country from whence he

was originally descended. Himera also was founded

from Zancle by Euclides, and Simus, and Sacon. In­

to this colony came also a very numerous body of Chal-

cideans. Some exiles farther from Syracuse, who had

been worsted in a sedition, and were distinguished by the

title of Miletidæ, took up their residence amongst them.

Hence their dialect became a mixture of the Chalcidic

and the Doric; but the Chalcidic model obtained ill

their civil institutions.

Acræ and Casmenæ were founded by the Syracusans;

Acre seventy years after Syracuse, and Casmenæ near

twenty after Acræ. Camarina also was first founded by

the Syracusans, very nearly one hundred thirty-five

years after the building of Syracuse: Its founders were

Dascon and Menecolus. But the Camarineans being af­

terwards driven out by the arms of the Syracusans, be­

cause of a revolt, in process of time, Hippocrates, ty­

rant of Gela, received the lands of the Camarineans as

a ransom for some Syracusan prisoners of war, and ta*

king upon himself to be their founder, replanted Ca­

marina. Yet once more again it was demolished by

Gelon; and replanted a third time by the same Gelon.

So many nations of Greeks and Barbarians inhabited Si­

cily.

An island so large and so populous the Athenians

were passionately bent on invading. Their truest and

final view was to compass its total reduction; but the

pretext, alledged for a colour, was their readiness to

succour such as by blood were related, or by prior alli­

ances had been attached to them. An Egestean embas­

sy, now residing at Athens, laboured the point with all

possible industry, and with extraordinary earnestness

pressed them to engage in ir. For the Egesteans, who

bordered upon the Selinuntians, had been embroiled in 4

war

