40 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. . B. V.

des, the son of Cliniasa person, in respect of age, e-

ven then but a youth; at least he would have passed for

such in the other States, though, for the dignity of his

birth, he was much honoured and caressed. It seemed

to him the most expedient step to form a good under­

standing with the Argives. Not but that his opposition

to other measures was the result of his ambition and a

study of contention, because the Lacedæmonians had

employed their interest in Nicias and Laches to perfect

the treaty, flighting his assistance upon account of his

youth, nor paying him the deference he expected from

the ancient hospitality between that State and the family

from which he was descended. This, indeed, his grands-

father had renounced; but he himself, in the view of re­

newing it, had shewn extraordinary civilities to the Spar­

tans who were made prisoners at Sphacteria. Thinking

himself, therefore, in all respects fligtited, at this crisis

he began openly to oppose them: He affirmed, that

,*•* the Lacedæmonians were a people who could not be

"trusted; that they had treacherously entered into the

* Alcibiades is here beginning his political intrigues, to open the field for his own  
searing and enterprising genius to dilate itself more at large. Pericles was
his near rela­

tion and guardian} Socrates was his friend and guide so long as virtue was his
c,are*

Warmer passions soon gained the ascenHant over him; and he plunged into all
the

busy scenes of life, with that intense application and flexible address, to
all persons

and all occasions, which surprised the world; " more changeable than a
camelion,

"(as Plutaich txpresseth it,) since that creature cannot put on a fair or
whit* ap-

"pearance." His character is thus drawn in miniature by the neat and masterly

pen of Cornelius Nepos; " Nature (fays he) seems to have exerted her utmost
powet;

"in Alcibiades, It is agreed, by all writers who have made him the subject of
their

il pens, that a more extraordinary man never lived, either for virtues or
vices. Born

"in a most noble republic, of a moll honourable family, by far the handsomest
person

"of his age, fit for every thing, and full cf address; he was a commander that

'' made the greatest figure both by land and sea; an orator whom none could
sur-

"pass; nay, his manner and matter, when he spoke, were quite irresistible. Ex-

"actly as occasions requited, he was laborious, persevering, indefatigable,
gene­

s' rous; splendid in all his outward appearance, and at his table; full of
affability,

"profuse of civility, and of the utmost dexterity in adapting himsUf to the
exigence*

*' of time; and yet, in the seasons of relaxation, and when business no longer requi-  
*' red him to keep his faculties on the stretch, he was luxurious, dissolute, lewd, and  
"intemperate. The whole world was astonished that so vast an unlikeness, and
so

different a nature, should be united in the same person."

*'. peace

