B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 213

cusans were plainly vanquished, which gave them who

abandoned the last an opportunity to sail away without

obstruction. For that Syracusan squadron, that was

engaged before the harbour's mouth, having forced

their way through the Athenian fleet, by sailing for­

wards in a disorderly manner and continually running

foul one upon another, gave the Athenians an opportu­

nity to regain the day. For this squadron they soon

routed, and afterwards that, within the harbour, by

which they had been vanquished. They also sunk ele­

ven ships of the enemy, and made a slaughter of all their

crews, those of three ships excepted, to whom they

granted quarter; and all this with the lose only of three

ships on their own side. Having afterwards drawn a-

shore the shatters of the Syracusan fleet, and piled them

into a trophy on the little isle before Plemmyrium, they

retired to their main incampment.

Thus unsuccessful were the Syracusans in their naval

engagement. They had carried, however, the forts at

Plemmyrium; and, to signalize each of their acquisi­

tions, they erected three several trophies. One, also,

of the two forts that were taken last they levelled with

the ground, but the other two they repaired and garri­

soned.

In this furprisal of the forts, many were slain and ma­

ny were made prisoners, and a great stock of wealth

reposited there became the prize of the enemy. For,

as the Athenians had made use of these forts by way

of magazine, much wealth belonging to merchants,

and corn in abundance, were found within; much also

of the stores belonging to the captains of the ships

of war,. inasmuch as forty masts for triremes, and other

materials of resitment, had been laid up there; and

three triremes were hauled ashore to be careened. Nay,

this furprisal of Plemmyrium wasoneof thechief if not the

greatest source of all the distress which the Athenian army

suffered in the sequel; for no longer was the sea open to

them for the secure importation of necessary supplies.

P 3 From

