102 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VI.

"the strength of Sicily, whose accession to their for-

"mer confederacy they would have been glad to pur-

*' chase at any price. On these possibilities we are  
"bound sedately to reflect, that we may not plunge a

"State, so highly exalted, into superfluous dangers, nor

1' fondly covet to wrest their empire from the hands

*' of others before we have adequately insured our  
?* own: Since the Chalcideans of Thrace, though so

*< many years are now elapsed since they first revolted,  
** are not yet reduced; and some other States on the  
"continent render us only a precarious obedience.

"Yet—" to the Egesteans, our old allies, who are

"injuriously oppressed, we are bound in honour to send

*' a most speedy succour." And, in the mean time,

** we continue to defer avenging ourselves upon those,  
** whose revolt from us is of long standing now, and  
"whose injustice we are still obliged to suffer. Though

"the Utter, could we once bring them back to their

"duty, we might easily controul for the suture: But

"the former, should we ever become their masters, re-

"mote and numerous as they are, we should not with-

"out difficulty be able to awe. It must be madness,

"therefore, to invade that people, whom, though con-

"quered, you can . never retain in. their obedience;

"and who, in case the attempt against them miscarry,

"will for the future be much more disaffected towards

"you than they were before that attempt was made.

"But it is farther my real opinion, that the Sicilians,

as their affairs are now circumstantiated, would be-

** come less formidable to us, if once reduced to the  
"Syracusan yoke \—and yet on this remote contingen-

cy the Egesteans have chiefly insisted, in order to a-

"larm us. Perhaps nozv it may come to pass, that its

"single States may combine against us to gratify the

*' Lacedæmonians: But, in the other case, it is quite  
"improbable that an united empire would hazard its

"own welfare to demolish another. For if, acting

** from a political precaution, they may side with the

** Peloponnelians

