B.VI. THE PELOPONNESlAN WAR. 175

most awed by the Syracusans, stood resolutely out; but

the generality of those who were seated in the midland

parts, as they were now, and had ever kept themselves,

uncontrouled, sided at once with the Athenians. They

furnished them with corn for the service of the army,

and there were some who supplied them with money.

And then the Athenians, taking the field against such

as refused to accede, forced some to a compliance, and

prevented others from receiving garrisons and aids from

Syracuse. During winter also they removed again

from Naxus to Catana; and, having repaired their

camp, which had been burned by the Syracusans, chose

to pass the remainder of the winter there.

They also dispatched a trireme to Carthage, to ask

their friendship, and whatever assistance could possibly

be obtained. They sent also to Tuscany, as some ci­

ties on that coast had made them voluntary offers of as­

sistance. And, farther, they circulated their orders a-

mong the Siculi, and dispatched in particular one to the

Egesteans, " to send them as large a number of horses

*> as they could possibly procure." They busied them­  
selves in collecting materials for circumvallation, such

as bricks and iron, and all other necessary stores; being

determined to carry on the war with vigour on the first

approach of spring.

The embassadors, who from Syracuse were sent to

Corinth and Lacedæmon, endeavoured in their passage

to prevail with the Italians " not to look with uncon-

** cern on the Athenian proceedings, since they also  
** were equally involved in the danger." But, when  
arrived at Corinth, they were admitted to an audience,

in which they insisted on a speedy supply, upon the

plea of consanguinity; and the Corinthians came at

once to a resolution, by way of precedent to others,

that, " with all possible ardour, they would join in

their defence." They even appointed an embassy of

their own to accompany them to Lacedæmon, whose

instructions were to second them in soliciting the Lacedæ­

monians

