B. VIII. THE. PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 335

** qualified, by their estates and personal bravery, to  
"serve the public."

This with the majority of the city had a fair outside,

since such as should concur in the change bid fairest for

a share in the administration. Yet still the assembly

of the people and the *council of the bean continued their

meetings; but then they only passed such decrees as

were approved by the cabal. Nay, of this number

were all who spoke, and who had previously considered

together what should be said upon every occasion. No

other person presumed at any time to oppose their mo­

tions through dread of a cabal which they saw was

large; or, did any one venture to open his mouth, by

some dextrous contrivance he was certainly put to

death. Who were the agents in these murders, no en­

quiry at all; and of who were suspected, no kind of jus­

tification. The people, on the contrary, looked on

with stupid gaze, and such a fit of consternation as to

think it clear gain not yet to have suffered violence, e-

ven though they held their tongues; imagining, be­

sides, that the conspiracy had spread much farther than

it really had, they were quite dispirited. To discover

any certainty of their numbers they were quite unable,

because of the great extent of the city and their igno­

rance how far their neighbours might be concerned.

On the fame account it was also impossible for him, who

deeply resented his condition, to bemoan himself in the

hearing of another, or to participate counsels for reci­

procal desence; he must either have opened his mind to

one whom he did not know, or to an acquaintance in

whom he durst not conside; for all the popular party

regarded one another with jealous eyes, as in some

measure involved in the present machinations. Some in

fact were concerned who could never have been suspec­

ted of oligarchical principles; and these men gave rise

to the great disfidence which spread amongst the many,

and drew after ic the highest security tothefchemes of the

* Tb* senate.

