228 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, rBook I?-

for one burgess. In like manner with this military supre­

macy the civil superintendence, which (including the su­

preme administrative jurisdiction which could hardly be

separated from it) the Eoman government had always and

rightly reserved to itself over the dependent Italian communi­

ties, was extended in such a way that the Italians were hardly

less than the provincials abandoned without protection to

the caprice of any one of the numberless Roman magis­

trates. In Teanum Sidicinum, one of the most considerable

of the allied towns, a consul had ordered the chief magis­

trate of the town to be scourged with rods at the stake in

the market-place, because, on the consul's wife expressing a

desire to bathe in the men's bath, the municipal officers had

not driven forth the bathers quickly enough, and the bath

appeared to her not to be clean. Similar scenes had taken

place in Ferentinum, likewise a town optimi juris, and even

in the old and important Latin colony of Cales. In the

Latin colony of Venusia a free peasant had been seized by a

young Roman diplomatist not holding office but passing

through the town, on account of a jest which he had allowed

himself to make on the Roman's litter, had been thrown down,

and whipped to death with the straps of the litter. These

occurrences are incidentally mentioned about the time of the

Fregellan insurrection; it admits of no doubt that similar

outrages frequently occurred, and of as little that no real

satisfaction for such misdeeds could anywhere be obtained,

whereas the right of appeal—not easily violated with impunity

—protected in some measure the life and limbs of the Eoman

burgess. In consequence of this treatment of the Italians

on the part of the Roman government, the variance, which

the wisdom of their ancestors had carefully fostered between

the Latin and the other Italian communities, could not fail, if

riot to disappear, at any rate to undergo abatement (ii. 335).

The fortresses of Rome and the districts kept to their alle

giance by the fortresses lived now under the like oppression;

the Latin could remind the Picentine that they were both

in like manner "subject to the fasces;" the overseers and

the slaves of former days were now united by a common

hatred towards the common despot.

While the present state of the Italian allies was thus

transformed from an endurable dependence into the most

oppressive bondage, they were at the same time deprived of

every prospect of obtaining better rights. With the subju­

