Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 225

warning which he communicated to the consul Philippus, to

beware of the murderous emissaries of the Italians at the

federal festival on the Alban Mount, served only further to

compromise him, for it showed how deeply he was involved

in the conspiracies springing up among the Italians.

Philippus insisted with daily increasing vehemence on the The Liviau

abrogation of the Livian laws; the majority grew daily more 1"B'S an"

lukewarm in their defence. A return to the former state of nulled-

things soon appeared to the great multitude of the timid

and the irresolute in the senate the only way of escape, and

a decree cancelling these laws on account of informality was

issued. Drusus, after his fashion sternly acquiescing, con­

tented himself with the remark that it was the senate itself

which thus restored the hated equestrian courts, and waived

his right to render the decree of cassation invalid by means

of his veto. The attack of the senate on the capitalist' party

was totally repulsed, and willingly or unwillingly they sub­

mitted once more to the former yoke.

But the great capitalists were not content with having Murder of

conquered. One evening, when Drusus was just about at Drusus.

his entrance hall to take his leave of the multitude which as

usual escorted him, he suddenly dropped down in front of the

image of his father; an assassin's hand had struck him, and

so surely that a few hours afterwards he expired. The per­

petrator had vanished in the evening twilight without any

one recognizing him, and no judicial investigation took place;

but none such was needed to bring to light in this ease the

dagger, with which the aristocracy pierced its own flesh.

The same violent and terrible end, which had swept away the

democratic reformers, was destined also for the Gracchus of

the aristocracy. It involved a profound and melancholy

lesson. Reform was frustrated by the resistance or by the

weakness of the aristocracy, even when the attempt at re­

formation proceeded from their own ranks. Drusus had

staked his strength and his life in the attempt to overthrow

the dominion of the merchants, to organize emigration, to

avert the impending civil war; he himself saw the mer­

chants ruling more absolutely than ever, found all his ideas

of reform frustrated, and died with, the consciousness that

his sudden death would be the signal for the most fearful

civil war that ever desolated the fair land of Italy.

VOL. III.

