290 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

danger with which their rule was threatened by the rise of

any general of reputation, and with the fresh remembrance

of the Cimbrian war and Marius, dreaded war still more if

possible than he did himselK He acted accordingly. He

was not afraid to demean himself in a way which would

have given to any energetic government not fettered by sel­

fish considerations manifold ground and occasion for de­

claring war; but he carefully avoided any open rupture

which would have placed the senate under the necessity of

declaring it. As soon as men appeared to be in earnest he

drew back, before Sulla as well as before Aquillius; he

hoped, doubtless, that he would not always be confronted by

energetic generals, that he too would, as well as Jugurtha,

fall in with his Scaurus or Albinus. It must be owned that

this hope was not without reason; although the very example

of Jugurtha had on the other hand shown how foolish it was

to confound the bribery of a Roman commander and the

corruption of a Roman army with the conquest of the Roman

people.

Aquillius Thus matters stood between peace and war, and looked

brings about quite as if they would remain long in the same indecisive

war" position. But it was not the intention of Aquillius to allow

this; and, as he could not compel his government to declare

Nicomedes. war against Mithradates, he made use of Nicomedes for

that purpose. The latter, who was under the power of the

Boman general and was, moreover, his debtor for the accumu­

lated war expenses and for sums promised to the general in

person, could not avoid complying with the suggestion that

he should begin war with Mithradates. The declaration of

war by Bithynia took place; but, even when the vessels of Nico­

medes closed the Bosporus against those of Pontus, and his

troops marched into the frontier districts of Pontus and laid

waste the region of Amastris, Mithradates remained still un­

shaken in his policy of peace; instead of driving the Bithynians

over the frontier, he lodged a complaint with the Roman en­

voys and asked them either to mediate or to allow him the

privilege of self-defence. But he was informed by Aquillius.

that he must under all circumstances refrain from war

against Nicomedes. That indeed was plain. They had em­

ployed exactly the same policy against Carthage; they

allowed the victim to be set upon by the Roman hounds and

forbade its defending itself against them. Mithradates

reckoned himself lost, just as the Carthaginians had done:

