190 TBE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Eook IV.

Cimbri, but these were also joined by the kindred Teutones

under their king Teutobod, who had been driven by events

which tradition has not recorded from their home on the

Baltic sea to appear now on the Seine.* But even the

united hordes were unable to overcome the brave resistance

Expedition of the Belgae. The leaders accordingly resolved, now that

to Italy re- their numbers were thus swelled, to enter in all earnest on

solved on. ^e eXpedition to Italy which they had several times contem­

plated. In order not to encumber themselves with the spoil

which they had heretofore collected, they left it behind

under the protection of a division of 6000 men, which after

many wanderings afterwards gave rise to the tribe of the

Aduatuci on the Sambre. But, whether from the diffi­

culty of finding supplies on the Alpine routes or from

other reasons, the mass again broke up into two hosts, one

of which, composed of the Cimbri and Tigorini, was to re-

cross the Rhine and to invade Italy through the passes of

113. the eastern Alps already reconnoitred in 641, and the other,

composed of tne newly arrived Teutones, the Tougeni, and

the Ambrones—the flower of the Cimbrian host already

tried in the battle of Arausio—was to invade Italy through

Teutones Roman Gaul and the western passes. It was this second

in the [102. division, which in the summer of 652 once more crossed the

province of jjhone without hindrance, and on its left bank resumed,

after a pause of nearly three years, the struggle with the

Romans. Marius awaited them in a well chosen and well

provisioned camp at the confluence of the Isere with the

Rhone, in which position he intercepted the passage of the

barbarians by either of the only two military routes to

Italy then practicable, that over the Little St. Bernard,

and that along the coast. The Teutones attacked the camp,

which obstructed their passage; for three consecutive days

the barbarians assailed the Roman entrenchments, but

their wild courage was thwarted by the superiority of the

Romans in fortress-warfare and by the prudence of the

general. After severe loss the bold associates resolved to

* The view here presented rests in the main on the comparatively trust­  
worthy account in the Epitome of Livy (where we should read reversi in Gut-

Ham in Vellocassis se Teutonis conjunxerunt) and in Obsequens; to the

disregard of authorities of lesser weight, which make the Teutones appear

by the side of the Cimbri at an earlier date, some of them, such as Appian,

Celt. 13, even as early as the battle of Noreia. Therewith we connect the

notices in Caesar (B. G. i. 33; ii. 4, 29); as the invasion of the Roman pio-

102. vince and of Italy by the Cimbri can only mean the expedition of 652.

