438 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

from escorting the prophet at his departure in great crowds.

Vows of pilgrimage to the East were already no longer un­

common; Marius himself, for instance, thus undertook a

pilgrimage to Pessinus; in fact even thus early (first in

101. 653) Boman burgesses devoted themselves to the eunuch-

priesthood. But the unallowed and secret worships were

naturally still more popular. As early as Cato's time the

Chaldean horoscope-caster had begun to come into compe­

tition with the Etruscan haruspex and the Marsian bird-seer

(ii. 402); star-gazing and astrology were soon as much at

i:s9 home in Italy as in their dreamy native land. In 615 the

Roman praetor peregrinus directed all the Chaldeans to evacu­

ate Rome and Italy within ten days. The same fate at the

same time befel the Jews, who had admitted Italian prose­

lytes to their sabbath. In like manner Scipio had to clear

the camp before .Numantia from soothsayers and pious im-

97. postors of every sort. Some forty years afterwards (657)

it was even found necessary to prohibit human sacrifices.

The wild worship of the Cappadocian Ma or, as the Romans

called her, Bellona to whom the priests in their festal

processions shed their own blood as a sacrifice, and the

gloomy Egyptian worships began to make their appearance;

the former Cappadocian goddess appeared in a dream to

Sulla, and of the later Roman communities of Isis and

Osiris the oldest traced their origin to the Sullan period.

Men had become perplexed not merely as to the old faith,

but as to their very selves ; the fearful crises of a fifty years'

revolution, the instinctive feeling that the civil war was

still far from being at an end, increased the anxious sus­

pense, the gloomy perplexity of the multitude. Eestlessly

men's wandering imagination climbed every height and

fathomed every abyss, where it fancied that it might dis­

cover new prospects or new light amidst the fatalities

impending, might gain fresh hopes in the desperate struggle

against destiny, or might perhaps find merely fresh alarms.

A portentous mysticism found in the general distraction—

political, economic, moral, religious—the soil which was

adapted for it, and grew with alarming rapidity; it was as

if gigantic trees had grown by night out of the earth, none

knew whence or whither, and this very marvellous rapidity

of growth worked new wonders and seized like an epidemic

on all minds not thoroughly fortified.

Education. Just as in the sphere of religion, the revolution begun ia

