Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 23

which had been pending for more than thirty years between

the city and the king as to the possession of the province of

Emporia on the Lesser Syrtis, one of the most fertile in the

Carthaginian territory, was at length (about 593) decided 161.

by Roman commissioners to the effect that the Cartha­

ginians should evacuate those towns of Emporia which still

remained in their possession, and should pay 500 talents

(£122,000) to the king as compensation for the illegal

enjoyment of the territory. The consequence was, that Mas-

sinissa immediately seized another Carthaginian district on

the western frontier of their territory, the town of Tusca

and the great plains near the Bagradas; no course was left

to the Carthaginians but to commence another hopeless pro­

cess at Rome. After long and, beyond doubt, intentional

delay a second commission appeared in Africa; but, when

the Carthaginians were unwilling to commit themselves

unconditionally to a decision to be pronounced by it as

arbiter without an exact preliminary investigation into the

question of right, and insisted on a thorough discussion of

the latter question, the commissioners without further cere­

mony returned to Home.

The question of right between Carthage and Massinissa The de-

thus remained unsettled; but the mission gave rise to a struction of

more important decision. The head of the commission had Carthage

been the old Marcus Cato, at that time perhaps the most at Rome°

influential man in the senate, and, as a veteran survivor

from the Hannibalic war, still filled with thorough hatred

and thorough dread of the Phoenicians. With surprise and

jealousy Cato had seen with his own eyes the flourishing

state of the hereditary foes of Rome, the luxuriant country

and the crowded streets, the immense stores of arms in

the magazines and the rich materials for a fleet; already

he in spirit beheld a second Hannibal wielding all these

resources against Rome. In his honest and manly, but

thoroughly narrow-minded, fashion he came to the conclu­

sion that Rome could not be secure until Carthage had dis­

appeared from the face of the earth, and immediately after

his return set forth this view in the senate. Those of the

aristocracy whose ideas were more enlarged, and especially

Scipio Nasica, opposed this paltry policy with great earnest­

ness; and showed how blind were the fears entertained

regarding a mercantile city whose Phoenician inhabitants

were more and more disused to warlike arts and ideas, and

