Chnp. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 157

had to be sent back in all haste to Africa, when Jugurtha's

son appeared in the enemy's ranks; we may infer from this,

how great was the influence which he himself exercised over

his people. What prospect was there of a termination of

the struggle in regions, where the combined peculiarities of

the population and of the soil allowed a leader who had

once secured the sympathies of the nation to protract the

war in endless guerilla conflicts, or even to let it sleep for a

time in order to revive it at the right moment with renewed

vigour?

When Metellus again took the field in 647, Jugurtha War [107.

nowhere held his ground against him; he appeared now atin the <'°-

one point, now at another far distant; it seemed as if they serU

would as easily get the better of the lions as of these horse­

men of the desert. A battle was fought, a victory was won;

but it was difficult to say what had been gained by the vic­

tory. The king had vanished out of sight in the distance.

In the interior of the modern beylik of Tunis, close on the

edge of the great desert and separated from the valley of

the Mejerdah by an arid and treeless steppe of forty-five

miles in breadth, there were situated amidst oases provided

with springs two strong places, Thala to the north (after­

wards Thelepte, near Husch-el-Cheme), and Capsa (Kafsa)

further south; Jugurtha had retired to the former town

with his children, his treasures, and the flower of his troops,

there to await better times. Metellus ventured to follow

the king through a desert, in which his troops had to carry

water along with them in skins; Thala was reached and fell

after a forty days' siege; but the Roman deserters destroyed

the most valuable part of the booty along with the building in

which they burnt themselves after the capture of the town,

and—what was of more consequence—king Jugurtha escaped

with his children and his chest. Numidia was no doubt

virtually in the hands of the Romans; but, instead of their

object being thereby gained, the war seemed only to extend

over a field wider and wider. In the south the free

GaHulian tribes of the desert began at Jugurtha's call a

national war against the Romans. In the west Bocchus Maureta-

king of Mauretania, whose friendship the Romans had in riian com-

earlier times despised, seemed now not indisposed to make Plications-

common cause with his son-in-law against them; he not

only received him at his court, but, uniting to Jugurtha's

followers his own numberless swarms of horsemen, he

