Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 317

than pious had announced that-the banishment of the consul

Cinna and of the six tribunes of the people adhering to him

would restore peace and tranquillity to the country; and, in

conformity not with the constitution but with this counsel of

the gods fortunately laid hold of by the custodiers of oracles,

the consul Cinna was by decree of the senate deprived of

his office, Lucius Cornelius Merula was chosen in his stead,

and outlawry was pronounced against the chiefs who had

fled. It seemed as if the whole crisis were about to end

in a few additions to the number of the men who were

exiles in Numidia.

Beyond doubt nothing further would have come of the move- The Cin-

ment, had not the senate with its usual remissness omitted °™s in

to compel the fugitives to quit Italy as soon as possible, y"

and had there not been a possibility that the latter might,

as the champions of the emancipation of the new burgesses,

renew in their own favour to some extent the revolt of the

Italians. "Without obstruction they appeared in Tibur, in

Praeneste, in all the important communities of new burgesses

in Latium and Campania, and asked and obtained every­

where money and men for the furtherance of the common

cause. Thus supported, they made their appearance among

the army besieging Nola. The armies of this period were

democratic and revolutionary in their views, wherever the

general did not attach them to himself by his personal in­

fluence; the speeches of the fugitive magistrates, some of

whom, especially Cinna and Sertorius, were favourably

remembered by the soldiers in connection with the last

campaigns, made a deep impression; the unconstitutional

deposition of the popular consul and the interference of the

senate with the rights of the sovereign people told on the

common soldier, and the gold of the consul or rather of the

new burgesses made the breach of the constitution clear to

the officers. The Campanian army recognized Cinna as

consul and swore the oath of fidelity to him man by man;

it became a nucleus for the bands that flocked in from the

new burgesses and even from the allied communities; a

considerable army, though consisting mostly of recruits,

soon moved from Campania towards the capital. Other

bands approached it from the north. On Cinna's invitation

those who had been banished in the previous year had

landed at Telamon on the Etruscan coast. There were not

more than some 500 armed men, for the most part slaves

