50 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

administration and jurisdiction of their own.* Some years

later not only were the old confederacies again allowed

to have a shadowy existence, but the oppressive restriction

on the alienation of landed property was removed.

Destruction The communities of Thebes, Chalcis, and Corinth ex-

of Connth. perienced a treatment more severe. There is no ground for

censure in the fact, that the two former were disarmed and

converted by the demolition of their walls into open villages;

but the wholly uncalled-for destruction of the flourishing

* The question whether Greece did or did not become a Roman province in  
146. 608, virtually runs into a dispute about words. It is certain that the
Greek

communities throughout remained " free" (C. I. Gr. 1543, 15; Caesar, B. C.

iii. 4 ; Appian, Mithr. 58: Zonar. ix. 31). But it is no less certain that
Greece

was then " taken possession of' by the Romans (Tac. Ann. xiv. 21: 1 Maccab.

viii. 9, 10); that thenceforth each community paid a tixed tribute to them
(Pau-

san. vii. 16, 6, comp. Cic. Be Prov. Cons. 3, 5), the little island of Gyarus,
for

instance, paying 150 drachma annually (Strabo, x. 485) ; that the''rods and

axes" of the Roman governor thenceforth ruled in Greece (Polyb. xxxviii. 1 c,

comp. Cic. Verr. I. I. 21, 55), and that he thenceforth exercised the superin足

tendence over the constitutions of the cities (C. /. Gr. 1543), as well as in

certain cases the criminal jurisdiction (C. T. Gr. 1543; Plut. Cim. 2), just
as

the senate had hitherto done; and that, lastly, the Macedonian provincial

era was also in use in Greece. Between these facts there is no inconsistency,

or at any rate none further than is involved in the position of the free
cities

generally, which are spoken of sometimes as if excluded from the province

(e.g. Sueton. Cirs.i 25; Colum. xi. 3, 26), sometimes as assigned to it (e.g.

Joseph. Ant. Jud. xiv. 4, 4). The Roman domanial possessions in Greece

were, no doubt, restricted to the territory of Corinth and possibly some por足

tions of Kuboea (C. I. Gr. 5879), and there were no subjects in the strict
sense

there at all; yet if we look to the relations practically subsisting between
the

Greek communities and the Macedonian governor, Greece may be reckoned as

included in the province of Macedonia in the same manner as Massilia in the

province of Xarbo or Dyrrachium in that of Macedon. We find even cases that

89. go much further: Cisalpine Gaul consisted after 665 of mere burgess or
Latin

communities and was yet made a province by Sulla, and in the time of Caesar we

meet with regions which consisted exclusively of burgess-communities and yet

by no means ceased to be provinces. In these cases the fundamental idea of

the Roman provincia comes out very clearly; it was primarily nothing but

a " command," and all the administrative and judicial functions of the com足

mandant were originally collateral duties and corollaries of his military
position.

On the other hand, if we look to the formal sovereignty of the free communi足

ties, it must be granted that the position of Greece was not altered in point
of

140. constitutional law by the events of 608. It was a difference de facto
rather

than de jure, when instead of the Achaean league the individual communities of

Achaia now appeared by the side of Rome as tributary protected states, and

when, after the erection of Macedonia as a distinct Roman province, the latter

relieved the authorities of the capital of the superintendence over the Greek

ciient-states. Greece therefore may or may not be regarded as a part of the

"command" of Macedonia, according as the practical or the formal point of

view preponderates; but the former is justly reckoned as the more important.

