386 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

essential responsibility over from the master to the manager.

We estimate Sulla's importance much too highly, or rather

we dispose of those terrible proscriptions, ejections, and

restorations—for which there never could be and never was

any compensation—on far too easy terms, when we regard

them as the work of a bloodthirsty tyrant whom accident

had placed at the head of the state. These and the ter­

rorism of the restoration were the deeds of the aristocracy,

and Sulla was nothing more in the matter than, to use the

poet's expression, the executioner's axe following the

conscious thought as its unconscious instrument. Sulla

carried out that part with rare, in fact superhuman, perfec­

tion; but within the limits, which it laid down for him, his

working was not only grand but even useful. Never has

any aristocracy deeply decayed and decaying still further

from day to day, such as was the Roman aristocracy of that

time, found a guardian so willing and able as Sulla to wield

for it the sword of the general and the pen of the legislator

without any regard to the gain of power for himself. There

is no doubt a difference between the case of an officer who

refuses the sceptre from public spirit and that of one who

throws it away from ennui; but, so far as concerns the total

absence of political selfishness—although, it is true, in this

respect only—Sulla deserves to be named side by side with

Washington.

Value of But the whole country—and not the aristocracy merely—

the Sullan was more indebted to him than posterity is willing to con­

fess. Sulla definitely terminated the Italian revolution, in

so far as it was based on the disabilities of individual less

privileged districts as compared with others of better rights,

and, by compelling himself and his party to recognize the

equality of the rights of all Italians in presence of the law,

he became the real and final author of the full political

unity of Italy—a gain, which was not too dearly purchased

even by so many troubles and streams of blood. Sulla how­

ever did more. For more than half a century the power of

Rome had been declining and anarchy had been her perma­

nent condition: for the government of the senate with the

Gracchan constitution was anarchy, and the government of

Cinna and Carbo was a yet far worse illustration of the ab­

sence of a master-hand (the sad image of which is most

clearly reflected in that equally confusedand unnatural league

with the Samnites), the most indistinct, most intolerable.

constitu­

tion.

