150 [Book IV. THE RULE OF THE RESTORATJO.

Cancelling

of the

treaty.

Declaration

of war.

111-110.

110.

brought about; even Scaurus was evidently open to bribery,

only at a price higher than the ordinary senatorial average.

The legal validity of the peace was seriously assailed in the

senate; Gaius Memmius declared that the king, if he had

really submitted unconditionally, could not refuse to appear

in Rome, and that he should accordingly be summoned before

them, with the view of ascertaining the real facts as to the

thoroughly irregular negotiations for peace by hearing the

two contracting parties. They yielded to the inconvenient

demand: but at the same time granted a safe-conduct to

the king inconsistently with the law, for he came not as an

enemy, but as one who had made his submission. There­

upon the king actually appeared at Rome and presented

himself to be heard before the assembled people, which was

with difficulty induced to respect the safe-conduct and to

refrain from tearing in pieces on the spot the murderer of the

Italians at Cirta. But scarcely had Gaius Memmius addressed

his first question to the king, when one of his colleagues in­

terfered in virtue of his veto and enjoined the king to be

silent. Here too African gold was more powerful than the

will of the sovereign people and of its supreme magistrates.

Meanwhile the discussions respecting the validity of the

peace so concluded went on in the senate, and the new con­

sul Spurius Postumius Albinus zealously supported the

proposal to cancel it, in the expectation that in that case

the chief command in Africa would devolve on him. This

induced Massiva, a grandson of Massinissa living in Rome,

to assert before the senate his claims to the vacant Numidian

kingdom; upon which Bomilcar, one of the confidants of

king Jugurtha, doubtless under his instructions made away

with the rival of his master by assassination, and, when he

was prosecuted on account of it, escaped with Jugurtha's

aid from Rome.

This new outrage perpetrated under the eyes of the

Roman government was at least so far effectual, that the

senate now cancelled the peace and dismissed the king from

the city (winter of 643-644). The war was accordingly re­

sumed, and the consul Spurius Albinus was invested with

the command (644). But the African army was down to

its lowest grades in a state of disorganization corresponding

to such a political and military superintendence. Not only

had discipline ceased and the spoliation of Numidian town­

ships and even of the Roman provincial territory been

