Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 443

the exercises in the Greek literature and language, was a

matter of course; and the scholars also consisted, as at these

exercises, of youths, and not of boys. This Latin instruction

was soon divided like the Greek into two courses; in so far

as the Latin literature was first scientifically prelected on,

and then a technical introduction was given to the prepa­

ration of panegyrics, public, and forensic orations. The

first Roman school of literature was opened about Stilo's

time by Marcus Saevius Nicanor Postumus, the first separate

school for Latin rhetoric about 660 by Lucius Plotius 90.

Gallus; but ordinarily instructions in rhetoric were also

given in the Latin schools of literature. This new Latin

school-instruction was of the most comprehensive import­

ance. The introduction to the knowledge of Latin literature

and Latin oratory, such as had formerly been imparted by

connoisseurs and masters of high position, had preserved a

certain independence in relation to the Greeks. The critics

of language and the masters of oratory were indeed under

the influence of Hellenism, but not absolutely under that of

the Greek school-grammar and school-rhetoric; the latter

in particular was decidedly an object of dread. The pride

as well as the sound common sense of the Romans revolted

against the Greek assertion, that the ability to speak of things,

which the orator understood and felt, intelligibly and attrac­

tively to his peers in the mother-tongue could be learned in

the school by school-rules. To the solid practical advocate

the procedure of the Greek rhetoricians, so totally estranged

from life, could not but appear worse for the beginner than

no preparation at all; to the man of thorough culture and

matured experience the Greek rhetoric seemed shallow and

repulsive; while the man of serious conservative views did

not fail to observe the close affinity between a professionally

developed rhetoric and the trade of the demagogue. Accord­

ingly the Seipionic circle had shown the most bitter hosti­

lity to the rhetoricians, and, if Greek declamations before

paid masters were tolerated primarily perhaps as exercises

in speaking Greek, Greek rhetoric did not thereby find its

way either into Latin oratory or into Latin oratorical in­

struction. But in the new Latin rhetorical schools the

Roman youths were trained as men and public orators by

discussing in pairs rhetorical themes; they accused or on

the other hand defended Ulysses, who was found beside

the corpse of Ajax with the latter's bloody sword, of the

y

