38 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

in height had to be taken one by one; on the roofs or on

beams laid over the street the soldiers penetrated from one

of these fortress-like buildings to that which was adjoining

or opposite, and cut down whatever they encountered there.

Thus six days elapsed, terrible for the inhabitants of the

city and full of difficulty and danger also for the assailants;

at length they arrived in front of the steep citadel-rock,

whither Hasdrubal and the force still surviving had re­

treated. To procure a wider approach, Scipio gave orders

to set fire to the captured streets and to level the ruins; on

which occasion a number of persons unable to fight, who

were concealed in the houses, miserably perished. Then at

last the remnant of the population, crowded together in the

citadel, besought for mercy. Life was barely conceded to

them, and they appeared before the victor, 30,000 men and

25,000 women, not the tenth part of the former population.

The Roman deserters alone, 900 in number, and the general

Hasdrubal with his wife and his two children had thrown

themselves into the temple of the God of Healing; for them—

for soldiers who had deserted their posts, and for the murderer

of the Roman prisoners—there were no terms. But, when,

yielding to famine, the most resolute of them set fire to the

temple, Hasdrubal could not endure to face death; alone he

ran forth to the victor and falling upon his knees pleaded for

his life. It was granted; but, when his wife who with her

children was among the rest on the roof of the temple saw

him at the feet of Scipio, her proud heart swelled at this

disgrace brought on her beloved perishing home, and, with

bitter words bidding her husband be careful to save his life,

she plunged first her sons and then herself into the names.

The struggle was at an end. The joy in the camp and at

Rome was boundless; the noblest of the Romans alone were

in secret ashamed of the most recent achievement of the

nation. The prisoners were mostly sold as slaves; several

were allowed to languish in prison; the most notable,

Hasdrubal and Bithyas, were sent to the interior of Italy as

Roman state-prisoners and tolerably treated. The moveable

property, with the exception of gold, silver, and votive

gifts, was abandoned to the pillage of the soldiers. As to the

temple treasures, the booty that had been in better times

carried off by the Carthaginians from the Sicilian towns was

restored; the bull of Phalaris, for example, was returned to

the Agrigentines; the rest fell to the Roman state.

