200 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

with the Servian organization they selected the cavalry from

the wealthiest, and the light-armed from the poorest, of those

liable to serve, they arranged the middle class, the proper

infantry of the line, no longer according to property but

according to duration of service, in the three divisions of has-

tati, principes, and triarii. They had, moreover, long ago

brought the Italian allies to take part to a very great extent

in war-service; but in their case too, just as among the

Roman burgesses, military duty was chiefly imposed on the

propertied classes. Nevertheless the Roman military system

down to the time of Marius rested in the main on that pri­

mitive organization of the civic militia. But it was no longer

suited for the altered circumstances of the state. The better

classes of society kept aloof more and more from service

in the army, and the Boman and Italic middle class in

general was disappearing; while on the other hand the con­

siderable military resources of the extra-Italian allies and sub­

jects had become available, and the Italian proletariate also,

properly applied, afforded at least a very useful material for

military objects. The burgess-cavalry (ii. 320), which was

meant to be formed from the class of the wealthy, had prac­

tically given up service in the field even before the time of

Marius. It is last mentioned as an actual corps (TarmSe in the

140. Spanish campaign of 614, when it drove the general to despair

by its insolent arrogance and its insubordination, and a war

broke out between the troopers and the general waged on both

sides with equal want of principle. In the Jugurthine war it

continues to appear merely as a sort of guard of honour for

the general and foreign princes ; thenceforth it wholly disap­

pears. In like manner the filling up of the complement

of the legions with properly qualified persons bound to serve

proved in the ordinary course of things difficult; so that ex­

ertions, such as were necesssary after the battle of Arausio,

would have been in all probability really impracticable with

the retention of the existing rules as to the obligation of

service. On the other hand even before the time of Marius,

especially in the cavalry and the light infantry, extra-

Italian subjects—the heavy mounted troopers of Thrace, the

light African cavalry, the excellent light infantry of the

nimble Ligurians, the slingers from the Baleares—were cm-

ployed in daily increasing numbers even beyond their own

provinces for the Roman armies ; and at the same time, while

there was a want of qualified burgess-recruits, the non­

