180 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

breadth, the first rank of which in dangerous combats not

unfrequently tied together their metallic girdles with cords.

Their manners were rude. Flesh was frequently devoured

raw. The bravest and, if possible, the tallest man was king

of the host. Not unfrequently, after the manner of the

Celts and of barbarians generally, the time and place of the

combat were previously arranged with the enemy, and some­

times also, before the battle began, an individual opponent

was challenged to single combat. The conflict was ushered in

by their insulting the enemy with unseemly gestures, and by

a horrible noise—the men raising their battle-shout, and the

women and children increasing the din by drumming on the

leathern covers of the waggons. The Cimbrian fought

bravely—death on the bed of honour was deemed by him

the only death worthy of a free man—but after the victory he

indemnified himself by the most savage brutality, and some­

times promised beforehand to present to the gods of battle

whatever victory should place in the power of the victor.

The effects of the enemy were broken in pieces, the horses

were killed, the prisoners were hanged or preserved only to

be sacrificed to the gods. It was the priestesses—grey-headed

women in white linen dresses and unshod—who, like Iplii-

genia in Scythia, offered these sacrifices, and prophesied the

future from the streaming blood of the victim whether cap­

tive of war or criminal. How much in these customs was the

universal usage of the northern barbarians, how much was

borrowed from the Celts, and how much was peculiar to the

Germans, cannot be ascertained ; only, the practice of having

the army accompanied and directed not by priests, but by

priestesses, may be pronounced as an undoubtedly Germanic

custom. Thus marched the Cimbri iuto the unknown land—

an immense multitude of various origin which had congre­

gated round a nucleus of Germanic emigrants from the Bal­

tic—not without resemblance to the great bodies of emigrants,

that in our own times cross the ocean similarly burdened and

similarly mingled, and with aims not much less vague; car­

rying their lumbering waggon-castle, with the dexterity

which a long migratory life imparts, over streams and moun­

tains; dangerous to more civilized nations like the wave

and the hurricane, and like these capricious and unaccount­

able, now rapidly advancing, now suddenly pausing, turning

aside, or receding. They came and struck like lightning;

like lightning they vanished; and unhappily, in the dull

