Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 303

sent it to engage the enemy, with a view to gain time for

rearranging his infantry; it charged with great fury and

broke through the Roman ranks;.but the Roman infantry

rapidly formed in close masses and courageously withstood

the horsemen assailing them on every side. Meanwhile

Sulla himself on the right wing led his cavalry against

the exposed flank of the enemy; the Asiatic infantry gave

way before it was even properly engaged, and its giving way

carried confusion also into the masses of the cavalry. A

general attack of the Roman infantry, which through the

wavering demeanour of the hostile cavalry gained time to

breathe, decided the victory. The closing of the gates of

the camp, which Archelaus ordered to check the flight, only

increased the slaughter, and when the gates at length were

opened, the Romans entered at the same time with the

Asiatics. It is said that Archelaus brought not a twelfth

part of his force in safety to Ohalcis; Sulla followed him to

the Euripus; he was not in a position to cross that narrow

arm of the sea.

It was a great victory, but the results were trifling, slight effect

partly because of the want of a fleet, partly because the »f the vic-

Roman conqueror instead of pursuing the vanquished was tor-v'

under the necessity in the first instance of protecting himself

against his own countrymen. The sea was still exclusively

covered by Pontic squadrons, which now showed themselves

even to the westward of the Malean promontory; even after

the battle of Chaeronea Archelaus landed troops on Zacyn-

thus and made an attempt to establish himself on that

island. Moreover Lucius Flaccus had in the meanwhile Sulla and

actually landed with two legions in Epirus, not without Flaccus.

having sustained severe loss on the way from storms and

from the war-vessels of the enemy cruising in the Adriatic;

his troops were already in Thessaly; Sulla had in the first

instance to turn thither. The two Roman armies en­

camped over against each other at Melitaea on the northern

slope of Mount Othrys; a collision seemed inevitable. But

Flaccus, after he had opportunity of convincing himself that

Sulla's soldiers were by no means inclined to betray their

victorious leader to the totally unknown democratic com­

mander-in-chief, but that on the contrary his own advanced

guard began to desert to Sulla's camp, evaded a conflict to

which be was in no respect equal, and set out towards the

north, with the view of getting through Macedonia and

