Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 449

More readable and adroit imitations of Greek tragedy Accius.

were furnished by Pacuvius' younger contemporary, Lucius

Accius, son of a freedman of Pisaurum (584—after 651), 170-103.

with the exception of Pacuvius the only notable tragic poet

of the seventh century. An active author also in the field

of literary history and grammar, he doubtless laboured to

introduce instead of the crude manner of his predecessors

greater purity of language and style into Latin tragedy;

jet his inequality and incorrectness were emphatically cen­

sured by men of strict observance like Lueilius.

Far greater activity and far more important results are Greek

apparent in the field of comedy. At the very commence- comedy,

ment of this period a remarkable reaction set in against the

sort of comedy hitherto prevalent and popular. Its repre- Terence,

sentative Tereutius (558-595) is one of the most interest- 196-159.

ing phenomena, in a historical point of view, in Roman

literature. Born in Phoenician Africa, brought in early youth

as a slave to Rome and there initiated into the Greek cul­

ture of the day, he seemed from the very first destined for

the vocation of restoring to the new Attic comedy that cos­

mopolitan character, which in its adaptation to the Roman

public under the rough hands of Naevius, Plautus, and their

associates it had in some measure lost. Even in the selec­

tion and employment of models the contrast is apparent

between him and that predecessor whom alone we can now

compare with him. Plautus chooses his pieces from the

whole range of the newer Attic comedy, and by no means

disdains the livelier and more popular comedians, such as

Philemon; Terence keeps almost exclusively to Menander,

the most elegant, polished, and chaste of all the poets of the

Newer comedy. The method of working up several Greek

pieces into one Latin is retained by Terence, because in fact

from the state of the case it could not be avoided by the

Roman editors; but it is handled with incomparably more

skill and carefulness. The Plautine dialogue beyond doubt

departed very frequently from its models; Terence boasts

of the verbal adherence of his imitations to the originals,

by which however we are not to understand a verbal

translation in our sense. The not unfrequently coarse,

but always effective laying on of Roman local tints over

the Greek ground-work, which Plautus was fond of, is

completely and designedly banished from Terence; not an

allusion puts one in mind of Rome, not a proverb, hardly

VOL. III. 2 G

r

