Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 465

the history of the states of the Mediterranean resolving itself

into the hegemony of Roman power and Greek culture.

Thus Polybius became the first Greek of note, who embraced

with serious conviction the comprehensive view of the Sci-

pionic circle, and recognized the ascendancy of Hellas in the

sphere of intellect and that of Rome in the sphere of politics

as facts, regarding which history had given her final decision,

and to which people on both sides were entitled and bound

to submit. In this spirit he acted as a practical statesman,

and wrote his history. If in his youth he had done homage

to the honourable but impracticable local patriotism of the

Achaeans, during his later years, with a clear discernment of

inevitable necessity, he. advocated in the community to which

he belonged the policy of the closest adherence to Rome.

It was a policy in the highest degree judicious and beyond

doubt well-intentioned, but it was far from being high-spirited

or proud. Nor was Polybius able wholly to disengage himself

from the vanity and paltriness of the Hellenic statesmanship

of the time. He was hardly released from exile, when he

proposed to the senate that it should formally secure to the

released their former rank in their several homes; where­

upon Cato aptly remarked, that that looked to him as if

Ulysses were to return to the cave of Polyphemus to request

from the giant his hat and girdle. He often availed himself

of his relations with the great men in Rome to benefit his

countrymen; but the way in which he submitted to, and

boasted of, the illustrious protection somewhat approaches

fawning servility. His literary activity breathes throughout

the same spirit as his practical action. It was the task of

his life to write the history of the union of the Mediterranean

states under the hegemony of Rome. From the first Punic

war down to the destruction of Carthage and Corinth his

work embraces the fortunes of all the civilized states,—

namely Greece, Macedonia, Asia Minor, Syria, Egypt,

Carthage, and Italy—and exhibits in causal connection the

mode in which they came under the Roman protectorate; in

so far he describes it as his object to demonstrate the fitness

and reasonableness of the Roman hegemony. In design as

in execution, this history stands in clear and distinct con­

trast with the contemporary Roman as well as with the

contemporary Greek historiography. In Rome history still

remained wholly at the stage of chronicle; there existed

perhaps important historical materials, but what was called

TOL. III. 2 H

r

