Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 401

Under all these circumstances even a taxation moderate

in theory might become extremely oppressive in its actual

operation; and that it was so is beyond doubt, although

the financial oppression, which the Italian merchants and

bankers exercised over the provinces, was probably felt as a

far heavier burden on them than the taxation with all the

abuses that attached to it.

All things considered, the income which Rome drew from Aggregate 11

the provinces was not properly a taxation of the subjects in financial 11

the sense which we now attach to that expression, butresult-

rather in the main a revenue that may be compared with

the Attic tributes, by means of which the leading state

defrayed the expense of the military system which it main­

tained. This explains the singularly small amount of the

gross as well as of the net proceeds. There exists a state­

ment, according to which the income of Rome, exclusive, it

may be presumed, of the Italian revenues and of the grain

supplied in kind to Italy by the decumani, up to 691 amounted 6>i.

to not more than 200 millions of sesterces (£2,055.000);

that is only two-thirds of the sum which the king of Egypt

drew from his country annually. The proportion can only

seem strange at the first glance. The Ptolemies turned to

account the valley of the Nile as great plantation-owners,

and drew immense sums from their monopoly of the com­

mercial intercourse with the East; the Roman treasury was

not much more than the joint military chest of the com­

munities united under Rome's protection. The net produce

was probably still less in proportion. The only provinces

yielding a considerable surplus were perhaps Sicily, where

the Carthaginian system of taxation prevailed, and more

especially Asia from the time that Gaius Gracchus, in

order to provide for his largesses of corn, had carried out

the confiscation of the soil and a general domanial taxation

there. According to manifold testimonies the finances of

the Roman state were essentially dependent on the revenues

of Asia. The assertion sounds quite credible that the other

provinces on an average cost nearly as much as they brought

in; in fact those which required a considerable garrison,

such as the two Spains, Transalpine Gaul, and Macedonia,

probably often cost more than they yielded. On the whole

certainly the Roman treasury in ordinary times possessed a

surplus, which enabled them amply to defray the expense of

the buildings of the state and city, and to accumulate a

VOL. III. 2 D

r

