170 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

the man who had been betrayed, but gave orders that his

son, Congonnetiacus, should likewise be sent to Rome.

This seems to have been the reason why the Arvernian war,

already almost at an end, once more broke out, and a

second appeal to arms took place at Vindalium (above

Avignon) at the confluence of the Sorgue with the Rhone.

The result was not different from that of the first: on this

occasion it was chiefly the African elephants that scattered

the Celtic army. Thereupon the Arverni submitted to peace,

and tranquillity was restored in the land of the Celts.*

Province of The result of these military operations was the institution

Narbo. of a new Roman province between the maritime Alps and

the Pyrenees. All the tribes between the Alps and the

Ehone became dependent on the Romans and, so far as they

did not pay tribute to Massilia, probably became now tribu­

taries of Rome. In the country between the. Rhone and

the Pyrenees the Arverni retained freedom and were not

bound to pay tribute to the Romans; but they had to cede

to Rome the most southerly portion of their direct or indi­

rect territory—the district to the south of the Cevennes as

far as the Mediterranean, and the upper course of the

Garonne as far as Tolosa (Toulouse). As the primary

object of these occupations was the establishment of a land

communication between Italy and Spain, arrangements were

made immediately thereafter for the construction of the road

along the coast. For this purpose a belt of coast from the

Alps to the Rhone, from 1 to If of a mile in breadth, was

handed over to the Massiliots, who already had a series of

maritime stations along this coast, with the obligation of

keeping the road in proper condition; while from the Rhone

to the Pyrenees the Romans themselves laid out a military

highway, which obtained from its originator Ahenobarbus

the name of Via Domitia.

Roman set- As usual, the formation of new fortresses was combined

tlements in with the construction of roads. In the eastern portion

the region of

the Rhone. * The battle at Vindalium is placed by the epitomator of Livy and
by

Orosius before that on the Isara; but the reverse order is supported by Florus

and Strabo (iv. 191), and is confirmed partly by the circumstance that

Maximus, according to the Epitome of Livy and Pliny H. N., vii. 50, fought

it when consul, partly and especially by the Capitoline Fasti, according to

which Maximus not only triumphed before Ahenobarbus, but the former

triumphed over the Allobroges and the king of the Arverni, the latter only

over the Arverni. It is clear that the battle with the Allobroges and Arverni

must have taken place earlier than that with the Arverni alone.

