Chap. X.] THE SUIXAN CONSTITUTION. 389

punishment for defeats which he sustained through arrant

folly and insubordination (P. 345), but was even allowed a

triumph; Gnaeus Pompeius, who had behaved still worse, was

still more extravagantly honoured by Sulla (P. 344, 378).

The extensive range and the worst enormities of the pro­

scriptions and confiscations probably arose not so much

from Sulla's own wish as from this spirit of indifference,

which in his position indeed was hardly more pardonable.

That Sulla with his intrinsically energetic and yet withal

indifferent temperament should conduct himself very va­

riously, sometimes with incredible indulgence, sometimes

with inexorable severity, may readily be conceived. The

saying repeated a thousand times, that he was before his

regency a good-natured mild man but when regent a blood­

thirsty tyrant, carries in it its own refutation; if he as re­

gent displayed the reverse of his earlier gentleness, it must

rather be said that he punished with the same careless non­

chalance with which he pardoned. This half-ironical fri­

volity pervades his whole political action. It is always as

if the victor, just as it pleased him to call his merit in gain­

ing victory good fortune, esteemed the victory itself of no

value; as if he had a partial presentiment of the vanity and

perishableness of his own work; as if after the manner of a

, steward he preferred making repairs to pulling down and rev

building, and allowed himself in the end to be content with

a sorry patchwork to conceal the flaws.

But, such as he was, this Don Juan of politics was a man suiia after

of one mould. His whole life attests the internal equili- his retire-

brium of his nature; in the most diverse situations Sulla ment-

remained unchangeably the same. It was the same temper,

which after the brilliant successes in Africa made him seek

once more the idleness of the capital, and after the full

possession of absolute power made him find rest and refresh­

ment in his Cuman villa. In his mouth the saying, that

public affairs were a burden which he threw off so soon as

he might and could, was no mere phrase. After his resigna­

tion he remained entirely like himself, without peevishness

and without affectation, glad to be rid of public affairs and

yet interfering now and then when opportunity offered. .

Hunting and fishing and the composition of his memoirs

occupied his leisure hours; by way of interlude he arranged,

at the request of the discordant citizens, the internal affairs

of the neighbouring colony of Puteoli as confidently and

'.

I

