Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 393

which has reached almost to our own times. But in inter­

nal development also this epoch bears the same character.

The old organization collapses irretrievably. The Roman

commonwealth was planned as a civic community, which

through its free burgess-body gave to itself rulers and laws;

which was governed by these duly advised rulers within

these legal limits with kingly freedom; and around which

the Italian confederacy, as an aggregate of free civic com­

munities essentially homogeneous and cognate with the

Roman, and the body of extra-Italian allies, as an aggregate

of Greek free cities and barbaric peoples and principalities

—both more superintended, than domineered over, by the

community of Rome—formed a double circle. It was the

final result of the revolution—and both parties, the nomi­

nally conservative as well as the democratic party, had co­

operated towards it and concurred in it—that of this

venerable structure, which at the beginning of the present

epoch, though full of chinks and tottering, still stood erect,

not one stone was at its close left upon another. The

holder of sovereign power was now either a single man or a

close oligarchy at one time of those who were noble, at an­

other of those who were wealthy. The burgesses had lost

all real share in the government. The magistrates were

instruments without independence in the hands of the holder

of power for the time being. The civic community of Rome

had broken down by its unnatural enlargement. The Italian

confederacy had been merged in the civic community. The

body of extra-Italian allies was in full course of being con­

verted into a body of subjects. The whole organic classifi­

cation of the Roman commonwealth had gone to wreck, and

nothing was left but a crude mass of more or less disparate

elements. The state of matters threatened to end in utter

anarchy and in the inward and outward dissolution of the

state. The political movement tended thoroughly towards

the goal of despotism; the only point still in dispute was

whether the close circle of the noble families, or the senate

of capitalists, or a monarch was to be despot. The political

movement followed thoroughly the paths that led to des­

potism; the fundamental principle of a free commonwealth

—that the contending powers should reciprocally confine

themselves to indirect coercion—had become effete in the

eyes of all parties alike, and on both sides the fight for

power began to be carried on first by the bludgeon, and

