Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 259

made war against, and prosecuted, the oppressed multitude

and the middle party which advised a modification of the

rigid letter of the law; once more Rome stood on the verge

of that abyss, into which the despairing debtor drags his

creditor along with him. But since that time the simple

civil and moral organization of a great agricultural city had

been succeeded by the social antagonisms of a capital of many

nations, and by that demoralization in which the prince and

the beggar meet; now everything had come to be on a

broader, more abrupt, and fearfully grander scale. When

the Social war brought all the political and social elements

fermenting among the citizens into collision with each other,

it laid the foundation for a new revolution. An accident

led to its outbreak.

It was the tribune of the people Publius Sulpicius Rufus The Snipi-

who in 666 proposed to the burgesses to declare that every cian 1:lws-

senator, who owed more than 2000 denarii (£82), should

forfeit his seat in the senate; to grant to the burgesses

condemned by non-free jury courts liberty to return home;

to distribute the new burgesses among all the tribes, and

likewise to allow the right of voting in all tribes to the

freedmen. They were proposals, which from the mouth of

such a man were at least somewhat surprising. Publius Sulpicius

Sulpicius Rufus (born in 630) owed his political importance Kut'ua.

not so much to his noble birth, his important connections, m"

and his hereditary wealth, as to his remarkable talent as

an orator, in which none of his contemporaries equalled

him. His powerful voice, his lively gestures sometimes

bordering on theatrical display, the luxuriant copiousness

of his flow of words arrested, even if they did not convince,

his hearers. As a partisan he was from the first on the side

of the senate, and his first public appearance (659) had been 95

the impeachment of Norbanus who was mortally hated by

the government party (P. 217). Among the conservatives

he belonged to the section of Crassus and Drusus. We do

not know what primarily gave occasion to his soliciting the

tribuneship of the people for 666, and on its account re- 88.

nouncing his patrician nobility; but he seems to have been

by no means rendered a revolutionist by the fact that he,

like the whole middle party, had been persecuted as revolu­

tionary by the conservatives, and to have by no means

intended an overthrow-of the constitution in the sense of

Gaius Gracchus, It would rather seem that, as the only

