332 CIXNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

even Publius Cethegus, one of the senators banished after

the Sulpician emeute by Sulla, obtained pardon and a position

in the army.

Pompeius. Still more important than these individual accessions was

the gain of the district of Picenum, which was substantially

due to the son of Strabo, the young Gnaeus Pompeius.

The latter, like his father originally no adherent of the

oligarchy, had acknowledged the revolutionary government

and even taken service in Cinna's army; but in his case

the fact was not forgotten, that his father had borne arms

against the revolution; he found himself assailed in various

forms and even threatened with the loss of his very con足

siderable wealth by an indictment charging him to give up

the booty which was, or was alleged to have been, embezzled

by his father after the capture of Asculum. The protection

in particular of the consul Carbo who was personally attached

to him, along with the eloquence of the consular Lucius

Philippus and of the young Lucius Hortensius,' averted

from him financial ruin; but he remained uneasy. On the

news of Sulla's landing he went to Picenum, where he had

extensive possessions and the best municipal connections

derived from his father and the Social war, and set up the

standard of the Optimate party in Auximum (Osimo). The

district, which was mostly inhabited by old burgesses, joined

him; the young men, many of whom had served with him

under his father, readily ranged themselves under the cou足

rageous leader who, not yet twenty-three years of age, was

as much soldier as general, sprang to the front of his cavalry

in combat, and vigorously assailed the enemy along with them.

The corps of Picenian volunteers soon grew to three legions;

divisions under Cloelius, Gaius Albius Carrinas, Lucius

Junius Brutus Damasippus,* were despatched from the

capital to put down the Picenian insurrection, but the ex足

temporized general, dexterously taking advantage of the dis足

sensions that arose among them, had the skill to evade them

or to beat them in detail and to effect his junction with the

main army of Sulla, apparently in Apulia. Sulla saluted

him as imperator, that is, as an officer commanding in his

own name and holding not a subordinate but a parallel

position, and distinguished the youth by marks of honour

* We can only suppose this to be the Brutus referred to, since Marcn>  
88. Brutus the lather of the so-called Liberator was tribune of the people in
671,

and therefore could not command in the field.

