Chap. XII.] . NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 427

faded far earlier than the Italian, had long ago passed

the epoch of faith and thenceforth moved exclusively in the

sphere of speculation and reflection; for long there had been

no religion there, and nothing but philosophy. But even

the philosophic activity of the Hellenic mind had, when it

began to exert influence on Rome, already left the epoch of

productive speculation far behind it, and had arrived at the

stage at which there is not only no origination of really

new systems, but even the power of apprehending the more

perfect of the older systems begins to wane and men restrict

themselves to the repetition, soon passing into the scholastic

tradition, of the less complete dogmas of their predecessors;

at that stage, accordingly, when philosophy, instead of giving

greater depth and freedom to the mind, rather renders it

shallow and imposes on it the worst of all chains—chains of

its own forging. The enchanted draught of speculation, al­

ways dangerous, is, when diluted and stale, certain poison.

The contemporary Greeks presented it thus flat and di­

luted to the Romans, and these had not the judgment either'

to refuse it or to go back from the livingschoolmasters to the

dead masters. Plato and Aristotle, to say nothing of the

sages before Socrates, remained without material influence

on the Roman culture, although their illustrious names were

freely employed, and their more easily understood writings

were probably read and translated. Accordingly the

Romans became in philosophy simply inferior scholars of

bad teachers. Besides the historico-rationalistic view of

religion, which resolved the myths into biographies of various

benefactors of the human race living in the grey dawn

of early times whom superstition had transformed into

gods, or Euhemerism as it was called (ii. 401), there were

chiefly three philosophical schools that came to be of im­

portance for Italy ; viz. the two dogmatic schools of Epicurus

(+484) and Zeno (+491) and the sceptical school of Arcesi- 270. 263.

laus ( + 513) and Carneades (541-625), or, to use the school- 241.

names, Epicureanism, the Stoa, and the newer Academy. 213-129.

The last of these schools, which started from the impossibi­

lity of assured knowledge and in its stead only conceded as

possible a provisional opinion sufficient for practical require­

ments, presented mainly a polemical aspect, seeing that it

caught every proposition of positive faith or of philosophic

dogmatism in the meshes of its dilemmas. So far it stands

nearly on a parallel with the earlier method of the sophists;

