258 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Bock IV.

stones and bludgeons by bis soldiers, wbo believed them­

selves betrayed by their general to the enemy; and Sulla

the commander-in-chief contented himself with exhorting

the troops to efface the memory of that occurrence by their

brave conduct in presence of the enemy. The authors of

that deed were the marines, from of old the least respect­

able of the troops. A division of legionaries raised chiefly

from the city populace soon followed the example thus

given. Instigated by Gaius Titius, one of the heroes of the

market-place, it laid hands on the consul Cato. By an acci­

dent he escaped death on this occasion; Titius was arrested,

but was not punished. .When Cato soon afterwards actually

perished in a combat, his own officers, and particularly the

younger Gaius Marius, were—whether justly or unjustly

cannot be ascertained—designated as the authors of his

death.

Economic To the political and military crisis thus beginning fell to

crisis. be added the economic crisis—perhaps still more terrible—

which set in upon the Roman capitalists in consequence of

the Social war and the Asiatic troubles. The debtors,

unable even to raise the interest due and yet inexorably

pressed by their creditors, had on the one hand entreated

from the proper judicial authority, the urban praetor Asellio,

a respite to enable them to dispose of their possessions,

and on the other hand had searched out once more the

old obsolete laws as to usury (i. 311) and, in accordance

with the rule established in olden times, had sued their

creditors for fourfold the amount of the interest paid to

them contrary to the law. Asellio applied himself to bend

the de facto existing law to the letter, and sanctioned in the

usual way the desired actions for interest; whereupon the

offended creditors assembled in the Forum under the leader­

ship of the tribune of the people Lucius Cassius, and at-

Murderof tacked and killed the praetor in front of the temple of

Asellio. Concord, just as in his priestly robes he was presenting a

sacrifice—an outrage, which was not even made a subject

83. of investigation (665). On the other hand it was said in

the circles of the debtors, that the suffering multitude

could not be relieved otherwise than by "new account-

books," that is, by legally cancelling the claims of all

creditors against all debtors. Matters stood again exactly

as they had stood during the strife of the orders; once more

the capitalists in league with the prejudiced aristocracy

