Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 163

interior of Africa were received as free allies into the

number of the independent nations that had treaties with ^,

Home.

Of greater importance than this regulation of African Political re

clientship were the political consequences of the Jugurthine slllts-

war or rather of the Jugurthine insurrection, although

these have been frequently estimated too highly. Certainly

all the evils of the government were therein brought to

light in all their nakedness; it was not merely notorious but,

so to speak, judicially established, that among the govern­

ing lords of Some everything was treated as venal—the treaty

of peace and the right of intercession, the rampart of the

camp and the life of the soldier; the African had said no

more than the simple truth, when on his departure from

Rome he declared that, if he had only gold enough, he would

undertake to buy the city itself. But the whole external

and internal government of this period bore the same stamp

of miserable baseness. In our case the accidental fact, that

the war in Africa is brought nearer to us by means of better

accounts than the other contemporary military and political

events, shifts the true perspective; contemporaries learned

by these revelations nothing but what everybody knew long

before and every intrepid patriot had long been in a posi­

tion to support by facts. The circumstance, however, that

they were now furnished with some fresh, still stronger and

still more irrefutable, proofs of the baseness of the restored

senatorial government—a baseness only surpassed by its

incapacity—might have been of importance, had there been

an opposition and a public opinion with which the govern­

ment would have found it necessary to come to terms. But

Bekk., and confirmed by an inscription of Carthagena (Orell. 630), which

calls him king and father of Hiempsal II. That on the east the frontier rela­

tions subsisting between Numidia on the one hand and Roman Africa and

Cvrene on the other remained unchanged, is shown by Caesar (B. C. ii. 38 B.

Afr. 43, 77) and by the later provincial constitution. On the other hand the

nature of the case implied, and Sallust (c. 97, 102, 111) indicates, that the

kingdom of Bocchus was considerably enlarged; with which is undoubtedly

connected the fact, that Mauretania, originally restricted to the region of

Tingis (Morocco), afterwards extended to the region of Caesarea (province of

Algiers) and to that of Sitifis (western half of the province of Constantine).

As Mauretania was twice enlarged by the Romans, first in 649 after Jugur- 105.

tha's surrender, then in 708 after the breaking up of the Numidian kingdom,
4tt.

it is probable that the region of Caesarea was added on the first, and that of

Sitifis on the second augmentation.

