Chap. II.J AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 73

menfc of aristocratic nobodies. Even the inaction of the

government in its outward relations was doubtless connected

with this policy of the nobility, exclusive towards commoners,

and distrustful towards the individual members of their own

order. By no surer means could they keep commoners,

whose deeds were their patent of nobility, aloof from the

pure circles of the aristocracy than by giving no opportunity

to any one to perform deeds at all; to the existing govern­

ment of general mediocrity even an aristocratic conqueror

of Syria or Egypt would have proved extremely inconve­

nient.

It is true that now also there was no want of opposition, Attempts at

and it was even to a certain extent effectual. The adminis- reform,

tration of justice was improved. The administrative juris- Permanent

diction, which the senate exercised either personally or """"I"1

by extraordinary commissions, as occasion required, over ^ons-

the provincial magistrates, was confessedly inadequate. It

was an innovation with a momentous bearing on the whole

public life of the Roman community, when in 605, on the 149.

proposal of Lucius Calpurnius Piso, a standing senatorial

commission (qucestio ordinaries was instituted to try in

judicial form the complaints oi the provincials regarding the

extortion of their Roman magistrates. An effort was made Vote by

to emancipate the comitia from the preponderating influence ballot,

of the aristocracy. The panacea of Roman democracy was

vote by ballot in the assemblies of the burgesses, which

was introduced first for the elections of magistrates by the

Gabinian law (615), then for the public tribunals by the 139.

Cassian law (617), lastly for the voting on legislative pro- 137.

posals by the Papirian law (623). In a similar way soon 131.

afterwards (about 625) the senators were by decree of the 129.

people enjoined to surrender their public horse on admission Exclusion of

to the senate, and thereby to renounce their privilege of the senators

voting in the eighteen equestrian centuries (ii. 320). These from tlie

measures, directed to the emancipation of the electoral body e<luestrmn

from the ruling order, may perhaps have seemed to the party

which suggested them the first steps towards a regeneration

of the state; in fact, they made not the slightest change in

602, with the speoial circumstances of which we are not acquainted, gave

occasion to the law prohibiting re-election to the consulship altogether (Liv,

Ep. 56); especially as this proposal must have been introduced before 605,

seeing that it was supported by Cato (p. 55, Jordan).

r

