32 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

the side towards the town. To the north of, and beyond,

the city proper, the pretty considerable space of the modern

El Mersa, even at that time occupied in great part by villas

and well-watered gardens, and then called Magalia, had

a circumvallation of its own dovetailed into the city wall.

On the opposite point of the peninsula, the Jebel-Khawi

near the modern village of Ghamart, lay the necropolis.

These three—the old city, the suburb, and the necropolis—

together filled the whole breadth of the promontory on its

side next the gulf, and were only accessible by the two high­

ways leading to Utica and Tunes along that narrow tongue

of land, which, although not closed by a wall, yet afforded a

most advantageous position for the armies taking their stand

under the protection of the capital with the view of protect­

ing it in return.

The difficult task of reducing so well fortified a city was

rendered still more difficult by the fact, that the resources of

the capital itself and of its territory which still included

800 townships and was mostly under the power of the emi­

grant party on the one hand, and the numerous tribes of the

free or half-free Libyans hostile to Massinissa on the other,

enabled the Carthaginians simultaneously with their defence

of the city to keep a numerous army in the field—an army

which, from the desperate temper of the emigrants and the

serviceableness of the light Numidian cavalry, the besiegers

could not afford to disregard.

The siege. The consuls accordingly had by no means an easy task

to perform, when they now found themselves compelled to

commence a regular siege. Manius Maniiius, who com­

manded the land army, pitched his camp opposite the wall

of the citadel, while Lucius Censorinus stationed himself

with the fleet on the lake and there began operations on the

tongue of land. The Carthaginian army, under Hasdrubal,

encamped on the other side of the lake near the fortress of

Nepheris, whence it obstructed the labours of the Roman,

soldiers despatched to cut timber for constructing machines,

and the able cavalry-leader in particular, Himilco Phame^s,

slew many of the Romans. Censorinus fitted up two large

battering-rams on the tongue, and made a breach with them

at this, the weakest place of the wall; but, as evening had set

in, the assault had to be postponed. During the night the

besieged succeeded in filling up a great part of the breach,

and in so damaging the Roman machines by a sortie that

