54 [Book IV. THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES.

in spite of all the open attacks and secret machinations

which his neighbours and the Romans directed against him,

159. at his death (about 595) left his kingdom in undiminished

138. power. His brother Attalus II. Philadelphus (+616), with

Roman aid, repelled the attempt of Pharnaces king of

Pontus to seize the guardianship of Eumenes' son who

was a minor, and reigned in. the room of his nephew, like

Antigonus Doson, as guardian for life. Adroit, able, pliant,

a genuine Attalid, he had the art to convince the suspicious

senate that the apprehensions which it had formerly cherished

were baseless. The anti-Roman party accused him of

applying himself to keep the land for the Romans, and of

acquiescing in every insult and exaction at their hands; but,

sure of Roman protection, he was able to interfere decisively

in the disputes as to the succession in Syria, Cappadocia,

and Bithynia. Even in the dangerous Bithynian war, which

182-149. king Prusias II., surnamed the Hunter (572?-605), a

ruler who combined in his own person all the vices of

barbarism and of civilization, began against him, Roman

intervention saved him—although not until he had been

himself besieged in his capital, and a first warning given by

the Romans had remained unattended to and had even been

156-154. scoffed at by Prusias (598-600). But, when his ward

138-133. Attalus III. Philometor ascended the throne (616-621),

the peaceful and moderate rule of the citizen kings was

replaced by the tyranny of an Asiatic sultan. The new king

164-163.

1G4.

the 34th year of Eumenes' reign on the 7th day before the end of Gorpiieus,

and therefore in 590-1 U. C, offers to the priest military aid in order to

wrest from the Pesongians (not otherwise known) a holy place occupied hy them;

the following, likewise from Eumenes, exhibits the king as a party in the feud

between the priest of Pess'nus and his brother Aiorix. Beyond doubt both acts

of Eumenes were included among those which were reported at Rome in 590

et seq. as attempts on his part to interfere further in Gallic affairs, and to
sup­

port his partisans in that quarter (Polyb. xxxi. 6, 9; xxxii. 3,5). On the
other

hand it is plain from one of the letters of his successor Attalus, that the
times

had changed and his wishes had lowered their tone. The priest Attis appeals

to have at a conference at Apamea obtained once more from Attalus the pro­

mise of armed assistance; but afterwards the king writes to him that in a

state council held for the purpose, at which Atheuaeus (certainly the known

brother of the king), Sosander, Menogenes, Chlorus, and other relatives

(avayicaioi) had been present, after long hesitation the majority had at
length

acceded to the opinion of Chlorus that nothing should be done without pre­

viously consulting the Romans; for, even if success were obtained, they would

expose themselves to its forfeiture and to the evil suspicion " which they had

"erished against his brother" (Eumenes II.).

