186 THE PEOPLKS OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

augmented by the fact, that he had as consul ventured on an

attempt to wrest the office of jurymen from the capitalists

(P. 135). On his account the old venerable principle, that the

sacredness of the magistracy should be respected even in the

person of its worst occupant, was violated; and, while the

censure due to the author of the calamitous day of Canna

e

had been silently repressed within the breast, the author of

the defeat of Arausio was by deeree of the people unconsti­

tutionally deprived of his proconsulship, and—what had

not occurred since the crises in which the monarchy had

105. perished—his property was confiscated by the state (649 ?).

Not long afterwards he was by a second decree of the bur-

104. gesses expelled from the senate (650). But this was not

enough; more victims were desired, and above all Caepio's

blood. A number of tribunes of the people favourable to

the opposition, with Lucius Appuleius Saturninus and Gaius

103. Norbanus at their head, proposed in 651 to appoint an ex­

traordinary judicial commission in reference to the embezzle­

ment and treason perpetrated in Gaul; in spite of the

practical abolition of imprisonment previous to trial and of

the punishment of death for political offences, Caepio was

arrested and the intention of pronouncing and executing in

his case sentence of death was openly expressed. The govern­

ment party attempted to get rid of the proposal by tri-

bunician intervention; but the interceding tribunes were

violently driven from the assembly, and in the furious

tumult the first men of the senate were assailed with

stones. The investigation could not be prevented, and the

103. War of prosecutions pursued its course in 651 as it had done

six years before; Ca^pio himself, his colleague in the su­

preme command Gnaeus Mallius Maximus, and numerous

other men of note were condemned: a tribune of the people,

who was a friend of Caepio, with difficulty succeeded by the

sacrifice of his own civil existence in saving, at least, the

life of the chief person accused.*

* The deposition from office of the proconsul Caepio, with which was combined  
the confiscation of his property (Liv. Ep. 67), was probably pronounced by

the assembly of the people immediately after the battle of Arausio (6th Oc-

105. tober, 649). That some time elapsed between that act and his pi oper
downfall,

104. is clearly shown by the proposal made in 650 and aimed at Caepio, that
depo-

position from office should involjr-o the forfeiture of a seat in the senate

(Asconius in Cornel, p. 78). The fragments of I.icinianus (p. 10; Cn. Ma­

nillas ob eandem cansam quam et Cepio L. Sattirnini rogalions o civitate est

cito [?] ejectus ; which throws light on the allusion in Cic. de Or. ii. 28,
125)

