Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 379

If in this instance he appeared lenient, he showed on the

other hand in the case of Ofella that he was not disposed

to allow his marshals to take advantage of him; as soon as

the latter had appeared unconstitutionally as candidate,

Sulla had him cut down in the public market-place, and

then explained to the assembled citizens that the deed was

done by his orders and the reason for doing it. So this signi­

ficant opposition of the staff to the new order of things was

no doubt silenced for the present; but it continued to subsist

and furnished the practical commentary on Sulla's saying, that

what he did on this occasion could not be done a second time.

One thing still remained—perhaps the most difficult of Restoration

all: to bring the exceptional state of things into accord- ofconstitu-

ance with the paths prescribed by the new or old laws. It tionRlorde>-

was facilitated by the circumstance, that Sulla never lost

sight of this as his ultimate aim. Although the Valerian

law gave him absolute power and gave to each of his ordi­

nances the force of law, he had nevertheless availed himself

of this extraordinary prerogative only in the case of measures

which were of transient importance and to take part in

which would simply have uselessly compromised the senate

and burgesses, especially in the case of' the proscriptions.

Ordinarily he had himself observed those regulations which

he prescribed for the future. That the people was con­

sulted, we read in the law as to the quaestors which is still

in part extant; and the same is attested of other laws, e.g.

the sumptuary law and those regarding the confiscations of

domains. In like manner the senate was previously con­

sulted in the more important administrative acts, such as

in the sending forth and recall of the African army and in

the conferring of the charters of towns. In the same spirit i I

Sulla caused consuls to be elected even for 673, through which 8ilf?/

at least the odious custom of dating officially by the regency *

was avoided; nevertheless the power still lay exclusively

with the regent, and the election was directed so as to

fall on secondary personages. But in the following year

(674) Sulla revived the ordinary constitution in full effi- 80.

ciency, and administered the state as consul in concert with

his comrade in arms Quintus Metellus, retaining the regency,

but allowing it for the time to lie dormant. He saw well

how dangerous it was for his own very institutions to per­

petuate the military dictatorship. "When the new state of

things seemed likely to hold its ground and the largest and

