210 THE ATTEMPT OF MARHJS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

intended to have his consulship annually renewed, like

the tribunate of Gracchus. But, amidst the agreement of

the political positions marked out for the younger Gracchus

and for Marius in all other essential particulars, there was

yet a very material distinction between the land-assigning

tribune and the land-assigning consul in the fact, that the

former was to occupy a purely civil position, the latter a

military position as well; a distinction, which partly but by

no means solely arose out of the personal circumstances

under which the two men had risen to the head of the

state.

While such was the nature of the aim which Marius and

his comrades had proposed to themselves, the next question

related to the means by which they purposed to break down

the resistance, that might be anticipated to be obstinate, of

the government party. Gaius Gracchus had fought his

battles with the aid of the capitalist class and the proletariate.

His successors did not neglect to make advances likewise to

these. The equites were not only left in possession of the

tribunals, but their power as jurymen was considerably in­

creased, partly by a stricter ordinance regarding the standing

commission—especially important to the merchants—as to

extortions on the part of the public magistrates in the pro­

vinces, which Glaucia carried probably in this year, partly

103. by the special tribunal, appointed perhaps as early as 651 on

the proposal of Saturninus, respecting the embezzlements

and other official malversations that had occurred during the

Cimbrian commotion in Gaul. For the benefit, moreover,

of the proletariate of the capital the sum below cost price,

which hitherto had to be paid on occasion of the distribu­

tions of grain for the modius, was lowered from 6$ asses to a

mere nominal charge of J of an as. But, although they did

not despise the alliance with the equites and the proletariate

of the capital, the real power by which the confederates

mainly enforced their measures lay not in these, but in the

discharged soldiers of the Marian army, who for that very

reason had been provided for in the colonial laws themselves

after so extravagant a fashion. In this respect also the pre­

eminently military character was conspicuous, which forms

the chief distinction between this attempt at revolution and

that which preceded it.

Violent in- They went to work accordingly. The corn and colonial

teifereuces jaws encountered, as was to be expected, the keenest opposi­

