Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 315

who resided in the capital—a body which had remained very

numerous in consequence of the remarkable moderation of

Sulla—laboured zealously to procure permission for these to

return home; and in particular some ladies of wealth and

distinction spared for this purpose neither trouble nor

money. None of these grounds of ill-humour were such as

to furnish any immediate prospect of a fresh violent collision

between the parties; they were in great part of an aimless

and temporary nature; but they all fed the general dis­

content, and had already, been more or less concerned in

producing the murder of Rufus, the repeated attempts to

assassinate Sulla, the issue of the consular and tribunician

elections for 667 partly in favour of the opposition. 87.

The name of the man whom the discontented had sum- Ciniia.

moned to the head of the state, Lucius Cornelius Cinna, had

been hitherto scarcely heard of, except so far as he had

distinguished himself as an officer in the Social war. We

have less information regarding Cinna's personal standing

and his original designs than regarding those of any other

party leader in the Soman revolution. The reason is, to all

appearance, simply that a man so thoroughly vulgar and

guided by the lowest selfishness had from the first no compre­

hensive political plans whatever. It was asserted at his very

first appearance that he had sold himself for a round sum of

money to the new burgesses and the coterie of Marius, and

the charge looks very credible; but even were it false, it

remains nevertheless significant that a suspicion of the

sort, such, as was never expressed against Saturninus and

Sulpicius, attached to Cinna. In fact the movement, at the

head of which he put himself, has altogether the appearance

of worthlessness both as to motives and as to aims. It pro­

ceeded not so much from a party as from a number of dissatis­

fied persons without strictly political aims or notable support,

who had mainly undertaken to carry out the recall of the

exiles by legal or illegal means. Cinna seems to have been

admitted into the conspiracy only by an after-thought and

merely because the intrigue, which in consequence of

the restriction of the tribunician powers needed a consul to

bring forward its proposals, saw in him among the consular

candidates for 667 its fittest instrument and so pushed him 87-

forward as consul. Among the leaders appearing in the second

rank of the movement were some abler heads; such was

the tribune of the people Gnaeus Papirius Carbo, who had Carbo.

