Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 459

the exhibitions.* Now also there is frequent mention of the

bestowal of a prize of victory—which implies the competition

of several pieces—of the audience taking a lively part for or

against the leading actors, of cliques and claqueurs. The

decorations and machinery were improved; moveable scenery

artfully painted and audible theatrical thunder made their

appearance under the aedileship of Gaius Claudius Puleher in

645 ;t and twenty years later (675) under the aedileship of 99. 79.

the brothers Lucius and Marcus Lucullus came the

changing of the decorations by turning round the scenes.

To the close of this epoch belongs the greatest of Roman

actors, the freedman Quintus Roscius (+ about 692 at a 62.

great age), throughout several generations the ornament and

pride of the Roman stage,| the friend and welcome boon-

companion of Sulla/—to whom we shall have to recur in the

sequel.

In recitative poetry the most surprising circumstance is Epos.

the insignificance of the Epos, which during the sixth

century had occupied decidedly the first place in the litera­

ture destined for reading; it had numerous representatives

in the seventh, but not a single one who had even temporary

success. From the present epoch there is hardly anything

to be reported save a number of rude attempts to translate

Homer, and some continuations of the Ennian Annals, such

* The attention given to the acoustic arrangements of the Greeks may be  
inferred from Vitrnv. v. 5, 8, Ritschl (Parerg. i. 227, xx.) has discussed the

question of the seats; but it is probable (according to 1'lautus Capt. pro!.

11) that those only who were not capite censi had a claim to a seat. It

is probable, moreover, that the words of Horace that "captive Greece led

captive her conquerors" primarily refer to these epoch-making theatrical games

of Mummius (Tac. Ann. xiv. 21).

f The scenery of Puleher must have been regularly painted, since the birds

are said to have attempted to perch on the tiles (Win. H. N. xxxv. 4, 23;

Val. Max. ii. 4, 6). Hitherto the machinery for thunder had consisted in the

shaking of nails and stones in a copper kettle; Puleher first produced a
better

thunder by rolling stones, which was thenceforth named " Claudian thunder"

(Festus v. Clavdiana, p. 57).

\ Among the few minor poems preserved from this epoch there occurs the

following epigram on this illustrious actor:—

Constiteram, exorientem Auroram forte salutans,

Cum subito a Icera Hoscius exoritur.

Pace mihi liceat, ccslestes, dicere vestra;

Mortulis visust pulchriar esse deo.

The author of this epigram, Greek in its tone and inspired by Greek enthu­

siasm for art, was no less a man than the conqueror of the Cimbri, Quintus

Lutatius Catulus, consul in 652. 102.

