Chap. XII.J NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 439

the previous epoch was now completed also in the sphere of

education and culture. We have already shown how the

fundamental idea of the Roman system—civil equality—had

already during the sixth century begun to be undermined

in this field also. Even in the time of Pictor and Cato

Greek culture was widely diffused in Rome, and there was

a native Roman culture; but neither of them had then

got beyond the initial stage. Cato's encyclopaedia shows

tolerably what was understood at this period by a Romano-

Greek model training (ii. 468); it was little more than an

embodiment of the old Roman household knowledge, and

truly, when compared with the Hellenic culture of the

period, scanty enough. At how low a stage the average

instruction of youth in Rome still stood at the beginning of

the seventh century, may be inferred from the expressions

of Polybius, who in this one respect prominently censures

the criminal indifference of the Romans as compared with

the intelligent private and public care of his countrymen;

no Hellene, not even Polybius himself, could rightly under­

stand the deeper idea of civil equality that lay at the root of

this indifference.

Now the case was altered. Just as the naive popular

faith was superseded by an enlightened Stoical super-

naturalism, so in education alongside of the simple popular

instruction a special training, an exclusive humamias, de­

veloped itself and eradicated the last remnants of the old

social equality. It will not be superfluous to cast a glance

at the aspect assumed by the new instruction of the young,

both the Greek and the higher Latin.

It was a singular circumstance that the same man, who Greek in-

in a political point of view definitively vanquished the struction.

Hellenic nation, Lucius JEmilius Paullus, was at the same

time the first or one of the first who fully recognized the

Hellenic civilization as—what it has thenceforth continued

to be beyond dispute—the civilization of the ancient world.

He himself no doubt was an old man, before it was granted

to him, with the Homeric poems in his mind, to stand before

the Zeus of Phidias; but his heart was young enough to

carry home the full sunshine of Hellenic beauty and the

unconquerable longing after the golden apples of the

Hesperides in his soul ; poets and artists had found in the

foreigner a more earnest and cordial devotee than was any

of the wise men of the Greece of those days. He made

