22 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV,

northern and eastern frontier exposed. In these quarters

kingdoms might be formed out of the inland countries situated

beyond the limits of the Roman hegemony without Bome

being able very directly or speedily to prevent them, and,

in antagonism to the weak states under Roman protection,

might develop a power dangerous to Rome and entering

sooner or later into rivalry with her. No doubt the con­

dition of the bordering nations—everywhere split into frag­

ments and nowhere favourable to political development on

a great scale—formed some sort of protection against this

danger; yet we very clearly perceive in the history of the

East, that at this period the Euphrates was no longer

guarded by the phalanx of Seleucus and was not yet watched

by the legions of Augustus.

It was high time to put an end to this uncertain state

of things. But the only possible way of ending it was by

converting the client states into Roman provinces. This

could be done all the more easily, that the Roman provin­

cial constitution in fact only concentrated military power

in the hands of the Roman governor, while administra­

tion and jurisdiction in the main were, or at any rate were

intended to be, retained by the communities, so that as

much of the old political independence as was at all capable

of life might he preserved in the form of communal freedom.

The necessity for this administrative reform could not well

be mistaken; the only question was, whether the senate

would put it off and mar it, or whether it would have the

courage and the power clearly to discern and energetically

to execute what was needful.

Carthage Let us first glance at Africa. The order of things esta-

and Nu- Wished by the Romans in Libya rested in substance on a

midia. balance of power between the Nomad kingdom of Massinissa

and the city of Carthage. While the former was expanded,

confirmed, and civilized under the vigorous and sagacious

government of Massinissa (ii. 205), Carthage simply in

consequence of a state of peace became once more, at least

in wealth and population, what it had been at the height of

its political power. The Romans saw with ill-concealed and

envious fear the apparently indestructible prosperity of

their old rival; while hitherto they had refused to grant to

it any real protection against the constantly repeated en­

croachments of Massinissa, they now began openly to inter­

fere in favour of the neighbouring prince. The dispute

