330 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

the meanest passions often combine to produce it in the same

breast. The soldiers of Sulla voluntarily according to the

Roman custom swore mutual oaths that they would stand

firmly by each other, and each voluntarily brought to the

general his savings as a contribution to the costs of the war.

But considerable as was the weight of this solid and select

body of troops in comparison with the masses of the enemy,

Sulla saw very well that Italy could not be subdued with

five legions if it remained united in resolute resistance.

To settle accounts with the popular party and their inca­

pable autocrats would not have been difficult; but he saw

opposed to him and united with that party the whole mass

of those who desired no oligarchic restoration with its

terrors, and above all the whole body of new burgesses—both

those who had been prevented by the Julian law from taking

part in the insurrection, and those whose revolt a few years

His mode- before had brought Rome to the brink of ruin. Sulla fully

ration. surveyed the situation of affairs, and was far removed from

the blind exasperation and the obstinate rigour which charac­

terized the majority of his party. While the edifice of the

state was in flames, while his friends were being murdered,

his houses destroyed, his family driven into exile, he had

remained undisturbed at his post till the public foe was

conquered and the Roman frontier was secured. He now

treated Italian affairs in the same spirit of patriotic and

judicious moderation, and did whatever he could to pacify the

moderate party and the new burgesses, and to prevent the

civil war from assuming the far more dangerous form of a

fresh war between the old Romans and the Italian allies.

The first letter which Sulla addressed to the senate had asked

nothing but what was right and just, and had expressly

disclaimed a reign of terror. In harmony with its terms,

he now presented the prospect of unconditional pardon to all

those who should even now break off from the revolutionary

government, and caused his soldiers man by man to swear

that they would meet the Italians thoroughly as friends and

fellow-citizens. The most binding declarations secured to

the new burgesses the political rights which they had ac­

quired; so that Carbo, for that reason, wished hostages to

be furnished to him by every civic community in Italy, but

the proposal broke down under general indignation and

under the opposition of the senate. The chief difficulty in

the position of Sulla really consisted in the fact, that in

