Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 177

time an attack was directed from Macedonia against the

Scordisci, who had, it may be presumed, made common cause

with the assailed inhabitants of the coast. Soon afterwards

(625) the consul Tuditanus in connection with the able 129.

Decimus Brutus, the conqueror of the Spanish Gallaeci,

humbled the Japydes, and, after sustaining a defeat at

the outset, at length carried the Roman arms into the heart

of Dalmatia as far as the river Kerka, 115 miles distant from

Aquileia; the Japydes thenceforth appear as a nation at

peace and on friendly terms with Rome. But ten years

later (635) the Dalmatians rose afresh, once more in concert 119.

with the Scordisci. While the consul Lucius Cotta fought

against the latter and in doing so advanced apparently as

far as Segestica, his colleague Lucius Metellus afterwards

named Dalmaticus, the elder brother of the conqueror of

Numidia, marched against the Dalmatians, conquered them

and passed the winter in Salona (Spalato), which town hence­

forth appears as the chief stronghold of the Romans in that

region.' It is not improbable that the construction of the

Via Gabijiia, which led from Salona in an easterly direction

to Andetrium (Clissa) and thence farther into the interior,

falls within this period.

The expedition of the consul of 639, Marcus ^Emilius The [115.

Scaurus, against the Taurisci* presented more the character Komans

of a war of conquest. He was the first of the Romans to cross cross tne

the chain of the eastern Alps at their lowest elevation be- A)

tween Trieste and Laybach, and contracted hospitable rela­

tions with the Taurisci; which secured a not unimportant

commercial intercourse without involving the Romans, as a

formal subjugation would have involved them, in the com­

motions of the peoples to the north of the Alps. The at­

tacks about the same time directed from Macedonia towards

the Danube yielded at first a very unfavourable result: the

consul of 640, Gaius Porcius Cato, was surprised in the 114.

Servian mountains by the Scordisci, and his army completely

destroyed, while he himself, with a few attendants, disgrace­

fully fled. With difficulty the praetor Marcus Didius pro­

tected the Roman frontier. His successors fought with and reach

better fortune, Gaius Metellus Caprarius (641, 642), Marcus the Danube.

Livius Drusus (642, 643), the first Roman general who !{.^I?n'

* They are called in the Triumphal Kasti Oalli Kami; and in Victor Li-  
gures Taurisci (for such should be the reading instead of the received
Iiigures

et Caurisci).

VOL. 111. N

