Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 467

coast of the Atlantic Ocean.* Truthfulness is his nature.

In all great matters he has no interest for one state or against

another, for this man or against that, but is singly and solely

interested in the essential connection of events, to present

which in their true relation of causes and effects seems

to him not merely the first but the sole task of the historian.

Lastly, the narrative is a model of completeness, simplicity,

and clearness. Still all these uncommon advantages by no

means constitute an historian of the first rank. Polybius

grasps his literary task, as he grasped his practical, with

grandeur of intellect, but with the intellect alone. History,

the struggle of necessity and liberty, is a moral problem;

Polybius treats it as if it were a mechanical one. The

whole alone has value for him, in nature as in the state; the

particular event, the individual man, however wonderful they

may appear, are yet properly mere single elements, insignifi­

cant wheels in the highly artificial mechanism which receives

the name of the state. So far Polybius was certainly qua­

lified as no other was to narrate the history of the Roman

people, which actually solved the marvellous problem of

raising itself to unparalleled internal and external great­

ness without producing a single statesman of genius in the

highest sense, and which resting on its simple foundations

developed itself with wonderful almost mathematical con­

sistency. But the element of moral freedom is active in the

history of every people; and it was not neglected by Polybius

in the history of Rome with impunity. His treatment of all

questions, in which right, honour, religion are involved, is

not merely shallow, but radically false. The same holds true

wherever a genetic construction is required; the purely

mechanical attempts at explanation, which Polybius substi­

tutes, are sometimes altogether desperate; there is hardly,

for instance, a more foolish political speculation than that

which derives the excellent constitution of Rome from a

judicious mixture of monarchical, aristocratic, and democratic

elements, and deduces the successes of Rome from the excel­

lence of her constitution. His conception of relations is

everywhere dreadfully jejune and destitute of imagination:

* Such scientific travels were, however, nothing uncommon among the  
Greeks of this period. Thus in Plautus (Men. 248, comp. 235) one who has

navigated the whole Mediterranean asks—

Quin nos hinc domum

Redimus, nisi si historiam script uri sumus f

