Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 243

Mutilus ventured to attack the Roman camp; but he was

repulsed, and the Samnites, who while retreating were as­

sailed in the rear by the Roman cavalry, left nearly 6000

dead on the field of battle. It was the first notable success

which the Romans gained in this war; the army proclaimed

the general imperator, and the sadly fallen courage of the

capital began to revive. It is true that not long afterwards

the victorious army was attacked in crossing a river by Marius

Egnatius, and so emphatically defeated that it had to retreat

as far as Teanum and to be reorganized there; but the exer­

tions of the active consul succeeded in restoring his army to a

serviceable condition even before the arrival of winter, and he

reoccupied his old position under the walls of Acerrae, which

the Samnite main army under Mutilus continued to besiege.

At the same time operations had also begun in Central Combats

Italy, where the revolt in the Abruzzi and the region of the with the

Fucine lake threatened the capital in dangerous proximity. Marwans.

An independent corps under Gnaeus Pompeius Strabo was

sent into Picenum in order that, resting for support on

Firmum and Falerio, it might threaten Asculum; but the

main body of the Roman northern army took its position

under the consul Lupus on the borders of the Latin and

Marsian territories, where the Valerian and Salarian high­

ways brought the enemy nearest to the capital; the rivulet

Tolenus (Turano), which intersects the Valerian road be­

tween Tibur and Alba and falls into the Velino at Rieti,

separated the two armies. The consul Lupus impatiently

pressed for a decision, and did not listen to the disagreeable

advice of Marius that he should exercise his men—unaccus­

tomed to service—in the first instance in petty warfare. At

the very commencement the division of Gaius Perpenna,

10,000 strong, was totally defeated, whereupon the com­

mander-in-chief deprived the defeated general of his com­

mand and united the remnant of the corps with that which

was under the orders of Marius, but did not allow himself to

be deterred from assuming the offensive and crossing the

Tolenus in two divisions, led partly by himself, partly by

Marius, on two bridges constructed not far from each other.

Publius Scato with the Marsians confronted them; he had

pitched his camp at the spot where Marius crossed the

brook, but, before the passage took place, he had withdrawn

thence leaving behind the mere posts that guarded the

camp, and had taken a position in ambush further up the river.

