86 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

an impression on the courts of the East and even on the

scoffing Alexandrians. His Hellenism was especially recog­

nizable in the delicate irony of his discourse and in the classic

purity of his Latin. Although not strictly an author, he yet,

like Cato, committed to writing "his political speeches,—

they were, like the letters of his adopted sister the mother

of the Gracchi, esteemed by the later litteratores as master­

pieces of model prose—and took pleasure in surrounding

himself with the better Greek and Roman litterati, a plebeian

society which was doubtless regarded with no small sus­

picion by those colleagues in the senate whose noble birth

was their sole distinction. A man morally steadfast and

trustworthy, his word held good with friend and foe;

he avoided buildings and speculations, and lived with

simplicity; and in money matters he acted not merely

honourably and disinterestedly, but also with a tenderness

and liberality which seemed singular to the mercantile spirit

of his contemporaries. He was an able soldier and officer;

he brought home from the African war the honorary wreath

which was wont to be conferred on such as saved the

lives of citizens in danger at the peril of their own, and

terminated as general the war which he had begun as an

officer; circumstances gave him no opportunity of trying

his skill as a general on tasks really difficult. Scipio was

not, any more than his father, a man of genius—as is indi­

cated by the very fact of his predilection for Xenophon, the

sober soldier and correct author—but he was an honest

and true man, who seemed pre-eminently called to stem the

incipient decay by organic reforms. All the more signifi­

cant is the fact, that he did not attempt it. It is true that

he helped, as he had means and opportunity, to redress or

prevent abuses, and laboured in particular at the improve­

ment of the administration of justice. It was chiefly by his

assistance that Lucius Oassius, an able man of the old Roman

austerity and uprightness, was enabled to carry against the

most vehement opposition of the Optimates his law as to

voting, which introduced vote by ballot for those popular tri­

bunals which still embraced the most important part of the

criminal jurisdiction (P. 73). In like manner, although

he had not chosen to take part in boyish impeachments, he

himself in his mature years put upon their trial several

of the guiltiest of the aristocracy. In a like spirit, when

commanding before Carthage and Numantia, he drove forth

