172 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

manner not wholly neglected, but was solved still more

imperfectly than the former. With the foundation of

183. Aquileia (571) the Istrian peninsula came into possession

of the Romans (ii. 196): in part of Epirus and the former

territory of the lords of Scodra they had already ruled for

Dalmatians, some considerable time previously. But nowhere did their

dominion reach into the interior; and even on the coast they

exercised scarcely a nominal sway over the inhospitable dis­

trict between Istria and Epirus, which, with its wild series

of mountain-caldrons broken neither by river-valleys nor

by coast-plains and arranged like scales one above another,

and with its chain of rocky islands stretching along the

coast, separates rather than connects Italy and Greece.

Around the town of Delmium clustered the confederacy of

the Delmatians or Dalmatians, whose manners were rough

as their mountains. While the neighbouring peoples had

already attained a high degree of culture, the Dalmatians

were as yet unacquainted with money, and divided their land,

without recognizing any special right of property in it,

afresh every eight years among the members of the com­

munity. Brigandage and piracy were the only native

trades. These tribes had in earlier times been in loose

relations of dependence on the rulers of Scodra, and had

been in consequence chastised by the Roman expeditions

against queen Teuta (ii. 74) and Demetrius of Pharos

(ii. 76); but on the accession of king Genthius they had

revolted, and had thus escaped the fate which involved

southern Illyria in the fall of the Macedonian empire and

rendered it permanently dependent on Rome (ii. 302).

The Romans were glad to leave the far from attractive

region to itself. But the complaints of the Roman lllyrians,

particularly of the Daorsi, who dwelt on the Narenta to the

soutli of the Dalmatians, and of the inhabitants of the

island of Issa (Lissa), whose continental stations Tragyrium

(Trau) and Epetium (near Spalato) suffered severely from

the natives, compelled the Roman government to despatch

an embassy to the latter, and, on receiving the reply that

the Dalmatians had neither troubled themselves hitherto

about the Romans nor would do so in future, to send thither

156. an army in 598 under the consul Gaius Marcius Figulus.

Their sub- He penetrated into Dalmatia, but was again driven back

jugation. into the Roman territory. It was not till his successor

Publius Scipio Nasica took the large and strong town of

