462 LITERATURE A>T> ART. [Book IV.

coteries and parties and yet not directly taking part with

one or another; in a way similar to Beranger, of whom

there is much that reminds us in the political and poetical

position of Lucilius. From this position he uttered his

comments on public life with a sound common sense that

was not to be shaken, with a good humour that was inex­

haustible, and with a wit perpetually flowing:

Sunc rero a mane ad noctem, festo atqite profesto

Toto itidem pariterq»e die populusqve patresque

Jaetare endoforo se omnes, decedere misquam.

Uni se atque eidem studio omnes dedere et arti;

Verba dare vt caute possint, pwjnare dolose,

BlandHii cert ire, boman sinviiare virion sei

Insidias facere vt si hostes sint omnibus omnes.

The illustrations of this inexhaustible text remorselessly,

without omitting his friends or even the poet himself, as­

sailed the evils of the age, the coterie-system, the endless

Spanish war-serrice, and the like. At the very commencement

of his satires was a great debate in the senate of the Olym­

pian gods on the question, whether Rome deserved to enjoy

the continued protection of the celestials. Corporations,

classes, individuals, were everywhere severally mentioned by

name;-the poetry of political polemics, shut out from the

Boman stage, was the true element and life-breath of the

Lueilian poems, which by the power of the most pungent

wit illustrated with the richest imagery—a power which still

entrances us even in the remains that survive—pierce and

crush their adversary " as by a drawn sword." In this—in

the moral ascendancy and the proud consciousness of free­

dom of the poet of Suessa—lies the reason why the refined

Yenusian, who in the Alexandrian age of Roman poetry

revived the Lueilian satire, in spite of all his superiority in

formal skill with true modesty yields to the earlier poet as

"his better." The language is that of a man of thorough

culture Greek and Latin, who freely indulges his humour;

a poet like Lucilius, who is alleged to have made two

hundred hexameters before dinner and as many after it, ia

in far too great a hurry to be nice; useless prolixity, slovenly

repetition of the same turn, culpable instances of carelessness

frequently occur; the first word, Latin or Greek, is always

the best. The metres are similarly treated, particularly the

very predominant hexameter: if we transpose the words—

his acute imitator says—no man would observe that he had

^

