Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 311

order that he might not at some future time come from

Asia to the help of the Italian revolution, just as Sulla now

hoped to return from Asia and crush it. At Cypsela on the

Hebrus Sulla obtained accounts of the ratification of the

peace by Mithradates; but the march to Asia went on.

The king, it was said, desired personally to confer with the

Roman general and to cement the peace with him; it may

be presumed that this was simply a convenient pretext for

transferring the army to Asia and there putting an end to

Fimbria. So Sulla, attended by his legions and by Arche- Peace at

laus, crossed the Hellespont; after he had met with Mith- Dardanus.

radates on its Asiatic shore at Dardanus and had orally

concluded the treaty, he made his army continue its march

till he came upon the camp of Fimbria at Thyatira not far

from Pergamus, and pitched his own close beside it. The Sulla

Sullan soldiers, far superior to the Fimbrians in number, against

discipline, leadership, and ability, looked with contempt on Flmtlria.

the dispirited and demoralized troops and their uncalled

commander-in-chief. Desertions from the ranks of the Fim­

brians became daily more numerous. When Fimbria ordered

an attack, the soldiers refused to fight against their fellow-

citizens, or even to take the oath which he required that

they would stand faithfully by each other in battle. An

attempt to assassinate Sulla miscarried; at the conference

which Fimbria requested Sulla did not make his appearance,

but contented himself with suggesting to him through one

of his officers a means of personal escape. Fimbria was of Fimbria's

an insolent temperament, but he was no poltroon; instead death.

of accepting the vessel which Sulla offered to him and flee­

ing to the barbarians, he went to Pergamus and fell on his

own sword in the temple of Asklepios. Those who were

most compromised in his army resorted to Mithradates or

to the pirates, with whom they found ready reception; the

main body placed itself under the orders of Sulla.

Sulla determined to leave these two legions, whom he did Regulation

not trust for the impending war, behind in Asia, where the of Asiatic

fearful crisis left for long its lingering traces in the several affairs-

cities and districts. The command of this corps and the

governorship of Roman Asia he committed to his best officer,

Lucius Licinius Murena. The revolutionary measures of

Mithradates, such as the liberation of the slaves and the

annulling of debts, were of course cancelled; a restoration,

which in many places could not be carried into effect without

t

