Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 89

buting the domain lands with all the passionate vehemence,

which was and continued hereditary in the Claudian house;

and with the greater bitterness, apparently, because he bad

come into personal conflict with Seipio jEmilianus in his

candidature for the censorship. Similar views were expressed

by Publius Crassus Mucianus (P. 56), the Pontifex Maxi-

mus of the day, who was held in universal honour by the

senate and the citizens as a man and a jurist. Even his

brother Publius Mucius Scaevola, the founder of scientific

jurisprudence in Rome, seemed not averse to the plan of

reform; and his voice was of the greater weight, as he stood

in some measure aloof from either party. Similar were the

sentiments of Quintus Metellus, the conqueror of Macedonia

and of the Achaeans, but respected not so much on account

of his warlike deeds as because he was a model of the old

discipline and manners alike in his domestic and his public

life. Tiberius Gracchus was closely connected with these

men, particularly with Appius whose daughter he had

married, and with Mucianus whose daughter was married

to his brother. It was no wonder that he cherished the idea

of resuming in person the scheme of reform, so soon as he

should find himself in a position which would constitution­

ally allow him the initiative. Personal motives may have

strengthened this resolution. The treaty of peace, which

Mancinus concluded with the Numantines in 617, was in 137.

substance the work of Gracchus (P. 15); the recollection that

the senate had cancelled it, that the general had been on its

account surrendered to the enemy, and that Gracchus with

the other superior officers had only escaped a like fate

through the greater favour which he enjoyed among the

burgesses, could not put the young, upright, and proud

man in better humour with the ruling aristocracy. The

Hellenic rhetoricians with whom he wns fond of discussing

philosophy and politics, Diophanes the Mytilenaean and Gaius

Blossius the Cumaean, nourished within his soul the ideals

over which he brooded: when his intentions became known

in wider circles, there was no want of approving voices, and

many a public placard summoned the grandson of Africanus

to think of the poor people and the deliverance of Italy.

Tiberius Gracchus was invested with the tribunate of the Tribunate

people on the 10th of December, 620. The fearful conse- of C134<

quences of the previous misgovernment, the political, mili- us'

tary, economic, and moral decay of the burgesses, were just

