Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 33

they could not work next day. Nevertheless the Romans

ventured on the assault; but they found the breach and

the portions of the wall and houses in the neighbourhood

so strongly occupied, and advanced with such imprudence,

that they were repulsed with severe loss and would have

suffered still greater damage, had not the military tribune

Scipio jEmilianus, foreseeing the issue of the foolhardy

attack, kept together his men in front of the walls and thus

intercepted the fugitives. Manilius accomplished still less

against the impregnable wall of the citadel. The siege thus

lingered on. The diseases engendered in the camp by the

heat of summer, the departure of Censorinus the abler

general, the ill-humour and inaction of Massinissa who was

naturally far from pleased to see the Romans taking for

themselves the booty which he had long coveted, and the

death of the king at the age of ninety which ensued soon

after (end of 605), utterly arrested the offensive operations 149.

of the Romans. They had enough to do in protecting their

ships against the Carthaginian incendiaries and their camp

against nocturnal surprises, and in securing food for their men

and horses by the construction of a harbour-fort and by

forays in the neighbourhood. Two expeditions directed

against Hasdrubal remained without success; and in fact

the first, badly led over difficult ground, had almost termi­

nated in a formal defeat. But, while the course of the war

was inglorious for the general and the army, the military

tribune Scipio achieved in it brilliant distinction. It was

he who, on occasion of a nocturnal attack by the enemy on

the Roman camp, starting with some squadrons of horse and

taking the enemy in rear, compelled him to retreat. On

the first expedition to Nepheris, when the passage of the

river had taken place in opposition to his advice and

had almost occasioned the destruction of the army, by a

bold attack in flank he relieved the pressure on the retreat­

ing troops, and by his devoted and heroic courage rescued a

division which had been given up as lost. While the other

officers, and the consul in particular, by their perfidy, deterred

the towns and party-leaders that were inclined to negotiate,

Scipio succeeded in inducing one of the ablest of the latter,

Himilco Phameas, to pass over to the Romans with 2200

cavalry. Lastly, after he had in fulfilment of the charge of

the dying Massinissa divided his kingdom among his three

sons, Micipsa, Gulussa, and Mastanabal, he brought to the

VOL. III. D

