158 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Boot IV.

marched into the region of Cirta, where Metellus was in

winter-quarters. They began to negotiate: it was clear,

that in the person of Jugurtha he held in his hands the real

prize of the struggle for Rome. But what were his intentions

—whether to sell his son-in-law dear to the Romans, or to

take up the national war in concert with that son-in-law—

neither the Romans nor Jugurtha nor perhaps even the king

himself knew; and he was in no hurry to abandon his

ambiguous position.

Marius Thereupon Metellus left the province, which he had been

commander- compelled by decree of the people to give up to his former

in-duef. lieutenant Marius who was now consul; and the latter

assumed the supreme command for the next campaign in

106. 648. He was indebted for it in some degree to a revolution.

Relying on the services which he had rendered and at the

same time on oracles which had been communicated to him,

he had resolved to come forward as a candidate for the

consulship. If the aristocracy had supported the constitu­

tional, and in other respects quite justifiable, candidature of

this able man, who was not at all inclined to take part with

the opposition, nothing would have come of the matter but

the enrolment of a new family in the consular Fasti. In­

stead of this the man of non-noble birth, who aspired to the

highest public dignity, was reviled by the whole governing

caste as a daring innovator and revolutionist; just as the

plebeian candidate had been formerly treated by the patri­

cians, but now without any such formal ground as there was

then in law. The brave officer was sneered at in sharp

language by Metellus—Marius was told that he might wait

with his candidature till Metellus' son, a beardless boy,

could be his colleague—and he was with the worst grace

suffered to leave almost at the last moment, that he might

appear in the capital as a candidate for the consulship of

107, 647. There he amply retaliated on his general the wrong

which he had suffered, by criticising before the gaping

multitude the conduct of the war and the administration of

Metellus in Africa in a manner as unmilitary as it was dis­

gracefully unfair; and he did not even disdain to serve up to

the darling populace—always whispering about secret conspi­

racies equally unprecedented and indubitable on the part of

their noble masters—the silly story, that Metellus was de­

signedly protracting the war in order to remain as long as pos­

sible commander-in-chief. To the idlers of the streets this

