Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 365

volved on the two consuls the collective functions of the su- pratorian

preme magistracy, so there still devolved on them all those function*

official duties for which distinct functionaries had not been by ^(on the

law established. This latter course had been adopted with the s™1Ca°

administration of justice in the capital, in which the consuls

according to a rule inviolably adhered to might not interfere,

and with the transmarine provinces then existing—Sicily, Sar­

dinia, and the two Spains—in which, while the consul might

no doubt exercise his imperium, he did so only exceptionally.

In the ordinary course of things, accordingly, the six fields

of special jurisdiction—the two judicial appomtments in the

capital and the four transmarine provinces—were appor­

tioned among the six praetors, while there devolved on the

two consuls by virtue of their general powers the ma­

nagement of the non-judicial business of the capital and

the military command in the continental possessions.

Now as this general authority was doubly provided for, the

one consul in reality remained at the disposal of the govern­

ment, and in ordinary times accordingly those eight supreme

annual magistrates fully, and in fact amply, sufficed. For ex­

traordinary cases moreover power was reserved on the one

hand to conjoin the non-military functions, and on the

other hand to prolong the military powers beyond the term of

their expiry (prorogare). It was not unusual to commit the

two judicial offices to the same praetor, and to have the bu­

siness of the capital, which in ordinary circumstances had to

be transacted by the consuls, managed by the prcetor urbanus;

whereas, as far as possible, the combination of several com­

mands in the same hand was judiciously avoided. For that

case on the contrary a remedy was provided by the rule that

there was no interregnum in the military imperium, so that, al­

though it had its legal term, it yet continued after the arrival

of that term de jure until a successor appeared and relieved

his predecessor of the command; or—which is the same

thing—the commanding consul or praetor after the expiry of

his term of office, if a successor did not appear, might con­

tinue to act and was bound to do so in the consul's or

praetor's stead. The influence of the senate on this ap­

portionment of functions consisted in its having by use and

wont the power of either giving effect to the ordinary rule,

so that the six praetors allotted among themselves the six

special departments and the consuls managed the conti­

nental non-judicial business, or prescribing some deviation

f

