19 i THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

slave market of Some the master, who might retaliate on the

individual Northman for the audacity of having coveted the

beauteous south before it was time. The Tigorini, who had

remained behind in the passes of the Alps with the view of

subsequently following the Cimbn, ran off on the news of

the defeat to their native land. The human avalanche,

which for thirteen years had alarmed the nations from the

Danube to the Ebro, from the Seine to the Po, rested

beneath the sod or toiled under the yoke of slavery; the

forlorn hope of the German migrations had performed its

duty; the homeless people of the Cimbri and their com­

rades were no more.

The victory The political parties of Eome continued their pitiful quar-

and the rels over the carcase, without troubling themselves about the

parties. great chapter in the world's history the first page of which

was thus opened, without even giving way to the pure

feeling that on this day Eome's aristocrats as well as Rome's

democrats had done their duty. The rivalry of the two gene­

ral who were not only political antagonists, but were also

set at variance in a military point of view by the so different

results of the two campaigns of the previous year—broke

out immediately after the battle in the most offensive form.

Catulus might with justice assert, that the centre division

which he commanded had decided the victory, and that his

troops had captured thirty-one standards, while those of

Marius had brought in only two; his soldiers led even the

deputies of the town of Parma through the heaps of the

dead to show to them that Marius had slain his thousand,

but Catulus his ten thousand. Nevertheless Marius was re­

garded as the real conqueror of the Cimbri, and justly; not

merely because by virtue of his higher rank he had held the

chief command on the decisive day, and was in military gifts

and experience beyond doubt far superior to his colleague,

but especially because the second victory at Vercellae was

in fact rendered possible only by the first victory at Aquae

Sextiae. But at that period it was not so much these consi­

derations as influences of political partisanship which at­

tached the glory of having saved Rome from the Cimbri and

Teutones entirely to Marius' name. Catulus was a polished

and clever man, so graceful a speaker that his euphonious

language sounded almost like eloquence, a tolerable writer

of memoirs and occasional poems, and an excellent connois­

seur and critic of art; but he was anything but a man of the

