292 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

tented and the insurgents in Italy ; except that a foreign corps

armed and organized in the Roman fashion was created in

Asia, the flower of which consisted of Roman and Italian

refugees. Forces like those of Mithradates had not been

seen in Asia since the Persian wars. The statements that,

leaving out of account the Armenian auxiliary army, he took

the field with 250,000 infantry and 40,000 cavalry, and that

300 Pontic decked and 100 open vessels put to sea, seem not

too exaggerated in the case of a warlike sovereign who had at

his disposal the numberless inhabitants of the steppes. His

generals, particularly the brothers Neoptolemus and Arche-

laus, were experienced and cautious Greek captains;

among the soldiers of the king there was no want of brave

men who despised death ; and the armour glittering with gold

and silver and the rich dresses of the Scythians and Medes

mingled gaily with the bronze and steel of the Greek

troopers. No unity of military organization, it is true, bound

together these party-coloured masses; the army of Mithra­

dates was just one of those unwieldy Asiatic war-machines,

which had so often already—on the last occasion exactly a

century before at Magnesia—succumbed to a superior mili­

tary organization; but still the East was in arms against the

Romans, while in the western half of the empire also matters

Weak comi- looked far from peaceful. However much it was in itself a

ter prepa- political necessity for Rome to declare war against Mithra-

ihelpoi i Qates, yet the particular moment was as unhappily chosen

'as possible; and for this reason it is very probable, that

Manius Aquillius brought about the rupture between Rome

and Mithradates at this precise time primarily from a selfish

view to his own interest. For the moment they had no

other troops at their disposal in Asia than the small Roman

division under Lucius Cassius and the militia of western Asia,

and, owing to the military and financial distress in which they

were placed at home in consequence of the insurrectionary war,

a Roman army could not in the most favourable case land in

86. Asia before the summer of 666. Hitherto the Roman magis­

trates there had a difficult position; but they hoped to pro­

tect the Roman province and to be able to hold their ground

as they stood—the Bithynian army under king Nicomedes in

its position taken up in the previous year in the Paphlagonian

territory between Amastris and Sinope, and the divisions

under Lucius Cassius, Manius Aquillius, and Quintus

Oppius, further back in the Bithynian, Galatian, and Cap­

