Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 15

"With unimpaired courage and increased resentment the Mancinus.

Numantines resumed the struggle; Laenas fought against

them unsuccessfully, nor was his successor Gaius Hostilius

Mancinus more fortunate (617). But their discomfiture 137.

was occasioned not so much by the arms of the Numantines,

as by the lax and wretched military discipline of the

Boman generals and by—what was its natural consequence

—the annually increasing dissoluteness, insubordination, and

cowardice of the Roman soldiers. The mere rumour, which

moreover was false, that the Cantabri and Vaccaei were

advancing to the relief of Numantia, induced the Roman

army to evacuate the camp by night without orders, and to

seek shelter in the entrenchments constructed sixteen years

before by Nobilior (P. 6). The Numantines, informed

of their sudden departure, hotly pursued the fugitive army,

and surrounded it: there remained to it no choice save

to fight its way with sword in hand through the enemy, or

to conclude peace on the terms laid down by the Numan­

tines. Although the consul was personally a man of honour,

he was weak and little known. Tiberius Gracchus, who

served in the army as quaestor, had more influence with the

Celtiberians from the hereditary respect in which he was

held on account of his father who had so wisely regulated

the province of the Ebro, and induced the Numantines to

be content with an equitable treaty of peace sworn to by

all the staff-officers. But the senate not only recalled the

general immediately, but after long deliberation caused

a proposal to be submitted to the burgesses that the con­

vention should be treated as they had formerly treated that

of Caudium, in other words, that they should refuse its

ratification and should devolve the responsibility on those

who had concluded it. By right this category ought to

have included all the officers who had sworn to the treaty;

but Gracchus and the others were saved by their connec­

tions; Mancinus alone, who did not belong to the circle of

the highest aristocracy, was destined to pay the penalty for

his own and others' guilt. Stripped of his insignia, the

Eoman consular was conducted to the enemy's outposts,

and, when the Numantines refused to receive him that

they might not on their part acknowledge the treaty as

null, the late commander-in-chief stood in his shirt and

with his hands tied behind his back for a whole day before

the gates of Numantia, a pitiful spectacle to friend and foe.

