318 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA.

Landing

of Marius,

of the refugees and enlisted Numidian horsemen; but, aa

Gains Marius had in the previous year been willing to fra足

ternize with the rabble of the capital, so he now ordered

the ergastula in which the landholders of this region shut up

their field-labourers during the night to be broken open,

and the arms which he offered to these for the purpose of

achieving their freedom were not despised. Reinforced by

these men and the contingents of the new burgesses, as well

as by the exiles who flocked to him with their partisans

from all sides, he soon numbered 6000 men under his eagles

and was able to man forty ships, which took their station

before the mouths of the Tiber and gave chase to the corn-

ships sailing towards Rome. With these he placed himself

at the disposal of the "consul" Cinna. The leaders of the

Campanian army hesitated; the more sagacious, Sertorius

in particular, seriously pointed out the danger of too closely

connecting themselves with a man whose name would neces足

sarily place him at the head of the movement, and who yet

was notoriously incapable of any statesmanlike action and

haunted by an insane thirst for revenge; but Cinna disre足

garded these scruples, and confirmed Marius in the supreme

command in Etruria and at sea with proconsular powers.

Thus the storm gathered around the capital, and the

government could no longer delay bringing forward then-

troops to protect it.* But the forces of Metellus were

detained by the Italians in Samnium and before Nola;

Strabo alone was in a position to hasten to the help of the

capital. He appeared and pitched his camp at the Colline

gate: with his numerous and experienced army he might

probably have rapidly and totally annihilated the still weak

band of insurgents; but this seemed to be no part of his

design. On the contrary he allowed Rome to be actually

nans around invested by the insurgents. Cinna with his corps and that

of Carbo took post on the right bank of the Tiber opposite to

the Janiculum, Sertorius on the left bank confronting Pom-

peius over against the Servian wall. Marius with his band

which had gradually increased to three legions and in pos足

session of a number of war-vessels, occupied one place on

the coast after another till at length even Ostia fell into his

* The whole of the statement that follows is based in substance on the  
recently discovered account of Licinianus, which communicates a number of

facts previously unknown, and in particular enables us to perceive the
sequence

and connection of these events more clearly than was possible before.

Dubious

attitude of

Strabo.

The Cin-

