90 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

at that time naked and open to the eyes of all. Of the two

consuls of this year, the one fought without success in Sicily

against the revolted slaves, and the other, Scipio .Smilianus,

was employed for months not in conquering, but in crush­

ing a small Spanish country town. If Gracchus still needed

a special summons to carry his resolution into effect, he

found it in this state of matters, which filled the mind of every

patriot with unspeakable anxiety. His father-in-law pro­

mised assistance in counsel and action; the support of the

jurist Scaevola, who had shortly before been elected consul

133. for 621, might be hoped for. So Gracchus, immediately

His agrarian after entering on office, proposed the enactment of an agra-

law. riall laW, which in a certain sense was nothing but a renewal

367. of the Licinio-Sextian law of 387 (i. 304). Under it all

the state-lands which were occupied and enjoyed by the

possessors without remuneration—those that were let on

lease, such as the territory of Capua, were not affected by

the law—were to be resumed on behalf of the state; but with

the restriction, that each occupier should reserve for himself

500 jugera and for each son 250 (so as not, however, to

exceed 1000 jugera in all) in permanent and guaranteed pos­

session, or should be entitled to claim compensation in land

to that extent. Indemnification appears to have been granted

for any improvements executed by the former holders, such as

buildings and plantations. The domain land thus resumed

was to be broken up into lots of 30 jugera; and these

were to be distributed partly to burgesses, partly to Italian

allies, not as their own free property, but as inalienable

heritable leaseholds, whose holders bound themselves to use

the land for agriculture and to pay a moderate rent to the

state. A collegium of three men, who were regarded as

ordinary and standing magistrates of the state and were

annually elected by the assembly of the people, was in­

trusted with the work of confiscation and distribution; to

which was afterwards added the important and difficult

function of legally settling what was domain land, and what

was private property. The distribution was accordingly de­

signed to go on continuously, and to embrace the whole class

that should be in need of it; and in that view we must pro­

bably assume that, when the Italian domains which were

very extensive and difficult of adjustment should be finally

regulated, further measures were contemplated, such as,

for instance, the disbursement to the allotment-commis­

