Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 39

But by far the larger portion of the city still remained Destruction

standing. We may believe that Scipio desired its preserva- ofCarthage.

tion; at least he addressed a special inquiry to.the senate on

the subject. Scipio Nasica once more attempted to gain a

hearing for the demands of reason and honour; but in

vain. The senate ordered the general to level the city of

Carthage and the suburb of Magalia with the ground, and to

do the same with all the places which had held by Carthage

to the last; and thereafter to pass the plough over the site

of Carthage so as to put an end in legal form to the

existence of the city, and to curse the soil and site for ever,

that neither house nor cornfield might ever reappear on the

spot. The command was punctually obeyed. The ruins

burned for seventeen days : recently, when the remains of the

Carthaginian city wall were excavated, they were found to

be covered with a layer of ashes from four to five feet deep,

filled with half-charred pieces of wood, fragments of iron,

and projectiles. Where the industrious Phoenicians had

bustled and trafficked for five hundred years, Roman slaves

henceforth pastured the herds of their distant masters.

Scipio, however, whom nature had destined for a nobler

part than that of an executioner, gazed with horror on his

own work; and, instead of the joy of victory, the victor

himself was haunted by a presentiment of the retribution

that would inevitably follow such a misdeed.

Arrangements had still to be made as to the future Province of

organization of the courttry. The earlier plan of investing Africa,

the allies of Rome with the transmarine possessions that

she acquired was no longer viewed with favour. Micipsa

and his brothers retained in substance their former territory,

including the districts recently wrested from the Cartha­

ginians on the Bagradas and in Emporia; their long-

cherished hope of obtaining Carthage as a capital was for

ever frustrated; the senate presented them instead with

the Carthaginian libraries. The Carthaginian territory as

possessed by the city in its last days—viz., the narrow

border of the African coast lying immediately opposite to

Sicily, from the river Tusca (AVady Saine, opposite to the

island of Galita) to Thena e (opposite to the island of

Karkenah)—became a Roman province. In the interior,

where the constant encroachments of Massinissa had more

and more narrowed the Carthaginian dominions and Vacca,

Zama, and Bulla already belonged to Numidia, the Numi-

