Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 451

rogues, in Terence again, as a rule, among none but honest

men; if occasionally a leno is plundered or a young man

taken to the brothel, it is done with a moral intent, possibly

out of brotherly love or to deter the boy from frequenting

improper haunts. In the Plautine pieces there predomi­

nates the characteristic antagonism of the tavern to the

house; everywhere wives are visited with abuse, to the de­

light of all husbands temporarily emancipated and not quite

sure of an amiable salutation at home. In the comedies

of Terence there prevails not a more moral, but a more

becoming conception of the feminine nature and of married

life. As a rule, they end with a virtuous marriage or if

possible with two—just as it was the glory of Menander

that he had compensated for every seduction by a marriage.

The eulogies of a bachelor life, which are so frequent in

Menander, are repeated by his Roman remodeller only with

characteristic shyness,* whereas the lover in his agony,

the tender husband at the accouchement, the loving sister

by the death-bed in the Eunuchus and the Andria are very

gracefully delineated ; in the Hecyra there even appears at the

close as a delivering angel a virtuous courtesan, likewise a

genuine Menandrian figure, which the Roman public, it is

true, very properly hissed. In Plautus the fathers through­

out only exist for the purpose of being jeered and swindled

by their sons; with Terence in the Heautontimorumenos the

lost son is reformed by the wisdom of his father, and, as in

general he is full of excellent instructions as to education, so

the point of the best of his pieces, the Adelphi, turns on

finding the right mean between the too liberal training

of the uncle and the too rigorous training of the father.

Plautus writes for the great multitude and gives utterance

to profane and sarcastic speeches, so far as the censorship of

the stage at all allowed; Terence on the contrary describes

it as his aim to please the good and, like Menander, to

offend nobody. Plautus is fond of vigorous, often noisy dia­

logue, and his pieces require the liveliest play of gesture in

the actors; Terence confines himself to "quiet conversa­

tion." The language of Plautus abounds in burlesque turns

and verbal witticisms, in alliterations, in comic coinages of

new terms, Aristophanic combinations of words, slang ex-

* Micio in the Adelphi (i. I) praises his good fortune in life, more par­  
ticularly because he has never had a wife, " which those (the Greeks) reckon

a piece of good fortune."

