68 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

on the frontiers and the pirates. When the central govern­

ment renounced all superintendence and all oversight of pro­

vincial affairs, it entirely abandoned not only the interests

of the subjects, but also those of the state, to the governor

of the day. The events which occurred in Spain, unimpor­

tant in themselves, are instructive in this respect. In that

country, where the government was less able than in other

provinces to confine itself to the part of a mere onlooker,

the law of nations was directly trampled under foot by the

Roman governors; and the honour of Some was permanently

dragged in the mire by a perfidy and faithlessness without

parallel, by the most wanton trifling with capitulations and

treaties, by massacring men who had submitted and insti­

gating the assassination of the generals of the enemy. Nor

was this all; war was even waged and peace concluded

against the expressed will of the supreme authority in Rome,

and unimportant incidents, such as the disobedience of the

Numantines, were developed by a rare combination of per­

versity and folly into a crisis of fatal moment for the state.

And all this took place without any effort to visit it with

even a serious penalty in Rome. The sympathies and rival­

ries of the different coteries in the senate contributed

to determine the filling up of the most important places

and the treatment of the most momentous political ques­

tions; and even thus early the money of foreign dynasts

found its way to the senators of Rome. Timarchus, the

164. envoy of Antiochus Epiphanes king of Syria (+ 590),ismen-

tioned as the first who attempted with success to bribe the

Roman senate; the bestowal of presents from foreign kings

on influential senators soon became so common, that surprise

was excited when Scipio .32milianus cast into the military

chest the gifts from the king of Syria which reached him

in camp before Numantia. The ancient principle, that

rule was its own sole reward and that such rule was as much

a duty and a burden as a privilege and a benefit, was allowed

to fall into abeyance. Thus there arose the new political eco­

nomy, which desisted from the taxation of the burgesses, but

regarded the body of subjects, on the other hand, as a pro­

fitable possession of the community, which it partly worked

out for the public benefit, partly handed over to be worked

out by the burgesses. Not only was free scope allowed with

criminal indulgence to the unscrupulous greed of the Roman

merchant in the provincial administration, but even the

