Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 369

mentioned augmentation of the number of quaestors by

Sulla to twenty was likewise connected with this arrange­

ment.*

By this plan, in the first instance, a clear and fixed rule Better ar-

was substituted for the irregular mode of distributing offices rangemeut

hitherto adopted, a mode which invited all manner of vile buslness-

manoeuvres and intrigues; and, secondly, the excesses of

magisterial authority were as far as possible obviated and

the influence of the supreme governing board was materially

increased. According to the previous arrangement the only

legal distinction in the empire was that drawn between the

city which was surrounded by the ring-wall, and the region

beyond the pomerium; the new arrangement substituted for

the city the new Italy thenceforth, as in perpetual peace,

withdrawn from the regular imperiumfi and contrasted with it

the continental and transmarine territories which, on the con­

trary, were necessarily placed under military commandants—

the provinces as they were henceforth called. According to Increase of

the former arrangement the same man had very frequently the p»wir

remained two, and often more years in the same office. The ,e

new arrangement restricted the magistracies of the capital

as well as the governorships throughout to one year; and the

special enactment that every governor should without fail

leave his province within thirty days after his successor's

arrival there, shows very clearly—particularly if we take

along with it the formerly mentioned prohibition of the

immediate re-election of the late magistrate to the same or

another public office—what the tendency of these arrange­

ments was. It was the time-honoured maxim by which the

senate had at one time made the monarchy subject to it,

that the limitation of the magistracy in point of functions

was favourable to democracy, and its limitation in point of

time favourable to oligarchy. According to the previous

arrangement Gaius Marius had acted at once as head of the

senate and as commander-in-chief of the state; if he had

his own unskilfulness alone to blame for his failure to over-

* As two quaestors were sent to Sicily, and one to each of the other provinces,  
and as moreover the two urban quaestors, the two attached to the consuls in

conducting war, and the four quaestors of the fleet continued to subsist,
nineteen

magistrates were annually required for this office. The department of the

twentieth quaestor cannot be ascertained.

\ The Italian confederacy was much older (i. 440) ; but it was a league of

states, not, like the Sullan Italy, a definite territory within the united
Roman

state.

VOL. III. 2 B

