102 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

distributing the occupied domain-land was prosecuted with

zeal and energy; and, in fact, proofs to that effect are not

132. wanting. As early as 622 the consul of that year, Publius

Popillius, the same who presided over the prosecutions of the

adherents of Tiberius Gracchus, recorded on a public monu­

ment that he was "the first who had turned the shepherds

out of the domains and installed farmers in their stead;"

and tradition otherwise affirms that the distribution ex­

tended over all Italy, and that in the formerly existing

communities the number of farms was everywhere aug­

mented—for it was the design of the Sempronian agrarian

law to elevate the farmer-class not by the founding of new

communities, but by the strengthening of those already in

existence. The extent and the comprehensive effect of these

distributions are attested by the numerous arrangements

in the Roman art of land-measuring referable to the

Gracchan assignations of land: for instance, the due placing

of boundary-stones so as to obviate future mistakes appears

to have been first suggested by the Gracchan courts for

defining boundaries and by the distributions of land. But the

numbers on the burgess-rolls give the clearest evidence. The

131. census, which was published in 623 and actually took place

132. probably in the beginning of 622, yielded not more than

319,000 burgesses capable of arms, whereas six years after-

125. wards (629) in place of the previous falling off (P. 85) the num­

ber rises to 395,000, that is 70,000 of an increase—beyond

all doubt solely in consequence of what the allotment com­

mission did for the Roman burgesses. Whether it multiplied

the Italian farms in the same proportion may be doubted;

at any rate what it did accomplish yielded a great and

beneficent result. It is true that this result was not

achieved without various violations of respectable interests

and existing rights. The allotment-commission, composed

of the most decided partisans, and absolute judge in its own

cause, proceeded with its labours in a reckless and hasty

manner; public notices summoned every one who was able

to do so to give information regarding the extent of the

domain-lands; the old land-registers were inexorably referred

to, and not only was occupation new and old revoked

without distinction, but in various cases actual private pro­

perty, as to which the holder was unable satisfactorily to

prove his tenure, was also confiscated. Loud and for the

most part well founded as were the complaints, the senate

