Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 335

that after several months' warfare there was still on hand

nearly £600,000 (14,000 pounds of gold and 6000 pounds of

silver). In the considerable portion of Italy, which still

voluntarily or under compulsion adhered to the revolution,

warlike preparations were prosecuted with vigour. Newly-

formed divisions of some strength came from Etruria, where

the communities of new-burgesses were very numerous, and

from the region of the Po. The veterans of Marius in

great numbers ranged themselves under the standards at

the call of his son. But nowhere were preparations made

for the struggle against Sulla with such eagerness as in the

insurgent Samnium and some districts of Lucania. It was

owing to anything but devotion towards the revolutionary

Itoman government, that numerous contingents from the

Oscan districts reinforced their armies; but it was well

understood there that an oligarchy restored by Sulla would

not acquiesce in the de facto independence of these lands as

the lax Cinnan government had now done; and therefore the

primitive rivalry between the Sabellians and the Latins was

roused afresh in the struggle against Sulla. For Samnium

and Latium this war was as much a national struggle as the

wars of the fifth century; they strove not for a greater or

less amount of political rights, but for the purpose of ap­

peasing long-suppressed hate by the annihilation of their

antagonists. It was no wonder therefore, that the war in

this region bore a character altogether different from the

conflicts elsewhere, that no compromise was attempted there,

that no quarter was given or taken, and that the pursuit

was continued to the very uttermost.

Thus the campaign of 672 was begun on both sides with 82.

augmented military resources and increased animosity.

The revolution in particular threw away the scabbard: at

Carbo's suggestion the Roman comitia outlawed all the

senators that should be found in Sulla's camp. Sulla was

silent; he probably thought that they were pronouncing

sentence beforehand on themselves.

The army of the Optimates was divided. The pro-consul Sulla pro-

Metellus undertook, resting on the support of the Picenian c?eds t0 La"

insurrection, to advance to Upper Italy, while Sulla marched p1"™^" op*

from Campania straight against the capital. Carbo threw younger

himself in the way of the former; Marius would encounter Marius.

the main army of the enemy in Latium. Advancing along

the Via Latina, Sulla fell in with the enemy not far from

