26 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

Declaration The Romans, who had carefully abstained from preventing

of war by the war itself by seasonable interposition, had now what they

me# wished; namely, a serviceable pretext for war—for the Car­

thaginians had certainly now transgressed the stipulations of

the treaty, that they should not wage war against the allies

of Rome, or beyond their own bounds (ii. 187, 200)—and an

antagonist already beaten beforehand. The Italian contin­

gents were summoned to Rome, and the ships were

assembled; the declaration of war might issue at any

moment. The Carthaginians made every effort to avert the

impending blow. Hasdrubal and Carthalo, the leaders of

the patriot party, were condemned to death, and an embassy

was sent to Rome to throw the responsibility on them. But

at the same time envoys from TTtica, the second city of the

Libyan. Phoenicians, arrived there with full powers to sur­

render their community wholly to the Romans; compared

with such obliging submissiveness, it seemed almost an

insolence that the Carthaginians had rested content with

ordering, unbidden, the execution of their most eminent

men. The senate declared that the excuse of the Cartha­

ginians was found insufficient; to the question, what in that

case would suffice, the reply was given that the Cartha­

ginians knew that themselves. They might, no doubt, have

known what the Romans wished; but yet it seemed inopos

sible to believe, that the last hour of their loved native city

had really come. Once more Carthaginian envoys—on

this occasion thirty in number and with unlimited powers-

were sent to Rome. When they arrived, war was already

149. declared (beginning of 605), and the double consular army

had embarked. Yet they even now attempted to dispel the

storm by complete submission. The senate Replied that

Rome was ready to guarantee to the Carthaginian com­

munity its territory, its municipal freedom and its laws, its

public and private property, provided that it would fur­

nish to the consuls who had just departed for Sicily within

the space of a month at Lilybaeum 300 hostages from the

children of the leading families, and would fulfil the further

orders which the consuls in conformity with their instruc­

tions should give forth. The reply has been called ambi­

guous; but very erroneously, as even at the time clear­

sighted men among the Carthaginians themselves pointed

out. The circumstance that everything which they could

ask was guaranteed with the single exception of the city,

and that nothing was said as to stopping the embarkation of

