Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 61

of nationality and religion among his subjects placed the

most material obstacles in the way of the government,

yet the plan of introducing throughout his dominions

Hellenico-Roman manners and Hellenico-Roman worship

and of equalizing the various peoples in a political as well

as a religious point of view was under any circumstances

an absurdity; and all the more so from the fact, that this

caricatured Joseph II. was personally far from equal to so

gigantic an enterprise, and introduced his reforms in the

very worst way by plundering temples on the greatest scale

nnd insanely persecuting heretics.

One consequence of this policy was, that the inhabit- The J. vn

ants of the province next to the Egyptian frontier, the

Jews, a people formerly submissive even to humility and

extremely active and industrious, were driven by systematic

religious persecution to open revolt (about 587). The ier

matter came to the senate; and, as it was just at that time

with good reason indignant at Demetrius Soter and appre­

hensive of a combination between the Attalids and Seleucids,

while the establishment of a power intermediate between

Syria and Egypt was at any rate for the interest of Rome, it

made no difficulty in at once recognizing the freedom and

autonomy of the insurgent nation (about 593). Nothing, igj

however, was done by Rome for the Jews except what could

be done without personal exertion: in spite of the clause of

the treaty concluded between the Romans and the Jews

which promised Roman aid to the latter in the event of

their being attacked, and in spite of the injunction addressed

to the kings of Syria and Egypt not to march their troops

through Judaea, it was of course entirely left to the Jews

themselves to hold their ground against the Syrian kings.

The brave and prudent conduct of the insurrection by the

heroic house of the Maccabees and the internal dissension in

the Syrian empire did more for them than the letters of their

powerful allies; during the strife between the Syrian kings

Trypho and Demetrius Nicator autonomy and exemption

from tribute were formally accorded to the Jews (612); and 142

soon afterwards the head of the Maccabaean house, Simon

son of Mattathias, was even formally acknowledged by the

nation as well as by the great king of Syria as high priest

and prince of Israel (615).*

* From him proceed the coins with the inscription " Shekel of Israel," and  
the date of the " holy Jerusalem." or the " deliverance of Sion." The similar

