Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 247

opening of a war of prosecutions, in which the most passionate Revolution

defenders of patriotic selfishness, the capitalists, took ven- in political

geance on all those who were suspected of having counselled Processes-

moderation and seasonable concession. On the other hand

the tribune Marcus Plautius Silvanus, who entered on his

office on the 10th of December of the same year, carried a

law which took the commission of high treason out of the

hands of the capitalist juryman, and intrusted it to others

who were nominated by the free choice of the tribes without

class-qualification; the effect of which was, that that com­

mission was converted from a scourge of the moderate party

into a scourge of the ultras, and sent into exile among others

its own author, Quintus Varius, who was blamed by the

public voice for the worst democratic outrages—the poison­

ing of Quintus Metellus and the murder of Drusus.

Of greater importance than this singularly candid political Bestowal of

recantation, was the change in the course of their policy the fran-

toward the Italians. Exactly three hundred years had "hls.e on the

passed since Home had last been obliged to submit to the j^t^J

dictation of peace; Rome was now worsted once more, and faithful or

the peace which she desired could only be got by yielding to submitted,

the terms of her antagonists. With the communities doubt­

less, which had already risen in arms to subdue and to

destroy Rome, the feud had become too bitter for the Romans

to prevail on themselves to make the required concessions;

and, had they done so, these terms would now perhaps have

been rejected by the other side. But, if the original demands

were conceded under certain limitations to the communities

that had hitherto remained faithful, such a course would on

the one hand preserve the semblance of voluntary concession,

while on the other hand it would prevent the otherwise in­

evitable consolidation of the confederacy and thereby pave

the way for its subjugation. Accordingly the gates of Roman

citizenship, which had so long remained closed against

entreaty, now suddenly opened when the sword knocked at

them; yet even now not fully and wholly, but in a manner

reluctant and annoying even for those admitted. A law

carried by the consul Lucius Caesar* conferred the Roman

* The Julian law must have been passed in the last months of 664, for 90.  
during the good season of the year Caesar was in the field; the Plautio-Papi-

rian was probably passed, as was ordinarily the rule with tribunician propo­

sals, immediately after the tribunes entered on office, consequently in Dec.

664 or Jan. 665. 90. 89.

