Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 277

takings finally miscarried through the perfidy of those whom

he trusted. At the same time we meet with isolated traits

of high-minded justice: when he punished traitors, he ordi­

narily spared those who were involved in the crime solely

through their personal relations with the leading culprit; but

such fits of equity are to be met with in every barbarous

tyrant. What really distinguishes Mithradates amidst the

multitude of similar sultans, is his boundless activity. He

disappeared one fine morning from his palace and remained

unheard of for months, so that he was given over as lost; when

he returned, he had wandered incognito through all anterior

Asia and reconnoitred everywhere the country and the

people. In like manner he was not only generally fluent in

speech, but he administered justice to each of the twenty-

two nations over which he ruled in its own language without

needing an interpreter—a trait significant of the versatile

ruler of the many-tongued East. His whole activity as a

ruler bears the same character. So far as we know (for

our authorities are unfortunately altogether silent as to his

internal administration) his energies, like those of every

other sultan, were spent in collecting treasures, in assembling

armies—which were usually, in his earlier years at least, led

against the enemy not by the king in person, but by some

Greek condottiere—in efforts to add new satrapies to the

old. Of higher elements—desire to advance civilization,

earnest leadership of the national opposition, special gifts of

genius—there are found, in our traditional accounts at least,

no distinct traces in Mithradates, and we have no reason to

place him on a level even with the great rulers of the Os-

maus, such as Mahomet II. and Suleiman. Notwithstand­

ing his Hellenic culture, which sat on him not much better

than the Eoman armour on his Cappadocians, he was

throughout an Oriental of the ordinary stamp, coarse, full of

the most sensual appetites, superstitious, cruel, perfidious,

and unscrupulous, but so vigorous in organization, so power­

ful in physical endowments, that his defiant laying about him

and his unshaken courage in resistance frequently look like

talent, sometimes even like genius. Granting even, that

during the death-struggle of the republic it was easier to offer

resistance to Rome than in the times of Scipio or Trajan, and

that it was only the complication of the Asiatic events with

the internal commotions of Italy that rendered it possible for

Mithradates to resist the Romans twice as long as Jugurtha

