18 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

partisans of Rome in the town, appeared with a superior1

force before its walls, and compelled the authorities to

deliver up to him the leaders of the movement, 400 of the

flower of the youth, whose hands were all cut off by order of

the Roman general. The Numantines, thus deprived of

their last hope, sent to Scipio to negotiate as-to their sub­

mission and called on the brave man to spare the brave;

but when the envoys on their return announced that Scipio

required unconditional surrender, they were torn in pieces

by the furious multitude, and a fresh interval elapsed till

famine and pestilence had completed their work. At length

a second message was sent to the Roman head-quarters,

that the town was now ready to submit at discretion.

When the citizens were accordingly instructed to appear on

the following day before the gates, they asked for some days'

delay, to allow those of their number who had determined

not to survive the loss of liberty time to die. It was

granted, and not a few took advantage of it. At last the

miserable remnant appeared before the gates. Scipio chose

fifty of the most eminent to form part of his triumphal

procession; the rest were sold into slavery, the city was

levelled with the ground, and its territory was distributed

among the neighbouring towns. This occurred in the

133. autumn of 621, fifteen months after Scipio had assumed the

command.

The fall of Numantia struck at the root of the opposition

that was still here and there stirring against Rome; mili­

tary demonstrations and the imposition of fines sufficed to

secure the acknowledgment of the Roman supremacy in all

Hither Spain.

The Gal- In Further Spain the Roman dominion was confirmed

laeci con- and extended by the subjugation of the Lusitanians. The

quered. consul Decimus Junius Brutus, who came in Caepio's

room, settled the Lusitanian war-captives in the neighbour­

hood of Saguntum, and gave to their new town Valentia

138. (Valencia), like Carteia, a Latin constitution (616); he

138-136. moreover (616-618) traversed the Iberian west coast in

various directions, and was the first of the Romans to reach

the shore of the Atlantic Ocean. The towns of the Lusi­

tanians, which were obstinately defended by their inhabit­

ants, both men and women, were subdued by him; and the

hitherto independent Gallaeci were united with the Roman

province after a great battle, in which 50,000 of them are

