410 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

Italian exports and imports, that fell mainly to the Italians;

at Narbo they competed in the Celtic trade with the Mas-

siliots, and in general it admits of no doubt that the Roman

merchants to be met with everywhere, floating or settled,

took to themselves the best share of all speculations.

Capitalist Putting together these phenomena, we recognize as the

oligarchy. mogfc prominent feature in the private economy of this

epoch the financial oligarchy of Roman capitalists standing

alongside of, and on a par with, the political oligarchy. In

their hands were united the rents of the soil of almost all Italy

and of the best portions of the provincial territory, the pro­

ceeds at usury of the capital monopolized by them, the com­

mercial gain from the whole empire, and lastly, a very con­

siderable part of the Roman state-revenue in the form of

profits accruing from the lease of that revenue. The daily

increasing accumulation of capital is evident in the rise of the

average rate of wealth: 3,000,000 of sesterces (£30,000)

was now a moderate senatorial, 2,000,000 (£20,000) a

decent equestrian fortune; the property of the wealthiest

131, man of the Gracchan age, Publius Crassus consul in 623.,

was estimated at 100,000,000 of sesterces (£1,000,000). It

is no wonder that this capitalist order exercised a prepon­

derant influence on external policy; that it destroyed out of

commercial rivalry Carthage and Corinth (P. 24, 52) as the

Etruscans had formerly destroyed Alalia and the Syracusans

Caere; that it in spite of the senate upheld the colony of

Narbo (P. 171). It is likewise no wonder, that this capi­

talist oligarchy engaged in earnest and often victorious com­

petition with the oligarchy of the nobles in internal politics.

But it is also no wonder, that ruined men of wealth put

themselves at the head of bands of revolted slaves (P. 139),

and rudely reminded the public that the transition is easy

from the haunts of fashionable debauchery to the robber's

cave. It is no wonder, that that financial tower of Babel,

with its foundation not purely economic but borrowed from

the political ascendancy of Rome, tottered at every serious

political crisis nearly in the same way as our very similar

fabric of a paper currency. The great financial crisis, which

90. in consequence of the Italo-Asiatic commotions of 664 et seq.

set in upon the Roman capitalist-class, the bankruptcy of

the state and of private persons, the general depreciation of

landed property and of joint stock shares, can no longer be

traced out in detail; but their general nature and their

