358 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

colonies even after their establishment, and these colonies

formed, as it were, the standing army of the senate.

The Corne- Akin to this practical institution of a standing army for

lian freed- the senate was the measure by which the regent selected

men in from the slaves of the proscribed upwards of 10,000 of the

'"'le' youngest and most vigorous men, and manumitted them in

a body. These new Cornelians, whose civil existence was

linked to the legal validity of the institutions of their

patron, were designed to be a sort of body-guard for the

oligarchy and to help it to command the city populace, on

which, indeed, in the absence of a garrison everything in the

capital primarily depended.

Abolition of These extraordinary pillars of support on which the

the Giac- regent made the oligarchy primarily to rest, weak and

chan insti- ephemeral as they probably appeared to their author, were

yet its only possible supports, unless expedients were to be

resorted to—such as the formal institution of a standing

army in Rome and other similar measures—which would have

put an end to the oligarchy far sooner than the attacks of

demagogues. The permanent foundation of the ordinary

governing power of the oligarchy was naturally and neces­

sarily the senate, with a power so increased and so concen­

trated that it presented a superiority to its non-organized

opponents at every single point of attack. The system of

compromises followed for forty years was at an end. The

Gracchan constitution, still spared in the first Sullan reform

88. of 666, was now utterly abolished. Since the time of Gaius

Gracchus the government had conceded, as it were, the

right of emeute to the proletariate of the capital, and bought

it off by regular distributions of corn to the burgesses domi­

ciled there; Sulla abolished these largesses. Gaius Grac­

chus had organized and consolidated the order of capitalists

by the letting of the tenths and customs of the province of

Asia in Rome; Sulla did away with the system of middle­

men, and converted the former contributions of the Asiatics

into fixed taxes, which were assessed on the several districts

according to the valuation-rolls drawn up for the purpose

of gathering in the arrears.* Gaius Gracchus had by

* That Sulla's assessment of the five years' arrears and of the war expenses  
levied on the communities of Asia(Appian. Mithr. 62 et a/.) formed a standard

for the future, is shown by the facts, tiiat the distribution of Asia into
forty

districts is referred to Sulla (Cassiodor. Chron. 670) and that the Sullan

apportionment was assumed as a basis in the case of subsequent imposts (Cic.

A.

