Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 141

Asia Minor. It is significant of the greatness of the evil, that

an attempt of the government to check the worst iniquities

of the slaveholders was. the immediate cause of the new

insurrection. That the free proletarians in Sicily were

little better off than the slaves, had been shown by their

attitude in the first insurrection (P. 81); after it was sub­

dued the Roman speculators took their revenge, and placed

numbers of the free provincials among their slaves. In con­

sequence of a sharp enactment issued against this by the

senate in 650, Publius Licinius Nerva, the governor of 104,

Sicily at the time, appointed a court for deciding on claims

of freedom to sit in Syracuse. The court went earnestly to

work ; in a short time decision was given in eight hundred pro­

cesses against the slave-owners, and the number of causes in

dependence was daily on the increase. The terrified planters

hastened to Syracuse, to compel the Roman governor to i

suspend such unparalleled administration of justice; Nerva

was weak enough to let himself be terrified, and in harsh

language informed the non-free persons requesting trial,

that they should forego their troublesome demand for right

and justice and should instantly return to those who called

themselves their masters. Those who were thus dismissed,

instead of doing as he bade them, formed a conspiracy and

went to the mountains. The governor was not prepared for

military measures, and even the wretched militia of the

island was not immediately at hand; so that he concluded

an alliance with one of the best known captains of banditti

in the island, and induced him by the promise of personal

pardon to betray the revolted slaves into the hands of the

Romans. He thus gained the mastery over this band.

But another band of runaway slaves succeeded in defeating

a division of the garrison of Enna (Castrogiovanni) ; and this

first success procured for the insurgents—what they espe­

cially needed—arms and reinforcements. The armour of

their fallen or fugitive opponents furnished the first basis of

their military organization, and the number of the insur­

gents soon swelled to many thousands. These Syrians in a

foreign land already, like their predecessors, seemed to

themselves not unworthy to be governed by kings, as were

their countrymen at home; and—parodying the trumpery

king of their native land down to the very name—they

placed the slave Salvius at their head as king Tryphon.

In the district between Enna and Leoutini (Lentini) where

