76 [Book IV. THE REFORM MOVEMENT

Optimates

and Popu­

lares.

Social

crisis.

even by way of advance—after the war with Perseus no

further tax was asked from the community. They preferred

to allow their military system to decay, rather than to com­

pel the burgesses to enter the odious transmarine service; how

it fared with the individual magistrates who attempted to

carry out the conscription according to the strict letter of

the law, has already been related (P. 69).

In the Rome of this epoch the two evils of a degenerate

oligarchy and a democracy not yet developed but already

cankered in the bud were interwoven in a manner pregnant

with fatal results. According to their party names, which

were first heard during this period, the " Optimates " wished to

give effect to the will of the best, the " Populares" to that of

the community; but in fact there was in the Rome of that

day neither a true aristocracy nor a truly self-determining

community. Both parties contended alike for shadows, and

numbered in their ranks none but enthusiasts or hypocrites.

Both were equally affected by political corruption, and both

were in fact equally worthless. Both were necessarily tied

down to the status quo, for neither on the one side nor on the

other was there any political idea—to say nothing of any poli­

tical plan—rising above the existing state of things; and ac­

cordingly the two parties were so entirely in agreement, that

they met at every step as respected both means and ends, and

a change of party was a change of political tactics more

than of political sentiments. The commonwealth would

beyond doubt have been a gainer, if either the aristocracy

had directly introduced a hereditary rotation instead of elec­

tion by the burgesses, or the democracy had produced from

within it a real democratic government. But these Optimates

and these Populares of the beginning of the seventh centurylAC-

were far too indispensable for each other to wage such in­

ternecine war; they not only could not destroy each other,

but, even if they had been able to do so, they would not

have been willing. Meanwhile the commonwealth was poli­

tically and morally more and more unhinged, and was verging

towards its total dissolution.

The crisis with which the Roman revolution was opened

arose not out of this paltry political conflict, but out of the

economic and social relations which the Roman government

allowed, like everything else, simply to take their course,

and which thus found opportunity to bring the morbid

matter, that had been long fermenting, without hindrance

