Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 151

during the suspension of hostilities the chief business of the

Roman soldiery, but not a few officers and soldiers had as

well as their generals entered into secret understanding

with the enemy. It is easy to see that such an army could

do nothing in the field; and if Jugurtha on this occa­

sion bribed the Roman general into inaction, as was after­

wards judicially asserted against the latter, he did in

truth what was superfluous. Spurius" Albinus therefore

contented himself with doing nothing. On the other hand

his brother who after his departure assumed the interim

command—the equally foolhardy and incapable Aulus Pos-

tumius—in the middle of winter fell on the idea of seizing

by a bold coup de main the treasures of the king, which were

kept in the town of Suthul (afterwards Calama, now

Guelma) difficult of access and still more difficult of con­

quest. The army set out thither and reached the town ; but

the siege was unsuccessful and without prospect of result,

and, when the king who had remained for a time with his

troops in front of the town went into the desert, the

Roman general preferred to pursue him. This was pre­

cisely what Jugurtha intended ; in a nocturnal assault, which

was favoured by the difficulties of the ground and the

secret understanding which Jugurtha had with some in the

Roman army, the Numidians captured the Roman camp,

and drove the Romans, many of whom were unarmed, before

them in the most complete and disgraceful rout. The con- Capitula-

sequence was a capitulation, the terms of which—the march- tion of the

ing off of the Roman army under the yoke, the immediate Romans.

evacuation of the whole Numidian territory, and the re- ^

newal of the treaty cancelled by the senate—were dictated

by Jugurtha and accepted by the Romans (in the beginning

of 645). "109.

This was too much to be borne. While the Africans Pissatisfac-

were exulting and the prospect—thus suddenly opened up tion in tile

—of such an overthrow of the alien domination as had c"P,tal.

been reckoned scarcely possible was bringing numerous

tribes of the free and half-free inhabitants of the desert

to the standards of the victorious king, public opinion in

Italy was vehemently aroused against the equally corrupt

and pernicious governing aristocracy, and broke out in a

storm of prosecutions which, fostered by the exasperation of

the mercantile class, swept away a succession of victims

from the highest circles of the nobility. On the proposal

