Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 155

towards the ridge of hills, with a view to dislodge the enemy

from the latter. But this march in the plain threatened to

become the destruction of the army; for, while Numidian in­

fantry occupied the mountain defiles in the rear of the

Romans as the latter evacuated them, the Roman attacking

column found itself assailed on all sides by swarms of the

enemy's horse, who charged down on it from the ridge. The

constant onset of the hostile swarms hindered the advance,

and the battle threatened to resolve itself into a number of

confused and detached conflicts; while at the same time

Bomilcar with his division detained the corps under Rufus

to prevent it from hastening to the help of the hard-pressed

main army. Nevertheless Metellus and Marius with a

couple of thousand soldiers succeeded in reaching the foot of

the ridge; and the Numidian infantry which defended the

heights, in spite of their superior numbers and favourable

position, fled almost without resistance when the legion­

aries charged at a rapid pace up the hill. The Numidian

infantry held its ground equally ill against Rufus; it was •

scattered at the first charge, and the elephants were all

killed or captured on the broken ground. Late in the even­

ing the two Roman divisions, each victorious on its own part

and each anxious as to the fate of the other, met between

the two fields of battle. It was a battle attesting alike

Jugurtha's uncommon military talent and the indestructible

solidity of the Roman infantry, which alone had converted

their strategical defeat into a victory. Jugurtha sent home a

great part of his troops after the battle, and restricted himself

to a guerilla warfare, which he likewise managed with skill.

The two Roman columns, the one led by Metellus, the Numidia

other by Marius—who, although by birth and rank the occupied by

humblest, occupied since the battle on the Muthul the first &e Romans-

place among the chiefs of the staff—traversed the Numidian

territory, occupied the towns, and, when any place did not

readily open its gates, put to death the adult male popula­

tion. But the most considerable of the towns in the valley

of the Bagradas, Zama, opposed to the Romans a serious

resistance which the king energetically supported. He was

even successful in surprising the Roman camp; and the

Romans found themselves at last compelled to abandon the

siege and to go into winter quarters. For the sake of more

easily provisioning his army Metellus, leaving behind gar­

risons in the conquered towns, transferred it into the Roman

