Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 11

ing the vanguard of the praetor Gaius Plautius, Viriathus

had the skill to lure him over to the right bank of the Tagus,

and there to defeat him so emphatically that the Roman

general went into winter quarters in the middle of summer

—on which account he was afterwards charged before the

people with having disgraced the Roman community, and

was compelled to live in exile. In like manner the army

of the governor Claudius Unimanus was destroyed, that of

Gaius Negidius was vanquished, and the level country was

pillaged far and wide. Trophies of victory, decorated with

the insignia of the Roman governors and the arms of the

legions, were erected on the Spanish mountains; people

at Rome heard with shame and consternation of the vic­

tories of the barbarian king. The conduct of the Spanish

war was now committed to a more trustworthy officer, the

consul Quintus Fabius Maximus JSmilianus, the second son

of the victor of Pydna (609). But the Romans no longer 145.

ventured to send the experienced veterans, who had just re­

turned from Macedonia and Asia, forth anew to the detested

Spanish war; the two legions, which Maximus brought with

him, were recent levies and scarcely more to be trusted

than the old utterly demoralized Spanish army. After the

first conflicts had again issued favourably for the Lusita-

nians, the prudent general kept together his troops for the

remainder of the year in the camp at Urso (Osuna, south­

east from Seville) without accepting the enemy's offer of

battle, and only took the field afresh in the following year

(610), after his troops had been qualified for fighting by 144.

pettier warfare; he was then enabled to maintain the supe­

riority, and after successful feats of arms went into winter

quarters at Corduba. But when the cowardly and incapable

praetor Quinctius took the command in room of Maximus, the

Romans again suffered defeat after defeat, and their general

in the middle of summer shut himself up in Corduba, while

the bands of Viriathus overran the southern province (611). 143.

His successor, Quintus Fabius Maximus Servilianus, the

adopted brother of Maximus JSmilianus, was sent to the

peninsula with two fresh legions and ten elephants; he en­

deavoured to penetrate iuto the Lusitanian country, but

after a series of indecisive conflicts and an assault on the

Roman camp, which was with difficulty repulsed, he found

himself compelled to retreat to the Roman territory. Viri­

athus followed him into the province, but, as his troops after

