Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 453

of art which had obtained the approval of the "few." He

acquiesced in or even favoured the report, that persons of

distinction aided him in composing with their counsel or even

with their co-operation.* In reality he carried his point;

even in literature the oligarchy prevailed, and the artistic

comedy of the exclusives supplanted the comedy of the

people: we find that about 620 the pieces of Plautus dis- 134.

appeared from the set of stock plays. This is the more sig­

nificant, because after the early death of Terence no man of

conspicuous talent at all further occupied this field. Kespect-

ing the comedies of Turpilius (+651 at an advanced age) 103.

and other stop-gaps wholly or almost wholly forgotten, a

connoisseur already at the close of this period gave it as his

opinion, that the new comedies were even much worse than

the bad new pennies (P. 413).

We have formerly shown (ii. 443) that a national Roman National

comedy (togata) was added to the GraecO-Roman (palliatd) comedy.

* In the prologue of the Heauiontimorumenos he puts the objection into the  
mouth of his censors :—

Sepenta ad studium hunc se applicasse nwsicum

Amicum ingenio /return, haud natura sua.

And in the later prologue (594) to the Adelphi he says— 160.

Nam quod isti dicunt maletoli, homines nobiles

Eum adjutare, assidueque una scrioere;

Quod illi maledictmn vehemens esse existimant

Emn laudem hie duett maximum, quum ittis placet

Qui vobis unwersis et populo placent;

Quorum opera in hello, in otio, in negotio,

Suo quisque tempore itsus est sine superbia.

As early as the time of Cicero it was the general supposition that La;lius and

Scipio iEmilianus were here meant: the scenes were designated which were

alleged to proceed from them; stories were told of the journeys of the poor

poet with his noble patrons to their estates near Rome ; and it was reckoned
un­

pardonable that they had done nothing at all for the improvement of his
financial

circumstances. But the power which creates legend is, as is well known, no­

where more potent than in the history of literature. It is clear, and even

judicious Roman critics acknowledged, that these lines could not possibly
apply

to Scipio who was then twenty-five years of age, and to his friend Laelius who

was not much older. Others with at least more judgment thought of the noble

poets Quintus Labeo (consul in 571) and Marcus Popillius (consul in 581), 183.
173.

and of the learned patron of art and mathematician, Lucius Sulpicius Gallus

(consul in 588); but this too is evidently mere conjecture. That Terence was
166.

in close relations with the Scipionic house cannot, however, be doubted: it is

a significant fact, that the first exhibition of the Adelphi and the second of
the

ffecura took place at the funeral games of Lucius l'aullus, whicii were pro.

vided by his sons Scipio and Fabius.

