Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 305

communities had severely to pay for their renewed revolt

from Rome, some of them even to annihilation. Nothing

opposed the advance into Macedonia and Thrace, Philippi

was occupied, Abdera was voluntarily evacuated by the

Pontic garrison, the European continent in general was

cleared of the enemy. At the end of the third year of the

war (669) Sulla was able to take up winter quarters in 85.

Thessaly, with a view to begin the Asiatic campaign in the

spring of 670,* for which purpose he gave orders to build 84.

ships in the Thessalian ports.

Meanwhile the circumstances of Asia Minor also had Reaction in

undergone a material change. If king Mithradates had Asia Minor

once come forward as the liberator of the Hellenes, if he SSJ?81

had introduced his rule with the recognition of civic inde- dates,

pendence and with remission- of taxes, the brief ecstasy

had been but too rapidly and too bitterly followed by dis­

appointment. He had very soon emerged in his true

character, and had begun to exercise a despotism far sur­

passing the tyranny of the Roman governors—a despotism

which drove even the patient inhabitants of Asia Minor to

open revolt. The sultan again resorted to the most violent

expedients. His decrees granted independence to the places

which turned to him, citizenship to the metaeci, full remission

of debts to the debtors, lands to those that had none, freedom

to the slaves; nearly 15,000 such manumitted slaves fought

in the army of Archelaus. The most fearful scenes were

the result of this high-handed subversion of all existing order.

The most considerable mercantile cities, Smyrna, Colophon,

Ephesus, Tralles, Sardes closed their gates against the king's

governors or put them to death. On the other hand the

king's lieutenant Diodorus, a philosopher of note like Aris-

tion, of another school, but equally available for the worst of

* The chronology of these events is like all their details enveloped in an  
obscurity which investigation is able to dispel, at most, only partially. That

the battle of Chaeronea took place, if not on the same day as the storming of

Athens (Pausan. i. 20), at any rate soon afterwards, perhaps in March 668, g6,

is tolerably certain. That the succeeding Thessalian and the second Bceotian

campaign took up not merely the remainder of 668 but also the whole of 669,
86. 85.

is in itself probable and is rendered still more so by the fact that Sulla's
enter­

prises in Asia are not sufficient to fill more than a single campaign.
Licinianux

also appears to indicate that Sulla returned to Athens for the winter of 668-
80-HH,

669 and there took in hand the work of investigation and punishment; iifW

which he relates the battle of Orchomenus. The crossing of Sulla to Ailn luin

accordingly been placed not in 669, but in 670. NA. M,

vol. m. x

r

