Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 295

least as much part as the comparatively noble feeling of

revenge. In a political point of view this measure was not

only without any rational object—for its financial purpose

might have been attained without this bloody edict, and the

natives of Asia Minor were not to be driven into warlike

zeal even by the consciousness of the most blood-stained

guilt—but even opposed to the king's designs, for on the

one hand it compelled the Roman senate, so far as it was still

capable of energy at all, to an energetic prosecution of the

war, and on the other hand it struck at not the Romans

merely, but the king's natural allies as,well, the non-Roman

Italians. This Ephesian massacre was altogether a mere

meaningless act of brutally bliud revenge, which obtains

a false semblance of grandeur simply through the colossal

proportions in which the character of sultanic rule was here

displayed.

The king's views altogether grew high; he had begun the Organiza-

war from despair, but the unexpectedly easy victory and the tion of tlle

non-arrival of the dreaded Sulla occasioned a transition to concl.ueml

the most highflown hopes. He made anterior Asia his home;

Pergamus the seat of the Roman governor became his new

capital, the old kingdom of Sinope was handed over to the

king's son Mithradates to be administered as a viceroyship;

Cappadocia, Phrygia, Bithynia were organized as Pontic

satrapies. The grandees of the empire and the king's

favourites were loaded with rich gifts and fiefs, and not only

were the arrears of taxes remitted, but exemption from taxa­

tion for five years was promised to all the communities—a

measure which was as much a mistake as the massacre of the

Romans, if the king expected thereby to secure the fidelity

of the inhabitants of Asia Minor.

The king's treasury was, no doubt, copiously replenished

otherwise by the immense sums which accrued from the

property of the Italians and other confiscations; for in­

stance in Cos alone 800 talents (£195,000) which the

Jews had deposited there were carried off by Mithradates.

The northern portion of Asia Minor and most of the islands

belonging to it were in the king's power; except the petty

Paphlagonian dynasts there was hardly a district there

which still adhered to Rome; the whole JEgean sea was

commanded by his fleets; only the south-west, the city-

leagues of Caria and Lycia and the city of Rhodes, resisted

him. In Caria, no doubt, Stratonicea was reduced by foroe

