78 [Book IV THE REFORM MOVEMENT

great conflict between labour and capital, it is necessary to give

here some indication of the nature and extent of the system

of slavery. We have not now to do with the old, in some

measure innocent, rural slavery, under which the farmer

either tilled the field along with his slave or, if he' possessed

more land than he could manage, placed the slave—either as

steward or as a sort of lessee obliged to render up a portion

of the produce—over a detached farm (i. 199). Such relations

no doubt existed at all times—around Comum, for instance,

they were still the rule in the time of the Empire—but as

exceptional features in privileged districts and on humanely

managed estates. What we now refer to is the system

of slavery on a great scale, which in the Roman state, as

formerly in the Carthaginian, grew out of the ascendancy of

capital. While the captives taken in war and the hereditary

transmission of slavery sufliced to keep up the stock of slaves

during the earlier period, this system of slavery was, just

like that of America, based on the methodically prosecuted

hunting of man; for, owing to the manner in which slaves

were used with little regard to their life or propagation, the

slave population was constantly on the wane, and even the

wars which were always furnishing new multitudes to the

slave market were not sufficient to cover the deficit. No

country where this species of game could be hunted re­

mained exempt from visitation; even in Italy it was a thing

by no means unheard of, that the poor free man was placed

by his employer among the slaves. But the Negroland of

that period was western Asia,* where the Cretan and Cili-

cian corsairs, the real professional slave-hunters and slave-

dealers, robbed the coasts of Syria and the Greek islands;

and where, emulating their feats, the Roman revenue-farmers

instituted human hunts in the client states and incor­

porated those whom they captured among their slaves.

This was done to such an extent, that about 650 the king

of Bithynia declared himself unable to furnish the required

contingent, because all the people capable of labour had

been dragged off from his kingdom by the revenue-farmers.

At the great slave market in Delos, where the slave-dealers

of Asia Minor disposed of their wares to Italian speculators,

on one day as many as 10,000 slaves are said to have been

Slavery

and its con­

sequences.

100.

* It was asserted even then, that the human race in that quarter was pre­  
eminently fitted for slavery by its especial power of endurance. Plautus

(Trin. 542; commends the Syrians: genus quod patientissimum est hominum.

