106 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

the existing government. Carbo in particular, one of the

most distinguished men of his time in oratorical talent, had

131. as tribune of the people in 623 given no small trouble

to the senate, had carried voting by ballot in the burgess-

\ assemblies so far as it had not been introduced already

(P. 73), and had even made the significant proposal to

leave the tribunes of the people free to reappear as candi­

dates for the same office in the year immediately following,

and thus legally to remove the obstacle by which Tiberius

Gracchus had first' been thwarted. The scheme had been

at that time frustrated by the resistance of Scipio; some

years later, apparently after his death, the law passed. The

principal object of the party, however, was to revive the action

of the allotment-commission which had been practically

suspended; the leaders seriously talked of removing the

obstacles which the Italian allies interposed to the scheme

by conferring on them the rights of citizenship, and the

agitation assumed mainly that direction. In order to meet

126. it, the senate in 628 got the tribune of the people Marcus

Junius Pennus to propose the dismissal of all non-bur­

gesses from the capital, and in spite of the resistance of the

democrats, particularly of Gaius Gracchus, and of the fer­

ment occasioned by this odious measure in the Latin commu

nities, the proposal was carried. Marcus Fulvius Flaccus

125. retorted in the following year (629) as consul with the pro­

posal, that every ally should be allowed to ask for Roman

citizenship and to get a vote of the comitia on his request.

But he stood almost alone. Carbo had meanwhile changed

his colours and was now a zealous aristocrat; Gaius Grac­

chus was absent as quaestor in Sardinia. The project was

frustrated by the resistance not of the senate merely, but also

of the burgesses, who were but little inclined to extend

their privileges to a still wider circle. Flaccus left Rome to

undertake the supreme command against the Celts; by his

Transalpine conquests he prepared the way for the great

schemes c>f the democracy, while he at the same time with­

drew out of the difficulty of having to bear arms against

the allies instigated by himself.

Destruction Fregellae, situated on the borders of Latium and Cam-

of Fregellae. pania at the principal passage of the Liris in the midst of a

large and fertile territory, at that time perhaps the second

city of Italy and in the discussions with Rome the usual

mouthpiece of all the Latin colonies, began war against Rome

