224 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIOS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

The capitalist party offered the moat vehement resistance,

and, in consequence of the irresolution of the greater part

of the aristocracy and the vacillation of the comitia, would

beyond question have carried the rejection of the law as to

jurymen, if it had been put to the vote by itself. Drusus

accordingly comprised all his proposals in one law: and, as

thus all the burgesses interested in the distributions of

grain and land were compelled to vote also for the law as to

jurymen, he succeeded in carrying the law by their help

and that of the Italians, who stood firmly by Drusus with

the exception of the large landowners, particularly those

in Umbria and Etruria, whose domanial possessions were

threatened. It was not carried, however, until Drusus had

caused the consul Philippus, who would not desist from oppo­

sition, to be arrested and carried off to prison by a bailiff.

The people celebrated the tribune as their benefactor, and

received him in the theatre by rising up and applauding;

but the voting had not so much decided the struggle as trans­

ferred it to another ground, for the opposite party justly

characterized the proposal of Drusus as contrary to the law

98. of 656 (P. 218) and therefore as null. The chief opponent

of the tribune, the consul Philippus, summoned the senate

on this ground to cancel the Livian law as informal; but

the majority of the senate, glad to be rid of the equestrian

courts, rejected the proposal. The consul thereupon declared

in the open market that it was not possible to govern with

such a senate, and that he would look out for another state-

council: ho seemed to meditate a coup d'etat. The senate,

convoked accordingly by Drusus, after stormy discussions

pronounced a vote of censure and want of confidence against

the consul; but in secret a great part of the majority began

to cherish apprehension respecting the revolution with which

they seemed to be threatened on the part both of Philippus

and of a large portion of the capitalists. Other circum­

stances added to that apprehension. One of theTnost active

and eminent of those who shared the views of Drusus, the

orator Lucius Crassus, died suddenly a few days after that

81. sitting of the senate (Sept. 663). The connections formed

by Drusus with the Italians, which he bad at first com­

municated only to a few of his most intimate friends, be­

came gradually divulged, and the furious cry of high treason

which his antagonists raised was echoed by many, perhaps

by most, men of the government party. Even the generous

