Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 129

to preserve himself if possible for better times. Gracchus was

induced to make an attempt to escape to the other bank of

the Tiber; but when hastening down the hill he fell and

sprained his foot. To gain time for hiui to escape, his two

attendants turned to face his pursuers and allowed them­

selves to be cut down, Marcus Pomponius at the Porta

Trigemina under the Aventine, Publius Laetorius at the

bridge over the Tiber where Horatius Codes was said to

have once singly withstood the Etruscan army; so Gracchus,

attended only by his slave Euporus, reached the suburb on

the right bank of the Tiber. There, in the grove of Furrina,

were afterwards found the two dead bodies; it seemed as if

the slave had put to death first his master and then himself.

The heads of the two fallen leaders were handed over to the

government as required; the stipulated price and more was

paid to Lucius Septumuleius, a noble, who delivered up the

head of Gracchus, while the murderers of Flaccus, persons

of humble position, were sent away with empty hands.

The bodies of the dead were thrown into the river; the

houses of the leaders were abandoned to the pillage of the

multitude. The warfare of prosecutions against the parti­

sans of Gracchus began on the grandest scale; as many as

3000 of them are said to have been strangled in prison,

amongst whom was Quintus Flaccus, eighteen years of age,

who had taken no part in the conflict, and was universally

lamented on account of his youth and his amiableness.

On the open space beneath the Capitol, where the altar

consecrated by Camillus- after the restoration of internal

peace (i. 305) and other shrines erected on similar occa­

sions to Concord were situated, these small chapels were

pulled down; and out of the property of the killed or

condemned traitors, which was confiscated even to the

portions of their wives, a new and spleudid temple of Con­

cord with the basilica belonging to it was erected in accord­

ance with a decree of the senate by the consul Lucius

Opimius. Certainly it was an act in accordance with the

spirit of the age to remove the memorials of the old, and to

inaugurate a new, Concord over the remains of the three

grandsons of the conqueror of Zama, all of whom—first

Tiberius Gracchus, then Scipio jEmilianus, and lastly the

youngest and most vehement, Gaius Gracchus—had now been

engulfed by the revolution. The memory of the Gracchi

remained officially proscribed; Cornelia was not allowed to

TOL. III. K

