400 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

simply undertook to defray the military expenses from their

coffers. But even of this military budget considerable items

were devolved on the communities—such as the expense of

making and maintaining the non-Italian military roads, the

costs of the fleets in the non-Italian seas, nay even in great

part the outlay for the army, inasmuch as the forces of the

client-states as well as those of the subjects were regularly

liable to serve at the expense of their communities within

their province, and began to be employed with increasing

frequency even beyond it—Thracians in Africa, Africans iu

Italy, and so on—at the discretion of the Romans (P. 200).

If the provinces only and not Italy paid direct taxes to the

government, this was equitable in a financial, if not in a,

political, aspect so long as Italy alone bore the burdens and

expense of the military system; but from the time that

this system was abandoned, the provincials were, in a financial

point of view, decidedly overburdened.

Extortions. Lastly we must not forget the great chapter of injustice,

by which in manifold ways the Roman magistrates and

farmers of the revenue augmented the burden of taxation

on the provinces. Every present which the governor

took might be treated legally as an exaction, and even his

right of purchase might be restricted by law; nevertheless

the exercise of his public functions offered to him, if he was

disposed to do wrong, ample pretexts for doing so. The

quartering of the troops; the free lodging of the magistrates

and of the host of adjutants of senatorial or equestrian

rank, of clerks, lictors, heralds, physicians, and priests; the

right which the messengers of the state had to be forwarded

free of cost; the approval of, and providing transport for, the

supplies payable in kind; above all the forced sales and the

requisitions — gave all magistrates opportunity to bring

home princely fortunes from the provinces. And the plun­

dering became daily more general, the more that the control

of the government appeared to be worthless and that of

the capitalist-courts to be dangerous in reality to the upright

magistrate alone. The institution of a standing commission

regarding the exactions of magistrates in the provinces, oc­

casioned by the frequency of complaints as to such cases, in

149. 605 (P. 73), and the laws as to extortion following each

other so rapidly and constantly augmenting its penalties,

show the daily increasing height of the evil, as the Nilometer

shows the rise of the flood.

*

>

