328 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

ability, but insubordinate; the army assigned to them was

even in numbers three times weaker than the army of Sulla.

Tidings successively arrived, that Flaccus, in order not to

be crushed by Sulla, had marched past him onward to Asia

86. (668) ; that Fimbria had set him aside and installed himself

85. in his room (beg. of 6C9); that Sulla had concluded peace

85-84. with Mithradates (669-670). Hitherto Sulla had been silent

so far as the authorities ruling in the capital were con足

cerned. Now a letter from him reached the senate, in -which

he reported the termination of the war and announced his

return to Italy; he stated that he would respect the rights

conferred on the new burgesses, and that, while measures of

punishment were inevitable, they would light not on the

masses, but on the authors of the mischief. This announce足

ment frightened Cinna out of his inaction: while he had

hitherto taken no step against Sulla except the placing some

men under arms and collecting a number of vessels in the

Adriatic, he now resolved to cross in all haste to Greece.

ut tsat On the other hand Sulla's letter, which in the circum-

a compro- stances might be called extremely moderate, awakened in

misc. the middle-party hopes of a peaceful adjustment. The

majority of the senate resolved, on the proposal of the elder

Flaccus, to set on foot an attempt at reconciliation, and with

that view to summon Sulla to come under the guarantee of a

safe-conduct to Italy, and to suggest to the consuls Cinna

and Carbo that they should suspend their preparations till

the arrival of Sulla's answer. Sulla did not absolutely

reject the proposals. Of course he did not come in person,

but he sent a message that he asked nothing but the resto足

ration of the banished to their former status and the judicial

punishment of the crimes that had been perpetrated, and

moreover that he did not desire security to be provided for

himself, but proposed to bring it to those who were at home.

His envoys found the state of things in Italy essentially

altered. Cinna had, without concerning himself further

about that decree of the senate, immediately after the ter足

mination of its sitting proceeded to the army and urged it*

embarkation. The summons to trust themselves to the sea

at that unfavourable season of the year provoked among the

already dissatisfied troops in the head-quarters at Ancona

Death of a mutiny, to which Cinna fell a victim (beg. of 670); where-

Cinna. [84. upon his colleague Carbo found himself compelled to bring

Carbo and kack ^ divisions that had already crossed and, abandoning

