366 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

from it; it might assign to the consul a transmarine com­

mand of especial importance at the moment, or include

an extraordinary military or judicial commission—such as

the command of the fleet or an important criminal inquiry—

among the departments to be distributed, and might arrange

the cumulations and prolongations thereby rendered neces­

sary. In this case, however, it was simply the definition of the

respective consular and praetorian functions on each occasion

which belonged to the senate, not the designation of the per­

sons to assume the particular office; the latter uniformly

took place by agreement among the magistrates concerned or

by lot. The burgesses did not interfere in this further, than

that they were in the earlier period sometimes asked to le­

gitimize by special decree of the community the prac­

tical prolongation of command that was involved in the non-

arrival of relief (i. 326); which, however, was required rather

by the spirit than by the letter of the constitution, and soon

fell into oblivion. In the course of the seventh century there

were gradually added to the six special departments already

existing six others, viz. the five new governorships of Mace­

donia, Africa, Asia, Narbo, and Cilicia, and the presidency of

the standing commission respecting exactions (P. 73). With

the daily extending sphere of action of the Roman govern­

ment, moreover, it was a case of more and more frequent

occurrence, that the supreme magistrates were called to

undertake extraordinary military or judicial commissions.

Nevertheless the number of the ordinary supreme annual

magistrates was not enlarged; and there thus devolved on

eight magistrates to be annually nominated—apart from

emergencies — at least twelve special departments to be

annually occupied. Of course it was no mere accident,

that this deficiency was not covered once for all by the

creation of new praetorships. According to the letter of

the> constitution all the supreme magistrates were to be

nominated annually by the burgesses; according to the new

order or rather disorder—under which the vacancies that

arose were filled up mainly by prolonging the term of office,

and a second year was as a rule added by the senate to the

magistrates legally serving for one year, but might also at

discretion be refused—the most important and most lucrative

places in the state were filled up no longer by the burgesses,

but by the senate out of a list of competitors formed by the

burgess elections. Since among these positions the trans-

