Chip. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 215

was said at any rate—Saturninus as king or general; on the

day when the new tribunes of the people had to enter on

their office, the 10th of December 654, a battle took place loo.

in the great market-place—the first which had ever been

fought within the walls of the capital. The issue was not

for a moment doubtful. The Populares were beaten and

driven up to the Capitol, where the supply of water and over-

was cut off from them and they were thus compelled to powered.

surrender. Marius, who held the chief command, would

gladly have saved the life of his former allies who were now

his prisoners; Saturninus exclaimed to the multitude, that

all which he had proposed had been done in concert with

the consul: even a worse man than Marius was could not

but shudder at the inglorious part which he played on this

day. But he had long ceased to be master of affairs. With­

out orders the young nobles climbed the roof of the senate-

house in the Forum where the prisoners were temporarily

confined, stripped off the tiles, and stoned the prisoners

with them. Thus Saturninus perished with most of the

more notable prisoners. Glaucia was found in a lurking-

place, and likewise put to death. Without sentence or

trial there died on this day four magistrates of the Roman

people—a praetor, a quaestor, and two tribunes of the people

—and a number of other well-known men, some of whom

belonged to good families. In spite of the grave faults,

by which the chiefs had invited on themselves this bloody-

retribution, we may nevertheless lament them: they fell

like advanced posts, which are left unsupported by the main

army and are forced to perish without object in a conflict of

despair.

Never had the government party achieved a more com- Ascendancy

plete victory, never had the opposition suffered a more severe of the F>-

defeat, than on this tenth of December. It was the least Ternment-

part of the success, that they had got rid of some trouble­

some brawlers whose places might be supplied any day by

associates of a like stamp; it was of greater moment, that

the only man, who was then in a position to become danger­

ous to the government, had publicly and completely effected

his own annihilation; and most important of all, that the

two elements of the opposition—the capitalist order and

the proletariate—emerged from the strife wholly at variance.

It is true that this was not the work of the government;

the fabric which had been put together by the adroit hands

