Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 273

a subject of contention between the vridow of the last king

Cleopatra (+ 665), and his two sons Soter II. Lathyrus 89.

(4- 673) and Alexander I. (+ 666); which gave occasion 81. «8.

to Cyprus also to separate itself for a considerable period

from Egypt. The Romans did not interfere in these com- Cyreue

plications; in fact, when the Cyrenaean kingdom fell to Roman,

them in 658 by the testament of the childless king Apion, B6.

while not directly rejecting the acquisition, they left the

country in substance to itself by declaring the Greek towns

of the kingdom, Cyrene, Ptolemais, and Berenice, free cities

and even handing over to them the use of the royal domains.

The supervision of the governor of Africa over this territory

was from its remoteness merely nominal, far more so than

that of the governor of Macedonia over the Hellenic free

cities. The consequences of this measure—which beyond

doubt originated not in Philhellenism, but simply in the

weakness and negligence of the Roman government—were

substantially similar to those which had occurred under the

like circumstances in Hellas; civil wars and usurpations

so rent the land that, when a Roman officer of rank acci­

dentally made his appearance there in 668, the inhabitants 86.

urgently besought him to regulate their affairs and to

establish a permanent government among them.

In Syria also during the interval there had not been much Sj ria.

change, and still less any improvement. During the twenty

years' war of succession between the two half-brothers

Antiochus Grypus (+ 658) and Antiochus of Cyzicus 96.

(4- 659), which was transmitted after their death to their 95.

sons, the kingdom which was the object of contention be­

came almost an empty name, inasmuch as the Cilician sea-

kiDgs, the Arab sheiks of the Syrian desert, the princes of

the Jews, and the magistrates of the larger towns had ordi­

narily more to say than the wearers of the diadem. Mean­

while the Romans established themselves in western Cilicia,

and the important Mesopotamia passed over definitively to

the Parthians.

The monarchy of the Arsacida e had passed through a dan- The Par-

gerous crisis about the time of the Gracchi, chiefly in con- thian s,ilte-

sequence of the inroads of Turanian tribes. The ninth

Areacid, Mithradates II. or the Great (630 ?-667 ?), had 124-87.

recovered for the state its position of ascendancy in the

interior of Asia, repulsed the Scythians, and advanced the

boundaries of the kingdom towards Syria and Armenia; but

VOX. III. T

