282 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

ditions less unfavourable than at the present day. For the

use of the soil the Hellenes paid here, like the Phoenicians

in Libya, tax and ground-rent to the native rulers. The

most important of these settlements were the free city of

Chersonesus (not far from Sebastopol), built on the territory

of the Scythians in the Tauric peninsula (Crimea), and main­

taining itself in moderate prosperity under circumstances

far from favourable by virtue of its good constitution and

the public spirit of its citizens; and Pauticapaeum (Kertch)

at the opposite side of the peninsula on the straits leading

from the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov, governed since the

•297. year 457 u.c. by hereditary burgomasters, afterwards called

kings of the Bosporus, the Archaeanactidae, Spartocidae,

and Paerisadae. The culture of corn and the fisheries of the

Sea of Azov had rapidly raised the city to prosperity. Its

territory still in the time of Mithradates embraced the lesser

eastern division of the Crimea including the town of Theo-

dosia, and on the opposite Asiatic continent the town of

Phanagoria and the district of Sindice. In better times the

lords of Pauticapaeum had ruled the peoples on the east coast

of the Sea of Azov and the valley of the Kuban, and had

commanded the Black Sea with their fleet; but Pauticapaeum

was no longer what it had been. Nowhere was the sad

decline of the Hellenic nation felt more deeply than at these

distant outposts. Athens in its good times had been the

only Greek state which fulfilled there the duties of a lead­

ing power—duties which certainly were specially brought

home to the Athenians by their need of Pontic grain.

After the downfall of the Attic maritime power these regions

were, on the whole, left to themselves. The Greek land-

powers never succeeded in any serious intervention there,

although Philip the father of Alexander and Lysimachus

sometimes attempted it; and the Romans, on whom with

the conquest of Macedonia and Asia Minor devolved the

political obligation of becoming the strong protectors of

Greek civilization at the point where it needed such protec­

tion, utterly neglected the summons of interest as well of

honour. The fall of Sinope, the decline of Rhodes, com­

pleted the isolation of the Hellenes on the northern shore

of the Black Sea. A vivid picture of their position with

reference to the roving barbarians is given to us by an in­

scription of Olbia (near Oczakow not far from the mouth of

the Dnieper), which probably falls somewhere about the

