Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 381

tion of Hellenic polish and Roman wealth could secure.

He was equally welcome as a pleasant companion in the

aristocratic saloon and as a good comrade in the camp; his

acquaintances, high and low, found in him a sympathizing

friend and a ready helper in time of need, who gave his

gold with far more pleasure to his embarrassed comrade

than to his wealthy creditor. Passionate was his homage

to the wine-cup, still more passionate to women; even

in his later years he was no longer the regent, when after

the business of the day was finished he took his place at

table. A vein of irony—we might perhaps say of buffoonery

—pervaded his whole nature. Even when regent he gave

orders, while conducting the public sale of the property of

the proscribed, that a donation from the spoil should be

given to the author of a wretched panegyric which was

handed to him, on condition that the writer should promise

never to sing his praises again. "When he justified before

the burgesses the execution of Ofella, he did so by relating

to the people the fable of the countryman and the lice. He

delighted to choose his companions among actors, and was

fond of sitting at wine not only with Quintus Roscius the

Roman Talma, but also with far inferior players; indeed

he was himself not a bad singer, and even wrote farces for

performance within his own circle. Yet amidst these jovial

Bacchanalia he lost neither bodily nor mental vigour; he

was in the rural leisure of his last years still zealously

devoted to the chase, and the circumstance that he brought

the writings of Aristotle from conquered Athens to Rome

testifies at least to his interest in more serious reading. The

specific peculiarities of Roman character rather repelled

him. Sulla had nothing of the blunt hauteur which the

grandees of Rome were fond of displaying in presence of the

Greeks, or of the pomposity of narrow-minded great men;

on the contrary he freely indulged his humour, appeared, to

the scandal probably of many of his countrymen, in Greek

towns in the Greek dress, or induced his aristocratic com­

panions to drive their chariots personally at the games. He

retained still less of those half-patriotic, half-selfish hopes,

which in countries of free constitution allure every youth of

talent into the political arena, and which he too like all

others probably at one time felt. In such a life as his was,

oscillating between passionate intoxication and more than

sober awaking, illusions are speedily dissipated. Desiring

