66 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

the result of Hellenic independence. It was a dreadful

picture. The old Doric rigour of the Cretan institutions

had become just as in Tarentum changed into a licentious

democracy, and the chivalrous spirit of the inhabitants into a

wild love of quarrelling and plunder; a respectable Greek

himself testifies, that in Crete alone nothing was accounted

disgraceful that was lucrative, and even the Apostle Paul

quotes with approval the saying of a Cretan poet,'

Kpijres ael i|/eDiTTcu, kokA Sqpla, yaarepes apyai.

Perpetual civil wars, notwithstanding the Roman efforts to

bring about peace, converted one flourishing township after

another on the old " island of the hundred cities " into heaps

of ruins. Its inhabitants roamed as robbers at home and

abroad, by land and by sea; the island became the recruit­

ing ground for the surrounding kingdoms after that evil was

no longer tolerated in the Peloponnesus, and above all

the true seat of piracy, about this period, for instance, the

island of Siphnus was thoroughly pillaged by a fleet of

Cretan corsairs. Rhodes—which, besides, was unable to

recover from the loss of its possessions on the mainland and

from the blows inflicted on its commerce (ii. 306)—expended

its last energies in the wars, which it found itself compelled to

wage against the Cretans for the suppression of piracy

150. (about 600), and in which the Romans sought to mediate

but without earnestness and apparently without success.

Cilicia. Along with Crete, Cilicia soon began to become a second

home for this buccaneering system. Piracy there not only

gained ground owing to the impotence of the Syrian rulers, but

the usurper Diodotus Tryphon, who had risen from a slave to

146-139. be king of Syria (608-615), encouraged it by all means in his

chief seat, the rugged or western Cilicia, with a view to

strengthen his throne by the aid of the corsairs. The uncom­

monly lucrative character of the traffic with the pirates, who

were at once the principal captors of, and dealers in, slaves,

procured for them among the mercantile public, even in

Alexandria, Rhodes, and Delos, a certain toleration, in which

even the governments sympathized at least by inaction.

143. The evil was so serious that the senate, about 611, sent its

best man Scipio ^Emilianus to Alexandria and Syria, in order

to ascertain on the spot what could be done with it. But

diplomatic representations by the Romans did not make

weak governments strong; there was no other remedy but

