Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 209

confederates revived in the colonial laws, which Saturninus

as tribune of the people had partly introduced already (651), 103

partly now introduced (654).* As early as the former year loo.

the interrupted distribution of the Carthaginian territory

had been resumed primarily for the benefit of the soldiers of

Marius—not the burgesses only but, as it would seem, also

the Italian allies—and each of these veterans had been pro­

mised an allotment of 100 jugera, or about five times the size

of an ordinary Italian farm, in the province of Africa. Now

not only was the provincial land already available claimed

in its widest extent for the Romano-Italian emigration, but

also all the land of the still independent Celtic tribes beyond

the Alps, by virtue of the legal fiction, that through the

conquest of the Cimbri all the territory occupied by these

had been acquired de jure by the Romans. Gaius Marius

was called to conduct the assignations of land and the

further measures that might appear necessary in this behalf;

and the temple-treasures of Tolosa, which had been embez­

zled but were refunded or had still to be refunded by the

guilty aristocrats, were destined for the new recipients of

lands. This law therefore not only revived the plans of con­

quest beyond the Alps and the projects of transalpine and

transmarine colonization, which Gains Gracchus and Flaccus

had sketched, on the most extensive scale; but, by admitting

the Italians along with the Romans to emigration and yet

undoubtedly prescribing the erection of all the new commu­

nities as burgess-colonies, it formed a first step towards

satisfying the claims—to which it was so difficult to give

effect, and which yet could not be in the long run refused—of

the Italians to be placed on an equality with the Romans.

First of all, however, if the law passed and Marius was called

to the independent carrying out of these immense schemes of

conquest and assignation, he would become practicallyfuntil

those plans should be realized or rather, considering their

indefinite and unlimited character, for his lifetime]monarch

of Rome; with which view it may be presumed that Marius

* It is not possible to distinguish exactly what belongs to the first and what ,'

to the second tribunate of Saturninus; the more especially, as in both he evi­

dently followed out the same Gracchan tendencies. The African agrarian law

is definitely placed by the treatise De Viria III. 73, 1 in 651; and this date
103.

accords with the termination, which had just taken place shortly before, of
the

Jugurthine war. The second agrarian law belongs beyond doubt to 654. The 100.

treason-law and the corn-law have been only conjecturally placed, the former

in 651 (P. 187), the latter in 654. * 103. 100.

VOl. HI.' V

