Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 377

the Julian law, or the censors of 668, or Sulla, that first 8ti.

arranged the details, cannot be determined: the intrusting

of the censorial functions to the duumviri seems indeed to

have been introduced after the analogy of the Sullau ordi­

nance superseding the censorship, but may be equally well

referred to the primitive Latin constitution to which the

censorship was unknown. In any case this municipal con­

stitution—inserted in, and subordinate to, the state proper—

is one of the most remarkable and momentous products of

the Sullan period, and of the life of the Roman state gene­

rally. Antiquity was certainly as little able to dovetail the

city into the state as to develop of itself representative govern­

ment and other great principles of our modern state-life;

but it carried its political development up to those limits at

which it outgrows and bursts its assigned dimensions, and

this was the case especially with Rome, which in every re­

spect stands on the line of separation between the old and

the new intellectual worlds. In the Sullan constitution the

collective assembly and the urban character of the common­

wealth of Rome on the one hand vanished almost into a

meaningless form; the community subsisting within the

state on the other hand was completely developed in the

Italian munieipium. Down to the name, which in such cases

no doubt is the half of the matter, this last constitution of

the free republic carried out the representative system and the

idea of the state resting on the basis of the municipalities.

The municipal system in the provinces was not altered

by this movement; the municipal authorities of the non-free

towns remained, on the contrary, special exceptions apart,

confined to administration and police, from which no doubt a

certain jurisdiction, over slaves guilty of crimes for example,

could not be separated. —-

Such was the constitution which Lucius Cornelius Sulla Impression

gave to the commonwealth of Rome. The senate and eques- produced by

trian order, the burgesses and proletariate, Italians and pro-the Sul1™

vincials, accepted it as it was dictated to them by the tirof""

regent, if not without grumbling, at any rate without re­

belling: not so the Sullan officers. The Roman army had Opposition

totally changed its character. It had certainly been ren- of the

dered by the Marian reform more ready for action and more officers-

militarily useful than when it did not fight before the walls

of Numantia; but it had at the same time been converted

from a burgess-force into a set of mercenaries who showed

