Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 85

these words. From the end of the Hannibalic war down to

595 the numbers of the burgesses were steadily on the 159.

increase, the cause of which is mainly to be sought in the

continuous and considerable distributions of domainland

(ii. 392): after 595 again when the census yielded 328,000 159.

citizens capable of bearing arms, there appears a regular

falling off, for the list in 600 stood at 324,000, that in 607 154. 147.

at 322,000, that in 623 at 319,000 burgesses fit for service 131.

—an alarming result for a period of profound peace at home

and abroad. If matters were to go on at this rate, the

burgess-body would resolve itself into planters and slaves;

and the Roman state might at length, as was the case with

the Parthians, purchase its soldiers in the slave-market.

Such was the external and internal condition, of Rome, ideas of ie-

when the state entered on the seventh century oF its exist- form,

ence. Wherever the eye turned, it encountered abuses and

decay; the question could not but force itself on every

sagacious and well-disposed man, whether this state of

things were not capable of remedy or amendment. There

was no want of such men in Rome; but no one seemed

more called to the great work of political and social re- Scipio

form than Publius Cornelius Scipio ^Eniilianus Africanus JEmilianut.

(570-625), the favourite son of JEmilius Paullus and the 184-129.

adopted grandson of the great Scipio, whose glorious sur­

name of Africanus he bore by virtue not merely of here­

ditary but of personal right. Like his father, he was a

man temperate and thoroughly healthy, never ailing in body,

and never at a loss to decide on the immediate and necessary

course ^>f action. Even in his youth he had kept aloof from

the usual pursuits of political novices,—the attending in the

antechambers of noble senators and the delivery of forensic

declamations. But on the other hand he loved hunting—when

a youth of seventeen, after having served with distinction

under his father in the campaign against Perseus, he had

asked as his reward the free range of the deer forest of the

kings of Macedonia which had been untouched for four

years—and he was especially fond of devoting his leisure to

scientific and literary enjoyment. By the care of his father

he had been early initiated into that genuine Greek culture,

which elevated him above the insipid Hellenizing of the

semi-culture commonly in vogue; by his earnest and apt

appreciation of the good and bad qualities in the Greek

character, and by his aristocratic carriage, this Roman made

