Chap. VII.] AND THK SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 271

glad to see the burgesses making use of their constitutional

liberty of choice, and contented himself with exacting from

both consuls an oath that they would faithfully observe the

existing constitution. Of the armies, the one on which the

matter chiefly depended was that of the north, as the greater

part of the Campanian army was destined to depart for Asia.

Sulla got the command of the former intrusted by decree of strabo.

the people to his devoted colleague Quintus Rufus, and

procured the recall of the former general Gnaeus Strabo in

such a manner as to spare as far as possible his feelings—

the more so, because the latter belonged to the equestrian

party and his passive attitude during the Sulpician troubles

had occasioned no small anxiety to the aristocracy. Rufus

arrived at the army and took the chief command in Strabo's

stead; but a few days afterwards he was killed by the

soldiers, and Strabo returned to the command which he had

hardly abdicated. He was regarded as the instigator of the

murder; it is certain that he was a man from whom such a

deed might be expected, that he reaped the fruits of the

crime, aud that he punished the well-known perpetrators of it

only with words. The removal of Rufus and the commander-

ship of Strabo formed a new and serious danger for Sulla; yet

he did nothing to deprive the latter of his command. Soon

afterwards, when his consulship expired, he found himself

on the one hand pressed by his successor Cinna to depart

at length for Asia where his presence was certainly urgently

needed, and on the other hand cited by one of the new

tribunes before the bar of the people; it was clear to the

dullest eye, that a new attack on him and his party was in

preparation, and that his opponents wished his removal.

Sulla had no alternative save either to push the matter to a

breach with Cinna. and perhaps with Strabo and once more

to march on Rome, or to leave Italian affairs to take their

course and to remove to another continent. Sulla decided— Sulla cm-

whether more from patriotism or more from indifference, balliS for

.will never be ascertained—for the latter alternative ; handed Asia"

over the corps left behind in Samnium to the trustworthy

aud experienced Quintus Metellus Pius, who was invested

in Sulla's stead with the proconsular command in chief over

Lower Italy; gave the conduct of the siege of Nola to the

propraetor Appius Claudius; and embarked with his legions

in the beginning of 667 for the Hellenic East. s7.

