Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 49

to Hercules Victor; but, as he had not been reared in

aristocratic luxury and aristocratic corruption but was a

"new man" and comparatively poor, he showed himself an

upright and indulgent administrator. The statement, that

none of the Achaeans perished but Diaeus and none of the

Boeotians but Pytheas, is a rhetorical exaggeration: in

Chalcis especially sad outrages occurred; but yet on the

whole moderation was observed in the infliction of punish­

ment. Mumnrius rejected the proposal to throw down the

statues of Philopoemen, the founder of the Achaean patriotic

party; the fines imposed on the communities were destined

not for the Roman exchequer, but for the injured Greek cities,

and were mostly remitted afterwards; and the property of

those traitors who had parents or children was not sold on

public account, but handed over to their relatives. The works

of art alone were carried away from Corinth, Thespiae, and

other cities, and were erected partly in the capital, partly

in the country towns of Italy :* several pieces were also

presented to the Isthmian, Delphic, and Olympic temples.

In the definitive organization of the country also modera­

tion was in general displayed. It is true that, as was im­

plied in the very introduction of the provincial constitution

(ii. 63), the special confederacies, and the Achaean in par­

ticular, were as such dissolved; the communities were

isolated; and intercourse between them was hampered by

the rule that no one might acquire landed property simul­

taneously in two communities. Moreover, as Hamininus

had already attempted (ii. 261), the democratic constitutions

of the towns were altogether set aside, and the government

in each community was placed in the hands of a council

composed of the wealthy. A fixed land-tax to be paid to

Rome was imposed on each community; and they were

all subordinated to the governor of Macedonia in such a

manner, that the latter as supreme military chief exercised a

superintendence over administration and justice, and could,

for example, personally assume the decision of the more

important criminal processes. Yet the Greek communities

retained "freedom," that is, a formal sovereignty—reduced,

doubtless, by the Roman hegemony to a name—which

involved the property of the soil and the right of a distinct

* In the Sabine villages, at Parma, and even at Italica in Spain (P. 4),  
several pediments marked with the name of Mummius have been brought to

light, which once supported gifts forming part of the spoil.

VOL. III. E

