204 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

then other laws also would not cease to be heard amid the

clashing of swords? They had now the standing army, the

soldier-class, the body-guard; as in the civil constitution, so

also in the military all the pillars of the future monarchy were

already in existence : the monarch alone was wanting. When

the twelve eagles circled round the Palatine hill, they ushered

in the Kings; the new eagle which Gaius Marius bestowed

on the legions proclaimed the advent of the Emperors.

Politiciil There is hardly any doubt that Marius entered into

projects of the brilliant prospects which his military and politi-

Manus. cai pOsition opened up to him. It was a sad and troubled

time. They had peace, but they did not profit- by peace;

the state of things was not now such as it had for­

merly been after the first mighty onset of the northern

peoples on Rome, when, so soon as the crisis was over, all

energies were roused anew in the fresh consciousness of re­

covered health and had by their vigorous development rapidly

and amply made up for what was lost. Every one felt that,

though able generals might still once and again avert imme­

diate destruction, the commonwealth was only the more

surely on the way to ruin under the government of the re­

stored oligarchy; but every one felt also that the time was

past when in such cases the burgess-body provided its own

redress, and that there was no amendment so long as the

place of Gaius Gracchus remained empty. How deeply the

multitude felt the blank that was left after the disappearance

of those two illustrious youths who had opened the gates to

revolution, and how childishly in fact it grasped at any

shadow of a substitute, was shown by the case of the pretended

son of Tiberius Gracchus, who, although the very sister of

the two Gracchi charged him with fraud in the open Forum,

99. was yet chosen by the people in 655 as tribune solely on

account of his usurped name. In the same spirit the mul­

titude exulted in the presence of Gaius Marius; how should

it not? He, if any one, seemed the proper man—he was at

any rate the first general and the most popular name of his

time, confessedly brave and upright, and recommended as re­

generator of the state by his very position aloof from the

struggles of party—how should not the people, how should

not he himself, have deemed that he was so! Public opinion

as decidedly as possible favoured the opposition. It was a sig­

nificant indication of this, that the proposal to have the vacant

stalls in the chief priestly colleges filled up by the burgesses

