Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 97

by the urban praetor Publius Lentulus (c. 589).* Less 165

objectionable perhaps, but still not without hazard, was the

arrangement by which the new allotments bore the charac­

ter of heritable leaseholds and were inalienable. The most

.liberal principles in regard to freedom of traffic had made

Itome great; and it was very little consonant to the spirit

of the Roman institutions, that these new farmers were

peremptorily bound down to cultivate their portions of

land in a definite manner, and that their allotments were

subject to rights of revocation and all the cramping measures

associated with a system of commercial restriction. ,

It will be granted that these objections to the Sempronian

law were of no small weight. Yet they were not decisive.

Such a practical disinheriting of the holders of the domains

was certainly a great evil; yet it was the only means of

checking, at least for a long time, an evil much greater still

and in fact directly destructive to the state—the decline of the

Italian farmer-class. We can well understand therefore

why the most distinguished and patriotic men even of the

conservative party, headed by Gaius Lslius and Scipio

jEmilianus, approved and desired the distribution of the

domains viewed in itself.

But, if the aim of Tiberius Gracchus probably appeared to The domain

the great majority of the wise friends of their country good question le-

and salutary, the method which he adopted, on the other fore

hand, did not and could not meet with the approval of a 6

single man of note or of patriotism. Rome about this period

was governed by the senate. Any one who carried a

measure of administration against the majority of the senate,

made a revolution. It was a revolution as respected the

spirit of the constitution, when Gracchus submitted the

domain question to the people; and a revolution also to.

respected the letter, when he destroyed not only for the

moment but for all time coming the tribunician veto—the

corrective of the state machine, through which the senate con­

stitutionally got rid of the interferences with its government

—by the unconstitutional deposition of his colleague, which

* This fact, hitherto only partially known from Cicero (J>« L. Agr. ii.  
31, 82; comp. Liv. xlii. 2. 19), is not substantiated by the fragments of

Licinianus, p. 4. The two accounts are to be combined to this effect, that

Lentulus ejected the possessors in consideration of a compensatory sum fixed

by him, but accomplished nothing in the case of real proprietors, as he was

not entitled to dispossess them and they would not consent to sell.

VOL. III. H

