Chap.'VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 301

coming daily more apparent—-it was not only impossible to vVant of a

secure his communications and supplies in presence of the fleet,

ships of the enemy and the numerous pirates, but impos­

sible to recover even the Piraeus, to say nothing of Asia

and the islands; and yet it was difficult to see how ships of

war were to be got. As early as the winter of 667-8 Sulla 87-86.

had despatched one of his ablest and most expert officers,

Lucius Licinius Lucullus, into the eastern waters, to raise

ships there if possible. Lucullus put to sea with six open

boats, which he had borrowed from the Rhodians and other

small communities; he himself merely by an accident es­

caped from a piratic squadron, which captured most of his

boats; deceiving the enemy by changing his vessels he

arrived by way of Crete and Cyrene at Alexandria; but the

Egyptian court rejected his request for the support of ships

of war with equal courtesy and decision. Hardly anything

illustrates so clearly as does this fact the sad decay of the

Roman state, which had once been able gratefully to decline

the offer of the kings of Egypt to assist the Romans with

all their naval force, and now itself seemed to the Alexan­

drian statesmen bankrupt. To all this fell to be added the

financial embarrassment; Sulla had already been obliged to

empty the treasuries of the Olympian Zeus, of the Delphic

Apollo, and of the Epidaurian Asklepios, for which the gods

were compensated by the moiety, confiscated by way of

penalty, of the Theban territory. But far worse than all this

military and financial perplexity was the reaction of the

political revolution in Rome; the rapid, sweeping, violent

accomplishment of which had far surpassed the worst appre­

hensions. The revolution conducted the government in the

capital; Sulla had been deposed, his Asiatic command had

been intrusted to the democratic consul Marcus Valerius

Flaccus, who might be daily looked for in Greece. The

soldiers had no doubt adhered to Sulla, who made every

effort to keep them in good humour; but what could be

expected, when money and supplies were wanting, when

the general was deposed and proscribed, when his successor

was on the way, and, in addition to all this, the war against

the tough antagonist who commanded the sea was protracted

without prospect of a close?

King Mithradates undertook to deliver his antagonist from Pontic

his perilous position. He it was to all appearance, who armies enter

disapproved the defensive system of his generals and sent Greece-

