398 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

allied or privileged with immunity were isolated as ex­

empt from Roman customs. Thus Sicily even from the

Carthaginian period formed a distinct customs-district, on

the frontier of which a tax of 5 per cent, on the value was

levied from all imports or exports ; thus on the frontiers

of Asia there was levied in consequence of the Sempronian

law (P. 115) a similar tax of 2-J per cent.; in like manner

the province of Narbo, exclusively the domain of the Roman

colony, was organized as a Roman customs-district. These

arrangements may have been, in addition to their fiscal

objects, partly occasioned by the commendable purpose of

checking the confusion inevitably arising out of a variety of

communal tolls by an uniform regulation of frontier-dues.

The levying of the customs, like that of the tenths, was

without exception leased to middlemen.

Costs of The ordinary burdens of Roman taxpayers were limited

collection, to these imposts; but we may not overlook the fact,

that the expenses of collection were very considerable, and

the contributors paid an amount disproportionately great

as compared with what the Roman government received.

For, while the system of collecting taxes by middlemen, and

especially by general lessees, is in itself the most expensive

of all, in Rome the active competition was aggravated to an

extreme degree by the slight extent to which the lettings

were subdivided and the immense aggregation of capital.

Hequisi- To these ordinary burdens, however, fell to be added in

'"" the first place the requisitions which were made. The costs

of military administration were in law defrayed by the

Roman community. It provided the commander of every

province with the means of transport and all other requi­

sites; it paid and provisioned the Roman soldiers in the

Erovince. The provincial communities had to furnish merely

ousing, wood, hay, and similar objects free of cost to the

magistrates and soldiers; in fact the free towns were even

ordinarily exempted from the winter quartering of the troops

—permanent camps were not yet known. If the governor

therefore needed grain, ships, slaves to man them, linen,

leather, money, or aught else, he was no doubt absolutely at

liberty in time of war—nor was it far otherwise in time of

peace—to demand such supplies according to his discretion

and exigencies from the subject-communities or the sovereign

protected states; but these were, like the Roman land-tax,

treated legally as purchases or advances, and the value was

