440 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

no epigram on Homer or Phidias, but he had his children

introduced into the realms of intellect. Without neglecting

their national education, so far as there was such, he made

provision like the Greeks for the physical development of

his boys, not indeed by gympastic exercises which were

according to Roman notions' inadmissible, but by instruc­

tion in the chase which was among the Greeks developed

almost like an art; and he elevated their Greek instruction

in such a way, that the language was no longer merely

learned and practised for the sake of speaking, but after the

Greek fashion the whole subject-matter of general higher

culture was associated with the language and developed

out of it — embracing first of all the knowledge of Greek

literature with the mythological and historical information

necessary for understanding it, and then rhetoric and phi­

losophy. The library of king Perseus was the only portion

of the Macedonian spoil that Paullus took for himself, with

the view of presenting it to his sons. Even Greek painters

and sculptors were found in his train and completed

the aesthetic training of his children. That the time was

past, when men could in this field preserve a merely

negative attitude as regarded Hellenism, had been felt

even by Cato; the better classes had probably now a pre­

sentiment, that the noble substance of Roman character was

less endangered by Hellenism as a whole than by Hellenism

mutilated and misshapen: the mass of the upper society of

Rome and Italy went along with the new mode. There

had been for long no want of Greek schoolmasters in Rome;

now they arrived in troops—and as teachers not merely of

the language but of literature and culture in general—at the

newly-opened lucrative market for the sale of their wisdom.

Greek tutors and teachers of philosophy, who, even if they

were not slaves, were as a rule accounted as servants,* were

now permanent inmates in the palaces of Rome; people

speculated in them, and there is a statement that 200,000

sesterces (£2000) were paid for a Greek literary slave

1 61. of the first rank. As early as 593 there existed in the

capital a number of special establishments for the prac-

'tice of Greek declamation. Several distinguished names

* Cicero says that he treated his learned slave Dionysius more respectfully  
than Scipio treated Panaitius, and in the same sense it is said in Lucilius—

Penula, si quaris, canteriu.', scrvu1, segestre

Vtilior mihi, quam sapiens.

