Chap. IV.J THK. RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 137

decorum in injustice. This aristocracy had been overthrown

and then restored; henceforth there rested on it the curse of

restoration. While the aristocracy had formerly governed

as it chose and for more than a century without any sensible

opposition, the crisis which it had now passed through re­

vealed to it, like a flash of lightning in a dark night, the

abyss which yawned before its feet. Was it any wonder that

henceforward rancour always, and terror wherever they durst

attempt it, characterized the government of the lords of the

old nobility? that those who governed confronted as an

united and compact party, with far more rudeness and vio­

lence than hitherto, the non-governing multitude? that

family-policy now prevailed afresh, just as in the worst times

of the patriciate, so that e.g. the four sons and (probably)

1 the two nephews of Quintus Metellus—with a single excep­

tion persons utterly insignificant and some of them called to

office on account of their very simplicity—attained within

fifteen years (631-645) all of them to the consulship, and all 123-109.

with one exception also to triumphs—to say nothing of sons-

in-law and so forth? that the more violent and cruel the

bearing of any of their partisans towards the opposite party,

he received the more signal honour, and every outrage and

every infamy were pardoned in the genuine aristocrat? that

the governors and the governed resembled two parties at

war in every respect, save in the fact that in their warfare

no international law was recognized? It was unhappily

only too palpable that, if the old aristocracy beat the people

with rods, this restored aristocracy chastised it with scor­

pions. It returned to power; but it returned neither

wiser nor better. Never hitherto had the Roman aristo­

cracy been so utterly deficient in men of statesmanly and

military capacity, as it was during this epoch of restoration

between the Gracchan and the Cinnan revolutions.

A significant illustration of this is afforded by the chief of Marcus

the senatorial party at this time, Marcus jEmilius Scaurus. ^milius

The son of highly noble but not wealthy parents and there- Scaurus.

fore compelled to make use of his far from mean talents, he

raised himself to the consulship (639) and censorship (645), 115. 109.

was long the chief of the senate and the political oracle of his

order, and immortalized his name not only as an orator and

author, but also as the originator of some of the principal

public buildings executed in this century. But, if we look

at him more closely, his greatly praised achievements amount

