Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 93

resigning his tribunate, was very far from being the worst

of the threats thrown out against the tribune. Gracchus

believed, probably with reason, that his personal safety was

imperilled, and no longer appeared in the Forumj without a

retinue of 3000 or 4000 men—a step which drew down on

him bitter expressions in the senate, even from Metellus

who was not averse to reform in itself. Altogether, if he

had expected to reach the end by the carrying of his agrarian

law, he had now to learn that he was only at the beginning.

The "people" owed him gratitude; but he was a lost man,

if he had no further protection than that gratitude of the

people, if he did not qoptinjie indispensable to them and

did not constantly attach to' himself fresh interests and

hopes by means of other and mor^gfcomprehensive proposals.

Just at that time the kingdom and wealth of the Attalids

had fallen to the Romans by the testament of the last king

of Pergamus. Gracchus proposed to the people that the

Pergamene treasure should be distributed among the new

landholders for the procuring of the requisite implements

and stock, and vindicated generally, in opposition to the

existing practice, the right of the burgesses to decide defini­

tively as to the new province. He is said to have prepared

further popular measures, for shortening the period of ser­

vice, for extending the right of appeal, for abolishing the ex­

clusive privilege of the senators to act as civil jurymen, and

even for the admission of the Italian allies to Roman citizen­

ship. How far his projects in reality- reached, cannot be

ascertained; this alone is certain, that Gracchus saw that

his only safety lay in inducing the burgesses to confer on

him for a second year the office which protected him, and

that, with a view to obtain this unconstitutional prolonga­

tion, he held forth a prospect of further reforms. If at

first he had risked himself in order to save the common­

wealth, he was now obliged to put the commonwealth at

stake in order to his own safety.

The tribes met to elect the tribunes for the ensuing year, He solicits

and the first divisions gave their votes for Gracchus; but the re-election

opposite party in the end prevailed with their veto so far at t0 the tri"

least, that the assembly broke up without having aeconi- bunate-

plished its object, and the decision was postponed to the

following day. For this day Gracchus put in motion all

means legitimate and illegitimate ; he appeared to the people

dressed in mourning, and commended to them his youthful

