Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 9

bank of the Tagus and promised to transfer them to better

settlements; whereupon the barbarians, who to the number

of 7000 came to him for the sake of the expected lands, were

separated into three divisions, disarmed, and partly carried

off into slavery, partly massacred. War has hardly ever

been waged with so much perfidy, cruelty, and avarice as

by these two generals; yet by means of their criminally

acquired treasures the one escaped condemnation, and the

other escaped even impeachment. The veteran Cato in his

eighty-fifth year, a few months before his death, attempted

to bring Galba to account before the burgesses; but the

weeping children of the general, and the gold which he had

brought home with him, demonstrated to the Roman people

his innocence.

It was not so much the inglorious successes which Lucul- Viriathus.

lus and Galba had attained in Spain, as the outhreak of the

fourth Macedonian and of the third Carthaginian war in

605, which induced the Romans again to leave Spanish 149

affairs for a time in the hands of the ordinary governors.

Whereupon the Lusitanians, exasperated rather than hum­

bled by Galba's perfidy, immediately overran afresh the rich

territory of Turdetania. The Roman governor Gaius Veti-

lius (605 ?*) marched against them, and not only defeated 149.

them, but drove the whole host towards a hill where it

seemed lost irretrievably. The capitulation was virtually con­

cluded, when Viriathus—a man of humble origin, who for­

merly, when a youth, had bravely defended bis-flock from wild

beasts and robbers and was now in more serious conflicts a

dreaded guerilla chief, and who was one of the few Spaniards

that had accidentally escaped from the perfidious onslaught

of Galba—warned his countrymen against relying on the

Roman word of honour, and promised them deliverance if

they would follow him. His language and his example

* The chronology of the war with Viriathus is far from being precisely  
settled. It is certain that the appearance of Viriathus dates from the
conflict

with Vetilius (Appian, Hisp. 61 ; Justin, xliv. 2), and that he perished in
615; 139.

the duration of his government is reckoned at eight (Appian, Hisp. 63), ten

(Justin, xliv. 2), eleven (Diodorus, p. 597), or fourteen years (Liv. liv.;

Eutrop. iv. 16; Fior. i. 33). The third estimate possesses some probability,

because the conflict with Vetilius is closely associated with the governorship

of Galba. On the other hand, the series of Roman governors is quite uncer­

tain for the following period down to 608; and the more so because Viriathus,
146.

while operating chiefly in the southern, fought also in the northern province

(Liv. lii.), and thus his Roman antagonists did not belong solely to one set
of

governors.

