154= THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

Renewal of life. Metellus, however, was resolved and perhaps even

the war. instructed not to terminate the war except with the uncon­

ditional subjugation and execution of the daring client-

prince; which was in fact the only issue that could satisfy

the Romans. Jugurtha since the victory over Albinus was

regarded as the deliverer of Libya from the rule of the

hated foreigners; unscrupulous and cunning as he was, and

unwieldy as was the Roman government, he might at any

time even after a peace rekindle the war in his native

country ; tranquillity would not be secured, and the removal

of the African army would not be possible, until king

Jugurtha should cease to exist. Officially Metellus gave

evasive answers to the proposals of the king; secretly he

instigated the envoys to deliver their master dead or alive

to the Romans. But, when the Roman general undertook

to compete with the African in the field of assassination, he

there met his master; Jugurtha saw through the scheme,

and, when he could not help himself, prepared for a despe­

rate resistance.

Battle on Beyond the utterly barren mountain-range, over which

the Muthul. jay the route of the Romans into the interior, a wide plain

eighteen miles broad extended as far as the river Muthul,

which ran parallel to the mountain-chain. The plain was

destitute of water and of trees except in the immediate

vicinity of the river, and was only intersected by a ridge of

hills covered with low brushwood. On this ridge of hills

Jugurtha awaited the Roman army. His troops were

arranged in two masses; the one, including a part of the

infantry and the elephants, under Bomilcar at the point

where the ridge abutted on the river, the other, embracing

the flower of the infantry and all the cavalry, higher up

towards the mountain-chain, concealed by the bushes. On

debouching from the mountains, the Romans saw the enemy

in a position completely commanding their right flank; and,

as they could not possibly remain on the bare and arid crest

of the chain and were under the necessity of reaching the

river, they had to solve the difficult problem of gaining the

stream through the entirely open plain of eighteen miles'

breadth, under the eyes of the enemy's horsemen and without

light cavalry of their own. Metellus despatched a detach­

ment under Rufus straight towards the river, to pitch a

camp there; the main body marched from the defiles of the

mountain-chain in an oblique direction through the plain

