446 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

endowments of their own nation. The literature of the

sixth century had arisen from the influence of Greek art on

half-cultivated, but excited and susceptible minds. The in­

creased Hellenic culture of the seventh called forth a lite­

rary reaction, which destroyed the germs of promise contained

in those naive attempts at imitation by the winter-frost of

reflection, and rooted up the wheat and the tares of the older

Soipionic type of literature together. This reaction proceeded prima-

circle. rily and chiefly from the circle which assembled around

Scipio iEmilianus, and whose most prominent members

among the Roman noble world were, in addition to Scipio

himself, his elder friend and counsellor Gaius Laelius (con-

140. sul in 614) and Scipio's younger companions, Lucius Furius

136. Philus (consul in 618) and Spurius Mummius, the brother

of the destroyer of Corinth, among the Roman and Greek

literati the comedian Terence, the satirist Lucilius, the

historian Polybius, and the philosopher Panaetius. Those

who were familiar with the Iliad, with Xenophon, and with

Menander, could not be greatly impressed by the Roman

Homer, and still less by the bad translations of the tragedies

of Euripides which Ennius had furnished and Pacuvius con­

tinued to furnish. While patriotic consideration might set

bounds to criticism in reference to their country's Annals,

Lucilius at any rate directed very pointed shafts against

"the dismal figures from the complicated expositions of

Pacuvius;" and similar severe, but not unjust criticisms of

Ennius, Plautus, Pacuvius—all those poets " who appeared

to have a licence to talk pompously and to reason iJlogically,"

—are found in the polished author of the Rhetoric dedicated

to Herennius written at the close of this period. People

shrugged their shoulders at the interpolations, with which

the homely popular wit of Rome had garnished the elegant

comedies of Philemon and Diphilus. Half smiling, half

envious they turned away from the inadequate attempts of a

dull age, which that circle probably regarded somewhat aa

a mature man regards the poetical effusions of his youth;

despairing of the transplantation of the marvellous tree,

they allowed the higher species of art in poetry and prose

substantially to fall into abeyance, and restricted themselves

in these departments to an intelligent enjoyment of foreign

master-pieces. The productiveness of this epoch displayed

itself chiefly in the subordinate fields of the lighter comedy,

the poetical miscellany, the political pamphlet, and the pro­

