104 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

of the people withdrew from the commission its jurisdiction,

and remitted the decision respecting what were domanial

and what private possessions to the consuls, to whom, where

no special laws enacted otherwise, it constitutionally per­

tained. This was simply a suspension of further domain-

distribution under a mild form. The consul Tuditanus,

by no means Gracchan in his views, and little inclined to

occupy himself with the difficult task of agrarian definition,

embraced the opportunity of going off to the Ulyrian army

and leaving the duty intrusted to him unfulfilled. The

allotment-commission no doubt continued to subsist, but, as

the judicial regulation of the domain-land was at a stand­

still, it was compelled to remain inactive. The reform-party

was deeply indignant. Even men like Publius Mucius and

Quintus Metellus disapproved of Scipio's intervention.

Assassina- Other circles were not content with expressing disap-

t ion of proval. Scipio had announced for one of the following days

.Emilianus. an addresg respecting the relations of the Latins; on the

morning of that day he was found dead in his bed. He was

fifty-six years of age, and in full health and vigour; he had

spoken in public the day before, and then in the evening had

retired earlier than usual to his bedroom with a view to

prepare the outline of his speech for the following day. That

he became the victim of a political assassination, cannot be

doubted; he himself had shortly before mentioned in public

the plots formed to murder him. What assassin's hand had

during the night slain the first statesman and the first general

of his age was never discovered; and it does not become his­

tory either to repeat the reports handed down from the con­

temporary gossip of the city, or to set about the childish

attempt to ascertain the truth out of such materials. This

much only is clear, that the instigator of the deed must have

belonged to the Gracchan party; Scipio's assassination was

the democratic reply to the aristocratic massacre at the

temple of Fidelity. The tribunals did not interfere. The

popular party, justly fearing that its leaders Gaiua

Gracchus, Flaccus, and Carbo, whether guilty or not, might

be involved in the prosecution, opposed with all its might

the institution of an inquiry; and the aristocracy, which

lost in Scipio quite as much an antagonist as an ally was

not unwilling to let the matter sleep. The multitude and men

of moderate views were horrified; none more so than Quin­

tus Metellus, who had disapproved of Scipio's interference

