Chap. VII.] AND THE SULP1CIAN REVOLUTION. 2G3

diately after countermanding the solemnities, departed for

Campania to join his army. To terrify the unarmed consul

by bludgeons or the defenceless capital by the swords of the

legions, amounted to the same thing in the end: Sulpicius

expected that his opponent, now when he could, would re­

quite violence with violence and return to the capital at the

head of his legions to overthrow the conservative dema­

gogue and his laws along with him. Perhaps he was mis­

taken. Sulla was as eager for the war against Mithradates

as he was probably averse to meet the political exhalations of

the capital; considering his original spirit of indifference and

his unrivalled political nonchalance, there is great proba­

bility, that he by no means meditated the coup (Hitat which

Sulpicius anticipated, and that, if he had been let alone, he

would have embarked without delay with his troops for

Asia so soon as he had captured Nola, with the siege of

which he was still occupied.

But, be this as it might, Sulpicius, with a view to parry Marius no-

the anticipated blow, conceived the scheme of taking the minated

supreme command from Sulla; and for this purpose joined fommandfi'-

with Marius, whose name was still sufficiently popular to gJiia's

make a proposal to transfer to him the chief command in stead.

the Asiatic war appear plausible to the multitude, and

whose military position aud ability might prove a support

in the event of a rupture with Sulla. Sulpicius probably

did not overlook the danger involved in placing that old man

not less incapable than vengeful and ambitious at the head

of the Campanian army, and as little the scandalous irre­

gularity of intrusting an extraordinary supreme command

by decree of the people to a private man; but the very cir­

cumstance of Marius' tried incapacity as a statesman gave a

sort of guarantee that he could not seriously endanger the

constitution, and above all Sulpicius' own position, if he

formed a correct estimate of Sulla's designs, was one of so

imminent peril that such considerations could hardly be

longer heeded. That the worn-out hero himself should

readily meet the wishes of any one who would employ him

as a condottiere, was a matter of course; his heart had now

for many years longed for the command in an Asiatic war,

and not less perhaps for an opportunity of settling accounts

thoroughly with the majority of the senate. Accordingly

on the proposal of Sulpicius Gaius Marius was by decree of

the people invested with extraordinary supreme, or as it was

