Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 269

beyond the pale of the law, and, secondly, he limited as

far as possible the number of victims and allowed at least

no offensive outbreak of fury against inferior persons. A

similar moderation appears in the political arrangements.

The innovation as respects legislation—the most important

and apparently the most comprehensive—in fact only brought

the letter of the constitution into harmony with its spirit.

The Roman legislation, under which any consul, praetor, or

tribune could propose to the burgesses any measure at

pleasure and bring it to the vote without debate, had from

the first been irrational and had become daily more so with

the growing nullity of the comitia; it was only tolerated,

because in practice the senate had claimed for itself the

privilege of previous deliberation and regularly crushed any

proposal put to the vote without such previous deliberation

by means of the political or religious veto (i. 327). The revo­

lution had swept away these barriers; in consequence of

which that absurd system now began fully to develop its con­

sequences, and to put it in the power of any petulant knave

to overthrow the state in due form of law. What was under

such circumstances more natural, more necessary, more

truly conservative, than now to recognize formally and ex­

pressly the legislation of the senate to which effect had been

hitherto given by a circuitous process? The renewal of the

electoral census was in a somewhat similar position. The

earlier constitution was thoroughly based on it; and the

reform of 513, while restricting the privileges of the men of 241.

wealth, had rigorously retained the principle of excluding

the burgesses rated below 11,000 sesterces (£113) from any

sort of influence on the elections. But since that year there

had occurred an immense financial revolution, which would

itself have justified a nominal raising of the minimum cen­

sus. The new timocracy consequently changed the letter of

the constitution only with a view to remain faithful to its

spirit, while it at the same time in the mildest possible form

attempted at least to check the disgraceful bribery with all

the evils therewith connected. Lastly, the regulations in

favour of debtors and the resumption of the schemes of

colonization gave express proof that Sulla, although not

disposed to approve the impetuous proposals of Sulpicius,

was yet, like Sulpicius and Drusus and all the more far*^"

seeing aristocrats in general, favourable to material reforms

in themselves; and withal we may not overlook the circum-

*

