288 THE EAST AND KING MITHKADATES. [Book IT.

First con- arrived m the region of the Euphrates, in whose waters the

tact be- Roman standards were then for the first time reflected, the

tween the ]jomans came for the first time into contact with the Par-

the Par- thians, who in consequence of the variance between them

thians. and Tigranes had occasion to make approaches to the Romans.

On both sides there seemed a feeling that it was of some

moment, in this first contact between the two great powers

of the East and the West, that neither should renounce its

claims to the sovereignty of the world; but Sulla, bolder than

the Parthian envoy, assumed and maintained in the confer足

ence the place of honour between the king of Cappadocia and

the Parthian ambassador. Sulla's fame was more increased

by this greatly celebrated conference on the Euphrates than

by his victories in the East; the Parthian envoy afterwards

forfeited his life to his master's resentment. But for the

moment this contact had no further result. The other

decrees of the senate against Mithradates were carried into

effect, Paphlagonia was evacuated, the restoration of the

Scythian chieftains was at least promised by Mithradates;

92. the earlier status quo in the East seemed to be restored (662).

New ag- So it was alleged; but in fact there was little trace of any

giessions of real return of the former order of things. Scarce bad Sulla

Mithrada- j^ ^sia, wnen Tigranes king of Great Armenia fell upon

Ariobarzanes the new king of Cappadocia, expelled him, and

reinstated.in his stead the Pontic pretender Ariarathes. In

Bithynia, where after the death of the old king Nicoraedes

91. II. (about 663) his son Nicomedes III. Philopator had been

recognized by the people and by the Roman senate as legiti足

mate king, his younger brother Socrates came forward as

pretender to the crown and possessed himself of the sove足

reignty. It was clear that the real author of the Cappado-

cian as of the Bithynian troubles was no other than Mithra足

dates, although he refrained from taking any official part.

Every one knew that Tigranes only acted at his beck; but

Socrates also had marched into Bithynia with Pontic troops,

and the legitimate king's life was threatened by the assassins

of Mithradates. In Paphlagonia the native princes maintained

themselves in the interior, but Mithradates commanded the

whole coast as far as the Bithynian frontier, having either

reoccupied these districts by way of supporting Socrates, or

having never really evacuated them. In the Crimea even

and the neighbouring countries the Pontic king had no

thought of receding, but on the contrary carried his arms

further and further.

