Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 319

hands through treachery, and, by way of prelude as it were

to the approaching reign of terror, was abandoned for

massacre and pillage to the savage band of the general.

The capital was placed, even by the mere obstruction of

traffic, in great danger ; by command of the senate the walls

and gates were put in a state of defence and the burgess-

levy was ordered to the Janiculum. Strabo's inaction ex­

cited among nobles and commons alike surprise and indig­

nation. The suspicion that he was negotiating secretly

.with Cinna was natural, but was probably without founda­

tion. A serious conflict in which he engaged the band of

Sertorius, and the support which he gave to the consul

Octavius when Marius had by an understanding with one

of the officers of the garrison penetrated into the Janiculum,

and by which in fact the insurgents were successfully

beaten off again with much loss, showed that he was far from

intending to unite with, or rather to place himself under,

the insurgent leaders. It seems rather to have been his

design to sell his assistance in subduing the insurrection to

the alarmed government and citizens of the capital at the

price of the consulship for the next year, and thereby to

get the reins of government into his own hands. The senate Negotia-

was not, however, inclined to throw itself into the arms oftim* of

one usurper in order to escape from another, and sought help K^rr1"'

elsewhere. The franchise was by decree of the senate sup-

plementarily conferred on all the Italian communities in­

volved in the Social war, which had laid down their arms and

had in consequence thereof forfeited their old alliance.* It

seemed as it were their intention officially to demonstrate

that Rome in the war against the Italians had staked her

existence for the sake not of a great object but of her own

vanity: in the first momentary embarrassment, for the

purpose of bringing into the field an additional thousand or

two of soldiers, she sacrificed everything which had been

gained at so terribly dear a cost in the Social war. In fact,

troops arrived from the communities who reaped the benefit

of this concession; but instead of the many legions promised

their contingent on the whole amounted to not more than,

* P. 256. That there was no confirmation by the comitia, is clear from Cic.  
Phil. lii. 11, 27. The senate seems to have made use of the form of

simply prolonging the term of the Plautio-Papirian law (P. 248)—a course

which by use and wont (i. 326) was open to it and practically amounted to

conferring the franchise on all Italians.

