Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 409

for the debtor to be not merely subjected to moral torture,

but directly placed upon the rack. To these sources of

gain fell to be added the wholesale traffic. The exports

and imports of Italy were very considerable. The former

consisted chiefly of wine and oil, with which Italy and

Greece almost exclusively—for the production of wine in

the Massiliot and Turdetanian territories can at that time

have been but small—supplied the whole region of the

Mediterranean; Italian wine was sent in considerable quan­

tities to the Balearic islands and Celtiberia, to Africa, which

was merely a corn and pasture country, to Narbo and the

interior of Gaul. Still more considerable was the importa­

tion to Italy, where at that time all luxury was concentrated,

and whither most articles of luxury for food, drink, or

clothing, ornaments, books, household furniture, works of art

were imported by sea. The traffic in slaves, above all, received

through the ever-increasing demand of the Roman mer­

chants an impetus to which no parallel had been known in

the region of the Mediterranean, and which was very closely

connected with the flourishing of piracy. All lands and all

nations were laid under contribution for slaves, but the

places where they were chiefly captured were Syria and the

interior of Asia Minor (P. 78). In Italy the transmarine Ostia,

imports were chiefly concentrated in the two great emporia Puteoli.

on the Tyrrhene sea, Ostia and Puteoli. The grain des­

tined for the capital was brought to Ostia, which was far

from having a good roadstead, but which as the nearest

port to Rome was the most appropriate mart for less valuable

wares; whereas the traffic in luxuries with the East was

directed mainly to Puteoli, which recommended itself by its

good harbour for ships with valuable cargoes, and presented

in its immediate neighbourhood a market little inferior to

that of the capital—the district of Baiae, which came to be

more and more filled with villas. For a long time this

latter traffic was conducted through Corinth and after its

destruction through Delos, and in this sense accordingly

Puteoli is called by Lucilius the Italian "little Delos;"

but after the catastrophe which befel Delos in the Mithra-

datic war (P. 297), and from which it never recovered, the

Puteolans entered into direct commercial connections with

Syria and Alexandria, and their city became more and more

decidedly the first seat of transmarine commerce in Italy.

But it was not merely the gain which was made by the

r

