264 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

called proconsular, power, and obtained the command of

the Campanian army and the superintendence of the war

against Mithradates; and two tribunes of the people were

despatched to the camp at Nola, with a view to have the

army handed over to them by Sulla.

Sulla's re- Sulla was not the man to yield to such a summons,

mil. If any one had a vocation to the chief command in the

Asiatic war, it was Sulla. He had a few years before com­

manded with the greatest success in the same theatre of

war; he had contributed more than any other man to the

subjugation of the dangerous Italian insurrection; as consul

of the year in which the Asiatic war broke out, he had been

invested with the command in it after the customary way

and with the full consent of bis colleague, who was on

friendly terms with him and related to him by marriage. It

was expecting a great deal to suppose that he would, in

accordance with a decree of the sovereign burgesses of

Rome, give up a command undertaken in such circum­

stances to an old military and political antagonist, in whose

hands the army might be turned to none could tell what

violent and preposterous proceedings. Sulla was neither

good-natured enough to comply voluntarily with such an

order, nor dependent enough to be compelled to do so. His

army was—partly in consequence of the alterations of the

military system which originated with Marius, partly from

the moral laxity and the military strictness of its discipline

in the hands of Sulla—little more than a body of merce­

naries absolutely devoted to their leader and indifferent to

political affairs. Sulla himself was a hardened, cool, and

clear-headed man, in whose eyes the sovereign Roman

burgesses were a rabble, the hero of Aquae Sextiae a bank­

rupt swindler, formal legality a mere phrase, Rome itself

a city without a garrison and with its walls half in ruins,

which could be far more easily captured than Nola.

Sulla's On these views he acted. He assembled his soldiers—

march on there were six legions, or about 35,000 men—and laid before

Rome them the summons that had arrived from Rome, not for­

getting to hint that the new commander-in-chief would un­

doubtedly lead to Asia Minor not the army as it stood, but

another formed of fresh troops. The superior officers, who

still had more of the citizen than the soldier, kept aloof and

only one of them followed the general towards the capital;

but the soldiers, who in accordance with earlier experiences

