304 THE EAST AND KING M1THRADATES. [Book IV

Pontic

army sent

to Greece.

Thrace to Asia and there paving the way for further re­

sults by subduing Mithradates. That Sulla should have

allowed his weaker opponent to depart without hindrance,

and instead of following him should have returned to

86-85. Athens, where he seems to have passed the winter of 668-9,

is in a military point of view surprising. We may suppose

perhaps that in this also he was guided by political motives,

and that he was sufficiently moderate and patriotic in his

views willingly to forego a victory over his countrymen at

least so long as they had still the Asiatics to deal with, and

to find the most tolerable solution of the unhappy dilemma

in allowing the armies of the revolution in A sia and of the

oligarchy in Europe to fight against the common foe.

Second [85. In the spring of 669 there was again fresh work in

Europe. Mithradates, who continued his preparations

indefatigably in Asia Minor, had sent an army not much

less than that which had been extirpated at Chaeronea,

under Dorylaws to Euboea; thence it had, after a junction

with the remains of the army of Archelaus, passed over the

Euripus to Boeotia. The Pontic king, who judged of what

his army could do by the standard of victories over the

Bithynian and Cappadocian militia, did not understand the

unfavourable turn which things had taken in Europe; the

circles of the courtiers were already whispering as to

the treason of Archelaus; perempfouy orders were issued

to fight a second battle at once with the new army, and not

to fail on this occasion in annihilating the Romans. The

master's will was carried out, if not in conquering, at least

in fighting. The Romans and Asiatics met once more in

the plain of the Cephissus, near Orchomenus. The numerous

and excellent cavalry of the latter flung itself impetuously

on the Boman infantry, which began to waver and give

way: the danger was so urgent, that Sulla seized a standard

and advancing with his adjutants and orderlies against the

enemy called out with a loud voice to the soldiers that, if

they should be asked at home where they had abandoned

their general, they might reply—at Orchomenus. This had

its effect; the legions rallied and vanquished the euemv's

horse, after which the infantry were overthrown with little

difficulty. On the following day the camp of the Asiatic*

was surrounded and stormed; far the greatest portion of

them fell or perished in the Gopaic marshes; a few only,

Archelaus among the rest, reached Eubosa. The Bceotian

Battle of

Orchome­

nus.

