278 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IT.

did, it remaina nevertheless true that before the Parthian

wars he was the only enemy who gave serious trouble to the

Romans in the East, and that he defended himself against

them as the lion of the desert defends himself against the

hunter. But we are not entitled, in accordance with what

we know, to recognize in him more than the resistance to

be expected from such a vigorous nature.

But whatever judgment we may form as to the individual

character of the king, his historical position remains in a

high degree significant. The Mithradatic wars formed at once

the last movement of the political opposition offered by

Hellas to Rome, and the beginning of a revolt against the

Roman supremacy resting on very different and far deeper

grounds of'antagonism—the national reaction of the Asiatics

against the Occidentals. The empire of Mithradates was,

like himself, Oriental; polygamy and the system of the harem

prevailed at court and generally among the nobles; the reli­

gion of the inhabitants of the country as well as the official

religion of the court was pre-eminently the old national

worship; the Hellenism there was little different from the

Hellenism of the Armenian Tigranidae and the ArsacidaB of

the Parthian empire. The Greeks of Asia Minor might

imagine for a brief moment that they had found in this king

a support for their political dreams; his battles were really

fought for matters very different from those which were

decided on the fields of Magnesia and Pydna. They formed

—after a long truce—a new passage in the huge duel between

the West and the East, which has been transmitted from

the struggle of Marathon to the present generation and

will perhaps reckon its future by thousands of years as it

has reckoned its past.

The nation- Manifest however as is the foreign and unHellenic cha­

racter of the whole life and action of the Cappadocian kintr.

it is difficult to define what national element preponderated

in it, nor will research perhaps ever succeed in getting

beyond generalities or in attaining clear views on this

point. In the whole circle of ancient civilization there is

no region where the stocks subsisting side by side or cross­

ing each other were so numerous, so heterogeneous, so

variously from the remotest times intermingled, and where

in consequence the relations of the nationalities were so

obscure, as in Asia Minor. The Semitic population ad­

vanced from Syria in an unbroken chain to Cyprus and

alitles of

Asia Minor,

