Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 261

resistance which he encountered, propose it himself. The

measure against the insolvency of senators was doubtless

called forth by the exposure of the economic condition of the

ruling families—so deeply embarrassed notwithstanding all

their outward splendour—on occasion of the last financial

crisis. It was painful indeed, but yet in itself conducive to

the rightly understood interest of the aristocracy, that, as

was necessarily the effect of the Sulpician proposal, all per­

sons should withdraw from the senate who were unable

speedily to meet their liabilities, and that the coterie-system,

which found one of its main supports in the insolvency of

many senators and their consequent dependence on their

wealthy colleagues, should be checked by the removal of the

notoriously venal portion of the senators. At the same time,

of course, we do not mean to deny that such a purification

of the senate-house so abruptly and invidiously exposing the

senate, as Rufus proposed, would certainly never have been

proposed without his personal quarrels with the heads of the

ruling coteries. Lastly, the regulation in favour of the freed­

men had undoubtedly the primary object of making its pro­

poser master of the street; but in itself it was neither

unwarranted nor incompatible with the aristocratic consti­

tution. Since the freedmen had begun to be drawn upon

for military service, their demand for the right of voting

was so far justified, as the right of voting and the obligation

of service had always gone hand in hand. Moreover, looking

to the nullity of the comitia, it was politically of very little

moment whether one sewer more emptied itself into that

slough. The difficulty which the oligarchy felt in govern­

ing with the comitia was lessened rather than increased by

the unlimited admission of the freedmen, who were to a

very great extent personally and financially dependent on

the ruling families and, if rightly used, might just furnish

the government with a means of controlling the elections

more thoroughly than before. This measure certainly, like

every other political favour shown to the proletariate,

ran counter to the tendencies of the aristocracy friendly to

reform; but it was for Rufus hardly anything else than

what the corn-law had been for Drusus—a means of draw­

ing the proletariate over to his side and of breaking down

with its aid the opposition against the truly beneficial re­

forms which he meditated. It was easy to foresee that this

opposition would not be slight; that the narrow-minded

