274 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

towards the end of his life new troubles disturbed his reign;

and, while the grandees of the kingdom and in fact his

own brother Orodes rebelled against the king and at length

that brother overthrew him and put him to death, the hither-

Armenia, to unimportant Armenia rose into power. This country,

which since its declaration of independence (ii. 274) had been

divided into the north-eastern portion or Armenia proper,

the kingdom of the Artaxiadae, and the south-western or

Sophene, the kingdom of the Zariadridae, was for the first

time united into one kingdom by the Artaxiad Tigranea

94. (who had reigned since 660); and this doubling of his

power on the one hand, and the weakness of the Parthian

rule on the other, enabled the new king of all Armenia not

only to free himself from dependence on the Parthians and

to recover the provinces formerly ceded to them, but even

to bring to Armenia the titular supremacy of Asia, as it

had passed from the Achaemenids to the Seleucids and from

the Seleucids to the Arsacids.

Asia Minor. Lastly in Asia Minor the territorial arrangements, which

had been made under Roman influence after the dissolution

of the kingdom of Attalus (P. 56), still subsisted in the

main unchanged; except that Great Phrygia, after Gaius

Gracchus had discovered the dealings between Mithradates

Euergetes and the consul Aquillius (P. 120), had been

again withdrawn from the king of Pontus and united as a

free country with the Roman province of Asia, like Hellas

120. with Macedonia (about 634). In the condition of the

dependent states—the kingdoms of Bithynia, Cappadocia,

Pontus, the principalities of Paphlagonia and Galatia, the

numerous city-leagues and free towns—no outward change

was at first discernible. But, intrinsically, the character of

the Roman rule had certainly everywhere undergone a

material alteration. Partly through the constant growth of

oppression naturally incident to every tyrannic government,

partly through the indirect operation of the Roman revo­

lution—in the seizure, for instance, of the property of the

soil in the province of Asia by Gaius Gracchus, in the Roman

tenths and customs, and in the human hunts which the

collectors of revenue added to their other avocations there—

the Roman rule, barely tolerable even from the first, pressed

so heavily on Asia that neither the king's crown nor the

peasant's hut there was any longer safe from confiscation,

that every stalk of corn seemed to grow for the Boman

