Chap. III.J THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 103

allowed the distributors to pursue their course; it was clear

that, if the domain question was to be settled at all, the

matter could not be carried through without some such

unceremonious vigour of action.

But this vigour had its limit. The Italian domain-land Its suspen-

was not exclusively in the hands of Roman burgesses ; large sion by

tracts of it had been assigned in exclusive usufruct to par- »ip!?

ticular allied communities by decrees of the people or senate,

and other portions had been occupied with or without per­

mission by Latin burgesses. The triumvirs at length

attacked these possessions. The resumption of the portions

simply occupied by non-burgesses was no doubt allowable in

formal law, and not less in all probability the resumption of

the domain-land handed over by decrees of the senate or

even by state-treaties to the Italian communities, since the

state in so doing by no means renounced its ownership, and

to all appearance gave its grants to communities, just as

to private persons, subject to revocation. But the complaints

of these allied or subject communities, that Rome did not

keep the treaties concluded with them, could not be simply

disregarded like the complaints of the Roman citizens in­

jured by the acts of the commissioners. Legally the former

might be no better founded than the latter; but, while in

the latter case the matter at stake was the private interests

of members of the state, in reference to the Latin posses­

sions the question arose, whether it was politically right to

give fresh offence to communities so important in a military

point of view and already so greatly estranged from Rome

by numerous disabilities de jure and de facto (ii. 333 et seq..)

through this sore injury to their material interests. The de­

cision lay in the hands of the middle party ; it was that party

which after the fall of Gracchus had, in league with his

adherents, protected reform against the oligarchy, and it

alone w'as now able in concert with the oligarchy to set a

limit to reform. The Latins resorted personally to the most

prominent man of this party, Scipio _iEmilianus, with a

request that he would protect their rights. He promised to

do so; and mainly through his influence,* in 625, a decree 129.

* To this occasion belongs his oration contra legem judiciariam Ti. Gracchi  
—which we are to understand as referring not, as has been asserted, to a law

as to the judicia publico, but to the supplementary law annexed to his
agrarian

rogation: ut triumviri judicarent, qua publicum oyer, qua privatus esset (Liv.

Ep. lviii.; See p. 90 above\

