Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 423

bounds of Italy and began to pass beyond them; it came

also to acquire intrinsically a deeper intellectual basis. We

find it in the course of creating a classical literature, and a

higher instruction of its own; and, though in comparison

with the Hellenic classics and Hellenic culture we may feel

ourselves tempted to attach little value to the feeble hot­

house products of Italy, yet, so far as its historical develop­

ment was primarily concerned, the quality of the Latin

classical literature and the Latin culture was of far less

moment than the fact that they subsisted side by side with

the Greek; and, sunken as were the contemporary Hellenes

in a literary point of view, one might perhaps apply in this

case also the saying of the poet, that the living day-labourer

is better than the dead Achilles.

But, however rapidly and vigorously the Latin language Hellenism.

and nationality gain ground, they at the same time recog­

nize the Hellenic nationality as having an entirely equal,

indeed an earlier and better title, and enter everywhere into

the closest alliance with it or become intermingled with it in

a joint development. The Italian revolution, which otherwise

levelled all the non-Latin nationalities in the peninsula, did

not disturb the Greek cities of Tarentum, Rhegium, Nea-

polis, Locri (P. 249). In like manner Massilia, although

now enclosed by Roman territory, remained a Greek city

and in that very capacity firmly connected with Rome. "With

the complete Latinizing of Italy an increased Hellenizing

went hand in hand. In the higher circles of Italian society

Greek training became an integral element of their native

culture. The consul of 623, the pontifex maximus Publius 131.

Crassus, excited the astonishment even of the native Greeks,

when as governor of Asia he delivered his judicial decisions,

as the case required, sometimes in ordinary Greek, some­

times in one of the four dialects used as written languages.

And if the Italian literature and art for long looked steadily

towards the East, Hellenic literature and art now began to

look towards the West. Not only did the Greek cities in

Italy maintain a lively intellectual intercourse with Greece,

Asia Minor, and Egypt, and confer on the Greek poets and

actors who had acquired celebrity there the like recognition

and the like honours among themselves; in Rome also,

after the example set by the destroyer of Corinth at his

triumph in 608, the gymnastic and aesthetic recreations of 146.

the Greeks—competitions in wrestling as well as in musics

