Chap. X.J THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 367

marine commands were especially sought after as being the

most lucrative, it was usual to intrust a transmarine com­

mand on the expiry of their official year to those magistrates

whom their office confined either in law or at any rate in

fact to the capital, that is, to the two praetors administering

justice in the city and frequently also to the consuls; a course

which was compatible with the nature of prorogation, since

the official authority of supreme magistrates acting in Eome

and in the provinces respectively, although differently en­

tered on, was not in strict state-law different in kind.

Such was the state of things which Sulla found existing, Regulation

and which formed the basis of his new arrangement. Its of their

main principles were, a complete separation between the fonctions

political authority which governed in the, burgess dis- y u'

tricts and the military authority which governed in the

non-burgess districts, and an uniform extension of the dura­

tion of the supreme magistracy from one year to two, the

first of which was devoted to civil, and the second to

military, functions. Locally the civil and the military Separation

authority had certainly been long separated by the con- of the po-

stitution, and the former ended at the pomerium, where .^^D

the latter began; but still the same man held the supreme thoritv.

Eolitical and the supreme military power united in his

and. In future the consul and praetor were to deal with

the senate and burgesses, the proconsul and propraetor

were to command the army; but all military power was

cut off by law from the former, and all political action from

the latter. This primarily led to the political separation Cisalpine

of the region of Northern Italy from Italy proper. Hither- Gaul

to they had stood perhaps in a national antagonism, inas- elict*° nlt"

much as Northern Italy was inhabited chiefly by Ligurians

and Celts, Central and Southern Italy by Italians; but, in

a political and administrative point of view, the whole con­

tinental territory of the Roman state from the Straits to

the Alps including the Illyrian possessions — burgess,

Latin, and hon-Italian, communities without exception—

was in the ordinary course of things under the administra­

tion of the supreme magistrates who were acting in Rome,

as in fact her colonial foundations extended through all

this territory. According to Sulla's arrangement Italy

proper, the northern boundary of which was at the same

time changed from the -3£sis to the Rubico, was—as a region

now inhabited without exception by Roman citizens—made

