270 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

stance, that he proposed these measures after the victory and

entirely of his own free will. If we combine with such con­

siderations the fact, that Sulla allowed the principal founda­

tions of the Gracchan constitution to stand and disturbed

neither the equestrian courts nor the largesses of grain, we

shall find warrant for the opinion that the Sullan arrange-

88. ment of 666 substantially adhered to the status quo subsist­

ing since the fall of Gaius Gracchus; he merely, on the

one hand, altered as the times required the traditional rules

that primarily threatened danger to the existing govern­

ment, and, on the other hand, sought to remedy according

to his power the existing social evils, so far as either could

be done without touching ills that lay deeper. Emphatic

contempt for constitutional formalism in connection with a

vivid appreciation of the intrinsic value of existing arrange­

ments, clear perceptions, and praiseworthy intentions mark

this legislation throughout. But it bears also a certain frivo­

lous and superficial character; it needed in particular a great

amount of good nature to believe, that the fixing a maximum

of interest would remedy the complications of debtor and

creditor, and that the right of previous deliberation on the

part of the senate would prove more capable of resisting

future demagogism than the right of veto and religion had

previously been.

New com- In reality new clouds very soon began to overcast the

plications, clear sky of the conservatives. The relations of Asia assumed

daily a more threatening character. The state had alreadv

suffered the utmost injury through the delay which the Sul-

pician revolution had occasioned in the departure of the

army for Asia; the embarkation could on no account be

longer postponed. Meanwhile Sulla hoped to leave behind

him guarantees against a new assault on the oligarchy in

Italy, partly in the consuls who would be elected under" the

new electoral arrangements, partly and especially in the

armies employed in suppressing the remains of the Italian

insurrection. In the consular comitia, however, the choice

did not fall on the candidates set up by Sulla, but Lucius

Cinn . Cornelius China, who belonged to the most determined oppo­

sition, was associated with Gnaws Octavius, a man certainly

of strictly Optimate views. It may be presumed that it

was chiefly the capitalist party, which by this choice re­

taliated on the author of the interest-law. Sulla accepted

the unpleasant election with the declaration that he was

