396 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

levied to a great extent. The client states recognized as fully

sovereign—such as the kingdoms of Numidia and Cappadocia,

the allied states (civitates fcederatce) of Rhodes, Messana, Tau-

romenium, Massilia, Gades—were legally exempt from tax­

ation, and merely bound by their treaties to support the Ro­

man republic in time of war by regularly furnishing a fixed

number of ships and men at their own expense, and, as a

matter of course in case of need, by rendering extraordinary

Taxes. aid of any kind. The rest of the provincial territory on the

other hand, even including the free cities, was throughout

liable to taxation; the only exceptions were the cities invested

with the Roman franchise, such as Narbo, and the communi­

ties on which immunity from taxation was specially conferred

(civitates immunes), such as Centuripa in Sicily. The direct

taxes consisted partly—as in Sicily and Sardinia—of a title to

the tenth * of the sheaves and other field produce as of grapes

and olives, or, if the land lay in pasture, to a corresponding

scriptura; partly—as in Macedonia, Achaia, Cyrene, the

greater part of Africa, the two Spains, and by Sulla's ar­

rangements also in Asia—of a fixed sum of money to be paid

annually by each community to Rome (stipendium, tributtirri).

This amounted, e.g. for all Macedonia to 600,000 denarii

(£24,000), for the small island of Gyaros near Andros to

150 denarii (£6 4s.), and was apparently on the whole low

and less than the tax paid before the Roman rule. Those

ground-tenths and pasture-moneys the state farmed out to

private contractors on condition of their paying fixed quan­

tities of grain or fixed sums of money; with respect to the

latter money-payments the state drew upon the respective

*. communities, and left it to these to assess the amount,  
according to the general principles laid down by the Roman

government, on the persons liable, and to collect it from

them.f The indirect taxes consisted—apart from the

* This tax-tenth, which the state levied from private landed property, is to  
be clearly distinguished from the proprietor's tenth, which it imposed on the

domain-land. The former was let in Sicily, and was fixed once for all; the

latter—which, however, in Sicily only applied to the land acquired by Rome

after the first Punic war, not to the territory of Leontini (comp. Corpus
Inscr.

Lot. p. 101)—was let by the censors in Rome, and the proportion of produce

payable and other conditions were regulated at their discretion (Cic. Verr.
iii.

6, 13; v. 21, 53; de Leg. Agr. i. 2, 4; ii. 18, 48).

.f The mode of proceeding was apparently as follows. The Roman govern­

ment fixed in the first instance the kind and the amount of the tax. Thus in

Asia, for instance, according to the arrangement of Sulla and Casar the tenth

