336 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

Signia; they retired before him as far as the so-called

"Port of Sacer," between Signia and the chief stronghold

His victory of the Marians, the strong Praeneste. There Marius drew

at Sacripor- up his force for battle. His army was about 40,000 strong,

tus- and he was in savage fury and personal bravery the true

son of his father; but his troops were not the well-trained

bands with which the latter had fought his battles, and

still less could this inexperienced young man bear com­

parison with the old master of war. His troops soon gave

way; the defection of a division even during the battle

accelerated the defeat. More than the half of the Marians

were dead or prisoners; the remnant, unable either to keep

the field or to gain the other bank of the Tiber, was com­

pelled to seek protection in the neighbouring fortresses;

the capital, which they had neglected to provision, was

Democratic irrecoverably lost. In consequence of this Marius gave

massacres in orders to Lucius Brutus Damasippus the praetor com-

Rome- manding there to evacuate it, but before doing so to put

to death all the notable men, hitherto spared, of the opposite

party. This injunction, by which the son even outdid the

proscriptions of his father, was carried into effect; Dama­

sippus made a pretext for convoking the senate, and the

marked men were struck down partly in the sitting

itself, partly on their flight from the senate-house. Not­

withstanding the thorough clearance previously effected,

there were still found several victims of note. Such were

the late aedile Publius Antistius, the father-in-law of Gnaeus

Pompeius, and the late praetor Gaius Carbo, son of the

well-known friend and subsequent opponent of the Gracchi

(P. 132), since the death of so many men of more distin­

guished talent the two best judicial orators in the desolated

Forum; the consular Lucius Domitius, and above, all the

venerable pontifex maximus Quintus Scavola, who had

escaped the dagger of Fimbria only to bleed to death

during these last throes of the revolution in the vestibule

of the temple of Vesta intrusted to his guardianship. With

speechless horror the multitude saw the corpses of these

last victims of the reign of terror dragged through the

streets, and thrown into the river.

Siege of The broken bands of Marius threw themselves into Xorba

Praeneste, and Praeneste, strong cities oJ new burgesses in the neighbour­

hood; Marius in person with the treasure and the greater

part of the fugitives entered the latter. Sulla left behind

