Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 87

the women and priests to the gates of the camp, and sub­

jected the rabble of soldiers once more to the iron yoke of

the old military discipline; and, when censor (612), he 142.

cleared away the smooth-chinned coxcombs among the

nobles, and in earnest language urged the citizens to adhere

more faithfully to the honest customs of their fathers. But

no one, and least of all he himself, could fail to see that

increased stringency in the administration of justice and

isolated interference were not even first steps towards the

healing of the organic evils under which the state laboured.

These Scipio did not touch. Gaius Laelius (consul in 614), 140.

Scipio's elder friend and his political instructor and confi­

dant, had conceived the plan of proposing the confiscation

of the Italian domain land which had not been given away

but had been provisionally occupied, and of giving relief by

its distribution to the visibly decaying Italian farmers; but

lie desisted from the project when he saw what a storm he

was going to raise, and was thenceforth named the "judi­

cious." Scipio was of the same opinion. He was fully

persuaded of the greatness of the evil, and with a courage

deserving of honour he, without respect of persons, remorse­

lessly assailed it and carried his point where he risked him­

self alone; but he was also persuaded that the country

could only be relieved at the price of a revolution similar to

that which in the fourth and fifth centuries had sprung out

of the question of reform, and, rightly or wrongly, the

remedy seemed to him worse than the disease. So with the

small circle of his friends he held a middle position between

the aristocrats, who never forgave him for his advocacy

of the Cassian law, and the democrats, whom he neither

satisfied nor wished to satisfy; solitary during his life, praised

after his death by both parties, now as the champion

of the aristocracy, now as the promoter of reform. Down

to his time the censors on laying down their office had called

upon the gods to grant greater power and glory to the state;

the censor Scipio prayed that they might deign to preserve

the state. His whole confession of faith lies in that painful

exclamation.

But, where the man who had twice led the Roman army Tiberius

from deep disorganization to victory despaired, a youth with- Gracchus-

oat achievements had the boldness to give himself forth as

the saviour of Italy. He was called Tiberius Sempronius

Gracchus (591-621). His father who bore the same name 163-133.

