HO [Book IV THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION.

Occupation

of Cilicia.

province of Cilicia, which thenceforth appears among the

Roman provinces.* The design was commendable, and the

scheme in itself was well devised; but the continuance

and the increase of the evil of piracy in the Asiatic waters,

and especially in Cilicia, unhappily showed the inadequacy of

the means with which the pirates were assailed from the newly

acquired position.

But nowhere did the impotence and perversity of the

Roman provincial administration come to light in so naked

colours as in the insurrections of the provincial proleta­

riate, which seemed to have revived on their former footing

simultaneously with the restoration of the aristocracy. These

insurrections of the slaves swelling from revolts into wars—

which had emerged just about 620 as one, and that perhaps the

proximate, cause of the Gracchan revolution—were renewed

and repeated with dreary Uniformity. Again, as thirty years

before, a ferment pervaded the body of slaves throughout

the Roman empire. We have already mentioned the Italian

conspiracies. The miners in the Attic silver-mines rose in

revolt, occupied the promontory of Sunium, and issuing

thence pillaged for a length of time the surrounding country.

The second Similar movements appeared at other places. But the chief

Sicilian seat of these fearful commotions was once more Sicily with

its plantations and its hordes of slaves brought thither from

Revolts of

the slaves.

134.

slave-war.

* It iy assumed in many quarters that the establishment of the province of  
78. Cilicia only took place after the Cilician expedition of Publius Servilius
in 676

92. et spq., but erroneously; for as early as 662 we find Si'lla (Appian,
Mithr.

80. 79. 57; B.C. i. 77; Victor, 75), and in 674, 675, Gnaeus Dolabella (Cic.
Verr.

i. 1, 16, 44) as governors of Cilicia—whicli leaves no alternative but to
place

102. the establishment of the province in 652. This view is further supported
by

the fact, that at this time the expeditions of the Romans against the
corsairs—

e. g. the Balearic, Ligurian, and Dalmatia expeditions—appear to have been

ordinarily directed to the occupation of the points of the coast whence piracy

issued; and this was natural, for, as the Romans had no standing fleet, the
only

means of effectually checking piracy was the occupation of the coasts. It is

to be remembered, moreover, that the idea of a provincia did not absolutely

involve possession of the country, but in itself implied no more than an inde­

pendent military command; it is very possible, that the Romans in the first

instance occupied nothing in this rugged country save stations for their
vessels

and troops.

The plain of eastern Cilicia remained down to the war against Tigranes

attached to the Syrian empire (Appian, Syr. 48); the districts to the north of

the Taurus formerly reckoned as belonging to Cilicia—Coppadocian Cilicia, as

it was called, and Cataonia—belonged to Cappadocia, the former from the time

of the breaking up of the kingdom of Attalus (Justin, xxxvii. 1 ; see above,

P. 57), the latter probably even from the time of the peace with Autiochus.

X

