Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 455

of "Oscan plays" or "plays of Atella" was commonly

used for these exhibitions.* But these pleasantries had

nothing to do with the stage f and with literature; they

were performed by amateurs where and when they pleased,

and the text was not written or at any rate was not pub-

* With these names there has been associated from ancient times a series of  
errors. The utter mistake of Greek reporters, that these farces were played at

Rome in the Oscan language, is now with justice universally rejected; but it

is, on a closer consideration, little short of impossible to bring these
pieces,

which are laid in the midst of Latin town and country life, into relation with

the national Oscan character at all. The appellation of " Atellan play " is to
be

explained in another way. The Latin farce with its fixed characters and

standing jests needed a permanent scenery: the fool-world everywhere seeks

for itself a local habitation. Of course under the Roman stage-police none of

the Roman communities, or of the Latin communities allied with Rome, could

be taken for this purpose. But Atella, which was destroyed de jure along

with Capua in 543 (ii. 170, 190) but continued practically to subsist as a
211.

village inhabited by Roman farmers, was adapted in every respect for the pur­

pose. This conjecture is changed into certainty by our observing that several

of these farces are laid in other communities within the domain of the Latin

tongue which existed no longer at all, or no longer at any rate in the eye of
the

law—such as the Campani of Pomponius and perhaps also his Adelphi and

his Qumquatria in Capua, and the Milites Pometinenses of Novius in Suessa

Pometia—while no existing community was subjected to a similar abuse. The

real home of these pieces was therefore Latium, their poetical stage was the

Latinized Oscan land; with the Oscan nation they have no connection. The

statement that a piece of Naevius (-f after 550) was for want of proper actors
200.

performed by "Atellan players" and was therefore called personata (Festus,

8. t;.), proves nothing against this view: the appellation " Atellan players"
is

here employed proleptically, and we might even conjecture from this passage

that they were formerly termed " masked players" (jpersonati).

An explanation quite similar may be given of the "lays of Fescennium,"

which likewise belong to the burlesque poetry of the Romans and were localized

in the South Etruscan village of Fescennium; it is not necessary on that

account to class them with Etruscan poetry any more than the Atellanae with

Oscan. That Fescennium was in historical times not a town but a village, can­

not certainly be directly proved, but is in the highest degree probable from
the

way in which authors mention the place and from the silence of inscriptions.

f The close and original connection, which Livy in particular represents as

subsisting between the Atellan tarce and the satura with the drama thence

developed, is not at all tenable. The difference between the histrio and the

Atellan player was just about as great as is at present the difference between
a

professional actor and a man who goes to a masked ball; between the dramatic

piece, which down to Terence's time had no masks, and the Atellan, which was

essentially based on the character-mask, there subsisted an original
distinction

in no way to be effaced. The drama arose out of the flute-piece, which at
first

without any recitation was confined merely to song and dance, then acquired a

text (satura), and lastly obtained through Andronicus a libretto borrowed from

the Greek stage, in which the old flute-lays occupied nearly the place of the

Greek chorus. This course of development nowhere in its earlier stages came

into contact with the farce, which was performed by amateurs.

