Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 5

were enabled to extend their excursions as far as the Medi­

terranean, and to pillage even the territory of the Bastulo-

Phoenicians not far from the Roman capital New Carthage

(Cartagena). The Romans at home took the matter so

seriously as to resolve on sending a consul to Spain, a step

which had not been taken since 559; and, in order to 195-

accelerate the despatch of aid, they even made the new

consuls enter on office two months and a half before the

legal time. For this reason the day for the consuls entering

on office was shifted from the 15th of March to the 1st of

January ; and thus was established the beginning of the year

which we still make use of at the present day. But, before

the consul Quintus Fulvius Nobilior arrived with his army,

a very serious encounter took place on the right bank of the

Tagus between the praetor Lucius Mummius, governor of

Further Spain, and the Lusitanians, now led after the fall of

Punicus by his successor Caesarus (601). Fortune was at 153.

first favourable to the Romans; the Lusitanian army was

broken and their camp was taken. But the Romans, already

fatigued by their march and falling out of their ranks in the

disorder of the pursuit, were at length completely defeated

by their already vanquished antagonists, and lost their own

camp in addition to that of the enemy, as well as 9000

dead.

The flame of war now blazed forth far and vide. The Celtiberian

Lusitanians on the left bank of the Tagus, led by Cancamus, war.

threw themselves on the Celtici subject to the Romans

(in Alentejo), and took their town Conistorgis. The Lusi­

tanians sent the standards taken from Mummius to the

Celtiberians at once as an announcement of victory and a

summons to arms; and among these, too, there was no want

of ferment. Two small Celtiberian tribes in the neighbour­

hood of the powerful Arevacae (near the sources of the

Pouro and Tagus), the Belli and the Titthi, had resolved to

settle together in Segeda, one of their towns. While they

were occupied in building the walls, the Romans ordered

them to desist, because the Sempronian regulations prohibited

the subject communities from founding towns at their own

discretion; and they at the same time required the contribu­

tion of money and men which was due by treaty but for a

considerable period had not been demanded. The Spaniards

refused to obey either command, alleging that they were en­

gaged merely in enlarging, not in founding, a city, and that

