246 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

had already, with a view to form that chain of posts along

the Latino-Campanian coast, incorporated nearly 6000

freedmen in the burgess-militia; they had already required

the severest sacrifices from the allies that still remained

faithful; it was not possible to draw the string of the bow

tighter without hazarding everything.

Despond- The temper of the burgesses was singularly depressed.

ency of the After the battle on the Tolenus, when the dead bodies of the

Romans. conaul and the numerous citizens of note who had fallen

with him were brought back from the neighbouring battle­

field to the capital and were buried there; when the magis­

trates in token of public mourning laid aside their purple

and insignia; when the government issued orders to the

inhabitants of the capital to arm en masse; not a few had

resigned themselves to despair and given up all as lost. It.

is true that the worst despondency had been diminished

after the victories achieved by Caesar at Acerrae and by

Strabo in Picenum: on the news of the former the war-dress

in the capital had been once more exchanged for the dress

of the citizen, on the news of the second the signs of public

mourning had been laid aside; but it was not doubtful that

on the whole the Romans had been worsted in this passage

of arms: and above all the senate and the burgesses had

lost the spirit, which had formerly borne them to victory

through the crises of the Hannibalic war. They still

perhaps began war with the same haughty arrogance as

then, but they knew not how to end it as they had then done;

rigid obstinacy, tenacious persistence had given place to a

remiss and cowardly disposition. Already after the first year

of war their outward and inward policy became suddenly

changed, and betook itself to compromise. There is no doubt

that in this they did the wisest thing which could be done;

not however because, compelled by the immediate force of

arms, they could not avoid acquiescing in disadvantageous

conditions, but because the subject-matter of dispute,—the

perpetuation of the political precedence of the Romans over

the other Italians—was injurious rather than beneficial to the

commonwealth itself. It sometimes happens in public life,

that one error compensates another; in this case cowardice

in some measure remedied the mischief which obstinacy had

incurred.

90. The year 064 had begun with a most abrupt rejection

of the compromise offered by the insurgents and with the

