Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 221

Drusus was, like his father, of strictly conservative views,

and had already given practical proof that such were his

sentiments in the insurrection of Saturninus. He belonged

to the circle of the highest nobility, and was the possessor

of a colossal fortune; in disposition too he was a genuine

aristocrat—a man emphatically proud, who scorned to bedeck

himself with the insignia of his offices, but declared on his

death-beo. that there would not soon arise a citizen like him;

a man with whom the beautiful saying, that nobility consti­

tutes obligation, was and continued to be the rule of his life.

With all the vehement earnestness of his temperament he

had turned away from the frivolity and venality that marked

the nobles of the common stamp; trustworthy and strict in

morals, he was respected rather thau properly beloved on

the part of the common people, to whom his door and his

purse were always open, and notwithstanding his youth, he

was through the personal dignity of his character a man of

weight in the senate as in the Forum. Nor did he stand

alone. Marcus Scaurus had the courage on occasion of his

defence in his trial for extortion publicly to summon Drusus

to undertake a reform of the judicial arrangements; he and

the famous orator, Lucius Crassus, were in the senate the

most zealous champions of his proposals, and were perhaps

associated with him in originating them. But the mass of

the governing aristocracy was by no means of the same mind

with Drusus, Scaurus, and Crassus. There were not want­

ing in the senate decided adherents of the capitalist party,

among whom in particular there made themselves conspicuous

the consul of the day, Lucius Marcius Philippus, who main­

tained the cause of the equestrian order as he had formerly

maintained that of the democracy (P. 138) with zeal and

prudence, and the daring and reckless Quintus Caepio, who

was induced to this opposition primarily by his personal

hostility to Drusus and Scaurus. More dangerous, how­

ever, than these decided opponents was the cowardly and

corrupt mass of the aristocracy, who no doubt would have

preferred to plunder the provinces alone, but in the end had

not much objection to share the spoil with the equites, and,

instead of taking in hand the grave and perilous struggle

against the haughty capitalists, reckoned it far more equita­

ble and easy to purchase impunity at their hands by fair words

and by an occasional prostration or even by a round sum.

The result alone could show how far success would attend

