100 THE REFORM MOVEMENT. [Book IV.

energy the distribution of the domains which he had carried

—so sad was the state of things in Rome, that honest patriots

were forced into the horrible hypocrisy of abandoning the

criminal and yet appropriating the fruit of his crime. For

that reason too the opponents of Gracchus were in a certain

sense not wrong, when they accused him of aspiring to the

crown. It was a fresh ground of charge against him rather

than a justification, that he himself was probably a stranger

to any such thought. The aristocratic government was

so thoroughly pernicious, that a citizen who was able to

depose the senate and to put himself in its room would

perhaps have benefited the commonwealth more than he

injured it.

Results, But such a bold player Tiberius Gracchus was not. He

was a tolerably able, thoroughly well-meaning, conservative

patriot, who simply did not know what he was doing; who

in the fullest belief that he was calling the people evoked

the rabble, and grasped at the crown without being himself

aware of it, till the inexorable concatenation of events

urged him irresistibly into the career of the demagogue-

tyrant. Then the family commission, the interferences with

the public finances, the further "reforms" exacted by

perplexity and despair, the body-guard taken from the

pavement, and the conflicts in the streets displayed the me­

lancholy usurper more and more clearly to himself and

others; and at length the unchained spirits of revolution

seized and devoured their incapable conjurer. The infamous

butchery, through which he perished, condemns itself, as it

condemns the aristocratic faction whence it issued; but the

glory of martyrdom, with which it has embellished the name

of Tiberius Gracchus, came in this instance, as usually, to

the wrong man. The best of his contemporaries judged

otherwise. When the catastrophe was mentioned to Scipio

-32milianus, he uttered the words of Homer:

"fls &tt6\oito ual &\\os, 8ris roiavrd yt £<C01'

and when the younger brother of Tiberius seemed disposed

to come forward in the same career, his own mother wrote

to him: "Shall then our house have no end of madness?

where shall be the limit? have we not yet enough to be

ashamed of, in having confused and disorganized the state?'

So spoke not the anxious mother, but the daughter of the

conqueror of Carthage, who knew of a misfortune yet

greater than the death of her children.

