72 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

tranquillity it will be short-sighted, selfish, and negligent;

the germs of both results are essentially involved in its

hereditary and collegiate character. The morbid matter

had been long in existence, but it needed the sun of pros­

perity to develop it. There was a profound meaning in

the question of Cato, "What was to become of Rome, when

she should no longer have any state to fear p" That point

had now been reached. Every neighbour whom she might

have feared was politically annihilated; and of the men, who

had been reared under the old order of things in the severe

school of the Hannibalic war, and whose words still sounded

as echoes of that mighty epoch so long as they survived,

death called one after another away, till at length the voice

of the last of them, the veteran Cato, ceased to be heard in

the senate-house and in the Forum. A younger generation

came to the helm, and their policy was a sorry answer to that

question of the veteran patriot. We have already spoken of

the shape which the government of the subjects and the

external policy of Rome assumed in their hands. In in­

ternal affairs they were, if possible, still more disposed to

let the ship drive before the wind: if we understand by in-

ternal government more than the transaction of current busi­

ness, there was at this period no government in Bome at all.

The single leading thought of the governing corporation

was the maintenance and, if possible, the increase of their

usurped privileges. It was not the state that had a title to

get the right and the best man for its supreme magistracy;

but every member of the coterie had an inborn title to the

highest office of the state—a title not to be prejudiced by

the unfair rivalry of his peers or by the encroachments of

the excluded. Accordingly the clique proposed to itself

as its most important political aim, the restriction of re­

election to the consulship and the exclusion of " new men;"

and in fact it succeeded in obtaining the legal prohibition of

165. the former about 603,* and contented itself with a govern-

* In 537 the law restricting re-election to the consulship was suspended  
daring the continuance of the war in Italy, that is, down to 551 (ii. 324;

Liv. xxvii. 6). But after the death of Marcellus in 546 re-elections to the

consulship, if we do not include the abdicating consuls of 592, only occurred

in the years 547, 554, 560, 579, 585, 586, 591, 596, 599, 602; conse­

quently not oftener in those fifty-six years than, for instance, in the ten
years

401-410. Only one of these, and that the very last, took place in violation

of the ten years' interval (i. 321); and beyond doubt the singular election of

Marcus Marcellus who was consul in 588 and 599 to a third consulship in

