364 [Book IV. THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION.

was probably made dependent on a permission to be pre­

viously requested from the senate.* Lastly it was added

that the holding of the tribunate should in future disqualify

for the acceptance of a higher office—an enactment, which,

like many other points in Sulla's restoration, once more re­

verted to the old patrician maxims, and, just as in the

times before the admission of the plebeians to the civil ma­

gistracies, declared the tribunate and the curule offices to

be mutually incompatible. In this way the legislator of

the oligarchy hoped to check tribunician demagogism and to

keep all ambitious and aspiring men aloof from the tribunate,

but to retain it as an instrument of the senate both for

mediating between it and the burgesses, and, should cir­

cumstances require, for keeping in check the magistrates;

and, as the authority of the king and afterwards of the

republican magistrates over the burgesses scarcely anywhere

comes to light so clearly as in the principle that they ex­

clusively had the right of addressing the people, so the

supremacy of the senate, now first legally established, is

most distinctly apparent in this permission which the leader

of the people had to ask from the senate for every transaction

with his constituents.

The consulship and praetorship also, although viewed by

the aristocratic regenerator of Kome with a more favourable

eye than the thoroughly suspicious tribunate, by no means

escaped that distrust towards its own instruments which is

throughout characteristic of oligarchy. They were restricted

with more tenderness in point of form, but in a way very

sensibly felt. Sulla here began with the partition of func­

tions. At the beginning of this period the arrangement in

of the con- that respect stood as follows. As formerly there had de-

sular and

* To this the words of Lepidus in Sallust (Hist, i. 41, 11 Dietsch) refer:  
populus Eomanve . . . agitandi inops, to which Tacitus (Ann. iii. 27)

alludes: statim turbidis Lepidi rogationihus neque muUo post tribunis reddita

licentia quoquo vellent populum agitandi. That the tribunes did not alto­

gether lose the right of discussing matters with the people is shown by Cic.

De Leg. iii. 4,19 and more clearly by the plebiscitum de Thermensibiis, which

however in the opening formula also designates itself as issued de senatus

sententia. That the consuls on the other hand could under the Sullan arrange­

ments submit proposals to the people without a previous resolution of the

senate, is shown not only by the silence of the authorities, but also by the

course of the revolutions of 667 and 676, whose leaders for this very reason

were not tribunes but consuls. Accordingly we find at this period consular

laws upon secondary questions of administration, such as the corn law of 681,

for which at other times we should have certainly found plebiscita.

Limitation

of the su­

preme ma­

gistracy.

Regulation

87. 78.

73.

-

