Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 139

Nuceria, at Capua, and in the territory of Thurii. This last

conspiracy was so important, that the urban praetor had to

march with a legion against it and yet overcame the insur­

rection not by force of arms, but only by insidious treachery.

It was moreover a suspicious circumstance, that the insur­

rection was headed not by a slave, but by the Roman knight

Titus Vettius, whom his debts had driven to the insane step

of manumitting his slaves and declaring himself their king

(650). The apprehensions of the government with reference 104.

to the accumulation of bodies of slaves in Italy are shown by

the measures of precaution respecting the gold-washings of

Victumulas, which were carried on after 611 on account of 143.

the Roman government: the lessees were first bound not

to employ more than 5000 labourers, and then the workings

were totally stopped by decree of the senate. Under such

a government as the present there was every reason in fact

for fear, if, as was very possible, a Transalpine host should

penetrate into Italy and summon the slaves, who were in

great part of kindred lineage, to arms.

The province^ suffered $till more in comparison. "We The pro-

shall have an idea 'of the condition of Sicily and Asia, if we vinces.

endeavour to realize what would be the aspect of matters in

the East Indies provided the English aristocracy were similar

to the Roman aristocracy of that day. The legislation,

which intrusted the mercantile class with control over the

magistrates, compelled the latter to make common cause

to a certain extent with the former, and to purchase for

themselves unlimited liberty to plunder and protection from

impeachment by unconditional indulgence towards the capi­

talists in the provinces. In addition to these official and Piracy,

semi-official robbers, freebooters and pirates pillaged all the

countries of the Mediterranean. In the Asiatic waters

more especially the buccaneers carried their outrages so far,

that even the Roman government found itself under the

necessity in 652 of despatching to Cilicia a fleet, mainly 102.

composed of the vessels of the dependent mercantile cities,

under the praetor Marcus Antonius who was invested with

proconsular powers. This fleet captured a number of corsair-

vessels and destroyed some strongholds; and not only so,

but the Romans even settled themselves permanently there,

and in order to the suppression of piracy in its chief seat,

the rugged or western Cilicia, occupied strong military

positions—the first step towards the establishment of the

