Chap. II.J AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 81

The servile conspiracies and servile wars, breaking out insunw-

everywhere, illustrate their management as respects police, tions of the

In Italy the scenes of disorder, which were among the slavla-

immediate painful consequences of the Hannibalic war

(ii. 393), seemed now to be renewed; all at once the

Romans were obliged to seize and execute in the capital

150, in Minturnae 450, in Sinuessa even 4000 slaves (621). 133.

Still worse, as may be conceived, was the state of the

provinces. At the great slave-market at Delos and in

the Attic silver-mines about the same period the revolted

slaves had to be put down by force of arms. The war

against Aristonicus and his "Heliopolites" in Asia Minor

was in substance a war of the landholders against the

revolted slaves (P. 55). But worst of all, of course, was The first

the condition of Sicily, the chosen land of the plantation Sicilian

system. Brigandage had long been a standing evil there,slare war-

especially in the interior; it began to swell into insurrec­

tion. Damophilus, a wealthy planter of Euna (Castro-

giovanni), who emulated the Italian lords in the indus­

trial investment of his living capital, was attacked and

murdered by his exasperated rural slaves; whereupon the

savage band flocked into the town of Enna, and there

repeated the same process on a greater scale. The slaves

rose en masse against their masters, killed or enslaved them,

and summoned to the head of the already considerable

insurgent army a juggler from Apamea in Syria who knew

how to vomit fire and utter oracles, formerly as a slave

named Eunus, now as head of the insurgents styled

Autiochns king of the Syrians. And why not? A few

years before another Syrian slave, who was not even a

prophet, had in Antioch itself worn the royal diadem of the

Seleucidae (P. 66). The Greek slave Achaeus, the brave

"general " of the new king, traversed the island, and not

only did the wild herdsmen flock from far and near to the

strange standards, but the free labourers also, who bore no

goodwill to the planters, made common cause with the

revolted slaves. In another district of Sicily Cleon, a

Cilician slave, formerly in his native land a daring bandit,

followed the example which had been set and occupied

Agrigentum; and, when the leaders came to a mutual

understanding, after gaining various minor advantages they

succeeded in at last totally defeating the praetor Lucius

Hypsaeus in person and his army, consisting mostly of

vol. in. a

r

