Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 447

fessional sciences. The literary cue was correctness, in the

style of art and above all in the language, which, as a more

limited circle of persons of culture became separated from

the body of the people, was in its turn divided into the

classical Latin of higher society and the vulgar Latin of the

common people. The prologues of Terence promise "pure

Latin;" warfare with faults of language forms a chief

element of the Lucilinn satire; and with this circumstance

is connected the fact, that composition in Greek among the

Romans now falls decidedly into the shade. In so far cer­

tainly there is an improvement; inadequate efforts occur in

this epoch far less frequently; performances in their kind

complete and thoroughly pleasing occur far oftener than

before or afterwards; in a linguistic point of view Cicero

calls the age of Laelius and Scipio the golden age of pure

unadulterated Latin. In like manner literary activity gra­

dually rises in public opinion from a trade to an art. At the

beginning of this period the preparation of theatrical pieces

at any rate, if not the publication of recitative poems, was

still regarded as not becoming for the noble Roman; Pacu-

vius and Terence lived by their pieces; the writing of

dramas was entirely a trade, and not one of golden produce.

About the time of Sulla the state of matters had entirely

changed. The remuneration given to actors at that time

proves that the favourite dramatic poet could then claim a pay­

ment, the high amount of which removed its stigma. By this

means composing for the stage was raised into a liberal art;

and we accordingly find. men of the highest aristocratic

circles, such as Lucius Caesar (aedile in 664, + 667), engaged 90. 87,

in writing for the Roman stage and proud of sitting in the

Roman " poet's club" by the side of the ancestorless Accius.

. Art finds increased sympathy and honour; but the enthu­

siasm has departed in life and in literature. The fearless

self-confidence, which makes the poet a poet, and which is

very decidedly apparent in Plautus especially, is found in

none of those that follow; the Epigoni of the men that

fought with Hannibal are correct, but feeble.

Let us first glance at the Roman dramatic literature and Tragedy,

tbe stage itself. Tragedy has now for the first time her spe­

cial representatives; the tragic poets of this epoch do not,

like those of the preceding, cultivate comedy and epos also.

The appreciation of this branch of art among the writing

and reading circles was evidently on the increase, but tragic

