Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 125

from Gaius Gracchus. The institutions of Gracchus stood,

for the moment at least, immoveably firm with the exception

of a single one—his own supremacy. The weakness of the

latter lay in the fact, that in the constitution of Gracchus

there subsisted no relations of allegiance at all between the

chief and the army; and, while the new constitution possessed

all other elements of vitality, it lacked one—the moral bond

between ruler and ruled—without which every state rests on

a pedestal of clay. In the rejection of the proposal to

admit the Latins to the franchise it had been demonstrated

with decisive clearness, that the multitude in fact never voted

for Gracchus, but always simply for itself. The aristocracy

conceived the plan of offering battle to the author of the

corn-largesses and land-assignations on his own ground.

As a matter of course, the senate offered to the prole- Rival dema-

tariate not merely the same advantages as Gracchus had S°Psm ot'

already assured to it in corn and otherwise, but advantages !ie s£na,e-

still greater. Commissioned by the senate, the tribune of 1aw8<

the people Marcus Livius Drusus proposed to release those

who received land under the laws of Gracchus from the

rent imposed on them (P. 90), and to declare their allot­

ments to be free and alienable property; and, further,

to provide for the proletariate not in transmarine, but in

twelve Italian, colonies, each of 3000 colonists, for the

planting of which the people might nominate suitable men;

only, Drusus himself declined—in contrast with the Gracchan

family-collegium—to take part in this honourable duty. It

may be conjectured that the Latins were named as the

persons at whose expense the plan was to be carried out, for

there does not appear to have now existed in Italy any other

occupied domain-land of any extent save that which was en­

ioyed by them. We find several enactments of Drusus—such

as the regulation, that the punishment of scourging should

only be allowed to be inflicted on the Latin soldier by

'the Latin officer set over him, and not by the Roman officer

—which were to all appearance intended to indemnify the

Latins for other losses. The plan was not the most refined.

The attempt at rivalry was too clear; the endeavour to draw

the fair bond between the nobles and the proletariate still

closer by their exercising jointly a tyranny over the Latins was

too transparent; the inquiry suggested itself too readily, In

what part of the peninsula, now that the Italian domains

had been mainly given away already—even granting that the

