404 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

as an heritable burden. To him moreover, or at any rate to

the allotment-commission, the custom of erecting milestones

appears to be traceable as well as that of marking the

limits of fields by regular boundary-stones. Lastly he

provided for good vice vicinales, with the view of thereby pro­

moting agriculture. But of still greater moment was the

construction of the imperial highways in the provinces,

which beyond doubt began in this epoch. The Domitian

highway after long preparations (ii. 198) furnished a secure

land-route from Italy to Spain, and was closely connected

with the founding of Aquae Sextiae and Narbo (P. 170); the

Gabinian (P. 177) and the Egnatian (P. 43) led from the

principal places on the east coast of the Adriatic sea—the

former from Salona, the latter from Apollonia and Dyrra-

chium—into the interior. Of the origin of these works no"

mention is to be found in the fragmentary tradition of this

epoch, but they were nevertheless undoubtedly connected

with the Gallic, Dalmatian, and Macedonian wars of this

age, and came to be of the greatest importance for the cen­

tralization of the state and the civilizing of the subjugated

barbarian districts.

In Italy at least great works of drainage were prosecuted

160. as well as the formation of roads. In 594 the drying of the

Pomptine marshes—a vital matter for Central Italy—was

set about with great energy and at least temporary success;

] 09. in 645 the draining of the low-lying lands between Parma and

Placentia was effected in connection with the construction of

the north Italian highway. Moreover, the government did

much for the Roman aqueducts, as indispensable for the

health and comfort of the capital as they were costly. Not

only were the two that had been in existence since the years

312. 262. 442 and 492—the Appian and the Anio aqueducts—tho-

144. roughly repaired in 610, but two new ones were formed; the

Marcian in 610, which remained afterwards unsurpassed for

the excellence and abundance of the water, and the Calida,

as it was called, nineteen years later. The power of the

Roman exchequer to execute great operations by means of

payments in pure cash without making use of the system of

credit, is very clearly shown by the way in which the Marcian

aqueduct was created: the sum required for it of 180,000,000

sesterces (in gold nearly £2,000,000) was raised and applied

within three years. This leads us to infer a very considerable

reserve in the treasury: in fact at the very beginning of this

