110 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

Agrarian

laws.

an order of succession to be fixed on each occasion by lot.

While these enactments were mainly designed to procure

for the new chief of the state by means of the city-proleta­

riate the complete command of' the capital and thereby of

the state, the amplest control over the comitial machinery,

and the power in case of need of striking terror into the

senate and magistrates, the legislator certainly at the same

time set himself with earnestness and energy to redress the

existing social evils. It is true that the Italian domain

question was in a certain sense settled. The agrarian law

of Tiberius and even the allotment-commission still con­

tinued in force; the agrarian law carried by Gracchus can

have enacted nothing new save the restoration to the commis­

sioners of the jurisdiction which they had lost. That the object

of this step was only to save the principle, and that the dis­

tribution of lands, if resumed at all, was resumed only to a

very limited extent, is shown by the burgess-roll, which

gives exactly the same number of persons for the years 629

and 639. Gaius beyond doubt did not proceed further in

this matter, because the domain-land intended for distribu­

tion by his brother was already in substance distributed, and

the question as to the domains enjoyed by the Latins could

only be taken up anew in connection with the very difficult

question as to the extension of Roman citizenship. On the

other hand he took an important step beyond the agrarian

law of Tiberius, when he proposed the establishment of

colonies in Italy—at Tarentum, and more especially at

Capua—and by that course rendered the domain-land, which

had been let on lease by the state and was hitherto excluded

from distribution, liable to be also parcelled out, not, how­

ever, according to the previous method which did not contem­

plate the founding of new communities, but according to the

colonial system (P. 102). Beyond doubt these colonies were

also designed to aid in permanently defending the revolution,

to which they owed their existence. Still more significant

line coloni- and momentous was the measure, by which Gaius Gracchus

ration. gr.^ proceeded to provide for the Italian proletariate in.' the

transmarine territories of the state. He despatched to the

site on which Carthage had stood 6000 colonists selected

perhaps not merely from Roman burgesses but also from the

Italian allies, and conferred on the new town of Janonia the

rights of a Roman burgess-colony. The foundation was im­

portant, but still more important was the principle of trans-

125.

115.

Colony of

Capua.

Transma-

