Chap. X.] THE SCXL&X OOKSTnTTIOX. S55

we may so speak, a thins; necessary to the introduction of

the new despotism, and to prosecute and make others pro­

secute the work of massacre almost with indifference. But

the reign of terror presented an appearance only the more

horrible, when it proceeded from the conservative side and

was in some measure devoid of passion; the commonwealth

seemed all the more irretrievably lost, when the frenzy and

the crime on both sides were equally balanced.

In regulating the relations of Italy and of the capital, Mairte-

Sulla—although he generally in other instances treated as nance of

null all state-acts done during the revolution excepting in thebnrgess-

the transaction of current business—firmly adhered to the nSnt? P1*"

principle, which it had laid down, that every burgess of an ferred.

Italian community was ipso facto a burgess also of Some;

the distinctions between burgesses and Italian allies, between

old burgesses with better, and new burgesses with more

restricted, privileges, were and remained abolished. In the

case of the freedmen alone the unrestricted right of suffrage

was again withdrawn, and the old state of matters was re­

stored. To the aristocratic ultras this might seem a great

concession; Sulla perceived that it was necessary to wrest

these mighty levers out of the hands of the revolutionary

chiefs, and that the rule of the oligarchy was not materially

endangered by increasing the number of the burgesses.

But with this concession in principle was combined a Punish-

most rigid inquisition, conducted by special commissioners ments in-

with the co-operation of the garrisons distributed through- fllct?d »"

out Italy, in respect to particular communities in all com^..ar

districts of the land. Several towns were rewarded; for in- nities.

stance Brundisium, the first community which had joined

Sulla, now obtained the exemption from customs so im­

portant for such a sea-port; more were punished. The less

guilty were required to pay fines, to pull down their walls,

to raze their citadels; in the case of those whose opposition

had been most obstinate the regent confiscated a part of

their territory, in some cases even the whole of it—as it

certainly might be regarded in law as forfeited, whether

they were to be treated as burgess-communities which had

borne arms against their fatherland, or as allied states

which had waged war with Rome contrary to their treaties of

perpetual peace. In this case all the dispossessed burgesses—

but these only—were deprived of their municipal, and at the

same time of the Roman, franchise, receiving in return the

