Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING M1THRADATES. 287

Chersonese by his troops had become the signal for the

Asiatic war (ii. 260), and could not but see that the occupation

of the Tauric Chersonese by the Pontic king ought still less

to be tolerated now. The scale was at last turned by the Interven-

practical reunion of the kingdom of Cappadocia, respecting t>on of the

which, moreover, Nicomedes of Bithynia—who on his partsenate-

had hoped to gain possession of Cappadocia by another

Pseudo-Ariarathes, and now saw that the Pontic pretender

excluded his own—would not fail to urge the Roman

government to intervention. The senate resolved that

Mithradates should reinstate the Scythian princes—so far

were they driven out of the track of right policy by their

negligent style of government, that instead of supporting the

Hellenes against the barbarians they had now on the contrary

to support the Scythians against those who were half their

countrymen. Paphlagonia was declared independent, and

the Pseudo-Pylaemenes of Nicomedes as well as Mithradates

were directed to evacuate the portions of the country which

they had occupied. In like manner the Pseudo-Ariarathes

was to retire from Cappadocia, and, as the representatives of

the country refused the freedom proffered to it, a king was

once more to be appointed by free popular election. The

decrees sounded energetic enough; only it was an error, that Sulla sent

iustead of sending an army they directed the governor ofto Cappado-

Cilicia, Lucius Sulla, with the handful of troops whom he cli1,

commanded there against the pirates and robbers, to inter­

fere in Cappadocia. Fortunately the remembrance of the

former energy of the Romans defended their interests in the

East hetter than the existing government did, and the energy

and versatility of the governor supplied what the senate left

to be desired in both respects. Mithradates kept back and

contented himself with inducing Tigranes the great king of

Armenia, who held a freer position with reference to the

Komans than he did, to send troops to Cappadocia. Sulla

quickly collected his forces and the contingents of the Asiatic

allies, crossed the Taurus, and drove the governor Gordius

along with his Armenian auxiliaries out of Cappadocia. This

proved effectual. Mithradates yielded on all points; Gor­

dius had to assume the blame of the Cappadocian troubles,

and the Pseudo-Ariarathes disappeared; the election of king,

which the Pontic faction had vainly attempted to direct

towards Gordius, fell on the estimable Cappadocian Ario-

barzanes. When Sulla in following out his expedition

