Chap. X.] THE StTLLAN CONSTITUTION. S59

intrusting the office of jurymen to men of equestrian census

procured for the capitalist class an indirect share in ad­

ministration and in government, which proved not seldom

stronger than the executive; Sulla abolished the eques­

trian and restored the senatorial courts. Gaius Gracchus

or at any rate the Gracchan period had conceded to the

equites a special place at the popular festivals, such as the

senators had for long possessed (ii. 321); Sulla abolished it

and relegated the equites to the plebeian benches.* The

equestrian order, created as such by Gaius Gracchus, was de­

prived of its political existence by Sulla. The senate was to

exercise the supreme power in legislation, administration, and

jurisdiction unconditionally, indivisibly, and permanently,

and was to be distinguished also by outward tokens not

merely as a privileged, but as the only privileged, order.

For this purpose the governing board had, first of all, to Reorganiza-

have its ranks filled up and to be itself placed on a footing tIon of tl,e

of independence. The numbers of the senators had been sena e'

fearfully reduced by the recent crises. Sulla no doubt now

gave to those who were exiled by the equestrian courts

liberty to return, for instance to the consular Publius Kuti-

lius Rufus (P. 219), who however made no use of the per­

mission, and to Gaius Cotta the friend of Drusus (P. 237);

but this made only slight amends for the gaps which the revo­

lutionary and reactionary reigns of terror had created in the

ranks of the senate. Accordingly by Sulla's directions the its comple-

senate had its complement extraordinarily made up by the ment filled

addition of about 300 new senators, whom the assembly of UP ov.ex"

the tribes had to nominate from among those of equestrian traol.dml,r.v

census, and whom they selected, as was natural, chiefly from

the younger men of the senatorial houses on the one hand,

and from Sullan officers and others brought into prominence

by the last revolution on the other. For the future also the

mode of admission to the senate was regulated anew and

pro Flacc. 14, 32), and by the further circumstance, that on occasion of

building a fleet in 672 the sums applied for that purpose were deducted from
the 8'2.

payment of tribute (ex pecunia rectigali populo Romano (Cic. Verr. I. i. 35,
89).

Lastly, Cicero [ad Q. fr. i. 1,11, 33) directly says, that the Greeks " were
not

in a position of themselves to pay the tax imposed on them by Sulla without

publicani."

* P. 114. Tradition has not indeed informed us by whom that law was  
issued, which rendered it necessary that the earlier privilege should be
renewed

by the Koman theatre-law of 687 (Becker-Friedlander, iv. 531); but the 67.

autbor of that law was, from the state of the case, undoubtedly Sulla.

