Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 127

proposed, which prohibited the planting of the colony of

Junonia. Gracchus, who with the other men nominated to

establish it was just then selecting the colonists, appeared

on the day of voting at the Capitol whither the burgesses

were convoked, with a view to procure by means of his

adherents the rejection of the law. He wished to shun acts

of violence, that he might not himself supply his opponents

with the pretext which they sought; but he had not been

able'to prevent a great portion of his faithful partisans, who

remembered the catastrophe of Tiberius and were well

acquainted with the designs of the aristocracy, from appear­

ing in arms, and amidst the immense excitement on both

sides quarrels could hardly be avoided. The consul Lucius

Opimius offered the usual sacrifice in the porch of the Capito-

line temple; one of the attendants assisting at the ceremony,

Quintus Antullius, with the holy entrails in his hand,

haughtily ordered "bad citizens" to quit the porch, and

seemed as though he would lay hands on Gaius himself;

whereupon a zealous Gracchan drew his sword and cut the

man down. A fearful tumult arose. Gracchus vainly

sought to address the people and to avert from himself the

responsibility of the sacrilegious murder; he only furnished

his antagonists' with a fresh and formal ground of accusa­

tion, as, without being aware of it in the confusion, he

interrupted a tribune in the act of speaking to the people—,

an offence, for which an obsolete statute, originating at the

time of the old dissensions between the orders (i. 283), had

prescribed the severest penalty. The consul Lucius Opimius

took his measures to put down by force of arms the insur­

rection for the overthrow of the republican constitution, as

they chose to designate the events of this day. He himself

passed the night in the temple of Castor in the Forum; at

early dawn the Capitol was filled with Cretan archers, the

senate-house and Fonmi with the men of the government

party—the senators, and the fraction of the equites adhering

to them—who by order of the consul had all appeared in

arms and each attended by two armed slaves. None of the

aristocracy were absent; even the aged and venerable

Quintus Metellus, well disposed to reform, had appeared

with shield and sword. An officer of ability and experience

acquired in the Spanish wars, Decimus Brutus, was intrusted

with the command of the armed force; the senate assembled

in the senate-house. The bier with the corpse of Antullius

