G2 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

The Par- Of still more importance in the sequel than this insurrec-

thianem- tion of the Israelites was the contemporary movement—

1ih-e. probably originating from the same cause—in the eastern

provinces, where Antiochus Epiphanes emptied the temples

of the Persian gods just as he had emptied that at Jerusalem,

and doubtless accorded no better treatment to the adherents

of Ahuramazda and Mithra than to those of Jehovah. Just

as in Judaea—only with a wider range and ampler propor­

tions—the result was a reaction on the part of the native

manners and the native religion against Hellenism and the

Hellenic gods; the promoters of this movement were the

Parthians, and out of it arose the great Parthian empire.

The "Parthwa," or Parthians, who are early met with as

one of the numerous tribes merged in the great Persian

empire, living first of all in the modern Khorasan to the south-

250. east of the Caspian sea, appear after 500 as an independent

state under the Scythian, i. e. Turanian, dynasty of the

Arsacidae. This state, however, only emerged from its

obscurity about a century afterwards. The sixth Arsaces,

175-136. Mithradates I. (579 ?-618 P), was the real founder of the

great Parthian power. The Bactrian empire, in itself far more

powerful, but already shaken to the very foundation partly by

hostilities with the hordes of Scythian horsemen from Turan

and with the states of the Indus, partly by internal dis­

orders, succumbed to him. He achieved almost equal

successes in the countries to the west of the great desert.

The Syrian empire was just then in the utmost disorganiza­

tion, partly through the failure of the Hellenizing attempts of

Antiochus Epiphanes, partly through the troubles as to the

succession that occurred after his death; and the provinces

of the interior were in full course of breaking off from

Antioch and the region of the coast. In Commagene for

instance, the most northerly province of Syria on the

Cappadocian frontier, the satrap Ptolemaeus asserted his

independence, as did also on the opposite bank of the

Euphrates the prince of Edessa in northern Mesopotamia

or the province of Osroene, and the satrap Timarchus in

the important province of Media; in fact the latter got his

independence confirmed by the Roman senate, and, sup­

ported by Armenia as his ally, ruled as far down as Seleucia

rains with the name of Simon, the prince (Nessi) of Israel, belong not to him,

l)u t to Bar-Cochba the leader of the insurgents in the time of Hadrian.

