36 . . THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

amounting to 30,000 men, to Hasdrubal. The new com足

mander displayed his energy in the first instance by giving

orders that all the Roman prisoners should be brought to

the battlements and, after undergoing cruel tortures, should

be thrown over before the eyes of the besieging army; and,

when voices were raised in disapproval of the act, a reign of

terror was introduced with reference to the citizens also.

Scipio meanwhile, after having confined the besieged to the city

itself, sought totally to cut off their intercourse with the

outer world. He took up his head-quarters on the ridge by

which the Carthaginian peninsula was connected with the

mainland, and, notwithstanding the various attempts of the

Carthaginians to disturb his operations, constructed a great

camp across the whole breadth of the isthmus, which com足

pletely shut off the city from the landward side. Nevertheless

ships with provisions still ran into the harbour, partly bold

merchantmen allured by the great gain, partly vessels of

Bithyas, who availed himself of every favourable wind to

convey supplies to the city from Nepheris at the end of the

lake of Tunes; whatever might now be the sufferings of

the citizens, the garrison was still sufficiently provided for.

Scipio therefore constructed a stone mole, 96 feet broad,

running" from the tongue of land between the lake and gulf

into the latter, so as thus to close the mouth of the harbour.

The city seemed lost, when the success of this undertaking,

which was at first ridiculed by the Carthaginians as imprac足

ticable, became evident. But one surprise was balanced

by another. While the Roman labourers were constructing

the mole, work was going forward night and day for two months

in the Carthaginian harbour, without even the deserters

being able to tell what were the designs of the besieged.

All of a sudden, just as the Romans had completed the

bar across the entrance to the harbour, fifty Carthaginian

triremes and a number of boats and skiffs sailed forth

from that same harbour into the gulf; while the enemy

were stopping up the old mouth of the harbour towards the

south, the Carthaginians had by means of a canal formed in

an easterly direction procured for themselves a new outlet,

which owing to the depth of the sea at that spot could not

possibly be closed. Had the Carthaginians, instead of

resting content with a mere demonstration, thrown them足

selves at once and resolutely on the half-dismantled and

wholly unprepared Roman fleet, it must have been lost;

