Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 187

Of more importance than these measures of revenge was Marius

the question how the dangerous war beyond the Alps was commandvr

to be further carried on, and first of all to whom the su- m"chie*.

now inform us, that a law proposed by Lucius Appuleius Saturninus

brought about this catastrophe. This is evidently no other than the Appuleian

law as to the minuta majestas of the Korean state (Cic. de Or. ii. 25, 107;

49, 201), i. e. the proposal of Saturninus for the appointment of an
extraordi­

nary commission to investigate the treasons that had taken place during the

Cimbrian troubles. The commission of inquiry as to the gold of Tolosa (Cic.

de N. D. iii. 30, 74), arose out of the Appuleian law, in the very same waj-
as

the special courts of inquiry—further mentioned in that passage—as to a scan­

dalous bribery of judges out of the Mucian law of 613, as to the occurrences
141.

with the Vestals out of the Peducaean law of 641, and as to the Jugurthine war
H'3.

out of the Mamilian law of 644. A comparison of these cases also shows that
110.

in such special commissions—different in this respect from the ordinary ones

—even punishments affecting life and limb might be and were inflicted. The

fact that elsewhere the tribune of the people, Gaius Norbanus, is named as the

person who set agoing the proceedings against Caipio and was afterwards

brought to trial for doing so (Cic. de Or. ii. 40, 167; 48, 199; 49, 200;

Or. Part. 30,105, et al.) is not inconsistent with the view given above; for

the proposal proceeded as usual from several tribunes of the people (ad
Herenn.

i. 14, 24 ; Cic. de Or. ii. 47, 197), and, as Saturninus was already dead when

the aristocratic party was in a position to think of retaliation, they
fastened

on his colleague. As to the period of this second and final condemnation of

Csepio, the usual very inconsiderate hypothesis, which places it in 659, ten
95.

years after the battle of Arausio, has been already rejected. It rests simply
on

the fact that Crassus when consul, consequently in 659, spoke in favour of
Caepio 95,

(Cic. Brut. 44, 162) ; which, however, he manifestly did not as his advocate,

but on the occasion when Norbanus was brought to account by Publins Sulpicius

Rufus for his conduct toward Caepio in 659. Formerly we placed this second 95.

accusation in 650; now that we know that it originated from a proposal of 94.

Saturninus, we can only hesitate between 651, when he was tribune of the 103.

people for the first time (Plutarch, Mar. 14; Oros. v. 17 ; App. i. 28;
Diodor.

p. 608, 631), and 654, when he held that office a second time. There are not
100.

materials for deciding the point certainly, but the great preponderance of
pro­

bability is in favour of the former year; partly because it was nearer to the

disastrous events in Gaul, partly because in the tolerably full accounts of
the

second tribunate of Saturninus there is no mention of Quintus Caepio the

father and the acts of violence directed against him. The circumstance, that

the sums paid back to the treasury in consequence of the decisions as to the

embezzlement of the Tolosan booty were claimed by Saturninus in his second

tribunate for his schemes of colonization (De Viris III. 73, 5, and thereon

Orelli, Ind. Leg. p. 137), is not in itself decisive, and may, moreover, have

been easily transferred by mistake from the first African to the second
general

agrarian law of Saturninus.

The fact that afterwards, when Norbanus was impeached, his impeachment

proceeded on the very ground of the law which he had taken part in suggest­

ing, was an ironical incident common in the Roman political procedure of this

period (Cic. Brut. 89, 305) and should not mislead us into the belief that

the Appuleian law was, like the later Cornelian, a general law of high
treason.

