162 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. ("Book IV.

flew into a violent rage when king Bocchus afterwards

consecrated a golden sculpture at the Capitol, which re­

presented the surrender of Jugurtha to Sulla; and yet in

the eyes of unprejudiced judges the services of these two

threw the generalship of Marius very much into the shade

—more especially Sulla's brilliant expedition to the desert,

which had made his courage, his presence of mind, his

acuteness, his power over men to be recognized by the

general himself and by the whole army. In themselves

these military rivalries would have been of little moment,

if they had not been mixed up with the conflict of political

parties, if the opposition had not supplanted the senatorial

general by Marius, and if the party of the government had

not, with the deliberate intention of exasperating, praised

Metellus and still more Sulla as the military celebrities

and preferred them to the nominal victor. We shall have

to return to the fatal consequences of these irritating com­

parisons when narrating the internal history.

Reorganiza- Otherwise, this insurrection of the Numidian client-state

tion of Nil- passed away without producing any noticeable change

midia. either in political relations generally or even in those of the

African province. By a deviation from the policy else­

where followed at this period Numidia was not converted

into a Roman province; evidently because the country

could not be held without an army to protect the frontier

against the barbarians of the desert, and the Bomans were

by no means disposed to maintain a standing army in Africa.

They contented themselves accordingly with annexing the

most westerly district of Numidia, probably the tract from

the river Molochath to the harbour of Saldae (Bongie)—the

later Mauretania Caesariensis (province of Algiers)—to the

kingdom of Bocchus, and with handing over the kingdom of

Numidia thus diminished to the last legitimate grandson of

Massinissa still surviving, Gauda the half-brother of Ju-

108. gurtha, feeble in body and mind, who had already in 646 at

the suggestion of Marius asserted his claims before the

senate.* At the same time the Gaetulian tribes in the

* Sallust's political <7enre-painting of the Jngurthine war—the only picture  
that has preserved its colours fresh in the utterly faded and blanched tradi­

tion of this epoch—closes with the fall of Jugurtha, faithful to its style of

composition, poetical, not historical; nor does there elsewhere exist any con­

nected account of the treatment of the Numidian kingdom. That Gauhi

became Jugurtha's successor, is indicated by Sallust c. 65 and Dio. Fr. 79, 4,

