Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 219

government when measures against the democrats were in

question, it sternly resented every attempt to restrict it in

this its well-acquired right of unlimited sway in the pro­

vinces. Several such attempts were now made; the governing

aristocracy began again to feel its strength, and its very best

men reckoned themselves bound, at least for their own part,

to oppose the dreadful maladministration in the provinces.

The most resolute in this respect was Quintus Mucius

Scawola, like his father Publius pontifex maximus and in

659 consul, the foremost jurist and one of the most excellent 95.

men of his time. As praetorian governor (about 656) of 98.

Asia, the richest and worst abused of all the provinces, he—

in concert with his older friend, distinguished as an officer,

jurist, and historian, the consular Publius Rutilius Rufus—

set a severe and deterring example. Without making any

distinction between Italians and provincials, noble and

ignoble, he took up every complaint, and not only compelled

the Roman merchants and state-lessees to give full pecuniary

compensation for proven injuries, but, when some of their

most important and most unscrupulous agents were found

guilty of crimes deserving death, deaf to all offers of bribery

he ordered them to be duly crucified. The senate approved

his conduct, and even made it an instruction afterwards to

the governors of Asia that they should take as their model

the principles of Scaevola's administration; but the equites,

although they did not venture to meddle with that highly

aristocratic and influential statesman himself, brought to

trial his associates and ultimately (about 662) even the most 92,

considerable of them, his legate Publius Rufus, who was de­

fended only by his merits and recognized integrity, not by

family connection. The charge, that such a man had allowed

himself to perpetrate exactions in Asia, almost broke down

tinder its own absurdity and under the infamy of the

accuser, one Apicius; yet the welcome opportunity of

humbling the consular was not allowed to pass, and, when

the latter, disdaining false rhetoric, mourning robes, and

tears, defended himself briefly, simply, and to the point,

and proudly refused the homage which the sovereign capi­

talists desired, he was actually condemned, and his mode­

rate property was confiscated to satisfy fictitious claims for

compensation. The condemned resorted to the province

which he was alleged to have plundered, and there, wel­

comed by all the communities with honorary deputations, and

