Chap. XL] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 403

An approximate measure of the condition of Roman Thefinmices

finance at this period is furnished, in the absence of definite aniJ public

statements, first of all by the public buildings. In the bulldmgs.

earlier portion of this epoch these were prosecuted on the

greatest scale, and the construction of roads in particular

had at no time been so energetically pursued. In Italy'

the great southern highway of probably earlier origin, which

as a prolongation of the Appian road ran from Rome by

way of Capua, Beneventum, and Venusia to the ports of

Tarentum and Brundisium, had attached to it a branch-

road from Capua to the Sicilian straits, a work of Publius

Popillius Rufus, consul in 622. On the east coast, where 132.

hitherto only the section from Fanum to Ariminum had

been constructed as part of the Flaminian highway (ii. 83)

the coast road was prolonged southward as far as Brundi­

sium, northward by way of Hatria on the Po as far as

Aquileia, and the portion at least from Ariminum to Hatria

was formed by the Popillius just mentioned in the same

year. The two great Etruscan highways—the coast or

Aurelian road from Rome to Pisa and Luna, which was

in course of formation in 631, and the Cassian road leading 123.

by way of Sutrium and Clusium to Arretium and Florentia,

which seems not to have been constructed before 583— X71.

were probably first recognized at this time as Roman public

highways. About Rome itself new projects were not re­

quired; but the Mulvian bridge (Ponte Molle), by which

the Flaminian road crossed the Tiber not far from Rome,

was in 645 reconstructed of stone. Lastly in Northern 109.

Italy, which hitherto had possessed no other artificial road

than the Flaminio-iEmilian terminating at Placentia, the

great Postumian road was constructed in 606, which led 143.

from Genua by way of Dertona, where probably a colony was

founded at the same time, Placentia, where it joined the

Flaminio-^Emilian road, Cremona and Verona to Aquileia,

and thus connected the Tyrrhenian and Adriatic seas; to

which was added the communication established in 645 by 109.

Marcus iEmilius Scaurus between Luna and Genua, which

connected the Postumian road directly with Rome. Gaius

Gracchus exerted himself in another way for the improve­

ment of the Italian roads. He secured the due repair of

the great rural roads by assigning, on occasion of his distri­

bution of lands, pieces of ground alongside of the roads, to

which was attached the obligation of keeping them in repair

