340 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA.

The Pam-

nites and

democrats

attack

Home.

82.

Its leaders then determined to desist from the relief of

Praeneste and to throw themselves with all their united

strength on Home, which was only a good day's march

distant. By so doing they were, in a military point of

view, ruined; their line of retreat, the Latin road, would

by such a movement fall into Sulla's hands; and, even if they

got possession of Home, they would be infallibly crushed

there, enclosed as they would be within a city by no means

fitted for defence, and wedged in between the far superior

armies of Metellus and Sulla. Safety, however, was no

longer thought of; revenge alone dictated this march to

Rome, the last outbreak of fury in the passionate revolu­

tionists and especially in the despairing Sabellian nation.

Pontius of Telesia was in earnest, when he called out to his

followers that, in order to get rid of the wolves which had

robbed Italy of freedom, the forest in which they harboured

must be destroyed. Never was Rome in more fearful peril

than on the 1st November, 672, when Pontius, Lam nonius,

Carrinas, Damasippus advanced along the Latin road to­

wards Rome, and encamped about a quarter of a mile from

the Colline gate. It was threatened with a day like the

389. 20th July, 365 v.c. or the 15th June, 455 a.d.—the days

of the Celts and the Vandals. The time was gone by when

a coup de main against Rome was a foolish enterprise, and

the assailants could have no want of connections in the

capital. The band of volunteers which sallied from the

city, mostly noble youths, was scattered like chaff before

the immense superiority of force. The only hope of safety

Battle at rested on Sulla. The latter, on receiving accounts of the

the Colline departure of the Samnite army in the direction of Rome,

sate- had likewise set out in all haste to the assistance of the

capital. The appearance of his foremost horsemen under

Balbus in the course of the morning revived the sinking

courage of the citizens; about midday he appeared in person

with his main force, and immediately drew up his ranks for

battle at the temple of the Erycine Aphrodite before the

Colline gate (not far from Porta Pia). His officers adjured

him not to send tho troops exhausted by the forced march

at once into action; but Sulla took into consideration what

the night might bring on Rome, and, late as it was in the

afternoon, ordered the attack. The battle was obstinately

contested and bloody. The left wing of Sulla, which he led

in person, fell back as far as the city wall, so that it became

