Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 223

democracy, since the power of the oligarchy mainly rested

on their free control over the provinces and was endangered

by any permanent military command; the ideas of equalizing

Italy and the provinces and of making conquests beyond

the Alps were not compatible with conservative principles.

But the senate might very well sacrifice the Latin and even

the Campanian domains as well as Sicily in order to raise

the Italian farmer class, and yet retain the government as

before; to which fell to be added the consideration, that

they could not more effectually obviate future agitations

than by providing that all the land at all disposable should

be brought to distribution by the aristocracy itself, and that

according to Drusus' own expression, nothing should be left

for future demagogues to distribute but "the dirt and the

daylight." In like manner it was for the government—

whether that might be a monarch, or a close number of ruling

families—very much a matter of indifference, whether the

half or the whole of Italy possessed the Roman franchise;

and hence the reforming men on both sides probably could

not but light upon the idea of averting the danger of a

recurrence of the insurrection of Fregellae on a larger scale

by a judicious and reasonable extension of the franchise, and

of seeking allies, moreover, for their plans in the numerous

and influential Italians. While in the question of the

headship of the state the views and designs of the two great

political parties were palpably different, the best men of both

camps had many points of contact in their means of opera­

tion and in their reforming tendencies ; and, as Scipio iEmi-

lianus may be named alike among the adversaries of Tiberius

Gracchus and among the promoters of his reforming efforts,

so Drusus was the successor and disciple no less than the

antagonist of Gaius. The two high-born and high-minded

youthful reformers had a greater resemblance than was

apparent at the first glance; and, personally also, the two

were not unworthy to meet, as respects the substance of

their patriotic endeavours, in purer and higher views above

the obscuring mists of prejudiced partisanship.

The question at stake was the passing of the laws drawn Discussions

up by Drusus. Among these the proposer, just like Gaius on the Li-

Gracchus, kept in reserve for the moment the hazardous Tian laws-

proposal to confer the Roman franchise on the Italian allies,

and brought forward at first only the laws as to the jury­

men, the assignation of land, and the distribution of grain.

