Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 69

commercial rivals who were disagreeable to him were cleared

away by the armies of the state, and the most glorious cities

of neighbouring lands were sacrificed, not to the barbarism

of the lust of power, but to the far more horrible barbarism of

speculation. Thus too arose the new military organization or

rather disorganization, whereby the state, which yet was

solely dependent in the last resort on its military superio­

rity, undermined its own support. The fleet was allowed

to go to ruin; the system of land-warfare fell into the

most incredible decay. The duty of guarding the Asiatic

and African frontiers was devolved on the subjects; and

what could not be so devolved, such as the defence of the

frontier in Italy, Macedonia, and Spain, was managed after

the most wretched fashion. The better classes began to

disappear so much from the army, that it was already

difficult to raise the necessary number of officers for the

Spanish armies. The daily increasing aversion to the

Spanish war-service in particular, combined with the par­

tiality shown by the magistrates in the levy, rendered it

necessary in 602 to abandon the old practice of leaving the 152.

selection of the requisite number of soldiers from the men

liable to serve to the free discretion of the officers, and to

substitute for it a drawing of the necessary number by ballot,

certainly not to the advantage of the military esprit de corps,

or of the aptitude for war of the individual divisions. The

authorities, instead of acting with vigour and strictness,

extended their pitiful flattery of the people even to this

.field; whenever a consul in the discharge of his duty insti­

tuted rigorous levies for the Spanish service, the tribunes

made use of their constitutional right to arrest him (603, 151.

616); and it has been already observed, that Scipio's request 138.

that he should be allowed a levy for the Numantine war,

was directly rejected by the senate. Accordingly, the Roman

armies before Carthage or Numantia already remind one

of those Syrian armies, in which the number of bakers,

cooks, actors, and other non-combatants exceeded fourfold

that of the so-called soldiers; already the Roman generals

are little behind their Carthaginian colleagues in the art of

destroying armies, and the wars in Africa as in Spain, in Ma­

cedonia as in Asia, are regularly opened with defeats; the

murder of Gnaeus Octavius is now passed over in silence;

the assassination of Viriathus is now a masterpiece of Ro­

man diplomacy; the conquest of Numantia is now a great

