368 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

subject, to the ordinary Koman authorities; and it became

one of the fundamental principles of Koman state-law, that

no troops and no commandant should ordinarily be sta­

tioned in this district. The Celtic country south of the Alps

on the other hand, in which a military command could

not be dispensed with on account of the continued incur­

sions of the Alpine tribes, was constituted a distinct

governorship after the model of the earlier transmarine com­

mands.* Lastly, as the number of praetors to be nominated

yearly was raised from six to eight, the new arrangement of

the duties was such, that the ten chief magistrates to be

nominated yearly devoted themselves, during their first year

of office, as consuls or praetors to the business of the capital

—the two consuls to government and administration, two

of the praetors to the administration of civil law, the remain­

ing six to the reorganized administration of criminal justice

—and, during their second year of office, were as proconsuls

or propraetors invested with the command in one of the ten

governorships: Sicily, Sardinia, the two Spains, Macedonia,

Asia, Africa, Narbo, Cilicia, and Italian Gaul. The already

* For this hypothesis there is no other proof, except that Celtic Italy was  
as decidedly not a province—in the sense in which the word signifies a
definite

district administered by a governor annually changed—in the earlier times, as

it certainly was one in the time of Caesar (comp. Licin. p, 39; data erat et

BuBa provincia Gallia Cisalpina.

The case is much the same with the advancement of the frontier; we know

that formerly the JEsis, and in Caesar's time the Kubico, separated the Celtic

land from Italy, but we do not know when the boundary was shifted. From

the circumstance indeed, that Marcus Terentius Vairo Lucullus as propraetor

undertook a regulation of the frontier in the district between the iEsis and
Kubico

(Orelli, Inscr. 570), it has been inferred that that must still have been
provincial

75. land at least in the year after Lucullus' praetorship 679, since the
propraetor

had nothing to do on Italian soil. But it was only within the pomerium that

every prolonged imperium ceased of itself; in Italy, on the other hand, such

a prolonged imperium was even under Sulla's arrangement allowable, though

not in ordinary circumstances occurring. Lucullus, therefore, might still have

acted as propraetor in extraordinary circumstances there; but no such
hypothesis

is required. This very Lucullus was aheady before the Sullan reorganization

32. in 672 engaged as commanding officer in this distinct (P. 337) and was
probably,

just like Pompeius, furnished by Sulla with proprtetorian powers; in this

82. 81. character he must have regulated the boundary in question in 672 or
673

(comp. Appian. i. 95), so that no inference may be drawn theuce as to the

legal position of the district. On the other hand a remarkable hint is con­

tained in the statement, that Sulla advanced the Roman pomerium (Seneca, de

Brev. Vitae, 14; Dio, xliii. 50); which distinction was by Koman state-law

only accorded to one who had advanced the bounds not of the empire, bat of

the city—that is, the bounds of Italy (i. 107).

'>

