218 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

of for long in Cyrene, Syria, and Asia Minor. Never since

the commencement of the revolution had the government of

the restoration been so firmly established, or so popular.

Consular laws were substituted for tribunician; restrictions

on liberty replaced measures of progress. The cancelling

of the laws of Saturninus was a matter of course; the trans­

marine colonies of Marrus disappeared down to a single

petty settlement on the barbarous island of Corsica. When

the tribune of the people Sextus Titius—a caricatured

Alcibiades, who was greater in dancing and ball-playing

than in politics, and whose most eminent talent consisted

in breaking the images of the gods in the streets at night—

99. re-introduced and carried the Appuleian agrarian law in 655,

the senate was able to annul the new law on a religious

pretext without any one even attempting to defend it; the

author of it was punished, as we have already mentioned, by

98. the equites in their tribunals. Next year (656) a law brought

in by the two consuls made the usual seven days' interval

between the introduction and the passing of a project of law

obligatory, and forbade the combination of several enactments

different in their nature in one proposal; by which means the

unreasonable extent of the initiative power in legislation was

at least somewhat restricted, and the government was pre­

vented from being openly taken by surprise with new

laws. It became daily more evident that the Gracchan con­

stitution, which had survived the fall of its author, was now,

since the multitude and the moneyed aristocracy no longer

went together, tottering to its foundations. As that consti­

tution had been based on a division in the ranks of the aris­

tocracy, so it seemed that dissensions in the ranks of the

opposition could not fail to bring about its fall. Now, if

ever, the time had come for completing the unfinished work of

121. restoration of 633, for finally sending his constitution after

the tyrant, and for replacing the governing oligarchy in the

sole possession of political power.

Collision Everything depended on recovering the nomination of the

between the jurymen. The administration of the provinces—the chief

equites In foundation of the senatorial government—had become de-

theadmi- pendent on the jury courts, more particularly on the com-

nistration of mission regarding exactions, to such a degree that the

the pro- governor of a province seemed to administer it no longer

vinces. £or ^ genate, Dut; for the or(ier of capitalists and merchants.

Ready as the moneyed aristocracy always was to meet the

