44 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

for the movements against the turbulent Dalmatians, and

on the other hand for the numerous expeditions against the

Illyrian, Celtic, and Thracian tribes settled to the north of

the Grecian peninsula, which we shall afterwards have to

exhibit in their historical connection.

Greece. Greece proper had greater occasion than Macedonia to

congratulate herself on the favour of the ruling power;

and the Philhellenes of Rome were probably of opinion

that the calamitous effects of the war with Perseus were

disappearing, and that the state of things in general was im­

proving there. The bitterest abettors of the now dominant

party, Lyciscus the iEtolian, Mnasippus the Boeotian, Chre-

matas the Acarnanian, the infamous Epirot Charops whom

honourable Romans forbade even to enter their houses, de­

scended one after another to the grave; another generation

grew up, in which the old recollections and the old antago­

nisms had faded. The senate thought that the time for general

150. forgiveness and oblivion had come, and in 604 released the

survivors of those Achaean patriots who had been confined

for seventeen years in Italy, and whose liberation the

Achaean diet had never ceased to demand. Nevertheless

they were mistaken. How little the Romans with all their

Philhellenism had been successful in really harmonizing Hel­

lenic patriotism, was nowhere more clearly apparent than in

the attitude of the Greeks towards the Attalids. King

Eumenes II. was, as a friend of the Romans, extremely

hated in Greece (ii. 291); but scarcely had a coldness arisen

between him and the Romans, when he became suddenly

popular in Greece, and the Hellenic votary of hope expected

the deliverer from a foreign yoke to come now from Perga-

mus as formerly from Macedon. Social disorganization more

especially was visibly on the increase among the petty states

of Hellas now left to themselves. The country became

desolate not through war and pestilence, but through the

daily increasing disinclination of the higher classes to trouble

themselves with wife and children; on the other hand the

criminal or the thoughtless flocked as hitherto chiefly to

Greece, to await the recruiting officer there. The com­

munities sank into daily deeper debt, and into financial dis­

honour and a corresponding want of credit: some cities,

more especially Athens and Thebes, resorted in their financial

distress to direct robbery, and plundered the neighbouring

communities. The internal dissensions in the leagues also—

