Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 285

the part of Pontus as having heen bequeathed by the testa­

ment of the last of the Pylaemenidae to king Mithradates

Euergetes: against this, however, legitimate or illegitimate

pretenders and the land itself protested. As to Cappadocia,

the Pontic rulers had not forgotten that this country and

Cappadocia on the sea had been formerly united, and con­

tinually cherished ideas of reunion. Paphlagonia was occu­

pied by Mithradates in concert with Nicomedes king of

Bithynia, with whom he shared the land and thereby drew

him wholly over to his interests. To cover in some degree

the manifest violation of right, Nicomedes equipped one of

his sons with the name of Pylaemenes and designated him as

nominal ruler of Paphlagonia. The policy of the allies

adopted still worse expedients in Cappadocia. King Aria-

rathes VI. was killed by Gordius, it was said by the orders,

at any rate in the interest, of Ariarathes' brother-in-law

Mithradates Eupator: his young son Ariarathes could only

meet the encroachments of the king of Bithynia by means

of the ambiguous help of his uncle, in return for which the

latter then suggested to him that he should allow the mur­

derer of his father, who had taken flight, to return to Cappa­

docia. This led to a rupture and to war; but when the two

armies stood ready for battle, the uncle requested a pre­

vious conference with the nephew and thereupon cut down

the unarmed youth with his own hand. Gordius, the mur­

derer of the father, then undertook the government by the

directions of Mithradates; and although the indignant

population rose against him and called the younger son of

the last king to the throne, the latter was unable to offer

any permanent resistance to the superior forces of Mithra­

dates. The speedy death of the youth placed by the people

on the throne gave to the Pontic king the greater liberty of

action, because with that youth the Cappadocian royal house

became extinct. A Pseudo-Ariarathes was proclaimed as

nominal regent, just as had been done in Paphlagonia; under

whose name Gordius administered the kingdom as lieutenant

of Mithradates.

Mightier than any native monarch for many a day had Empire of

been, Mithradates bore rule alike over the northern and MiUirada-

the southern shores of the Black Sea and far into the tes'

interior of Asia Minor. The resources of the king for war

by land and by sea seemed immeasurable. His recruiting

field stretched from the mouth of the Danube to the Cauca-

