Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 191

give up the assault, and to march onward to Italy past the

camp. For six successive days they continued to defile—a

proof of the cumbrousness of their baggage still more than

of the immensity of their numbers. The general permitted

the march to proceed without attacking them. We can

easily understand why he did not allow himself to be led

astray by the insulting inquiries of the enemy whether the

Romans had no commissions for their wives at home; but

the fact, that he did not take advantage of this rash defiling

of the barbarian columns in front of the concentrated Roman

troops for the purpose of attack, shows how little he trusted

his unpractised soldiers.

When the march was over, he broke up his encampment Battle of

and followed in the steps of the enemy, preserving rigorous Muie Sex"

order and carefully entrenching himself night after night. ilX"

The Teutones, who were striving to gain the coast road,

marching down the banks of the Rhone reached the district

of Aquae Sextiae, followed by the Romans. The light Ligu-

rian troops of the Romans, as they were drawing water,

here came into collision with the Celtic rear-guard, the

Ambrones; the conflict soon became general; after a hot

struggle the Romans conquered and pursued the retreating

enemy up to their waggon-stronghold. This first successful

collision elevated the spirits of the general as well as of the

soldiers; on the third day after it Marius drew up his array

for a decisive battle on the hill, the summit of which bore

the Roman camp. The Teutones, long impatient to measure

themselves against their antagonists, immediately rushed up

the hill and began the conflict. It was severe and protracted:

up to midday the Germans stood like a wall; but the un­

wonted heat of the Provencal sun relaxed their energies,

and a false alarm in their rear, where a band of Roman camp-

boys ran forth from a wooded ambuscade with loud shouts,

fully decided the breaking up of the wavering ranks. The

whole horde was scattered, and, as was to be expected in a

foreign land, either put to death or taken prisoners. Among

the captives was King Teutobod; among the killed a multi­

tude of women, who, not unacquainted with the treatment

which awaited them as slaves, had caused themselves to be

slain in desperate resistance at their waggons, or had put

themselves to death in captivity, after having vainly re­

quested to be dedicated to the service of the gods and of the

sacred virgins of Vesta (summer of 652). 102.

