248 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

franchise on the burgesses of all those communities of Italian

allies, which had not up to that time openly declared against

Rome; a second emanating from the tribunes of the people

Marcus Plautius Silvanus and Gaius Papirius Carbo, laid

down for every man who had citizenship and domicile in Italy

a term of two months, within which he was to be allowed

to acquire the Roman franchise by presenting himself before

a Roman magistrate. But these new burgesses were to be

restricted in a way similar to the freedmen, inasmuch as

they could only be enrolled in eight, as the freedmen only in

four, of the thirty-five tribes; whether the restriction" was

personal or, as it would rather seem, hereditary, cannot be

determined with certainty.

Bestowal of This measure related primarily to Italy proper, which at

Latin rights that time extended northward little beyond Ancona and

on.. e Florence. In Cisalpine Gaul, which was in the eye of the

Celts. law a foreign country, but in administration and colonization

had long passed as part of Italy, all the Latin colonies were

treated like the Italian communities. Of the other hitherto

allied townships in that quarter those—not very numerous—

situated on the south side of the Po received the franchise;

but the country between the Po and the Alps was in con-

89. sequence of a law brought in by the consul Strabo in 665

differently treated. It was organized after the Italian civic

constitution, so that the communities not adapted for this,

more especially the townships in the Alpine valleys, were

assigned to particular towns as dependent and tributary

villages. These new town-communities, however, were not

presented with the Roman franchise, but, by means of the

legal fiction that they were Latin colonies, were invested with

those rights which had hitherto belonged to the Latin towns of

inferior privileges. Thus Italy at that time ended practically

at the Po, while the Transpadane country was treated as

an outlying dependency; undoubtedly because the region

between the Apennines and the Po had long been organized

after the Italian model, whereas in the more northerly

portion,—in which, excepting Eporedia and Aquileia, there

were no civic or Latin colonies, and from which in fact the

native tribes had been by no means dislodged as they were

from the southern district—Celtic habits and the Celtic can­

tonal constitution still in great part subsisted.

Considerable as these concessions were, if we compare

them with the rigid exclusiveness which the Roman burgess­

