372 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

Permanent pointed by special laws. Of this sort were the special tribunals

and special constituted for particular cases («. g. Pp. 152, 186); the

Qiimtwnes. standing commissional tribunals, such as were appointed

for exactions (P. 73), for poisoning and assassination

(P. 112), perhaps also for bribery at elections and other

Ceutumvir- crimes in the course of the seventh century ; and, lastly, the

al court, court of the hundred and five or more briefly the hundred

men, also called, from the shaft of a spear employed in the

process as to property, the spear-court (hasta). The period

and circumstances in which this spear-court, which had

jurisdiction in processes as to Roman inheritance, originated,

are involved in obscurity; but they must, it may be presumed,

have been nearly the same as in the case of the essentially

similar criminal commissions mentioned above. As to the

presidency of these different tribunals there were different

regulations in the respective ordinances appointing them:

thus there presided over the tribunal as to exactions a praetor,

over the assassination-court a president specially nominated

from those who had been aediles, over the spear-court several

directors taken from the former quaestors. The jurymen both

for the ordinary and for the extraordinary procedure were, in

accordance with the Gracchan arrangement, taken from the

non-senatorial men of equestrian census: in the case of the

spear-court alone three jurymen were nominated by free

election from each of the thirty-five tribes, and the court

was composed of these hundred and five men.

Sullan Sulla's leading reforms were of a threefold character.

Quwdiaaes. First, he very considerably increased the number of the

jury-courts. There were henceforth separate judicial com­

missions for exactions; for murder, including arson and

perjury; for bribery at elections; for high treason and

any dishonour done to the Roman name; for adultery;

for the most heinous cases of fraud—the forging of wills

and of money; for the most heinous violations of honour,

particularly for injuries to the person and disturbance of the

domestic peace; perhaps also for embezzlement of public

moneys, for usury and other crimes; and for each of these

old or new tribunals Sulla issued a special ordinance set­

ting forth the crime and form of criminal procedure. The

authorities, moreover, were not deprived of the right to

appoint in case of emergency special courts for special

groups of crimes. As a result of this arrangement the

popular tribunals on the one hand, and the ordinary judicial

