Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 175

about Brescia from the Celtic Carnians in Friuli. The

Euganei and Veneti had long been peaceful subjects of the

Romans; whereas the peoples of the Alps proper were not

only still free, but made regular forays down from their

mountains into the plain between the Alps and the Po,

where they were not content with levying contributions,

but conducted themselves with fearful cruelty in the places

which they captured, not unfrequently slaughtering the

whole male population down to the infant in the cradle—the

practical answer, it may be presumed, to the Roman razzias

in the Alpine valleys. How dangerous these Raetian inroads

were, appears from the fact that one of them about 660 de­

stroyed the considerable township of Comum. 94,

If these Celtic and non-Celtic tribes having their settle- illyrian

ments upon and beyond the Alpine chain were already peoples,

variously intermingled, there was, as may easily be con­

ceived, a still more comprehensive intermixture of peoples

in the countries on the Lower Danube, where there were

no high mountain ranges, as in the more western regions,

to serve as natural walls of partition. The original Illyrian

population, of which the modern Albanians seem to be the

last pure survivors, was throughout, at least in the inte­

rior, largely mixed with Celtic elements, and the Celtic

armour and Celtic method of warfare were probably every­

where introduced in that quarter. Next to the Taurisci

came the Japydes, who had their settlements on the Julian Japydes.

Alps in the modern Croatia as far down as Fiume and

Zeng,—a tribe originally perhaps Illyrian, but largely

mixed with Celts. Bordering with these along the coast

were the already-mentioned Dalmatians, into whose rugged

mountains the Celts do not seem to have penetrated;

whereas in the interior the Celtic Scordisci, to whom the Scordisci.

tribe of the Triballi which was formerly especially powerful

there had succumbed, and who had played a principal part

in the Celtic expeditions to Delphi, were about this time

the leading nation along the Lower Save as far as the

Morava in the modern Bosnia and Servia. They roamed

far and wide towards Moesia, Thrace, and Macedonia, and

fearful tales were told of their savage valour and cruel cus­

toms. Their chief stronghold was the strong Segestica or

Siscia at the point where the Kulpa falls into the Save. The

peoples of the modern Hungary, Wallachia, and Bulgaria

still remained for the present beyond the horizon of the

