Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 91

sioners of a definite sum annually from the public chest for

the purchase of Italian lands for distribution. The new

•features in the Sempronian agrarian law, as compared with

the Licinio-Sextian, were, first, the clause in favour of the

hereditary possessors; secondly, the leasehold and inalien­

able tenure proposed for the new allotments; thirdly and

especially, the permanent executive, the absence of which

under the older law had been the chief reason why it had

remained virtually without practical application.

War was thus declared against the great landholders,

who now, as three centuries ago, found substantially their

organ in the senate; and once more, after a long interval, a

single magistrate stood forth in earnest opposition to the

aristocratic government. It took up the conflict in the

mode sanctioned by use and wont for such cases, viz. para­

lyzing the extravagant action of magistrates by means of

their colleagues (i. 322). A colleague of Gracchus, Marcus

Octavius, a resolute man who was seriously persuaded of the

objectionable character of the proposed domain law, inter­

posed his veto when it was about to be put to the vote; a

step, the constitutional effect of which was to set aside the

proposal. Gracchus then in his turn suspended the busi­

ness of the state and the administration of justice, and

placed his seal on the public chest. The government ac­

quiesced—it was inconvenient, but the year would draw to an

end. Gracchus in perplexity brought his law to the vote a

second time. Octavius of course repeated his veto; and to

the urgent entreaty of his colleague and former friend, that

he would not obstruct the salvation of Italy, he might reply

that on that very question, as to how Italy could be saved,

opinions differed, but that his constitutional right to use his

veto against the proposal of his colleague was beyond doubt.

The senate now made an attempt to open up to Gracchus.

a tolerable means of retreat; two cqnsulars challenged him

to discuss the matter further in the senate house, and the

tribune entered into the scheme with zeal. He sought to

construe this proposal as implying that the senate had con­

ceded the principle of distributing the domainland; but

neither was this implied in it, nor was the senate at all dis­

posed to yield in the matter; the discussions ended without

any result. Constitutional means were exhausted. In

earlier times under such circumstances men were not indis­

posed to let the proposal made go to sleep for the moment,

