Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 327

Quintus Metellus, who had fortunately escaped the mur­

derers, made an attempt to hold that province for the

Optimates; Marcus Crassus, the youngest son of the Publius

Crassus who had perished in the Marian massacre, went

to him from Spain, and reinforced him by a band which he

had collected there. But on their quarrelling with each

other they were obliged to yield to Gaius Fabius Hadrianus,

the governor appointed by the revolutionary government.

Asia was in the hands of Mithradates; consequently the

province of Macedonia, so far as it was in Sulla's power,

remained the only asylum of the exiled oligarchy. Sulla's

wife and children who had with difficulty escaped death,

and not a few senators who had made their escape, sought

refuge there, so that a sort of senate was soon formed at

his head-quarters. The government did not fail to issue Measures

decrees against the oligarchical proconsul. Sulla was deprived against

by the comitia of his command and of his other honours and Sulla'

dignities and outlawed, as was also the case with Metellus,

Appius Claudius, and other refugees of note; his house in

Bome was razed, his country estates were laid waste. But

such proceedings did not settle the matter. Had Gaius

Marius lived longer, he would doubtless have marched in

person against Sulla to those fields whither the fevered

visions of his death-bed drew him; the measures which

the government took after his death have been stated

already. Lucius Valerius Flaccus the younger,* who after

Marius' death was invested with the consulship and the

command in the East (068), was neither soldier nor officer; 86.

Gaius Fimbria who accompanied him was not without

* Lucius Valerius Flaccus, whom the Fasti name as consul in GG8, was not 86.

the consul of 654, but a younger man of the same name, perhaps son of the 100.

preceding. For, first, the law which prohibited re-election to the consulship

remained legally in full force from c. 603 (P. 72) to 673, and it is not
probable 151. 81.

that what was done in the case of Scipio /Fmilianus and Marius was done also

for Flaccus. Secondly, there is no mention anywhere, when either Flaccus

is named, of a double consulship, not even where it was necessary as in Cic.

pro Flacc. 32, 77. Thirdly, the Lucius Valerius Flaccus who was active in

Rome in 669 asprinceps seriatus and consequently of consular rank (Liv. 83),
85.

cannot have been the consul of 668, for the latter had already at that time
de- 86.

parted for Asia and was probably already dead. The consul of 654, censor in
100.

657, is the person whom Cicero (ad Att. viii. 3, 6), mentions among the con-
97.

sulars present in Rome in 667; he was in 669 beyond doubt the oldest of the
87. 85.

olil censors living and thus fitted to be princeps senatus; he was also the

interrex and the magister equitum of 672. On the other hand, the consul of 82.

668, who perished in Nicomedia (P. 307), was the father of the Lucius Flaccus
86

defended by Cicero (pro Flacc. 25, 61, comp. 23, 55. 32, 77).

