Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 353

bably also his noble birth procured for him indulgence and

permission to end his days in peace at his retreat in Mas-

silia; and Quintus Sertorius, who was wandering about as

an exile along the coast of Mauretania. But yet the heads

of slaughtered senators were piled up at the Servilian Basin,

at the point where the Vicus Jugarius opened into the

Forum, where the dictator had ordered them to be publicly

exposed; and among men of the second and third rank in

particular death reaped a fearful harvest. In addition to those

who were placed on the list for their services in or on behalf

of the revolutionary army with little discrimination, some­

times on account of money advanced to one of its officers

or on account of relations of hospitality formed with such

an one, the retaliation fell specially on the "hoarders "—

those capitalists who had sat in judgment on the senators

and had speculated in Marian confiscations; about 1600 of

the equites, as they were called,* were inscribed on the pro­

scription-list. In like manner the professional accusers, the

worst scourge of the nobility, who made it their trade to

bring men of the senatorial order before the eqviestrian

courts, had now to suffer for it—" how comes it to pass,"

an advocate soon after asked, "that they have left to

us the tribunals, when they were putting to death the

accusers and judges?" The most savage and disgraceful

passions raged without restraint for many months in Italy.

In the capital a Celtic band was primarily charged with the

executions, and Sullan soldiers and subaltern officers tra­

versed for the same purpose the different districts of Italy;

but every volunteer was also welcome, and the rabble high

and low pressed forward not only to earn the rewards of

murder, but also to gratify their own vindictive or covetous

dispositions under the mantle of political persecution. It

sometimes happened that the assassination did not follow,

but preceded, the placing of the name on the list of the pro­

scribed. One example shows the way in which these exe­

cutions took place. At Larinum, a town of new burgesses

and favourable to Marian views, one Statius Albius Oppi-

anicus, who had fled to Sulla's head-quarters to avoid a charge

of murder, made his appearance after the victory as com­

missioner of the regent, deposed the magistrates of the

town, installed himself and his friends in their room, and

* The Sextos Alfenus, frequently mentioned in Cicero's Oration on behalf of  
Publius Quinctius, was one of these.

TOL. III. 2 A

