Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 361

dcmbled* —an augmentation which was rendered necessary

by the great increase of the duties of the senate through the

transference to it of the functions of jurymen. As, more­

over, both the extraordinarily admitted senators and the

quaestors were nominated by the comitia tributa, the senate,

hitherto resting indirectly on the choice of the people (i.

335), was now thoroughly based on direct popular election;

and thus made as close an approach to a representative

government as was compatible with the nature of the oligarchy

and the notions of antiquity generally. The senate had in

course of time been converted from a corporation intended

merely to advise the magistrates into a board commanding the

magistrates and self-governing; it was only a consistent ad­

vance in the same direction, when the right of nominating

and cancelling senators originally belonging to the magis­

trates was withdrawn from them, and the senate was

placed on the same legal basis on which the magistrates'

power itself rested. The extravagant prerogative of the

censors to revise the list of the senate and to erase or add

names at pleasure was iu reality incompatible with an

organized oligarchic constitution. As provision was now

made for a sufficient regular recruiting of its ranks by the

election of the quaestors, the censorial revisions became

superfluous; and by their abeyance the essential principle at

the bottom of every oligarchy, the irremoveable character and

life-tenure of the members of the ruling order who obtained

seat and vote, was definitively consolidated.

In respect to legislation Sulla contented himself with re- Regulation*

viving the regulations made in 666, and securing to the "j *° C88-

senate the legislative initiative, which had long belonged to '^»^ur"

it practically, by legal enactment at least as against the tri-

bunes. The burgess-body remained formally sovereign; but

so far as its general assemblies were concerned, while it

* We cannot strictly speak of a fixed number of senatorr.. Though the  
censors before Sulla prepared on each occasion a list of 300 persons, there

always fell to be added to this list those non-senators who rilled curule
offices

between the time when the list was drawn up and the preparation of the next
one;

and after Sulla there were as many senators as there were surviving
quxstorians'

But it may be probably assumed that Sulla meant to bring the senate up to

500 or 600 members; and this number results, if we assume that 20 new

members, at an average age of 30, were admitted annually, and we estimate

the average duration of the senatorial dignity at from 25 to 30 years. At a

numerously attended sitting of the senate in Cicero's time 417 members were

present.

