Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 29

men were once more armed. That all this could be done

without the consuls, who were but a few miles off, learning

anything of it, is not the least marvellous feature in this mar­

vellous movement animated by a truly enthusiastic, and in

fact superhuman, national hatred. When at length the con­

suls, weary of waiting, broke up from their camp at Utica, and

thought that they should be able to scale the naked walls with

ladders, they found to their surprise and horror the battle­

ments crowned anew with catapults, and the large populous

city, which they had hoped to occupy like an open village,

able and ready to defend itself to the last man.

Carthage was rendered very strong both by the nature of situation of

its situation* and by the art of its inhabitants, who had very Carthage.

frequently to depend on the protection of its walls. Into

the broad gulf of Tunis, which is bounded on the west by

Cape Farina and on the east by Cape Bon, there projects in

a direction from west to east a promontory, which is encom­

passed on three sides by the sea and is connected with the

mainland only towards the west. This promontory, at its nar­

rowest piirt only about two miles broad and on the whole flat,

again expands towards the gulf, and terminates there in the

two heights of Jebel-Khawi and Sidi bu Said, between which

extends the plain of El Mersa. On its southern portion

which ends in the height of Sidi bu Said lay the city of

Carthage. The pretty steep declivity of that height towards

the gulf and its numerous rocks and shallows gave natural

strength to the side of the city next to the gulf, and a

simple circumvallation was sufficient there. On the wall

along the west or landward side, on the other hand, where

nature afforded no protection, every appliance within the

power of the art of fortification in those times was expended.

It consisted, as its recently discovered remains exactly tally­

ing with the description of Polybius have shown, of an outer

wall of six and a half feet in thickness and immense case­

mates constructed behind this wall probably along its whole

extent; these were separated from the outer wall by a

covered way six feet broad, and had a width of fourteen

* The line of the coast has heen in the course of centuries so much changed,  
that the former local relations are but imperfectly recognizable on the
ancient

site. The name of the city is preserved by Cape Cartagena—also called from

the saint's tomb found there Ras Sidi bu Said—the most eastern headland of

the peninsula, projecting into the gulf with its highest point rising to 393

feet above the level of the sea.

