254 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

thradatic

the fifth century, after the Italian confederation was shat­

tered, to force Rome with their own hand to recognize their

country's independence. But this resolution of the bravest

despair made not much change in the main result; although

the mountain-war in Samnium and Lucania might still re­

quire some time and some sacrifices, the insurrection was

nevertheless already substantially at an end.

Outbreak In the meanwhile, certainly, there had occurred a fresh

of the Mi- complication, for the Asiatic difficulties had rendered it im­

peratively necessary to declare war against Mithradates

king of Pontus, and for next year (666) to assign one consul

and a consular army to Asia Minor. Had this war broken

out a year earlier, the contemporary revolt of the half of

Italy and of the most important of the provinces would have

occasioned immense peril to the Roman state. Now that the

marvellous good fortune of Rome had once more been evinced

in the rapid collapse of the Italian insurrection, this Asiatic

war just beginning was, notwithstanding "b^its being mixed

up with the expiring Italian struggle, not of a really danger­

ous character; and the less so, because Mithradates in his ar­

rogance refused the invitation of the Italians that he should

afford them direct assistance. Still it was in a high degree

inconvenient. The times had gone by, when they without

hesitation carried on simultaneously an Italian and a trans­

marine war; the state-chest was already after two years of

war utterly exhausted, and the formation of a new army in

addition to that already in the field seemed scarcely prac­

ticable. But they resorted to such expedients as they could.

The sale of the sites that had from ancient times (i.115) re­

mained unoccupied on and near the citadel to persons desirous

of building, which yielded 9000 pounds of gold (£360,000),

furnished the requisite pecuniary means. No new army was

formed, but that which was under Sulla in Campania was

destined to embark for Asia, as soon as the state of things

in southern Italy should allow its departure; which might

be expected, from the progress of the army operating in the

north under Strabo, to happen soon.

88. So the third campaign in 666 began amidst favourable

Ihird cam- prospects for Rome. Strabo put down the last resistance

pa,gn' which was still offered in the Abruzzi. In Apulia Cosconius'

successor, Quintus Metellus Pius, son of the conqueror of

Numidia and not unlike his father in his strongly conserva­

tive views as well as in military endowments, put an end to

