138 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

merely to this much, that, as a general, he gained some cheap

village triumphs in the Alps and, as a statesman, won by his

laws about voting and luxury some victories nearly as serious

over the revolutionary spirit of the times. His real talent

consisted in his being quite as accessible and bribable as any

other upright senator, with only this difference that he dis­

cerned with some cunning the moment when the matter began

to be hazardous; and above all in his acting the part of Fa-

bricius before the public by virtue of his noble and dignified

appearance. In a military point of view, no doubt, we find

some honourable exceptions of able officers belonging to the

highest circles of the aristocracy; but the rule was, that the

noble lords, when they were to assume the command of

armies, hastily read up from the Greek military manuals

and the Roman annals as much as was required for holding

a military conversation, and then, when in the field, acted

most wisely by intrusting the real command to an officer of

humble lineage and tried discretion. In fact, if a couple of

centuries before the senate resembled an assembly of kings,

these their successors played not ill the part of princes. But

the incapacity of these restored nobles was fully equalled

by their political and moral worthlessness. If the state of

religion, to which we shall revert, did not present a faith­

ful reflection of the wild dissoluteness of this epoch, and if

the external history of the period did not exhibit the utter

baseness of the Roman nobles as one of its most essential

elements, the horrible crimes, which came to light in rapid

succession among the highest circles of Rome, would alone

suffice to indicate their character.

Administra- The administration, internal and external, was what was

tion under ^o De expected under such a government. The social ruin

tion ra °ra" o^ Italy spread with alarming rapidity; since the aristocracy

had given itself legal permission to buy out the small holders,

and in its new arrogance allowed itself with growing fre­

quency to drive them out, the farms disappeared like rain-

Social state drops in the sea. That the economic oligarchy at least kept

of Italy. pace with the political, is shown by the expression em-

100. ployed about 650 by Lucius Marcius Philippus, a man of

moderate democratic views, that there were among the

whole burgesses hardly 2000 wealthy families. A practical

commentary on this state of things was once more furnished

by the servile insurrections, which during the first years

of the Cimbrian war broke out annually in Italy, e. g. at

