Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 63

on the Tigris. Disorders of this sort were permanent

features of the Asiatic empire: the provinces under their

partially or wholly independent satraps were in continual

revolt, as was also the capital with its insubordinate and re­

fractory populace resembling those of Rome and Alexandria.

The whole pack of neighbouring kings—those of Egypt,

Armenia, Cappadocia, Pergamus—incessantly interfered in

the affairs of Syria and fostered disputes as to the succes­

sion, so that civil war and the division of the sovereignty in

point of fact among two or more pretenders became almost

standing calamities of the country. The Roman pro­

tecting power, if it did not instigate these neighbours, was

an inactive spectator. In addition to all this the new

Parthian empire from the eastward pressed hard on the aliens

not merely with its material power, but with the whole

superiority of its national language and religion and of its

national military and political organization. This is not yet

the place for a description of the revived empire of Cyrus; it

is sufficient to mention generally the fact., that powerful as

was the influence of Hellenism in its composition, the Parthian

state, as compared with that of the Seleucidae, was based on

a national and religious reaction, and that the old Iranian

language, the order of the Magi and the worship of Mithra,

the oriental feudal constitution, the cavalry of the desert

and the bow and arrow, first emerged there in renewed

and triumphant opposition to Hellenism. The position of

the kings of Syria in presence of all this was really pitiable.

The family of the Seleucidas was by no means so enervated

as that of the Lagidas for instance, and some of them were

not deficient in valour and ability; they reduced it may be

one or another of those numerous rebels, pretenders, and

intermeddlers to order; but their dominion had so little of

a firm foundation that it was unable to impose even a

temporary check on anarchy. The result was inevitable.

The eastern provinces of Syria under their unprotected or

even insurgent satraps fell into subjection to the Parthians;

Persia, Babylonia, Media were for ever severed from the

Syrian empire; the new state of the Parthians reached on

both sides of the great desert from the Oxus and the Hindoo

Coosh to the Tigris and the desert of Arabia—once more,

like the Persian empire and all the older great states of Asia,

a. pure continental monarchy, and once more, just like the

Persian empire, engaged in perpetual feud on the one side

