Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 143

position to take the field against them, and had to rest

content with protecting the towns, which were in the most

lamentable plight, by means of the militia of Sicily and that

of Africa brought over in all haste. The administration

of justice was suspended over the whole island, and vio­

lence was the only law. As no cultivator living in town

ventured any longer beyond the gates, and no countryman

ventured into the towns, the most fearful famine set in, and

the town-population of this island which formerly fed Italy

had to be supported by the Roman authorities sending

supplies of grain. Moreover, conspiracies of the town-slaves

everywhere threatened to break out within, while the

insurgent armies lay before, the walls; even Messana was

within a hair's breadth of being conquered by Athenion.

Difficult as it was for the government during the serious

war with the Cimbri to place a second army in the field,

it could not avoid sending in 651 an army of 14,000 Ro- 103.

mans and Italians, not including the transmarine militia,

under the praetor Lucius Lucullus to the island. The

united slave-army was stationed in the mountains above

Sciacca, and accepted the battle which Lucullus offered.

Their better military organization gave,the Romans the

victory; Athenion was left for dead on the field, Tryphon

had to throw himself into the mountain-fortress of Triocala;

the insurgents deliberated earnestly, whether it was possible

to continue the struggle longer. But the party, which was

resolved to hold out to the last man, retained the ascendancy;

Athenion, who had been saved in a marvellous manner,

reappeared among his troops and revived their sunken

courage; above all, Lucullus with incredible negligence took

not the smallest step to follow up his victory; in fact, he is

said to have intentionally disorganized the army and to have

burned his field baggage, with a view to screen the total

want of success in his government and not to be cast into

the shade by his successor. Whether this was true or not,

his successor Gaius Servilius (652) obtained no better 102.

results; aud both generals were afterwards criminally

indicted and condemned for their conduct in office—which,

however, was no certain proof of their guilt. Athenion,

who after Tryphon's death (652) was invested with the sole 102.

command, stood victorious at the head of a considerable

army, when in 653 Manius Aquillius, who had during the 101.

previous year distinguished himself with Marius in the war Aquillius.

