14 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

vince was reduced to obedience. The two cities of

Termantia and Numantia alone had not yet opened their

gates to the Romans; but in their case also a capitulation

had been almost concluded, and the greater part of the

conditions had been fulfilled by the Spaniards. When

required, however, to deliver up their arms, they were re­

strained like Viriathus by their genuine Spanish pride in the

possession of a well-handled sword, and they resolved to

continue the war under the daring Megaravicus. It seemed

folly: the consular army, the command of which was taken

141. up in 613 by the consul Quintus Pompeius, was four times

as numerous as the whole population capable of bearing

arms in Numantia. But the general, who was wholly

ignorant of war, sustained defeats so severe under the

141. 140. walls of the two cities (613, 614), that he preferred at

length to procure by means of negotiations the peace

which he could not compel. With Termantia a definitive

agreement must have taken place. In the case of the

Numantines the Roman general liberated their captives, and

summoned the community under the secret promise of favour­

able treatment to surrender to him at discretion. The Nu­

mantines, weary of the war, consented, and the general

actually limited his demands to the smallest possible

measure. Prisoners of war, deserters, and hostages were

delivered up, and the stipulated sum of money was mostly

139. paid, when in 615 the new general Marcus Popillius

Laenas arrived in the camp. As soon as Pompeius saw the

burden of command devolve on other shoulders, he, with a

view to escape from the reckoning that awaited him at

Rome for a peace which was according to Roman ideas

disgraceful, lighted on the expedient of not merely breaking,

but of disowning his word; and when the Numantines

came to make their last payment, in the presence of their

officers and his own he flatly denied the conclusion of

the agreement. The matter was referred for judicial deci­

sion to the senate at Rome. While it was discussed there,

the war beforeiNumantia was suspended, and Laenas

occupied himself with an expedition to Lusitania where he

helped to accelerate the catastrophe of Viriathus, and with

a foray against the Lusones, neighbours of the Numan­

tines. When at length the decision of the senate arrived,

its purport was that the war should be continued. The

state was thus ready to share in the knavery of Pompeius.

