Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 283

time of Mithradates. The citizens had not only to send

annual tribute to the court-camp of the barbarian king, but

also to make him a gift when he encamped before the town

or even simply passed by, and in a similar way to buy off

minor chieftains and in fact sometimes the whole horde with

presents; and it fared ill with them if the gift appeared too

small. The treasury of the town was bankrupt and they

had to pledge the votive offerings. Meanwhile the tribes were

thronging without in front of the gates; the territory was

laid waste, the field-labourers were dragged away en masse,

and, what was worst of all, the weaker of their barbarian

neighbours, the Scythians, sought, in order to shelter them­

selves from the pressure of the more savage Celts, to obtain

possession of the walled town, so that numerous citizens

were leaving it and the inhabitants now contemplated its

entire surrender.

Such was the state in which Mithradates found matters, Mithradates

when his Macedonian phalanx crossing the ridge of the master of

Caucasus descended into the valleys of the Kuban andthe B°SP°-

Terek and his fleet at the same time appeared in the Crimean fan. lnS"

waters. No wonder that everywhere, as had already been

the case in Dioscurias, the Hellenes received the king of Pon-

tiis with open arms and regarded the half-Hellene and his

Cappadocians armed in Greek fashion as their deliverers.

What Kome had here neglected, became apparent. The

demands on the rulers of Pauticapaeum for tribute had just

then been raised to an exorbitant height; the town of Cher-

sonesus found itself hard pressed by Scilurus king of the

Tauric Scythians and his fifty sons; the former were glad

to surrender their hereditary lordship, and the latter their

long-preserved freedom, in order to save their last possession,

their Hellenism. It was not in vain. Mithradates' brave

generals, Diophantus and Neoptolemus, and his disciplined

troops easily got the better of the peoples of the steppe.

Neoptolemus defeated them at the straits of Pauticapaeum

partly by water, partly in winter on the ice; Chersonesus

was delivered, the strongholds of the Taurians were broken,

and the possession of the peninsula was secured by judiciously

constructed fortresses. Diophantus marched against the

Roxolani (between the Dnieper and Don) who came forward to

the aid of the Taurians; 80,000 of them fled before his 6000

phalangites, and the Pontic arms penetrated as far as the

Dnieper. Thus Mithradates acquired here a second king-

