334 CINNA AND SUHA. [Book IV.

agreement, which had seemed so near, was not effected; it

was Scipio who denounced the armistice. But Sulla main­

tained that it was too late and that the agreement had been

already concluded; whereupon Scipio's soldiers, under the

pretext that their general had wrongfully denounced the

armistice, passed over en masse to the ranks of the enemy.

The scene closed with an universal embracing, at which the

commanding officers of the revolutionary army had to look on.

Sulla gave orders that the consul should be summoned to

resign his office, which he did, and should along with his

staff be escorted by his cavalry to whatever point they de­

sired; but Scipio was hardly set at liberty when he resumed

the insignia of his dignity and began afresh to collect troops,

without however executing anything further of moment.

Sulla and Metellus took up winter quarters in Campania

and, after the failure of a second attempt to come to terms

with Norbanus, maintained the blockade of Capua during

the winter.

Prepara- The results of the first campaign in favour of Sulla were

tions on ttie submission of Apulia, Picenum, and Campania, the dis­

solution of the one, and the vanquishing and blockading of the

other, consular army. The Italian communities, compelled

severally to choose between their two oppressors, already

entered in many instances into negotiations with him, and

caused the political rights which had been won from the

opposition-party to be guaranteed to them by formal sepa­

rate treaties on the part of the general of the oligarchy. Sulla

cherished the distinct expectation, and intentionally made

boast of it, that he would overthrow the revolutionary govern­

ment in the next campaign and again march into Rome.

But despair seemed to furnish the revolution with fresh

energies. The consulship was committed to two of its most

decided leaders, to Carbo for the third time and to Gaius

Marius the younger; the circumstance that the latter, who

was just twenty years of age, could not legally be invested

with the consulship, was as little heeded as any other point

of the constitution. Quintus Sertorius, who in this and

other matters proved an inconvenient critic, was ordered to

proceed to Etruria with a view to procure new levies, and

thence to his province Hither Spain. To replenish the

treasury, the senate was obliged to decree the melting down

of the gold and silver vessels of the temples in the capital:

that the produce was considerable, is clear from the fact

both sides.

