Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 59

Rome, reduced the war-marine and the army of elephants

agreeably to the treaty of 565, and was in the fair way of IS9.

completing" the military ruin of the country. In Egypt not

only was the restoration of Philometor accomplished, but—

partly in order to put an end to the quarrel between the

brothers, partly in order to weaken the still considerable

power of Egypt—Cyrene was separated from that kingdom

and assigned as an appanage to Euergetes. "The Romans

make kings of those whom they choose," a Jew wrote not long

after this, " and whom they do not choose they drive away

from their country and their people." But this was the

last occasion for long, on which the Boman senate came for­

ward in the affairs of the East with that ability and energy

which it had uniformly displayed in the complications with

Philip, Antiochus, and Perseus. Though the internal decline

of the government was late in affecting the treatment of

foreign affairs, yet it did affect them at length. The

government became unsteady and vacillating; they allowed

the reins which they had just grasped to slacken and almost

to slip from their hands. The guardian-regent of Syria

was murdered at Laodicea; the rejected pretender Deme­

trius escaped from Rome and, setting aside the youthful

prince, seized the government of his ancestral kingdom

under the bold pretext that the Roman senate had fully

empowered him to do so (592). Soon afterwards war 162.

broke out between the kings of Egypt and Cyrene respect­

ing the possession of the island of Cyprus, which the senate

had assigned first to the elder, then to the younger; and

in opposition to the most recent Roman decision it finally

remained with Egypt. Thus the decrees of the Roman

government, in the plenitude of its power and during

the most profound inward and outward peace at home,

were derided by the impotent kings of the East; its name

was abused, its ward and its commissioner were mur­

dered. Seventy years before, when the Illyrians had in a

similar way laid hands on Eoman deputies, the senate of

that day had erected a monument to the murdered in

the market-place, and had with an army and fleet called

the murderers to account. The senate of this period like­

wise ordered a monument to be raised to Gnaeus Octavius,

as ancestral custom prescribed; but instead of embarking

troops for Syria they recognized Demetrius as king of

the land. They were forsooth now so powerful, that it

