88 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

177. 163. (consul in 577, 501, and censor in 585), was the true model

169. of a Roman aristocrat. The brilliant magnificence of his

aedilician games, not produced without oppressing the de­

pendent communities, had drawn upon him the severe and

deserved censure of the senate (ii. 338); his interference in

the pitiful process directed against the Scipios who were

personally hostile to him (ii. 283) gave proof of his chival­

rous feeling, and perhaps also of his regard for his own

order; and his energetic action against the freedmen in his

censorship (ii. 354) evinced his conservative disposition.

As governor, moreover, of the province of the Ebro (ii.

2, 11), by his bravery and, above all, by his integrity he ren­

dered a permanent service to his country, and at the same

time raised to himself in the hearts of the subject nation an

enduring monument of reverence and affection.

His mother Cornelia was the daughter of the conqueror

of Zama, who, simply on account of that generous interven­

tion, had chosen his former opponent as a son-in-law; she

herself was a highly cultivated and notable woman, who

after the death of her much older husband had refused the

hand of the king of Egypt, and reared her three surviving

children in memory of her husband and her father. Tiberius,

the elder of the two sons, was of a good and moral disposi­

tion, of gentle aspect and quiet temper, apparently fitted

for anything rather than for an agitator of the masses. In

all his relations and views he belonged to the Scipionic

circle, whose refined and thorough culture, Greek and

national, he and his brother and sister shared. Scipio

jEmilianus was at once his cousin and his sister's husband;

under him Tiberius, at the age of eighteen, had taken part in

the storming of Carthage, and had by his valour acquired

the commendation of the stern general and warlike distinc­

tions. It was natural that the able young man should,

adopt and develop, with all the animation and all the rigid

consistency of youth, the views as to the decay of the state in

all its parts, which were prevalent in that circle, and more es­

pecially their ideas as to the elevation of the Italian farmers.

Nor was it to the young men alone that the shrinking of

Laelius from the execution of his ideas of reform seemed to

be not judicious, but weak. Appius Claudius, who had

143. 136. already been consul (611) and censor (618), one of the

most respected men in the senate, censured the Scipionic

circle for having so soon abandoned the scheme of distri­

