216 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book 17.

of Gaius Gracchus had been broken up, partly by the force

of circumstances, partly and especially by the coarse boorish

manipulation of his incapable successor; but in the result

it mattered not whether calculation or good fortune helped

Marius poli- the government to its victory. A more pitiful position can

ticallyanni- hardly be conceived than that occupied by the hero of Aquae

Mlated. and yercellae after such a downfall—-all the more pitiful,

because people could not but compare it with the eclat which

only a few months before surrounded the same man. No one

either on the aristocratic or the democratic side any longer

thought of the victorious general on occasion of filling up

the magistracies; the hero of six consulships could not even

98, venture to become a candidate in 656 for the censorship.

He went away to the East, ostensibly for the purpose of ful­

filling a vow there, but in reality that he might not be a witness

of the triumphant return of his mortal foe. Quintus Metellus:

he was suffered to go. He returned and opened his house;

his halls stood empty. He always hoped that conflicts and

battles would occur and that the people would once more

need his experienced arm; he thought to provide himself

with an opportunity for war in the East, where the Romans

might certainly have found sufficient occasion for energetic

interference. But this also miscarried, like every other of

his wishes; profound peace continued to prevail. Yet the

longing after honours once aroused within him, the oftener it

was disappointed, ate the more deeply into his mind. Super­

stitious as he was, he cherished in nis breast an old oracular

saying which had promised him seven consulships, and in

gloomy meditation brooded over the means by which this

utterance was to obtain its fulfilment and he to obtain his

revenge, while he appeared to all, himself alone excepted,

insignificant and innocuous.

The eques- Still more important in its consequences than the setting

trian party, aside of the dangerous man was the deep exasperation

against the Populares as they were called, which the insur­

rection of Saturninus left behind in the party of material

interests. With the most remorseless severity the eques­

trian tribunals condemned every one who professed oppo­

sitional views; Sextus Titius, for instance, was condemned

not so much on account of his agrarian law as because he

had in his house a statue of Saturninus; Gaius Appuleiua

Decianus was condemned, because he had as tribune of the

people characterized the proceedings against Saturninus as

