128 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

was deposited in front of it; the senate, as if surprised,

appeared en masse at the door in order to view the dead

body, and then retired to determine what should be done.

The leaders of the democracy had gone from the Capitol to

their houses; Marcus Flaccus had spent the night in pre足

paring for the war in the streets, while Gracchus apparently

disdained to strive with destiny. Next morning, when

they learned the preparations made by their opponents at

the Capitol and the Forum, both proceeded to the Aventine,

the old stronghold of the popular party in the struggles

between the patricians and the plebeians. Gracchus went

thither silent and unarmed; Flaccus called the slaves to

arms and entrenched himself in the temple of Diana, while

he at the same time sent his younger son Quintus to the

enemy's camp, in order if possible to arrange a compromise.

The latter returned with the announcement that the aris足

tocracy demanded unconditional surrender; at the same

time he brought a summons from the senate to Gracchus

and Flaccus to appear before it and to answer for their

violation of the majesty of the tribunes. Gracchus wished

to comply with the summons, but Flaccus prevented him

from doing so, and repeated the equally weak and mistaken

attempt to move such antagonists to a compromise. When

instead of the two cited leaders the young Quintus Flaccus

once more presented himself alone, the consul treated their

refusal to appear as the beginning of open insurrection

against the government; he ordered the messenger to be

arrested and gave the signal for attack on the Aventine,

while at the same time he caused proclamation to be made

in the streets that the government would give to whosoever

should bring the head of Gracchus or of Flaccus its literal

weight in gold, and that they would guarantee complete in足

demnity to every one who should leave the Aventine before

the beginning of the conflict. The? ranks on the Aventine

speedily thinned; the valiant nobility in union with the

Cretans and the slaves stormed the almost undefended

mount and killed all whom they found, about 250 persons,

mostly of humble rank. Marcus Flaccus fled with his eldest

son to a place of concealment, where they were soon after足

wards hunted out and put to death. Gracchus had at the

beginning of the conflict retired into the temple of Minerva,

and was there about to pierce himself with his sword, when

hia friend Publius Laetorius seized his arm and besought him

