Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 415

fact, that the three-quarter denarius, which by the arrange­

ments of the Roman government was coined both at Mas-

silia and in Ulyria, and which had been under the name

of Victoriatus received into the Roman monetary system

(ii. 38), was about the middle of the seventh century set

aside in the latter; the effect of which necessarily was, that

the Massiliot and Illyrian currency was driven out of Upper

Italy and only remained in circulation, over and above ita

native field, perhaps in the regions of the Alps and the

Danube. Such progress had thus been made already in

this epoch, that the standard of the denarius exclusively pre­

vailed in the whole western division of the Roman state;

for Italy, Sicily—of w hich it is as respects the beginning of

the nest period expressly attested, that no other silver

money .circulated there but the denarius—Sardinia, Africa,

used exclusively Roman silver money, and the provincial

silver still current in Spain as well as the silver money of

the Massiliots and Illyrians were at least struck after the

standard of the denarius. It was different in the East. Currency of

There, where the number of the states coining money from tiie East-

olden times and the quantity of native coin in circu­

lation were very considerable, the denarius did not make its

way into wider acceptance, although it was perhaps declared

a legal tender. There either the previous monetary standard

continued in use, as in Macedonia for instance, which still

as a province—although partially adding the names of the

Roman magistrates to that of the country—struck its Attic

tetradrachmce and certainly employed in substance no other

money; or a peculiar money-standard corresponding to cir­

cumstances was introduced under Roman authority, as on

the institution of the province of Asia, when a new stater,

the cistophorus as it was called, was prescribed by the Roman

government and was thenceforth struck by the district-capi­

tals there under Roman superintendence. This essential

diversity between the Occidental and Oriental systems of

currency came to be of the greatest historical importance: the

Romanizing of the subject lands found one of its mightiest

levers in the adoption of Roman money, and it was.not

through mere accident that what we have designated at this

epoch as the field of the denarius became afterwards the

Latin, while the field of the drachma became afterwards the

Greek, division of the empire. Still at the present day the

former field substantially represents the aggregate of Ro-

