84 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

land had operated beneficially—giving help to many of the

sufferers and hope to all. But after the founding of Luna

177. (677) no trace of further assignations of land is to be met

with for a long time, with the exception of the isolated

institution of the Picenian colony of Auximum (Osimo) in

157. 597. The reason is simple. After the conquest of the

Boii and Apuani no new territory was acquired in Italy ex­

cepting the far from attractive Ligurian valleys; therefore no

other land existed for distribution there except the leased or

occupied domainland, the laying hands on which was, as may

easily be conceived, just as little agreeable to the aristocracy

now as it was three hundred years before. The distribution

of the territory acquired out of Italy appeared for political

reasons inadmissible; Italy was to remain the ruling

country, and the wall of partition between the Italian

masters and their provincial servants was not to be broken

down. Unless the government were willing to disregard

considerations of higher policy or even the interests of their

order, no course was left to them but to remain spectators

of the ruin of the Italian farmer-class; and this result

accordingly ensued. The capitalists continued to buy out

the small landholders, or indeed, if they remained obstinate,

to seize their fields without title of purchase; in which case, as

may be supposed, matters were not always amicably settled.

A peculiarly favourite method was to eject the wife and chil­

dren of the farmer from the homestead, while he was in the

field, and to bring him to compliance by means of the theory

of " accomplished fact." The landlords continued mainly to

employ slaves instead of free labourers, because the former

could not like the latter be called away to military service;

and thus reduced the free proletariate to the same level of

'misery with the slaves. They continued to supersede

Italian grain in the market of the capital, and to lessen its

value over the whole peninsula, by selling Sicilian slave-corn

at a mere nominal price. In Etruria the old native aristo­

cracy in league with the Roman capitalists had as early as

134. 620 brought matters to such a pass, that there was no longer

a free farmer there. It could be said aloud in the market of

the capital, that the wild beasts had their lairs but nothing

was left to the burgesses save the air and sunshine, and that

those who were called the masters of the world had no

longer a clod that they could call their own. The census

lists of the Roman burgesses furnished the commentary on

