Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 463

anything else before him than simple prose; in point of

effect they can only be compared to our doggerel verses.*

The poems of Terence and those of Lucilius stand on the

same level of culture, and have the same relation to each

other as a carefully prepared and polished literary work has

to a letter written on the spur of the moment. But the in­

comparably higher intellectual gifts and the freer view of

life, which mark the knight of Suessa as compared with the

African slave, rendered his success as rapid and brilliant as

that of Terence had been laborious and doubtful; Lucilius

became immediately the favourite of the nation, and he

like Beranger could say of his poems that "they alone of all

were read by the people." The uncommon popularity of

the Lucilian poems is, in a historical point of view, a remark­

able event; we see from it that literature was already a

power, and beyond doubt we should fall in with various traces

of its influence, if a thorough history of this period had been

preserved. Posterity has only confirmed the judgment of

contemporaries; the Roman judges of art who were opposed

to the Alexandrian school assigned to Lucilius the first rank

among all the Latin poets. So far as satire can be regarded

as a distinct form of art at all, Lucilius created it; and in it

created the only species of art which was peculiar to the

Romans and was transmitted by them to posterity.

Of poetry based on the Alexandrian school nothing occurs

in Bome at this epoch except minor poems translated from

or modelled on Alexandrian epigrams, which deserve notice

not on their own account, but as the first harbingers of the

* The following longer fragment is a characteristic specimen of the style and  
metrical treatment, the loose structure of which cannot possibly be reproduced

in German hexameters:—

Virtus, Albine, est pretium persolvere verum

Queis in versamur, queis vivimu' rebu1 potesse;

Virtus est homini scire id quod quceque haheat res;

Virtus scire homini rectum, utile quid sit, honestum,

Qua bona, quce mala item, quid inutile, turpe, inhonestum;

Virtus qucerencke ret finem scire modumque;

Virtus divitiis pretium persolvere posse;

Virtus id dare quod re ipsa debetur honori,

Hostem esse atque inimicum hominurn morwmque malorum.

Contra defensorem hominurn morumque bonorum,

Hos nvigni facere, his bene mile, his vivere amicum;

CommodJ, prcetcrea patriot sibi prima putare,

Deinde parentum, tertia jam postremaque nostra.

