342 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

natural that, after such an occurrence, the cities of new bur­

gesses which had not yet passed over should continue their

resistance with the utmost obstinacy. In the Latin town

Korba. of Norba for instance, when jEmilius Lepidus got into it

by treason, the citizens killed each other and set fire them­

selves to their town, solely in order to deprive their execu­

tioners of vengeance and of booty. In Lower Italy Neapolis

had already, been taken by assault, and Capua had, as it

Nola. would seem, been voluntarily surrendered; but Nola was

80. only evacuated by the Samnites in 674. On his flight from

Nola the last surviving leader of note among the Italians,

90. the consul of the insurgents in the hopeful year 664, Gains

Papius Mutilus, disowned by his wife to whom he had

stolen in disguise and with whom he had hoped to find an

asylum, fell on his sword in Teanum before the door of his

own house. As to Samnium the dictator declared, that

Rome would have no rest so long as Samnium existed, and

that the Samnite name ought therefore to be extirpated

from the earth; and, as he verified these words in terrible

fashion on the prisoners taken before Rome and in Prav

neste, so he appears to have also undertaken a raid for the

purpose of laying waste the country, to have captured

80. ^Esernia* (674?), and to have converted that hitherto

flourishing and populous region into the desert which it has

since remained. In the same manner Tuder in Umbria was

stormed by Marcus Crassus. A longer resistance was

offered in Etruria by Populonium and above all by the

impregnable Volaterrae, which gathered out of the remains

of the beaten party an army of four legions, and stood a

two years' siege conducted first by Sulla in person and then

by the former praetor Gaius Carbo, the brother of the demo­

cratic consul, till at length in the third year after the battle

79. at the Colline gate (675) the garrison capitulated on con­

dition of free departure. But in this terrible time neither

military law nor military discipline was regarded; the

soldiers raised a cry of treason and stoned their too com­

pliant general; a troop of horse sent by the Roman govern­

ment cut down the garrison as it withdrew in terms of the

capitulation. The victorious army was distributed through­

out Italy, and all the insecure places were furnished with

strong garrisons: under the iron hand of the Sullan officers

* Hardly any other name, probably, can be concealed under the corrupt  
reading in Liv. 89 mtam in Samnio; comp. Strabo, v. 3, 10.

