Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 133

aristocracy were in fact perfectly compatible with their own

advantage, and nothing further was sacrificed by such a

policy than merely the public weal.

All those measures which were devised by Gaius Gracchus The domain

for the promotion of the public welfare—the best but, as question

may readily be conceived, also the most unpopular part of un^er *c

his legislation—were allowed by the aristocracy to drop.

Nothing was so speedily and so successfully assailed as the

noblest of his projects, viz., the scheme of introducing a legal

equality first between the Roman burgesses and Italy, and

thereafter between Italy and the provinces, and—inasmuch

as the distinction between the merely ruling and consuming

and the merely serving and working members of the state

was thus done away—at the same time solving the social

question by the most comprehensive and systematic emigra­

tion known in history. With all the determination and all the

peevish obstinacy of dotage the restored oligarchy obtruded

the principle of deceased generations—that Italy ought to

remain the ruling land and Rome the ruling city in Italy—

afresh on the present. Even in the lifetime of Gracchus

the claims of the Italian allies had been rejected, and the

great idea of transmarine colonization had been subjected to

a very serious attack, which became the immediate cause of

Gracchus' fall. After his death the scheme of restoring

Carthage was set aside with little difficulty by the govern­

ment-party, although the several allotments already dis­

tributed there were left to the recipients. It is true that

they could not prevent a similar settlement of the democratic

party from succeeding at another point: in the course of the

conquests beyond the Alps which Marcus Flaccus had begun,

the colony of Narbo (Narbonne) was founded there in 63.6, lis.

the oldest transmarine burgess-city in the Roman empire,

which, in spite of manifold opposition from the government-

party and in spite of a proposal directly made by the senate

to abolish it, permanently held its ground. But, apart from

this—in its isolation not very important—exception, the

government was uniformly successful in preventing the

assignation of land out of Italy.

The Italian domain-question was settled in a similar

spirit. The Italian colonies of Gaius, especially Capua,

were cancelled, and such of them as had already been planted

were again broken up; that of Tarentum alone was allowed

to subsist in the form of the new town of Neptunia placed

