408 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

named by the side of the Thasian and Chian, and the

121. "Opimian wine" of 633, the most famous Roman

vintage, was long remembered after the last jar was ex­

hausted.

Trades Of trades and manufactures there is nothing to be said,

except that the Italian nation in this respect persevered in

an inactivity bordering on barbarism. They destroyed the

Corinthian factories, the depositaries of so many valuable

industrial traditions—not however that they might establish

similar factories for themselves, but that they might buy

up at extravagant prices such Corinthian vases of earthen­

ware or copper and similar " antique works" as were pre­

served in Greek houses. The trades that were still somewhat

prosperous, such as those connected with building, were pro­

ductive of hardly any benefit for the commonwealth, because

here too the system of employing slaves interposed in every

more considerable undertaking: in the construction of

the Marcian aqueduct, for instance, the government con­

cluded contracts at once for building and materials with

3000 master-tradesmen, each of whom then performed the

work contracted for with his band of slaves.

Money- The most brilliant, or rather the only brilliant, side of

dealing and Roman private economics was money-dealing and commerce<

commerce. First of all stood the leasing of the domains and of the

taxes, through which a large, perhaps the larger part of the

income of the Roman state flowed into the pocket of the

Roman capitalists. The money-dealings, moreover, through­

out the range of the Roman state were monopolized by the

Romans; every penny circulated in Gaul, it is said in a

writing issued soon after the end of this period, passes

through the books of the Roman merchants, and so it was

doubtless everywhere. The co-operation of a rude economic

condition and of the unscrupulous employment of Rome's

political ascendancy for the benefit of the private interests

of every wealthy Roman rendered a usurious system of

interest universal, as is shown for example by the treat­

ment of the war-tax imposed by Sulla on the province of

84. Asia in 670, which the Roman capitalists advanced; it

swelled with paid and unpaid interest within fourteen years

to sixfold its original amount. The communities had to sell

their public buildings, their works of art and jewels, parents

had to sell their grown-up children, in order to meet the

claims of the Roman creditor: it was no rare occurrence

