Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 289

The Roman government, appealed to for aid by the Aquillius

kings Ariobarzanes and Nicomedes in person, despatched sent t0

to Asia Minor in support of Lucius Cassiua who was gover- Asla,

nor there the consular Manius Aquillius, an officer tried

in the Cimbrian and Sicilian wars—not, however, as general

at the head of an army, but as an ambassador—and directed

the Asiatic client states and Mithradates in particular to

lend armed assistance in case of need. The result was as

it had been two years before. The Roman officer accom­

plished the commission intrusted to him with the aid of the

small Roman corps which the governor of the province of

Asia had at his disposal, and the levy of the free Phrygians

and Galatians; king Nicomedes and king Ariobarzanes

again ascended their tottering thrones; Mithradates, although

under various pretexts evading the summons to furnish con­

tingents, gave to the Romans no open resistance; on the

contrary the Bithynian pretender Socrates was even put to

death by his orders (664). 90.

It was a singular complication. Mithradates was fully The state of

convinced that he could do nothing against the Romans in things in-

open conflict, and was therefore firmly resolved not to allow (e!'med,ate

matters to come to an open rupture and war with them. war an!t

Had he not been so resolved, there was no more favourable peace.

opportunity for beginning the struggle than the present: just

at the time when Aquillius marched into Bithynia and Cappa-

docia, the Italian insurrection was at the height of its power

and might encourage even the weak to declare against Rome;

yet Mithradates allowed the year 664 to pass without profit- 90.

ing by the opportunity. Nevertheless he pursued with equal

tenacity and activity his plan of extending bis territory in

Asia Minor. This strange combination of a policy of peace

at any price with a policy of conquest was certainly in itself

untenable, and was simply a fresh proof that Mithradates did

not belong to the class of genuine statesmen; he knew neither

how to prepare for conflict like king Philip nor how to sub­

mit like king Attalus, but in the true style of a sultan was

perpetually fluctuating between a greedy desire of conquest

and the sense of his own weakness. But even in this point

of view his proceedings can only be understood, when we

recollect that Mithradates had become acquainted by twenty-

years' experience with the Roman policy of that day. He

knew very well that the Roman government were far from

desirous of war; that they in fact, looking to the serious

vol. in. v

