890 THE StILLAN CONSTITUTION. [Cook IV.

speedily as he had formerly arranged those of the capital.

His last activity on his sick hed had reference to the collec­

tion of a contribution for the rebuilding of the Capitoline

temple, of which he was not allowed to witness the comple-

Deaih of tion- Little more than a year after his retirement, in the

Bulla. sixtieth year of his life, while yet vigorous in body and mind,

he was overtaken by death; after a brief confinement to a sick­

bed—he was writing at his autobiography two days even

before his death—the rupture of a blood-vessel* carried him

78 off (676). His faithful fortune did not desert him even in

death. He could have no wish to be drawn once more into the

disagreeable whirlpool of party-struggles, and to be obliged

to lead his old warriors once more against a new revolution;

yet such was the state of matters at his death in Spain and in

Italy, that he could hardly have been spared this task had

his life been prolonged. Already, when it was suggested that

His funeral ne should have a public funeral in the capital, numerous

'voices, which had been silent in his lifetime, were raised

there against the last honour which it was proposed to show

to the tyrant. But his memory was still too fresh and the

dread of his old soldiers too vivid: it was resolved that the

body should be conveyed to the capital and that the ob­

sequies should be celebrated there. Italy never witnessed a

grander funeral solemnity. In every place through which ,

the deceased was borne in regal attire, with his well-known

standards and fasces before him, the inhabitants and above

all his old troops joined the mourning train; it seemed as

if the whole army would once more meet round the hero in

death, who had in life led it so often and never except to

victory. So the endless funeral procession reached the

capital, where the courts kept holiday and all business was

suspended, and two thousand golden chaplets awaited the

dead—the last honorary gifts of the faithful legions, of the

cities, and of his more intimate friends. Sulla, faithful to

the usage of the Cornelian house, had ordered that his body

Bhould be buried without being burnt; but others were

more mindful than he was of what past days had done and

future days might do: by command of the senate the

corpse of the man, who had disturbed the bones of Marius

from their rest in the grave, was committed to the flames.

Headed by all the magistrates and the whole senate, by the

* Not pthiriasis, as another account states; for the simple reason that such  
a disease is entirely imaginary.

