6 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

the contribution had been not merely suspended, but remitted

by the Romans. Thereupon Nobilior appeared in Hither

Spain with an army of nearly 30,000 men, including some

Numidian horsemen and ten elephants. The walls of the

new town of Segeda still stood unfinished: most of the

inhabitants submitted. But the most resolute men fled

with their wives and children to the powerful Arevacae, and

summoned these to make common cause with them against

the Romans. The Arevacae, emboldened by the victory of

the Lusitanians over Mummius, consented, and chose Carus,

one of the Segedan refugees, as their general. On the third

day after his election the valiant leader had fallen, but the

Roman army was defeated and nearly 6000 Roman burgesses

were slain; the 23rd day of August, the festival of the

Vulcanalia, was thenceforth held in sad remembrance by

the Romans. The fall of their general, however, induced

the Arevacae to retreat into their strongest town Nu-

mantia (Guarray, a Spanish league to the north of Soria on

the Douro), whither Nobilior followed them. Under the

walls of the town a second engagement took place, in which

the Romans at first by means of their elephants drove the

Spaniards back into the town; but while doing so they were

thrown into confusion in consequence of one of the animals

being wounded, and sustained a second defeat at the hands

of the enemy again issuing from the walls. This and other

misfortunes—such as the destruction of a corps of Roman

cavalry despatched to call forth the contingents—imparted

to the affairs of the Romans in the Hither province so un­

favourable an aspect that the fortress of Ocilis, where the

Romans had their chest and their stores, passed over to the

enemy, and the Arevaca e were in a position to think of dictat­

ing peace, although without success, to the Romans. These

disadvantages, however, were in some measure counter­

balanced by the successes which Mummius achieved in the

southern province. Weakened though his army was by the

disaster which it had suffered, he yet succeeded in inflicting a

defeat on the Lusitanians who were imprudently scattered

on the right bank of the Tagus; and passing over to the left

bank, where the Lusitanians had overrun the whole Roman

territory and had even made a foray into Africa, he cleared

the southern province of the enemy.

152. To the northern province in the following year (C02) the

Marcellus. senate sent considerable reinforcements and a new com-

