208 THE ATTEMPT OF MAEIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

It was natural that they should do so; their interests and

aims coincided, and even in the earlier candidatures of

Marius Saturninus at least had most decidedly and most

effectively taken his side. It was agreed between them, that

100. for 654 Marius should become a candidate for a sixth con­

sulship, Saturninus for a second tribunate, Glaucia for the

praetorship, in order that, possessed of these offices, they

might carry out the intended revolution in the state. The

senate acquiesced in the nomination of the less dangerous

Glaucia, but did what it could to hinder the election of

Marius and Saturninus, or at least to associate with the

former a determined antagonist in the person of Quintus

Metellus as his colleague in the consulship. All appliances,

lawful and unlawful, were put in motion by both parties;

but the senate was not successful in arresting the dangerous

conspiracy in the bud. Marius did not disdain in person to

solicit votes and, it was said, even to purchase them; in

fact, at the tribunician elections when nine men from the

list of the government-party were proclaimed, and the tenth

place seemed already secured for a respectable man of the

same complexion Quintus Nunnius, the latter was set upon

and slain by a savage band, which is said to have been

mainly composed of discharged soldiers of Marius. Thus

the conspirators gained their object, although by the most

violent means. Marius was chosen as consul, Glaucia as

100. praetor, Saturninus as tribune of the people for 654; the

second consular place was obtained not by Quintus Metellus,

but by an insignificant man, Lucius Valerius Flaccus: the

confederates might proceed to put into execution the further

schemes which they contemplated and to complete the work

121. broken off in 633.

The Appu- Let us recall the objects which Gaius Gracchus pursued,

leian laws. and the means by which he pursued them. His object was

to break down the oligarchy within and without. He aimed,

on the one hand, to restore the power of the magistrates

which had become completely dependent on the senate

to its original sovereign rights, and to re-convert the sena- i,

torial assembly from a governing into a deliberative board: 1

and, on the other hand, to put an end to the aristocratic

division of the state into the three classes of the ruling bur­

gesses, the Italian allies, and the subjects, by the gradual

equalization of those distinctions which were incompatible

with a government not oligarchical. These ideas the three

