Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 65

stroyed in accordance with the treaty; the war-marine of

Egypt, once so powerful, was under its present indolent

rulers in deep decay. The minor states, and particularly the

mercantile cities, had perhaps some armed transports; but

these were not even adequate for the task—so difficult in the

Mediterranean—of repressing piracy. This task necessa- Piracy,

rily devolved on Rome as the leading power in the Mediter­

ranean. • While a century previously the Romans had come

forward in this matter with especial and salutary vigour,

and had in particular introduced their supremacy in the

East by a maritime police energetically handled for the

general good (ii. 73), the complete nullity of this police at

the very beginning of this period is a distinct indication of

the fearfully rapid decline of the aristocratic government.

Rome no longer possessed a fleet of her own; she was

content to make requisitions for ships, when it seemed

necessary, from the maritime towns of Italy, Asia Minor, and

elsewhere. The consequence naturally was, that buceaueer-

ing became organized and consolidated. Something perhaps,

though not enough, was done towards its suppression,

so far as the direct power of the Romans extended, in the

Adriatic and Tyrrhene seas. The expeditions directed

against the Dalmatian and Ligurian coasts at this epoch

aimed more especially at the suppression of piracy in the

two Italian seas; for the same reason the Balearic islands

were occupied in 631 (P. 19). But in the Mauretanian and 123

Greek waters the inhabitants along the coast and the

mariners were left to settle matters with the corsairs in one

way or another, as they best could; for Roman policy ad­

hered to the principle of troubling itself as little as possible

about these more remote regions. The disorganized and

bankrupt commonwealths in the states along the coast thus

left to themselves naturally became places of refuge for the

corsairs; and there was no waut of such, more especially in

Asia.

A bad pre-eminence in this respect belonged to Crete, Crete,

which, from its favourable situation and the weakness or

laxity of the great states of the West and East, was the only

one of all the Greek settlements that had preserved its inde­

pendence. Roman commissioners doubtless came and went

to the island, but accomplished still less there than they did

even in Syria and Egypt. It seemed almost as if fate had

left liberty to the Cretans only in order to show what was

vol. in. F

