118 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

the senate—the arbitrary fixing of the functions of the

two consuls on each occasion—was not withdrawn from it; but

the indirect pressure hitherto exercised in this way over the

supreme magistrates was neutralized by the fact, that the

senate was instructed to settle these functions before the

consuls concerned were elected. With unrivalled activity,

lastly, Gaius concentrated the most varied and most com­

plicated functions of government in his own person. He

himself watched over the distribution of grain, selected the

jurymen, founded the colonies in person notwithstanding

that his magistracy legally chained him to the city, regulated

the highways and concluded building-contracts, led the discus­

sions of the senate, settled the consular elections—in short,

he accustomed the people to the fact that one man was

foremost in all things, and threw the lax and lame ad­

ministration of the senatorial college into the shade by the

vigour and dexterity of his personal rule.

Gracchus interfered with the jurisdiction, still more ener­

getically than with the administration, of the senate. We

have already mentioned that he set aside the senators from

their ordinary judicial functions; the same course was taken

with the jurisdiction, which the senate as the supreme admi­

nistrative board assumed in exceptional cases. Under

severe penalties he prohibited—apparently in his renewal

of the law de provocatione*—the appointment of extraordinary

commissions of high treason by decree of the senate, such as

that which after his brother's murder had sat in judgment

on his adherents. The effect of these measures was, that the

senate wholly lost the power of control, and retained only so

much of administration as the head of the state thought fit

to leave to it. But these organic measures were not enough;

the governing aristocracy for the time being was also directly

assailed. It was a mere act of revenge, which assigned re­

trospective effect to the last-mentioned law, and by virtue

of it compelled Publius Popillius—the aristocrat who after

the death of Nasica, which had occurred in the interval,

was chiefly obnoxious to the democrats—to leave the

country. It is remarkable that this proposal was only

carried by eighteen to seventeen votes in the assembly of

the tribes—a sign how much the influence of the aristocracy

still availed with the multitude, at least in questions of a per-

This and the law ne quis iudicio circumveniatur may have been identual.

^

