16 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

Yet the bitter lesson seemed utterly lost on the successor

of Mancinus, his colleague in the consulship, Marcus

JEmilius Lepidus. While the discussions as to the treaty

with Mancinus were pending in Rome, he attacked the free

nation of the Vaccaei under frivolous pretexts just as

Lucullus had done sixteen years before, and began in

concert with the general of the Further province to besiege

136. Pallantia (618). A decree of the senate enjoined him to

desist from the war; nevertheless, under the pretext that

the circumstances had changed in the mean time, he con­

tinued the siege. In doing so he showed himself as bad

a soldier as he was a bad citizen. After lying so long

before the large and strong city that his supplies in that

rugged and hostile country failed, he was obliged to leave

behind all the sick and wounded and to undertake a

retreat, in which the pursuing Pallantines destroyed half

of his soldiers, and, if they had not broken off the pur­

suit too early, would probably have utterly annihilated the

Roman army, which was already in full course of dissolution.

For this fault a fine was imposed on the highborn general

at his return. His successors Lucius Furius Philus

136. 135. (618) and Gaius Calpurnius Piso (619) had again to

wage war against the Numantines; and, inasmuch as they

did nothing at all, they fortunately came home without

defeat.

Scipio Even the Roman government began at length to perceive

.lEmilianus. that matters could no longer continue on this footing;

they resolved to intrust the subjugation of the small

Spanish country-town, as an extraordinary measure, to Scipio

iEmilianus the first general of Rome. The pecuniary re­

sources for carrying on the war were indeed doled out to

him with preposterous parsimony, and the permission to levy

soldiers which he asked was even directly refused—a circum­

stance due, probably, to coterie-intrigues and to the fear

of being burdensome to the sovereign people. But a great

number of friends and clients voluntarily accompanied him;

among them was his brother Maximus lEmilianus, who some

years before had commanded with distinction against Viria-

thus. Supported by this trusty band, which was formed into

a guard for the general, Scipio began to reorganize the

134. deeply disordered army (620). First of all the camp-followers

had to take their departure—there were as many as 2000 cour­

tesans, and an endless number of soothsayers and priests of

.>

