Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY". 419

censor in 623 enforced the obligation of the burgesses to 131.

live in a state of matrimony by describing it as an oppres­

sive public burden which patriots ought nevertheless to

undertake from a sense of duty.*

There were, certainly, exceptions. The society of the Hellenism

rural towns, and particularly the larger landholders, had anJ i,s •*"

preserved more faithfully the old honourable habits of the

Latin nation. In the capital, however, the Catoniau opposi­

tion had become a mere form of words; the modern tend­

ency bore sovereign sway, and though individuals of firm and

refined organization, such as ScipioiEmilianus, knew the art

of combining Roman manners with Attic culture, Hellenism

was among the great multitude synonymous with intellectual

and moral corruption. A\'e must never lose sight of the re­

action exercised by these social evils on political life, if we

would understand the Roman revolution. It was no matter

of indifference, that of the two noblemen, who in 662 served 92.

as supreme masters of morals to the community, the one

publicly reproached the other with having shed tears over

the death of a mmxena the pride of his fishpond, and the

latter retaliated on the former that he had buried three

wives and had shed tears over none of them. It was no

matter ofinditfereuce, that in 593 an orator could make sport 161.

in the open Forum with the following description of a

senatorial civil juryman, whom the time fixed for the cause

finds amidst the circle of his boon-companions. "They

play hazard, delicately perfumed, surrounded by their mis­

tresses. As the afternoon advances, they summon the ser­

vant and bid him make inquiries at the comitium, what has

occurred in the Forum, who has spoken in favour of or against

the new project of law, what tribes have voted for and what

against it. At length they go themselves to the judgment-

seat, just early enough not to bring the process down on

their own neck. On the way there is no opportunity in any

retired alley which they do not avail themselves of, tor they

have gorged themselves with wine. Reluctantly they come

to the tribunal and give audience to the parties. Those who

are concerned bring forward their cause. The juryman

orders the witnesses to come forward; he himself goes aside.

* "If we could, citizens "—he said in his speech—'i we should indeed all  
keep clear of this burden. But, as nature has so arranged it that we cannot

either live comfortably with wives or live at all without them, it is proper
to

have regard rather to the permanent weal than to our own brief comloit."

