Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 255

the resistance by the capture of Venusia, at which 3000 Capture oi

armed men were taken prisoners. In Samnium Silo no Venusia-

doubt succeeded in retaking Bovianum; but in a battle, in

which he engaged the Roman general Mamercus ^Emilius,

the Romans conquered, and—what was more important than

the victory itself—Silo was among the 6000 dead whom Fall of Silo,

the Samnites left on the field. In Campania the smaller

places, which the Samnites still occupied, were wrested

from them by Sulla, and Nola was invested. The Roman

general Aulus Gabinius penetrated also into Lucania and

gained no small advantages; but, after he had fallen in an

attack on the enemy's camp, Lamponius the insurgent

leader and his followers once more held almost undisturbed

command over the wide and desolate Lucano-Bruttian country

and even made an attempt to seize Rhegium, which was

frustrated, however, by the Sicilian governor Gaius Nor-

banus. Notwithstanding isolated mischances the Romans

were constantly drawing nearer to the attainment of their

end; the fall of Nola, the submission of Samnium, the pos­

sibility of rendering considerable forces available for Asia

appeared no longer distant, when the turn taken by affairs

in the capital unexpectedly gave fresh life to the well-nigh

extinguished insurrection.

Rome was in a fearful ferment. The attack of Drusus Ferment in

upon the equestrian courts and his sudden downfall brought Rome-

about by the equestrian party, followed by the two-edged

Varian warfare of prosecutions, had sown the bitterest

discord between the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie as well

as between the moderates and the ultras. Events had com­

pletely justified the party of concession; what they had pro­

posed voluntarily to bestow, Rome had been more than half

compelled to concede; but the mode in which the conces­

sion was made bore, just like the earlier refusal, the stamp

of obstinate and shortsighted envy. Instead of granting

equality of rights to all Italian communities, they had onlv

expressed the inferiority in another form. They had re-The bestow-

ceived a great number of Italian communities into Roman al°fthe

citizenship, but had attached to what they thus conferred an fraj ^*.

injurious stigma, by placing the new burgesses alongside of mitations.

the old on nearly the same footing as the freedmen occupied

alongside of the freeborn. They had irritated rather than

pacified the communities between the Po and the Alps by

the concession of Latin rights. Lastly, they had withheld

