74 THE RETORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

the nullity and want of freedom of the legally supreme organ

of the Roman community; indeed that nullity was only the

more palpably evinced to all whom it did or did not concern.

Equally ostentatious and equally empty was the formal recog­

nition accorded to the independence and sovereignty of the

burgesses by the transference of their place of assembly from

the old Comitium below the senate-house to the Forum

145. (about 609).

The public But this hostility between the formal sovereignty of the

elections- people and the practically subsisting constitution was in

great part a semblance. Party phrases were in free circula­

tion; of the parties themselves there was little trace in

matters really and directly practical. Throughout the whole

seventh century the annual public elections to the civil

magistracies, especially to the consulship and. censorship,

formed the real standing question of the day and the focus

of political agitation; but it was only in isolated and rare

instances that the different candidates represented opposite

political principles; ordinarily the question related purely

to persons, and it was for the course of affairs a matter of

indifference whether the majority of the votes fell to a Ca;ci-

lian or to a Cornelian. The Romans thus lacked that which

outweighs and compensates all the evils of party-life—the

free and common movement of the masses towards what they

discern as a befitting aim—and yet endured all those evils

solely for the benefit of the paltry game of the ruling coteries.

It was comparatively easy for the Roman noble to enter on the

career of office as quaestor or tribune of the people; but the

consulship and the censorship were attainable by him only

through great exertions prolonged for years. The prizes

were many, but those really wortli having were few; the

competitors ran, as a Roman poet once said, as it were

over a race-course wide at the starting-point but gradually

narrowing its dimensions. This was right so long as the

magistracy was—what it was called—an " honour," and men

of military, political, or juristic ability were rival competitors

for the rare chaplets; but now the practical exclusiveness of

the nobility did away with the benefit of competition, and

left only its disadvantages. With few exceptions the young

men belonging to the ruling families crowded into the

political career, and their impetuous and premature ambition

soon caught at means more effective than useful action for

the public good. The first requisite for a public career came

