24 [Book IV. THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES.

War be­

tween Mas­

sinissa and

Carthage.

154.

how the existence of that rich commercial city was quite

compatible with the political supremacy of Rome. Even the

conversion of Carthage into a Roman provincial town might

have been practicable, and indeed, compared with the present

condition of the Phoenicians, perhaps even not unwelcome.

But Cato desired not the submission, but the destruction of

the hated city. His policy, as it would seem, found allies

partly in the statesmen who were inclined to bring the

transmarine territories into immediate dependence on Rome,

partly and especially in the mighty influence of the Roman

bankers and great capitalists on whom, after the destruction

of the rich moneyed and mercantile city, its inheritance

would necessarily devolve. The majority resolved at the

first fitting opportunity—respect for public opinion required

that they should wait for such—to bring about war with

Carthage, or rather the destruction of the city.

The desired occasion was soon found. The provoking

violations of right on the part of Massinissa and the Romans

brought to the helm in Carthage Hasdrubal and Carthalo,

the leaders of the patriotic party; which was not indeed,

like the Achaeans, disposed to revolt against the Roman su­

premacy, but was at least resolved to defend, if necessary,

by arms against Massinissa the stipulated rights of the

Carthaginians. The patriots ordered forty of the most

decided partisans of Massinissa to be banished from the

city, and made the people swear that they would on no

account ever permit their return; at the same time, in

order to repel the attacks that might be expected from

Massinissa, they formed out of the free Numidians a

numerous army under Arcobarzanes, the grandson of

Syphax (about 600). Massinissa, however, was prudent

enough not to take arms now, but to submit himself uncon­

ditionally to the decision of the Romans respecting the

disputed territory on the Bagradas; and thus the Romans

could assert with some plausibility that the Carthaginian

preparations must have been directed against them, and

could insist on the immediate dismissal of the army and

destruction of the naval stores. The Carthaginian senate

was disposed to consent, but the multitude prevented the

execution of the decree, and the Roman envoys, who had

brought this order to Carthage, were in peril of their lives.

Massinissa sent his son Gulussa to Rome to report the con­

tinuance of the Carthaginian warlike preparations by land

