Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 337

an able officer, Quintus Ofella, before Praeneste just as he

had done in the previous year before Capua, with instruc足

tions not to expend his strength in the siege of the strong

town, but to enclose it with an extended line of blockade

and starve it into surrender. He himself advanced from Occupation

different sides upon the capital, which as well as the whole of Rome.

surrounding district he found abandoned by the enemy

and occupied without resistance. He barely took time to

compose the minds of the people by an address and to make

the most necessary arrangements, and immediately passed

on to Etruria, that in concert with Metellus he might dis足

lodge his antagonists from Northern Italy.

Metellus had meanwhile encountered and defeated Carbo's Metellus

lieutenant Carrinas at the river jEsis (Esino between against

Ancona and Sinigaglia), which separated the district of^arb?m

Picenum from the Gallic province; when Carbo in person )^[v

came up with his superior army, Metellus had been obliged

to abstain from any further advance. But on the news of

the battle at Sacriportus, Carbo, anxious about his commu足

nications, had retreated to the Flaminian road, with a view

to take up his headquarters at its rallying point Ariminum,

and from that point to hold the passes of the Apennines on

one hand and the valley of the Po on the other. In this

retrograde movement different divisions fell into the hands

of the enemy, and not only so, but Sena Gallica was stormed

and Carbo's rearguard broken in a brilliant cavalry engage- Carbo

ment by Pompeius; nevertheless Carbo attained on the assailed on

whole his object. The consular Norbanus took the com- 'rj? sld.es

mand in the valley of the Po; Carbo himself proceeded to

Etruria. But the march of Sulla with his victorious legions

to Etruria altered the position of affairs; soon three Sullan

armies from Gaul, Umbria, and Rome established commu足

nications with each other. Metellus with the fleet went

past Ariminum to Ravenna, and at Faventia cut off the

communication between Ariminum and the valley of the

Po, into which he sent forward a division along the great

road to Placentia under Marcus Lucullus, the quaestor of

Sulla and brother of his admiral in the Mithradatic war.

The young Pompeius and his contemporary and rival

Crassus penetrated from Picenum by mountain-paths into

Umbria and gained the Flaminian road at Spoletium, where

they defeated Carbo's legate Carrinas and shut him up in

the town; he succeeded, however, in escaping from it on a

VOL. III. z

