Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 407

(ii. 362-393) were not altered, but merely further and more

distinctly developed. In agriculture we have already seen Agricul-

that the growing power of Roman capital was gradually ture.

absorbing the intermediate and small landed estates in Italy as

well as in the provinces, as the sun absorbs the drops of rain.

The government not only looked on without preventing,

but even promoted this injurious division of the soil by par­

ticular measures, especially by prohibiting the production

of wine and oil beyond the Alps with a view to favour the

great Italian landlords and merchants.* It is true that

both the opposition and the fraction of the conservatives

that entered into ideas of reform worked energetically to

counteract the evil; the two Gracchi, by carrying out the

distribution of almost the whole domain land, gave to the

state 80,000 new Italian farmers; Sulla, by settling 120,000

colonists in Italy, filled up at least in part the gaps which

the revolution and he himself had made in the ranks of the

Italian yeomen. But, when a vessel is emptying itself by

constant efflux, the evil is to be remedied not by pour­

ing in even considerable quantities, but only by the esta­

blishment of a constant influx—a remedy which was often

sought for, but never with success. In the provinces, not

even the smallest effort was made to save the farmer class

there from being bought out by the Roman speculators; the

provincials were merely men, and belonged to no party. The

consequence was, that even the rents of the soil beyond Italy

flowed more and more to Rome. Moreover the plantation-

system, which about the middle of this epoch had already

gained the ascendant even in particular districts of Italy,

such as Etruria, had, through the co-operation of an ener­

getic and methodical management and abundant pecuniary

resources, attained to a state of high prosperity after its

kind. The production of Italian wine in particular, which

was artificially promoted partly by the opening of forced

markets in a portion of the provinces, partly by the pro­

hibition of foreign wines in Italy as expressed for instance

in the sumptuary law of 593, attained very considerable 16J.

results: the Aminean and Falernian wine began to be

* P. 167. With this may be connected the remark of the Roman agricul­  
turist, Saserna, who lived after Cato and before Varro (ap. Colum. i. 1, 5),
that

the culture of the vine and olive was constantly moving further to the north.

The decree of the senate as to the translation of the treatise of Mago (P.
83),

belongs also to this class of measures.

