28 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

the things at stake were not the state and freedom, but the

beloved soil of their ancestral city and their venerable and

dear home beside the sea. Hope and deliverance were out of

the question; sound policy enjoined even now an uncondi­

tional submission. But the voice of the few who coun­

selled the acceptance of what was inevitable was, like

the call of the pilot during a hurricane, drowned amidst

the furious yells of the multitude; which, in its frantic rage,

laid hands on the magistrates of the city who had counselled

the surrender of the hostages and arms, made such of the inno­

cent bearers of the news as had ventured at all to return home

expiate their terrible tidings, and tore in pieces the Italians

who chanced to be sojourning in the city by way of avenging

beforehand, at least on them, the destruction of its native

home. No resolution was taken to defend themselves; un­

armed as they were, this was a matter of course. The gates

were closed; stones were carried to the battlements of the

walls that had been stripped of the catapults; the chief com­

mand was intrusted to Hasdrubal, the grandson of Massinissa;

the slaves in a body were declared free. The army of re­

fugees under the fugitive Hasdrubal—which was in posses­

sion of the whole Carthaginian territory with the exception

of the towns on the east coast occupied by the Romans, viz.

Hadrumetum, Little Leptis, Thapsus and Achulla, and the

city of Utica, and offered an invaluable support for the de­

fence—was entreated not to refuse its aid to the common­

wealth in this dire emergency. At the same time, conceal­

ing in true Phoenician style the most unbounded resentment

under the cloak of humility, they attempted to deceive the

enemy. A message was sent to the consuls to request a thirty

days' armistice for the despatch of an embassy to Rome.

The Carthaginians were well aware that the generals neither

would nor could grant this request, which had been re­

fused already; but the consuls were confirmed by it in

the natural supposition that after the first outhreak of

despair the utterly defenceless city would submit, and

accordingly postponed the attack. The precious interval

was employed in preparing catapults and armour; day and

night all, without distinction of age or sex, were occupied in

constructing machines and forging arms; the public buildings

were torn down to procure timber and metal; women cut

off their hair to replace the strings indispensable for the

catapults; in an incredibly short time the walls and the

