Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 107

in consequence of the rejection of the proposal brought in by

Flaccus—the first instance which had occurred for a hundred

and fifty years of a serious insurrection, not fomented by

foreign powers, in Italy against the Roman hegemony. But

on this occasion the fire was successfully extinguished before

it had caught hold of other allied communities. Not through

the superiority of the Roman arms, but through the treachery

of a Fregellan Quintus Numitorius Pullus, the praetor Lucius

Opimius quickly became master of the revolted city, which

lost its civic privileges and its walls and was converted like

Capua into a village. The colony of Fabrateria was

founded on a part of its territory in 630; the remainder 124.

and the former city itself were distributed among the sur­

rounding communities. This rapid and fearful punishment

alarmed the allies, and endless impeachments for high treason

pursued not only the Fregellans, but also the leaders of the

popular party in Rome, who naturally were regarded by the

aristocracy as accomplices in this insurrection. Meanwhile

Gaius Gracchus reappeared in Rome. The aristocracy had

first sought to detain the object of their dread in Sardinia by

omitting to provide the usual relief, and then, when without

caring for that point he returned, had brought him to trial as

one of the authors of the Fregellan revolt (629-30). But 125-124.

the burgesses acquitted him; and now he too threw down

the gauntlet, became a candidate for the tribuneship of the

people, and was nominated to that office for the year 631 in 123.

an elective assembly attended by unusual numbers. War

was thus declared. The democratic party, always poor in

leaders of ability, had from sheer necessity remained vir­

tually at rest for nine years; now the truce was at an end,

and this time they were headed by a man, who with more

honesty than Carbo, and with more talent than Flaccus,

was in every respect called to take the lead.

Gaius Gracchus (601-633) was very different from his 153-121.

brother, who was about nine years older. Like the latter, Gains

he had no relish for vulgar pleasures and vulgar pursuits; he Gracchus-

was a man of thorough culture and a brave soldier; he had

served with distinction before Numantia under his brother-in-

law, and afterwards in Sardinia. But in talent, in character,

and above all in passion he was decidedly superior to Tiberius.

The clearness and self-possession, which the young man

afterwards displayed amidst the pressure of all the varied

labours requisite for the practical carrying out of his

