198 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

merely—according to aristocratic phraseology—a poor man,

but, what was worse, frugal and a declared enemy of all bribery

and corruption. After the manner of soldiers he was not

nice, but was fond of his cups, especially in his later years;

he knew not the art of giving feasts, and kept a bad cook. It

was likewise awkward that the consular understood nothing

but Latin and had to decline conversing in Greek; that he

felt the Greek plays wearisome might pass—he was probably

not the only one who did so—but to confess his feeling of

weariness was naive. Thus he remained throughout life a

countryman adrift among aristocrats, and annoyed by the

keenly felt sarcasms and still more keenly felt sympathy

of his colleagues, which he had not the self-command to

despise as he despised themselves.

Political Marius stood aloof from parties not much less than from

position of society. The measures which he carried in his tribunate of

119 tke People (635)—a better control over the delivery of the

voting-tablets with a view to do away with the scandalous

frauds that were therein practised, and the prevention of ex­

travagant proposals for largesses to the people (P. 134)—do

not bear the stamp of a party, least of all that of the demo­

cratic, but merely show that he hated what was unjust and

irrational; and how could a man like this, a farmer by birth

and a soldier by inclination, have been from the first a revo­

lutionist? The hostile attacks of the aristocracy had no

doubt driven him subsequently into the camp of the opponents

of the government; and there he speedily found himself

elevated in the first instance to be general of the opposi­

tion, and thereby destined perhaps for still higher things.

But this was far more the effect of the stringent force of

circumstances and of the general need which the opposition

had for a chief, than his own work; he had at any rate since

107-6. his departure for Africa in 647-8 hardly tarried, in passing,

for a brief period in the capital. It was not till the latter

101. half of 653 that he returned to Rome, victor alike over the

Teutones and over the Cimbri, to celebrate his postponed

triumph now with double honours—decidedly the first man

in Rome, and yet at the same time a tyro in politics. It was

certain beyond dispute, not only that Marius had saved

Rome, but that he was the only man who could have saved it:

his name was on every one's lips; the nobles acknowledged

his services; with the people he was more popular than any

one before or after him, popular alike by his virtues and by his

