Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 185

might have happened, had the Cimbrians immediately after

their double victory advanced through the gates of the Alps

into Italy. But they first overran the territory of the Arverni

who laboured to defend themselves in their fortresses against

the enemy; and soon, weary of sieges, set out from thence,

not to Italy, but westward to the Pyrenees.

If the torpid organism of the Roman polity could still be The Roman

brought to recover of itself its healthy action, that recovery opposition,

could not but take place now, when, by one of the marvellous

chances in which the history of Pome is so rich, the dan­

ger was sufficiently imminent to rouse all the energy and

all the patriotism of the burgesses, and yet did not burst

upon them so suddenly as to leave no space for the develop­

ment of their resources. But the very same phenomena

which had occurred four years previously after the African

defeats, presented themselves afresh. In fact the African

and Gallic disasters were essentially of the same kind. It

may be that primarily the blame of the former fell more

on the oligarchy as a whole, that of the latter more on indi­

vidual magistrates; but public opinion justly recognized in

both, above all things, the bankruptcy of the government,

which, in its progressive development placed in jeopardy first

the honour and now the very existence of the state. People

just as little deceived themselves then as now regarding the

true seat of the evil, but as little now as then did they make

even an attempt to apply the remedy at the proper point.

They saw well that the system was to blame; but this time War of pro-

also they adhered to the method of calling individuals to secutions.

account. Doubtless, however, this second storm discharged

itself on the heads of the oligarchy so much the more

heavily, as the calamity of 649 exceeded in extent and peril 105.

that of 645. The sure instinctive feeling of the public, that 109.

there was no resource against the oligarchy except the

tyrannis, was once more apparent in their readily yielding

to every attempt by officers of note to tie the hands of the

government and, under one form or another, to overturn

the oligarchic rule by a dictatorship.

It was against Quintus Caepio that their attacks were

first directed; and justly, in so far as he had primarily

occasioned the defeat of Arausio by his insubordination,

even apart from the probably well-founded but not proved

charge of embezzling the Tolosan booty; but the fury

which the opposition displayed against him was essentially

