Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 431

knowledge to which scientific knowledge was bound to have

regard and even in doubtful cases to subordinate itself.

He believed in a different way from the people rather than

in different objects; the essentially true and supreme God

was in his view doubtless the world-soul, but every mani­

festation of the primitive God was in its turn divine, the

stars above all, but also the earth, the vine, the soul of the

illustrious mortal whom the people honoured as a hero, and

generally indeed every departed spirit of a former man.

This philosophy was really better adapted for Rome than

for the land where it first arose. The objection of the

pious believer, that the god of the Stoic had neither sex

nor age nor corporeality and was converted from a person

into an idea, had a meaning in Greece, but not in Rome.

The coarse allegorizing and moral purification, which were

characteristic of the Stoical doctrine as to the gods, destroyed

the very marrow of the Hellenic mythology; but the plastic

power of the Romans, scanty even in their epoch of

simplicity, had produced no more than a light veil enve­

loping the original intuition or the original notion out of

which the divinity had arisen—a veil that might be stripped

off" without special damage. Pallas Athene might be indig­

nant, when she found herself suddenly transmuted into the

idea of memory: Minerva had hitherto been in reality not

much more. The supernatural Stoic, and the allegoric

Roman, theology coincided on the whole in their result.

But, even if-the philosopher was obliged to designate indi­

vidual propositions of the priestly lore as doubtful or as

erroneous—as when the Stoics, for example, rejecting the

doctrine of apotheosis, saw in Hercules, Castor, and Pollux

nothing but the spirits of distinguished men, or as when

they could not allow the images of the gods to be regarded

as representations of divinity—it was at least not the habit

of the adherents of Zeno to make war on these erroneous

doctrines and to overthrow false gods; on the contrary,

they everywhere evinced respect and reverence for the

religion of the land even in its weaknesses. The inclination

also of the Stoa towards a casuistic morality and towards a

systematic treatment of the professional sciences was quite

to the mind of the Romans, especially of the Romans of this

period, who no longer like their fathers practised in unso­

phisticated fashion self-government and good morals, but re­

solved the simple moralitv of their ancestors into a catechism

