Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 437

him till the Teutones were defeated. The leaders of the

different parties in the civil war, Marius, Octavius, Sulla,

coincided in believing omens and oracles. During its course

even the senate was under the necessity, in the troubles of

667, of consenting to issue directions in accordance with

the fancies of a crazy prophetess. It is significant of the

ossification of the Romano-Hellenic religion as well as of

the increasing craving of the multitude after stronger reli­

gious stimulants, that superstition no longer, as in the

Bacchic mysteries, associates itself with the national religion;

even the Etruscan mysticism is already left behind; the

worships matured in the sultry regions of the East appear

throughout in the foremost rank. The copious introduction

of elements from Asia Minor and Syria into the population

partly by the importation of slaves, partly by the augmented

traffic of Italy with the East, contributed very greatly to

this result. The power of these foreign religions is very

distinctly apparent in the revolts of the Sicilian slaves, who

for the most part were natives of Syria. Eunus vomited

fire, Athenion read the stars; the plummets thrown by the

slaves in these wars bear in great part the names of gods,

those of Zeus and Artemis, and especially that of the myste­

rious Mother who had migrated from Crete to Sicily and was

zealously worshipped there. A similar effect was produced

by commercial intercourse, particularly after the wares of

Berytus and Alexandria were conveyed directly to the

Italian ports; Ostia and Puteoli became the great marts

not only for Syrian unguents and Egyptian linen, but also

for the faith of the East. Everywhere the mingling 'of reli­

gions was constantly on the increase along with the mingling

of nations. Of all allowed worships the most popular was

that of the Pessinuntine Mother of the Gods, which made a

deep impression on the multitude by its eunuch-celibacy,

its banquets, its music, its begging processions, and all its

sensuous pomp; the collections from house to house were

already felt as an economic burden. In the most dangerous

time of the Citnbrian war Battaces the high-priest of Pessi-

nus appeared in person at Rome, in order to defend the

interests of the temple of his goddess there which was alleged

to have been profaned, addressed the Soman people by the

special orders of the Mother of the Gods, and performed

also various miracles. Men of sense were scandalized, but

the women and the great multitude were not to be debarred

87.

