Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 387

and most mischievous of nil conceivable political conditions—

in fact the beginning of the end. "We do not go too far

when we assert that the long-undermined Roman common­

wealth must have necessarily fallen to pieces, had not Sulla

by his intervention in Asia and Italy saved its existence.

It is true that Sulla's constitution bad as little endurance

as that of Cromwell, and it was not difficult to see that his

structure was no solid one; but it is arrant thoughtlessness

to overlook the fact that without Sulla most probably the

very site of the building would have been swept away by

the waves; and the blame of its want of stability does

not fall primarily on Sulla. The statesman builds only

so much as in the sphere assigned to him he can build.

What a man of conservative views could do to save the old

constitution, Sulla did; and he himself had a foreboding

that, while he might probably erect a fortress, he would be

unable to create a garrison, and that the utter worthlessness

of the oligarchs would render any attempt to save the

oligarchy vain. His constitution resembled a temporary dike

thrown into the raging breakers; it was no reproach to the

builder, if some ten years afterwards the waves swallowed

up a structure reared iu defiance of nature and not defended

even by those whom it sheltered. The statesman has no

need to be referred to highly commendable isolated reforms,

such as those of the Asiatic revenue-system and of criminal

justice, that he may not summarily dismiss Sulla's ephe­

meral restoration; he will admire it as a reorganization

of the Eoman commonwealth judiciously planned and on

the whole consistently carried out under infinite difficulties,

and he will place the deliverer of Rome and the accom-

plisher of Italian unity below, but yet in the same class with,

Cromwell.

It is not, however, the statesman alone who has a voice in Immoral

judging the dead; and with justice outraged human feeling an^ super-

will never reconcile itself to what Sulla did or suffered others fii™'natUR'

to do. Sulla not only established his despotic power by un- guuan ri>

scrupulous violence, but in doing so called things by their storation.

right name with a certain cynical frankness, through which he

has irreparably offended the great mass of the weakhearted

who are more revolted at the name than at the thing, while the

cool and dispassionate character of his crimes makes them

certainly appear to the moral judgment more revolting than

the crimes that spring from passion. Outlawries, rewards

