126 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

whole domains assigned to the Latins were confiscated—

was the occupied domain-land requisite for the formation of

twelve new, numerous, and compact burgess-communities

to be discovered? Lastly the declaration of Drusus, that

he would have nothing to do with the execution of his law,

was so dreadfully prudent, that it was almost the height of

absurdity. But the clumsy snare was quite suited for the

stupid game which they wished to catch. There was the

additional and perhaps decisive consideration, that Gracchus,

on whose personal influence everything depended, was just

then establishing the Carthaginian colony in Africa, and that

his lieutenant in the capital, Marcus Flaccus, played into

the hands of his opponents by his vehemence and incapacity.

The "people " accordingly ratified the Livian laws as readily

as it had before ratified the Sempronian. It then, as usual,

repaid its latest, by inflicting a gentle blow on its earlier,

benefactor, declining to re-elect him when he stood for

the third time as a candidate for the tribunate for the year

121. 633; on which occasion, however, there were alleged to

have been unjust proceedings on the part of the tribune

presiding at the election, who had been formerly offended by

Gracchus. Thus the foundation of his despotism gave way

beneath him. A second blow was inflicted, on him by the

consular elections, which not only proved in a general sense

adverse to the democracy, but which placed at the head

125. of the state Lucius Opimius, who as praetor in 629 had

conquered Fregellae, one of the most decided and least

scrupulous chiefs of the strict aristocratic party, and a man

firmly resolved to get rid of their dangerous antagonist at'

the earliest opportunity.

Attack on Such an opportunity soon occurred. On the 10th of De-

the [122. cember, 632, Gracchus ceased to be tribune of the people; on

trans- [121. the 1st of January, 633, Opimius entered on his office. The

ionization" ^rst attack, as was fair, was directed against the most useful

Downfall of ar"i the most unpopular measure of Gracchus, the restoration

Gracchus, of Carthage. While the transmarine colonies had hitherto

been only indirectly assailed through the greater allure­

ments of the Italian, African hyaenas, it was now alleged,

dug up the newly-placed boundary-stones of Carthage, and

the Roman priests, when requested, certified that such signs

and portents ought to form an express warning against

rebuilding on a site accursed by the gods. The senate

thereby found itself in conscience compelled to have a law

