Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 109

drove him only to make haste, like a man mortally wounded

who throws himself on the foe. The mother thought more

nobly; but the son—with his deeply provoked, passionately

excited, thoroughly Italian nature—has been more lamented

than blamed by posterity, and posterity has been right in

its judgment.

Tiberius Gracchus had come before the burgesses with a Alterations

single administrative reform. What Gaius introduced in a made on the

series of separate proposals, was nothing else than an entirely constitution

new constitution; the foundation-stone of which was fur- Gracchus

nished by the innovation previously introduced, that a

tribune of the people should be at liberty to solicit re-elec­

tion for the following year. While this step enabled the

popular chief to acquire a permanent position and one

which protected its holder, the next object was to secure for

him material power or, in other words, to attach the multi­

tude of the capital—for that no reliance was to be placed on

the country people coming only from time to time to the

city, had been sufficiently apparent—with its interests stead­

fastly to its leader. This purpose was served, first of all, Pistribu-

by introducing distributions of corn in the capital. The tion of

grain accruing to the state from the provincial tenths had £raln-

already been frequently given away at nominal prices to the

burgesses (ii. 372). Gracchus enacted, that every burgess

who should personally present himself in the capital should

thenceforth be allowed monthly a definite quantity—appa­

rently 5 modii (lj bushel)—from the public stores, the

modius being given at 6J- asses (3d) or not quite the half of

a low average price (ii. 373); for which purpose the public

corn-stores were enlarged by the construction of the new

Sempronian granaries. This distribution—which conse­

quently excluded the burgesses living out of the capital, and

could not but attract to Rome the whole mass of the burgess-

proletariate—was designed to bring the burgess-proletariate

of the capital, which hitherto had mainly depended on the

aristocracy, into dependence on the leaders of the movement-

party, and thus to supply the new master of the state at once

with a body-guard and with a firm majority in the comitia. For change in

the greater security as regards the latter, moreover, the order the order of

of voting still subsisting in the comitia centuriata, according to votlDS-

which the five property-classes in each tribe gave their votes

one after another (ii. 353), was done away; instead of this,

all the centuries were in future to vote after one another in

