244 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

death of

Lupus

There he attacked the other Roman corps under Lupus

unexpectedly during the crossing, and partly cut it down,

90. partly drove it into the river (11th June 664). The consul

Defeat and in person and 8000 of his troops fell. It could scarcely be

called a compensation, that Marius, becoming at length

aware of Scato's departure, had crossed the river and not

without loss to the enemy occupied their camp. Yet this

passage of the river, and a victory at the same time obtained

over the Paelignians by the general Servius Sulpicius, com­

pelled the Marsians to draw their line of defence somewhat

back, and Marius, who by decree of the senate succeeded

Lupus as commander-in-chief, at least prevented the enemy

from gaining further successes. But, when Quintus Caepio

was soon afterwards associated in the command with equal

powers, not so much on account of a conflict which he had

successfully sustained, as because he had recommended him­

self to the equites then leading the politics of Rome by his

vehement opposition to Drusus, he allowed himself to be lured

into an ambush by Silo on the pretext that the latter wished

to betray to him his army, and was cut to pieces with a great

part of his force by the Marsians and Vestinians. Marius,

after Caepio's fall once more sole commander-in-chief, through

his obstinate resistance prevented his antagonist from profit­

ing by the advantages which he had gained, and gradually

penetrated far into the Marsian territory. He long refused

battle; when he at length gave it, he vanquished his im­

petuous opponent, who left on the battle-field among other

dead Herius Asinius the chieftain of the Marruciui. In a

second engagement the army of Marius and the corps of

Sulla which belonged to the army of the south co-operated

to inflict on the Marsians a still more considerable defeat,

which cost them 6000 men; but the glory of the day re­

mained with the younger officer, for, while Marius had given

and gained the battle, Sulla had intercepted the retreat of

the fugitives and destroyed them.

While the conflict was proceeding thus warmly and with

varying success by the Fucine lake, the Picenian corps under

Strabo had also fought with alternations of fortune. The

insurgent chiefs, Gaius Judacilius from Asculum, Publius

Vettius Scato, and Titus Lafrenius had assailed it with their

united forces, defeated it, and compelled it to throw itself

into Firmum, where Lafrenius kept Strabo besieged, while

Judacilius moved into Apulia and induced Canusium, Venu-

Pireniun

