Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. Ill

marine emigration which it established. It opened up for

the Italian proletariate a permanent outlet, and a relief in

fact more than provisional; but it certainly abandoned the

principle of state-law hitherto in force, by which Italy was

regarded exclusively as the governing, and the provincial

territory exclusively as the governed, land.

To these measures having immediate reference to the Modifica-

great question of the proletariate there was added a series tions of tlle

of enactments, which arose out of the general tendency to I* •

introduce principles milder and more accordant with the

spirit of the age than the antiquated severity of the existing

constitution. To this head belong the modifications in the

military system. As to the length of the period of service

there existed under the ancient law no other limit, ex­

cept that no citizen was liable to ordinary service in the

field before completing his sixteenth or after completing

his forty-sixth year. When, in consequence of the occu­

pation of Spain, the service began to become permanent (ii.

'210), it seems to have been first legally enacted, that any one

who had been in the field for six successive years acquired

thereby a right to discharge, although this discharge did

not protect him from being called out again afterwards. At

a later period, perhaps about the beginning of this century,

the rule arose, that a service of twenty years in the

infantry or ten years in the cavalry gave exemption from

further military service.* Gracchus renewed the rule—

which was often, in all probability, violently infringed—

that no citizen should be enlisted in the army before the

commencement of his seventeenth year; and also, appa­

rently, restricted the number of campaigns requisite for

full exemption from military duty. Besides, the clothing

of the soldiers, the value of which had hitherto been de­

ducted from their pay, was henceforward furnished gratui­

tously by the state.

To this head belongs, moreover, the tendency which is on

* Thus the statement of Appian (ffisp. 78) that six years' service entitled  
a man to demand hrs discharge, may perhaps be reconciled with the better

known statement of Polybius (vi. 19), respecting which Marquardt [Alterth.

iii. 2, 286 A. 1580) has formed a correct judgment. The time, at which the

two alterations were introduced, cannot be deteimined further than that the

tii-stwas probably in existence as early as 603 (Nitzsch, Gracchen, p. 231),
and

the second certainly as early as the time of Polybius. That Gracchus re­

duced the number of the legal years of service, seems to follow from Asconius

m Cornel, p. 68; comp. Plutarch, Ti. Graoch. 16; Dio. Fr. 83, 7, Bekk.

