308 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

opposed the other and yet both stood opposed to the same

foe, he hoped that he should be able to obtain not merely a

peace, but a favourable peace. He had the choice of apply­

ing to Sulla or to Fimbria; he caused negotiations to be

instituted with both, yet it seems from the first to have been

his design to come to terms with Sulla, who, at least from the

king's point of view, seemed decidedly superior to his rival.

His general Archelaus, as instructed by his master, asked

Sulla to cede Asia to the king and to expect in return the

king's aid against the democratic party in Rome. But Sulla,

cool and clear as ever, while urgently desiring a speedy set­

tlement of Asiatic affairs on account of the position of things

in Italy, estimated the advantages of the Cappadocian alli­

ance for the war impending over him in Italy as very slight,

nariesTf and was altogether too much of a Roman to consent to so

Delium. disgraceful and so injurious a concession. In the peace

85-84. conferences, which took place in the winter of 669-70, at

Delium on the coast of Boeotia opposite to Eubcea, lie

distinctly refused to cede even a foot s-breadth of land, but,

with good reason faithful to the old Roman custom of not

increasing after victory the demands made before battle, did

not go beyond the conditions previously laid down. He re­

quired the restoration of all the conquests made by the king

and not wrested from him again—Cappadocia, Paphlagonia,

Gralatia, Bithynia, Asia Minor and the islands—the sur­

render of prisoners and deserters, the delivering up of the

eighty war-vessels of Archelaus to reinforce the still insig­

nificant Roman fleet, lastly, pay and provisions for the army

and the very moderate sum of 3000 talents (£732,000) as

indemnity for the expenses of the war. The Chians carried

off to the Black Sea were to be sent home, the families of

the Macedonians who were friendly to Rome and had become

refugees were to be restored, and a number of war-vessels

were to be delivered to the cities in alliance with Ronie. Be>

specting Tigranes, who in strictness ought likewise to have

been included in the peace, there was silence on both aides,

since neither of the contracting parties cared for the endless

further arrangements which would be occasioned by making

him a party. The king thus retained the state of possession

which he had before the war, nor was he subjected to any

humiliation affecting his honour.* Archelaus, clearly per­

Prelimi-

* The statement that Mithradates in the peace stipulated for impunity U  
the towns which had embraced his side (Memnon, 35) seems, looking to th«

