Chap. VII.] AND THE SOLHCIAN REVOLUTION. 235

accumulating for centuries; the Roman magistrates were

torn to pieces by the multitude in the theatre itself, and

immediately, as if it were their intention by a fearful out­

rage to cut off every chance of reconciliation, the gates were

closed by command, of the magistracy, all the Romans re­

siding in Asculum were put to death, and their property was

plundered. The revolt ran through the peninsula like the

flame through the steppe. The brave and numerous people Marsians

of the Marsians took the lead, in connection with the small anu Sabel-

but hardy confederacies in the Abruzzi—the Paelignians, anS,

Marrucinians, Frentanians, and Vestinians. The brave and

sagacious Quintus Silo, already mentioned, was here the soul

of the movement. The Marsians were the first formally

to declare against the Romans, whence the war retained

afterwards the name of the Marsian war. The example thus Central and

given was followed by the Samnite communities, and gene-- Southern

rally by the mass of the communities from the Liris and the y'

Abruzzi down to Calabria and Apulia; so that all Central

and Southern Italy was soon in arms against Rome.

The Etruscans and Umbrians on the other hand held by Italians

Eome, as they had already taken part with the equites friendlJ't0

against Drusus (P. 224). It is a significant fact, that in Kome*

these regions the landed and moneyed aristocracy had from

ancient times preponderated and the middle-class had totally

disappeared, whereas among and near the Abruzzi the farmer-

class had preserved its purity and vigour better than any­

where else in Italy: it was from the farmers accordingly

and the middle class in general that the revolt substantially

proceeded, whereas the municipal aristocracy still went hand

in hand with the government of the capital. This also

readily explains the fact, that there were m the insurgent

districts isolated communities, and in the insurgent commu­

nities minorities, adhering to the Roman alliance ; the Vesti-

nian town Pinna, for instance, sustained a severe siege for

Eome, and a corps of loyalists that was formed in the Hir-

pinian country under Minatius Magius of Mclttaum supported

the Eoman operations in Campania. Lastly, there adhered

to Rome the allied communities optimi juris—in Campania

Nola and Nuceria and the Greek maritime towns Nea-

polis and Rhegium, and in like manner at least most of

the Latin colonies, such as Alba and iEsernia—just as in

the Hannibalic war the Latin and Greek towns on the

whole had taken part with, and the Sabellian towns against,

