Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 161

position. His declining the suggestion would probably lead

to a breach; his accepting it would throw his most aristo­

cratic and bravest officer iuto the hands of a man more than

untrustworthy, who, as every one knew, played a double

game with the Bomaus and with Jugurtha, and who seemed

almost to have contrived" the scheme for the purpose of ob­

taining for himself provisional hostages from both sides in

the persons of Jugurtha and Sulla. But the wish to termi­

nate the war outweighed every other consideration, and

Sulla agreed to undertake the perilous task which Marius

suggested to him. He boldly departed under the guidance

of Volux the son of king Bocchus, nor did his resolution

waver even when his guide led him through the midst of Ju-

gurtha's camp. He rejected the pusillanimous proposals of

flight that came from his attendants, and marched, with the

king's son at his side, uninjured through the enemy. The

daring officer evinced the same decision in the discussions

with the sultan, and induced him at length seriously to make

his choice.

Jugurtha was sacrificed. Under the pretext that all his sarremkr

requests were to be granted, he was allured by his own and execu-

father-in-law into an ambush, his attendants were killed, tl°"°t''"'

and he himself was taken prisoner. The great traitor thus gur

fell by the treachery of his nearest relatives. Lucius Sulla

brought the crafty and restless African in chains along with

his children to the Roman headquarters; and the war which

had lasted for seven years was at an end. The victory was

primarily associated with the name of Marius. King Ju­

gurtha in royal robes and in chains, along with his two sons,

preceded the triumphal chariot of the victor, when he

entered Eome on the 1st of January 650: by his orders the 10i.

son of the desert perished a few days afterwards in the sub­

terranean city-prison, the old tullianum at the Capitol—the

"bath of ice," as the African called it when he crossed the

threshold in order either to be strangled or to perish from

cold and hunger there. But it could not be denied, that

Marius had the least important share in the actual suc­

cesses: the conquest of Numidia up to the edge of the

desert was the work of Metellus, the capture of Jugurtha

was the work of Sulla, and between tha two Marius played

a part somewhat compromising the dignity of an ambitious

upstart. Marius reluctantly tolerated the assumption by

his predecessor of the name of conqueror of Numidia; he

VOL. III. M

r

