376 [Book IV. THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION.

Relation of

the muni'

cipiurn to

the state.

With reference to the relation of this secondary political

organism to the primary organism of the state, all political

prerogatives generally belonged to the former as well as to the

latter, and consequently the municipal decree and the impe-

rium of the municipal magistrates bound the municipal bur­

gess just as the decree of the people and the consular imperium

bound the Roman. This led, on the whole, to a co-ordinate

exercise of power by the authorities of the state and of the

town; both had, for instance, the right of valuation and tax­

ation, so that in the case of any municipal valuations and

taxes those prescribed by Bome were not taken into ac­

count, and vice versa; public buildings might be instituted

both by the Roman magistrates throughout Italy and by

the municipal authorities in their own district, and so in

other cases. In the event of collision, of course the com­

munity yielded to the state and the decree of the people in­

validated the municipal decree. A formal division of func­

tions probably took place only in the administration of jus­

tice, where the system of pure co-ordination would have led

to the greatest confusion. In criminal procedure probably

all capital causes, and in civil procedure those more difficult

cases which presumed an independent action on the part of

the presiding magistrate, were reserved for the authorities

and jurymen of the capital, and the Italian municipal courts

were restricted to the minor and lesS complicated lawsuits

or to those which were very urgent.

Rise of the The origin of this Italian municipal system has not been

munidprnm. recorded. It is probable that its germs may be traced to

exceptional regulations for the great burgess-colonies, which

were founded at the end of the sixth century (ii. 333); at

least several, in themselves indifferent, formal differences

between burgess-colonies and burgess-municipia tend to show

that the.new burgess-colony, which at that time practically

took the place of the Latin, had originally a better position

in state-law than the far older buTgess-municipium, and the

advantage can perhaps have only consisted in a municipal

constitution approximating to the Latin, such as afterwards

belonged to all burgess-colonies and burgess-municipta. The

new organization is first distinctly traceable in the revolu­

tionary colony of Capua (P. 325) ; and it admits of no doubt

that it was first fully applied, when all the hitherto sove­

reign towns of Italy had to be organized, in consequence of

the Social War, as burgess-communities. Whether it was

