Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 189

The new commander-in-chief, Gaius Marius, appeared Roman do.

in 650 beyond the Alps, followed by a number of expe- fensl.^f;

rienced officers—among whom the bold captor of Jugurtha,

Lucius Sulla, soon acquired fresh distinction—and by a

numerous host of Italian and allied soldiers. At first he

did not find the enemy against whom he had been sent.

The singular people, who had conquered at Arausio, had in

the mean time (as we have already mentioned), after plunder­

ing the country to the west of the Rhone, crossed the Pyre­

nees and were carrying on a desultory warfare in Spain

with the brave inhabitants of the northern coast and of the

interior; it seemed as if the Germans wished at their very

first appearance on the historic stage to display their want

of persevering grasp. So Marius found ample time on the

one hand to reduce the revolted Tectosages to obedience,

to confirm afresh the wavering fidelity of the subject Gallic

and Ligurian cantons, and to obtain support and contin­

gents within and without the Roman province from the allies

who were equally with the Romans placed in peril by the

Cimbri, such as the Massiliots, the Allobroges, and the

Sequani; and on the other hand, to discipline the army

intrusted to him by strict superintendence and impartial

justice towards noble and ignoble, and to prepare the soldiers

for the more serious labours of war by marches and exten­

sive works of entrenching—particularly the construction of

a canal of the Rhone, afterwards handed over to the Mas­

siliots, for facilitating the passage of the transports sent

from Italy to the army. He maintained a strictly defensive

attitude, and did not cross the bounds of toe Roman pro­

vince. At length, apparently in the course of 651, the wave 108.

of the Cimbri, after having broken itself in Spain on the

brave resistance of the native tribes and especially of the

Celtiberians, flowed back again over the Pyrenees and

thence, as it appears, passed along the shore of the Atlantic

Ocean, where everything from the Pyrenees to the Seine

submitted to the terrible invaders. There, on the confines

of the brave confederacy of the Belgae, they first encountered

serious resistance; but thero also, while they were in the

territory of the Vellocassi (near Rouen), considerable rein­

forcements reached them. Not only three cantons of the The Cimbri,

Helvetii, including the Tigorini and Tougeni who had T"lt"n!'R-

formerly fought against the Romans at the Garonne, asso- ?!) untteTC"

ciated themselves, apparently about this period, with the

