234 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, .[Book IV.

how far the Romans had carried out the dissolution of the

larger Italian confederacies (i. 435); but it is not impro­

bable that the Marsians, the Paelignians, and perhaps even

the Samnites and Lucanians still preserved their old forms

of federation, though these had lost their political signifi­

cance and were in some cases probably reduced to mere asso­

ciations for festivals and sacrifices. The insurrection, if it

should now begin, would still find a rallying point in these

unions; but who could say how soon the Romans would

proceed to abolish these also? The secret league, more­

over, which was alleged to be headed by Drusus, had lost in

him its actual or expected head, but it continued to exist and

afforded an important nucleus for the political organization

of the insurrection; while its' military organization might be

based on the fact that each allied town possessed its own

armament and experienced soldiers. In Rome on the other

hand no serious preparations had been made. It was re-

forted, indeed, that restless movements were occurring in

taly, and that the communities of the allies maintained a

remarkable intercourse with each other; but instead of call­

ing the citizens in all haste to arms, the governing corporation

contented itself with exhorting the magistrates in the cus­

tomary fashion to watchfulness and with sending out spies

to learn further particulars. The capital was so totally unde­

fended, that a resolute Marsian officer Quintus Pompaedius

Bilo, one of the most intimate friends of Drusus, is said to

have formed the design of stealing into the city at the head

of a band of trusty associates carrying swords under their

clothes, and of seizing it by a coup de main. Preparations

were accordingly made for a revolt; treaties were concluded,

and arming went on silently but actively, till at last, as usual,

the insurrection broke out through an accident somewhat

earlier than the leading men had intended.

Outbreak of The Roman praetor with proconsular powers, Gaius Ser-

theinsur- vilius, informed by his spies that the town of Asculum

Asculum (Ascoli) in the Abruzzi was sending hostages to the neigh­

bouring communities, proceeded thither with his legate

Fonteius and a small escort, and addressed to the multitude,

which was just then assembled in the theatre for the

celebration of the great games, a vehement and menacing

harangue. The sight of the axes known only too well, the

proclamation of threats that were only too earnest, threw

the spark into the fuel of bitter hatred that had been

