Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 55

for instance, with a view to rid himself of the inconvenient

counsel of his father's friends, assembled them in the palace,

and ordered his mercenaries to put to death first them,

and then their wives and children. Along with such recrea­

tions he wrote treatises on gardening, cultivated poisonous

plants, and prepared wax models, till a sudden death carried

him off.

With him the house of the Attalids became extinct. In i,rovincc oi

such an event, according to the constitutional law which held Asia,

good at least for the client-states of Rome, the last ruler

might dispose of the succession by testament. Whether it

was the insane rancour against his subjects which had

tormented the last Attalid during life that now suggested

to him the thought of bequeathing his kingdom by will to

the Romans, or whether his doing so was merely a further

recognition of the practical supremacy of Rome, cannot be

determined. The testament was made; the Romans

accepted the bequest, and the question as to the land and

the treasure of the Attalids threw a new apple of contention

among the conflicting political parties in Rome.

In Asia also this royal testament kindled a civil war. War against

Relying on the aversion of the Asiatics to the foreign Aristonicus.

rule which awaited them, Aristonicus, a natural son of

Eumenes II., made his appearance in Leucae, a small seaport

between Smyrna and Phocaea, as a pretender to the crown.

Phocaea and other towns joined him, but he was defeated

at sea off Cyme by the Ephesians who saw that a steady

adherence to Rome was the only possible way of preserving

their privileges, and was obliged to flee into the interior,

The movement was believed to have died away when he

suddenly reappeared at the head of the new " citizens of the

city of the sun,"* in other words, of the slaves whom he had

called to freedom en masse, mastered the Lydian towns of

Thyatira and Apollonis as well as a portion of the Attalic

townships, and summoned bands of Thracian free-lances to

join his standard. The struggle was serious. There were

no Roman troops in Asia; the Asiatic free cities and the

contingents of the client-princes of Bithynia, Paphlagonia,

* These strange *' Heliopolites " may, according to the probable view which  
a friend has expressed to me, be accounted tor by supposing that the liberated

slaves constituted themselves citizens of a town Heliopolis not otherwise men­

tioned or perhaps having an existence merely in imagination, which derived

its name from the God of the Sun so highly honoured in Syria.

