148 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

the protecting power to Adherbal to enter the city, and

generally that he should suspend hostilities and accept their

mediation. Jugurtha summarily rejected both demands, and

the envoys hastily returned home—like boys, as they were—

to report to the fathers of the city. The fathers listened to

the report, and allowed their countrymen in Cirta just to

fight on as long as they pleased. It was not till, in the fifth

month of the siege, a messenger of Adherbal stole through

the entrenchments of the enemy and a letter of the king full

of the most urgent entreaties reached the senate, that the

latter roused itself and actually resolved, not to declare war

as the minority demanded, but to send a new embassy—an

embassy, however, headed by Marcus Scaurus, the great

conqueror of the Taurisci and the freedmen, the imposing

hero of the aristocracy, whose mere appearance would suffice

to bring the refractory king to a different mind. In fact

Jugurtha appeared, as he was bidden, at Utica to discuss the

matter with Scaurus; endless debates were held; when at

length the conference was concluded, not the slightest result

had been obtained. The embassy returned to Rome without

having declared war, and the king went back again to the

siege of Cirta. Adherbal found himself reduced to extremi­

ties and despaired of Roman support; the Italians in Cirta,

moreover, weary of the siege and firmly relying for their own

safety on the terror of the Roman name, urged a surrender.

So the town capitulated. Jugurtha ordered his adopted

brother to be executed amid cruel tortures, and all the adult

male population of the town, Africans as well as Italians, to

112. be put to the sword (642).

Roman in- A cry of indignation rose throughout Italy. The mino-

tervention. rity in the senate itself and every ODe out of the senate unani­

mously condemned the government, with whom the honour

and interest of the country seemed mere commodities for

sale; loudest of all was the condemning voice of the mer­

cantile class, which was most directly affected' by the sacri­

fice of the Roman and Italian merchants at Cirta. It is

true that the majority of the senate still struggled; they

appealed to the class-interests of the aristocracy, and set in

motion all their contrivances of obstruction and delay, with a

view to preserve still longer the peace which they loved. But

when Gaius Memmius, designated as tribune of the people

for next year, an active and eloquent man, brought the

matter publicly forward and threatened in his capacity of

