Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 299

orders political factions had without exception been united

in opposing the public foe; but Romans of note fought

under the standards of Mithradates, large districts of Italy

desired to enter into alliance with him, and it was at least

doubtful whether the democratic party would follow the

glorious example that Sulla had set before it, and keep truce

with him so long as he was fighting against the Asiatic

king. But the vigorous general, who had to contend with

all these embarrassments, was not accustomed to trouble him­

self about more remote dangers before finishing the task im­

mediately in hand. When his proposals of peace addressed

to the king, which substantially amounted to a restoration

of the state of matters before the war, met with no accept­

ance, he advanced, just as he had landed, from the harbours

of Epirus to Boeotia, defeated the generals of the enemy Greece oc-

Archelaus and Aristion there at Mount Tilphossium, and copied,

after that victory possessed himself almost without resist­

ance of the whole Grecian mainland with the exception of

the fortresses of Athens and the Piraeeus, into which Aristion

and Archelaus had thrown themselves, and which he failed

to carry by a coup de main. A Roman division under Lucius

Hortensius occupied Thessaly and made incursions into

Macedonia; another under Munatius stationed itself before

Chalcis, to keep off the enemy's corps under Neoptolemus

in Eubcea; Sulla himself formed a camp at Eleusis and Me-

gara, from which he commanded Greece and the Pelopon­

nesus, and prosecuted the siege of the city and harbour of

Athens. The Hellenic cities, governed as they always were

by their immediate fears, submitted unconditionally to the

Romans, and were glad when they were allowed to ransom

themselves from more severe punishment by supplying pro­

visions and men and paying fines.

The sieges in Attica advanced less rapidly. Sulla found Protracted

himself compelled to prepare all sorts of heavy besieging siege of

implements, for which the trees of the Academy and the f}b^!s and

Lyceum had to supply the timber. Archelaus conducted

the defence with equal vigour and judgment; he armed the

crews of his vessels, and thus reinforced repelled the attacks

of the Romans with superior strength and made frequent

and not seldom successful sorties. The Pontic army of

Dromichaetes advancing to the relief of the city was defeated

under the walls of Athens by the Romans after a severe

struggle, in which Sulla's brave legate Lucius Licinius Mu-

