Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 469

the older Q-reek chronicles were translated into Latin and

were probably read mainly in these translations. Unhappily

beyond the employment of the mother-tongue there is

hardly anything else deserving of commendation in the

chronicles of this epoch composed in Latin. They were

numerous and ample enough—there are mentioned, for

example, those of Lucius Cassius Hemina (about 608), 146.

of Lucius Calpurnius Piso (consul in 621), of Gaius Sem- 133.

pronius Tuditanus (consul in 625), of Gaius Eannius (con- 137.

sul in 632). To these falls to be added the digest of the 129.

official annals of the city in eighty books, which Publius

Mucius Scaevola (consul in 621), a man esteemed also as 133.

a jurist, prepared and published as pontifex maximus,

thereby closing the city-chronicle in so far as thenceforth

the pontifical records, although not exactly discontinued,

were no longer at any rate, amidst the increasing diligence

of private chroniclers, taken account of in literature. All

these annals, whether they gave themselves forth as private

or as official works, were substantially similar compilations

of the extant historical and quasi-historical materials; and

the value of their sources as well as their formal value

declined beyond doubt in the same proportion as their

amplitude increased. Chronicle certainly nowhere pre­

sents truth without fiction, and it would be very foolish to

quarrel with Naevius and Pictor because they have not

acted otherwise than Hecataeus and Saxo Grammaticus; but

the later attempts to build houses out of such castles in the

air severely test even the most tried patience. No blank in

tradition presents so wide a chasm, but that this system

of smooth and downright invention will fill it up with

playful facility. The eclipses of the sun, the numbers of

the census, family-registers, triumphs are without hesita­

tion carried back from the current year up to the year

one; it stands duly recorded, in what year, month, and

day king Romulus went up to heaven, and how king Servius

Tullius triumphed over the Etruscans first on the 25th

November 183, and again on the 25th May 187. In entire 571. 567.

harmony with such details accordingly the vessel in which

jEneas had voyaged from Ilion to Latium was shown

in the Eoman docks, and even the identical sow, which

had served as a guide to iEneas, was preserved well pickled

in the lloman temple of Vesta. With the talent of a poet

for inventing lies these noble chroniclers combine all the

