370 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

throw the oligarchy hy means of this double official power, care

seemed now taken to prevent some possibly wiser successor

from making a better use of the same lever. According to

the previous arrangement the magistrate immediately nomi­

nated by the people might have had a military position;

the Sullan arrangement, on the other hand, reserved such a

position exclusively for those magistrates whom the senate

confirmed in their authority by prolonging their term of

office. No doubt this prolongation of office had now be­

come a standing usage; but it still—so far as respects the

auspices and the name, and constitutional formality in gene­

ral—continued to be treated as an extraordinary extension

of their term. This was no matter of indifference. No

one, or at the utmost the burgesses alone, could depose the

consul or praetor from his office; the proconsul and pro­

praetor were nominated and dismissed by the senate, so that

by this enactment the whole military power, on which every­

thing ultimately depended, became formally at any rate

dependent on the senate.

Shelving of Lastly we have already observed that the highest of all

the censor- magistracies, the censorship, though not finally abolished,

,lnp- was shelved in the same way as formerly the dictatorship.

Practically it might certainly be dispensed with. Provision

was otherwise made for filling up the senate. From the

time that Italy was practically tax-free and the army was

substantially formed by enlistment, the register of those

liable to taxation and service lost its chief significance; and,

if disorder prevailed in the equestrian roll or the list of those

entitled to the suffrage, that disorder was probably not

altogether unwelcome. There thus remained only the

current financial functions, which the consuls had hitherto

discharged when, as frequently happened, no election of

censors had taken place, and which they now took as a part

of their ordinary official duties. Compared with the sub­

stantial gain, that by the abeyance of the censorship the

magistracy lost its crowning dignity, it was a matter of

little moment and was not at all prejudicial to the sole

dominion of the supreme governing corporatiou, that—with

a view to satisfy the ambition of the senators now so much

more numerous—the number of the Pontifices was increased

from eight (i. 307), that of the Augurs from nine (i. 307),

that of the Custodiers of Oracles from ten (i. 304), to fifteen

each, and that of the Epulones from three (ii. 399) to seven.

