Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 79

disembarked in the morning and to have been all sold

before evening—a proof at once how enormous was the

number of slaves delivered, and how, notwithstanding, the

demand still exceeded the supply. It was no wonder.

Already in describing the Roman economy of the sixth cen­

tury we have explained that it was based, like all the great

dealings of antiquity generally, on the employment of slaves

(ii. 360 et seq. 380). In whatever direction speculation

applied itself, its instrument was invariably man reduced in

the eye of the law to a brute. Trades were in great part

carried on by slaves, so that the proceeds belonged to the

master. The levying of the public revenues in the lower

departments was regularly conducted by the slaves of the

associations that leased them. Servile hands performed

the operations of mining, making pitch, and others of a

similar kind; it became early the custom to send herds of

slaves to the Spanish mines, whose superintendents rea­

dily received them and paid a high rent for them. The

tending of cattle was universally performed by slaves. We

have already mentioned the armed, and frequently mounted,

slave-herdsmen in the great pastoral districts of Italy (ii.

371); and the same sort of pastoral husbandry soon became

in the provinces also a favourite object of Roman specula­

tion—Dalmatia, for instance, was hardly acquired (599) 155.

when the Roman capitalists began to prosecute the rearing

of cattle there on a great scale after the Italian fashion.

But far worse in every respect was the plantation system

proper—the cultivation of the fields by a band of slaves not

unfrequently branded with iron, who with shackles on their

legs performed the labours of the field under overseers

during the day, and were locked up together by night in

the common, frequently subterranean, labourers' prison.

This plantation system had migrated from the East to Car­

thage (ii. 9), and seems to have been brought by the Car­

thaginians to Sicily, where, probably for this reason, it ap­

pears developed earlier and more fully than in any other

part of the Roman dominions.* "We find the territory of

Leontini, about 30,000 jujera of arable land, which was let

on lease as Roman domain (ii. 149) by the censors, divided

* The hybrid Greek name for the workhouse (ergastulum, from 4pyd(o/iai,  
after the analogy of stabulum, operculum) is an indication that this mode of

Imbbandry came to the Romans from a region where the Greek language was

used, but at a period wheu a thorough Hellenic culture was not yet attained.

