Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 211

tion from the government. They proved in the senate by in the

striking figures, that the former must make the public trea- voting,

sury bankrupt; Saturninus did not trouble himself about

that. They brought tribunician intercession to bear against

both laws ;- Saturninus ordered the voting to go on. They

informed the magistrates presiding at the voting that a peal

of thunder had been heard, a portent by which according

to ancient belief the gods enjoined the dismissal of the public

assembly; Saturninus remarked to the messengers, that

the senate would do well to keep quiet, otherwise the thunder

might very easily be followed by hail. Lastly the urban

quaestor, Quintus Caepio, the son, it may be presumed, of the

general condemned three years before,* and like his father a

vehement antagonist of the popular party, with a band of de­

voted partisans dispersed the comitia by violence. But

the hardy soldiers of Marius, who had flocked in crowds to

Rome to vote on this occasion, quickly rallied and dispersed

the city bands, and on the voting ground thus reconquered

the vote on the Appuleian laws was Successfully brought

to an end. The scandal was grievous; but when it came to

the question whether the senate would comply with the

clause of the law, that within five days after its passing

every senator should on pain of forfeiting his senatorial seat

take an oath faithfully to observe it, all the senators took

the oath with the single exception of Quintus Metellus, who

preferred to go into exile. Marius and Saturninus were

not displeased to see the best general and the ablest man

among their opponents removed from the state by voluntary

banishment.

Their object seemed to be attained; but even now to those The fall of

wbo saw more clearly the enterprise could not appear other the revolu-

than a failure. The cause of the failure lay mainly in the tionary

awkward alliance between a politically incapable general and a '" y'

street-demagogue, able, but recklessly violent and filled with

passion rather than with the aims of a statesman. They had

agreed excellently, so long as the question related to their

plans alone. But when the plans came to be executed, it

* All indications point to this conclusion. The elder Quintus Caepio was  
consul in 648, the younger quaestor in 651 or 654, the former consequently
106. 103.

was born about or before 605, the latter about 624 or 627. The fact that the
100. 148.

former died without leaving sons (Strabo, iv. 188) is not inconsistent with
this 130. 127.

view, for the younger Caepio fell in 664, and the elder, who ended his life in
90.

exile at Smyrna, may very well have survived him.

