276 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

dangerous, no doubt, in such sport to carry off victory from

the king. In hunting on horseback, he hit the game at full

gallop and never missed his aim. He challenged competition

at table also—-he arranged banqueting matches and carried

off in person the prizes proposed lor the most substantial eater

and the hardest drinker—and not less so in the pleasures of

the harem, as was shown among other things by the licentious

letters of his Greek mistresses, which were found among his

papers. His intellectual wants he satisfied by the wildest

superstition—the interpretation of dreams and the Greek

mysteries occupied not a few of the king's hours—and by a

rude adoption of Hellenic civilization. He was fond of

Greek art and music; that is to say, he collected precious

articles, rich furniture, old Persian and Greek objects of

luxury—his cabinet of rings was famous—he had constantly

Greek historians, philosophers, and poets in his train, and pro­

posed prizes at his court-festivals not only for the greatest

eaters and drinkers, but also for the merriest jester and the

best singer. Such was the man; the sultan corresponded.

In the East, where the relation between the ruler and the

ruled bears the character of natural rather than of moral

law, the subject resembles the dog alike in fidelity and in

falsehood, the ruler is cruel and distrustful. In both re­

spects Mithradates has hardly been surpassed. By his orders

there died or pined in perpetual captivity for real or alleged

treason his mother, his brother, his sister espoused to him,

three of his sons and as many of his daughters. Still more

revolting perhaps is the fact, that among his secret papers

were found sentences of death, drawn up beforehand, against

several of his most confidential servants. In like manner it

was a genuine trait of the sultan, that he afterwards, for the

mere purpose of depriving his enemies of trophies of victory,

caused his whole harem to be killed and distinguished

his favourite concubine, a beautiful Ephesian, by allowing

her to choose the mode of death. He prosecuted the experi­

mental study of poisons and antidotes as an important

branch of the business of government, and tried to inure

his body to particular poisons. He had early learned to

look for treason and assassination at the hands of everybody

and especially of his nearest relatives, and he had early

learned to practise them against everybody and most of all

against those nearest to him; of which the necessary conse­

quence—attested by all his history—was, that all his under­

