Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 461

honesty of life asserts itself in antagonism to the great

Babel of mingled tongues and corrupt morals. The as­

piration of the Scipionic circle after literary correctness,

especially in point of language, finds critically its most

finished and most gifted representative in Lucilius. He

dedicated his very first book to Lucius Stilo the fouuder of

Roman philology (P. 442), and designated as the public for'

which he wrote not the cultivated circles of pure and clas­

sical speech, but the Tarentines, the Bruttians, the Siculi,

or in other words the half-Greeks of Italy, whose Latin

certainly might well require a corrective. Whole books of

his poems are occupied with the settlement of Latin ortho­

graphy and prosody, with the combating of Praenestine,

Sabine, Etruscan provincialisms, with the exposure of

current solecisms; along with which, however, the poet by

no means forgets to ridicule the insipidly systematic Isocra-

tean purism of words and phrases,* and even to reproach his

friend Scipio in serious jest with the exclusive fineness of

his languagcf But the poet inculcates purity of morals in

public and private life far more earnestly than he preaches

pure and simple Latinity. Tor this his position gave him

peculiar advantages. Although by descent, estate, and

culture on a level with the noble Romans of his time and

possessor of a handsome house in the capital, he was yet

not a Roman burgess, but a Latin; even his position

towards Scipio, under whom he had served in his early

youth during the Numantine war, and in whose house he

was a frequent visitor, may be connected with the fact, that

Scipio stood in varied relations to the Latins and was their

patron in the political feuds of the time (P. 103). He was

thus precluded from a public life, and he disdained the

career of a speculator—he had no desire, as he once said, to

cease to be Lucilius in order to become an Asiatic revenue-

farmer. So he lived in the sultry age of the Gracchan re­

forms and the agitations preceding the Social war, frequent­

ing the palaces and villas of the Roman grandees and yet not

exactly their client, at once immersed in the strife of political

* Quam lepide \ejfis compostm tit tessemla omnes  
Arte pavimenio tdqne emblem ite vermiculato!

t The poet advises him—

Quofacetior videare et scire plus quam ceteri—

to say not pertatsum but pertimim.

