92 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

and to take it up again in each successive year, till the

earnestness of the demand and the pressure of public

opinion overbore resistance. Now things were carried with

a higher hand. Gracchus seemed to himself to have reached

the point, when he must either wholly renounce his reform

or begin a revolution. He took the latter course, when he

came before the burgesses with the declaration that either

he or Octavius must retire from the college, and suggested

to Octavius that a vote of the burgesses should be taken as

to which of them they wished to dismiss. Deposition from

office was, according to the Roman constitution, a constitu­

tional impossiblity; Octavius naturally refused to consent

to a proposal insulting to the laws and himself. Then Grac­

chus broke off the discussion with his colleague, and turned

to the assembled multitude with the question whether a

tribune of the people, who acted in opposition to the people,

had not forfeited his office; and the assembly, long accus­

tomed to agree to all proposals presented to it, and for the

most part composed of the agricultural proletariate which

had flocked in from the country and was personally in­

terested in the carrying of the law, gave almost unanimously

an affirmative answer. Marcus Octavius was at the bidding

of Gracchus removed by the lictors from the tribunes'

bench; and then, amidst universal rejoicing, the agrarian law

was carried and the first allotment commissioners were

nominated. The votes fell on the author of the law along

with his brother Gaius, who was only twenty years of age,

and his father-in-law Appius Claudius. Such a family-

selection augmented the indignation of the aristocracy. When

the new magistrates applied as usual to the senate to obtain

the moneys for their equipment and for their daily allow­

ance, the former was refused, and a daily allowance was

assigned to them of 24 asses (1 shilling). The feud spread

daily more and more, and became more envenomed and

more personal. The difficult and intricate task of defining,

confiscating, and distributing the domains carried strife

into every burgess-community, and even into the allied

Italian towns.

Further The aristocracy made no secret that, while they would

plans of acquiesce perhaps in the law because they could not do

otherwise, the officious legislator should not escape their

vengeance; and the announcement of Quintus Pompeius,

that he would impeach Gracchus on the very day of his

Gracchus.

