Chap. VI.] THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION. 197

playing afresh his military ability as governor of Further

Spain. How he thereafter in spite of the aristocracy re­

ceived the consulship in 647 and, as proconsul (648, 649), 107. lOtf.

terminated the African war; and how, called after the 105.

calamitous day of Arausio to the superintendence of the

war against the Germans, he had his consulship renewed for

four successive years from 650 to 653 (a thing unexampled 104-101.

in the annals of the republic) and vanquished and annihi­

lated the Cimbrians in Cisalpine, and the Teutones in

Transalpine, Gaul—has been already related. In his mili­

tary position he had shown himself a brave and upright man,

.who administered justice impartially, disposed of the spoil

.with rare honesty and disinterestedness, and was thoroughly

incorruptible; a skilful organizer, who had brought the

somewhat rusty machinery of the Roman military system

once more into a state of efficiency; an able general, who

kept the soldier under discipline and withal in good humour

and at the same time won his affections in comrade-like

intercourse, but looked the enemy boldly in the face and joined

issue with him at the proper time. He was not, as far as we

can judge, a man of eminent military capacity; but the very

respectable qualities which he possessed were quite sufficient

under the existing circumstances to procure for him such a

reputation, and by virtue of it he had taken his place in a

fashion of unparalleled honour among the consulars and the

triumphators. But he was none the better fitted on that

account for the brilliant circle. His voice remained harsh

and loud, and his look wild, as if he still saw before him

Libyans or Cimbrians, and not well-bred and refined col­

leagues. That he was superstitious like a genuine soldier

of fortuue; that he was induced to become a candidate for

his first consulship, not by the impulse of his talents, but

primarily by the utterances of an Etruscan haruspex; and

that in the campaign with the Teutones a Syrian prophetess

Martha lent the aid of her oracles to the council of war,—

these things were not, in the strict sense, unaristocratic: in

such matters, then as at all times, the highest and lowest

strata of society met. But the want of political culture was

unpardonable; it was creditable, no doubt, that he had the

skill to defeat the barbarians, but what was to be thought of

a consul who was so ignorant of the rules of etiquette as to

appear in triumphal costume in the senate! In other re­

spects too the plebeian character clung to him. He was not

