382 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

and striving probably appeared to him folly in a world, which

withal was absolutely governed by chance, and in which, if

men were to strive after anything at all, this chance could be

the only aim of their efforts. He followed the general tend­

ency of the age to be addicted at once to unbelief and to

superstition. His whimsical credulity was not the plebeian

superstition of Marius, who got a priest to prophesy to him

for money and determined his actions accordingly ; still less

was it the sullen belief of the fanatic in destiny ; it was that

faith in the absurd, which necessarily makes its appearance

in every man who has thoroughly ceased to believe in a con­

nected order of things—the superstition of the fortunate

player, who deems himself privileged by fate to throw on

each and every occasion the right number. In practical

matters Sulla understood very well how to satisfy ironically

the demands of religion. When he emptied the treasuries of

the Greek temples, he declared that the man could never

fail whose chest was replenished by the gods themselves.

When the Delphic priests reported to him that they were

afraid to send the treasures which he asked, because the

harp of the god emitted a clear sound when they touched

it, he returned the reply that they might now send them

all the more readily, as the god evidently approved his

designs. Nevertheless he fondly flattered himself with the

idea that he was the chosen favourite of the gods, and in an

altogether special manner of the goddess to whom down to

his latest years he assigned the pre-eminence, Aphrodite. In

his conversations as well as in his autobiography he often

plumed himself on the intercourse which the immortals

held with him in dreams and omens. He had more right

than most men to be proud of his achievements; he was

not so, but he was proud of his uniquely faithful fortune.

He was wont to say that every improvised enterprise turned

out better with him than those which were systematically

planned; and one of his strangest whims—that of regularly

stating the number of those who had fallen on his side in battle

as nil—was nothing but the childishness of a child of fortune.

It was but the utterance of his natural disposition, when,

having reached the culminating point of his career and

seeing all his contemporaries at a dizzy depth beneath him,

he assumed the designation of the Fortunate—Sulla Felix

—as a formal surname, and bestowed corresponding appel­

lations on his children.

