Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 77

and with fearful rapidity and violence to maturity. From a

very early period the Roman economy was based on the two

factors—always in quest of each other, and always at variance

—the husbandry of the small farmer and the money of the

capitalist. The latter in the closest alliance with landhold-

ing on a great scale had already for centuries waged against

the farmer-class a war, which seemed as though it could not

but terminate in the destruction first of the farmers and

thereafter of the whole commonwealth, but was broken off

without being properly decided in consequence of the suc­

cessful wars and the comprehensive and ample distribution of

domains for which they gave facilities. It has already been

shown (ii. 371-377) that in the same age, which renewed

the distinction between patricians and plebeians under

altered names, the disproportionate accumulation of capital

was preparing a second assault on the farming system. It

is true that the method was different. Formerly the small

farmer had been ruined by advances of money, which practi­

cally reduced him to be the mere steward of his creditor;

now he was crushed by the competition of transmarine, and

especially of slave-grown, corn. The capitalists kept pace

with the times; capital, while waging war against labour or

in other words against the liberty of the person, of course as

it had always done, under the strictest form of law, waged it

no longer in that unseemly fashion which converted the free

man on account of debt into a slave, but, on the contrary,

with slaves regularly bought and paid; the former usurer

of the capital appeared in a shape conformable to the times

as the owner of industrial plantations. But the ultimate

result was in both cases the same—the depreciation of the

Italian farms; the supplanting of the petty husbandry, first

in a part of the provinces and then in [taly, by the farming

of large estates; the prevailing tendency to devote the latter

in Italy to the rearing of cattle and the culture of the olive

and vine; finally, the replacing of the free labourers in the

provinces as in Italy by slaves. Just as the nobility was

more dangerous than the patriciate, because the former

could not like the latter be set aside by a change of the

constitution; so this new power of capital was more dan­

gerous than that of the fourth and fifth centuries, because

nothing could be done to oppose it by changes in the law of

the land.

Before we attempt to describe the course of this second

