Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 251

Apulian districts. To relieve his hard-pressed native town,

Judacilius appeared before Asculum with the Picentine

levy and attacked the besieging army, while at the same

time the garrison sallied forth and threw itself on the Roman

lines. It is said that 75,000 Romans fought on this day

against 60,000 Italians. Victory remained with the Romans,

but Judacilius succeeded in throwing himself with a part of

the relieving army into the town. The siege resumed its

course; it was protracted* by the strength of the place and

the desperate defence of the inhabitants, who fought with

a recollection of the terrible declaration of war within its

walls. When Judacilius at length after a brave defence of

several months saw the day of capitulation approach, he

ordered the chiefs of that fraction of the citizens which was

favourable to Rome to be put to death under torture, and

then died by his own hand. So the gates were opened, and and con-

Roman executions were substituted for Italian; all officers ilu»r»d-

and all the respectable citizens were executed, the rest were

driven forth to beggary, and all their property was confiscated

on account of the state. During the siege and after the fall

of Asculum numerous Roman corps marched through the

adjacent rebel districts, and induced one after another to Subjuga-

submit. The Marrucini yielded, after Lucius Sulpicius had tion of the

defeated them decidedly at Teate (Chieti). The praetor Gaius j^^T

Cosconius penetrated into Apulia, took Salapia and Cannae, sians

and besieged Canusium. A Samnite corps under Marius

Egnatius came to the help of the unwarlike region and actually

drove back the Romans, but the Roman general succeeded in

defeating it at the passage of the Aufidus; Egnatius fell and

the rest of the army had to seek shelter behind the walls of

Canusium. The Romans again advanced as far as Venusia

and Rubi, and became masters of all Apulia. Along the

Fucine lake also and at the Majella mountains—the chief

seats of the insurrection—the Romans restored their ascen­

dancy; the Marsians succumbed to Strabo's lieutenants,

Quintus Metellus Pius and Gaius Cinna, the Vestinians and

Paelignians in the following year (666) to Strabo himself; 88.

Italia the capital of the insurgents became once more the

* Leaden bullets with the name of the legion which threw them, and some­  
times with curses against the " runaway slaves"—and accordingly Roman—or

with the inscription "hit the' Picentes" or "hit Pompeius "—the former

Roman, the latter Italian—are even now sometimes found, belonging to that

period, in the region of Ascoli.

