Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 279

Cilicia, and to it the original stock of the population along

the west coast in the Carian and Lydian provinces seems

also to have belonged, while the north-western point was

occupied by the Bithynians, who were related to the Thra-

cians in Europe. The interior and the north coast, on the

other hand, were filled chiefly by Indo-Germanic peoples

most nearly cognate to the Iranian. In the case of the

Armenian and Phrygian languages* it is ascertained, in that

of the Cappadocian it is highly probable, that they had im­

mediate affinity with the Zend; and the statement made as

to the Mvsians, that among them the Lydian and Phrygian

languages met, just denotes a mixed Semitic-Iranian popu­

lation that may be compared perhaps with that of Assyria.

As to the regions stretching between Cilicia and Caria, more

especially Lycia, there is still, notwithstanding the full re­

mains of the native language and writing that are in this

particular instance extant, a want of reliable results, and it

is merely probable that these tribes ought to be reckoned

among the Indo-Germans rather than the Semites. How

all this confused mass of peoples was overlaid first with a

net of Greek mercantile cities, and then with the Hellenism

called into life by the military as well as intellectual ascend­

ancy of the Greek nation, has in general outline been set

forth already.

In these regions ruled king Mithradates, and that first of Pontus,

all in Cappadocia on the Black Sea or Pontus as it was called,

a district in which, situated as it was at the north-eastern

extremity of Asia Minor towards Armenia and in constant

contact with the latter, we may presume that the Iranian

nationality preserved itself with less admixture than any­

where else in Asia Minor. Not even Hellenism had pene­

trated far into that region. With the exception of the

coast where several originally Greek settlements subsisted,

—namely the important commercial marts of Trapezus,

Amisus, and above all Sinope, the birthplace and resi­

dence of Mithradates and the most flourishing city of the

empire,—the country was still in a very primitive condition.

Not that it had lam waste; on the contrary, as the pro­

vince of Pontus is still one of the most fertile on the face of

* The words quoted as Phrygian Baydios = Zeus and the old royal name  
Mui-is have been beyond doubt correctly referred to the Zend 6a//Aa = Ood and

the Germanic Mannus, Indian Manus. (Lassen, Zeitschrift der deutschen mor-

genland. Gesellschaft, vol. x. p. 329 seq.)

