Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAICS GRACCHUS. 123

liation between Home and the provinces as the restoration of

monarchy could not but bring in its train; the attempt to

rebuild Carthage destroyed by Italian rivalry and generally

to open the way for Italian emigration towards the pro­

vinces, formed the first link in the long chain of that mo­

mentous and beneficial course of action. Eight and wrong,

fortune and misfortune were so inextricably blended in this

singular man and in this marvellous political constellation,

that it may well beseem history in this case—though it

beseems her but seldom—to reserve her judgment.

When Gracchus had substantially completed the new The quw-

constitution projected by him for the state, he applied him- tion as to

self to a second and difficult work. The question as to the the allic8,

Italian allies was still undecided. What were the views

of the democratic leaders regarding it, had been rendered

sufficiently apparent (P. 106). They naturally desired the

utmost possible extension of the Roman franchise, not only

in order to render the domains occupied by the Latins liable

to distribution, but above all in order to reinforce their

following by the enormous mass of the new burgesses, to

bring the comitial machine still more fully under their power

by widening the body of privileged electors, and generally to

abolish a distinction which had now with the fall of the re­

publican constitution lost all serious importance. But here

they encountered resistance from their own party, and espe­

cially from that band which otherwise readily gave its sove­

reign affirmative to all which it did or did not understand.

For the simple reason, that Roman citizenship seemed to

these people, so to speak, like a partnership which gave them

a claim to share in sundry very tangible, direct and indi­

rect, profits, they were not at all disposed to enlarge the

number of the partners. The rejection of the Fulvian law

in 629, and the insurrection of the Fregellans arising out of it, 125.

were significant indications both of the obstinate persever­

ance of the fraction of the burgesses that swayed the comitia,

and of the urgent impatience of the allies. Towards the end

of his second tribunate (632) Gracchus, probably urged by 122,

obligations which he had undertaken towards the allies,

ventured on a second attempt. In concert with Marcus

Flaccus—who, although a consular, had again taken the tri-

buneship of the people, in order now to carry the law which

he had formerly proposed without success—he made a

proposal to grant to the Latins the full franchise, and to

