Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 441

already occur among these Roman teachers; the philosopher

Panaetius has been already mentioned (P. 432); the esteemed

grammarian Crates of Mallus in Cilicia, the contemporary

and equal rival of Aristarchus, found about 585 at Pome 169.

an audience for the recitation and philological and practical

illustration of the Homeric poems. It is true that this

new mode of juvenile instruction, revolutionary and anti-

national as it was, encountered partially the resistance of

the government; but the edict of dismissal, which the

authorities in 593 fulminated against rhetoricians and phi- ici.

losophers, remained (chiefly owing to the constant change

of the Roman chief magistrates) like all similar commands

without any result worth mentioning, and after the death

of old Cato there were still perhaps frequent complaints

in accordance with his views, but there was no further

action. The higher instruction in Greek and in the sciences

of Greek culture remained thenceforth recognized as an

essential part of Italian training.

But by its side there sprung up also a higher Latin Latin in-

instruction. We have shown in the previous epoch how stiuction.

Latin elementary instruction raised its character; how the

place of the Twelve Tables was taken by the Latin Odyssey

as it were by an improved primer, and the Poman boy was

now trained to the knowledge and delivery of his mother-

tongue by means of this translation, as the Greek by means

of the original: how noted teachers of the Greek language

and literature, Andronicus, Ennius, and others, who already

probably taught not children properly so called but boys

growing up to maturity and young men, did not disdain to

give instruction in the mother-tongue along with the Greek.

These were the first steps towards a higher Latin instruc­

tion, but they did not as yet form such an instruction itself.

Instruction in a language cannot go beyond the elementary

stage, so long as it wants a literature. It was not until there

were not merely Latin schoolbooks but a Latin literature, and

that literature subsisted with a certain completeness in the

works of the classics of the sixth century, that the mother-

tongue and the native literature truly entered the circle of

the elements of higher culture; and the emancipation from

the Greek schoolmasters was now not slow to follow. Stirred Public

up by the Homeric prelections of Crates, cultivated Pomans readings of

began to read the recitative works of their own literature, classll;al

Naevius' Punic War, Ennius' Annals, and subsequently also

