Chap. XJ THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 876

the governor was bound by the provincial statute to give

a native judex and to allow him to decide according to

local usage; in most of the provinces this seems to have

depended on the pleasure of the presiding magistrate.

In the seventh century this absolute centralization of the

public life of the Roman community in the one focus of

Rome was given up, so far as Italy at least was concerned.

Now that Italy was a single civic community and the civic

territory reached from the Arnus and Rubico down to the

Sicilian straits (P. 367), it was necessary to consent to the

formation of smaller civic communities within that larger

unit. So Italy was organized into communities of full bur­

gesses ; on which occasion also the larger cantons that were

dangerous from their size were probably broken up, so

far as this had not been done already, into several smaller

town-districts (P. 234). The position of these new com­

munities of full burgesses was a compromise between that

which had belonged to them hitherto as allied states, and

that which by the earlier law would have belonged to them

as integral parts of the Roman community. Their basis

was in general the constitution of the former formally

sovereign Latin community, or, so far as their constitu­

tion in its principles resembled the Roman, that of the

Roman old patrician-consular community; only care was

taken to apply to the same institutions in the municipium

names different from, and inferior to, those used in the capi­

tal, or, in other words, in the state. A burgess-assembly was

placed at the head, with the prerogative of issuing municipal

statutes and nominating the municipal magistrates. A muni­

cipal council of a hundred members acted the part of the

Roman senate. The administration of justice was conducted

by four magistrates, two regular judges corresponding to the

two consuls, and two market-judges corresponding to the

curule aediles. The functions of the censorship, which

recurred, as in Rome, every five years and, to all appearance,

consisted chiefly in the superintendence of public buildings,

were also undertaken by the supreme magistrates of the

community, namely the ordinary duumviri, who in this case as­

sumed the distinctive title of duumviri " with censorial or quin­

quennial power." The municipal funds were managed by two

quaestors. Religious functions primarily devolved on the two

colleges of men of priestly lore alone known to the earliest

Latin constitution, the municipal Pontifices and Augurs.

