266 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

demonstrated, not only that the political struggles had reached

the point at which nothing save open and direct force proves

decisive, but also that the power of the bludgeon was of no

avail against the power of the sword. It was the conserva­

tive party which first drew the sword, and which accord­

ingly in due time experienced the truth of the ominous

saying of the Gospel as to those who first have recourse to it.

For the present they triumphed completely and might put the

victory into formal shape at their own pleasure. As a matter

of course, the Sulpician laws were characterized as legally

null. Their author and his most notable adherents had

fled; they were, twelve in number, proscribed by the senate

to be arrested and executed as enemies of their country.

Death of Publius Sulpicius was accordingly seized at Laurentum and

Sulpicius. pUt to death ; and the head of the tribune, sent to Sulla, was

by his orders exposed in the Forum at the very rostra where

he himself had stood but a few days before in the full vigour

of youth and eloquence. The rest of the proscribed were pur­

sued; the assassins were on the track of even the old Gaius

Flight of Marius. Although the general might have clouded the

memory of his glorious days by a succession of pitiful pro­

ceedings, now that the deliverer of his country was running

for his life, he was once more the victor of Vercellae, and with

breathless suspense all Italy listened to the incidents of his

marvellous flight. At Ostia he had gone on board a trans­

port with the view of sailing for Africa; but adverse winds

and want of provisions compelled him to land at the Circeian

promontory and to wander at random. With few attendants

and without trusting himself to a roof, the grey-haired con­

sular, often suffering from hunger, found his way on foot to

the neighbourhood of the Roman colony of Hinturnae at the

mouth of the Garigliano. There the pursuing cavalry were

seen in the distance; with great difficulty he reached the

coast and a trading-vessel lying there withdrew him from

his pursuers; but the timid mariners soon put him ashore

again and made off, while Marius stole along the beach.

His pursuers found him in the salt-marsh of Minturuae

sunk to the girdle in the mud and with his head concealed

amidst a quantity of reeds, and delivered him to the civic

authorities of Minturnae. He was placed in prison, and the

town-executioner, a Cimbrian slave, was sent to put him to

death; but the German trembled before the flashing eves ot

his old conqueror and the axe fell from his hands, when the

Marius.

