Chap XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 429

tresa assumes towards the spies of the army advancing to be­

siege it, and as early as 593 dismissed the Greek philosophers igi.

along with the rhetoricians from Rome.. In fact the very

first debut of philosophy on a great scale in Rome was a

formal declaration of war against faith and morals. It was

occasioned by the occupation of Oropus by the Athenians,

a step which they commissioned three of the most esteemed

professors of philosophy, including Carneades the master of

the modern sophistical school, to justify before the senate

(599). The selection was so far appropriate, as the utterly 153.

scandalous transaction defied any justification in common

sense; whereas it was quite in keeping with the circum­

stances of the case, when Carneades proved by thesis and

counter-thesis that exactly as many and as cogent reasons

might be adduced in praise of injustice as in praise of

justice, and when he showed in due logical form that

with equal propriety the Athenians might be required to

surrender Oropus and the Romans to confine themselves

once more to their old straw huts on the Palatine. The

young men who were masters of the Greek language were

attracted in crowds by the scandal as well as by the lively

and emphatic delivery of the celebrated man; but on this

occasion at least Cato could not be found fault with, when

he not only bluntly enough compared the dialectic argu­

ments of the philosophers to the tedious dirges of the wail-

ing-women, but also insisted on the senate dismissing a

man who understood the art of making right wrong and

wrong right, and whose defence was in fact nothing but a

shameless and almost insulting confession of injustice. But

such dismissals had no great effect, more especially as the

Roman youth could not be prevented from hearing philo­

sophic discourses at Rhodes and Athens. Men became ac­

customed first to tolerate philosophy at least as a necessary

evil, and ere long to seek for the Roman religion, which was

no longer tenable in its simplicity, a support in foreign phi­

losophy—a support which no doubt ruined it as faith, but in

return at any rate allowed the man of culture decorously to

retain in some measure the names and forms of the popular

creed. But this support could neither be Euhemerism, nor

the system of Carneades or of Epicurus. The historical

version of the myths came far too rudely into collision

with the popular faith, when it declared the gods directly to

be men; Carneades called even their existence in question,

