Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. k217

illegal. Even for earlier injuries inflicted by the Populares

on the aristocracy satisfaction was .now demanded, not with­

out prospect of success, before the equestrian tribunals.

Because Gaius Norbanus had eight years previously in con­

cert with Saturninus driven the consular Quintus Caepio

into exile (P. 186) he was now (659) under his own law 95.

accused of high treason, and the jurymen hesitated long

—not whether the accused was guilty or innocent, but

whether his ally Saturninus or his enemy Caepio was to

be regarded as the more deserving of their hate—till at last

they decided for acquittal. Even if people were not more

favourably disposed towards the government in itself than

before, yet, after having found themselves, although but

for a moment, on the verge of a real mob-rule, all men

who had anything to lose could not but look on the existing

government in a different light; it was notoriously wretched

and pernicious for the state, but the still more wretched and

still more pernicious government of the proletariate had con­

ferred on it a relative value. The current now set so much

in that direction, that the multitude tore in pieces a tribune

of the people who had ventured to postpone the return of

Quintus Metellus, and that the democrats began to seek

their safety in league with murderers and poisoners—ridding

themselves, for example, of the hated Metellus by poison—or

even in league with the public enemy, several of them already

taking refuge at the court of king Mithradates who was

secretly preparing for war against Rome. External relations

also assumed au aspect favourable for the government. The

Roman arms were employed but little in the period from the

Cimbrian to the Social war, but everywhere with honour.

The only serious conflict was in Spain, where, during the

recent years so trying for Rome (649 seq.), the Lusitanians 105.

and Celtiberians had risen with unwonted vehemence against

the Romans. In the years 656-661 the consul Titus Didius 98-93.

in the northern and the consul Publius Crassus in the

southern province not only re-established with valour and

good fortune the ascendancy of the Roman arms, but also

razed the refractory towns and, where it seemed necessary,

transplanted the population of the strong towns among the

mountains to the plains. We shall show in the sequel that

about the same time the Roman government again directed

its attention to the East which had been for a generation

neglected, and displayed greater energy than had been heard

