Chap. VII.l AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 239

intermediate between a city and a state had formed itself at

least in a natural way, the new Italia was nothing at all

but a place of congress for the insurgents, and it was by

a pure fiction of law that the inhabitants of the peninsula

were stamped as burgesses of this new capital. But it is

significant, that in this case, where the sudden amalgama­

tion of a number of isolated cantons into a new political

unity might have so naturally suggested the idea of a repre­

sentative constitution in the modern sense, no trace of any

such idea occurs; in fact the very opposite course was fol­

lowed,* and the communal organization was simply repro­

duced in a far more absurd manner than before. Nowhere

perhaps is it more clearly apparent than in this instance,

that in the view of antiquity a free constitution was in­

separable from the appearance of the sovereign people in

person in their collective assemblies or from a civic type,

and that the great fundamental idea of the modern republi­

can-constitutional state, viz., the expression of the sove­

reignty of the people by a representative assembly—that

idea without which a free state would be a chaos—is wholly

modern. Even the Italian polity, although it approximated

to a free state in its somewhat representative senates and

in the diminished importance of the comitia, never was

able either in the case of Rome or Italia to cross the

boundary-line.

Thus began, a few months after the death of Drusus, in Warlike

the winter of 663-4 the struggle—as one of the coins of the prepaxa-

insurgents represents it—of the Sabellian ox against the tlOQil90

Roman she-wolf. Both sides made zealous preparations:

in Italia great stores of arms, provisions, and money were ac­

cumulated; in Rome the requisite supplies were drawn from

the provinces and particularly from Sicily, and the long-

neglected walls were put in a state of defence against any

* Even from our scanty information, the best part of which is given by  
Diodor. p. 538 and Strabo, v. 4, 2, this is very distinctly apparent; for
example,

the latter expressly says that the burgess-body chose the magistrates. That
the

senate of Italia was meant to be formed in another manner and to have dif­

ferent powers from that of Home, has been asserted, but has not been proved.

Of course in its first composition care must have been taken to have a repre­

sentation in some degree uniform of the insurgent cities; but that the
senators

were intended to he regularly deputed by the communities, is nowhere stated.

As little does the commission given to the senate to draw up a constitution
ex­

clude its promulgation by the magistrates and ratification by the assembly of

the people.

