Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 121

the efforts of the same man that the sovereign rabble of the

capital got itself alimented in return for its cares of govern­

ment by the body of its subjects. Gracchus warmly disap­

proved the disgraceful spoliation of the provinces, and not

only instituted proceedings of wholesome severity in parti •

cular cases, but also procured the abolition of the thoroughly

insufficient senatorial courts, before which even Scipio

JSmilianus had vainly staked his whole influence to bring

the most decided criminals to punishment; yet be at the

same time, by the introduction of courts composed of mer­

chants, surrendered the provincials with their hands fettered

to the party of material interests and thereby to a despotism

still more unscrupulous than that of the aristocracy had

been, and he introduced into Asia a taxation, compared with

which even the mode of taxation established after the Car­

thaginian model in Sicily might be called mild and humane

—both measures to which he was led because he needed on

the one hand the party of moneyed men, and on the other

hand required new and comprehensive resources to meet his

distributions of grain and other burdens newly imposed on

the finances. Gracchus beyond doubt desired a firm admi­

nistration and a regular dispensation of justice, as nume­

rous thoroughly judicious ordinances testify; yet his new

system of administration rested on a continuous series of

individual usurpations only formally legalized, and he

intentionally brought the judicial system—which every well-

ordered state would have endeavoured as far as possible to

place, if not above political parties, at any rate aloof from

them—into the midst of the whirlpool of revolution. Cer­

tainly the blame of these conflicting tendencies in Gaius

Gracchus is chargeable to a very great extent on his position

rather than on himself personally. On the very threshold of

the Tyrannis he was confronted by the fatal dilemma, moral

and political, that the same man had at one and the Bame

of Bithynia and of Pontus, and was bought by the latter as the highest bidder

(P. 57). In this speech he observes that no senator troubled himself abou*.

public affairs for nothing, and adds that with reference to the law under dis­

cussion (as to the granting of Phrygia to king Mithradates) the senate was

divisible into three classes, viz., those who were in favour of it, those who

were against it, and those who were silent: that the first were bribed by king

Mithradates, the second by king Nicomedes, while the third were the most

owning, for they accepted money from the envoys of both kings and made

each party believe that they weie silent in its interest.

