160 THE RULE-OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

to support his son-in-law against Rome. The Koman army,

•which was returning from the river Molochath, found itself

one evening surrounded of a sudden by immense masses of

Mauretanian and Numidian cavalry; they were obliged to

fight just as the divisions stood without forming in a proper

order of battle or following any leading command, and had

to deem themselves fortunate when their sadly-thinned troops

were brought into temporary safety for the night on two

hills not far remote from each other. But the culpable neg­

ligence of the Africans intoxicated with victory wrested from

them its consequences; they allowed themselves to be sur­

prised in a deep sleep during the morning twilight by the

Koman troops which had been in some measure reorganized

during the night, and were fortunately dispersed. There­

upon the Roman army continued its retreat in better order

and with greater caution; but it was yet again assailed

simultaneously on all the four sides and was in great danger,

till the cavalry officer Lucius Cornelius Sulla first dispersed

the squadrons opposed to him and then, rapidly returning

from their pursuit, threw himself also on Jugurtha and

Bocchus at the point where they in person pressed bard on

the rear of the Roman infantry. Thus this attack also was

successfully repelled; Marius brought his army back to

Cirta, and took up his winter quarters there (648-9).

106-105. Strange as it may seem, we can yet understand why

Negotia- the Romans now, after king Bocchus had commenced the

tions with war, began to make most zealous exertions to secure his

friendship, which they had at first slighted and thereafter had

at least not specially sought; by doing so they gained

this advantage, that no formal declaration of war took place

on the part of Mauretania. King Bocchus was not unwill­

ing to return to his old ambiguous position: without dis­

solving his agreement with Jugurtha or dismissing him, he

'entered into negotiations with the Roman general respecting

the terms of an alliance with Rome. When they were

agreed or seemed to be so, the king requested that, for the

purpose of concluding the treaty and receiving the royal

captive, Marius would send to him Lucius Sulla, who was

known and acceptable to the king partly from his having

formerly appeared as envoy of the senate at the Maure­

tanian court, partly from the commendations of the Maure­

tanian envoys destined for Rome to whom Sulla had

rendered services on their way. Marius was in an awkward

Bocchus.

