454 [Book IV. LITERATURE AND ART.

probably already in the course of the sixth century, and

probably not on the stage of the capital, but on the Latin

provincial stage. In the present epoch, when the opposi­

tion of the government to Hellenism abated and thereby

the outward reason for banishing the togata from the Roman

stage was done away, the Terentian school rapidly took

possession of this species of comedy also ; it was quite in ac­

cordance with its spirit to naturalize Greek comedy in Italy

on the one hand by faithful translation, and on the other

Afranius. hand by pure Roman imitation. The chief representative

90. of this school was Lucius Afranius (nourished about 660).

The fragments of his comedies remaining give no distinct

impression, but they are not inconsistent with what the

Roman critics of art remark regarding him. His nume­

rous national comedies were in their construction thoroughly

formed on the model of the Greek intrigue-piece; only, as

was natural in imitation, they were simpler and shorter.

In the details also he borrowed what pleased him partly from

Menander, partly from the older national literature. But

of the Latin local colouring, which is so distinctly marked in

Titinius the creator of this species of art, we find not much

in Afranius; his subjects retain a very general character,

and may have been throughout imitations of particular

Greek comedies with merely an alteration of costume. A

polished eclecticism and adroitness in composition—literary

allusions not unfrequently occur—are characteristic of him

as of Terence: the moral tendency too, in which his pieces

approximated to the drama, their inoffensive tenor in a police

point of view, their purity of language are common to him

with the latter. Afranius is sufficiently indicated as of a

kindred spirit with Menander and Terence by the judgment

of posterity that he wore the toga as Menander would have

worn it had he been an Italian, and by his own expression

that to his mind Terence surpassed all other poets.

Atellanre, The farce appeared afresh at this period in the field of

Roman literature. It was in itself very old (i. 236) : long

before Rome arose, the merry youths of Latium probably

improvised on festal occasions in masks once for all esta­

blished for particular characters. These pastimes obtained

a fixed local background in the Latin "asylum of fools,"

for which they selected the formerly Oscan town of Atella

which was destroyed in the Hannibalic war and was

thereby handed over to comic use; thenceforth the name

