60 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

seemed superfluous to guard their own honour. In like

manner not only was Cyprus retained by Egypt in spite of

the decree of the senate to the contrary, but, when after the

146. death of Philometer (608) Euergetes succeeded him and

so reunited the divided kingdom, the senate allowed this

also to take place without opposition.

After such occurrences the Roman influence in these

countries was practically destroyed, and events pursued

their course there for the present without the help of the

Romans; but it is necessary for the right understanding

of the sequel that we should not wholly omit to notice the

history of the nearer, and even of the remoter, East. While

in Egypt, shut off as it is on all sides, the existing state of

things did not so easily admit of change, in Asia both to the west

and east of the Euphrates the peoples and states underwent

essential modifications during, and partly in consequence

of, this temporary suspension of the Roman superintendence.

Beyond the great desert of Iran there had arisen not long

after Alexander the Great the kingdom of Palimbothra

under Chandragupta (Sandracottus) on the Indus, and the

powerful Bactrian state on the upper Oxus, both formed from

a mixture of national elements with the most eastern offshoots

of Hellenic civilization. To the west of these began the

kingdom of Asia, which, although diminished under Autio-

ehus the Great, still stretched its unwieldy bulk from the

Hellespont to the Median and Persian provinces, and em­

braced the whole basin of the Euphrates and Tigris. That

king had still carried his arms beyond the desert into the

territory of the Parthians and Bactrians; it was only under

him that the vast state had begun to melt away. Not

only had western Asia been lost in consequence of the

battle of Magnesia; the total emancipation of the two

Cappadocias and the two Armenias—Armenia proper in

the north-east and' the region of Sophene in the south­

west—and their conversion from principalities dependent on

Syria into independent kingdoms, also belong to this period

(ii. 273). Of these states Great Armenia in particular,

under the Artaxiads, soon attained to a considerable

position. "Wounds perhaps still more dangerous were

inflicted on the empire by the foolish levelling policy of

175-164. his successor Antiochus Epiphanes (579-590). Although

it was true that his kingdom resembled an aggregation of

countries rather than a single state, and that the differences

