122 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

time to hold his ground, we may say, as a captain of robbers

and to lead the state as its first citizen—a dilemma to which

•Pericles, Caesar, and Napoleon had also to make dangerous

sacrifices. But the conduct of Gaius Gracchus cannot

be wholly explained from this necessity; along with it there

worked in him that consuming passion, that glowing re­

venge, which foreseeing its own destruction hurls the fire­

brand iuto the house of the foe. He has himself expressed

what he thought of his ordinance as to the jurymen and

similar measures intended to divide the aristocracy; he

called them daggers, which he had thrown into the Forum

that the burgesses—the nobles, of course—might lacerate

each other with them. He was a political incendiary. Not

only was the hundred years' revolution which dates from

him, so far as it was one man's work, the work of Gaius

Gracchus, but he was above all the true founder of that

terrible civic proletariate flattered and paid by the classes

above it, which was through its aggregation in the capital—the

natural consequence of the largesses of corn—at once utterly

demoralized and made conscious of its power, and which—

with its pretensions, sometimes stupid, sometimes knavish,

and its talk of the sovereignty of the people—lay like an in­

cubus for five hundred years upon the Roman commonwealth

and only perished along with it. And yet again, this greatest

of political transgressors was the regenerator of his country.

There is scarce a fruitful idea in Roman monarchy, which is

not traceable to Gaius Gracchus. From him proceeded the

maxim—founded indeed in a certain sense in the nature of

the traditionary laws of war, but yet in the extension

and practical application now given to it foreign to the older

state-law—that all the land of the subject communities was

to be regarded as the private property of the state; a

maxim, which was primarily employed to vindicate the right

of the state to tax that land at pleasure, as was the case in

Asia, or to apply it for the institution of colonies, as was

done in Africa, and which became afterwards a fundamental

principle of law under the Empire. From him proceeded

the tactics adopted by the demagogues and tyrants, whereby

with the support of material interests they broke down the

governing aristocracy, but subsequently legitimized the

change of constitution by substituting a strict and judicious

administration for the previous misgovernment. To him, in

particular, are traceable the first steps towards such a reconci­

