Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 457

also foreign nationalities—the Transalpine Gauls, the

Syrians ; above all, the various trades frequently appear on

the boards. The sacristan, the soothsayer, the bird-seer,

the physician, the publican, the painter, fisherman, baker,

pass across the stage: the criers were severely assailed and

still more the fullers, who seem to have played in the

Roman fool-world the part of our tailors. While the

varied life of the city thus received its due attention, the

farmer with his joys and sorrows was also represented in

all aspects. The copiousness of this rural repertory may be

guessed from the numerous titles of that nature, such as

"the Cow," "the Ass," "the Kid," "the Sow," "the

Swine," "the Sick Boar," "the Farmer," "the Country­

man," "Harlequin Countryman," "the Cattle-herd,"

"the Vinedresser," "the Figgatherer," "Woodcutting,"

"Pruning," "the Poultry-yard." In these pieces it was

always the standing figures of the stupid and the artful

servant, the good old man, the wise man, that delighted the

public; the first in particular might never be wanting—

the Pulcinello of this farce—the gluttonous filthy Maccus,

hideously ugly and yet eternally in love, always on the point

of stumbling across his own path, set upon by all with jeers

and with blows and eventually at the close the regular

scapegoat. The titles "Maccus Miles," "Maccus Copo,"

"Maccus Virgo," "Maccus Exul," "Macci Gemini" may fur­

nish the good-humoured reader with some conception of the

variety of entertainment in the Roman masquerade. Al­

though these farces, at least after they came to be written,

accommodated themselves to the general laws of literature,

and in their metres for instance followed the Greek stage,

they yet naturally retained a far more Latin and more po­

pular stamp than even the national comedy. The farce

resorted to the Greek world only under the form of travestied

tragedy;* and this species appears to have been cultivated

first by Novius, and not very frequently in any case. The

tone, as a matter of course, was not the most refined; very

unambiguous ambiguities, coarse rustic obscenities, ghosts

frightening and occasionally devouring children, formed part

* It was probably merry enough in this form. In the Phanissm of Novius,  
for instance, there was the line:—

Sume arma, jam te occidam clava scirpea,

just as Menander's Teuoiipa/cAijs makes his appearance.

