268 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

alone, having estate of 100,000 sesterces (£1050) or up­

wards, possessed almost half of the votes. Practically there

was thus introduced for the election of consuls, praetors,

and censors, a census which really excluded the non-wealthy

from exercising the suffrage. The legislative initiative in

the case of the tribunes of the people was restricted by the

rule, that every proposal had henceforth to be submitted by

them in the first instance to the senate and could only come

before the people in the event of the senate approving it.

These enactments which were called forth by the Sul-

pician attempt at revolution from the man who then came

forward as the shield and sword of the constitutional party

—the consul Sulla—bear an altogether peculiar character.

Sulla ventured, without consulting the burgesses or jury­

men, to pronounce sentence of death on twelve of the most

distinguished men including magistrates actually in office

and the most famous general of his time, and publicly to de­

fend these proscriptions; a violation of the venerable and

sacred laws of appeal, which met with severe censure even

from very conservative men, such as Quintus Scaevola. He

ventured to overthrow an arrangement as to the elections

which had subsisted for a century and a half, and to restore the

electoral census which had been long obsolete and proscribed.

He ventured practically to withdraw the right of legislation

from its two primitive factors, the magistrates and the co-

mitia, and to transfer it to a board which had at no time pos­

sessed formally any other privilege in this respect than that

of being asked for its advice (i. 326). Hardly had any demo­

crat ever exercised justice in forms so tyrannical, or dis­

turbed and remodelled the foundations of the constitution

with so reckless an audacity, as this conservative reformer.

But if we look at the substance instead of the form, we

reach very different conclusions. Revolutions have nowhere

ended, and least of all in Rome, without demanding a certain

number of victims, who under forms more or less bor­

rowed from justice atone for the fault of defeat as though

it were a crime. Any one who recalls the succession of

prosecutions carried on by the victorious partv after the

fall of the Gracchi and Saturninus (P. 95,129, 216.) will be

inclined to yield to the victor of the Esquiline market the

praise of candour and comparative moderation, in so far as,

first, he without ceremony accepted as war what was really

such and proscribed the men who were defeated as enemies

