Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 475

pear, arranged in the order of matters.* A strictly sys­

tematic treatment of the law of the land soon followed. Its

founder was the pontifex maximus Quintus Mucius Scaevola

(consul in 650, + 672, P. 219, 336, 432), in whose family 95. 82.

jurisprudence was, like the supreme priesthood, hereditary.

His eighteen books on the Jus Civile, which embraced

the positive materials of jurisprudence—legislative enact­

ments, judicial precedents, and authorities—partly from the

older collections, partly from oral tradition in as great com­

pleteness as possible, formed the starting-point and the

model of the complete systems of Roman law; in like man­

ner his compendious treatise of " Definitions" (opoi) be­

came the basis of juristic summaries and particularly of

the books of Rules. Although this development of law

proceeded of course in the main independently of Hel­

lenism, yet an acquaintance with the philosophico-practical

systematizing of the Greeks beyond doubt gave a general

impulse to the more systematic treatment of jurisprudence,

as in fact the Greek influence is in the case of the last-

mentioned treatise apparent in the very title. We have

already remarked that in several more external matters

Roman jurisprudence was influenced by the Stoa (P. 432).

Art exhibits still less pleasing results. In architecture, Art.

sculpture, and painting there was, no doubt, a more and

more general diffusion of a dilettante interest, but the

exercise of native art retrograded rather than advanced.

It became more and more customary for those sojourning

in Grecian lands personally to inspect the works of art; for

which in particular the winter-quarters of Sulla's army in

Asia Minor in 670—671 formed an epoch. Connoisseur- 84-83.

ship developed itself also in Italy. They had commenced with

articles in silver and bronze; about the commencement of

this epoch they began to esteem not merely Greek statues,

but also Greek pictures. The first picture publicly exhi­

bited in Rome was the Bacchus of Aristides, which Lucius

Mummius withdrew from the sale of the Corinthian spoil,

because king Attalus offered as much as 6000 denarii (£246)

for it. The buildings became more splendid; and in parti­

cular transmarine, especially Hymettian, marble (Cipollin)

* Cato's book probably bore the title De Juris Disciplina (Gell. jciii. 20),  
that of Brutus the title De Jure Civili (Cic. pro Cluent. 51, 141; Be Orat.

ii. 55, 223); that they were essentially collections of opinions, is shown by

Cicero (De Orat. ii. 33, 142).

