464 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

later epoch of Roman literature. Leaving out of account

some poets little known and whose dates cannot be fixed

with certainty, there belong to this category Quintus Catuius,

102. consul in 652 (P. 459) and Lucius Manlius, an eminent

97. senator, who wrote in 657. The latter seems to have been

the first to circulate among the Romans various geographical

tales current among the Greeks, such as the Delian legend

of Latona, the fables of Europa and of the marvellous bird

Phoenix; as it was likewise reserved for him on his travels

to discover at Dodona and to copy that remarkable tripod,

on which might be read the oracle imparted to the Pelaa-

gians before their migration into the land of the Siceli and

Aborigines—a discovery which the Roman annals did not

neglect devoutly to register.

Historical In historical composition this epoch is especially signalized

composi- by an author, who did not belong to Italy either by birth

tion. or [a respect of his intellectual and literary stand-point, but

° 7 ™" who first or rather alone as an author appreciated and

described the position of Rome in the world, and to whom all

subsequent generations, and we too, owe the best part of our

208-127 knowledge of the Roman development. Polybius (c. 546—

c. 627) of Megalopolis in the Peloponnesus, son of the

.Achaean statesman Lycortas, took part apparently as early

189. as 565 in the expedition of the Romans against the Celts of

Asia Minor, and was afterwards on various occasions, more

especially during the third Macedonian war, employed by

his countrymen in military and diplomatic affairs. After

the crisis occasioned by that war in Hellas he was carried

off along with the other Achaean hostages to Italy (ii. 310),

167-150. where he lived in exile for seventeen years (587-604) and

was introduced by the sons of Paullus to the leading circles

of the capital. By the sending back of the Achaean hostages

(P. 44) he was restored to his home, where he thenceforth

acted as permanent mediator between his confederacy and

the Romans. He was present at the destruction of Car­

thage and of Corinth. He seemed educated, as it were, by

destiny to comprehend the historical position of Rome more

clearly than the Romans of that day could themselves. From

the position in which he stood as a Greek statesman and a

Roman prisoner, esteemed and occasionally envied for his

Hellenic culture by Scipio JEmilianus and the first men of

Rome generally, he saw the streams which had so long

flowed separately meeting together in the same channel and

