42 THE SUBJECT COUNTHIES. [Book IV.

arrived from the Thessalians, announcing that the pretender

had advanced into their territory; the Roman commissioner

Nasica, who, in the expectation that a mere remonstrance

would put an end to the foolish enterprise, had been sent by

the senate to Macedonia without soldiers, was obliged to

call out the Achaean and Pergamene troops and to protect

Thessaly against the superior force by means of the

149. Achaeans, as far as was practicable, till (605 ?) the praetor

Juventius appeared with a legion. The latter attacked the

Macedonians with his small force; but he himself fell, bis

army was almost wholly destroyed, and the greater part of

Thessaly fell into the power of the Pseudo-Philip, who con­

ducted his government there and in Macedonia with cruelty

Victory of and arrogance. At length a stronger Roman army under

Metellus. Quintus Caecilius Metellus appeared on the scene of

conflict, and, supported by a Pergamene fleet, advanced into

Macedonia. In the first cavalry combat the Macedonians

retained the superiority ; but soon dissensions and desertions

occurred in the Macedonian army, and the blunder of the

pretender in dividing his army and detaching half of it to

Thessaly procured for the Romans an easy and decisive

148. victory (606). Philip fled to the chieftain Byzes in Thrace,

whither Metellus followed him and after a second victory

obtained his surrender.

Province of The four Macedonian confederacies had not voluntarily

Macedonia, submitted to the pretender, but had yielded only to force.

According to the policy hitherto pursued there was therefore

no reason for depriving the Macedonians of the shadow of

independence which the battle of Pydna had still left to

them; nevertheless the kingdom of Alexander was now, by

order of the senate, converted by Metellus into a Eoman

province. This case clearly showed that the Roman

government had changed its system, and had resolved to

substitute the relation of subjection for that of dependence;

and accordingly the suppression of the four Macedonian

confederacies was felt throughout the whole range of the

client-states as a blow directed against all. The possessions

in Epirus which were formerly after the first Roman

victories detached from Macedonia—the Ionian Islands and

the ports of Apollonia and Epidamnus (ii. 74, 277), that

had hitherto been under the jurisdiction of the Italian

magistrates—were now reunited with Macedonia, so that the

latter, probably as early as this period, reached on the north­

