Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 57

confederacies, the free cities of Cyzicus and Rhodes—con­

tinued in their former circumscribed relations.

Beyond the Halys Cappadocia—after king Ariarathes V. Cappadocia.

Philopator (591-624) had, chiefly by the aid of the Attalids, 163-130.

held his ground against his brother and rival Holophernes

who was supported by Syria—followed substantially the

Pergamene policy, both as respected absolute devotion to

Rome and the tendency to adopt Hellenic culture. He

was the means of introducing that culture into the hitherto

almost barbarous Cappadocia, and along with it its extrava­

gancies also, such as the worship of Bacchus and the dissolute

practices of the bands of wandering actors—the " artists " as

they were called. In reward for the fidelity to Rome which

had cost this prince his life in the struggle with the Per­

gamene pretender, his youthful heir Ariarathes VI. was not

only protected by the Romans against the usurpation

attempted by the king of Pontus, but received also the

south-eastern part of the kingdom of the Attalids, Lycaonia,

along with the district bordering on it to the eastward and

in earlier times included in Cilicia.

In the remote north-east of Asia Minor "Cappadocia on Pontus.

the sea," or more briefly the "maritime state," Pontus,

increased in extent and importance. Not long after the

battle of Magnesia king Pharnaces I. had extended his

dominion far beyond the Halys to Tius on the frontier of

Bithynia, and in particular had possessed himself of the

rich Sinope, which was converted from a Greek free city

into the residence of these kings. The neighbouring states

endangered by these encroachments, with king Eumenes II.

at their head, had on that account waged war against him

(571-575), and under Roman mediation had exacted from 133-179.

him a promise to/evacuate Galatia and Paphlagonia; but the

course of events shows that Pharnaces as well as his suc­

cessor Mithradates V. Euergetes (598?-634), faithful 156-120.

allies of Rome in the third Punic war as well as in the

struggle with Aristonicus, not only remained in possession

beyond the Halys, but also virtually retained the protecto­

rate over the Paphlagonian and Galatian dynasts. This

hypothesis alone serves to explain how Mithradates,

ostensibly for his brave deeds in the war against Aristonicus,

but in reality for considerable sums paid to the Roman

general, came to receive Great Phrygia from the latter after

the dissolution of the Attalid kingdom. How far on the

