Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 343

the last heavings of the revolutionary and national opposition

slowly died away.

There was still work to be done in the provinces. Sar- The pro-

dinia bad been speedily wrested by Lucius Philippus from winces,

the governor of the revolutionary government Quintus

Antonius (672), and Transalpine Gaul offered little or no 82.

resistance; but in Sicily, Spain, and Africa the cause of the

party defeated in Italy seemed by no means lost. Sicily

was held for them by the trustworthy governor Marcus

Perpenna. Quintus Sertorius had the skill to attach to him­

self the provincials in Hither Spain, and to form no incon­

siderable army from among the Romans settled in Spain,

with which he in the first instance closed the passes of the

Pyrenees: in this he had given fresh proof that, wherever

he was stationed, he was in his place and amidst the incapa-

bles of the revolution was the only man practically useful.

In Africa the governor Hadrianus, who followed out the

work of revolutionizing too thoroughly and began to give

liberty to the slaves, had been, on occasion of a tumult

instigated by the 'Woman merchants of Utica, attacked in

his official residence and burnt with his attendants (672); 82.

nevertheless the province adhered to the revolutionary

government, and China's son-in-law, the young and able

Gnaeus Domitius Aheuobarbus, was invested with the su­

preme command there. Propagandism had even been carried

from thence into the client-states, Numidia and Mauretania.

Their legitimate rulers, Hiempsal II. son of Gauda, and

Bogud son of Bocchus, adhered to Sulla; but with the aid

of the Cinnans the former had been dethroned by the demo­

cratic pretender Hiarbas, and similar feuds agitated the

Mauretanian kingdom. The consul Carbo who had fled

from Italy tarried on the island Cossyra (Pantellaria) be­

tween Africa and Sicily, at a loss, apparently, whether he

should flee to Egypt or should attempt to renew the struggle

in one of the faithful provinces.

Sulla sent to Spain Gaius Annius and Gaius Valerius Spain.

Flaccus, the former as governor of Further Spain, the latter

as governor of the province of the Ebro. They were spared

the difficult task ot opening up the passes of the Pyrenees

by force, in consequence of the general who was sent thither

by Sertorius having been killed by one of his officers and

his troops having thereafter melted away. Sertorius, much Sertorius

too weak to maintain an equal struggle, hastily collected embarks.

