Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 473

did not fail to supply partly on account of the need for them,

partly on account of vanity and money. Such a manual

of rhetoric has been preserved to us, composed under Sulla's

dictatorship by an unknown author, who according to the

fashion then prevailing (P. 443) taught simultaneously

literature and Latin rhetoric, and wrote on both; a treatise

remarkable not merely for its close, clear, and firm handling

of the subject, but above all for its comparative indepen­

dence as respects Greek models. Although in method en­

tirely dependent on the Greeks, the Roman yet distinctly

and even abruptly rejects all "the useless matter which

the Greeks had gathered together, solely in order that the

science might appear more difficult to learn." The bitterest

censure is bestowed on the hair-splitting dialectics—that

"loquacious science of inability to speak "—whose finished

master, for sheer fear of expressing himself ambiguously, at

last no longer ventures to pronounce his own name. The

Greek school-terminology is throughout and intentionally

avoided. Very earnestly the author points out the danger of

many teachers, and inculcates the golden rule that the scholar

ought above all to be trained by the teacher to help himself;

with equal earnestness he recognizes the truth that the school

is a secondary, and life the main, matter, and gives in his

examples chosen with thorough independence an echo of

those forensic speeches which during the last decades had

excited notice in the Roman advocate-world. It deserves

attention, that the opposition to the extravagances of Hel­

lenism, which had formerly sought to prevent the rise of a

native Latin rhetoric (P. 443), continued to influence it

after it arose, and thereby secured to Roman eloquence, as

compared with the contemporary eloquence of the Greeks,

theoretically and practically a higher dignity and a greater

usefulness.

Philosophy, in fine, was not yet represented in literature, Philosophy,

since neither did an inward need develop a national Eoman

philosophy nor did outward circumstances call forth a Latin

philosophical authorship. It cannot even be shown with

certainty that there were Latin translations of popular sum­

maries of philosophy belonging to this period; those who

pursued philosophy read and disputed in Greek.

In the professional sciences there was but little activity. Professional

Well as the Romans understood how to farm and to calcu- sciences.

late, physical and mathematical research gained no hold

