Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 37

when they returned on the third day to give battle, they

found the Romans in readiness. The conflict came off with­

out decisive result; but on their return the Carthaginian

vessels so ran foul of each other in and before the entrance

of the harbour, that the damage thus occasioned was

equivalent to a defeat. Scipio now directed his attacks

against the outer quay, which lay outside of the city walls

and was only protected for the exigency by an earthen rampart

of recent constructiou. The machines were stationed on

the tongue of land, and a breach was easily made; but with

unexampled intrepidity the Carthaginians, wading through

the shallows, assailed the besieging implements, chased away

the covering force which ran off in such a manner that Scipio

was obliged to make his own troopers cut them down, and

destroyed the machines. In this way they gained time to

close the breach. Scipio again established the machines and

set on fire the wooden towers of the enemy; by which means

he obtained possession of the quay and of the outer harbour

along with it. A rampart equalling the city wall in height

was here constructed, and the town was now at length com­

pletely blockaded by land and sea, for the inner harbour

could only be reached through the outer. To insure the

completeness of the blockade, Scipio ordered Gaius Laelius

to attack the camp at Nepheris, where Diogenes now held

the command; it was captured by a fortunate stratagem,

and the whole countless multitude assembled there were put

to death or taken prisoners. Winter had now arrived and

Scipio suspended his operations, leaving famine and pesti­

lence to complete what he had begun.

How fearfully these mighty agencies had laboured in the Capture of

work of destruction during the interval while Hasdrubal the city.

continued to vaunt and to gormandize, appeared so soon as

the Roman army proceeded in the spring of 608 to attack 146.

the inner town. Hasdrubal gave orders to set fire to the outer

harbour and made himself ready to repel the expected

assault on the Cothon; but Laelius succeeded in scaling

the wall, hardly longer defended by the famished garrison, at

a point further up and thus penetrated into the inner

harbour. The city was captured, but the struggle was

still by no means at an end. The assailants occupied tho

market-place contiguous to the small harbour, ana slowly

pushed their way along the three narrow streets leading from

this to the citadel—slowly, for the huge houses of six stories

