824 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

terror, the old Gaius Marius, his two chief wishes. He

had taken vengeance on the whole pack of nobles that had

embittered his victories and envenomed his defeats; he had

been enabled to retaliate for every sarcasm by a stroke of

the dagger. Moreover, he entered on the new year once

more as consul; the vision of a seventh consulate, which

the oracle had promised him, and which he had sought for

thirteen years to grasp, had now been realized. The gods

had granted to him what he wished; but now too, as in the

old legendary period, they practised the fatal irony of de­

stroying man by accomplishing his wishes. In his early

consulates the pride, in his sixth the laughing-stock, of his

fellow-citizens, he was now in his seventh loaded with the

execration of all parties, with the hatred of the whole

nation; he, the originally upright, able, gallant man, was

branded as the crack-brained chief of a reckless band of

robbers. He himself seemed to feel it. His days were

passed as in delirium, and by night his couch denied him

rest, so that he grasped the wine cup in order merely to

drown thought. A burning fever seized him; after being

stretched for seven days on a sick bed, in the wild fancies

of which he was fighting on the fields of Asia Minor the

battles whose laurels were destined for Sulla, he expired on

Death [86. the 13th Jan. 668. He died, more than seventy years old,

of Marins. in full possession of what he called power and honour,

and in his bed; but Nemesis assumes various shapes, and

does not always expiate blood with blood. Was there no

sort of retaliation in the fact, that Rome and Italy now

breathed more freely on the news of the death of the famous

deliverer of the people than at the tidings of the battle on

the Raudine plain?

Even after his death individual incidents no doubt occurred,

which recalled that time of terror; Gaius Fimbria, for in­

stance, who more than any other during the Marian butcheries

had dipped his hand in blood, made an attempt at the very

funeral of Marius to kill the universally revered pontifex mari-

95. mus Quintus Scaevola (consul in 659) who had been spared

even by Marius, and then, when the pontifex recovered

from the wound he had received, indicted him criminally

on account of the offence, as Fimbria jestingly expressed it.

of having not been willing to let himself be murdered. But

the orgies of murder at any rate were over. Sertorius called

together the Marian baudits, under pretext of giving them

