212 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

Opposition

of the

whole aris­

tocracy.

100.

Variance

between

Marius

was very soon apparent, that the celebrated general was in

politics a mere incapable; that his ambition was that of the

farmer who would cope with and, if possible, surpass the

aristocrats in titles, and not that of the statesman who

desires to govern because he feels within him the power to

do so; that every enterprise, which was based on his personal

standing as a politician, must necessarily even under the

most favourable circumstances be ruined by himself.

He knew neither the art of gaining his antagonists, nor

that of keeping his own party in subjection. The opposition

against him and his comrades was even of itself sufficiently

considerable; for not only did the government party belong

to it in a body, but also a great part of the burgesses, who

guarded with jealous eyes their exclusive privileges against

the Italians; and by the course which things took the whole

class of the wealthy was also driven over to the government.

Saturninns and Glaucia were from the fifst masters and

servants of the proletariate and therefore not at all on a

good footing with the moneyed aristocracy, which had no

objection now and then to check the senate by means of the

rabble, but had no liking for street-riots and violent out­

rages. As early as Saturninus' first tribunate, his armed

bands had their skirmishes with the equites; the vehement

opposition which his election as tribune for 654 encountered

shows clearly how small was the party favourable to him.

It should have been Marius' endeavour to avail himself of

the dangerous help of such associates only in moderation,

and to convince all and sundry that they were destined

not to rule, but to serve him as their ruler. As he did

precisely the contrary, and the matter came to look quite as

if the object was to place the government in the hands

not of an intelligent and vigorous master, but of the mere

canaille, the men of material interests, terrified to death at the

prospect of such confusion, again attached themselves closely

to the senate in presence of this common danger. While

Gaius Gracchus, clearly perceiving that no government

could be overthrown by means of the proletariate alone, had

especially sought to gain over to his side the propertied

classes, those continuators of his work began by producing

a reconciliation between the aristocracy and the bourgeoisie.

But the ruin of the enterprise was brought about, still

more rapidly than by this reconciliation of enemies, through

the dissension which the more than ambiguous behaviour of

