300 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IT.

rena particularly distinguished himself; but the siege did

not on that account advance more rapidly. From Mace­

donia, where the Cappadocians had meanwhile definitely

established themselves, plentiful and regular supplies arrived

by sea, which Sulla was not in a condition to cut off from

the harbour-fortress; in Athens no doubt provisions were

beginning to fail, but from the proximity of the two for­

tresses Archelaus was enabled to make various attempts to

throw quantities of grain into Athens, which were not wholly

87-86. unsuccessful. So the winter of 667-8 passed away tediously

without result. As soon as the season allowed, Sulla threw

himself with vehemence on the Piraeeus; he in fact suc­

ceeded by missiles and mines in making a breach in part of

the strong walls of Pericles, and immediately the Romans ad­

vanced to the assault; but it was repulsed, and on its being

renewed crescent-shaped entrenchments were found con­

structed behind the fallen walls, from which the invaders

found themselves assailed on three sides with missiles and

compelled to retire. Sulla then abandoned the siege, and

contented himself with a blockade. In the meanwhile the

provisions in Athens were wholly exhausted; the garrison

attempted to procure a capitulation, but Sulla sent back

their fluent envoys with the hint that he stood before them

not as a student but as a general and would accept only

unconditional surrender. When Aristion, well knowing what

fate was in store for him, delayed compliance, the ladders

were applied and the city, hardly any longer defended, was

Athens [86. taken by storm (1 March 668.) Aristion threw himself

falls. into the Acropolis, where he soon afterwards surrendered.

The Roman general left the soldiery to murder and plunder

in the captured city and the more considerable ringleaders

of the revolt to be executed; but the city itself obtained

back from him its liberty and its possessions—even Delos.

which had just been presented to it by Mithradates—and

was thus once more saved by its illustrious dead.

Critical po- The Epicurean schoolmaster had thus been vanquished;

sition of but Sulla's position remained in the highest degree difficult,

Sulla. and even desperate. He had now been more than a year

in the field without having advanced a step worth mention­

ing; a single port mocked all his exertions, while Asia was

utterly left to itself, and the conquest of Macedonia by

Mithradates' lieutenants had recently been completed by

the capture of Amphipolis. Without a fleet—it was be­

