Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 231

.with the mass of their party. They had also observed that

the most gifted, most energetic, and most celebrated states­

men of Rome had found themselves, at the very moment

when they came forward as advocates of the Italians, deserted

by their own adherents and had been accordingly overthrown.

In all the vicissitudes of the thirty years of revolution and

restoration governments enough had been installed and de­

posed, but, however the programme might vary, a short­

sighted and narrow-minded spirit sat always at the helm.

Above all, the recent occurrences had clearly shown The Italian;

how vain was the expectation of the Italians that their *""•the oll-

claims would be attended to by Rome. So long as the de- S^^i'-

mands of the Italians were mixed up with those of the revo­

lutionary party and had in the hands of the latter been

rejected by the folly of the -masses, they might still resign

themselves to the belief that the oligarchy had been hostile

merely to the proposers, not to the proposal itself, and that

there was still a possibility that the more intelligent senate

would accept a measure which was compatible with the nature

of the oligarchy and salutary for the state. But the recent

years, in which the senate once more ruled almost abso­

lutely, had shed only too disagreeable a light on the designs

of the Roman oligarchy also. Instead of the expected mo­

difications, there was issued in 659 a consular law which most 95.

strictly prohibited the non-burgesses from laying claim to The Licinio

the franchise and threatened transgressors with. trial and Mucian

punishment—a law, which threw back a large number of aw'

most respectable persons who were deeply interested in the

question of equalization from the ranks of Romans into those

of the Italians, and which in point of indisputable legality

and of political folly stands completely on a parallel with

that famous act which laid the foundation for the separa­

tion of North America from the mother-country; in fact

it became, just like that act, the proximate cause of the

civil war. It was only so much the worse, that the authors

of this law by no means belonged to the obstinate and incor­

rigible Optimates; they were no other than the sagacious and

universally honoured Quintus Scaevola—destined like George

Grenville by nature to be a jurist and by fate to be a

statesman, who by his equally honourable and pernicious rec­

titude inflamed more than any one else first the war between

senate and equites and then that between Romans and

Italians — and the orator Lucius Crassus, the friend and

