134= THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

alongside of the former Greek community. So much of the

domains as had already been distributed by non-colonial

assignation, remained in the hands of the recipients; the

restrictions imposed on them by Gracchus in the interest of

the commonwealth—the ground-rent and the prohibition of

alienation—had already been abolished by Marcus Drusus.

With reference on the other hand to the domains still

possessed by right of occupation—which, over and above the

domain-land enjoyed by the Latins, must have mostly con­

sisted of the estates retained by their holders in accordance

with the Gracchan maximum (P. 90)—it was resolved defini­

tively to vindicate the rights of those who had hitherto

occupied them and to preclude the possibility of future dis­

tribution. It was primarily from these lands, no doubt,

that the 36,000 new farm-allotments promised by Drusus

were to have been formed; but they saved themselves the

trouble of inquiring where these hundreds of thousands of

jugera of Italian domain-land were to be found, and tacitly

shelved the Livian colonial law, which had served its purpose;

the far from important colony of Scylacium (Squillace) is

perhaps the only one referable to the colonial law of Drusus.

On the other hand by a law, which the tribune of the people

Spurius Thorius carried under the instructions of the senate,

119. the allotment-commission was abolished in 635, and a fixed

rent was imposed on the occupants of the domain-land, the

proceeds of which went to the benefit of the populace of the

capital—apparently by forming part of the fund, for the dis­

tribution of corn; proposals going still further, including

perhaps an increase of the largesses of grain, were averted

by the judicious tribune of the people Gaius Marius. The

ill. final step was taken eight years afterwards (643), when by

a new decree of the people * the occupied domain-land was

directly converted into the rent-free private property of the

former occupants. It was added, that in future domain-land

was not to be occupied at all, but was either to be leased or

to lie open as public pasture; in the latter case provision

was made by the fixing of a very low maximum of ten head

of large and fifty head of small cattle, that the large herd-

owner should not practically exclude the small. In these

judicious regulations the injurious character of the occupa­

* It is in great part still extant and known under the erroneous name,  
which has now been handed down for three hundred years, of the Thorian

agrarian law.

