240 THE REVOLT OF TEE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

contingency. The forces were in some measure equally

balanced. The Romans filled up the blanks in their Italian

contingents partly by increased levies from the burgesses

and from the inhabitants—already almost wholly Romanized

—of the Celtic districts on the south of the Alps, of whom

10,000 served in the Campanian army alone,* partly by the

contingents of the Numidians and other transmarine

nations; and with the aid of the free cities in Greece and

Asia Minor they collected a war fleet.| On both sides, with­

out reckoning garrisons, as many as 100,000 soldiers were

brought into the field, J and in the ability of their men, in

military tactics and armament, the Italians were nowise infe-

Subdivision rior to the Romans. The conduct of the war was very dif-

of the ficult both for the insurgents and for the Romans, because

a.rmies °" the territory in revolt was very extensive and a great num­

ber of fortresses adhering to Home were scattered up and

down in it: so that on the one hand the insurgents found

themselves compelled to combine a siege-warfare which broke

up their forces and consumed their time with the protection

of an extended frontier; and on the other hand the Romans

could not well do otherwise than combat the insurrection,

which had no proper centre, simultaneously in all the insur­

gent districts. Iu a military point of view the insurgent coun­

try fell into two divisions; in the northern, which reached

from Picenum and the Abruzzi to the northern border of

Campania and embraced the districts speaking Latin, the chief

command was held on the Italian side by the Marsian Quin-

tus Silo, on the Roman side by Publius fiutilius Lupus, both

as consuls ; in the southern, which included Campania, Sam-

nium, and generally the regions speaking Sabellian, the Sam-

nite Gaius Papius Mutilus commanded as consul of the insur­

gents, and Lucius Julius Caesar as the Roman consul. With

each of the two commanders-in-chief there were associated

* The bullets found at Asculum show that the Gauls were very numerous  
also in the army of Sirabo.

fg f We still have a decree of the Roman senate of 22. May 676, which grants

honours and advantages on their discharge to three Greek ship-captains of
Cary-

stus, Clazomena% and Miletus for faithful services rendered since the com-

30. mencement of the Italian war (664). Of the same nature is the account of

Memnon, that two triremes were summoned from Hcraclea on the Black Sea

for the Italian war, and that they returned in the eleventh year with rich ho­

norary gifts.

X That this statement of Appian is not exaggerated, is shown by the bullets

found at Asculum, which name among others the twentieth legion.

