306 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

services, under the instructions of his master caused the

whole councillors of Adramyttium to be put to death. The

Chians, who were suspected of an inclination to Rome, were

fined in the first instance in 2000 talents (£488,000) and,

when the payment was found not correct, they were en masse

put on board ship and deported in chains under the charge of

their own slaves to the coast of Colchis, while their island

was occupied with Pontic colonists. The king gave orders

that the chiefs of the Celts in Asia Minor should all be put

to death along with their wives and children in one day, and

that Galatia should be converted into a Pontic satrapy.

Most of these bloody edicts were carried into effect either

at Mithradates' own head-quarters or in Galatia, but the few

who escaped placed themselves at the head of their powerful

tribes and expelled Eumachus, the governor of the king,

out of their bounds. It may readily be conceived that such

a king would be pursued by the daggers of assassins; sixteen

hundred men were condemned to death by the royal courts of

inquisition as having been implicated in such conspiracies.

Lucullus While the king was thus by his suicidal fury provoking

and the his temporary subjects to rise in arms against him, he was

Asiatic 6 at tne Bame time hard pressed by the Romans in Asia both

coast. by sea and by land. Lucullus, after the failure of his

attempt to lead forth the Egyptian fleet against Mithra­

dates, had with better success repeated his efforts to procure

vessels of war in the Syrian maritime towns, and reinforced

his nascent fleet in the ports of Cyprus, Pamphylia, and

Rhodes till he found himself strong enough to proceed to

the attack. He dexterously avoided the measuring himself

against superior forces and yet obtained no inconsiderable

advantages. The Cnidian island and peninsula were occu­

pied by him, Samos was assailed, Colophon and Chios were

wrested from the enemy.

Flaccus Meanwhile Flaccus had proceeded with his army through

arrives in Macedonia and Thrace to Byzantium, and thence, passing

Asia. [86. the strafts, had reached Chalcedon (end of 668). There a

military insurrection broke out against the general, osten­

sibly because he embezzled the spoil from the soldiers. The

soul of it was one of the chief officers of the army, a man

whose name had become a proverb in Rome for a true

Fimbria. mob-orator, Gaius Flavius Fimbria, who, after having dif­

fered with his commander-in-chief, transferred the dema­

gogic practices which be had begun in the Forum to the

