Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 53

Nevertheless they did not escape the jealousy and suspicion

of Rome. In possession of the European shore of the Pro-

pontis, of the west coast of Asia Minor, and of the interior

as far as the Cappadocian and Cilician frontiers; and closely

connected with the Syrian kings, one of whom, Antiochus

Epiphanes (+590), had ascended the throne by the aid of 16+.

the Attalids; king Eumenes II. had by his power, which

seemed still more considerable from the more and more

deep decline of Macedonia and Syria, instilled apprehension

in the minds even of its founders. We have already related

(ii. 304) how the senate sought to humble and weaken this

ally after the third Macedonian war by unbecoming diploma­

tic artifices. The relations—perplexing from the very nature

of the case—of the rulers of Pergamus towards the wholly or

half free commercial cities within their kingdom, and towards

their barbarous neighbours on its borders, became compli­

cated still more painfully by this ill humour on the part of

their patrons. As it was not clear whether, according to

the treaty of peace in 565, the heights of the Taurus in -89.

Pamphylia and Pisidia belonged to the kingdom of Syria or to

that of Pergamus, the brave Selgians, nominally recognizing,

as it would seem, the Syrian supremacy, made a prolonged

and energetic resistance to Eumenes II. and Attalus II. in

the almost inaccessible mountains of Pisidia. The Asiatic

Celts also, who for a time with the permission of the

Romans had yielded allegiance to Pergamus, revolted from

Eumenes and, in concert with Prusias king of Bithynia the

hereditary enemy of the Attalids, suddenly began war

against him about 587. The king had had no time to hire 107-

mercenary troops; all his skill and valour could not prevent

the Celts from defeating the Asiatic militia and overrunning

his territory; the peculiar mediation, to which the Romans

condescended at the request of Eumenes, has already been

mentioned (ii. 305). But, as soon as he had found time

with the help of his well-filled exchequer to raise an army

capable of taking the field, he speedily drove the wild hordes

over the frontier; and, although Galatia remained lost to

him, and his obstinately continued attempts to maintain his

footing there were frustrated by Roman influence,* he yet,

* Several letters recently brought to light (Miinchener Sitzungsberichte, 1860,  
p. ISO et seq.) from the kings Eumenes II. and Attalus II. to the priest of
Pessinus,

who was uniformly called Attis (comp. I'olyb. xxii. 20), very clearly
illustrate

these relations. The earliest of these and the only one with a date, written
in

