108 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

numerous laws, betokened his genuine statesmanly talent; as

the passionate devotedness faithful even to death, with which

his intimate friends clung to him, evinced the loveable

nature of that noble mind. The discipline of suffering

which he had undergone, and his compulsory reserve during

the last nine years, augmented his energy of purpose and

action; the indignation repressed within the depths of his

breast only glowed there with an intensified fervour against

the party, which had disturbed his country and murdered his

brother. By virtue of this fearful vehemence of tempera­

ment he became the foremost orator that Home ever had;

without it, we should probably have been able to reckon

him among the first statesmen of all times. Among the few

remains of his recorded orations several* are, even in their

present condition, of heart-stirring power; and we can well

understand how those who heard or even merely read them

were carried away by the impetuous torrent of his words.

Yet, great master as he was of language, he was himself not

unfrequently mastered by anger, so that the utterance of

the brilliant speaker became confused or faltering. It was

the true image of his political acting and suffering. In the

nature of Gaius there was uo vein, such as his brother had,

of that somewhat sentimental but very short-sighted and

confused good-nature, which would have desired to change

the mind of a political opponent by entreaties and tears;

fully and firmly resolved, he entered on the career of revo­

lution, and strove to reach the goal of vengeance. "To me

too," his mother wrote to him, "nothing seems finer and

more glorious than to retaliate on an enemy, so far as it can be

done without the country's ruin. But if this is not possible,

then may our enemies continue and remain what they are, a

thousand times rather than that our country should perish."

Cornelia knew her son; his creed was just the reverse.

Vengeance he would wreak on' the wretched government,

vengeance at any price, though he himself and even the

commonwealth were to be ruined by it. The presentiment,

that fate would overtake him as certainly as his brother,

* Such are the words spoken on the announcing of his projects of law:—  
"If I were to speak to you and ask of you, seeing that I am of noble descent

and have lost my brother on your account and that there is now no survivor of

the descendants of Publius Africanus and Tiberius Gracchus excepting only

myself and a boy, to allow me to take rest for the present, in order that our

stock may not be extirpated and that an offset of that family may still

survive; you would perhaps readily grant me such a request."

