64 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

with the peoples of Turan, on the other with the Occi­

dentals. The Syrian state embraced at the most Mesopo­

tamia in addition to the region of the coast, and disappeared,

more in consequence of its internal disorganization than of

its diminished size, for ever from the ranks of the great

states. If the danger—which was repeatedly imminent—of

a total subjugation of the land by the Parthians was

averted, that result must be ascribed not to the resistance of

the last Seleucidae and still less to the influence of Rome,

but rather to the manifold internal disturbances in the

Parthian empire itself, and above all to the incursions of

the peoples of the Turanian steppes into its eastern pro­

vinces.

Reaction of ^is revolution in the relations of the peoples in the

the East interior of Asia is the turning-point in the history of anti-

against the quity. The tide of national movement, which had hitherto

West- poured from the west to the east and had found in Alex­

ander the Great its last and highest expression, was followed

by the ebb. On the establishment of the Parthian state

not only were such Hellenic elements as may still perhaps

have been preserved in Bactria and along the Indus lost,

but western Iran also relapsed into the track which had

been abandoned for centuries but still was not yet oblite­

rated. The Roman senate sacrificed the first essential result

of the policy of Alexander, and thereby paved the way for

that retrograde movement, whose last offshoots ended in

the Alhambra of Granada and in the great Mosque of Con­

stantinople. So long as the country from Ragae and

Persepolis to the Mediterranean obeyed the king of

Antioch, the power of Rome extended to the border of the

great desert; the Parthian state could never take its place

among the dependencies of the Mediterranean empire, not

because it was so very powerful, but because it bad its

centre far from the coast in the interior of Asia. Since the

time of Alexander the world had obeyed the Occidentals

alone, and the East seemed to be for these merely what

America and Australia afterwards became for the Euro­

peans. "With Mithradates I. the East re-entered the sphere

of political movement. The world had again two masters.

Maritime It remains that we glance at the maritime relations of this

relations. period; although there is hardly anything to be said, except

that there no longer existed anywhere a naval power.

Carthage was annihilated: the war-fleet of Syria was de­

