286 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

sus and the Caspian Sea; Thracians, Scythians, Sauromatae,

Bastarnae, Colchians, Iberians (in the modern Georgia)

crowded under his banners; above all he recruited his war-

hosts from the brave Bastarnae. For his fleet the satrapy

of Colchis supplied him with the most excellent timber,

which was floated down from the Caucasus, besides flax, hemp,

pitch, and wax; pilots and officers were hired in Phoenicia

and Syria. The king, it was said, had marched into Cappa-

docia with 600 scythe-chariots, 10,000 horse, and 80,000

foot; and he had by no means mustered for this war all his

resources. In the absence of any Roman or other naval

power worth mentioning, the Pontic fleet, with Sinope and

the ports of the Crimea as its rallying points, had exclusive

command of the Black Sea.

The Romans During these aggressions on all sides and the formation of

and Mithra. this imposing power,—the development of which occupied

dates. perhaps a period of twenty years—the Soman senate was a

patient on-looker. It was passive, while one of its depend­

ent states became developed into a great military power,

having at command more than a hundred thousand armed

men; while the ruler of that state entered into the closest

connection with the new Great king of the East who was

placed partly by his aid at the head of the states in the

interior of Asia; while he annexed the neighbouring Asiatic

kingdoms and principalities under pretexts, which sounded

almost like a mockery of the ill-informed and far distant

protecting power; while, in fine, he even established himself

in Europe and ruled as king over the Tauric peninsula, and

as lord-protector almost to the Macedono-Thracian fron­

tier. These circumstances indeed formed the subject of

discussion in the senate; but when the illustrious corpo­

ration consoled itself in the affair of the Paphlagonian suc­

cession with the fact that Mithradates appealed to the

testament and Nicomedes to his Pseudo-Pylaemenes, it was

evidently not so much deceived as grateful for any pretext

which spared it from interference. Meanwhile the com­

plaints became daily more numerous and more urgent.

The princes of the Tauric Scythians, whom Mithradates had

driven from the Crimea, turned for help to Rome; those of

the senators who at all reflected on the traditional maxims

of Roman policy could not but recollect that formerly, under

circumstances so wholly different, the crossing of king

Antiochus to Europe and the occupation of the Thracian

