344 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

the nearest divisions and embarked at New Carthage—for

what destination he knew not himself, perhaps for the coast

of Africa, or for the Canary Islands—it mattered little

whither, provided only Sulla's arm did not reach him. Spain

then willingly submitted to the Sullan magistrates (about

81- 673) and Flaccus fought successfully with the Celts, through

whose territory he marched, and with the Spanish Celti-

80. berians (674).

Sicily. Gmaeus Fompeius was sent as propraetor to Sicily, and,

when he appeared on the coast with 120 sail and six legions,

the island was evacuated by Perpenna without resistance.

Pompeius sent a squadron thence to Cossyra, which cap­

tured the Marian officers sojourning there. Marcus Brutus

and the others were immediately executed; but Pompeius had

enjoined that the consul Carbo should be brought before him­

self at Lilybaeum in order that, unmindful of the protec­

tion accorded to him in a season of peril by that very man

(P. 332), lie might personally hand him over to the exeeu-

82. tioner(672).

Africa. Having been ordered to go on to Africa, Pompeius van­

quished the not inconsiderable forces collected by Aheno-

barbus and Hiarbas with his far more numerous army in a

pitched battle and, declining for the time to be saluted as

imperator, he at once gave the signal for the assault of the

enemy's camp. He thus became master of the enemy in one

day; Ahenobarbus was among the fallen: with the aid of

king Bogud Hiarbas was seized and slain at Bulla, and

Hiempsal was reinstated in his hereditary kingdom; a great

razzia against the inhabitants of the desert, among whom

a number of Gaetulian tribes recognized as free by Marius

were made subject to Hiempsal, revived in Africa also the

fallen repute of the Roman name: in forty days after Pom-

80. peius' landing in Africa all was at an end (674 ?). The

senate instructed him to break up his army—an implied

hint that he was not to be allowed a triumph, to which as

an extraordinary magistrate he could according to precedent

make no claim. The general murmured secretly, the soldiers

loudly; it seemed for a moment as if the African army

would revolt against the senate and Sulla would have to take

the field against his son-in-law. But Sulla yielded, and

allowed the young man to boast of being the only Roman

who had become a triumphator before he was a senator

79. (12 March, 675); in fact the "Fortunate," not perhaps

