Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 179

with the distinction between the Germans and the Celts,

and who includes the Cimbri, many of whom he must him­

self have seen, among the Germans; and lastly, by the very

names of the peoples and the statements as to their physical

appearance aDd habits in other respects, which, while ap­

plying to the men of the north generally, are especially

applicable to the Germans. On the other hand it is con­

ceivable enough that such a horde, after having wandered

perhaps for many years and having doubtless welcomed every

brother-in-arms who joined it in its movements near to or

within the land of the Celts, would include a certain amount

of Celtic elements; so that it is not surprising that men

of Celtic name should be at the head of the Cimbri, or that

the Romans should employ spies speaking the Celtic tongue

to gain information among them. It was a marvellous

movement, the like of which the Romans had never seen;

not a predatory expedition of mounted warriors, nor a " ver

sacrum " of young men emigrating to a foreign land, but a

migratory people that had set out with their women and

children, with their goods and chattels, to seek a new home.

The waggon, which had everywhere among the still not

fully settled peoples of the north a difFerent importance

from what it had among the Hellenes and the Italians, and

which universally accompanied the Celts also in their en­

campments, was among the Cimbrians as it were their house,

where, beneath the leather covering stretched over it, a place

was found for the wife and children and even for the house­

dog as well as for the furniture. The men of the south be­

held with astonishment those tall lank figures with the fair

locks and bright-blue eyes, the hardy and stately women

who were little inferior in size and strength to the men, and

the children with old men's hair, as the amazed Italians

called the flaxen-haired youths of the north. Their system

of warfare was substantially that of the Celts of this period,

who no longer fought, as the Italian Celts had formerly done,

bareheaded and with merely sword and dagger, but with

copper helmets often richly adorned and with a peculiar

missile weapon, the materis; the large sword was retained

and the long narrow shield, along with which they probably

wore uilso a coat of mail. They were not destitute of

ravalry; but the Romans were superior to theia in that

arm. Their order of battle was as formerly a crude phalanx

professedly drawn up with just as many ranks in depth as in

