434 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

view, as anything else than a political institution; yet the

national spirit in them was too strong and their sense of

decorum too delicate to have permitted their coming forward

in public with such dangerous explanations. But even iu

the following generation the pontifex maximus Quintus

Scaevola (consul in 659; P. 219, 336) set forth at least in

his oral instructions in law without hesitation the proposi­

tions, that there were two sorts of religion—one philosophic,

adapted to the intellect, and one traditional, not so adapted;

that the former was not fitted for .the religion of the state

as it contained various things which it was useless or even

injurious for the people to know; and that accordingly the

traditional religion of the state ought to remain as it stood.

The theology of Varro, in which the Roman religion is treated

throughout as a state institution, is merely a further deve­

lopment of the same principle. The state, according to his

teaching, was older than the gods of the state as the painter

is older than the picture; if the question related to making

the gods anew, it would certainly be well to make and to

name them after a manner more befitting and more in

theoretic accordance with the parts of the world-soul, and

to lay aside the images of the gods which only excited

erroneous ideas,* and the mistaken system of sacrifice; but,

since these institutions had been once established, every good

citizen ought to own and follow them and do his part, that

the " common man " might learn rather to set a higher value

on, than to contemn, the gods. That the common man, for

whose benefit the grandees thus surrendered their judgment,

now despised this faith and sought his remedy elsewhere,

was a matter of course and will be seen in the sequel.

Thus then the Roman "high church" was ready, a sancti­

monious body of priests and Levites, and an unbelieving

people. The more openly the religion of the land was

declared a political institution, the more decidedly the

political parties regarded the field of the state-church as

an arena for attack and defence; which was especially, in

a daily increasing measure, the case with augural science

and with the elections to the priestly colleges. The old

and natural practice of dismissing the burgess-assembly,

when a thunder-storm came on, had in the hands of the

* In Varro's satire, "The Aborigines," he sarcastically set forth how the  
primitive men had not been content with the God who alone is recognized by

thought, but had longed after puppets and effigies.

