Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 331

consequence of the faithlessness and perfidy which prevailed

the new burgesses had every reason, if not to suspect his

personal designs, to doubt at any rate whether he would

be able to induce the majority of the senate to keep their

"word after the victory.

In the spring of 671 Sulla landed with his legions in the Sulla [83.

port of Brundisium. The senate, on receiving the news, de-lands in

clared the commonwealth in danger, and committed to the Italy'

consuls unlimited powers; but these incapable leaders had

not been on their guard, and were surprised by a landing

which had nevertheless been foreseen for years. The army

was still at Ariminum, the ports were not garrisoned, and—

what is almost incredible—there was not a man under arms

at all along the whole south-eastern coast. The consequences

were soon apparent. Brundisium itself, a considerable and is rein-

community of new burgesses, at once opened its gates forcl;ci °y

without resistance to the oligarchic general, and all Messapia P"ljtlfans

and Apulia followed its example. The army marched ers. eser

through these regions as through a friendly country, and

mindful of its oath uniformly maintained the strictest dis­

cipline. Prom all sides the scattered remnant of the Opti-

mate party flocked to the camp of Sulla. Quintus Metellus

came from the mountain ravines of Liguria, whither he had

made his escape from Africa, and resumed, as colleague of

Sulla, the proconsular command committed to him in 667 87.

(P. 271), and withdrawn from him by the revolution. Marcus

Crassus in like manner appeared from Africa with a small

band of armed men. Most of the Optimates, indeed, came

as noble emigrants with great pretensions and small desire

for fighting, so that they had to listen to bitter language

from Sulla himself regarding noble lords who wished to

have themselves preserved for the good of the state and could

not be brought even so far as to arm their slaves. It was

of more importance, that deserters already made their

appearance from the democratic camp—for instance, the

refined and respected Lucius Philippus, who was, along

with one or two notoriously incapable persons, the only

consular that had come to terms with the revolutionary

government and accepted offices under it. He met with

the most gracious reception from Sulla, and obtained the

honourable and easy charge of occupying for him the pro­

vince of Sardinia. Quintus Lucretius Ofella and other ser­

viceable officers were likewise received and at once employed;

