Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 363

were restored and partially raised. The limit of age requi- Regulating

site for the holding of each office was enforced afresh; as was ofthequali-

also the enactment that every candidate for the consulship (i«ltions for

should have previously held the praetorship, and every can­

didate for the praetorship should have previously held the

quaestorship, whereas the aedileship was allowed to be passed

over. The various attempts that had been recently made to

establish a tyrannis under the form of a consulship continued

for several successive years led to special rigour in dealing

with this abuse; and it was enacted that at least two years

should elapse between the holding of one magistracy and

the holding of another, and at least ten years should elapse

before the same office could be held a second time. In this

latter enactment the earlier ordinance of 412 (i. 321) was 342.

revived, instead of the absolute prohibition of all re-election

to the consulship which had been the favourite of the most

recent ultra-oligarchical epoch (P. 72). On the whole,

however, Sulla left the elections to take their course, and

sought merely to fetter the authority of the magistrates in

such a way that—let the incalculable caprice of the comitia

call to office whomsoever it might—the person elected should

not be in a position to rebel against the oligarchy.

The supreme magistrates of the state were at this period Weakening

practically the three colleges of the tribunes of the people, of the tri-

the consuls and praetors, and the censors. They all emerged ?^mte ,

from the Sullan restoration with materially diminished

rights; more especially the tribunician office, which appeared

to the regent an instrument indispensable doubtless for

senatorial government, but yet—as generated by revolution

and having a constant tendency to generate fresh revolutions

in its turn—requiring to be rigorously and permanently

shackled. The tribunician authority had arisen out of the

right to annul the official acts of the magistrates by veto, and,

eventually, to fine any one who should oppose that right and

to take steps for his further punishment; this was still left

to the tribunes, excepting that a heavy fine, destroying as a

rule a man's civil status, was imposed on the abuse of the

right of intercession. The further prerogative of the tri­

bune to have access to the people at pleasure, partly for the

purpose of making communications to them, partly for the

purpose of submitting laws to be voted on, had been the lever

by which the Gracchi, Saturniuus, and Sulpicius had revo­

lutionized the state; it was not abolished, but its exercise

