i THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

provinces, which embraced the larger eastern and southern

portions of the peninsula beyond the Pyrenees. We have

already (ii. 206 et seq.) attempted to describe the state of

matters in the peninsula. Iberians and Celts, Phoenicians,

Hellenes, and Romans were there strangely intermingled.

The most diverse kinds and stages of civilization subsisted

there simultaneously and at various points crossed each other,

the ancient Iberian culture side by side with utter barbarism,

the civilized relations of Phoenician and Greek mercantile

cities side by side with the growth of a Latinizing culture,

which was especially promoted by the numerous Italians

employed in the silver mines and by the large standing

garrison. In this respect the Roman township of Italica

(near Seville) and the Latin colony of Carteia (on the bay of

Gibraltar) deserve mention, the latter being, next to Agri-

gentum (ii. 150), the first transmarine civic community of

Latin tongue and Italian constitution. Italica was founded

206. by Scipio the Elder, before he left Spain (548), for his

veterans who were inclined to remain in the peninsula—pro­

bably not as a burgess-community, however, but merely as a

171. market-place.* Carteia was founded in 583 and owed its

existence to the multitude of camp-children—the offspring

of Roman soldiers and Spanish slaves—who grew up as slaves

de jure but as free Italians de facto, and were now manu­

mitted on behalf of the state and constituted, along with the

old inhabitants of Carteia, into a Latin colony. For nearly

#7 , thirty years after the regulation of the province of the Ebro

by Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus (575, 576; ii. 211) the

Spanish provinces, on the whole, enjoyed the blessings of

peace undisturbed, although mention is made of one or two

expeditions against the Celtiberians and Lusitanians.

Lusi- [154. But more serious events occurred in 600. The Lusitanians,

tanian war. under the leadership of a chief called Punicus, invaded the

Roman territory, defeated the two Roman governors who

had united to oppose them, and slew a great number of

their troops. The Vettones (between the Tagus and the

Upper Douro) were thereby induced to make common

cause with the Lusitanians; and these, thus reinforced,

* Italica must have been intended by Scipio to be what was called in Italy  
forum et conciliabulum avium Romanorum; Aqua; Sextix in Gnul had a similar

origin afterwards. The formation of transmarine burgess-communities only

began at a later date with Carthage and Narbo: yet it is remarkable that

Scipio already made a first step, in a certain sense, in that direction.

ify. 1*8

