Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 425

character of Ostia, Puteoli, and Brundisium, where with

foreign wares foreign manners also first found admission

and became thence more widely diffused.

The immediate result of this complete revolution in the Mixture of

relations of nationality was certainly far from pleasing, peoples.

Italy swarmed with Greeks, Syrians, Phoenicians, Jews,

Egyptians, while the provinces swarmed with Romans;

sharply defined national peculiarities everywhere came into

mutual contact, and were visibly worn off; it seemed as if

nothing was to be left behind but the general impress of

utilitarianism. What the Latin character gained in extent,

it lost in freshness; especially in Rome itself, where the

middle class disappeared the soonest and most entirely,

and nothing was left but the grandees and the beggars,

both in an equal measure cosmopolitan. Cicero assures

us that about 660 the general culture in the Latin towns 90.

was higher than in Rome; and this is confirmed by the litera­

ture of this period, whose pleasantest, healthiest, and most

characteristic products, such as the national comedy and

the Lucilian satire, were the native growth of Latium or of

the Latin colonies. That the Italian Hellenism of the

lower orders was in reality nothing but a repulsive cosmopoli­

tanism tainted at once with all the extravagances of culture

and with a superficially whitewashed barbarism, is self-evi­

dent; but even in the case of the better society the fine taste

of the Scipionic circle did not remain the permanent standard.

The more the mass of society began to take interest in

Greek life, the more decidedly it resorted not to the classi­

cal literature, but to the most modern and frivolous produc­

tions of the Greek mind; instead of moulding the Roman

character in the Hellenic spirit, they contented themselves

with borrowing that sort of pastime which set their own

intellect to work as little as possible. In this sense the

Arpinate landlord Marcus Cicero, the father of the orator,

said that among the Romans, just as among Syrian slaves,

each was the less worth, the more he understood Greek.

This national decomposition is, like the whole age, far from

pleasing, but also like that age significant and momentous.

The circle of peoples, which we are accustomed to call the

ancient world, advances from an outward union under the

authority of Rome to an inward union under the sway of

the modern culture resting essentially on Hellenic elements.

Over the ruins of peoples of the second rank the great

