Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 233

ther designs became unveiled, a change took place; he could

not venture to bring in his chief law; he had to postpone,

he had to delay, he had soon to retire. It was reported that

the majority of the senate was vacillating and threatened to

fall away from its leaders; in rapid succession the tidings

ran through the communities of Italy, that the law which

had passed was annulled, that the capitalists ruled more

absolutely than ever, that the tribune had been struck by

the hand of an assassin, that he was dead (autumn of 663). 91.

The last hope that the Italians might obtain admission to Prepara-

Boman citizenship by agreement was buried with Marcus tions ,ilr

Drusus. A measure, which that conservative and energetic Se°eral f'

man had not been able under the most favourable circum- Kome.Si"ni.

stances to induce his own party to adopt, was not to be

gained at all by amicable means. The Italians had no course

left to them save to submit patiently or to repeat once more,

and if possible with their united strength, the attempt which

had been crushed in the bud five-and-thirty years before

by the destruction of Fregellae—so as by force of arms either

to destroy Home and succeed to her heritage, or at least to

compel her to grant equality of rights. The latter resolu­

tion was no doubt a resolution of despair; as matters stood,

the revolt of the isolated urban communities against the

ltoman government might well appear still more hopeless

than the revolt of the American colonies against the British

empire; to all appearance the Roman government might

with moderate attention and energy of action consign this

second insurrection to the fate of its predecessor. But was

it less perhaps a resolution of despair, to sit still and allow

things to take their course? When they recollected how

the Romans had been in the habit of behaving in Italy

without provocation, what could they expect now that the

most considerable meu in every Italian town had or were

alleged to have had—the consequences on either supposition

being pretty mucfi the same—an understanding with Drusus,

.which was immediately directed against the party now vic­

torious and might well be characterized as treason? All

those who had taken part in this secret league, all in fact who

might be merely suspected of participation, had no choice

left save to begin the war or to bend their neck beneath the

axe of the executioner. Moreover, tho present moment pre­

sented comparatively favourable prospects for a general in­

surrection throughout Italy. We are not exactly informed

