476 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

came into use for that purpose—the Italian marble-quarries

were not yet in operation. A magnificent colonnade still

admired in the time of the Empire, which Quintus Metellus

14*. (consul in 611) the conqueror of Macedonia constructed in

the Campus Martius, enclosed the first marble temple which

the capital had seen; it was soon followed by similar struc-

138. tures built on the Capitol by Scipio Nasica (consul in 616),

128. and on the Circus by Gnaeus Octavius (consul in 626).

The first private house adorned with marble pillars was that of

91. the orator Lucius Crassus ( + 663) on the Palatine (P. 416).

But where they could plunder or purchase, instead of creating

for themselves, they did so; it was a wretched indication of

the poverty of Roman architecture, that it already began to

employ the columns of the old Greek temples; the Roman

Capitol, for instance, was embellished by Sulla with those of

the temple of Zeus at Athens. The works, that were pro­

duced in Rome, proceeded from the hands of foreigners; the

few Roman artists of this period, who are particularly men­

tioned, are without exception Italian or transmarine Greeks

who had migrated thither. Such was the case with the

architect Hermodorus from the Cyprian Salamis, who among

other works restored the Roman docks and built for Quintus

143. Metellus (consul in 611) the temple of Jupiter Stator in

the basilica constructed by him, and for Decimus Brutus

138. (consul in 616) the temple of Mars in the Flaminian circus;

89. with the sculptor Pasiteles (about 665) from Magna Graecia,

who furnished images of the gods in ivory for Roman

temples; and with the painter and philosopher Metrodorus

of Athens, who was written for to paint the pictures for the

167. triumph of Lucius Paullus (587). It is significant that the

coins of this epoch exhibit in comparison with those of the

previous period a greater variety of types, but a retro­

gression rather than an improvement in the cutting of the

dies.

Finally, music and dancing passed over in like manner

from Hellas to Rome, solely in order to be there applied to

the enhancement of decorative luxury. Such foreign arts

were certainly not new in Rome; the state had from olden

time allowed Etruscan flute-players and dancers to appear

at its festivals, and the freedmen and the lowest class of the

Roman people had previously followed this trade. But it

was a novelty, that Greek dances and musical performances

should form the regular accompaniment of a fashionable

