Chap. IV.] .THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 153

tion, and a judicious and experienced warrior. In this

respect he was so far free from the prejudices of his order,

that he selected as his lieutenants not men of the nobility,

but the excellent officer Publius Rutilius Rufus, who was

esteemed in military circles for his exemplary discipline and

as the author of an altered and .improved system of drill,

and the brave Latin farmer's son Gaius Marius, who had

risen from the pike. Attended by these and other able,

officers, Metellus presented himself iu the course of 645 as 109.

consul and commander in chief to the African army, which

he found in such disorder, that the generals had not hitherto

ventured to lead it iuto the enemy's territory and it was

formidable to none save the unhappy inhabitants of the

Roman province. It was sternly and speedily reorganized,

and in the spring of 646* Metellus led it over the Numidian 108.

frontier. When Jugurtha perceived the altered state of

things, he gave himself up as lost, and, before the struggle

began, made earnest proposals for an accommodation, re­

questing ultimately nothing more than a guarantee for his

* In the fascinating and clever description of this war by Sallust the chronology  
has been unduly neglected. The war terminated in the summer of 649 105

(c. 114); if therefore Marius began his management of the war as consul in

647, he held the command there in three campaigns. But the narrative 107.

describes only two. To all appearance Metellus went to Africa as early as

645, but, as he arrived late (c. 37, 44) and the reorganization of the army
cost 109.

time (c. 44), he only began his operations in the following year; and in like

manner Marius, who was likewise detained for a considerable time in Italy

by his military preparations (c. 84), entered on the chief command either as

consul in 647 late in the season and after the close of the campaign, or only
107.

as proconsul in 648; so that the two campaigns of Metellus thus fall in 646,
106. 108.

647, and those of Marius in 648, 649. With this view the circumstance also
107. 106.

very well accords, that the battle at Muthul and the siege of Zama must, 105.

from the relation in which they stand to Marius' candidature for the consul­

ship, be necessarily placed in 646. In no case can the author be pronounced
108.

free from inaccuracies; Marius, for instance, is even spoken of by him as

consul in 649. 105.

The question would be easily settled, if the senate had prolonged the com­

mand of Metellus and that prolongation had delayed Marius' departure; for

this could not apply to the campaign of 646, for which Marius could make 108.

no claim at all to the command, but only to that of 647. But that hypo- 107.

thesis, hitherto current, rests only on an interpolation of c. 73, 7 wanting
in

the best manuscripts of both families, and is in itself improbable, for the
de­

cree of the senate could not in law trench on the resolution of the people,
and

Sallust nowhere says one word as to Marius having voluntarily yielded so far,

but rather the contrary. At the defective passage referred to there stood

probably something quite ditferent—perhaps : [ei (Mario) uti Gallia provincia

ies] set, paulo [ante senatus\ decreverat; ea res frustra fuit.

