230 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

realizing that wish. Although the numerical proportions of

the burgesses and non-burgesses in Italy cannot be properly

ascertained, it may be regarded as certain that the number

of the burgesses was not very much less than that of the

Italian allies ; for nearly 400,000 burgesses capable of bearing

arms there were at least 500,000, probably 600,000 allies.*

So long as with such proportions the burgesses were united

and there was no outward enemy worthy of mention, the

Italian allies, split up into an endless number of isolated

civic and cantonal communities, and connected with Rome

by a thousand relations public and private, could never attain

to common action ; and with moderate prudence the govern­

ment could not fail to control their troublesome and in­

dignant subjects partly by the compact mass of the bur­

gesses, partly by the very considerable resources which the

provinces afforded, partly by setting one community against

another.

The Italian* Accordingly the Italians kept themselves quiet, till the re-

and the volution began to shake Rome; but, as soon as it had broken

Koman outi they entered into . the movements and agitations of

the Roman parties, with a view to obtain equality of rights

by means of the one or the other. They had made com­

mon cause first with the popular and then with the sena­

torial party, and gained equally little by either. They had

been driven to the conviction that, while the best men of

both parties acknowledged the justice and equity of their

. claims, these best men, aristocrats as well as poptdares, had

equally little power to procure a hearing for those claims

115. 70. * These figures are taken from the numbers of the census of 639 and
684;

there were in the former year 394,336 burgesses capable of anus, in the

latter 910,000 (according to Phlegon Fr. 12 Mull, which statement Clinton

86. and his copyists erroneously refer to the census of 668; according to Liv.

Ep. 98 the number was—by the correct reading—900,000 persons). The

86. only figures known between these two—those of the census of 668, which

according to Hieronymus gave 463,000 persons—probably turned out so

low only because the census took place amidst the crisis of the revolution.

As an increase of the population of Italy is not conceivable in the period

115. 70. from 639 to 684, and even the Sullan assignations of land can at the
most

have but filled the gaps which the war had made, the surplus of fully 500,000

men capable of arms may be referred with certainty to the reception of the

allies which had taken place in the interval. But it is possible and even pro­

bable, that in these fatal years the total amount of the Italian population
may

have retrograded rather than advanced: if we reckon the total deficit at

100,000 men capable of arms, which seems not excessive, there were at the

time of the Social War in Italy three non-burgesses for two burgesses.

