174 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

have occupied the modern Switzerland, Suabia, and Fran-

Boii. conia. Adjacent to them dwelt the Boii, whose settlements

were probably in the modern Bavaria and Bohemia.* To

the south-east of these we meet with another Celtic stock,

which made its appearance in Styria and Carinthia under

Taurisci. the name of the Taurisci and afterwards of the Norici,

Cami. in Friuli, Carniola, and Istria under that of the Carni.

Their city Noreia (not far from St. Veit to the north of Kla-

genfurt) was flourishing and widely known from the iron

mines that were even at that time zealously wrought in

those regions; still more were the Italians at this very

period allured thither by the rich seams of gold brought to

light there, till the natives excluded them and took this

California of that day into their own hands. These Celtic

hordes streaming along on both sides of the Alps had after

their fashion occupied chiefly the flat and hill country; the

Alpine region proper and likewise the district along the

Adige and the lower Po were not occupied by them, and

remained in the hands of the earlier indigenous population.

Nothing certain has as yet been ascertained as to the

nationality of the latter; but they appear under the name

of the Raeti in the mountains of East Switzerland and the

Tyrol, and under that of the Euganei and Veneti about

Padua and Venice; so that at this last point the two great

Celtic streams almost touched each other, and only a narrow

belt of native population separated the Celtic Cenomani

* "The Helv-etii dwelt," Tacitus says (Germ. 28)," between the Hercynian  
Forest (s. e., here probably the Rauhe Alp), the Rhine, and the Main; the

Boii further on." Posidonius also (op. Strab. vii. 293) states that the Boii,
at

the time when they repulsed the Cimbri, inhabited the Hercynian Forest, •'.
e.,

the mountains from the Rauhe Alp to the Bohmerwald. The circumstance

that Caesar transplants them " beyond the Rhine " (B. G. i. 5) is by no means

inconsistent with this, for, as he there speaks from the Helvetian point of

view, he may very well mean the country to the north-east of the lake of

Constance; which quite accords with the fact, that Strabo (vii. 292) describes

the former Boian country as bordering on the lake of Constance, except that he

is not quite accurate in naming along with them the Vindelici as dwelling by

the lake of Constance, for the latter only established themselves there after

the Boii had evacuated these districts. From these settlements the Boii were

dispossessed by the Marcomanni and other Germanic tribes even before the time

100. of Posidonius, consequently before 650; detached portions of them in
Caesar's

time roamed about in Carinthia (/?. G. i. 5), and came thence to the Helvetii

and into western Gaul; another swarm found new settlements on the Platten-

• 50. see, where it was annihilated about 700 by the Getae; but the
district—the

"Boian desert," as it was called—preserved the name of this the most ha­

rassed of all the Celtic peoples (comp. ii. 197, note).

