144 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

with the Teutones, was as consul and governor intrusted

with the conduct of the war. After two years of hard

struggles—Aquillius is said to have fought in person with

Athenion, and to have killed him in single combat—the

Roman general at length put down the desperate resistance,

and vanquished the insurgents in their last retreats by

famine. The slaves on the island were prohibited from

bearing arms and peace was again restored to it, or, in other

words, its recent scourges were relieved by its former

tormentors; in fact, the victor himself occupied a promi­

nent place among the numerous and energetic robber-magi­

strates of this period. Any one who still required a proof

of the internal quality of the government of the restored

aristocracy, might be referred to the origin and to the con­

duct of this second Sicilian slave-war, which lasted for five

years.

The depend- But wherever the eye was turned throughout the wide

ent states. spnere of R,oman administration, the same causes and the

same effects appeared. If the Sicilian slave-war showed

how far the government was from being equal to even its

simplest task of keeping in check the proletariate, contem­

porary events in Africa displayed the skill with which the

Romans now governed the dependent states. About the

very time when the Sicilian slave-war broke out, there was

exhibited before the eyes of the astonished world the

spectacle of an unimportant client-prince able to carry out

a fourteen years' usurpation and insurrection against the

mighty republic which had shattered the kingdoms of Mace­

donia and Asia with one blow of its weighty arm—and that

not by means of arms, but through the pitiful character of

its rulers.

Numidia. The kingdom of Numidia stretched from the river

Molochath to the great Syrtis (ii. 204) bordering on the

one side with the Mauretanian kingdom of Tingis (the'mo­

dern Morocco) and on the other with Cyreneand Egypt, and

surrounding on the west, south, and east the narrow district

of coast which formed the Roman province of Africa. i In

addition to the old possessions of the Numidian chiefs, it

embraced by far the greatest portion of the territory which

Carthage had possessed in Africa during the times of its

prosperity — including several important Old-Phoenician

cities, such as Hippo Regius (Bona) and Great Leptis

(Lebidah)—altogether the largest and best part of the rich

