378 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

no fidelity to the state at all, and proved faithful to the

officer only when he had the skill personally to gain their

attachment. The civil war had given fearful evidence of

this total revolution in the spirit of the army: six generals,

Albinus (P. 257), Cato (P. 258), Rufus (P. 271), Flaccus

(P. 307), Cinna (P. 328), and Gaius Carho (P. 342), had

fallen during its course by the hands of their soldiers; Sulla

alone had hitherto been able to retain the mastery of the

dangerous crew, and that only, in fact, by giving the rein to

all their wild desires as no Roman general before him had

ever done. If the blame of destroying the old military dis­

cipline is on this account attached to him, the censure is not

exactly without ground, but yet without justice; he was in­

deed the first Roman magistrate who was enabled to discharge

his military and political task only by coming forward as a

condottiere. He had not however taken the military dicta­

torship for the purpose of making the state subject to the

soldiery, but rather for the purpose of compelling everything

in the state, and especially the army and the officers, to sub­

mit once more to the authority of civil order. When this be­

came evident, an opposition arose against him among his

own staff. The oligarchy might play the tyrant as respected

other citizens; but that the generals also, who with their

good swords had replaced the overthrown senators in their

seats, should now be summoned to yield implicit obedience

to this very senate, seemed intolerable. The very two officers

in whom Sulla had placed most confidence, resisted the new

order of things. When Gnaeus Pompeius, whom Sulla had

intrusted with the conquest of Sicily and Africa and had

selected for his son-in-law, after accomplishing his task re­

ceived orders from the senate to dismiss his army, he omitted

to comply and fell little short of open insurrection. Quint us

Ofella, to whose firm perseverance in front of Praeneste the

success of the last and sorest campaign was essentially due,

in equally open violation of the newly issued ordinances

became a candidate for the consulship without having held

the inferior magistracies. With Pompeius there was effected,

if not a cordial reconciliation, at any rate a compromise.

Sulla, who knew his man sufficiently not to fear him, did not

resent the impertinent remark which Pompeius uttered to his

face, that more people concerned themselves with the rising

than with the setting sun; and accorded to the vain youth

the empty honours to which his heart clung (P. 344).

