380 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

most important portion of the new arrangements had been

completed, although various, matters, particularly in coloni­

zation, still remained to be done, he allowed the elections for

79. 675 to have free course, declined re-election to the consul­

ship as incompatible with his own ordinances, and at the

79. beginning of 675 resigned the regency soon after the new

Sulla re- consuls Publius Servilius and Appius Claudius had entered

signs the Qn ogjce- Even callous hearts were impressed, when the

man, who had hitherto dealt at his pleasure with the life and

property of millions, at whose nod so many heads had

fallen, who had mortal enemies dwelling in every street of

Rome and in every town of Italy, and who without an ally

of equal standing and even, strictly speaking, without the

support of a fixed party had brought to an end his work of

reorganizing the state, a work offending a thousand in­

terests and opinions—when this man appeared in the mar­

ket-place of the capital, voluntarily renounced his plenitude

of power, discharged his armed attendants, dismissed his

lictors, and summoned the dense throng of burgesses to

speak, if any one desired from him a reckoning. All were

silent: Sulla descended from the rostra, and on foot, attended

only by his friends, returned to his dwelling through the

midst of that very populace, which eight years before had

razed his house to the ground.

Character of Posterity has not justly appreciated either Sulla himself

Sulla. or his work of reorganization, as indeed it is wont to judge

unfairly of persons who oppose themselves to the current

of the times. In fact Sulla is one of the most marvellous

characters—we may even say a phenomenon unique—in

history. Physically and mentally of sanguine temperament,

blue-eyed, fair, of a complexion singularly white but blush­

ing with every passionate emotion—though otherwise a hand­

some man with piercing eyes—he seemed hardly destined to

be of more moment to the state than his ancestors, who since

the days of his great-great-grandfather Publius Cornelius

290. 277. Rufinus (consul in 464, 477), one of the most distinguished

generals and at the same time the most ostentatious man of

the times of Pyrrhus, had remained in second-rate positions.

He desired from life nothing but serene enjoyment. Beared

in the refinement of such cultivated luxury as was at that

time naturalized even in the less wealthy senatorial families

of Rome, be quickly possessed himself of all the plenitude of

sensuous and intellectual enjoyments which the combina­

