296 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

Pontic in­

vasion of

Europe.

92.

90. 89.

Predatory

inroads of

the Thra-

Thrace and

Macedonia

occupied by

the Pontic

armies-.

Pontic fleet

in the

/Egean.

of arraa; but Magnesia on the Meander successfully with­

stood a severe siege, in which Mithradates' ablest officer

Archelaus was defeated and wounded. Rhodes, the asylum

of the Romans who had escaped from Asia with the go­

vernor Lucius Cassius among them, was assailed on the

part of Mithradates by sea and land with immense superi­

ority of force. But his sailors, courageously as they did

their duty under the eyes of the king, were awkward no­

vices, and so Ehodian squadrons vanquished those of Pontus

four times as strong and returned home with captured

vessels. By land also the siege made no progress: after a

part of the works had been destroyed, Mithradates aban­

doned the enterprise, arid the important island as well as the

mainland opposite remained in the hands of the Romans.

But not only was the Asiatic province occupied by Mith­

radates almost without defending itself, chiefly through the

Sulpician revolution breaking out at a most unfavourable

time; Mithradates even directed an attack against Europe.

Already since 662 the neighbours of Macedonia on her

northern and eastern frontier had been repeating their

incursions with remarkable ardour and perseverance; in the

years 664, 665 the Thracians overran Macedonia and all

Epirus and plundered the temple of Dodoua. Still more

singular was the circumstance, that with these movements

was combined a renewed attempt to place a pretender on

the Macedonian throne in the person of one Euphenes.

Mithradates, who by way of the Crimea maintained connec­

tions with the Thracians, was hardly a stranger to all these

events. The praetor Gaius Sentius defended himself, it is

true, against these intruders with the aid of the Thracian

Dentheletae; but it was not long before mightier opponents

came against him. Mithradates, carried away by his suc­

cesses, had formed the bold resolution that he would, like

Antiochus, bring the war for the sovereignty of Asia to a

decision in Greece, and had by land and sea directed

thither the flower of his troops. His son Ariarathes

penetrated from Thrace into the weakly-defended Mace­

donia, subduing the country as he advanced and parcelling

it into Pontic satrapies. Abdera and Philippi became the

principal bases for the operations of the Pontic arms in

Europe. The Pontic fleet, commanded by Mithradates'

best general Archelaus, appeared in the jEgean sea, where

scarce a Roman sail was to be found. Delos, the emporium

