20 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

Roman dominions; the system of tenths and the middle­

men were there unknown; the population was numerous,

and the country was rich in corn and cattle.

The Pro- Far more insupportable was the condition—intermediate

tected between formal sovereignty and actual subjection—of the

btates. African, Greek, and Asiatic states that were brought within

the sphere of Roman hegemony through the wars of Rome

with Carthage, Macedon, and Syria, and their consequences.

An independent state does not pay too dear for its independ­

ence in accepting the sufferings of war when it cannot avoid

them ; a state which has lost independence may find at least

some compensation in the fact that its protector secures

for it peace with its neighbours. But these client states

of Rome had neither independence nor peace. In Africa

there practically subsisted a perpetual border-war between

Carthage and Numidia. In Egypt Roman arbitration had

settled the dispute as to the succession between the two

brothers Ptolemy Philometor and Ptolemy the Fat;

nevertheless the new rulers of Egypt and Cyrene waged

war for the possession of Cyprus. In Asia not only were

most of the kingdoms—Bithynia, Cappadocia, Syria,—like­

wise torn by internal quarrels as to the succession and by

the interventions of neighbouring states to which these

quarrels gave rise, but various and severe wars were carried

on between the Attalids and the Galatians, between the

Attalids and the kings of Bithynia, and even between

Rhodes and Crete. In Hellas Proper, in like manner, the

pigmy feuds which were customary there continued to

smoulder; and even Macedonia, formerly so tranquil, con­

sumed its strength in the intestine strife that arose out of

its new democratic constitution. It was the fault of the

rulers as well as the ruled, that the last vital energies and

the last prosperity of the nations were expended in these

aimless feuds. The client states ought to have perceived

that a state which cannot wage war against every one cannot

wage war at all, and that, as the position and power enjoyed

by all these states were practically under Roman guarantee,

they had in the event of any difference no alternative but

to settle the matter amicably with their neighbours or to

cajl in the Romans as arbiters. When the Achaean diet was

urged by the Rhodians and Cretans to grant them the aid of

153. the league, and seriously deliberated as to sending it (601), it

was simply a political farce; the principle which the leader of

