Chap. VII.l AND THE SULPICIAN KEVOLUTION. 229

gation of Italy the Roman burgess-body had closed its

ranks ; the bestowal of the franchise on whole communities

was totally given up, its bestowal on individuals was greatly

restricted. Even the full liberty of migration belonging to the

Old Latin burgesses, which procured for such of their members

as transferred their abode to Rome the civitas sine suffragio

there, had been curtailed in a manner offensive to the com­

munities concerned (ii. 334). They now advanced a step fur­

ther: on occasion of the agitation which contemplated the

extension of the Roman franchise to all Italy in the years

628, 632, the right of migration to Rome was itself attacked, 126. 122.

and all the non-burgesses resident in Rome were directly

ejected by decree of the people and of the senate from the

capital (P. 106, 124)—a measure as odious on account of its

illiberality, as dangerous from the various private interests

which it injuriously affected. In short, while the Italian

allies had formerly stood to the Romans partly in the rela­

tion of brothers under tutelage, protected rather than ruled

and not destined to perpetual minority, partly in that of

slaves tolerably treated and not utterly deprived of the hope

of manumission, they were now all of them subject nearly in

equal degree, and with equal hopelessness, to the rods and

axes of their Roman masters, and might at the utmost pre­

sume like privileged slaves to transmit the kicks received

from their masters onward to the poor provincials.

It belongs to the nature of such differences that, restrained The rup-

by the sense of national unity and by the remembrance ofture-

dangers surmounted in common, they make their appearance

at first gently and as it were modestly, till the breach gradu­

ally widens and the relation between the rulers, whose might

is their sole right, and the ruled, whose obedience reaches

no further than their fears, manifests at length undisguis-

edly the character of force. Down to the revolt and razing Fregellan

of Fregellae in 629, which as it were officially attested the war- 125-

altered character of the Roman rule, the ferment among the

Italians did not properly wear a revolutionary character.

The longing after equal rights had gradually risen from a

ailent wish to a loud request, only to be the more de­

cidedly rejected, the more distinctly it was announced.

It was very soon apparent that a voluntary concession was Difficulty of

not to be hoped lor, and the wish to extort what was a general

refused would not be wanting; but the position of Rome at tt °n

that time hardly permitted them to entertain any idea of

