406 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

treroely oppressive burden imposed upon the state by the

obligation under which Gaius Gracchus placed it to furnish

corn at nominal rates to the burgesses of the capital, was

certainly counterbalanced at first by the newly-opened

sources of income in the province of Asia. Nevertheless

the public buildings seem from that time to have almost

come to a standstill. While the public works which can be

shown to have been constructed from the battle of Pydna

down to the time of Gaius Gracchus were numerous, from

122. the period after 632 there is scarcely mention of any other

than the projects of bridges, roads, and drainage which

109. Marcus jEmilius Scaurus organized as censor in 645. It

must remain a moot point whether this was the effect of the

largesses of grain or, as is perhaps more probable, the con­

sequence of the system of increased savings, such as befitted

a government which became daily more and more a rigid oli­

garchy, and such as is indicated by the statement that the

91. Soman reserve reached its highest point in 663. The ter­

rible storm of insurrection and revolution, in combination

with the five years' deficit of the revenues of Asia Minor,

was the first serious trial to which the Roman finances were

subjected after the Hannibalic war: they failed to sustain

it. Nothing perhaps so clearly marks the difference of the

times, as the circumstance that in the Hannibalic war it

was not till the tenth year of the struggle, when the bur­

gesses were almost sinking under taxation, that the reserve

was touched (ii. 174); whereas the Social war was from the

first supported by the balance in hand, and when this was

expended after two campaigns to the last penny, they pre­

ferred to sell by auction the public sites in the capital

(P. 254) and to seize the treasures of the temples (P. 334)

rather than levy a tax on the burgesses. The storm however,

severe as it was, passed over; Sulla, at the expense doubt­

less of enormous economic sacrifices imposed on the subjects

and Italian revolutionists in particular, restored order to the

finances and, by abolishing the largesses of corn and retain­

ing although in a reduced form the Asiatic revenues,'

secured for the commonwealth a satisfactory economic con­

dition, at least in the sense of the ordinary expenditure

remaining far below the ordinary income.

Private In the private economics of this period hardly any new

economics, feature merges; the advantages and disadvantages formerly

set forth as incident to the social circumstances of Italy

