Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 173

Delmium in 599, that the confederacy conformed and pro- 155.

fessed itself subject to the Romans. But the poor and but

superficially subdued country was not sufficiently important

to be erected into a distinct province: the Romans con­

tented themselves, as they had already done in the case of

the more important possessions in Epirus, with having it

administered from Italy along with Cisalpine Gaul; an

arrangement which was, at least as a rule, retained even

when the province of Macedonia had been erected in 608 146.

and its north-western frontier had been fixed to the north­

ward of Scodra.*

But this very conversion of Macedonia into a province The Romans

directly dependent on Rome gave to the relations of Rome in ™ace"

with the peoples on the north-east greater importance, by T?nr'a an

imposing on the Romans the obligation of defending the

everywhere exposed frontier on the north and east against

the adjacent barbarian tribes ; and in a similar way not long

afterwards (621) the acquisition by Rome of the Thracian 133.

Chersonese (peninsula of Gallipoli) previously belonging to

the kingdom of the Attalids devolved on the Romans the

obligation hitherto resting on the kings of Pergamus to

protect Lysimachia against the Thracians. From the double

basis furnished by the valley of the Po and the province of

Macedonia, the Romans could now advance in earnest

towards the region of the headwaters of the Rhine and

towards the Danube, and possess themselves of the northern

mountains at least so far as was requisite for the security

of the south.

In these regions the most powerful nation at that time The tribes

was the great Celtic people, which according to thea* 'he

native tradition (i. 337) had issued from its settlements on ^"ps

the western ocean and poured itself about the same time and aiollg

into the valley of the Po on the south of the main chain of the Danube

the Alps and into the regions on the Upper Rhine and on

the Danube to the north of that chain. Among their

various tribes, both banks of the Upper Rhine were occu­

pied by the powerful and rich Helvetii, who nowhere came into Helvctii.

immediate contact with the Romans and so lived in peace

and in treaty with them: at this time they seem to have

stretched from the lake of Geneva to the river Main, and to

* P. 42. The Piruste in the valleys of the Drin belonged to the province  
of Macedonia, but made forays into the neighbouring Ulyricum (Caesar,

£. G. v. 1).

