Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 199

faults, by his unaristocratic disinterestedness no less than by

his boorish uncouthness; he was called by the multitude a

third Eomulus and a second Camillus; libations were poured

forth to him like the gods. It was no wonder, that the head

of the peasant's son grew giddy at times with all this glory;

that he compared his march from Africa to Gaul to the vic­

torious processions of Dionysus from continent to continent,

and had a cup—none of the smallest—manufactured for his

use after the model of that of Bacchus. There was just as

much of hope as of gratitude in that delirious enthusiasm of

the people, which might have led astray a man of colder

blood and more mature political experience. The work of

Marius seemed to his admirers by no means finished. The

wretched government oppressed the land more heavily than

the barbarians: on him, the first man of Rome, the favourite

of the people, the head of the opposition, devolved the task

of once more delivering Rome. It is true that to one who was

a rustic and a soldier the political proceedings of the capital

were strange and iucongruous: he spoke as ill as he commanded

well, and displayed a far firmer bearing in presence of the

lances and swords of the enemy than in presence of the ap­

plause or hisses of the multitude; but his inclinations Were

of little moment. The hopes of which he was the object con­

strained him. His military and political position was such

that, if he would not break with his glorious past, if he would

not deceive the expectations of his party and in fact of the

nation, if he would not be unfaithful to his own sense of duty,

he must check the maladministration of public affairs and put

an end to the government of the restoration; and if h'e only

possessed the internal qualities of a head of the people, he

might certainly dispense with those which he wanted as a

popular leader.

He held in his hand a formidable weapon in the newly The new

organized army. Previously to his time the fundamental military

principle of the Servian constitution—by which the levy was "fg3111211-

limited entirely to the burgesses possessed of property, and lon'

the distinctions in equipment were regulated solely by the

property qualification (i. 95, 316)—had necessarily been in

various respects relaxed. The minimum census of 11,000

asses (£115), which bound its possessor to enter the burgess-

army, had been lowered to 4000 (£41; ii. 352). The earlier

six property-classes, distinguished by their respective arma­

ments, had been restricted to three; for, while in accordance

