402 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

reserve-fund; but even the figures appearing for these

objects, when compared with the wide domain of the Roman

rule, attest the small amount of the net proceeds of the

Roman taxes. In a certain sense therefore the old principle

equally honourable and judicious—that the political hege­

mony should not be treated as a privilege yielding profit—

still governed Rome's financial administration of the pro­

vinces as it had governed that of Italy. What the Roman

community levied from its transmarine subjects was, as a

rule, re-expended for the military security of the transmarine

possessions; and if these Roman imposts fell more heavily

on those who paid them than the earlier taxation, in so far

as they were in great part expended abroad, the substitu­

tion, on the other hand, of a single ruler and a centra­

lized military administration for the many petty rulers and

armies involved a very considerable financial saving. It is

true, however, that this principle of a better and earlier age

came from the very first to be infringed and mutilated by the

numerous exceptions which were allowed to prevail. The

ground-tenth levied by Hiero and Carthage in Sicily went

far beyond the amount of an annual war-contribution. With

justice moreover Scipio iEmilianus says in Cicero, that it

was unbecoming for the Roman burgess-body to be at the

same time the ruler and the tax-gatherer of the nations.

The appropriation of the customs-dues was not compatible

with the principle of disinterested hegemony, and the high

rates of the customs as well as the vexatious mode of levy­

ing them were not fitted to allay the sense of the injustice

thereby inflicted. Even as early probably as this period the

name of publican became synonymous among the Eastern

peoples with that of rogue and robber: no burden contri­

buted so much as this to make the Roman name offensive

and odious especially in the East. But when Gaius Gracchus

and those who called themselves the "popular party" in

Rome came to the helm, political sovereignty was declared

in plain terms to be a right which entitled every one who

shared in it to a number of bushels of corn, the hegemony

was converted into a direct ownership of the soil, and the

most complete system of making the most of that owuership

was not only iutroduced but with shameless candour legally

justified and proclaimed. It was certainly not a mere acci­

dent, that the hardest lot in this respect fell precisely to

the two least warlike provinces, Sicily and Asia.

