Chap. IV. THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 147

zealous champions of Adherbal's just title were with

incredible rapidity convinced, that Hiempsal had been put

to death by his subjects on account of his cruelty, and

that the author of the war as to the succession was not

Jugurtha, but Adherbal. Even the leading men in the

senate were shocked at the scandal; Marcus Scaurus sought

to check it, but in vain. The senate passed over what had

taken place in silence, and ordained that the two surviving

testamentary heirs should have the kingdom equally divided

between them, and that, for the prevention of iresh quarrels,

the division should be undertaken by a commission of the

senate. This was done: the consular Lucius Opimius, well-

known through his services in setting aside the revolution,

had embraced the opportunity of gathering the reward of

his patriotism, and had got himself placed at the head of the

commission. The division turned out thoroughly in favour

of Jugurtha, and not to the disadvantage of the commis­

sioners; Cirta (Constantine) the capital with its port of

Eusicade (Philippeville) was no doubt given to Adherbal,

but by that very arrangement the portion which fell to him

was the eastern part of the kingdom consisting almost

wholly of sandy deserts, while Jugurtha obtained the fertile

and populous western half (what was afterwards Mauretania

Caesariensis and Sitifensis).

This was bad; but matters soon became worse. In order Siege of

to be able under the semblance of self-defence to defraud Cirta.

Adherbal of his portion, Jugurtha provoked him to war; but

when the weak man, rendered wiser by experience, allowed

Jugurtha's horsemen to ravage his territory unhindered

and contented himself with lodging complaints at Rome,

Jugurtha, impatient of ceremony, began the war even

without pretext. Adherbal was totally defeated in the

region of the modern Philippeville, and threw himself into

his capital of Cirta in the immediate vicinity. "While the

siege was in progress, and Jugurtha's troops were daily

skirmishing with the numerous Italians who were settled in

Cirta and who took a more vigorous part in the defence of

the city than the Africans themselves, the commission de­

spatched by the Roman senate on Adherbal's first complaint

made its appearance; composed, of course, of young inexpe­

rienced men, such as the government of those times regularly

> employed in the ordinary missions of the state. The envoys

demanded, that'.Jugurtha should allow them as deputed by

