362 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

seemed to the regent necessary carefully to preserve their

names, he was still more careful to prevent any real activity

on their part. Sulla dealt even with the franchise itself in

the most contemptuous manner; he made no difficulty

either in conceding it to the new burgess-communities, or

in bestowing it on Spaniards and Celts en masse; in fact,

probably not without design, no steps were taken at all

for the adjustment of the burgess-roll, which nevertheless

after so violent revolutions stood in urgent need of a revi­

sion, if the government was at all in earnest with the legal

privileges attaching to it. The legislative functions of the

comitia, however, were not directly restricted; there was no

need in fact for doing so, for in consequence of the better

Becured initiative of the senate the people could not readily

against the will of the government intermeddle with admi­

nistration, finance, or criminal jurisdiction, and its legisla­

tive co-operation was once more reduced in substance to the

right of giving assent to alterations of the constitution.

Of greater moment was the participation of the bur­

gesses in the elections—a participation which, apparently,

could not be dispensed with without disturbing more than

Co-optation Sulla's superficial restoration could or would disturb. The

restored in interferences of the movement party in the sacerdotal elec-

TOilPrls8tly t'ons were set as^e' not onty tne Domitian law of 650,

94.' which transferred the election of the supreme priesthoods

generally to the people (P. 204), but also the similar older

enactments as to the Pontifex Maximus and the Curio Maxi-

mus (ii. 357) were cancelled by Sulla, and the colleges of

priests received back the right of self-completion in its origi­

nal absoluteness. In the case of elections to the magistra­

cies the mode hitherto pursued was on the whole retained; ex­

cept in so far as the new regulation of the military command

to be mentioned immediately certainly involved as its con­

sequence a material restriction of the powers of the bur­

gesses, and indeed in some measure transferred the right of

bestowing the appointment of generals from the burgesses

to the senate. It does not even appear that Sulla now re­

sumed the previously attempted restoration of the Servian

voting-arrangement (P. 267); whether it was that he re­

garded the particular composition of the voting-divisions as

altogether a matter of indifference, or whether it was that

that older arrangement seemed to him to augment the dan­

gerous influence of the capitalists. Only the qualifications

