Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 21

the party friendly to Rome then laid down—that the

Achaeans were no longer at liberty to wage war without the

permission of the Romans—expressed, doubtless with disa­

greeable precision, the simple truth that the formal sov-

reignty of the dependent states was merely formal, and that

any attempt to give life to the shadow must necessarily lead

to the destruction of the shadow itself. But the ruling

community deserves a censure more severe than that directed

against the ruled. It is no easy task for a state any more

than for a man to become reconciled to insignificance;

it is the duty and right of the ruler either to renounce his

authority, or by the display of an imposing material supe­

riority to compel the ruled to resignation. The Roman senate

did neither. Invoked and importuned on all hands, the senate

interfered incessantly in the course of African, Hellenic, Asi­

atic, and Egyptian affairs; but it did so after so inconstant

and loose a fashion, that its attempts to settle matters usually

only rendered the confusion worse. It was the epoch of

commissions. Commissioners of the senate were constantly

going to Carthage and Alexandria, to the Achaean diet, and to

the courts of the rulers of western Asia; they investigated, in­

hibited, reported, and yet decisive steps were not unfrequently

taken in the most important matters without the knowledge,

or against the wishes, of the senate. Cyprus, for instance,

which the senate had assigned to the kingdom of Cyrene,

was nevertheless retained by Egypt; a Syrian prince as­

cended the throne of his ancestors under the pretext that

he had obtained a promise of it from the Romans, while the

senate had in fact expressly refused to give it to him, and

he himself had only escaped from Rome by breaking their

interdict; even the open murder of a Roman commissioner,

who under the orders of the senate administered as guardian

the government of Syria, passed totally unpunished. The

Asiatics were very well aware that they were not in a

position to resist the Roman legions; but they were no less

aware that the senate was but little inclined to give the

citizens orders to march for the Euphrates or the Nile.

Thus the state of these remote countries resembled that

of the schoolroom when the teacher is absent or lax; and

the government of Rome deprived the nations at once

of the blessings of freedom and of the blessings of order.

For the Eomans themselves, moreover, this state of matters

was in so far perilous as it to a certain extent left their

