82 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

Sicilian militia, and in capturing his camp. By this means

almost the whole island came into the power of the insur­

gents, whose numbers, according to the most moderate

estimates, are alleged to have amounted to 70,000 men

capable of arms. The Romans found themselves compelled

134-132. for three successive years (620-622) to despatch consuls and

consular armies to Sicily, till, after several undecided and

even some unfavourable conflicts, the revolt was at length

subdued by the capture of Tauromenium and of Enna.

The most resolute men of the insurgents threw themselves

into the latter town, in order to defend themselves in that

impregnable position with the determination of men who

despair of deliverance or of pardon; the consuls Lucius

Calpurnius Piso and Publius Rupilius lay before it for

two years, and reduced it at last more by famine than by

arms.*

These were the results of the preventive police system, as

it was handled by the Roman senate and its officials in

Italy and the provinces. While the task of getting quit of

the proletariate demands and only too often transcends the

whole power and wisdom of a government, its repression

by measures of police on the other hand is for any larger

commonwealth comparatively easy. It would be well with

states, if the unpropertied masses threatened them with

no other danger than that with which they are menaced by

bears and wolves; only the timid and those who trade upon

the silly fears of the multitude prophesy the destruction of

civil order through servile revolts or insurrections of the pro­

letariate. But even to this easier task of restraining the

oppressed masses the Roman government was by no means

equal, notwithstanding the profound peace and the inex­

haustible resources of the state. This was a sign of its

weakness; but not of its weakness alone. By right the

Roman governor was bound to keep the highways clear and

to have the robbers who were caugnt crucified, if they were

slaves; and that as a matter of course, for slavery is not

possible without a reign of terror. At this period in

Sicily a razzia was occasionally no doubt set on foot by the

governor, if the roads were too insecure; but, in order not to

disoblige the Italian planters, the captive robbers were

* Even now there are not unfrequently found in front of Castrogiovanni, at  
the point where the ascent is least abrupt, Roman projectiles with the name

133. of the consul of 621: L. Piso L. f. cos.

