432 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

of allowable and non-allowable actions; whose grammar

and jurisprudence, moreover, urgently required a methodical

treatment, without possessing the ability to develop such a

treatment of themselves. So this philosophy thoroughly

incorporated itself, as a plant borrowed no doubt from

abroad but acclimatized in Italian soil, with the Roman

national economy, and we meet its traces in the most

diversified spheres of action. Its earliest appearance beyond

doubt goes further back; but the Stoa was first raised to

full influence in the higher ranks of Roman society by

means of the group which gathered round Scipio jEmilianus.

Panaetius of Rhodes, the instructor of Scipio and of all

Scipio's intimate friends in the Stoical philosophy, who was

constantly in his train and usually attended him even on

journeys, knew how to adapt the system to clever men of

the world, to keep its speculative side in the background,

and to mitigate in some measure the dryness of the ter­

minology and the insipidity of its moral catechism, more

particularly by the aid of the earlier philosophers, among

whom Scipio himself had an especial predilection for the

Socrates of Xenophon. Thenceforth the most noted states­

men and scholars professed the Stoic philosophy—among

others Stilo and Quintus Scaevola, the founders of scientific

philology and scientific jurisprudence. The scholastic

formality of system, which thenceforth prevails at least

externally in these professional sciences and is especially

associated with a fanciful, charade-like, insipid method of

etymologizing, descends from the Stoa. But infinitely more

important was the new state-philosophy and state-religion,

which emanated from the blending of the Stoic philosophy

and the Roman religion. The speculative element, from

the first impressed with but little energy on the system of

Zeno and still further weakened when that system found

admission to Rome,—after the Greek schoolmasters had

already for a century been busily driving this philosophy

into boys' heads and thereby driving the spirit out of it,

—fell completely into the shade in Rome, where nobody

speculated but the money-changers; little further was said

as to the ideal development of the God ruling in the soul

of man, or of the divine law of the world. The Stoical

philosophers showed themselves not insensible to the very

lucrative distinction of seeing their system raised into the

semi-official Roman state-philosophy, and proved altogether

