Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 291

but, while the Phoenicians yielded from despair, the king of

Sinope did the very opposite and assembled his troops and

ships. "Does not even he who must succumb," he is reported

to have said, "defend himself against the robber'?" His

son Arioljarzanes received orders to advance into Cappadocia;

a message was sent once more to the Roman envoys to inform

them of the step to which necessity had driven the king,

and to demand their ultimatum. It was to the effect which

was to be anticipated. Although neither the Roman senate

nor king Mithradates nor king Nicomedes had desired the

rupture, Aquillius desired it and war ensued (end of 665). 89.

Mithradates prosecuted the political and military prepara- Prepara­

tions for the passage of arms thus forced upon him with all his tions of

characteristic energy. First of all he drew closer his alliance M1thrada-

with Tigranes king of Armenia, and obtained from him the

promise of an auxiliary army, which was to march into ante­

rior Asia and to take possession of the soil there for king

Mithradates and of the moveable property for king Tigranes.

The Parthian king offended by the haughty carriage of Sulla,

though not exactly coming forward as an antagonist to the

Romans, did not act as their ally. To the Greeks the king

endeavoured to present himself in the character of Philip

and Perseus, as the defender of the Greek nation against the

alien yoke of the Romans. Pontic envoys were sent to the

king of Egypt and to the last remnant of free Greece, the

league of the Cretan cities, and adjured those for whom Rome

had already forged her chains to rise now at the last moment

and save Hellenic nationality; the attempt was in the case

of Crete at least not wholly in vain, and numerous Cretans

took service in the Pontic army. Hopes were entertained

that the lesser and least of the protected states—Numidia,

Syria, the Hellenic republics—would successively rebel, and

that the provinces would revolt, particularly anterior Asia,

the victim of unbounded oppression. Efforts were made to

excite a Thracian rising, and even to arouse Macedonia to

revolt. Piracy, which even previously was flourishing, was

now everywhere let loose as a most welcome ally, and with

alarming rapidity squadrons of corsairs, calling themselves

Pontic privateers, filled the Mediterranean far and wide.

With eagerness and delight accounts were received of the

commotion among the Roman burgesses and of the Ita­

lian insurrection subdued yet far from extinguished. No

direct relations, however, were formed with the discom-

