Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 95

number of their most trusty partisans to the vengeance of

the multitude, or to assume collectively the responsibility

of the outrage: the latter course was adopted. They

gave an official sanction to the assertion that Gracchus had

wished to seize the crown, and justified this latest crime

by the primitive precedent of Ahala (i. 301); in fact,

they even committed the duty of further investigation as

to the accomplices of Gracchus to a special commission,

and made its head, the consul Publius Popillius, take care

that a sort of legal stamp should be supplementarily im­

pressed on the murder of Gracchus by bloody sentences

directed against a large number of inferior persons (622). 132.

Nasica, against whom above all others the multitude breathed

vengeance, and who had at least the courage openly to

avow his deed before the people and to defend it, was-

under honourable pretexts despatched to Asia, and soon

afterwards (624) invested, during his absence, with the 130.

office of Pontifex Maximus. Nor did the moderate party

dissociate themselves from these proceedings of their col­

leagues. Gaius Laelius bore a part in the investigations

adverse to the partisans of Gracchus; Publius Scaevola, who

had attempted to prevent the murder, afterwards defended

it in the senate; when Scipio -3£milianus, after his return

from Spain (622), was challenged publicly to declare 132.

whether he did or did not approve the killing of his brother-

in-law, he gave the at least ambiguous reply that, so far as

Tiberius, had aspired to the crown, he had been justly put to

death.

Let us endeavour to form a judgment regarding these The domain

momentous events. The appointment of an official com- question

mission, which had to counteract the continual diminution yle^ed ln

of the farmer-class by the continual establishment of new

small holdings from the resources of the state, was doubtless

no sign of a healthy condition of the national economy; but it

was, under the existing circumstances political and social, a

judicious measure. The distribution of the domains, more­

over, was in itself no political parjy-question; it might have

been carried out to the last sod, without changing the exist­

ing constitution or at all shaking the government of the

aristocracy. As little could there be, in that case, any com­

plaint of a violation of rights. The state was confessedly

the owner of the occupied land; the holder as a possessor

on mere sufferance could not, as a rule, ascribe to himself

