Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 27

the troops for Africa, showed very clearly what the Roman

intentions were; the senate acted with fearful harshness,

but it did not put on the semblance of concession. The

Carthaginians, however, would not open their eyes; there was

no statesman found, who had the power to move the unstable

multitude of the city either to thorough resistance or to

thorough resignation. When they heard at the same time of

the horrible decree of war and of the endurable demand for

hostages, they complied immediately with the latter; and

still clung to hope, because they had not the courage fully to

realize the import of surrendering themselves beforehand to

the arbitrary will of a mortal foe. The consuls sent the

hostages from Lilybaeum to Rome, and informed the Cartha­

ginian envoys that they would learn further particulars in

Africa. The landing was accomplished without resistance,

and the provisions demanded were supplied. When the

Gerusia of Carthage appeared in a body at the head-quarters

in Utica to receive the further orders, the consuls required

in the first instance the disarming of the city. To the ques­

tion of the Carthaginians, who was in that case to protect

them even against their own emigrants—against the army,

which had swelled to 20,000 men, under the command of

Hasdrubal who had saved himself from the sentence of death

by flight—it was replied, that this would be provided for by

the Romans. Accordingly the council of the city obsequi­

ously appeared before the consuls with all their fleet-material,

all the military stores of the public magazines, all the arms

that were found in the possession of private persons—to the

number of 3000 catapults and 200,000 sets of armour—and

inquired whether anything more was desired. Then the con­

sul Lucius Marcius Censorinus rose and announced to the

council, that in accordance with the instructions given by the

senate the existing city was to be destroyed, but that the

inhabitants were at liberty to settle anew wherever they

chose in their territory, provided it were at a distance of at

least ten miles from the sea.

This fearful command aroused in the Phoenicians all the Resistance

—shall we say magnanimous or frenzied ?—enthusiasm, which of the Car-

was displayed previously by the Tyrians against Alexander, tnag1niaDS-

and subsequently by the Jews against Vespasian. Unparal­

leled as was the patience with which this nation could endure

bondage and oppression, as unparalleled was now the tumul­

tuous fury of that mercantile and seafaring population, when

