252 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

Nola.

89.

modest Paelignian country-town of Corfinium; the remnant

of the Italian senate fled to the Samnite territory.

Subjugation The Roman southern army, which was now under the

of Campa- command of Lucius Sulla, had at the same time assumed

k%T &r ** ^e on?ensive snd had penetrated into southern Campania

which was occupied by the enemy. Stabiae was taken and

destroyed by Sulla in person (30 April 665) and Hercu-

laneum by Titus Didius, who however fell himself (11 June)

apparently at the assault on that city. Pompeii resisted

longer. The Samnite general Lucius Clueutius came up to

bring relief to the town, but he was repulsed by Sulla; and

when, reinforced by bands of Celts, he renewed his attempt,

he was, chiefly owing to the wavering of these untrust­

worthy associates, so totally defeated that his camp was

taken and he himself was cut down with the greater part of

his troops in their flight towards Nola. The grateful Roman

army conferred on its general the grass-wreath—the homely

badge with which the usage of the camp decorated the

soldier who had by his energy saved a division of his com­

rades. Without pausing to undertake the siege of Nola

and of the other Campanian towns still occupied by the

Samnites, Sulla at once advanced into the interior, which

was the head-quarters of the insurrection. The speedy cap­

ture and fearful punishment of JEclanum spread terror

throughout the Hirpinian country; it submitted even before

the arrival of the Lucanian contingent which had set itself

in motion to render help, and Sulla was able to advance

unhindered as far as the territory of the Samnite confederacy.

The pass, where the Samnite militia under Mutilus awaited

him, was turned, the Samnite army was attacked in rear, and

defeated; the camp was lost, the general escaped wounded

to ^sernia. Sulla advanced to Bovianum, the capital of the

Samnite country, and compelled it to surrender by a second

victory obtained beneath its walls. The advanced season

alone put an end to the campaign there.

The position of affairs had undergone a most complete

change. Powerful, victorious, aggressive as was the insur­

es, rection when it began the campaign of 665, it emerged from

it deeply humbled, everywhere beaten, and totally hopeless.

All northern Italy was pacified. In central Italy both

coasts were wholly in the Roman power, and the Abruzzi

almost entirely; Apulia as far as Venusia, and Campania as

far as Nola, were in the hands of the Romans; and by the

Sulla in

Samniura.

The insur­

rection on

the

whole

over­

powered.

