Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 167

(Hyeres P), Antipolis (Antibes), and Nicaea (Nice) on the

east secured the navigation of the coast as well as the land-

route from the Pyrenees to the Alps; and its mercantile

and political connections reached far into the interior. An Conflicts

expedition into the Alps above Nice and Antibes, directed J7.l1" 'ne

against the Ligurian Oxybii and Decietes, was undertaken lSunans<

by the Romans in 600 partly at the request of the Mas- 154.

siliots, partly in their own interest; and after hot conflicts,

some of which were attended with much loss, this district

of the mountains was compelled to furnish thenceforth

standing hostages to the Massiliots and to pay them a yearly

tribute. It is not improbable that about this same period

the cultivation of the vine and olive, which flourished in

this quarter after the model set by the Massiliots, was in

the interest of the Italian landholders and merchants

simultaneously prohibited throughout the territory beyond

the Alps dependent on Massilia.* A similar character of and the

financial speculation marks the war, which was waged by Salassi.

the Romans under the consul Appius Claudius in 611 143.

against the Salassi respecting the gold mines and gold wash­

ings of Victumulae (in the district of Vercelli and Bard and

in the whole valley of the Dorea Baltea). The great extent of

these washings, which deprived the inhabitants of the country

lying lower down of water for their fields, first gave rise to

an attempt at mediation and then to the armed intervention

of the Romans. The war, although the Romans began it

like all the other wars of this period with a defeat, led at

last to the subjugation of the Salassi and the cession of the

gold district to the Roman treasury. Some forty years

afterwards (654) the colony of Eporedia (Ivrea) was insti- 190.

tuted on the territory thus gained, chiefly perhaps with a

view to command the western, as Aquileia commanded the

eastern, passage of the Alps.

These Transalpine wars first assumed a more serious cha- Transalpine

racter, when Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, the faithful ally of relations of

Gaius Gracchus, took the chief command in this quarter as ome"

* If Cicero has not allowed himself to fall into an anachronism, when he  
makes Africanus say this as early as 625 (de Sep. iii. 9), the view indicated
129.

in the text remains perhaps the only possible one. This enactment did not

refer to Northern Italy and Liguria, as the cultivation of the vine by the

Genuates in 637 (ii. 376, note) proves; and as little to the immediate terri-
H1?.

tory of Massilia (Just, xliii. 4; Poseidon. Fr. 25, Mull.; Strabo, iv. 179).

The large export of wine and oil from Italy to the region of the Rhone in the

seventh century o.c. is well known.

