142 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

these bands bad their head-quarters, the open country was

wholly in the hands of the insurgents and Morgantia and

other walled towns were already besieged by them, when the

Roman governor with his hastily collected Sicilian and

Italian troops fell upon the slave-army in front of Morgantia.

He occupied the undefended camp; but the slaves, although

surprised, made a stand. In the combat that ensued

the levy of the island not only gave way at the first onset,

but, as the slaves allowed every one who threw down his

arms to escape unhindered, the militia almost without ex­

ception embraced the good opportunity of taking their de­

parture, and the Roman army completely dispersed. Had

the slaves in Morgantia been willing to make common cause

with their comrades before the gates, the town was lost;

but they preferred to accept the gift of freedom in a legal

way from their masters, and by their valour helped them to

save the town—whereupon the Roman governor declared

the promise of liberty solemnly given by the masters to be

cancelled in law, as having been illegally wrung from them.

Athenion. While the revolt thus spread after an alarming manner in

the interior of the island, a second broke out on the west

coast. It was headed by Athenion. He had been, just like

Cleon, formerly a dreaded captain of banditti in his native

country of Cilicia, and had been carried thence as a slave to

Sicily. He secured, just as his predecessors had done, the

adherence of the Greeks and Syrians especially by prophecies

and other edifying impostures. Skilled however in war and

sagacious as he was, he did not, like the other leaders, arm

the whole mass that flocked to him, but formed out of the

men able for warfare an organized army, while he consigned

the multitude to peaceful employment. In consequence of

his strict discipline, which repressed all vacillation and all

insubordinate motions in his troops, and his gentle treat­

ment of the peaceful inhabitants of the country and even of

the captives, he gained rapid and great successes. The

Romans were on this occasion disappointed in the hope that

the two leaders would fall out; Athenion voluntarily

submitted to the far less capable King Tryphon, and thus

preserved unity among the insurgents. These soon ruled

with virtually absolute power over the flat country, where

the free proletarians again took part more or less openly

with the slaves; the Roman authorities were not in a

