Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 371

In financial matters even under the former constitution Regulation

the decisive voice lay with the senate; the only point to be oftne

dealt with, accordingly, was the re-establishment of an or- finanoes-

derly administration. Sulla had found himself at first in no

small pecuniary diificulty; the sums brought with him from

Asia Minor were soon expended for the pay of his nume­

rous and constantly swelling army. Even after the victory

at the Colline gate the senate, seeing that the state-chest

had been carried off to Praneste, had been obliged to re­

sort to urgent measures. Various building-sites in the

capital and several portions of the Campanian domains were

exposed to sale, the client kings, the freed and allied com­

munities, were laid under extraordinary contribution, their

landed property and their customs-revenues were in some

cases confiscated, and in others new privileges were granted

to them for money. But the residue of nearly £600,000

found in the public chest on the surrender of Praeneste, the

public auctions which soon began, and other extraordinary

resources relieved the embarrassment of the moment. Pro­

vision was made for the future not so much by the reform

in the Asiatic revenues, under which the tax-payers were the

principal gainers and the state chest was perhaps at most no

loser, as by the resumption of the Campanian domains to

which iEnaria was now added (P. 356), and above all by the

abolition of the largesses of grain, which since the time of

Gaius Gracchus had eaten like a canker into the liomau

finances.

The judicial system on the other hand was essentially Reoganixa-

revolutionized, partly from political considerations, partly tion ot tht

with a view to introduce greater unity and usefulness into JU!llclal

the hitherto very insufficient and unconnected legislation on sys m'

the subject. Over and above the courts in which the whole Previou?

burgesses decided on appeals from the sentence of the magis- arrange-

trate, there existed at this time two sorts of procedure ments-

before jurymen. In the ordinary procedure, which was Ordinary

applicable to all cases adapted according to our view for a procedure.

criminal or civil process with the exception of crimes imme­

diately directed against the state, one of the two praetors

of the capital technically adjusted the cause and a judex

nominated by him decided it on the basis of this adjust­

ment. The extraordinary procedure again was applicable

to particular civil or criminal cases of importance, for which,

instead of the single judex, a special jury had been ap-

