Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 417

(£618).* How quickly the prices of ornamental estates

increased, is shown by the instance of the Misenian villa, for

which Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, paid 75,000

sesterces (£718), and Lucius Lucullus, consul in 680, thirty- 74.

three times that price. The villas, and the luxurious rural

and sea-bathing life, rendered Baiae and generally the district

around the Bay of Naples the El Dorado of noble idleness.

Games of hazard, in which the stake was not any more than Games,

in the Italian dice-playing a trifle, became common, and as

early as 639 a censorial edict was issued against them. 115.

Gauze fabrics, which displayed rather than concealed the Dress.

figure, and silken clothing began to displace the old woollen

dresses among women and even among men. Against the

insane extravagance in the employment of foreign perfumery

the sumptuary laws interfered in vain. But the real focus in The table,

which the brilliance of this genteel life was concentrated was

the table. Extravagant prices—as much as 100,000 ses­

terces (£1050)—were paid for an exquisite cook. Houses

were constructed with special reference to this object, and

the villas in particular along the coast were provided with

salt-water tanks of their own, in order that they might fur­

nish marine fishes and oysters at any time fresh to the table.

A dinner was already described as poor, at which the fowls

were served up to the guests entire and not the choice por­

tions merely, and at which the guests were expected to eat of

the several dishes and not simply to taste them. They pro­

cured at a great expense foreign delicacies and Greek wine,

which had to be sent round at least once at every respectable

repast. At table above all the Romans displayed their

host of slaves ministering to luxury, their bands of musicians,

their dancing-girls, their elegant furniture, their carpets

glittering with gold or pictorially embroidered, their purple

hangings, their antique bronzes, their rich silver plate.

Against such displays the sumptuary laws were primarily

directed, which were issued more frequently (593, 639, 665, 161. l II

673) and in greater detail than ever; a number of delicacies 89. 81.

and wines were therein totally prohibited, for others a maxi-

* In the house, which Sulla lived in when a young man, he paid for the  
ground floor a rent of 3000 sesterces, and the tenant of the upper story a

rent of 2000 sesterces (Plutarch, Suit. 1) ; which, capitalized at two-thirds
of

the usual interest on capital, yields nearly the above amount. This was a

cheap house. The fact, that a rent of 6000 sesterces (oil. 10s.) in the
capital

Is called a high one in the case of the year 629 Veil. ii. 100), must have
been

due to special circumstances.

TOL. III. 2 K

