34 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

Roman army in Gulussa a cavalry-leader worthy of his

father, and thereby remedied the want, which had hitherto

been seriously felt, of light cavalry. His refined and yet

simple demeanour, which recalled rather his own father than

him whose name he bore, overcame even envy, and in the

camp as in the capital Scipio's name was on the lips of all.

Even Cato, who was not liberal with his praise, a few months

149. before his death—he died at the end of 605 without having

seen the wish of his life, the destruction of Carthage, accom­

plished—applied to the young officer and to his incapable

comrades the Homeric line :—

He only is a living man, the rest are gliding shades.*

While these events were passing, the close of the year

had come and with it a change of commanders; the consul

148. Lucius Piso (606) was somewhat late in appearing and took

the command of the land army, while Lucius Mancinus took

charge of the fleet. But, if their predecessors had done

little, these did nothing at all. Instead of prosecuting the

siege of Carthage or subduing the army of Hasdrubal, Piso

employed himself in attacking the small maritime towns of

the Phoenicians, and that mostly without success. Clupea,

for example, repulsed him, aud he was obliged to retire iu

disgrace from Hippo Diarrhytus, after having lost the whole

summer in front of it and having had his besieging appa­

ratus twice burnt. Neapolis was no doubt taken; but the

pillage of the town in opposition to his pledged word of

honour was not specially favourable to the progress of the

Roman arms. The courage of the Carthaginians rose.

Bithyas, a Numidian sheik, passed over to them with 800

horse; Carthaginian envoys were enabled to attempt negotia­

tions with the kings of Numidia and Mauretanin and even

with Philip the Macedonian pretender. It was perhaps

internal intrigues—Hasdrubal the emigrant brought the

general of the same name, who commanded in the city, into

suspicion on account of his relationship with Massinissa,

and caused him to be put to death in the senate-house—

rather than the activity of the Romans, that prevented

things from assuming a turn still more favourable for

Carthage.

Ssipio.Emi- With the view of producing a change in the state of

lianas-

* 0?OS TCTTUTOI, Tol Sf 1TKial blffffOWTIV.

