374 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

rate statesmanly spirit, which made its author well worthy,

like the old decemvirs, to step forward between the parties

as sovereign mediator with his code of law.

Police laws. We may regard as an appendix to these criminal laws the

police ordinances, by which Sulla, putting the law in room

of the censor, again enforced good discipline and strict

manners, and, by establishing new maximum rates instead of

the old ones which had long been antiquated, attempted to

restrain luxury at banquets, funerals, and otherwise.

The Roman Lastly, the development of an independent Roman muni-

muiiicipal cipai system was the work, if not of Sulla, at any rate of the

i,ys cm. Sullaii epoch. The idea of organically incorporating the

community as a subordinate political unit in the higher

unity of the state was originally foreign to antiquity; city

and state were throughout the Helleno-Italic world

necessarily coincident, and it was otherwise only under

Oriental despotism. In so far there was no proper muni­

cipal system originally either in Greece or in Italy. The

Roman policy, in particular, adhered to this view with its

peculiar tenacious consistency; still in the sixth century the

dependent communities of Italy were either, in order to their

keeping their municipal constitution, constituted as formally

sovereign states of non-burgesses, or, if they obtained the

Roman franchise, were—although not prevented from organ­

izing themselves as commonwealths—deprived of strictly

municipal rights, so that in all burgess-colonies and burgess-

municipia even the administration of justice and the charge

of buildings devolved on the Roman praetors and censors.

The utmost to which Rome consented was to allow at least the

most urgent law-suits to be settled on the spot by a deputy

(proefectus) of the prator nominated from Rome (i. 434). The

provinces were similarly dealt with, except that the governor

there came in place of the authorities of the capital. In the

free, that is, formally sovereign cities the civil and criminal

jurisdiction was administered by the municipal magistrates

according to the local statutes; only, unless altogether spe­

cial privileges stood in the way, every Roman might either

as defendant or as plaintiff request to have his cause de­

cided before Italian judges according to Italian law. For

the ordinary provincial communities the Roman governor was

the only regular judicial authority, ou whom devolved the su­

perintendence of all processes. It was a great matter when,

as in Sicily, in the event of the defendant being a Sicilian,

