Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 31

for 300 elephants, in the upper range stalls for horses,

magazines, and barracks.* The citadel-hill, the Byrsa

(Syriac, Urtha = citadel), a comparatively considerable rock

having a height of 188 feet and at its base a circumference

of fully 2000 double paces,t was dovetailed into this wall at

its southern end, just as the rock-wall of the Capitol was

dovetailed into the city-wall of Rome. Its summit bore the

huge temple of the God of Healing, resting on a basement of

sixty steps. The south side of the city was washed partly by

the shallow lake of Tunes towards the south-west, which was

separated almost wholly from the gulf by a narrow and low

tongue of land running southwards from the Carthaginian

peninsula, J partly by the open gulf towards the south-east.

At this last spot was situated the double harbour of the city,

a work of human hands: the outer or commercial harbour,

a longish rectangle with the narrow end turned to the sea,

from whose entrance, only seventy feet wide, broad quays

stretched along the water on both sides, and the inner

circular war-harbour, the Cothon,§ with the island containing

the admiral's house in the middle, which was approached

through the outer harbour. Between the two passed the

city wall, which turning eastward from the Byrsa excluded

the tongue of land and the outer harbour, but included the

war-harbour, so that the entrance to the latter must be

conceived as capable ot\ being closed like a gate. Not far

from the war-harbour lay the market-place, which was

connected by three narrow streets with the citadel open on

* The rooms of a horse-shoe shape brought to light in excavation have a  
depth of 14, and a breadth of 11, Greek feet; the width of the entrance is not

specified. Whether these dimensions and the proportions of the corridor
suffice

for our recognizing them as elephants' stalls, remains to be settled by a more

accurate investigation. The partition-walls, which separate the apartments,

have a thickness of 1 • I metre = 3J feet.

f Ores. lv. 22. Fully 2000 paces, or—as Tolybius must have said—16

Stadia, are = about 3000 metres. The citadel-hill, on which the church of St.

Louis now stands, measures at the top about 1400, half way up about 2600,

metres in circumference (Beule\ p. 22); for the circumference at the base that

estimate will very well suffice.

1 It now bears the fort Goletta.

§ That this Phoenician word signifies a basin excavated in a circular shape,

is shown both by Diodorus (iii. 44), and by its being employed by the Greeks

to denote a " cup." It thus suits only the inner harbour of Carthage, and in

that sense it is used by Strabo (xvii. 2, 14, where it is strictly applied to
the

admiral's island) and Kest. Ep. v. Cotlumes, p. 37. Appian, Pun. 127, is not

quite accurate in describing the rectangular harbour in front of the Cothon as

part of it. ,

