206 THE ATTEMPT OF MAEIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

on the course traced out by Gaius Gracchus for procuring

supremacy in the state by taking upon himself its constitu­

tional magistracies. In this enterprise he found himself

dependent for support on what was called the popular party,

and sought his allies in its leaders for the time being all the

more, that the victorious general by no means possessed the

gifts and experiences requisite for the command of the streets.

Thus the democratic party after long insignificance suddenly

regained political importance. It had in the long interval

from Gaius Gracchus to Marius materially deteriorated.

The dissatisfaction with the senatorial government was not

now perhaps less than it was then; but several of the hopes,

which had brought to the Gracchi their most faithful ad­

herents, had in the meanwhile been recognized as illusory,

and there had sprung up in many minds a misgiving that

this Gracchan agitation tended towards an issue whither a

very large portion of the discontented were by no means

willing to follow it. In fact, amidst the chase and turmoil

of twenty years there had been rubbed off and worn away

very much of the fresh enthusiasm, the steadfast faith, the

moral purity of effort, which mark the early stages of

revolutions. But, if the democratic party was no longer

what it had been under Gaius Gracchus, the leaders of the

intervening period were now as far beneath their party as

Gaius Gracchus had been exalted above it. This was im­

plied in the nature of the case. Until there should emerge

a man having the boldness like Gaius Gracchus to grasp

at the supremacy of the state, the leaders could only be

stop-gaps; either political novices, who gave furious vent

to their youthful love of opposition and then, when dulv ac­

credited as fiery declaimers and favourite speakers, effected

with more or less dexterity their retreat to the camp of the

government-party; or people, who had nothing to lose in

respect of property and influence and little usually either

to gain or lose in respect of honour, and who made it their

business to obstruct and annoy the government from per­

sonal exasperation or even from the mere pleasure of creating

a noise. To the former sort belonged, for instance. Gaius

Memmius (P. 148) and the well-known orator Lucius Crassus,

who turned the oratorical laurels which they had won in the

ranks of the opposition to account in the sequel as zealous

partisans of the government. But the most notable leaders

of the popular party about this time were men of the

