Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 323

(consul in 652), once in better days the associate of the 102.

most glorious victory and triumph of that same Marius, who

now had no other answer for the suppliant relatives of his

aged colleague than the monosyllabic order, " he must die."

The originator of all these outrages was Gaius Marius. The last

He designated the victims and the executioners—only in daya of

exceptional cases, as in those of Merula and Catulus, llarlU8-

was any form of law observed; not unfrequently a glance

or the silence with which he received those who saluted

him formed the sentence of death, which was always executed

at once. His revenge was not satisfied even with the death

of his victim; he forbade the burial of the dead bodies; he

gave orders—anticipated, it is true, in this respect by Sulla

—that the heads of the senators slain should be fixed to the

rostra in the Forum; he ordered particular corpses to he

dragged through the Forum, and that of Gaius Caesar to be

stabbed afresh at the tomb of Q.uintus Varius, whom Caesar

probably had once impeached (P. 247); he publicly em­

braced the man who delivered to him as he sat at table the

head of Antonius, whom he had been with difficulty restrained

from seeking out in his hiding-place and slaying with his

own hand. His legions of slaves, and in particular a divi­

sion of Ardyaeans (P. 176), chiefly served as his executioners,

and did not neglect, amidst these Saturnalia of their new

freedom, to plunder the houses of their former masters and

to dishonour and murder all whom they met with there.

His own associates were in despair at this insane fury;

Sertorius adjured the consul to put a stop to it at any price,

and even Cinna was alarmed. But in times, such as these

were, madness itself becomes a power; man hurls himself

into the abyss, to save himself from giddiness. It was not

easy to restrain the furious old man and his bands, and least

of all had Cinna the courage to do so; on the contrary, he

chose Marius as his colleague in the consulship for the next

year. The reign of terror alarmed the more moderate of the

victors not much less than the defeated party; the capitalists

alone were not displeased to see that another hand lent itself

to the work of thoroughly humbling for once the haughty

oligarchs, and that at the same time, in consequence of the

extensive confiscations and auctions, the best part of the

spoil came to themselves—in these times of terror they ac­

quired from the people the surname of the "hoarders."

Fate had thus granted to the author of this reign of

