Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. J f 397

subordinate moneys levied from roads, bridges, and canals

—mainly of customs-duties. The customs-duties of an­

tiquity were, if not exclusively, at any rate principally port-

dues, less frequently frontier-dues, on imports and exports

destined for sale, and were levied by each community in its

ports and its territory at pleasure. The Eomans recog­

nized this principle generally, in so far as the original

sphere of the customs did not extend further than the range

of the Roman franchise and the limit of the customs was by

no means coincident with the limits of the empire, so that a

general imperial tariff was unknown: it was only by means

of state treaties that a total exemption probably from

customs-dues in the client communities was secured for it­

self by the Roman state, and in various cases also at least

favourable terms in the interests of the Roman burgesses.

But in those districts, which had not been admitted to

alliance with Rome but were in the condition of subjects

proper and had not acquired immunity, the customs fell as

a matter of course to the proper sovereign, that is, to the

Roman community; and in consequence of this several

large regions within the empire were constituted as separate

Roman customs-districts, in which the several communities

sheaf was levied (Appian. B. C. v. 4); the Jews by Caesar's edict contributed

every second year a fourth of the seed (Joseph, iv. 10,6; comp. ii. 5); in
Cilicia

and Syria subsequently there was paid one per cent, on estate and there was in

Africa also an apparently similar tax—in which case the estate seems to have

been valued according to certain presumptive indications, e.g., the size of
the

land occupied, the number of doorways, the number of head of children and

slaves (exactio capitum atque ostiorum, Cicero, Ad Fam. iii. 8, 5, with
reference

to Cilicia; ipopos iirX rp "yp leal rots o&tuuiui, Appian. Pun. 135 with
refer­

ence to Africa). In accordance with this regulation the magistrates of each

community under the superintendence of the Koman governor (Cic. ad Q. Fr.

i. 1, 8; SG. de Asclep. 22, 23) settled who were liable to the tax, and what

was to be paid by each individual (imperata iiriKfpd\ia, Cic. ad Att. v. 16);

if any one did not pay this in proper time, his tax-debt was sold just as in

Rome, i. e., it was handed over to a contractor with an adjudication to
collect

it (venditio tributorum, Cic. Ad Fam. iii. 8,5; ivoj omnium venditas, Cic. ad

Att. v. 16). The produce of these taxes flowed into the cotfers of the leading

communities—the Jews, for instance, had to send their corn to Sidon—and

from these coffers the fixed amount in money was then conveyed to Rome.

These taxes also were consequently levied indirectly, and the intermediate
agent

either retained, according to circumstances, a part of the produce of the
taxes

for himself, or added to it from his own substance; the distinction between

this mode of levying and the other by means of the publicani lay merely in

the circumstance, that in the former the public authorities of the
contributors, in

the latter Koman private speculators, constituted the intermediate agency.

