Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 193

new and abundant materials for eating and drinking invited

them to make themselves comfortable for the moment.

Thereby the Romans gained time to encounter them with

united forces in Italy. It was no season to resume—as the

democratic general would perhaps otherwise have done—

the interrupted scheme of conquest in Gaul, which Gaius

Gracchus had probably projected. From the battle-field of

Aix the victorious army was conducted to the Po; and after

a brief stay in the capital, where Marius refused the triumph

offered to him until he had utterly subdued the barbarians,

he arrived in person at the united armies. In the spring

of 653 they again crossed the Po, 50,000 strong, under 101.

the consul Marius and the proconsul Catulus, and marched

against the Cimbri, who, in turn, seem to have marched

up the river with a view to cross the mighty stream at its

source.

The two armies met below Vercellae not far from the Battle on

confluence of the Sesia with the Po,* just at the spot where the Raudme

Hannibal had fought his first battle on Italian soil. The p"'

Cimbri desired battle, and according to their custom sent

to the Romans to settle the time and place for it; Marius

gratified them and named the next day—it was the 30th July,

653—and the Raudine plain, a wide level space, which the 101.

superior Roman cavalry found advantageous for their move­

ments. Here they fell upon the enemy expecting them

and yet taken by surprise ; for in the dense morning mist the

Celtic cavalry found itself in hand-to-hand conflict with the

stronger cavalry of the Romans before it anticipated attack,

and was thereby thrown back upon the infantry which was

just making its dispositions for battle. A complete victory

was gained with slight loss, and the Cimbri were annihilated.

Those might be deemed fortunate who met death in the

battle, as most did, including the brave king Poiorix; more

fortunate at least than those who afterwards in despair

laid hands on themselves, or were obliged to seek in th»

* It is injudicious to deviate from the traditional account and to transfer the  
field of battle to Verona: in so doing the fact is overlooked that a whole
win­

ter and various movements of troops intervened between the conflicts on the

Adige and the decisive engagement, and that Catulus, according to express

statement (Plut. Mar. 24) had retreated to the right hank of the Po. The

statements that the Cimbri were defeated on the Po (Hier. Chron.), and that

they were defeated where Stilicho afterwards defeated the Getae, i.e. at
Cherasco

on the Tanaro, although both inaccurate, point at least to Vercellae much

rather than to Verona.

vol. in. o

