Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 183

nishing hostages (647). So perilous was the state of things 107.

for the Romans, that one of the most important towns in

their own province, Tolosa, rose against them and placed the

Roman garrison in chains.

But, as the Cimbrians continued to employ themselves

elsewhere, and the Helvetii did not further molest for the

moment the Roman province, the new Roman comman­

der-in-chief, Quintus Servilius Caepio, had full time to re­

cover possession of the town of Tolosa by treachery and to

empty at leisure the immense treasures accumulated in the

old and famous sanctuary of the Celtic Apollo. It was a de­

sirable gain for the embarrassed exchequer, but unfortunately

the gold and silver vessels on the way from Tolosa to Mas-

silia were taken from the weak escort by a band of robbers,

and totally disappeared: the consul himself and his staff

were, it was alleged, the instigators of the onset (648). 106-

Meanwhile they confined themselves to the strictest defen­

sive as regarded the chief enemy, and guarded the Roman

province with three strong armies, till it should please the

Cimbrians to repeat their attack.

They came in 649 under their king Boiorix, on this occa- 105.

sion seriously meditating an inroad into Italy. They were Defeat of

opposed on the right bank of the Rhone by the proconsul Arausl°-

Caepio, on the left by the consul Gnaeua Mallius Maximus

and by his legate, the consular Marcus Aurelius Scaurus,

under him at the head of a detached corps. The first onset

fell on the latter; he was totally defeated and brought in

person as a prisoner to the enemy's head-quarters, where

the Cimbrian king, indignant at the proud warning given

to him by the captive Roman not to venture with his army

into Italy, put him to death. Maximus thereupon ordered

his colleague to bring his army over the Rhone: the latter

complying with reluctance at length appeared at Arausio

(Orange) on the left bank of the river, where the whole

Roman force stood confronting the Cimbrian army, and is

alleged to have made such an impression by its considerable

numbers that the Cimbrians began to negotiate. But the

two leaders lived in the most vehement discord. Maximus,

an ignoble and incapable man, was as consul the legal

superior of his prouder and better born, but not better

qualified, proconsular colleague Caepio; but the latter re­

fused to occupy a common camp and to devise operations

in concert with him, and still, as formerly, maintained his

