8 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV

Lucullus, arrived at head-quarters, he found the war which

he had come to conduct already terminated hy a formally

concluded peace, and his hopes of bringing home honour and

more especially money from Spain apparently frustrated. But

there was a means of surmounting this difficulty. Lucullus

of his own accord attacked the western neighbours of the

Arevacae, the Vaccaei, a Celtiberian nation still independent

and living on the best terms with the Romans. The question

of the Spaniards as to what fault they had committed was

answered by a sudden attack on the town of Cauca (Coca,

eight Spanish leagues to the west of Segovia); and, while

the terrified town believed that it had purchased a capitu­

lation by heavy sacrifices of money, Roman troops marched

in and enslaved or slaughtered the inhabitants without any

pretext at all. After this heroic feat, which is said to have

cost the lives of some 20,000 men, the army proceeded on its

march. Far and wide the villages and townships were

abandoned or, as in the case of the strong Intercatia and

Pallantia (Palencia) the capital of the Vaccaei, closed then-

gates against the Roman army. Covetousness was caught

in its own net; there was no community that would venture

to conclude a capitulation with the perfidious commander,

and the general flight of the inhabitants not only rendered

booty scarce, but made it almost impossible for him to re­

main for any length of time in such inhospitable regions. In

front of Intercatia, Scipio iEmilianus, an esteemed military

tribune, the sen of the victor of Pydna and the adopted

grandson of the victor of Zama, succeeded, by pledging his

word of honour when that of the general no longer availed,

in inducing the inhabitants to conclude an agreement by

virtue of which the Roman army departed on receiving a

supply of cattle and clothing. But the siege of Pallantia

had to be raised for want of provisions, and the Roman army

in its retreat was pursued by the Vaccaei as far as the Douro.

Lucullus thereupon proceeded to the southern province,

where in the same year the praetor, Servius Sulpicius Galba,

had allowed himself to be defeated by the Lusitanians. They

spent the winter not far from each other—Lucullus in the

territory of the Turdetani, Galba at Conistorgis—and in the

150. following year (604) jointly attacked the Lusitanians. Lu­

cullus gained some advantages over them near the straits of

Gades. Galba performed a greater achievement, for he con­

cluded a treaty with three Lusitanian tribes on the right

