236 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

Rome. The forefathers of the city had based their govern­

ment of Italy on an aristocratic classification, and with skilful

adjustment of the degrees of dependence had kept in sub­

jection the less privileged communities by means of those

with better rights, and the burgesses within each commu­

nity by means of the municipal aristocracy. It was only

now, under the incomparably wretched government of the

oligarchy, that the solidity and strength with which the states­

men of the fourth and fifth centuries had joined together the

stones of their structure were thoroughly put to the test;

the building, though shaken in various ways, still held out

against this storm. When we say, however, that the more

favoured towns did not at the first shock abandon Rome,

we by no means affirm that they would now, as in the Han-

nibalic war, hold out for a length of time and after severe

defeats, without wavering in their allegiance to Rome; that

fiery trial had not yet been endured.

Impression The first blood was thus shed, and Italy was divided into

as to the two great military camps. It is true, as we have seen, that

insurrection the insurrection was still very far from being a general rising

in ome. Q^ ^g Italian allies; but it had already acquired an extent

exceeding perhaps the hopes of the leaders themselves, and

the insurgents might without arrogance think of offering to

Rejection of the Roman government a fair accommodation. They sent

the propo- envoys to Rome, and bound themselves to lay down their

sals for an arma in return for admission to citizenship; it was in vain.

dation™0" ^ne public spirit, which had been so long wanting in Rome,

seemed suddenly to have returned, when the question was

one of opposing with stubborn narrow-mindedness a demand

of the subjects just in itself and now supported by a con-

Commission siderable force. The immediate effect of the Italian insur-

of high trea- rection was, just as was the case after the defeats which the

miu. policy of the government had suffered in Africa and Gaul

(P. 152,185), the commencement of a series of prosecutions,

by means of which the judicial aristocracy took vengeance on

those men of the government whom they, rightly or wrongly,

looked upon as the primary cause of this mischief. On the

proposal of the tribune Quintus Varius, in spite of the resist­

ance of the Optimates and in spite of tribunician interference,

a special commission of high treason—formed, of course,

from the equestrian order which contended for the proposal

with open violence—was appointed for the investigation of

the conspiracy instigated by Drusus and widely ramified in

