356 THE SULLAN CONSTITCTION. [Book IV.

lowest Latin rights.* Sulla thus avoided furnishing the

opposition with any nucleus in Italian subject-communities

of inferior rights; the homeless dispossessed necessarily soon

disappeared in the mass of the proletariate. In Campania

not only was the democratic colony of Capua done away and

its domain given back to the state, as was naturally to be

expected, but the island of JSnaria (Ischia) was also, pro­

bably about this time, withdrawn from the community of

Neapolis. In Latium the whole territory of the large and

wealthy city of Praeneste and probably of Norba also was

confiscated, as was likewise that of Spoletium in Umbria.

Sulmo in the Paelignian district was even razed. But the

iron arm of the regent fell with especial weight on the two

regions, which had offered a serious resistance up to the end

and even after the battle at the Colline gate—Etruria and

Samnium. There a number of the most considerable com­

munes, such as Florentia, Faesulae, Arretium, Volaterrae,

were visited with total confiscation. Of the fate of Samnium

we have already spoken; there was no confiscation there,

but the land was laid waste for ever, its flourishing towns,

even the former Latin colony of JEsernia, were left in ruins,

and the country was placed on the same footing with the

Bruttian and Lucanian regions.

Assigna- These arrangements as to the property of the Italian soil

tions to the placed on the one hand those Roman domain lands, which

soldiers. ^ad been handed over in usufruct to the former allied com­

munities and now on their dissolution reverted to the

Roman government, and on the other hand the confiscated

territories of the communities incurring punishment, at the

disposal of the regent; and he employed them for the pur­

pose of settling thereon the soldiers of the victorious army.

Most of these new settlements were directed towards

Etruria, as for instance to Eaesulae and Arretium, others to

Latium and Campania, where Praeneste and Pompeii among

* Vol. I. 432. To this was added the peculiar aggravation that, while in other  
instances the right of the Latins like that of the peregn'ni implied
membership

. in a definite Latin or foreign community, in this case—just as with the
later

freedmeu of Latin and deditician rights (comp. p. 256, note)—it was without

anv such right of membership. The consequence was, that these Latins were

destitute of the privileges attaching to a civic constitution, and, strictly
speak­

ing, could not even make a testament, since no one could execute a testament

otherwise than according to the law of his town; they could probably, how­

ever, acquire under Roman testaments, and could among the living hold dealings

with each other and with Romans or Latins in the forms of Roman law.

