112 THE REVOLUTION AND GA1US GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

various occasions apparent in the Gracchan legislation, if

not to abolish, at any rate to restrict, capital punishment

still further than had been done before—a tendency, which

to some extent made itself felt even in military jurisdiction.

From the very introduction of the republic the magistrate

had lost the right of inflicting capital punishment on the

burgess without consulting the community, except under

martial law (i. 259, 450). As this right of appeal on the

part of the burgess appears soon after the period of the

Gracchi available even in the camp, and the right of the

general to inflict capital punishments appears restricted to

allies and subjects, the source of the change is probably to

be sought in the law of Gaius Gracchus de provocations. The

right of the community to inflict or rather to confirm sen­

tence of death wan, moreover, indirectly but essentially

limited by the fact, that Gracchus withdrew the cognizance

of those public crimes which most frequently gave occasion

to capital sentences—poisoning and murder generally—

from the burgesses,and intrusted it to permanent judicial com­

missions. These could not, like the tribunals of the people,

be broken up by the intercession of a tribune, and there not

only lay no appeal from them to the community, but their

sentences were as little subject to be annulled by the commu­

nity as those of the old institute of civil jurymen. In the

burgess-tribunals it had, especially in strictly political pro­

cesses, no doubt long been the rule, that the accused remained

at liberty during his trial, and was allowed by surrendering

his burgess-rights to withdraw from punishment and to save

his life and freedom as well as his property, so far, of course,

as no civil claims were made good against the latter. But

preliminary arrest and complete execution of the sentence

remained in such cases at least legally possible, and were

still sometimes carried into effect even against nobles; for

142. instance, Lucius Hostilius Tubulus, praetor in 612, who was

capitally impeached for a heinous crime, was refused the

privilege of exile, arrested, and executed. On the other hand

the judicial commissions, which originated out of the form

of civil process, could not from the first touch the liberty or

life of the citizen, but at the most could only pronounce sen­

tence of exile ; this, which had hitherto been a modification of

punishment accorded to one who was found guilty, now be­

came for the first time a formal penalty. This involun­

tary exile however, like the voluntary, left to the person

