Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 25

and sea, and to hasten the declaration of war. After a

further embassy of ten men had confirmed the statement

that Carthage was in reality arming (602), the senate 152.

rejected the demand of Cato for an absolute declaration of

war, but resolved in a secret sitting that war should be

declared if the Carthaginians would not consent to dismiss

their army and to burn their materials for a fleet. Mean­

while the conflict had already begun in Africa. Massinissa

had sent back the men whom the Carthaginians had banished,

under the escort of his son Gulussa, to the city. When

the Carthaginians closed their gates against them and killed

also some of the Numidians returning home, Massinissa

put his troops in motion, and the patriot party in Carthage

also prepared for the struggle. But Hasdrubal, who was

placed at the head of their army, was one of the usual inca-

pables whom the Carthaginians were in the habit of employing

as generals; strutting about in his general's purple like a

theatrical king, and pampering his portly person even in the

camp, that vain-glorious and unwieldy man was little fitted

to render help in an exigency which perhaps even the

genius of Hamilcar and the arm of Hannibal could have no

longer averted. Before the eyes of Scipio -32milianus, who,

at that time a military tribune in the Spanish army, had

been sent to Massinissa to bring over African elephants for

his commander, and who on this occasion looked down on

the conflict from a mountain "like Zeus from Ida," the

Carthaginians and Numidians fought a great battle, in

which the former, though reinforced by 6000 Numidian

horsemen brought to them by discontented captains of

Massinissa, and superior in number to the enemy, were

worsted. After this defeat the Carthaginians offered to

make cessions of territory and payments of money to Massi­

nissa, and Scipio at their solicitation attempted to bring

about an agreement; but the project of peace was frus­

trated by the refusal of the Carthaginian patriots to sur­

render the deserters. Hasdrubal however, closely hemmed

in by the troops of his antagonist, was compelled to grant

to the latter all that he demanded—the surrender of the

deserters, the return of the exiles, the delivery of arms, the

marching off under the yoke, the payment of 100 talents

(£24,400) annually for the next fifty years. But even this

convention was not kept by the Numidians; on the contrary

the disarmed remnant of the Carthaginian army was cut to

pieces by them on the way home.

