Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES." 309

ceiving that much comparatively beyond expectation was ob­

tained and that more was not obtainable, concluded the

preliminaries and an armistice on these conditions, and with­

drew the troops from the places which the Asiatics still

possessed in Europe. But Mithradates rejected the peace New diffi-

and demanded at least that the Romans should not insist on culties-

the surrender of the war-vessels and should concede to him

Paphlagonia; while he at the same time asserted that

Fimbria was ready to grant him far more favourable condi­

tions. Sulla, offended by this placing of his offers on an

equal footing with those of a private adventurer, and having

already gone to the utmost measure of concession, broke off

the negotiations. He had employed the interval to reor­

ganize Macedonia and to chastise the Dardani, Sinti, and

Maedi, in doing which he at once procured booty for his

army and. drew nearer Asia; for he was resolved at any Sulla pro­

rate to go thither, in order to come to a settlement with ceeds to

Fimbria. He now at once put his legions stationed in Aiila-

Thrace as well as his fleet in motion towards the Hellespont.'

Then at length Archelaus succeeded in wringing from his

obstinate master a reluctant consent to the treaty; for

which he was subsequently regarded with an evil eye at

court as the author of the injurious peace, and even accused

of treason, so that some time afterwards he found himself

compelled to leave the country and to take refuge with the

Romans who readily received him and loaded him with

honours. The Roman soldiers murmured; their disap­

pointment doubtless at not receiving the expected spoil

of Asia probably contributed to that murmuring more than

their indignation—in itself very justifiable—that the barba­

rian prince, who had murdered eighty thousand of their coun­

trymen and had brought unspeakable misery on Italy and

Asia, should be allowed to return home unpunished with

the greatest part of the treasures which he had collected by

the pillage of Asia. Sulla himself was probably painfully

sensible that the political complications thwarted in a most

vexatious way a task which was in a military point of view so

simple, and compelled him after such victories to content him-

character of the victor and of the vanquished, far from credible, and it is
not

given by Appian or by Licinianus. They neglected to draw up the treaty of

peace in writing, and this neglect afterwards left room for various misrepre­

sentations.

