474 LITERATURE AND ART. LBook IV-

among them. The consequences of neglecting theory ap­

peared practically in the low state of medical knowledge and

Jurispru- of a portion of the military sciences. Of all the professional

dence. sciences jurisprudence alone was flourishing-. We cannot

trace its internal development with chronological accuracy.

On the whole the pontifical law fell more and more into the

shade, and at the end of this period stood nearly in the same

position as the canon law at the present day. The finer and

more profound conception of law, on the other hand, which

substitutes for outward criteria the motive springs of action

within—such as the development of the ideas of offences aris­

ing from intention and from carelessness respectively, and of

possession entitled to temporary protection—was not yet in

existence at the time of the Twelve Tables, but was so in the

age of Cicero, and probably owed its elaboration substantially

to the present epoch. The reaction of political relations on

the development of law has been already indicated on several

occasions; it was not always advantageous. By the insti­

tution of the tribunal of the Centumviri to deal with inherit­

ance (P. 372), for instance, there was introduced in the law

of property a college of jurymen, which, like the criminal au­

thorities, instead of simply applying the law placed itself

above it and with its so-called equity undermined the legal

institutions; one consequence of which among others was the

irrational principle, that any one whom a relative had passed

over in his testament was at liberty to propose that the

testament should be annulled by the court, and the court

decided according to its discretion. The development of

juristic literature admits of being more distinctly recognized.

It had hitherto been restricted to collections of formula­

ries and explanations of terms in the laws; at this period

there was first formed a literature of opinions {responsa),

which answers nearly to our modern collections of prece­

dents. These opinions—which were delivered no longer

merely by members of the pontifical college but by every one

who found persons to consult him, at home or in the open

market-place, and with which were already associated

rational and polemical illustrations and the standing con­

troversies peculiar to jurisprudence—began to be noted

down and to be promulgated in collections about the begin­

ning of the seventh century. This was done first by the

150. younger Cato (+ about 600) and by Marcus Brutus (nearly

contemporary); and these collections were, as it would ap­

