52 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

Corinth—a treatment disapproved even by the apologists of

the destruction of Numantia and Carthage, and far from

justified, even according to Roman international law, by the

abusive language uttered against the Roman deputies in the

streets of Corinth. And yet it by no means proceeded from

the brutality of any single individual, least of all of Mum-

mius, but was a measure deliberated and resolved on by the

Roman senate. We shall not err, if we recognize it as

the work of the mercantile party, which even thus early

began to interfere in politics by the side of the aristocracy

proper, and which in destroying Corinth got rid of a com­

mercial rival. If the great merchants of Rome had any­

thing to say in the regulation of Greece, we can understand

why Corinth was singled out for punishment, and why the

Romans not only destroyed the city as it stood, but also

prohibited any future settlement on a site so pre-eminently

favourable for commerce. The Peloponnesian Argos thence­

forth became the rendezvous for the Roman merchants, who

were very numerous in Greece. For the Roman wholesale

traffic, however, Delos was of greater importance. A Roman

1S8. free port as early as 5S6, it had attracted a great part of

the business of Rhodes (ii. 308), and now in a similar way

entered on the heritage of Corinth. This island remained

for a considerable time the chief emporium for merchandise

going from the East to the West.*

Asia. In the third and more distant continent the Roman

dominion exhibited a development more imperfect than in

the African and Macedono-Hellenic countries, which were

separated from Italy only by narrow seas.

Kingdom of In Asia Minor, after the Seleucidae were driven back, the

Pergamus. kingdom of Pergamus had become the first power. Not led

astray by the traditions of the Alexandrine monarchies, but

sagacious and dispassionate enough to renounce what was

impossible, the Attalids kept quiet; and endeavoured not to

extend their bounds nor to withdraw from the Roman hege­

mony, but to promote the prosperity of their empire, so far

as the Romans allowed, and to foster the arts of peace.

* A remarkable proof of this is found in the names employed to designate  
the fine bronze and copper wares of Greece, which m the time of Cicero were

called indiscriminately '' Corinthian " or " Delian "copper. Their designation

in Italy was naturally derived not from the places of manufacture but from

those of export (Plin. H. N. xxxiv. 2, 9); although, of course, we do not

mean to deny that similar vases were manufactured in Corinth and Delos

S

themselves.

