Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 433

more pliant than from their rigorous principles we should

have expected. Their doctrine as to the gods and the state

soon exhibited a singular family resemblance to the actual

institutions of those who nourished them; instead of illus­

trating the cosmopolitan state of the philosopher, they made

their meditations turn on the wise organization of the

Roman magistracies; and while the more refined Stoics

such as Panaetius had left the question of divine revelation

by wonders and signs open as a thing conceivable but un­

certain and had decidedly rejected astrology, his immediate

successors contended for that doctrine of revelation or, in

other words, for the Roman augural discipline as rigidly

and firmly as for any other maxim of the school, and made

extremely unphilosophical concessions even to astrology.

The leading feature of the system came more and more to

be its casuistic doctrine of duty. It suited the hollow pride

of virtue, in which the Romans of this period sought their;

compensation amidst the various humbling circumstances of

their contact with the Greeks, and put into formal shape a

befitting doctrine of morality; which, like every well-bred

system of morals, combined with the most rigid precision

as a whole the most complaisant indulgence in the details.*

Its practical results can hardly be estimated as much more

than that, as we have said, two or three noble houses lived

on poor fare to please the Stoa.

Closely allied to this new state-philosophy—or, strictly State

speaking, its other side—was the new state-religion; the religion.

essential characteristic of which was the conscious retention

of the principles of the popular faith, which were recog­

nized as irrational, for reasons of outward convenience.

One of the most prominent men of the Scipionic circle, the

Greek Polybius, candidly declares that the strange and pon­

derous ceremonial of Roman religion was invented solely

on account of the multitude, which, as reason had no power

over it, required to be ruled by signs and wonders, while

people of intelligence had certainly no need of religion.

Beyond doubt Polybius' Roman friends substantially shared

these sentiments, although they did not oppose science and

religion to each other in so gross and downright a fashion.

Neither Laelius nor Scipio jEmilianus can have looked on

the augural discipline, which Polybius has primarily in

* A delightful specimen maybe found in Cicero de Officiis, iii. 12,13.  
VOL. III. 2 P

