430 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

and Epicurus denied to them at least any influence on the

fortunes of men. Between these systems and the Roman

religion no alliance was possible; they were proscribed and

remained so. Even in Cicero's writings it is declared the

duty of a citizen to resist Euhemerism as prejudicial to reli­

gious worship; and of the Academics and Epicureans who

appear in his dialogues, the former has to plead the ex­

cuse that, while as a philosopher he is a disciple of Carneades,

as a citizen and pontifex he is an orthodox confessor of the

Capitoline Jupiter, and the Epicurean has even ultimately to

surrender and be converted. No one of these three systems

was in any proper sense popular. The plain intelligible cha­

racter of Euhemerism exerted doubtless a certain power of

attraction over the Romans, and in particular produced only

too deep an effect on the conventional history of Rome with

its at once childish and senile resolution of fable into history;

but it remained without material influence on the Roman re­

ligion, because the latter from the first dealt only in allegory

and not in fable, and it was not possible in Rome as in

Hellas to write biographies of Zeus the first, second, and

third. The modern sophistry could only succeed where

clever volubility was indigenous, as in Athens, and where,

moreover, the long series of philosophical systems that

had come and gone had accumulated huge piles of intel­

lectual rubbish. Against the Epicurean quietism, in fine,

everything revolted that was sound and honest in the

Roman character thoroughly devoted as it was to action. Yet

it found more partisans than Euhemerism and the sophistic

school, and this was probably the reason why the police

continued to wage war against it longest and most seriously.

But this Roman Epicureanism was not so much a philosophic

system as a sort of philosophical mask, under which—very

contrary to the purpose of its strictly moral founder—

thoughtless sensual enjoyment dressed itself out for good

society; one of the earliest adherents of this sect, for in­

stance, Titus Albucius figures in the poems of Lucilius as

the prototype of the Roman Hellenizing amiss.

Roman Far different were the position and influence of the Stoic

stoa. philosophy in Italy. In direct contrast to these schools it

attached itself to the religion of the land as closely, as

science can at all accommodate itself to faith. To the

popular faith with its gods and oracles the Stoic adhered on

principle, inasmuch as he recognized in it an instinctive

