Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 105

against reform, but turned away with horror from such con­

federates, and ordered his four sons to carry the bier of his

great antagonist to the funeral pile. The funeral was hurried

over; with veiled head the last of the family of the con­

queror of Zama was borne forth, without any one having

been previously allowed to see the face of the deceased, and

the flames of the funeral pile consumed the remains of the

illustrious hero and with them the traces of the crime.

The history of Rome presents various men of greater

genius than Scipio jEmilianus, but none equalling him in

moral purity, in the utter absence of political selfishness, in

generous love of his country, and none, perhaps, to whom des­

tiny has assigned a more tragic part. Conscious of the best

intentions and of no common abilities, he was doomed to

see the ruin of his country carried out before his eyes, and

to repress within him every serious attempt to save it,

because he clearly perceived that he should only thereby

aggravate the evil; doomed to the necessity of sanctioning

outrages like that of Nasica, and at the same time of

defending the work of the victim against his murderers.

Tet he might say that he had not lived in vain. It was to

him, at least quite as much as to the author of the Sempro-

nian law, that the Roman burgess-body was indebted for an

increase of nearly 80,000 new farm allotments ; he it was too,

who put a stop to that distribution of the domains when it

had produced such benefit as it could produce. That it was

time to leave it off, was no doubt disputed at the moment even

by well-meaning men; but the fact that Gaius Gracchus did

not seriously recur to those possessions which might have been

and yet were not distributed under the law of his brother,

tells very strongly in favour of the belief that Scipio hit sub­

stantially the right moment. Both measures were extorted

from the parties—the first from the aristocracy, the second

from the friends of reform; the latter its author paid for

with his life. It was his lot to fight for his country on

many a battle-field and to return home uninjured, that

he might perish there by the hand of an assassin; but in

his quiet chamber he no less died for Rome than if he had

fallen beneath the walls of Carthage.

The distribution of land was at an end; the revolu- Democratic

tion went on. The revolutionary party, which possessed in the agitation

allotment-commission as it were a constituted set of leaders, underCarbo

had even in Scipio's lifetime skirmishes now and then with

