146 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

Numidian

succession.

arrangement was placed under the guarantee of the Roman

government.

The [118. Soon afterwards, in 636, king Micipsa died. The testa-

war for the inent came into force: but the two sons of Micipsa—the

vehement Hiempsal still more than his weak elder brother—

soon came into so violent collision with their cousin whom

they looked on as an intruder into the legitimate line of

succession, that the idea of a joint reign of the three kings

had to be abandoned. An attempt was made to carry out

a division of the heritage; but the quarrelling kings could

not agree as to their quotas of land and treasure, and the

protecting power, to which the duty of decision by right

belonged, gave itself, as usual, no concern about these

affairs. A rupture took place; Adherbal and Hiempsal pro­

bably asserted that their father's testament was surrep­

titious and altogether disputed Jugurtha's right of joint

inheritance, while on the other hand Jugurtha came

forward as a pretender to the whole kingdom. While the

discussions as to the partition were still going on, Hiempsal

was made away with by hired assassins ; then a civil war arose

between Adherbal and Jugurtha, in which all Numidia took

part. With his less numerous but better disciplined and

better led troops Jugurtha conquered, and seized the whole

territory of the kingdom, subjecting the chiefs who adhered

to his cousin to the most cruel persecutions. Adherbal

escaped to the Roman province and proceeded to Rome to

make his complaint there. Jugurtha had. expected this, and

had made his arrangements to meet the threatened inter­

vention. In the camp before Numantia he had learned

more from Rome than a mere lesson in tactics; the

Numidian prince, introduced to the circles of the Roman

aristocracy, had at the same time been initiated into the

intrigues of Roman coteries, and had studied at the fountain-

head what might be expected of Roman nobles. Even then,

sixteen years before Micipsa's death, he had entered into dis­

loyal negotiations as to the Numidian succession with noble

Roman comrades, and Scipio had been under the necessity

of gravely reminding him that it was becoming in foreign

princes to be on terms of friendship with the Roman

state rather than with individual Roman citizens. Jugur­

tha's envoys appeared in Rome, furnished with something

more than words: that they had chosen the right means of

diplomatic persuasion, was shown by the result. The most

