250 THE KEVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

insurrection thenceforth spread at any rate no further. In

Etruria and Etruria and Umbria especially, where it was just beginning,

Umbria it was subdued with singular rapidity, still more, probably,

tranquil- ^ means of the Julian law than through the success of the

Roman arms. In the former Latin colonies, and in the

thickly-peopled region of the Po, there were opened up copious

and now reliable sources of aid: with these, and with the

resources of the burgesses themselves, they could proceed to

subdue the now isolated conflagration. The two former

commanders-in-chief returned to Rome, Caesar as censor elect,

Marius, because his conduct of the war was blamed as vacil­

lating and slow, and the man of sixty-six was declared to be

in his dotage. This objection was very probably groundless;

Marius showed at least his bodily vigour by appearing daily

in the circus at Rome, and even as commander-in-chief

he seems to have displayed on the whole his old ability in

the last campaign; but he had not achieved the brilliant

successes by which alone he could after his political bank­

ruptcy rehabilitate himself in public opinion, and so the

celebrated champion was to his bitter vexation now, even as

an officer, unceremoniously laid aside as useless. The place of

Marius in the Marsian army was taken by the consul of this

year, Lucius Porcius Cato, who had fought with distinction

in Etruria, and that of Caesar in the Campanian army by

his lieutenant, Lucius Sulla, to whom were due some of the

most material successes of the previous campaign; G use us

Strabo retained—now as consul—the command which he had

held so successfully in the Picenian territory.

Thus began the second campaign in 665. The insurgents

opened it, even before winter was over, by the bold attempt

—recalling the grand passages of the Samnite wars—to send

a Marsian army of 15,000 men to Etruria with a view to aid

the insurrection brewing in Northern Italy. But Strabo,

through whose district it had to pass, intercepted and totally

defeated it; only a few got back to their far distant home.

"When at length the season allowed the Roman armies to

assume the offensive, Cato entered the Marsian territory

and advanced, successfully encountering the enemy there; but

he fell in the region of the Fucine lake at an attack on the

enemy's camp, so that the exclusive superintendence of the

operations in Central Italy devolved on Strabo. The latter

employed himself partly in continuing the siege of Asculum,

partly in the subjugation of the Marsian, Sabellian, and

War in Pi-

Asculum

besieged,

