Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 115

senatorial privileges (ii. 317, 326) to the equestrian order

which he brought into prominence was quite in the style of

Gracchus, so it was in very truth his aim to impress on the

equites the stamp of an order, similarly close and privileged,

intermediate between the senatorial aristocracy and the

common multitude; and this same aim was more promoted

by those class-insignia, trifling though they were in them­

selves and though many of equestrian rank might not

avail themselves of them, than by many an ordinance far

more intrinsically important. But the party of material

interests, though it by no means despised such honours, was

yet not to be gained through these alone. Gracchus perceived

well, that it would no doubt fall duly to the highest bidder,

but that it needed a great and substantial bidding; and so

he offered it the revenues of Asia and the jury courts.

The system of Roman financial administration, under Taxation of

which the indirect taxes as well as the domain-revenues were Asia,

levied by means of middlemen, already granted to the

Roman capitalist-class the most extensive advantages at the

expense of those liable to taxation. But the direct taxes

consisted either, as in most provinces, of fixed sums of

money payable by the communities—which of itself excluded

the intervention of Roman capitalists—or, as in Sicily and

Sardinia, of a ground-tenth, the levying of which for each

particular community was leased in the provinces themselves,

so that wealthy provincials regularly, and the tributary

communities themselves very frequently, farmed the tenth of

their districts and thereby kept at a distance the dangerous

Roman middlemen. Six years ago, when the province of

Asia had fallen to the Romans, the senate had organized

it substantially according to the first system (P. 56).

Gaius Gracchus* overturned this arrangement by a decree

of the people, and not only burdened the province, which had

hitherto been almost free from taxation, with the most

extensive indirect and direct taxes, particularly the ground-

tenth, but also enacted that these taxes should be exposed

to auction for the province as a whole and in Rome—a rule

which practically excluded the provincials from participa­

tion, and called into existence in the body of middlemen for

the decumcB, scriptura, and vectigalia of the province of Asia au

* That he, and not Tiberius, was the author of this law, now appears from  
Fronto in the letters to Verus, init. Comp. Gracchus ap. Gell. xi. 10;

Cic- de Rep. iii. 29, and Yerr. 111. 6, 12; Vellei. ii. 6.

