30 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

feet, exclusive of the front and back -walls each of which was

fully three feet broad.* This enormous wall, composed

throughout of large hewn blocks, rose in two stories, ex­

clusive of the battlements and the huge towers four stories

high, to a height of forty-five feet,t and furnished in the

lower range of the casemates stables and provender-stores

* The dimensions given by Beiile" (Fouilles a Carthage, 1861) are as fol­  
lows, in metres and in Greek i'eet (1 = 0"309 metre) :—

Outer wall ...... 2 metres = 6J feet.

Corridor ..... 1'9 ,, = 6 „

Front wall of casemates. . . 1 „ = 3J „

Casemate rooms .... 4'2 „ = 14 „

Back wall of casemates . . . , 1 „ = 3| „

Whole breadth of the walls . . 10'1 metres = 33 feet.

Or, as Diodorus (p. 522) states it, 22 cubits (1 Greek cubit = 1} feet), while

Livy (ap. Oros. iv. 22) and Appian (Pun. 95), who seem to hare had before

them another less accurate passage of Polybius, state the breadth of the walls

at 30 feet. The triple wall of Appian—as to which a false idea has hitherto

been diffused by Florus (i. 31)—denotes the outer wall, and the front and

back walls of the casemates. That this coincidence is not accidental, and that

we have here in reality the remains of the famed walls of Carthage before

us, will be evident to every one: the objections of Davis (Carthage and Her,

Remains, p. 370 et seq.) only show how little even the utmost zeal can adduce,

in opposition to the main results of Beule^. Only we must maintain that all
the

ancient authorities give the statements of which we are now speaking; with re­

ference not to the citadel-wall, but to the city-wall on the landward side, of
which

the wall along the south side of the citadel hill was an integral part (Oros.
iv. 22).

In accordance with this view, the excavations at the citadel hill on the east,

north, and west, have shown no traces of fortifications, whereas on the south

side they have brought to light the very remains of this great wall. There is

no reason for regarding these as the remains of a separate fortification of
the

citadel distinct from the city wall; it may be presumed that further excava­

tions at a corresponding depth (the foundation of the city wall discovered at

the Byrsa lies fifty-six feet beneath the present surface) will bring to light
like,

or at any rate analogous, foundations along the whole landward side, although

it is probable that at the point where the walled suburb of Magalia adjoined

the main wall the fortification was either weaker from the first or was early

neglected. The length of the wall as a whole cannot be stated with precision;

but it must have been very considerable, for three hundred elephants were

stabled there, and the stores for their fodder and perhaps other spaces also
as

well as the gates are to be taken into account. It was very natural that the

inner city, within whose walls the Byrsa was included, should, especially by

way of contrast to the suburb of Magalia which had its separate circumval-

lation, be sometimes itself called Byrsa (App. Pun. 117; Nepos, ap. Serv.

JEn. i. 368).

\ Such is the height given by Appian, I. c.; Diodorus gives the height, pro­

bably inclusive of the battlements, at 40 cubits or 60 feet. The remnant

preserved is still from 13 to 16 feet (4—5 metres) high.

