Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 281

ago the state of the climate was probably somewhat less un­

favourable than it is at the present day.* The varioiis tribes,

whose wandering impulse led them into these regions, sub­

mitted to this ordinance of nature and led (and still to

some extent lead) a wandering pastoral life with their herds

of oxen or still more frequently of horses, changing their

places of abode and pasture, and carrying their effects

along with them in waggon-houses. Their equipment and

style of fighting were consonant to this mode of life; the

inhabitants of these steppes fought in great measure on

horseback and always in loose array, equipped with helmet

and coat of mail of leather and leather-covered shield, armed

with sword, lance, and bow—the ancestors of the modern

Cossacks. The Scythians originally settled there, who seem

to have been of Mongolian race and akin in their habits and

physical appearance to the present inhabitants of Siberia,

had been followed up by Sarmatian tribes advancing from

east to west,—Sauromatae, Roxolani, Jazyges,—who are

commonly reckoned of Slavonian descent, although the

proper names, which we are entitled to ascribe to them,

show more affinity with Median and Persian names and

those peoples perhaps belonged rather to the great Zend

stock. Thracian tribes moved in the opposite direction,

particularly the Getae, who reached as far as the Dniester.

Between the two there intruded themselves—probably as

offsets of the great Germanic migration, the main body of

which seems not to have touched the Black Sea—the Celts,

as they were called, on the Dnieper, the Bastarnee in the

same quarter, and the Peucini at the mouth of the Danube.

A state, in the proper sense, was nowhere formed; every

tribe lived by itself under its princes and elders.

In broad contrast to all these barbarians stood the Hellenism

Hellenic settlements, which at the time of the mighty im- in that

petus given to Greek commerce had been founded chiefly by iIuartcr'

the efforts of Miletus on these coasts, partly as trading-marts,

partly as stations for prosecuting important fisheries and even

for agriculture, for which, as we have already said, the north­

western shores of the Black Sea presented in antiquity con-

* It is very probable that the extraordinary drought, which is the chief obstacle  
now to agriculture in the Crimea and in these regions generally, has been

greatly increased by the disappearance of the forests of central and southern

Russia, which formerly to some extent protected the coast-provinces from the

parching north-east wiud.

