Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 333

such as he showed to none of his noble clients—probably

not without the collateral design of thereby administering

an indirect rebuke to the want of energetic character among

his own partisans.

Reinforced thus considerably both in a moral and material Sulla in

point of view, Sulla and Metellus marched from Apulia Campania

through the still insurgent Samnite districts towards Campa- "PP"**"1 °y

nia. The main force of the enemy also proceeded thither, an" yciil^o.

and it seemed as if the matter must there be brought to a

decisive issue. The army of the consul Gains Norbanus was

already at Capua, where the new colony had just established

itself with all democratic pomp; the second consular army

was likewise advancing along the Appian road. But, before

it arrived, Sulla was in front of Norbanus. A last attempt Sulla gains

at mediation, which Sulla made, led only to the arrest of his a Vld£iy.

envoys. With fresh indignation his veteran troops threw °™rat °l

themselves on the enemy; their vehement charge down from Mount Ti-

Mount Tifata at the first onset broke the enemy drawn fata,

up in the plain; with the remnant of his force Norbanus

threw himself into the revolutionary colony of Capua and

the new-burgess town of Neapolis, and allowed himself to

be blockaded there. Sulla's troops, hitherto not without

apprehension as they compared their weak numbers with

those of the enemy, had b"y this victory gained a full conviction

of their military superiority; instead of pausing himself to

besiege the remains of the defeated army, Sulla left the

towns where they were to be invested, and advanced along

the Appian highway against Teanum, where Scipio was Defection M

posted. To him also, before beginning battle, he made fresh Scipio's

proposals for peace; apparently in good earnest. Scipio, army-

weak as he was, entered into them ;' an armistice was con­

cluded; between Cales and Teanum the two generals, both

members of the same noble gem, both men of culture and

refinement and for many years colleagues in the senate, met

in personal conference; they entered upon the several

questions; they made such progress, that Scipio despatched

a messenger to Capua to procure the opinion of his colleague.

Meanwhile the soldiers of the two camps mingled; the

Sullans, copiously furnished with money by their general,

had no great difficulty in persuading the recruits—not too

eager for warfare—over their cups that it was better to have

them as comrades than as foes; in vain Sertorius warned the

general to put a stop to this dangerous intercourse. The

