188 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

preme command in it was to be committed. With an un­

prejudiced treatment of the matter it was not difficult to

make a fitting choice. Rome was no doubt, in comparison

with earlier times, not rich in military notabilities; yet

Quintus Maximus had commanded with distinction in Gaul,

Marcus .SSmilius Scaurus and Marcus Minucius in the

regions of the Danube, Quintus Metellus, Publius Rutilius

Rufus, Gaius Marius in Africa; and the object proposed

was not to defeat a Pyrrhus or a Hannibal, but again to make

good the often tried superiority of Roman arms and Roman

tactics in opposition to the barbarians of the north—an

object which required no hero, but merely a stern and able

soldier. But it was precisely a time, when anything was

practicable rather than the unprejudiced settlement of a ques­

tion of administration. The government was, as it could

not but be and as the Jugurthine war had already shown,

so utterly bankrupt in public opinion, that its ablest generals

had to retire in the full career of victory, whenever it

occurred to an officer of mark to vilify them before the

people and to get himself as the candidate of the opposition

appointed to the head of affairs. It was no wonder, that

what took place after the victories of Metellus was repeated

on a greater scale after the defeats of Gnaeus Mallius and

Quintus Caepio. Once more Gaius Marius came forward,

in spite of the law which prohibited the holding of the con­

sulship more than once, as a candidate for the supreme

magistracy; and not only was he nominated as consul and

charged with the chief command in the Gallic war, while he

was still in Africa at the head of the army there, but he was

re-invested with the consulship for five years in succession

104-100. (650-654). This proceeding, which looked like an inten­

tional mockery of the exclusive spirit that the nobility had

exhibited in reference to this very man in all its folly and

shortsightedness, was unparalleled in the annals of the re­

public, and in fact absolutely incompatible with the spirit

of the free constitution of Rome. In the Roman military

system in particular—the transformation of which from a

burgess-militia into a set of mercenaries, begun in the

African war, was continued and completed by Marius

during his five years of a supreme command unlimited from

the exigencies of the times still more than from the terms

of his appointment—the profound traces of this unconstitu­

tional commandership-in-chief of the first democratic general

remained visible for all times.

