Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 257

electors appeared to every unprejudiced person ridiculous; but

all these restrictions were dangerous, inasmuch as they in­

vited every demagogue to carry his ulterior objects by taking

up the more or less just demands of the new burgesses and of

the Italians excluded from the franchise. While accordingly Secondary

the more clear-seeing of the aristocracy could not but find effect of the

these partial and grudging concessions as inadequate as did P°litical

the new burgesses and the excluded themselves, they further t^011"

painfully felt the absence from their ranks of the numerous

and excellent men whom the Yarian commission of high-

treason had exiled, and whom it was the more difficult to

recall because they had been condemned by the verdict not

of the people but of the judices; for, while there was little

hesitation as to cancelling a decree of the people even of a

judicial character by means of a second, the cancelling of a

verdict of jurymen by the people appeared to the better por­

tion of the aristocracy as a very dangerous precedent. Thus

neither the ultras nor the moderates were content with the

issue of the Italian crisis. But still deeper indignation Marius.

swelled the heart of the old man, who had gone forth to the

Italian war with revived hopes and had come back from it

reluctantly, with the consciousness of having rendered new

services and of having received in return new and most severe

mortifications, with the bitter feeling of being no longer

dreaded but despised by his enemies, with that gnawing spirit

of vengeance in his heart, which feeds on its own poison. It

was true of him also, as of the new burgesses and the

excluded; incapable and awkward as he had shown himself

to be, his popular name was still a formidable weapon in the

hand of a demagogue.

With these elements of political convulsion was combined Decay of

the rapidly spreading decay of the honourable old soldierly military

spirit and of military discipline. The seeds, which were discipline.

sown by the enrolment of the proletariate in the army,

developed themselves with alarming rapidity during the de­

moralizing insurrectionary war, which compelled Rome to

admit to the service every man capable of bearing arms

without distinction, and which above all carried political

partizanship directly into the headquarters and into the

soldiers' tent. The effects soon appeared in the slackening

of all the ties of the military hierarchy. During the siege

of Pompeii the commander of the Stillan besieging corps, the

consular Aulus Postumius Albinus, was put to death with

vol. in, a

