450 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

a reminiscence ;* even the Latin titles are replaced by

Greek. The same distinction shows itself in the artistic

treatment. First of all the players receive back their appro­

priate masks, and greater care is observed as to the scenic

arrangements, so that it is no longer the case, as with

Plautus, that everything needs to be done on the street,

whether belonging to it or not. Plautus ties and unties the

dramatic knot carelessly and loosely, but his plot is droll

and often striking; Terence, far less effective, keeps every­

where account of probability, not unfrequently at the cost

of suspense, and wages emphatic war against the certainly

somewhat flat and insipid standing expedients of his prede­

cessors, e.g., against allegoric dreams.f Plautus paints his

characters with broad strokes, often as if after a pattern,

always with a view to the more distant and gross general

effect; Terence handles the psychological development with

a careful and often excellent miniature-painting, as in the

Adelphi for instance, where the two old men—the easy

bachelor enjoying life in town, and the sadly harassed not

at all refined country-landlord—form a masterly contrast.

The springs of action and the language of Plautus are drawn

from the tavern, those of Terence from the household of the

good citizen. The lazy Plautine hostelry, the very uncon­

strained but very charming damsels with the hosts duly cor­

responding, the sabre-rattling troopers, the slave-world

painted with an altogether peculiar humour, whose heaven

is the cellar and whose fate is the lash, have disappeared in

Terence or at any rate undergone improvement. In Plautus

we find ourselves, on the whole, among incipient or thorough

* Perhaps the only exception is in the Andria (iv. 5) the answer to the  
question how matters go :—

'Sic

Ut quimus', aiunt, 'quando ut volumus rum licet,'

in allusion to the line of Cuxilius, which is, indeed, also imitated from a

Greek proverb :—.

Vivas ut possis, quando non quis ut velis.

The comedy is the oldest of Terence's, and was exhibited by the theatrical

authorities on the i ecommeud.itiou of Csecilius. The gentle expression of

gratitude is characteristic.

.(. A counterpart to the hind chased by dogs and with tears calling on a

young man for help, which Terence ridicules [Phorm. prol. 4), may be recog­

nized in the far from ingenious Plautine allegory of the goat and the ape

(Merc. ii. I). Such excrescences are ultimately traceable to the rhetoric of

Euripides (e. g. Eurip. Hec. 90).

