132 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

democrats.

121.

restoration nothing further than a relapse of the state-

machine into the old track which had been beaten and worn

for centuries. Restoration is always revolution; and in this

case it was not so much the old government as the old

governor that was restored. The oligarchy made its appear­

ance newly equipped in the armour of the tyrannis which

had been overthrown. As the senate had beaten Gracchus

from the field with his own weapons, so it continued in the

most essential points to govern with the constitution of the

Gracchi; though certainly with the secret intention, if not

of setting it aside entirely, at any rate of thoroughly purging

it in due time from the elements really hostile to the ruling

aristocracy.

Piosecu- At first the reaction was mainly directed against persons,

tions of the Public Popillius was recalled from banishment after the

'enactments relating to him had been cancelled (633), and a

warfare of prosecution was waged against the adherents of

Gracchus; whereas the attempt of the popular party to

have Lucius Opimius after his resignation of office condemned

for high treason was frustrated by the partisans of the

120. government (634). The character of this government of the

restoration is significantly indicated by the progress of the

aristocracy in soundness of opinion. Gaius Carbo, once the

ally of the Gracchi, had for long been a convert (P. 106), and

had but recently shown his zeal and his usefulness as

defender of Opimius. But he remained a renegade: when

the democrats raised the same accusation against him as

against Opimius, the government were not unwilling to let

him fall, and Carbo, seeing himself lost between the two

parties, died by his own hand. Thus the men of the reac­

tion showed themselves in personal questions pure aristo­

crats. But the reaction did not immediately attack the dis­

tributions of grain, the taxation of the province of Asia, or

the Gracchan arrangements as to the jurymen and the tri­

bunals; on the contrary, it not only spared the mercantile

class and the proletariate of the capital, but continued to

render homage, as it had already done in the introduction

of the Livian laws, to these powers and especially to the

proletariate far more decidedly than had been done by the

Gracchi. This course was not adopted merely because the

Gracchan revolution retained a hold on the minds of its con­

temporaries and protected its creations; the fostering and

cherishing of the interests of the populace at least by the

