Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 861

burial. On landing in Italy he had earnestly offered to

forgive and to forget, and no one who came to make his

peace had been rejected. Even after the first successes he

had negotiated in this spirit with Lucius Scipio; it was the

revolutionary party, which had not only broken off these

negotiations, but had subsequently, at the last moment be­

fore their downfall, resumed the massacres afresh and more

fearfully than ever, and had in fact conspired with the old

enemies of their country for the destruction of the city of

Bome. The cup was now full. By virtue of his new

official authority Sulla, immediately after assuming the

regency, outlawed as enemies of their country all the civil

and military officers who had taken an active part in favour

of the revolution after the convention with Scipio which

according to Sulla's assertion was validly concluded, and

such of the other burgesses as had in any marked way aided

its cause. Whoever killed one of these outlaws was not

only exempt from punishment like an executioner duly

fulfilling his office, but also obtained for the execution a

compensation of 12,000 denarii (£488); any one on the

contrary who befriended an outlaw, even the nearest rela­

tive, was liable to the severest penalty. The property of

the proscribed was forfeited to the state like the spoil of

an enemy; their children and grandchildren were excluded

from a political career, and yet, so far as they were of sena­

torial rank, were bound to undertake their share of senatorial

burdens. The last enactments also applied to the estates

and the descendants of those who had fallen in conflict for

the revolution—penalties, which went even beyond those en­

joined by the earliest law in the case of such as had borne arms

against their fatherland. The most terrible feature in this

system of terror was the indefiniteness of the proposed cate­

gories, against which there was immediate remonstrance in

the senate, and which Sulla himself sought to remedy by

directing the names of the proscribed to be publicly posted

up and fixing the 1st June 673 as the final term for closing 81.

the lists of proscription.

Much as this bloody roll, swelling from day to day and Prosciip-

amounting at last to 4700 names,* excited the just horror of tlon-liiu.

the multitude, it at any rate checked in some degree the

* This total is given by Valerius Maximus, ix. 2, 1. According to Appian  
(B. C. i. 95), there were proscribed by Sulla nearly 40 senators, which

number subsequently received some additions, and about 1600 equites; ac­

