472 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

from the historical side; although the dissertations of the

unwieldy annalists of this age, such as those of Hemina " on

the Censors " and of Tuditanus "on the Magistrates" can

hardly have been better than their chronicles. Of more

interest were the treatise on the magistracies by Marcus

Junius the friend of Gaius Gracchus, as the first attempt to

make the investigation of antiquity serviceable for political

objects,* and the metrically composed Didascalice of the

tragedian Accius, an essay towards a literary history of the

Latin drama. But those early attempts at a scientific

treatment of the mother-tongue still bear a very unscien­

tific stamp, and strikingly remind us of our orthographic

literature in the Bodmer-Klopstock period; and we may

likewise without injustice assign but a modest place to the

Stilo. antiquarian researches of this epoch. The Roman, who

established the investigation of the Latin language and

antiquities in the spirit of the Alexandrian masters on a

100. scientific basis, was Lucius iElius Stilo about 650 (P. 442).

He first went back to the oldest monuments of the lan­

guage, and commented on the Salian litanies and the

Twelve Tables. He devoted his special attention to the

comedy of the sixth century, and first formed a list of the

pieces of Plautus which in his opinion were genuine. He

sought after the Greek fashion to determine historically

the origin of every single phenomenon in the Eoman life

and dealings and to ascertain in each case the "inventor,"

and at the same time brought the whole annalistic tradition

within the range of his research. The success, which he had

among his contemporaries, is attested by the dedication to

him of the most important poetical, and the most important

historical, works of his time, the Satires of Lucilius and the

Annals of Antipater; and this first Soman philologist

influenced the studies of his nation also in future times

by transmitting his spirit of investigation both into words

and into things to his disciple Varro.

Rhetoric. The literary activity in the field of Latin rhetoric was, as

might be expected, of a more subordinate kind. There was

nothing here to be done but to write manuals and exercise-

books after the model of the Greek compendia of Herma-

goras and others; and these accordingly the schoolmasters

* The assertion, for instance, that the quaestors were nominated in the regal  
period by the burgesses, not by the king, is as certainly false as it
obviously

bears the impress of a partisan character,

