338 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA.

rainy night and making his way, though not without loss,

to the army of Carbo. Sulla himself marched from Rorne

into Etruria with his army in two divisions, one of which

advancing along the coast defeated the corps opposed to it

at Saturnia. (between the rivers Ombrone and Albegna);

the second led by Sulla in person fell in with the army of

Carbo in the valley of the Clanis, and after a successful

conflict with his Spanish cavalry fought a pitched battle

with himself in the region of Chiusi. It ended without

being properly decisive, but so far, at any rate, in favour of

Carbo that Sulla's victorious advance was checked.

In the vicinity of Rome also events appeared to assume

a more favourable turn for the revolutionary party, and the

war seemed as if it would again be attracted chiefly towards

this region. For, while the oligarchic party were concen­

trating all their energies on Etruria, the democracy every­

where put forth the utmost efforts to break the blockade

of Praeneste. Even the governor of Sicily Marcus Perpenna

set out for that purpose; it does not appear, however, that

he reached Praeneste. Nor was the very considerable corps

under Marcius, detached by Carbo, more successful; as­

sailed and defeated by the troops of the enemy which were

at Spoletium, demoralized by disorder, want of supplies, and

mutiny, one portion went to Carbo, another to Ariminum,

the rest dispersed. Help in earnest on the other hand

came from Southern Italy. There the Samnites under

Pontius of Telesia, and the Lucanians under their expe­

rienced general Marcus Lamponius set out without its

being possible to prevent their departure, were joined in

Campania where Capua still held out by a division of the

garrison under Gutta, and thus to the number, it was said,

of 70,000 marched upon Praeneste. Thereupon Sulla him­

self, leaving behind a corps against Carbo, returned to

Latium and took up a well-chosen position in the defiles in

front of Praeneste, where he intercepted the route of the

relieving frmy.* In vain the garrison attempted to break

through the lines of Ofella, in vain the relieving army

Conflicts

about Prae-

neste.

* It is stated, that Sulla occupied the defile by which alone Praeneste was  
accessible (App. 1, 90x; and the sequel showed that the road to Home was

open to him as well as to the relieving army. Beyond doubt Sulla posted

himself on the cross road which turns off from the Via Latina, along which

the Samnites advanced, at Valmontone towards Palestrina; in this case Sulla

communicated with the capital by the Praenestine, and the enemy by the Latin,

or Labium, road.

