456 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

lished. It was not until the present period that the

Atellan piece was handed over to actors properly so called,*

and was employed, like the Greek satyric drama, as an

afterpiece particularly after tragedies; a change which na­

turally suggested the extension of literary activity to that

field. Whether this authorship developed itself altogether

independently, or whether possibly the art-farce of Lower

Italy, in various respects of kindred character, gave the

impulse to this Roman farce,\ can no longer be determined;

that the several pieces were uniformly original works, is

certain. The founder of this new species of literature,

Lucius Pomponius from the Latin colony of Bononia, ap­

peared in the first half of the seventh century ;J and along

with his pieces those of another poet Novius soon became

favourites. So far as the few remains and the reports of

the old litteratores allow us to form an opinion, they were

short farces, ordinarily perhaps of one act, the charm of which

depended less on the preposterous and loosely constructed

plot than on the drastic portraiture of particular classes

and situations. Festal days and public acts were favourite

subjects of comic delineation, such as the "Marriage,"

the "First of March," "Harlequin Candidate;" so were

* In the time of the Empire the Atellana was represented by professional  
actors (Friedlander in Becker's Handbuch, iv. 546). The time at which these

began to engage in it is not reported, but it can hardly have been other than

the time at which the Atellan was admitted among the regular stage-plays,
i.e.,

the epoch before Cicero (Oic. ad Fam. ix. 16). This view is not inconsistent

with the circumstance that still in Livy's time (vii. 2) the Atellan players

retained their honorary rights as contrasted with other actors; for the state­

ment that professional actors began to take part in performing the Atellana
for

pay does not imply that the Atellana was no longer performed, in the country

towns for instance, by unpaid amateurs, and the privilege therefore still re­

mained applicable.

t It deserves attention that the Greek farce was not only especially at home

in Lower Italy, but that several of its pieces (e.g., among those of Sopater,

the " Lentile-Porridge," the "Wooers of Bacchis," the " Valet of Mystakos,"

the " Bookworms,'' the " Physiologist") strikingly remind us of the Ateilanae.

This composition of farces must have reached down to the time at which the

Greeks in and around Neapolis formed a distinct enclosure within the Latin-

speaking Campania; for one of these writers of farces, BLtsus of Capreae,
bears

even a Roman name and wrote a farce "Saturnus."

90. + According to Eusebius, Pomponius flourished about 664; Velleius calls

140-91. him a contemporary of Lucius Crassus (614—663) and Marcus Antonius

143—87. (611-667). The former statement is probably about a generation too
late;

100. the reckoning by victoriati (P. 415) which was discontinued about 650
still

occurs in his Pictores, and about the end of this period we already meet the

mimes which displaced the Atellana; from the stage.

