Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 325

their pay, surrounded them with his trusty Celtic troops,

and caused them to be cut down en masse to the number,

according to the lowest estimate, of 4000.

Along with the reign of terror came the tyrannis. Cinna Govern-

not only stood at the head of the state for four years in »»' of

succession (667-670) as consul, but he regularly nominated Cl°"^

himself and his colleagues without consulting the people;

it seemed as if these democrats set aside the sovereign

popular assembly with intentional contempt. No other

chief of the popular party, before or afterwards, possessed so

perfectly absolute a power in Italy and in the greater part

of the provinces for so long a time almost undisturbed as

Cinna; but no one can be named, whose government was

so utterly worthless and aimless. The law proposed by

Sulpicius and thereafter by Cinna himself, which promised

to the new burgesses and the freedmen equality of suffrage

with the old burgesses, was naturally revived; and it was

formally confirmed by a decree of the senate as valid in law

(670). Censors were nominated (668) for the purpose of 8i. SG

distributing all the Italians, in accordance with it, into the

thirty-five tribes; by a singular conjuncture, in consequence

of a want of qualified candidates for the censorship the same

Philippus, who when consul in 663 had been the principal 9t.

occasion of the miscarriage of Drusus' plan for bestowing

the franchise on the Italians (P. 221), was now selected as

censor to inscribe them in the burgess-rolls. The reac­

tionary institutions established by Sulla in 666 were of 88.

course overthrown. Some steps were taken to please the

proletariate—for instance, the restrictions on the distribu­

tion of grain introduced some years ago (P. 237), were

probably now once more removed; the design of Gaius

Gracchus to found a colony at Capua was in reality carried

out in the spring of 671 on the proposal of the tribune of 83.

the people, Marcus Junius Brutus; Lucius Valerius Flaccus

the younger introduced a law as to debt, which reduced

every private claim to the fourth part of its nominal amount

and cancelled three-fourths in favour of the debtors. But

these measures, the only positive ones during the whole

Cinnan government, were without exception the dictates of

the moment; they were based—and this is perhaps the most

shocking feature in this whole catastrophe—not on a plan

possibly erroneous, but on no political plan at all. The

populace were caressed, and at the same time offended in

