Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 275

decumanus, and every child of free parents seemed born for

the Roman slave-drivers. It is true that the Asiatic bore

even this torture with his inexhaustible passive endurance;

but it was not patience and reflection that made him bear

it peacefully. It was rather the peculiarly Oriental want of

power to take the initiative; and in these peaceful lands,

amidst these effeminate nations, strange and terrible things

might happen, if once there should appear among them

a man who knew how to give the signal for revolt.

There reigned at that time in the kingdom of Pontus Mithradates

Mithradates VI. surnamed Eupator (born about 624, + E"Pat01.-.,

691) who traced back his lineage on the father's side in the

sixteenth generation to king Darius the son of Hystaspes

and in the eighth to Mithradates I. the founder of the

Pontic empire, and was on the mother's side descended from

the Alexandridae and the Seleucidae. After the early death

of his father Mithradates Euergetes, who fell by the hand of

an assassin at Sinope, he had received the title of king about

634, when a boy of eleven years of age; but the diadem 120.

brought to him only trouble and danger. His guardians,

and even as it would seem his own mother called to take

a part in the government by his father's will, conspired

against the boy-king's life. It is said that, in order to escape

from the daggers of his legal protectors, he became of his

own accord a wanderer, and during seven years, changing

his resting-place night after night, a fugitive in his own

. kingdom, led the life of a homeless hunter. Thus the boy

'grew into a mighty man. Although our accounts regarding

him are in substance traceable to written records of contem­

poraries, yet the legendary tradition which is generated

with the rapidity of lightning in the East early adorned

the mighty king with many of the traits of its Samson and

Rustem. These traits, however, belong to his character

just as the crown of clouds belongs to the character of the

highest mountain-peaks; the outline of the figure appears

in both cases only more coloured and fantastic, not dis­

turbed or essentially altered. The armour, which fitted the

gigantic frame of king Mithradates, excited the wonder of

the Asiatics and still more that of the Italians. As a runner

he overtook the swiftest deer; as a rider he broke in the

wild steed, and was able by changing horses to- accomplish

120 miles in a day; as a charioteer he drove with sixteen in

hand, and gained in competition many a prize—it was

