Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 383

Nothing lay further from Sulla than systematic ambition. Sulla's po-

He had too much sense to regard, like the average aristocrats litica] ca-

of his time, the inscription of his name in the roll of the con- reer-

suls as the aim of his life; he was too indifferent and too

little of an ideologue to be disposed voluntarily to engage in

the reform of the rotten structure of the state. He remained

—where birth and culture placed him—in the circle of

fashionable society, and passed through the usual routine of

office ; he had no occasion to exert himself, and left such ex­

ertion to the political working bees, of whom there was in

truth no want. Thus in 647, on the distribution of the quaes- 107.

torial appointments, accident brought him to Africa to the

head-quarters of Gaius Marius. The untried man-of-fashion

from the capital was not very well received by the rough

boorish general and his experienced staff. Provoked by this

reception Sulla, fearless and skilful as he was, rapidly made

himself master of the profession of arms, and in his daring

expedition to Mauretania first displayed that peculiar com­

bination of audacjty and cunning, with reference to which

his contemporaries said of him, that he was half lion half

fox and that the fox in him was more dangerous than the

lion. To the young, highborn, brilliant officer, who was

confessedly the real means of ending the vexatious Nu-

midian war, the most splendid career now lay open: he took

part also in the Cimbrian war, and manifested his singular

talent for organization in the management of the difficult

task of providing supplies; nevertheless the pleasures of

the capital still had more attraction for him than war or

even politics. During his praetorship, which office he held

in 661 after having failed in a previous candidature, it once 93.

more chanced that in his province, the least important of

all, the first victory over king Mithradates and the first

treaty with the mighty Arsacids, as well as their first humi­

liation, occurred. Tlie civil war followed. It was Sulla

mainly, who decided the first act of it—the Italian insurrec­

tion—in favour of Rome, and thus won for himself the con­

sulship by his sword; it was he, moreover, who when consul

suppressed with energetic rapidity the Sulpician revolt.

Fortune seemed to make it her business to eclipse the old

hero Marius by means of this younger officer. The capture

of Jugurtha, the vanquishing of Mithradates, both of which

Marius had striven for in vain, were accomplished in subor­

dinate positions by Sulla: in the Social war, in which

