Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 181

age in which they appeared, there was no observer who

deemed it worth while accurately to describe the marvellous

meteor. When men afterwards began to trace the chain,

of which this emigration, the first Germanic movement which

touched the orbit of ancient civilization, was a link, the

direct and living knowledge of it had long passed away.

This homeless people of the Cimbri, which hitherto had Cimbrian

been prevented from advancing to the south by the Celts on movements

the Danube, more especially by the Boii, broke through °"d con"

that barrier in consequence of the attacks directed by the

Romans against the Danubian Celts; either because the

latter invoked the aid of their Cimbrian antagonists against

the advancing legions, or because the Roman attack pre­

vented them from protecting as hitherto their northern fron­

tiers. Advancing through the territory of the Scordisci Defeat of

into the Tauriscan country, they approached in 641 the Carbo.

passes of the Carnian Alps, to protect which the consul 113-

Gnaeus Papirius Carbo took up a position on the heights not

far from Aquileia. Here, seventy years before, Celtic tribes

bad attempted to settle on the south of the Alps, but at the

bidding of the Romans had evacuated without resistance the

ground which they had already occupied (ii. 196); even now

the dread of the Transalpine peoples at the Roman name

showed itself powerfully. The Cimbri did not attack; in­

deed, when Carbo ordered them to evacuate the territory

of the Taurisci wio were in relations of hospitality with

Rome—an order which the treaty with the latter by no means

bound him to make—they complied and followed the guides

whom Carbo had assigned to them to escort them over the

frontier. But these guides were in fact instructed to lure

the Cimbri into an ambush, where the consul awaited them.

Accordingly an engagement took place not far from Noreia

in the modern Cariuthia, in which the betrayed gained the

victory over the betrayer and inflicted on him considerable

loss; a storm, which separated the combatants, alone pre­

vented the complete annihilation of the Roman army.

The Cimbri might have immediately directed their attack

towards Italy; they preferred to turn to the westward.

By treaty with the Helvetii and the Sequani rather than by

force of arms they made their way to the left bank of the

Rhine and over the Jura, and there some years after Carbo's

defeat once more threatened the Roman territory by their im­

mediate vicinity. "With a view to cover the frontier of the

