466 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

historical composition was restricted—with the exception of

the very respectable but purely individual writings of Cato,

which at any rate did not reach beyond the rudiments of

research and narration—partly to nursery tales, partly to

collections of notices. The Greeks had certainly exhibited

historical research and had written history; but the ideas of

nation and state had been so completely lost amidst the dis­

tracted times of the Diadochi, that none of the numerous

historians succeeded in following the steps of the great Attic

masters in spirit and in truth, or in treating from a broad

point of view the matter of world-wide interest in the his­

tory of the times. Their histories were either purely outward

records, or they were pervaded by the verbiage and sophis­

tries of Attic rhetoric and only too often by the venality and

vulgarity, the sycophancy and the exasperation of the age.

Among the Romans as among the Greeks nothing existed

but histories of cities or of tribes. Polybius, a Peloponue-

sian, as has been justly remarked, and holding intellectually

a position at least as far aloof from the Attics as from the

Romans, first stepped beyond these miserable limits, treated

the Roman materials with mature Hellenic criticism, and

furnished a history, which was not indeed universal, but

which was at any rate dissociated from mere local states and

accommodated to the Romano-Greek state in the course of

formation. Never perhaps has any historian united within

himself all the advantages of an author drawing from original

sources so completely as Polybius. The compass of his task

is completely clear and present to him at every moment;

and throughout his eye is fixed on the real historical con­

nection of events. The legend, the anecdote, the mass of

worthless chronicle-notices are thrown aside; the descrip­

tion of countries and peoples, the representation of political

and mercantile relations—all the facts of such infinite im­

portance which escape the annalist because they do not

admit of being nailed to a particular year—are put into pos­

session of their long-suspended rights. In the procuring of

historic materials Polybius shows a caution and perseverance

such as are not perhaps paralleled in antiquity; he avails him­

self of documents, gives comprehensive attention to the

literature of different nations, makes the most extensive use

of his favourable position for collecting the accounts of actors

and eye-witnesses, and, in fine, methodically travels over the

whole domain of the Mediterranean states aud part of the

