884 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Eook IV.

Marius lost his renown as a general and was deposed, Sulla

established his military repute and rose to the consulship;

8S the revolution of 666, which was at the same time and

above all a personal conflict between the two generals,

ended with Marius' outlawry and flight. Almost without

desiring it, Sulla had become the most famous general of

his time and the shield of the oligarchy. New and more

formidable crises ensued—the Mithradatic war, the Cinnan

revolution; Sulla's star continued always in the ascendant.

Like the captain who seeks not to quench the flames of his

burning ship but continues to fire on the enemy, Sulla,

while the revolution was raging in Italy, persevered un­

shaken in Asia till the public foe was subdued. So soon as

he had done with that foe, he crushed the reign of anarchy

and saved the capital from the firebrands of the desperate

Samnites and revolutionists. The moment of his return

home was for Sulla an overpowering one in joy and in pain:

he himself relates in his memoirs that during his first night

in Rome he had not been able to close an eye, and we may

well believe it. But still his task was not at an end; his

star was destined to rise still higher. Absolute autocrat as

was ever any king, and yet constantly bent on abiding by

the ground of formal right, he bridled the ultra-reactionary

party, annihilated the Gracchan constitution which had

for forty years restrained the oligarchy, and compelled first

the. powers of the capitalists and of the urban proletariate

which had entered into rivalry with the oligarchy, and ulti­

mately the arrogance of the sword which had grown up in

the bosom of his own staff, to yield once more to the law

which he fortified afresh. He established the oligarchy on a

more independent footing than ever, placed the magisterial

power as a ministering instrument in its hands, committed

to it the legislation, the courts, the supreme military and

financial power, and furnished it with a sort of body-guard

in the liberated slaves and with a sort of army in the settled

military colonists. Lastly, when the work was finished, the

creator gave way to his own creation; the absolute autocrat

became voluntarily once more a simple senator. In all this

long military and political career Sulla never lost a battle,

was never compelled to retrace a single step, and, led

astray neither by friends nor by foes, brought his work to the

goal which he had himself proposed. He had reason, indeed,

to thank his star. The capricious goddess of fortune seemed

S

