436 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

had for long been common and intrigues with married

women began to become so; but an amour with a Vestal

virgin was as piquant as the intrigues with nuns and the

cloister-adventures in the world of the Decamerone. The

114. scandalous affair of 640 seq. is well known, in which three

Vestals, daughters of the noblest families, and their para­

mours, young men likewise of the best houses, were brought

to trial for unchastity first before the pontifical college,

and then, when it sought to hush up the matter, before an

extraordinary court instituted by special decree of the

people, and were all condemned to death. Such scandals, it

is true, sedate people could not approve; but there was no

objection to men discussing the folly of positive religion in

their familiar circle; the augurs might, when one saw another

performing his functions, smile in each other's face without

detriment to their religious duties. We learn to look

favourably on the modest hypocrisy of kindred tendencies,

when we compare with it the coarse shamelessness of the

Roman priests and Levites. The official religion was quite

candidly treated as a hollow framework now serviceable only

for political machinists; in this respect with its nume­

rous recesses and trap-doors it might and did serve either

party, as it happened. Most of all certainly the oligarchy

recognized its palladium in the state religion, and particu­

larly in the augural discipline; but the opposite party

also made no resistance in point of principle to an institute

which had now merely a semblance of life; they regarded it,

on the contrary, as a bulwark which might pass from the

possession of the enemy into their own.

Oriental In sharp contrast to this ghost of religion which we

leiigionsin have just described stand the different foreign worships,

.' which this epoch cherished and fostered, and which were at

least undeniably possessed of very decided vitality. They

meet us everywhere, among fashionable ladies and lords as

well as among the circles of the slaves, in the general as in

the trooper, in Italy as in the provinces. It is incredible to

what a height this superstition already reached. When in

the Cimbrian war a Syrian prophetess, M artha, offered to

furnish the senate with ways and means for the vanquishing

of the Germans, the senate dismissed her with contempt;

nevertheless the Roman ladies and Marius' own wife in

particular despatched her to his head-quarters, where Tjh<3

general readily received her and carried her about with

