416 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

State of

manners.

Increased

extrava­

gance.

Popular

festivals.

103. 99.

93.

187. 175.

152.

Buildings.

91.

manic culture, whereas the latter has severed itself from

European civilization.

It is easy to form a general conception of the aspect which

with such economic conditions the social relations must have

presented; but to follow out in detail the increase of luxury,

of prices, of fastidiousness and frivolity is neither pleasant

nor instructive. Extravagance and sensual enjoyment formed

the main object with all, among the parvenus as well as

among the Licinii and Metelli; not the polished luxury

which is the acme of civilization, but that sort of luxury

which had developed itself amidst the decaying Hellenic

civilization of Asia Minor and Alexandria, which degraded

everything beautiful and significant to the purpose of deco­

ration and studied enjoyment with a laborious pedantry, a

precise punctiliousness, rendering it equally nauseous to the

man of fresh feeling as to the man of fresh intellect. As to

the popular festivals, the importation of transmarine beasts

of prey prohibited in the time of Cato (ii. 412) was, appa­

rently about the middle of this century, formally permitted

anew by a decree of the burgesses proposed by Gnaeus

Aufidius; the effect of which was, that animal hunts came

into enthusiastic favour and formed a chief feature of the

burgess-festivals. Several lions first appeared in the Soman

arena about 651, the first elephants about 655; Sulla when

praetor exhibited a hundred lions in 661. The same holds

true of gladiatorial games. If the forefathers had pub­

licly exhibited representations of great battles, their grand­

children began to do the same with their gladiatorial games,

and by means of such leading and public performances of the

age to make themselves a laughing-stock to their descendants.

What sums were spent on these and on funeral solemnities

generally, may be inferred from the testament of Marcus

JEmilius Lepidus (consul in 567, 579; + 602); he gave

orders to his children, forasmuch as true honour at last

consisted not in empty pomp but in the remembrance of

personal and ancestral merits, to expend on his funeral not

more than 1,000,000 asses (£10,200). Luxury was on the

increase also as respected houses and gardens; the splendid

town house of the orator Crassus (+ 663), famous espe­

cially for the old trees of its garden, was valued with the

trees at 6,000,000 of sesterces (£61,500) without them at

the half; while the value of an ordinary dwelling-house

in Rome may be estimated perhaps at 60,000 sesterces

