448 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

poetry itself hardly improved. We now meet with the

national tragedy (prcetexta), the creation of Naevius, only

in the hands of Pacuvius to be mentioned immediately—an

after-growth of the Ennian epoch. Among the probably

numerous poets who imitated Greek tragedies two alone

Pacuvius. acquired distinction. Marcus Pacuvius from Brundisium

219-129. (535—c. 625) who in his earlier years earned his livelihood

in Rome by painting aud only composed tragedies when

advanced in life, belongs as respects both his years and his

style to the sixth rather than the seventh century, although

his poetical activity falls within the latter. He composed on

the whole after the manner of his countryman, uncle, and

master Ennius. Polishing more carefully and aspiring to

a higher strain than his predecessor, he was regarded by

favourable critics of art afterwards as a model of artistic

poetry and of rich style: in the fragments, however, that

nave reached us proofs are not wanting to justify Cicero's

censure of the poet's language and Lucilius' censure of his

taste; his language appears more rugged than that of his

predecessor, his style of composition pompous and punc­

tilious.* There are traces that he like Ennius attached

more value to philosophy than to religion; but he did not

at any rate, like the latter, prefer dramas chiming in with

neological views and preaching sensual passion or modern

enlightenment, and drew without distinction from Sophocles

or from Euripides; of that poetry with a decided special aim,

which almost stamps Ennius with genius, there can have

been no vein in the younger poet.

* Thus, in the Paulas, an original piece, the following line occurred, pro­  
bably in the description of the pass of Pythium (ii. 300) :—

Qua vie caprigeno generi gradilis gressio est. .

And in another piece the hearers are expected to understand the following

description—

Quadrupes tardigrada agrestis humilis aspera,

Capite brevi, cervice am/ulna, aspect* truci,

Eviscerata inanima cum animali sono.

To which they naturally reply—

Ita sceptuosa dictione abs te datur,

Quod conjectura sapiens cegre contuit;

A'on inteUegimus, nisi si aperte dixeris.

Then follows the confession that the tortoise is referred to. Such enigmas,

moreover, were not wanting even among the Attic tragedians, who on that

account were olten and sharply taken to task by the Middle Comedy.

