460 [Book IV. LITERATURE AND ART.

100.

178, 177

S.itura.

Lucilius.

148-103.

as the " Istrian War " of Hostius and the " Annals (perhaps)

of the Gallic War " by Aulus Furius (about 650), which to all

appearance took up the narrative at the very point where

Ennius had broken off—the description of the Istrian war

of 576 and 577. In didactic and elegiac poetry no promi­

nent name appears. The only successes, which the recita­

tive poetry of this period has to show, belong to the domain

of what was called Saturn—a species of art, which like the

letter or the pamphlet allowed any form and admitted any

sort of contents, and accordingly in default of all proper

generic characters drew its individual shape wholly from the

individuality of each poet, and occupied a position not merely

on the boundary between poetry .and prose, but even more

than half beyond the bounds of literature proper. The

humorous poetical epistles, which one of the younger men

of the Scipionic circle, Spurius Mummius, the brother of the

destroyer of Corinth, sent home from the camp of Corinth

to his friends, were still read with pleasure a century after­

wards; and numerous poetical pleasantries of that sort not

destined for publication probably proceeded at that time

from the rich social and intellectual life of the better circles

of Rome.

Its representative in literature is Gaius Lucilius (606-651)

sprung of a respectable family in the Latin colony of Suessa,

and likewise a member of the Scipionic circle. His poems

are, as it were, open letters to the public. Their contents, as

a gifted successor gracefully says, embrace the whole life of

a cultivated man of independence, who looks upon the

events passing on the political stage from the pit and occa­

sionally from the side-scenes; who converses with the best

of his epoch as his equals; who prosecutes literature and

science with sympathy and intelligence without wishing per­

sonally to pass for a poet or scholar ; and who, in fine, makes

his pocket-book the confidential receptacle for everything

good and bad that he meets with, for his political experiences

and expectations, for grammatical remarks and criticisms on

art, for the incidents of his own life, visits, dinners, journeys,

as well as for the anecdotes which he has heard. Caustic,

capricious, thoroughly individual, the Lucilian poetry has

yet a distinctly impressed controversial and, so far, didactic

aim in literature as well as in morals and politics; there is

in it something of the protest of the country against the

capital; the Suessan's sense of his own purity of speech and

