Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 213

Marius necessarily produced among its promoters. While and the de-

the decisive proposals were brought forward by his associates magognes.

and carried after a struggle by his soldiers, Marius main­

tained an attitude wholly passive, as if the political leader

was not bound quite as much as the military, when the brunt

of battle came, to present himself everywhere and foremost

in person. Nor was this all; he was terrified at, and fled

from the presence of, the spirits which he had himself evoked.

When his associates resorted to expedients which an honour­

able man could not approve, but without which in fact the

object of their efforts could not be attained, he attempted, in

the fashion usual with men whose politico-moral ideas are con­

fused, to wash his hands of participation in those crimes and

at the same time to profit by their results. There is a story,

that the general once conducted secret negotiations in two

different apartments of his house, with Saturninus and his

partisans in the one, and with the deputies of the oligarchy

m the other, talking with the former of striking a blow

against the senate, and with the latter of interfering against

the revolt, and that under a pretext, which corresponded

to the anxiety of the situation, he went to and fro between

the two conferences—a story as certainly invented, and as

certainly appropriate, as any incident in Aristophanes. The

ambiguous attitude of Marius became notorious in the ques­

tion of the oath. At first he seemed as though he would

himself refuse the oath required by the Appuleian laws on

account of the informalities that had occurred at their

passing, and then swore it with the reservation, "so far as

the laws were really valid;" a reservation which annulled

the oath itself, and which of course all the senators likewise

adopted in swearing, so that by this mode of taking the oath

the validity of the laws was not secured, but was on the con­

trary for the first time fairly called in question.

The consequences of this behaviour—stupid beyond paral­

lel—on the part of the celebrated general soon developed

themselves. Saturninus and Glaucia had not undertaken

the revolution and procured for Marius the supremacy of the

state, in order that they might be disowned and sacrificed by

him; if Glaucia, the favourite jester of the people, had

hitherto lavished on Marius the gayest flowers of his jovial

eloquence, the garlands which he now wove for him were by

no means redolent of roses and violets. A total rupture

took place, by which both parties were lost; for Marius had

