40 [Book IV. THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES.

Macedonia

and the

Pseudo-

Philip.

dians retained what they possessed. But the careful regu­

lation of the boundary between the Roman province and

the Numidian kingdom, which enclosed it on three sides,

showed that Home would by no means tolerate in reference

to herself what she had permitted in reference to Carthage;

while the name of the new province, Africa, on the other

hand appeared to indicate that Rome did not at all regard

the boundary now marked off as a definitive one. The

supreme administration of the new province was intrusted

to a Roman governor, whose seat was Utica. Its frontier

did not need any regular defence, as the allied Numidian

kingdom everywhere separated it from the inhabitants of

the desert. In the matter of taxes Rome dealt on the whole

with moderation. Those communities which from the be­

ginning of the war had taken part with Rome—viz., only

the maritime towns of Utica, Hadrumetum, Little Leptis,

Thapsus, Achulla, and Usalis, and the inland town of

Theudalis—retained their territory and became free cities;

which was also the case with the newly founded community

of deserters. The territory of the city of Carthage with

the exception of a tract presented to Utica, and that of

the other destroyed townships, became Roman domainland,

which was let on lease. The remaining townships likewise

forfeited in law their property in the soil and their muni­

cipal liberties ; but their land and their constitution were left

to them on sufferance for the time being and until further

orders from the Roman government, and the communities

Eaid annually to Eome for the use of their soil which

ad become Roman a definitely fixed tribute (stipendium),

which they in their turn raised by means of a property-

tax levied from the individuals liable. The real gainers,

however, by this destruction of the first commercial city of

the west were the Roman merchants, who, as soon as Car­

thage lay in ashes, flocked in troops to Utica, and from that

as their head-quarters began to turn to profitable account

not only the Boman province, but also the Numidian and

Gaetulian regions which had hitherto been closed to them.

Macedonia also disappeared about the same time as

Carthage from the ranks of the nations. The four small

confederacies, into which the wisdom of the Roman senate

had parcelled out the ancient kingdom, could not live at

peace either internally or one with another. The state of

matters in the country appears from a single accidentally

