302 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

87.

of the

Piraeeus,

orders to them to vanquish the enemy with the utmost

speed. As early as 667 his son Ariarathes had started

from Macedonia to combat Sulla in Greece proper; only

the sudden death, which overtook the prince on the march

at the Tisaean promontory in Thessaly, had at that time led

to the abandonment of the expedition. His successor

86. Taxiles now appeared (668), driving before him the Roman

corps stationed in Thessaly, with an army of, it is said,

100,000 infantry and 10,000 cavalry at Thermopylae Dro-

Evacuation michaates joined him. Archelaus also — compelled, appa­

rently, not so much by Sulla's arms as by his master's orders

—evacuated the Piraeus first partially and then entirely, and

joined the Pontic main army in Boeotia. Sulla, after having

given orders that the Piraeeus with all its greatly admired

fortifications should be destroyed, followed the Pontic army,

in the hope of being able to fight a pitched battle before the

arrival of Flaccus. In vain Archelaus advised that they

should avoid such a battle, but should keep the sea and the

coast occupied and the enemy in suspense. Now, just as

formerly under Darius and Antiochus, the masses of the

Orientals, like animals terrified in the midst of a fire, flung

themselves hastily and blindly into battle; and did so on

this occasion more foolishly than ever, since the Asiatics

might perhaps have had to wait but a few months in order

to be the spectators of a battle between Sulla and Flaccus.

In the plain of the Cephissus not far from Chaeronea, in

March 668, the armies niet. Even including the division

driven back from Thessaly, which had succeeded in accom­

plishing its junction with the Roman main army, and includ­

ing the Greek contingents, the Roman army found itself

opposed to a foe three times as strong and particularly to a

cavalry far superior and from the nature of the field of

battle very dangerous, against which Sulla found it neces­

sary to protect his flanks by digging trenches, while in front

he caused a chain of palisades to be introduced between his

first and second lines for protection against the enemy's

war-chariots. When the war-chariots rolled on to open the

battle, the first line of the Romans withdrew behind this

row of stakes: the chariots, rebounding from it and scared

by the Roman slingers and archers, threw themselves on their

own line and carried confusion both into the Macedonian

phalanx and into the corps of the Italian refugees. Arche­

laus brought up in haste his cavalry from both flanks and

Battle of

Queronea.

86.

'

