Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 171

the Romans chose the spot where Gaius Sextius defeated

the Celts, and where the pleasantness and fertility of the

region as well as the numerous hot and cold springs invited

them to settlement; a Roman township sprang up there

—the "baths of Sextius," Aquae Sextiae (Aix). To the west

of the Rhone the Romans settled in Karbo, an ancient

Celtic town on the navigable river Atax (Aude) at a small

distance from the sea, which is already mentioned by Heca-

tous, and which even before its occupation by the Eomans

was the rival of Massilia as a place of stirring commerce,

and as sharing the trade in British tin. Aquae did not obtain

civic rights, but remained a standing camp ;* whereas Narbo,

although in like manner founded mainly as a sentinel out­

post against the Celts, became, as " Mars' town," a Roman

burgess-colony and the usual seat of the governor of the

new Transalpine Celtic province or, as it was more frequently

called, the province of Narbo.

The Gracchan party, which suggested these extensions of The advance

territory beyond the Alps, evidently wished to open up of the Ro-

thcre a new and immeasurable field for their plans of coloni- "?an^

zation,—a field which offered the same advantages as Sicily thrpolic/

and Africa, and could be more easily wrested from the of the re-

natives than the Sicilian and Libyan estates from the storation.

Italian capitalists. The fall of Gaius Gracchus, no doubt,

gave occasion here also to restrictions on the acquisition of

territory and still more on the founding of cities; but, if the

design was not carried out in its full extent, it was at any

rate not wholly frustrated. The territory acquired and,

still more, the foundation of Narbo—a settlement on which

the senate vainly endeavoured to inflict the fate of that at

Carthage—remained standing as parts of an unfinished

structure, exhorting the future successor of Gracchus to

continue the building. It is evident that the Roman mer­

cantile class, which was able to compete with Massilia in

the Gallo-Britannic traffic at Narbo alone, protected that

settlement from the assaults of the Optimates.

A problem similar to that in the north-west had to be niyria,

dealt with in the north-east of Italy; it was in like

* Aquae was not a colony, as Livy says (Ep. 61), but a castellum (Strabo,  
iv. 180; Velleius, i. 15; Madvig, Opusc. i. 303). The same holds true of

Italica (P. 4), and of many other places—Vindonissa, for instance, never was

in law anything else than a Celtic village, but was withal a fortified Roman

camp and a place of very considerable importance.

