178 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

110. reached the Danube, and Marcus Minuciua (644), who car­

ried his arms along the Morava* and so thoroughly defeated

the Scordisci, that they thenceforth sank into insignificance,

and in their room another tribe, the Dardani (in Servia),

began to play the leading part in the region between the

northern frontier of Macedonia and the Danube.

The Cimbri. But these victories had an effect which the victors did not

anticipate. For a considerable period an "unsettled people"

had been wandering along the northern verge of the country

occupied by the Celts on both sides of the Danube. They

called themselves the Cimbri, that is, the Chempho, the

champions or, as their enemies translated it, the robbers; a

designation, however, which to all appearance had become

the name of the people even before their migration. They

came from the north, and the first Celtic people with whom

they came in contact were, so far as is known, the Boii, pro-

bly in Bohemia. More exact details as to the cause and the

direction of their migration have not been recorded by con­

temporaries, f and cannot be supplied by conjecture, since the

state of things in those times to the north of Bohemia and

the Main and to the east of the Lower R.hine lies wholly

beyond our knowledge. But the hypothesis that the

Cimbri as well as the similar horde of the Teutones

which afterwards joined them belonged in the main not to

the Celtic nation, to which the Romans at first assigned

them, but to the Germanic, is supported by the most defi­

nite facts : viz., by the existence of two small tribes of the

same name—remnants left behind to all appearance in

their primitive seats—the Cimbri in the modern Denmark,

the Teutones in the north-east of Germany in the neighbour­

hood of the Baltic, where Pytheas, a contemporary of Alex­

ander the Great, makes mention of them thus early in

connection with the amber trade; by the insertion of the

Cimbri and Teutones in the list of the Germanic peoples

among the Ingarvones alongside of the Chauci; by the judg­

ment of Caesar, who first made the Romans acquainted

* As, according to Velleius and Eutropius, the tribe conquered by Minucius  
was the Scordisci, it can only be through an error on the part of Florus that

he mentions the Hebrus (the Maritza) instead of the Margus (Morava).

f The account that large tracts on the coasts of the North Sea had been

torn away by inundations, and that this had occasioned the migration of the

Cimbri in a body (Strabo, rii. 293) does not indeed appear to us fabulous, as
it

seemed to the Greek inquirers; but whether it was based on tradition or on

conjecture, cannot be decided.

