Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 307

camp. Flaccus was deposed by the army and soon after­

wards put to death at Nicomedia, not far from Chalcedon;

Fimbria was installed by decree of the soldiers in his stead.

As a matter of course he allowed his troops every indul­

gence; in the friendly Cyzicus, for instance, the citizens

were ordered to surrender all their property to the soldiers

on pain of death, and by way of warning example two of the

most respectable citizens were at once executed. Neverthe­

less in a military point of view the change of commander-in-

chief was a gain; Fimbria was not, like Flaccus, an inca­

pable general, but energetic and talented. At Miietopolis (on Fimbria's

the Rhyndacus to the west of Brussa) he defeated the younger victory at

Mithradates, who as governor of the satrapy of Pontus had MiletoPolls.

marched against him, completely in a nocturnal assault, and

by this victory opened his way to Pergamus, the capital for­

merly of the Roman province and now of the Pontic king,

whence he dislodged the king and compelled him to take

flight to the port of Pitane not far off, with the view of

there embarking. Just at that moment Lucullus appeared

in those waters with his fleet; Fimbria adjured him to

render assistance so that he might be enabled to capture the

king. But the optimate was stronger in Lucullus than the

patriot; he sailed onward and the king escaped to Mityllene.

The situation of Mithradates was thus sufficiently embar- Perilous

rassed. At the end of 669 Europe was lost, Asia Minor position[8o.

partly in rebellion against him, partly occupied by a Roman j™ Mlthra-

army; and he himself threatened by the latter in his imme- a'

diate vicinity. The Roman fleet under Lucullus had main­

tained its position on the Trojan coast by two successful

naval engagements at the promontory of Lectum and at the

island of Tenedos; it was joined there by the ships which

had in the meanwhile been built by Sulla's orders in Thes-

saly, and by its position commanding the Hellespont it

secured to the general of the senatorial army a safe and

easy passage next spring to Asia.

Mithradates attempted to negotiate. Under other cir- Negotia-

cutnstances no doubt the author of the edict for the Ephe-tions for

sian massacre could never have cherished the hope of being Peace#

admitted at all to terms of peace with Rome; but amidst

the internal convulsions of the Roman republic, when the

ruling government had declared the general sent against

Mithradates an outlaw and subjected his partisans at home

to the most fearful persecutions, when one Roman general

