Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN KEVOLUTION. 253

occupation of the Hirpinian territory the communication

was broken off between the only two regions still persevering

in open resistance, the Samnite and the Lucano-Bruttian.

The field of the insurrection resembled the scene of an im­

mense conflagration dying out; everywhere the eye fell on

ashes and ruins and smouldering brands; here and there

the flame still blazed up among the ruins, but the fire was

everywhere mastered and there was no further threatening

of danger. It is to be regretted, that we no longer suffi­

ciently discern in the superficial accounts handed down to

us the causes of this sudden revolution. While undoubtedly

the dexterous leadership of Strabo and still more of Sulla,

the more energetic concentration of the Roman forces, and

their quicker offensive action contributed materially to that

result, political causes were probably at work along with the

military in producing the singularly rapid fall of the insurgents'

power; the law of Silvanus and Carbo probably fulfilled its

design in carrying defection and treason to the common

cause into the ranks of the enemy, and misfortune, as has

so frequently happened, probably fell as an apple of discord

among the loosely connected insurgent communities. We Persever-

see only—and this fact points to an internal breaking up of ance of 1"

Italia, that must certainly have been attended by violent S*™11"65-

convulsions—that the Samnites, perhaps under the leadership

of the Marsian Quintus Silo who had been from the first the

soul of the insurrection and after the capitulation of the

Marsians had gone as a fugitive to the neighbouring people,

now assumed another organization purely confined to their

own land, aud, after "Italia" was vanquished, undertook

to continue the struggle as "Safini" or Samnites.* The

strong JEsernia was converted from the fortress that had

curbed, into the last retreat that sheltered, Samnite freedom;

an army assembled consisting, it was said, of 30,000 infantry

and 1000 cavalry, and was strengthened by the manumission

and incorporation of 20,000 slaves; five generals were placed

at its head, among whom Silo was the first and Mutilus next

to him. With astonishment men saw the Samnite wars be­

ginning anew after a pause of two hundred years, and the

resolute nation of farmers making a fresh attempt, just as in

* The rare denarii with Safinim and G. Mutil in Oscan characters must  
belong to this period; for, as long as the designation Italia was retained by

the insurgents, no single canton could, as a sovereign power, coin money with

its own name.

