310 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IT.

self with such a peace. But the self-denial and the sagacity

with which he had conducted this whole war were only

displayed afresh in the conclusion of this peace; for war

with a prince, to whom almost the whole coast of the Black

Sea belonged, and whose obstinacy was clearly displayed

even by the last negotiations, would even under the most

favourable circumstances require years, and the situation of

Italy was such that it seemed almost too late even for Sulla

to oppose the party in power there with the few legions

which he possessed.* Before this could be done, however,

it was absolutely necessary to overthrow the bold officer

who was at the head of the democratic army in Asia, in

* Armenian tradition also is acquainted with the first Mithradatic war.  
Ardasches king of Armenia—Moses of Chorene tells us—was not content with

the second rank which rightfully belonged to him in the Persian (Parthian)

empire, but compelled the Parthian king Arschagan to give over to him the

supreme power, whereupon he had a palace built for himself in Persia and bad

coins struck there with his own image. He appointed Arschagan viceroy of

Persia and his son Dicran (Tigranes) viceroy of Armenia, and gave his

daughter Ardaschama in marriage to the great prince of the Iberians Mihrdates

(Mithradates) who was descended from Mihrdates satrap of Darius and go­

vernor appointed by Alexander over the conquered Iberians, and ruled in the

northern mountains as well as over the Black Sea. Ardasches then took

Croesus the king of the Lydians prisoner, subdued the mainland between the

two great seas (Asia Minor), and crossed the sea with innumerable vessels to

subjugate the West. As there was anarchy at that time in Rome, he nowhere

encountered serious resistance, but his soldiers killed each other and
Ardasches

fell by the hands of his own troops. After Ardasches' death his successor Die*

ran marched against the army of the Greeks (»'. e. the Romans) who now in

turn invaded the Armenian land; he set a limit to their advance, handed over

to his brother-in-law Mihrdates the administration of Madschag (Mazaka in

Cappadocia) and of the interior along with a considerable force, and returned
to

Armenia. Many years afterwards there were still pointed out in the Arme­

nian towns statues of Greek gods by well-known masters, trophies of this cam­

paign.

We have no difficulty in recognizing here various facts of the first Mithra­

datic war, but the whole narrative is evidently confused, furnished with hete­

rogeneous additions, and in particular transferred by patriotic falsification
to

Armenia. In just the same way the victory over Crassus is afterwards attri­

buted to the Armenians. These Oriental accounts are to be received with all

the greater caution, that they are by no means mere popular legends; on the

contrary the accounts of Josephus, Eusebius, and other authorities current

among the Christians of the fifth century have been amalgamated with the Ar­

menian traditions, and the historical romances of the Greeks and beyond doubt

the patriotic fancies also of Moses himself have been laid to a considerable
ex­

tent under contribution. Bad as is our Occidental tradition in itself, to call
in

the aid of Oriental tradition in this and similar cases—as has been attempted

for instance by the uncritical Saint-Martin—can only lead to still further
coo-

fusion.

