326 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA.

Cinna and

Sulla.

Italy and

the pro­

vinces in

favour of

the govern­

ment.

87.

a very unnecessary way by a meaningless disregard of the

constitutional rules of election. The capitalist party might

have furnished some support, and it was injured in the most

sensitive point by the law as to debt. The true mainstay of

the government was—wholly without any co-operation on

its part—the new burgesses; their assistance was acquiesced

in, but nothing was done to regulate the strange position of

the Samnites, who were now nominally Roman citizens, but

evidently regarded their country's independence as practi­

cally the real object and prize of the struggle and remained

in arms to defend it against all and sundry. Illustrious

senators were struck down like mad dogs; but not the

smallest step was taken to reorganize the senate in the

interest of the government, or even permanently to terrify

it; bo that the government was by no means sure of its

aid. Gaius Gracchus had not understood the fall of the oli­

garchy as implying that the new master might conduct him­

self on his self-created throne, as legitimate cipher-kings

think proper to do. But this Cinna had been elevated to

power not by his will, but by pure accident; was there any

wonder, that he remained where the stormy wave of revolu­

tion had washed him up, till a second wave came to sweep

him away again?

The same union of the mightiest plenitude of power with

the most utter impotence and incapacity in those who held

it, was apparent in the warfare waged by the revolutionary

government against the oligarchy—a warfare on which its

existence primarily depended. In Italy it ruled with abso­

lute sway. Of the old burgesses a very large portion were

on principle favourable to democratic views; and the still

greater mass of quiet people, while disapproving the Marian

horrors, saw in an oligarchic restoration simply the com­

mencement of a second reign of terror by the opposite parry.

The impression of the outrages of 667 on the nation at large

had been comparatively slight, as they had chiefly affected

the mere aristocracy of the capital; and it was moreover

somewhat effaced by the three years of tolerably peaceful •

government that ensued. Lastly the whole mass of the new

burgesses—three-fifths perhaps of the Italians—were de­

cidedly, if not favourable to the present government, yet

opposed to the oligarchy.

Like Italy, most of the provinces adhered to the oligarchy

:—Sicily, Sardinia, the two Gauls, the two Spains. In Africa

