124 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV.

the other Italian allies the former rights of the Latins. Bat

the proposal encountered the united opposition of the senate

and the mob of the capital. The nature of this coalition

and its mode of conflict are clearly and distinctly seen from

an accidentally preserved fragment of the speech which the

consul Gaius Fannius made to the burgesses in opposition to

the proposal. "Do ye then think," said the Optimate,

"that, if ye confer the franchise on the Latins, ye will

be able to find a place in future—just as you are now stand­

ing there in front of me—in the burgess assembly or at the

games and popular amusements? Do you not believe, on the

contrary, that those people will occupy every spot?" Among

the burgesses of the fifth century, who on one day conferred

the franchise on all the Sabines, such an orator might per­

haps have been hissed; those of the seventh found his

reasoning uncommonly clear and the price of the assignation

of the Latin domains, which was offered to it by Gracchus,

far too low. The very circumstance, that the senate carried

a permission to eject from the city all non-burgesses before

the day for the decisive vote, showed the fate in store

for the proposal. And when before the voting Livius

Drusus, a colleague of Gracchus, interposed his veto against

the law, the people received the veto in such a way that

Gracchus could not venture to proceed further or to prepare

for Drusus the fate of Marcus Octavius.

Overthrow It was, apparently, this success which emboldened the

of Gracchus, senate to attempt the overthrow of the victorious dema­

gogue. The weapons of attack were substantially the same

with which Gracchus himself had formerly operated.

Gracchus' power rested on the mercantile class and the

proletariate, primarily on the latter, which as it were

played the part of the army in this conflict wherein neither

side had any military reserve. It was clear that the senate

was not powerful enough to wrest either from the merchants

or from the proletariate their new privileges; every attempt to

assail the corn-laws or the new jury-arrangement would have

led, under a somewhat grosser or somewhat more civilized

form, to a street-riot in presence of which the senate was

utterly defenceless. But it was no less clear, that Gracchus

himself and these merchants and proletarians were only kept

together by mutual advantage, and that the men of material

interests were ready to accept their posts, and the populace

strictly so-called its bread, just as well from any other as

