Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 203

dilating ambition, as the remodelling which the force of cir­

cumstances dictated in institutions which had become un­

tenable. It is probable that the introduction of the system

of inland enlistment byMarius saved the state in a military

point of view from destruction, just as several centuries

afterwards Arbogast and Stilicho prolonged its existence for

a time by the introduction of foreign enlistment. Never­

theless, it involved a complete—although not yet developed—

political revolution. The republican constitution was essen­

tially based on the view that the citizen was also soldier, and

that the soldier was above all a citizen; it was at an end, so

soon as a soldier-class was formed. To this issue the new

system of drill, with its routine borrowed from the profes­

sional gladiator, necessarily led; the military service became

gradually a profession. Far more rapid was the effect of the

admission—though but limited—of the proletariate to par­

ticipate in military service; especially in connection with

the primitive maxims, which conceded to the general an

arbitrary right of rewarding his soldiers compatible only

with very solid republican institutions, and gave to the able

and successful soldier a sort of title to demand from the

general a share of the moveable spoil and from the state a

portion of the soil that had been won. While the burgess or

farmer called out under the levy saw in military service

nothing but a burden to be undertaken for the public good,

and in the gains of war nothing but a slight compensation

for the far.more considerable loss brought upon him by serv­

ing, it was otherwise with the enlisted proletarian. Not only

was he for the moment solely dependent upon his pay, but,

as there was no Hotel des Invalides nor even a poorhouse to

receive him after his discharge, he necessarily desired for

the future also to abide by his standard, and not to leave it

otherwise than with the establishment of his civic status.

His only home was the camp, his only science war, his only

hope the general—what this implied, is clear. When Marius

after the engagement on the Eaudine plain unconstitution­

ally gave Roman citizenship on the very field of battle to two

cohorts of Italian allies in a body for their brave conduct,

he justified himself afterwards by saying that amidst the

noise of battle he had not been able to distinguish the voice

of the laws. If once in more important questions the in­

terest of the army and that of the general should concur to

produce unconstitutional demands, who could be security that

f

