164 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

this war had in fact revealed the utter nullity of the oppo­

sition no less than it had divulged the corruption of the

government. It was not possible to govern worse than the

117-109. restoration governed in the years 637-645; it was not

possible to be more defenceless and forlorn than was the

109- senate in 645: had there been in Rome a real opposition,

that is to say, a party which wished and urged a funda­

mental alteration of the constitution, it must necessarily

have now made at least an attempt to overturn the restored

senate. No such attempt took place; the political question

was converted into a personal one, the generals were

changed, and one or two useless and unimportant people

were banished. It was thus settled, that the so-called popu­

lar party as such neither could nor would govern; that only

two forms of government were at all possible in Rome, a

tyrannis or an oligarchy; that, so long as there happened

to be nobody sufficiently well known, if not sufficiently im­

portant, to usurp the regency of the state, the worst mis­

management endangered at the most individual oligarchs,

but never the oligarchy; that on the other hand, so soon

as such a pretender appeared, nothing was easier than to

shake the rotten curule chairs. In this respect the coming

forward of Marius was significant, just because it was in itself

so utterly unwarranted. If the burgesses had stormed the

senate-house after the defeat of Albinus, it would have

been natural, not to say proper; but after the turn which

Metellus had given to the Numidian war, nothing more

could be said of mismanagement, and still less of danger

to the commonwealth, at least in that respect: and yet the

first ambitious officer who turned up succeeded in doing

that with which the older Africanus had once threatened the

government (ii. 358), and procured for himself one of the

principal military commands against the distinctly expressed

will of the governing body. Public opinion, unavailing in the

hands of the so-called popular party, became an irresistible

weapon in the hands of the future king of Rome. We do

not mean to say that Marius intended to play the pretender,

at least at the time when he canvassed the people for the

supreme command in Africa ; but, whether he did or did not

understand what he was doing, there was evidently an end

of the restored aristocratic government when tne < omitial

machine began to make generals, or, which was nearly the

same thing, when every popular officer was in a position to

