Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 207

second sort. Such were Gaius Servilius Glaucia, called Glaucia.

by Cicero the "Roman Hyperbolus, a vulgar fellow of the

lowest origin and of the most shameless street-eloquence,

but effective and even dreaded by reason of his pungent

wit; and his better and abler associate, Lucius Appuleius

Saturninus, who even according to the accounts of his Saturnintu

enemies was a fiery and impressive speaker, and was at

least not guided by motives of vulgar selfishness. When he

was quaestor, the charge of the importation of corn which

had fallen to him in the usual way had been withdrawn from

him by decree of the senate, not so much perhaps on account

of the faults of his administration, as in order to confer this

—just at that time popular—office on one of the heads of the

government-party, Marcus Scaurus, rather than upon an

unknown young man not belonging to any of the ruling

families. This mortification had driven the aspiring and

sensitive man into the ranks of the opposition; and as

tribune of the people in 651 he repaid what he had received 103.

with interest. One scandalous affair had then followed hard

upon another. He had spoken in the open market of the

briberies practised in Rome by the envoys of King Mith-

radates—these revelations, compromising in the highest de­

gree the senate, had wellnigh cost the bold tribune his life.

He had excited a tumult against the conqueror of Numidia,

Quintus Metellus, when he was a candidate for the censor­

ship in 652, and kept him besieged in the Capitol till the 102.

equites liberated him not without bloodshed ; the retaliatory

measure of the censor Metellus—the expulsion with infamy of

Saturninus and of Glaucia from the senate on occasion of the

revision of the senatorial roll-—had only miscarried through

the remissness of the colleague assigned to Metellus. Satur­

ninus mainly had carried that exceptional commission against

Caepio and his associates (P. 188) in spite of the vehement

resistance of the government-party ; and in opposition to the

same he had carried the keenly contested re-election of

Marius as consul for 652. Saturninus was decidedly the 102.

most energetic enemy of the senate and the most active and

eloquent leader of the popular party since Gams Gracchus;

but he was also violent and unscrupulous beyond any of

his predecessors, always ready to descend into the street

and to refute his antagonist with blows instead of words.

Such were the two leaders of the so-called popular party,

who now made common cause with the victorious general.

