Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 321

Strabo was a fortunate event for it. He died not of the Death of

pestilence, but—as was alleged at least—of the effects of a Strabo.

thunderbolt which had struck his tent; the masses, exas­

perated on many grounds against him, tore his corpse from

the bier and dragged it through the streets. The remnant

of his troops was incorporated by the consul Octavius with

his army. After the arrival of Metellus and the decease

of Strabo the army of the government was again at least a

match for its antagonists, and was able to take up its ground

for battle against the insurgents at the Alban Mount.

But the minds of the soldiers of the government were Vacillation

deeply agitated; when Cinna appeared in front of them, °f the

they received him with acclamation as if he were still their g°Ter"-

general and consul; Metellus deemed it advisable not to menu

allow the battle" to come on, but to lead back the troops to

their camp. The Optimates themselves wavered, and fell

into variance with each other. While one party, with the

honourable but stubborn and shortsighted consul Octavius

at their head, perseveringly opposed all concession, the

more experienced and more judicious Metellus attempted

to bring about a compromise; but his conference with

Cinna excited the wrath of the ultras on both sides: Cinna

was called by Marius a weakling, Metellus was called by

Octavius a traitor. The soldiers, disturbed on other grounds

and not without cause distrusting the leadership of the

untried Octavius, suggested to Metellus that he should

assume the chief command, and, when he refused, began in

crowds to throw away their arms or even to desert to the

enemy. The temper of the burgesses became daily more

depressed and troublesome. On the proclamation of the

heralds of Cinna guaranteeing freedom to the slaves who

should desert, these flocked in troops from the capital to the

enemy's camp. But the proposal that the senate should

guarantee freedom to the slaves willing to enter the army

was decidedly resisted by Octavius. The government could Rome capi-

not conceal that it was defeated, and that nothing remained tulates.

but to come to terms if possible with the leaders of the

band, as an overpowered traveller comes to terms with a

bandit-chief. Envoys were sent to Cinna; but, while they

foolishly made difficulties as to recognizing him as consul,

and Cinna in the interval thus occupied transferred his

camp close to the city-gates, the desertion spread to so

great an extent that it was no longer possible to settle any

VOl. III. T

. _

