222 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

the attempt to carry along with the movement this body,

without which it was impossible to attain the desired end.

Attempt at Drusus drew up a proposal to withdraw the functions of

reform on jurymen from the burgesses of equestrian rating and to re-

the part of B^0Te them to the senate, which at the same time was to be

rate aristo- Put in a position to meet its increased obligations by the ad-

cracy. mission of 300 new members; a special criminal commission

was to be appointed for pronouncing judgment in the case

of those jurymen, who had been or should be guilty of

accepting bribes. By this means his immediate object was

gained; the capitalists were deprived of their political ex­

clusive rights, and were rendered responsible for the per­

petration of injustice. But the proposals and designs of

Drusus were by no means limited to this; his projects were

not measures adapted merely for the occasion, but a compre­

hensive and thoroughly considered plan of reform. He pro­

posed, moreover, to increase the largesses of grain and to

cover the increased expense by the permanent issue of a

proportional number of copper plated, alongside of the

silver, denarii; and then to set apart all the still undistributed

arable land of Italy—thus including in particular the Cam-

panian domains—and the best part of Sicily for the settle­

ment of burgess-colonists. Lastly, he entered into the most

distinct obligations towards the Italian allies to procure for

them the Roman franchise. Thus the very same supports

of power and the very same ideas of reform, on which the

constitution of Gaius Gracchus had rested, presented them­

selves now on the side of the aristocracy—a singular, and yet

easily intelligible coincidence. It was only to be expected

that, as the tyrannis had rested for its support against the

oligarchy, so the latter should rest for its support against

the moneyed aristocracy, on the paid and in some degree

organized proletariate; while the government had formerly

accepted the feeding of the proletariate at the expense of

the state as an inevitable evil, Drusus now thought of em­

ploying it, at least for the moment, against the moneyed

aristocracy. It was only to be expected that the better

part of the aristocracy, just as it formerly consented to the

agrarian law of Tiberius Gracchus, would now readily con­

sent to all those measures of reform, which, without touching

the question of a supreme head, only aimed at the cure of

the old evils of the state. In the question of emigration

and colonization, it is true, they could not go so far as the

