Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 19

said to have fallen. After the subjugation of the Vaccaeans,

Lusitanians, and Gallaecians, the whole peninsula, with the

exception of the north coast, was now at least nominally

subject to the Romans.

A senatorial commission was sent to Spain in order to New orga-

organize, in concert with Scipio, the newly won provincial nization of

territory after the Roman method; and Scipio did what he sPain-

could to obviate the effects of the disgraceful and stupid

policy of his predecessors. The Caucani for instance,

whose shameful maltreatment by Lucullus he had been

obliged to witness nineteen years before when a military

tribune, were invited by him to return to their town and to

rebuild it. Spain began once more to enjoy better times.

The suppression of piracy, which found dangerous lurking-

places in the Baleares, through the occupation of these

islands by Quiutus Caecilius Metellus in 631 was singu- 123.

larly conducive to the prosperity of Spanish commerce;

and in other respects also the fertile islands, inhabited by a

dense population which was unsurpassed in the use of the

sling, were a valuable possession. How numerous the

Latin-speaking population in the peninsula was even then,

is shown by the settlement of 3000 Spanish Latins in the

towns of Palma and Pollentia (Pollenza) in the newly

acquired islands. In spite of various grave evils the

Roman administration of Spain preserved on the whole the

stamp which the Catonian period, and primarily Tiberius

Gracchus, had impressed on it. It is true that the Roman

frontier territory had not a little to suffer from the inroads

of the tribes but half subdued or not subdued at all on the

north and west. Among the Lusitanians in particular

the poorer youths regularly congregated as banditti, and

in large gangs levied contributions from their countrymen

or their neighbours, for which reason, even at a much later

period, the isolated homesteads in this region were con­

structed in the style of fortresses and were, in case of need,

capable of defence; nor did the Romans succeed in putting

an end to these predatory habits in the inhospitable an$

almost inaccessible Lusitanian mountains. But the succeed­

ing wars assumed more and more the character of guerilla

disorders, which every tolerably efficient governor was

able to repress with his ordinary resources; and in spite

of these inflictions on the border districts, Spain was the

most flourishing and best-organized country in all the

