Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 435

Roman augurs grown into a prolix system of various celestial

omens and rules of conduct associated therewith; in the

earlier portion of this period it was even directly enacted

by the iElian and Fufian law, that every popular assembly

should be compelled to disperse if it should occur to any

of the higher magistrates to look for signs of a thunder­

storm in the sky; and the Roman oligarchy was proud of

the cunning device which enabled them thenceforth by a

single pious fraud to impress the stamp of invalidity on

any decree of the people. Conversely the Eoman opposition

rebelled against the ancient practice under which the four

principal colleges of priests tilled up their own ranks when

vacancies arose, and demanded the extension of popular

election to the stalls themselves, as it had been previously

introduced with reference to the presidents of these colleges

(ii. 357). This was certainly inconsistent with the spirit

of these corporations; but they had no right to complain of

it, after they had become themselves untrue to their spirit,

and had played into the hands of the Government at its

request by furnishing religious pretexts for the annulling

of political proceedings. This affair became an apple of

contention between the parties: the senate beat off the

first attack in 609, on which occasion the Scipionic circle i4.-,.

especially turned the scale for the rejection of the proposal;

on the other hand the project passed in 650 with the proviso 104.

already made in reference to the election of the presidents

for the benefit of scrupulous consciences, that not the

whole burgesses but only the lesser half of the tribes

should make the election (P. 204) ; finally Sulla restored

the right of co-optation in its full extent (P. 362). "With

this care on the part of the conservatives for the pure

national religion it was of course quite compatible, that

their very noblest circles should openly make a jest of

it. The practical side of the Roman priesthood was the

priestly cuisine; the augural and pontifical banquets were

as it were the official gala-days in the life of a Eoman

epicure, and several of them formed epochs in the history

of gastronomy; the banquet on the accession of the augur

Quintus Hortensius for instance brought roast peacocks

into vogue. Eeligion was also found very useful in giving

greater zest to scandal. It was a favourite recreation of

the young nobles to disfigure or mutilate the images of the

gods in the streets by night (P. 218). Ordinary love affairs

