Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 61

Corinth, the first commercial city in Greece, remains a dark

stain on the annals of Rome. By express orders from the

senate the Corinthian citizens were seized, and such as

were not killed were sold into slavery; the city itself was

not only deprived of its walls and its citadel—a measure

which, if the Romans were not disposed permanently to

garrison it, was certainly inevitable—but was levelled with

the ground, and all rebuilding on the desolate site was pro­

hibited in the usual forms of accursing; part of its territory

was given to Sicyon under the obligation that the latter

should defray the expense of the Isthmian national festival

in room of Corinth, but the greater portion was declared

to be public land of Rome. Thus was extinguished "the

eye of Hellas," the last precious ornament of the Grecian land

once so rich in cities. If, however, we review the whole

catastrophe, the impartial historian must acknowledge—

what the Greeks of this period themselves candidly con­

fessed—that the Romans were not to blame for the war

itself, but that on the contrary the foolish perfidy and the

feeble temerity of the Greeks compelled the Roman inter­

vention. The abolition of the mock sovereignty of the

leagues and of all the vague and pernicious dreams con­

nected with them was a blessing for the country; and the

government of the Roman commander-in-chief of Macedonia,

however much it fell short of what was to be wished, was

yet far better than the previous confusion and misrule ot

Greek confederacies and Roman commissions. The Pelopon­

nesus ceased to be the great harbour of mercenaries; it is

affirmed, and may readily be believed, that with the direct

government of Rome security and prosperity in some mea­

sure returned throughout the land. The epigram of Themi-

stocles, that ruin had averted ruin, was applied by the Greeks

of that day not altogether without reason to the loss of Greek

independence. The singular indulgence, which Rome even

now showed towards the Greeks, is brought fully to light

only by comparison with the contemporary conduct of the

same authorities towards the Spaniards and Phoenicians. To

treat barbarians with cruelty seemed not unallowable, but

the Romans of this period, like the Emperor Trajan in later

times, deemed it "harsh and barbarous to deprive Athens

and Sparta of the shadow of freedom which they still

retained." All the more marked is the contrast between

this general moderation and the revolting treatment of

