Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 297

of the Roman commerce in those waters, was occupied and

nearly 20,000 men, mostly Italians, were massacred there;

Euboea suffered a similar fate; all the islands to the east of

the Malean promontory were soon in the hands of the

enemy; they might proceed to attack the mainland itself.

The assault, no doubt, which the Pontic fleet made from

Euboea on the important Demetrias, was repelled by Brut-

tius Sura, the brave lieutenant of the governor of Mace­

donia, with his handful of troops and a few vessels hurriedly

collected, and he even occupied the island of Sciathus; but

he could not prevent the enemy from establishing himself

in Greece proper. There Mithradates carried on his opera- The Pontic

tiona not only by arms, but at the same time by national pro- proceedings

pagandism. His chief instrument for Athens was one Aria- in Greece.

tion, by birth an Attic slave, by profession formerly a teacher

of the Epicurean philosophy, now a minion of Mithradates;

an excellent master of persuasion, who by the brilliant

career which he pursued at court knew how to dazzle the

mob, and gravely to assure them that help was already on

the way to Mithradates from Carthage which had been

for about sixty years lying in ruins. These addresses of the

new Pericles and the promise of Mithradates to redeliver to

the Athenians the island of Delos which they had formerly

possessed were so far effectual that, while the few persons

possessed of judgment escaped from Athens, the mob and

one or two literati whose heads were turned formally re­

nounced the Roman rule. So the ex-philosopher became a

despot who, supported by his bands of Pontic mercenaries,

commenced an infamous and bloody rule; and the Piraeus

was converted into a Pontic harbour. As soon as the troops

of Mithradates gained a footing on the Greek continent,

most of the small free states—the Achaeans, Laconians, Boeo­

tians—as far as Thessaly joined them. Sura, after having

drawn some reinforcements from Macedonia, advanced into

Boeotia to bring help to the besieged Thespiae, and engaged

in conflicts with Archelaus and Aristion during three days at

Chaeronea; but they led to no decision and Sura was obliged

to retire when the Pontic reinforcements from the Pelopon­

nesus approached (end of 666, beg. of 667). 88. 87.

So commanding was the position of Mithradates, particu­

larly by sea, that an embassy of Italian insurgents invited him

to make an attempt to land in Italy; but their cause was al­

ready by that time lost, and the king rejected the suggestion.

