Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 169

22.

12L

valley of the Isere, which had come at the request of the

fugitive king of the Salyes, Tutomotulus, to help him to

reconquer his land, but was defeated in the district of Aix.

When the Allobroges nevertheless refused to surrender the

king of the Salyes, Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus, the suc­

cessor of Calvinus, penetrated into their own territory

(632). Up to this period the leading Celtic tribe had been

spectators of the encroachments of their Italian neighbours;

the Arvernian king Betuitus, son of the Luerius already

mentioned, seemed not much inclined to enter on a danger­

ous war for the sake of the loose relation of dependence in

which the eastern cantons might stand to him. But when

the Romans showed signs of attacking the Allobroges in

their own territory, he offered his mediation, the rejection

of which was followed by his taking the field with all his

forces to help the Allobroges; whereas the Haedui embraced

the side of the Romans. On receiving accounts of the

rising of the Arverni, the Romans sent the consul of 633,

Quintus Fabius Maximus, to meet in concert with Aheno­

barbus the impending attack. On the southern border of

the canton of the Allobroges at the confluence of the Isere

with the Rhone, on the 8th of August 633, the battle was 121.

fought which decided the mastery of southern Gaul. King

Betuitus, when he saw the innumerable hosts of his depend­

ent clans march over to him on the bridge of boats con­

structed over the Rhone and the Romans who had not a third

of their numbers form in array against them, is said to have

exclaimed that there were not enough of the latter to satisfy

the dogs of the Celtic army. Nevertheless Maximus, a

grandson of the victor of Pydna, achieved a decisive victory;

the bridge of boats broke down under the mass of the fugi­

tives ; the greater part of the Arvernian army was destroyed.

The Allobroges, to whom the king of the Arverni declared

himself unable to render further assistance, and whom he

advised to make their peace with Maximus, submitted to

the consul; whereupon the latter, thenceforth called Allo-

brogicus, returned to Italy and left to Ahenobarbus the no

longer distant termination of the Arvernian war. Aheno-

'barbus, personally exasperated at king Betuitus because

he had induced the Allobroges to surrender to Maxinras

and not to him, possessed himself treacherously of the

person of the king and sent him to Rome, where the senate,

although disapproving the breach of fidelity, not only kept

