Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 265

(ii. 346) hoped to find in Asia an easy war and endless booty,

were furious; in a moment the two tribunes that had come

from Rome were torn in pieces, and from all sides the cry

arose that the general should lead them to Rome. Without

delay the consul started, and forming a junction with his

like-minded colleague by the way, he arrived by quick

marches—little troubling himself about the deputies who

hastened from Bome to meet and attempted to detain him

—beneath the walls of the capital. Suddenly the Romans

beheld columns of Sulla's army take their station at the

bridge over the Tiber and at the Colline and Esquiline gates,

and then two legions marching in battle array, with their

standards at their head, crossed the sacred boundary within

which the law had forbidden war to enter. Many a worse

quarrel, many an important feud had been brought to a

settlement within those walls, without a Roman army ven­

turing to break the sacred fence of the city; that step was

now taken, primarily for the sake of the miserable question

whether this or that officer was called to command in the

East. The entering legions advanced as far as the height Rome

of the Esquiline; when the missiles and stones descending occupied.

in showers from the roofs made the soldiers waver and they

began to give way, Sulla brandished a blazing torch, and

with firebrands and threats of setting the houses on fire

the legions cleared their way to the Esquiline Forum (not

far from S. Maria Maggiore). There the force hastily col­

lected by Marius and Sulpicius awaited them, and by its

Buperior numbers repelled the first advancing columns. But

reinforcements came up from the gates; another division of

the Sullans made preparations for turning the defenders by

the street of the Subura; the latter were obliged to retire.

At the temple of Tellus, where the Esquiline begins to slope

towards the great Forum, Marius attempted once more to

make a stand ; he adjured the senate andequites and all the

citizens to throw themselves across the path of the legions;

it was in vain. Even when the slaves were summoned to arm

under the promise of freedom, not more than three of them

appeared. Nothing remained for the leaders but to escape

in all haste through the still unoccupied gates; after a few

hours Sulla was absolute master of Rome. That night the

watchfires of the legions blazed in the great market-place of

the capital.

The first military intervention in civil feuds had fully First Sullaa

restoration.

