12 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

the wont of Spanish insurrectionary armies suddenly melted

142. away, he was obliged to return to Lusitania (612). Next

141. year (613) Servilianus resumed the offensive, traversed the

districts on the Baetis and Anas, and then advancing into

Lusitania occupied a great many towns. A large num­

ber of the insurgents fell into his hands; the leaders—of

whom there were about 500—were executed; those who

had gone over from Roman ground to the enemy had their

hands cut off; the remaining multitude were sold into

slavery. But on this occasion also the Spanish war proved

true to its fickle and capricious character. After all these

successes the Roman army was attacked by Viriathus while

it was besieging Erisane, defeated, and driven to a rock

where it was wholly in the power of the enemy. Viriathus,

however, contented himself, like the Samnite general for­

merly at the Caudine pass, with concluding a peace with

Servilianus, in which the community of the Lusitanians was

recognized as sovereign and Viriathus acknowledged as its

king. The power of the Romans had not increased more

than the national sense of honour had declined; in the capi­

tal men were glad to be rid of the irksome war, and the

senate and people ratified the treaty. But Quintus Servi-

lius Caepio, the full brother of Servilianus and his successor

in office, was far from satisfied with this complaisance; and

the senate was weak enough first to authorize the consul

to undertake secret machinations against Viriathus, and

then to view with indulgence at least the. open breach, with­

out any palliation, of his pledged word. So Caepio invaded

Lusitania, and traversed the land as far as the territories of

the Vettones and Gallaeci; Viriathus declined a conflict

with the superior force, and by dexterous movements evaded

140. 139. his antagonist (614). But when in the ensuing year (615)

Caepio renewed the attack, and was supported by the army,

which had in the mean time become available from the north­

ern province, making its appearance under Marcus Popillius

in Lusitania, Viriathus sued for peace on any terms. He was

required to give up to the Romans all who had passed over

to him from the Roman territory, amongst whom was his

own father-in-law; he did so, and the Romans ordered them

to be executed or to have their hands cut off. But this was

not sufficient; the Romans were not in the habit of an­

nouncing to the vanquished all at once their destined fate.

His death. One behest after another was issued to the Lusitanians,

