452 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book V.

pressions jestingly borrowed from the Greek. Terence

knows nothing of such caprices; his dialogue moves on with

the purest symmetry, and its points are elegant epigrammatic

and sententious turns. The comedy of Terence is not to be

called an improvement, as compared with that of Plautus,

either in a poetical or in a moral point of view. Originality

cannot be affirmed of either, but, if possible, still less of

Terence; and the dubious praise of more correct copying is

at least outweighed by the circumstance that, while the

younger poet reproduced the agreeableness, he knew not how

to reproduce the merriment of Menander, so that the come­

dies of Plautus imitated from Menander, such as the Stichus,

the Cistellaria, the Bacchides, probably preserve far more of

the flowing charm of the original than the comedies of the

"dimidiatus Menander." And, while the aesthetic critic can­

not recognize an improvement in the transition from the

coarse to the dull, as little can the moralist in the transition

from the obscenity and indifference of Plautus to the accom­

modation-morality of Terence. But in point of language an

improvement certainly took place. Elegance of language was

the pride of the poet, and it was owing above all to its in­

imitable charm that the most refined judges of art in after-

times, such as Cicero, Caesar, and Quinctiliau, assigned the

palm to him among all the Roman poets of the repub­

lican age. In so far it is perhaps justifiable to date a new

era in Roman literature—the real essence of which lay not in

the development of Latin poetry, but in the development of

the Latin language—from the comedies of Terence as the

first artistically pure imitation of Hellenic works of art.

The modern comedy made its way amidst the most deter­

mined literary warfare. The Plautine style of composing had

taken root among the Roman bourgeoisie; the comedies of

Terence encountered the liveliest opposition from the public,

which found their " insipid language," their " feeble style,"

intolerable. The apparently somewhat sensitive poet replied

in his prologues—which properly were not intended for any

such purpose—with counter-criticisms full of defensive and

offensive polemics; and appealed from the multitude, which

had twice run off from his Hecyra to witness a band of

gladiators and rope-dancers, to the cultivated circles of the

genteel world. He declared that he only aspired to the ap­

proval of the "good;" in which doubtless there was not want­

ing a hint, that it was not at all seemly to undervalue works

