Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 339

attempted to dislodge Sulla; both remained immoveable in

their strong positions, even after Damasippus, sent by

Carbo, had reinforced the relieving army with two legions.

But while the war stood still in Etruria and in Latium, Successes ot

matters came to a decision in the valley of the Po. There the Sultans

the general of the democracy, Gaius Norbanus, had hitherto ia uPPer

maintained the ascendancy, had attacked Marcus Lucullus y'

the legate of Metellus with superior force and compelled

him to shut himself up in Placentia, and had at length

turned against Metellus in person. He encountered the

latter at Faventia, and immediately made his attack late in

the afternoon with his troops fatigued by their march; the

consequence was a complete defeat and the total breaking

up of his corps, of which only about 1000 men returned to

Etruria. On the news of this battle Lucullus sallied from

Placentia, and defeated the division left behind to oppose

him at Fidentia (between Piacenza and Parma). The

Lucanian troops of Albinovanus deserted in a body: their

leader made up for his hesitation at first by inviting the

chief officers of the revolutionary army to banquet with

him and causing them to be put to death; in general

every one, who could do so, now concluded his peace.

Ariminum with all its stores and treasures fell into the

power of Metellus; Norbanus embarked for Rhodes; the

whole land between the Alps and Apennines acknowledged

the government of the Optimates. The troops hitherto Etruria ix>

employed there were enabled to proceed to the attack of cupied by

Etruria, the last province where their antagonists still keptthe Sullan*.

the field. When Carbo received this news in the camp at

Clusium, he lost his resolution; although he had still a con­

siderable body of troops under his orders, he secretly

escaped from his headquarters and embarked for Africa.

Part of his abandoned troops followed the example which

their general had set, and went home; part of them were

destroyed by Pompeius: Carrinas gathered together the

remainder and led them to Latium to join the army of

Praeneste. There no change had in the meanwhile taken

place; and the final dscision drew nigh. The troops of

Carrinas were not numerous enough to shake Sulla's posi­

tion; the vanguard of the army of the oligarchical party,

hitherto employed in Etruria, was approaching under Pom­

peius : in a few days the net would be drawn tight around

the army of the democrats and the Sainnites.

