Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS «3RACCHUS. 113

banished his property, so far as it was not exhausted in

satisfying claims for compensation and fines.

Lastly, in the matter of debt Gaius Gracchus made no

alteration. But very respectable authorities assert, that he

held out to those in debt the hope of a diminution or

remission of claims; which, if it is correct, must likewise

be reckoned among those popular measures of a radical

stamp.

While Gracchus thus leaned on the support of the multi- Prominent

tude, which partly expected, partly received from him a "cogintion

material improvement of its position, he laboured with equal Jrian'ordeT

energy at the ruin of the aristocracy. Perceiving clearly

how insecure was the power of the head of the state if

based merely on the proletariate, he applied himself above

all to split the aristocracy, and to draw a part of it over to his

interests. The elements of such a rupture were already in

existence. The aristocracy of the rich, which had risen as

one man against Tiberius Gracchus, consisted in fact of two

essentially dissimilar bodies, which may be in some mea­

sure compared to the peerage and the city aristocracy of

England. The one embraced the practically close circle of

the governing senatorial families who kept aloof from direct

speculation and invested their immense capital partly in

landed property, partly as sleeping partners in the great

companies. The main body of the second class was com­

posed of the speculators, who, as managers of these compa­

nies or on their own account, conducted the mercantile and

moneyed transactions throughout the whole range of the

Roman hegemony. We have already shown (ii. 386 et seq.)

how the latter class, especially in the course of the sixth

century, gradually took its place by the side of the sena­

torial aristocracy, and how the legal exclusion of the

senators from mercantile pursuits by the Claudian ordinance,

suggested by Gaius I'laminius the precursor of the Gracchi,

drew an outward line of demarcation between the senators

and the mercantile and moneyed men. In the present

epoch the mercantile aristocracy began, under the name of

the " equestrian order," to exercise a decisive influence in

political affairs. This appellation, which originally belonged

only to the burgess-cavalry on service, came gradually to be

transferred, at least in ordinary use, to all those who, as

possessors of an estate of at least 400,000 sesterces, were

liable to cavalry service in general, and thus comprehended

vol. m. i

