214: THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

not a footing sufficiently firm singly to maintain the colonial

law which he had himself called in question and to possess

himself of the position which it assigned to him, nor were

Saturninus and Glaucia in a condition to continue on their

own account the work which Marius had begun.

Saturninus But the two demagogues were so compromised that they

isolated. could not recede ; they had no alternative save to resign their

offices in the usual way and thereby to deliver themselves

with their hands bound to their exasperated opponents, or

now to grasp the sceptre for themselves, although they felt

that they could not bear its weight. They resolved on the

latter course; Saturninus would come forward once more as

99. a candidate for the tribunate of the people for 655, Glaucia,

although praetor and not eligible for the consulship till two

years had elapsed, would become a candidate for the latter.

In fact the tribunician elections were decided thoroughly to

their mind, and the attempt of Marius to prevent the spurious

Tiberius Gracchus from soliciting the tribuneship served only

to show the celebrated man what was now the worth of his

popularity; the multitude broke the doors of the prison in

which Gracchus was confined, bore him in triumph through

the streets, and elected him by a great majority as their

tribune. Saturninus and Glaucia sought to control the more

important consular election by the expedient for the removal

of inconvenient competitors which had been tried in the pre­

vious year; the counter-candidate of the government-party,

Gaius Memmius—the same who eleven years before had led

the opposition against them (P. 150)—was suddenly assailed

Saturninus by a band of ruffians and beaten to death. But the govern-

assailed, ment-party had only waited for a striking event of this sort

in order to employ force. The senate required the consul

Gaius Marius to interfere, and the latter in reality professed

his readiness now to draw in behalf of the conservative party

the sword, which he had obtained from the democracy and

had promised to wield in its favour. The young men were

hastily called out, equipped with arms from the public build­

ings, and drawn up in military array; the senate itself ap­

peared under arms in the Forum, with its venerable chief

Marcus Scaurus at its head. The opposite party were per­

haps superior in a street-tumult, but were not prepared

for such an attack; they had to defend themselves as they

could. They broke open the doors of the prisons, and called

the slaves to liberty and to arms; they proclaimed—so it

