316 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA.

Sertonus.

Outbreak

of the

Cinnau

revolution.

86.

Victory of

the govern­

ment.

made himself a name by his impetuous popular eloquence,

and above all Quintus Sertorius, one of the most talented of

Boman officers and a man in every respect excellent, who

since his candidature for the tribuneship had been a personal

enemy to Sulla and had been led by this quarrel into the

ranks of the disaffected to which he did not at all by nature

belong. The proconsul Strabo, although at variance with

the government, was yet far from going along with this

faction.

So long as Sulla was in Italy, the confederates for good

reasons remained quiet. But when the dreaded proconsul,

yielding not to the exhortations of the consul Cinna but to

the urgent state of matters in the East, had embarked,

Cinna, supported by the majority of the college of tribunes,

immediately submitted the projects of law which had been

concerted as a partial reaction against the Sullan restoration

of 666. They embraced the political equalization of the new

burgesses and the freedmen, as Sulpicius had proposed it, and

the restitution of those who had been banished in conse­

quence of the Sulpician revolution to their former status.

The new burgesses flocked en masse to the capital, that

along with the freedmen they might terrify, and in case of

need force, their opponents into compliance. But the

government party was determined not to yield; consul

stood against consul, Gnaeus Octavius against Lucius Cinna,

and tribune against tribune; the majority on both sides

appeared in arms on the day of voting. The tribunes of

the senatorial party interposed their veto; when swords

were drawn against them even on the rostra, Octavius em­

ployed force against force. His compact bands of armed

men not only cleared the Via Sacra and the Forum, but

also, disregarding the commands of their more gently-

minded leader, exercised horrible atrocities against the

assembled multitude. The Forum swam with blood on this

"Octavius' day," as it never did before or afterwards—the

number of corpses was estimated at ten thousand. Cinna

called on the slaves to purchase freedom for themselves by

sharing in the struggle; but his appeal was as unsuccessful

as the like appeal of Marius in the previous year, and no

course was left to the leaders of the movement but to take

flight. The constitution supplied no means of proceeding

further against the chiefs of the conspiracy, so long as their

year of office lasted. But a prophet probably more loyal

