Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 413

Sulla struck as regent, were scarcely more than pieces coined

for the convenience of his triumphal presents. Silver still

as before circulated exclusively as actual money; gold,

whether it, as was usual, circulated in bars or bore the

stamp of a foreign or possibly even of an inland mint, was

taken solely by weight. Nevertheless gold and silver were

on a par as means of exchange, and the fraudulent alloying

of gold was treated in law, like the issuing of spurious silver

money, as a monetary oifence. They thus obtained the

immense advantage of precluding, in the case of the most

important medium of exchange, even the possibility of mone­

tary fraud and adulteration. Otherwise the coinage was as

copious as it was of exemplary purity. After the silver piece

had been reduced in the Hannibalic war from r^ (i. 465)

to s\ of a pound (ii. 173) it retained for more than three

centuries the same weight and the same quality; no alloy­

ing took place. The copper money, which apparently about

the beginning of this period had become wholly small change

and had ceased to be employed as formerly in large trans­

actions, was confined to the smaller values of an as (id.) and

under, which could not well be represented in silver. The

sorts of coins were arranged according to a simple principle,

and in the then smallest coin of the ordinary issue—the

quadrans (^-farthing)—carried down to the limit of tangible

value. It was a monetary system, which, for the judicious

principles on which it was based and for the iron rigour with

which they were applied, stands alone in antiquity and has

been but rarely paralleled even in modern times. Yet it too

had its weak point. According to a custom, common in all

antiquity, but which reached its highest development at Car­

thage (ii. 20), the Roman government issued along with the Token-

good silver denarii also denarii of copper plated with silver, money.

which had to be accepted like the former and were just a

token-money analogous to our paper currency, with com­

pulsory circulation and recourse on the public chest, inasmuch

as it also was not entitled to reject the plated pieces. This

was no more an official adulteration of the coinage than our

manufacture of paper money, for they practised the thing

quite openly; Marcus Drusus proposed in 663, with the 91.

view of gaining the means for his largesses of grain, the

sending forth of one plated denarius for every seven silver

ones issuing fresh from the mint; nevertheless this measure

not only offered a dangerous handle to private forgery, but

