458 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

of the entertainment, and offensive personalities, even with

the mention of names, not unfrequently crept in. But there

was no want also of vivid delineation, of grotesque inci­

dents, of telling jokes, and of pithy sayings; and the harle­

quinade rapidly won for itself no inconsiderable position in

the theatrical life of the capital and even in literature.

Dramatic Lastly as regards the development of dramatic arrange-

arrange- ments, we are not in a position to set forth in detail—what is

ments. clear on the whole—that the general interest in dramatic

performances was constantly on the increase, and that they

became more and more frequent and magnificent. Not

only was there hardly any ordinary or extraordinary popular

festival that was now celebrated without dramatic exhibi­

tions; even in the country-towns and in private houses

representations by companies of hired actors were common.

It is true that, while probably various municipal towns already

at this time possessed theatres built of stone, the capital was

still without one; the building of a theatre, already con-

155. tracted for, had been again prohibited by the senate in 599

on the suggestion of Publius Scipio Nasica. It was quite in

the spirit of the sanctimonious policy of this age, that the

building of a permanent theatre was prohibited out of

respect for the customs of their ancestors, but nevertheless

theatrical entertainments were allowed rapidly to increase,

and enormous sums were expended annually in erecting and

decorating structures of boards for the purpose. The

arrangements of the stage became visibly better. The

improved mise en seem and the reintroduction of masks about

the time of Terence are doubtless connected with the fact,

that the erection and maintenance of the stage and stage-

174. apparatus were charged in 580 on the public chest.* The

plays which Lucius Mummius produced after the capture

145. of Corinth (609) formed an epoch in the history of the

theatre. It was probably then that a theatre acoustically

constructed after the Greek fashion and provided with seats

was first erected, and more care generally was expended on

* Hitherto the person providing the play had been obliged to fit up the  
stage and scenic apparatus out of the round sum assigned to him or at his own

expense, and much money would not often probably be expended on these. But

174. in 580 the censors made the erection of the stage for the games of the
pnetors

and ajdiles a matter of special contract (Liv. xli. 27): the circumstance that
the

stage-apparatus was now no longer erected merely for a single performance,

must have led to a perceptible improvement in it.

