414 THE COMMOWEAETH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

designedly left the public uncertain whether it was receiving

silver or token money, and to what total amount the latter

was in circulation. In the embarrassed period of the civil

war and of the great financial crisis they seem to have so

unduly availed themselves of plating, that a monetary crisis

accompanied the financial one, and the quantity of spurious

and partially worthless pieces rendered dealings extremely

insecure. Accordingly during the Cinnan government an en­

actment was passed by the praetors and tribunes, primarily

by Marcus Marius Gratidianus (P. 352), for redeeming all

the token-money by means of silver-money, and for that

purpose an assay-office was established. How far the calling-

in was effected, tradition has not told us; the coining of

token-money itself continued to subsist.

Provincial -^s to tne provinces, in accordance with the setting aside

money. of gold money on principle the coining of gold was nowhere

permitted, not even in the client-states; so that a gold

coinage at this period occurs only where Rome had nothing

at all to say, namely among the Celts to the north of the

Cevennes and among the states in revolt against Rome;

the Italians, for instance, and Mithradates Eupator struck

gold coins. The government seems to have made efforts to

bring the coinage of silver also more and more into its hands,

Currency of particularly in the West. In Africa, where in consequence

the East. of the Carthaginian system of token-money there was at

the time of the Roman conquest no proper native money,

none such was introduced by the Romans and certainly from

the first the denarius alone was current. The same was pro­

bably true of Sardinia. In Spain and Sicily, which came

earlier to the Romans and experienced altogether a milder

treatment, silver was no doubt coined under the Roman rule,

and indeed in the latter country the silver coinage was

first called into existence by the Romans and based on the

Roman standard (ii. 68, 207, 381); but there exist good

grounds for the supposition, that in both countries at least

from the beginning of the seventh century the provincial

and urban mints were under the necessity of restricting

their issues to copper small money. Only in Narbonese

Gaul the right of coining silver could not be withdrawn

from the old-allied and considerable free city of M assilia;

and the same was perhaps true of the Greek cities in Illyria,

Apollouia and Dyrrachium. But the privilege of these

communities to coin money was restricted indirectly by the

