202 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

the time. The arrangement of the legion became totally dif­

ferent. The thirty companies (manipuli) of heavy infantry,

which—each in two sections (centurke) composed respectively

of sixty men in the two first, and of thirty men in the third,

division—had hitherto formed the tactical unit, were replaced

bv ten cohorts (cohortes) each with its own standard and each

of six, or often only of five, sections of one hundred men

apiece; so that, although at the same time 1200 men were

saved by the suppression of the light infantry of the legion,

yet the total numbers of the legion were raised from 4200

to 6000 men. The custom of fighting in three divisions was

retained, bat, while previously each division had formed a

distinct corps, it was in future left to the general to distri­

bute the cohorts of which he had the disposal in the three

lines as he thought best. Military rank was determined

solely by the numerical order of the soldiers and of the divi­

sions. The four standards of the several parts of the

legion—the wolf, the ox with a man's head,'the horse, the

boar—which had hitherto probably been carried before the

cavalry and the three divisions of heavy infantry, disap­

peared ; there remained only the ensigns of the new cohorts,

and the new standard which Marius gave to the legion as

a whole—the silver eagle. Within the legion every trace

of the previous civic and aristocratic classification thus dis­

appeared, and the only distinctions henceforth occurring

among the legionaries were purely military; but accidental

circumstances had some thirty years before this given rise to

a privileged division of the army alongside of the legions—the

body guard of the general. It is traceable to the Numan-

tine war, in which Scipio JEmilianus, not furnished by the

government with new troops as he desired, and compelled in

presence of an utterly unruly soldiery to have a care of his

personal safety, had formed out of volunteers a band of 500

men, and had afterwards received into it by way of reward

his ablest soldiers (P. 16). This cohort, called that of the

friends or more usually that of the head-quarters (prcetoriani),

had the duty of serving at head-quarters (prcetorium); in con­

sideration of which it was exempt from encamping and en­

trenching service, and enjoyed higher pay and greater repute.

Political This complete revolution in the constitution of the Roman

significauce army seems certainly in substance to have originated not in

of the Ma- political, but in military, motives; and to have been not so

tarvref" mucn tQe work of an individual, least of all of a man of cal­

