Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY". 405

period it amounted to almost £860,000 (ii. 331,382) and was

doubtless constantly on the increase.

All these facts taken together certainly lead to the infer­

ence that the position of the Roman finances at this epoch

was on the whole favourable. Only we may not in a financial

point of view overlook the fact that, while the government

during the two earlier thirds of this period executed splendid

and magnificent buildings, it neglected to make other outlays"

at least as necessary. We have already indicated how un­

satisfactory were its military arrangements; the frontier

countries and even the valley of the Po (P. 175) were pillaged

by barbarians, and bands of robbers made havoc in the in­

terior even of Asia Minor, Sicily, and Italy. The fleet was

totally neglected; there was hardly any longer a Roman

vessel of war; and the vessels, which the subject cities were

required to build and maintain, were not sufficient, so that

Rome was not only absolutely unable to carry on a naval

war, but was not even in a position to check the trade

of piracy. In Rome itself a number of the most neces­

sary improvements were left untouched, and the river-build­

ings in particular were singularly neglected. The capital

still possessed no other bridge over the Tiber than the pri­

mitive wooden gangway, which led over the Tiber island

to the Janiculum; the Tiber was still allowed to lay the

streets every year under water, and to demolish houses and

in fact not unfrequently whole districts, without anything

being done to strengthen the banks; mighty as was the

growth of transmarine trade, the roadstead of Ostia—al­

ready by nature bad—was allowed to become more and more

sanded up. A government, which under the most favour­

able circumstances and in an epoch of forty years of peace

abroad and at home neglected such duties, might easily allow

taxes to fall into abeyance and yet obtain an annual surplus

of income over expenditure and a considerable reserve; but

such a financial administration by no means deserves com­

mendation for its mere semblance of brilliant results, but

rather merits the same censure—in respect of laxity, want of

central management, mistaken flattery of the people—as

falls to be brought in every other sphere of political life

against the senatorial government of this epoch.

The financial condition of Rome of course assumed a The

far worse aspect, when the storms of revolution set in. finances m

The new and, even in a mere financial point of view, ex- tioer™v°"

