Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 149

tribune to call the worst offenders to judicial account, the

senate permitted war to be declared against Jugurtha

(642-3). The step seemed taken in earnest. The envoys 112-111.

of Jugurtha were dismissed from Italy without being ad­

mitted to an audience; the new consul Lucius Calpurnius

Bestia, who was distinguished, among the members of his

order at least, by judgment and activity, prosecuted the war­

like preparations with energy; Marcus Scaurus himself

took the post of a commander in the African army. In

a short time a Roman army was on African ground, and

marching upward along the Bagradas (Mejerdah) advanced

into the Numidian kingdom, where the towns most remote

from the seat of the royal power, such as Great Leptis,

voluntarily sent in their submission, while Bocchus king of

Mauretania, although his daughter was married to Jugurtha,

offered friendship and alliance to the Romans. Jugurtha

himself lost courage, and sent envoys to the Roman head­

quarters to request an armistice. The end of the contest

seemed near, and came still more rapidly than was expected.

The treaty with Bocchus broke down, because the king, un­

acquainted with Roman customs, had conceived that he

should be able to conclude a treaty so advantageous for the

Romans withouc any gratuity, and therefore had neglected

to furnish his envoys with the usual market price of Roman

alliances. Jugurtha at all events knew Roman institutions

better, and had not omitted to support his proposals for an

armistice by a due accompaniment of money; but he too

was deceived. After the first negotiations it turned out,

that not an armistice merely but a peace was purchaseable at

the Roman head-quarters. The royal treasury was still well

filled with the savings of Massinissa; the transaction was

soon settled. The treaty was concluded, after it had been Treaty be-

for the sake of form submitted to a council of war, whose tween Rome

consent was procured after an irregular and extremely sum- ,.' u"

maiy discussion. Jugurtha submitted at discretion; but

the victor was merciful and gave him back his kingdom un­

diminished, in consideration of his paying a moderate fine

and delivering up the Roman deserters and the war elephants

(643); the greater part of the latter the king afterwards 111.

repurchased by bargaining with the individual Roman com­

mandants and officers. .

On the news of this peace the storm once more broke

forth in Rome. Everybody knew how the peace had been

