184 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

independent command. In vain deputies from the Roman

senate endeavoured to effect a reconciliation; a personal

conference between the generals, on which the officers in­

sisted, only widened the breach. When Caepio saw Maximus

negotiating with the envoys of the Cimbrians, he fancied

that the latter wished to gain the sole credit of their subju­

gation, and threw himself with his portion of the army alone

in all haste on the enemy. He was utterly annihilated, so

that even his camp fell into the hands of the enemy (6 Oct.

105. 649); and his destruction was followed by the no less com­

plete defeat of the second Soman army. It is asserted that

80,000 Roman soldiers and half as many of the immense

and helpless body of camp-followers perished, and that only

ten men escaped: this much is certain, that only a few out

of the two armies succeeded in escaping, for the Romans

had fought with the river in their rear. It was a calamity

which materially and morally far surpassed the day of

Cannae. The defeats of Carbo, of Silanus, and of Longinus

had passed without producing any permanent impression on

the Italians. They were accustomed to open every war

with disasters; the invincibleness of the Roman arms was

so firmly established, that it seemed superfluous to attend to

the pretty numerous exceptions. But the battle of Arausio,

the alarming proximity of the victorious Cimbrian army to

the undefended passes of the Alps, the insurrections break­

ing out afresh and with increased force both in the Roman

territory beyond the Alps and among the Lusitanians, the

defenceless condition of Italy, produced a sudden and fear­

ful awakening from these dreams. Men recalled the never

wholly forgotten Celtic inroads of the fourth century, the

day on the Allia and the burning of Rome: with the double

force at once of the oldest remembrauce and the freshest

alarm the terror of the Gauls came upon Italy; through all

the west people seemed to be aware, that the Roman empire

was beginning to totter. As after the battle of Cannae,

the period of mourning was shortened by decree of the

senate.* The new enlistments brought out the most painful

scarcity of men. All Italians capable of arms had to swear

that they would not leave Italy; the captains of the vessels

lying in the Italian ports were instructed not to take on

board any man fit for service. It is impossible to tell what

* To this, beyond doubt, the fragment of Diodorus ( Vat. p. 122) relates.

