354 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

caused the person who had threatened to accuse him, along

with his nearest relatives and friends, to be outlawed and

killed. Numbers thus fell—-including not a few decided

adherents of the oligarchy—as the victims of private hos­

tility or of their riches: the fearful confusion, and the cul­

pable indulgence which Sulla displayed in this as in every

instance towards those more closely connected with, him,

prevented any punishment even of the ordinary crimes that

were perpetrated amidst the disorder.

Confisca- The confiscated property was dealt with in a similar way.

♦ions. Sulla from political considerations sought to induce the

respectable burgesses to take part in its purchase; a great

portion of them, moreover, voluntarily pressed forward, and

none more zealously than the young Marcus Crassus.

Under the existing circumstances the utmost depreciation

was inevitable, a depreciation which to some extent could not

but result from the Roman plan of selling the property con­

fiscated by the state for a round sum payable in ready money.

Moreover, the regent did not forget himself; while his wife

Metella more especially and other persons high and low

closely connected with him, even freedmen and boon-com­

panions, were sometimes allowed to purchase without compe­

tition, sometimes had the purchase-money wholly or par­

tially remitted. One of his freedmen, for instance, is said to

have purchased a property of 6,000,000 sesterces (£61,100)

for 2000 (£20 12s.), and one of his subalterns is said to

have acquired by such speculations an estate of 10,000,000

sesterces (£102,700). The indignation was great and just;

even during Sulla's regency an advocate asked, whether the

nobility had waged civil war solely for the purpose of en­

riching their freedmen and slaves. But in spite of this de­

preciation the whole proceeds of the confiscated estates

amounted to not less than 350,000,000 sesterces (£3,050,000),

which gives a tolerable idea of the enormous extent of these

confiscations falling chiefly on the wealthiest portion of the

burgesses. It was altogether a fearful visitation. There

was no longer any process or any pardon; mute terror lay

like a weight of lead on the land, and free speech was

silenced in the market-place alike of the capital and of the

country-town. The oligarchical reign of terror bore indeed

a different stamp from that of the revolution; while Marius

had glutted his personal vengeance in the blood of his

enemies, Sulla seemed to account terrorism in the abstract, if

