Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 99

assemblies, the comitia, though they were far from dealing

strictly with the point of qualification, it was on the whole

burgesses alone that appeared, in the mere popular assem­

blages on the other hand—the contiones—every one in the

shape of a man was entitled to take his place and to shout,

Egyptians and Jews, street-boys and slaves. Such a "meet­

ing " certainly had no significance in the eyes of the law; it

could neither vote nor decree. But it practically ruled the

street, and already the opinion of the street was a power

in Rome, so that it was of some importance whether this

confused mass received the communications made to it with

silence or shouts, whether it applauded and rejoiced, or

hissed and howled at the orator. Not many had the courage

to lord it over the populace as Scipio ./Emiliauus did, when

they hissed him on account of his expression as to the death

of his brother-in-law. "Ye," he said, " to whom Italy is not

mother but step-mother, ought to keep silence!" and when

their fury grew still louder, "surely you do not think that I

will fear those let loose, whom 1 sent in chains to the

slave-market?"

That the rusty machinery of the comitia should be made

use of for the elections and for legislation, was bad enough.

But when those masses—the comitia primarily, and practi­

cally also the contiones—were permitted to interfere in the

administration, and the instrument which the senate em­

ployed to prevent such interferences was wrested out of its

hands; when this so-called burgess-body was allowed to

decree to itself lands and all their appurtenances out of

the public purse; when any one, whom circumstances and

his influence with the proletariate enabled to command the

streets for a few hours, found it possible to impress on his

projects the legal stamp of the sovereign people's will, Rome

had reached not the beginning, but the end of popular freedom

—had arrived not at democracy, but at monarchy. For that

reason, in the previous period Cato and those who shared his

views never brought such questions before the burgesses, but

discussed them only in the senate (ii. 359). For that reason,

Gracchus' contemporaries, the men of the Scipionic circle,

described the Flaminian agrarian law of 522—the first step 232

iu that fatal career—as the beginning of the decline of Roman

greatness. For that reason, they allowed the author of the

domain-distribution to fall, and saw in his dreadful end as it

were a means of warding off similar attempts in future, while

yet they maintained and turned to account with all their

