Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 293

padocian territories, while the Bithyno-Roman fleet continued

to blockade the Bosporus.

In the beginning of the spring of 666 Mithradates as- Mith- [85.

sumed the offensive. On a tributary of the Halys, the radates oc-

Amnias (near the modern Tesch Kopri), the Pontic van- cl:Ples Asia

guard of cavalry and light-armed troops encountered the l mor'

Bithynian army, and notwithstanding its very superior num­

bers so broke it at the first onset that the beaten army dis­

persed and the camp and military chest fell into the hands

of the victors. It was mainly to Neoptolemus and Archelaus

that the king was indebted for this brilliant success. The far

more wTetched Asiatic militia, stationed further back, there-

ujion gave themselves up as vanquished even before they

encountered the enemy; when the generals of Mithradates

approached them, they dispersed. A Roman division was de­

feated in Cappadocia; Cassius sought to keep the field in

Phrygia with the militia, but he discharged it again without

venturing on a battle, and threw himself with his few trust­

worthy troops into the towns on the upper Meander, par­

ticularly into Apamea. Oppius in like manner evacuated

Pamphylia and shut himself up in the Phrygian Laodicea;

Aquillius was overtaken while retreating at the Sangarius in

the Bithynian territory and so totally defeated, that he lost

his camp and had to seek refuge at Pergamus in the Roman

province; the latter also was soon overrun and Pergamus

itself fell into the hands of the king, as likewise the Bosporus

and the ships that were there. After each victory Mithra­

dates had dismissed all the prisoners belonging to the militia

of Asia Minor, and had neglected no step to raise to a higher

pitch the national sympathies that were from the first di­

rected towards him. Now the whole country as far as the

Maeander was with the exception of a few fortresses in his

power; and news at the same time arrived, that a new revo­

lution had broken out at Rome, that the consul Sulla des­

tined to act against Mithradates had instead of embarking

for Asia marched on Rome, that the most celebrated Roman

generals were fighting battles with each other in order to

settle to whom the chief command in the Asiatic war should

belong. Rome seemed zealously employed in the work of Anti-

self-destruction: it is no wonder that, though even now R°ma"

minorities everywhere adhered to Rome, the great body of ™°vemems

the natives of Asia Minor joined the Pontic king. Hellenes

and Asiatics united in the rejoicing which welcomed the

