Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 249

body had retained for more than a hundred and fifty years,

they were far from including a capitulation with the actual

insurgents; they were on the contrary intended partly to

retain the communities that were wavering and threatening

to revolt, partly to draw over as many deserters as possible

from the hostile ranks. To what extent these laws and

especially the most important of them—that of Caesar—were

applied, cannot be accurately stated, as we are only able to

specify in general terms the extent of the insurrection at

the time when the law was issued. The chief result at any

rate was, that the communities hitherto Latin,—not only the

survivors of the old Latin confederacy, such as Tibur and

Praeneste, but more especially the Latin colonies, with the

exception of the few that passed over to the insurgents—

were thereby admitted to Roman citizenship. Besides, the

law was applied to the isolated towns of the allies between

the Po and the Apennines, such as Ravenna, to a number of

Etruscan towns, and to the allied cities that remained faithful

in Southern Italy, such as Nuceria and Neapolis. It was

natural that individual communities, hitherto specially privi­

leged, should hesitate as to the acceptance of the fran­

chise; that Neapolis, for example, should scruple to give up

its former treaty with Rome— which guaranteed to its

citizens exemption from land-service and their Greek con­

stitution, and perhaps domanial advantages besides—for the

very restricted privileges of new burgesses. It was probably

in virtue of conventions concluded on account of these

scruples, that this city, as well as Rhegium and perhaps

other Greek communities in Italy, even after their admission

to Roman citizenship retained unchanged their former com­

munal constitution and Greek as their official language.

At all events, as a consequence of these laws, the circle of

Roman burgesses was extraordinarily enlarged by the merg­

ing into it of numerous and important civic communities

scattered from the Sicilian straits to the Po; and, further, the

country between the Po and the Alps was, by the bestowal

of the privileges of the most favoured allies, as it were in­

vested with the legal reversion of full citizenship.

On the strength of these concessions to the wavering Second year

communities, the Romans resumed with fresh courage the of the war.

conflict against the insurgent districts. They had pulled

down as much of the existing political institutions as seemed

necessary to arrest the progress of the conflagration; the

