Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 241

on the Italian side six, on the Roman side five, lieutenant-

commanders, each of whom conducted the attack or defence

in a definite district, whereas the consular armies were

destined to act more freely and to strike the decisive blow.

The most esteemed Roman officers, such as Gaius Marius,

Quintus Catulus, and the two consulars of experience in

the Spanish war, Titus Didius and Publius Crassus, placed

themselves at the disposal of the consuls for these posts;

and, though the Italians had not names so celebrated to

oppose to them, yet the result showed that their leaders were

in a military point of view nowise inferior to the Romans.

The offensive in this thoroughly desultory war was on the

whole on the side of the Romans, but was nowhere deci­

sively assumed even on their part. It is surprising that the

Romans did not collect their troops for the purpose of at­

tacking the insurgents with a superior force, and that the

insurgents made no attempt to advance into Latium and to

throw themselves on the hostile capital. "We are however too

little acquainted with their respective circumstances to

judge whether or how they could have acted otherwise,

or to what extent the remissness of the Roman govern­

ment on the one hand and the looseness of the connection

among the federate communities on the other contributed

to this want of unity in the conduct of the war. It is easy

to see, that with such a system there would be victories and

defeats but the final settlement might be very long delayed;

and it is no less plain, that a clear and vivid picture of such a

war—which resolved itself into a series of engagements on

the part of individual corps operating at the same time,

sometimes separately, sometimes in combination—cannot be

prepared out of the remarkably fragmentary accounts which

have reached us.

The first assault, as a matter of course, fell on the for- Commence-

tresses adhering to Rome in the insurgent districts, which ment of the

in all haste closed their gates and carried in their moveable war-

property from the country. Silo threw himself on the for- The for­

tress designed to hold in check the Marsians, the strong tresses.

Alba, Mutilus on the Latin town of ^Esernia established in

the heart of Samnium: in both cases they encountered the

most resolute resistance. Similar conflicts probably raged

in the north around Firmum, Hatria, Pinna, in the south

around Luceria, Beneventum, Nola, Paestum, before and while

the Roman armies gathered on the borders of the insurgent

VOL. III. E

-*

