Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 385

in his case for once to have exchanged caprice for steadfast­

ness, and to have taken a pleasure in loading her favourite

with successes and honours—whether he desired them or

not. But history must be more just towards him than he

was towards himself, and must place him in a higher rank

than that of the mere favourite of fortune.

We do not mean that the Sullan constitution was a work Sullu and

of political genius, such as those of Gracchus and Caesar. hi» work.

There does not occur in it—and, indeed, its very character as

a restoration implies that such should be the case—a single

new idea in statesmanship. All its most essential features

—admission to the senate by the holding of the quaestor-

ship, the abolition of the censorial right to eject a senator

from the senate, the initiative of the senate in legislation, the

conversion of the tribunician office into an instrument of the

senate for fettering the imperium, the prolonging of the dura­

tion of office to two years, the transference of the command

from the popularly elected magistrate to the senatorial pro­

consul or proprator, and even the new criminal and municipal

arrangements—were not created by Sulla, but were institu­

tions which had previously grown out of the oligarchic go­

vernment and which he merely regulated and fixed. And

even as to the horrors attaching to his restoration, the pro­

scriptions and confiscations—are they, compared with the

doings of Nasica, Popillius, Opimius, Caepio and so on, any­

thing else than a legal embodiment of the traditionary

oligarchic mode of getting rid of opponents? On the

Roman oligarchy of this period no judgment can be passed

save one of inexorable and remorseless condemnation; and,

like everything else connected with it, the Sullan constitution

is involved in that condemnation. But we do not wrong the

sacredness of history through a praise which the gifted cha­

racter of a bad man bribes us into bestowing, when we suggest

that Sulla was far less answerable for the Sullan restoration

than the body of the Roman aristocracy which had ruled as

a clique for centuries and had every year become more ener­

vated and embittered by age, and that all that was insipid

and all that was infamous therein is ultimately traceable to

that aristocracy. Sulla reorganized the state, not, however,

like the landlord who puts his shattered estate and house­

hold in order according to his own discretion, but like the

temporary manager who faithfully obeys his instructions:

it is superficial and false in that case to roll the final and

vol. in. 2 o

