168 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

125. consul in 629. He was the first to enter on the career of

Transalpine conquest. Among the many subdivisions of

the Celtic nation at this period, the canton of the Bituriges

had lost its real hegemony and retained merely an hono­

rary presidency; and the actually leading canton in the

region from the Pyrenees to the Rhine and from the Medi-

Tl.e terranean to the Western Ocean was that of the Arverni ;*

Arverni. so that the statement seems not quite an exaggeration, that

it could bring into the field as many as 180,000 men. With

them the Haedui (about Autun) carried on an unequal

rivalry for the hegemony; while in north-eastern Gaul the

kings of the Suessiones (about Soissons) united under

their protectorate the league of the Belgic tribes extending

over to Britain. Greek travellers of that period had much

to tell of the magnificent state of Luerius, king of the

Arvernians—how, surrounded by his brilliant train of clans­

men, his huntsmen with their pack of hounds in leash and

his band of wandering minstrels, he travelled in a silver-

mounted chariot through the towns of his kingdom, scatter­

ing the gold with a full hand among the multitude, and

gladdening above all the heart of the minstrel with the

glittering shower. The descriptions of the open table which

he kept in an enclosure of 1500 double paces square, and

to which every one who came in the way was invited,

vividly remind us of the marriage-table of Camachos. In

fact, the numerous Arvernian gold coins of this period still

extant show that the canton of the Arvernians had attained

to extraordinary wealth and a comparatively high standard

of civilization.

War with The attack of Flaccus, however, was in the first instance

the Alio- directed not against the Arverni, hut against the smaller

broges and tribes in the district between the Alps and the Rhone,

nerm' where the original Ligurian inhabitants had become mixed

with subsequent arrivals of Celtic bands, and there had

arisen a Celto-Ligurian population resembling in this re-

125. 124. spect the Celtiberians. He fought (629, 630) with success

against the Salyes or Salluvii in the region of Aix and in the

valley of the Durance, and against their northern neighbours

the Vocontii (in the departments of Vaucluse and Drome);

123. 122. and so did his successor Gaius Sextius Calvinus (631, 632")

against the Allobroges, a powerful Celtic clan in the rich

* In Auvergne. Their capital, Nemetum or Nemossus, lay not far from  
Clermont.

