312 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

force of arms. Justice moreover was exercised, as the victors

understood the term. The most noted adherents of Mithra-

dates and the authors of the massacre of the Italians were

punished with death. The persons liable to taxes were obliged

immediately to pay down in cash according to valuation the

whole arrears of tenths and customs for the last five years;

besides which they had to pay a war-indemnity of 20,000

talents (£4,880,000) for the collection of which Lucullus

was left behind. These were measures fearful in their

rigour and dreadful in their effects; but, when we recall the

Ephesian decree and its execution, we feel inclined to regard

them as a comparatively mild retaliation. That their exac­

tions in other respects were not unusually oppressive, is

shown by the value of the spoil afterwards carried in

triumph, which amounted in precious metal to only about

£1,000,000. The few communities on the other hand that

had remained faithful—particularly the island of Rhodes, the

province of Lycia, Magnesia on the Maeander—were richly

rewarded; Rhodes received back at least a portion of the

possessions withdrawn from it after the war against Perseus

(ii. 307). In like manner compensation was made as far as

possible by free charters and special favours to the Chians

for the hardships which they had borne, and to the Ilienses

for the insanely cruel maltreatment inflicted on them by

Timbria on account of the negotiations into which they had

entered with Sulla. Sulla had already brought the kings of

Bithynia and Cappadocia to meet the Pontic king at Dar-

danus, and had made them all promise to live in peace and

good neighbourhood ; on which occasion, however, the

haughty Mithradates had refused to admit Ariobarzanes who

was not descended of royal blood—the slave, as he called

him—to his presence. Gaius Scribonius Curio was commis­

sioned to superintend the restoration of the legal order of

things in the two kingdoms evacuated by Mithradates.

The goal was thus attained. After four years of war the

Pontic king was again a client of the Romans, and a single

and settled government was restored in Greece, Macedonia,

and Asia Minor; the requirements of interest and honour

were satisfied, if not adequately, yet so far as circumstances

would allow; Sulla had not only brilliantly distinguished

himself as a soldier and general, but had the skill in a path

crossed by a thousand obstacles to preserve the difficult

mean between bold perseverance and prudent concession.

