Chap. VII.] THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS. 227

and Etruria, in which the class of free farmers had mostly dis­

appeared, while in others, such as the valleys of the Abruzzi,

the same class still maintained a tolerable footing or was

almost unaffected—just as a similar diversity could be pointed

out in the different Roman tribes. On the other hand, the

political inferiority of Italy was daily more harshly and

more abruptly displayed. No formal open breach of right

indeed occurred, at least in the principal questions. The

communal freedom, which under the name of sovereignty was

accorded by treaty to the Itahan communities, was on the

whole respected by the Roman government; the attack, which

the Roman reform party at the commencement of the agra­

rian agitation made on the Roman domains guaranteed to the

more privileged communities, had not only been earnestly

opposed by the strictly conservative as well as by the middle

party in Rome, but had been very soon abandoned by the

Roman opposition itself. But the rights, which belonged

and could not but belong to Rome as the leading community

—the supreme conduct of war-affairs, and the superintend­

ence of the whole administration,—were exercised in a way Disabilities

which was almost as bad as if the allies had been directly de- and wrongs

clared to be subjects without rights. The numerous modifi- ?f tlie sub"

cations of the fearfully severe Roman martial law, which jec

were introduced at Rome in the course of the seventh cen­

tury, seem to have remained wholly limited to the Roman

burgess-soldiers: this is certain as to the most important,

the abolition of executions by martial law (P. 112), and we

may easily conceive the impression which was produced when,

as happened in the Jugurthine war, esteemed Latin officers'

were beheaded by sentence of the Roman council of war,

while the lowest burgess-soldier had the right in the like

case of presenting an appeal to the civil tribunals of Rome.

The proportions in which the burgesses and Italian allies

were to be drawn for military service had, as was fair, re­

mained undefined by treaty; but, while in earlier times the

two had furnished on an average equal numbers of soldiers

(i. 112,351), now, although the proportions of the population

had changed probably in favour of the burgesses rather than

to their disadvantage, the demands on the allies were by

degrees increased disproportionately (i. 436, ii. 333), so

that on the one hand they had the chief burden of the

heavier and more costly service imposed on them, and on

the other band there were two allies now regularly levied

r

