Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 7

mander-in-chief in the room of the incapable Nobilior, the

consul Marcus Claudius Marcellus, who had already, when

praetor in 586, distinguished himself in Spain, and had since 168.

that time given proof of his talents as a general in two

consulships. His skilful leadership, and still more his

clemency, speedily changed the position of affairs: Ocilis at

once surrendered to him; and even the Arevacae, confirmed

by Marcellus in the hope that peace would be granted to

them on payment of a moderate fine, concluded an armistice

and sent envoys to Rome. Marcellus could thus proceed to

the southern province, where the Vettones and Lusitanians

had professed submission to the prsator Marcus Atilius so

long as he remained within their bounds, but after his

departure had immediately revolted afresh and chastised the

allies of Rome. The arrival of the consul restored tran­

quillity, and, while he spent the winter in Corduba, hos­

tilities were suspended throughout the peninsula. Mean­

while the question of peace with the Arevacae was discussed

at Rome. It is a significant indication of the relations

existing among the Spaniards themselves, that the emissaries

of the Roman party which existed among the Arevacse were

the chief occasion of the rejection of the proposals of peace

at Rome, by representing that, if the Romans were not

willing to sacrifice the Spaniards friendly to their interests,

they had no alternative save either to send a consul with

a corresponding army every year to the peninsula or to

make an emphatic example now. In consequence of this,

the ambassadors of the Arevacae were dismissed without a

decisive answer, and it was resolved that the war should be

prosecuted with vigour. Marcellus accordingly found himself

compelled in the following spring (603) to resume the war 151-

against the Arevacae. But—either, as was asserted, from his

unwillingness to leave to his successor who was expected

soon the glory of terminating the war, or, as is perhaps more

probable, from his believing like Gracchus that a humane

treatment of the Spaniards was the first thing requisite for a

lasting peace—the Roman general after holding a secret con­

ference with the most influential men of the Arevacae con­

cluded a treaty under the walls of Numantia, by which the

Arevacae surrendered to the Romans at discretion, but were

reinstated in their former stipulated rights on their under­

taking to pay money and furnish hostages.

When the new commander-in-chief, the consul Lucius Lucullus.

