284 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

Lesser Ar­

menia.

Alliance

with

Tigranes.

dom combined with that of Pontus and, like the latter,

mainly based on a number of Greek commercial towns. It

was called the kingdom of the Bosporus; it embraced the

modern Crimea with the opposite Asiatic promontory, and

annually furnished to the royal chests ana magazines 200

talents (£48,800) and 270,000 bushels of grain. The tribes

of the steppe themselves from the north slope of the Cauca­

sus to the mouth of the Danube entered, at least in great

part, into relations of dependence on, or treaty with, the

Pontic king and, if they furnished him with no other aid,

afforded at any rate an inexhaustible field for recruiting his

armies.

While thus the most important successes were gained

towards the north, the king at the same time extended his

dominions towards the east and the west. The Lesser

Armenia was annexed by him and converted from a de­

pendent principality into an integral part of the Pontic

kingdom; but still more important was the close connection

which he formed with the king of the Greater Armenia.

He not only gave his daughter Cleopatra in marriage to

Tigranes, but it was mainly through his support that

Tigranes shook off the yoke of the Arsacida e and took their

place in Asia. An agreement seems to have been made

between the two to the effect, that Tigranes should take in

hand to occupy Syria and the interior of Asia, and Mithra-

dates Asia Minor and the coasts of the Black Sea, under

promise of mutual support; and it was beyond doubt the

more active and abler Mithradates who brought about this

agreement with a view to cover his rear and to secure a

powerful ally.

Lastly, in Asia Minor the king turned his eyes towards

Paphlagonia and Cappadocia.* The former was claimed on

114. 92.

92-63.

103.

99.

* The chronology of the following events can only be determined approxi­  
mately. Mithradates Eupator seems to have practically entered on the go­

vernment somewhere about 640; Sulla's intervention took place in 662 (Liv.

Ep. 70) with which accords the calculation assigning to the Mithradatic wars

a period of thirty years (662-691) (Plin. H. N. vii. 26, 97). In the interval

fell the quarrels as to thePaphlagonianand Cappadocian succession, with which

the bribery attempted by Mithradates in Rome (Diod. 631) apparently in the

first tribunate of Saturninus in 651 (P. 207) was probably connected. Marias,

who left Rome in 655 and did not remain long in the East, found Mithradates

already in Cappadocia and negotiated with him regarding his aggressions (Cic

ad Brut. i. 5; Pint. Mar. 31); Ariarathes VI. had consequently been by

that time put to death.

^

