Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 13

each successive demand more intolerable than its predeces­

sor; and at length they were required even to surrender

their arms. Then Viriathus recollected the fate of his

countrymen whom Galba had caused to be disarmed, and

grasped his sword afresh. But it was already too late. His

wavering had sown the seeds of treachery among those who

were immediately around him; three of his confidants,

Audas, Ditalco, and Minurus from Urso, despairing of the

possibility of renewed victory, procured from the king per­

mission once more to enter into negotiations for peace with

Caepio, and employed it for the purpose of selling the life of

the Lusitanian hero to the foreigners in return for the assur­

ance of personal amnesty and further rewards. On their

return to the camp they assured the king of the favourable

issue of their negotiations, and in The following night stabbed

him while asleep in his tent. The Lusitanians honoured the

illustrious chief by an unparalleled funeral solemnity at

which two hundred pairs of champions fought in the funeral

games; and still more highly by the fact, that they did not

renounce the struggle, but nominated Tautamus as their

commander-in-chief in room of the fallen hero. The plan

projected by the latter for wresting Saguntum from the

Romans was sufficiently bold ; but the new general possessed

neither the wise moderation nor the military skill of his pre­

decessor. The expedition was a total failure, and the army

on its return was attacked in crossing the Baetis and com­

pelled to surrender unconditionally. Thus was Lusitania

subdued, far more by treachery and assassination on the part

of foreigners and natives than by honourable war.

While the southern province was scourged by Viriathus Numantia.

and the Lusitanians, a second and not less serious war had,

not without their help, broken out in the northern province

among the Celtiberian nations. The brilliant successes of

Viriathus induced the Arevacae likewise in 610 to rise 144.

against the Romans; and on that account the consul

Quintus Cacilius Metellus, who was sent to Spain to

relieve Maximus TEmilianus, did not proceed to the

southern province, but turned against the Celtiberians.

In the contest with them, and more especially during

the siege of the town of Contrebia which was deemed

impregnable, he showed the same ability which he had

displayed in vanquishing the Macedonian pretender; after

his two years' administration (611, 612) the northern pro- 143. 142.

