Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 329

the idea of taking up the war in Greece, to enter into burgesses

winter-quarters at Ariminum. But Sulla's offers met no a™ against

better reception on that account; the senate rejected his Sulla-

proposals without even allowing the envoys to enter Rome,

and enjoined him summarily to lay down arms. It was not

the coterie of the Marians, which primarily brought about

this resolute attitude. That faction was obliged to abandon

its hitherto usurped occupation of the supreme magistracy

at the very time when it was of moment, and again

to institute consular elections for the decisive year 671. 83.

The suffrages on this occasion were united not in favour of

the former consul Carbo or of any of the able officers of the

hitherto ruling clique, such as Quiutus Sertorius or Gaius

Marius the younger, but in favour of Lucius Scipio and

Gaius Norbanus, two incapables, neither of whom knew how

to fight and Scipio not even how to speak; the former

of these recommended himself to the multitude only as the

great-grandson of the conqueror of Antiochus, and the latter

as a political opponent of the oligarchy (P. 217). The

Marians were not so much abhorred for their misdeeds as

despised for their incapacity; but if the nation would have

nothing to do with these, the great majority of it would have

still less to do with Sulla and an oligarchical restoration.

"Warlike preparations went on very earnestly. While Sulla

crossed to Asia and induced such defection in the army of

Fimbria that its leader fell by his own hand, the government

in Italy employed the further interval of a year granted to

it by these steps of Sulla in energetic preparations; it is

said that at Sulla's landing 100,000 men, and afterwards

even double that number of troops, were arrayed in arms

against him.

Against this Italian force Sulla had nothing to place in Difficult uo-

the scale except his five legions, which, even including sition of

some contingents levied in Macedonia and the Peloponnesus, Su'10-

probably amounted to scarce 40,000 men. It is true that

this army had been, during its seven years' conflicts in

Italy, Greece, and Asia, weaned from politics, and adhered

to its general—who pardoned everything in his soldiers, de­

bauchery, bestiality, even mutiny against their officers, re­

quired nothing but valour and fidelity towards their general,

and set before them the prospect of the most extravagant

rewards in the event of victory—with all that soldierly en­

thusiasm, which is the more powerful that the noblest and

:"

