80 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

V

some decennia after the time of the Gracchi among not more

than eighty-four lessees, to each of whom there thus fell on

an average 360 jugera, and among whom only one was a Leon-

tine; the rest were foreign, mostly Romau, speculators. We

see from this instance, with what zeal the Roman speculators

there walked in the footsteps of their predecessors, and what

extensive dealings in Sicilian cattle and Sicilian slave-corn

must have been carried on by the Roman and non-Roman

speculators who covered the beautiful island with their pas­

tures and plantations. Italy however still remained for

the present substantially exempt from this worst form of

slave-husbandry. Although in Etruria, where the planta­

tion system seems to have first emerged in Italy, and where

it existed most extensively at any rate forty years after­

wards, it is extremely probable that even now ergastula were

not wanting; yet Italian agriculture at this epoch was still

chiefly carried on by free persons or at any rate by un­

chained slaves, while the greater labours were frequently

let to contractors. The difference between Italian and

Sicilian slavery is very clearly apparent from the fact, that

the slaves of the Mamertiue community, which lived after

the Italian fashion, were the only slaves who did not take

135-132. part in the Sicilian servile revolt of 619-622.

The abyss of misery and woe, which opens before our eyes

in this most miserable of all proletariates, we leave to be

fathomed by those who venture to gaze into such depths; it

is very possible that, compared with the sufferings of the Ro­

man slaves, the sum of all Negro suffering is but a drop. Here

we are not so much concerned with the distress of the slaves

themselves as with the perils which it brought upon the

Roman state, and with the conduct of the government in

confronting them. It was plain that this proletariate had

not been called into existence by the government and could

not be directly set aside by it; this could only have been

accomplished by remedies, which would have been still

worse than the disease. The duty of the government was

simply, on the one hand, to avert the direct danger to

property and life, with which the slave-proletariate threat-

'ened the members of the state, by an earnest system of

precautionary police; and on the other hand, to aim at the

'restriction of the proletariate, as far as possible, by the

elevation of free labour. Let us see how the Roman

aristocracy executed these two tasks.

