442 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.;

Rhetorical

137.

143-87.

140-91.

100.

Course of

literature

and rhe­

toric.

Lucilius' Poems, first to a select circle, and then in public

on set days and in presence of a great concourse, and

occasionally also to treat them critically after the precedent

of the Homeric grammarians. These literary prelections,

which cultivated dilettanti (Ktterati) held gratuitously, -were

not formally a part of juvenile instruction, but were yet an

essential means of introducing the youth to the under­

standing and the delivery of the classic Latin literature.

The formation of Latin oratory took place in a similar

way. The noble Roman youth, who were even at an early

age instigated to come forward in public with panegyrics

and forensic speeches, can never have wanted exercises in

oratory ; but it was ouly at this epoch, and in consequence of

the new exclusive culture, that there arose rhetoric properly

so called. Marcus Lepidus Porcina (consul in 617) is men­

tioned as the first Roman advocate, who technically handled

the language and subject-matter; the two famous advocates

of the Marian age, the masculine and vigorous Marcus Anto-

nius (611-667) and the elegant and chaste orator Lucius

Crassus (614-663) were already complete rhetoricians.

The exercises of the young men in speaking increased

naturally in extent and importance, but still remained, just

like the exercises in Latin literature, essentially limited to

the personal attendance of the beginner on the master of the

art so as to be trained by his example and his instructions.

Formal instruction both in Latin literature and in Latin

rhetoric was given first about 650 by Lucius iElius Prs^

coninus of Lanuvium, called the " penman" (Stilo), a distin­

guished Roman knight of strict conservative views, who read

Plantus and similar works with a select circle of younger

men—including Varro and Cicero—and sometimes also went

over outlines of speeches with the authors, or put similar

outlines into the hands of his friends. This was a real

instruction. Stilo however was not a professional school­

master, but he taught literature and rhetoric, just as juris­

prudence was taught at Rome, in the character of a senior

friend of aspiring young men, not of a man hiring out brs

services and at every one's command.

But about his time began also the scholastic higher

instruction in Latin, separated both from elementary Latin

and from Greek instruction, and imparted in special esta­

blishments by paid masters, ordinarily manumitted slaves.

That its spirit and method were throughout borrowed from

