360 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV.

superseding the ordinary magistracy, and practically at

least administered their office as one which was unlimited

in point of time. Or, we should rather say, this new

office, with its absolute power based on a decree of the

people and restrained by no set term or colleague, was no

other than the old monarchy, which in fact just rested on

the free engagement of the burgesses to obey one of their

number as absolute lord. It was argued even by contem­

poraries in vindication of Sulla that a king is better than a

bad constitution,* and it may be presumed that the title of

dictator was only chosen to indicate that, as. the former

dictatorship implied a reassumption with various limita­

tions (i. 263, 294, 321), so this new dictatorship involved a

complete reassumption, of the regal power. Thus, singularly

enough, Sulla's course here also coincided with that on

which Gains Gracchus had entered with so wholly different

a design. In this respect too the conservative party had to

borrow from its opponents; the protector of the oligarchic

constitution had himself to come forward as a tyrant, in

order to avert the ever-impending tyrannis. There was no

little of defeat in this last victory of the oligarchy.

Executions. Sulla had not sought and had not desired the difficult and

dreadful labour of the work of restoration ; but, as no other

course was left to him but either to leave it in utterly in­

capable hands or to undertake it himself, he set himself to

it with remorseless energy. First of all a settlement had to

be effected in respect to the guilty. Sulla was in himself

inclined to pardon. Sanguine as he was in temperament, he

might occasionally give vent to violent rage, and well might

those beware who saw his eye gleam and his cheek colour;

but the chronic vindictiveness, which characterized Marius

in the irritability of his old age, was altogether foreign to

Sulla's easy disposition. Not only had he borne himself

with comparatively great moderation after the revolution of

88. 666 (P. 268); even the second revolution, which had per

petrated so fearful outrages and had affected him in person

so severely, had not disturbed his equilibrium. At the same

time that the executioner was dragging the bodies of his

friends through the streets of the capital, he had sought to

save the life of the blood-stained Fimbria, and, when the

latter died by his own hand, had given orders for his decent

* Satias est uti regibus quam uti malts legibus (Ad Hercim. ii. 26).

