220 THE ATTEMPT OE MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV.

praised and beloved during his lifetime, he spent in literary-

leisure his remaining days. And this disgraceful condemna­

tion, while perhaps the worst, was by no means the only

case of the sort. The senatorial party was exasperated, not

so much perhaps by such an abuse of justice in the case of

men of stainless walk but of new nobility, as by the fact that

the purest nobility no longer sufficed to cover possible stains

on its honour. Scarcely was Rufus out of the country,

when the most respected of all aristocrats, for twenty years

the chief of the senate, Marcus Scaurus at seventy years of

age was brought to trial for exactions; a sacrilege according

to aristocratic notions, even if he were guilty. The office

of accuser began to be exercised professionally by worthless

fellows, and neither irreproachable character, nor rank, nor

age longer furnished protection from the most wicked and

most dangerous attacks. The commission regarding exac­

tions was converted from a shield of the provincials into

their worst scourge; the most notorious robber escaped with

impunity, if he only indulged his fellow-robbers and did not

refuse to allow part of the sums exacted to reach the jury;

but any attempt to respond to the equitable demands of

the provincials for right and justice sufficed for condemna­

tion. It seemed as if the intention was to bring the Roman

government into the same dependence on the controlling

court, as that in which the college of judges at Carthage

had formerly kept the council there. The prescient expres­

sion of Gaius Gracchus was finding fearful fulfilment, that

with the dagger of his law as to the juries the nobility

would lacerate their own flesh.

Livius An attack on the equestrian courts was inevitable. Every

Drusus. one in the government party who was still alive to the fact

that governing implied not merely rights but also duties,

every one in fact who still felt any nobler or prouder ambi­

tion within him, could not but rise in revolt against this

oppressive and disgraceful political control, which precluded

any possibility of upright administration. The scandalous

condemnation of Rutilius Rufus seemed a summons to begin

the attack at once, and Marcus Livius Drusus, who was

91. tribune of the people in 663, regarded that summons as spe­

cially addressed to himself. Son of the man of the same name,

who thirty years before had primarily caused the overthrow of

Gaius Gracchus (P. 125), and had afterwards made himself a

name as an officer by the subjugation of the Scordisci (P. 178),

A

