Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 201

qualified poorer burgesses pressed forward unbidden to enter

the army; in fact, from the mass of the civic rabble without

work or averse to it, and from the considerable advantages

which the Roman war-service yielded, the enlistment of

volunteers could not be difficult. It was therefore simply a

necessary consequence of the political and social changes in

the state, that its military arrangements should exhibit a

transition from the system of the burgess-levy to the system

of contingents and enlisting; that the cavalry and light

troops should be mainly formed out of the contingents of the

subjectsjin the Cimbrian campaign, for instance, contin­

gents were summoned from as far as Bithynia; and that in the

case of the infantry of the line, while the former arrange­

ment of obligation to service was not abolished, every free-

born citizen should at the same time be permitted voluntarily

to enter the army, as was first done by Marius in 647. 107.

To this was added the reducing the infantry of the line to

a level, which is likewise referable to Marius. The Roman

method of aristocratic classification had hitherto prevailed

also within the legion. Each of the four divisions of the velites,

the hastati, the principes, and the triarii, or, as we may say, of

the advanced guard, of the first, second, and third line, had

hitherto possessed its special qualification as respected pro­

perty or age for service and in great part also its own style

of equipment; each had its definite place once for all as­

signed in the order of battle; each had its definite military

rank and its own standard. All these distinctions were now

superseded. Any one admitted as a legionary at all needed

no further qualification in order to serve in any division;

the discretion of the officers alone decided as to his place.

All distinctions of armour were set aside, and consequently

all recruits were uniformly trained. Connected, doubtless,

with this change were the various improvements which Ma­

rius introduced in the armament, the carrying of the bag­

gage, and similar matters, and which furnish an honour­

able evidence of his insight into the practical details of the

business of war and of his care for his soldiers; and more

especially the new method of drill devised by Publius Ruti-

lius Rufus (consul 649) the comrade of Marius in the ]os

African war. It is a significant fact, that that method con­

siderably increased the military culture of the individual

soldier and was essentially based upon the training of the

future gladiators which was usual in the fighting-schools of

