Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 35

African affairs, which excited uneasiness, the Romans re­

sorted to the extraordinary measure of intrusting the

conduct of the war to the only man who had as yet brought

home honour from the Libyan plains, and who was recom­

mended for this war by his very name. Instead of calling

Scipio to the aedileship for which he was a candidate, they

gave to him the consulship before the usual time, setting

aside the laws to the contrary effect, and committed to him

by special decree the conduct of the African war. He

arrived (607) in Utica at a very critical moment. The 147.

Roman admiral Mancinus, charged by Piso with the nominal

continuance of the siege of the capital, had- occupied a steep

cliff, far remote from the inhabited district and scarcely

defended, on the almost inaccessible seaward side of the

suburb of Magalia, and had united nearly his whole not very

numerous force there, in the hope of being able to pene­

trate thence into the outer town. In fact the assailants

had been for a moment within its gates and the camp-

followers had flocked forward in a body in the hope of

spoil, when they were again driven back to the cliff and,

being without supplies and almost cut off, were in the

greatest danger. Scipio found matters in that position. He

had hardly arrived when he despatched the troops which he

had brought with him and the militia of Utica by sea to the

threatened point, and succeeded in saving its garrison and

holding the cliff itself. After this danger was averted, the

general proceeded to the camp of Piso to take the command

and bring the army back to Carthage. Hasdrubal and

Bithyas availed themselves of his absence to move their

camp immediately up to the city, and to renew the attack on

the garrison of the cliff before Magalia; but Scipio appeared

with the vanguard of the main army in sufficient time to

afford assistance to the post. So the siege began afresh and

more earnestly. First of all Scipio cleared the camp of the

mass of camp-followers and sutlers and once more tightened

the relaxed reins of discipline. Military operations were

soon resumed with increased vigour. In an attack by night

on the suburb the Romans succeeded in passing from a

tower—placed in front of the walls and equal to them in

height—on to the battlements, and opened a little gate

through which the whole army entered. The Carthaginians

abandoned the suburb and their camp before the gates,

and gave the chief command of the garrison of the city,

