Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 237

Italy as well as in Rome, from which the insurrection had

originated, and which now, when the half of Italy was under

arms, appeared to the whole of the indignant and alarmed

burgesses undoubted treason. The sentences of this com­

mission greatly thinned the ranks of the senatorial party

favourable to mediation; among other men of note Drusus'

intimate friend, the young and talented Gaius Cotta, was

sent into banishment, and with difficulty the grey-haired

Marcus Scaurus escaped the same fate. Suspicion went so

far against the senators favourable to the reforms of Drusus,

that soon afterwards -the consul Lupus reported from the

camp to the senate regarding the communications that were

constantly maintained between the Optimates in his camp

and the enemy; a suspicion, which, it is true, was soon

shown to be unfounded by the arrest of Marsian spies. So

far king Mithradates might not without reason assert, that

the mutual enmities of the factions were more destructive

to the Roman state than the Social War itself.

In the first instance, however, the outbreak of the insur- Energetic

rection and the terrorism, which the commission of high decrees,

treason exercised, produced at least a semblance of unity and

vigour. Party feuds were silent; able officers of all shades

—democrats like Gaius Marius, aristocrats like Lucius Sulla,

friends of Drusus like Publius Sulpicius Rufus—placed them­

selves at the disposal of the government. The largesses of

corn were, apparently about this time, materially abridged

by decree of the people with a view to husband the financial

resources of the state for the war; which was the more

necessary, as, owing to the threatening attitude of king Mith­

radates, the province of Asia might at any moment fall into

the hand of the enemy and thus one of the chief sources of

the Roman revenue be dried up. The courts, with the ex­

ception of the commission of high treason, in accordance

with a decree of the senate temporarily suspended their

action ; all business stood still, and nothing was attended to

but the levying of soldiers and the manufacture of arms.

While the leading state thus collected its energies in the Political

prospect of the severe war impending, the insurgents had to organiza-

solve the more difficult task of acquiring political organiza- *lon he

tion during the struggle. In the territory of the Paelignians, tion.

situated in the centre of the Marsian, Samnite, Marrucinian,

and Vestinian cantons and consequently in the heart of the

insurgent districts, in the beautiful plain on the river

