10 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

produced a deep effect: the army intrusted him with the

supreme command. Viriathus gave orders to the mass of

his men to proceed in detached parties, by different routes,

to the appointed rendezvous; he himself formed the best

mounted and most trustworthy into a corps of 1000 horse,

with which he covered the departure of the rest. The

Romans, who wanted light cavalry, did not venture to dis­

perse for the pursuit under the eyes of the enemy's horse­

men. After Viriathus and his band had for two whole days

held in check the entire Roman army, he suddenly disap­

peared during the night and hastened to the general ren­

dezvous. The Roman general followed him, but fell into an

adroitly laid ambuscade, in which he lost the half of his

army and was himself captured and slain; with difficulty

the rest of the troops escaped to the colony of Carteia

near to the straits. In all haste 5000 men of the Spanish

militia were despatched from the Ebro to reinforce the de­

feated Romans; but Viriathus destroyed the corps while

still on its march, and commanded so absolutely the

whole interior of Carpetania that- the Romans did not

even venture to seek him there. Viriathus, now recognized

as lord and king of all the Lusitanians, knew how to com­

bine the full dignity of his princely position with the homely

habits of a shepherd. No badge distinguished him from the

common soldier: he rose from the richly adorned marriage-

table of his father-in-law, the prince Astolpa in Roman

Spain, without having touched the golden plate and the

sumptuous fare, lifted his bride on horseback, and rode off

with her to his mountains. He never took more of the spoil

than the share which he allotted to each of his comrades.

The soldier recognized the general simply by his tall figure,

by his striking sallies of wit, and above all by the fact that

he surpassed every one of his men in temperance as well as

in toil, sleeping always in full armour and fighting in front of

all in battle. It seemed as if in that thoroughly prosaic age

one of the Homeric heroes had reappeared: the name of

Viriathus resounded far and wide through Spain; and the

brave nation conceived that in him at length it had found

the man who was destined to break the fetters of alien

domination.

His sue- Extraordinary successes in northern and southern Spain

marked the next years of his leadership (606-608). Gaius

Laelius indeed kept the field against him; but, after destroy-

148-146.

