176 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

Romans; the latter came into contact with the Thracians

alone on the eastern frontier of Macedonia at the Rhodope

mountains.

Conflicts on It would have been no easy task for a government more

the frontier, energetic than was the Roman government of that day to

establish an organized and adequate defence of the frontier

against these wide domains of barbarism; what was done

for this important object under the auspices of the govern­

ment of the restoration, did not come up to even the most

moderate requirements. There seems to have been no want

in the Alps of expeditions against the inhabitants of the Alps: in 636

118- there was a triumph over the Stoeui, who were probably

95. settled in the mountains above Verona; in 659 the consul

Lucius Grassus caused the Alpine valleys far and wide to

be ransacked and the inhabitants to be put to death, and

yet he did not succeed in killing enough of them to

enable him to celebrate a village triumph and to couple

the laurels of the victor with his oratorical fame. But as

the Romans remained satisfied with razzias of this sort

which merely exasperated the natives without rendering

them harmless, and, apparently, withdrew the troops again

after every such inroad, the state of matters in the region

beyond the Po remained substantially the same as before.

in Thrace. On the Thracian frontier they appear to have given them­

selves little concern about their neighbours; except that

105. there is mention made in 651 of conflicts with the Thracians,

97. and in 657 of others with the Meodi in the border mountains

between Macedonia and Thrace.

in niyria. More serious conflicts took place in the Illyrian land,

where complaints were constantly made as to the turbulent

Dalmatians by their neighbours and those who navigated the

Adriatic; and along the wholly exposed northern frontier of

Macedonia, which, according to the significant expression of

a Roman, extended as far as the Roman swords and spears

reached, the conflicts with the barbarians never ceased. In

135. 619 an expedition was undertaken against the Ardyaei or

Vardaei and the Pleraei or Paralii, a Dalmatian tribe on the

coast to the north of the mouth of the Narenta, which was

incessantly perpetrating outrages on the sea and on the op­

posite coast: by order of the Romans they removed from the

coast and settled in the interior of the modern Herzegovina,

where they began to cultivate the soil, but, unused to their new

calling, pined away in that inclement region. At the same

