136 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV".

•

emancipated from the inconvenient associates who shared

its power; but these measures probably contributed still

further to disturb the never sincere agreement of the ruling

aristocracy with the merchant-class and the proletariate.

Both were very well aware, that the senate granted all its

concessions only from fear and with reluctance; permanently

attached to the rule of the senate by considerations neither

of gratitude nor of interest, both were very ready to render

similar services to any other master who offered them more

or even as much, and had no objection, if an opportunity

occurred, to cheat or to thwart the senate. Thus the resto­

ration continued to govern with the desires and opinions

of a legitimate aristocracy, and with the constitution and

means of government of a tyrannis. Its rule not only

rested on the same bases as that of Gracchus, but it was

equally and in fact still more deficient in strength; it was

strong where in league with the populace it overthrew

valuable institutions, but it was utterly powerless where it

had to face the bands of the streets or the interests of the

merchants. It sat on the vacated throne with an evil con­

science and divided hopes, indignant at the institutions of

the state which it ruled and yet incapable of even system­

atically assailing them, vacillating in all its conduct except

where its own material advantage prompted its decision, a

picture of faithlessness towards its own as well as the oppo­

site party, of inward inconsistency, of the most pitiful im­

potence, of the meanest selfishness—an unsurpassed ideal of

misrule.

. he men of It could not be otherwise; the whole nation was in a

the restora- state of intellectual and moral decline, but especially the

,'on' upper classes. The aristocracy before the period of the

Gracchi was truly not over-rich in talent, and the benches

of the senate were crowded by a pack of cowardly and disso­

lute nobles; nevertheless there sat in it Scipio ^Emiliauus,

Gaius Laelius, Quintus Metellus, Publius Crassus, Publius

Scaevola and numerous other respectable and able men, and

an observer favourably predisposed might be of opinion that

the senate maintained a certain moderation and a certain

mus, vi. 9, 13, Quintus Ca:pio is called patron of the senate; but on the

one hand this does not prove enough, and on the other hand what is there nar-

106. rated does not at all suit the consul of 648, so that there must be an
error

either in the name or in the foots reported.

