46 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

They were of an unexpected and far from agreeable character.

The Romans had resolved to cancel the unnatural and forced

(ii. 278) inclusion of Sparta among the Achaean states, and

generally to act with vigour against the Achaeana. Some

163. years before (591) they had been obliged to release from

their league the iEtolian town of Pleuron (ii. 279); now

they were directed to renounce all the acquisitions which

they had made since the second Macedonian war—viz.,

Corinth, Orchomenus, Argos, Sparta in the Peloponnesus,

and Heraelea near Oeta—and to reduce their league to the

condition in which it stood at the end of the Hannibalic war.

When the Achaean deputies learned this, they rushed im­

mediately to the market-place without even hearing the

Romans to an end, and communicated the Roman demands

to the multitude; whereupon the governing and the go­

verned rabble determined with one voice to arrest at once

the whole Lacedaemonians present in Corinth, because

Sparta forsooth had brought on them this misfortune. The

arrest accordingly took place in the most tumultuary fashion,

so that the possession of Laconian names or Laconian

shoes appeared sufficient ground for imprisonment: in fact

they even entered the dwellings of the Roman envoys to

seize the Lacedaemonians who had taken shelter there, and

severe expressions were uttered against the Romans, although

they did not lay hands on their persons. The envoys re­

turned home in indignation, and made bitter and even

exaggerated complaints in the senate; but the latter, with

the same moderation which marked all its measures against

the Greeks, confined itself at first to representations. In

the mildest form, and hardly mentioning satisfaction for the

insults which they had suffered, Sextus Julius Caesar re­

peated the commands of the Romans at the diet in 2Egium

147. (sPring of 607). But the leaders of affairs in Achaia with

the new strategus Critolaus at their head (strategus from

147-140. May 607 to May 608), as men versed in state affairs and

familiar with political arts, merely drew from that fact the

inference that the position of Rome with reference to Car­

thage and Viriathus could not but be very unfavourable,

and continued at once to cheat and to affront the Romans.

Caesar was requested to arrange a conference of deputies of

the contending parties at Tegea for the settlement of the

question. He did so; but, after Caesar and the Lacedaemonian

deputies had waited there long in vain for the Achaean s,

deputies I

