94 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

Gracchus.

son; anticipating that the election would once more be dis­

turbed by the veto, he made provision for expelling 4he

adherents of the aristocracy by force from the place of

assembly in front of the Capitoline temple. So the second

day of election came on; the votes fell as on the preceding

day, and again the veto was exercised; the tumult began.

The burgesses dispersed; the elective assembly was practi­

cally dissolved; the Capitoline temple was closed; it was

rumoured in the city, now that Tiberius had deposed all the

tribunes, now that he had resolved to continue his magis­

tracy without re-election.

Death of The senate assembled in the temple of Fidelity, close by

the temple of Jupiter; the bitterest opponents of Gracchus

were the speakers in the sitting; when Tiberius moved his

hand towards his forehead to signify to the people amidst the

wild tumult that his head was in danger, it was said that he

was already summoning the people to adorn his brow with the

regal chaplet. The consul Scaevola was urged to have the

traitor put to death at once. When that temperate man, by

no means averse to reform in itself, indignantly refused the

equally irrational and barbarous request, the consular Publius

Scipio Nasica, a harsh and vehement aristocrat, summoned

those who shared his views to arm themselves as they could

and to follow him. Almost none of the country people had!

come into town for the elections; the people of the city

timidly gave way, when they saw the nobles rushing along

with fury in their eyes, and legs of benches and clubs in their

"Bands. Gracchus attempted with a few attendants to

escape. But in his flight he fell on the slope of the Capitol,

and was killed by a blow on the temples from the bludgeon

of one of his furious pursuers—Publius Satureius and

Lucius Rufus afterwards contested the infamous honour—

before the statues of the seven kings at the temple of Fide­

lity; with him three hundred others were slain, none of

them by weapons of iron. When evening had come on, the

bodies were thrown into the Tiber; Gaius vainly entreated

that the corpse of his brother might be granted to him for

burial. Such a day had never before been seen by Rome.

The party-strife, which lasted for more than a century,

during the first social crisis had led to no such catastrophe

as that with which the second began. The better portion

of the aristocracy might shudder, but they could no longer

recede. They had no choice save to abandon a great

