Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 83

ordinarily given up by the authorities to their masters to be

punished at their discretion; and those masters were frugal

people, -who, if their slave-herdsmen asked clothes, replied

with stripes and with the inquiry whether travellers

journeyed through the land naked. The consequence of

such connivance accordingly was, that on the subjugation of

the slave-revolt the consul Publius Rupilius ordered all that

came into his hands alive—it is said upwards of 20,000 men

—to be crucified. It was in truth no longer possible to

show indulgence to capital.

The care of the government for the elevation of free The Italian

labour, and by consequence for the restriction of the slave- farmers.

proletariate, promised fruits far more difficult to be gained

but also far more valuable. Unfortunately, in this respect

there was nothing done at all. In the first social crisis the

landholder had been enjoined by law to employ a number of

free labourers proportioned to the number of his slave

labourers (i. 304). Now at the suggestion of the govern­

ment a Punic treatise on agriculture (ii. 19), doubtless

giving instructions in the system of planting after the

Carthaginian mode, was translated into Latin for the use

and benefit of Italian speculators—the first and only

instance of a literary undertaking suggested by the Roman

senate! The same tendency showed itself in a more im­

portant matter, or to speak more correctly in the vital ques­

tion for Rome—the system of colonization. It needed no

special wisdom but merely a recollection of the cause of

the first social crisis in Rome, to perceive that the only real

remedy against an agricultural proletariate consisted in a

comprehensive and regular system of emigration (i. 312);

for which the external relations of Romo offered the most

favourable opportunity. Until nearly the close of the sixth V. C.

century, in fact, the continuous disappearance of the small

landholders of Italy was counteracted by the continuous

establishment of new farm-allotments (ii. 351). This, it is

true, was by no means done to the extent to which it might

and should have been done; not only was the domainland

occupied from ancient times by private persons (i. 277) not

recalled, but further occupations of newly won land were

permitted; and other very important acquisitions, such as

the territory of Capua, while not abandoned to occupation,

were yet not brought to distribution, but were let on lease

as usufructuary domains. Nevertheless the assignation of

