Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 349

the life and property of the burgesses, to deal at his pleasure

with the state-domains, to alter at discretion the boundaries

of Rome, of Italy, and of the state, to dissolve or establish

civic communities in Italy, to dispose of the provinces and

dependent states, to confer the supreme imperium instead

of the people and to nominate proconsuls and propraetors,

and lastly to regulate the state for the future by means of

new laws; that it should be left to his own judgment to

determine when he had fulfilled his task and might deem i*

time to resign this extraordinary magistracy; and, in fine,

that during its continuance it should depend on his pleasure

whether the ordinary supreme magistracy should subsist

side by side with his own, or should remain in abeyance.

As a matter of course, it was adopted without opposition

(Nov. 672); and now the new master of the state, who s2-

hitherto had as proconsul avoided entering the capital, ap­

peared for the first time within the walls of Rome. This

new office derived its name from the dictatorship, which had

been practically abolished since the Hannibalic war (ii. 356);

but, as besides his armed retinue he was preceded by twice

as many lictors as the dictator of earlier times,* this new

"dictatorship for the making of laws and the regulation of

the commonwealth " as its official title ran was in fact alto­

gether different from the earlier magistracy, which had been

limited in point of duration and powers, had not excluded

appeal.to the burgesses, and had not annulled the ordinary

magistracy. It much more resembled that of the decemviri

legibus scribundis, who likewise came forward as an extra­

ordinary government with unlimited fulness of powers

* As according to reliable tradition the king himself was only attended by  
twelve lictors (Cic. de Hep. ii. 17, 31; Liv. i. 8, et al.; Appian, B. C. i.
100

differs) and the consuls were originally only accompanied by twelve lictors

attached to them alternately month by month, the dictatorship cannot have

had originally more lictors than twelve; and with this agrees the statement of

Livy (£t«. 98) that no dictator before Sulla had 24 lictors. As to the con­

trary assertion of 1'olybius (iii. 87) we must remember that he is speaking of

a magistracy which iu his tune had been for generations in abeyauce, and that,

as in his day the two consuls already appjM ^Mil!1neously with twelve

lictors each, it was a natural theory that; ^h should belong to the

dictator. The circumstance that Dionys:H Hand Plutarch (Fab. 4)

in their embellishing narratives transfer thwB wrs of the dictator to the

older period, is probably in like manner the result of inference from this

theory. There is nothing to hinder us from supposing that it was first practi­

cally carried out by Sulla, and thus abiding by the certainly not groundless

statement of Livy.

