Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 345

without a touch of irony, saluted the youth on his return

from these easy exploits as the " Great."

In the East also, after the embarkation of Sulla in the Fresh dif-

spring of 671, there had been no cessation of warfare. The Acuities [88

restoration of the old state of things and the subjugation of wl, ,Mlth"

the several towns cost in Asia as in Italy various bloody

struggles. Against the free city of Mytilene in particular

Lucius Lucullus was obliged at length to bring up troops,

after having exhausted all gentler measures ; and even a vic­

tory in the open field was far from putting an end to the

obstinate resistance of the citizens.

Meanwhile the Roman governor of Asia, Lucius Murena,

bad fallen into fresh difficulties with king Mithradates. The

latter had since the peace busied himself in strengthening

anew his dominion, which was shaken even in the northern

provinces; he had pacified the Colchians by appointing his

able son Mithradates as their governor; he had then made

away with that son, and was now preparing for an expedition

into his Bosporau kingdom. The assertion of Archelaus who

had meanwhile been obliged to seek an asylum with Murena

(P. 309), that these preparations were directed against Rome,

induced Murena, under the pretext that Mithradates still

kept possession of Cappadocian frontier districts, to move

his troops towards the Cappadocian Comana and to violate

the Pontic frontier (671). Mithradates contented himself 83.

with complaining to Murena and, when that was in vain, to

the Roman government. In fact commissioners from Sulla

made their appearance to dissuade the governor, but he did

not submit; on the contrary he crossed the Halys and

entered on the undisputed territory of Pontus, whereupon

Mithradates resolved to repel force by force. His general

Gordius had to detain the Roman army till the king came

up with far superior forces and compelled battle; Murena

was vanquished and with great loss driven back over the

Roman frontier to Phrygia, and the Roman garrisons were

expelled from all Cappadocia. Murena had the effrontery,

no doubt, to call himself the victor and to assume the title

of imperator on. account of these events (672); but the 82.

sharp lesson and a second admonition from Sulla induced

him at last to push the matter no further; the peace Second

between Rome and Mithradates was renewed (673). eac^i

This foolish feud, while it lasted, had postponed the re- Capture of

duction of the Mytileneans; it was only after a long siege Mytilene.

