Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY". 411

importance are placed beyond doubt by their results—the

murder of the praetor by a band of creditors (P. 258), the

attempt to eject from the senate all the senators not free of

debt (P. 259), the renewal of the maximum of interest by

Sulla (P. 267), the annulling of 75 per cent, of all debts

by the revolutionary party (P. 325). The consequence of this Miiture of

system was naturally general impoverishment and depopula- the Dations.

tion in the provinces, whereas the parasitic population of

migratory or temporarily settled Italians was everywhere on

the increase. In Asia Minor 80,000 men of Italian origin Italians

are said to have perished in one day ( P. 294). How numerous abroad,

they were in Delos, is evident from the tombstones still

extant on the island and from the statement that ^0,000

foreigners, mostly Italian merchants, were put to death

there by command of Mithradates (P. 297). In Africa the

Italians were so many, that even the Numidian city of

Cirta was chiefly defended by them against Jugurtha (P. 147).

Gaul too, it is said, was filled with Roman merchants; in

the case of Spain alone—perhaps not accidentally—no state­

ments of this sort are found. In Italy itself on the other

hand the condition of the free population at this epoch had

on the whole beyond doubt retrograded. To this result

certainly the civil wars essentially contributed, which, accord­

ing to statements of a general kind and but little reliable,

are alleged to have swept away frum 100,000 to 150,000 of

the Roman burgesses and 300,000 of the Italian population

generally; but still worse was the effect of the economic ruin

of the middle class and of the boundless extent of the mercan­

tile emigration, which induced a great portion of the Italian

youth to spend their most vigorous years abroad. A com- Foreigners

pensation of very dubious value was afforded by the free in Italy,

parasitic Hellenico-Oriental population, which sojourned in

the capital as diplomatic agents for kings or communities,

as physicians, schoolmasters, priests, servants, parasites,

and in the myriad employments of sharpers and swindlers, or

as traders and mariners frequented especially Ostia, Pu-

teoli, and Brundisium. Still more hazardous was the dis­

proportionate increase of the multitude of slaves in the

peninsula. The Italian burgesses by the census of 084 Italian [70.

numbered 910.000 men capable of bearing arms, to which »lavei.

number, in order to obtain the amount of the free popula­

tion in the peninsula, those accidentally passed over in the

census, the Latins in the district between the Alps aud

