Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 47

Critolaus at last appeared alone and informed them that the

general assembly of the Achaeans was alone competent in

this matter, and that it could only be settled at the diet or,

in other words, in six months. Caesar thereupon returned

to Rome; and the next national assembly of the Achaeans on

the proposal of Critolaus formally declared war against Sparta.

Even now Metellus made an attempt amicably to settle the

quarrel, and sent envoys to Corinth; but the noisy ecclesia,

consisting mostly of the mob of that wealthy commercial

and manufacturing city, drowned the voice of the Roman

envoys and compelled them to leave the platform. The

declaration of Critolaus, that they wished the Romans to be

their friends but not their masters, was received with inex­

pressible delight; and, when the members of the diet wished

to interpose, the mob protected the man after its own heart,

and applauded the sarcasms as to the high treason of

the rich and the need of a military dictatorship as well as

the mysterious hints regarding an impending insurrection of

numerous peoples and kings against Rome. The spirit

animating the movement is shown by the two resolutions,

that all clubs should be permanent and that all actions for

debt should be suspended till the restoration of peace.

The Achaeans thus had war; and they had even actual

allies, namely the Thebans and Boeotians and also the Chal-

cidians. At the beginning of 608 the Achaeans advanced 146.

into Thessaly to reduce to obedience Heraclea near Oeta,

which, in accordance with the decree of the senate, had

detached itself from the Achaean league. The consul Lucius

Muminius, whom the senate had resolved to send to

Greece, had not yet arrived; accordingly Metellus under­

took to protect Heraclea with the Macedonian legions.

When the advance of the Romans was announced to the

Achaeo-Theban army, there was no more talk of fighting;

they considered only how they might best succeed in reaching

once more the secure Peloponnesus; in all haste the army

made off, and did not even attempt to hold the position of

Thermopylae. But Metellus quickened the pursuit, and over­

took and defeated the Greek army near Scarpheia in Locris.

The loss in prisoners and dead was considerable; Critolaus

was never heard of after the battle. The remains of the

defeated army wandered to and fro in single troops, and

everywhere sought admission in vain; the division of Patrae

was destroyed in Phocis, the Arcadian select corps at

