98 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

he justified with unworthy sophistry. But it was not in

this step that the moral and political mistake of Gracchus'

action lay. There are no set forms of high treason in history;

whoever provokes one power in the state to conflict with

another is certainly a revolutionist, but he may be at the

same time a sagacious and praiseworthy statesman. The

essential defect of the Gracchan revolution lay in a fact

only too frequently overlooked—in the nature of the then

existing burgess-assemblies. The agrarian law of Spurius

Cassius (i. 288) and that of Tiberius Gracchus had in the

main the same tenor and the same object; but the enter­

prises of the two men were as diverse, as the former Roman

burgess-body which shared the Volscian spoil with the

Latins and Hernici was different from the present which

erected the provinces of Asia and Africa. The former was

a civic community, which could meet together and act

together; the latter was a great state, the union of whose

members in one and the same collective assembly, and the

leaving to this assembly the decision, yielded a result as

lamentable as it was ridiculous (ii. 342). The fundamental

defect of the policy of antiquity—that it never fully advanced

from the civic form of constitution to that of a state or, which

is the same thing, from the system of collective assemblies

to a parliamentary system—in this case avenged itself. The

sovereign assembly of Rome was, what the sovereign assembly

in England would be, if instead of sending representatives

all the electors of England should meet together as a parlia­

ment—an unwieldy body wildly agitated by all interests and

all passions, in which intelligence was totally lost; a body

which was neither able to take a comprehensive view of

things nor even to form a resolution of its own ; a body, above

all, in which, saving in rare exceptional cases, a couple of

hundred or thousand individuals accidentally picked up from

the streets of the capital acted and voted in name of the bur­

gesses. The burgesses found themselves, as a rule, nearly

as satisfactorily represented by their actual representatives

in the tribes and centuries as by the thirty lictors who legally

represented them in the curies ; and just as what was called

the decree of the curies was nothing but a decree of the magis­

trate who convoked the lictors, so the decree of the tribes

and centuries at this time was in substance simply a decree

of the proposing magistrate, legalized by some consentients

assembled for the occasion. But while in these voting­

