Chmp. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 373

procedure on the other were materially restricted, inasmuch

as processes of high treason for instance were withdrawn

from the former, and the more serious falsifications and in­

juries from the latter; but apart from this there was no

change in either institution. Secondly, as respects the pre­

sidency of the courts, six praetors, as we have already men­

tioned, were now available for the superintendence of the

different jury-courts, besides whom special directors were

named for particular tribunals. Thirdly, the senators were

once more installed in the office of jurymen in room of the

Gracchan equites: in the spear-court alone, so far as we

know, the previous arrangement continued to subsist.

The political aim of these enactments—to put- an end to

the share which the equites had hitherto had in the govern­

ment—is clear as day; but it as little admits of doubt, that

these were not mere measures of a political tendency, but

that they formed the first attempt to amend the Roman

criminal procedure and criminal law, which had since the

struggle between the orders fallen more and more into con­

fusion. From this Sullan legislation dates the distinction—

substantially unknown to the earlier law—between civil and

criminal causes, in the sense which we now attach to these

expressions; henceforth a criminal cause appears as that

which comes before a bench of jurymen, a civil cause as that

which comes before the individual judex. The whole body of

the Sullan ordinances as to the Qiuestiones may be characterized

at once as the first Roman code after the Twelve Tables, and

as the first criminal code specially issued at all. But in the

details also there appears a laudable and liberal spirit.

Singular as it may sound regarding the author of the proscrip­

tions, it remains nevertheless true, that he abolished the

punishment of death for political offences; for, as according

to the Roman custom which Sulla retained unchanged the

people only, and not the jury-commission could sentence to

forfeiture of life or to imprisonment (P. 112), the trans­

ference of processes of high treason from the burgesses to a

standing commission amounted to the abolition of capital

punishment for such offences. On the other hand, the restric­

tion of the pernicious special commissions for particular cases

of high treason, of which the Varian commission (P. 236) in

the Social war had been a specimen, likewise involved an im­

provement. The whole reform was of singular and lasting

benefit, and a permanent monument of the practical, mode-

'

