58 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

other hand the kingdom of Pontus about this time extended

in the direction of the Caucasus and the sources of the

Euphrates, cannot be precisely determined; but it seems to

have embraced the western part of Armenia about Enderes

and Diwirigi, or what was called Lesser Armenia, as a

dependent satrapy, while the Greater Armenia and Sophene

formed distinct and independent kingdoms.

Syria and While in the peninsula of Asia Minor Rome thus sub-

Egypt, stantially conducted the government and, although various

things were done without or in opposition to her wishes, yet

determined on the whole the state of possession, the wide

tracts on the other hand beyond the Taurus and the Upper

Euphrates so far down as the valley of the Nile continued

to be mainly left to themselves. No doubt the principle

189. on which the peace of 565 with Syria was based, viz., that

the Halys and the Taurus should form the eastern boun­

dary of the Roman dependencies (ii. 276), was not adhered

to by the senate and was in its very nature untenable.

The political horizon rests on illusion as well as the phy­

sical; the facts, that the state of Syria had the number

of ships of war and war-elephants allowed to it prescribed

in the treaty ot peace (ii. 274), and that the Syrian army

evacuated Egypt when half-won at the bidding of the

Roman senate (ii. 309), impKed the most complete recogni­

tion of hegemony and dependence. Accordingly the dis­

putes as to the throne in Syria and in Egypt were referred

for settlement to the Roman government. In the former

164. after the death of Antiochus Epiphanes (590) Demetrius

afterwards named Soter, the son of Seleucus IV., living as

a hostage at Rome, and Antiochus Eupator, a minor, the son

of the last king Antiochus Epiphanes, contended for the

181-146. crown; in the latter Ptolemy Philometof (573-608), the

elder of the two brothers who had reigned jointly since

170. 164. 584, had been driven from the country (590) by the younger

117. Ptolemy Euergetes II. or the Fat ( + 637), and had appeared

in person at Rome to obtain his restoration. Both affairs

were arranged by the senate entirely through diplomatic

agency, and substantially in accordance with Roman advan­

tage. In Syria Demetrius, who had the better title, was set

aside, and Antiochus Eupator was recognized as king; while

the guardianship of the royal boy was intrusted by the

senate to the Roman senator Gnaeus Octavius, who, as

was to be expected, governed thoroughly in the interest of

