468 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book I\r.

his contemptuous and pert mode of treating religious matters

is altogether offensive. The narrative, preserving throughout

an intentional contrast to the usual Greek historiography

with its artistic style, is correct and clear, but flat and languid,

digressing with undue frequency into polemical discussions

or into biographical, not seldom very self-sufficient, de­

scription of his own experiences. A controversial vein

pervades the whole work; the author destined his treatise

primarily for the Romans, and yet found among them only

a very small circle that understood him; he felt that he

remained in the eyes of the Romans a foreigner, in the eyes

of his countrymen a renegade, and that with his grand con­

ception of his subject he belonged more to the future than

to the present. Accordingly he was not exempt from a

certain ill-humour and personal bitterness, which frequently

appear after a quarrelsome and paltry fashion in his attacks

upon the superficial or even venal Greek and the uncritical

Roman historians, so that he degenerates from the tone of

the historian to that of the reviewer. Polybius is not an

attractive author; but as truth and truthfulness are of

more value than all ornament and elegance, no other author

of antiquity perhaps can be named to whom we are indebted

for so much real instruction. His books are like the sun in

the field of Roman history; at the point where they begin

the veil of mist which still envelops the Samnite and

Pyrrhic wars is raised, and at the point where they end a

new and, if possible, still more vexatious twilight begins.

Roman In singular contrast to this grand conception and treat-

chrooiclera. ment of Roman history by a foreigner stands the contem­

porary historical literature of native growth. At the

beginning of this period we still find some chronicles written

in Greek such as that already mentioned (ii. 460) of Aulus

151. Postumius (consul in 603); full of wretched rationalizing,

and that of Gains Acilius (who closed it at an advanced

142. age about 612). Yet under the influence partly of Catonian

patriotism, partly of the more refined culture of the Scipionic

circle, the Latin language gained so decided an ascendancy

in this field, that of the later historical works not more than

one or two were written in Greek j* and not only so, but

* The only real exception, so far as we know, is the Greek history of Gneui

Aufidius,who flourished in Cicero's boyhood (Tusc. v. 38, 112), that is, about

90. 105. 660. The Greek memoirs of Publius Rutilius Rufus (consul in 649) are

hardly to be regarded as an exception, since their author wrote them in exile
at

Smyrna,

