Chap. L] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 43

west to a point beyond Scodra, where Illyria began. The

protectorate which Rome claimed over Greece Proper like­

wise devolved, of course, on the new governor of Macedonia.

Tims Macedonia recovered its unity and nearly the same

limits which it had in its most flourishing times. It was no

longer, however, an united kingdom, but an united pro­

vince, retaining its communal and even as it would seem

its national organization, but placed under an Italian go­

vernor aud quaestor, whose names make their appearance on

the native coins along with the name of the country. As

tribute there was retained the old moderate land tax, as

Paullus had arranged it (ii. 303)—a sum of 100 talents

(£24,400) which was allocated in fixed proportions on the

several communities. Yet the land could not forget its old

glorious dynasty. A few years after the subjugation of the

Pseudo-Philip another pretended son of Perseus, Alexander,

raised the banner of insurrection on the Nestus (Karasu),

and had in a short time collected 16,000 men; but the

quaestor Lucius Tremellius mastered the insurrection

without difficulty and pursued the fugitive pretender as far

as Dardania (612). This was the last movement of the 142.

proud national spirit of Macedon, which two hundred years

before had accomplished so great things in Hellas and Asia.

Henceforward there is scarcely anything else to be told of

the Macedonians, save that they continued to reckon their

inglorious years from the date at which the country

received its definitive provincial organization (608). 146.

Thenceforth the defence of the northern and eastern

frontiers of Macedonia or, in other words, of the frontier of

Hellenic civilization against the barbarians devolved on the

Romans. It was not conducted by them with adequate

forces or, on the whole, with befitting energy; but with a

primary view to this military object the great Egnatian

highway was constructed, wliich as early as the time of

Polybius ran from Apollonia and Dyrrhaehium, the two chief

ports on the west coast, across the interior to Thessalonica,

and was afterwards prolonged to the Hebrus (Maritza).*

The new province became the natural basis, on the one hand

* This road was known even to the author of the pseudo-Aristotelian  
treatise De Mirabilibus as a commercial route between the Adriatic and Black

seas, viz. as that along which the wine jars from Corcyra met half way those

from Thasos and Lesbos. Even now it runs substantially in the same direction

from Durazzo, crossing the mountains of Bagora (Candavian chain) at the lake

of Ochrida (Lychuitis), by way of Monastir to Salonica.

