Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 17

all sorts—and, while the soldier was not available for fight­

ing, he had at least to work in the trenches and to march.

During the first summer the general avoided any conflict

with the Numantines ; he contented himself with destroying

the stores in the surrounding country, and with chastising

the Vaccaeans who sold corn to the Numantines, and com­

pelling them to acknowledge the supremacy of Rome. It

was only towards winter that Scipio drew together his army

round Numantia. Besides the Numidian contingent of

horsemen, infantry, and twelve elephants led by the prince

Jugurtha, and the numerous Spanish contingents, there

were four legions, in all a force of 60,000 men investing a

city whose citizens capable of arms were not more at most

than 8000. Nevertheless the besieged frequently offered

battle; but Scipio, perceiving clearly that the disorganiza­

tion of many years was not to be repaired all at once,

refused to accept it, and, when conflicts did occur in con­

nection with the sallies of the besieged, the cowardly flight

of \he legionaries, checked with difficulty by the appearance

of the general in person, justified such tactics only too

forcibly. Never did a general treat his soldiers more con­

temptuously that Scipio treated the Numantine army; and

he showed his opinion of it not only by bitter speeches, but

above all by the course of action which he adopted. For

the first time the Romans waged war by means of mattock'

and spade, where it depended on themselves alone whether

they should use the sword. Around the whole circuit of

the city, which was nearly three miles, there was constructed

a double line of circumvallation of twice that extent, provided

with walls, towers, and ditches; and the river Douro, by which

at first some supplies had reached the besieged through the

efforts of bold boatmen and divers, was at length closed.

Thus in all probability the town, whieh they did not

venture to assault, could not fail to be reduced through

famine; the more so, as it had not been possible for the

citizens to lay in provisions during the last summer. The

Numantines soon suffered from want of everything. One of

their boldest men, Retogenes, cut his way with a few com­

panions through the enemy's lines, and his touching entreaty

that kinsmen should not be allowed to perish without help

produced a great effect in Lutia at least, one of the towns of

the Arevacae. But before the citizens of Lutia had come

to a decision, Scipio, having received information from the

VOl. III. o

