320 CLNNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

at most, ten thousand men. It was of more moment that

an agreement should be come to with the Samnites and

Nolans, so that the troops of the thoroughly trustworthy

Metellus might be employed for the protection of the

capital. But the Samnites made demands which recalled

the yoke of Caudium—restitution of the spoil taken from

the Samnites and of their prisoners and deserters, renun­

ciation of the booty wrested by the Samnites from the

Eomans, the bestowal of the franchise on the Samnites

themselves as well as on the Romans who had passed over

to them. The senate rejected even in this emergency

terms of peace so disgraceful, but instructed Metellus to

leave behind a small division and to lead in person all the

troops that could at all be dispensed with in southern

Italy as quickly as possible to Rome. He obeyed. But the

consequence was, that the Samnites attacked and defeated

Plautius the legate left behind by Metellus and his weak

band; that the garrison of Nola marched out and set on

fire the neighbouring town of Abella in alliance with Bome;

that Cinna and Marius, moreover, granted to the Samnites

everything they asked—what mattered Roman honour to

them ?—and a Samnite contingent reinforced the ranks of

the insurgents. It was a severe loss also, when after a

combat unfavourable to the troops of the government

Ariminum was occupied by the insurgents, and thus the

important communication between Rome and the valley of

the Po, whence men and supplies were expected, was inter­

rupted. Scarcity and famine set in. The large populous

city numerously garrisoned with troops was but inade­

quately supplied with provisions; and Marius in particular

took care to cut off its supplies more and more. He had

already blocked up the Tiber by a bridge of ships; now

by the capture of Antium, Lanuvium, Aricia, and other

places he gained control over the means of land communi­

cation still open, and at the same time appeased temporarily

his revenge by causing all the citizens, wherever resistance

was offered, to be put to the sword with the exception of

those who had possibly betrayed to him the town. Contagious

diseases ensued and committed dreadful ravages among the

masses of soldiers densely crowded round the capital; of

Strabo's veteran army 11,000, and of the troops of Octavius

6000 are said to have fallen victims to them. Yet the

government did not despair; and the sudden death of

