Chap. XL] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 399

immediately or afterwards made good by the Roman ex­

chequer. Nevertheless these requisitions became, if not in

the theory of state-law, at any rate practically one of the

most oppressive burdens of the provincials; and the more

so, that the amount of compensation was ordinarily settled

by the government or by the governor after a one-sided

fashion. "We meet indeed with several legislative restric­

tions on this dangerous right of requisition of the Roman

chief magistrate: for instance, the rule already mentioned,

that in Spain there should not be taken from the country

people by requisitions of grain more than the twentieth

sheaf, and that the price of this should be equitably settled

(ii. 212); the fixing of a maximum quantity of grain to be

demanded by the governor for the wants of himself and his

retinue; the previous adjustment of a definite and high

rate of compensation for the grain which was frequently re­

quired, at least from Sicily, for the wants of the capital. But,

while by such rules the pressure of those requisitions on the

economy of the communities and of individuals in the pro­

vince was probably mitigated here and there, it was by no

means removed. In extraordinary crises this pressure un­

avoidably increased and often went beyond all bounds, for

then in fact the requisitions not unfrequently assumed the

form of a punishment imposed or that of voluntary contri­

butions enforced, and compensation was thus wholly with­

held. Thus Sulla in 670-671 compelled the provincials 84-83.

of Asia Minor, who certainly had very gravely offended

against Rome, to furnish to every common soldier quartered

among them forty-fold pay (per day 16 denarii = 10*.) to every

centurion seventy-five-fold pay, in addition to clothing and

meals along with the right to invite guests at pleasure; thus

• the same Sulla soon afterwards imposed a general contribu­

tion on the client and subject communities (P. 371), in

which case nothing, of course, was said of repayment.

Further the local public burdens are not to be left out of Loral bur-

view. They must have been, comparatively, very consider- dens-

able;* for the costs of administration, the keeping of the

public buildings in repair, and generally all civil expenses

were borne by the local budget, and the Roman government

* For example, in Judaea the town of Joppa paid 26,075 modii of corn, the  
other Jews the tenth sheaf to the native princes; to which fell to be added
the

temple-tribute and the payment to Sidon destined for the Romans. In Sicily

too, in addition to the Roman tenth, a very considerable local taxation w*a

raised from property.

