192 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV.

Cimbrians Thus Gaul was delivered from the Germans; and it was

in Italy. time, for their brothers-in-arms were already on the south

side of the Alps. In alliance with the Helvetii, the Cimbri

had without difficulty passed from the Seine to the region of

the sources of the Rhine, had crossed the chain of the Alps

by the Brenner pass, and had descended thence through the

valleys of the Eisach and Adige into the Italian plain.

Here the consul Quintus Lutatius Catulus was to guard the

passes; but not fully acquainted with the country and

afraid of having his flank turned, he had not ventured to ad足

vance into the Alps, but had posted himself below Trent on

the left bank of the Adige, and had secured in any event his

retreat to the right bank by the construction of a bridge.

When the Cimbrians, however, pushed forward in dense

masses from the mountains, a panic seized the Roman army,

and legionaries and horsemen ran off, the latter straight for

the capital, the former to the nearest height which seemed

to yield security. With great difficulty Catulus brought at

least the greater portion of his army by a stratagem back to

the river and over the bridge, before the enemy, who com足

manded the upper course of the Adige and were already

floating down trees and beams against the bridge, succeeded

in destroying it and thereby cutting off the retreat of the

army. But the general had to leave behind a legion on the

other bank, and the cowardly tribune who led it was already

disposed to capitulate, when the centurion Gnaeus Petreius

of Atina struck him down and cut his way through the

midst of the enemy to the main army on the right bank of

the Adige. Thus the army, and in some degree even the

honour of their arms, was saved; but the consequences of

the neglect to occupy the passes and of the too hasty retreat

were yet very seriously felt. Catulus was obliged to with足

draw to the right bank of the Po and to leave the whole

plain between the Po and the Alps in the power of the Cim足

bri, so that communication was maintained with Aquileia

102. only by sea. This took place in the summer of 652, about

the same time when the decisive battle between the Teutones

and the Bomans occurred at Aquae Sextiae. Had the Cimbri

continued their attack without interruption, Bome might

have been greatly embarrassed; but on this occasion also

they remained faithful to their custom of resting in winter,

and all the more, because the rich country, the unwonted

quarters under the shelter of a roof, the warm baths, and the

