298 THE EAST AND KING MITHRAPATES. [Book IV.

Position of The position of the Roman government began to be criti-

the Romans. cal, Asia Minor and Hellas were wholly, Macedonia to a

considerable extent, in the enemy's hands; by sea the Pon­

tic flag ruled without a rival. Then there was the Italian

insurrection, which though baffled on the whole, still held

the undisputed command of wide districts of Italy; the

barely hushed-up revolution, which threatened every moment

to break out afresh and more formidably; and, lastly, the

alarming commercial and monetary crisis (P. 258) occasioned

by the internal troubles of Italy and the enormous losses of

the Asiatic capitalists, and the want of trustworthy troops.

The government would have required three armies, to keep

down the revolution in Rome, to crush completely the insur­

rection in Italy, and to wage war in Asia; it had but one,

that of Sulla; for the northern army was, under the untrust­

worthy Gnaeus Strabo, simply an additional embarrassment.

Sulla had to choose which of these three tasks he would un­

dertake; he decided, as we have seen, for the Asiatic war. It

was no trifling matter—we should perhaps say, it was a great

act of patriotism—that in this conflict between the general

interest of his country and the special interest of his party

the former retained the ascendancy; and that Sulla, in

spite of the dangers which his removal from Italy involved

for his constitution and his party, landed in the spring of

87. 667 on the coast of Epirus. But he came not, as Roman

Sulla's commanders-in-chief had been wont to make their appear-

landing. ance {n the East. That his army of five legions or of at

most 30,000 men,* was little stronger than an ordinary

consular army, was the least element of difference. Formerly

in the eastern wars a Roman fleet had never been wanting,

and had in fact without exception commanded' the sea;

Sulla, sent to reconquer two continents and the islands of

the jEgean, arrived without a single vessel of war. Formerly

the general had brought with him a full chest and drawn

the greatest portion of his supplies by sea from home:

Sulla came with empty hands—for the sums raised with

88. difficulty for the campaign of 666 were expended in Italy—

and found himself exclusively left to depend on requisitions.

Formerly the general had found his only opponent in the

enemy's camp, and since the close of the struggle between the

* We must recollect that after the outbreak of the Social war the legion  
had at least not more than half the number of men which it had previously.

as it was no longer accompanied by Italian contingents.

