Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 45

e. g. between the voluntary and involuntary members of the

Achaean confederacy—were by no means composed. If the

Romans, as seems to have been the case, believed what they

desired and confided in the calm which for the moment pre­

vailed, they were soon to learn that the younger generation

in Hellas was in no respect better or wiser than the older.

The Greeks directly sought an opportunity of picking a

quarrel with the Romans.

In order to screen a foul transaction, Diaeus, the president Achainn

of the Achaean league for the time being, about 605 threw war- [149-

out in the diet the assertion, that the separate privileges con­

ceded by the Achaean league to the Lacedaemonians as mem­

bers—viz., their exemption from the Achaean criminal juris­

diction, and the right to send separate embassies to Rome—

were not at all guaranteed to them by the Romans. It was

an audacious falsehood; but the diet naturally believed what

it wished, and, when the Achaeans showed themselves ready

to make good their assertions with arms in hand, the weaker

Spartans yielded for the time, or, to speak more correctly, those

whose surrender was demanded by the Achaeans left the

city to appear as complainants before the Roman senate. The

senate answered as usual that it would send a commission to

investigate the matter; but instead of reporting this reply

the envoys stated in Achaia as well as in Sparta, and in

both cases falsely, that the senate had decided in their favour.

The Achaeans, who felt more than ever their equality

with Rome as allies and their political importance on

account of the aid which the league had just rendered in

Thessaly against the Pseudo-Philip, advanced in 606 under 148.

their strategus Damocritus into Laconia: in vain a Roman

embassy on its way to Asia, at the suggestion of Metellus,

admonished them to keep the peace and to await the com­

missioners of the senate. A battle took place, in which

nearly 1000 Spartans fell, and Sparta might have been taken

if Damocritus had not been equally incapable as an officer and

as a statesman. He was superseded, and his successor

Diaeus, the instigator of all this mischief, zealously continued

the war, while at the same time he gave to the dreaded

commandant of Macedonia assurances of the full loyalty of

the Achaean league. Thereupon the long-expected Roman

commission made its appearance, with Aurelius Orestes at

its head; hostilities were now suspended, and the Achaean

diet assembled at Corinth to receive its communications.

