Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 117

legislative, authority—and the courts had been divided

between them, now the moneyed aristocracy was not only

united into a compact and privileged class on the solid basis

of material interests, but also, as a judicial and controlling

power, formed part of the state and took its place almost

on a footing of equality by the side of the ruling aristocracy.

All the old antipathies of the merchants against the nobility

necessarily, from this time forth, found only too practical an

expression in the sentences of the jurymen; above all, when

the provincial governors were called to account, the senator

had to await a decision involving his civil existence at the

hands no longer as formerly of his peers, but of great

merchants and bankers. The feuds between the Roman

capitalists and the Roman governors were transplanted from

the provincial administration to the dangerous field of these

processes of reckoning. Not only was the aristocracy of the

rich divided, but care was taken that the variance should

always find fresh nourishment and easy expression.

With his weapons—the proletariate and the mercantile Monarchical

class—thus prepared Gracchus proceeded to his main work, government

the overthrow of the ruling aristocracy. The overthrow of ™Dst1tuted

the senate meant, on the one hand, the depriving it of the jtjj se^ate'

substance of its powers by legislative changes; and on the

other hand, the ruining of the existing aristocracy by mea­

sures of a more personal and transitory kind. Gracchus did

both. The function of administration, in particular, had

hitherto belonged exclusively to the senate; Gracchus took

it away, partly by settling the most important administra­

tive questions by means of comitial laws or, in other words

practically, through tribunician dictation, partly by restricting

the senate as much as possible in current affairs, partly by

taking business after the most comprehensive fashion into

his own hands. The measures of the former kind have been

mentioned already. The new master of the state without

consulting the senate meddled with the state-chest, by im­

posing a permanent and oppressive burden on the public

finances in the distribution of corn; meddled with the do­

mains, by sending out colonies not as formerly by decree of

the senate but by decree of the people; and meddled with the

provincial administration, by overturning through a law of the

people the financial constitution given by the senate to the

province of Asia and substituting for it one altogether dif­

ferent. One of the most important of the current duties of

