322 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV.

terms. The senate submitted itself unconditionally to the

outlawed consul, adding only a request that he would refrain

from bloodshed. Cinna promised this, but refused to ratify

his promise by an oath; Marius, who kept by his side during

the negotiations, maintained a sullen silence.

Marian The gates of the capital were opened. The consul

roign of marched in with his legions ; but Marius, scoffingly recalling

terror. ^g jaw of outlawry, refused to set foot in the city until the

law allowed him to do so, and the burgesses hastily assem足

bled in the Forum to pass the annulling decree. He then

entered, and with him the reign of terror. It was deter足

mined not to select individual victims, but to have all the

notable men of the Optimate party put to death and to

confiscate their goods. The gates were closed; for five days

and five nights the slaughter continued without interruption;

even afterwards the execution of individuals who had escaped

or been overlooked was of daily occurrence, and for mouths

the bloody persecution went on throughout Italy. The

consul Gnaeus Octavius was the first victim. True to his

often expressed principle, that he would rather suffer death

than make the smallest concession to men beyond the pale

of law, he refused eveb. now to take flight, and in his con足

sular robes awaited at the Janiculum the assassin, who was

not slow to appear. Among the slain were Lucius Caesar

90. (consul in 664) the celebrated victor of Acerrae (P. 243);

his brother Gaius, whose unseasonable ambition had provoked

the Sulpician tumult, well known as an orator and poet and

09. as an amiable companion; Marcus Antonius (consul in 655),

after the death of Lucius Crassus beyond dispute the first

97. forensic pleader of his time; Publius Crassus (consul in 657)

who had commanded with distinction in the Spanish and in

the Social wars and also during the siege of lionie; and a

multitude of the most considerable men of the government

party, among whom the wealthy were traced out with especial

zeal by the greedy executioners. Peculiarly melancholy

seemed the death of Lucius Merula, who very much against

his own wish had become China's successor, and who now,

when criminally impeached on that account and cited before

the comitia, in order to anticipate the inevitable condemna足

tion opened his veins, and at the altar of the Supreme

Jupiter whose priest he was, after laying aside the priestly

headband as the religious duty of the dying Flamen required,

breathed his last: and still more the death of Quint us Catulus

