Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 471

brochures of Courier, acquired a permanent place in literature

from the important position of their authors or from their

own weight. Such were the political speeches of G-aius

Laelius and of Scipio iEmilianus, masterpieces of excellent

Latin as of the noblest patriotism; such were the fluent

speeches of Gaius Titius, from whose pungent pictures of the

place and the time—his description of the senatorial judex

has been given already (P. 419)—the national comedy

borrowed various points; such above all were the nume­

rous orations of Gains Gracchus, whose fiery words pre­

served in a faithful mirror the impassioned earnestness,

the noble bearing, and the tragic destiny of that highly

gifted nature.

In scientific literature the collection of juristic opinions Sciences.

by Marcus Brutus, which was published about the year 600, 15o.

presents a remarkable attempt to transplant the Greek

method of handling professional subjects by means of dia­

logue to Rome, and to give to his treatise an artistic semi-

dramatic form by a machinery of conversation in which the

persons, time, and place, were distinctly specified. But the

later men of science, such as Stilo the philologist and Sctevola

the jurist, laid aside this method, more poetical than practi­

cal, both in the sciences of general culture and in the special

professional sciences. The increasing value of science as

such, and the preponderance of the practical interest in it at

Rome, are clearly reflected in this rapid rejection of the

fetters of artistic form. "We have already spoken (P. 441)

in detail of the sciences of general liberal culture, grammar

or rather philology, rhetoric and philosophy, in so far as

these now became essential elements of the usual Roman

training and thereby first began to be dissociated from the

professional sciences properly so called. In the field of Philology,

letters Latin philology flourished vigorously, in close asso­

ciation with the philological treatment—long ago firmly esta­

blished—of Greek literature. It was already mentioned

that about the beginning of this century the Latin epic

poets found their diaskeuastm and revisers of their text

(P. 442); it was also noticed, that not only did the

Scipionic circle generally insist on correctness above

everything else, but several also of the most noted poets,

such as Accius and Lucilius, busied themselves with the

regulation of orthography and of grammar. At the same

period we find isolated attempts to develop archaeology

