Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 245

sia, and the other, towns still adhering to Rome in that quar­

ter to join the insurgents. But on the Roman side Ser-

vius Sulpicius by his victory over the PaJignians cleared the

way for hia advancing into Picenum and rendering aid to

Strabo; Lafrenius was attacked by Strabo in front and

taken in rear by Sulpicius, and his camp was set on fire;

he himself fell, the remnant of his troops fled in disorder

and threw themselves into Asculum. So completely had the

state of affairs changed in Picenum, that the Italians now

found themselves confined to Asculum as the Romans were

previously to Firmum, and the war was thus once more con­

verted into a siege.

Lastly, there was added in the course of the year to the Umbro-

two difficult and straggling wars in southern and central Etruscan

Italy a third in the north. The state of matters apparently con"lcti-

so dangerous for Rome after the first months of the war

had induced a great portion of the Umbrian, and isolated

Etruscan, communities to declare for the insurrection; so

that it became necessary to despatch against the Umbrians

Aulus Plotius, and against the Etruscans Lucius Porcius

Cato. Here however the Romans encountered a far less

energetic resistance than in the Marsian and Samnite coun­

tries, and maintained a most decided superiority in the field.

Thus the severe first year of the war came to an end, Disadvan-

leaving behind it, both in a military and political point of view, tigeons

sorrowful memories and dubious prospects. In a military aggregate

point of view, both armies of the Romans, the Marsian as 5?™,. °

well as the Campanian, had been weakened and discouraged Tear of the

by severe defeats; the northern army had been compelled war.

especially to attend to the protection of the capital, the

southern army at Neapolis had been seriously threatened

in its communications, as the insurgents could without much

difficulty break forth from the Marsian or Samnite territory

and establish themselves between Rome and Naples; for

which reason it was found necessary to draw at least a chain

of posts from Cumae to Rome. In a political point of view,

the insurrection had gained ground on all sides during this

first year of the war; the secession of Nola, the rapid capi­

tulation of the strong and large Latin colony of Venusia,

and the Umbro-Etruscan revolt were suspicious signs that

the Roman symmachy was tottering to its very base and

was not in a position to sustain this fiery trial. They had

already made the utmost demands on the burgesses; they

