238 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

Opposition- Pescara, the town of Corfinium was selected as the Oppo-

Rome. eition-Rome or city of Italia, whose citizenship was conferred

on the burgesses of all the insurgent communities; there a

Forum and a senate-house were staked off on a suitable

scale. A senate of five hundred members was charged

with the settlement of the constitution and the superin­

tendence of the war. In accordance with its directions the

burgesses selected from the men of senatorial rank two

consuls and twelve praetors, who, just like the two consuls

and six praetors of Rome, were invested with the supreme

authority in war and peace. The Latin language, which was

even then the prevailing language among the Marsians and

Pieentes, continued in official use, but the Samnito lan­

guage which predominated in Southern Italy was placed side

by side with it on a footing of equality; and the two were

made use of alternately on the silver pieces, which the new

Italian state began to coin in its own name after Roman

models and after the Roman standard, thus practically

abolishing the monopoly of coinage which Rome had exer­

cised for two centuries. It is evident from these arrange­

ments—and was, indeed, a matter of course—that the Italians

now no longer thought of wresting equality of rights from

the Romans, but purposed to annihilate or subdue them and

to form a new state. But it is also obvious, that their consti­

tution was nothing but a pure copy of that of Rome or, in

other words, was the ancient polity handed down by tradition

among the Italian nations from time immemorial—the organi­

zation of a city instead of the constitution of a state—with

collective assemblies as unwieldy and useless as the Roman

comitia, with a governing corporation which contained within

it the same elements of oligarchy as the Roman senate, with

an executive administered in like manner by a plurality of

co-ordinate supreme magistrates. This imitation descended

to the minutest details; for instance, the title of consul or

praetor held by the magistrate in chief command was ex­

changed also by the general of the Italians after a victory for

the title of Imperator. Nothing in fact was changed but

the name; on the coins of the insurgents the same image of

the gods appears, the inscription only being changed from

Roma to Italia. This Rome of the insurgents was distin­

guished—not to its advantage—from the original Rome

merely by the circumstance, that, while the latter had at

any rate an urban development and its unnatural position

->

