156 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV.

province, and employed the opportunity of suspended hos­

tilities to institute fresh negotiations, showing a disposition

to grant to the king a peace on tolerable terms. Jugurtha

readily entered into them; he had at once bound himself to

pay 200,000 pounds of silver, and had even delivered up his

elephants and 300 hostages, as well as 3000 Roman deserters

who were immediately put to death. At the same time, how­

ever, the king's most confidential counsellor, Bomilcar—who

not unreasonably apprehended that, if peace should ensue,

Jugurtha would deliver him up as the murderer of Massiva

to the Roman courts—was gained by Metellus and induced,

in consideration of an assurance of impunity as respected

that murder and of great rewards, to promise that he would

deliver the king alive or dead into the hands of the Romans.

But neither that official negotiation nor this intrigue led to

the desired result. When Metellus brought forward the

suggestion that the king should give himself up in person as

a prisoner, the latter broke off the negotiations; Bomilcar's

t intercourse with the enemy was discovered, and he was

arrested and executed. These diplomatic cabals of the

meanest kind admit of no apology; but the Romans had

every reason to aim at the possession of the person of their

antagonist. The war had reached a point, at which it could

neither be carried further nor abandoned. The state of feel­

ing in Numidia was evinced by the revolt of Vaga,* the most

considerable of the cities occupied by the Romans, in the

108—107. winter of 646-7; on which occasion the whole Roman gar­

rison, officers and men, were put to death with the exception

of the commandant Titus Turpilius Silanus, who was after­

wards—whether rightly or wrongly, we cannot'tell—con­

demned to death by a Roman court-martial and executed for

having an understanding with the enemy. The town was

surprised by Metellus on the second day after its revolt, and

given over to all the rigour of martial law; but if such was

the temper of the easily reached and comparatively sub­

missive dwellers on the banks of the Bagradas, what might

be expected further inland and among the roving tribes of

the desert? Jugurtha was the idol of the Africans, who

readily overlooked the double fratricide in the liberator

and avenger of their nation. Twenty years afterwards a

Numidian corps which was fighting in Italy for the Romans

• Or Vacca, now Beja on the Mcjerdab.

