232 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

ally of Drusus and altogether one of the most moderate and

judicious of the Optimates.

The Italians Amidst the vehement ferment, which this law and the

and Drusus. numerous processes arising out of it called forth throughout

Italy, the star of hope once more appeared to arise for the

Italians in the person of Marcus Drusus. That which had

been deemed almost impossible—that a conservative should

take up the reforming ideas of the Gracchi, and should be­

come the champion of equal rights forthe Italians—had never­

theless occurred; a man of the high aristocracy had resolved

to emancipate the Italians from the Sicilian Straits to the

Alps and the government at one and the same time, and to

apply all his earnest zeal, all his thorough devotedness to

these generous plans of reform. "Whether he actually, as

was reported, placed himself at the head of a secret league,

whose threads ramified through Italy and whose members

bound themselves by an oath* to stand by each other for

Drusus and for the common cause, cannot be ascertained;

but, even if he did not lend himself to acts so dangerous and

in fact unwarrantable for a Roman magistrate, yet it is cer­

tain that he did not keep to mere general promises, and that

dangerous connections were formed in his name, although

perhaps without his consent or against his will. "With joy

the Italians heard that Drusus had carried his first proposals

with the consent of the great majority of the senate; with

still greater joy all the communities of Italy celebrated not

long afterwards the recovery of the tribune, who had been

suddenly attacked by severe illness. But as Drusus's fur-

* The form of oath is preserved (in Diodor. Vat. p. 118); it runs thus: ii I  
swear by the Capitoline Jupiter and by the Roman Vesta and by the hereditary

Mars and by the generative Sun and by the nourishing Earth and by the

divine founders and enlargers of the City of Rome, that those shall be my

friends and those shall be my foes, who are friends or foes to*Drusus; also

that I will spare neither mine own life nor the life of my children or of my

parents, except in so far as it is for the good of Drusus and those who share

this oath. But if I should become a burgess by the law of Drusus, I will

esteem Rome as my home and Drusus as the greatest of my benefactors. I

shall tender this oath to as many of my fellow-citizens as I can; and if I

swear truly, may it fere with me well; if I swear falsely, may it fare with

me ill." But we shall do well to employ this account with caution; it isde

rived either from the speeches delivered against Drusus by Philippus (whi< h

seems to be indicated by the absurd title "oath of Philippus " prefixed bv the

extractor of the formula) or at best from the documents of criminal procedure

subsequently drawn up respecting this conspiracy in Rome; and even on the

latter hypothesis it remains questionable, whether this form of oath was
elicited

from the accused or imputed to them in the inquiry.

