Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRDSUS AT REFORM. 205

instead of the colleges themselves—which the. government

had frustrated in the comitia in 609 by the suggestion of re- 145.

ligious scruples—was carried in 650 by Gnaeus Domitius io4.

without the senate having been able even to venture a

serious resistance. On the whole it seemed as if nothing

was wanted but a chief, who should give to the opposition a

firm rallying point and a practical aim; and this was now

found in Marius.

For the execution of his task two methods of operation

were open; Marius might attempt to overthrow the oli­

garchy either as imperator at the head of the army, or in

the mode prescribed by the constitution for constitutional

changes: his own past career pointed to the former course,

the precedent of Gracchus to the latter. It is easy to

understand why he did not adopt the former plan, perhaps

did not even think of the possibility of adopting it. The

senate was or seemed so powerless and helpless, so hated

and despised, that Marius conceived himself scarcely to need

any other support in opposing it than his immense popu­

larity, but would in case of necessity find such a support, not­

withstanding the dissolution of the army, in the soldiers

discharged and waiting for their rewards. It is probable that

Marius, looking to Gracchus' easy and apparently almost

complete victory and to his own resources far surpassing

those of Gracchus, deemed the overthrow of a constitution

four hundred years old, and intimately bound up with the

various habits and interests of the body-politic arranged

in a complicated hierarchy, a far easier task than it was.

But any one who looked more deeply into the difficulties of

the enterprise than Marius probably did might reflect, that

the army, although in the course of transition from a militia

to a band of mercenaries, was still during this state of transi­

tion by no means adapted for the blind instrument of a

coup d'etat, and that an attempt to set aside the resisting

elements by military means would have probably increased

the power of resistance in his antagonists. To mix up the

organized armed force in the struggle could not but appear

at the first glance superfluous and at the second hazardous;

they were just at the beginning of the crisis, and the anta­

gonistic elements were still far from having reached their

last, shortest, and simplest expression.

Marius therefore discharged the army after his triumph The popu-

in accordance with the existing regulation, and entered It p"ty.

