262 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

Resistance

of the go­

vernment.

Riots.

Position of

Sulla.

aristocracy and the narrow-minded bourgeoisie would dis­

play the same stupid jealousy after the subduing of the

insurrection as they had displayed before its outbreak; that

the great majority of all parties would secretly or even

openly characterize the partial concessions made at the

moment of the most formidable danger as unseasonable

compliances, and would passionately resist every attempt

to extend them. The example of Drusus had shown what

came of undertaking to carry conservative reforms solely

in reliance on a senatorial majority; it was a course quite

intelligible, that his friend who shared his views should

attempt to carry out kindred designs in opposition to that

majority and under the forms of demagogism. Rufus accord­

ingly gave himself no trouble to gain the senate over to his

views by the bait of the jury courts. He found a better

support in the freedmen and above all in the armed retinue

—consisting, according to the report of his opponents, of

3000 hired men and an "opposition-senate" of 600 young

men from the better class—with which he appeared in the

streets and in the Forum.

His proposals accordingly met with the most decided

resistance from the majority of the senate, which first, to

gain time, induced the consuls Lucius Cornelius Sulla and

Quintus Pompeius Rufus, both declared opponents of dema­

gogism, to enjoin extraordinary religious observances during

which the popular assemblies were suspended. Sulpicius

replied by a violent tumult, in which among other victims

the young Quintus Pompeius, son of the one and son-in-law

of the other consul, met his death and the lives of both con­

suls themselves were seriously threatened—Sulla is said

even to have escaped only by Marius opening to him his

house. They were obliged to yield; Sulla agreed to counter­

mand the announced solemnities, and the Sulpician proposals

now passed without further difficulty. But this was far

from determining their fate. Though the aristocracy in the

capital might own its defeat, there was now-—for the first

time since the commencement of the revolution—yet another

power in Italy which could not be overlooked, viz. the two

strong and victorious armies of the proconsul Strabo and

the consul Sulla. Strabo's political position might be am­

biguous, but Sulla, although he had given way to open

violence for the moment, was on the best terms with the

majority of the senate; and not only so., but he had, itnme­

