426 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

historical compromise between the two ruling rations is

silently completed; the Greek and Latin nationalities con­

clude mutual peace. The Greeks renounce their exclusive-

ness in the field of culture, the Romans in the field of

politics; in instruction Latin is allowed to stand on a

footing of equality—restricted, it is true, and imperfect—

with Greek: on the other hand Sulla first allows foreign

ambassadors to speak Greek before the Roman senate with­

out an interpreter. The time heralds its approach, when

the Roman commonwealth will pass into a bilingual state

and the true heir of the throne and the ideas of Alexander

the Great will arise in the West, at once a Roman and a

Greek.

The suppression of the secondary, and the mutual inter-

penetration of the two primary nationalities, which are thus

apparent on a general survey of national relations, now

fall to be more precisely exhibited in detail in the several

fields of religion, national education, literature, and art.

Religion. The Roman religion was so intimately interwoven with the

Roman commonwealth and the Roman household—so tho­

roughly in fact the pious reflection of the Roman bur­

gess world—that the political and social revolution neces­

sarily overturned also the fabric of religion. The ancient

Italian popular faith fell to the ground; over its ruins rose

—like oligarchy and despotism rising over the ruins of the

political commonwealth—on the one side unbelief, state-reli­

gion, Hellenism, and on the other side superstition, sectarian­

ism, the religion of the Orientals. The germs certainly of

both, as indeed the germs of the politico-social revolution also,

may be traced back to the previous epoch (ii. 399-405). Even

then the Hellenic culture of the higher circles was secretly

undermining their ancestral faith; Ennius introduced the

allegorical and historical theories of the Hellenic religion into

Italy; the senate, which subdued Hannibal, had to sanction

the transference of the worship of Cybele from Asia Minor

to Rome, and to take the most serious steps against other still

worse superstitions, particularly the Bacchanalian scandal.

But; as during the preceding period the revolution generally

was rather preparing in men's minds than assuming outward

expression, so the religious revolution was, in substance

at any rate, the work only of the Gracchan and Sullan age.

(ireek phi- Let us endeavour first to trace the tendencies associated

losophy. with Hellenism. The Hellenic nation, which bloomed and

