Chap.]X.J CINNA AND SULLA, 341

necessary to close the city gates; stragglers even brought

accounts to Ofella that the battle was lost. But on the

right wing Marcus Crassus overthrew the enemy and pur­

sued him as far as Antemnae; this somewhat relieved the

left wing also, and an hour after sunset it in turn began

to gain ground. The fight continued the whole night and

even on the following morning; it was only the defection

of a division of 3000 men, who immediately turned their

arms against their former comrades, that put an end to the

struggle. Rome was saved. The army of the insurgents,

for which there was no retreat, was completely extirpated.

The prisoners taken in the battle—between 3000 and 4000 Slaughter

in number, including the generals Damasippus, Carrinas, of the Pli'

and the severely wounded Pontius—were by Sulla's orders sonels-

on the third day after the battle brought to the Villa

Publica in the Campus Martius and there massacred to the

last man, so that the clatter of arms and the groans of the

dying were distinctly heard in the neighbouring temple of

Bellona, where Sulla was just holding a meeting of the

senate. It was a ghastly execution, and it ought not to be

excused; but it is not right to forget that those same men

who perished there had fallen like a band of robbers on the

capital and the burgesses, and, had they found time, would

have destroyed them as far as fire and sword can destroy a

city and its citizens.

With this battle the war was, in the main, at an end. Sieges.

The garrison of Praeneste surrendered, when it learned the Praneste.

issue of the battle of Rome from the heads of Carrinas and

other officers thrown over the walls. The leaders, the con­

sul Gaius Marius and the son of Pontius, after having failed

in an attempt to escape, fell on each other's swords. The

multitude cherished the hope, in which it was confirmed by

Cethegus, that the victor would even now have mercy upon

them. But the times of mercy were past. The more un­

conditionally Sulla had up to the last moment granted full

pardon to those who came over to him, the more inexorable

he showed himself toward the leaders and communities that

had held out to the end. Of the Praenestine prisoners,

12,000 in number, most of the Romans and individual

Praenestines as well as the women and children were re­

leased, but the Roman senators, almost all the Praenestines

and the whole of the Samnites, were disarmed and slaugh­

tered; and the rich city was given up to pillage. It was

