114 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. TBook IV.

the whole senatorial and non-senatorial noble society of

Rome. But not long before the time of Gaius Gracchus

the law had declared a seat in the senate incompatible with

service in the cavalry (P. 73), and the senators were thus

marked off from those capable of serving as equites; and

accordingly the equestrian order, taken as a whole, might be

regarded as representing the aristocracy of speculators in

contradistinction to the senate. Nevertheless, those members

of senatorial families who had not entered the senate, more

especially the younger members, did not cease to serve as

equites and consequently to bear the name; and, in fact, the

burgess-cavalry properly so called—that is, the eighteen

equestrian centuries—in consequence of being made up by

the censors continued to be chiefly filled from the young

senatorial aristocracy (ii. 319).

This order of the equites—that is to say substantially the

wealthy merchants—in various ways came roughly into

contact with the governing senate. There was a natural

antipathy between the noble aristocrats and the men to

whom money had given rank. The ruling lords, especially

the better class of them, stood just as much aloof from

speculations, as the men of material interests were in­

different to political questions and coterie-feuds. The two

classes had already frequently come into sharp collision,

particularly in the provinces ; for, though in general the pro­

vincials had far more reason than the Roman capitalists had

to complain of the partiality of the Roman magistrates, yet

the ruling lords of the senate did not condescend to counte­

nance the greedinesses and injustices of the moneyed men

ac the expense of the subjects so thoroughly and absolutely

as was desired. In spite of their agreement in opposing a

common foe such as was Tiberius Gracchus, there yawned

a deep gulf between the noble and the moneyed aristocracy;

and Gaius, more adroit than his brother, enlarged it till

the alliance was broken up and the mercantile class ranged

Insignia of itself on his side. That the external privileges, through

the equites. which afterwards the men of equestrian census were distin­

guished from the rest of the multitude—the golden finger-

ring instead of the ordinary ring of iron or copper, and the

separate and better place at the burgess-festivals—were first

conferred on the equites by Gaius Gracchus, is not certain,

but is not improbable. For they emerged at any rate about

this period, and, as the extension of these hitherto mainly

