Ghap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 119

sonal interest. A similar but far less justifiable decree—the

proposal, directed against Marcus Octavius, that whoever

had been deprived of his office by decree of the people

should be for ever incapable of filling a public post^—was

recalled by Gracchus at the request of his mother; and he

was thus spared the disgrace of openly mocking justice by

legalizing a notorious violation of the constitution, and of

taking base vengeance on a man- of honour, who had not

spoken an angry word against Tiberius and had only acted

constitutionally and in accordance with what he conceived

to be his duty. But of very different importance from

these measures was the scheme of Gaius—which, it is true,

was hardly perhaps carried into effect—to reinforce the

senate by 300 new members, that is, just about as many as

it previously had, and to have them elected from the eques­

trian order by the comitia—a creation of peers after the

most comprehensive style, which would have reduced the

senate into the most complete dependence on the chief of

the state.

This was the political constitution which Gaius Gracchus Character of

projected and, in its most essential points, carried out the constl-

during the two years of his tribunate (631, (332), without, I"'.1°"'"

so far as we can see, encountering any resistance worthy (jral;l;hul,

of mention, and without requiring to apply force for the 123. 122.

attainment of his ends. The order in which these measures

were carried can no longer be recognized in the broken

accounts handed down to us, and various questions that

suggest themselves have to remain unanswered. But it does

not seem as if, in what is missing, many elements of mate­

rial importance can have escaped us; for as to the principal

matters we have information entirely trustworthy, and

Gaius was by no means like his brother urged on further and

further by the current of events, but evidently had a well-

considered and comprehensive plan, the substance of which

he fully embodied in a series of special laws.

• Now the Sempronian constitution itself shows very

clearly to every one who is able and willing to see, that

Gaius Gracchus did not at all, as many good-natured people

in ancient and modern times have supposed, wish to place

the Roman republic on new democratic bases, but that on

the contrary he wished to abolish it and to introduce in its

stead a Tyrannis—that is, in modern language, a monarchy

not of the feudal or of the theocratic, but of the Napoleonic

