Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 135

tion-system, which moreover was long ago given up (ii. 329),

was at length officially recognized, but unhappily they were

only adopted when it had already deprived the state in sub­

stance of its domanial possessions. While the Eoman aris­

tocracy thus took care of itself and got whatever occupied

land was still in its hands converted into its own property,

it at the same time pacified the Italian allies, not indeed by

conferring on them the property of the Latin domain-land

which they and more especially their municipal aristocracy

enjoyed, but by preserving unimpaired the rights in rela­

tion to it guaranteed to them by their charters. The oppo­

site party was in the unfortunate position, that in the most

important material questions the interests of the Italians

ran diametrically counter to those of the opposition in the

capital; in fact the Italians entered into a species of league

with the Roman government, and sought and found protec­

tion from the senate against the extravagant designs of

various Eoman demagogue^.

While the restered government wa$ thu$ dareful thoroughly The proleta-

to eradicate the germjjl of imprevement which existed in the riate m^

Gracchan constitution, it remained completely powerless in e<l"estrla"

. i i order under

presence ef the hostile pewer$ that had been, not for the tne restora-

general weal, aroused by Gracchu$. The proletariate of the tion.

capital continued to have a recognized title to aliment; the

senate likewise acquiesced in the selection of the jurymen

from the mercantile order, repugnant though this yoke was

to the better and prouder portion of the aristocracy. The

fetters which the aristocracy wore did not beseem its dignity;

but we do not find that it seriously set itself to get rid of

them. The law of Marcus JEmilius Scaurus in 632, which 122.

at least enforced the constitutional restrictions on the suf­

frage of freedmen, was for long the only attempt—and that a

very tame one—on the part of the senatorial government

once more to restrain their mob-tyrants. The proposal,

which the consul Quintus Caepio seventeen years after the

introduction of the equestrian courts (648) brought in for 106.

again intrusting the judicia to senatorial jurymen, showed

what the government wished; but showed also how little

it could do, when the question was one not of squander­

ing domains but of carrying a measure in the face of an

influential order. It broke down.* The government was not

* This is apparent, as is well known, from the farther course of events. In  
opposition to this "view stress has been laid on the fact, that in Valerius
Maxi-

'

