96 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV.

even a bond fide proprietary tenure, and, in the exceptional in­

stances where he could do so, he was confronted by the fact

that by the Roman law prescription availed not against the

state. The distribution of the domains was no abolition,

but on the contrary an exercise, of the right of property ; all

jurists were agreed as to its formal legality. But the attempt

now to carry out these legal claims of the state was far

from being politically warranted by the circumstance, that

the distribution of the domains neither infringed the existing

constitution nor involved a violation of right. Such objec­

tions as have been now and then raised in our day, when a

great landlord suddenly begins to assert, in all their com­

pass, claims belonging to him in law but suffered for a long

period to lie dormant in practice, might with equal and

better right be advanced against the rogation of Gracchus.

These occupied domains had been undeniably in heritable

private possession, some of them for three hundred years;

the state's proprietorship of the soil, which from its very

nature loses more readily than that of the burgess the charac­

ter of private right, had in the case of these lands become

virtually extinct, and the present holders had universally

come to their possessions by purchase or other onerous ac­

quisition. The jurist might say what he would; to men of

business the measure appeared to be an ejection of the great

landholders for the benefit of the agricultural proletariate;

and, in fact, no statesman could give it any other name.

That the leading men of, the Catonian epoch were of the

same opinion, is very clearly shown by their treatment of a

similar case that occurred in their time. The territory of

Capua and the neighbouring towns, which was annexed as

211. domain in 543, had for the most part practically passed into

private possession in the following unsettled times. In the

last years of the sixth century, when in various respects,

especially through the influence of Cato, the reins of govern­

ment were drawn tighter, the burgesses resolved to resume

the Campanian territory and to lease it for the benefit of

172. the treasury (582). The possession in this instance rested

on an occupation justified not by the previous invitation

but at the most by the connivance of the authorities, and

had continued in no case much beyond a generation; but the

holders were not dispossessed except in consideration of a

compensatory sum disbursed under the orders of the senate

