116 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. fBook IV.

association of capitalists of colossal magnitude. A signifi­

cant indication, moreover, of Gracchus' endeavour to make

the order of capitalists independent of the senate was the

enactment, that the entire or partial remission of the

stipulated rent was no longer, as hitherto, to be granted by

the senate at discretion, but was under definite contingencies

to be accorded by law.

Jury courts. While a gold mine was thus opened for the mercantile

class, and the members of the new partnership constituted a

great financial power imposing even for the government—a

"senate of merchants "—a definite sphere of public action

was at the same time assigned to them in the jury

courts. The field of the criminal procedure which by right

fell to be brought before the burgesses was among the

Romans from the first very narrow, and was, as we already

observed (P.l 12), still further narrowed by Gracchus. Most

processes—both such as related to public crimes, and civil

causes—were decided either by single jurymen (judices),

or by commissions partly permanent, partly extraordinary.

Hitherto both the former and the latter had been exclusively

taken from the senate; Gracchus transferred the functions of

jurymen—both in strictly civil processes, and in the case of

the standing and temporary commissions—to the equestrian

order, directing a new list of jurymen to be annually formed

after the analogy of the equestrian centuries from all persons

of equestrian rating, and excluding the senators directly, and

the young men of senatorial families by the fixing of a

certain limit of age, from judicial functions.* It is not

improbable that the selection of jurymen was chiefly

made to fall on the same men who played the leading part

in the great mercantile associations, particularly those farm­

ing the revenues in Asia and elsewhere, just because these

had a very close personal interest in sitting in the courts;

and, if the lists of judices and the societies of publkani thus

coincided as regards their chiefs, we can all the better under­

stand the significance of the counter-senate thus constituted.

The substantial effect of this was, that, while hitherto there

had been only two authorities in the state—the government as

the administering and controlling, and the burgesses as the

* We still possess a great portion of the new ordinance—primarily occa­  
sioned by this alteration in the personnel of the judges—for the standing com­

mission regarding extortion: it is known under the name of the Servilian, or

rather Acilian, law dc repetundis.

