Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 477

banquet. Another novelty -was a dancing-school, such as

Scipio iEmilianus full of indignation describes in one of his

speeches, in which upwards of five hundred boys and girls—

the dregs of the people and the children of magistrates and of

dignitaries mixed up together—received instruction from a

ballet-master in far from decorous castanet-dances, in corre­

sponding songs, and in the use of the proscribed Greek

stringed instruments. It was a novelty too—not so much

that a consular and pontifex maximus like Publius Scaevola

(consul in 621) should catch the balls in the circus as nimbly 133.

as he solved the most complicated questions of law at home—

as that noble young Romans should display their jockey-arts

before all the people at the festal games of Sulla. The

government occasionally attempted to check such practices;

as for instance in 639, when all musical instruments, with 115.

the exception of the simple flute indigenous in Latium, were

prohibited by the censors. But Rome was no Sparta: the

lax government by such prohibitions rather drew attention

to the evils than attempted to remedy them by a sharp and

consistent application of the laws.

If, in conclusion, we glance back at the picture as a whole

which the literature and art of Italy unfold to our view from

the death of Ennius to the beginning of the Ciceronian age, we

find in these respects as compared with the preceding epoch

a most decided decline of productiveness. The higher kinds

of literature—such as epos, tragedy, history—have died out

or been arrested in their development. The subordinate

kinds—the translation and imitation of the intrigue-piece,

the farce, the poetical and prose brochure—alone prosper;

in this last field of literature swept by the full hurricane of

revolution we meet with the two men of greatest literary

talent in this epoch, Gaius Gracchus and Gaius Lucilius,

who stand out amidst a number of more or less mediocre

writers just as in a similar epoch of French literature

Courier and Beranger stand out amidst a multitude of pre­

tentious nullities. In the plastic and delineative arts like­

wise the production, always weak, is now utterly null. On

the other hand the receptive enjoyment of art and literature

flourished: as the Epigoni of this period in the political

field gathered in and used up the inheritance that fell to

their fathers, we find them in this field also as diligent fre­

quenters of plays, as patrons of literature, as. connoisseurs

and still more as collectors in art. The most honourable

