Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 67

that of directly maintaining a fleet in these waters, and for

this the Roman government lacked energy and perseverance.

So all things just remained on the old footing; the piratic

fleet was the only considerable naval power in the Mediter­

ranean; the capture of men was the only trade that

flourished there. The Roman government was an onlooker;

but the Roman merchants, as the best customers in the

slave market, kept up an active and friendly traffic with the

pirate captains, as the most important wholesale dealers in

that commodity, at Delos and elsewhere.

"We have followed the metamorphosis of the outward rela- General re-

tions of Rome and the Romano-Hellenic world generally in suit,

its leading outlines, from the battle of Pydna to the period

of the Gracchi, from the Tagus and the Bagradas to the Nile

and the Euphrates. It was a great and difficult problem

which Rome undertook, when she undertook to govern this

Romano-Hellenic world; it was not wholly misunderstood,

but it was by no means solved. The untenableness of the

idea of Cato's time—that the state should be limited to

Italy, and that its rule beyond Italy should be only a pro­

tectorate— was clearly discerned by the leading men of

the following generation; and the necessity of substituting

for this protectorate a direct sovereignty of Rome, that should

preserve the liberties of the communities, was probably re­

cognized. But instead of carrying out this new arrangement

firmly, speedily, and uniformly, they annexed isolated pro­

vinces just as convenience, caprice, collateral advantage, or

accident led them to do so; whereas the greater portion of

the dependent states either remained in the intolerable un­

certainty of their former position, or even, as was the case

with Syria especially, withdrew entirely from the influence

of Rome. And even the government itself degenerated

more and more into a feeble and short-sighted selfishness.

They were content with governing from one day to another,

and barely transacting the current business as exigency

required. They were stern masters towards the weak.

When the free city of Mylasa in Caria sent to Publius

Crassus, consul in 623, a beam for the construction of a 13).

battering-ram different from what he had asked, the chief

magistrate of the town was scourged for it; and Crassus

was not a bad man, and a strictly upright magistrate. On

the tither hand sternness was wanting in those cases where

it would have been in place, as in the case of the barbarians

