Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 395

ordinary domanial and other revenues, had not been levied

since the battle of Pydna, so that absolute freedom from

land-tax began to be regarded as a constitutional privilege

of Roman landed property. The royalties of the state,

such as the salt monopoly (ii. 329) and the right of coinage,

•were not now at least, if ever at all, treated as sources of

income. The new tax on inheritance (ii. 383) was allowed

to fall into abeyance or was perhaps directly abolished.

Accordingly the Roman exchequer drew from Italy in­

cluding Cisalpine Gaul nothing but the produce of the

domains, particularly of the Campanian territory and of the

gold mines in the land of the Celts, and the revenue from

manumissions and from goods imported by sea into the

Roman civic territory not for the personal consumption of

the importer. Both of these may be regarded essentially as

taxes on luxury, and they certainly must have been con­

siderably augmented by the extension of Roman citizenship

and at the same time of Roman customs-dues to all Italy,

probably including Cisalpine Gaul.

In the provinces the Roman state claimed directly, as its Provincial

private property, the whole domain of the cities destroyed revenues.

by martial law and—in those states where the Roman

government came in room of the former rulers—the landed

property possessed by the latter. By virtue of this right

the territories of Leontini, Carthage, and Corinth, the do­

manial property of the kings of Macedon, Pergamus, and

Cyrene, the mines of Spain and Macedonia were regarded

as Roman domains; and, in like manner with the territory

of Capua, were lensed by the Roman censors to private con­

tractors for a certain proportion of the produce or a fixed sum

of money. We have already explained that Gaius Gracchus

went still further, claimed the whole land of the provinces

as domain, and in the case of the province of Asia practically

carried out this principle; inasmuch as he legally justified

the decumce, scriptura, and vectigalia levied there on the ground

of the state's right of property in the land, pasture, and

coasts of the province, whether these had previously be­

longed to the king or to private persons (P. 115, 122).

There do not appear to have been at this period any

royalties from which the state derived profit, as respected

the provinces; the prohibition of the culture of the vine

and olive in Transalpine Gaul did not benefit the state-chest

as such. On the other hand direct and indirect taxes were

