56 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV.

Cappadocia, Pontus, Armenia, could not withstand the pre­

tender; he penetrated by force of arms into Colophon, Samoa,

and Myndus, and already ruled over almost all his father's

131, kingdom, when at the close of 623 a Roman army landed in

Asia. Its commander, the consul and pontifex maximus

Publius Licinius Crassus Mucianus, one of the wealthiest

and at the same time one of the most cultivated men in

Rome, equally distinguished as an orator and as a jurist,

was about to besiege the pretender in Leucae, but during

his preparations for that purpose allowed himself to be

surprised and defeated by his too much undervalued oppo­

nent, and was himself taken prisoner by a Thracian band.

But he did not allow such an enemy the triumph of exhibit­

ing the Roman commander-in-chief as a captive; he pro­

voked the barbarians, who had captured him without

knowing who he was, to put him to death (beginning of

130. 624), and the consular was only recognized when a corpse.

With him, as it would seem, fell Ariarathes king of Cappa­

docia. But not long after this victory Aristonicus was

attacked by Marcus Perpenna, the successor of Crassus;

his army was dispersed, he himself was besieged and taken

prisoner in Stratonicea, and was soon afterwards executed in

Rome. The subjugation of the last towns that still offered

resistance and the definitive regulation of the country were

committed, after the sudden death of Perpenna, to Manius

129. Aquillius (625). The same policy was followed as in the

case of the Carthaginian territory. The eastern portion of the

kingdom of the Attalids was assigned to the client kings, so

as to release the Romans from the defence of the frontier and

thereby from the necessity of maintaining a standing force

in Asia; Telmissus (ii. 275) went to the Lycian confederacy;

the European possessions in Thrace were annexed to the

province of Macedonia; the rest of the territory was

organized as a new Roman province, which like that of

Carthage was, not without design, designated by the name

of the continent in which it lay. The land was released from

the taxes which had been paid to Pergamus; and it was

treated with the same moderation as Hellas and Macedonia.

Thus the most considerable state in Asia Minor became a

Roman province.

Western The numerous other small states and cities of western

Asia. Asia—the kingdom of Bithynia, the Paphlagonian and

Gallic principalities, the Lycian, Carian, and Pamphylian

