280 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV.

the earth, with its fields of grain alternating -with forests of

wild fruit trees, it was beyond doubt even in Mithradates'

time well cultivated and also comparatively populous. But

there were hardly any towns properly so called; the country

possessed nothing but strongholds, which served the peasants

as places of refuge and the king as treasuries for the custody

of the revenues which accrued to him; in the Lesser Ar­

menia alone, in fact, there were counted seventy-five of

these little royal forts. We do not find that Mithradates

materially contributed to promote the growth of towns in his

empire; and situated as he was,—in practical, though not per­

haps on his own part quite conscious, reaction against Hellen-

Acquisitions ism,—this is easily explained. He appears more actively

of territory employed—likewise quite in the oriental style—in enlarging

dates1 "on a^ s'aes *"s kingdom, which was even then not small,

though its compass is probably over-stated at 2300 miles: we

find his armies, his fleets, and his envoys busy along the Black

Sea as well as towards Armenia and Asia Minor. But no­

where did so free and ample an arena present itself to him

as on the eastern and northern shores of the Black Sea, the

state of which at that time we must not omit to glance at,

however difficult or in fact impossible it is to give a really

distinct idea of it. On the eastern coast of the Black Sea—

which, previously almost unknown, was first opened up to

more general knowledge by Mithradates—the region of

Colchis. Colchis on the Phasis (Mingrelia and Imeretia) with the

important commercial town of Dioscurias was wrested from

the native princes and converted into a satrapy of Pontus.

Of still greater moment were his enterprises in the north.*

Northern The wide steppes destitute of hills and trees, which stretch to

t°rRi ° w tlie norta ofthe Black Sea, of the Caucasus, and of the Cas-

the Black pian> are ^y- reason of their natural conditions—more espe

cially from the variations of temperature fluctuating between

the climate of Stockholm and that of Madeira, and from the

absolute destitution of rain or snow which occurs not unfre-

quently and lasts for a period of twenty-two months or longer

—little adapted for agriculture or for permanent settlement

at all; and they always were so, although two thousand years

* They are here grouped together, becanse, though they were in put «o  
doubt not executed till between the first and the second war with Rome, they

to some extent preceded even the first (Meuin. 30; Justin rxsviii. 7 ap. iSm.;

App. Mithr. 13; Eutrop. v. 5) and a narrative in chronological order is in
this

case absolutely impracticable.

