Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 41

mentioned occurrence at Pbacus, where the whole governing

council of one of these confederacies were murdered on the

instigation of one Damasippus. Neither the commissions

sent by the senate (590), nor the foreign arbiters, such as 164.

Scipio -iEmilianus (603) called in after the Greek fashion by

the Macedonians, were able to establish any tolerable order. 151.

Suddenly there appeared in Thrace a young man, who called

himself Philip the son of king Perseus, whom he strikingly

resembled, and of the Syrian Laodice. He had passed his

youth in the Mysian town of Adramyttium; there he

asserted that he had preserved the sure proofs of his

illustrious descent. With these he had, after a vain attempt

to obtain recognition in his native country, resorted to

Demetrius Soter, king of Syria, his mother's brother. There

were in fact some who believed the Adramyttene or pro­

fessed to believe him, and urged the king either to reinstate

the prince in his hereditary kingdom or to cede to him the

crown of Syria; whereupon Demetrius, to put an end to

the foolish proceeding, arrested the pretender and sent him

to the Romans. But the senate attached so little import­

ance to the man, that it confined him in an Italian town

without taking steps to have him even seriously guarded.

Thus he had escaped to Miletus, where the civic autho­

rities once more seized him and asked the Roman commis­

sioners what they should do with the prisoner. The latter

advised them to let him go; and they did so. He now

tried his fortune further in Thrace; and, singularly enough,

he obtained recognition and support there not only from

Teres the chief of the Thracian barbarians, the husband of

his father's sister, and Barsabas, but also from the prudent

Byzantines. With Thracian support the so-called Philip

invaded Macedonia, and, although he was defeated at first,

he soon gained one victory over the Macedonian militia in the

district of Odomantice beyond the Strymon, followed by a

second on the west side of the river, which gave him posses­

sion of all Macedonia. Apocryphal as his story sounded,

and decidedly as it was established that the real Philip, the

son of Perseus, had died when eighteen years of age at Alba,

and that this man, so far from being a Macedonian prince,

was Andriscus a fuller of Adramyttium, yet the Macedo­

nians were too much accustomed to the rule of a king not

to be readily satisfied on the point of legitimacy and to

return with pleasure into the old paths. Messengers

