394 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

soon by the sword. The revolution, at an end in so far as

the old constitution was recognized by both sides as finally

set aside and the aim and method of the new political de­

velopment were clearly settled, had yet up to this time dis­

covered nothing but provisional solutions for this problem

of the reorganization of the state; neither the Gracchan

nor the Sullan constitution of the community bore the stamp

of finality. But the bitterest feature, of this bitter time

was, that even hope and effort failed the clear-seeing patriot.

The sun of freedom with all its endless store of blessings

was constantly drawing nearer to its setting, and the twi­

light was settling over the Very world that was still so

brilliant. It was no accidental catastrophe which patriotism

and genius might have warded off; it was old social evils—

at the bottom of all, the ruin of the middle class by the

slave proletariate—that brought destruction on the .Roman

commonwealth. The most sagacious statesman was in the

plight of the physician, to whom it is equally painful to

prolong or to abridge the agony of his patient. Beyond

doubt it was the better for the interests of Rome, the more

quickly and thoroughly a despot set aside all remnants of

the ancient free constitution, and invented new forms and

expressions for the moderate measure of human prosperity

for which absolutism leaves room: the intrinsic advantage,

which belonged to monarchy under the given circumstances

as compared with any oligarchy, lay mainly in the very

circumstance that such a despotism, energetic in pulling

down and energetic in building up, could never be exer­

cised by a collegiate board. But such calm considerations

do not mould history; it is not reason, it is passion alone,

that builds for the future. The Romans had just to wait

in order to see how long their commonwealth would continue

unable to live and unable to die, and whether it would ul­

timately find its master and, so far as might be possible, its

regenerator in a man of mighty gifts, or would collapse in

misery and weakness.

Finances of It remains that we should notice the economic and social

the state, relations of the period before us, so far as we have not

already done so.

Italian re- The finances of the state were from the commencement of

venues. this epoch substantially dependent on the revenue from the

provinces. In Italy the land-tax, which had always occurred

there merely as an extraordinary impost by the side of the

'^

