470 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV.

tiresome exactness of a notary, and treat their great subject

throughout with the dulness which necessarily results from

the elimination at once of all poetical and all historical ele­

ments. When we read, for instance, in Piso that Romulus

avoided indulging in his cups when he had a sitting of the

senate next day; or that Tarpeia betrayed the Capitol to

the Sabines out of patriotism, with a view to deprive the

enemy of their shields; we cannot be surprised at the judg­

ment of intelligent contemporaries as to all this sort of

scribbling, "that it was not writing history, but telling

stories to children." Of far greater excellence were isolated

works on the history of the recent past and of the present,

particularly the history of the Hannibalic war by Lucius

121. Caelius Antipater (about 633) and the history of his own

time by Publius Sempronius Asellio, who was a little younger.

These exhibited at least valuable materials and an earnest

spirit of truth, in the case of Antipater also a vigorous,

although somewhat homely, style of narrative; yet, judging

• from all testimonies and fragments, none of these books

came up either in pithy form or in originality to the

"Origines " of Cato, who unhappily created as little of a

school in the field of history as in that of politics.

Memoirs The subordinate, more individual and ephemeral, species

and of historical literature—memoirs, letters, and speeches,—

speecie?. were strongly represented also, at least as respects quan­

tity. The first statesmen of Rome already recorded in

person their experiences: such as Marcus Scaurus (consul

115. 105. in 639), Publius Rufus (consul in 649), Quintus Catulus

102- (consul in 652), and even the regent Sulla; but none of these

productions seem to have been of importance for literature

otherwise than by the substance of their contents. The

collection of letters of Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi,

was remarkable partly for the classical purity of the lan­

guage and the high spirit of the writer, partly as the first

correspondence published in Rome, and as the first literary

production of a Roman lady. The literature of speeches

preserved at this period the stamp impressed on it by Cato;

advocates' pleadings were not yet looked on as literary

productions, and such speeches as were published were

political pamphlets. During the revolutionary commotions

this pamphlet-literature increased in extent and importance,

and among the mass of ephemeral productions there were

some which, like the Philippics of Demosthenes and the

