Chop. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS; 75

to be powerful connections; and therefore that career

began, not as formerly in the camp, but in the ante-chambers

of influential men. A new and noble body of clients now

undertook—what had formerly been done only by depend­

ents and freedmen—to come and wait on their patron early

in the morning, and to appear publicly in his train. But the

populace also was a great lord, and desired as such to receive

attention. The rabble began to demand as its right that

the future consul should recognize and honour the sovereign

people in every ragged idler of the street, and that every

candidate should in his "going round" (ambitus) salute

every individual voter by name and press his hand. The

noble world entered readily into this degrading canvass.

The true candidate cringed not only in the palace, but also

on the street, and recommended himself to the multitude by

flattering attentions, indulgences, and civilities more or less

refined. Demagogism and the cry after reforms were sedu­

lously employed to attract the notice and favour of the public;

and they were all the more effective, that they attacked

not things but persons. It became the custom for beardless

youths of noble birth to introduce themselves with eclat into

public life by playing afresh the part of Cato with the

immature passion of their boyish eloquence, and by con­

stituting and proclaiming themselves state-prosecutors, if

possible, against some man of very high standing and great

unpopularity; the Romans suffered the grave institutions of

criminal justice and of political police to become a means of

soliciting office. The provision or, what was still worse, the

promise of magnificent popular amusements had long been

the, as it were legal, prerequisite to the obtaining of the

consulship (ii. 346) ; now the votes of the electors began to

be directly purchased with money, as the prohibition issued

against it about 595 shows. Perhaps the worst consequence 159.

of the continual courting of the favour of the multitude by

the ruling aristocracy, was the incompatibility of such a

begging and fawning part with the position which the govern­

ment should rightfully occupy in relation to the governed.

The government was thus converted from a blessing into

a curse for the people. They no longer ventured to dispose

of the property and blood of the burgesses, as exigency re­

quired, for the good of their country. They allowed the

Burgesses to become habituated to the dangerous idea that

they were legally exempt from the payment of direct taxes

