Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 357

other places became Sullan colonies; to repeople Samniutn

was, as we have said, no part of the regent's design. A great

part of these assignations took place after the Gracchan

mode, so that the settlers were attached to an already exist­

ing town-community. The comprehensiveness of this settle­

ment is shown by the number of allotments distributed,

which is stated at 120,000. Nevertheless isolated portions

of land were otherwise applied, as in the case of the lands

bestowed on the temple of Diana at Mount Tifata; others,

such as the Volaterran domain and part of the Arretine, re­

mained undistributed; others in fine, according to the old

abuse legally forbidden (P. 134) but now reviving, were

taken possession of on the part of Sulla's favourites by the

right of occupation. The objects, which Sulla aimed at in this

colonization, were of a varied kind. In the first place, he

thereby redeemed the pledge given to his soldiers. Secondly,

he in so doing adopted the idea, in which the reform-party

and the moderate conservatives concurred, and in accord­

ance with which he had himself as early as 666 arranged 88.

the establishment of a number of colonies — the idea,

namely, of augmenting the number of the small agricultural

proprietors in Italy by a breaking up of the larger posses­

sions on the part of the government; how seriously he had

this at heart, is shown by the renewed prohibition of the

annexation of allotments. Lastly and especially, he saw in

these settled soldiers as it were standing garrisons, who

would protect his new constitution along with their own

right of property. For this reason, where the whole territory

was not confiscated, as at Pompeii, the colonists were not

amalgamated with the town-community, but the old burgesses

and the colonists were constituted as two bodies of burgesses

associated within the same enclosing wall. In other respects

these colonial foundations were made on the same legal basis

and in the same military form as those of previous times;

the circumstance that they were based not directly, like the

older ones, but only indirectly on a law, inasmuch as the

regent constituted them by virtue of the clause of the

Valerian law to that effect, made no difference de jure. To

designate them as military colonies in contrast with the older

ones, is only justifiable in so far as the distinction between

the soldier and the burgess, which was in other instances

done away by the very colonization of the soldiers, was in­

tended to remain and did remain in force in the Sullan

