'212 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV.

country. After the southern army under Caesar had assem­

bled in the spring of 664 iu Campania which for the

most part held by Home, and had provided Capua—with its

domain so important for the Roman finances—as well as the

more important allied cities with garrisons, it attempted to

assume the offensive and to come to the aid of the smaller

divisions sent on before it to Samnium and Lucania under

Marcus Marcellus and Publius Crassus. But Caesar was re­

pulsed by the Samnites and Marsians under Publius Vettius

Scato with severe loss, and the important town of Venafrum

thereupon passed over to the insurgents, into whose hands it

delivered its Roman garrison. By the defection of this

town, which lay on the military road from Campania to

Samnium, .32sernia was isolated, and that fortress already

strongly assailed found itself now exclusively dependent on

the courage and perseverance of its garrison and its com­

mandant Marcellus. It is true that an incursion, which

Sulla happily carried out with the same crafty audacity

as his expedition to Bocchus, relieved the hard-pressed

JSsernians for a moment; nevertheless they were after an

obstinate resistance compelled by the extremity of famine to

capitulate towards the end of the year. In Lucania too

Publius Crassus was defeated by Marcus Lamponius, and

compelled to shut himself up in Grumentum, which fell

after a long and obstinate siege. With these exceptions,

they had been obliged to leave Apulia and the southern dis­

tricts totally to themselves. The insurrection spread; when

Mutilus advanced into Campania at the head of the Samnite

army, the citizens of Nola surrendered to him their city and

delivered up the Roman garrison, whose commander was

executed by the orders of Mutilus, while the men were distri­

buted through the victorious army. With the single excep­

tion of Nuceria, which adhered firmly to Rome, all Campania

for the most as far as Vesuvius was lost to the Romans; Salernum, Stabiae,

}frt'ost to Pompeii, Herculaneum declared for the insurgents; Mutilus

'was able to advance into the region to the north of Vesuvius,

and to besiege Acerrae with his Samnito-Lucanian army. The

Numidians, who were in great numbers in Caesar's army,

began to pass over in troops to Mutilus or rather to Oxyntas,

the son of Jugurtha, who on the surrender of Venusia had

fallen into the hands of the Samnites and now appeared

among their ranks in regal purple; so that Caesar found

himself compelled to send home the whole African corps.

Caesar in

Cam- [90

pania and

Samnium.

yEsernia

taken by

the insur­

gents,

as also

Nola.

Campania

