256 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, Book IV.

the franchise from a considerable, and that not the worst,

portion of the Italians—the whole of the insurgent commu­

nities which had again submitted; and not only so, but,

instead of restoring in a legal shape the former treaties

annulled by the insurrection, they had at the utmost re­

newed them as a matter of favour and rendered them revoc­

able at pleasure.* The disability as regarded the right of

voting gave the deeper offence, that it was—as the comitia

were then constituted—politically absurd and the hypocritical

care of the government for the unstained purity of the

87. * Licinianus (p. 15) under the year 667 says : dediticiis omnibus
[cfJmJtnT»]

data; qui pollioiti mult[a] milia miiitum vix XV . . . cohortes miserunt; a

statement in which Livy s account (Epit. 80): Italicis popuiis a senatu ciri-

tas data est reappears in a somewhat more precise shape. The dediticii were

according to Roman state-law those peregrini liberi (Gaius i. 13—15, 25, Ulp.

20, 14, 22, 2), who had become subject to the Romans and had not been ad­

mitted to alliance. They might retain life, liberty, and property, and might

be formed into communities with a constitution of their own; the freedmen

who were by legal fiction placed on the same footing with the dediticii (u qui

dediticiorum numero sunt, only by erroneous usage and rarely by the better

authors called directly dediticii; Gai. i. 12, Ulp. i. 14, Paul. iv. 12, 6) as

well as the kindred liberti Latini Juniani, were probably diro'AiSe?, nulhus

certae civitatis cives (Ulp. 20,14; comp. Dig. 48, 19, 17, 1); but neither the

Latins nor the dediticii themselves were necessarily diro'Aio'e?. The latter
never­

theless were destitute of rights as respected the Roman state, in so far as by
Roman

state-law every deditio was necessarily unconditional (Polyb. xxi. 1; comp.
xx.

9, 10, xxxvi. 2) and all the privileges expressly or tacitly conceded to them

were conceded only precario and therefore revocable at pleasure (Appian,

Hisp. 44); so that the Roman state, whatever it might immediately or after­

wards decree regarding its dediticii, could never perpetrate as respected them
a

violation of rights. This destitution of rights only ceased on the conclusion

of a treaty of alliance (Liv. xxxiv, 57). Accordingly deditio and f&dus appear

in constitutional law as contrasted terms excluding each other (Liv. iv. 30,
xxviii.

34: Cod. Theod. 7, 13, 16 and Gothofr. thereon), and of precisely the same

nature is the distinction current among the jurists between the quasidediticii

and the quasiLatini, for the Latins are just the faderati eminently so called

(Cic. pro BaVi. 24, 54). -

According to the older constitutional law there were, with the exception of

the not numerous communities that were declared to have forfeited their
treaties

in consequence of the Hannibalic war (ii. 332), no Italian dediticii; in the

90-89. Plautio-Papirian law of 664—5 the description: qui fcederatis
civitatibus ad-

scriptifuerunt (Cic. pro Arch. 4, 7) still included in substance all Italians.

87. But as the dediticii who received the franchise supplementally in 667
cannot

reasonably be understood as embracing merely the Bruttii and Piceotes, we

may assume that all the insurgents, so tar as they had laid down their arms

and had not acquired the franchise under the Plautio-Papirian law, were

treated as dediticii, or—which is the same thing—that the treaties cancelled
as

a matter of course by the insurrection (hence qui faderati fuerunt in the pas­

sage of Cicero cited) were not legally renewed to them on their surrender.

