182 [Book IV. THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH.

Khine and the immediately threatened territory of the Allo-

broges, a Roman army under Marcus Junius Silanus ap­

peared in 645 in Southern Gaul. The Cimbri requested

that land might be assigned to them where they might

peacefully settle—a request which certainly could not be

granted. The consul instead of replying attacked them; he

was utterly defeated and the Roman camp was taken. The

new levies which were occasioned by this misfortune were

already attended with so much difficulty, that the senate pro­

cured the abolition of the laws—probably proceeding from

Gaius Gracchus—which limited the obligation to military

service in point of time (P. 111). But the Cimbri, instead

of following up their victory over the Romans, sent to the

senate at Rome to repeat their request for the assignment of

land, and meanwhile employed themselves, apparently, in the

subjugation of the surrounding Celtic cantons. Thus the

Roman province and the new Roman army were left for the

moment undisturbed by the Germans; but a new enemy

arose in Gaul itself. The Helvetii, who had suffered much

in the constant conflicts with their north-eastern neighbours,

felt themselves stimulated by the example of the Cimbri to

seek in their turn for more quiet and fertile settlements in

western Gaul, and had perhaps, even when the Cimbrian

hosts marched through their land, formed an alliance with

them for that purpose. Now under the leadership of Divico

the forces of the Tougeni (position unknown) and of the

Tigorini (on the lake of Murten) crossed the Jura,* and

reached the territory of the Nitiobroges (about Agen on

the Garonne). The Roman army under the consul Lucius

Cassius Longinus, which they here encountered, allowed

itself to be decoyed by the Helvetii into an ambush, in which

the general himself and his legate, the consular Gaius Piso,

along with the greater portion of the soldiers met their

death; Gaius Popillius, the interim commander-in-chief of

the force which had escaped to the camp, was allowed to

withdraw under the yoke on condition of surrendering half

the property which the troops carried with them and fur­

Defeat of

Silanus.

109.

Inroad of

the Helve-

tii into

southern

Gaul.

Defeat ot

Longinus.

* The usual hypothesis, that the Tougeni and Tigorini had advanced at the  
same time with the Cimbri into Gaul, cannot be supported by Strabo (vii.

293), and is little in harmony with the separate part acted by the Helvetii.

Our traditional accounts of this war are, besides, so fragmentary that, just
as

in the case of the Samnite wars, a connected historical narration can only lay

claim to approsimate accuracy.

