412 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV.

the Po, and the foreigners domiciled in Italy, have to be

added, while the Roman burgesses domiciled abroad are to

be deducted. It kwill accordingly be scarcely possible to

estimate the free population of the peninsula at more than

from six to seven millions. If its whole population at that

time was equal to that of the present day, we should have to

assume accordingly a mass of slaves amounting to thirteen

or fourteen millions. It needs however no such fallacious

calculations to render the dangerous character of this

state of things apparent; this is loudly enough attested by

the partial servile insurrections, and by the appeal which

from the beginning of the revolution was at the close of every

outhreak addressed to the slaves to take up arms against their

masters and to fight out their liberty. If we conceive of

England with its lords, its squires, and above all its City,

but with its freeholders and farmers converted into prole­

tarians, and its labourers and sailors converted into slaves,

we shall gain an approximate image of the population of the

Italian peninsula in those days.

Monetary The economic relations of this epoch are clearly mirrored

system. to us even now in the Eoman monetary system. Its treat-

Gold and ment shows throughout the sagacious merchant. For long

silver. gold and silver stood side by side as general means of pay­

ment on such a footing that, while for the purpose of general

cash-balances a fixed ratio of value was legally laid down

between the two metals (ii. 382), the giving one metal for

the other was not, as a rule, optional, but payment was to

be in gold or silver according to the tenor of the bond. In

this way the great evils were avoided, that are otherwise in­

evitably associated with the setting up of two precious

150. metals; the severe gold crises—as about 600, for instance,

when in consequence of the discovery of the Tauriscan gold-

seams (P. 174) gold as compared with silver fell at once in

Italy about 33^$—exercised at least no direct influence on

the silver money and retail transactions. The nature of the

case implied that, the more transmarine traffic extended,

gold the more decidedly rose from the second place to the

first; and that it did so, is confirmed by the statements as

to the balances in the treasury and as to its transactions;

but the government was not thereby induced to introduce

gold into the coinage. The coinage of gold attempted in the

exigency of the Hannibalic war (ii. 173) had been long

allowed to fall into abeyance; the few gold pieces, which

