422 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

of production, the intelligence of its agriculturists, the

cleverness of its merchants found no adequate scope in the

peninsula; these circumstances and the public service carried

the Italians in great numbers to the provinces (P. 411).

Their privileged position there rendered the Roman lan­

guage and the Roman law privileged also, even where

Romans were not merely transacting business with each

other (P. 374). Everywhere the Italians kept together as

compact and organized masses, the soldiers in their legions,

the merchants of every larger town as special associations,

the Roman burgesses domiciled or sojourning in the several

judicial districts of the provinces as "circuits" (conventus

civium Romanorum) with their own list of jurymen and in

some measure with a communal constitution; and, though

these provincial Romans ordinarily returned sooner or later

to Italy, they nevertheless gradually laid the foundations of

a settled mixed population in the provinces, partly Roman,

partly attaching itself to the Roman settlers. We have

already mentioned that it was in Spain, where the Roman

army first acquired a permanent character, that distinct

provincial towns with Italian constitution were first organ-

171. 137. ized—Carteia in 583 (P. 4), Valentia in 616 (P. 18), and

at a later date Palma and Pollentia (P. 19). Although

the interior was still far from civilized,—the territory of the

Vaccaeans, for instance, being still mentioned long after this

time as one of the rudest and most repulsive places of abode

for the cultivated Italian—authors and inscriptions attest

that as early as the middle of the seventh century the Latin

language was in common use around New Carthage and

elsewhere along the coast. Gracchus first distinctly de­

veloped the idea of colonizing, or in other words of Roman­

izing, the provinces of the Roman state by Italian emigration,

and endeavoured to carry it out; and, although the conser­

vative opposition resisted the bold project, destroyed for the

most part the colonies first established, and prevented its

continuation, yet the colony of Narbo was preserved intact,

important even of itself as extending the range of the Latin

tongue, and far more important still as the landmark of a

great idea, the foundation-stone of a mighty structure to

come. The ancient Gallicism, and in fact the modern

French type of character, have proceeded from that settle­

ment and are in their ultimate origin creations of Gaius

Gracchus. But the Latin nationality not only filled the

