360 [Book IV. THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION.

placed on an essentially different basis. As the constitution

tad hitherto stood, men entered the senate either through the

summons of the censors, which was the proper and ordinary

way, or through the holding of one of the three curule magis­

tracies—the consulship, the praitorship, or the aedileship—to

which since the passing of the Ovinian law a seat and vote

in the senate had been de jure attached (ii. 317). The holding

of an inferior magistracy, of the tribunate or the quaestor-

ship, gave probably a claim de facto to a place in the senate—

inasmuch as the censorial selection especially turned towards

the men who had held such offices—but by no means a re­

version de jure. Of these two modes of admission, Sulla

abolished the former by setting aside—at least practically

—the censorship, and altered the latter to the effect that the

right of admission to the senate was attached to the quaestor-

ship instead of the aedileship, and at the same time the number

of quaestors to be annually nominated was raised to twenty.*

The prerogative hitherto legally pertaining to the censors,

although practically no longer exercised in its original

serious import—of deleting any senator from the roll, with a

statement of the reasons for doing so, at the revisals which

took place every five years (ii. 318)—likewise fell into abey­

ance for the future; the irremoveable character which had

hitherto practically belonged to the senators was thus finally

fixed by Sulla. The total number of senators, which hitherto

had probably not much exceeded the old normal number of

300 and often perhaps had not even reached it, was by these

means considerably augmented, perhaps on an average

Admission

to the

senate

through

the quaes-

torship.

Abolition of

the censo­

rial super­

vision of

the senate.

267.

* How many quaestors had been hitherto chosen annually, is not known.  
After 487 there were eight of them—two urban, two military, and four

naval, quaestors (i. 429, 439). To these there fell to be added the quaestors

employed in the provinces (ii. 67). For the naval quaestors at Ostia, Cales,

and so forth were by no means discontinued, and the military quaestors could

not be employed elsewhere, since in that case the consul, when he appeared

as commander-in-chief, would have been without a quaestor. . Now, as down

to Sulla's time there were nine provinces, and moreover two qnaestors were

sent to Sicily, he may possibly have found as many as eighteen quaestors in

existence. But as the number of the supreme magistrates of this period

was considerably less than that of their functions (P. 366), and the diffi.

culty thus arising was constantly remedied by extension of the term of

office and other expedients, and as generally the tendency of the Roman

government was to limit as much as possible the number of magistrates, there

may have been more quaestorial functions than quaestors, and it may bo even

that at this period no quaestor at all was sent to small provinces such as

Cilicia. Certainly however there were, already before Sulla's time, more than

eight quaestors.

