48 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV

Cbaeronea; all northern Greece was evacuated, and only a

small portion of the Achaean army and of the citizens of

Thebes, who fled in a body, reached the Peloponnesus. Metel-

lus sought by the utmost moderation to induce the Greeks to

abandon their foolish resistance, and gave orders, for ex­

ample, that all the Thebans, with a single exception, should

be allowed their liberty; his well-meant endeavours were

thwarted not by the energy of the people, but by the

desperation of the leaders apprehensive for their own safety.

Diaeus, who after the fall of Critolaus had resumed the chief

command, summoned all men capable of bearing arms to

the isthmus, and ordered 12,000 slaves, natives of Greece,

to be enrolled in the army; the rich were applied to for

advances, and the ranks of the friends of peace, so far as

they did not purchase their lives by bribing their tyrannical

masters, were thinned by bloody prosecutions. The war

accordingly was continued, and after the same style. The

Achaean vanguard, which, 4000 strong, was stationed under

Alcamenes at Megara, dispersed as soon as it saw the

Roman standards. Metellus was just about to order an

attack upon the main force on the isthmus, when the consul

Lucius Mummius with a few attendants arrived at the

Roman head-quarters and took the command. Meanwhile

the Achaeans, emboldened by a successful attack on the too

unguarded Roman outposts, offered battle to the Roman

army, which was about twice as strong, at Leucopetra on the

isthmus. The Romans were not slow to accept it. At

the very first the Achaean horsemen broke off en masse before

the Roman cavalry of six times their strengh; the hoplites

withstood the enemy till a flank attack by the Roman

select corps brought confusion into their ranks. This termi-

■ nated the resistance. Diaeus fled to his home, put his wife

to death, and took poison himself. All the cities submitted

without opposition; and even the impregnable Corinth, into

which Mummius for three days hesitated to enter because he

feared anambush, was occupied by the Romans without ablow.

Province of The renewed regulation of the affairs of Greece was

Achaia. intrusted to a commission of ten senators in concert with

the consul Mummius, who left behind him on the whole

a favourable reputation in the conquered country. Doubt­

less it was, to say the least, a foolish thing in him to assume

the name of "Achaicus" on account of his feats of war and

victory, and to build in the fulness of his gratitude a temple

