Chap. VII.] AND THE SULP1CIAN REVOLUTION. 267

general with his powerful voice haughtily demanded whether

he dared to kill Gaius Marius. When they learned this,

the magistrates of Minturnae were ashamed that the deliverer

of Rome should meet with greater reverence from slaves to

whom he had brought servitude than from his fellow-citizens

to whom he had brought freedom; they loosed his fetters,

gave him a vessel and money for travelling expenses, and

sent him to .Enaria (Ischia). The proscribed with the

exception of Sulpicius gradually met in those waters; they

landed at Eryx and at what was formerly Carthage, but the

Roman magistrates both in Sicily and in Africa sent them

away. So they escaped to Numidia, whose sandy deserts

gave them a place of refuge for the winter. But the king

Hiempsal II., whom they hoped to gain and who had seemed

for a time willing to unite with them, had only done so to

lull them into security, and now attempted to seize their

persons. With great difficulty the fugitives escaped from

his cavalry, and found a temporary refuge in the little island

of Kerkina (Kerkena) on the coast of Tunis. We know not,

whether Sulla thanked his fortunate star that he had been

spared the odium of putting to death the victor of the Cim-

brians; at any rate it does not appear that the magistrates

of Minturnae were punished.

With a view to remove existing evils and to prevent Legislation

future revolutions, Sulla suggested a series of new legislative of Sulla,

enactments. For the hard-pressed debtors nothing seems

to have been done, except that the rules as to the maximum

rate of interest were enforced ;* directions moreover were

given for the formation of a number of colonies. The senate

which had been greatly thinned by the battles and prosecu­

tions of the Social War was filled up by the admission of 300

new senators, who were naturally selected in the interest of

the Optimates. Lastly, material changes were adopted in re­

spect to the mode of election and the initiative of legislation.

The arrangement for the voting in the centuriate comitia

introduced in 513 (ii. 353), which conceded an equal voice 241.

to each of the five property-classes, was again exchanged for

the old Servian arrangement, under which the first class

* It is not clear, what the lex unciaria of the consuls Sulla and Hufus in  
the year 666 prescribed in this respect; but the simplest hypothesis is that
88.

which regards it as a renewal of the law of 397 (i. 291), so that the highest
357.

allowable rate of interest was again -^th of the capital for the year of ten

months or 10 per cent, for the year of twelve months.

