424 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV.

acting, reciting, and declaiming—came into vogue.* Greek

men of letters even thus early struck root in the noble society

of Rome, especially in the Scipionic circle, the most promi­

nent Greek members of which—the historian Polybius and

the philosopher Panaetius—belong to the history of Roman

rather than of Greek development. But even in other less

illustrious circles similar relations occur; we may mention

another contemporary of Scipio, the philosopher Clitomachus,

because his life at the same time presents a vivid view of

the great mingling of nations at this epoch. A native

of Carthage, then a disciple of Carneades at Athens and

afterwards his successor in his professorship, he held inter­

course from Athens with the most cultivated men of Italy,

the historian Aulus Albinus and the poet Lucilius, and

dedicated on the one hand a scientific work to Lucius Ceu-

sorinus the Roman consul who opened the siege of Car­

thage, and on the other hand a philosophic consolatory

treatise to his fellow-citizens who were conveyed to Italy

as slaves. While Greek literary men of note had hitherto

taken up their abode temporarily in Rome as ambassadors,

exiles, or otherwise, they now began to settle there; for

instance, the already mentioned Panaetius lived in Scipio's

house, and the hexameter-maker Archias of Antioch settled

102, at Rome in 652 and supported himself respectably by the

art of improvising and by epic poems on Roman consulars.

Even Gaius Marius, who hardly understood a line of his

carmen and was altogether as ill adapted as possible for a

Maecenas, could not avoid patronizing the artist in verse.

While intellectual and literary life thus brought the nobler,

if not the purer, elements of the two nations into connec­

tion with each other, on the other hand the arrival of troops

of slaves from Asia Minor and Syria and the mercantile

immigration from the Greek and half-Greek East brought the

coarsest strata of Hellenism—largely alloyed with Oriental

and generally barbaric ingredients—into contact with the

Italian proletariate, and gave to that also a Hellenic colour­

ing. The observation of Cicero, that new language and new

fashions first make their appearance in maritime towns,

probably had a primary reference to the semi-Hellenic

* The statement that no "Greek games" were exhibited in Rome before  
145. 608 (Tac. Ann. xiv. 21) is not accurate : Greek artists (rex"""ai) and
athletes

186. appeared as early as 568 (Liv. xxxix. 22), and Greek flute players,
trage-

167. dians, and pugilists in 587 (Pol. xxx. 13).

