THE DECLINE AND FALL

XXXV.

The Scla-

vonians.

chap. since the Lombards, who sent into the field several

myriads of soldiers, still claimed, as the weaker side,

the protection of the Romans. Their spirit was

intrepid; yet such is the uncertainty of courage,

that the two armies were suddenly struck with a

panic; they fled from each other, and the rival kings

remained with their guards in the midst of an empty

plain. A short truce was obtained; but their mu­

tual resentment again kindled; and the remembrance

of their shame rendered the next encounter more

desperate and bloody. Forty thousand of the Bar­

barians perished in the decisive battle, which broke

the power of the Gepidae, transferred the fears and

wishes of Justinian, and first displayed the character

of Alboin, the youthful prince of the Lombards, and

the future conqueror of Italy *.

The wild people who dwelt or wandered in the

plains of Russia, Lithuania, and Poland, might be

reduced, in the age of Justinian, under the two great

families of the Bulgarians and the Sclavonians.

According to the Greek writers, the former, who

touched the Euxine and the lake Maeotis, derived

from the Huns their name or descent; and it is

needless to renew the simple and well-known picture

of Tartar manners. They were bold and dexterous

archers, who drank the milk and feasted on the flesh

of their fleet and indefatigable horses; whose flocks

and herds followed, or rather guided, the motions of

their roving camps; to whose inroads no country was

remote or impervious, and who were practised in

flight, though incapable of fear. The nation was

divided into two powerful and hostile tribes, who pur­

sued each other with fraternal hatred. They eagerly

* I have used, without undertaking to reconcile, the facts in Procopius (Goth.  
1. ii. c . 14. 1. iii. c . 33, 34. 1. iv. c. 18. 25), Paul Diaconus (de Gestis
Lango-

bard. 1. i. c. 1—23. in Muratori, Script. Kerum Italicarum, tom. i. p.
405—419),

and Jornandes (de Success. Regnorum, p. 242). The patient reader may draw

some light from Mascou (Hist, of the Germans, and Annotat. xxiii.) and de Buat

(Hist, des Peuplcs, &c. tom. ix. x. xi.).

