434 THE DECLINE ANfc> PALL

chap. ther. But the nuptials of Michael and Euphrosyne

XL" were barren; and she was content with the title of

mother of Theophilus, his son and successor.

The Arabs Under the reigns of Almamon at Bagdad, and of

isieofCrete, Michael the Stammerer at Constantinople, the islands

a.d.823, o-f Crete#and Sicily were subdued by the Arabs.

The former of these conquests is disdained by their

own writers, who were ignorant of the fame of Jupi­

ter and Minos; but it has not been overlooked by the

Byzantine historians, who now begin to cast a clearer

light on the affairs of their own times. A band of

Andalusian volunteers, discontented with the climate

or government of Spain, explored the adventures of

the sea; but as they sailed in no more than ten or

twenty galleys, their warfare must be branded with

the name of piracy. As the subjects and sectaries of

the white party, they might lawfully invade the do­

minions of the black Caliphs. A rebellious faction

introduced them into Alexandria; they cut in pieces

both friends and foes, pillaged the churches and the

mosques, sold above six thousand Christian captives,

and maintained their station in the capital of Egypt,

till they were oppressed by the forces and the presence

of Almamon himself. From the mouth of the Nile

to the Hellespont, the islands and sea-coasts both of

the Greeks and Moslems were exposed to their depre­

dations; they saw, they envied, they tasted, the fer­

tility of Crete, and soon returned with forty galleys to

a more serious attack. The first habitation was their

camp, with a ditch and rampart, in the bay of Suda;

but an apostate monk led them to a more desirable

position in the eastern parts; and the name of Can-

dax, their fortress and colony, has been extended to

the whole island, under the corrupt and modern ap­

* The authors from whom I have learnt the most of the ancient and modem state  
of Crete are Belon (Observations, &c. c. 3—20. Paris, 1555), Tournefort
(Voyage

du Levant, tom. i. lettre ii. et iii.), and Meursius (Creta in his works, tom.
iii.

p. 343—544).

