OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 393

natus, forty-six years after the flight of Mahomet C"£P'

from Mecca, his disciples appeared in arms under-

the walls of Constantinople. They were animated S^.

by a genuine or fictitious saying of the Prophet, that ^.d. 668—

to the first army which besieged the city of the

Caesars, their sins were forgiven; the long series of

Roman triumphs would be meritoriously transferred

to the conquerors of new Rome; and the wealth of

nations was deposited in this well-chosen seat of

royalty and commerce. No sooner had the caliph

Moawiyah suppressed his rivals and established his

throne, than he aspired to expiate the guilt of civil

blood by the success and glory of his holy expedi­

tion*; his preparations by sea and land were ade­

quate to the importance of the object; his standard

was intrusted to Sophian, a veteran warrior, but the

troops were encouraged by the example and presence

of Yezid, the son and presumptive heir of the com­

mander of the faithful. The Greeks had little to

hope, nor had their enemies any reasons of fear,

from the courage and vigilance of the reigning em­

peror, who disgraced the name of Constantine, and

imitated only the inglorious years of Heraclius.

Without delay or opposition, the naval forces of the

Saracens passed through the unguarded channel of

the Hellespont; which, even now, under the feeble

and disorderly government of the Turks, is main­

tained as the natural bulwark of the capital. The

Arabian fleet cast anchor, and the troops were dis­

embarked, near the palace of Hebdomon, seven miles

from the city. During many days, from the dawn

• For this first siege of Constantinople, see Nicephorus (Breviar. p. 21, 22)
j

Theophanes (Chronograph, p. IJ94); Cedrenus (Compend. p. 437); Zonaras

(Hist. tom. ii. lxiv. p. 89); Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 56", 57); Abulfeda

(Anna!. Moslem, p. 107, 108. vers. Reiske); D'Herbelot (BiblioL Orient. Con­

stantly); Ockley's History of the Saracens, vol. ii. p. 127, 128. the year
668.

February 20th is fixed as the date of the siege by Abulfeda, whose testimony I

esteem the most convenient and creditable of the Arabians.—The history of this

and the second siege of Constantinople is copied from the first of the tenth
volume

of Mr. Gibbon, being in the history of the Saracens. Edit.

