S68 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXIX.

art and success in the defence of Constantinople; and

, the galleys, with two and three ranks of oars, command­

ed the Bosphorus, and rendered the Persians the idle

spectators of the defeat of their allies. The Avars were

repulsed; a fleet of Sclavonian canoes was destroyed

in the harbour; the vassals of the chagan threatened

to desert, his provisions were exhausted, and after

burning his engines, he gave the signal of a slow and

formidable retreat *.

After the division of his army, Heraclius prudently

retired to the banks- of the Phasis, from whence he

maintained a defensive war against the fifty thousand

gold spears of Persia. His anxiety was relieved by

the deliverance of Constantinople; his hopes were

confirmed by a victory of his brother Theodorus; and

to the hostile league of Chosroes with the Avars the

Roman emperor opposed the useful and honourable

alliance of the Turks. At his liberal invitation, the

horde of Chozars transported their tents from the plains

of the Volga to the mountains of Georgia; Hera­

clius received them in the neighbourhood of Teflis;

and the khan with his nobles dismounted from their

horses, if we may credit the Greeks, and fell pro­

strate on the ground, to adore the purple of the Caesar.

Such voluntary homage and important aid were en­

titled to the warmest acknowledgments; and the em­

peror, taking off his own diadem, placed it on the

head of the Turkish prince, whom he saluted with a

tender embrace and the appellation of son. After

a sumptuous banquet, he presented Ziebel with the

plate and ornaments, the gold, the gems, and the

silk, which had been used at the Imperial table, and,

with his own hand, distributed rich jewels and ear­

Alliances

and con­

quests of

Heraclius.

* The Paschal Chronicle (p. 392—397) gives a minute and authentic narrative  
of the siege and deliverance of Constantinople. Theophanes (p. 2G4) adds some

circumstances; and a faint light may be obtained from the smoke of George of

Pisidia, who has composed a poem (de Bello Abarico, p. 45—54) to comme­

morate this auspicious event.

