300 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXVIII

The king­

dom of the

Lombards.

Language

and man­

ners of the

Lombards.

venna. The remainder of Italy was possessed by the

Lombards; and from Pavia, the royal seat, their

kingdom was extended to the east, the north, and the

west, as far as the confines of the Avars, the Bava­

rians, and the Franks of Austrasia and Burgundy. In

the language of modern geography, it is now repre­

sented by the Terra Finna of the Venetian republic,

Tyrol, the Milanese, Piemont, the coast of Genoa,

Mantua, Parma, and Modena, the grand duchy of

Tuscany, and a large portion of the ecclesiastical

state from Perugia to the Adriatic. The dukes, and

at length the princes of Beneventum, survived the

monarchy, and propagated the name of the Lombards.

From Capua to Tarentum, they reigned near five

hundred years over the greatest part of the present

kingdom of Naples*.

In comparing the proportion of the victorious and

the vanquished people, the change of language will

afford the most probable inference. According to this

standard it will appear, that the Lombards of Italy

and the Visigoths of Spain were less numerous than

the Franks or Burgundians; and the conquerors of

Gaul must yield, in their turn, to the multitude of

Saxons and Angles who almost eradicated the idioms

of Britain. The modern Italian has been insensibly

formed by the mixture of nations; the awkwardness

of the Barbarians in the nice management of declen­

sions and conjugations reduced them to the use of

articles and auxiliary verbs; and many new ideas

have been expressed by Teutonic appellations. Yet

the principal stock of technical and familiar words is

found to- be of Latin derivation t; and if we were

• I have described the state of Italy from the excellent Dissertation of
Beretti.

Oiannone (Istoria Civile, tom. i. p. 374—387) has followed the learned Camillo

Felegrini in the geography of the kingdom of Naples.

+ MafFei (Verona Illustrate, part i . p. 310—321), and Muratori (Antichita

Italiane, tom. ii. Dissertazione xxxii. xxxiii. p. 71—365), have asserted the

native claims of the Italian idiom: the former with enthusiasm, the latter
with

discretion: both with learning, ingenuity, and truth.

