THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. common attachment to a chief, who excelled in all

xxxviii. £jie virtues and vices of a savage hero; and the

vigilance of Alboin provided an ample magazine of

offensive and defensive arms for the use of the ex­

pedition. The portable wealth of the Lombards

attended the march; their lands they cheerfully re­

linquished to the Avars, on the solemn promise, which

was made and accepted without a smile, that if they

failed in the conquest of Italy, these voluntary exiles

should be reinstated in their former possessions.

Mddeath'" They might have failed, if Narses had been the

of Narses. antagonist of the Lombards; and the veteran war­

riors, the associates of his Gothic victory, would have

encountered with reluctance an enemy whom they

dreaded and esteemed. But the weakness of the By­

zantine court was subservient to the Barbarian cause;

and it was for the ruin of Italy, that the emperor once

listened to the complaints of his subjects. The virtues

of Narses were stained with avarice; and in his pro­

vincial reign of fifteen years he accumulated a trea­

sure of gold and silver which surpassed the modesty

of a private fortune. His government was oppressive

or unpopular, and the general discontent was ex­

pressed with freedom by the deputies of Rome. Be­

fore the throne of Justin they boldly declared, that

their Gothic servitude had been more tolerable than

the despotism of a Greek e'unuch; and that, unless

their tyrant were instantly removed, they would con­

sult their own happiness in the choice of a master.

The apprehension of a revolt was urged by the voice

of envy and detraction, which had so recently

triumphed over the merit of Belisarius. A new ex­

arch, Longinus, was appointed to supersede the con­

queror of Italy, and the base motives of his recal

were revealed in the insulting mandate of the em­

press Sophia, "that he should leave to men the exer-

"cise of arms, and return to his proper station among

