OF THE ROMAN EMPIB.E. 275

into the midst of the hippodrome, and the hopeless chap.

creditors of Justinian accepted this equitable payment;

as a voluntary gift. Before the end of three years,

his example was imitated and surpassed by the em­

press Sophia, who delivered many indigent citizens

from the weight of debt and usury: an act of be­

nevolence the best entitled to gratitude, since it

relieves the most intolerable distress; but in which

the bounty of a prince is the most liable to be abused

by the claims of prodigality and fraud.

On the seventh day of his reign, Justin gave au- Embassy of

dience to the ambassadors of the Avars, and the scene a'd^g.

was decorated to impress the Barbarians with astonish­

ment, veneration, and terror. From the palace gate,

the spacious courts and long porticoes were lined with

the lofty crests and gilt bucklers of the guards, who

presented their spears and axes with more confidence

than they would have shown in a field of battle. The

officers who exercised the power, or attended the

person of the prince, were attired in their richest

habits, and arranged according to the military and

civil order of the hierarchy. When the veil of the

sanctuary was withdrawn, the ambassadors beheld the

emperor of the East on his throne, beneath a canopy

or dome, which was supported by four columns, and

crowned with a winged figure of victory. In the first

emotions of surprise, they submitted to the servile

adoration of the Byzantine court; but as soon as they

rose from the ground, Targetius, the chief of the

embassy, expressed the freedom and pride of a Bar­

barian. He extolled, by the tongue of his interpreter,

the greatness of the chagan, by whose clemency the

kingdoms of the South were permitted to exist, whose

victorious subjects had traversed the frozen rivers of

Scythia, and who now covered the banks of the Da­

nube with innumerable tents. The late emperor had

cultivated, with annual and costly gifts, the friend-

T 2

