OF THi? ROMAN EMPIRE. 433

A memorable reverse of fortune was displayed in chap.

Michael the Second, who, from a defect in his speech,

was surnamedthe Stammerer. He was snatched from MMudii.

the fiery furnace to the sovereignty of an empire ; merer,

and, as in the tumult a smith could not readily be A-,D" 8m

found, the fetters remained on his legs several hours

after he was seated on the throne of the Ca?sars.

The royal blood which had been the price of his ele­

vation was unprofitably spent: in the purple he re­

tained the ignoble vices of his origin; and Michael

lost his provinces with as supine indifference as if they

had been the inheritance of his fathers. His title

was disputed by Thomas, the last of the military

triumvirate, who transported into Europe fourscore

thousand Barbarians from the banks of the Tigris,

and the shores of the Caspian. He formed the siege

of Constantinople; but the capital was defended with

spiritual and carnal weapons; a Bulgarian king as­

saulted the camp of the Orientals, and Thomas had

the misfortune or the weakness to fall alive into the

power of the conqueror. The hands and feet of the

rebel were amputated; he was placed on an ass, and,

amidst the insults of the people, was led through the

streets, which he sprinkled with his blood. The de­

pravation of manners, as savage as they were corrupt,

is marked by the presence of the emperor himself.

Deaf to the lamentations of a fellow-soldier, he in­

cessantly pressed the discovery of more accomplices,

till his curiosity was checked by the question of an

honest or guilty minister: "Would you give credit

"to an enemy against the most faithful of your

"friends?" After the death of his first wife, the

emperor, at the request of the senate, drew from her

monastery Euphrosyne, the daughter of Constantine

the Sixth. Her august birth might justify a stipu­

lation in the marriage contract, that her children

should equally share the empire with their elder bro-

VOL. IV. F F

