OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 369

rings to his new allies. In a secret interview, he chap.

XXXIX

produced the portrait of his daughter Eudocia, con

descended to flatter the Barbarian with the promise

of a fair and august bride, obtained an immediate

succour of forty thousand horse, and negotiated a

strong diversion of the Turkish arms on the side of

the Oxus. The Persians, in their turn, retreated

with precipitation; in the camp of Edessa, Heraclius

reviewed an army of seventy thousand Romans and

strangers; and some months were successfully em­

ployed in the recovery of the cities of Syria, Mesopo­

tamia, and Armenia, whose fortifications had been

imperfectly restored. Sarbar still maintained the im­

portant station of Chalcedon; but the jealousy of

Chosroes, or the artifice of Heraclius, soon alienated

the mind of that powerful satrap from the service of

his king and country. A messenger was intercepted

with a real or fictitious mandate to the cadarigan, or

second in command, directing him to send, without

delay, to the throne, the head of a guilty or unfor­

tunate general. The despatches were transmitted to

Sarbar himself; and as soon as he read the sentence

of his own death, he dexterously inserted the names

of four hundred officers, assembled a military council,

and asked the cadarigan, whether he was prepared

to execute the commands of their tyrant? The Per­

sians unanimously declared, that Chosroes had for­

feited the sceptre; a separate treaty was concluded

with the government of Constantinople; and if some

considerations of honour or policy restrained Sarbar

from joining the standard of Heraclius, the emperor

was assured, that he might prosecute, without inter­

ruption, his designs of victory and peace.

Deprived of his firmest support, and doubtful of His third

the fidelity of his subjects, the greatness of Chosroes a7d.G27,

was still conspicuous in its ruins. The number of

live hundred thousand may be interpreted as an

VOL. IV. u li

