OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 365

divisions of their chiefs, and by a well-concerted train chap.

of marches, retreats, and successful actions, finally XXIX-

chased them from the field into the fortified cities of

Media and Assyria. In the severity of the winter

season, Sabaraza deemed himself secure in the walls

of Salban; he was surprised by the activity of Hera-

clius, who divided his troops and performed a labori­

ous inarch in the silence of the night. The flat roofs

of the houses were defended with useless valour against

the darts and torches of the Romans : the satraps and

nobles of Persia, with their wives and children, and

the flower of their martial youth, were, either slain or

made prisoners. The general escaped by a precipi­

tate flight, but his golden armour was the prize of

the conqueror; and the soldiers of Heraclius enjoyed

the wealth and repose which they had so nobly de­

served. On the return of spring, the emperor tra­

versed in seven days the mountains of Curdistan,

and passed without resistance the rapid stream of the

Tigris. Oppressed by the weight of their spoils and

captives, the Roman ajmy halted under the walls of

Amida; and Heraclius informed the senate of Con­

stantinople of his safety and success, which they had

already felt by the retreat of the besiegers. The

bridges of the Euphrates were destroyed by the Per­

sians; but as soon as the emperor had discovered a

ford, they hastily retired to defend the banks of the

Sarus, in Cilicia. That river, an impetuous torrent,

was about three hundred feet broad, the bridge was

fortified with strong turrets, and the banks were lined

with Barbarian archers. After a bloody conflict,

which continued till the evening, the Romans pre­

vailed in the assault, and a Persian of gigantic size

was slain and thrown into the Sarus by the hand of

the emperor himself. The enemies were dispersed

and dismayed; Heraclius pursued his march to Se-

baste in Cappadocia; and at the expiration of three

