THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Maurice, with his wife and nine children, escaped to

the Asiatic shore; but the violence of the wind com­

pelled him to land at the church of St. Autonomus*

near Chalcedon, from whence he despatched Thec-

dosius, his eldest son, to implore the gratitude and

friendship of the Persian monarch. For himself, he

refused to fly: his body was tortured with sciatic

pains, his mind was enfeebled by superstition; he

patiently awaited the event of the revolution, and

addressed a fervent and public prayer to the Al­

mighty, that the punishment of his sins might be

inflicted in this world rather than in a future life.

After the abdication of Maurice, the two factions

disputed the choice of an emperor; but the favourite

of the blues was rejected by the jealousy of their an­

tagonists, and Germanus himself was hurried along

by the crowds, who rushed to the palace of Heb-

domon, seven miles from the city, to adore the ma­

jesty of Phocas the centurion. A modest wish of

resigning the purple to the rank and merit of Ger­

manus was opposed by his resolution, more obstinate,

and equally sincere: the senate and clergy obeyed

his summons, and as soon as the patriarch was assured

of his orthodox belief, he consecrated the successful

usurper in the church of St. John the Baptist. On

the third day, amidst the acclamations of a thought­

less people, Phocas made his public entry in a chariot

drawn by four white horses: the revolt of the troops

was rewarded by a lavish donative, and the new sove­

reign, after visiting the palace, beheld from his throne

the games of the hippodrome. In a dispute of pre­

cedency between the two factions, his partial judg­

ment inclined in favour of the greens. "Remember

"that Maurice is still alive," resounded from the

XXXIX

* The port of Eutropius, where Maurice and his children were murdered, u  
described by Gyllius (de Bosphoro Thracio, 1. iii. c. xi.) as one of the two
bar.

b.mrs of Chalcedon.

