74 THE DECLINE AND FALL

XXXIV.

chap. moiety at least of their wealth, with the free alterna­

tive of retiring peaceably to their estates, or inlisting

to serve the emperor in his Persian wars. The mul­

titudes which yet adhered to the standard of Vitiges

far surpassed the number of the Roman troops; but

neither prayers, nor defiance, nor the extreme danger

of his most faithful subjects, could tempt the Gothic

king beyond the fortifications of Ravenna. These

fortifications were, indeed, impregnable to the assaults

of art or violence; and when Belisarius invested the

capital, he was soon convinced that famine only could

tame the stubborn spirit of the Barbarians. The sea,

the land, and the channels of the Po, were guarded

by the vigilance of the Roman general; and his mo­

rality extended the rights of war to the practice of

poisoning the waters, and secretly firing the granaries

of a besieged city. While he pressed the blockade of

Ravenna, he was surprised by the arrival of two am­

bassadors from Constantinople, with a treaty of peace,

which Justinian had imprudently signed, without

deigning to consult the author of his victory. By

this disgraceful and precarious agreement, Italy and

the Gothic treasure were divided, and the provinces

beyond the Po were left with the regal title to the

successor of Theodoric. The ambassadors were eager

to accomplish their salutary commission; the captive

Vitiges accepted, with transport, the unexpected

offer of a crown; honour was less prevalent among

the Goths, than the want and appetite of food; and

the Roman chiefs, who murmured at the continuance

of the war, professed implicit submission to the com­

mands of the emperor. If Belisarius had possessed

only the courage of a soldier, the laurel would have

been snatched from his hand by timid and envious

counsels; but in this decisive moment, he resolved,

with the magnanimity of a statesman, to sustain alone

the danger and merit of generous disobedience. Each

