OV THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 343

opposite side; and the indiscreet clamour of the blues chap*

admonished and stimulated the cruelty of the tyrant.

The ministers of death were despatched to Chalcedon: Death of

they dragged the emperor from 'his sanctuary: and and his

the five sons of Maurice were successively murdered ajdTwb

before the eyes of their agonizing parent. At each Nov- 27-

stroke which he felt in his heart, he found strength

to rehearse a pious ejaculation: "Thou art just, O

"Lord! and thy judgments are righteous." And

such, in the last moments, was his rigid attachment

to truth and justice, that he revealed to the soldiers

the pious falsehood of a nurse who presented her own

child in the place of a royal infant. The tragic scene

was finally closed by the execution of the emperor

himself, in the twentieth year of his reign, and the

sixty-third of his age. The bodies of the father and

his five sons were cast into the sea, their heads were

exposed at Constantinople to the insults or pity of

the multitude, and it was not till some signs of pu­

trefaction had appeared that Phocas connived at the

private burial of these venerable remains. In that

grave, the faults and errors of Maurice were kindly

interred. His fate alone was remembered; and at

the end of twenty years, in the recital of the history

of Theophylact, the mournful tale was interrupted by

the tears of the audience *.

Such tears must have flowed in secret, and such Phocas

compassion would have been criminal, under the A^iTcire,

reign of Phocas, who was peaceably acknowledged Nov-23-

in the provinces of the East and West. The images

of the emperor and his wife Leontia were exposed

in the Lateran to the veneration of the clergy and

senate of Home, and afterwards deposited in the

palace of the Caesars, between those of Constantine

• The revolt of Phocas and death of Maurice are told by Theophylact Simo-

catta (1. viii. c . 7—12), the Paschal Chronicle fp. 379, 380), Theophanes

(Chronograph, p. 230-244), Zonaras (tom. ii. 1 . xiv. p. 77—80), and Ccdrenus

(p. 390—404).

Z \>

r

