OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 161

seasonable effort, the war which he had ambitiously chap.

undertaken. The indolence, perhaps the impotence, XXXVI-

of a prince who despised his enemies, and envied his

servants, protracted the calamities of Italy. After

a long silence, Belisarius was commanded to leave

a sufficient garrison at Rome, and to transport him­

self into the province of Lucania, whose inhabitants,

inflamed by Catholic zeal, had cast away the yoke of

their Arian conquerors. In this ignoble warfare,

the hero, invincible against the power of the Bar­

barians, was basely vanquished by the delay, the dis­

obedience, and the cowardice of his own officers. He

reposed in his winter-quarters of Crotona, in the full

assurance, that the two passes of the Lucanian hills

were guarded by his cavalry. They were betrayed

by treachery or weakness; and the rapid march of

the Goths scarcely allowed time for the escape of

Belisarius to the coast of Sicily. At length a fleet

and army were assembled for the relief of Ruscianum,

or Rossano, a fortress sixty furlongs from the ruins

of Sybaris, where the nobles of Lucania had taken

refuge. In the first attempt, the Roman forces were

dissipated by a storm. In the second, they approached

the shore; but they saw the hills covered with archers,

the landing-place defended by a line of spears, and

the king of the Goths impatient for battle. The con­

queror of Italy retired with a sigh, and continued to

languish, inglorious and inactive, till Antonina, who

had been sent to Constantinople to solicit succours,

obtained, after the death of the empress, the per­

mission of his return.

The five last campaigns of Belisarius might abate Final recai

the envy of his competitors, whose eyes had been °fufehsa-

dazzled and wounded by the blaze of his formerA-D-548'

glory. Instead of delivering Italy from the Goths,

he had wandered like a fugitive along the coast,

without daring to march into the country, or to ac-

VOL. IV. M

