OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 439

prayers and promises; and detained the Roman am- chap.

bassadors to be the witnesses of his great revenge. XL-

They had nearly been the witnesses of his shame.

The vigorous assaults of fifty-five days were encoun­

tered by a faithful governor, a veteran garrison, and

a desperate people; and the Saracens must have

raised the siege, if a domestic traitor had not pointed

to the weakest part of the wall, a place which was

decorated with the statues of a lion and a bull.

The vow of Motassem was accomplished with un­

relenting rigour; tired rather than satiated with de­

struction, he returned to his new palace of Samara,

in the neighbourhood of Bagdad, while the unfor­

tunate Theophilus implored the tardy and doubtful

aid of his Western rival, the emperor of the Franks.

Yet in the siege of Amorium above seventy thousand

Moslems had perished; their loss had been revenged

by the slaughter of thirty thousand Christians, and

the sufferings of an equal number of captives, who

were treated as the most atrocious criminals. Mu­

tual necessity could sometimes extort the exchange

or ransom of prisoners; but in the national and reli­

gious conflict of the two empires, peace was without

confidence, and war without mercy. Quarter was

seldom given in the field; those who escaped the

edge of the sword were condemned to hopeless ser­

vitude or exquisite torture. To a point of honour

Motassem had sacrificed a flourishing city, two hun­

dred thousand lives, and the property of millions.

The same caliph descended from his horse, and dir­

tied his robe, to relieve the distress of a decrepit old

man, who, with his laden ass, had stumbled into a

ditch. On which of these actions did he reflect

with the most pleasure when he was summoned by

the angel of death *? With Motassem the eighth of the

• For Theophilus, Motassem, and the Amorian war, see the continuator of

Thaophanes, Genesius, Cedrenus, Elmacin, Abulpharagius, Abulfeda, and

d'Herbelot, in locis.

r

r

F F 4

