148 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. late king, was tempted, by revenge, to deliver himself

XXXVL and the garrison of Trevigo into the hands of the

Romans. But the gallant and accomplished youth

was easily persuaded to prefer the Gothic throne be­

fore the service of Justinian; and as soon as the

palace of Pavia had been purified from the Rugian

usurper, he reviewed the national force of five thou­

sand soldiers, and generously undertook the restora­

tion of the kingdom of Italy.

victories of The successors of Belisarius, eleven generals of

Totila, king '° j v

of Italy, -equal rank, neglected to crush the feeble and dis-

—544. united Goths, till they were roused to action by the

progress of Totila and the reproaches of Justinian.

The gates of"Verona were secretly opened to Arta-

bazus, at the head of one hundred Persians in the

service of the empire. The Goths fled from the city.

At the distance of sixty furlongs the Roman generals

halted to regulate the division of the spoil. While

they disputed, the enemy discovered the real number

of the victors: the Persians were instantly over­

powered, and it was by leaping from the wall that

Artabazus preserved a life which he lost in a few

days by the lance of a Barbarian, who had defied him

to single combat. Twenty thousand Romans en­

countered the forces of Totila, near Faenza, and on

the hills of Mugello, of the Florentine territory. The

ardour of freedmen, who fought to regain their coun­

try, was opposed to the languid temper of mercenary

troops, who were even destitute of the merits of strong

and well-disciplined servitude. On the first attack

they abandoned their ensigns, threw down their arms,

and dispersed on all sides with an active speed, which

abated the loss, whilst it aggravated the shame, of

their defeat. The king of the Goths, who blushed

for the baseness of his enemies, pursued with rapid

steps the path of honour and victory. Totila passed

the Po, traversed the Apennine, suspended the im­

