84 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Belisarius.

chap. Virgin; but his tyrants were insensible of religion

XXXIv- as of pity; and the helpless youth, amidst the cla­

mours of the clergy and people, was twice dragged

from the altar to the dungeon. His third attempt

was more successful. At the end of three years, he

eluded the spies and guards of the empress, reached

the holy sepulchre of Jerusalem, embraced the pro­

fession of a monk; and the abbot Photius was em­

ployed, after the death of Justinian, to reconcile and

regulate the churches of Egypt. The son of An-

tonina suffered all that an enemy can inflict: her

patient husband imposed on himself the more ex­

quisite misery of violating his promise and deserting

his friend.

Disgrace In the succeeding campaign, Belisarius was again

and submis- . t> • i ii -n i 1

sion of sent against the Persians: he saved the East, but he

offended Theodora, and perhaps the emperor him­

self. The malady of Justinian had countenanced

the rumour of his death; and the Roman general,

on the supposition of that probable event, spoke the

free language of a citizen and a soldier. His col­

league Buzes, who concurred in the same sentiments,

lost his rank, his liberty, and his health, by the per­

secution of the empress; but the disgrace of Belisa­

rius was alleviated by the dignity of his own cha­

racter, and the influence of his wife, who might wish

to humble, but could not desire to ruin, the partner

of her fortunes. Even his removal was coloured by

the assurance, that the sinking state of Italy would

be retrieved by the single presence of its conqueror.

But no sooner had he returned, alone and defence­

less, than a hostile commission was sent to the East,

to seize his treasures and criminate his actions; the

guards and veterans who followed his private banner

were distributed among the chiefs of the army, and

even the eunuchs presumed to cast lots for the par­

tition of his martial domestics. When he passed with

