OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. S47

order has been variously established by convenience chap.

or caprice, by the spirit of national institutions, or by XXXVIL

some partial example, which was originally decided

by fraud or violence. The jurisprudence of the Ro­

mans appears to have deviated from the equality of

nature much less than the Jewish, the Athenian*,

or the English institutions. On the death of a citi­

zen, all his descendants, unless they were already

freed from his paternal power, were called to the in­

heritance of his possessions. The insolent prerogative

of primogeniture was unknown; the two sexes were

placed on a just level; all the sons and daughters

were entitled to an equal portion of the patrimonial

estate: and if any of the sons had been intercepted

by a premature death, his person was represented, and

his share was divided, by his surviving children. On

the failure of the direct line, the right of succession

must diverge to the collateral branches. The de- Civil de­

grees of kindred are numbered by the civilians, kindred.

ascending from the last possessor to a common parent,

and descending from the common parent to the next

heir: my father stands in the first degree, my brother

in the second, his children in the third, and the re­

mainder of the series may be conceived by fancy, or

pictured in a genealogical table. In this computation,

a distinction was made, essential to the laws and even

the constitution of Rome; the agnats, or persons

connected by a line of males, were called as they stood

in the nearest degree, to an equal partition; but a

female was incapable of transmitting any legal claims;

and the cognats of every rank, without excepting the

dear relation of a mother and a son, were disinherited

by the twelve tables, as strangers and aliens. Among

the Romans, a gens or lineage was united by a com-

* At Athens the sons were equal, but the poor daughters were endowed at the  
discretion of their brothers. See the x\<i?ixu pleadings of Isaeus (in the
viith

volume of the Greek Orators), illustrated by the version and comment of Sir

William Jones, a scholar, a lawyer, and a man of genius.

R 4

