OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 259

but the want could never be felt, till the middle of chap.

the sixth century first revealed the guilt of a par- xxxvn-

ricide*. 4. The malice of an incendiary. After

the previous ceremony of whipping, he himself was

delivered to the flames; and in this example alone

our reason is tempted to approve the justice of re­

taliation. 5. Judicial perjury. The corrupt and

malicious witness was thrown headlong from the

Tarpeian rock to expiate his falsehood, which was

rendered still more fatal by the severity of the penal

laws, and the deficiency of written evidence. 6. The

corruption of a judge, who accepted bribes, to pro­

nounce an iniquitous sentence. 7. Libels and sa­

tires, whose rude strains sometimes disturbed the

peace of an illiterate city. The author was beaten

with clubs, a worthy chastisement, but it is not cer­

tain that he was left to expire under the blows of

the executioner t. 8. The nocturnal mischief of

damaging or destroying a neighbour,s corn. The

criminal was suspended as a grateful victim to Ceres.

But the sylvan deities were less implacable, and the

extirpation of a more valuable tree was compensated

by the moderate fine of twenty-five pounds of copper.

9. Magical incantations; which had power, in the

opinion of the Latian shepherds, to exhaust the

strength of an enemy, to extinguish his life, and

remove from their seats his deep-rooted plantations.

The cruelty of the twelve tables against insolvent

debtors still remains to be told; and I shall dare to

prefer the literal sense of antiquity to the specious

refinements of modern criticism. After the judicial

proof or confession of the debt, thirty days of grace

• The first parricide at Rome was L. Ostius, after the second Punic war (Plu­

tarch in Uomulo, tom. i. p. 57). During the Cimbric, P. Malleolus was guilty

of the first matricide (Liv. Epitom. 1. Ixviii.).

+ Horace talks of the formidine fustis (1 . ii. epist. ii. 154); but Cicero
(de Re-

publica, 1. iv. apud Augustiru de Civitat. Dei, ix. 6. in Fragment. PhUosoph.

tom. iii. p. :t!»3. edit. Olivet) affirms that the decemvirs made libels a
capital

offence: cum pcrpaucas res capite fauxistent—perpaucat!

s 2

