414 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

chap. Not long after the second siege of Constantinople,

XL' the power of the caliphs was torn by intestine divisions;

Civil w»rs of and the widely extended empire of the Saracens was

and triple 'divided into three separate sovereignties, by the real or

fteShfte. pretended descendants of Mahomet and his family.

The Abbasides, who adopted the black colours, and

derived their descent from Abbas, the uncle of Ma­

homet, obtained, after a bloody contest, the dominion

of the Asiatic provinces. Bagdad was founded by

their caliph Almamon, and that city became the im­

perial seat of their posterity during a period of five

hundred years. The Fatimites, who were descended

from the daughter of the Prophet, displayed the green

standard, and ruled in Africa. The Ommiades, with

the white colours, after a long war, were driven from

the East by the Abbasides, but found an asylum in

Spain, where they continued to reign during two hun­

dred and fifty years. In the tenth century, the chair

of Mahomet was disputed by three caliphs, or com­

manders of the faithful, who reigned at Bagdad,

Cairoan, and Cordova. They excommunicated each

other, and agreed only in a principle of discord, that

a sectary is more odious and criminal than an un­

believer.

Leo hi. the I shall now briefly represent the founder of a new

Isaurian, , i • 1 , 1

a. d. 718. dynasty, who is known to posterity by the invectives

March 25. 0f his enemies, and whose public and private life is

involved in the ecclesiastical story of the Iconoclasts.

Yet in spite of the clamours of superstition, a favour­

able prejudice for the character of Leo the Isaurian

may be reasonably drawn from the obscurity of his

birth, and the duration of his reign. 1. In an age

of manly spirit, the prospect of an imperial reward

would have kindled every energy of the mind, and

produced a crowd of competitors as deserving, as they

were desirous to reign. Even in the corruption and

debility of the modern Greeks, the elevation of a

