OV THE HOMAN EMPIRE. 453

XL.

if not the national spirit, at least the order and nia- chap.

jesty of the Roman empire. His application was in­

defatigable, his temper cool, his understanding vi­

gorous and decisive; and in his practice he observed

that rare and salutary moderation which pursues each

virtue at an equal distance between the opposite vices.

His military service had been confined to the palace;

nor was the emperor endowed with the spirit or ta­

lents of a warrior. Yet under his reign, the Roman

arms were again formidable to the Barbarians. As

soon as he had formed a new army by discipline and

exercise, he appeared in person on the banks of the

Euphrates, curbed the pride of the Saracens, and

suppressed the dangerous though just revolt of the

Manichaaans. His indignation against a rebel, who

had long eluded his pursuit, provoked him to wish

and to pray that, by the grace of God, he might

drive three arrows into the head of Chrysochir. That

odious head, which had been obtained by treason ra­

ther than by valour, was suspended from a tree, and

thrice exposed to the dexterity of the Imperial archer—

a base revenge against the dead, more worthy of the

times than of the character of Basil; but his prin­

cipal merit was in the civil administration of the

finances and of the laws. To replenish an exhausted

treasury, it was proposed to resume the lavish and

ill-placed gifts of his predecessor: his prudence abated

one moiety of the restitution; and a sum of twelve

hundred thousand pounds was instantly procured, to

answer the most pressing demands, and to allow some

space for the mature operations of economy. Among

the various schemes for the improvement of the re­

venue, a new mode was suggested of capitation or

tribute, which would have too much depended on the

arbitrary discretion of the assessors. A sufficient list

of honest and able agents was instantly produced by

the minister; but on the more careful scrutiny of

r

G G 3

