338 THE DECLINE AND FALL

armies:

chap. penetrated so deeply into the old Dacia: yet the

XXX1X- success of Priscus was transient and barren •, and he

was soon recalled, by the apprehension, that Baian,

with dauntless spirit and recruited forces, was pre­

paring to avenge his defeat under the walls of Con­

stantinople *.

state of The theory of war was not more familiar to the

the Kenan ^ q£ Ca;sar ^ Trajan than to those of Justinian

and Mauricet. The iron of Tuscany or Pontus still

received the keenest temper from the skill of the By­

zantine workmen. The magazines were plentifully

stored with every species of offensive and defensive

arms. In the construction and use of ships, engines,

and fortifications, the Barbarians admired the superior

ingenuity of a people whom they so often vanquished

in the field. The science of tactics, the order, evolu­

tions, and stratagems of antiquity, was transcribed

and studied in the books of the Greeks and Romans.

But the solitude or degeneracy of the provinces could

no longer supply a race of men to handle those

weapons, to guard those walls, to navigate those

ships, and to reduce the theory of war into bold and

successful practice. The genius of Belisarius and

Narses had been formed without a master, and ex­

pired without a disciple. Neither honour, nor pa­

triotism, nor generous superstition, could animate

the lifeless bodies of slaves and strangers, who had

succeeded to the honours of the legions: it was in

the camp alone that the emperor should have ex­

ercised a despotic command; it was only in the

• The general detail of the war against the Avars may be traced in the first,

second, sixth, seventh, and eighth books of the History of the emperor
Maurice,

by Theophylact Simocatta. As he wrote in the reign of Heraclius, he had no

temptation to flatter; but his want of judgment renders him diffuse in trifles
and

eoncise in the most interesting facts.

f Maurice himself composed twelve books on the military art, which are

still extant, and have been published (Upsal, 1664) by John Scheffer at

the end of the Tactics of Arrian (Fabricius, Bibliot . Graeca, 1. iv. c . 8.

tom. iii. p. 278), who promises to speak more fully of his work in its proper

place.

