376 THE DECLINE AND FALL

XXXIX.

chap, long impatience, the senate, the clergy, and the peo­

ple, went forth to meet their hero, with tears and

acclamations, with olive branches and innumerable

lamps: he entered the capital in a chariot drawn by

four elephants; and as soon as the emperor could

disengage himself from the tumult of public joy, he

tasted more genuine satisfaction in the embraces of

his mother and his son*.

The succeeding year was illustrated by a triumph

of a very different kind, the restitution of the true

cross to the holy sepulchre. Heraclius performed in

person the pilgrimage of Jerusalem, the identity of

the relic was verified by the patriarch, and this august

ceremony has been commemorated by the annual

festival of the exaltation of the cross. Before the em­

peror presumed to tread the consecrated ground, he

was instructed to strip himself of the diadem and

purple, the pomp and vanity of the world. He again

ascended his throne to receive the congratulations of

the ambassadors of France and India; and the fame

of Alexander was eclipsed, in the popular estimation,

by the superior merit and glory of the great Hera­

clius. Yet the deliverer of the East was indigent

and feeble. Of the Persian spoils, the most valuable

portion had been expended in the war, distributed to

the soldiers, or buried, by an unlucky tempest, in the

waves of the Euxine. The conscience of the em­

peror was oppressed by the obligation of restoring

the wealth of the clergy, which he had borrowed for

their own defence; a perpetual fund was required

to satisfy these inexorable creditors; the provinces,

already wasted by the arms and avarice of the Per­

sians, were compelled to a second payment of the

• The burden of Corneille's song,

"Montrez Heraclius au peuple qui 1'attend,"

is much belter suited to the present occasion. See bis triumph in Thcophanes

(p. 272, 27li) and Nicephoras (p. 15, 16). The life of the mother and tender­

ness of the sbn are attested by George of Pisidia (Bcl1 . Abar. 1255, &c. p.
49).

