220 THE DECLINE AND FALL

his youth had been instructed by the lessons of juris­

prudence, and his Imperial choice selected the most

learned civilians of the East, to labour with their sove­

reign in the work of reformation *. The theory of

professors was assisted by the practice of advocates, and

the experience of magistrates; and the whole under­

taking was animated by the spirit of Tribonian. This

extraordinary man, the object of so much praise and

censure, was a native of Side in Pamphylia; and his

genius, like that of Bacon, embraced, as his own, all

the business and knowledge of the age. Tribonian

composed, both in prose and verse, on a strange diver­

sity of curious and abstruse subjects: a double pane­

gyric of Justinian, and the life of the philosopher

Theodotus; the nature of happiness and the duties of

government; Homer,s catalogue, and the four-and-

twenty sorts of metre; the astronomical canon of

Ptolemy; the changes of the months; the houses of

the planets; and the harmonic system of the world.

To the literature df Greece he added the use of the

Latin tongue; the Roman civilians were deposited in

his library and in his mind; and he most assiduously

cultivated those arts which opened the road of wealth

and preferment. From the bar of the praetorian pre­

fects, he raised himself to the honours of quaestor, of

consul, and of master of the offices: the council of

Justinian listened to his eloquence and wisdom, and

envy was mitigated by the gentleness and affability of

his manners. The reproaches of impiety and avarice

have stained the virtues or the reputation of Tribo­

nian. The principal minister was accused of a secret

CHAP.

XXXVII.

Tribonian,

A. D. 527

—540.

* For the legal labours of Justinian, I have studied the preface to the Insti­  
tutes; the 1st, 2d, and 3d Prefaces to the Pandects; the 1 st and 2d Preface
to the

Code; and the Code itself (1. i. tit. xvii. de Veteri Jure enucleando). After
these

original testimonies, I have consulted, among the moderns, Hcinecdus (Hist. J.

R. No. 383—404), Terasson (Hist. de la Jurisprudence Romaine, p. 295—356),

Gravina (Opp. p- 93—100), and Ludcwig, in his life of Justinian (p. 19—123,

318—321: for the Code and Novels, p. 209—261; for the Digest or Pandects,

p. 262—317).

