10 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. "can resist the rapid violence of their shaft." Five _ hundred
transports, navigated by twenty thousand

mariners of Egypt, Cilicia, and Ionia, were collected

in the harbour of Constantinople. The smallest of

these vessels may be computed at thirty, the largest

at five hundred tons; and the fair average will supply

an allowance, liberal, but not profuse, of about one

hundred thousand tons, for the reception of thirty-

five thousand soldiers and sailors, of five thousand

horses, of arms, engines, and military stores, and of

a sufficient stock of water and provisions for a voyage,

perhaps, of three months. The proud galleys, which

in former ages swept the Mediterranean with so

many hundred oars, had long since disappeared;

and the fleet of Justinian was escorted only by

ninety-two light brigantines, covered from the mis­

sile weapons of the enemy, and rowed by two thou­

sand of the brave and robust youth of Constantinople.

Twenty-two generals are named, most of whom were

afterwards distinguished in the wars of Africa and

Italy: but the supreme command, both by land and

sea, was delegated to Belisarius alone, with a bound­

less power of acting according to his discretion as if

the emperor himself were present. The separation

of the naval and military professions is at once the

effect and the cause of the modern improvements in

the science of navigation and maritime war.

Departure Jn the seventh year of the reign of Justinian, and

of the fleet, . * & ,11

a.d. 533. about the time oi the summer solstice, the whole

fleet of six hundred ships was ranged in martial

pomp before the gardens of the palace. The pa­

triarch pronounced his benediction, the emperor

signified his last commands, the general's trumpet

gave the signal of departure, and every heart, ac­

cording to its fears or wishes, explored with anxious

curiosity the omens of misfortune and success. The

first halt was made at Perinthus or Heraclea, where

