OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 379

series of the Greek emperors, from the seventh to the thirteenth CHAP,

century; he must have read a long chapter respecting the XXXIX.

worship of images, and the establishment and decline of the

empire of Charlemagne; and have studied the history of

Arabia and Mahomet. At length, after perusing a whole

volume of the original work, the reader may discover in the

History of the Saracens, an account of the important events

which occurred in the latter part of the reign of Heraclius;

and which contributed so very materially to the decline of

the Eastern branch of the Roman empire.

, There is another observation which it is necessary that I

should make at this period of our work.

Mr. Gibbon, in the first eight volumes of his History, has

selected the transactions of four centuries, detailing them in

the usual manner, in the order of time in which they oc­

curred; but at this point he alters his plan; and, during a

long period, from the year 628, in the reign of Heraclius, to

the taking of Constantinople by the Latins in 1203, he aban­

dons the order of time, and divides his subject into ten

branches. He gives in the first a sketch of the private lives

and characters of the Greek emperors, during a period of

near six hundred years. The history of sixty monarchs is

here comprised in one chapter; and the reader, who, a little

while before, was employed during a whole volume with the

single reign of Justinian, can hardly persuade himself that

in one evening he has traversed the history of six centuries.

He is brought in the first chapter of the ninth volume to

the year 1203. In the next chapter he is suddenly carried

back to the eighth century, and is engaged with the Popes,

the worship of images, the Franks, and the emperor Char­

lemagne. He then returns to the sixth and seventh cen-

turieSi to the birth and history of Mahomet, and of the ca­

liphs. Bulgarians, Russians, Normans, and Turks, are suc­

cessively described in succeeding chapters; and in the hi­

story of each of those nations, many circumstances occur in

which the Greek empire is deeply interested: but they are

related so irregularly in respect to the time of their occur­

rence, that the reader must look back to a former volume,

if he wishes to discover the names of the emperors who

reigned at Constantinople, when the capital was besieged

by the Saracens, or when Epirus was invaded by the Nor­

mans. While we are thus led from the Tigris and Alp­

