OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 165

risk the event of a desperate and decisive sally. But chap.

their spirit insensibly stooped to the offers of ca- XXXVL

pitulation: they retrieved their arrears of pay, and

preserved their arms and horses, by inlisting in the

service of Totila ;. their chiefs, who pleaded a laud­

able attachment to their wives and children in the

East, were dismissed with honour; and above four

hundred enemies, who had taken refuge in the

sanctuaries, were saved by the clemency of the victor.

He no longer entertained a wish of destroying the

edifices of Rome*, which he now respected as the

seat of the Gothic kingdom: the senate and people

were restored to their country; the means of sub­

sistence were liberally provided; and Totila, in the

robe of peace, exhibited the equestrian games of the

circus. Whilst he amused the eyes of the multitude,

four hundred vessels were prepared for the embarka­

tion of his troops. The cities of Rhegium and Ta^

rentum were reduced: he passed into Sicily, the

object of his implacable resentment; and the island

was stripped of its gold and silver, of the fruits of

the earth, and of an infinite number of horses, sheep,

and oxen. Sardinia and Corsica obeyed the fortune

of Italy; and the sea coast of Greece was visited by

a fleet of three hundred galleys t. The Goths were

landed in Corcyra and the ancient continent of Epi-

rus; they advanced as far as Nicopolis, the trophy

of Augustus and Dodona, once famous by the oracle

of Jove. In every step of his victories, the wise Bar­

barian repeated to Justinian his desire of peace, ap-

• The Romans were still attached to the monuments of their ancestors; and

according to Procopius (Goth. 1. iv. c. 22), the galley of .Eneas, of a single
rank

of oars, 25 feet in breadth, 120 in length, was preserved entire in the
navalia,

near Monte Testaceo, at the foot of the Aventine (Nardini, Roma Antica, 1.
vii.

c. 9. p. 466. Donatus, Roma Antiqua, 1. iv. c. 13, p. 334). But all antiquity

is ignorant of this relic.

•f- In these seas, Procopius searched without success for the isle of Calypso.

He was shown, at Phaeacia or Corcyra, the petrified ship of Ulysses (Odyss.
xiii.

163); but he found it a recent fabric of many stones, dedicated by a merchant

to Jupiter Cassius (L iv. c. 22). Eustathius had supposed it to be the
fanciful

likeness of a rock.

M 3

