OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 203

laws of Charondas accepted the aid of poetry and chap.

music; and Zaleucus framed the republic of the xxxvn-

Locrians, which stood without alteration above two

hundred years. From a similar motive of national

pride, both Livy and Dionysius are willing to believe,

that the deputies of Rome visited Athens under the

wise and splendid administration of Pericles; and the

laws of Solon were transfused into the twelve tables.

If such an embassy had indeed been received from

the Barbarians of Hesperia, the Roman name would

have been familiar to the Greeks before the reign of

Alexander*; and the faintest evidence would have

been explored and celebrated by the curiosity of suc­

ceeding times. But the Athenian monuments are

silent; nor will it seem credible that the patricians

should undertake a long and perilous navigation to

copy the purest model of a democracy. In the com­

parison of the tables of Solon with those of the De­

cemvirs, some casual resemblance may be found:

some rules, which nature and reason have revealed to

every society; some proofs of a common descent

from Egypt or Phoenicia. But in all the great lines

of public and private jurisprudence, the legislators of

Rome and Athens appear to be strangers or adverse

to each other.

* I seize the opportunity of tracing the progress of this national intercourse:  
1. Herodotus and Thucydides (A. U. C. 330—350) appear ignorant of the name

and existence of Rome (Joseph, contra Apion. tom. ii. 1 . i. c. 12. p. 444.
edit.

Havercamp). 2. Theopompus (A. U. C. 400. Plin. iii. 9) mentions the invasion

of the Gauls, which is noticed in looser terms by Heraclides Ponticus
(Plutarch

in Camillo, p. 292. edit . H. Stephan.). 3. The real or fabulous embassy of
the

Romans to Alexander (A. U. C. 430) is attested by Clitarchus (Plin. iii. 9),
by

Aristus and Asclepiades (Arrian, 1. vii. p. 294, 295), and by Memnon of He­

rat-lea (apud Photium, cod. ccxxiv. p. 725); though tacitly denied by Livy.

4. Theophrastus (A. U. G. 440) primus externorum aliqua de Romania dili-

gcntius scripsit (Plin. iii. 9). 5. Lycophron (A. IT. C. 480—500) scattered
the

first seed of a Trojan colony and the fable of the /Kncid (Cassandra, 1226—

1280):

Aa&urff*

A bold prediction before the end of the first Punic war!

r

