374 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. themselves patriots, were tempted by the wealth and

* honours of a new reign; to the soldiers, the heir of

Chosroes promised an increase of pay; to the Chris­

tians, the free exercise of their religion; to the cap­

tives, liberty and rewards; and to the nation, instant

peace and the reduction of taxes. It was determined

by the conspirators, that Siroes, with the ensigns of

royalty, should appear in the camp; and if the enter­

prise should fail, his escape was contrived to the Im­

perial court. But the new monarch was saluted with

He is de. unanimous acclamations; the flight of Chosroes (yet

a*d!C28. where could he have fled?) was rudely arrested,

F*. 25. eighteen sons were massacred before his face, and he

and mur- °

dered by was thrown into a dungeon, where he expired on the

siroes, fifth day. The Greeks and modern Persians mi-

*eb. 28. llutely describe how Chosroes was insulted, and fa­  
mished, and tortured, by the command of an inhuman

son, who so far surpassed the example of his father;

but at the time of his death, what tongue would re­

late the story of the parricide? what eye could pene­

trate into the toxcer of darltness? The glory of the

house of Sassan ended with the life of Chosroes; his

unnatural son enjoyed only eight months the fruit of

his crime's; and in the space of four years, the regal

title was assumed by nine candidates, who disputed,

with the sword or dagger, the fragments of an ex­

hausted monarchy. Every province, and each city

of Persia, was the scene of independence, of dis­

cord, mid of blood; and the state of anarchy prevailed

about eight years longer, till the factions were silenced

and united under the common yoke of the Arabian

caliphs *.

Treaty of As soon as the mountains became passable, the em-

fween the peror received the welcome news of the success of

two empires,

* The best oriental accounts of this last period of the Sassanian kings are  
found in Eutychius (AnnuL torn. ii. p. '2hI—256), who dissembles the parricide

of Siroes, D'Herbelot (Bibliotheque Orientalc, p. 789), and Assemanni (Biblio-

thec. OrientaL tom, iii- p. 416— 4'JO).

