268 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. individuals. By these inquisitors the trial was pre-

xxxvii. pared and directed; but they could only pronounce

the sentence of the majority of judges, who with some

truth, and more prejudice, have been compared to

Select the English juries. To discharge this important

judges. though burdensome office, an annual list of ancient

and respectable citizens was formed by the praetor.

After many constitutional struggles, they were chosen

in equal numbers from the senate, the equestrian

order, and the people; four hundred and fifty were

appointed for single questions; and the various rolls

or decuries of judges must have contained the names

of some thousand Romans, who represented the ju­

dicial authority of the state. In each particular cause,

a sufficient number was drawn from the urn; their

integrity was guarded by an oath; the mode of ballot

secured their independence; the suspicion of parti­

ality was removed by the mutual challenges of the

accuser and defendant; and the judges of Milo, by

the retrenchment of fifteen on each side, were reduced

to fifty-one voices or tablets, of acquittal, of condemna­

tion, or of favourable doubt*. 3. In his civil ju­

risdiction, the praetor of the city was truly a judge,

and almost a legislator; but as soon as he had pre­

scribed the action of law, he often referred to a de­

legate the determination of the fact. With the in­

crease of legal proceedings, the tribunal of the cen-

tumvirs, in which he presided, acquired more weight

and reputation. But whether he acted alone, or with

the advice of his council, the most absolute powers

might be trusted to a magistrate who was annually

chosen by the votes of the people. The rules and

precautions of freedom have required some explana­

tion; the order of despotism is simple and inanimate.

• We are indebted for this interesting fact to a fragment of Asconius
Pcdianus,

who flourished under the reign of Tiberius. The loss of his Commentaries on

the Orations of Cicero has deprived us of a valuable fund of historical and
legal

knowledge.

