020 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. fleet, and seventy thousand captives were transplanted

"from Hyrcania to the isle of Cyprus. On the return

of spring, Justinian descended into the fertile plains

of Assyria, the flames of war approached the re-

A^nTi)* sidence of Nushirvan, the indignant monarch sunk

into the grave, and his last edict restrained his suc­

cessors from exposing their person in a battle against

the Romans. Yet the memory of this transient affront

was lost in the glories of a long reign; and his for­

midable enemies, after indulging their dream of con­

quest, again solicited a short respite from the calami­

ties of war*.

Tyranny The throne of Chosroes Nushirvan was filled by

his son Hormouz, or Hormisdas, the eldest or the most fa-

a.°r 579 voured of his sons. With the kingdoms of Persia

—590. and In(Jia, he inherited the reputation and example

of his father, the service, in every rank, of his wise

and valiant officers, and a general system of admini­

stration, harmonized by time and political wisdom to

promote the happiness of the prince and people. But

the royal youth enjoyed a still more valuable blessing,

the friendship of a sage who had presided over his

education, and who always preferred the honour to

the interest of his pupil, his interest to his inclina­

tion. In a dispute with the Greek and Indian phi­

losophers, Buzurgt had once maintained, that the

most grievous misfortune of life is old age without

the remembrance of virtue; and our candour will

presume that the same principle compelled him,

during three years, to direct the councils of the Per­

sian empire. His zeal was rewarded by the gratitude

• For these Persian wars and treaties, see Menander, in Excerpt. Legat.

p. 113—125. Thijophanes Byzant. apud Photium, cod. lxiv. p. 77- 80, 81.

Evagrius, 1. v. c. 7— 15. Theophylact, 1. iii. c. 9—16. Agathias, 1. iv. p.
140.

■f Buzurg Mihir may be considered, in his character and station, as the Seneca

of the East; but his virtues, and perhaps his faults, are less known than time

of the Roman, who appears to have been much more loquacious. The Persian

sage was the person who imported from India the game of chess and the fables
of

Pilpay.

