9F THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 189

strength, as well as fervour, that he frequently passed chap. ,

two days and as many nights, without tasting any XXXVI-

food. The measure of his sleep was not less rigor­

ous: after the repose of a single hour, the body was

awakened by the soul, and, to the astonishment of

his chamberlains, Justinian walked or studied till the

morning light. Such restless application prolonged

his time for the acquisition of knowledge * and the

despatch of business: and he might seriously deserve

the reproach of confounding, by minute and pre­

posterous diligence, the general order of his admini­

stration. The emperor professed himself a musician

and architect, a poet and philosopher, a lawyer and

theologian; and if he failed in the enterprise of re­

conciling the Christian sects, the review of the Ro­

man jurisprudence is a noble monument of his spirit

and industry. In the government of the empire,

he was less wise or less successful: the age was un­

fortunate; the people was oppressed and discontented;

Theodora abused her power; a succession of bad

ministers disgraced his judgment; and Justinian was

neither beloved in his life, nor regretted at his death.

The love of fame was deeply implanted in his breast,

but he condescended to the poor ambition of titles,

honours, and contemporary praise; and while he la­

boured to fix the admiration, ,he forfeited the esteem

and affection of the Romans. The design of the

African and Italian wars was boldly conceived and

executed: and his penetration discovered the talents

of Belisarius in the camp, of Narses in the palace.

But the name of the emperor is eclipsed by the names

of his victorious generals; and Belisarius still lives,

to upbraid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign.

The partial favour of mankind applauds the genius of

• The studies and rcience of Justinian are attested by the confession
(Anecdot.

c. 8. IS), still more than by the praises (Gothic . 1. iii. c. 31. dc Edific.
1. i. Proem,

c. 7) of Procopius. Consult the copious index of Alemannus, and read the life

of Justinian by Ludewig (p. 135—142).

r

