OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 413

XL.

the mouths of savage monsters, that seemed to vomit chap.

a stream of liquid and consuming fire. This im- _

portant art was preserved at Constantinople, as the

palladium of the state: the galleys and artillery might

occasionally be lent to the allies of Rome; but the

composition of the Greek fire was concealed with the

most jealous scruple; and the terror of the enemies

was increased and prolonged by their ignorance and

surprise. In the treatise of the administration of the

empire, the royal author suggests the answers and

excuses that might best elude the indiscreet curiosity

and importunate demands of the Barbarians. By

these precautions, the secret was confined above four

hundred years to the Romans of the East; and at

the end of the eleventh century, the Pisans, to whom

every sea and every art were familiar, suffered the

effects, without understanding the composition, of the

Greek fire. It was at length either discovered or

stolen by the Mahometans; and in the holy wars of

Syria and Egypt, they retorted an invention, con­

trived against themselves, on the heads of the Chris­

tians. A knight, who despised the swords and lances

of the Saracens, relates with heartfelt sincerity his

own fears, and those of his companions, at the sight

and sound of the mischievous engine that discharged

a torrent of Greek fire,—thejeu Gregeois, as it is styled

by the more' early of the French writers. It came

flying through the air, says Joinville, like a winged

long-tailed dragon, about the thickness of a hogs-

. head, with the report of thunder, and the velocity of

lightning; and the darkness of the night was dis­

pelled by this deadly illumination. The use of the

Greek, or as it might now be called, of the Saracen

fire, was continued to the middle of the fourteenth

century; when the scientific, or casual, compound of

nitre, sulphur, and charcoal, effected a new revolu­

tion in the art of war and the history of mankind.

