82 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. ward for the Persian war, that Theodosius could be

XXXIV- tempted to return to Constantinople; and the short

interval before the departure of Antonina herself was

boldly devoted to love and pleasure.

Resentment ^ philosopher may pity and forgive the infirmities

ofBelisarius r r n i • % i • I

and her son of female nature, from which he receives no real

Photius. injurv. Dut contemptible is the husband who feels,

and yet endures, his own infamy in that of his wife.

Antonina pursued her son with implacable hatred;

and the gallant Photius was exposed to her secret

persecutions in the camp beyond the Tigris. En­

raged by his own wrongs, and by the dishonour of

his blood, he cast away in his turn the sentiments of

nature, and revealed to Belisarius the turpitude of a

woman who had violated all the duties of a mother

and a wife. From the surprise and indignation of

the Roman general, his former credulity appears to

have been sincere: he embraced the knees of the son

of Antonina, adjured him to remember his obliga­

tions rather than his birth, and confirmed at the

altar their holy vows of revenge and mutual defence.

The dominion of Antonina was impaired by absence;

and when she met her husband, on his return from

the Persian confines, Belisarius, in his first and tran­

sient emotions, confined her person, and threatened

her life. Photius was more resolved to punish, and

less prompt to pardon ; he flew to Ephesus; extorted

from a trusty eunuch of his mother the full confes­

sion of her guilt; arrested Theodosius and his trea­

sures in the church of St. John the Apostle, and

concealed his captives, whose execution was only

delayed, in a secure and sequestered fortress of Ci-

licia. Such a daring outrage against public justice

could not pass with impunity; and the cause of An­

tonina was espoused by the empress, whose favour

she had deserved by the recent services of the dis­

grace of a praefect, and the exile and murder of a

