OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 51

of Praxiteles or Lysippus were torn from their lofty chap.

pedestals, and hurled into the ditch on the heads of XXXI •

the besiegers *. To each of his lieutenants, Beli-

sarius assigned the defence of a gate, with the wise

and peremptory instruction, that, whatever might be

the alarm, they should steadily adhere to their re­

spective posts, and trust their general for the safety

of Rome. The formidable host of the Goths was in­

sufficient to embrace the ample measure of the city:

of the fourteen gates, seven only were invested, from

the Praenestine to the Flaminian way; and Vitiges

divided his troops into six camps, each of which was

fortified with a ditch and rampart. On the Tuscan

side of the river, a seventh encampment was formed

in the field or circus of the Vatican, for the important

purpose of commanding the Milvian bridge and the

course of the Tyber; but they approached with de­

votion the adjacent church of St. Peter; and the

threshold of the holy apostles was respected during

the siege by a Christian enemy. In the ages of vic­

tory, as often as the senate decreed some distant con­

quest, the consul denounced hostilities, by unbar­

ring, in solemn pomp, the gates of the temple of

Janus "\. Domestic war now rendered the admoni­

tion superfluous, and the ceremony was superseded by

the establishment of a new religion. But the brazen

temple of Janus was left standing in the forum; of a

size sufficient only to contain the statue of the god,

five cubits in height, of a human form, but with two

faces, directed to the east and west. The double

• Praxiteles excelled in Fauns, and that of Athens was his own masterpiece.

Rome now contains above thirty of the same character. When the ditch of St.

Angelo was cleansed under Urban VIII. the workmen found the sleeping Faun

of die Barberini palace; but a leg, a thigh, and the right arm, had been
broken

from that beautiful statue (Winckelman, Hist . de l'Art, tom. ii. p. 52, 53,
tom.

iii. p. 265).

•f Procopius has given the best description of the temple of Janus, a national

deity of Latium (Heyne, Excurs. v. ad 1. vii. /Encid.). It was once a gate in
the

primitive city of Romulus and Numa (Nardini, p. 13. 25C. 329). Virgil has

described the ancient rite, like a poet and an antiquarian.

