176 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. and his military conduct defended Cumae* above a _ year against the
forces of the Romans. Their in­

dustry had scooped the Sibyl's cavet into a pro­

digious mine ; combustible materials were introduced

to consume the temporary props: the wall and the

gate of Cumae sunk into the cavern, but the ruins

formed a deep and inaccessible precipice. On the

fragment of a rock, Aligern stood alone and un­

shaken, till he calmly surveyed the hopeless condition .

of his country, and judged it more honourable to be

the friend of Narses than the slave of the Franks.

After the death of Teias, the Roman general se­

parated his troops to reduce the cities of Italy; Lucca

sustained a long and vigorous siege: and such was

the humanity or the prudence of Narses, that the re­

peated perfidy of the inhabitants could not provoke

him to exact the forfeit lives of their hostages. These

hostages were dismissed in safety; and their grate­

ful zeal at length subdued the obstinacy of their

countrymen t.

invasion of Before Lucca had surrendered, Italy was over-

Franks and whelmed by a new deluge of Barbarians. A feeble

aId"."553 youth, the grandson of Clovis, reigned over the Aus-

August. trasians or oriental Franks. The guardians of Theo-

debald entertained with coldness and reluctance the

magnificent promises of the Gothic ambassadors. But

the spirit of a martial people outstripped the timid

* I leave Scaliger (Animadvers. in Euseb. p. 59), and Salmasius, Excrcitat.  
Plinian. p. 51, 52, to quarrel about the origin of Cumae, the oldest of the
Greek

colonies in Italy (Strab. 1. v. p. 372; Velleius Paterculus, 1. i. c. 4),
already

vacant in Juvenal's time (Satir. iii.), and now in ruins.

■f Agathias (1. i. c. 21) settles the Sibyl's cave under the walls of Cumae;
he

agrees with Servius (ad. 1. vi.-jEneid.); nor can I perceive why their opinion

should be rejected by Heyne, the excellent editor of Virgil (tom. ii. p. 650,
651).

In urbe media secreta religio! But Cumae was not yet built; and the lines

(1. vi. 96, 97) would become ridiculous, if JEneas were actually in a Greek
city.

$ There is some difficulty in connecting the 35th chapter of the ivth book of

the Gothic war of Procopius with the first book of the history of Agathias. We

must now relinquish a statesman and soldier, to attend the footsteps of a poet

and rhetorician (1. i. p. 11. 1. ii. p. 51. edit. Louvre).

