OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 123

is too soft to sustain the action of the plough; but chap.

the gom, a small grain, not unlike the millet or co-.

riander seed, supplies the ordinary food of the people;

and the use of bread is confined to the prince and

his nobles. Yet the vintage is more plentiful than

the harvest; and the bulk of the stems, as well as

the quality of the wine, display the unassisted powers

of nature. The same powers continually tend to

overshadow the face of the country with thick forests;

the timber of the hills, and the flax of the plains,

contribute to the abundance of naval stores; the

wild and tame animals, the horse, the ox, and the

hog, are remarkably prolific, and the name of the

pheasant is expressive of his native habitation on the

banks of the Phasis. The gold mines to the south

of Trebizond, which are still worked with sufficient

profit, were a subject of national dispute between

Justinian and Chosroes; and it is not unreasonable

to believe, that a vein of precious metal may be

equally diffused through the circle of the hills, al­

though these secret treasures are neglected by the

laziness, or concealed by the prudence, of the Min-

grelians. The waters, impregnated with particles

of gold, are carefully strained through sheep-skins or

fleeces; but this expedient, the ground-work per­

haps of a marvellous fable, affords a faint image of

the wealth extracted from a virgin earth by the

power and industry of ancient kings. Their silver

palaces and golden chambers surpass our belief; but

the fame of their riches is said to have excited the

enterprising avarice of the Argonauts*. Tradition

has affirmed, with some colour of reason, that Egypt

planted on the Phasis a learned and polite colony,

XXXV.

* Pliny, Hist , Natur. 1 . xxxiii. 15. The gold and silver mines of Colchos at­  
tracted the Argonauts (Strab. 1. i. p. 77)- The sagacious Chardin could find
no

gold in mines, rivers, or elsewhere. Yet a Mingrelian lost his hand and foot
for

showing some specimens at Constantinople of native gold.

