OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 461

prudence, were gradually framed in the three first chap.

reigns of that prosperous dynasty. The art of agri- XLL

culture had amused the leisure, and exercised the

pens, of the best and wisest of the ancients; and their

chosen precepts are comprised in the twenty books of

the Geoponics * of Constantine. At his command,

the historical examples of vice and virtue were me­

thodised in fifty-three books t, and every citizen might

apply to his contemporaries or himself the lesson or

the warning of past times. From the august charac­

ter of a legislator, the sovereign of the East descends'

to the more humble office of a teacher and a scribe;

and if his successors and subjects were regardless of

his paternal cares, tee may inherit and enjoy the.ever­

lasting legacy.

A closer survey will indeed reduce the value of the Their jm-

gift, and the gratitude of posterity: in the possession pe

of these Imperial treasures we may still implore our

poverty and ignorance; and the fading glories of

their authors will be obliterated by indifference or

contempt. The Basilics will sink to a broken copy,

a partial and mutilated version in the Greek lan­

guage, of the laws of Justinian; but the sense of the

old civilians is often superseded by the influence of

bigotry. The royal authors of the Geoponics were

more seriously employed in expounding the precepts

of the destroying art, which has been taught, since

the days of Xenophon, as the art of heroes and kings.

Civile di Napoli, tom. i. p. 450—458), as historical civilians, may be
usefully

consulted. Forty-one hooks of this Greek code have been published, with a
Latin

version, by Charles Annibal Fabrottus (Paris, 1647), in seven tomes in folio ;
four

other books have since been discovered, and are inserted in Gerard Meerman's

Novus Thesaurus Juris Civ. et Canon, tom. v. Of the whole work, the sixty

books, John Leunclavius has printed (Basil, 1575), an eclogue or synopsis. The

hundred and thirteen novels, or new laws, of Leo, may be found in the Corpus

Juris Civilis.

• I have used the last and best edition of the Geoponics (by Nicolas Niclas,

Leipsic, 1781, 2 vols, in octavo). I read in the preface*, that the same
emperor

restored the long-forgotten systems of rhetoric and philosophy.

f Of these fifty three books, or titles, only two have been preserved and
printed: de

Legationibus (by Fulvius Ursinus, Antwerp, 1582, and Daniel Hseschelius,
August.

Vindel. 1603), and de Virtutibus etVitiis(by Henry Valesius, or de Valois,

Paris, 1634).

