482 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. and silken hangings, were displayed from the windows

!_ and balconies, and a severe discipline restrained and

silenced the tumult of the populace. The march was

opened by the military officers at the head of their

troops: they were followed in long order by the ma­

gistrates and ministers of the civil government: the

person of the emperor was guarded by his eunuchs

and domestics, and at the church-door he was solemnly

received by the patriarch and his clergy. The task

of applause was not abandoned to the rude and spon­

taneous voices of the crowd. The most convenient

stations were occupied by the bands of the blue and

green factions of the circus; and their furious conflicts,

which had shaken the capital, were insensibly sunk

to an emulation of servitude. From either side they

echoed in responsive melody the praises of the em­

peror; their poets and musicians directed the choir,

and long life and victory were the burden of every

song. The same acclamations were performed at the

audience, the banquet, and the church; and as an

evidence of boundless sway, they were repeated in

the Latin, Gothic, Persian, French, and even English

language, by the mercenaries who sustained the real

or fictitious character of those nations. By the pen

of Constantine Porphyrogenitus, this science of form

and flattery has been reduced into a pompous and

trifling volume, which the vanity of succeeding times

might enrich with an ample supplement. Yet the

calmer reflection of a prince would surely suggest,

that the same acclamations were applied to every

character and every reign: and if he had risen from

a private rank, he might remember, that his own

voice had been the loudest and most eager in applause,

at the very moment when he envied the fortune, or

conspired against the life, of his predecessor *.

• For all these ceremonies, see the professed work of Constantine
Porphyrogeni­

tus, with the notes, or rather dissertations, of his German editors, Leich and

Reiske.

