40G THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Between the fall of the Heraclian and the rise of

"X-T

, the Isaurian dynasty, a short interval of six years is

a"dPP7iT' divided into three reigns. Bardanes, or Philippicus,

December.' was hailed at Constantinople as a hero who had de­

livered his country from a tyrant; and he might taste

some moments of happiness in the first transports of

sincere and universal joy. Justinian had left behind

an ample treasure, the fruit of cruelty and rapine:

but this useful fund was soon and idly dissipated by

his successor. On the festival of his birth-day, Philip­

picus entertained the multitude with the games of

the hippodrome; from thence he paraded through

the streets, with a thousand banners and a thousand

trumpets; refreshed himself in the baths of Zeuxip-

pus; and, returning to the palace, entertained his

nobles with a sumptuous banquet. At the meridian

hour he withdrew to his chamber, intoxicated with

flattery and wine, and forgetful that his example had

made every subject ambitious, and that every ambi­

tious subject was his secret enemy. Some bold con­

spirators introduced themselves, in the disorder of the

feast; and the slumbering monarch was surprised,

bound, blinded, and deposed, before he was sensible of

Anastasius ^is danger. Yet the traitors were deprived of their

H- A-D- reward, and the free voice of the senate and people

4th.' promoted Artemius from the office of secretary to that

of emperor: he assumed the title of Anastasius the

Second, and displayed, in a short and troubled reign,

the virtues both of peace and war. But after the ex­

tinction of the Imperial line, the rule of obedience

was violated, and every change diffused the seeds of

new revolutions. In a mutiny of the fleet, an obscure

presses of one of the consequences of such an event. He observes, that "the

Arabian fleet might have sailed, without a naval combat, into the mouth of the

Thames; and perhaps the interpretation of the Koran would now be taught in the

schools of Oxford, and her pulpits might demonstrate, to a circumcised people,
the

sanctity and truth of the revelation of Mahomet."

I return from this digression to the transactions at Constantinople.—Ed.

