50 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. "the wives to their husbands; and show them, by

xxxiv. « your generosity, of what friends they have ob-

"stinately deprived themselves." The city was

saved by the virtue and authority of its conqueror;

and when the Neapolitans returned to their houses,

they found some consolation in the secret enjoyment

of their hidden treasures. The Barbarian garrison

inlisted in the service of the emperor; Apulia and

Calabria, delivered from the odious presence of the

Goths, acknowledged his dominion; and the tusks

of the Calydonian boar, which were still shown at

Beneventum, are curiously described by the historian

of Belisarius.

Vitiges, The faithful soldiers and citizens of Naples had

Italy,° expected their deliverance from a prince, who re-

AugL5-' mained the inactive and almost indifferent spectator

a. d. 540. of their ruin. Theodatus secured his person within

the walls of Rome, while his cavalry advanced forty

miles on the Appian way, and encamped in the

Pomptine marshes; which, by a canal of nineteen

miles in length, had been recently drained and con­

verted into excellent pastures*. But the principal

forces of the Goths were dispersed in Dalmatia,

Venetia, and Gaul; and the feeble mind of their

king was confounded by the unsuccessful event of a

divination, which seemed to presage the downfal of

his empire. The most abject slaves have arraigned

the guilt or weakness of an unfortunate master. The

character of Theodatus was rigorously scrutinized by

a free and idle camp of Barbarians, conscious of their

privilege and power: he was declared unworthy of

his race, his nation, and his throne; and their ge­

* The Decennovium is strangely confounded by Cluvierius (tom. Ii. p. 1007)  
with the river Uteris. It was in truth a canal of nineteen miles, from Forum

Appii to Terracina, on which Horace embarked in the night. The Decennovium

which is mentioned by Lucan, Dion Cassius, and Cassiodorius, has been suf­

ficiently ruined, restored, and obliterated (d'Anville, Analyse de 1'Italie,
p.

185, &c.).

