896 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap, present numerals, the Arabic or Indian ciphers, as

XL- they are commonly styled, a regulation of office has

promoted the most important discoveries of arith­

metic, algebra, and the mathematical sciences*.

In the close of his life, the emperor Constantine

Pogonatus was anxious only to establish the right of

primogeniture. The hair of his two sons, Justinian

and Heraclius, was offered on the shrine of St. Peter,

as a symbol of their spiritual adoption by the pope;

but the elder was alone exalted to the rank of Au­

gustus, and the assurance of the empire.

Justinian ii. After the decease of his father, the inheritance of

September! the Roman world devolved to Justinian II.; and the

name of a triumphant lawgiver was dishonoured by

the vices of a boy, who imitated his namesake only

in the expensive luxury of building. His passions

were strong, his understanding was feeble; and he

was intoxicated with a foolish pride, that his birth

had given him the command of millions, of whom the

smallest community would not have chosen him for

their local magistrate. His favourite ministers were

two beings the least susceptible of human sympathy;

to the one he abandoned the palace, to the other the

finances: the former corrected the emperor,s mother

with a scourge; the latter suspended the insolvent

tributaries, with their heads downwards, over a slow

and smoky fire. Since the days of Commodus and

Caracalla, the cruelty of the Roman princes had most

commonly been the effect of their fear; but Justinian,

who possessed some vigour of character, enjoyed the

sufferings, and braved the revenge, of his subjects

about ten years, till the measure was full, of his

* According to a new, though probable notion, maintained by M. dc Villoisoo  
(Anecdota Graca, tom. ii. p. 152—157), our ciphers are not of Indian or Ara­

bic invention. They were used by the Greek and Latin arithmeticians long be­

fore the age of Bccthius. After the extinction of science in the West, they
were

adopted by the Arabic versions from the original MSS. and restored to the
Latins

about the eleventh century.

