OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Christian religion; and, during the long reign of chap.

Simeon, the -most distinguished of their kings, as- XL-

sumed a rank among civilized nations. This mon­

arch gained several battles against the Greeks; he

laid siege to Constantinople, and the emperor Ro-

manus was contented to make peace on terms honour­

able to the Bulgarians. But the power of that na­

tion declined after the death of Simeon; and was

destroyed in the beginning of the eleventh century,

by the victories of the second Basil.

Stauracius, the son and heir of Nicephorus, escaped stauracius,

from the battle in which his father was killed, but

he escaped with an incurable wound. Six months

of an expiring life were sufficient to refute his in­

decent though popular declaration, that he would in

all things avoid the example of his father. On the

near prospect of his decease, Michael, the great

master of the palace, and the husband of his sister

Procopia, was named by every person of the palace

and city, except by his envious brother. Tenacious

of a sceptre now falling from his hand, he conspired

against the life of his successor, and cherished the

idea of changing to a democracy the Roman empire.

But these rash projects served only to inflame the

zeal of the people, and to remove the scruples of the

candidate. Michael the First accepted the purple,

and before he sunk into the grave, the son of Nice­

phorus implored the clemency of his new sovereign.

Had Michael in an age of peace ascended an here- Michael i.

ditary throne, he might have reigned and died the A dUTu'

father of his people; but his mild virtues were adapted October 2.

to the shade of private life, nor was he capable of

controlling the ambition of his equals, or of resisting

the arms of the victorious Bulgarians. While his want

of ability and success exposed him to the contempt

of the soldiers, the masculine spirit of his wife Pro­

copia wakened their indignation. Even the Greeks

r

