OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 377

same taxes; and the arrears of a simple citizen, the chap.

treasurer of Damascus, were commuted to a fine of XXXIX-

one hundred thousand pieces of gold. The loss of

two hundred thousand soldiers* who had fallen by

the sword was of less fatal importance than the de­

cay of arts, agriculture, and population, in this long

and destructive war; and although a victorious army

had been formed under the standard of Heraclius,

the unnatural effort appears to have exhausted, rather

than exercised, their strength. While the emperor

triumphed at Constantinople or Jerusalem, an ob­

scure town on the confines of Syria was pillaged by

the Saracens, and they cut in pieces some troops

who advanced to its relief; an ordinary and trifling

occurrence, had it not been the prelude of a mighty

revolution. These robbers were the apostles of Ma­

homet; their fanatic valour had emerged from the

desert; and, in the last eight years of his reign, He­

raclius lost to the Arabs the same provinces which

he had rescued from the Persians.

The history of the important reign of Heraclius is here

interrupted by Mr. Gibbon, in order to introduce a chapter

consisting of no less than one hundred and sixteen pages, in

which he describes many sects and various opinions, respect­

ing the tenets of the Christian religion. The chapter begins

with the Incarnation of our Saviour, and ends with an

account of the proceedings of the Jesuits in Abyssinia, in

the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. It is not my inten­

tion to lay before my reader any thing more than the Tablc

of Contents of this long chapter. It is as follows:

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Of'Chapter Forty-seven of the original History.

Theological History of the Doctrine of the Incarnation.—

The Human and Divine Nature of Christ.—Enmity of the

* Suidas (in Excerpt. Hist. Byzant. p. 46) gives this number; but either the  
Periutn must be read for the Isaurian war, or this passage does not belong to
the

emperor Heraclius.

