OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

indeed, the harvest of his death, and assumed the chap.

XT

government, in the name of the surviving emperor;

but the incestuous widow of Heraclius was universally Heracieo-

abhorred; the jealousy of the people was awakened, 64i', May

and the two orphans whom Constantine had left be-25th'

came the objects of the public care. It was in vain

that the son of Martina, who was no more than fif­

teen years of age, was taught to declare himself the

guardian of his nephews, one of whom he had presented

at the baptismal font; it was in vain that he swore

to defend them against all their enemies. On his

deathbed, the late emperor had despatched a trusty ser­

vant to arm the troops and provinces of the East in

defence of his helpless children: the eloquence and

liberality of Valentin had been successful; and, from

his camp of Chalcedon, he boldly demanded the pu­

nishment of the assassins, and the restoration of the

lawful heir. The licence of the soldiers, who devoured

the grapes and drank the wine of their Asiatic vine­

yards, provoked the citizens of Constantinople against

the domestic authors of their calamities, and the dome

of St. Sophia re-echoed, not with prayers and hymns,

but with the clamours and imprecations of an enraged

multitude. At their imperious command, Heracleonas

appeared in the pulpit with the eldest of the royal

orphans. Constans alone was saluted as emperor of

the Romans; and a crown of gold, which had been

taken from the tomb of Heraclius, was placed on his

head, with the solemn benediction of the patriarch.

But in the tumult of joy and indignation, the church

was pillaged, the sanctuary was polluted, by a promis­

cuous crowd of Jews and Barbarians; and Pyrrhus,

a creature of the empress, escaped by a prudent flight.

A more serious and bloody task was reserved for the

senate, who derived a temporary strength from the

consent of the soldiers and people. The spirit of Ro­

man freedom revived the ancient and awful examples

c cS

'

