240 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. portion. The Christian princes were the first who

xxxvii. Specified the just causes of a private divorce; their

institutions, from Constantine to Justinian, appear

to fluctuate between the custom of the empire and

the wishes of the church, and the author of the Novels

too frequently reforms the jurisprudence of the Code

and Pandects. In the most rigorous laws, a wife was

condemned to support a gamester, a drunkard, or a

libertine, unless he were guilty of homicide, poison,

or sacrilege; in which cases the marriage, as it should

seem, might have been dissolved by the hand of the

executioner. But the sacred right of the husband

was invariably maintained to deliver his name and

family from the disgrace of adultery: the list of

mortal sins, either male or female, was curtailed and

enlarged by successive regulations, and the obstacles

of incurable impotence, long absence, and monastic

profession, were allowed to rescind the matrimonial

obligation. Whoever transgressed the permission of

the law was subject to various and heavy penalties.

The woman was stripped of her wealth and ornaments,

without excepting the bodkin of her hair: if the man

introduced a new bride into his bed, her fortune

might be lawfully seized by the vengeance of his

exiled wife. Forfeiture was sometimes commuted to

a fine; the fine was sometimes aggravated by trans­

portation to an island, or imprisonment in a mo­

nastery: the injured party was released from the

bonds of marriage; but the offender, during life or

a term of years, was disabled from the repetition of

nuptials. The successor of Justinian yielded to the

prayers of his unhappy subjects, and restored the

liberty of divorce by mutual consent,

incest, con- The freedom of love and marriage was restrained

cubmes, and ,,".,. ...

bastards, among the Romans by natural and civil impediments.

An instinct, almost innate and universal, appears to

prohibit the incestuous commerce of parents and

