OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 139

ruled above two thousand years the sequestered re- chap.

j YYYT7

gion of myrrh and frankincense. The conqueror ('

immediately announced the victory of the gospel, re­

quested an orthodox patriarch, and so warmly pro­

fessed his friendship to the Roman empire, that Jus­

tinian was flattered by the hope of diverting the silk

trade through the channel of Abyssinia, and of ex­

citing the forces of Arabia against the Persian king.

Nonnosus, descended from a family of ambassadors, Their ain-

was named by the emperor to execute this important Justinian,

commission. He wisely declined the shorter, butA,1)-533-

more dangerous, road through the sandy deserts of

Nubia; ascended the Nile, embarked on the Red

Sea, and safely landed at the African port of Adulis.

From Adulis to the royal city of Axume is no more

than fifty leagues, in a direct line; but the winding

passes of the mountains detained the ambassador

fifteen days; and as he traversed the forests, he

saw, and vaguely computed, about five thousand wild

elephants. The capital, according to his report, was

large and populous; and the village of Axume is

still conspicuous by the regal coronations, by the

ruins of a Christian temple, and by sixteen or seven­

teen obelisks inscribed with Grecian characters*.

But the Negus gave audience in the open field,

seated on a lofty chariot, which was drawn by four

elephants superbly caparisoned, and surrounded by

his nobles and musicians. He was clad in a linen

garment and cap, holding in his hand two javelins

and a light shield; and, although his nakedness was

imperfectly covered, he displayed the Barbaric pomp

of gold chains, collars, and bracelets, richly adorned

with pearls and precious stones. The ambassador of

* Alvarez (in Ramusio, tom. i. fol. 219 vers. 221 vers.) saw the flourishing  
state of Axume in the year 1520—luogo molto buono e grandc. It was ruined in

the same century by the Turkish invasion. No more than one hundred houses

remain; but the memory of its past greatness is preserved by the regal
coronation

(Ludolph. Hist. et Comment. 1. it c. 11).

r

