OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 49

later period, the circumference of Naples measured chap.

only two thousand three hundred and sixty-three .

paces*: the fortifications were defended by pre­

cipices or the sea; when the aqueducts were inter­

cepted, a supply of water might be drawn from wells

and fountains; and the stock of provisions was suf­

ficient to consume the patience of the besiegers. At

the end of twenty days, that of Belisarius was almost

exhausted, and he had reconciled himself to the dis­

grace of abandoning the siege, that he might march,

before the winter season, against Rome and the Go­

thic king. But his anxiety was relieved by the bold

curiosity of an Isaurian, who explored the dry chan­

nel of an aqueduct, and secretly reported, that a pas­

sage might be perforated to introduce a file of armed

soldiers into the heart of the city. When the work

had been silently executed, the humane general

risked the discovery of his secret, by a last and fruit­

less admonition of the impending danger. In the

darkness of the night, four hundred Romans entered

the aqueduct, raised themselves by a rope, which they

fastened to an olive tree, into the house or garden of

a solitary matron, sounded their trumpets, surprised

the centinels, and gave admittance to their com­

panions, who on all sides scaled the walls, and burst

open the gates of the city. Every crime which is

punished by social justice was practised as the rights

of war; the Huns were distinguished by cruelty and

sacrilege, and Belisarius alone appeared in the streets

and churches of Naples, to moderate the calamities

which he predicted. "The gold and silver," he re­

peatedly exclaimed, " are the just rewards of your

"valour. But spare the inhabitants; they are Chris-

"tians, they are suppliants, they are now yourfellow-

"subjects. Restore the children to their parents,

• Not geometrical, but common, paces or steps, of 22 French inches (d'An.

ville, Mesures Itineraires, p. 7, 8): the 2363 do not make an English mile.

VOL. IV. E

