OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 223

of the Roman law. As soon as the emperor had chap.

approved their labours, he ratified, by his legislative |

power, the speculations of these private citizens:

their commentaries on the twelve tables, the per­

petual edict, the laws of the people, and the decrees

of the senate, succeeded to the authority of the text;

and the text was abandoned, as an useless, though

venerable, relic of antiquity. The Code, the Pan­

dects, and the Institutes, were declared to be the

legitimate system of civil jurisprudence; they alone

were admitted in the tribunals, and they alone were

taught in the academies of Rome, Constantinople,

and Berytus.

Since the emperor declined the fame and envy ofPraise and

... .. , . l-ii censure ot

original composition, we can only require at his hands the Code

method, choice, and fidelity, the humble, though in- dects.""

dispensable, virtues of a compiler. Among the various

combinations of ideas, it is difficult to assign any

reasonable preference; but as the order of Justinian

is different in his three works, it is possible that all

may be wrong; and it is certain that two cannot be

right. In the selection of ancient laws, he seems to have

viewed his predecessors without jealousy, and with

equal regard: the series could not ascend above the

reign of Hadrian, and the distinction of Paganism

and Christianity, introduced by Theodosius, had been

abolished by the consent of mankind. But the ju­

risprudence of the Pandects is circumscribed within

a period of a hundred years, from the perpetual edict

to the death of Severus Alexander: the civilians who

lived under the first Caesars are seldom permitted to

speak, and only three names can be attributed to the

age of the republic. The favourite of Justinian (it

has been fiercely urged) was fearful of encountering

the light of freedom and the gravity of Roman sages.

Tribonian condemned to oblivion the genuine and

native widom of Cato, the Screvolas, and Sulpicius;

r

