OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 79

moment; that in the deepest distress, he was ani- chap.

mated by real or apparent hope, but that he was xxxiv-

modest and humble in the most prosperous fortune.

By these virtues, he equalled or excelled the ancient

masters of the military art. Victory, by sea and land,

attended his arms. He subdued Africa, Italy, and

the adjacent islands, led away captives the successors

ofGenseric andTheodoric, filled Constantinople with

the spoils of their palaces, and in the space of six years

recovered half the provinces of the AVestern empire.

In his fame and merit, in wealth and power, he re­

mained, without a rival, the first of the Roman sub­

jects: the voice of envy could only magnify his dan­

gerous importance; and the emperor might applaud

his own discerning spirit which had discovered and

raised the genius of Belisarius.

It was the custom of the Roman triumphs, that a secret hi-

slave should be placed behind the chariot to remind wife An-

the conqueror of the instability of fortune, and the in-tonma"

firmities of human nature. Procopius, in his Anec­

dotes, has assumed that servile and ungrateful office.

The generous reader may cast away the libel, but

the evidence of facts will adhere to his memory; and

he will reluctantly confess, that the fame, and even

the virtue of Belisarius, were polluted by the lust

and cruelty of his wife; and that the hero deserved

an appellation which may not drop from the pen of

the decent historian. The mother of Antonina* was

a theatrical prostitute, and both her father and grand­

father exercised at Thessalonica and Constantinople

the vile, though lucrative, profession of charioteers.

In the various situations of their fortune, she became

the companion, the enemy,, the servant, and the fa-

* The diligence of Alemannus could add but little to the four first and most  
curious chapters of the Anecdotes. Of these strange Anecdotes, a part may be

true, because probable—and a part true, because improbable. Procopius must

have known the former, and the latter he could scarcely invent.

