OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 463

stration is stained with the same blemishes; yet it is chap.

discriminated by peculiar merit: the antiquities of'''

the nations may be doubtful or fabulous; but the

geography and manners of the Barbaric world are

delineated with curious accuracy. Of these nations, Embassy of

the Franks alone were qualified to observe in their 1U pran'

turn, and to describe, the metropolis of the East.

The ambassador of the great Otho, a bishop of Cre­

mona, has painted the state of Constantinople about

the middle of the tenth century: his style is glowing,

his narrative lively, his observation keen; and even

the prejudices and passions of Liutprand are stamped

with an original character of freedom and genius.

From this scanty fund of foreign and domestic mate­

rials, I shall investigate the form and substance of the

Byzantine empire; the provinces and wealth, the

civil government and military force, the character and

literature, of the Greeks in a period of six hundred

years, from the reign of Heraclius to the successful

invasion of the Franks or Latins.

After the final division between the sons of Theo- The

dosius, the swarms of Barbarians from Scythia and th™.es or

7 J provinces

Germany overspread the provinces and extinguished °fthe em-.

the empire of ancient Rome. The weakness of Con- limits in

stantinople was concealed by extent of dominion :every age'

her limits were inviolate, or at least entire; and the

kingdom of Justinian was enlarged by the splendid

acquisition of Africa and Italy. But the possession

of these new conquests was transient and precarious;

and almost a moiety of the Eastern empire was torn

away by the arms of the Saracens. Syria and Egypt

were oppressed by the Arabian caliphs; and, after the

reduction of Africa, their lieutenants invaded and

subdued the Roman province, which had been changed

into the Gothic monarchy of Spain. The islands of

the Mediterranean were not inaccessible to their naval

powers; and it was from their extreme stations, the

