142 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the clamours of military discontent. Many of the

XXXVL Roman soldiers had married the widows and daugh­

ters of the Vandals. As their own, by the double

right of conquest and inheritance, they claimed the

estates which Genseric had assigned to his victorious

troops. They heard with disdain the cold and selfish

representations of their officers, that the liberality of

Justinian had raised them from a savage or servile

condition; that they were already enriched by the

spoils of Africa, the treasure, the slaves, and the

moveables, of the vanquished Barbarians; and that

the ancient and lawful patrimony of the emperors

would be applied only to the support of that govern­

ment on which their own safety and reward must ulti­

mately depend. The mutiny was secretly inflamed

by a thousand soldiers, for the most part Heruli, who

had imbibed the doctrines, and were instigated by the

clergy, of the Arian sect; and the cause of perjury

and rebellion was sanctified by the dispensing powers

of fanaticism. The Arians deplored the ruin of their

church, triumphant above a century in Africa; and

they,were justly provoked by the laws of the con­

queror, which interdicted the baptism of their chil­

dren and the exercise of all religious worship. Of

the Vandals chosen by Belisarius, the far greater part,

in the honours of the Eastern service, forgot their

country and religion. But a band of four hundred

obliged the mariners, when they were in sight of the

isle of Lesbos, to alter their course: they touched on

Peloponnesus, ran ashore on a desert coast of Africa,

and boldly erected, on mount Aurasius, the standard

of independence and revolt. While the troops of the

province disclaimed the command of their superiors,

a conspiracy was formed at Carthage against the life

of Solomon, who filled with honour the place of Beli­

sarius; and the Arians had resolved to sacrifice the

tyrant at the foot of the altar, during the awful

mysteries of the festival of Easter. Fear or remorse

