476 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. her age or indolence declined the fatigue of a horse

XLL or carriage: the soft litter or bed of Danielis was

transported on the shoulders of ten robust slaves;

and as they were relieved at easy distances, a band

of three hundred was selected for the performance of

this service. She was entertained in the Byzantine

palace with filial reverence, and the honours of a

queen; and whatever might be the origin of her

wealth, her gifts were not unworthy of the regal dig­

nity. I have already described the fine and curious

manufactures of Peloponnesus of linen, silk, and wool­

len. During her lifetime, she bestowed the greater

part of her estates in Peloponnesus, and her testament

instituted Leo the son of Basil her universal heir.

After the payment of the legacies, fourscore villas or

farms were added to the Imperial domain; and three

thousand slaves of Danielis were enfranchised by their

new lord, and transplanted as a colony to the Italian

coast. From this example of a private matron, we

may estimate the wealth and magnificence of the

emperors. Yet our enjoyments are confined by a nar­

row circle; and, whatsoever may be its value, the

luxury of life is possessed with more innocence and

safety by the master of his own, than by the steward

of the public, fortune.

Honouw jn an absolute government, which levels the di-

and titles of . . ° .' .

the imperial stinctions of noble and plebeian birth, the sovereign

am y' is the sole fountain of honour; and the rank, both

in the palace and the empire, depends on the titles

and offices which are bestowed and resumed by his

• arbitrary will. Above a thousand years, from Vespa­

sian to Alexius Comnenus, the Caesar was the second

person, or at least the second degree, after the su­

preme title of Augustus was more freely communi­

cated to the sons and brothers of the reigning mon­

arch. To elude without violating his promise to a

powerful associate, the husband of his sister; and,

