OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 205

stood forth in the assembly of the people with a cord chap.

round his neck, and if the law was rejected, the in- XXXVIL

novator was instantly strangled.

The Decemvirs had been named, and their tables Laws of the

were approved, by an assembly of the centuries, in pcople'

which riches preponderated against numbers. To the

first class of Romans, the proprietors of one hundred

thousand pounds of copper, ninety-eight votes were

assigned, and only ninety-five were left for the six

inferior classes, distributed according to their sub­

stance by the artful policy of Servius. But the tri­

bunes soon established a more specious and popular

maxim, that every citizen has an equal right to enact

the laws which he is bound to obey. Instead of the

centuries, they convened the tribes; and the patri­

cians, after an impotent struggle, submitted to the

decrees of an assembly, in which their votes were

confounded with those of the meanest plebeians. Yet

as long as the tribes successively passed over narrow

bridges, and gave their voices aloud, the conduct of

each citizen was exposed to the eyes and ears of his

friends and countrymen. The insolvent debtor con­

sulted the wishes of his creditor; the client would

have blushed to oppose the views of his patron: the

general was followed by his veterans, and the aspect

of a grave magistrate was a living lesson to the multi­

tude. A new method of secret ballot abolished the

influence of fear and shame, of honour and interest,

and the abuse of freedom accelerated the progress of

anarchy and despotism*. The Romans had aspired

to be equal; they were levelled by the equality of

servitude; and the dictates of Augustus were pa­

tiently ratified by the formal consent of the tribes or

centuries. Once, and once only, he experienced a

sincere and strenuous opposition. His subjects had

* Cicero (de Legibus, iii. 16, 17, 18) debates this constitutional question, and  
assigns to his brother Quintus the most unpopular side.

