OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. H7

The jealousy of the Byzantine court had not per- chap.

mitted Belisarius to achieve the conquest of Italy; XXVI"

and his ahrupt departure revived the courage of the Revolt of

Goths *, who respected his genius, his virtue, and a.V.054o.

even the laudable motive which had urged the ser­

vant of Justinian to deceive and reject them. They

had lost their king (an inconsiderable loss), their ca­

pital, their treasures, the provinces from Sicily to the

Alps, and the military force of two hundred thousand

Barbarians, magnificently equipped with horses and

arms. Yet all was not lost, as long as Pavia was de­

fended by one thousand Goths, inspired by a sense

of honour, the love of freedom, and the memory of

their past greatness. The supreme command was

unanimously offered to the brave Uraias; and it was

in his eyes alone that the disgrace of his uncle Vitiges

could appear as a reason of exclusion. His voice in­

clined the election in favour of Hildibald, whose per­

sonal merit was recommended by the vain hope that

his kinsman Theudes, the Spanish monarch, would

support the common interest of the Gothic nation.

The success of his arms in Liguria and Venetia

seemed to justify their choice; but he soon declared

to the world, that he was incapable of forgiving or

commanding his benefactor. The consort of Hildi­

bald was deeply wounded by the beauty, the riches,

and the pride of the wife of Uraias; and the death

of that virtuous patriot excited the indignation of a

free people. A bold assassin executed their sentence

by striking off the head of Hildibald in the midst of

a banquet: the Rugians, a foreign tribe, assumed the

privilege of election; and Totila, the nephew of the

* In the second (c. 30) and third book (c. 1—40), Procopius continues the  
history of the Gothic war from the fifth to the fifteenth year of Justinian.
As the

events are less interesting than in the former period, he allots only half the
space .

to double the time. Jornandes and the Chronicle of Marcellinus afford some

collateral hints. Sigonius, Pagi, Muratori, Mascou, and De Buat, are useful,

and have been used.

L 2

