162 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. cept the bold and repeated challenge of Totila. Yet

XXXVL in the judgment of the few who could discriminate.

counsels from events, and compare the instruments

with the execution, he appeared a more consummate

master of the art of war than in the season of his

prosperity, when he presented two captive kings be­

fore the throne of Justinian. The valour of Beli-

sarius was not chilled by age; his prudence was

matured by experience, but the moral virtues of hu­

manity and justice seem to have yielded to the hard

necessity of the times. The parsimony or poverty

of the emperor compelled him to deviate from the

rule of conduct which had deserved the love and con­

fidence of the Italians. The war was maintained by

the oppression of Ravenna, Sicily, and all the faith­

ful subjects of the empire; and the rigorous• prose­

cution of Herodian provoked that injured or guilty

officer to deliver Spoleto into the hands of the enemy.

The avarice of Antonina, which had been sometimes

diverted by love, now reigned without a rival in her

breast. Belisarius himself had always understood,

that riches, in a corrupt age, are the support and or­

nament of personal merit. And it cannot be pre­

sumed that he should stain his honour for the public

service, without applying a part of the spoil to his

private emolument. The hero had escaped the sword

of the Barbarians, but the dagger of conspiracy*

awaited his return. In the midst of wealth and ho­

nours, Artaban, who had chastised the African tyrant,

complained of the ingratitude of courts. He aspired

to Praejecta, the emperor's niece, who wished to re­

ward her deliverer; but the impediment of his pre­

vious marriage was asserted by the piety of Theodora.

The pride of royal descent was irritated by flattery;

and the service in which he gloried had proved him

• This conspiracy is related by Procopius (Gothic. I. iii. c. 31, 32) with
such

freedom and candour, that the liberty of the Anecdotes gives him nothing to
add.

