194 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. struction. The institution of great cities, which in-

YYYUT

, elude a nation within the limits of a wall, almost

realizes the wish of Caligula, that the Roman people

a. d. 526, na(J but one neck. Two hundred and fifty thousand

persons are said to have perished in the earthquake of

Antioch, whose domestic multitudes were swelled by

the conflux of strangers to the festival of the As-

a. d. 551, cension. The loss of Berytus was of smaller account,

uIy 9' but of much greater value. That city, on the coast

of Phoenicia, was illustrated by the study of the civil

'law, which opened the surest road to wealth and dig­

nity: the schools of Berytus were filled with the

rising spirits of the age, and many a youth was lost

in the earthquake, who might have lived to be the

scourge or the guardian of his country. In these

disasters, the architect becomes the enemy of man­

kind. The hut of a savage, or the tent of an Arab,

may be thrown down without injury to the inhabit­

ant; and the Peruvians had reason to deride the folly

of their Spanish conquerors, who with so much cost

and labour erected their own sepulchres. The rich

marbles of a patrician are dashed on his own head:

a whole people is buried under the ruins of public

and private edifices, and the conflagration is kindled

and propagated by the innumerable fires which are

necessary for the subsistence and manufactures of a

great city. Instead of the mutual sympathy which

might comfort and assist the distressed, they dread­

fully experience the vices and passions which are re­

leased from the fear of punishment: the tottering

houses are pillaged by intrepid avarice; revenge em­

braces the moment, and selects the victim; and the

earth often swallows the assassin, or the ravisher, in

the consummation of their crimes.

Plague- HI. ^Ethiopia and Egypt have been stigmatized

its origm . r &Jr ».

and nature, jn every age, as the original source and seminary of

the plague. In a damp, hot, stagnating air, this

