42 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. destitute of any firm support or legal authority. In-

XXXIV- stead of submitting to the laws of her country, which

held as a fundamental maxim, that the succession

could never pass from the lance to the distaff, the

daughter of Theodoric conceived the impracticable

design of sharing, with one of her cousins, the regal

title, and of reserving in her own hands the substance

of supreme power. He received the proposal with

profound respect and affected gratitude; and the

eloquent Cassiodorius announced to the senate and

the emperor, that Amalasontha and Theodatus had

ascended the throne of Italy. His birth (for his

mother was the sister of Theodoric) might be con足

sidered as an imperfect title; and the choice of

Amalasontha was more strongly directed by her con足

tempt of his avarice and pusillanimity, which had de足

prived him of the love of the Italians, and the esteem

of the Barbarians. But Theodatus was exasperated

by the contempt which he deserved: her justice had

repressed and reproached the oppression which he

exercised against his Tuscan neighbours; and the

principal Goths, united by common guilt and resent足

ment, conspired to instigate his slow and timid dis-

Hcr exile position. The letters of congratulation were scarcely

a.d.535. despatched before the queen of Italy was imprisoned

April so. i n a small island of the lake of Bolsena, where, after

a short confinement, she was strangled in the bath,

by the order, or with the connivance, of the new

king, who instructed his turbulent subjects to shed

the blood of their sovereigns.

Beiisarius Justinian beheld with ioy the dissensions of the

subduesan Goths; and the mediation of an ally concealed and

\'dJji' rv promoted the ambitious views of the conqueror. His

Dec . 3i. ambassadors, in their public audience, demanded the

fortress of Lilybaeum, ten Barbarian fugitives, and a

just compensation for the pillage of a small town on

the Illyrian borders; but they secretly negotiated

