OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 327

general of the Persian armies, and a. prince adorned chap.

with the title of eleven virtues. He commands Chos- XXX1X-

roes, the son of Hormouz, to shun the example and

fate of his father, to confine the traitors who had been

released from their chains, to deposit in some holy

place the diadem which he had usurped, and to ac­

cept from his gracious benefactor the pardon of his

faults and the government of a province. The rebel

might not be proud, and the king most assuredly was

not humble; but the one was conscious of his strength,

the other was sensible of his weakness; and even the

modest language of his reply still left room for treaty

and reconciliation. Chosroes led into the field the

slaves of the palace and the populace of the capital *

they beheld with terror the banners of a veteran

army; they were encompassed and surprised by the

evolutions of the general; and the satraps who had

deposed Hormouz received the punishment of their

revolt, or expiated their first treason by a second and

more criminal act of disloyalty. The life and liberty

of Chosroes were saved, but he was reduced to the

necessity of imploring aid or refuge in some foreign

land; and the implacable Bindoes, anxious to secure

an unquestionable title, hastily returned to the palace,

and ended, with a bow-string, the wretched existence Death of

of the son of Nushirvan. a. d. sua.

While Chosroes despatched the preparations of his chosroes

retreat, he deliberated with his remaining friends, Romans. °

whether he should lurk in the valleys of Mount Cau­

casus, or fly to the tents of the Turks, or solicit the

protection of the emperor. The long emulation of

the successors of Artaxerxes and Constantine in­

creased his reluctance to appear as a suppliant in a

rival court; but he weighed the forces of the Romans,

and prudently considered, that the neighbourhood of

Syria would render his escape more easy and their

succours more effectual. Attended only by his con-

v4 j?~

