200 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXVII.

Laws of

the kings

of Rome.

They piously commemorate his virtues; dissemble

or deny his failings; and fiercely chastise the guilt

or folly of the rebels who presume to sully the ma­

jesty of the purple. The idolatry of love has pro­

voked, as it usually happens, the rancour of opposi­

tion; the character of Justinian has been exposed to

the blind vehemence of flattery and invective, and

the injustice of a sect (the Anti-Tribonians) has re­

fused all praise and merit to the prince, his ministers,

and his laws. Attached to no party, interested only

for the truth and candour of history, and directed

by the most temperate and skilful guides*, I enter

with just diffidence on the subject of civil law, which

has exhausted so many learned lives, and clothed the

walls of such spacious libraries. In a single, if pos­

sible, in a short chapter, I shall trace the Roman

jurisprudence from Romulus to Justinian, appreciate

the labours of that emperor, and pause to contemplate

the principles of a science so important to the peace

and happiness of society. The laws of a nation form

the most instructive portion of its history; and, al­

though I have devoted myself to write the annals of

a declining monarchy, I shall embrace the occasion

to breathe the pure and invigorating air of the re­

public.

The primitive government of Rome was composed

with some political skill, of an elective king, a coun­

cil of nobles, and a general assembly of the people.

War and religion were administered by the supreme

magistrate; and he alone proposed the laws, which

• At the head of these guides I shall respectfully place the learned and per­

spicuous Heineccius, a German professor, who died at Halle in the year 1741

(see his Eloge, in the Nouvelle Bibliotheque Gerraanique, tom. ii. p. 51 64).

His ample works have been collected in eight volumes in 4to. Geneva, 1743

1748. The treatises which I have separately used are, 1. Historia Juris Romani

et Germanici, Ludg. Batav. 1740, in 8vo. 2. Syntagma Antiquitatum Homa-

nam Jurisprudentiam illustrantiam, 2 vols, in 8vo. Traject. ad Rhcnum. 3. Ele­

ments Juris Civilis secundum Ordinem Institutionum, Ludg. Bat . 1751, in 8to.

4. Eleraenta J. C. secundum Ordinem Pandectarum, Traject. 1772, in 8vo. 2

vols.

