OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 363

blushed at their easy victory over the natives of Ar- chap.

VYYTV

menia. But the long experience of war had hardened

the minds and bodies of that effeminate people; their

zeal and bravery were approved in the service of a

declining empire; they abhorred and feared the usurpa­

tion of the house of Sassan, and the memory of per­

secution envenomed their pious hatred of the ene­

mies of Christ. The limits of Armenia, as it had

been ceded to the emperor Maurice, extended as far

as the Araxes; the river submitted to the indignity

of a bridge *, and Heraclius, in the footsteps of Mark

Antony, advanced towards the city of Tauris or

Gandzaca, the ancient and modern capital of one of

the provinces of Media. At the head of forty thou­

sand men, Chosroes himself had returned from some

distant expedition to oppose the progress of the Ro­

man arms; but he retreated on the approach of Hera­

clius, declining the generous alternative of peace or of

battle. Instead of half a million of inhabitants, which

have been ascribed to Tauris under the reign of the

Sophys, the city contained no more than three thou­

sand houses; but the value of the royal treasures was

enhanced by a tradition, that they were the spoils of

Crcesus, which had been transported by Cyrus from

the citadel of Sardes. The rapid conquests of Hera­

clius were suspended only by the winter season; a

motive of prudence determined his retreat into the

province of Albania, along the shores of the Caspian;

and his tents were most probably pitched in the plains

of Mogan, the favourite encampment of oriental

princes. In the course of this successful inroad, he

signalized the zeal and revenge of a Christian em­

peror: at his command, the soldiers extinguished the

* Etpontem indignatus Araxes. Virgil, jEneid, viii. 728.

The river Araxes is noisy, rapid, vehement, and, with the meeting of the
snows,

irresistible: the strongest and most massy bridges are swept away by the
current;

and its indignation is attested by the ruins of many arches near the old town
of

Zulfa. Voyages de Chardin, tom. i. p. 252.

