472 , THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. "cious magazines of silk, purple, and gold. It is

XLL "said, that Constantinople pays each day to her

"sovereign twenty thousand pieces of gold; which

"are levied on the shops, taverns, and markets, on

"the merchants of Persia and Egypt, of Russia and

"Hungary, of Italy and Spain, who frequent the

"capital by sea and land." In all pecuniary matters,

the authority of a Jew is doubtless respectable; but

as the three hundred and sixty-five days would pro­

duce a yearly income exceeding seven millions ster­

ling, I am tempted to retrench at least the numerous

festivals of the Greek calendar. The mass of trea­

sure that was saved by Theodora and Basil the

second will suggest a splendid, though indefinite,

idea of their supplies and resources. The mother of

Michael, before she retired to a cloister, attempted

to check or expose the prodigality of her ungrateful

son, by a free and faithful account of the wealth

which he inherited, one hundred and nine thou­

sand pounds of gold, and three hundred thousand

of silver, the fruits of her own economy and that of

her deceased husband *. The avarice of Basil is not

less renowned than his valour and fortune: his vic­

torious armies were paid and rewarded without break­

ing into the mass of two hundred thousand pounds

of gold (about eight millions sterling) which he had

buried in the subterraneous vaults of the palacet.

Such accumulation of treasure is rejected by the

theory and practice of modern policy; and we are

more apt to compute the national riches by the use

and abuse of the public credit. Yet the maxims of

antiquity are still embraced by a monarch formidable

to his enemies; by a republic respectable to her

• See the continuator of Theophanes (1. iv. p. 107), Ceilrenus (p. 544), and

Zonaras (tom. ii. 1 . xvi. p. 157).

t Zonaras (tom. ii. 1 . xvii. p. 225), instead of pounds, uses the more
classic

appellation of talents) which, in a literal sense and strict computation,
would

multiply sixty fold the treasure of Basil.

