OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 501

all to the royal college of Constantinople, which was chap.

burnt in the reign of Leo the Isaurian *. In the XLI-

pompous style of the age, the president of that founda­

tion was named the Sun of Science; his twelve as­

sociates, the professors in the different arts and facul­

ties, were the twelve signs of the zodiac; a library

of thirty-six thousand five hundred volumes was open

to their inquiries; and they could show an ancient

manuscript of Homer, on a roll of parchment one

hundred and twenty feet in length, the intestines, as

it was fabled, of a prodigious serpent t. But the

seventh and eighth centuries were a period of discord

and darkness; the library was burnt, the college was

abolished, the Iconoclasts are represented as the foes

of antiquity; and a savage ignorance and contempt

of letters has disgraced the princes of the Heraclean

and Isaurian dynasties t.

In the ninth century, we trace the first dawnings Revival 0f

of the restoration of science. After the fanaticism wiling.

of the Arabs had subsided, the caliphs aspired to

conquer the arts, rather than the provinces, of the

empire: their liberal curiosity rekindled the emula­

tion of the Greeks, brushed away the dust from their

ancient libraries, and taught them to know and

reward the philosophers, whose labours had been

hitherto repaid by the pleasure of study and the pur­

suit of truth. The Caesar Bardas, the uncle of Mi­

chael the third, was the generous protector of letters,

a title which alone has preserved his memory and

excused his ambition. A particle of the treasures of

• See Ducange (C. P. Christiana, I. ii. p. 150, 151.), who collects the testi­

monies, not of Theophanes, but at least of Zonaras (tom. ii. 1. xv. p. 104.).

Cedrenus (p. 454.), Michael Glydas (p. 281.), Constantine Manasses (p. 87.).

After refuting the absurd charge against the emperor, Spanheim (Hist. Imagi-

num, p. 99—111.), like a true advocate, proceeds to doubt or deny the reality

of the fire, and almost of the library.

t According to Malchus (apud Zonar. 1. xiv. p. 53.), this Homer was burnt

in the time of Basiliscus. The MS. might be renewed—But on a serpent's skin?

Most strange and incredible!

X The axoyia of Zonaras, the «ypm xai x/ixStx of Cedrenus, are strong words,

perhaps not ill-suiud to those reigns.

r

>

