OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 443

property of his wife, he condemned the ship to the chap.

flames, with a sharp reproach, that her avarice had

XL.

degraded the character of an empress into that of a

merchant. Yet his last choice intrusted her with Michaeim.

the guardianship of the empire and her son Michael, January 20.

who was left an orphan in the fifth year of his age.

The restoration of images, and the final extirpation

of the Iconoclasts, has endeared her name to the de­

votion of the Greeks; but in the fervour of religious

zeal, Theodora entertained a grateful regard for the

memory of her husband. After thirteen years of a

prudent and frugal administration, she perceived the

decline of her influence; but the second Irene imi­

tated only the virtues of her predecessor. Instead

of conspiring against the life or government of her

son, she retired without a struggle, though not with­

out a murmur, to the solitude of private life, deplor­

ing the ingratitude, the vices, and the inevitable ruin,

of the worthless youth.

During the minority of Michael the Third, in the invasion of

sufferings of prostrate Italy the name of Rome the'sara-

awakens a solemn and mournful recollection. In A^ 846

the year 846, a fleet of Saracens from the African

coast presumed to enter the mouth of the Tyber,

and to approach a city, which even yet, in her fallen

state, was revered as the metropolis of the Christian

world. The gates and ramparts were guarded by a

trembling people; but the tombs and temples of St.

Peter and St. Paul were left exposed in the suburbs

of the Vatican, and of the Ostian way. Their sanc­

tity had protected them against the Goths, the Van­

dals, and the Lombards, but the Arabs disdained

both the gospel and the legend; and their rapacious

spirit was approved and animated by the precepts of

the Koran. A silver altar was torn away from the

shrine of St. Peter; and if the bodies or the build­

ings were left entire, their deliverance must be im-

