OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 267

principles of justice: the pride of despotism was en- chap.

venomed by plebeian envy, and the heroes of Athens xxxvIL

might sometimes applaud the happiness of the Per­

sian, whose fate depended on the caprice of a single

tyrant. Some salutary restraints, imposed by the

people on their Own passions, were at once the cause

and effect of the gravity and temperance of the Ro­

mans. The right of accusation was confined to the

magistrates. A vote of the thirty-five tribes could

inflict a fine: but the cognizance of all capital crimes

was reserved by a fundamental law to the assembly of

the centuries, in which the weight of influence and

property was sure to preponderate. Repeated pro­

clamations and adjournments were interposed, to allow

time for prejudice and resentment to subside; the

whole proceeding might be annulled by a seasonable

omen, or the opposition of a tribune; and such po­

pular trials were commonly less formidable to inno­

cence than they were favourable to guilt. But this

union of the judicial and legislative powers left it

doubtful whether the accused party was pardoned or

acquitted; and in the defence of an illustrious client,

the orators of Rome and Athens addressed their argu­

ments to the policy and benevolence, as well as to the

justice, of their sovereign. 2. The task of convening

the citizens for the trial of each offender became more

difficult, as the citizens and the offenders continually

multiplied; and the ready expedient was adopted of

delegating the jurisdiction of the people to the or­

dinary magistrates, or to extraordinary inquisitors.

In the first ages these questions were rare and oc­

casional. In the beginning of the seventh century of

Rome they were made perpetual; four praetors were

annually empowered to sit in judgment on the state

offences of treason, extortion, peculation, and bribery;

and Sylla added new praetors and new questions for

those crimes which more directly injure the safety of

