OK THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3^5

the conspiracy, the death of Chosroes, and the ele- chap.

vation of his eldest son to the throne of Persia. The"

authors of the revolution, eager to display their me- a. d. 628.

rits in the court or camp of Tauris, preceded the

ambassadors of Siroes, who delivered the letters of

their master to his brother the emperor of the Ro­

mans*. In the language of the usurpers of every

age, he imputes his own crimes to the Deity, and,

without degrading his equal majesty, he offers to re­

concile the long discord of the two nations, by a treaty

of peace and alliance more durable than brass or iron.

The conditions of the treaty were easily defined and

faithfully executed. In the recovery of the standards

and prisoners which had fallen into the hands of the

Persians, the emperor imitated the example of Au­

gustus: their care of the national dignity was cele­

brated by the poets of the times, but the decay of

genius may be measured by the distance between

Horace and George of Pisidia; the subjects and bre­

thren of Heraclius were redeemed from persecution,

slavery, and exile; but instead of the Roman eagles,

the true wood of the holy cross was restored to the

importunate demands of the successor of Constantine.

The victor was not ambitious of enlarging the weak­

ness of the empire; the son of Chosroes abandoned

without regret the conquests of his father; the Per­

sians who evacuated the cities of Syria and Egypt

were honourably conducted to the frontier; and a

war which had wounded the vitals of the two mon­

archies produced no change in their external and

relative situation. The return of Heraclius from

Tauris to Constantinople was a perpetual triumph;

and, after the exploits of six glorious campaigns, he

peaceably enjoyed the sabbath of his toils. After a

• The letter of Siroes in the Puschal Chronicle (p. 102) unfortunately ends

before he proceed* to business. The treaty appears in its execution in the
histo­

ries of Thcoplunes and Nieephoras. ',.-

fill r f

