76 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. fleet, laden with provisions, sailed as a welcome guest

*' "into the deepest recess of the harbour: the gates were

Subdues the opened to the fancied king of Italy; and Belisarius,

kingdom of without meeting an enemy, triumphantly marched

A^D 539 through the streets of an impregnable city. The

'December. Romans were astonished by their success; the mul­

titude of tall and robust Barbarians were confounded

by the image of their own patience; and the mascu­

line females, spitting in the faces of their sons and

husbands, most bitterly reproached them for betray­

ing their dominion and freedom to these pygmies of

the South, contemptible in their numbers, diminutive

in their stature. Before the Goths could recover from

the first surprise, and claim the accomplishment of

their doubtful hopes, the victor established his power

in Ravenna, beyond the danger of repentance and

Captivity of revolt. Vitiges, who perhaps had attempted to escape,

was honourably guarded in his palace; the flower of

the Gothic youth was selected for the service of the

emperor; the remainder of the people was dismissed

to their peaceful habitations in the southern pro­

vinces; and a colony of Italians was invited to re­

plenish the depopulated city. The submission of the

capital was imitated in the towns and villages of

Italy, which had not been subdued, or even visited,

by the Romans; and the independent Goths, who

remained in arms at Pavia and Verona, were am­

bitious only to become the subjects of Belisarius.

But his inflexible loyalty rejected, except as the sub­

stitute of Justinian, their oaths of allegiance; and he

was not offended by the reproach of their deputies,

that he rather chose to be a slave than a king.

^tur"fand After the second victory of Belisarius, envy again

Belisarius. whispered, Justinian listened, and the hero was re­

called. "The remnant of the Gothic war was no

"longer worthy of his presence: a gracious sovereign

