OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 895

of annual tribute, fifty horses of noble breed, fifty chap.

slaves, and three thousand pieces of gold, degraded XL>

the majesty of the commander of the faithful*. The

aged caliph was desirous of possessing his dominions,

and ending his days, in tranquillity and repose: while

the Moors and Indians trembled at his name, his

palace and city of Damascus were insulted by the

Mardaites, or Maronites, of Mount Libanus, the

firmest barrier of the empire, till they were dis­

armed and transplanted by the spurious policy of

the Greeks. After the revolt of Arabia and Persia,

the house of Ommiyah was reduced to the kingdoms

of Syria and Egypt: their distress and fear enforced

their compliance with the pressing demands of the

Christians; and the tribute was increased to a slave,

a horse, and a thousand pieces of gold, for each of

the three hundred and sixty-five days in the solar

year. But as soon as the empire was again united

by the arms and policy of Abdalmalek, he disclaimed

a badge of servitude, not less injurious to his con­

science than to his pride: he discontinued the pay­

ment of the tribute; and the resentment of the

Greeks was disabled from action by the mad tyranny

of the second Justinian, the just rebellion of his sub­

jects, and the frequent change of his antagonists and

successors. Tilltthe reign of Abdalmalek, the Sara­

cens had been content with the free possession of the

Persian and Roman treasures, in the coin of Chosroes

and Caesar. By the command of that caliph a

national mint was established, both of silver and gold;

and under the reign of the caliph Waled, the Greek

language and characters were excluded from the

accounts of the public revenue. If this change was

productive of the invention or familiar use of our

* Theophanes, though a Greek, deserves credit for these tributes (Chrono­  
graph, p. 295, 29G, 300, 301); which are confirmed, with some variation, by

the Arabic History of Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 128. vers. Pococke).

