378 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

CHAP. Patriarchs of Alexandria and Constantinople.—St. Cyril and

XXXIX. Nestorius.—Third General Council of Ephesus.—Heresy

~ ""of Eutyches.—Fourth General Council of Chalcedon.—

Civil and Ecclesiastical Discord.—Intolerance of Justinian.

—The Three Chapters.—The Monothelite Controversy.—

State of the Oriental Sects.—First, The Nestorians.—Second,

The Jacobites.—Third, The Maronites.—Fourth, The Ar­

menians.—Fifth, The Copts.—Sixth, The Abyssinians.—

Mission, and final Expulsion of the Jesuits from that Coun­

try, A. D. 3632.

I believe that very few persons, who peruse the foregoing

Table, will feel any regret at the omission of the Chapter, in

which these contents are detailed; and I think I may safely

affirm, that none of my readers will be of opinion that the

expulsion of the Jesuits from Abyssinia, which happened

in the year 1632, can possibly be considered as a part of

the History of the Decline and Fall of tbe Roman Empire.

This chapter is indeed a perfect illustration of the truth of

the observation of Sir David Dalrymple, which was noticed

in the life of Mr. Gibbon; I mean, that those parts of his

work which contain the most violent attacks on the Chris­

tian religion, are so far from forming a part of the History,

that they are in fact very inconvenient interruptions of the

narrative.

As a proof of the truth of the foregoing assertion, I shall

observe, that, in the preceding chapter, Heraclius appears as

one of the most interesting characters in the History. His

expedition against Persia is by far the most brilliant that

was achieved by the Romans against that country, from the

defeat and death of Crassus, to the time of Heraclius. Every

person must, of course, be desirous of being acquainted with

the remaining circumstances of the reign of this emperor.

True it is, that the close of it was as calamitous, as the pre­

ceding part had been glorious. But still it must be the wish of

every reader to be acquainted with it; and it will not be with­

out some trouble that he can obtain the necessary information

from Mr. Gibbon. A few words are indeed said in the be­

ginning of the next volume respecting the second marriage

and death of Heraclius; but the important events which

took place in Syria and Egypt during the later part of his

reign must be sought for at the end of the ninth volume. The

reader, in the mean time, must have perused a sketch of a

