OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 373

Romans. The discovery of his flight agitated with chap.

terror and tumult the palace, the city, and the camp^'

of Dastagerd; the satraps hesitated whether they had

most to fear from their sovereign or the enemy; and

the females of the haram were astonished and pleased

by the sight of mankind, till the jealous husband of

three thousand wives again confined them to a more

distant castle. At his command, the army of Dasta足

gerd retreated to a new camp; the front was covered

by the Arba, and a line of two hundred elephants;

the troops of the more distant provinces successively

arrived, and the vilest domestics of the king and

satraps were enrolled for the last defence of the

throne. It was still in the power of Chosroes to

obtain a reasonable peace; and he was repeatedly

pressed by the messengers of Heraclius to spare the

blood of his subjects, and to relieve a humane con足

queror from the painful duty of carrying fire and

sword through the fairest countries of Asia. But

the pride of the Persian had not yet sunk to the

level of his fortune; he derived a momentary con足

fidence from the retreat of the emperor; he wept with

impotent rage over the ruins of his Assyrian palaces,

and disregarded too long the rising murmurs of the

nation, who complained that their lives and fortunes

were sacrificed to the obstinacy of an old man. That

unhappy old man was himself tortured with the

sharpest pains both of mind and body; and, in the

consciousness of his approaching end, he resolved to

fix the tiara on the head of Merdeza, the most fa足

voured of his sons. But the will of Chosroes was no

longer revered, and Shoes, who gloried in the rank

and merit of his mother Sira, had conspired with

the malecontents to assert and anticipate the rights

of primogeniture *. Twenty-two satraps, they styled

* The authentic narrative of the fall of Chosroes is contained in the letter of  
Heraclius (Chron. Pascha1 . p. 398) and the history of Thcophanes (p. 271).

B B 3

