OF THE ROMAN EMPIKE. 441

pitch, or burnt alive in the hippodrome; and, as chap.

these dreadful examples might be the effects of error XL"

or caprice, they must have alienated from his service

the best and wisest of the citizens. But the pride of

the monarch was flattered in the exercise of power,

or, as he thought, of virtue; and the people, safe in

their obscurity, applauded the danger and debase­

ment of their superiors. This extraordinary rigour

was justified, in some measure, by its salutary conse­

quences; since, after a scrutiny of seventeen days,

not a complaint or abuse could be found in the court

or city; and it might be alleged that the Greeks

could be ruled only with a rod of iron, and that the

public interest is the motive and law of the supreme

judge. Yet in the crime, or the suspicion of trea­

son, that judge is, of all others, the most credulous

and partial. Theophilus might inflict a tardy venge­

ance on the assassins of Leo and the saviours of

his father; but he enjoyed the fruits of their crime;

and his jealous tyranny sacrificed a brother and a

prince to the future safety of his life. A Persian of

the race of the Sassanides died in poverty and exile

at Constantinople, leaving an only son, the issue of a

plebeian marriage. At the age of twelve years, the

royal birth of Theophobus was revealed, and his

merit was not unworthy of his birth. He was edu­

cated in the Byzantine palace, a Christian and a sol­

dier; advanced with rapid steps in the career of for­

tune and glory; received the hand of the emperor's

sister; and was promoted to the command of thirty

thousand Persians, who, like his father, had fled from

the Mahometan conquerors. These troops, doubly

infected with mercenary and fanatic vices, were de­

sirous of revolting against their benefactor, and erect­

ing the standard of their native king; but the loyal

Theophobus rejected their offers, disconcerted their

schemes', and escaped from their hands to the camp

or palace of his royal brother. A generous con-

