118 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. who had too faithfully copied the rapine of the just 1 Nushirvan. At
length, fatigued, though unsatiated,

with the spoil of Syria, he slowly moved to the Eu­

phrates, formed a temporary bridge in the neigh­

bourhood of Barbalissus, and denned the space of

three days for the entire passage of his numerous host.

After his return, he founded, at the distance of one

day's journey from the palace of Ctesiphon, a new

city, which perpetuated the joint names of Chosroes

and of Antioch. The Syrian captives recognised the

form and situation of their native abodes: baths and

a stately circus were constructed for their use; and

a colony of musicians and charioteers revived in

Assyria the pleasures of a Greek capital. By the

munificence of the royal founder, a liberal allowance

was assigned to these fortunate exiles; and they en­

joyed the singular privilege of bestowing freedom on

the slaves whom they acknowledged as their kinsmen.

Palestine, and the holy wealth of Jerusalem, were the

next objects that attracted the ambition, or rather

the avarice, of Chosroes. Constantinople, and the

palace of the Caesars, no longer appeared impregnable

or remote; and his aspiring fancy already covered

Asia Minor with the troops, and the Black Sea with

the navies, of Persia.

^Eastif These hopes might have been realised, if the con-

Beiisarfus, queror of Italy had not been seasonably recalled to

'the defence of the East *. While Chosroes pursued

his ambitious designs on the coast of the Euxine,

Belisarius, at the head of an army without pay or

discipline, encamped beyond the Euphrates, within

six miles of Nisibis. He meditated, by a skilful

operation, to draw the Persians from their impregna-

• In the public history of Procopius (Persic. 1. ii. c. 16. 18, 19, 20, 21.
24,

25, 26, 27, 28); and, with some slight exceptions, we may reasonably shut our

ears against the malevolent whisper of the Anecdotes (c. 2, 3, with the Notes,
as

usual, of Alcmunnus).

