134 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the river, the Euxine, and a fleet of galleys. Despair

xxxv" united their counsels and invigorated their arms;

they withstood the assault of the Persians; and the

flight of Nacoragan preceded or followed the slaughter

of ten thousand of his bravest soldiers. He escaped

from the Romans to fall into the hands of an un­

forgiving master, who severely chastised the error of

his own choice; the unfortunate general was flayed

alive. and his skin, stuffed into the human form, was

exposed on a mountain; a dreadful warning to those

who might hereafter be intrusted with the fame and

fortune of Persia. Yet the prudence of Chosroes in­

sensibly relinquished the prosecution of the Colchian

war, in the just persuasion that it is impossible to re­

duce, or, at least, to hold a distant country against

the wishes and efforts of its inhabitants. The fidelity

of Gubazes sustained the most rigorous trials. He

patiently endured the hardships of a savage life, and

rejected, with disdain, the specious temptations of the

Persian court. The king of the Lazi had been edu­

cated in the Christian religion; his mother was the

daughter of a senator; during his youth, he had

served ten years a silentiary of the Byzantine palace,

and the arrears of an unpaid salary were a motive of

attachment as well as of complaint. But the long

continuance of his sufferings extorted from him a

naked representation of the truth; and truth was an

unpardonable libel on the lieutenants of Justinian, who,

amidst the delays of a ruinous war, had spared his

enemies and trampled on his allies. Their malicious

information persuaded the emperor, that his faithless

vassal already meditated a second defection: an order

was surprised to send him prisoner to Constantinople;

a treacherous clause was inserted, that he might be

lawfully killed in case of resistance; and Gubazes,

without arms, or suspicion of danger, was stabbed in

the security of a friendly interview. In the first mo­

