140 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

chap. Justinian knelt; the Negus raised him from the

xxxv- ground, embraced Nonnosus, kissed the seal, perused

the letter, accepted the Roman alliance, and brandish­

ing his weapons, denounced implacable war against

the worshippers of fire. But the proposal of the

silk-trade was eluded; and notwithstanding the as­

surances, and perhaps the wishes, of the Abyssinians,

these hostile menaces evaporated without effect. The

Homerites were unwilling to abandon their aromatic

groves, to explore a sandy desert, and to encounter,

after all their fatigues, a formidable nation from

whom they had never received any personal injuries.

Instead of enlarging his conquests, the king of

Ethiopia was incapable of defending his possessions.

Abrahah, the slave of a Roman merchant of Adulis,

assumed the sceptre of the Homerites; the troops of

Africa were seduced by the luxury of the climate;

and Justinian solicited the friendship of the usurper,

who honoured, with a slight tribute, the supremacy

of his prince. After a long series of prosperity, the

power of Abrahah was overthrown before the gates of

Mecca; his children were despoiled by the Persian

conqueror; and the ^Ethiopians were finally expelled

from the continent of Asia. This narrative of ob­

scure and remote events is not foreign to the decline

and fall of the Roman empire. If a Christian power

had been maintained in Arabia, Mahomet must have

been crushed in his cradle, and Abyssinia would have

prevented a revolution which has changed the civil

and religious state of the world*.

"The revolutions of Yemen in the sixth century must be collected from Pro-

copius (Persic. 1.i.e. 19,20), Theophanes Byzant. (apud Phot . cod. lxiii. p.
HO),

St., Theophanes (in Chronograph, p. 144, 145. 188, 189. 206, 207, who is full
of

strange blunders), Pocock (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 02.05), d'llerbelot
(Bibliot.

Orientale, p. 12. 477), and Sale's Preliminary Discourse and Koran (c. 105).

The revolt of Abrahah, as mentioned by Procopius, is an historical fact.

