306 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. powers of the constitution, or of discussing the

nice theory of political government. Such crimes

as threatened the life of the sovereign, or the safety

of the state, were adjudged w?orthy of death; but

their attention was principally confined to the de­

fence of the person and property of the subject.

According to the strange jurisprudence of the times,

the guilt of blood might be redeemed by a fine; yet

the high price of nine hundred pieces of gold declares

a just sense of the value of a simple citizen. Less

atrocious injuries, a wound, a fracture, a blow, an

opprobrious word, were measured with scrupulous

and almost ridiculous diligence; and the prudence

of the legislator encouraged the ignoble practice of

bartering honour and revenge for a pecuniary com­

pensation. The ignorance of the Lombards, in the

state of Paganism or Christianity, gave implicit credit

to the malice and mischief of witchcraft; but the

judges of the seventeenth century might have been

instructed and confounded by the wisdom of Ro-

tharis, who derides the absurd superstition, and pro­

tects the wretched victims of popular or judicial

cruelty. The same spirit of a legislator, superior to

his age and country, may be ascribed to Luitprand,

who condemns, while he tolerates, the impious and

inveterate abuse of duels, observing from his own

experience, that the juster cause had often been op­

pressed by successful violence. Whatever merit may

be discovered in the laws of the Lombards, they are

the genuine fruit of the reason of the Barbarians.

The succession of their kings is marked with virtue

and ability; the troubled series of their annals is

adorned with fair intervals of peace, order, and do­

mestic happiness; and the Italians enjoyed a milder

and more equitable government than any of the

other kingdoms which had been founded on the

ruins of the Western empire *.

XXXVIII.

* Read the history of Paul Warnefrid; particularly 1. iii. c. 16.

