OF THE ItOMAN EMPIRE. 249

succeeded to the vacant possessions of a Roman chap.

citizen*. xxxvil.

The order of succession is regulated by nature, or introduc-

at least by the general and permanent reason of the Hberty of

lawgiver: but this order is frequently violated by thetestaments-

arbitrary and partial wills which prolong the dominion

of the testator beyond the grave. In the simple state

of society, this last use or abuse of the right of

property is seldom indulged: it was introduced at

Athens by the laws of Solon; and the private testa­

ments of the father of a family are authorised by the

twelve tables. Before the time of the decemvirs t, a

Roman citizen exposed his wishes and motives to the

assembly of the thirty curiae or parishes, and the

general law of inheritance was suspended by an oc­

casional act of the legislature. After the permission

of the decemvirs, each private lawgiver promulgated

his verbal or written testament in the presence of five

citizens, who represented the five classes of the Ro­

man people; a sixth witness attested their concur­

rence; a seventh weighed the copper money, which

was paid by an imaginary purchaser; and the estate

was emancipated by a fictitious sale and immediate

release. This singular ceremony t, which excited the

wonder of the Greeks, was still practised in the age

of Severus; but the praetors had already approved a

more simple testament, for which they required the

seals and signatures of seven witnesses, free from all

legal exception, and purposely summoned for the

execution of that important act. A domestic mon­

arch, who reigned over the lives and fortunes of his

• See the law of succession in the Institutes of Caius (1. ii. tit . viii. p.
130—

144.), and Justinian (I. iii. tit. i—vi. with the (ireek version of
Theophilus,

p. 515—576. 588-600), the Pandects (1. xxxviii. tit . vi— xvii.), the Code
(l.vi.

tit. Iv—lx.), and the Novels (cxviii.).

f Prior examples of testaments are perhaps fabulous. At Athens a childless

father only could make a will (Plutarch, in Solone, tom. i. p. 164. See Isa;us

and Jones).

* The testament of Augustus is specified by Suetonius (in August . c. 101. in  
Neron. c . 4), who may be studied as a code of Roman antiquities.

/

r

