274 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the principal members of the senate. These welcome

xxxviii. depute announced the recent and momentous secret

of the emperor's decease: reported, or perhaps in­

vented, his dying choice of the best beloved and most

deserving of his nephews, and conjured" Justin to

prevent the disorders of the multitude, if they should

perceive, with the return of light, that they were left

without a master. After composing his countenance

to surprise, sorrow, and decent modesty, Justin, by

the advice of his wife Sophia, submitted to the au­

thority of the senate. He was conducted with speed

and silence to the palace; the guards saluted their

new sovereign, and the martial and religious rites of

his coronation were diligently accomplished. By the

hands of the proper officers he was invested with the

Imperial garments, the red buskins, white tunic, and

purple robe. A fortunate soldier, whom he instantly

promoted to the rank of tribune, encircled his neck

with a military collar: four robust youths exalted

him on a shield; he stood firm and erect to receive

the adoration of his subjects; and their choice was

sanctified by the benediction of the patriarch, who

imposed the diadem on the head of an orthodox

Reign of prince. The hippodrome was already filled with, in-

orUthe numerable multitudes; and no sooner did the em-

A.UDf 565 peror appear on his throne, than the voices of the

Nov. is— blue and the green factions were confounded in the

a. D.574, 11 r - ti 1 i-iT-

December, same loyal acclamations. In the speeches which Justin

addressed to the senate and people, he promised to

correct the abuses which had disgraced the age of his

predecessor, displayed the maxims of a just and be-

Hiscon. neficent government, and declared, that on the ap-

a. d. 566, proaching calends of January, he would revive in his

January 1. (Jwn person tne name and liberality of a Roman con­

sul. The immediate discharge of his uncle's debts

exhibited a solid pledge of his faith and generosity;

a train of porters laden with bags of gold advanced

