424 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap, empire, by placing the Imperial crown on the head

XL- of Charlemagne, in the year 800 *. But the empire

of this prince, which was extended by his conquests,

till it embraced the far greater part of France, Spain,

Italy, Germany, and Hungary, was in a short time

reduced from the highest degree of strength to the

lowest condition of weakness. The reign of his son

Lewis the First was distracted by civil war. The

empire was divided among his three sons. The dregs

of the Carlovingian race no longer exhibited any

symptoms of virtue or power; and the ridiculous

epithets of the Bald, the Stammerer, the Simple, and

the Fat, distinguished the dates and uniform features

of a crowd of kings, alike deserving of oblivion.

Charles the Fat was deprived of his crown in a diet.

Germany and France were for ever separated; and a

period of seventy-four years may be termed a vacancy

from the abdication of Charles the Fat to the esta­

blishment of the power of Othq the First, in the

year 962.

But the events of the ninth and tenth centuries in

the west of Europe, the fall of the Carlovingian race,

and the establishment of the present Constitution of

the Germanic empire, belong to the histories of

France and Germany; and can scarcely be said to

form a part of the decline and fall of the Roman

empire. That empire expired in the West in the

person of Augustulus, in the middle of the fifth cen­

tury; and the connexion of Romagna with Con­

stantinople, which the arms of Justinian re-esta­

blished, was finally dissolved by Astolphus, when he

rendered himself master of Ravenna. In the East,

the Roman world bowed to the government of a fe­

* This great event of the translation or restoration of the empire is related and

discussed by Natalis Alexander (secul. ix. dissert, i. p. 390 337), Pagi (tom
iii

p. 418;, Muratori (Annali d'ltalia, tom. iv. p. 339—352), Sigo'nius de Regno"

Italiae, 1. iv. opp. tom. ii. p. 247—251), Spanheim (de ficta translaiione
Imperii)

Giannone (tom. i. p. 395—405), St. Marc (Abrege Chronologique, tom. i. p.

438—450), Guillard (Hist, de Charlemagne, tom. ii. p. 386—44G'.

