OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 265

of the Etruscans and Greeks: in the mad abuse of chap.

» YYYVIT

prosperity and power, every pleasure that is innocent'

was deemed insipid; and the Scatinian law, which

had been extorted by an act of violence, was insensi­

bly abolished by the lapse of time and the multitude

of criminals. By this law, the rape, perhaps the se­

duction of an ingenuous youth, was compensated, as

a personal injury, by the poor damages of ten thou­

sand sesterces, or fourscore pounds; the ravisher

might be slain by the resistance or revenge of chas­

tity; and I wish to believe, that at Rome, as in

Athens, the voluntary and effeminate deserter of his

sex was degraded from the honours and the rights of

a citizen*. But the practice of vice was not dis­

couraged by the severity of opinion: the indelible

stain of manhood was confounded with the more

venial transgression of fornication, nor was the licen­

tious lover exposed to the same dishonour which he

impressed on the male or female partner of his guilt.

From Catullus to Juvenal t, the poets accuse and

celebrate the degeneracy of the times, and the re­

formation of manners was feebly attempted by the

reason and authority of the civilians, till the most

virtuous of the Caesars proscribed the sin against

nature as a crime against society J.

A new spirit of legislation arose in the empire Rigour of

with the religion of Constantine §. The laws oftianem-"

Moses were received as the divine original of justice, perors'

and the Christian princes adapted their penal sta-

*See the oration of ^Eschines against the catamite Timarchus (in Reiske,  
Orator. Graec. torn. iii. p. 21—184).

"f A crowd of disgraceful passages will force themselves on the memory of the

classic reader: I will only remind him of the cool declaration of Ovid—77«e

•words must not be inserted, but they speak volumes.—Editor.

% Mlias Lampridius, in Vit. Heliogobal. in Hist. August, p. 112. Aurelius

Victor, in Philippo, Codex Theodos. 1. ix. tit. vii. leg. 7? and Godefroy's
Com­

mentary, tom. iii. p. 63. Theodosius abolished the subterraneous brothels of

Rome, in which the prostitution of both sexes was acted with impunity.

§ See the laws of Constantine and his successors against adultery, sodomy, &c.

in the Theodosian (1. ix. tit. vii. leg. 7. 1. xi. tit. xxxvi. leg. 1. 1J and
Justinian

Codes (1. ix. tit. ix. leg. 30, 31).

