504 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. neral knowledge of the age may be deduced from the

XLL example of two learned females, the empress Eudoeia,

and the princess Anna Comnena, who cultivated, in

the purple, the arts of rhetoric and philosophy *.

The vulgar dialect of the city was gross and bar­

barous: a more correct and elaborate style distin­

guished the discourse, or at least the compositions,

of the church and palace, which sometimes affected

to copy the purity of the Attic models.

Decay of In our modern education, the painful though ne-

genLrd cessary attainment of two languages, which are no

longer living, may consume the time and damp the

ardour of the youthful student. The poets and ora­

tors were long imprisoned in the barbarous dialects

of our Western ancestors, devoid of harmony or grace;

and their genius, without precept or example, was

abandoned to the rude and native powers of their

judgment and fancy. But the Greeks of Constan­

tinople, after purging away the impurities of their

vulgar speech, acquired the free use of their ancient

language, the most happy composition of human art,

and a familiar knowledge of the sublime masters who

had pleased or instructed the first of nations. But

these advantages only tend to aggravate the reproach

and shame of a degenerate people. They held in

their lifeless hands the riches of their fathers, without

inheriting the spirit which had created and improved

that sacred patrimony: they read, they praised, they

compiled, but their languid souls seemed alike in­

capable of thought and action. In the revolution of

ten centuries, not a single discovery was made to

exalt the dignity or promote the happiness of man­

kind. Not a single idea has been added to the spe-

• Anna Comnena may boast of her Greek style (to EWnt^m i; «xpv

iro-ouSaxuia), and Zonaras, her contemporary, but not her flatterer, may add

with truth, y\wr7«v nx« "xpi^ws At7ixi?ouo-«v. The princess was conversant
with

the artful dialogues of Plato; and had studied the Ttrfaxut, or qnadriuium of

astrelogy, geometry, arithmetic, and music (see her preface to the Alexiad,
with

Ducange's notes).

