390 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XL.

Punish­

ment of

Martina

ami Hcra-

clconas,

A. D. 041,

September.

Constans

II. A. D.

641, Sep-

tcmber.

of the judgment of tyrants, and the Imperial cul­

prits were deposed and condemned as the authors of

the death of Constantine. But the severity of the

conscript fathers was stained by the indiscriminate

punishment of the innocent and the guilty: Martina

and Heracleonas were sentenced to the amputation,

the former of her tongue, the latter of his nose; and

after this cruel execution, they consumed the remain­

der of their days in exile and oblivion. The Greeks

who were capable of reflection might find some con­

solation for their servitude, by observing the abuse

of power when it was lodged for a moment in the

hands of an aristocracy.

We shall imagine ourselves transported five hun­

dred years backwards to the age of the Antonines.if we

listen to the oration which Constans II. pronounced

in the twelfth year of his age, before the Byzantine

senate. After returning his thanks for the just pu­

nishment of the assassins who had intercepted the

fairest hopes of his father's reign, "By the Divine

"Providence," said the young emperor, "andby your

"righteous decree, Martina and her incestuous pro-

"geny have been cast headlong from the throne.

"Your majesty and wisdom have prevented the Ro-

"man state from degenerating into lawless tyranny.

"I, therefore, exhort and beseech you to stand forth

"as the counsellors and judges of the common

"safety." The senators were gratified by the re­

spectful address and liberal donative of their sove­

reign; but these servile Greeks were unworthy and

regardless of freedom, and in his mind the lesson of

an hour was quickly erased by the prejudices of the

age and the habits of despotism. He retained only a

jealous fear lest the senate or people should one day

invade the right of primogeniture, and seat his bro­

ther Theodosius on an equal throne. By the impo­

sition of holy orders, the grandson of Heraclius was

