498 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. reigners. An ambassador of the great Otho de-

XLt' clared, in the palace of Constantinople, that the

Saxons could dispute with swords better than with

pens; and that they peferred inevitable death to the

dishonour of turning their backs to an enemy. It

was the glory of the nobles of France, that, in their

humble dwellings, war and rapine were the only

pleasure, the sole occupation, of their lives. They

affected to deride the palaces, the banquets, the po­

lished manners, of the Italians, who, in the estimate

• of the Greeks themselves, had degenerated from the

liberty and valour of the ancient Lombards.

Oblivion of By the well-known edict of Caracalla, his subjects,

language, from Britain to Egypt, were entitled to the name

and privileges of Romans, and their national sove­

reign might fix his occasional or permanent residence

in any province of their common country. In the

division of the East and West, an ideal unity was

scrupulously preserved, and in their titles, laws, and

statutes, the successors of Arcadius and Honorius

announced themselves as the inseparable colleagues

of the same office, as the joint sovereigns of the Ro­

man world and city, which were bounded by the

same limits. After the fall of the Western mon­

archy, the majesty of the purple resided solely in the

princes of Constantinople; and of these Justinian

was the first, who, after a divorce of sixty years, re­

gained the dominion of ancient Rome, and asserted,

by the right of conquest, the august title of emperor

of Romans*. A motive of vanity or discontent so­

licited one of his successors, Constans the second, to

abandon the Thracian Bosphorus, and to restore the

pristine honours of the Tyber: an extravagant pro­

ject (exclaims the malicious Byzantine), as if he had

"Justinian, say* the historian Agathias (1. v. p. 157-)i »fwr»f Paiftmut

ttUTwpxTwp ovo/iari xaw irpxy/ixn. Yet the specific title of emperor of the
Romans

was not used at Constantinople till it had been claimed by the French and

German emperors of old Rome.

X

