2 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. earth. But the proud claim of perpetual and inde-

_ feasible dominion, which her soldiers could no longer

maintain, was firmly asserted by her statesmen and

lawyers, whose opinions have been sometimes revived

and propagated in the modern schools of jurispru­

dence. After Rome herself had been stripped of the

Imperial purple, the princes of Constantinople as­

sumed the sole and sacred sceptre of the monarchy;

demanded, as their rightful inheritance, the provinces

which had been subdued by the consuls, or possessed

by the Caesars; and feebly aspired to deliver their

faithful subjects of the West from the usurpation of

heretics and barbarians. The execution of this

splendid design was in some degree reserved for

Justinian. During the five first years of his reign,

he reluctantly waged a costly and unprofitable war

against the Persians; till his pride submitted to his

ambition, and he purchased, at the price of four hun­

dred and forty thousand pounds sterling, the benefit

of a precarious truce, which, in the language of both

nations, was dignified with the appellation of the

endless peace. The safety of the East enabled the

emperor to employ his forces against the Vandals;

and the internal state of Africa afforded an honour­

able motive, and promised a powerful support, to the

Roman arms *.

state of the According to the testament of the founder, the

HuLric, African kingdom had lineally descended to Hilderic,

^53o.523 tne eldest of the Vandal princes. A mild disposition

inclined the son of a tyrant, the grandson of a con­

queror, to prefer the counsels of clemency and peace;

and his accession was marked by the salutary edict,

* The complete series of the Vandal war is related by Procopius in a regular  
and elegant narrative (1. i. c. 9—25.1. ii. c . 1—13.); and happy would be my

lot, could I always tread in the footsteps of such a guide. From the entire
and

diligent perusal of the Greek text, I have a right to pronounce that the Latin

and French versions of Grotius and Cousin may not be implicitly trusted: yet

the president Cousin has been often praised, and Hugo Grotius was the first

scholar of a learned age.

