OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 187

had disdained the fairest offers of ambition and re- chap.

venge, should stoop to the murder of his prince, XXXVL

"whom he could not long expect to survive. His

followers were impatient to fly; but flight must have

been supported by rebellion, and he had lived enough

for nature and for glory. Belisarius appeared before a. d. 563,

the council with less fear than indignation: afterDec"5"

forty years' service, the emperor had prejudged his

guilt; and injustice was sanctified by the presence

and authority of the patriarch. The life of Beli­

sarius was graciously spared; but his fortunes were

sequestered, and from December to July, he was

guarded as a prisoner in his own palace. At length a.d.564,

his innocence was acknowledged; his freedom and uy

honours were restored; and death, which might be

hastened by resentment and grief, removed him from

the world about eight months after his deliverance, a. d. 565,

The name of Belisarius can never die: but instead

of the funeral, the monuments, the statues, so justly

due to his memory, I only read, that his treasures,

the spoils of the Goths and Vandals, were imme­

diately confiscated by the emperor. Some decent

portion was reserved, however, for the use of his

widow; and as Antonina had much to repent, she de­

voted the last remains of her life and fortune to the

foundation of a convent. Such is the simple and

genuine narrative of the fall of Belisarius and the in­

gratitude of Justinian*. That he was deprived of

his eyes, and reduced by envy to beg his bread, " Give

"a penny to Belisarius the general!" is a fiction of

later times f, which has obtained credit, or rather

• Of the disgrace and restoration of Belisarius, the genuine original record
is

preserved in the fragment of John Molala (tom. ii. p. 234—243), and the exact

Chronicle of Theophanes (p. 194—204). Cedrenus (Compend. p. 387, 388)

and Zonaras (tom. ii. 1. xiv. p. 69) seem to hesitate between the obsolete
truth

and the growing falsehood.

"f The source of this idle fable may be derived from a miscellaneous work of

the xiith century, the Chiliads of John Tzetzes, a monk (Basil, 1546, ad
calcem

Lycophront, Colon. Allobrog. 1614. in Corp. Poet. Oraec.). He relates the

