150 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. from the Roman church, and either starved or mur-

xxXvr- dered on a desolate island. The virtues of Belisarius

were replaced by the various or uniform vices of

eleven chiefs, at Rome, Ravenna, Florence, Perugia,

Spoleto, &c, who abused their authority for the in­

dulgence of lust or avarice. The improvement of the

revenue was committed to Alexander, a subtle scribe,

long practised in the fraud and oppression of the By­

zantine schools; and whose name of Psallicton, the

scissors, was drawn from the dexterous artifice with

which he reduced the size, without defacing the

figure, of the gold coin. Instead of expecting the

restoration of peace and industry, he imposed a heavy

assessment on the fortunes of the Italians. Yet his

present or future demands were less odious than a

prosecution of arbitrary rigour against the persons

and property of all those who, under the Gothic

kings, had been concerned in the receipt and ex­

penditure of the public money. The subjects of Jus­

tinian, who escaped these partial vexations, were op­

pressed by the irregular maintenance of the soldiers,

whom Alexander defrauded and despised; and their

hasty sallies in quest of wealth, or subsistence, pro­

voked the inhabitants of the country to await or im­

plore their deliverance from the virtues of a Barba­

rian. Totila* was chaste and temperate; and none

were deceived, either friends or enemies, who de­

pended on his faith or his clemency. To the hus­

bandmen of Italy the Gothic king issued a welcome

proclamation, enjoining them to pursue their im­

portant labours, and to rest assured, that, on the pay­

ment of the ordinary taxes, they should be defended

by his valour and discipline from the injuries of war.

The strong towns he successively attacked; and as

* Procopius (J. iii. c. 2. 8, &c.) does ample and willing justice to the merit of  
Totila. The Roman historians, from Sallust and Tacitus, were happy to forget

the vices of their countrymen in the contemplation of Barbaric virtue.

