104 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. quests, they offered the friendship and military aid of

xxxv- the Turks; and their sincerity was attested by direful

imprecations (if they were guilty of falsehood) against

their own head, and the head of Disabul their master.

The Greek prince entertained with hospitable regard

the ambassadors of a remote and powerful monarch:

the sight of silk-worms and looms disappointed the

hopes of the Sogdoites; the emperor renounced, or

seemed to renounce, the fugitive Avars, but he ac­

cepted the alliance of the Turks; and the ratification

of the treaty was carried by a Roman minister to the

foot of mount Altai. Under the successors of Jus­

tinian, the friendship of the two nations was cul­

tivated by frequent and cordial intercourse; the most

favoured vassals were permitted to imitate the example

of the great khan, and one hundred and six Turks,

who, on various occasions, had visited Constantinople,

departed at the same time for their native country.

The duration and length of the journey from the

Byzantine court to mount Altai are not specified: it

might have been difficult to mark a road through the

nameless deserts, the mountains, rivers, and morasses

of Tartary; but a curious account has been preserved

of the reception of the Roman ambassadors at the

royal camp. After they had been purified with fire

and incense, according to a rite still practised under

the sons of Zingis, they were introduced to the pre­

sence of Disabul. In a valley of the Golden Moun­

tain, they found the great khan in his tent, seated in

a chair with wheels, to which a horse might be oc­

casionally harnessed. As soon as they had delivered

their presents, which were received by the proper

officers, they exposed, in a florid oration, the wishes

of the Roman emperor, that victory might attend the

p. 521, Sec.) has given two alphabets of Thibet and of the Eygours. I have
long

harboured a suspicion that all the Scythian, and some, perhaps much, of the

Indian science, was derived from the Greeks of Bactriana.

