OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 129

the south of the Phasis. Instead of being protected chap.

by the valour, Colchos was insulted by the licentious- xxxv-

ness, of foreign mercenaries; the benefits of com­

merce were converted into base and vexatious mo­

nopoly; and Gubazes, the native prince, was reduced

to a pageant of royalty, by the superior influence of

the officers of Justinian. Disappointed in their ex­

pectations of Christian virtue, the indignant Lazi re­

posed some confidence in the justice of an unbeliever.

After a private assurance that their ambassador should

not be delivered to the Romans, they publicly solicited

the friendship and aid of Chosroes. The sagacious

monarch instantly discerned the use and importance

of Colchos; and meditated a plan of conquest, which

was renewed at the end of a thousand years by Shah

Abbas, the wisest and most powerful of his suc­

cessors*. His ambition was fired by the hope of

launching a Persian navy from the Phasis, of com­

manding the trade and navigation of the Euxine sea,

of desolating the coast of Pontus and Bithynia, of

distressing, perhaps of attacking, Constantinople, and

of persuading the Barbarians of Europe to second his

arms and counsels against the common enemy of man­

kind. Under the pretence of a Scythian war, he

silently led his troops to the frontiers of Iberia; the

Colchian guides were prepared to conduct them

through the woods and along the precipices of mount

Caucasus; and a narrow path was laboriously formed

into a safe and spacious highway, for the march of

cavalry, and even of elephants, Gubazes laid his

person and diadem at the feet of the king of Persia;

his Colchians imitated the submission of their prince;

and after the walls of Petra had been shaken, the

• See the amusing letters of Pietro della Valle, the Roman traveller (Viaggi,

tom. ii. 207- 209. 213. 215. 206. 286. 300. tom. iii. p. 54. 127). In the
years

1618, 1619, and 1620, he conversed with Shah Abbas, and strongly encouraged

a design which might have united Persia and Europe against their common enemy,

the Turk.

VOL. IV. K

