OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 201

were debated in the senate, and finally ratified or chap.

rejected by a majority of votes in the thirty curice or _

parishes of the city. Romulus, Numa, and Servius

Tullius, are celebrated as the most ancient legis­

lators; and each of th em claims his peculiar part in

the threefold division of Jurisprudence. The laws

of marriage, the education of children, and the au­

thority of parents, which may seem to draw their

origin from nature itself, are ascribed to the untu­

tored wisdom of Romulus. The law of nations and

of religious worship, which Numa introduced, was

derived from his nocturnal converse with the nymph

Egeria. The civil law is attributed to the experience

of Servius: he balanced the rights and fortunes of

the seven classes of citizens; and guarded, by fifty

new regulations, the observance of contracts and the

punishment of crimes. The state, which he had

inclined towards a democracy, was changed by the

last Tarquin into lawless despotism; and when the

kingly office was abolished, the patricians engrossed

the benefits of freedom. The royal laws became

odious or obsolete; the mysterious deposit was si­

lently preserved by the priests and nobles; and, at

the end of sixty years, the citizens of Rome still

complained that they were ruled by the arbitrary

sentence of the magistrates. Yet the positive in­

stitutions of the kings had blended themselves with

the public and private manners of the city; some

fragments of that venerable jurisprudence were com­

piled by the diligence of antiquarians, and above

twenty texts still speak the rudeness of the Pelasgic

idiom of the Latins*.

* In the year 1444, seven or eight tables of brass were dug up between Cor-  
tona and Gubio. A part of these, for the rest is Etruscan, represents the pri­

mitive state of the Pelasgic letters and language, which are ascribed by
Herodotus

to that district of Italy (I i. c. 56, 57, 58); though this difficult passage
may be

explained of a Crestona in Thrace (Notes de Larcher, tom. i. p. 25(5—261).

The savage dialect of the Eugubine tables has exercised, and may still elude,
the

divination of criticism; but the root is undoubtedly Latin, of the same age
and

