OF THE ROMAN EMPIRF. 385

and the islands of Cyprus, Rhodes *, and the Cyclades, CHAP.

were successively exposed to their rapacious visits. XL-

While the victorious Saracens were thus extending

their conquests in Asia, they were not less attentive

to Africa, which became the next object of their am­

bition. In the year 638, they invaded Egypt, and

in a short time made themselves masters of the open

country ; but the siege of Alexandria was protracted

during fourteen months, and the vigorous defence of

the garrison occasioned the loss of 23,000 Saracens

who perished in the siege. At length the Greeks

embarked their dispirited and diminished numbers,

and the standard of Mahomet was planted on the

walls of the capital of Egypt. This calamitous event

afflicted the declining health of Heraclius, and the

emperor died of a dropsy in the year 641, about seven

weeks after the loss of Alexandria.

I should deceive the expectation of the reader, if The Alex.

I passed in silence the fate of the Alexandrian ££j£

library, as it is described bythelearned Abulpharagius.

The spirit of Amrou was more curious and liberal

than that of his brethren; and, in his leisure hours,

the Arabian chief was pleased with the conversation

of John the last disciple of Ammonius, and who de­

rived the surname of Philoponus, from his laborious

studies of grammar and philosophy. Emboldened

by this familiar intercourse, Philoponus presumed to

solicit a gift inestimable in his opinion, contemptible

in that of the Barbarians—the royal library; which

alone, among the spoils of Alexandria, had not been

appropriated by the visit and the seal of the conqueror.

* The massy trunk and huge fragments of the Colossus of Rhodes (one of the  
wonders of the ancient world), after lying scattered during eight centuries,
were

collected by the Saracens and sold to a Jewish merchant of Edessa. He is said

to have laden 900 camels with the weight of the brass metal.—Every passage and

every fact that relates to the isle, the cky, and the Colossus of Rhodes, are
com­

piled in the laborious treatise of Meursius; who has bestowed the same
diligence

on the two larger islands of Crete and Cyprus. See, in the 3d vol. of his
works,

the Rhodus of Meursius. The Byzantine writers, Theophanes and Constantine,

have ignorantly prolonged the term to 1360 years, and ridiculously divide the

weight among 30,000 camels.

VOL. IV. C C

