404 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. obliged to retire to the confines of Egypt, where he

XL.

waited five years for the promised succours of the

caliph. The Saracens were then successful, after a

bloody and destructive warfare, in which many cities

were burnt, and a fertile and populous garden was

changed into a desert: the royal prophetess was slain

in battle; and the religion of Mahomet, and the do­

minion of his successors, were established, from Arabia

to the Atlantic Ocean. Musa, who at that time com­

manded the army of the caliph, was now become

master of the whole of the north of Africa, with the

exception of a small portion 'of Mauritania, and the

town of Ceuta, which was at that time, as it is at pre­

sent, in the hands of the Spaniards. This important

fortress was surrendered to the Saracens by the

treachery of count Julian, who was the governor;

and by the invitation of the same person, Musa was

Conquest induced to attempt the conquest of Spain. The first

o^pam, jan(jing on the Peninsula was at Tariffa, in the month

713- of July, 710, which still bears the name of the officer

who commanded the detachment. The following

spring, Tarik, a lieutenant of Musa, landed at Gib­

raltar with a powerful army: Roderic, the last king

of the Goths, was defeated in a decisive battle at

Xeres, and perished in the waters of the Guadal-

quiver. Musa then passed into Spain, and the dominion

of the Saracens was in a short time extended to the

Pyrenean mountains*.

But the conquest of Spain was considered by Musa

only the footstep to the monarchy of Europe. He

was preparing to extinguish in Gaul and Italy the

declining kingdoms of the Franks and Lombards, to

* The fall and resurrection of the Gothic monarchy are related by Mariana  
(tom. i. p. 238—260,1. vi. c. 19—26,1. vii. c. I, 2). That historian has
infused

into his noble work (Historiae de Rebus Hispanice, lib. xxx. Hagae Comitum,

1733, in four volumes in folio, with the continuation of Miniana) the style
and

spirit of a Roman classic; and after the twelfth century, his knowledge and

judgment may be safely trusted.

