182 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. usurpation of Totila. A moderate theory was framed

XXXVI- to reconcile the rights of property with the safety of

prescription, the claims of the state with the poverty

of the people, and the pardon of offences with the

interest of virtue and order of society. Under the

exarchs of Ravenna, Rome was degraded to the se­

cond rank. Yet the senators were gratified by the

permission of visiting their estates in Italy, and of

approaching without obstacle the throne of Con­

stantinople: the regulation of weights and measures

was delegated to the pope and senate; and the sa­

laries of lawyers and physicians, of orators and gram­

marians, were destined to preserve or rekindle the

light of science in the ancient capital. Justinian

might dictate benevolent edicts*, and Narses might

second his wishes by the restoration of cities, and

more especially of churches; but the twenty years of

the Gothic war had consummated the distress and

depopulation of Italy. As early as the fourth cam­

paign, under the discipline of Belisarius himself, fifty

thousand labourers died of hunger in the narrow

region of Picenum; and a strict interpretation of

the evidence of Procopius would swell the loss of

Italy above the total sum of her present inhabitants.

invasion I desire to believe, but I dare not affirm, that

Bulgarians, Belisarius sincerely rejoiced in the triumph of Narses.

. 559. yet the consciousness of his own exploits might teach

him to esteem without jealousy the merit of a rival;

and the repose of the aged warrior was crowned by

a last victory which saved the emperor and the capital.

The Barbarians who annually visited the provinces

of Europe were less discouraged by some accidental

* The Pragmatic Sanction of Justinian, which restores and regulates the civil  
state of Italy, consists of xxvii articles: it is dated August 15, A. D. 554;
is

addressed to Narses, V. J. Propositus Sacri Cubiculi, and to Antiochus, Pr«-

fectus PraHorio Italiae; and has been preserved by Julian Antecessor, and in

the Corpus Juris Civilis, after the novels and edicts of Justinian, Justin,
and

Tiberius.

