OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 19

caution along the coast, till they reached the Her- chap.

msean promontory, and obtained the first intelligence XX1V-

of the victory of Belisarius. Faithful to his in­

structions, they would have cast anchor about twenty

miles from Carthage, if the more skilful seamen had

not represented the perils of the shore, and the signs

of an impending tempest. Still ignorant of the revo­

lution, they declined, however, the rash attempt of

forcing the chain of the port; and the adjacent

harbour and suburb of Mandracium were insulted

only by the rapine of a private officer who disobeyed

and deserted his leaders. But the Imperial fleet,

advancing with a fair wind, steered through the

narrow entrance of the Goletta, and occupied in the

deep and capacious lake of Tunis a secure station

about five miles from the capital *. No sooner was

Belisarius informed of their arrival, than he de­

spatched orders that the greatest part of the mariners

should be immediately landed to join the triumph,

and to swell the apparent numbers of the Romans.

Before he allowed them to enter the gates of Car­

thage, he exhorted them, in a discourse worthy of

himself and the occasion, not to disgrace the glory

of their arms; and to remember that the Vandals

had been the tyrants, but that they were the de­

liverers of the Africans, who must now be respected

as the voluntary and affectionate subjects of their

common sovereign. The Romans marched through

the streets in close ranks, prepared for battle if an

enemy had appeared; the strict order maintained

by the general imprinted on their minds the duty of

• The neighbourhood of Carthage, the sea, the land, and the rivers, arc

changed almost as much as the works of man. The isthmus, or neck, of the

city is now confounded with the continent; the harbour is a dry plain; and the

lake, or stagnum, no more than a morass, with six or seven feet water in the

mid-channel. See d'Anville (Geographie Ancienne, tom. iii. p. 82.), Shaw

(Travels, p. 77 84.), Marmol (Description de l'Afrique, tom. ii. p. 465.), and

Thuanus (Iviii. 12. tom. iii. p. 334.)

C 2

