OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 321

and docility of Hormouz, who acknowledged himself chap.

more indebted to his preceptor than to his parent: £

but when age and labour had impaired the strength

and perhaps the faculties of this prudent counsellor,

he retired from court, and abandoned the youthful

monarch to his own passions and those of his favourites.

By the fatal vicissitude of human affairs, the same

scenes were renewed at Ctesiphon, which had been

exhibited in Rome after the death of Marcus An­

toninus. The ministers of flattery and corruption,

who had been banished by the father, were recalled

and cherished by the son; the disgrace and exile of

the friends of Nushirvan established their tyranny;

and virtue was driven by degrees from the mind of

Hormouz, from his palace, and from the government

of the state. The faithful agents, the eyes and ears

of the king, informed him of the progress of disorder,

that the provincial governors flew to their prey with

the fierceness of lions and eagles, and that their ra­

pine and injustice would teach the most loyal of his

subjects to abhor the name and authority of their

sovereign. The sincerity of this advice was punished

with death, the murmurs of the cities were despised,

their tumults were quelled by military execution;

the intermediate powers between the throne and the

people were abolished; and the childish vanity of

Hormouz, who affected the daily use of the tiara,

was fond of declaring, that he alone would be the

judge as well as the master of his kingdom. In every

word, and in every action, the son of Nushirvan de­

generated from the virtues of his father. His avarice

defrauded the troops; his jealous caprice degraded

the satraps: the palace, the tribunals, the waters of

the Tigris, were stained with the blood Of the in­

nocent, and the tyrant exulted in the sufferings and

execution of thirteen thousand victims. As the excuse

of his cruelty, he sometimes condescended to observe,

VOL.IV. y

