OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 361

similar enthusiasm was communicated to the foreign chap.

mercenaries, who must have viewed with equal indif- '_

ference the interest of Rome and of Persia. Hera-

clius himself, with the skill and patience of a centu­

rion, inculcated the lessons of the school of tactics,

and the soldiers were assiduously trained in the use

of their weapons, and the exercises and evolutions of

the field. The cavalry and infantry in light or heavy

armour were divided into two parties; the trumpets

were fixed in the centre, and their signals directed

the march, the charge, the retreat, or pursuit; the

direct or oblique order, the deep or extended phalanx;

to represent in fictitious combat the operations of

genuine war. Whatever hardship the emperor im­

posed on the troops, he inflicted with equal severity

on himself; their labour, their diet, their sleep,

were measured by the inflexible rules of discipline;

and, without despising the enemy, they were taught

to repose an implicit confidence in their own va­

lour and the wisdom of their leader. Cilicia was

soon encompassed with the Persian arms; but their

cavalry hesitated to enter the defiles of mount Tau­

rus, till they were circumvented by the evolutions

of Heraclius, who insensibly gained their rear, whilst

he appeared to present his front in order of battle.

By a false motion, which seemed to threaten Armenia,

he drew them, against their wishes, to a general action.

They were tempted by the artful disorder of his

camp; but when they advanced to combat, the ground,

the sun, and the expectation of both armies, were

unpropitious to the Barbarians; the Romans success­

fully repeated their tactics in a field of battle*, and the

event of the day declared to the world, that the Per-

"Foggini (Annotat. p. 31) suspects that the Persians were deceived by the

^aXavf irmXtiyf*iv>i of .Elian (Tactic . c. 48), an intricate spiral motion of
the army.

He observed (p. 28.) that the military descriptions of George of Pisidia are
tran­

scribed in the Tactics of the emperor Leo.

