OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 125

the Euxine; and the curled hair and swarthy com- chap.

XXXV.

plexion of Africa no longer disfigure the most per- !_

feet of the human race. It is in the adjacent climates

of Georgia, Mingrelia, and Circassia, that nature

has placed, at least to our eyes, the model of beauty,

in the shape of the limbs, the colour of the skin, the

symmetry of the features, and the expression of the

countenance *. According to the destination of the

two sexes, the men seem formed for action, the wo­

men for love; and the perpetual supply of females

from mount Caucasus has purified the blood, and

improved the breed, of the southern nations of Asia.

The proper district of Mingrelia, a portion only of

the ancient Colchos, has long sustained an exporta­

tion of twelve thousand slaves. The number of

prisoners or criminals would be inadequate to the

annual demand; but the common people are in a

state of servitude to their lords; the exercise of fraud

or rapine is unpunished in a lawless community; and

the market is continually replenished by the abuse

of civil and paternal authority. Such a trade, which

reduces the human species to the level of cattle, may

tend to encourage marriage and population; since

the multitude of children enriches their sordid and

inhuman parent. But this source of impure wealth

must inevitably poison the national manners, obli­

terate the sense of honour and virtue, and almost

extinguish the instincts of nature; the Christians of

Georgia and Mingrelia are the most dissolute of

mankind; and their children, who, in a tender age,

are sold into foreign slavery, have already learnt to

imitate the rapine of the father and the prostitution

of the mother. Yet, amidst the rudest ignorance,

the untaught natives discover a singular dexterity

* Buffon (Hist. Nat. tom. iii. p. 433—437) collects the unanimous suffrage of  
naturalists and travellers. If, in the time of Herodotus, they were in truth
fit-

KayXfoif and ouXo-rf >y if (and he had observed them with care), this precious
fact is

an example of the influence of climate on a foreign colony.

