OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 817

the insolence of the Barbarians, and the servile temper chap.

of the tributary Greeks. Lamenting the barren su- XXXIX-

perfluity of materials, I have studied to compress the

narrative of these uninteresting transactions: but

the just Nushirvan is still applauded as the model of

oriental kings, and the ambition of his grandson

Chosroes prepared the revolution of the East, which

was speedily accomplished by the arms and the reli­

gion of the successors of Mahomet.

In the useless altercations, that precede and justify Conquest of

the quarrels of princes, the Greeks and the Barba- NudSvan,

rians accused each other of violating the peace which &jD-57°'

had been concluded between the two empires about

four years before the death of Justinian. The sove­

reign of Persia and India aspired to reduce under

his obedience the province of Yemen or Arabia

Felix; the distant land of myrrh and frankincense,

which had escaped, rather than opposed, the con­

querors of the East. After the defeat of Abrahah

under the walls of Mecca, the discord of his sons and

brothers gave an easy entrance to the Persians: they

chased the strangers of Abyssinia beyond the Red

Sea; and a native prince of the ancient Homerites

was restored to the throne as the vassal or viceroy of

the great Nushirvan *. But the nephew of Justinian

declared his resolution to avenge the injuries of his

Christian ally the prince of Abyssinia, as they sug­

gested a decent pretence to discontinue the annual

tribute, which was poorly disguised by the name of

pension. The churches of Persarmenia were op­

pressed by the intolerant spirit of the Magi; they

secretly invoked the protector of the Christians, and

after the murder of their satraps, the rebels were

• D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, p. 477- Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arabum,

p. 64, 65. Father Pagi (Critica, tom. ii. p. 646) has proved that after ten

years' peace, the Persian war, which continued twenty years, was renewed

A. D. 571. Mahomet was born-A. D. 569, in the year of the elephant, or the

defeat of Abrahah (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, tom. i. p. 89, 90. 98); and this

account allows two years for the conquest of Yemen.

