OF THE ROMAN EMPI11E. 309

the city had not been animated by a vital principle, chap.

which again restored her to honour and dominion. [

The power of the apostles resided with living energy

in the breast of their successors; and the chair of

St. Peter was filled under the reign of Maurice by

the first and greatest of the name of Gregory*. His Birth and

grandfather Felix had himself been pope, and as the of Gregory

bishops were already bound by the law of celibacy,the Roman-

his consecration must have been preceded by the

death of his wife. The parents of Gregory, Sylvia

and Gordian, were the noblest of the senate, and

the most pious of the church of Rome: his female

relations were numbered among the saints and vir­

gins; and his own figure with those of his father

and mother were represented near three hundred

years in a family portraitf, which he offered to the

monastery of St. Andrew. The design and colour­

ing of this picture afford an honourable testimony,

that the art of painting was cultivated by the Italians

of the sixth century; but the most abject ideas must

be entertained of their taste and learning, since the

epistles of Gregory, his sermons, and his dialogues,

arc the work of a man who was second in erudition

to none of his contemporaries: his birth and abilities

had raised him to the office of praefect of the city,

and he enjoyed the merit of renouncing the pomp and

* Resides the Epistles of Gregory himself which are methodised by Dupin,  
(Bibliothequc Eccles. tom. v. p. 103—126), we have three lives of the pope;
the

first two written in the viiith and ixth centuries (de Triplici Vita St. Greg.
Pre­

face to the ivth volume of the Benedictine edition) by the deacons Paul (p. 1—

1U) and John (p. 19—188), and containing much original, though doubtful, evi­

dence; a third, a long and laboured compilation by the Benedictine editors

(p. II)!)—305). The Annals of Baronius are a copious but partial history. His

papal prejudices are tempered by the good sense of Fleury (Hist. Eccles. tom,

viii.), and his chronology has been rectified by the criticism of Pagi and

Muratori.

+ John trie deacon has described them like an eye-witness (I. iv. c . 83, 84);

and his description is illustrated by Angelo Rocca, a Human antiquary (St.
Greg.

Opera, tom. iv. p. 312—32C); who observes, that some mosaics of the popes of

the viith century are still preserved in the old churches of Rome (p.
321—323).

The same walls which represented Gregory's family are now decorated with the

martyrdom of St. Andrew, the noble contest of Dominichino and Guido.

x 3

