OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 237

the laws: and the misconduct of either party might chap.

afford, under another name, a future subject for an'

action of theft. To this loose and voluntary com­

pact, religious and civil rites were no longer essential;

and, between persons of a similar rank, the apparent

community of life was allowed as sufficient evidence

of their nuptials. The dignity of marriage was re­

stored by the Christians, who derived all spiritual

grace from the prayers of the faithful and the bene­

diction of the priest or bishop. The origin, validity,

and duties of the holy institution, were regulated by

the tradition of the synagogue, the precepts of the

gospel, and the canons of general or provincial sy­

nods; and the conscience of the Christians was awed

by the decrees and censures of their ecclesiastical

rulers. Yet the magistrates of Justinian were not

subject to the authority of the church: the emperor

consulted the unbelieving civilians of antiquity, and

the choice of matrimonial laws in the Code and Pan­

dects is directed by motives of justice, policy, and

the natural freedom of both sexes *.

Besides the agreement of the parties, the essence Liberty and

of every rational contract, the Roman marriage re- divorce.

quired the previous approbation of the parents. A

father might be forced by some recent laws to supply

the wants of a mature daughter; but even his in­

sanity was not generally allowed to supersede the

necessity of his consent. The causes of the dissolu­

tion of matrimony have varied among the Romans;

but the most solemn sacrament, the confarreation it­

self, might always be done away by rites of a contrary

tendency. In the first ages, the father of a family

might sell his children, and his wife was reckoned in the

* The civil laws of marriage are exposed in the Institutes (1. i. tit. x), the  
Pandects (1. xxiii, xxiv, xxv), and the Code (1. v), but as the title de ritu
nuptiarum

is yet imperfect, we are obliged to explore the fragments of Ulpian (tit. ix.
p. 590,

591), and the Collatio Legum Mosaicarum (tit , xvi. p. 790, 791), with the
Notes

of Pithieus and Shulting. They find, in the Commentary of Servius (on the 1st

Georgic and the 4th flSneid), two curious passages.

