OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 481

perial figure appeared in new and more gorgeous ap- chap.

parel, and the interview was concluded in haughty XLI-

and majestic silence. In this honest and curious

narrative the bishop of Cremona respresents the cere­

monies of the Byzantine court, which are still prac­

tised in the sublime Porte, and which were preserved

in the last age by the dukes of Muscovy or Russia.

After a long journey by the sea and land, from Ve­

nice to Constantinople, the ambassador halted at the

golden gate, till he was conducted by the formal officers

to the hospitable palace prepared for his reception;

but this palace was a prison, and his jealous keepers

prohibited all social intercourse either with strangers

or natives. At his first audience, he offered the gifts

of his master, slaves, and golden vases, and costly

armour. The ostentatious payment of the officers

and troops displayed before his eyes the riches of the

empire: he was entertained at a royal banquet, in

which the ambassadors of the nations were marshalled

by the esteem or contempt of the Greeks: from his

own table, the emperor, as the most signal favour, sent

the plates which he had tasted; and his favourites

were dismissed with a robe of honour. In the morn­

ing and evening of each day, his civil and military ser­

vants attended their duty in the palace; their labour

was repaid by the sight, perhaps by the smile, of their

lord; his commands were signified by a nod or a

sign: but all earthly greatness stood silent and submis­

sive in his presence. In his regular or extraordinary Proces.

processions through the capital, he unveiled his per- and accia-

son to the public view: the rites of policy were con- ma lons-

nected with those of religion, and his visits to the

principal churches were regulated by the festivals of

the Greek calendar. On the eve of these processions,

the gracious or devout intention of the monarch was

proclaimed by the heralds. The streets were cleared

and purified; the pavement was strewed with flowers;

the most precious furniture, the gold and silver plate,

VOL. IV. i i

