OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 233

the oppression was tempered by the assurance, that chap.

each generation must succeed in its turn to the awful xxxv'

dignity of parent and master.

The first limitation of paternal power is ascribed ^^atfoni'

to the justice and humanity of Numa: and the maid temai au-

who, with his father's consent, had espoused a free- n y-

man, was protected from the disgrace of becoming

the wife of a slave. In the first ages, when the city

was pressed, and often famished by her Latin and

Tuscan neighbours, the sale of children might be a

frequent practice; but as a Roman could not legally

purchase the liberty of his fellow-citizen, the market

must gradually fail, and the trade would be destroyed

by the conquests of the republic. An imperfect right

of property was at length communicated to sons;

and the threefold distinction of prqfeclitious, ad­

ventitious, and professional, was ascertained by the

jurisprudence of the Code and Pandects*. Of all

that proceeded from the father, he imparted only

the use, and reserved the absolute dominion; yet if

his goods were sold, the filial portion was excepted,

by a favourable interpretation, from the demands of

the creditors. In whatever accrued by marriage, gift,

or collateral succession, the property was secured to

the son; but the father, unless he had been specially

excluded, enjoyed the usufruct during his life. As a

just and prudent reward of military virtue, the spoils

of the enemy were acquired, possessed, and bequeathed

by the soldier alone; and the fair analogy was ex­

tended to the emoluments of any liberal profession,

the salary of public service, and the sacred liberality

of the emperor or the empress. The life of a citizen

was less exposed than his fortune to the abuse of

paternal power. Yet his life might be adverse to

* .See the gradual enlargement and security of the filial peiulium in the In­  
stitutes (1 . ii. tit. ix), the Pandects (1. xv. tit. i. 1. xli. tit. i), and
the Code (1 . iv.

lit. xxvi, xxvii).

