OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 115

"Armenia, the independence of Colchos, and the chap.

"wild liberty of the Tzanian mountains? Has he xxxv-

"not usurped, with equal avidity, the city of Bospho-

"rus on the frozen Maeotis, and the vale of palm-

"trees on the shores of the Red Sea? The Moors,

"the Vandals, the Goths, have been successively op-

"pressed, and each nation has calmly remained the

"spectator of their neighbour's ruin. Embrace, O

"king! the favourable moment; the East is left

"without defence, while the armies of Justinian and

"his renowned general are detained in the distant

"regions of the West. If you hesitate and delay,

"Belisarius and his victorious troops will soon return

"from the Tiber to the Tigris, and Persia may en-

"joy the wretched consolation of being the last de-

"voured *." By such arguments Chosroes was easily

persuaded to imitate the example which he con­

demned: but the Persian, ambitious of military fame,

disdained the inactive warfare of a rival, who issued

his sanguinary commands from the secure station of

the Byzantine palace.

Whatever might be the provocations of Chosroes, He invaded

he abused the confidence of treaties; and the just aTid. 540,

reproaches of dissimulation and falsehood could only

be concealed by the lustre of his victories t. The Per­

sian army, which had been assembled in the plains of

Babylon, prudently declined the strong cities of

Mesopotamia, and followed the western bank of the

Euphrates, till the small though populous town of

Dura presumed to arrest the progress of the great

king. The gates of Dura, by treachery and surprise,

were burst open; and as soon as Chosroes had stained

his scimitar with the blood of the inhabitants, he dis-

* I have blended, in a short speech, the two orations of the Arsacides of Ar­  
menia and the Gothic ambassadors. Procopius, in his public history, feels, and

makes us feel, that Justinian was the true author of the war (Persic. 1. ii.
c. 2, 3).

f The invasion of Syria, the ruin of Antioch, &c. are related in a full and
re­

gular scries by Procopius (Persic. 1. ii. c. 5—14). On the geography of the
seat

of war, d'Anvillc (l'Euphrate et le Tigre) is sufficient and satisfactory.

r

