168 THE DECLINE AND FALL

.CHAP.

XXXVI.

Character

and expedi

tion of the

eunuch

Narses,

A. D. 552.

After the loss of Germanus, the nations were pro­

voked to smile, by the strange intelligence, that the

command of the Roman armies was given to an

eunuch. But the eunuch Narses * is ranked among

the few who have rescued that unhappy name from

the contempt and hatred of mankind. A feeble di­

minutive body concealed the soul of a statesman and

a warrior. His youth had been employed in the

management of the loom and distaff, in the cares of

the household, and the service of female luxury;

but while his hands were busy, he secretly exercised

the faculties of a vigorous and discerning mind. A

stranger to the schools and the camp, he studied in

the palace to dissemble, to flatter, and to persuade;

and as soon as he approached the person of the em­

peror, Justinian listened with surprise and pleasure

to the manly counsels of his chamberlain and private

treasurer t. The talents of Narses were tried and

improved in frequent embassies; he led an army into

Italy, acquired a practical knowledge of the war and

the country, and presumed to strive with the genius

of Belisarius. Twelve years after his return, the

eunuch was chosen to achieve the conquest which

had been left imperfect by the first of the Roman

generals. Instead of being dazzled by vanity or

emulation, he seriously declared, that unless he were

armed with an adequate force, he would never con­

sent to risk his own glory, and that of his sovereign.

Justinian granted to the favourite, what he might

have denied to the hero: the Gothic war was re­

kindled from its ashes, and the preparations were not

unworthy of the ancient majesty of the empire. The

• Procopius relates the whole series of this second Gothic war and the victory

of Narses (1. iv. c . 21. 26—35). A splendid scene! Among the six subjects

of epic poetry which Tasso revolved in his mind, he hesitated between the con­

quests of Italy by Belisarius and by Narses (Hayley's Works, vol. iv. p. 70).

.f The country of Narses is unknown, since he must not be confounded with

the Persarmenian.

