124 THE DECLINE AND TALL

chap. which manufactured linen, built navies, and invented

Xv- geographical maps. The ingenuity of the moderns

has peopled, with flourishing cities and nations, the

isthmus between the Euxine and the Caspian *; and

a lively writer, observing the resemblance of climate,

and, in his apprehension, of trade, has not hesitated

to pronounce Colchos the Holland of antiquity f.

Ae"If But the riches of Colchos shine only through the

darkness of conjecture or tradition; and its genuine

history presents an uniform scene of rudeness and

poverty. If one hundred and thirty languages were

spoken in the market of Dioscurias, they were the

imperfect idioms of so many savage tribes or families,

sequestered from each other in the valleys of Mount

Caucasus; and their separation, which diminished

the importance, must have multiplied the number,

of their rustic capitals. In the present state of Min-

grelia, a village is an assemblage of huts within a

wooden fence; the fortresses are seated in the depths

of forests; the princely town of Cyta, or Cotatis,

consists of two hundred houses, and a stone edifice

appertains only to the magnificence of kings. Twelve

ships from Constantinople, and about sixty barks,

laden with the fruits of industry, annually cast an­

chor on the coast; and the list of Colchian exports

is much increased, since the natives had only slaves

and hides to offer in exchange for the corn and salt

which they purchased from the subjects of Justinian.

Not a vestige can be found of the art, the knowledge,

or the navigation, of the ancient Colchians: few

Greeks desired or dared to pursue the footsteps of

the Argonauts; and even the marks of an Egyptian

colony are lost on a nearer approach. The rite of

circumcision is practised only by the Mahometans of

• Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, 1. xxi. c . 6. L'Isthme .... couvert de villes

ct nations qui ne font plus.

■f Bougainville, Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions, tom. xxvi. p. 33, on

the African voyage of Hanno and the commerce of antiquity.

