OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 255

the civilians sometimes imagine the delivery of the chap.

object, and sometimes presume the consent of the xxxvn'

parties. The substantial pledge has been refined

into the invisible rights of a mortgage or hypotheca;

and the agreement of sale, for a certain price, im­

putes, from that moment, the chances of gain or loss

to the account of the purchaser. It may be fairly

supposed, that every man will obey the dictates of

his interest: and if he accepts the benefit, he is

obliged to sustain the expense, of the transaction.

In this boundless subject, the historian will observe

the location of land and money, the rent of the one

and the interest of the other, as they materially affect

the prosperity of agriculture and commerce. The

landlord was often obliged to advance the stock and

instruments of husbandry, and to content himself

with a partition of the fruits. If the feeble tenant

was oppressed by accident, contagion, or hostile vio­

lence, he claimed a proportionable relief from the

equity of the laws: five years were the customary

term, and no solid or costly improvements could be

expected from a farmer, who, at each moment, might

be ejected by the sale of the estate. Usury, the in- interest of

veterate grievance of the city, had been discouraged money-

by the twelve tables, and abolished by the clamours

of the people. It was revived by their wants and

idleness, tolerated by the discretion of the praetors,

and finally determined by the Code of Justinian.

Persons of illustrious rank were confined to the mo­

derate profit of four per cent.; six was pronounced

to be the ordinary and legal standard of interest;

eight was allowed for the convenience of manufac­

turers and merchants; twelve was granted to nautical

insurance, which the wiser ancients had not attempted

to define; but except in this perilous adventure, the

practice of exorbitant usury was severely restrained*.

• Justinian has not condescended to give usury a place in his Institutes ;.
but

