382 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. princes and nations of the earth to the profession of

XL" Islam. On this foundation, the zeal of the Arabians

has supposed the secret conversion of the emperor;

and the vanity of the Greeks has feigned a personal

visit to the prince of Medina, who accepted from the

royal bounty a rich domain, and a secure retreat in

the province of Syria. But the friendship of Hera-

clius and Mahomet was of short continuance ; the new

religion having inflamed rather than assuaged the

rapacious spirit of the Saracens. The prophet of

Arabia expired in the 632d year of the Christian

era. His successor Abubeker, in the first year of his

reign, sent an army under the command of Caled to

invade Persia. The battle of Cadesia, and a series

of successful sieges, in a short time rendered him

master of that kingdom. Yesdegerd, the last of the

Sassanian kings, was slain, when he attempted, with

the assistance of his Eastern allies, to recover the pos­

session of his lost dominions. The river Oxus then

separated the territories of the Saracens and the

Turks; but the former soon traversed that boundary,

and the Mahometan banners were in a short time

displayed on the banks of the Indus, and on the

shores of the Caspian sea.

Syria * was also invaded by the lieutenants of

In addition to the writers, that are enumerated by Mr. Gibbon in the following

notes, I may refer the reader to a publication of Mr. Mills, entitled a
history of

Muhammedanism, &c. in one vol. 8vo. second edition.—Ed.

The private life of Mahomet, from his birth to his mission, is preserved by

Abulfeda (in vit. c. 3. 7), and the Arabian writers of genuine or apocryphal
note

who are alleged by Hottinger (in his Orient, p. 204—211), Maracci (tom. i. p.

10 14), and Gagnier (Vie de Mahomet, tom. i. p. 97—134).

For the domestic life of Mahomet, consult G.ignier, and the corresponding

chapters of Abulfeda; for his diet (tom. iii. p. '285—'288); his children (p.
189

—J89); his wives (p. 390. 303); his marriage with Zeineb (tom. ii. p. 152—

160); hU amour with Mary (p. 303—309); the false accusation of Aycsha,

(p. 186—199;. The most original evidence of the three last transactions is
con­

tained in the xxiv. xxxiii. and Ixvi. chapters of the Koran, and Sale's
Commentary.

The writers of the Modern Universal History (vol. i. and ii.) have compiled,

in 850 folio pages, the life of Mahomet and the annals of the Caliphs. They

enjoyed the advantage of reading and sometimes correcting the Arabic tex^,
yet,

notwithstanding their high sounding boasts, I cannot find, after the
conclusion of

my work, that they have afforded me much (if any) additional information.

* A separate history of the conquest of Syria has been composed by Al Wakidi,

