336 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. The martial ardour of Maurice was opposed by the

XXXIX. . . . rt

* grave flattery of the senate, the timid superstition of

the patriarch, and the tears of the empress Constan-

tina; and they all conjured him to devolve on some

meaner general the fatigues and perils of a Scythian

campaign. Deaf to their advice and entreaty, the

emperor boldly advanced seven miles from the capi足

tal; the sacred ensign of the cross was displayed in

the front, and Maurice reviewed, with conscious

pride, the arms and numbers of the veterans who

had fought and conquered beyond the Tigris. An-

chialus was the last term of his progress by sea and

land; his mind was confounded by the death of a

favourite horse, the encounter of a wild boar, a storm

of wind and rain, and the birth of a monstrous child;

and he forgot that the best of omens is to unsheath

our sword in the defence of our country *. Under

the pretence of receiving the ambassadors of Persia,

the emperor returned to Constantinople, exchanged

the thoughts of war for those of devotion, and dis足

appointed the public hope, by his absence and the

choice of his lieutenants. The blind partiality of

fraternal love might excuse the promotion of his

brother Peter, who fled with equal disgrace from the

Barbarians, from his own soldiers, and from the in足

habitants of a Roman city. That city, if we may

credit the resemblance of name and character, was

the famous Azimuntum, which had alone repelled

the tempest of Attila. The example of her warlike

youth Was propagated to succeeding generations;

and they obtained, from the first or the second

Justin, an honourable privilege, that their valour

should be always reserved for the defence of their

native country. The brother of Maurice attempted

* Elf oiu)v速j ajif ^ auimer&rei irioi irarari;. Iliad, xii. 243.

This noble verse, which unites the spirit of a hero with the reason of a sage,

may prove that'Homer was in every light superior to his age and country.

