360 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the confines of Syria and Cilicia, in the gulf of

'J'''1 Scanderoon, where the coast suddenly turns to the

south*; and his discernment was expressed in the

choice of this important post \. From all sides, the

scattered garrisons of the maritime cities and the

mountains might repair with speed and safety to his

Imperial standard. The natural fortifications of Ci­

licia protected, and even concealed, the camp of He-

raclius, which was pitched near Issus, on the same

ground where Alexander had vanquished the host of

Darius. The angle which the emperor occupied

was deeply indented into a vast semicircle of the

Asiatic, Armenian, and Syrian provinces; and to

whatsoever point of the circumference he should

direct his attack, it was easy for him to dissemble his

own motions, and to prevent those of the enemy. In

the camp of Issus, the Roman general reformed the

sloth and disorder of the veterans, and educated the

new recruits in the knowledge and practice of military

virtue. Unfolding the image of Christ, he urged

them to revenge the holy altars which had been pro­

faned by the worshippers of fire; addressing them by

the endearing appellations of sons and brethren, he

deplored the public and private wrongs of the re­

public. The subjects of a monarch were persuaded

that they fought in the cause of freedom; and a

* George of Pisidia (Acroas. ii. 10, p. 8) has fixed this important point of the  
Syrian and Cilician gates. They are elegantly described by Xenophon, who

marched through them a thousand years before. A narrow pass of three stadia

between steep high rocks (nixjai liXiSorrai) and the Mediterranean was closed
at

each end by strong gates, impregnable to the land (nrafi\0eiv ux i:v fiiy),
ac­

cessible by sea (Anabasis, 1. i. p. 35, 36, with Hutchinson's Geographical
Dis­

sertation, p. vi.). The gates were thirty-five parasangs, or leagues, from
Tarsus

(Anabasis, 1. i. p. 33, 34), and eight or ten from Antioch. (Compare

Itinerar. Wesseling. p. 580, 581. Schultens, Index. Geograph. ad calcem

Vit. Saladin. p. 9. Voyage en Turquie et en Perse, par M. Otter, tom. i.

p- 78, 79).

.f- HeracKus might write to a friend in the modest words of Cicero: "Castra

"habuimus ea ipsa qua; contra Darium habuerat apud Issum Alexander, io

"peratpr haud paulo melior quani aut tu aut ego." Ad Atticum, v. 20. Issus,

a rich and flourishing city in the time of Xenophon, was ruined by the
prosperity

of Alexandria or Scandaroon, on the other side of the bay.

