OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 239

and virtue. The facility of separation would destroy chap.

• YYYVTT

all mutual confidence, and inflame every trifling dis-

pute: the minute difference between a husband and

a stranger, which might so easily be removed, might

still more easily be forgotten; and the matron, who

in five years can submit to the embraces of eight hus­

bands, must cease to reverence the chastity of her

own person.

Insufficient remedies followed with distant and Limitations

tardy steps the rapid progress of the evil. The an- °f divorce/

cient worship of the Romans afforded a peculiar god­

dess to hear and reconcile the complaints of a married

life; but her epithet of Viriplaca, the appeaser of

husbands, too clearly indicates on which side sub­

mission and repentance were always expected. Every

act of a citizen was subject to the judgment of the

censors; the first who used the privilege of divorce

assigned, at their command, the motives of his con­

duct; and a senator was expelled for dismissing his

virgin spouse without the knowledge or advice of his

friends. Whenever an action was instituted for the

recovery of a marriage-portion, the prcetor, as the

guardian of equity, examined the cause and the cha­

racters, and gently inclined the scale in favour of the

guiltless and injured party. Augustus, who united

the powers of both magistrates, adopted their dif­

ferent modes of repressing or chastising the licence of

divorce*. The presence of seven Roman witnesses

was required for the validity of this solemn and de-'

liberate act: If any adequate provocation had been

given by the husband, instead of the delay of two

years, he was compelled to refund immediately, or in

the space of six months; but if he could arraign the

manners of his wife, her guilt or levity was expiated

by the loss of the sixth or eighth part of her marriage-

* See the laws of Augustus and his successors, in Ileineccius, ad Legem  
Papiam Poppaeam, c . 19, in Opp. tom, vi. P. i. p. 323—333.

