334 THE DECEIVE AND FALL

chap. "that I have neither falsehood on my tongue, nor

xxxix. '' treachery in my heart." As soon as he rose from

* his knees, he accelerated the labour of the bridge,  
and despatched an envoy to proclaim what he no

longer wished to conceal. "Inform the emperor,"

said the perfidious Baian, " that Sirmium is invested

"on every side. Advise his prudence to withdraw

"the citizens and their effects, and to resign a city

"which it is now impossible to relieve or defend."

Without the hope of relief, the defence of Sirmium

was prolonged above three years: the walls were

still untouched; but famine was inclosed within the

walls, till a merciful capitulation allowed the escape

of the naked and hungry inhabitants. Singidunum,

at the distance of fifty miles, experienced a more

cruel fate: the buildings were razed, and the van­

quished people was condemned to servitude and

exile. Yet the ruins of Sirmium are no longer

visible; the advantageous situation of Singidunum

soon attracted a new colony of Sclavonians, and the

conflux of the Save and Danube is still guarded by

the fortifications of Belgrade, or the White City, so

often and so obstinately disputed by the Christian

and Turkish arms*. From Belgrade to the walls

of Constantinople a line may be measured of six

hundred miles: that line was marked with flames

and with blood; the horses of the Avars were al­

ternately bathed in the Euxine and the Adriatic;

and the Roman pontiff, alarmed by the approach of

a more savage enemy, was reduced to cherish the

Lombards as the protectors of Italy. The despair

of a captive, whom his country refused to ransom,

disclosed to the Avars the invention and practice of

military enginest, but in the first attempts, they

* See d'Anville, in the Memoires de l'Acad. des Inscriptions, tom, xxviii.

p. 412 443. The Sclavonic name of Belgrade is mentioned in the xth century

by Constantine Porphyrogenitus; the Latin appellation of Alba Grccca is used
by

the Franks in the beginning of the ixth (p. 414).

■f Even the helepolis, or moveable turret. Theopliylact, 1. ii. 16, 17-

