OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 163

capable of bold and sanguinary deeds. Tlie death of chap.

Justinian was resolved, but the conspirators delayed _

the execution till they could surprise Belisarius dis­

armed, and naked, in the palace of Constantinople.

Not a hope could be entertained of shaking his long-

tried fidelity; and they justly dreaded the revenge,

or rather justice, of the veteran general, who might

speedily assemble an army in Thrace to punish the

assassins, and perhaps to enjoy the fruits of their crime.

Delay afforded time for rash communications and

honest confessions: Artaban and his accomplices were

condemned by the senate, but the extreme clemency

of Justinian detained them in the gentle confinement

of the palace, till he pardoned their flagitious attempt

against his throne and life. If the emperor forgave

his enemies, he must cordially embrace a friend whose

victories were alone remembered, and who was en­

deared to his prince by the recent circumstance of

their common danger. Belisarius reposed from his

toils, in the high station of general of the East and

count of the domestics; and the older consuls and

patricians respectfully yielded the precedency of rank

to the peerless merit of the first of the Romans *.

The first of the Romans still submitted to be the

slave of his wife; but the servitude of habit and af­

fection became less disgraceful when the death of

Theodora had removed the baser influence of fear.

Joannina their daughter, and the sole heiress of their

fortunes, was betrothed to Anastasius, the grandson,

or rather the nephew, of the empress, whose kind

interposition forwarded the consummation of their

youthful loves. But the power of Theodora expired,

the parents of Joannina returned, and her honour,

* The honours of Belisarius are gladly commemorated by his secretary (Pro-  
cop. Goth. 1. iii. c . 36.1. iv. c. 21). The title of Zi-paTiiyof is ill
translated, at

least in this instance, by praefectus praetorio; and to a military character,
ma-

gister militum is more proper and applicable (Ducange, Gloss. Grsc. p. 1458,

1459).

M 2

