24. THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. was almost satiated with the treasures of gold and

XXXIV

1 silver, the accumulated fruits of conquest or economy

in a long period of prosperity and peace. In this

frantic search, the troops even of Belisarius forgot

their caution and respect. Intoxicated with lust and

rapine, they explored in small parties, or alone, the

adjacent fields, the woods, the rocks, and the caverns,

that might possibly conceal any desirable prize: laden

with booty, they deserted their ranks, and wandered,

without a guide, on the high road to Carthage ; and

if the flying enemies had dared to return, very few

of the conquerors would have escaped. Deeply sen­

sible of the disgrace and danger, Belisarius passed an

apprehensive night on the field of victory; at the

dawn of day, he planted his standard on a hill, re­

called his guards and veterans, and gradually re­

stored the modesty and obedience of the camp. It

was equally the concern of the Roman general to

subdue the hostile, and to save the prostrate Bar­

barian; and the suppliant Vandals, who could be

found only in churches, were protected by his au­

thority, disarmed, and separately confined, that they

might neither disturb the public peace, nor become

the victims of popular revenge. After despatching

a light detachment to tread the footsteps of Gelimer,

he advanced with his whole army, about ten days'

march, as far as Hippo Regius, which no longer

possessed the relics of St. Augustin. The season,

and the certain intelligence that the Vandal had fled

to the inaccessible country of the Moors, determined

Belisarius to relinquish the vain pursuit, and to fix

his winter quarters at Carthage. From thence he

despatched his principal lieutenant, to inform the

emperor, that in the space of three months he had

achieved the conquest of Africa.

Conquest of Belisarius spoke the language of truth. The sur-

Afnca by r . ° .

Belisarius. viving Vandals yielded, without resistance, their arms

