OF THE ROMAN EMPIRIC 113

and barren. Yet the Brachman may assume the chap.

merit of inventing a pleasing fiction, which adorns the xxxv-

nakedness of truth, and alleviates, perhaps, to a royal

ear, the harshness of instruction. With a similar de­

sign, to admonish kings that they are strong only in

the strength of their subjects, the same Indians in­

vented the game of chess, which was likewise intro­

duced into Persia under the reign of Nushirvan *.

The son of Kobad found his- kingdom involved in Peace and

a war with the successor of Constantine; and the Romans,

anxiety of his domestic situation inclined him to grant ^jgf33

the suspension of arms, which Justinian was impatient

to purchase. Chosroes saw the Roman ambassadors

at his feet. He accepted eleven thousand pounds

of gold, as the price of an endless or indefinite peace;

some mutual exchanges were regulated; the Persian

assumed the guard of the gates of Caucasus, and the

demolition of Dara was suspended, on condition that

it should never be made the residence of the general

of the East. This interval of repose had been soli­

cited, and was diligently improved by the ambition

of the emperor: his African conquests were the first

fruits of the Persian Treaty; and the avarice of Chos­

roes was soothed' by a large portion of the spoils of

Carthage, which his ambassadors required in a tone

of pleasantry, and under the colour of friendship t.

But the trophies of Belisarius disturbed the slumbers

of the great king; and he heard with astonishment,

envy, and fear, that Sicily, Italy, and Rome itself,

had been reduced, in three rapid campaigns, to the

obedience of Justinian. Unpractised in the art of

violating treaties, he secretly excited his bold and sub­

tle vassal Almondar. That prince of the Saracens,

who resided at Hira, had not been included in the

* See the Historia Shahiludii of Dr. Hyde (Syntagm. Dissertat. tom. ii. p. 61  
—69.)

"f Procopius, Persic. 1. i. c. 26.

VOL. IV. I

