314 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Severus Alexander. A system was formed, schools

xxxvit. were instituted, books were composed, and both the

living and the dead became subservient to the in­

struction of the student. The tripartite of iElius

Paetus, surnamed Catus, or the Cunning, was pre­

served as the oldest work of jurisprudence. Cato

the censor derived some additional fame from his

legal studies, and those of his son: the kindred ap­

pellation of Mucius Scaevola was illustrated by three

sages of the law; but the perfection of the science

was ascribed to Servius Sulpicius their disciple, and

the friend of Tully; and the long succession, which

shone with equal lustre under the republic and under

the Caesars, is finally closed by the respectable cha­

racters of Papinian, of Paul, and of Ulpian. Their

names, and the various titles of their productions,

have been minutely preserved, and the example of

Labeo may suggest some idea of their diligence and

fecundity. That eminent lawyer of the Augustan

age divided the year between the city and country,

between business and composition; and four hundred

books are enumerated as the fruit of his retirement.

Of the collections of his rival Capito, the two hundred

and fifty-ninth book is expressly quoted; and few

teachers could deliver their opinions in less than a

Third pe- century of volumes. In the third period, between

aTu. c. tne reigns of Alexander and Justinian, the oracles of

888—1230. jurisprudence were almost mute. The measure of

curiosity had been filled: the throne was occupied

by tyrants and Barbarians; the active spirits were

diverted by religious disputes, and the professors of

Rome, Constantinople, and Berytus, were humbly

content to repeat the lessons of their more enlightened

predecessors. From the slow advances and rapid de­

cay of these legal studies, it may be inferred that they

require a state of peace and refinement. From the

multitude of voluminous civilians who fill the inter­

