56 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. times represented, in a vacant post, the presence of

XXXIv- the troops which had been drawn away to more es­

sential duties. But his just confidence was placed in

the veterans who had fought under his banner in the

Persian and African wars; and although that gallant

band was reduced to five thousand men, he under­

took, with such contemptible numbers, to defend a

circle of twelve miles, against an army of one hun­

dred and fifty thousand Barbarians. In the walls of

Rome, which Belisarius constructed or restored, the

materials of ancient architecture maybe discerned*;

and the whole fortification was completed, except in

a chasm still extant between the Pincian and Fla-

minian gates, which the prejudices of the Goths and

Romans left under the guard of St. Peter the apostle t.

The battlements or bastions were shaped in sharp

angles; a ditch, broad and deep, protected the foot

of the rampart; and the arches on the rampart were

assisted by military engines; the balista, a powerful

cross-bow, which darted short but massy arrows; the

onagri, or wild asses, which, on the principle of a

sling, threw stones and bullets of an enormous size.

A chain was drawn across the Tyber; the arches of

the aqueducts were made impervious, and the mole

or sepulchre of Hadrian t was converted, for the first

time, to the uses of a citadel. That venerable struc­

ture, which contained the ashes of the Antonines,

was a circular turret rising from a quadrangular basis:

it was covered with the white marble of Paros, and

decorated by the statues of gods and heroes; and the

lover of the arts must read with a sigh, that the works

* The accurate eye of Nardini (Roma Antica, 1. i. c. viii. p. 31) could  
distinguish the tumultuaric opeia di Belisario.

-f The fissure and leaning in the upper part of the wall, which Procopius ob­  
served (Goth. 1. i. c. 13.), is visible to the present hour. (Donat. Roma
Vetus,

1. i. c. 17- p- 53, 54).

% The description of this mausoleum, or mole, in Procopius (I. i . c . 25.),
is

the first and best. The height above the walls ayjhi i; K/Ja [ii\m. On Nolli's

great plan, the aides measure 260 English feet.

