352 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. But Egypt itself, the only province which had been

xxxix. exempt, since the time of Diocletian, from foreign

and domestic war, was again subdued by the suc-

of Egypt, cessors of Cyrus. Pelusium, the key of that im-

'pervious country, was surprised by the cavalry of the

Persians: they passed, with impunity, the innumer­

able channels of the Delta, and explored the long

valley of the Nile, from the pyramids of Memphis to

the confines of ^Ethiopia. Alexandria might have

been relieved by a naval force, but the archbishop

and the prefect embarked for Cyprus; and Chosroes

entered the second city of the empire, which still pre­

served a wealthy remnant of industry and commerce.

His western trophy was erected, not on the walls of

Carthage, but in the neighbourhood of Tripoli: the

Greek colonies of Cyrene were finally extirpated;

and the conqueror, treading in the footsteps of Alex­

ander, returned in triumph through the sands of the

Minor* Lybian desert. In the first campaign, another army

a.d.616, advanced from the Euphrates to the Thracian Bos-

phorus; Chalcedon surrendered after a long siege,

and a Persian camp was maintained above ten years

in the presence of Constantinople. The sea-coast of

Pontus, the city of Ancyra, and the isle of Rhodes,

are enumerated among the last conquests of the great

king; and if Chosroes had possessed any maritime

power, his boundless ambition would have spread

slavery and desolation over the provinces of Europe.

His reign From the long-disputed banks of the Tigris and

nificence. Euphrates, the reign of the grandson of Nushirvan

was suddenly extended to the Hellespont and the

Nile, the ancient limits of the Persian monarchy.

But the provinces, which had been fashioned by the

habits of six hundred years to the virtues and vices

of the Roman government, supported with reluct­

ance the yoke of the Barbarians. The idea of a re­

public was kept alive by the institutions, or at least

