S>72 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. capital. The return of the emperor is marked by

XXXIX' the modern name of the city of Sherhzour; he for­

tunately passed mount Zara, before the snow, which

fell incessantly thirty-four days; and the citizens of

Gandzaca, or Tauris, were compelled to entertain

his soldiers and their horses with a hospitable re­

ception*.

Flight of When the ambition of Chosroes was reduced to

Chosroes,

a. DJ327. the defence of his hereditary kingdom, the love of

glory, or even the sense of shame, should have urged

him to meet his rival in the field. In the battle of

Nineveh, his courage might have taught the Persians

to vanquish, or he might have fallen with honour by

the lance of a Roman emperor. The successor of

Cyrus chose rather, at a secure distance, to expect

the event, to assemble the relics of the defeat, and

to retire by measured steps before the march of He-

raclius, till he beheld with a sigh the once loved man­

sions of Dastagerd. Both his friends and enemies

were persuaded, that it was the intention of Chosroes

to bury himself under the ruins of the city and pa­

lace: and as both might have been equally adverse

to his flight, the monarch of Asia, with Sira, and

three concubines, escaped through a hole in the

wall, nine days before the arrival of the Romans.

The slow and stately procession in which he showed

himself to the prostrate crowd was changed to a

rapid and secret journey; and the first evening he

lodged in the cottage of a peasant, whose humble-

door would scarcely give admittance to the great

king. His superstition was subdued by fear; on

the third day, he entered with joy the fortifications

of Ctesiphon; yet he still doubted of his safety till

he had opposed the river Tigris to the pursuit of the

Dec. 29.

* In describing this last expedition of Heraclius, the facts, the places, and the  
dates of Theophanes (p. 265—271) are so accurate and authentic, that he must

hive followed the original letters of the emperor, of which the Paschal
Chronicle

has preserved (p. 398—402) a very curious specimen.

