OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 71

His skill and perseverance overcame every obstacle: chap.

.Urbino was taken; the sieges of Fa?sulae, Orvieto, and .-

Auximum, were undertaken and vigorously prose- *J5nne"

CUted; and the eunuch Narses was at length recalled thonty of

to the domestic cares of the palace. All dissensions e lsanus-

were healed, and all opposition was subdued, by the

temperate authority of the Roman general, to whom

his enemies could not refuse their esteem; and Beli-

sarius inculcated the salutary lesson, that the forces

of the state should compose one body, and be ani­

mated by one soul. But in the interval of discord,

the Goths were permitted to breathe; an important

season was lost, Milan was destroyed, and the northern

provinces of Italy were afflicted by an inundation of

the Franks.

When Justinian first meditated the conquest of invasion of

Italy, he sent ambassadors to the kings of the Franks, Franks,

and adjured them, by the common ties of alliance and 539.'5 8'

religion, to join in the holy enterprise against the

Arians. The Goths, as their wants were more urgent,

employed a more effectual mode of persuasion, and

vainly strove, by the gift of lands and money, to pur-(,

chase the friendship, or at least the neutrality, of a

light and perfidious nation. But the arms of Belisarius,

and the revolt of the Italians, had no sooner shaken

the1 Gothic monarchy, than Theodebert of Austrasia,

the most powerful and warlike of the Merovingian

kings, was persuaded to succour their distress by an

indirect and seasonable aid. Without expecting the

consent of their sovereign, ten thousand Burgundians,

his recent subjects, descended from the Alps, and

joined the troops which Vitiges had sent to chastise

the revolt of Milan. After an obstinate siege, the

capital of Liguria was reduced by famine, but no

capitulation could be obtained, except for the safe

retreat of the Roman garrison. Three hundred thou­

sand males were repotted to be slain; the female

/"

f4

