276 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. ship of a grateful monarch, and the enemies of Rome

XXXVIII to *

'had respected the allies of the Avars. The same

prudence would instruct the nephew of Justinian to

imitate the liberality of his uncle, and to purchase

the blessings of peace from an invincible people, who

delighted and excelled in the exercise of war. The

reply of the emperor was delivered in the same strain

of haughty defiance, and he derived his confidence

from the God of the Christians, the ancient glory of

Rome, and the recent triumphs of Justinian. "The

"empire," said he, " abounds with men and horses,

"and arms sufficient to defend our frontiers, and to

"chastise the Barbarians. You offer aid; you threaten

"hostilities: we despise your enmity and your aid.

"The conquerors of the Avars solicit our alliance;

"shall we dread their fugitives and exiles? The

"bounty of our uncle was granted to your misery, to

"your humble prayers. From us you shall receive

"a more important obligation, the knowledge of your

"own weakness. Retire from our presence; the lives

"of ambassadors are safe; and if you return to im-

"plore our pardon, perhaps you will taste of our

"benevolence*." On the report of his ambassadors,

the chagan was awed by the apparent firmness of a

Roman emperor, of whose character and resources

he was ignorant. Instead of executing his threats

against the eastern empire, he marched into the poor

and savage countries of Germany, which were subject

to the dominion of the Franks. After two doubtful

battles, he consented to retire, and the Austrasian

king relieved the distress of his camp with an im­

mediate supply of corn and cattle f. Such repeated

* For these characteristic speeches, compare the verse of Corippus (I. iii . 251—  
401) with the prose of Menander (Excerpt. Legation, p. 102, 103). Their di-

.versity proves that they did not copy each other; their resemblance, that
thty

drew from a common original.

f For the Austrasian war, see Menander (Excerpt. Legat. p. 110), Gregory

of Tours (Hist . Franc. 1. iv. c. 29), and Paul the deacon (de Gest. Langobanl

1. ii. c. 10).

