206 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. resigned all political liberty; they defended the

xxxvii. freeclom of domestic life. A law which enforced the

obligation, and strengthened the bonds of marriage,

was clamorously rejected: Propertius, in the arms of

Delia, applauded the victory of licentious love; and

the project of reform was suspended till a new and

more tractable generation had arisen in the world.

Such an example was not necessary to instruct a pru­

dent usurper, of the mischief of popular assemblies;

and their abolition, which Augustus had silently pre­

pared, was accomplished without resistance, and al­

most without notice, on the accession of his successor.

Sixty thousand plebeian legislators, whom numbers

made formidable, and poverty secure, were supplanted

by six hundred senators, who held their honours,

their fortunes, and their lives, by the clemency of the

Decrees of emperor. The loss of executive power was alleviated

the sciiiitc

by the gift of legislative authority; and Ulpian might

assert, after the practice of two hundred years, that

the decrees of the senate obtained the force and vali­

dity of laws. In the times of freedom, the resolves

of the people had often been dictated by the passion

or error of the moment: the Cornelian, Pompeian,

and Julian laws, were adapted by a single hand to

the prevailing disorders: but the senate, under the

reign of the Caesars, was composed of magistrates

and lawyers, and in questions of private jurispru­

dence, the integrity of their judgment was seldom

perverted by fear or interest.

Edicts of The silence or ambiguity of the laws was supplied

by the occasional edicts of those magistrates who

were invested with the honours of the state. This

ancient prerogative of the Roman kings was trans­

ferred, in their respective offices, to the consuls and

dictators, the censors and praetors; and a similar

right was assumed by the tribunes of the people, the

ediles, and the proconsuls. At Rome, and in the

