OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117

inherited the vain and satirical genius of their ances- chap.

tors: they were elated by a sudden reinforcement of xxxv-

six thousand soldiers; they disdained the offers of

an easy capitulation; and their intemperate clamours

insulted from the ramparts the majesty of the great

king. Under his eye the Persian myriads mounted

with scaling ladders to the assault; the Roman mer­

cenaries fled through the opposite gate of Daphne;

and the generous assistance of the youth of Antioch

served only to aggravate the miseries of their country.

As Chosroes, attended by the ambassadors of Justi­

nian, was descending from the mountain, he affected,

in a plaintive voice, to deplore the obstinacy and ruin

of that unhappy people; but the slaughter still raged

with unrelenting fury; and the city, at the command

of a Barbarian, was delivered to the flames. The

cathedral of Antioch was indeed preserved by the

avarice, not the piety, of the conqueror: a more ho­

nourable exemption was granted to the church of St.

Julian, and the quarter of the town where the am­

bassadors resided; some distant streets were saved by

the shifting of the wind, and the walls still subsisted

to protect, and soon to betray, their new inhabitants.

Eighteen miles below Antioch, the river Orontes falls

into the Mediterranean. The haughty Persian visited

the term of his conquests; and after bathing alone in

the sea, he offered a solemn sacrifice of thanksgiving

to the sun, or rather to the creator of the sun, whom

the Magi adored. If this act of superstition offended

the prejudices of the Syrians, they were pleased by

the courteous and even eager attention with which he

assisted at the games of the circus; and as Chosroes

had heard that the blue faction was espoused by the

emperor, his peremptory command secured the vic­

tory of the green charioteer. From the discipline of

his camp the people derived more solid consolation;

and they interceded in vain for the life of a soldier

i 3

r

i

