THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. from the provinces of Europe and Asia, and increased

xu by the Christian Arabs of the tribe of Gassan. The

former are said to have amounted to 80,000, the latter

to 60,000. The most obstinate and bloody battle

of the whole war was fought at Yermuk, in the year

636. The Christians were at last defeated. The com­

mander of the Saracens informs the Caliph that his

army had killed 150,000 of the infidels, and made

40,000 captives. The reader will make what allow­

ance he pleases for oriental expressions.

After this battle no army appeared in the field to

oppose the Saracens. The siege of Jerusalem was

immediately undertaken, and, after an obstinate de­

fence of four months, the city was entered by the

Caliph Omar, in the year 637. After the defeats of

Aiziradin and Yermuk, Heraclius lost all hopes of

defending Syria*. He abandoned the remaining un-

conquered part of the province in the year 638; and

Aleppo, Antioch, and finally Cesarea, with the rest

of Syria, fell in a short time into the hands of the

victorious Moslems. The place of the first conquerors

was supplied by a new generation, and the Saracens,

between the years 639 and 655, passed Mount Taurus,

and subdued Cilicia with its capital Tarsus. They

afterwards crossed a second ridge of the same moun­

tains, and extended the flames of war as far as the

shores of the Euxine and the neighbourhood of Con­

stantinople. To the east they advanced to the sources

of the Tigris and Euphrates; subdued Edessa and

Amida, Dara, Nisibis, and the whole of that country

which for so long a period had been the disputed

barrier of Rome and Persia. Masters of Syria, they

employed the forest of Libanus, and the mariners

of Phenicia, in the construction of a powerful navy,

*In the Geography of Abulfeda, the description of Syria, his native country, is  
the most interesting and authentic portion. Among the modern travels, Pocock's

description of the East, of Syria, and Mesopotamia, is a work of superior
learning

and dignity.

