OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 437

birthplace of the caliph Motassem, whose father chap.

Harun was attended in peace or war by the most'

favourite of his wives and concubines. The revolt

of a Persian impostor employed at that moment the

arms of the Saracen, and he could only intercede in

favour of a place, for which he felt and acknowledged

some degree of filial affection. These solicitations

determined the emperor to wound his pride in so

sensible a part. Sozopetra was levelled with the

ground,; the Syrian prisoners were marked or mu­

tilated with ignominious cruelty; and a thousand

female captives were forced away from the adjacent

territory. Among those a matron of the house of

Abbas invoked, in an agony of despair, the name of

Motassem; and the insults of the Greeks engaged

the honour of her kinsman to avenge his indignity,

and to answer her appeal. Under the reign of the

two elder brothers, the inheritance of the youngest

had been confined to Anatolia, Armenia, Georgia,

and Circassia; this frontier station had exercised his

military talents; and, among his accidental claims to

the name ofOctonary*, the most meritorious are the

eight battles which he gained or fought against the

enemies of the Koran. In this personal quarrel, the

troops of Irak, Syria, and Egypt, were recruited

from the tribes of Arabia and the Turkish hordes;

his cavalry might be numerous, though we should

deduct some myriads from the hundred and thirty

thousand horses of the royal stables; and the ex­

pense of the armament was computed at four millions

sterling, or one hundred thousand pounds of gold.

From Tarsus, the place of assembly, the Saracens

advanced in three divisions along the high road of

Constantinople. Motassem himself commanded the

centre, and the vanguard was given to his son Abbas,

"He was also the eighth of the Abassides: h* reigned eight years, eiglit

months, and eight days; left eight sons, eight daughters, eight thousand
slaves,

eight millions of gold. . /*

FF3

r

