OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 109

xxxv.

reducing twelve nations to the obedience of Persia. . chap.

The zeal and prudence of Mebodes had fixed the

diadem on the head of Chosroes himself; but he

delayed to attend the royal summons, till he had

performed the duties of a military review: he was

instantly commanded to repair to the iron tripod,

which stood before the gate of the palace*, where it

was death to relieve or approach the victim; and

Mebodes languished several days before his sentence

was pronounced, by the inflexible pride and calm in­

gratitude of the son of Kobad. In the execution of

the laws which he had no temptation to violate; in

the punishment of crimes which attacked his own

dignity, as well as the happiness of individuals; Nu-

shirvan, or Chosroes, deserved the appellation of Just.

His government was firm, rigorous, and impartial.

It was the first labour of his reign to abolish the

dangerous theory of common or equal possessions:

the lands and women which the sectaries of Mazdak

had usurped were restored to their lawful owners;

and the temperate chastisement of the fanatics or

impostors confirmed the domestic rights of society.

Instead of listening with blind confidence to a fa­

vourite minister, he established four viziers over the

four great provinces of his empire, Assyria, Media,

Persia, and Bactriana. In the choice of judges,

praefects, and counsellors, he strove to remove the

mask which is always worn in the presence of kings;

he wished to substitute the natural order of talents

for the accidental distinctions of birth and fortune;

he professed, in specious language, his intention to

prefer those men who carried the poor in their

bosoms, and to banish corruption from the seat of

Justice, as dogs were excluded from the temples of

• Procopius, Persic. 1. i. e. 23. Brisson de Regn. Pers. p. 494. The gate of

the palace of Ispahan is, or was, the fatal scene of disgrace or death
(Chardin,

Voyage en Perse, tom. iv. p. 312, 313).

