OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 277

disappointments had chilled the spirit of the Avars, chap.

and their power would have dissolved away in the XXXVIIL

Sarmatian desert, if the alliance of Alboin, king of the

Lombards, had not given a new object to their arms,

* and a lasting settlement to their wearied fortunes.

While Alboin served under his father's standard, Alboin,

he encountered in battle, and transpierced with his tX!om-

lance, the rival prince of the Gepidae. The Lom- h"tjour

bards, who applauded such early prowess, requested love, and

his father, with unanimous acclamations, that the re"nt,e'

heroic youth who had shared the dangers of the

field might be admitted to the feast of victory. "You

"are not unmindful," replied the inflexible Audoin,

"of the wise customs of our ancestors. Whatever

"may be his merit, a prince is incapable of sitting at

"table with his father till he has received his arms

"from a foreign and royal hand." Alboin bowed

with reverence to the institutions of his country;

selected forty companions, and boldly visited the court

of Turisund king of the Gepidae, who embraced and

entertained, according to the laws of hospitality, the

murderer of his son. At the banquet, whilst Alboin

occupied the seat of the youth whom he had slain, a

tender remembrance arose in the mind of Turisund.

"How dear is that place-r—how hateful is that per-

"son!" were the words that escaped, with a sigh,

from the indignant father. His grief exasperated

the national resentment of the Gepidae; and Cuni-

mund, his surviving son, was provoked^ by wine, or

fraternal affection, to the desire of vengeance. "The

"Lombards," said the rude Barbarian, " resemble,

"in figure and in smell, the mares of our Sarmatian

"plains." And this insult was a coarse allusion to

the white bands which enveloped their legs. "Add

"another resemblance," replied an audacious Lom­

bard; "you have felt how strongly they kick. Visit

*' the plain of Asfeld, and seek for the bones of thy

T 3

