366 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. years, the same coast of the Euxine applauded his

YYYTY •

return from a long and victorious expedition *.

Deliver- Instead of skirmishing on the frontier, the two

Constan- monarchs who disputed the empire of the East aimed

from the their desperate strokes at the heart of their rival.

Persians The military force of Persia was wasted bythe marches

ana Avars, » J

a. d. 626. and combats of twenty years, and many of the vete­

rans, who had survived the perils of the sword and

the climate, were still detained in the fortresses of

Egypt and Syria. But the revenge and ambition of

Chosroes exhausted his kingdom; and the new levies

of subjects, strangers, and slaves, were divided into

three formidable bodies t. The first army of fifty

thousand men, illustrious by the ornament and title

of the golden spears, was destined to march against

Heraclius; the second was stationed to prevent his

junction with the troops of his brother Theodoras;

and the third was commanded to besiege Constan­

tinople, and to second the operations of the chagan,

with whom the Persian king had ratified a treaty of

alliance and partition. Sarbar, the general of the

third army, penetrated through the provinces of Asia

to the well-known camp of Chalcedon, and amused

himself with the destruction of the sacred and pro.

fane buildings of the Asiatic suburbs, while he im­

patiently waited the arrival of his Scythian friends

on the opposite side of the Bosphorus. On the twenty-

ninth of June, thirty thousand Barbarians, the van­

guard of the Avars, forced the long wall, and drove

into the capital a promiscuous crowd of peasants, ci­

tizens, and soldiers. Fourscore thousand of his na­

tive subjects, and of the vassal tribes of Gepidfe, Rus­

sians, Bulgarians, and Sclavonians, advanced under

* George of Pisidia (Bell. Abaricum, 246—265. p. 49.) celebrates with truth  
the persevering courage of the three campaigns (t(ii; iripiSpoftoi/;) against
the Per­

sians.

f Petavius (Annotationes ad Nicephorum, p. 62, 63, 64.) discriminates the

names and actions of five Persian generals who were successively sent against

Heraclius.

