440 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Abbassides, the glory of his family and nation expired.

XL" The character of Theophilus is a rare example in

which religious zeal has allowed, and perhaps magni­

fied, the virtues of a heretic and a persecutor. His

valour was often felt by the enemies, and his justice

by the subjects, of the monarchy; but the valour of

Theophilus was rash and fruitless, and his justice

arbitrary and cruel. He displayed the banner of the

cross against the Saracens; but his five expeditions

were concluded by a signal overthrow; Amorium,

the native city of his ancestors, was levelled with the

ground; and, from his military toils, he derived only

the surname of the Unfortunate. The wisdom of a

sovereign is comprised in the institution of laws and

the choice of magistrates; and, while he seems with­

out action, his civil government revolves round his

centre with the silence and order of the planetary

system. But the justice of Theophilus was fashioned

on the model of the Oriental despots, who, in per­

sonal and irregular acts of authority, consult the rea­

son or passion of the moment, without measuring the

sentence by the law, or the penalty by the offence.

A poor woman threw herself at the emperor's feet to

complain of a powerful neighbour, the brother of the

empress, who had raised his palace wall to such an

inconvenient height, that her humble dwelling was

excluded from light and air! On the proof of the

fact, instead of granting, like an ordinary judge, suf­

ficient or ample damages to the plaintiff, the sove­

reign adjudged to her use and benefit the palace and

the ground. Nor was Theophilus content with this

extravagant satisfaction; his zeal converted a civil

trespass into a criminal act; and the unfortunate

patrician was stripped and scourged in the public

place of Constantinople. For some venial offences,

some defect of equity or vigilance, the principal mi­

nisters, a prefect, a quaestor, a captain of the guards

were banished, or mutilated, or scalded with boiling

