OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 225

jU.

ments. The changes and interpolations of Tribonian chap.

and his colleagues are excused by the pretence of XXXVIT-

uniformity: but their cares have been insufficient,

and the antinomies, or contradictions of the Code

and Pandects, still exercise the patience and subtlety

of modern civilians.

A rumour devoid of evidence has been propagated Loss of the

by the enemies of Justinian; that the jurisprudence JE^V

of ancient Rome was reduced to ashes by the author

of the Pandects, from the vain persuasion, that it was

now either false or superfluous. Without usurping

an office so invidious, the emperor might safely com­

mit to ignorance and time the accomplishment of

this destructive wish. Before the invention of print­

ing and paper, the labour and the materials of writing

could be purchased only by the rich; and it may

reasonably be computed, that the price of books was

a hundred fold their present value. Copies were

slowly multiplied and cautiously renewed: the hopes

of profit tempted the sacrilegious scribes to erase the

characters of antiquity, and Sophocles or Tacitus were

obliged to resign the parchment to missals, homilies,

and the golden legend. If such was the fate of the

most beautiful compositions of genius, what stability

could be expected for the dull and barren works of

an obsolete science? The books of jurisprudence

were interesting to few, and entertaining to none:

their value was connected with present use, and they

sunk for ever as soon as that use was superseded by

the innovations of fashion, superior merit, or public

authority. In the age of peace and learning, between

Cicero and the last of the Antonines, many losses

had been already sustained, and some luminaries of

the school, or forum, were known only to the curious

by tradition and report. Three hundred and sixty

years of disorder and decay accelerated the progress

of oblivion; and it may fairly be presumed, that of

ence.

VOL. IV. d

