OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401

cause of his odious brother; the exiles of every pro- chap.

XL.

vince were assembled in Tauris ; and Bardanes, under

the name of Philippicus, was invested with the purple.

The imperial troops, unwilling and unable to perpe­

trate the revenge of Justinian, escaped his displeasure

by abjuring his allegiance: the fleet, under their new

sovereign, steered back, a more auspicious course,

to the harbours of Sinope and Constantinople; and

every tongue was prompt to pronounce, every hand

to execute, the death of the tyrant. Destitute of

friends, he was deserted by his Barbarian guards ; and

the stroke of the assassin was praised, as an act of

patriotism and Roman virtue. His son Tiberius had

taken refuge in a church: his aged grandmother

guarded the door; and the innocent youth embraced

the altar. But popular fury is deaf to the cries of hu­

manity; and the race of Heraclius was extinguished,

after a reign of one hundred years.

During * the distracted government of the second Conquest

t • • i n • i.-i/*iof Aft'03 l>y

Justinian, the Eastern empire was deprived of thetheSara-

dominion of that part of Africa which had been con- a"d.647—

quered by the arms of the first emperor of that name.709-

In the year 647, the Saracens, by the order of the

caliph Othman, marched from Egypt to the west­

ward, and advanced to the walls of Tripoli, under

the command of Abdallah. The city was courage­

ously defended; and the approach of the prefect

Gregory with a powerful army induced the Saracens

to raise the siege. Several bloody engagements en­

sued, in the last of which Gregory was slain, and

the Saracens were victorious; but their losses, fa­

tigues, and an epidemical disease, prevented them

from making any permanent establishment, and Ab-

* My conquest of Africa is drawn from two French interpreters of Arabic  
literature, Cardonne (Hist. de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne sous la domination
des

Arabcs, tom. i. p. 8—5.')), and Otter (Hist. de I'Academie des Inscriptions,
tom.

xxi. pp. 111 — 125, and 1 3G). They derive their principal information from
No.

vairi, who composed, A. D. 1331, an Encyclopedia, in more than twenty volumes.

VOL. IV. U D

/

