470 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. and more costly workmanship. Among the eolours,

XL1, he celebrates, with affectation of eloquence, the fiery

blaze of the scarlet, and the softer lustre of the green.

The embroidery was raised either in silk or gold: the

more simple ornament of stripes or circles was sur­

passed by the nicer imitation of flowers: the vest­

ments that were fabricated for the palace or the altar

often glittered with precious stones; and the figures

were delineated in strings of oriental pearls. Till the

twelfth century, Greece alone, of all the countries of

Christendom, was possessed of the insect which is

taught by nature, and of the workmen who are in­

structed by art, to prepare this elegant luxury. But

the secret had been stolen by the dexterity and dili­

gence of the Arabs: the caliphs of the East and

West scorned to borrow from the unbelievers their

furniture and apparel: and two cities of Spain, Al-

meria and Lisbon, were famous for the manufacture,

transported the use, and perhaps the exportation, of silk. It was

toTatyT06 first introduced into Sicily by the Normans: and this

emigration of trade distinguishes the victory of Roger

from the uniform and fruitless hostilities of every age.

After the sack of Corinth, Athens, and Thebes, his

lieutenant embarked with a captive train of weavers

and artificers of both sexes, a trophy glorious to their

master and disgraceful to the Greek emperor. The

king of Sicily was not insensible of the value of the

present; and, in the restitution of the prisoners, he

excepted only the male and female manufacturers of

Thebes and Corinth, who labour, says the Byzantine

historian, under a barbarous lord, like the old Ere-

trians in the service of Darius. A stately edifice, in

the palace of Palermo, was erected for, the use of this

industrious colony*; and the art was propagated by

* Hugo Falcandus styles them nobiles ofHcinas. The Arabs had not intro­  
duced silk, though they had planted canes and made sugar in the plain of

Palermo.

