OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. BOB

XLI.

culative systems of antiquity, and a succession of pa- chap.

tient disciples became in their turn the dogmatic'

teachers of the next servile generation. Not a single

composition of history, philosophy, or literature, has

been saved from oblivion by the intrinsic beauties of

style or sentiment, of original fancy, or even of suc­

cessful imitation. In prose, the least offensive of the

Byzantine writers are absolved from censure by their

naked and unpresuming simplicity; but the orators,

most eloquent in their own conceit, are the farthest

removed from the models whom they affect to emu­

late. In every page our taste and reason are wounded

by the choice of gigantic and obsolete words, a stiff

and intricate phraseology, the discord of images, the

childish play of false or unseasonable ornament, and

the painful attempt to elevate themselves, to astonish

the reader, and to involve a trivial meaning in the

smoke of obscurity and exaggeration. Their prose is

soaring to the vicious affectation of poetry: their

poetry is sinking below the flatness and insipidity of

prose. The tragic, epic, and lyric muses, were silent

and inglorious: the bards of Constantinople seldom

rose above a riddle or epigram, a panegyric or tale;

they forgot even the rules of prosody; and with the

melody of Homer yet sounding in their ears, they

confound all measure of feet and syllables in the im­

potent strains which have received the name of-po­

litical or city verses. The minds of the Greeks were

bound in the fetters of a base and imperious super­

stition, which extends her dominion round the circle

of profane science. Their understandings were be­

wildered in metaphysical controversy: in the belief

of visions and miracles they had lost all principles

of moral evidence, and their taste was vitiated by the

homilies of the monks. Even these contemptible

studies were no longer dignified by the abuse of su­

perior talents: the leaders of the Greek church were

VOL. IV. L L

