OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 288

"the maidens of the palace, where a distaff should be chap.

"again placed in the hand of the eunuch." "I will XXXVIIL

** spin her such a thread, as she shall not easily un-  
"ravel!" is said to have been the reply which in­

dignation and conscious virtue extorted from the

hero. Instead of attending, a slave and a victim, at

the gate of the Byzantine palace, he retired to Naples,

from whence (if any credit is due to the belief of the

times) Narses invited the Lombards to chastise the

ingratitude of the prince and people. But the pas­

sions of the people are furious and changeable, and

the Romans soon recollected the merits, or dreaded

the resentment, of their victorious general. By the me­

diation of the pope, who undertook a special pilgrim­

age to Naples, their repentance was accepted; and

Narses, assuming a milder aspect and a more dutiful

language, consented to fix his residence in the Capitol.

His death*, though in the extreme period of old age,

was unseasonable and premature, since his genius

alone could have repaired the last and fatal error of

his life. The reality, or the suspicion of a conspiracy,

disarmed and disunited the Italians. The soldiers

resented the disgrace, and bewailed the loss, of their

general. They were ignorant of their new exarch;

and Longinus was himself ignorant of the state of

the army and the province. In the preceding years

Italy had been desolated by pestilence and famine,

and a disaffected people ascribed the calamities of

nature to the guilt or folly of their rulers f.

Whatever might be the grounds of his security, Conqucstof

Alboin neither expected nor encountered a Roman oMtSyby

the Lom­

bards,

* The death of Narses is mentioned by Paul, 1 . ii. c. II, Anastas. in Vit. A. D. 568  
Julian, in. p. 43, Agnellus, Liber Pontifical. Raven in Script. Rer.
Italicarum, —570.

tom. ii. part i. p. 114.124. Yet I cannot believe with Agnellus that Narses
was

ninety-five years of age: is it probable that all his exploits were performed
at

fourscore?

+ The designs of Narses and of the Lombards for the invasion of Italy are

exposed in the last chapter of the first book, and the seven first chapters of
the

second book of Paul the deacon.

