188 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. favour, as a strange example of the vicissitudes of

XXXVL fortune*.

Death and If the emperor could rejoice in the death of Beli-

justinian, sarius, he enjoyed the base satisfaction only eight

Nov?'i465' months, the last period of a reign of thirty-eight,

and a life of eighty-three years. It would be difficult

to trace the character of a prince who is not the most

conspicuous object of his own times: but the con­

fessions of an enemy may be received as the safest

evidence of his virtues. The resemblance of Jus­

tinian to the bust of Domitian is maliciously urged;

with the acknowledgment, however, of a well-pro­

portioned figure, a ruddy complexion, and a pleasing

countenance. The emperor was easy of access, pa­

tient of hearing, courteous and affable in discourse,

and a master of the angry passions, which rage with

such destructive violence in the breast of a despot.

Procopius praises his temper to reproach him with

calm and deliberate cruelty; but in the conspiracies

which attacked his authority and person, a more can­

did judge will approve the justice or admire the

clemency of Justinian. He excelled in the private

virtues of chastity and temperance. His repasts were

short and frugal: on solemn fasts, he contented him­

self with water and vegetables; and such was his

blindness and beggary of Belisarius in ten vulgar or political verses (Chiliad
iii.

No. 88. 339—348. in Corp. Poet. Grac . tom. ii. p. 311):

Ov TUyrl uik iSo^afflt, atfCT^Xoi -8* 6 <f 0ovOf.

This moral or romantic tale was imported into Italy with the language and
manu­

scripts of Greece; repeated before the end of the xvth century by Crinitus,
Pon-

tanus, and Volaterranus; attacked by Alciat, for the honour of the law; and

defended by Baronius (A. D. 561, No. 2, &&), for the honour of the church.

Yet Tzetzes himself had read in other chronicles, that Belisarius did not lose
his

sight, and that he recovered his fame and fortunes.

* The statue in the villa Borghese at Rome, in a sitting posture, with an open  
hand, which is vulgarly given to Belisarius, may be ascribed with more dignity
to

Augustus in the act of propitiating Nemesis (Winkelman, Hist. de l'Art, tom.
iii.

p. 206). Ex nocturno visu etiam stipem, quotannis, die certo, emendicabat a

populo, cavam manum asses porrigentibus pra;bens (Sueton. in August. c . 91,

with an excellent note of Casaubon).

