OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 471

their children and disciples to satisfy the increasing chap.

demand of the Western world. The decay of the XLI-

looms of Sicily may be ascribed to the troubles of the

island, and the competition of the Italian cities. In

the year thirteen hundred and fourteen, Lucca, alone,

among her sister republics, enjoyed the lucrative mo­

nopoly*. A domestic revolution dispersed the ma­

nufacturers of Florence, Bologna, Venice, Milan, and

even the countries beyond the Alps; and thirteen

years after this event, the statutes of Modena enjoin

the planting of mulberry trees, and regulate the du­

ties on raw silkt. The northern climates are less

propitious to the education of the silk-worm: but the

industry of France and England t is supplied and en­

riched by the productions of Italy and China.

I must repeat the complaint that the vague and Revenue of

scanty memorials of the times will not afford any just empire!*

estimate of the taxes, the revenue, and the resources

of the Greek empire. From every province of Europe

and Asia the rivulets of gold and silver discharged

into the Imperial reservoir a copious and perennial

stream. The separation of the branches from the

trunk increased the relative magnitude of Constan­

tinople; and the maxims of despotism contracted

the state to the capital, the capital to the palace, and

the palace to the royal person. A Jewish traveller,

who visited the East in the twelfth century, is lost in

his admiration of the Byzantine riches. "It is here,"

says Benjamin of Tudela, "in the queen of cities,

"that the tributes of the Greek empire are annually

"deposited, and the lofty towers are filled with pre-

• See the Life of Castruccio Casticani, not by Machiavel, but by his more

authentic biographer Nicholas Tegrimi. Muratori, who has inserted it in the

ninth volume of his Scriptores, quotes this curious passage in his Italian
Anti­

quities (tom. i. dissert. xxv. p. 46—48.).

t From the MS. statutes, as they are quoted by Muratori, in his Italian An­

tiquities (tom. ii. dissert. xxx. p. 46—48.).

5 The broad silk manufacture was established in England in the year 1620

(Anderson's Chronological Deduction, vol. ii. p. 4); but it is to the
revocation

of the edict of Nantes that we owe the Spitalfields colony.

H H i<

