OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. * . 325

defection of those who, in the hour of his distress, chap.

avenged their wrongs, or forgot their obligations. XXXI'

He proudly displayed the ensigns of royalty; but

the city and palace of Modain had already escaped

from the hand of the tyrant. Among the victims of

his cruelty, Bindoes, a Sassanian prince, had been

cast into a dungeon: his fetters were broken by the

zeal and courage of a brother; and he stood before

the king at the head of those trusty guards, who had

been chosen as the ministers of his confinement, and

perhaps of his death. Alarmed by the hasty intrusion

and bold reproaches of the captive, Hormouz looked

round, but in vain, for advice or assistance; discovered

that his strength consisted in the obedience of others,

and patiently yielded to the single arm of Bindoes,

who dragged him from the throne to the same dun­

geon in which he himself had been so lately confined.

At the first tumult, Chosroes, the eldest of the sons

of Hormouz, escaped from the city; he was persuaded

to return by the pressing and friendly invitation of

Bindoes, who promised to seat him on his father's

throne, and who expected to reign under the name

of an inexperienced youth. In the just assurance,

that his accomplice could neither forgive nor hope

to be forgiven, and that every Persian might be

trusted as the judge and enemy of the tyrant, he

instituted a public trial without a precedent and with­

out a copy in the annals of the East. The son of

Nushirvan, who had requested to plead in his own

defence, was introduced as a criminal into the full

assembly of the nobles and satraps*. He was heard

with decent attention as long as he expatiated on the

advantages of order and obedience, the danger of

innovation, and the inevitable discord of those who

had encouraged each other to trample on their lawful

* The Orientals suppose that Bahrain convened this assembly and proclaimed  
Chosroes; but Theophylact is, in this instance, more distinct and credible.

Y 3

