OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 24.5

it is the peculiar praise of the Roman jurisprudence, chap.

that it asserts the claim of the first occupant to the 'm

wild animals of the earth, the air, and the waters.

In the progress from primitive equity to final in*

justice, the steps are silent, the shades are almost im­

perceptible, and the absolute monopoly is guarded by

positive laws and artificial reason. The active in­

satiate principle of self-love can alone supply the arts

of life and the wages of industry; and as soon as civil

government and exclusive property have been in­

troduced, they become necessary to the existence of

the human race. Except in the singular institutions

of Sparta, the wisest legislators have disapproved an

agrarian law as a false and dangerous innovation.

Among the Romans, the enormous disproportion of

wealth surmounted the ideal restraints of a doubtful

tradition, and an obsolete statute; a tradition that

the poorest follower of Romulus had been endowed

with the perpetual inheritance of two jugera; a sta­

tute which confined the richest citizen to the measure

of five hundred jugera, or three hundred and twelve

acres of land. The original territory of Rome con­

sisted only of some miles of wood and meadow along

the banks of the Tyber; and domestic exchange could

add nothing to the national stock. But the goods of

an alien or enemy were lawfully exposed to the first

hostile occupier; the city was enriched by the profit­

able trade of war; and the blood of her sons was the

only price that was paid for the Volscian sheep, the

slaves of Britain, or the gems and gold of Asiatic

kingdoms. In the language of ancient jurisprudence*

which was corrupted and forgotten before the age of

Justinian, these spoils were distinguished by the name

of manceps or mancipium, taken with the hand ; and

whenever they were sold or emancipated, the pur­

chaser required some assurance that they had been

the property of an enemy, and not of a.fellow-citizen.

r3

