256 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. The most simple interest was condemned by the

XXXV11' clergy of the East and West: but the sense of mu­

tual benefit, which had triumphed over the laws of

the republic, has resisted with equal firmness the

decrees of the church, and even the prejudices of

mankind.

injuries. 3. Nature and society impose the strict obligation

of repairing an injury; and the sufferer by private

injustice acquires a personal right and a legitimate

action. If the property of another be intrusted to

our care, the requisite degree of care may rise and

fall according to the benefit which we derive from

such temporary possession; we are seldom made re­

sponsible for inevitable accident, but the conse­

quences of a voluntary fault must always be imputed

to the author*. A Roman pursued and recovered

his stolen goods by a civil action of theft; they might

pass through a succession of pure and innocent hands,

but nothing less than a prescription of thirty years

could extinguish his original claim. They were re­

stored by the sentence of the praetor, and the injury

was compensated by double, or three-fold, or even

quadruple damages, as the deed had been perpetrated

by secret fraud or open rapine, as the robber had

been surprised in the fact or detected by a subsequent

research. The Aquilian law-f defended the living

property of a citizen, his slaves and cattle, from the

stroke of malice or negligence: the highest price

was allowed that could be ascribed to the domestic

animal at any moment of the year preceding his

death; a similar latitude of thirty days was granted

the necessary rules and restrictions are inserted in the Pandects (1. xxii.
tit. i. ii.).

and the Code (1. iv. tit. xxxii. xxxiii.).

• Sir William Jones has given an ingenious and rational Essay on the Law

of Bailment (London, 1781, p. 127, hi 8vo.). He is perhaps the only lawyer

equally conversant with the year-books of Westminster, the Commentaries of

TJlpian, the Attic pleadings of Isaeus, and the sentences of Arabian and
Persian

cadhis.

•f Noodt (Opp. tom. i. p. 137—172) has composed a separate treatise, ad Le­

gem Aquiliam (Pandect. 1. ix. tit. ii.).

