OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 59

Hadrian, at the distance of three miles from each chap.

other. Near the former, the double walls of the Vi- 1,

varium were low or broken; the fortifications of the

latter were feebly guarded: the vigour of the Goths

was excited by the hope of victory and spoil; and if

a single post had given way, the Romans, and Rome

itself, were irrecoverably lost. This perilous day was

the most glorious in the life of Belisarius. Amidst

tumult and dismay, the whole plan of the attack and

defence was distinctly present to his mind; he ob­

served the changes of each instant, weighed every

possible advantage, transported his person to the

scenes of danger, and communicated his spirit in calm

and decisive orders. The contest was fiercely main­

tained from the morning to the evening; the Goths

were repulsed on all sides, and each Roman might

boast, that he had vanquished thirty Barbarians, if the

strange disproportion of numbers were not counter­

balanced by the merit of one man. Thirty thou­

sand Goths, according to the confession of their own

chiefs, perished in this bloody action: and the mul­

titude of the wounded was equal to that of the slain.

When they advanced to the assault, their close dis­

order suffered not a javelin to fall without effect; and

as -they retired, the populace of the city joined the

pursuit, and slaughtered, with impunity, the backs

of their flying enemies. Belisarius instantly sallied His sallies,

from the gates; and while the soldiers chanted his

name and victory, the hostile engines of war were re­

duced to ashes. Such was the loss and consternation

of the Goths, that, from this day, the siege of Rome

degenerated into a tedious and indolent blockade;

and they were incessantly harassed by the Roman

general, who, in frequent skirmishes, destroyed above

five thousand of their bravest troops. Their cavalry

was unpractised in the use of the bow; their archers

served on foot; and this divided force was incapable

r

