242 THE DECLINE AND FALL

XXXVII.

chap. noble matron. In this connexion, the two Antonines,

the best of princes and of men, enjoyed the comforts

of domestic love: the example was imitated by many

citizens impatient of celibacy, but regardful of their

families. If at any time they desired to legitimate

their natural children, the conversion was instantly

performed by the celebration of their nuptials with a

partner whose fruitfulness and fidelity they had al­

ready tried. By this epithet of natural, the offspring

of the concubine were distinguished from the spurious

brood of adultery, prostitution, and incest, to whom

Justinian reluctantly grants the necessary aliments of

life; and these natural children alone were capable

of succeeding to a sixth part of the inheritance of

their reputed father. According to the rigour of

law, bastards were entitled only to the name and

condition of their mother, from whom they might

derive the character of a slave, a stranger, or a citizen.

The outcasts of every family were adopted without

reproach as the children of the state.

The relation of guardian and ward, or in Roman

words, of tutor and pupil, which covers so many titles

of the Institutes and Pandects*, is of a very simple

and uniform nature. The person and property of an

orphan must always be trusted to the custody of some

discreet friend. If the deceased father had not sig­

nified his choice, the agnats, or paternal kindred of

the nearest degree, were compelled to act as the

natural guardians: the Athenians were apprehensive

of exposing the infant to the power of those most

interested in his death; but an axiom of Roman

jurisprudence has pronounced, that the charge of

tutelage should constantly attend the emolument of

succession. If the choice of the father, and the line

of consanguinity, afforded no efficient guardian, the

* See the article of guardians and wards in the Institutes (1. i. tit. xiii—xxvL),  
the Pandects (1. xxvi. xxvii.), and the Code (1. v. tit. xxviii—lxx).

Guardians

and wards.

