138 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

chap. people of savage negroes into the system of civilized

XXXV- society. But the friends of the Roman empire, the

Axumites, or Abyssinians, may be always distin­

guished from the original natives of Africa. The

hand of nature has flattened the noses of the negroes,

covered their heads with shaggy wool, and tinged

their skin with inherent and indelible blackness. But

the olive complexion of the Abyssinians, their hair,

shape, and features, distinctly mark them as a colony

of Arabs; and this descent is confirmed by the re­

semblance of language and manners, the report of an

ancient emigration, and the narrow interval between

the shores of the Red Sea. Christianity had raised

that nation above the level of African barbarism;

their intercourse with Egypt, and the successors of

Constantine*, had communicated the rudiments of

the arts and sciences; their vessels traded to the isle

of Ceylon, and seven kingdoms obeyed the Negus or

supreme prince of Abyssinia. The independence of

the Homerites, who reigned in the rich and happy

Arabia, was first violated by an ^Ethiopian conqueror;

he drew his hereditary claim from the queen of Sheba,

and his ambition was sanctified by religious zeal. The

Jews, powerful and active in exile, had seduced the

mind of Dunaan, prince of the Homerites. They

urged him to retaliate the persecution inflicted by the

Imperial laws on their unfortunate brethren: some

Roman merchants were injuriously treated; and se­

veral Christians of Negra were honoured with the

crown of martyrdom. The churches of Arabia im­

plored the protection of the Abyssinian monarch.

The Negus passed the Red Sea with a fleet and

army, deprived the Jewish proselyte of his kingdom

and life, and extinguished a race of princes, who had

* The negotiations of Justinian with the Axumites, 01 Ethiopians, are recorded  
by Procopius (Persic. 1. i. c. 19, 20.) and John Malala (tom. ii. p. 163—165.
193

—196). The historian of Antioch quotes the original narrative of the
ambassador

Nonnosus, of which Photius (Bibliot. cod. iii.) has preserved a curious
extract.

