OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 285

emperor Justin the rapid and irretrievable loss of his chap.

YY YVITI

provinces and cities*. One city, which had been''

diligently fortified by the Goths, resisted the arms of

a new invader; and while Italy was subdued by the

flying detachments of the Lombards, the royal camp

was fixed above three years before the western gate

of Ticinum, or Pavia. The same courage which ob­

tains the esteem of a civilized enemy provokes the

fury of a savage; and the impatient besieger had

bound himself by a tremendous oath, that age, and

sex, and dignity, should be confounded in a general

massacre. The aid of famine at length enabled him

to execute his bloody vow; but as Alboin entered

the gate, his horse stumbled, fell, and could not be

raised from the ground. One of his attendants was

prompted by compassion, or piety, to interpret this

miraculous sign of the wrath of Heaven: the con­

queror paused and relented; he sheathed his sword,

and, peacefully reposing himself in the palace of

Theodoric, proclaimed to the trembling multitude

that they should live and obey. Delighted with the

situation of a city, which was endeared to his pride

by the difficulty of the purchase, the prince of the

Lombards disdained the ancient glories of Milan;

and Pavia, during some ages, was respected as the

capital of the kingdom of Italy t.

The reign of the founder was splendid and tran- Alboin is

sient; and before he could regulate his new con- by^swife

quests, Alboin fell a sacrifice to domestic treason and ""iTIs?:!'

female revenge. In a place near Verona, which had June 28.

not been erected for the Barbarians, he feasted the

* Paul has given a description of Italy, as it was then divided, into eighteen  
regions (1. ii. c. 14—24). The Dissertatio Chorographica de Italia Medii jEvi,

by Father Beretti, a Benedictine monk, and regius professor at Pavia, has been

usefully consulted.

•f- For the conquest of Italy, see the original materials of Paul (1. ii. c.
7—10.

12. 14. 25, 20, 27), the eloquent narrative of Sigonius (tom. ii. de Regno
Italics,

I. i. p. 13—19), and the correct and critical review of Muratori (Annali
d'ltalia,

tom. v. p. 104—180).

