OK THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 305

permitted to bestow, with her hand, the sceptre of chap.

the Italian kingdom. xxxviii.

From this fact, as well as from similar events *, it Govern,

is certain that the Lombards possessed freedom toment"

elect their sovereign, and sense to decline the fre­

quent use of that dangerous privilege. The public

revenue arose from the produce of land, and the

profits of justice. When the independent dukes

agreed that Autharis should ascend the throne of

his father, they endowed the regal office with a fair

moiety of their respective domains. The proudest

nobles aspired to the honours of servitude near the

person of their prince: he rewarded the fidelity of

his vassals by the precarious gift of pensions and

benefices; and atoned for the injuries of war, by the

rich foundation of monasteries and churches. In

peace a judge, a leader in war, he never usurped the

powers of a sole and absolute legislator. The king

of Italy convened the national assemblies in the

palace, or more probably in the fields, of Pavia: his

great council was composed of the persons most

eminent by their birth and dignities; but the va­

lidity, as well as the execution of their decrees, de­

pended on the approbation of the faithful people, the

fortunate army of the Lombards. About fourscore Laws,

years after the conquest of Italy, their traditional £*CD: 643,

customs were transcribed in Teutonic Latin, and

ratified by the consent of the prince and people;

some new regulations were introduced, more suitable

to their present condition; the example of Rotharis

was imitated by the wisest of his successors, and the

laws of the Lombards have been esteemed the least

imperfect of the Barbaric codes. Secure by their

courage in the possession of liberty, these rude and

hasty legislators were incapable of balancing the

* Paul, 1. iii. c. 16. The first dissertations of Muratori, and the first volume  
of Giannone's history, may be consulted for the state of the kingdom of Italy.

VOL. IV. X

