OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

The princes of the nations of the North, says chap.

Constantine, without faith or fame, were ambitious, xu'

of mingling their blood with the blood of the Caesars, Marriage of

by their marriage with a royal virgin, or by the nup- with fordg'n

tials of their daughters with a Roman prince. The nations'

aged monarch, in his instructions to his son, reveals

the secret maxims of policy and pride; and suggests

the most decent reasons for refusing these insolent

and unreasonable demands. Every animal, says the

discreet emperor, is prompted by nature to seek a

mate among the animals of his own species; and the

human species is divided into various tribes, by the

distinction of language, religion, and manners. A

just regard to the purity of descent preserves the har­

mony of public and private life; but the mixture of

foreign blood is the fruitful source of disorder and dis­

cord. Such had ever been the opinion and practice of

the sage Romans: their jurisprudence proscribed the

marriageof a citizen and a stranger: in the days of free­

dom and virtue, a senator would have scorned to match

his daughter with a king: the glory of Mark Antony

was sullied by an Egyptian wife; and the emperor

Titus was compelled, by popular censure, to dismiss

with reluctance the reluctant Berenice. This perpe­

tual interdict was ratified by the fabulous sanction of

the great Constantine. The ambassadors of the na­

tions, more especially of the unbelieving nations,

were solemnly admonished, that such strange alliances

had been condemned by the founder of the church

and city. The irrevocable law was inscribed on the

altar of St. Sophia; and the impious prince who

should stain the majesty of the purple was excluded imaginil

from the civil and ecclesiastical communion of thelaw °.f Con-

Romans. If the ambassadors were instructed by any

false brethren in the Byzantine history, they might

produce three memorable examples of the violation

i i2

/•

•'

