258 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. command of a single man. The twelve tables afford

xxxvnV a more decisive proof of the national spirit, since

severity of they were framed by the wisest of the senate, and

!abierive accepted by the free voices of the people; yet these

laws, like the statutes of Draco*, are written in cha-.

racters of bloodt. The decemvirs distributed with

much liberality the slighter chastisements of flagella­

tion and servitude; and nine crimes of a very dif­

ferent complexion are adjudged worthy of death.

1. Any act of treason against the state, or of cor­

respondence with the public enemy. The mode of

execution was painful and ignominious; the head of

the degenerate Roman was shrouded in a veil, his

hands were tied behind his back, and, after he had

been scourged by the lictor, he was suspended in the

midst of the forum on a cross, or inauspicious tree.

2. Nocturnal meetings in the city; whatever might

be the pretence, of pleasure, or religion, or the pub­

lic good. 3. The murder of a citizen; for which

the common feelings of mankind demand the blood

of the murderer. Poison is still more odious than

the sword or dagger; and we are surprised to dis­

cover, in two flagitious events, how early such

subtle wickedness had infected the simplicity of the

republic, and the chaste virtues of the Roman ma­

trons $. The parricide who violated the duties of

nature and gratitude was cast into the river or the

sea, inclosed in a sack; and a cock, a viper, a dog,

and a monkey, were successively added as the most

suitable companions. Italy produces no monkies;

* The age of Draco (Olympiad xxxix. 1) is fixed by Sir John Marsham  
(Canon Chronicus, p. 593—596) and Corsini (Fasti Attici, tom. iii. p. G2). For

his laws, see the writers on the government of Athens, Sigonius, Meursius,

Potter, &c.

+ The viiith, de delictis, of the xii tables is delineated by Gravina (Opp. p.

292, 293, with a commentary, p. 214—230).

% Livy mentions two remarkable and flagitious acras, of 3000 persons accused,

and of 190 noble matrons convicted, of the crime of poisoning (xl. 43. viii.
18).

