OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 199

CHAP. XXXVII.

Idea of the Roman Jurisprudence.—The Laws of the Kings.

—The Twelve Tables of the Decemvirs. —The Laws of

the People.—The Decrees of the Senate.—The Edicts of

the Magistrates and Emperors. — AutJiority of the Ci­

vilians.—Code, Pandects, Novels, and Institutes of Jus­

tinian :—I. Rights of Persons.—II. Rights of Things.

—III. Private Injuries and Actions.—IV. Crimes and

Punishments.

The vain titles of the victories of Justinian are chap.

crumbled into dust: but the name of the legislator XXXVIL

is inscribed on a fair and everlasting monument. The civil or

Under his reign, and by his care, the civil jurispru- Roman law-

dence was digested in the immortal works of the

Code, the Pandects, and the Institutes *: the

public reason of the Romans has been silently or

studiously transfused into the domestic institutions

of Europe t, and the laws of Justinian still command

the respect or obedience of independent nations.

Wise or fortunate is the prince who connects his

own reputation with the honour and interest of a

perpetual order of men. The defence of their

founder is the first cause, which in every age has

exercised the zeal and industry of the civilians.

* The civilians of the darker ages have established an absurd and incompre­  
hensible mode of quotation, which is supported by authority and custom. In

their references to the Code, the Pandects, and the Institutes, they mention
the

number, not of the book, but only of the law; and content themselves with re^

citing the first words of the title to which it belongs; and of these titles
there are

more than a thousand. Ludewig (Vit . Justiniani, p. 268) wishes to shake off

this pedantic yoke; and I have dared to adopt the simple and rational method
of

numbering the book, the title, and the law.

•f Germany, Bohemia, Hungary, Poland, and Scotland, have received them as

common law or reason; in France, Italy, &c. they possess a direct or indirect

influence; and they were respected in England, from Stephen to Edward I. our

national Justinian (Duck, de Usit et Auctoritate Juris Civilis, 1. ii. c. 1.
8—15.

Heineccius, Hist. Juris Germanici, c. 3,4- No. 55—124. and the legal
historians

of each country).

o 4

