OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 295

years, and lie reigned above twenty years over the chap.

East and over himself*; expelling from his mind the xxxvm-

wild democracy of passions, and establishing (accord­

ing to the quaint expression of Evagrius) a perfect

aristocracy of reason and virtue. Some suspicion will

degrade the testimony of a subject, though he pro­

tests that his secret praise should never reach the ear

of his sovereign, and some failings seem to place the

character of Maurice below the purer merit of his

predecessor. His cold and reserved demeanour might

be imputed to arrogance; his justice was not always

exempt from cruelty, nor his clemency from weak­

ness; and his rigid economy too often exposed him

to the reproach of avarice. But the rational wishes

of an absolute monarch must tend to the happiness of

his people; Maurice was endowed with sense and

courage to promote that happiness, and his admini­

stration was directed by the principles and example of

Tiberius. The pusillanimity of the Greeks had in­

troduced so complete a separation between the offices

of king and of general, that a private soldier who had

deserved and obtained the purple seldom or never

appeared at the head of his armies. Yet the emperor

Maurice enjoyed the glory of restoring the Persian

monarch to his throne: his lieutenants waged a

doubtful war against the Avars of the Danube, and he

cast an eye of pity, of ineffectual pity, on the abject

and distressful state of his Italian provinces.

From Italy the emperors were incessantly tor- Distress of

mented by tales of misery and demands of succour, Italy-

which extorted the humiliating confession of their own

weakness. The expiring dignity of Rome was only

marked by the freedom and energy of her complaints:

"If you are incapable," she said, "of delivering us

• Consult, for the character and reign of Maurice, the fifth and sixth books
of

Evagrius, particularly 1. vi. c. 1; the eight books of his prolix and florid
history

by Theopliylact Simocatta. Theophanes, p. 213, &c. Zonaras, tom. ii. 1. xiv.

p. 73. Cedrenus, p. 394.

U 4

