212 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. stood prepared for combat before the tribunal of the

xxxvh. pra2tor. Jie commanded them to produce the object

of the dispute; they went, they returned with mea­

sured steps, and a clod of earth was cast at his feet

to represent the field for which they contended. This

occult science of the words and actions of law was

the inheritance of the pontiffs and patricians. Like

the Chaldean astrologers, they announced to their

clients the days of business and repose: these im­

portant trifles were interwoven with the religion of

Numa; and, after the publication of the twelve

tables, the Roman people was still enslaved by the

ignorance of judicial proceedings. The treachery of

some plebeian officers at length revealed the profitable

mystery: in a more enlightened age, the legal actions

were derided and observed; and the same antiquity

which sanctified the practice, obliterated the use and

meaning, of this primitive language,

of thecal ^ more liberal art was cultivated, however, by the

lawyers. sages of Rome, who, in a stricter sense, may be con­

sidered, as the authors of the civil law. The altera­

tion of the idiom and manners of the Romans ren­

dered the style of the twelve tables less familiar to

each rising generation, and the doubtful passages

were imperfectly explained by the study of legal an­

tiquarians. To define the ambiguities, to circum­

scribe the latitude, to apply the principles, to extend

the consequences, to reconcile the real or apparent

contradictions, was a much nobler and more import­

ant task; and the province of legislation was silently

invaded by the expounders of ancient statutes. Their

subtle interpretations concurred with the equity of

the prator, to reform the tyranny of the darker ages:

however strange or intricate the means, it was the

aim of artificial jurisprudence to restore the simple

dictates of nature and reason, and the skill of private

citizens was usefully employed to undermine the

