OF THE ROMAN EMriRE. 331

mercenary friendship of the Roman prince had been chap.

purchased with costly and important gifts: the strong _

cities of Martyropolis and Dara were restored, and

the Persarmenians became the willing subjects of an

empire, whose eastern limit was extended, beyond

the example of former times, as far as the banks of

the Araxes and the neighbourhood of the Caspian *.

While the majesty of the Roman name was revived Pride, po-

in the East, the prospect of Europe is less pleasing po£erof the

and less glorious. By the departure of the Lom- |j!*?nof

bards, and the ruin of the Gepidae, the balance of a. d. 570

power was destroyed on the Danube; and the Avars

spread their permanent dominion from the foot of

the Alps to the sea-coast of the Euxine. The reign

of Baian is the brightest aera of their monarchy;

their chagan, who occupied the rustic palace of

Attila, appears to have imitated his character and

policy f; but as the same scenes were repeated in a

smaller circle, a minute representation of the copy

would be devoid of the greatness and novelty of the

original. The pride of the second Justin, of Ti­

berius, and Maurice, was humbled by a proud Bar­

barian, more prompt to inflict, than exposed to

suffer, the injuries of war; and as often as Asia was

threatened by the Persian arms, Europe was op­

pressed by the dangerous inroads, or costly friend­

ship, of the Avars. When the Roman envoys ap­

proached the presence of the chagan, they were

commanded to wait at the door of his tent, till, at

the end perhaps of ten or twelve days, he conde­

scended to admit them. If the substance or the

style of their message was offensive to his ear, he in-

* The whole series of the tyranny of Hormouz, the revolt of Bahrain, and the  
flight and restoration of Chosroes, is related by two contemporary Greets—more

concisely by Evagrius (L vi. c. 16, 17, 18, 19)—and most diffusely by Theo.

phylact Simocatta (1. iii. c. 6—18. 1. iv. c. 1—16. 1. v. c . 1—15);
succeeding

compilers, Zonaras and Cedrenus, can only transcribe and abridge.

f A general idea of the pride and power of the chagan may be taken from

Menander (Excerpt. Legat. p. 117, &c.) and Theophylact (1. i. c. 3.1. vii. c.
15),

whose eight books are much more honourable to the Avar than to the Roman

prince.

