OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 149

portant conquest of Ravenna, Florence and Rome, chap.

and marched through the heart of Italy, to form the XXXVI-

siege, or rather blockade, of Naples. The Roman

chiefs, imprisoned in their respective cities, and ac­

cusing each other of the common disgrace, did not

presume to disturb his enterprise. But the emperor,

alarmed by the distress and danger of his Italian

conquests, despatched to the relief of Naples a fleet

of galleys and a body of Thracian and Armenian sol­

diers. They landed in Sicily, which yielded its co­

pious stores of provisions; but the delays of the new

commander, an unwarlike magistrate, protracted the

sufferings of the besieged; and the succours, which

he dropt with a timid and tardy hand, were succes­

sively intercepted by the armed vessels stationed by

Totila in the bay of Naples. The principal officer of

the Romans was dragged, with a rope round his neck,

to the foot of the wall, from whence, with a trembling

voice, he exhorted the citizens to implore, like him­

self, the mercy of the conqueror. They requested a

truce, with a promise of surrendering the city, if no

effectual relief should appear at the end of thirty

days. Instead of one month, the audacious Barbarian

granted them three, in the just confidence that famine

would anticipate the term of their capitulation. After

the reduction of Naples and Cumae, the provinces of

Lucania, Apulia, and Calabria, submitted to the king

of the Goths. Totila led his army to the gates of

Rome, pitched his camp at Tibur, or Tivoli, within

twenty miles of the capital, and calmly exhorted the

senate and people to compare the tyranny of the

Greeks with the blessings of the Gothic reign.

The rapid success of Totila maybe partly ascribed Contrast of

to the revolution which three years, experience had virtue?1

produced in the sentiments of the Italians. At the

command, or at least in the name, of a Catholic em­

peror, the pope, their spiritual father, had been torn

l 3

