350 THE DECLINE AND FALL

citap. an independent standard at Hierapolis in Syria: he

j was betrayed by fallacious promises, and burnt alive

in the market-place of Constantinople. Deprived of

the only chief whom they could fear or esteem, the

bands which he had led to victory were twice broken

by the cavalry, trampled by the elephants, and pierced

by the arrows of the Barbarians; and a great number

of the captives were beheaded on the field of battle

by the sentence of the victor, who might justly con­

demn these seditious mercenaries as the authors or

accomplices of the death of Maurice. Under the

reign of Phocas, the fortifications of Merdin, Dara,

Amida, and Edessa, were successively besieged, re-

His con- duced, and destroyed, by the Persian monarch: he

Syri£of passed the Euphrates, occupied the Syrian cities,

a. d. en; Hierapolis, Chalchis, and Berrlnea or Aleppo, and

soon encompassed the walls of Antioch with his irre­

sistible arms. The rapid tide of success discloses

the decay of the empire, the incapacity of Phocas,

and the disaffection of his subjects; and Chosroes

provided a decent apology for their submission or

revolt, by an impostor who attended his camp, as the

son of Maurice* and the lawful heir of the mon­

archy.

The first intelligence from the East which He-

raclius received f was that of the loss of Antioch; but

the aged metropolis, so often overturned by earth­

quakes and pillaged by the enemy, could supply but

a small and languid stream of treasure and blood.

* The Persian historians have been themselves deceived; but Theophanes  
(p. 244) accuses Chosroes of the fraud and falsehood; and Eutychius believes

(Annal. tom. ii. p. 211) that the son of Maurice, who was saved from the as­

sassins, lived and died a monk on mount Sinai.

+ Eutychius dates all the losses of the empire under the reign of Phocas, an

error which saves the honour of Heraclius, whom he brings not from Carthage,

but Salonica, with a fleet laden with vegetables for the relief of
Constantinople

(Annal. tom. ii. p. 223, 224). The other Christians of the East, Barhebrsus

(apud Asseman, Bibliothec. Oriental, tom. iii. p. 412, 413), Elmacin (Hist.
Sa­

racen, p. 13—16), Abulpharagius (Dynast . p. 98, 99), are more sincere and ac­

curate. The years of the Persian war. are disposed in the chronology of Pagi.

