OF tfHE ROMAN EMPIRE. 411

after a siege of thirteen months *, the hopeless Mos- chap.

lemah received from the caliph the welcome permis- XL'

sion of retreat. The march of the Arabian cavalry Failure and

over the Hellespont, and through the provinces of s^acens.

Asia, was executed without delay or molestation;

but an army of their brethren had been cut in pieces

on the side of Bithynia; and the remains of the fleet

was so repeatedly damaged, by tempest and fire, that

only five galleys entered the port of Alexandria, to

relate the tale of their various and almost incredible

disasters t.

In the two sieges, the deliverance of Constan- invention

tinople may be chiefly ascribed to the novelty, the ter- ^e Greek

rors, and the eflicacy of the Greek fire J. The im- fire*

portant secret of compounding and directing the arti­

ficial flame was imparted by Callinicus, a native of

Heliopolis in Syria, who deserted from the service of

the caliph to that of the emperor §. The skill of a

chemist and engineer was equivalent to the succour

of fleets and armies; and this discovery, or improve­

ment, of the military art, was fortunately reserved

for the distressful period when the degenerate Ro­

mans of the East were incapable of contending with

the warlike enthusiasm and youthful vigour of the

Saracens. The historian who presumes to analyse

this extraordinary composition should suspect his

• Both Nicephorus and Theophanes agree that the siege of Constantinople was

raised on the 15th of August, A. D. 718.

"f In the second siege of Constantinople, I have followed Nicephorus (Brev.

p. 33—36), Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 324—334), Cedrenus (Compend.

p. 449—452), Zonaras (tom. ii. p. 98—102), Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 88),

Abulfeda (Annal. Moslem, p. 126), and Abulpharagius (Dynast, p. 130), the

most satisfactory of the Arabs.

$ Our sure and indefatigable guide, in the middle ages and Byzantine history,

Charles du Fresne du Cange, has treated in several places of the Greek fire,
and

bis collections leave few gleanings behind. See particularly, Glossar. Med. et
Infin,

Graecitat. p. 1275. sub voce Tlup Qothatrc-iav, vypn,. Glossar. Med. et Infin.
La-

tinitat. Ignis Graecus; Observations sur Villehardouin, p. 305, 306 ;
Observations

sur Joinville, p. 71, 72.

§ Theophanes styles him spyiTixren, (p. 295). Cedrenus (p. 437) brings

thiB artist from the ruins of Heliopolis, in Egypt; and chemistry was, indeed,
the

peculiar science of the Egyptians.

