OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 39

"of all the provinces which you unjustly withhold chap.

"from their lawful sovereign." A nation of two XXXIV-

hundred thousand soldiers might have smiled at the

vain menace of Justinian and his lieutenant; but a

spirit of discord and disaffection prevailed in Italy,

and the Goths supported, with reluctance, the in­

dignity of a female reign *.

The birth of Amalasontha, the regent and queen Government

of Italy t, united the two most illustrious families of Amail"n-

the Barbarians. Her mother, the sister of Clovis, *";Aueen

''of Italy,

was descended from the long-haired kings of theAD-&22

Merovingian race; and the regal succession of the

Amali was illustrated, in the eleventh generation, by

her father, the great Theodoric, whose merit might

have ennobled a plebeian origin. The sex of his

daughter excluded her from the Gothic throne; but

his vigilant tenderness for his family and his people

discovered the last heir of the royal line, whose an­

cestors had taken refuge in Spain; and the fortunate

Eutharic was suddenly exalted to the rank of a con­

sul and a prince. He enjoyed only a short time the

charms of Amalasontha, and the hopes of the succes­

sion; and his widow, after the death of her husband

and father, was left the guardian of her son Atha-

laric, and the kingdom of Italy. At the age of about

twenty-eight years, the endowments of her mind and

person had attained their perfect maturity. Her

beauty, which, in the apprehension of Theodora her­

self, might have disputed the conquest of an emperor,

was animated by manly sense, activity, and resolution.

Education and experience had cultivated her talents;

her philosophic studies were exempt from vanity;

and, though she expressed herself with equal elegance

* Compare the different passages of Procopius (Vandal. 1. ii. c. 5. Gothic.  
1. i. c . 3).

•T For the reign and character of Amalasontha, see Procopius (Gothic. 1. i.

c. 2, 3, 4, and Anecdot. c . 10. with the Notes of Alemannus), Cassiodorius

(Var. vii. ix. x. and xi. 1), and Jornandes (de Rebus Geticis, c. 59. and Do

Succesione Regnoruui, in Muralori, tom. i. p. 241).

/-

I

D 4

