218 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. famous sects of the Proculians and Sabinians. Two

xxxvii. sages 0f ^e laW, Ateius Capito and Antistius Labeo,

adorned the peace of the Augustan age: the former

distinguished by the favour of his sovereign; the lat足

ter more illustrious by his contempt of that favour,

and his stern though harmless opposition to the tyrant

of Rome. Their legal studies were influenced by the

various colours of their temper and principles. Labeo

was attached to the form of the old republic; his

rival embraced the more profitable substance of the

rising monarchy. But the disposition of a courtier

is tame and submissive; and Capito seldom presumed

to deviate from the sentiments, or at least from the

words, of his predecessors: while the bold republican

pursued his independent ideas without fear of paradox

or innovations. The freedom of Labeo was enslaved,

however, by the rigour of his own conclusions; and he

decided, according to the letter of the law, the same

questions which his indulgent competitor resolved

with a latitude of equity more suitable to the common

sense and feelings of mankind. If a fair exchange

had been substituted to the payment of money, Capito

still considered the transaction as a legal sale; and he

consulted nature for, the age of puberty, without con足

fining his definition to the precise period of twelve or

fourteen years. This opposition of sentiments was

propagated in the writings and lessons of the two

founders; the schools of Capito and Labeo maintained

their inveterate conflict from the age of Augustus to

that of Hadrian; and the two sects derived their ap足

pellations from Sabinus and Proculus, their most cele足

brated teachers. The names of Cassiatis and Pega-

sians were likewise applied to the same parties; but,

by a strange reverse, the popular cause was in the

hands of Pegasus, a timid slave of Domitian, while

the favourite of the Caesars was represented by Cassius,

who gloried in his descent from the patriot assassin.

