THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. contained, since the time of Hadrian, in the Grego-

XXVI' rian, Hermogenian, and Theodosian codes; to purge

the errors and contradictions, to retrench whatever

was obsolete or superfluous, and to select the wise

and salutary laws best adapted to the practice of the

tribunals and the use of his subjects. The work was

accomplished in fourteen months; and the twelve

books or tables, which the new decemvirs produced,

might be designed to imitate the labours of their

Roman predecessors. The new code of Justinian

was honoured with his name, and confirmed by his

royal signature: authentic transcripts were multi­

plied by the pens of notaries and scribes; they were

transmitted to the magistrates of the European, the

The Pan- Asiatic, and afterwards the African provirices: and

dccts or

Digest, the law of the empire was proclaimed on solemn fes-

Dec. is; ' tivals at the doors of churches. A more arduous

a. d. 533, operation was still behind: to extract the spirit of

jurisprudence from the decisions and conjectures, the

questions and disputes, of the Roman civilians. Se­

venteen lawyers, with Tribonian at their head, were

appointed by the emperor to exercise an absolute ju­

risdiction over the works of their predecessors. If

they had obeyed his commands in ten years, Justinian

would have been satisfied with their diligence; and

the rapid composition of the digest or pandects,

in three years, will deserve praise or censure, accord­

ing to the merit of the execution. From the library

of Tribonian, they chose forty, the most eminent

civilians of former times: two thousand treatises

were comprised in an abridgment of fifty books; and

it has been carefully recorded, that three millions of

lines, or sentences, were reduced, in this abstract, to

the moderate number of one hundred and fifty thou­

sand. The edition of this great work was delayed a

month after that of the institutes; and it seemed

reasonable that the elements should precede the digest

