OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 135

ments of rage and despair the Colchians would have chap.

sacrificed their country and religion to the gratifica- _

tion of revenge. But the authority and eloquence of

the wiser few obtained a salutary pause: the victory

of the Phasis restored the terror of the Roman arms,

and the emperor was solicitous to absolve his own

name from the imputation of so foul a murder. A

judge of senatorial rank was commissioned to inquire

into the conduct and death of the king of the Lazi.

He ascended a stately tribunal, encompassed by the

ministers of justice and punishment: in the presence

of both nations, this extraordinary cause was pleaded,

according to the forms of civil jurisprudence, and

some satisfaction was granted to an injured people, by

the sentence and execution of the meaner criminals.

In peace, the king of Persia continually sought the Negotia-

pretences of a rupture; but no sooner had he taken treaties

up arms, than he expressed his desire of a safe and ^u^n^n

honourable treaty. During the fiercest hostilities, and Ch°s-

the two monarchs entertained a deceitful negotiation; a. d. 540

and such was the superiority of Chosroes, that whilst—S61"

he treated the Roman ministers with insolence and

contempt, he obtained the most unprecedented ho­

nours for his own ambassadors at the Imperial court.

The successor of Cyrus assumed the majesty of the

Eastern sun, and graciously permitted his younger

brother Justinian to reign over the West, with the

pale and reflected splendour of the moon. This gi­

gantic style was supported by the pomp and eloquence

of Isdigune, one of the royal chamberlains. His wife

and daughters, with a train of eunuchs and camels,

attended the march of the ambassador: two satraps

with golden diadems were numbered among his fol­

lowers: he was guarded by five hundred horse, the

most valiant of the Persians; and the Roman go­

vernor of Dara wisely refused to admit more than

twenty of this martial and hostile caravan. When

k 4

