36 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXIV.

annexed to the Roman empire. The Moorish war

continued several years after the departure of Beli-

sarius; but the laurels which he resigned to a faith­

ful lieutenant may be justly ascribed to his own

triumph.

The experience of past faults, which may some­

times correct the mature age of an individual, is

seldom profitable to the successive generations of

mankind. The nations of antiquity, careless of each

other's safety, were separately vanquished and en­

slaved by the Romans. This awful lesson might have

instructed the Barbarians of the West to oppose, with

timely counsels and confederate arms, the unbounded

ambition of Justinian. Yet the same error was re­

peated, the same consequences were felt, and the

Goths, both of Italy and Spain, insensible of their

approaching danger, beheld with indifference, and

even with joy, the rapid downfal of the Vandals.

After the failure of the royal line, Theudes, a valiant

and powerful chief, ascended the throne of Spain,

which he had formerly administered in the name of

Theodoric and his infant grandson. Under his com­

mand, the Visigoths besieged the fortress of Ceuta

on the African coast: but, while they spent the sab­

bath-day in peace and devotion, the pious security of

their camp was invaded by a sally from the town;

and the king himself, with some difficulty and danger,

escaped from the hands of a sacrilegious enemy*. It

was not long before his pride and resentment were

gratified by a suppliant embassy from the unfortunate

Gelimer, who implored, in his distress, the aid of the

Spanish monarch. But instead of sacrificing these

unworthy passions to the dictates of generosity and

prudence, Theudes amused the ambassadors, till he

Neutrality

of the Vi­

sigoths.

* Isidor. Chron. p. 722. edit. Grot. Mariana, Hist. Hispan. 1. v. c. 8. p. 173.  
Yet according to Isidore, the siege of Ceuta, and the death of Theudes, hap­

pened, A. JE. H. 586, A. ]). 348; and the place was defended, not by the Van­

dals, but by the Romans.

