OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 415

XL.

plebeian from the last to the first rank of society sup- chap.

poses some qualifications above the level of the mul- ^

titude. He would probably be ignorant and dis­

dainful of speculative science; and, in the pursuit of

fortune, he might absolve himself from the obliga­

tions of benevolence and justice; but to his character

we may ascribe the useful virtues of prudence and

fortitude, the knowledge of mankind, and the im­

portant art of gaining their confidence, and directing

their passions. It is agreed that Leo was a native

of Isauria, and that Conon was his primitive name.

The writers, whose awkward satire is praise, describe

him as an itinerant pedlar, who drove an ass with

some paltry merchandize to the country fairs; and

foolishly relate, that he met on the road some Jewish

fortune-tellers, who promised him the Roman empire

on condition that he would abolish the worship of

idols. A more probable account relates the migra­

tion of his father from Asia Minor to Thrace, where

he exercised the lucrative trade of a grazier; and he

must have acquired considerable wealth, since the first

introduction of his son was procured by a supply of

five hundred sheep to the Imperial camp. His first

service was in the guards of Justinian, where he soon

attracted the notice, and by degrees the jealousy of

the tyrant. His valour and dexterity were conspi­

cuous in the Colchian war: from Anastasius he re­

ceived the command of the Anatolian legions, and by

the suffrage of the soldiers he was raised to the em­

pire, with the general applause of the Roman world.

2. In this dangerous elevation, Leo the Third sup­

ported himself against the envy of his equals, the dis­

content of a powerful faction, and the assaults of his

foreign and domestic enemies. The Catholics, who

accuse his religious innovations, are obliged to con­

fess that they were undertaken with temper, and

conducted with firmness. Their silence respects the

