S80 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. easily be repelled, he rushed forwards to encounter

xxxviii. ^g imp]acable enemy of his name and family. But

the courage of the Gepidae could secure them no more

than an honourable death. The bravest of the nation

fell in the field of battle; the king of the Lombards

contemplated with delight the head of Cunimund,

and his skull was fashioned into a cup to satiate the

hatred of the conqueror, or, perhaps, to comply with

the savage custom of his country*. After this vic­

tory, no farther obstacle could impede the progress

of the confederates, and they faithfully executed the

terms of their agreement t. The fair countries of

Walachia, Moldavia, Transylvania, and the parts of

Hungary beyond the Danube, were occupied, with­

out resistance, by a new colony of Scythians; and

the Dacian empire of the chagans subsisted with

splendour above two hundred and thirty years. The

nation of the Gepidae was dissolved; but in the dis­

tribution of the captives, the slaves of the Avars were

less fortunate than the companions of the Lombards,

whose generosity adopted a valiant foe, and whose

freedom was incompatible with cool and deliberate

tyranny. One moiety of the spoil introduced into

the camp of Alboin more wealth than a Barbarian

could readily compute. The fair Rosamond was per­

suaded, or compelled, to acknowledge the rights of

her victorious lover; and the daughter of Cunimund

appeared to forgive those crimes which might be im­

puted to her own irresistible charms.

Alboin The destruction of a mighty kingdom established

undertakes

the conquest the fame of Alboin. In the days of Charlemagne,

A.DJ567. tne Bavarians, the Saxons, and the other tribes of the

* It appears from Strabo, Pliny, and Ammianus Marcellinus, that the same  
practice was common among the Scythian tribes (Muratori, Scriptores Rer.
Italic.

tom. i. p. 424). The scalpt of North America are likewise trophies of valour.

The skull of Cunimund was preserved above two hundred years among the Lom­

bards; and Paul himself was one of the guests to whom duke Ratchis exhibited

this cup on a high festival (1. ii. c. 2ft).

f Paul, 1. i. c. 27. Menander, in Excerpt. Legat. p. 110, 111.

