OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 101

The khan of the Ogors was slain with three hundred chap.

thousand of his subjects, and their bodies were scat- xxxv-

tered over the space of four days'journey; their sur足

viving countrymen acknowledged the strength and

mercy of the Turks; and a small portion, about

twenty thousand warriors, preferred exile to servi足

tude. They followed the well-known road of the

Volga, cherished the error of the nations who con足

founded them with the Avars, and spread the terror

of that false though famous appellation, which had

not, however, saved its lawful proprietors from the

yoke of the Turks. After a long and victorious

march, the new Avars arrived at the foot of mount

Caucasus, in the country of the Alani and Circassians,

where they first heard of the splendour and weakness

of the Roman empire." They humbly requested their

confederate, the prince of the Alani, to lead them to

this source of riches; and their ambassador, with the

permission of the "governor of Lazica, was transported

by the Euxine sea to Constantinople. The whole

city was poured forth to behold with curiosity and

terror the aspect of a strange people; their long hair,

which hung in tresses down their backs, was grace足

fully bound with ribbons, but the rest of their habit

appeared to imitate the fashion of the Huns. When Their em-

they were admitted to the audience of Justinian, coStan-

Candish, the first of the ambassadors, addressed the An<g1<2

Roman emperor in these terms: "You see before

"you, O mighty prince, the representatives of the

"strongest and most populous of nations, the in-

"vincible, the irresistible Avars. We are willing

"to devote ourselves to your service: we are able to

"vanquish and destroy all the enemies who now

"disturb your repose. But we expect, as the price of

*' our alliance, as the reward of our valour, precious  
"gifts, annual subsidies, and fruitful possessions."

At the time of this embassy, Justinian had reigned

h 3

