OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 121

escape 5 but the African and Gothic triumphs are chap.

less glorious than this safe and bloodless victory, in xxxv-

which neither fortune, nor the valour of the soldiers,

can subtract any part of the general's renown. The a. d. 543,

second removal of Belisarius from the Persian to the &c-

Italian war revealed the extent of his personal merit,

which had corrected or supplied the want of disci­

pline and courage. Fifteen generals, without con­

cert or skill, led through the mountains of Armenia

an army of thirty thousand Romans, inattentive to

their signals, their ranks, and their ensigns. Four

thousand Persians, entrenched in the camp of Dubis,

vanquished, almost without a combat, this disorderly

multitude; their useless arms were scattered along

the road, and their horses sunk under the fatigue

of their rapid flight. But the Arabs of the Roman

party prevailed over their brethren; the Armenians

returned to their allegiance; the cities of Dara and

Edessa resisted a sudden assault and a regular siege,

and the calamities of war were suspended by those of

pestilence. A tacit or formal agreement between

the two sovereigns protected the tranquillity of the

eastern frontier; and the anns of Chosroes were

confined to the Colchian or Lazic war, which has

been too minutely described by the historians of the

times*.

The extreme length of the Euxine sea-!-, from Description

of Colchos,

Lazica, or

* The Lazic war, the contest of Rome and Persia on the Phasis, is tediously Mingrelia.  
spun through many a page of Procopius (Persic. 1. ii. c. 15. 17- 28, 29,30.
Go­

thic. 1. iv. c. 7—16), and Agathias (1. ii. hi. and iv. p. 55—132. 141).

f The Periplut, or circumnavigation of the Euxine sea, was described in Latin

by Sallust, and in Greek by Arrian. 1. The former work, which no longer
exists,

has been restored by the singular diligence of M. de Brosses, first president
of

the parliament of Dijon (Hist. de la Republique Romaine, tom. ii. 1. iii. p.
199—

298) who ventures to assume the character ot the Roman historian. His descrip­

tion of the Euxine is ingeniously formed of all the Fragments of the original,
and

of all the Greeks and Latins whom Sallust might copy, or by whom he might be

copied; and the merit of the execution atones for the whimsical design. 2. The

Periplus of Arrian is addressed to the emperor Adrian (in Geograph. Minor.
Hud­

son, tom, i.), and contains whatever the governor of Pontus had seen, from
Tre-

bizond to Dioscurias; whatever he had heard from Dioscurias to the Danube;

and whatever he knew from the Danube to Trcbizond.

r

