OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 353

by the writings, of the Greeks and Romans, and the chap.

subjects of Heraclius had been educated to pronounce;

the words of liberty and law. But it has always been

the pride and policy of oriental princes to display

the titles and attributes of their omnipotence; to

upbraid a nation of slaves with their true name and

abject condition, and to enforce, by cruel and insolent

threats, the rigour of their absolute commands. The

Christians of the East were scandalized by the wor­

ship of fire, and the impious doctrine of the two

principles: the Magi were not less intolerant than

the bishops,* and the martyrdom of some native Per­

sians, who had deserted the religion of Zoroaster,

was conceived to be the prelude of a fierce and general

persecution. By the laws of Justinian, the adversaries

of the church were made the enemies of the state;

the alliance of the Jews, Nestorians, and Jacobites,

had contributed to the success of Chosroes, and his

partial favour to the sectaries provoked the hatred

and fears of the Catholic clergy. Conscious of their

fear and hatred, the Persian conqueror governed his

new subjects with an iron sceptre; and as if he

suspected the stability of his dominion, he exhausted

their wealth by exorbitant tributes and licentious

rapine, despoiled or demolished the temples of the

East, and transported to his hereditary realms the

gold, the silver, the precious marbles, the arts, and

the artists of the Asiatic cities. In the obscure pic­

ture of the calamities of the empire*, it is not easy to

discern the figure of Chosroes himself, to separate

his actions from those of his lieutenants, or to as­

certain his personal merit in the general blaze of

glory and magnificence. He enjoyed with ostenta­

tion the fruits of victory, and frequently retired from

the hardships of war to the luxury of the palace.

But in the space of twenty-four years, be was de-

• Abulpharagiun, Dynast. p. 99. Klmacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 14.

VOL. IV. A A

