THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. A citizen could only forfeit his rights by apparent

xxxvn- dereliction, and such dereliction of a valuable interest

could not easily be presumed. Yet, according to the

twelve tables, a prescription of one year for move­

ables, and of two years for immoveables, abolished

the claim of the ancient master, if the actual possessor

had acquired them by a fair transaction from the per­

son whom he believed to be the lawful proprietor.

Such conscientious injustice, without any mixture of

fraud or force, could seldom injure the members of a

small republic; but the various periods of three, of

ten, or of twenty years, determined by Justinian, are

more suitable to the latitude of a great empire. It

is only in the term of prescription that the distinction

of real and personal fortune has been remarked by

the civilians, and their general idea of property is

that of simple, uniform, and absolute dominion. The

subordinate exceptions of use, of usufruct *, of ser­

vitudes]; imposed for the benefit of a neighbour on

lands and houses, are abundantly explained by the

professors of jurisprudence. The claims of property,

as far as they are altered, by the mixture, the division,

or the transformation of substances, are investigated

with metaphysical subtlety by the same civilians,

of inherit- The personal title of the first proprietor must be

determined by his death: but the possession, without

any appearance of change, is peaceably continued in

his children, the associates of his toil and the partners

of his wealth. This natural inheritance has been

protected by the legislators of every climate and age,

and the father is encouraged to persevere in slow and

distant improvements, by the tender hope, that a long

posterity will enjoy the fruits of his labour. The

principle of hereditary succession is universal, but the

* See the Institutes (1. i. tit. iv. v.), and the Pandects (1. vii). Noodt has com­  
posed a learned and distinct treatise de Umfruclu (Opp. tom. i. p. 387—478).

+ The questions de Servitutiinis are discussed in the Institutes (1. ii. tit.
iii. V

and Pandects (1. viii.).

ance and

succession

