OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 849

would feel, and honour would dictate, promoted, on chav.

YYYIY

this occasion, the interest of the Persian king; and \

his interest was powerfully magnified by the national

and religious prejudices of the Magi and satraps.

In a strain of artful adulation, which assumed the

language of freedom, they presumed to censure the

excess of his gratitude and friendship for the Greeks;

a nation with whom it was dangerous to conclude

either peace or alliance; whose superstition was de­

void of truth and justice, and who must be incapable

of any virtue, since they could perpetrate the most

atrocious of crimes, the impious murder of their sove­

reign. For the crime of an ambitious centurion,

the nation which he oppressed was chastised with the

calamities of war; and the same calamities, at the

end of twenty years, were retaliated and redoubled

on the heads of the Persians *. The general who

had restored Chosroes to the throne still commanded

in the East y and the name of Narses was the for­

midable sound with which the Assyrian mothers

were accustomed to terrify their infants. It is not

improbable, that a native subject of Persia should

encourage his master and his friend to deliver and

possess the provinces of Asia. It is still more pro­

bable, that Chosroes should animate his troops by

the assurance that the sword which they dreaded the

most would remain in its scabbard, or be drawn in

their favour. The hero could not depend on the

faith of a tyrant; and the tyrant was conscious how

little he deserved the obedience of an hero: Narses

was removed from his military command; he reared

* We must now, for some ages, take our leave of contemporary historians, and  
descend, if it be a descent, from the affectation of rhetoric to the rude
simplicity

of chronicles and abridgments. Those of Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 244—

279) and Nicephorus (p. 3—16) supply a regular, but imperfect, series of the

Persian war; and for any additional facts I quote my special authorities.
Theo­

phanes, a courtier who became a monk, was bom A. D. 748; Nicephorus, patri­

arch of Constantinople, who died A. D. 829, was somewhat younger: Hankius

de Scriptoribus Byzantinis, p. 200—246,

