M2 lH£ DECLINE AND FALL

chap. most as an alien in her father,s house. The zeal of

TYYVIT

'friendship, and parental affection, suggested a liberal

artifice: a qualified citizen was named in the testa­

ment, with a prayer or injunction that he would re­

store the inheritance to the person for whom it was

truly intended. Various was the conduct of the

trustees in this painful situation: they had sworn

to observe the laws of their country, but honour

prompted them to violate their oath; and if they

preferred their interest under the mask of patriotism,

they forfeited the esteem of every virtuous mind.

The declaration of Augustus relieved their doubts,

gave a legal sanction to confidential testaments and

codicils, and gently unravelled the forms and re­

straints of the republican jurisprudence. But as the

new practice of trusts degenerated into some abuse,

the trustee was enabled, by the Trebellian and Pega-

sian decrees, to reserve one-fourth of the estate, or

to transfer on the head of the real heir all the debts

and actions of the succession. The interpretation

of testaments was strict and literal; but the language

of trusts and codicils was delivered from the minute

and technical accuracy of the civilians *.

in. Op HI. The general duties of mankind are imposed

by their public and private relations: but their spe­

cific obligations to each other can only be the effect

of, 1. a promise, 2. a benefit, or 3. an injury: and

when these obligations are ratified by law, the in­

terested party may compel the performance by a

judicial action. On this principle the civilians of

every country have erected a similar jurisprudence,

the fair conclusion of universal reason and justice.

Promises. l. The goddess of faith (of human and social

faith) was worshipped, not only in her temples, but

* Of the civil jurisprudence of successions, testaments, codicils, legacies, and  
trusts, the principles are ascertained in the Institutes of Cains (1. ii. tit.
ii—ix.

p. 91—144), Justinian (I. ii. tit. x—xxv.), and Theophilus (p. 328—514) ; and

the immense detail occupies twelve books (xxviii—xxxix.) of the Pandects.

