354 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. terred by superstition or resentment from approach-

XXXIX- ing the gates of Ctesiphon: and his favourite re­

sidence of Artemita, orDastagerd, was situate beyond

the Tigris, about sixty miles to the north of the

capital *. The adjacent pastures were covered with

flocks and herds: the paradise or park was replenished

with pheasants, peacocks, ostriches, roebucks, and

wild boars; and the noble game of lions and tigers

was sometimes turned loose for the bolder pleasures

of the chase. Nine hundred and sixty elephants

were maintained for the use or splendour of the great

king: his tents and baggage were carried into the

field by twelve thousand great camels and eight thou­

sand of a smaller size; and the royal stables were

filled with six thousand mules and horses, among

whom the names of Shebdiz and Barid are renowned

for their speed or beauty. Six thousand guards

successively mounted before the palace gate; and the

service of the interior apartments was performed by

twelve thousand slaves. The various treasures of

gold, silver, gems, silk, and aromatics, were deposited

in a hundred subterraneous vaults; and the chamber

Badwverd 'denoted the accidental gift of the winds

which had wafted the spoils of Heraclius into one of

the Syrian harbours of his rival. The voice of flattery,

and perhaps of fiction, is not ashamed to compute the

thirty thousand rich hangings that adorned the walls,

the forty thousand columns of silver, or more pro­

bably of marble, and plated wood, that supported the

roof; and the thousand globes of gold suspended in

the dome, to imitate the motions of the planets and

the constellations of the zodiac f. While the Persian

monarch contemplated the wonders of his art and

* D'Anville, Mem. de PAcademie des Inscriptions, tom, xxxii. p. 568—571.

f Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 268. D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientak.

p. 997. The Greeks describe the decay, the Persians the splendour of
Dastagerd;

but the former speak from the modest witness of the eye, the latter from tht

vague report of the ear.

