OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 487

mains of the authority of the senate were finally era- chap.

cheated by Leo the philosopher. A lethargy of servi-'

tude had benumbed the minds of the Greeks; in the

wildest tumults of rebellion they ntver aspired to the

idea of a free constitution; and the private character

of the prince was the only source and measure of their

public happiness. Superstition riveted their chains;

in the church of St. Sophia he was solemnly crowned

by the patriarch; at the foot of the altar, they

pledged their passive and unconditional obedience to

his government and family. . On his side he engaged Coronation

to abstain as much as possible from the capital punish-oath*

ments of death and mutilation; his orthodox creed

was subscribed with his own hand, and he promised to

obey the decrees of the seven synods, and the canons

of the holy church. But the assurance of mercy was

loose and indefinite.' The Greek ecclesiastics were

themselves the subjects of the civil magistrate; at

the nod of a tyrant the bishops were created, or trans­

ferred, or deposed, or punished with an ignominious

death: whatever might be their wealth or influence,

they could never succeed like the Latin clergy in the

establishment of an independent republic; and the

patriarch of Constantinople condemned, what he se­

cretly envied, the temporal greatness of his Roman

brother. Yet the exercise of boundless despotism is

happily checked by the laws of nature and necessity.

In proportion to his wisdom and" virtue, the master

of an empire is confined to the path of his sacred and

laborious duty. In proportion to his vice and folly,

he drops the sceptre too weighty for his hands ; and

the motions of the royal image are ruled by the im­

perceptible thread of some minister or favourite, who

undertakes for his private interest to exercise the

task of the public oppression. In some fatal moment,

the most absolute monarch may dread the reason or

the caprice of a nation of slaves; and experience has

11 4

