OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 381

CHAP. XL.

Conquest of Persia, Syria, and Egypt, by the Saracens.—

Succession and Character of the Emperors of Constan­

tinople, from Heraclius to Leo the Philosopher.—Two

Siegesqf Constantinople by the Saracens.— Their Conquests

of Africa and Spain.—Invasion of France, and Defeat by

Charles Mattel.—-Exarchate of Ravenna conquered by the

Lombards.— Their Kingdom subdued by Charlemagne.—

His Coronation, and Separation of Italy from the Greeks

—War with Harun al Rashid. Saracens subdue Crete

and Sicily, attack Rome, and are repulsed by Pope Leo.

—First Conquest ofRari by the Emperor Basil.

When the emperor Heraclius returned in triumph chap-

from the Persian war, he entertained at Emesa one XL"

of the ambassadors of Mahomet *, who invited the

• The history of Arabia, and of Mahomet and his successors, is detailed with

such circumstantial minuteness by Mr. Gibbon, and he enters so largely into
the

nature and tenets of the Mahometan religion, that almost a whole volume of the

history is occupied with this subject. The intelligent reader, who notices the
in­

defatigable zeal with which our author endeavours to point out the superiority
of

the Moslems above the Christians, will be at no loss to discover the reason of
his

exerting the full powers of his pen, on a subject of so peculiar a nature.

The history of the Christian church docs not form a part of the present pub.

lication, and as the religious systems of the different nations which
surrounded the

empire are equally excluded, I shall not follow the historian in those parts
of

his work, in which he enlarges on the doctrine of the Koran.

With respect to the life and character of Mahomet, I am persuaded that no

abridgment would be satisfactory. His history should be fully and completely

detailed, if it were at all introduced; and the writer who entered on the task

should possess the talents and the principles Which directed the pen of the
author

of the celebrated Bampton Lectures.

I therefore request my readers in this instance, as in the rest of the present

publication, to remember that it is the history of the Decline and Fall of the
Ro­

man Empire that is now laid before them.

With the wars of the successors of Mahomet, we are indeed deeply interested;

and I hope that I have not neglected any of those parts of the great work of
our au­

thor, in which the Greek empire is engaged: not but it is with the progress of
the

arms, and not with the religious tenets of the Moslems, that our history is
prin­

cipally concerned. Instead, therefore, of withdrawing the attention of the
reader

from the Roman world, so completely, and for so long a period, as Mr. Gibbon

has done, I shall continue the narrative without interruption, inserting in
their

proper place, and proper order of time, the events by which the empire was
gra­

dually shaken, and at length finally destroyed.

