480 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

chap. free people; and the code was almost perfect when

XLL this baseless fabric, the monument of pride and servi­

tude, was for ever buried in the ruins of the empire *.

rfStH. t^ most lofty titles» and tne most humble pos"

peror. tures, which devotion has applied to the Supreme

Being, have been prostituted by flattery and fear to

creatures of the same nature with ourselves. The

mode of adoration t, of falling prostrate on the ground,

and kissing the feet of the emperor, was borrowed

by Diocletian from Persian servitude; but it was

continued and aggravated till the last age of the

Greek monarchy. Excepting only on Sundays, when

it was waved, from a motive of religious pride, this

humiliating reverence was exacted from all who en­

tered the royal presence, from the princes invested

with the diadem and purple, and from the ambassa­

dors who represented their independent sovereigns,

the caliphs of Asia, Egypt, or Spain, the kings of

France and Italy, and the Latin emperors of ancient

Rome. In his transaction of business, Liutprand,

bishop of Cremona, asserted the free spirit of a Frank,

and the dignity of his master Otho. Yet his sin­

cerity cannot disguise the abasement of his first au-

Reception dience. When he approached the throne, the birds

sadors." of the golden tree began to warble their notes, which

were accompanied by the roarings of the two lions

of gold. With his two companions, Liutprand was

compelled to bow and to fall prostrate; and thrice

he touched the ground with his forehead. He arose;

but in the short interval, the throne had been hoisted

by an engine from the floor to the ceiling, the Iin­

* This sketch of honours and officers is drawn from George Codinus Curopa-  
lata, who survived the taking of Cons antinople by the Turks. His elaborate

though trifling work (de Officiis Ecclesise et Aula; C. P.) has been
illustrated by

the notes of Goar, and the three books of Ureiser, a learned Jesuit.

•f The respectful salutation of carrying the hand to the mouth, ad oi, is the

root of the Latin word, adoro, adorare. See our learned Selden (vol. iii. p. I
-43

—145—942), in his Titles of Honour. It seems, from the 1st books of Hero­

dotus, to be of Persian origin.

