106 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXV.

the great khan, and he applied them to his mouth.

"You Romans speak with as many tongues, but they

"are tongues of deceit and perjury. To me you hold

"one language, to my subjects another; and the na-

"tions are successively deluded by your perfidious

"eloquence. You precipitate your allies into war

"and danger, you enjoy their labours, and you neg-

"lect your benefactors. Hasten your return; inform

"your master that a Turk is incapable of uttering

"or forgiving falsehood, and that he shall speedily

"meet the punishment which he deserves. While

"he solicits my friendship with flattering and hollow

"words, he is sunk to a confederate of my fugitive

"Varchonites. If I condescend to march against

"those contemptible slaves, they will tremble at the

"sound of our whips; they will be trampled, like a

"nest of ants, under the feet of my innumerable

"cavalry. I am not ignorant of the road which

"they have followed to invade your empire; nor

"can I be deceived by the vain pretence, that mount

"Caucasus is the impregnable barrier of the Ro-

"mans. I know the course of the Niester, the Da-

"nube, and the Hebrus; the most warlike nations

"have yielded to the arms of the Turks; and from

"the rising to the setting sun, the earth is my in-

"heritance." Notwithstanding this menace, a sense

of mutual advantage soon renewed the alliance of the

Turks and Romans: but the pride of the great khan

survived his resentment: and when he announced an

important conquest to his friend the emperor Mau­

rice, he styled himself the master of the seven races,

and the lord of the seven climates of the world *.

Disputes have often arisen between the sovereigns

of Asia, for the title of king of the world; while the

State of

Persia,

A. D. 500

—630.

* All the details of these Turkish and Roman embassies, so curious in the  
history of human manners, are drawn from the extracts of Menander (p. 106—

110. 151 154. 161—164), in which we often regret the want of order and con-

