OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 173

beheld the corpse of the Gothic king. His hat, en- chap.

riched with gems, and his bloody robe, were pre- XXXVL

sented to Justinian by the messengers of triumph*.

The victorious eunuch pursued his march through Conquest of

Tuscany, accepted the submission of the Goths, heard Narses.7

the acclamations, and often the complaints, of the

Italians, and encompassed the walls of Rome with

the remainder of his formidable host. Round the

wide circumference, Narses assigned to himself, and

to each of his lieutenants, a real or a feigned attack,

while he silently marked the place of easy and un­

guarded entrance. Neither the fortifications of Ha­

drian's mole, nor of the port, could long delay the

progress of the conqueror; and Justinian once more

received the keys of Rome, which, under his reign,

had heenjive times taken and recovered j". But the

deliverance of Rome was the last calamity of the

Roman people. The Barbarian allies of Narses too

frequently confounded the privileges of peace and

war: the despair of the flying Goths found some con­

solation in sanguinary revenge: and three hundred

youths of the noblest families, who had been sent as

hostages beyond the Po, were inhumanly slain by the

successor of Totila. The fate of the senate suggests

an awful lesson of the vicissitude of human affairs.

Of the senators whom Totila had banished from their

country, some were rescued by an officer of Belisarius,

and transported from Campania to Sicily; while others

were too guilty to confide in the clemency of Justinian,

or too poor to provide horses for their escape to the

sea-shore. Their brethren languished five years in a

state of indigence and exile; the victory of Narses

revived their hopes; but their premature return to

the metropolis was prevented by the furious Goths;

• Theophanes, Chron. p. 193. Hist . Miscell. 1. xvi. p. 108.

f Eti TovTov ^ao-(XeuovTof To ire^irTov JttXw. In the year 536 by Belisarius,
in

546 by Totila, in 547 by Belisarius, in 549 by Totila, and in 552 by Narses.

