2G0 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. were allowed before a Roman was delivered into the

xxxvn- power of his fellow-citizen. In this private prison,

twelve ounces of rice were his daily food; he might

be bound with a chain of fifteen pounds weight; and

his misery was thrice exposed in the market-place, to

solicit the compassion of his friends and countrymen.

At the expiration of sixty days, the debt was dis­

charged by the loss of liberty or life; the insolvent

debtor was either put to death, or sold in foreign

slavery beyond the Tyber: but if several creditors

were alike obstinate and unrelenting, they might le­

gally dismember his body, and satiate their revenge

by this horrid partition. The advocates for this savage

law have insisted, that it must strongly operate in

deterring idleness and fraud from contracting debts

which they were unable to discharge; but experience

would dissipate this salutary terror, by proving, that

no creditor could be found to exact this unprofitable

penalty of life or limb. As the manners of Rome

were insensibly polished, the criminal code of the

decemvirs was abolished by the humanity of accusers,

witnesses, and judges; and impunity became the con­

sequence of immoderate rigour. The Porcian and

Valerian laws prohibited the magistrates from inflict­

ing on a free citizen any capital, or even corporal

punishment; and the obsolete statutes of blood were

artfully, and perhaps truly, ascribed to the spirit, not

of patrician, but of regal, tyranny.

Abolition or In the absence of penal laws and the insufficiency

oblivion of . .. . . - -, . . r ,

penal laws, of civil actions, the peace and justice or the city were

imperfectly maintained by the private jurisdiction of

the citizens. The malefactors who replenish our gaols

are the outcasts of society, and the crimes for which

they suffer may be commonly ascribed to ignorance,

poverty, and brutal appetite. For the perpetration

of similar enormities, a vile plebeian might claim and

abuse the sacred character of a member of the re­

