190 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXVI.

a conqueror, who leads and directs his subjects in the

exercise of arms. The characters of Philip the Second

and of Justinian are distinguished by the cold am­

bition which delights in war, and declines the dangers

of the field. Yet a colossal statue of bronze re­

presented the emperor on horseback, preparing to

march against the Persians in the habit and armour

of Achilles. In the great square before the church

of St. Sophia, this monument was raised on a brass

column and a stone pedestal of seven steps: and the

pillar of Theodosius, which weighed seven thousand

four hundred pounds of silver, was removed from the

same place by the avarice and vanity of Justinian.

Future princes were more just or indulgent to his

memory; the elder Andronicus, in the beginning of

the fourteenth century, repaired and beautified his

equestrian statue: since the fall of the empire, it has

been melted into cannon by the victorious Turks*.

I shall conclude this chapter with the comets, the

earthquakes, and the plague, which astonished or

afflicted the age of Justinian. » .

Comets,

A. D. 531

—539.

I. In the fifth year of his reign, and in the month

of September, a comet t was seen during twenty days

in the western quarter of the heavens, and which shot

its rays into the north. Eight years afterwards, while

the sun was in Capricorn, another comet appeared to

follow in the Sagittary: the size was gradually in­

creasing; the head was in the east, the tail in the

west, and it remained visible above forty days. The

nations, who gazed with astonishment, expected wars

* See in the C P. Christiana of Ducange (1. i. c. 24. No. 1.), a chain of original  
testimonies, from Procopius in the vith, to Gyllius in the xvith century.

-f- The first comet is mentioned by John Malala (tom. ii. p. 190. 219.) and  
Thcophanes (p. 154); the second by Procopius (Persic 1. ii. c. 4). Yet I
strongly

suspect their identity. The paleness of the sun (Vandal. 1. ii. c. 14) is
applied

by Theophanes (p. 158) to a different year.

