OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 181

ministered above fifteen years the entire kingdom of chap.

Italy. Like Belisarius, he had deserved the honours xxxvr-

of envy, calumny, and disgrace: but the favourite

eunuch still enjoyed the confidence of Justinian, or

the leader of a victorious army awed and repressed

the ingratitude of a timid court. Yet it was not by

weak and mischievous indulgence that Narses secured

the attachment of his troops. Forgetful of the past,

and regardless of the future, they abused the present

hour of prosperity and peace. The cities of Italy

resounded with the noise of drinking and dancing:

the spoils of victory were wasted in sensual pleasures;

and nothing (says Agathias) remained, unless to ex足

change their shields and helmets for the soft lute and

the capacious hogshead. In a manly oration, not un足

worthy of a Roman censor, the eunuch reproved these

disorderly vices, which sullied their fame and en足

dangered their safety. The soldiers blushed and

obeyed: discipline was confirmed, the fortifications

were restored; a duke was stationed for the defence

and military command of each of the principal cities;

and the eye of Narses pervaded the ample prospect

from Calabria to the Alps. The remains of the Go足

thic nation evacuated the country, or mingled with

the people: the Franks, instead of revenging the

death of Buccelin, abandoned, without a struggle,

their Italian conquests: arid the rebellious Sindbal,

chief of the Heruli, was subdued, taken, and hung

on a lofty gallows by the inflexible justice of the

exarch. The civil state of Italy, after the agitation

of a long tempest, was fixed by a pragmatic sanction,

which the emperor promulgated at the request of the

pope. Justinian introduced his own jurisprudence

into the schools and tribunals of the West: he ratified

the acts of Theodoric and his immediate successors,

but every deed was rescinded and abolished which

force had extorted, or fear had subscribed, under the

n3

