OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 473

allies; and both have attained their respective ends, chap.

of military power and domestic tranquillity.'

Whatever might be consumed for the present wants, p0mP and

or reserved for the future use, of the state, the iirst ^ empf.

and most sacred demand was for the pomp and plea- *»"•

sure of the emperor; and his discretion only could

define the measure of his private expense. The

princes of Constantinople were far removed from the

simplicity of nature; yet, with the revolving seasons,

they were led by taste or fashion to withdraw to a

purer air, from the smoke and tumult of the capital.

They enjoyed, or affected to enjoy, the rustic festival

of the vintage: their leisure was amused by the exer­

cise of the chase and the calmer occupation of fish­

ing, and in the summer heats they were shaded from

the sun, and refreshed by the cooling breezes from

the sea. The coasts and islands of Asia and Europe

were covered with their magnificent villas: but in­

stead of the modest art which secretly strives to hide

itself and to decorate the scenery of nature, the mar­

ble structure of their gardens served only to expose

the riches of the lord, and the labours of the archi­

tect. The successive casualties of inheritance and

forfeiture had rendered the sovereign proprietor of

many stately houses in the city and suburbs, of which

twelve were appropriated to the ministers of state;

but the great palace*, the centre of the Imperial re- The palace

° „r . . ,, ofComtan-

sidence, was fixed during eleven centuries to the same tinopie.

position, between the hippodrome, the cathedral of

St. Sophia, and the gardens, which descended by many

a terrace to the shores of the Propontis. The pri­

mitive edifice of the first Constantine was a copy or

rival of ancient Rome; the gradual improvements of

his successors aspired to emulate the wonders of the

* For a copious and minute description of the Imperial palace, see the Con-  
stantinop. Christiana (1. ii. c 4. p. 113—123.) of Ducange, the Tillemont of
the

middle ages.

