OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 43

with Theodatus to betray the province of Tuscany, chap.

and tempted Amalasontha to extricate herself from'

danger and perplexity, by a free surrender of the

kingdom of Italy. A false and servile epistle was

subscribed by the reluctant hand of the captive

queen: but the confession of the Roman senators,

who were sent to Constantinople, revealed the truth

of her deplorable situation; and Justinian, by the

voice of a new ambassador, most powerfully inter­

ceded for her life and liberty. Yet the secret in­

structions of the same minister were adapted to serve

the cruel jealousy of Theodora, who dreaded the pre­

sence and superior charms of a rival: he prompted,

with artful and ambiguous hints, the execution of a

crime so useful to the Romans *; received the intel­

ligence of her death with grief and indignation, and

denounced, in his master's name, immortal war against

the perfidious assassin. In Italy, as well as in Africa,

the guilt of a usurper appeared to justify the arms

of Justinian; but the forces which he prepared were

insufficient for the subversion of a mighty kingdom,

if their feeble numbers had not been multiplied by

the name, the spirit, and the conduct of a hero. A

chosen troop of guards, who served on horseback, and

were armed with lances and bucklers, attended the

person of Belisarius: his cavalry was composed of

two hundred Huns, three hundred Moors, and four

thousand confederates, and the infantry consisted

only of three thousand Isaurians. Steering the same

course as in bis former expedition, the Roman con­

sul cast anchor before Catana in Sicily, to survey the

strength of the island, and to decide whether he

should attempt the conquest, or peaceably pursue his

* Yet Procopius discredits his own evidence (Anecdot. c. 16), by confessing  
that in his public history he had not spoken the truth. Sec the Epistles from

queen Oundelina to the empress Theodora (Var. x. 20, 21. 23, and observe a

suspicious word, dc ilia persona, &c.). with the elaborate Commentary of Buat

(tom. x. p. 177-185).

