170 THE DECLINE AND BALL

chap. should cautiously advance along the sea-shore, while |_^the fleet
preceded their march, and successively cast

a bridge of boats over the mouths of the rivers, the

Timavus, the Brenta, the Adige, and the Po, that

fall into the Hadriatic to the north of Ravenna.

Nine days he reposed in the city, collected the frag­

ments of the Italian army, and marched towards

Rimini to meet the defiance of an insulting enemy.

Defeat and The prudence of Narses impelled him to speedy

Todia, and decisive action. His powers were the last effort

July. 552, °ftne state: the cost of each day accumulated the

enormous account; and the nations, untrained to dis­

cipline or fatigue, might be rashly provoked to turn

their arms against each other, or against their bene­

factor. The same considerations might have tem­

pered the ardour of Totila. But he was conscious

that the clergy and people of Italy aspired to a second

revolution: he felt or suspected the rapid progress of

treason, and he resolved to risk the Gothic kingdom

on the chance of a day, in which the valiant would

be animated by instant danger, and the disaffected

might be awed by mutual ignorance. In his march

from Ravenna, the Roman general chastised the gar­

rison of Rimini, traversed in a direct line the hills of

Urbino, and re-entered the Flaminian way, nine miles

beyond the perforated rock, an obstacle of art and

nature which might have stopped or retarded his pro­

gress*. The Goths were assembled in the neighbour­

hood of Rome; they advanced without delay to seek

a superior enemy, and the two armies approached

each other at the distance of one hundred furlongs,

between Tagina and the sepulchres of the Gauls.

* The Flaminian way, as it is corrected from the Itineraries, and the best  
modern maps, by d'Anville (Analyse de I'ltalie, p. 147—162), may be thus

stated: Rome to Nami, 51 Roman miles; Tcrni, 57; Spoleto, 75 ; Foligno, 88;

Nocera, 103; Cagli, 142; Intercisa, 157; Fossombrone, 160; Fano, I76; Pc-

saro, 184; Rimini, 208—about 189 English miles. He takes no notice of the

death of Totila; but Wesseling (Itinerar. p. 614.) exchanges for the field of

Taginas the unknown appellation of Ptanius, eight miles from Nocera.

