THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. ages, from the establishment of equal freedom to the

'' end of the Punic wars, the city was never disturbed

by sedition, and rarely polluted with atrocious crimes.

The failure of penal laws was more sensibly felt when

every vice was inflamed by faction at home and do­

minion abroad. In the time of Cicero, each private

citizen enjoyed the privilege of anarchy; each mi­

nister of the republic was exalted to the temptations

of regal power, and their virtues are entitled to the

warmest praise as the spontaneous fruits of nature or

philosophy. After a triennial indulgence of lust, ra­

pine, and cruelty, Verres, the tyrant of Sicily, could

only be sued for the pecuniary restitution of three

hundred thousand pounds sterling; and such was the

temper of the laws, the judges, and perhaps the ac­

cuser himself, that on refunding a thirteenth part of

his plunder, Verres could retire to an easy and lux­

urious exile *.

Revival of The grst imperfect attempt to restore the propor-

capital pu-. r ■ i • 1 ill

nishments. tion of crimes and punishments, was made by the

dictator Sylla, who, in the midst of his sanguinary

triumph, aspired to restrain the licence, rather than

to oppress the liberty, of the Romans. He gloried

in the arbitrary proscription of four thousand seven

hundred citizens-f. But in the character of a legis­

lator, he respected the prejudices of the times; and

instead of pronouncing a sentence of death against

the robber or assassin, the general who betrayed an

army, or the magistrate who ruined a province, Sylla

was content to aggravate the pecuniary damages by

the penalty of exile, or, in more constitutional lan­

guage, by the interdiction of fire and water. The

Cornelian, and afterwards the Pompeian and Julian

• Verres lived near thirty years after his trial, till the second triumvirate,
when

he was proscribed by the taste of Mark-Antony for the sake of his Corinthian

plate (Plin. Hist. Natur. xxxiv. 3).

t Such is the number assigned by Valerius Maximus. Florus distinguishes

2000 senators and knights, Appian more accurately computes 40 victims of the

senatorian rank, and HiOO of the equestrian census or order.

