OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303

always on horseback and in the field. This favourite chap.

YYYVTTT

amusement of our ancestors was introduced by the'

Barbarians into the Roman provinces; and the laws

of Italy esteem the sword and the hawk as of equal

dignity and importance in the hands of a noble Lom­

bard.

So rapid was the influence of climate and example, Dress and

that the Lombards of the fourth generation surveyed ama"c'

with curiosity and affright the portraits of their

savage forefathers. Their heads were shaven behind,

but the shaggy locks hung over their eyes and mouth,

and a long beard represented the name and character

of the nation. Their dress consisted of loose linen

garments, after the fashion of the Anglo-Saxons,

which were decorated, in their opinion, with broad

stripes of variegated colours. The legs and feet

were clothed in long hose, and open sandals; and

even in the security of peace a trusty sword was

constantly girt to their side. Yet this strange apparel,

and horrid aspect, often concealed a gentle and ge­

nerous disposition; and as soon as the rage of battle

had subsided, the captives and subjects were some­

times surprised by the humanity of the victor. The

vices of the Lombards were the effect of passion, of

ignorance, of intoxication; their virtues are the more

laudable, as they were not affected by the hypocrisy

of social manners, nor imposed by the rigid constraint

of laws and education. I should not be apprehensive

of deviating from my subject, if it were in my power

to delineate the private life of the conquerors of Italy,

and I shall relate with pleasure the adventurous gal­

lantry of Autharis, which breathes the true spirit of

chivalry and romance*. After the loss of his pro­

mised bride, a Merovingian princess, he sought in

* The story of Autharis and Theudelinda is related by Paul, 1. iii. c. 29. 34;  
and any fragment of Bavarian antiquity excites the indefatigable diligence of
the

count de Buat, Hist, des Peuples de 1'Europe, tom. xi. p. 595—635. tom. xii.

p. 1—53.

