OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 307

Amidst the arms of the Lombards, and under the chap.

despotism of the Greeks, we again inquire into the XXXVIIL

fate of Rome *, which had reached, about the close of Misery of

the sixth century, the lowest period of her depression.

By the removal of the seat of empire, and the suc­

cessive loss of the provinces, the sources of public

and private opulence were exhausted; the lofty tree,

under whose shade the nations of the earth had re­

posed, was deprived of its leaves and branches, and

the sapless trunk was left to wither on the ground.

The ministers of command, and the messengers of

victory, no longer met on the Appian or Flaminian

way; and the hostile approach of the Lombards was

often felt, and continually feared. The inhabitants

of a potent and peaceful capital, who visit without an

anxious thought the garden of the adjacent country,

will faintly picture in their fancy the distress of the

Romans; they shut or opened their gates with a

trembling hand, beheld from the walls the flames of

their houses, and heard the lamentations of their

brethren, who were coupled together like dogs, and

dragged away into distant slavery beyond the sea and

the mountains. Such incessant alarms must annihi­

late the pleasures and interrupt the labours of a rural

life; and the Campagna of Rome was speedily re­

duced to the state of a dreary wilderness, in which

the land is barren, the waters are impure, and the

air is infectious. Curiosity and ambition no longer

attracted the nations to the capital of the world : but

if chance or necessity directed the steps of the wander­

ing stranger, he contemplated with horror the va­

cancy and solitude of the city, and might be tempted -

to ask, where is the senate, and where are the people?

In a season of excessive rains, the Tyber swelled

• The passages of the homilies of Gregory, which represent the miserable state

of the city and country, are transcribed in the Annals of Baronius, A. D. A90,

No. 10. A. D. 595, No. 2, &c. Ike.

x 2

