OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 289

When the nephew of Justinian ascended the chap.

throne, he proclaimed a new aera of happiness and xxxvin-

glory. The annals of the second Justin* are marked Weaknessof

with disgrace abroad and misery at home. In the justi™1*""

west, the Roman empire was afflicted by the loss of

Italy, the desolation of Africa, and the conquests of

the Persians. Injustice prevailed both in the capital

and the provinces; the rich trembled for their pro­

perty, the poor for their safety, the ordinary ma­

gistrates were ignorant or venal, the occasional re­

medies appear to have been arbitrary and violent,

and the complaints of the people could no longer

be silenced by the splendid names of a legislator

and a conqueror. The opinion which imputes to

the prince all the calamities of his times may be

countenanced by the historian as a serious truth or

a salutary prejudice. Yet a candid suspicion will

arise, that the sentiments of Justin were pure and

benevolent, and that he might have filled his station

without reproach, if the faculties of his mind had not

been impaired by disease, which deprived the em­

peror of the use of his feet, and confined him to the

palace, a stranger to the complaints of the people and

the vices of the government. The tardy knowledge

of his own impotence determined him to lay down

the weight of the diadem; and in the choice of a

worthy substitute, he showed some symptoms of a

discerning and even magnanimous spirit. The only

son of Justin and Sophia died in his infancy: their

daughter Arabia was the wife of Baduarius, superin­

tendent of the palace, and afterwards commander of

the Italian armies, who vainly aspired to confirm the

rights of marriage by those of adoption. While the

empire appeared an object of desire, Justin was ac-

• The original authors for the reign of Justin the younger are Evagrius, Hist.

Eccles. 1. v. c . 1—12. Theophanes, in Chronograph, p. 204—210. Zonaras,

tom. ii. 1 . xiv. p. 70—72. Cedrenus, in Compend. p. 388—392.

VOL. IV. U

