288 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. country, and a criminal who deserved the abhor-

xxxviii. rence 0f mankind was protected by the selfish policy

of the exarch. With her daughter, the heiress of

the Lombard throne, her two lovers, her trusty Ge-

pidae, and the spoils of the palace of Verona, Rosa­

mond descended the Adige and the Po, and was

transported by a Greek vessel to the safe harbour of

Ravenna. Longinus beheld with delight the charms

and the treasures of the widow of Alboin: her situ­

ation and her past conduct might justify the most

licentious proposals; and she readily listened to the

passion of a minister, who, even in the decline of the

empire, was respected as the equal of kings. The

death of a jealous lover was an easy and grateful

sacrifice, and as Helmichis issued from the bath, he

received the deadly potion from the hand of his

mistress. The taste of the liquor, its speedy opera­

tion, and his experience of the character of Rosa­

mond, convinced him that he was poisoned: he

pointed his dagger to her breast, compelled her to

drain the remainder of the cup, and expired in a

few minutes, with the consolation that she could not

survive to enjoy the fruits of her wickedness. The

daughter of Alboin and Rosamond, with the richest

spoils of the Lombards, was embarked for Constanti-

ciepho, nople. By the free suffrage of the nation, in the

i-ombards, assembly of Pavia, Clepho, one of their noblest chiefs,

August. ' was elected as the successor of Alboin. Before the

end of eighteen months, the throne was polluted by

a second murder; Clepho was stabbed by the hand

of a domestic; the regal office was suspended above

ten years, during the minority of his son Autharis;

and Italy was divided and oppressed by a ducal

aristocracy of thirty tyrants *.

* See the history of Paul, 1. ii. c . 28—32. I have borrowed some interesting  
circumstances from the Liber Pontificalis of Agnellus, in Script. Rer. Ital.
tom.

ii. p. 124. Of all chronological guides, Muratori is the safest.

