332 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. suited, with a real or affected fury, their own dignity,

XXXIX and that of their prince; their baggage was plun­

dered, and their lives were only saved by the promise

of a richer present and a more respectful address.

But his sacred ambassadors enjoyed and abused an

unbounded licence in the midst.of Constantinople:

they urged, with importunate clamours, the increase

of tribute, or the restitution of captives and deserters;

and the majesty of the empire was almost equally

degraded by a base compliance, or by the false and

fearful excuses with which they eluded such insolent

demands. The chagan had never seen an elephant;

and his curiosity was excited by the strange, and

perhaps fabulous, portrait of that wonderful animal.

At his command, one of the largest elephants of the

Imperial stables was equipped with stately caparisons,

and conducted by a numerous train to the royal vil­

lage in the plains of Hungary. He surveyed the

enormous beast with surprise, with disgust, and pos­

sibly with terror; and smiled at the vain industry of

the Romans, who, in search of such useless rarities,

could explore the limits of the land and sea. He

wished, at the expense of the emperor, to repose in

a golden bed. The wealth of Constantinople, and

the skilful diligence of her artists, were instantly de-

yoted to the gratification of his caprice; but when

the work was finished, he rejected with scorn a pre­

sent so unworthy the majesty of a great king*.

These were the casual sallies of his pride, but the

avarice of the chagan was a more steady and tract­

able passion: a rich and regular supply of silk ap­

parel, furniture, and plate, introduced the rudiments

of art and luxury among the tents of the Scythians;

their appetite was stimulated by the pepper and cin­

namon of India; the annual subsidy or tribute was

raised from fourscore to one hundred and twenty

thousand pieces of gold; and after each hostile in­

* Theophylact, I. i. c. 5, 6.

