388 THE DECLINE AND FAIX

chap. the doors were thrown open, they were hailed hy the

. tumultuary but important voice of the soldiers. After

a. d. 639, an interval of five months, the pompous ceremonies

which formed the essence of the Byzantine state were

celebrated in the cathedral and the hippodrome: the

concord of the royal brothers was affectedly displayed

by the younger leaning on the arm of the elder; and

the name of Martina was mingled in the reluctant

a.d. 64i, or venal acclamations of the people. Heraclius sur-

vived this association about two years: his last testi­

mony declared his two sons the equal heirs of the

Eastern empire, and commanded them to honour his

widow Martina, as their mother and their sovereign.

mnSAnr>ne When Martina first appeared on the throne with

64i, Feb. the name and attributes of royalty, she was checked

by a firm, though respectful, opposition; and the

dying embers of freedom were kindled by the breath

of superstitious prejudice. "We reverence," ex­

claimed the voice of a citizen, "we reverence the

"mother of our princes; but to those princes alone

"our obedience is due; and Constantine, the elder

"emperor, is of an age to sustain, in his own hands,

"the weight of the sceptre. Your sex is excluded by

"nature from the toils of government. How could

"you combat,—how could you answer, the Barba-

"rians, who with hostile or friendly intentions may

"approach the royal city? May Heaven avert from

"the Roman republic this national disgrace! which

"would provoke the patience of the slaves of Persia."

Martina descended from the throne with indignation,

and sought a refuge in the female apartment of the

palace. The reign of Constantine the Third lasted

only one hundred and three days: he expired in the

thirtieth year of his age, and, although his life had

been a long malady, a belief was entertained that

poison had been the means, and his cruel stepmother

the author, of his untimely fate. Martina reaped,

