128 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. on the ancient kingdom of Colchos. Their inde-

xxxv. pendence was soon evaded by a formidable neigh­

bour, who had acquired, by arms and treaties, the

sovereignty of Iberia. The dependent king of Lazica

received his sceptre at the hands of the Persian mon­

arch, and the successors of Constantine acquiesced

in this injurious claim, which was proudly urged as a

Conversion right of immemorial prescription. In the beginning

a.'d. 522!' oftne sixth century, their influence was restored by

the introduction of Christianity, which the Mingre-

lians still profess, without understanding the doc­

trines, or observing the precepts, of their religion.

After the decease of his father, Zathus was exalted

to the regal dignity by the favour of the great king;

but the pious youth abhorred the ceremonies of the

Magi, and sought, in the palace of Constantinople,

an orthodox baptism, a noble wife, and the alliance

of the emperor Justin. The king of Lazica was so­

lemnly invested with the diadem, and his cloak and

tunic of white silk, with a gold border, displayed, in

rich embroidery, the figure of his new patron; who

soothed the jealousy of the Persian court, and ex­

cused the revolt of Colchos, by the venerable names

of hospitality and religion. The common interest of

both empires imposed on the Colchians the duty of

guarding the passes of mount Caucasus, where a wall

of sixty miles is now defended by the monthly service

of the musqueteers of Mingrelia *.

Revolt and But this honourable connexion was soon corrupted

of the coi- by the avarice and ambition of the Romans. De-

a!d!'542 graded from the rank of allies, the Lazi were in-

—549- cessantly reminded, by words and actions, of their

dependent state. At the distance of a day's journey

beyond the Apsarus, they beheld the rising fortress

of Petra, which commanded the maritime country to

• John Malala, Chron. tom. ii. p. 134—137. Theophanes, p. 144. Hist.

Miscell. I. xv. p. 103. The fact is authentic, but the date seems too recent.

