OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 857

offer of Sain the Persian general, to conduct an chap.

embassy to the presence of the great king, was ac- XXX1X-

cepted with the warmest gratitude, and the prayer

for pardon and peace was humbly presented by the

pratorian prefect, the praefect of the' city, and one

of the first ecclesiastics of the patriarchal church.

But the lieutenant of Chosroes had fatally mistaken

the intentions of his master. "It was not an em-

"bassy," said the tyrant of Asia, " it was the person

"of Hejaclius, bound in chains, that he should have

"brought to the foot of my throne. I will never give

"peace to the emperor of Rome till he has abjured

"his crucified God, and embraced the worship of the

"sun." Sain was flayed alive, according to the in­

human practice of his country; and the separate and

rigorous confinement of the ambassadors violated the

law of nations and the faith of an express stipulation.

Yet the experience -of six years at length persuaded

the Persian monarch to renounce the conquest of

Constantinople, and to specify the annual tribute or

ransom of the Roman Empire: a thousand talents of

gold, a thousand talents of silver, a thousand silk

robes, a thousand horses, and a thousand virgins.

Heraclius subscribed these ignominious terms; but

the time and space which he obtained to collect such

treasures from the poverty of the East was indus­

triously employed in the preparations of a bold and

desperate attack.

Of the characters conspicuous in history, that ofHisPre-

tt t • e i t i • parations

Heraclius is one of the most extraordinary and in- for war,

consistent. In the first and last years of a long reign,'

the emperor appears to be the slave of sloth, of plea­

sure, or of superstition, the careless and impotent

spectator of the public calamities. But the languid

mists of the morning and evening are separated by

the brightness of the meridian sun: the Arcadius of

the palace arose the Caesar of the camp; and the

a a 3

