362 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. sians were not invincible, and that a hero was in-

xx x' vested with the purple. Strong in victory and fame,

Heraclius boldly ascended the heights of mount

Taurus, directed his march through the plains of

Cappadocia, and established his troops for the winter

season in safe and plentiful quarters on the banks of

the river Halys *. His soul was superior to the vanity

of entertaining Constantinople with an imperfect

triumph: but the presence of the emperor was indis­

pensably required to soothe the restless and rapacious

spirit of the Avars.

His second Since the days of Scipio and Hannibal, no bolder

aTd. 623^ enterprise has been attempted than that which Hera-

o"24,625. clius achieved for the deliverance of the empire t.

He permitted the Persians to oppress for a while the

provinces, and to insult with impunity the capital of

the East; while the Roman emperor explored his

perilous way through the Black Sea, and the moun­

tains of Armenia, penetrated into the heart of Per­

sia t, and recalled the armies of the great king to the

defence of their bleeding country. With a select

band of five thousand soldiers, Heraclius sailed from

Constantinople to Trebizond; assembled his forces

which had wintered in the Pontic regions ; and, from

the mouth of the Phasis to the Caspian Sea, encou­

raged his subjects and allies to march with the suc­

cessor of Constantine under the faithful and victo­

rious banner of the cross. When the legions of Lu-

cullus and Pompey first passed the Euphrates, they

* George of Pisidia, an eye-witness (Acroas. ii. 122, &c.), described, in three  
acroateit or cantos, the first expedition of Heraclius. The poem has been
lately

(1777) published at Rome; but such vague and declamatory praise is far from

'corresponding with the sanguine hopes of Pagi, D'Anville, &e.

f Theophanes (p. 256) carries Heraclius swiftly (m™ invof) into Armenia.

Nicephorus (p. II), though he confounds the two expeditions, defines the
province

of Lazica. Eutychius (Annal. tom. ii. p. 231) has given the 5000 men, with the

more probable station of Trebizond.

X The expedition of Heraclius into Persia is finely illustrated by M.
d'Anville

(Memoirs de l'Academie des Inscriptions, tom, xxviii. p. 559—573). He dis­

covers the situation of Gandzaca, Thebarma, Dastagerd, &c. with admirable
skill

and learning; but the obscure campaign of 624 he passes over in silence.

