OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 493

the last of the Saracens, or Franks, could proudly chap.

exhibit the medals of gold and silver which they

had extorted from the feeble sovereign of Constan -

tinople.

The subjects of the last caliphs * had undoubtedly character

degenerated from the zeal and faith of the companions ™^!W

of the prophet. Yet their martial creed still repre- as­

sented the deity as the author of war: the vital

though latent spark of fanaticism still glowed in the

heart of their religion, and among the Saracens who

dwelt on the Christian borders it was frequently re­

kindled to a lively and active flame. Their regular

force was formed of the valiant slaves who had been

educated to guard the person and accompany the

standard of their lord; but the Mussulman people of

Syria and Cilicia, of Africa and Spain, was awakened

by the trumpet which proclaimed a holy war against

the infidels. The rich were ambitious of death or

victory in the cause of God; the poor were allured

by the hopes of plunder; and the old, the infirm,

and the women, assumed their share of meritorious

service by sending their substitutes, with arms and

horses, into the field. These offensive and defensive

arms were similar in strength and temper to those of

the Romans, whom they far excelled in the manage­

ment of the horse and the bow; the massy silver of

their belts, their bridles, and their swords, displayed

the magnificence of a prosperous nation, and, except

some black archers of the South, the Arabs disdained

the naked bravery of their ancestors. Instead of

waggons, they were attended by a long train of

camels, mules, and asses; the multitude of these ani­

mals, whom they bedecked with flags and streamers,

* The eighteenth chapter of the tactics of the different nations is the most hi -  
Btorical and useful of the whole collection of Leo. The manners and arms of
the

Saracens (Tactic, p. 809—817- and a fragment from the Medicean MS. in the

preface of the sixth volume of Mcursius) the Roman emperor was too frequently

called upon to study.

