OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 383

Abubeker; and Bosra was taken in the year 632. chap.

Damascus was obstinately defended, and it was not'

till after a long siege that it yielded to the Saracens.

But the army of Heraclius, which had been sent to

its relief, being defeated in the battle of Aiziradin,

and no further hope of succour remaining, the Da­

mascenes entered into a treaty with Abu Obeidah,

the commander of one part of the besieging army.

The capitulation was faithfully observed by him ; but

Caled, who commanded the other division of the Sara­

cens, took advantage of the security in which the

garrison indulged on account of the treaty, and forced

the city at the gate opposite to that by which his

colleague made his peaceable entry. A cruel scene

then followed ; but the slaughter was checked by the

fidelity of Abu Obeidah to the terms which he had

granted. The Damascenes who chose to abandon

the city were permitted to do so; and a great mul­

titude of soldiers and citizens, of priests and laymen,

of women and children, departed with such effects

as they were able to take with them. Three days

were allowed as the period of peace, but on the fourth

day, Caled, assisted by a renegade who acted as his

guide, began the pursuit, and overtaking the promis'-

cuous and half armed multitude, enjoyed the satisfac­

tion of believing that not a single Christian of either

sex had escaped the edge of the scimitar. The plun­

der of Damascus was immense.

The emperor Heraclius did not yet abandon the

defence of Syria. A numerous army was collected

Cadi of Bagdad, who was born A. D. 748, and died A. D. 822. He likewise

wrote the conquest of Egypt, of Diarbckir, \c. Above the meagre and recent

chronicles of the Arabians, Al Wakiili has the double merit of antiquity and
co­

piousness. His tales and traditions afford an artless picture of the men and
the

times Yet his narrative is too often defective, trifling, and improbable. Till

norr ething better shall be found, his learned and spirited interpreter
(Ockley,in his

history of the Saracens, vol. i. p. 21—.142) will not deserve the petulant
animad­

version of Reiske, (Prodidagn.ata ad Hagji Caliph Tabulas, p. 23G). I am

sorry to think that the labours of Ockley were consummated in a jail (see his

two prefaces to the 1st vol. A.l). 1708, to the vd, 17 >8, with the list of
authors

at the end).

