OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 137

persuaded to renounce his dangerous claim to the chap.

possession or sovereignty of Colchos and its de- XXXv-

pendent states. Rich in the accumulated treasures

of the East, he extorted from the Romans an an­

nual payment of thirty thousand pieces of gold;

and the smallness of the sum revealed the disgrace of

a tribute in its naked deformity. In a previous de­

bate, the chariot of Sesostris, and the wheel of for­

tune, were applied by one of the ministers of Jus­

tinian, who observed that the reduction of Antioch,

and some Syrian cities, had elevated beyond measure

the vain and ambitious spirit of the Barbarian. "You

"are mistaken," replied the modest Persian: "the

"king of kings, the lord of mankind, looks down

"with contempt on such petty acquisitions; and of

"the ten nations, vanquished by his invincible arms,

"he esteems the Romans as the least formidable."

According to the Orientals, the empire of Nushirvan

extended from Ferganah, in Transoxiana, to Yemen

or Arabia Felix. He subdued the rebels of Hyrcania,

reduced the provinces of Cabul and Zablestan on the

banks of the Indus, broke the power of the Euthalites,

terminated by an honourable treaty the Turkish war,

and admitted the daughter of the great khan into the

number of his lawful wives. Victorious and respected

among the princes of Asia, he gave audience, in his

palace of Madain, or Ctesiphon, to the ambassadors

of the world. Their gifts or tributes, arms, rich gar­

ments, gems, slaves, or aromatics, were humbly pre­

sented at the foot of his throne; and he condescended

to accept from the king of India ten quintals of the

wood of aloes, a maid seven cubits in height, and a

carpet softer than silk, the skin, as it was reported,

of an extraordinary serpent*.

Justinian had been reproached for his alliance with Conquest of

the ^Ethiopians, as if he attempted to introduce a sinians,ys"

A. D. 522.

* D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. G80, 081. 294, 295.

