44 THE DECLINE AND FALL

xxxiv voya8*e for tne African coast. He found a fruitful

1 land and a friendly people. Notwithstanding the

decay of agriculture, Sicily still supplied the gra­

naries of Rome; the farmers were graciously ex­

empted from the oppression of military quarters; and

the Goths, who trusted the defence of the island to

the inhabitants, had some reason to complain, that

their confidence was ungratefully betrayed. Instead

of soliciting and expecting the aid of the king of Italy,

they yielded to the first summons a cheerful obe­

dience: and this province, the first fruits of the

Punic wars, was again, after a long separation, united

to the Roman empire*. The Gothic garrison of

Palermo, which alone attempted to resist, was re­

duced, after a short siege, by a singular stratagem.

Belisarius introduced his ships into the deepest re­

cess of the harbour; their boats were laboriously

hoisted with ropes and pulleys to the top-mast head,

and he filled them with archers, who, from that su­

perior station, commanded the ramparts of the city.

After this easy, though successful campaign, the con­

queror entered Syracuse in triumph, at the head of

his victorious bands, distributing gold medals to the

people, on the day which so gloriously terminated the

year of the consulship. He passed the winter season

in the palace of ancient kings, amidst the ruins of a

Grecian colony, which once extended to a circum­

ference of two and twenty miles: but in the spring,

about the festival of Easter, the prosecution of his

designs was interrupted by a dangerous revolt of the

African forces.. Carthage was saved by the presence

of Belisarius, who suddenly landed with a thousand

guards. Two thousand soldiers of doubtful faith re­

turned to the standard of their old commander: and

* For the conquest of Sicily, compare the narrative of Procopius with the com­  
plaints of Totila (Gothic. 1. i, c. 5.1. iii. c . 10). The Gothic queen had
lately

relieved that thankless island (Var. ix. 10, II).

