OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 231

merly introduced to check the abuse of manumis- chap.

sions, and the too rapid increase of vile and indigent XXXVIL

Romans, he finally abolished; and the spirit of his

laws promoted the extinction of domestic servitude.

Yet the eastern provinces were filled, in the time of

Justinian, with multitudes of slaves, either born or

purchased for the use of their masters; and the price,

from ten to seventy pieces of gold, was determined

by their age, their strength, and their education.

But the hardships of this dependent state were con­

tinually diminished by the influence of government

and religion; and the pride of a subject was no

longer elated by his absolute dominion over the life

and happiness of his bondsman.

The law of nature instructs most animals to cherish Fathers and

and educate their infant progeny. The law of reasonc

inculcates to the human species the returns of filial

piety. But the exclusive, absolute, and perpetual

dominion of the father over his children, is peculiar

to the Roman jurisprudence*, and seems to be coeval

with the foundation of the city. The paternal power

was" instituted or confirmed by Romulus himself;

and after the practice of three centuries, it was in­

scribed on the fourth table of the Decemvirs. In the

forum, the senate, or the camp, the adult son of a

Roman citizen enjoyed the public and private rights

of a person: in his father's house, he was a mere

thing; confounded by the laws with the moveables,

the cattle, and the slaves, whom the capricious master -

might alienate or destroy, without being responsible

to any earthly tribunal. The hand which bestowed

the daily sustenance might resume the voluntary

gift, and whatever was acquired by the labour or fOr-

» See the patria potestas in the Institutes (1. i. tit. iv.), the Pandects (1.
i. tit. vi.

vii.) and the Code (1. viii. tit. xlvii. xlviii. xlix.). Jus potestatis quod
in liberos

habemus proprium est civium Romanorum. Nulli enini alii sunt homines, qui

talem in liberos habeant potestatem qualem nos habemus.

Q 4

