830 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. Persians still commemorate the exploits of Bahram:

XXXIX. t

, 1 and some excellent laws have prolonged the duration

of his troubled and transitory reign.

Restoration -phe restoration of Chosroes was celebrated with

and policy

of Chosroes, feasts and executions; and the music of the royal

—603. banquet was often disturbed by the groans of dying

or mutilated criminals. A general pardon might have

diffused comfort and tranquillity through a country

which had been shaken by the late revolutions; yet,

before the sanguinary temper of Chosroes is blamed,

we should learn whether the Persians had not been

accustomed either to dread the rigour or to despise

the weakness of their sovereign. The revolt of Bah­

ram, and the conspiracy of the satraps, were im­

partially punished by the revenge or justice of the

conqueror; the merits of Bindoes himself could not

purify his hand from the guilt of royal blood; and

the sou of Hormouz was desirous to assert his own

innocence, and to vindicate the sanctity of kings.

During the vigour of the Roman power, several

princes were seated on the throne of Persia by the

arms and the authority of the first Caesars. But their

new subjects were soon disgusted with the vices or

virtues which they had imbibed in a foreign land;

the instability of their dominion gave birth to a vul­

gar observation, that the choice of Rome was solicited

and rejected with equal ardour by the capricious levity

of Oriental slaves. But the glory of Maurice was

conspicuous in the long and fortunate reign of his

son and his ally. A band of a thousand Romans,

who continued to guard the person of Chosroes, pro­

claimed his confidence in the fidelity of the strangers;

his growing strength enabled him to dismiss his un­

popular aid, but he steadily professed the same grati­

tude and reverence to his adopted father; and till

the death of Maurice, the peace and alliance of the

two empires were faithfully maintained. Yet the

