OP THE EOMAN EMPIRE. 491

of gunpowder, produce a total revolution in the art chap.

of war. To these liquid combustibles the. city and

empire of Constantinople owed their deliverance; Tactics and

and they were employed in sieges and sea-fights with the Greeks.

terrible effect. But they were either less improved,

or less susceptible of improvements: the engines of

antiquity, the catapultae, balistae, and battering-rams,

were still of most frequent and powerful use in the

attack and defence of fortifications; nor was the de足

cision of battles reduced to the quick and heavy fire of

a line of infantry, whom it were fruitless to protect

with armour against a similar fire of their enemies.

Steel and iron were still the common instruments of

destruction and safety; and the helmets, cuirasses,

and shields of the tenth century did not, either

in form or substance, essentially differ from those

which had covered the companions of Alexander or

Achilles*. But instead of accustoming the modern

Greeks, like the legionaries of old, to the constant

and easy use of this salutary weight, their armour

was laid aside in light chariots, which followed the

march, till on the approach of an enemy they re足

sumed with haste and reluctance the unusual encum足

brance. Their offensive weapons consisted of swords,

battle-axes, and spears: but the Macedonian pike

was shortened a fourth of its length, and reduced to

the more convenient measure of twelve cubits or feet.

The sharpness of the Scythian and Arabian arrows

had been severely felt; and the emperors lament the

decay of archery as a cause of the public misfortunes,

and recommend, as an advice and a command, that

the military youth, till the age of forty, should assi足

duously practise the exercise of the bow. The bands,

or regiments, were usually three hundred strong;

* See the fifth, sixth, and seventh chapters, mpi oxXwv, irif< oishiauus and  
r.ifi -jvmisi /,', in the Tactics of Leo, with the corresponding passages in
those of

Constantino.

/

