234 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. the interest or passions of an unworthy father: the

* same crimes that flowed from the corruption, were

more sensibly felt by the humanity, of the Augustan

age; and the cruel Erixo, who whipped his son till he

expired, was saved by the emperor from the just fury

of the multitude*. The Roman father, from the

licence of servile dominion, was reduced to the gra­

vity and moderation of a judge. The presence and

opinion of Augustus confirmed the sentence of exile

pronounced against an intentional parricide by the

domestic tribunal of Arius. Hadrian transported to

an island the jealous parent, who, like a robber, had

seized the opportunity of hunting, to assassinate a

youth, the incestuous lover of his stepmother f. A

private jurisdiction is repugnant to the spirit of mon­

archy; the parent was again reduced from a judge

to an accuser; and the magistrates were enjoined by

Severus Alexander to hear his complaints and execute

his sentence. He could no longer take the life of a

son without incurring the guilt and punishment of

murder; and the pains of parricide, from which he

had been excepted by the Pompeian law, were finally

inflicted by the justice of Constantine J. The same

protection was due to every period of existence; and

reason must applaud the humanity of Paulus, for

imputing the crime of murder to the father, who

strangles, or starves, or abandons his new-born in­

fant; or exposes him in a public place to find the

mercy which he himself had denied. But the ex­

position of children was the prevailing and stubborn

* The examples of Erixo and Arius are related by Seneca (de dementia, i.  
14, 15), the former with horror, the latter with applause.

•f Quod latronis magis quam patris jure eum interfecit, nam patria potestas in

pietatc debet non in atrocitate consistere (Marcian, Institut . 1. xiv. in
Pandect.

1. xlviii. tit. is. leg. 6).

$ The Pompeian and Cornelian laws de sicariii and parricidu, are repeated,

or rather abridged, with the last supplements of Alexander Severus,
Constantino,

and Valentinian, in the Pandects (1. xlviii. tit. viii, ix), and Code (1. ix.
tit. xvi,

xvii). See likewise the Theodosian Code (1 . ix. tit. xiv, xv), with
Godefroy's

Commentary (tom. iii. p. 84—113), who pours a Hood of ancient and modern

learning over these penal laws.

