OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 227

It is the first care of a reformer to prevent any chap.

future reformation. To maintain the text of the xxxvn-

Pandects, the Institutes, and the Code, the use of Legal in-

ciphers and abbreviations was rigorously proscribed ; justiiJan."

and as Justinian recollected that the perpetual edict

had been buried under the weight of commentators,

he denounced the punishment of forgery against the

rash civilians who should presume to interpret or

pervert the will of their sovereign. The scholars of

Accursius, of Bartolus, of Cujacius, should blush for

their accumulated guilt, unless they dare to dispute

his right of binding the authority of his successors,

and the native freedom of the mind. But the em­

peror was unable to fix his own inconstancy; and,

while he boasted of renewing the exchange of Dio-

mede, of transmuting brass into gold*, he discovered

the necessity of purifying his gold from the mixture

of baser alloy. Six years had not elapsed from the Second

publication of the Code before he condemned the the Code,

imperfect attempt, by a new and more accurate edi- N0v?'i6?4'

tion of the same work; which he enriched with two

hundred of his own laws, and fifty decisions of the

darkest and most intricate points of jurisprudence.

Every year, or, according to Procopius, each day, of

his long reign, was marked by some legal innovation.

Many of his acts were rescinded by himself; many

were rejected by.his successors, many have been

obliterated by time; but the number of sixteen

edicts, and one hundred and sixty-eight novels f, The Novels,

has been admitted into the authentic body of the '!s65.

civil jurisprudence. In the opinion of a philosopher

• Xpue-ia .^a'huiwi, ixaro.ufti iwnt&iuiv, apud Horaerum pattem omnia virtutis

(1st Prafat. ad Pandect.). A line of Milton or Tasso would surprise us in an

act of parliament. Qua; omnia obtinere sancimus in omne aevum. Of the first

Code, he says (2d Prafat.) in a;temum valiturum. Man and for ever!

f Novella: is a classic adjective, but a barbarous substantive (Ludewig, p.
245).

Justinian never collected them himself: the nine collations, the legal
standard of

modern tribunals, consist of ninety-eight Novels; but the number was increased

by the diligence of Julian, Haloander, and Contius (Ludewig. p. 249. 258.

Alcman. Not. in Anecdot. p. 98).

q2

