OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

public: but on the proof or suspicion of guilt, the chap.

slave, or the stranger, was nailed to a cross, and this xxxvn

strict and summary justice might be exercised with­

out restraint over the greatest part of the populace

of Rome. Each family contained a domestic tribunal,

which was not confined, like that of the prator, to

the cognizance of external actions: virtuous prin­

ciples and habits were inculcated by the discipline of

education; and the Roman father was accountable to

the state for the manners of his children, since he

disposed, without appeal, of their life, their liberty,

and their inheritance. In some pressing emergencies,

the citizen was authorized to avenge his private or

public wrongs. The consent of the Jewish, the Athe­

nian, and the Roman laws, approved the slaughter

of the nocturnal thief; though in open day-light a

robber could not be slain without some previous evi­

dence of danger and complaint. Whoever surprised

an adulterer in his nuptial bed might freely exercise

his revenge*; the most bloody or wanton outrage

was excused by the provocation; nor was it before

the reign of Augustus that the husband was reduced

to weigh the rank of the offender, or that the parent

was condemned to sacrifice his daughter with her

guilty seducer. After the expulsion of the kings, the

ambitious Roman who should dare to assume their

title, or imitate their tyranny, was devoted to the in­

fernal gods: each of his fellow-citizens was armed

with a sword of justice; and the act of Brutus, how­

ever repugnant to gratitude or prudence, had been

already sanctified by the judgment of his country.

The barbarous practice of wearing arms in the midst

of peace, and the bloody maxims of honour, were

unknown to the Romans; and, during the two purest

• The first speech of Lysias (Reiske, Orator. Graw. tom. v. p. 2 48), is in

defence of a husband who had killed the adulterer. The right of husbands and

fathers at Rome and Athens is discussed with much learning by Dr. Taylor (Lee,

tiones Lysiacas, c. xi. in Reiske, tom. vi. p. 301—300).

s3

