OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 291

"member what you have been, remember what you chap.

"are. You see around us your slaves and your \

"children; with the authority, assume the tender-

"ness, of a parent. Love your people like yourself;

"cultivate the affections, maintain the discipline, of

"the army: protect the fortunes of the rich, relieve

"the necessities of the poor." The assembly, in

silence and in tears, applauded the counsels, and

sympathised with the repentance, of their prince:

the patriarch rehearsed the prayers of the church;

Tiberius received the diadem on his knees, and Jus­

tin, who in his abdication appeared most worthy to

reign, addressed the new monarch in the following

words: "If you consent, I live; if you command,

"I die: may the God of heaven and earth infuse

"into your heart whatever I have neglected or for-

"gotten." The last four years of the emperor Jus- Death of

tin were passed in tranquil obscurity: his conscience a!d. 578,

was no longer tormented by the remembrance of0ctober5-

those duties which he was incapable of discharging;

and his choice was justified by the filial reverence

and gratitude of Tiberius.

Among the virtues of Tiberius*, his beauty (heReignof

was one of the tallest and most comely of the Ro- ^wii.

mans) might introduce him to the favour of Sophia ; a. d. 578,

and the widow of Justin was persuaded, that she a. d. 582,

should preserve her station and influence under the Aug-14,

reign of a second and more youthful husband. But

if the ambitious candidate had been tempted to flatter

and dissemble, it was no longer in his power to fulfil

her expectations, or his own promise. The factions

of the hippodrome demanded, with some impatience,

the name of their new eTnpress; both the people and

"For the character and reign of Tiberius, see Evagrius, 1 . v. c . 13. Theo-

phylact, 1 . iii. c . 12, &c . Theophanes, in Chron. p. 210—218. Zonaras, tom.

ti. I. xiv. p. 72. Cedrenus, p. 392. Paul Warneftid, de Gestis Langobard. U

iii. c 11,12. The deacon of Forum Julii appears to have possessed some curious

and authentic facts-

U 2

