OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 93

disputed the friendship or rather the gifts of the em- chap.

- YVYlf

peror; and the distinction which nature had fixed *

between the faithful dog and the rapacious wolf was

applied by an ambassador who received only verbal

instructions from the mouth of his illiterate prince*.

The Bulgarians, of whatsoever species, were equally

attracted by Roman wealth: they assumed* a vague

dominion over the Sclavonian name, and their rapid

marches could only be stopped by the Baltic sea, or

the extreme cold and poverty of the north. But the

same race of Sclavonians appears to have maintained,

in every age, the possession of the same countries.

Their numerous tribes, however distant or adverse,

used one common language (it was harsh and irre­

gular), and were known by the resemblance of their

form, which deviated from the swarthy Tartar, and

approached without attaining the lofty stature and

fair complexion of the German. Four thousand six

hundred villages f were scattered over the provinces

of Russia and Poland, and their huts were hastily

built of rough timber, in a country deficient both in

stone and iron. Erected, or rather concealed, in the

depth of forests, on the banks of rivers, or the edge

of morasses, we may not perhaps, without flattery,

compare them to the architecture of the beaver;

which they resembled in a double issue, to the land

and water, for the escape of the savage inhabitant, an

animal less cleanly, less diligent, and less social, than

that marvellous quadruped. The fertility of the

soil, rather than the labour of the natives, supplied

the rustic plenty of the Sclavonians. Their sheep

and horned cattle were large and numerous, and the

fields which they sowed with millet and panic af-

* Procopius (Goth. 1. iv. c. 19). His verbal message (he owns himself an  
illiterate Barbarian) is delivered as an epistle. The style is savage,
figurative,

and original.'

f This sum is the result of a particular list, in a curious MS. fragment of
the

year 550, found in the library of Milan.

