OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 263

laws, introduced a new system of criminal jurispru- chap.

i YYYVTI

dence *; and the emperors, from Augustus to Jus-'

tinian, disguised their increasing rigour under the

names of the original authors. But the invention and

frequent use of extraordinary pains proceeded from

the desire to extend and conceal the progress of de­

spotism. In the condemnation of illustrious Romans,

the senate was always prepared to confound, at the

will of their masters, the judicial and legislative

powers. It was the duty of the governors to maintain

the peace of their province, by the arbitrary and rigid

administration of justice; the freedom of the city

evaporated in the extent of empire, and the Spanish

malefactor, who claimed the privilege of a Roman,

was elevated by the command of Galba on a fairer

and more lofty cross. Occasional rescripts issued

from the throne to decide the questions which, by

their novelty or importance, appeared to surpass the

authority and discernment of a proconsul. Trans­

portation and beheading were reserved for honourable

persons; meaner criminals were either hanged, or

burnt, or buried in the mines, or exposed to the wild

beasts of the amphitheatre. Armed robbers were

pursued and extirpated as the enemies of society;

the driving away horses or cattle was made a capital

offence; but simple theft was uniformly considered

as a mere civil and private injury. The degrees of

guilt, and the modes of punishment, were too often

determined by the discretion of the rulers, and the

subject was left in ignorance of the legal danger

which he might incur by every action of his life.

A sin, a vice, a crime, are the objects of theology, Measure of

ethics, and jurisprudence. Whenever their judgments gult"

* For the penal law (Leges Cornelia), Pompeiae, Julia!, of Sylla, Pompey, and  
the Casars), see the sentences of Paulus (1. iv. tit xviii—xxx. p. 497—328.

edit. Schulting), the Gregorian Code (Fragment. 1. xix. p. 705, 706, in
Schult-

ing), the Collatio Legum Mosaicarum et Romanarum (tit. i—xv), the Theodosian

(.'ode (1. ix), the Code of Justinian (1. ix), the Pandects (xlviii), the
Institutes

(1. iv. tit. xviii), and the Greek version of Theophilus (p. 917—950').

s4

