OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 27

general of the forces; but the office of praetorian prae- chap.

feet was intrusted to a soldier; the civil and military 'm

powers were united, according to the practice of Jus­

tinian, in the chief governor; and the representative

of the emperor in Africa, as well as in Italy, was

soon distinguished by the appellation of Exarch.

Yet the conquest of Africa was imperfect, till her Distress and

former sovereign was delivered, either alive or dead, Gdimw,

into the hands of the Romans. Doubtful of the^^^?4—

event, Gelimer had given secret orders that a part of

his treasure should be transported to Spain, where

he hoped to find a secure refuge at the court of the

king of the Visigoths. But these intentions were

disappointed by accident, treachery, and the inde­

fatigable pursuit of his enemies, who intercepted his

flight from the sea-shore, and chased the unfortunate

monarch, with some faithful followers, to the inac­

cessible mountain of Papua, in the inland country of

Numidia. He was immediately besieged by Pharas,

an officer whose truth and sobriety were the more

applauded, as such qualities could seldom be found

among the Heruli, the most corrupt of the Barbarian

tribes. To his vigilance Belisarius had intrusted

this important charge; and, after a bold attempt to

scale the mountain, in which he lost a hundred and

ten soldiers, Pharas expected, during a winter siege,

the operation of distress and famine on the mind of

the Vandal king. From the softest habits of plea­

sure, from the unbounded command of industry and

wealth, he was reduced to share the poverty of the

Moors, supportable only to themselves by their ig­

norance of a happier condition. In their rude hovels,

of mud and hurdles, which confined the smoke and

excluded the light, they promiscuously slept on the

ground, perhaps on a sheep-skin, with their wives,

their children, and their cattle. Sordid and scanty

were their garments; the use of bread and wine was

