OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25

and their freedom: the neighbourhood of Carthage chap.

submitted to his presence; and the more distant pro- XXXIV-

vinces were successively subdued by the report of his

victory. Tripoli was confirmed in her voluntary al­

legiance; Sardinia and Corsica surrendered to an

officer, who carried, instead of a sword, the head of

the valiant Zano; and the isles of Majorca, Minorca,

and Yvica, consented to remain an humble appendage

of the African kingdom. Caesarea, a royal city, which

in looser geography may be confounded with the mo­

dern Algiers, was situate thirty days, march to the

westward of Carthage: by land, the road was in­

fested by the Moors; but the sea was open, and the

Romans were now masters of the sea. An active

and discreet tribune sailed as far as the Straits,

where he occupied Septem or Ceuta, which rises op­

posite to Gibraltar on the African coast; that re­

mote place was afterwards adorned and fortified by

Justinian; and he seems to have indulged the vain

ambition of extending his empire to the columns of

Hercules. He received the messengers of victory at

the time when he was preparing to publish the pan­

dects of the Roman law ; and the emperor celebrated

the divine goodness, and confessed, in silence, the

merit of his successful general *. Impatient to

abolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny of the

Vandals, he proceeded, without delay, to the full

establishment of the Catholic church. Her juris­

diction, wealth, and immunities, were restored and

amplified with a liberal hand; the Arian worship

was suppressed; the Donatist meetings were pro­

scribed; and the synod of Carthage, by the voice of

two hundred and seventeen bishops, applauded the

just measure of retaliation. On such an occasion, it

• See the second and third preambles to the Digest, or Pandects, promulgated

A. D. 533, December 10. To the titles of Vandalicw and Africanut, Justinian,

or rather Bclisarius, had acquired a just claim: Gothicut was premature, and

Frattcicui false, and offensive to a great nation.

