264 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXVII.

Unnatural

vice.

agree, they corroborate each other; but as often as

they differ, a prudent legislator appreciates the guilt

and punishment according to the measure of social

injury. On this principle, the most daring attack on

the life and property of a private citizen is judged

less atrocious than the crime of treason or rebellion,

which invades the majesty of the republic: the ob­

sequious civilians unanimously pronounced, that the

republic is contained in the person of its chief: and

the edge of the Julian law was sharpened by the in­

cessant diligence of the emperors. The licentious

commerce of the sexes may be tolerated as an impulse

of nature, or forbidden as a source of disorder and

corruption: but the fame, the fortunes, the family of

the husband, are seriously injured by the adultery of

the wife. The wisdom of Augustus, after curbing

the freedom of revenge, applied to this domestic

offence the animadversion of the laws: and the

guilty parties, after the payment of heavy forfeitures

and fines, were condemned to long or perpetual exile

in two separate islands*. Religion pronounces an

equal censure against the infidelity of the husband:

but as it is not accompanied by the same civil effects,

the wife was never permitted to vindicate herwrongst;

and the distinction of simple or double adultery, so

familiar and so important in the canon law, is un­

known to the jurisprudence of the Code and Pan­

dects. I touch with reluctance, and despatch with

impatience, a more odious vice, of which modesty

rejects the name, and nature abominates the idea.

The primitive Romans were infected by the example

• Till the publication of the Julius Paulus of Schulting (I. ii. tit. xxvi.

p. 317—323), it was affirmed and believed, that the Julian laws punished adul­

tery with death; and the mistake arose from the fraud or error of Tribonian.

Yet Lipsius had suspected the truth from the narratives of Tacitus (A mini.
ii. 50.

iii. 24. iv. 42), and even from the practice of Augustus, who distinguished
the

treasonable frailties of his female kindred.

•f-In cases of adultery, Severus confined to the husband the right of public
ac-

lcusation (Cod. Justinian. 1. ix. tit . ix. leg. 1).

