OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 479

alone. The introductor and interpreter of foreign chap.

ambassadors were the great Chiatiss and the Drago- .

man, two names of Turkish origin, and which are

still familiar to the Sublime Porte. 3. From the

humble style and service of guards, the Domestics

insensibly rose to the station of generals; the military

themes of the East and West, the legions of Europe

and Asia, were often divided, till the great Domestic

was finally invested with the universal and absolute

command of the land forces. The Protostrator, in

his original functions, was the assistant of the em­

peror when he mounted on horseback: he gradually

became the lieutenant of the great Domestic in the

field; and his jurisdiction extended over the stables,

the cavalry, and the royal train of hunting and hawk­

ing. The Stratopedarch was the great judge of the

camp; the Protospathaire commanded the guards;

the Constable *, the great JEteriarch, and the Acolyih,

were the separate chiefs of the Franks, the Barbarians,

and the Varangi, or English, the mercenary strangers,

who, in the decay of the national spirit, fonned the

nerve of the Byzantine armies. 4. The naval powers

were under the command of the great Duke; in his

absence they obeyed the great Drungaire of the

fleet; and in his place the Emir, or admiral,/a name

of Saracen extraction t, but which has been na­

turalized in all the modern languages of Europe. Of

these officers, and of many more whom it would be

useless to enumerate, the civil and military hierarchy

was framed. Their honours and emoluments, their

dress and titles, their mutual salutations and respect­

ive pre-eminence, were balanced with more exquisite

labour than would have fixed the constitution of a

XLI.

• Ko»oTTortAof,or xovTocTaiAor, a corruption from the Latin Conies stabuli, or

the French Connetable. In a military sense, it was used by the Greeks in the

eleventh century, at least as early as in France.

f It was directly borrowed from the Normans. In the twelfth century, Gian.

none reckons the admiral of Sicily among the great officers.

