OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 195

African fever is generated from the putrefaction of chap.

animal substances, and especially from the swarms XXXVL

of locusts, not less destructive to mankind in their

death than in their lives. The fatal disease which de­

populated the earth in the time of Justinian and his

successors first appeared in the neighbourhood of

Pelusium, between the Serbonian bog and the eastern

channel of the Nile. From thence, tracing as it were

a double path, it spread to the East, over Syria, Persia,

and the Indies, and penetrated to the West, along

the coast of Africa, and over the continent of Europe.

In the spring of the second year, Constantinople,

during three or four months, was visited by the

pestilence; and Procopius, who observed its progress

and symptoms with the eyes of a physician, has emu­

lated the skill and diligence of Thucydides in the

description of the plague of Athens. The infection

was sometimes announced by the visions of a dis­

tempered fancy, and the victim despaired as soon as

he had heard the menace and felt the stroke of an

invisible spectre. But the greater number, in their

beds, in the streets, in their usual occupation, were

surprised by a slight fever; so slight, indeed, that

neither the pulse nor the colour of the patient gave

any signs of the approaching danger. The same,

the next, or the succeeding day, it was declared by

the swelling of the glands, particularly those of the

groin, of the arm-pits, and under the ear; and when

these buboes or tumors were opened, they were found

to contain a coal, or black substance, of the size of a

lentil. If they came to a just swelling and suppura­

tion, the patient was saved by this kind and natural

discharge of the morbid humour. But if they con­

tinued hard and dry, a mortification quickly ensued,

and the fifth day was commonly the term of his life.

The fever was often accompanied with lethargy or

delirium; the bodies of the sick were covered with

r

o 2

