OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 405

subdue the Barbarians of Germany, to follow the chap.

course of the Danube from its source to the Euxine ,,'

Sea, to overthrow the empire of Constantinople, and

unite his new acquisitions with Antioch and Syria.

But his design, which is attested by several Arabian

historians, was checked at Lugo in Gallicia, by a

messenger of the caliph, who recalled Musa to Da­

mascus *.

At the end of the first century of the Hegira, about Empire of

the year 718, the caliphs were the most potent and cens,A™i).

absolute monarchs of the globe. Their empire ex- 7l8,

tended two hundred days' journey from east to west,

from the confines of Tartary and India to the shores

of the Atlantic Ocean. But the thirst of conquest Theyin-

and the extension of empire still prevailed in the ^fv.^T'

breasts of the Moslems. They subdued the south- —7si.

ern provinces of France; and, in the year 731, un­

der the conduct of Abderame, they extended their

conquests as far as the banks of the Loire, and the

gates of Tours. It was between this city and Poitiers,

in the heart of France, that, in the year 732, after

six days of desultory combat, Abderame was slain,

and his army was totally defeated, by the Franks, the

Gepidae, and the Germans, under the command of the

heroic Charles Martel, the father of Pepin and grand­

father of Charlemagne.

The victory of the Franks was complete; the Arabs Defeated by

never resumed the conquest of Gaul ; and they were Martd!

soon driven beyond the Pyrenees, by Charles Martel A-D- 787-

and his valiant descendants t.

* This design which is attested by several Arabian historians (Cardonnc, vol.  
i. p. 95, 96), may be compared with that of Mithridates, to march from the
Cri­

mea to Rome; or with that of Caesar, to conquer the East, and return home hy

the North: and all three are perhaps surpassed by the real and successful
enter­

prise of Hannibal.

f I will not presume to conjecture what might have happened if the

Gallic hero had fallen in the battle of Tours, and the victory of Abderame had

been as complete as bis defeat. I trust, however, that my countrymen will not

blame me, if I venture to differ from Mr. Gibbon, in the opinion which he ex-

D D 3

