OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 211

the veil of mystery; and in more enlightened times, chap.

the freedom of inquiry established the general prin- XXXVIL

ciples of jurisprudence. Subtle and intricate cases

were elucidated by the disputes of the forum: rules,

axioms, and definitions, were admitted as the genuine

dictates of reason; and the consent of the legal pro­

fessors was interwoven into the practice of the tri­

bunals. But these interpreters could neither enact

nor execute the laws of the republic; and the judges

might disregard the authority of the Scaevolas them­

selves, which was often overthrown by the eloquence

or sophistry of an ingenious pleader. Augustus and

Tiberius were the first to adopt, as a useful engine,

the science of the civilians; and their servile labours

accommodated the old system to the spirit and views

of despotism. Under the fair pretence of securing

the dignity of the art, the privilege of subscribing legal

and valid opinions was confined to the sages of sena-

torian or equestrian rank, who had been previously

approved by the judgment of the prince; and this

monopoly prevailed, till Hadrian restored the free­

dom of the profession to every citizen conscious of his

abilities and knowledge. The discretion of the prae­

tor was now governed by the lessons of his teachers;

the judges were enjoined to obey the comment as well

as the text of the law; and the use of codicils was a

memorable innovation, which Augustus ratified by

the advice of the civilians.

The most absolute mandate could only require that Sects.

the judges should agree wjth the civilians, if the

civilians agreed among themselves. But positive in­

stitutions are often the result of custom and preju­

dice; laws and language are ambiguous and arbitrary;

where reason is incapable of pronouncing, the love of

argument is inflamed by the envy of rivals, the vanity

of masters, the blind attachment of their disciples;

and the Roman jurisprudence was divided by the once

