152 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. by his friends and enemies; and the Gothic war was

xxxvi.

imposed as a trust or an exile on the veteran com-

in Italy, mander. A hero on the banks of the Euphrates, a

—548. slave in the palace of Constantinople, he accepted,

with reluctance, the painful task of supporting his

own reputation, and retrieving the faults of his suc­

cessors. The sea was open to the Romans: the ships

and soldiers were assembled at Salona, near the palace

• of Diocletian: he refreshed and reviewed his troops

at Pola in Istria, coasted round the head of the Ha-

driatic, entered the port of Ravenna, and despatched

orders rather than supplies to the subordinate cities.

His first public oration was addressed to the Goths

and Romans, in the name of the emperor, who had

suspended for a while the conquest of Persia, and

listened to the prayers of his Italian subjects. He

gently touched on the causes and the authors of the

recent disasters; striving to remove the fear of pu­

nishment for the past, and the hope of impunity for

the future, and labouring, with more zeal than suc­

cess, to unite all the members of his government in

a firm league of affection and obedience. Justinian,

his gracious master, was inclined to pardon and re­

ward; and it was their interest, as well as duty, to

reclaim their deluded brethren, who had been se­

duced by the arts of the usurper. Not a man was

tempted to desert the standard of the Gothic king.

Belisarius soon discovered, that he was sent to remain

the idle and impotent spectator of the glory of a

young Barbarian; and his own epistle exhibits a

genuine and lively picture of the distress of a noble

mind. "Most excellent prince, we are arrived in

"Italy, destitute of all the necessary implements of

"war, men, horses, arms, and money. In -nur late

"circuit through the villages of Thrace and Ulyri-

"cum, we have collected, with extreme difficulty,

*' about four thousand recruits, naked, and unskilled

