462 THE DECLINE AND FALL

XLI.

chap. But the Taclics of Leo and Constantine are mingled

with the baser alloy of the age in which they lived.

It was destitute- of original genius; they implicitly

transcribe the rules and maxims which had been con­

firmed by victories. It was unskilled in the propriety

of style and method; they blindly confound the

most distant and discordant institutions, the phalanx

of Sparta and that of Macedon, the legions of Cato

and Trajan, of Augustus and Theodosius. Even the

use, or at least the importance, of these militaryj-udi-

ments may be fairly questioned :"their general theory

is dictated by reason; but the'merit, as well as

difficulty, consists in the application. The discipline

of a soldier is formed by exercise rather than by

study: the talents of a commander are appropriated

to those calm though rapid minds, which nature pro­

duces to decide the fate of armies and nations: the

former is the habit of a life, the latter the glance of a

moment; and the battles won by lessons of tactics

may be numbered with the epic poems created from

the rules of criticism. The book of ceremonies is a

recital, tedious yet imperfect, of the despicable pa­

geantry which had infected the church and state since

the gradual decay of the purity of the one and the

power of the other. A review of the themes or pro­

vinces might promise such authentic and useful in­

formation, as the curiosity of government only can

obtain, instead of traditionary fables on the origin of

the cities, and malicious epigrams on the vices of their

inhabitants. Such information the historian would

have been pleased to record; nor should his silence

be condemned if the most interesting objects, the

population of the capital and provinces, the amount

of the taxes and revenues, the numbers of subjects

and strangers who served under the Imperial standard,

have been unnoticed by Leo the philosopher and his

son Constantine. His treatise of the public admini­

