OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419

generals and magistrates, who are said to have suf- chap.

fered under his reign, the numbers are recorded, the XL'

names were conspicuous, the execution was public,

the mutilation visible and permanent. The Catholics

hated the person and government of Copronymus;

but even their hatred is a proof of their oppression.

They dissemble the provocations which might excuse

or justify his rigour, but even these provocations

must gradually inflame his resentment, and harden

his temper, in the use or abuse of despotism. Yet

the character of the fifth Constantine was not devoid

of merit, nor did his government always deserve the

curses or contempt of the Greeks. From the con­

fession of his enemies, I am informed of the restora­

tion of an ancient aqueduct, of the redemption of

two thousand five hundred captives, of the uncom­

mon plenty of the times, and of the new colonies with

which he repeopled Constantinople and the Thraciafl

cities. They reluctantlypraise his activity and courage;

he was on horseback in the field at the head of his

legions; and although the fortune of his arms was va­

rious, he triumphed by sea and land, on the Euphrates

and the Danube, in civil and barbarian war.

Leo* the Fourth, the son of the fifth, and the father Leo rv.

of the sixth Constantine, was of a feeble constitution £'D* IP'

toept. 14.

both of mind and body; and the principal care of his

reign was the settlement of the succession. The

association of the young Constantine was urged by

the officious zeal of his subjects; and the emperor,

conscious of his decay, complied, after a prudent

hesitation, with their unanimous wishes. The royal

infant, at the age of five years, was crowned with his

mother Irene; and the national consent was ratified

by every circumstance of pomp and solemnity, that

could dazzle the eyes, or blind the conscience, of the

Greeks. An oath of fidelity was administered in the

palace, the church, and the hippodrome, to the seve-

E E 2

