126 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. both of mind and hand; and although the want of

xxxv- union and discipline exposes them to their more

powerful neighbours, a bold and intrepid spirit has

animated the Colchians of every age. In the host

of Xerxes, they served on foot; and their arms were,

a dagger or a javelin, a wooden casque, and a buckler

of raw hides. But in their own country the use of

cavalry has more generally prevailed: the meanest

of the peasants disdain to walk; the martial nobles

are possessed, perhaps, of two hundred horses; and

above five thousand are numbered in the train of the

prince of Mingrelia. The Colchian government has

been always a pure and hereditary kingdom; and

the authority of the sovereign is only restrained by

the turbulence of his subjects. Whenever they were

obedient, he could lead a numerous army into the

field; but some faith is requisite to believe, that the

single tribe of the Suanians was composed of two hun­

dred thousand soldiers, or that the population of Min­

grelia now amounts to four millions of inhabitants *.

Revolutions It was the boast of the Colchians, that their an­

cestors had checked the victories of Sesostris; and

the defeat of the Egyptian is less incredible than his

successful progress as far as the foot of mount Cau­

casus. They sunk, without any memorable effort,

under the arms of Cyrus; followed in distant wars

the standard of the great king, and presented him

every fifth year with one hundred boys and as many

under the virgins, the fairest produce of the land-)-. Yet he

before"8' accepted this gift like the gold and ebony of India,

christ 500' the frankincense of the Arabs, or the negroes and

ivory of ^Ethiopia: the Colchians were not subject

to the dominion of a satrap, and they continued to

enjoy the name as well as substance of national in­

dependence. After the fall of the Persian empire,

* Strabo, 1. xi. p. 705- Lamberti, Relation de la Mingrelie.  
+ Herodot . 1. iii. c. 97- See, in 1. vii. c- 79, their arms and service in
the ex­

pedition of Xerxes against Greece.

