OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 475

from a throne resplendent with gold and gems, which chap.

was raised by a marble staircase to the height of a L'

lofty terrace. Below the throne were seated the of­

ficers of his guards, the magistrates, the chiefs of the

factions of the circus; the inferior steps were occu­

pied by the people, and the place below was covered

with troops of dancers, singers, and pantomimes.

The square was surrounded by the hall of justice,

the arsenal and the various offices of business and

pleasure; and the purple chamber was named from

the annual distribution of robes of scarlet and purple

by the hand of the empress herself. The long series

of the apartments was adapted to the seasons, and

decorated with marble and porphyry, with painting,

sculpture, and mosaics, with a profusion of gold,

silver, and precious stones. His fanciful magnificence

employed the skill and patience of such artists as the

times could afford: but the taste of Athens would

have despised their frivolous and costly labours; a

golden tree with its leaves and branches, which shel­

tered a multitude of birds, warbling their artificial

notes, and two lions of massy gold, and of the na­

tural size, who looked and roared like their brethren

of the forest. The successors of Theophilus, of the

Basilian and Comnenian dynasties, were not less am­

bitious of leaving some memorial of their residence;

and the portion of the palace most splendid and

august was dignified with the title of the golden tri­

clinium. With becoming modesty, the rich and noble Furniture

Greeks aspired to imitate their sovereign; and when and attend-

they passed through the streets on horseback, in their

robes of silk and embroidery, they were mistaken by

the children for kings. A matron of Peloponnesus,

who had cherished the infant fortunes of Basil the

Macedonian, was excited by tenderness or vanity to

visit the greatness of her adopted son. In a journey

of five hundred miles from Patras to Constantinople,

