228 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. superior to the prejudices of his profession, these in-

xxxvu. cessant, and for the most part trifling, alterations,

can be only explained by the venal spirit of a prince,

who sold without shame his judgments and his laws*.

The charge of the secret historian is indeed explicit

and vehement; but the sole instance, which he pro­

duces, may be ascribed to the devotion as well as to

the avarice of Justinian. A wealthy bigot had be­

queathed his inheritance to the church of Emesa;

and its value was enhanced by the dexterity of an

artist, who subscribed confessions of debt and pro­

mises of payment with the names of the richest

'Syrians. They pleaded the established prescription

of thirty or forty years; but their defence was over­

ruled by a retrospective edict, which extended the

claims of the church to the term of a century; an

edict so pregnant with injustice and disorder, that

after serving this occasional purpose, it was prudently

abolished in the same reign. If candour will acquit

the emperor himself, and transfer the corruption to

his wife and favourites, the suspicion of so foul a vice

must still degrade the majesty of his laws: and the

advocates of Justinian may acknowledge, that such

levity, whatsoever be the motive, is unworthy of a

legislator and a man.

Theinsti- Monarchs seldom condescend to become the pre-

a.D. 533, ceptors of their subjects; and some praise is due to

Nov. 21. Justinian, by whose command an ample system was

reduced to a short and elementary treatise. Among

the various institutes of the Roman law, those of

. Caiust were the most popular in the East and West;

• Montesquieu, Considerations sur la Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains,

c. 20. tom. iii. p. 501, in 4to. On this occasion he throws aside the gown and

cap of a President a Mortier.

f The emperor Justinian calls him suum, though he died before the end of

the second century. His Institutes are quoted by Servius, Boethius, Priscian,

&c . and the Epitome by Arrian is still extant. (See the Prolegomena and

Notes to the edition of Schulting, in the Jurisprudent Ante-Justinianea, Lugd.

Bat. 1717. Heineccius, Hist. J. R. No. 313. Ludewig. in Vit. Just. p. 199.)

