OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387

stance, the conflagration would have speedily expired chap.

in the deficiency of materials. I shall not recapitulate XL"

the disasters of the Alexandrian library, or the invo­

luntary flame that was kindled by Caesar in his own

defence. But if we gradually descend from the age

of the Antonines to that of Theodosius, we shall learn

from a chain of contemporary witnesses, that the

royal palace and the temple of Serapis no longer con­

tained the four, or the seven hundred thousand volumes,

which had been assembled by the curiosity and mag­

nificence of the Ptolemies.

The emperor Heraclius - had punished a tyrant,

and ascended his throne; and the memory of his

reign is perpetuated by the transient conquest, and

irreparable loss, of the eastern provinces. After the

death of Edocia, his first wife, he disobeyed the pa­

triarch, and violated the laws by his second marriage

with his niece Martina. But the opinion of an illegi­

timate birth is sufficient to distract the choice, and

loosen the obedience of the people: the ambition of

Martina was quickened by maternal love, and per­

haps by the envy of a stepmother; and the aged hus­

band was too feeble to withstand the arts of con­

jugal allurements. Constantine, his eldest son, en­

joyed in a mature age the title of Augustus, but the

weakness of his constitution required a colleague

and a guardian, and he yielded, with secret reluct- a. d. C38,

ance, to the partition of the empire *. The senate July 4tIu

was summoned to the palace to ratify or attest

the association of Heracleonas, the son of Martina:

the imposition of the diadem was consecrated by the

prayer and blessing of the patriarch; the senators

and patricians adored the majesty of the great em­

peror and the partners of his reign; and as soon as

• Mr. Gibbon has in general abundantly supplied his history with references to

the authors from whose works his information is derived. But in the series of

Greek empe/ors, from Heraclius to Isaac Angelus, there are many circumstances

in respect to which no authority is quoted. I mention this circumstance, that
I

may not be suspected of having carelessly omitted the references. Edit.

cc2

