202 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. I shall not repeat the well-known story of the

xxxvii. DecemvirS, who sullied by their actions the honour

The twelve of inscribing on brass, or wood, or ivory, the twelve

Decemvirs.6tables of the Roman laws*. They were dictated

by the rigid and jealous spirit of an aristocracy,

which had yielded with reluctance to the just demands

of the people. But the substance of the twelve tables

was adapted to the state of the city; and the Ro­

mans had emerged from barbarism, since they were

capable of studying and embracing the institutions of

their more enlightened neighbours. A wise Ephesian

was driven by envy from his native country: before

he could reach the shores of Latium, he had observed

the various forms of human nature and civil society;

he imparted his knowledge to the legislators of Rome,

and a statue was erected in the forum to the perpetual

memory of Hermodorus. The names and divisions

of the copper-money, the sole coin of the infant state,

were of Dorian origin: the harvests of Campania and

Sicily relieved the wants of a people whose agriculture

was often interrupted by war and faction; and since

the trade was established, the deputies who sailed

from the Tyber might return from the same har­

bours with a more precious cargo of political wisdom.

The colonies of Great Greece had transported and

improved the arts of their mother-country. Cumae

and Rhegium, Crotona and Tarentum, Agrigentum

and Syracuse, were in the rank of the most flourish­

ing cities. The disciples of Pythagoras applied phi­

losophy to the use of government; the unwritten

character as the Saliare Carmen, which, in the time of Horace, none could
under­

stand. The Roman idiom, by an infusion of Doric and yEolic Greek, was gra­

dually ripened into the style of the xii tables, of the Duillian column, of
Ennius,

of Terence, and of Cicero (Gruter. Inscript . tom. i. p. cxlii. Scipion
Maflbi. Is -

toria Diplomatics p. 241—258. Bibliotheque Italique, tom. iii. p. 30—41.

174—205. tom. xiv. p. 1—52).

* From the historians, Heineccius (Hist. J. It. 1. i. No. 26) maintains that  
the twelve tables were of brass—(ereas; in the text of Pomponius we read

choreas; for which Scaliger has substituted roboreas (Bynkershoek, p. 286).

Wood, brass, and ivory, might be successively employed.

