OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 209

the prayer of the ancient Caesars, the people or the chap.

senate had sometimes granted a personal exemption'

from the obligation and penalty of particular statutes;

and each indulgence was an act of jurisdiction exer足

cised by the republic over the first of her citizens.

His humble privilege was at length transformed into

the prerogative of a tyrant; and the Latin expression

of " released from the laws" was supposed to exalt

the emperor above all human restraints, and to leave

his conscience and reason as the sacred measure of

his conduct. 2. A similar dependence was implied

in the decrees of the senate, which, in every reign,

defined the titles and powers of an elective magistrate.

But it was not before the ideas, and even the lan足

guage, of the Romans had been corrupted, that a

royal law, and an irrevocable gift of the people, were

created by the fancy of Ulpian, or more probably of

Tribonian himself: and the origin of Imperial power,

though false in fact, and slavish in its consequence,

was supported on a principle of freedom and justice.

"The pleasure of the emperor has the vigour and Their ie-

"effect of law, since the Roman people, by the royal ^we"e

"law, have transferred to their prince the full extent

"of their own power and sovereignty." The will

of a single man, of a child perhaps, was allowed to

prevail over the wisdom of ages and the inclinations

of millions; and the degenerate Greeks were proud

to declare, that in his hands alone the arbitrary exer足

cise of legislation could be safely deposited. "What

"interest or passion," exclaims Theophilus in the

court of Justinian, "can reach the calm and sublime

"elevation of the monarch? he is already master of

"the lives and fortunes of his subjects; and those

"who have incurred his displeasure are already num-

"bered with the dead." Disdaining the language

of flattery, the historian may confess, that in ques足

tions of private jurisprudence, the absolute sovereign

VOL. IV.

