270 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. sentence, was admitted as a confession of guilt, and

xxxvn. ^e Spoils of the deceased were seized by the inhuman

claims of the treasury. Yet the civilians have always

respected the natural right of a citizen to dispose of

his life; and the posthumous disgrace invented by

Tarquin to check the despair of his subjects was never

revived or imitated by succeeding tyrants. The powers

of this world have indeed lost their dominion over

him who is resolved on death; and his arm can only

be restrained by the religious apprehension of a fu­

ture state. Suicides are enumerated by Virgil among

the unfortunate, rather than the guilty; and the

poetical fables of the infernal shades could not se­

riously influence the faith or practice of mankind.

But the precepts of the gospel, or the church, have

at length imposed a pious servitude on the minds of

Christians, and condemn them to expect, without a

murmur, the last stroke of disease or the executioner.

Abuses of The penal statutes form a very small proportion of

civil juris-

prudence, the sixty-two books of the Code and Pandects; and,

in all judicial proceeding, the life or death of a citi­

zen is determined with less caution and delay than

the most ordinary question of covenantor inheritance.

This singular distinction, though something may be

allowed for the urgent necessity of defending the

peace of society, is derived from the nature of cri­

minal and civil jurisprudence. Our duties to the

state are simple and uniform; the law by which he

is condemned is inscribed not only on brass or marble,

but on the conscience of the offender; and his guilt is

commonly proved by the testimony of a single fact.

But our relations to each other are various and in­

finite: our obligations are created, annulled, and

modified, by injuries, benefits, and promises; and

the interpretation of voluntary contracts and testa­

ments, which are often dictated by fraud or ignorance,

affords a long and laborious exercise to the sagacity

