OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 55

personal prowess of a soldier; and the example of chap.

Belisarius may be added to the rare examples of xxxtv-

Henry IV. of Pyrrhus, and of Alexander.

After this first and unsuccessful trial of their ene- His defence

mies, the whole army of the Goths passed the Tyber, ot Rome'

and formed the siege of the city, which continued

above a year, till their final departure. Whatever

fancy may conceive, the severe compass of the geo­

grapher defines the circumference of Rome within a

line of twelve miles and three hundred and forty-five

paces; and that circumference, except in the Vatican,

has invariably been the same, from the triumph of

Aurelian to the peaceful but obscure reign of the

modern popes*. But in the day of her greatness,

the space within her walls was crowded with habita­

tions and inhabitants; and the populous suburbs, that

stretched along the public roads, were darted like

so many rays from one common centre. Adversity

swept away these extraneous ornaments, and left

naked and desolate a considerable part even of the

seven hills. Yet Rome in its present state could send

into the field above thirty thousand males of a military

age; and, notwithstanding the want of discipline and

exercise, the far greater part, inured to the hardships

of poverty, might be capable of bearing arms for the

defence of their country and religion. The prudence

of Belisarius did not neglect this important resource.

His soldiers were relieved by the zeal and diligence

of the people, who watched while they slept, and

laboured while they reposed: he accepted the volun­

tary service of the bravest and most indigent of the

Roman youth; and the companies of townsmen some-

• M. d'Anville has given, in the Memoirs of the Academy for the year 1756

(tom. xxx. p. 198 236), a plan of Rome on a smaller scale, but far more

accurate than that which he had delineated in 1738 for Rollin's history. Ex­

perience had improved his knowledge; and, instead of Rossi's topography, he

used the new and excellent map of Nolli. Pliny's old measure of xiii must

be reduced to viii miles. It is easier to alter a text, than to remove hills
or

buildings.

r

E 4

