OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 213

public institutions of their country. The revolution chap.

of almost one thousand years, from the twelve tables XXXVIL

to the reign of Justinian, may be divided into three

periods almost equal in duration, and distinguished

from each other by the mode of instruction and the

character of the civilians*. Pride and ignorance

contributed, during the first period, to confine within The fast

narrow limits the science of the Roman law. On the ATufc.

public days of market or assembly, the masters of the 303—648-

art were seen walking in the forum, ready to impart

the needful advice to the meanest of their fellow-

citizens, from whose votes, on a future occasion, they

might solicit a grateful return. As their years and

honours increased, they seated themselves at home on

a chair or throne, to expect with patient gravity the

visits of their clients, who at the dawn of day, from

the town and country, began to thunder at their door.

The duties of social life, and the incidents of judicial

proceeding, were the ordinary subject of these con­

sultations, and the verbal or written opinion of the

jurisconsults was framed according to the rules of

prudence and law. The youths of their own order

and family were permitted to listen; their children

enjoyed the benefit of more private lessons, and the

Mucian race was long renowned for the hereditary

knowledge of the civil law. The second period, the Second

learned and splendid age of jurisprudence, may be aTu/c.

extended from the birth of Cicero to the reign of 648~988-

* The series of the civil lawyers is deduced by Pomponius (de Origine Juris  
Pandect. 1. i. tit. ii.). The moderns have discussed, with learning and
criticism,

this branch of literary history; and among these I have chiefly been guided by

Gravina (p. 41—79) and Heineccius (Hist . J. B. No. 113—351). Cicero, more

especially in his books de Oratore, de Claris Oratoribus, de Legibus, and the

Clavis Ciceroniana of Ernesti (under the names of Mucius, &c.) afford much

genuine and pleasing information. Horace often alludes to the morning labours

of the civilians (Serm. I. i. 10. Epist. II. i. 103, &c.).

Agricolam laudat juris legumque peritus

Sub galli cantum, consultor ubi ostia pulsat.

Romae duke diu f'uii et solemne, reclusa

Mane domo vigilare, clienti proinere jura.

p3

