OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 241

children in the infinite series of ascending and de- chap.

scending generations. Concerning the oblique and xxxvu-

collateral branches, nature is indifferent, reason mute,

and custom various and arbitrary. In Egypt, the

marriage of brothers and sisters was admitted with­

out scruple or exception: a Spartan might espouse

the daughter of his father, an Athenian that of his

mother; and the nuptials of an uncle with his niece

were applauded at Athens as a happy union of the

dearest relations. The profane lawgivers of Rome

were never tempted by interest or superstition to

multiply the forbidden degrees: but they inflexibly

condemned the marriage of sisters and brothers ; he­

sitated whether first cousins should be touched by

the same interdict; revered the parental character of

aunts and uncles, and treated affinity and adoption

as a just imitation of the ties of blood. According

to the proud maxims of the republic, a legal marriage

could only be contracted by free citizens; an honour­

able, at least an ingenuous birth, was required for

the spouse of a senator: but the blood of kings could

never mingle in legitimate nuptials with the blood of

a Roman; and the name of Stranger degraded Cleo­

patra and Berenice, to live the concubines of Mark

Antony and Titus. This appellation, indeed so in­

jurious to the majesty, cannot without indulgence be

applied to the manners of these Oriental queens. A

concubine, in the strict sense of the civilians, was a

woman of servile or plebeian extraction, the sole and

faithful companion of a Roman citizen, who con­

tinued in a state of celibacy. Her modest station

below the honours of a wife, above the infamy of a •

prostitute, was acknowledged and approved by the

laws: from the age of Augustus to the tenth century,

the use of this secondary marriage prevailed both in the

West and East, and the humble virtues of a concubine

were often preferred to the pomp and insolence of a

VOL. iv. n

