OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 108

they loudly complained of the timid, though jealous chap.

policy, of detaining their ambassadors, and denying xxxv-

the arms which they had been allowed to purchase in

the capital of the empire*.

Perhaps the apparent change in the dispositions of Embassies

the emperors may be ascribed to the embassy which Turks and

was received from the conquerors of the Avars. The A°rT569

immense distance which eluded their arms could not —582-

extinguish their resentment: the Turkish ambassa­

dors pursued the footsteps of the vanquished to the

Jaik, the Volga, mount Caucasus, the Euxine, and

Constantinople, and at length appeared before the

successor of Constantine, to request that he would

not espouse the cause of rebels and fugitives. Even

commerce had some share in this remarkable negotia­

tion: and the Sogdoites, who were now the tributaries

of the Turks, embraced the fair occasion of opening,

by the north of the Caspian, a new road for the im­

portation of Chinese silk into the Roman empire.

The Persian, who preferred the navigation of Ceylon,

had stopped the caravans of Bochara and Samarcand:

their silk was contemptuously burnt: some Turkish

ambassadors died in Persia, with a suspicion of poison;

and the great khan permitted his faithful vassal Ma-

niach, the prince of the Sogdoites,. to propose, at the

Byzantine court, a treaty of alliance against their

common enemies. Their splendid apparel and rich

presents, the fruit of Oriental luxury, distinguished

Maniach and his colleagues from the rude savages

of the north: their letters, in the Scythian character

and language, announced a people who had attained

the rudiments of science t: they enumerated the con-

• The embassies and first conquests of the Avars may be read in Menander

(Excerpt. Legat . p. 99, 100, 101. 154, 155), Theophanes (p. 196), theHistoria

Miscella (1 . xvi. p. 109), and Gregory of Tours (1. iv. c. 23.29, in the
Historians

of France, tom. ii. p. 214. 217).

f The Russians have found characters, rude hieroglyphics, on the Irtish and

Yenisei, on medals, tombs, idols, rocks, obelisks, &e. (Strahlenberg, Hist, of

Siberia, p. 324. 346. 406. 429). Dr. Hyde (de Religione Veterum Persarum,

H 4

