178 THE DECLINE AND FALL

CHAP.

XXXVI.

Defeat of

the Franks

and Ale-

manni by

Narses,

A. D. 554.

with simple pillage and occasional murder. But the

churches which their piety had spared were stripped

by the sacrilegious hands of the Alemanni, who sa足

crificed horses' heads to their native deities of the

woods and rivers: they melted or profaned the con足

secrated vessels, and the ruins of shrines and altars

were stained with the blood of the faithful. Buccelin

was actuated by ambition, and Lothaire by avarice.

The former aspired to restore the Gothic kingdom:

the latter, after a promise to his brother of speedy

succours, returned by the same road to deposit his

treasure beyond the Alps. The strength of their

armies was already wasted by the change of climate

and contagion of disease: the Germans revelled in

the vintage of Italy; and their own intemperance

avenged in some degree the miseries of a defenceless

people.

At the entrance of the spring, the Imperial troops,

who had guarded the cities, assembled to the number

of eighteen thousand men, in the neighbourhood of

Rome. Their winter hours had not been consumed

in idleness. By the command, and after the example

of Narses, they repeated each day their military exer足

cise on foot and on horseback, accustomed their

ear to obey the sound of the trumpet, and practised

the steps and evolutions of the Pyrrhic dance. From

the straits of Sicily, Buccelin, with thirty thousand

Franks and Alemanni, slowly moved towards Capua,

occupied with a wooden tower the bridge of Casili-

num, covered his right by the stream of the Vulturnus,

and secured the rest of his encampment by a rampart

of sharp stakes, and a circle of waggons, whose wheels

were buried in the earth. He impatiently expected

the return of Lothaire; ignorant, alas! that his bro足

ther could never return, and that the chief and his

army had been swept away by a strange disease on

the banks of the lake Benacus, between Trent and

