328 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chap. cubines, and a troop of thirty guards, he secretly -

departed from the capital, followed the banks of the

Euphrates, traversed the desert, and halted at the

distance of ten miles from Circesium. About the

third watch of the night, the Roman praefect was

informed of his approach, and he introduced the

royal stranger to the fortress at the dawn of day.

From thence the king of Persia was conducted to the

more honourable residence of Hierapolis; and Mau­

rice dissembled his pride, and displayed his benevo­

lence, at the reception of the letters and ambassadors

of the grandson of Nushirvan. They humbly re­

presented the vicissitudes of fortune and the common

interest of princes, exaggerated the ingratitude of Bah-

ram the agent of the evil principle, and urged, with

specious argument, that it was for the advantage of the

Romans themselves to support the two monarchies

which balance the world, the two great luminaries by

whose salutary influence it is vivified and adorned.

The anxiety of Chosroes was soon relieved by the

assurance, that the emperor had espoused the cause

of justice and royalty; but Maurice prudently de­

clined the expense and delay of his useless visit to

Constantinople. In the name of his generous bene­

factor, a rich diadem was presented to the fugitive

prince with an inestimable gift of jewels and gold ; a

powerful army was assembled on the frontiers of Syria

and Armenia, under the command of the valiant and

faithful Narses*; and this general, of his own nation,

and his own choice, was directed to pass the Tigris,

and never to sheath his sword till he had restored

Chosroes to the throne of his ancestors. The enter­

prise, however splendid, was less arduous than it

XXXIX.

* In this age there were three warriors of the name of Worses, who have been  
often eonfounded (Pagi, Crltica, tom. ii. p. 640): 1. A Persarmenian, the
brother

of Isaac and Armatius, who, after a successful action against Belisarius,
deserted

from his Persian sovereign, and afterwards served in the Italian war 2. The

eunuch who conquered Italy.—3. The restorer of Chosroes, who is celebrated in

the poem of Corippus (1. iii. 220 227).

