OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 193

some future capital in the Siberian or American chap.

wilderness. • xxxvi.

II. The near approach of a comet may injure or Earth-

destroy the globe which we inhabit; but the changes qu

on its surface have been hitherto produced by the

action of volcanos and earthquakes. The nature of

the soil may vindicate the countries most exposed to

these formidable concussions, since they are caused

by subterraneous fires, and such fires are kindled by

the union and fermentation of iron and sulphur. But

their times and effects appear to lie beyond the reach

of human curiosity; and the philosopher will discreetly

abstain from the prediction of earthquakes, till he has

counted the drops of water that silently filtrate on the

inflammable mineral, and measured the caverns which

increase by resistance the explosion of the imprisoned

air. Without assigning the cause, history will di­

stinguish the periods in which these calamitous events

have been rare or frequent, and will observe that this

fever of the earth raged with uncommon violence

during the reign of Justinian *. Each year is marked

by the repetition of earthquakes, of such duration that

Constantinople has been shaken above forty days; of

such extent, that the shock has been communicated

to the whole surface of the globe, or at least of the

Roman empire. An impulsive or vibratory motion

was felt: enormous chasms were opened, huge and

heavy bodies were discharged into the air, the sea

alternately advanced and retreated beyond its ordinary

bounds, and a mountain was torn from Libanus, and

cast into the waves, where it protected, as a mole,

the new harbour of Botrys in Phoenicia. The stroke

that agitates an ant-hill may crush the insect my­

riads in the dust; yet truth must extort a confession,

that man has industriously laboured for his own de-

• The earthquakes that shook the Roman world in the reign of Justinian are

described or mentioned by Procopius (Anecdot. c. 18), Agathias, John Malala,

and Theophanes. • • *

VOL. IV. o

