208 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Constitu.

tions of the

chap. cases; and the temptations of injustice were removed

VY WIT

'by the Cornelian law, which compelled the praetor of

the year to adhere to the letter and spirit of his first

proclamation. It was reserved for the curiosity and

learning of Hadrian to accomplish the design which

had been conceived by the genius of Ceesar; and the

praetorship of Salvius Julian, an eminent lawyer, was

The per- immortalized by the composition of the perpetual

petual edict. . .' *.

edict. This well-digested code was ratified by the

emperor and the senate; the long divorce of law and

equity was at length reconciled; and, instead of the

twelve tables, the perpetual edict was fixed as the

invariable standard of civil jurisprudence.

From Augustus to Trajan, the modest Caesars

emperors, were content to promulgate their edicts in the va­

rious characters of a Roman magistrate; and, in the

decrees of the senate, the epistles and orations of the

prince were respectfully inserted. Hadrian appears

to have been the first who assumed, without disguise,

the plenitude of legislative power. And this in­

novation, so agreeable to his active mind, was coun­

tenanced by the patience of the times, and his long

absence from the seat of government. The same

policy was embraced by succeeding monarchs, and,

according to the harsh metaphor of Tertullian, "the

"gloomy and intricate forest of ancient laws was

"cleared away by the axe of royal mandates and

"constitutions." During four centuries, from Ha­

drian to Justinian, the public and private juris­

prudence was moulded by the will of the sovereign;

and few institutions, either human or divine, were

permitted to stand on their former basis. The origin

of Imperial legislation was concealed by the darkness

of ages and the- terrors of armed despotism; and a

double fiction was propagated by the servility, or per­

haps the ignorance, of the civilians who basked in the

sunshine of the Roman and Byzantine courts. I. To

