OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 127

Mithridates, king of Pontus, added Colchos to the chap.

wide circle of his dominions on the Euxine; and xxxv-

when the natives presumed to request that his son

might reign over them, he bound the ambitious youth

in chains of gold, and delegated a servant in his place.

In the pursuit of Mithridates, the Romans advanced under the

to the banks of the Phasis, and their galleys ascended before

the river till they reached the camp of Pompey and Chnst 60'

his legions. But the senate, and afterwards the em­

perors, disdained to reduce that distant and useless

conquest into the form of a province. The family

of a Greek rhetorician was permitted to reign in

Colchos and the adjacent kingdoms, from the time

of Mark Antony to that of Nero; and after the race

of Polemo was extinct, the eastern Pontus, which

preserved his name, extended no farther than the

neighbourhood of Trebizond. Beyond these limits

the fortifications of Hyssus, of Apsarus, of the Phasis,

of Dioscurias or Sebastopolis, and of Pityus, were

guarded by sufficient detachments of horse and foot;

and six princes of Colchos received- their diadems

from the lieutenants of Caesar. One of these lieu- Vi^of

tenants, the eloquent and philosophic Arrian, sur- a. d. 130.

veyed, and has described, the Euxine coast, under

the reign of Hadrian. The garrison which he re­

viewed at the mouth of the Phasis consisted of four

hundred chosen legionaries; the brick walls and

towers, the double ditch, and the military engines

on the rampart, rendered this place inaccessible to

the Barbarians; but the new suburbs, which had been

built by the merchants and veterans, required, in the

opinion of Arrian, some external defence. As the

strength of the empire was gradually impaired, the

Romans stationed on the Phasis were either with­

drawn or expelled; and the tribe of the Lazi, whose

posterity speak a foreign dialect and inhabit the sea-

coast of Trebizond, imposed their name and dominion

