XXU SOME ACCOUNT O* DR. SMITH.

" Church into the hands of the Common Council; therefore it

" is ordered, that this Council do immediately after such his re-

" signation make him a compliment of one hundred and fifty

" guineas, for his eminent and good services in the said Church."

In July the same year, he came to the Deanry-house in Ches­

ter, with intent to pass the rest of his days there. The fa­

vourable reception of his Thucydides induced the Dean, in

this healthy and pleasant retreat, to finish his Translation of

" Xenophon's History of the Affairs of Greece:"

which he published in one volume 4to. in the year 1770: this

Translation appeared without any dedication. To form a judg­

ment of its merit we may only quote the words of the title page,

that it is " by the Translator of Thucydides."

When the Dean retired within the precincts of his Cathe­

dral, he had resigned St. George's and held with the Deanry

the parish churches of Handley and Trinity only: till the

Rectory of West Kirkby,inthe hundred of Wirrall in Cheshire,

became vacant by the decease of that excellent magistrate and

persuasive preacher, the Rev. Mr. Mainwaring, Prebendary

of Chester. The Dean was instituted to this Rectory on the

4th of October, 1780. This is a valuable living in the pa­

tronage of the Dean and Chapter. At this time the Dean

resigned the Rectory of Trinity.

Doctor Smith was now Dean of Chester, Rector of Handley,

and West Kirkby; but his best parochial preferment happened

late in life ; he was advanced into his seventieth year, and be­

gan to feel the infirmities ever attendant on age and a delicate

constitution. He had hitherto been a constant and powerful

preacher: he began now to preach less frequently, as every ex­

ertion fatigued him exceedingly. But when he could no longer

preach from the pulpit, he preached from the press, by publish­

ing in 8vo. " Nine Discourses on the Beatitudes," in

the year 1782*.

• The good and learned Doctor Lowth, late Bishop of London, hiphly

commends these sermons in a letter to the Dean, dated at Fulham, July

8th, 1782. Bishop Lowth and Dean Smith were contemporaries at Oxford:

where an intimate friendship commenced between them, which continued

till that year in which these two luminaries of the Church of Christ were

" snatched—so Heaven decreed!—away."

