B. IV. 4VEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 363

" in Brasidas to treat with Arribaeus, when he supported half

" the expence of his troops." Yet, in spite of such remon­

strances and in open defiance of him, Brasidas parleyed.

And being satisfied with the offers of Arribaeus, he drew off

his troops, without so much as entering his dominions.—

But henceforth Perdiccas, looking upon this step as an injury

to himself, reduced his contribution of support from a moiety

to a third.

Brasidas however the same summer, without loss of time,

continued the operations of war; and, a little before the

vintage, being attended by the Chalcidcans, marched to­

wards Acanthus, a colony of the Andrians. The inhabi­

tants of this place were embroiled in a sedition about his re­

ception ; a party who co-operated with the Chalcideans,

were for it; but the people opposed. Yet, fearing the loss

of their fruit which was not quite got in, the people were at

last prevailed upon by Brasidas, to grant entrance to him­

self without any attendants, and after giving him audience

to resolve for themselves. Brasidas is admitted; and stand­

ing forth in the presence of the people, for though a Lace­

daemonian he was an able speaker, he harangued them

thus :

*4 My commission from the Lacedaemonians and the  
" march of their troops hither under my command verify, O

" ye Acanthians, the declaration made by us, when first we

" begun this war against the Athenians, that we were going

" to fight for the liberties of Greece. But if our appear-

" ance here hath been too long deferred, it should be as-

" cribed to the unexpected turns of war nearer home, where,

" as we hoped to demolish the Athenians speedily with-

" out endangering you, we ought to be exempted from any

" censure here. For now, you behold us opportunely at

" hand, and intent in conjunction with you to pull these ty-

" rants down.

" I am surprized indeed that your gates should be barred

" against me, or that my presence should any way chagrin

