332 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

The Corinthians, who had already been advised from

Argos of the approach of the Athenian armament, had long

since by way of prevention drawn their whole force together

at the Isthmus, excepting what was in employ without

the Isthmus and the five hundred absent in the guard of

Ambracia and Leucadia. With all the rest of their people

able to bear arms they were posted on the Isthmus to watch

the approach of the Athenians. But when the Athenian fleet

had passed by undiscovered by favour of the night, and sig­

nals notified their approach elsewhere, leaving half their force

at Cenchrea to obstruct any attempt of the Athenians upon

Crommyon, they marched with all speed against the enemy.

Battus one of their commanders (for there were two such in

the field) at the head of a separate body marched up to the

open village of Solygia in order to defend it, whilst Lycophron

with the remainder advanced to the charge. The Corinthians

fell first upon the right wing of the Athenians who were but

just landed before Cherronesus, and then proceeded to en­

gage the whole of that army. The action was warm, and

fought hand to hand. The right wing, consisting of the

Athenians and also the Carysthians who were drawn up in

the rear, gave the Corinthians a warm reception, and with

much difficulty repulsed them. Retreating therefore upwards

to a wall built of stone (for the ground was a continued as­

cent), and being there above the enemy, they annoyed them

with stones ; and having sung their paean, rushed down upon

them again. The Athenians having stood the shock, they

engaged a second time hand to hand. But a band of Corin­

thians being come up to the support of their own left wing,

occasioned the rout of the right wing of the Athenians, and

pursued them to the sea-side. But the Athenians and

Carysthians now turned again, and beat them off from the

ships.

In other parts of the action the dispute was resolute on

both sides, especially where the right wing of the Corinthi­

ans, with Lycophron at its head, was engaging the left wing

