JB. I. IKTRODUCTION. 31

" been decided by arms. And it was not before they had

" besieged that city, but when they thought that we were in-

" tent on saving it, that they had recourse to the specious

" pretence of a fair arbitration. And here they are at pre-

" sent, by no means content with the wrongs they have there

" committed, presuming to ask conjunction from you, not

" in league but in violence, and on the merit of being rebels

" against us to beg your protection. Then was the proper

" time for such an address to you, when their affairs securely

" flourished ; not now when we have been outraged by them,

" and they are beset with dangers ; not when you, who have

" shared no benefit from their former power, are to relieve

" their distress, and by no means their accomplices in crimes,

" are to come in for an equality of censure from us. A

" prior conjunction of force justly entitleth to a share of what

" may be the event: But those who had no participation in

" the guilt ought to be exempted from the consequences of

" it. And thus we have clearly shewn, that we have ad-

" dressed ourselves before you with all the requisites of a

" rightful cause, and that their proceedings are violent and

" rapacious.

" It is now incumbent upon us to convince you, that you

" cannot with justice receive them into alliance. For, grant-

" ing it to be expressly stipulated in the treaty, that any of

" the states not particularly mentioned may go into either

" league at their own discretion, yet the intent of the stipu-

" lation reacheth not to those who join one party to the pre­

judice of another, but to such as having withdrawn from

" neither side are in need of protection—to such as bring not

" war instead of peace to those who receive them,—if they

" know their interest. And yet the latter must be your por-

" tion, if our arguments lose their influence: For you will

" not only become auxiliaries to them, but enemies also to

" us who are your allies by treaty. Of necessity, if you join

a with them, our vengeance must be levelled at them without

separating you. Right above all things it would be for you

to keep yourselves at a distance from us both ;—if that will

u

