bcxviii A Survey of the History.

" revolted sooner, would the Lacedaemonians have counte-

" nanced the measure: They had declared it on the first

" invitation of the Boeotians. It was a noble revolt; it had

" disengaged them from a combination to inslave the rest

" of Greece ; it had associated them in the cause of honour

" and liberty. It had been made indeed with too much

" precipitation ; but this should make others more zealous

" and active in their protection, who would reap a great

" accession of strength by it; an accession of maritime

" strength ; whilst the Athenians would be weakened in

" point of shipping, and in point of revenue. It would be

" a signal of revolt to others, and assurance to them that

" they might do it safely. It would reflect abundant ho-

" nour on the Lacedaemonians to succour the distressed, to

" save men whose preservation would give them glory and

" strength, and prove them those hearty friends to liberty,

" which all Greece with united praises acknowledged them

" to be."

Interest without rhetoric was strong enough to insure their

success. But the latter helped to gain them a prompt recep­

tion from the Lacedaemonians, who resolve on sending them

a succour, and making diversions on the Athenians, in order

to oblige them to raise the siege of Mitylene.

The blockade of Plataea by the Peloponnesians still con­

tinuing, our author relates the bold project, and bold exe­

cution of the project, of a party of Plataeans, in making

their escape over all the works of the besiegers. It is a

most circumstantial, and a most clear and intelligible rela­

tion.

Mitylene is now forced to surrender at discretion. The

principal agents in the late revolt are sent prisoners to Athens,

where the people vote that " not they only but all the Mity-

" leneans in general be put to death ;" and an order is immedi­

ately dispatched to their commander at Mitylene to execute

his part of the sentence. This bloody decree was carried by

Cleon, a furious demagogue. It was he, who worked up the

