J. I. INTRODUCTION. 43

junction of all their strength. And, to these people, thus

abandoning their own homes, he made a cession of that part

of Mygdonia which lieth round the lake of Bolbe, for their

subsistence during the war with the Athenians. Having

thus demolished their own cities, they went to another place

of residence, and were employed in preparations for the

war.

The thirty ships of the Athenians, arriving on the coasts

of Thrace, find Potidea and the other cities already re­

volted. The commanders, judging it impossible with their

present strength to act against Perdiccas and the revolted

cities both, turn their course towards Macedonia, pursuing

the first design of the expedition. Landing there they joined

in the war with Philip and the brothers of Derdas, who with

an army had made an irruption from the inland country.

In the mean time, Potidaea being now in revolt and the

Athenian fleet on the Macedonian coasts, the Corinthians,

anxious for the security of that place, and making the dan­

ger their own, dispatched thither some volunteers of their

own people and other Peloponnesians taken into their pay,

in all sixteen hundred heavy-armed* and four hundred

light-armed. The command of this body of men was given

to Aristeus the son of Adimantus; since, out of their own

private affection to him who had ever been a steady friend

to Potidaea, most of the volunteers from Corinth had under­

taken the service : and the time of their arrival in Thrace was

the fortieth day after the revolt of Potidaea.

An express soon arrived at Athens with the news of the

revolt of the cities, and when afterwards they heard of the

* The heavy-armed wore a complete suit of armour, and engaged with  
broad shields and long spears. They were the flower and strength cf the

Grecian armies, and had the highest rank of military honour. The light-

armed were designed for skirmishes and fighting at a distance. Their

weapons were arrows, darts, or slings. The targeteert, mentioned often in

this history, were a middle sort of soldiery, armed with targets or narrow

shields and spears, neither large nor heavy.

