B. III. 207 YEAR IV.—BEFORE CHRIST 428.

hospitable protection at Athens, had sent the Athenians ad­

vice—" That they are compelling all Lesbos to go into Mi-

" tylene, and are getting every thing in readiness for a re-

" volt by the aid of the Lacedaemonians and their kindred

" Boeotians ; and if timely prevention be not given, Lesbos

" will be lost."

The Athenians, at present miserably distressed by the

plague, and a war now grown very brisk and vigorous, knew

that the accession of Lesbos to their enemies, possessed as it

was of a naval force and fresh in strength, must be a terrible

blow, and would not listen at first to the accusations sent,

chiefly from the earnestness of their own wishes, that they

might be groundless. But when they had in vain dispatched

an embassy to the Mityleneans to put a stop to the forced

resort of the Lesbians thither and their other preparations,

their fears were increased, and they became intent on some

expedient of timely prevention—and order thither, on a

sudden, forty sail that lay ready fitted out for a cruize on Pe­

loponnesus. Cleippides, son of Deinias, with two colleagues,

had the command of this fleet. Information had been given

them, that the festival of Apollo Maloeis was soon to be ce­

lebrated without the city, at which solemnity the whole peo­

ple of Mitylene are obliged to assist.—It was therefore hoped,

that they might surprize them on this occasion, and by one

sudden assault complete the work. Should it so fall out, it

would be a happy turn ;—But, if this miscarried, they were

to order the Mityleneans to deliver up their shipping and

demolish their works, and in case they refused^to make in­

stant war.

With these instructions the fleet went to sea. And the

Athenians seized ten Triremes belonging to the Mityle­

neans, which happened at that time to be lying in their

port as an auxiliary quota in pursuance of treaty, and cast

into prison all their crews. But a certain person passing

over from Athens to Euboea, and hastening by land to Ge-

reestus, finds a vessel there ready to put off, on board of

