DISCOURSE III.

lemn parley held at their approach. Archidamus is at the

head of this ungenerous enterprise. The malice of the The-

bans must be gratified, since the alliance of Boeotia in this

war is of mighty consequence, and to be purchased at any

rate. Archidamus indeed struggles hard for the Plataeans ;

he would fain spare them, could he persuade them to a neu­

trality. But the Plataeans have too much honour and gra­

titude to be neutral, when Athens, their faithful guardian

and ally, is principally struck at. They remonstrate in vain

from the topics of honour, justice, gratitude, the glory and

sanction of the great progenitors on either side. The siege

is formed, and strenuously plied, though without success.

Our author always shines in exact description : No method

of annoyance or defence is omitted. It is at length turned

into a blockade, and a sufficient body of troops left behind

to carry it on, when the main army marcheth off.

The war grows warm in more remote quarters; in Thrace,

and in Acarnania. An Athenian squadron, stationed at

Naupactus in the bay of Crissa, awed all the motions of the

Corinthians and allies on their own coasts ; and it was de­

termined, to clear away this annoyance. Accordingly, they

launch out against it with more than double the number of

vessels. The Athenians, at one exertion of skill, drive them

all on a heap, defeat them, and make prizes of twelve. The

Lacedaemonians, excellent land-men but very awkward sea­

men, think this an unaccountable event. They send down

their most active commanders to refit and reinforce the fleet,

and to try their fortune again at sea. Much artifice is em­

ployed on both sides. The short harangues of the admirals

let us into all the views and designs of either party. Phor-

mio at length is snared; the enemy blunders; then Phormio

extricates himself, and gives them a second defeat. The

reader sees every tack, and the motion of every vessel.

Disconcerted here, they form a bold project indeed to

surprise the Piraeus by night, and to finish the war in a mo­

