B. II. TEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 161

country one continued devastation ; for the time of their con­

tinuance in Attica was about forty days.

The same summer, Agnon, the son of Nicias, and Cleo-

pompus, the son of Clinius, joined in the command with Pe­

ricles, setting themselves at the head of the force which he

had employed before, carried them without loss of time

against the Chalcideans of Thrace. But when they were

come up to Potideea, which was still besieged, they played

their engines of battery against, and left no method unat-

tempted to take it. But the success in this attempt did not

answer expectation, nor indeed was the event in any respect

the least proportioned to their great preparations ; For the

plague followed them even hither, and making grievous havoc

among the Athenians, destroyed the army ; so that even those

soldiers that had been there before, and had from the begin­

ning of the siege been in perfect health, caught the infection

from the troops brought thither by Agnon. Phormio, and

the body of sixteen hundred men under his command, had be­

fore this quitted Chalcidico, so that Agnon sailed back with

the ships to Athens, of his four thousand men the plague

having swept away one thousand and fifty in about forty days :

But the soldiers who were there before were left to carry on

the siege of Potidaea.

After the second incursion of the Peloponnesians, the

Athenians, whose lands were now a second time laid waste,

who felt the double affliction of pestilence and war, had en­

tirely changed their sentiments of things. The blame was

universally thrown on Pericles, as if at his instigatiou they

had engaged in this war, and by him had been plunged in all

these calamities. They desired with impatience to make up

die breach with the Lacedaemonians; but though they dis­

patched an embassy for this purpose no terms could be agreed

on. Thus grievously distressed, and no method of resource

occurring to their minds, their resentments fell still heavier

on Pericles. He, seeing them quite dispirited with their pre­

sent misfortunes, and intent on such projects as he had reason

