220 THE PELOPONN'ESIAN WAR.

in the blockade, " first of all to march out of the town in com­

pany, and to compass their escape, if possible, over the works

of the enemy." The authors of this project were Thaeanetus,

the son of Timedes, a soothsayer, and F.umolpidas, the son of

Daimachus, who was one of their commanders. But after­

wards, half of the number, affrighted by the greatness of the

danger, refused to have a share in the attempt. Yet the re­

mainder, to the number of about two hundred and twenty,

resolutely adhered to attempt an escape in the following man­

ner

They made ladders equal in height to the enemy's wall.

The measure of this they learned from the rows of brick,

where the side of the wall facing them was not covered over

with plaster. Several persons were appointed to count the

rows at the same time; some of them might probably be

wrong, but the greater part would agree in the just compu­

tation ; especially, as they counted them several times over,

and were besides at no great distance, since the part marked

out for the design was plainly within their view. In this me­

thod, having guessed the measure of a brick from its thick­

ness, they found out what must be the total height for the

ladders.

The work of the Peloponnesians was of the following

structure.—It was composed of two circular walls ; one to­

wards Plateea, and the other outward, to prevent any attack

from Athens. These walls were at the distance of sixteen

feet one from the other ; and this intermediate space of six­

teen feet was built into distinct lodgments for the guards.

These however, standing thick together, gave to the whole

work the appearance of one thick entire wall, with battle­

ments on both sides. At every ten battlements were lofty

turrets of the same breadth with the whole work, reaching

from the face of the inward wall to that of the outward; so

that there was no passage by the sides of a turret, but the

communication lay open through the middle of them all.

By night, when the weather was rainy, they quitted the

