68 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR.

which formed the Lacedaemonian league should be disman­

tled, or it be allowed that the things now done at Athens

were just and proper." The Lacedaemonians, upon hearing

this, curbed indeed all appearance of resentment against the

Athenians:—They had not sent their embassy directly to

prohibit, but 10 advise them to desist upon motives of gene­

ral good: at that time also, they had a great regard for the

Athenians, because of the public spirit they had shewn against

the Mede: But however, thus baffled as they were in their

political views, they were inwardly provoked; and the ambas­

sadors on each side returned home without farther embroil­

ments.

By this conduct the Athenians in a small space of time

walled their city around: And the very face of the structure

sheweth plainly to this day that it was built in haste. The

foundations are laid with stones of every kind, in some places

not hewn so as properly to fit, but piled on at random. Many

pillars also from sepulchral monuments and carved stones

were blended promiscuously in the work. For the circuit of

it was everywhere enlarged beyond the compass of the city,

and for this reason, collecting the materials from every place

without distinction, they lost no time.

Themistocles also persuaded them to finish the Piraeus:

For it was begun before this, during that year in which he

himself was chief magistrate at Athens*. He judged the

place to be very commodious, as formed by nature into three

harbours, and, that the Athenians, grown more than ever

intent on their marine, might render it highly conducive to

an enlargement of their power. For he was the first person,

who durst tell them, that they ought to grasp at the sovereignty

• The number of the Archons or Rulers was nine. They were annually

elected by lot, and were required to be of noble birth, of a pure Attic des­

cent, irreproachable both in ir.oral and political character, dutiful to their

parents, and perfectly sound in body. The first of the nine gave its stile to

the year, and was therefore called Eponymus or the Namer : The second

was stiled King : The third Polemarch : The other six in common Thesmo-

thettt. All the cm! and relipious affairs of the state belonged to their de­

part merit. j

