jj. I. INTRODUCTION; 87

War*." The Byzantines also came in, upon the engage­

ment of being held only to such obedience as had formerly

been required of them.

Not many years intervened between this period of time

and the rise of those differences above recited concerning

Corcyra and Potidaea, and all occurrences whatever, on

which the pretences of this Peloponnesian war were ground­

ed. All these transactions in general, whether of Grecians

against Grecians, or against the Barbarian, fell out in the

compass of fifty years, between the retreat of Xerxes and the

commencement of this present war; during which period

the Athenians had established their dominion on a solid ba­

sis, and had rose to a high exaltation of power. The Lace­

daemonians were sensible of it, yet never opposed them, ex­

cept by some transient efforts ; and for the most part of the

time were quite easy and indifferent about it. That people

had never been known in a hurry to run to arms: Their

wars were indispensably necessary; and sometimes they

were entangled in domestic broils. Thus they looked on

with indolent unconcern till the Athenian power was manifest­

ly established, and encroachments were made upon their own

alliance. Then indeed they determined to be no longer patient:

They resolved upon a war in which their utmost force should

be exerted, and the Athenian power, if possible, demolished.

ON these motives was formed the public resolution of the

Lacedaemonians—That " the treaty was violated, and the

" Athenians were guilty of injustice." They had also sent

• Samoa thus reduced, which in maritime power vied with Athens her­

self, and had well nigh defeated her grand plan of being mistress of the

•ea, Pericles was received upon his return with all the honours a grateful

people could give him, and was pitched upon to make the funeral oration

for those slain in the war. He performed his part with high applause.

The ladies in particular were loud in their acclamations, and were eagerly

employed in caressing and crowning him with garlands. But for a smart

piece of raillery from one of them, on this occasion, and his smarter repar-

tee, the reader may consult the Univertal Hittory, vol. vi. p. 429. the note.

In the latter part of that note, the authors seem willing both to deny and

to allow Pericles the meril of having strved his country in the reduction

of Samos.

