THE PELOPONNESIAl* WAR.

tophanes, whose plays were acted during the Peloponnesian war, hath ridi­

culed the cotemporary statesmen and commanders with the utmost petu-

lancy and virulence. The Athenians afterwards thought proper to restrain

this licentiousness of their comic poets i but it may not be amiss in the

eourse of the notet to quote occasionally some passages from him, to shew

my countrymen how much writing libels differs from writing history ; and

that where liberty is abused, no public merit nor private worth can defend

its owners from the malice of faction or the petulance of buffoons.

Our historian hath laid open the true and pretended causes of the Pelo­

ponnesian war. Let us now see, how affairs were represented on the

stage of Athens. His comedy of The Acharnian* was exhibited by Aris­

tophanes at Athens in the sixth year of this war, after the death of Peri­

cles. The decree against Megara is the ground-work of it: One Dian-

polis of the borough of Acharnae is the droll of the play, and amply ridicules

it to a set of his neighbours—

" Do not be angry, says he, if though a beggar I presume to talk to Athe-

" mans about affairs of state, and for once play the tragedian. It is the

" province of tragedy lo give a just representation of things ; and I am

" going to speak in a just manner of very sad things indeed. Cleon will

" not be able to catch me this bout, for traducing my countrymen in the

" hearing of strangers. We are here by ourselves, and to-day is the fes-

" tival of Bacchus. The strangers are not yet come, nor the tributes, nor

" the confederates from other states : We are here snug by ourselves, all

"ofus true-blooded Athenians. Those odd creatures the sojourners I

" look upon as the chaff of Athens. And now to speak sincerely, I hate

" the Lacedaemonians from the bottom of my soul; and I heartily wish

" that Neptune, the god adored at Taenarus, would give them an earth-

" quake, and tumble down all their houses upon their heads. They have

«' made sad work with me, all my vineyards are quite destroyed by the

" rogues. But, my dear friends and countrymen here present, why do we

"blame the Lacedaemonians for this ! And mind, Sirs, I cast no aspersions

" on our own state; I aim at nobody employed in the affairs of the adrain-

" istration, but at a parcel of sad rascals, scurvy, low, infamous scoundrels,

" who are eternally bringing informations against a Megarean pair of pa-

" niers. If they once set eye but on a cucumber, a leveret, a sucking pig,

" a sprig of parsley, or a grain of salt, they swear at once they belonged to

" Megareans, and were sold that very day. These things, however, though

" the general practice, are of small signification. A parcel of jolly fellows,

"deep in their cups, had stole away from Megara that jade Simaetha. The

" Megareans, exasperated at the loss of their wench, made reprisals by

" carrying off a brace of strumpets that belonged to Aspasia. And thus

•'this cursed war, which plagues all Greece, took its rise from three

"strumpets. Ay, on account of three whores Olympian Pericles began to

" storm, he lightened, he thundered, roused all Greece to arms ; he made,

" new laws as fast as so many ballads, that the poor dogs of Megara must

