B. III. 273 YEA* V.—BETORE CHRIST 427.

despised them so far as to neglect a proper guard, and so

contributed to their own destruction.

Many such daring outrages were now by way of prece­

dent committed at Corcyra; nay, all whatever, that men,

who are wreaking revenge upon such as before were their

masters, and had exerted their superiority with savageness

more than humanity, can in turn retaliate upon them, were

executed there.—Some joined in these acts of violence to

procure a discharge from their former poverty ; but the great­

er number, through a passionate desire to seize the property

of their neighbours. Or, though they were not lured by

the lust of rapine, but engaged in the contest upon fair and

open views, yet hurried to wild extravagance through mad

and undisciplined anger, they proceeded to cruel acts, anc^;

with inexorable fury. The whole order of human life was

for a season confounded in this city. The human temper,

too apt to transgress in spite of laws, and now having gained

the ascendant over law, seemed pleased with exhibiting this

public manifestation, that it was too weak for anger, too strong

for justice, and an enemy to all superiority. Men could not

otherwise have awarded the preference to revenge over righ­

teous duty, and to lucre over that habit of justice in which

envy never yet had power to annoy them. But more than

this, when the point in view is revenge upon others, men

haughtily make precedents against themselves, by infringing

those laws which are binding by the ties of nature, and from

which alone any hope of safety can be extracted for themselves

in a plunge of misery, precluding thus all possibility of re­

dress, should they be reduced in some future extremity to

make the same appeal.

And thus the Corcyreans continued to execute the rage of

such cruel passions, upon the heads of one another, within

the precincts of their own city, of which this was the first ex­

ample in Greece, till Eurymedon, with the Athenian fleet

under his command, put out again to sea.

But, after his departure, they who by flight hr.d preserved

