B. I. 65 INTRODUCTION.

necessary, not so much out of regard to the arguments urged

by their allies, as from their own jealousy of the growing

power of the Athenians. They dreaded the advancement

of that power, as they saw the greatest part of Greece was

already in subjection to them.

Now the method by which the Athenians had advanced

their power to this invidious height, was this*:

After that the Medes, defeated by the Grecians both at land

and sea, had evacuated Europe, and such of them as escaped

by sea were utterly ruined at Mycale, Leotychides king of

the Lacedaemonians who commanded the Grecians at My­

cale returned home, drawing away with him all the confed­

erates of Peloponnesus. But the Athenians, with the con­

federates of Ionia and the Hellespont, who were now revolt­

ed from the King, continuing in those parts, laid siege to

Sestus then held by the Medes ; and, pressing it during the

winter-season, the Barbarians at length abandoned the place.

After this they separated, sailing away from the Hellespont,

every people to their own respective countries.

But the Athenian community, when the Barbarians had

evacuated their territory, immediately brought back again

from the places of refuge their wives and children and all

their remaining effects, and vigorously applied themselves to

rebuild the city of Athens and the walls: For but a small

part of these was left standing ; and their houses, most of

them had been demolished, and but few preserved by way of

lodgings for the Persian nobles. The Lacedaemonians, in­

formed of their design, came in embassy to prevent it; part­

ly to gratify themselves, as they would behold with pleasure

• The series of history on which Thucydides now enters, though nul

strictly within the compass of his subject, yet most needful to give it
liglii.

and to shew how present events are connected with, and how far tlicy re­

sulted from preceding, is excellent in its kind. He states important facts

in the clearest and most orderly manner ; he opens before us the source of

the Athenian power, and by a neat and concise enumeration of notable

events, conducts it to that height, which excited the jealousy nf o'.l.er

states, and was the true political cause of the Succeeding \vs-.

