152 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR.

" honoured. Their children from this day till they arrive at

" manhood shall be educated at the public expence of the

" State*, which hath appointed so beneficial a need for

" these and all future relicts of the public contests. For

" wherever the greatest rewards are proposed fo^ virtue,

" there the best of patriots are ever to be found.—j—Now,

" let every one respectively indulge the decent grief for his

M departed friends, and then retire."

Such was the manner of the public funeral solemnized

this winter, and with the end of which, the first year of this

war was also ended. <

YEAR II. J

IN the very beginning of summer, the Pelopoinesians

and allies, with two-thirds of their forces, made an incursion

as before into Attica, under the command of Arciidamus

son of Zeuxidamus, king of the Lacedaemonians, anl having

formed their camp, ravaged the country.

They had not been many days in Attica, before af sick-

• The law was, that they should be instructed at the public ejoence, and

when come to age presented with a compleat suit of armour, aid honour­

ed with the first seats in all public ptaces.

t The historian in the funeral oration hath given us a very exaled idea of

the Athenian state, and the distinguishing excellencies of that himune and

polite people. The plague, which now broke out enables him O contrast

his pieces, and give his history a most agreeable variety. It is iow going

to be exceeding solemn, serious, and pathetic. It is as a historian and not

as a phytician that he gives us the relation of it: A relation, whiih in gene­

ral hath been esteemed an elaborate and complete performance He pro-

fesseth to give an accurate detail of it. The accuracy hath gentrally been

allowed, but it hath been blamed as too minute. Lucretius hovever hath

transferred all the circumstances mentioned by Thucydides into his own

poem, 1.6. enlarging still more minutely upon them ; and yet, this is tbe

greatest ornament, and certainly the least exceptionable part of sis poen-

Lucretius, an excellent poet, affected to write with the precisionof a pli-

losopher ; and Thucydides, the historian, always composed with the spirt

of a poet. Hippocrates hath left some cases of the plague, which he hati

recited as a physician ; but not one of them is dated at Athens. Thuc;-

dides hath mentioned nothing of his practising there, much less of hs

practising with success, He says on the contrary that "all human at

was totally unavailing ;" and bis follower, Lucretius, that " Mussabat taci.

