348 THE PELOPONNESIAtf WAR.

" habitants of the same land, a land washed round by the

" sea, and all stiled by the same common name of Sicilians.

" Wars indeed in the course of time I foresee we shall wage

" upon one another, and future conferences will again be held,

" and mutual friendship shall thus revive. But when foreign-

" ers invade us, let us be wise enough to unite our strength,

" and drive them from our shores: For to be weakened in

" any of our members, must endanger the destruction of the

" whole; and to such confederates and such mediators we

" will never for the future have recourse.

" If to such conduct we adhere, we shall immediately

" procure a double blessing for Sicily. We shall deliver her

" from the Athenians, and a domestic war. For the future

" we shall retain the free possession of her in our own hands,

" and more easily disconcert any projects that hereafter may

" be formed against her."

THE Sicilians acknowledged the weight of these argu­

ments thus urged by Hermocrates, and all the several parties

joined in one common resolution " to put an end to the war,

" each retaining what they were at present possessed of; but

" that Morgantina should be restored to the Camarineans,

" upon the payment of a certain sum of money to the Syra-

" cusans." Such also as were confederated with the Athe­

nians, addressing themselves to the Athenian commanders,

notified their own readiness to acquiesce in these terms, and

their resolution to be comprehended in the same peace.

These approving the measure, the last hand was put to the

accommodation.

The Athenian fleet, which had no longer any business

there, sailed away from Sicily. But the people at Athens

manifested their displeasure against the commanders at their

return home, by passing a sentence of banishment against

Pythodorus and Sophocles, and subjecting Eurymedon, who

was the third, to a pecuniary mulct; as if, when able to

have perfected the reduction of Sicily, they had been bribed

to desist. They had enjoyed so long a career of good for­

