THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

nal and on that part which faceth the sea towards Euboea,

Thyssus farther, and Cleone, and Acrothous, and Olophyxus,

and Dyum, which are promiscuously inhabited by various

sets of Barbarians, who speak both languages. There is also

a small number of Chalcideans amongst them, bnt the bulk

are Pelasgians (the issue of those Tyrrhenes who formerly

inhabited Lemnos and Athens), and Bisaltians, and Cresto-

nians, and Edonans : They reside in small fortresses. Most

of them went over to Brasidas; but Sane and Dium stood

out. He therefore made his army halt on their lands, and

laid them waste. Yet as this had no effect, he marched from

thence to Torone of Chalcidica then possessed by the Athe­

nians. *He hastened thither at the invitation of a small party,

who were ready to betray the city to him. Being arrived

whilst yet it was dark, he sat down about break of day with his

army near the temple of the Dioscuri, which liethnotat most

above three stadia* from the city. The bulk of the Torone-

ans and the Athenian garrison were ignorant of his approach:

But the accomplices, who knew he would be punctual, sent

some of their body unperceived to observe his approach. When

these were thus certainly assured he was at hand, they con­

ducted back with them to their friends seven men armed only

with daggers. Twenty had at first been selected for this ser­

vice, but only seven of them now had the courage to proceed:

Lysistratus the Olynthian was the person who commanded.

They got in by the wall towards the sea without causing an

alarm, and ascending from thence slaughtered the guard in

the citadel which is seated upon the most eminent spot, the

whole city being built on the declivity of a hill, and burst

open the postern towards Canastraeum. Brasidas, having

since advanced a little with the rest of his force, halted

again. But he ordered a hundred targeteers to go before,

that, when the gates should be opened and the signal given

which was before agreed on, they might break in first.

* Above a quarter of a mile.

