210 THE PELOPONNKSIAN WAR.

some solicitations they had received from the Acarnanians

to send them either a son or some relation of Phormio to

command' in those parts. These ships sailing along the

coasts of Laconia ravaged all the maritime places. After

this Asopius sends back the greatest part of his ships to

Athens, but with a reserve of twelve proceeds himself to

Naupactus. And raising afterwards the whole force of the

Acarnanians, he leads them against the Oeniadae. With

his ships he sailed up the Achelous, and the army marching

by land laid the country waste. But when this was found

ineffectual he dismisseth the land force, and stretching over

himself to Leucas, and having made a descent upon Neri-

cum, was intercepted in his retreat—by those of the adja­

cent country, who ran together for mutual aid, supported

by a small party that lay there for guards,—with the loss of

his own life, and a part of his army. After this, the Atheni­

ans stayed only to take up their dead by favour of a truce ob­

tained from the Leucadians, and then steered homewards.

The ambassadors of Mitylene, who were sent in the

first ship, having been ordered by the Lacedaemonians to

repair to Olympia, that their applications might be addressed,

and resolutions formed about them, in the grand resort of

their whole alliance, arrive at that place. It was that Olym­

piad, in which Doricus the Rhodian was a second time

victor*. So, when the solemnity was ended, and an audi­

ence was granted them|, they spoke as follows

" YE men of Lacedaemon and you their Confederates,

• Olympiad 88.

f In this manner for private ends, and through party-feuds, was a most

noble and sacred institution abused. All Grecians in general paid their

attendance at the Olympic Games; and were obliged by all the ties of

honour and religion to suspend their animosities and quarrels, and meet to­

gether as countrymen and brethren with frank and open ingenuity. And

yet, in the present instance, they are going to contrive the means of an­

noying one another, so soon as that solemnity is o- er, which was calculated

to teach them union and concord, and a steady attachment to the interests

of Greece their common mother. The policy however of the present pro­

ceeding is remarkable. The Athenians who assisted at the games could

