B. IV. 365 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

" port of you who are oppressed with Athenian bondage.

" Upon reasons so valid do I insist upon it, that I am no

" longer suspected by you, having given you the strongest

" assurances, that I am no impotent avenger, and that you

" may boldly abet my cause.

" If there be any person in this assembly, who hesitates

" upon the apprehension that I may betray the city into the

" hands of a private cabal, let him bid adieu to his fears, and

" distinguish himself in open confidence. I came not hither

" to be the tool of faction; I am convinced that liberty can

" never be re-established by me, if disregarding ancient

" constitutions, I enslave the multitude to the few, or the few

" to the crowd. Such things would be more grievous than

" the yoke of foreign dominion. And should we Lacedaemo-

" nians proceed in this manner, our labours could never

" merit a return of gratitude, but, instead of honour and glory,

-" foul reproach would be our portion. The crimes, on which  
" we have grounded this war against the Athenians, would

" then appear to be our own, and more odious in us for hav-

" ing made parade of disinterested virtue, than in a State

" which never pretended to it. For it is more base in men

" of honour to enlarge their power by specious fraud, than by

" open force. The latter, upon the right of that superior

" strength with which fortune hath invested it, seizeth at

once upon its prey; the other can only compass it by the

" treachery of wicked cunning.

" It is thus that in all concerns of more than ordinary

w importance, we are accustomed to exert the utmost cir-

" cumspection. And besides the solemn oaths in your fa-

" vour, you can receive no greater security of our honest

" intention than the congruity of our actions with our words,

from whence the strongest conviction must result, that

" with what I have suggested you are obliged in interest to

" comply. But if all my promises are unavailing, and you

44 declare such compliance impossible ; if professing your-

V selves our sincere well-wishers, you beg that a denial may,

Vol. I. 3 O

