192 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" league, merely to preserve their own reputation, have

" dragged numbers hither to fight against their will: other-

" wise, they durst never have attempted to engage us a

" second time, after receiving so signal a defeat. Frighten

" not yourselves with extravagant suspicions of their courage

" —but rather strike a panic into them ; a panic, for which

" they have more ample reason, as you have already gained

" a victory over them, and as they are certain you would not

44 give them another opportunity to fight, unless you had

" some grand design to execute. An enemy, that like them

. " exceeds in number, in action depends more on their '

" strength than on their conduct. They who are far inferior

" in strength of numbers, and dare, though uncompelled,

4 to fight, must do it through the prevalence of some exten­

sive views. This they cannot but know, and hence dread

~\jnore this our diminutive than they would an equal force.

** Large armies defeated, through defect of skill, or some-  
" times through defect of courage, by an inferior force, are

" cases that have often happened. Yet neither of these de-

" fects can be imputed to us. For my own part, I shall not

" willingly hazard the event within the gulf, nor will I sail

" into it. For I am not ignorant that want of sea-room is

" very improper for a few ships that sail best and are best

" managed, against a number which those on board them

" know not how to govern. In such a situation, no one can

" pour down to an attack in the proper manner for want of

" having a clear view of the enemy; nor, if he is forced to

" sheer off, can he do it with safety. There is no room to

" break through, or to tack at pleasure, which is the business

" of ships that are better sailers ; but the fight must of ne-

" cessity be the same with a battle at land, and in this case

" the greater number of ships must have the advantage. I

" shall take the greatest care I am able to prevent these in-

" conveniences. And you I expect to stand regularly to

" your posts on board every ship. Receive your orders with

" alacrity, especially as we lie so near our enemy ; and above

