B. I. INTRODUCTION. 81

one point intended by the expedition, but were obliged to

withdraw, and carry Orestes back again with them, totally

unsuccessful.

Not long after this, a thousand Athenians going on board

their ships which lay at Pegae, for Pegae was now in their

possession, steered away against Sicyon, under the command

of Pericles* the son of Xantippus. They made a descent,

and in a battle defeated those of the Sicyonians, who endea­

voured to make head against them. From thence they

strengthened themselves by taking in some Achaeans; and

stretching across the gulph, landed in a district of Acarnania,

and laid siege to Oenias ; yet unable to carry it, they soon

quitted, and withdrew to their own homes.

Three years after this a peace to continue for five years

was clapped up between the Peloponnesians and Athenians.

Upon this, the Athenians, now at leisure from any war in

Greece, engaged in an expedition against Cyprus, with a fleet

of two hundred ships of their own and allies, commanded by

Cimon. Sixty of these were afterwards detached to Egypt, at

the request of Amyrtaeus king of the fenny part; but the rest

of them blocked up Citium. Yet, by the death of Cimon, and

a violent famine, they were compelled to quit the blockade of

• Here the name of Pericles first occurs, and a hint should be given to

those who are not well acquainted with him to mark a person that was a

true patriot, a consummate statesman, a great general, and a most sublime

speaker. He was born of one of the most illustrious families in Athens.

He was educated in the best manner, and learned his philosophy or the

knowledge of nature from Anaxagoras, whose doctrines agreed so little

with the superstitious practices and tempers of the Athenians, that the mas­

ter and all his disciples were charged with atheism, for which many of

them were prosecuted, and the divine Socrates most injuriously put to

death. He angaged early in public affairs, gained the ascendant over aU

bis competitors, became at length, and continued to his death, master of the

affections and liberties too of the Athenian people, and though master, yet

guardian and increaser of the latter. In short, according to writer* of the

best authority and the gravest historians, he was one of the most able and

most disinterested ministers that Athens ever had, Athens the most demo-

cratical state that ever existed, so fertile in every thing great and
glorious,

and so over-run at the same time with faction, licentiousness, and wild tu­

multuary caprice.

