194 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

full expectation of intercepting the whole fleet. Eleven of

the Athenian ships, which were a-head of the rest, being too

quick for the wing of the Peloponnesians and the shifting of

their course towards the open sea, ran safely off*. Yet in­

tercepting all the rest, they run them aground and so disabled

them. The Athenians on board, who could not escape by

swimming, were slaughtered to a man: Some of these empty

ships they got off again and carried away in tow ; and one

they had already took with the whole crew on board. The

Messenians got down to the succour of some of them. They

waded with their arms through the water, and climbing on

board and fighting from the decks saved some which were

already in tow.—In this manner did the Peloponnesians de­

feat and destroy the Athenian ships.

Their twenty ships which were of the right wing, gave

chace to the eleven Athenians, which on the shifting of the

course had ran off amain. But all these, excepting one

ship, outsailed them, and got safe into Naupactus. Having

gained their harbour, they tacked about under the temple

of Apollo, and stood ready to defend themselves, in case the

enemy should make an attempt upon them so near the

shore. Soon after, they appeared, sailing along and sing­

ing their paean, as having gained a victory. One ship be­

longing to Leucas was shot far a-head of the rest, giving

chace to that only ship of the Athenians which was left be­

hind. It happened that a trading vessel was then lying out

at anchor before the harbour. The Athenian ship came up

• The Latin translators, whose chief aim is a grammatical construction,

have made a slip here in point of chorography ; they say, " Suhtcrfugerunt

orfugerunt in apenum mare." But it is surprizing that Mr. Hobbet should

be guilty of so much inadvertence, as to make eleven Athenian ships " get

out into open sea." The Peloponnesians made their tack toward* the open

sea, on purpose to prevent them from getting out of the gulf, which gave

opportunity to the foremost ships in the Athenian line to run away up the

gulf towards Naupactus, for the sake of securing which they had thought

themselves obliged, though contrary to their judgment and inclination, to

come within the capes. Had they run o»it to sea, they never could have

reached Naupactus, but would have run directly from it.

