B. I. INTRODUCTION. 3

somuch that at last, Attica being insufficient to support the

number, they sent over colonies into Ionia.

There is another, and to me a most convincing proof of

the weakness of the ancients. Before the affairs of Troy, it

doth not appear that Greece (or Hellas) was ever united in

one common undertaking ; nor had the whole country that

one general appellation: nor indeed did the same subsist at

all before the time of Hellen, the son of Deucalion ; the se­

veral nations taking their distinguishing names from their

own selves, and Pelasgicum being that of the greatest tract.

But when Hellen and his sons had acquired power in Pthiotis,

and led out their dependants by way of aid to other cities,

conversation made the use of this name become much more

frequent among the several people, though it was long be­

fore it so prevailed as to become the general appellation of

them all. For this Homer is my principal authority, who,

though born a long time after the Trojan war, hath no where

mentioned them all in this general stile, but hath appro­

priated it to those who came with Achilles from Pthiotis,

and were the first that bore this name of Grecians (or Hel­

lenes-). In his poems Danaans, and Argives and Achaeans

are their distinguishing titles. Nor hath he farther once

mentioned the Barbarians, for this plain reason in my opin­

ion, because Grecians were not yet distinguished by this

one comprehensive name in contra-distinction to that other.

These Grecians, therefore whatever, whether so apart in their

different cities, or united by mutual converse, or at length

comprehended in one general name, for want of strength and

correspondence, never acted together in joint confederacy

before the war of Troy: nor was it till the use of the sea

had opened free communication amongst them that they en­

gaged together in that expedition.

For jMinosjis the earliest person whom we know from

tradition to have been master of a navy; and to have been

chiefly lord of the sea which is called the Grecian. To him

were the isles of the Cyclades subject; nay, most of them he

