B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 3U

" the present strength of your State and its late acquisitions

" that fortune may not always declare upon your side. Wise

" indeed are they, who in their estimates of success^ make

" judicious allowances for chance. Such are best able to bear

" the alternatives of calamity with prudence and temper..

" Such will form their judgments of war, not as the infallible

" means of accomplishing whatever scheme they please to

" undertake, but as deriving its effects from the guidance of

" fortune. Such are the persons who are most of all exempt-

" ed from fatal miscarriages ; because -hey are not puffed up

" by presuming too far on present prosperity, and would

" gladly acquiesce in the peaceable enjoyment of what they

" now possess.

" It concerns your honour, Athenians, to deal in this

" manner with us, lest, in case you now reject our propo-

" sals, when you yourselves in future times miscarry (many

" such events must happen), your present good fortune may

" then be perversely ascribed to chance, even though you

" are now able to deliver down to posterity the fame of your

" power and moderation beyond a possibility of blemish.

" The Lacedaemonians invite you to agreement, and a con-

" elusion of the war. They offer you peace and alliance,

" nay, friendship in its whole extent, and the exchange of

" good offices mutually revived; demanding nothing in re-

" turn but their citizens out of the island. To this step they

" have condescended rather than be exposed to the dangers

" incidental on either side, should they either seize some fa-

" vourable opportunity to force their escape by arms, or

" holding out to the last against your blockade, be reduced

" with all the aggravations of defeat. Great enmities, in

" our opinion, may the soonest be brought to a firm deter-

" mination—not when either party, having exerted all their

" strength, and gained the far greater superiority in war, dis-

" dains the fair accommodation, and relieth on that forced

" acquiescence which necessitated oaths impose ; but rather,

" when, though victory be within their reach, they recollect

