DISCOURSE III. lxxi

His subject was certainly the greatest that to this day had

occurred in the world: And, ought Thucydides to be degra­

ded, or even lessened at all, because he was not born in the

same age with Livy ? As much amusement at least accom­

panies, and as much instruction flows from reading carefully

the history of Athens, as from that of Rome. Wonder may

be more raised by the latter, and the wonder may end in

detestation of a people, who became enormously great by the

miseries and destruction of their fellow-creatures. The Ro­

mans were but brute-like men: They were not tolerably hu­

manised, till they had conquered Greece. Greece re-con­

quered them, and established a better, more lasting triumph

over mind, than the others over body.

Grxcia capta ferum victorem cepit—/for.

Who then best deserve the applause of the heart, the citi­

zens of Athens, or the citizens of Rome ? I am not at all in

doubt, how men of a calm and considerate spirit will decide

the question. Or, Vet such as judge only by numbers, consi­

der a little more sedately, whether Athens at this time was

that diminutive and petty State, which could be magnified

and enobled only by artifice. The first army, that invaded

her territories in this war, consisted (according to Plutarch)

of sixty thousand men. This is an object big enough to fill

the eye. The state of her revenue, when the value of money

is adjusted, will turn out by no means trifling. They were

possessed, at the breaking out of the war, of three hundred

triremes fit for sea. Two hundred and fifty of them were at

one time in commission, in the fourth year of the war: Con­

sequently at two hundred men a ship, the number of seamen

employed must have been fifty thousand. If the reader be

not yet convinced, that Athens was not a petty State, nothing

can get the better of his prejudice. It would be pity, any

one should sit down to Thucydides with such low pre-posses-

sions against his subject.

The confederate army of Peloponnesians is now assem­

