Jl. IV. YEAR VIII- BEFORE CHRIST 424. 351

Each of these Athenians afterwards, so fast as he got in, ad­

vanced along the wall. The Peloponnesian guards, though

few in number, made head against them for a time; some

of them soon dropped, and then the rest ran speedily off.

They were dismayed at such an attack from their enemies

in the night; and, as the treacherous Megareans fought

against them, they concluded that all the Megareans were

combined together in betraying them. It happened farther,

that an Athenian herald had proclaimed of his own accord

that " such Megareans as were willing to side with the Athe-

" nians should throw down their arms." When the Pelopon-

nesians heard this, they at once quitted their posts ; and, se­

riously believing that all the Megareans had combined to

betray them, fled amain into Nisaea.

At the time of morning's dawn, the long walls being

thus surprised, and the Megareans within the city thrown

into a tumult, the agents for the Athenians, in concert with

all their accomplices in the plot, insisted on the necessity

to throw open the city gates, and march out to battle ; since

it had been agreed between them, that so soon as ever the

gates were thus opened, the Athenians should rush in.

There was a method to be observed on their side, in order

to be distinguished ; this was to besmear themselves with

ointment, that they might receive no harm. Their security

would have been greater, had they opened the gates at

once ; for now four thousand heavy-armed Athenians and

six hundred horsemen, who had marched in the night from

Eleusis, according to a prior disposition, were at hand. But

whilst the accomplices, properly besmeared, stood ready at

the gates, one of their own party, who was privy to the

whole plot, discovereth it to the other Megareans. These

drawing up together, came forwards in a body, and denied

" the expediency of marching out (since formerly, when

" stronger than now, they durst not hazard such a step) or

" running such a manifest risk of losing the city: and,

♦•should any one affirm the contrary, the point should be

