B. III. TEAR VI.—BETORE CHRIST 426. 283

was within their borders, they were all drawn together in a

numerous body for their mutual defence: Nay, even the

most distant Ophionians, who are seated upon the Meliac

bay, the Bomiensians and Calliensians were already come

up.

The Messenians continued to amuse Demosthenes with

the same suggestions as at first: They still insisted, that the

conquest of the iEtolians would be an easy performance, and

advised him to advance immediately against their villages,

nor give them time to gather together in a body to oppose

him, but to attack every place he came to, and take it. This

advice being quite to his own taste, and relying upon his own

good fortune, which hitherto had never been checked, with­

out waiting for the Locrians, who were very much wanted,

and were to have joined him (for he stood most in need of

light-armed darters), he advanced to iEgitium, and assault­

ing, takes it by storm. The inhabitants made their escape,

and posted themselves upon the hills which overlook the

town. It was situated amongst lofty eminences, and distant

from the sea about eighty stadia*.

But now the iEtolians, who were come up for the pre­

servation of iEgitium, running down in separate bodies from

different eminences, made an attack upon the Athenians and

allies, and poured in their javelins amongst them : And when­

ever the Athenian army approached to charge, they plied be­

fore them; when they again fell back, these again returned to

the charge. This kind of engagement continued for a long

time, a series of alternate pursuits and retreats, in both which

the Athenians suffered most. So long however as their

archers had darts, and opportunity to use them, they lost no

ground ; for the light armed iEtolians fell back to avoid the

darts. But when the chief of the archers dropped, his pajrty

was soon dispersed, and the whole army began to incline.

Their strength was quite exhausted by so many repeated

rharges ; and now, the iEtolians pressing hard upon them,

• About eight miles.

