B. I. INTRODUCTION.

cyra, put to death all the prisoners they had taken, except

the Corinthians, whom they kept in chains. And after this,

as the Corinthians and allies having been vanquished in fight

were forced to retire within their own harbours, they were

quite masters of all the adjacent sea; and, sailing first to

Leucas a colony of the Corinthians, they laid its territory

waste; and then burnt Cyllene a dock of the Eleans, be­

cause they had supplied the Corinthians with ships and mo­

ney. In this manner they continued masters of the sea a

long time after their naval victory, and in their cruises very

much annoyed the allies of the Corinthians. It was not

till the beginning of the summer, that a check was given

them by a fleet and land army, who were commissioned, in

order to relieve their harrassed allies, to station themselves

at Actium and round the Chimerium of Thesprotis. There

they lay, to cover Leucas and other places which were in

friendship with them from the ravage of the enemy. The

Corcyreans, upon this, with a naval and land-force sta­

tioned themselves over-against them at Leucimna. But,

neither party venturing out to attack the other, they lay

quiet in their opposite stations the whole summer; and on

the approach of winter, both sides withdrew to their respec­

tive homes.

During the remainder of the year, after the engagement

at sea, and all the following, the Corinthians, whose indig­

nation was raised in this their war against the Corcyreans,

were building new ships, and sparing neither labour nor cost

to get a strong armament ready for sea, and sent through­

out Peloponnesus and the other parts of Greece to hire ma­

riners into their service. The Corcyreans, hearing of these

great preparations, were terribly alarmed, and with reason:

For at that time they were in no alliance with any of the

Grecians, nor comprehended either in the Athenian or La­

cedaemonian league. And hence they thought it quite ex­

pedient to go and sue for the alliance of the Athenians, and-

endeavour to obtain some succour from them. The Corin­

thians gaining intelligence of their design, dispatched ah

