B. tit. YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. 21.3

" all the specious colourings of justice, by the road of po-

" licy rather than of strength. And thus, we have been re-

" served to justify their violence, and to be quoted as a

" proof, that unless those whom they have enslaved had de-

" served their fate, a State upon an equal footing with them-

" selves would never have marched in conjunction with them

" to execute their vengeance. By the same strain of policy,

" their first step was to lead out those that were strongest

" against the weaker parties, designing to finish with them,

" when left destitute of any outward resource, by the prior

" reduction of the rest. Whereas, if they had begun with

" us, the confederate body remaining yet possessed of its

" strength and able to make a stand, their enslaving project

" could not have equally succeeded. They were besides

" under some apprehension of our naval force, lest, uniting

" with yours, or any other State, such an accession might

" have endangered the whole of their plan. Some respite

" also was gained, from the respect we have ever shewn to

" their whole community, and to the series of magistrates

" who have presided amongst them. We knew, however,

" that we could not long hold out, had not this war come

" timely to our relief. We saw our own fate in the examples

" which had been made of others.

" What friendship therefore, what assurance of liberty

" could subsist, when receiving each other with the open

" countenance, suspicion lay lurking within ;—when, in war,

" apprehensive of our power, to us they paid their court; and

" we, from the same principle, paid our court to them in the

" season of tranquillity ? The bond of union, which mutual

*4 good-will cements in others, was in us kept fast by fear.  
" For through the prevalence of fear, and not of friendship

" we have thus long persisted in alliance. And whichever

" side security had first emboldened, that side would fkst

" have began encroachments upon the other. WhoAver,

" therefore, chargeth us with injustice for revolting, whilst

" they were only meditating our ruin, and before we actually

Vol. I. 2 S

