246 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Athenians also took from them several towns upon the conti­

nent which had belonged to the Mityleneans, and which

continued afterwards in subjection to the Athenians. Thus

ended the commotions of Lesbos.

The same summer, after the reduction of Lesbos—the

Athenians, commanded by Nicias* the son of Niceratus,

executed a design upon Minoa, the island which lies before

Megara. The Megareans, having built a fort upon it,

• Nicias is now for the first time in the chief command, who is to act

parts of very great importance in the sequel of the war. We should there­

fore take some notice of him on his first appearance. Plutarch, who hath

wrote his life, gives light into several circumstances, which fall not within

the cognizance of a general historian. He was born of a noble family in

Athens, and was one of the most wealthy citizens. Beside his estates, he

had a large annual income from the silver mines at Laurium. Not that those

mines belonged to him, as one would infer from Plutarch ; for they were

the patrimony of the State, annexed to it by Themistoclcs for the support

of the navy : But, as Xenophon relates, in his treatise of revenue, Nicias had

a thousand slaves constantly employed in working these mines. He hired

them out to Sosias the Thracian, who was undertaker of the work, on con-

dition to receive a clear obole a day for every one of them ; and he always

kept up the number. His income from hence was therefore near 2000/.

sterling a year. He acted under Pericles so long as he lived; and, after

his death, was set up by the more sober and sensible Athenians as a balance

to Cleon, who was the idol of the people. Nicias was a true lover of his

country, of unblemished integrity, and very gentle and complacent in his

manners. His good qualities were numerous and shining: His foibles were

a great diffidence of himself, and a dread of the people, which made him

court them by laying out his wealth in public games and shows for their

entertainment. He had an inward fund of real piety i but was supersti-

tiously attached to the ceremonial of the religion of his country. His great

wealth drew a great number of followers and parasites about him ; and his

benevolent disposition was always seeking occasions of doing good. In

short, says Plutarch, " bad men had a sure fund in his pusillanimity, and

good men in his humanity." No body could either hate or fear him at

Athens, and therefore his interest there was great. He was always cau­

tious, and always diffident, and under such an awe of the people in the ge­

neral assemblies, that they would shout out to him by way of encourage.

inent, as his modesty was amiable and engaging when opposed to the im­

pudence of Cleon.—^Thus much may suffice at present, since his military

expeditions and the whole of his political conduct will be related by Tint

cydides.

