294 THE PJELOPONNESIAN WAR.

fled amain towards the mountains. But the passes were all

beset; and more than this, the Amphilochians, who were well

acquainted with their own country, were pursuing in the light

enemies who were encumbered with the heavy armour. Quite

ignorant of the country, nor knowing whither they were flying,

they rushed headlong into hollow ways, into all the ambus­

cades laid ready by the enemy, to their own destruction.

Yet as no possible method of escape was unattempted, some

of them turned towards the sea, which was not greatly dis­

tant. And when they beheld the Athenian ships moving

along the shore, in so fatal a concurrence for their ruin, they

plunged into the water, and swam up to them, choosing ra­

ther, in the present consternation, to be destroyed by the

Athenians on board those ships, than by Barbarians and their

most inveterate foes, the Amphilochians. Through such a

series of misfortunes, but few out of the numerous body of

Ambraciots were so happy as to escape to- their own home.

The Acarnanians having stripped the dead, and erected the

trophies, marched back to Argos.

On the following day they were addressed by a herald,

sent from those Ambraciots who had escaped from Olpae,

and were now in the Agrei's. His commission was to obtain

the bodies of the dead who had been killed since the first

engagement, as they were attempting without permission to

escape along with the Mantineans and others who were

going off by agreement. This herald casting his eyes upon

the arms of the Ambraciots from the city, was astonished

at the number. He knew nothing of that fresh calamity,

but concluded they all belonged to the party for whom he

was now employed. Somebody asked him the reason of his

surprise, and what he judged to be the number of the dead !

Now he who asked the question supposed the herald to have

been sent by those of Idomene. " Not more than two hun-

" dred," says the herald. The demandant then replied, " It

" should seem otherwise by the arms, for these are the arms

" of more than a thousand men." The herald rejoined,

