B. IV. 369 YEAR VIII.—BEFORE CHRIST 424.

" IT ought never, ye men of Boeotia, to have entered in-

" to the hearts of any of your rulers, that it is improper for

" us to attack the Athenians, because we find them not upon

" our own soil. For they, out of a neighbouring country,

" have rushed into Boeotia, and have fortified a post in it;

" from whence they intend to ravage and annoy us. And our

" enemies in short they are, in whatever place we find them,

" from what place soever they march to execute hostilities

u against us. Now therefore let him, who hath judged this

" step we are taking hazardous and insecure, acknowledge

" and forego his error. Cautious and dilatory measures are

" not to be adhered to by men who are invaded, and whose

" all is at stake ; they are expedient only for those whose

" properties are secure, and who bent on ' rapine exert their

" malice in the invasion of others. But it is eternally the

" duty of you Boeotians to combat such foreigners as pre-

" sume to invade you, either upon your own or your neigh-

" hour's ground, no matter which. And this above all must

" he done against Athenians, not only because they are

" Athenians, but because they are the nearest borderers upon

" us. For it is a maxim allowed, that no State can possibly

" preserve itself free, unless it be a match for its neighbour-

" ing powers.

44 Let me add farther, that when men are bent on m-

" slaving not neighbours only, but even such people as are

" more remote, how can it be judged improper to encounter

" such, so long as we can find ground whereon to stand ?

" Call to mind for your present information the Eubccans

" situated in yon island opposite to us ; call to mind the

" present disposition of the bulk of Greece in regard to these

" Athenians. Why should we forget, that neighbouring

" States so often battle one another about settling their

" various boundaries ; whereas, should we be vanquished,

" our whole country will be turned merely into one heap of

"limitation, and that never again by us to be disputed?

" For when once they have entered upon it, they will remain

