236 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR.

" made the decree ; and now I earnestly conjure you, not to

" repent of your own determinations, not to plunge yourselves

" in inextricable difficulties, through pity, through delight of

" hearing, and soft forbearance, the three most prejudicial ob-

" stacles of power. It is just to shew pity to those who

" are its proper objects, and not to men who would never

" have felt compassion for us, nor to foes who must of neces-

" sity be implacable. The orators, those delights of your

" ears, will have room in debates of lesser moment to catch

" at your applause, but should be silenced here, where they

" only can give the public a short-lived pleasure, whilst they

" embroil it with perplexities, not easy to be surmounted, and

" themselves alone in requital of speaking well will be well re-

" warded for it. Forbearance, further, may be shewn to

" those who are willing to be, and will for the future prove

" themselves our friends ; but not to such inveterate souls as

" these, who, if suffered to live, will live only to wreak their

" malice against you.

" I shall wave enlargements, and give you only one

" short assurance, that if you hearken to my admonitions,

" you will at the same time do justice to the Mityleneans

" and service to yourselves ; but if you resolve in any other

" manner, you will receive no thanks from them, and will

"establish the clearest evidence for your own condemnation.

" For, if these men had reason to revolt, it follows that you

" have tyrannically ruled them. Grant the injustice of such

" a rule, but yet that you have presumed to be guilty of

" it;—why then, upon the mere motive of interest, you

" ought now to chastise them beyond what is right, or im-

" mediately to forego your power, and dropping yourselves

" down into impotent security, to set about the practice of

" humanity and virtue. But, adieu to this vain expedient!

" and at once resolve to make them feel that weight of

" misery they designed for us. Convince them that those

" who have escaped it can feel as strong resentments as

" those who projected the fatal blow. Determine now, by

