xxviii On the Life of Thtjtcvdides.

assistance. And the laborious care of a late* author, in ad­

justing the chronology and clearing away rubbish, will enable

one now to give at least a coherent, though by no means an

accurate, account of him.

Thucydides, an Athenian, by borough an Halymusian,

was born in the year before Christ, four hundred seventy-

one: twenty-five years after Hellanicus, thirteen after Hero­

dotus, according to Aulus Gellius; and about three years

before Socrates, as the birth of the latter is settled by Laer-

tius. He was descended of a very splendid and noble family,

though perhaps not so honourable as many others, since it

was not purely Attic. Its splendour can no longer be doubt­

ed, when it is known to be the family of Miltiades. Miltia-

des the elder, born a citizen of Athens, had reigned over th«

Dolomci, a people in Thrace ; and left vast possessions in

that country to his descendents : And Miltiades the younger

had married Hegesipyle the daughter of Olorus a Thracian

kingf. Yet foreign blood, though royal, was always thought

to debase the Athenian. The firm republicans of Athens,

had a hereditary aversion to every circumstance of royalty;

and the polite inhabitants of it abhorred all connexion with

Barbarians-, the scornful title they gave to all the rest of the

world, except their countrymen of Greece. Iphicrates, a fa­

mous Athenian in later times, was the son of an Athenian

shoemaker and a Thracian princess. Yet, being asked to

which of his parents he thought himself most obliged ? he

replied haughtily—" To my mother. She did all she could

" to make me an Athenian; my father would have made me

" a Barbarian." The younger Miltiades, whom wars had

obliged to quit his hold in Thrace, commanded the troops of

Athens in the famous field of Marathon. He died after­

wards in a jail, unable to pay a large fine set upon him by

the people of Athens. His son Cimon contrived afterwards

to pay it. The family for a time had been in poverty and

• Vitoe Thucydidii Synopsis chronologies, ab Henrico Dodwell.

i Herodotus i» Erato.

