B. II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 157

and compassionate. Such persons were ashamed, out of a

selfish concern for themselves, entirely to abandon their

friends, when their menial servants, no longer able to en­

dure the groans and lamentations of the dying, had been

compelled to fly from such a weight of calamity. But those

especially, who had safely gone through it, took pity on the

dying and the sick, because they knew by experience what

it really was, and were now secure in themselves; for it

never seized any one a second time so as to be mortal. Such

were looked upon as quite happy by others, and were them­

selves at first overjoyed in their late escape, and the ground­

less hope that hereafter no distemper would prove fatal to

them. Beside this reigning calamity, the general removal

from the country into the city was a heavy grievance, more

particularly to those who had been necessitated to come thi­

ther. For as they had no houses, but dwelled all the sum­

mer season in booths, where there was scarce room to

breathe, the pestilence destroyed with the utmost disorder,

so that they lay together in heaps, the dying upon the dead,

and the dead upon the dying. Some were tumbling one

over another in the public streets, or lay expiring round

about every fountain, whither they had crept to assuage

their immoderate thirst. The temples, in which they had

erected tents for their reception, were full of the bodies of

those who had expired there. For in a calamity so outra­

geously violent, and universal despair, things sacred and

holy had quite lost their distinction. Nay, all regulations

observed before in matters of sepulture were quite con­

founded, since every one buried wherever he could find a

place. Some, whose sepulchres were already filled by the

numbers which had perished in their own families, were

shamefully compelled to seize those of others. They sur­

prised on a sudden the piles which others had built for their

own friends, and burned their dead upon them ; and some,

whilst one body was burning on a pile, tossed another bodv

they had dragged thither upon it, and went their way.

Vol. I. 2 L

