B. II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430.

" thinks aright, and yet cannot communicate his own thoughts,

" is just as insignificant as if he could not think at all. He

" that enjoys both these faculties in perfection, and yet is an

" enemy to his country, will in like manner, never say any

" thing for his country's good : Or, though he love his coun-

" try, and be not proof against corruption, he may prostitute

"every thing to his own avarice. If therefore you judged

" my qualifications in all these respects to be in some mode-

" rate degree superior to those of other men, and were thus

" drawn into a war by my advice, there can certainly be no

" reason why I should be acccused of having done you wrong.

" Those indeed who are already in the fast possession of all

" the ends attainable by war must make a foolish choice if

" they run to arms : But, if once under a necessity, either

" through tame submission to be enslaved by a neighbour-

" power, or by a brave resistance to get the mastery over

" them—he who flies danger in such a case, is much more

" worthy of reproach than he who meets it with bold defiance.

" I indeed am the man I was, and of the mind I was.

" It is you whose resolutions have wavered ;—you who,

" whilst unhurt, through my persuasion resolved on war, and

" repent so soon as you feel its strokes—who measure the

" soundness of my advice by the weakness of your own judg-

" ments, and therefore condemn it, because the present disasters

" have so entirely engaged the whole of your attention, that

" you have none left to perceive the high importance of it to

" the public. Cruel indeed is that reverse of fortune which

" hath so suddenly afflicted you, dejecting your minds and

" dispiriting your former resolutions ! Accidents sudden and

" unforeseen and so opposite to that event you might reasona-

" bly have expected, enslave the mind;—which hath been your

" case in all the late contingencies, and more particularly so

" in this grievous pestilence. Yet men who are the constitu- '

" ents of such a mighty State, and whose manners have been

" by education formed for its support, ought never to want

" that inward fortitude which can stem the greatest of afflic-

