56 THE PEiOPONNESIAN TiR.

" the invader without a struggle would have leisurely deter-

" mined the fate of Greece.

" Do we then deserve, Lacedaemonians, that violence of

" envy with which the Grecians behold us, for the courage

" we manifested then, for our judicious resolution, and the

" superior power we now enjoy ? That power, superior as it

" is, was by no means the effect of violent encroachments.

" You would not abide with us to glean away the relics of

" the Barbarian war. To us the associated states were

" obliged to have recourse, and intreat us to lead them to

" its completion. Thus, by the necessary exigence of af-

" fairs, obliged to be in action, we have advanced our power

" to what it now is ; at first, from a principle of fear; then

" from the principle of honour; and at length from that of

" interest. When envied by many, when obliged to reduce

" to their obedience some who had revolted, when you, no

" longer well-disposed towards us, were actuated by jealousy

" and malice ; we thought it not consistent with our own se-

" curity to endanger our welfare by giving up our power,

" since every revolt from us was an accession of strength to

" you. No part of mankind will fix any reproach on men

" who try every expedient to ward off extremities of danger.

" Nay, it is your own method also, Lacedaemonians, to ma-

" nage the states of Peloponnesus as suits your own interest

" best, and to prescribe them law. And, had you abided

" with us, and persevered in that invidious superiority as we

" have done, we are well convinced that you would soon have

" grown no less odious to your allies ; and so obliged either

" to have ruled with rigour, or to have risked the loss of

" your all. It followcth, therefore, that we have done no-

" thing to raise surprise, nothing to disappoint the human

" expectation, in accepting a superiority voluntarily assured,

" in firmly maintaining it thus accepted, upon those most pre-

" vailing principles of honour, and fear, and interest.

" The maxim by which we have acted was not first

" broached by tts, since it hath been ever allowed, that in­

