B. IV. 343 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

laboured most of any at a firm re-union, delivered his senti­

ments thus:

" I am here the representative, ye men of Sicily, of one

" and not the meanest of the Sicilian states, nor yet the most

" exhausted by war ; and what I am going to propose is cal-

" culated for, and will, I am convinced, most effectually se-

" cure the welfare of our common country. And what need.

" is there now to run over in minute detail the calamities in-

" separable from war, in the hearing of men who have expe-

" rienced them all ? None ever plunge headlong into these,

" through an utter ignorance of them ; nor, when the views

" are fixed on gratifying ambition, are men used to be deter-

" red by fear. The acquisitions proposed, in the latter case,

" are generally imagined to overbalance dangers: and the

•4 former choose rather to submit to hazards, than suffer di-

" minution of their present enjoyments. Yet, where the parties,

" actuated by these different views, embroil themselves at a

"juncture when it is impossible to succeed, exhortations to a

" mutual agreement are then most highly expedient.

" To be influenced by such exhortations must at present be

" highly for the advantage of us all. For it was the strong

" desire of fixing our own separate views on a firm establish-

" ment, which at first embroiled us in this war, and which at

" present raiseth such mutual altercations even during our en-

" deavours to effect an accommodation: and in fine, unless

" matters can be so equally adjusted as to satisfy all parties,

" we shall again have recourse to arms. But then, we ought

" to recollect, that not merely for securing our separate in-

them all to concorJ and unanimity, and teaching them the method of se­

curing the welfare and glory of their common country, upon the noblest

plan. This is noted merely to draw upon him the attention of the reader.

He will act afterwards in the most illustrious scenes, and shew himself

on all occasions a man of true honour and probity, a firm and disinterested

patriot, an excellent statesman, and a most able commander. The Athe­

nians never had a more determined or a more generous enemy. But that

will not hinder our historian from representing him in all his merit.

