. II. YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 19"

out of the Nisaean dock ; but instead of making directly for

the Piraeus, as they at first intended, dismayed with the

danger of the attempt, and, as it is said, forced by a con­

trary wind to steer another course, they went over to that

promontory of Salamis which faceth Megara. Upon this

promontory was a fort, and three ships were stationed below

to prevent all importation and exportation at Megara. This

fort they assaulted, and carried the three ships, though

empty, away with them. Other parts of Salamis they plun­

dered, as the inhabitants never dreamed of this invasion.

The lights*, that signify the approach of enemies, were

however held up and waved towards Athens, which caused

as great a consternation there as was known during all the

series of the war. Those in the city imagined the enemy

to be already within the Piraeus. Those in the Piraeus con­

cluded the city of the Salamanians to be taken, and that

the enemy was only not within their port, which indeed they

might easily have been, had they not been hindered by their

own fears and a contrary wind. At break of day, the Athe­

nians ran down in general concourse to the Piraeus. They

got their ships afloat, and leaping on board with the utmost

expedition and uncommon tumult, sailed away for Salamis,

but left what land-forces they had to guard the Piraeus.

When the Peloponnesians had notice of the approach of

this succour, having now over-run great part of Salamis,

and got many prisoners and a large booty, beside the three

ships stationed at Budorus, they made the best of their way

back to Nisaea. They were afraid of trusting too much to

their ships, which having been long laid up were become

leaky. After thus getting back to Megara, they returned

• These (according to the Scholiast) were lighted torches, which persons

on the walls reared aloft in the air, to notify to neighbouring and
confederate

places that they discerned the approach of enemies, in order to put then)

on their guard. The same thing was also done at the approach of friends,

to notify what succour was at hand. In the latter case, they held the lights

steady and unmoved; in the former they waved them to and fro, as an in.,

dicalion of fear.

Vol. I. 2 q

