138 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

then the command of a garrison somewhere near Methone.

He was sensible of the danger it was in, and set forwards with

one hundred heavy-armed to its relief. The Athenian army

was then scattered about the country, and their attention di­

rected only to the walls ; by which means, making a quick

march through the midst of their quarters, he threw himself

into Methone, and, with the loss of but a few who were inter­

cepted in the passage, effectually secured the town. For this

bold exploit, he was the first man of all who signalized them­

selves in this war, that received the public commendation at

Sparta. Upon this the Athenians re-embarked and sailed

away, and coming up to Pheia, a town of Elis, they ravaged

the country for two days together. A body of picked men of

the lower Elis, with some other Eleans, that were got together

from the adjacent country, endeavoured to stop their devas­

tations, but coming to a skirmish, were defeated by them.

But a storm arising, and their ships being exposed to danger

on the open coast, they went immediately on board, and sail­

ing round the cape of Icthys, got into the harbour of Pheia.

The Messenians in the mean time, and'some others who had

not been able to gain their ships, had marched over-land and

got possession of the place. Soon after, the ships, being now

come about, stood into the harbour, took them on board, and

quitting the place put out again to sea. By this time a great

army of Eleans was drawn together to succour it, but the

Athenians were sailed away to other parts of the coast, where

they carried on their depredations.

About the same time, the Athenians had sent a fleet of

thirty sail to infes}; the coast about Locris, and at the same

time to guard Euboea. This fleet was commanded by Cleo-

qualities which did honour to the Spartans ; and was free from all the

blemishes, which their peculiarity of education was apt to throw upon them,

such as haughtiness of carriage, ferocity of temper, and an arrogance which

studied no deference or condescension to others. He serves his country

much by his valour and military conduct, and more by his gentle, humane,

and engaging behaviour. In a word, the distinguishing excellencies both of

the Spartan and Athenian characters seem to have been united in this

Brasidas.

