B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

the - Athenians, having thus cut off their long walls from

the city of the Megareans, and possessed themselves of

Nisaea, were preparing to accomplish what was yet to be

done.

But Brasidas, son of Tellis, the Lacedaemonian, happened

at this time to be about Sicyon and Corinth, levying forces

to march for Thrace. He was no sooner informed of the

surprisal of the walls than he trembled for the Peloponne-

sians in Nisaea, and lest Megara should be taken. He sum­

mons the Boeotians to attend him expeditiously with their

forces at Tripodiscus (the place so named is a village of the

Megaris under the mountain Geranea) whither he was march­

ing himself with two thousand seven hundred heavy-armed.

Corinthians, four hundred Phliasians, six hundred Sicyoni-

ans, and what levies he had already made upon his own ac­

count. He imagined he might come up before Nisaea could

be taken. But hearing the contrary (for he came up in the

night to Tripodiscus), with a picked body of three hundred

men, before the news of his march could be spread, he ap­

proached to the city of Megara, undescried by the Atheni­

ans, who were posted near the sea. He intended to declare

that he was ready to attempt, and in fact would have been

glad to have effected, the recovery of Nisaea. But it was

principally his view to get admission into Megara, and pro­

vide for its security. He demanded admission, assuring

them he had great hope of recovering Nisaea. But the fac­

tious in Megara, perplexed at this step of Brasidas—on one

side, lest he meant to reinstate the exiles by ejecting them ;

the other, lest the people with such an apprehension might at

once fall upon them, and their city thus plunged into a tu­

mult of arms might be lost, if the Athenians, who lay ready

in ambush, should seize it; refused him admittance, and

both factions thought proper without any stir to await the

event. For it was severally their full expectation, that a

battle must ensue between the Athenians and these new­

comers ; and then, without plunging themselves into unne­

