336 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Hence afterwards they brought them out by twenties, and

having formed two lines of soldiers, in all military habile

ments, facing one another, they compelled them to walk be*

tween the lines, chained one to another, and receiving blows

and wounds as they passed along from those who formed the

lines, and struck at pleasure so soon as they perceived the ob­

jects of their hatred. They were followed by others who car­

ried scourges, and lashed those forwards who moved not readi­

ly along. Threescore persons had been brought forth and de­

stroyed in this manner, before those who remained in the edi-*

fice became sensible of their fate. For they had hitherto ima->

gined, that those who fetched them out did it merely to shift

their confinement. But when they learned the truth from

some person or other whom they could not disbelieve, they

called out aloud on the Athenians, and implored as a favour

to be put to death by them. To stir from the place of their

confinement they now absolutely refused, and averred, that to

the utmost of their power they would hinder every body from

coming into them. But the Corcyreans had not the least in­

clination to force an entrance by the doors. They mounted

up on the top of the edifice, and tearing off the roof, flung the

tiles and shot arrows down upon them. The others protected

themselves to the best of their power; and many of them were

employed in making away with themselves by cramming the

arrows shot from above down their own throats. Others,

tearing away the cordage from the beds which happened to be

within, or twisting such ropes as they could from shreds of

their own garments, so strangled themselves to death. No

method was omitted during the greatest part of the night (for

night dropt down upon this scene of horror) till, either dis­

patched by their own contrivance, or shot to death by those

above, their destruction was completely finished. So soon as

it was day, the Corcyreans, having thrown their bodies on

heaps into carriages, removed them out of the city. But their

wives, so many as had been taken prisoners in company with

their husbands, they adjudged to slavery for life.

