On the Life of Thucydides.

the laws to take his exercise in the study of arms, and to

begin to share in the defence of his country. Every citizen

of Athens was also a soldier. They served at first within the

walls, or on great emergencies marched, though to no great

distance from home. As years and skill advanced, they

were called upon to join in more distant and foreign expe­

ditions. We are quite in the dark about the particular ser­

vices, in which he might thus be employed. We are sure

at least he much improved in the theory of arms. He qua­

lified himself for the great trust of heading the forces of the

State i and, in the sequel, we shall Bee him invested with a

command.

The anonymous author of his life relates, that Thucydides

was one of the number, whom the Athenians sent to found

a colony at Thuria in Italy. Lampo and Xenocritus were

the leaders of this colony, and Herodotus is said to have

been associated in it. If Thucydides went the voyage, (and

the strange inconsistencies of him who relates it render his

whole account suspiciousj he must have been about twenty-

seven years of age. One thing is pretty certain; his stay

at Thuria could have been of no very long continuance.

This is not to be inferred from the ostracism, which the same

writer says he soon after suffered ; a mistake incurred, it is

highly probable, by confounding him with Thucydides the

son of Milesias, who was of the same family, and being a

leader in the oligarchical-party at Athens, had the ostracism

thrown upon him by the interest and popularity of Pericles.

But, the quarrel between the Corcyreans and Corinthians

about Epidamnus broke out soon after this. The enemies

of Athens were now scheming the demolition of its growing

power. Thucydides writes all the preparatory transactions,

marks all the defensive measures of the Athenians, as a per­

son who was privy to every one of them. And there should

be very strong and very positive proofs of the contrary, be­

fore any reader of his history doubts of his having been all

the time at Athens.

