THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

In the first place, under the command of Cimon* son of*

Miltiades, they laid siege to Eion, a town upon the Strymoii

possessed by the Medes, which they carried, and sold all

found within it for slaves. They afterwards did the same by

Scyros, an island in the iEgean sea, inhabited by the Dolopes,

and placed in it a colony of their own people. They had, far­

ther, a war with the Carysthians singly, in which the rest of

the Euboeans were unconcerned, who at length submitted to

them upon terms.—After this they made war upon the Nax-

ians, who had revolted, and reduced them by a siege. This

was the first confederate-state which was enslaved to gratify

their aspiring ambition ; though afterwards all the rest, as op­

portunity occurred, had the same fate.

The occasions of such revolts were various ; though the

principal were deficiencies in their quotas of tribute and

shipping, and refusals of common service. For the Athe­

nians exerted their authority with exactness and rigour, and

laid heavy loads upon men, who had neither been accus­

tomed nor were willing to bear oppression. Their me­

thod of command was soon perverted; they no longer

cared to make it agreeable, and in general service disal­

lowed an equality, as it was now more than ever in their

power to force revolters to submission. But these points the

confederates had highly facilitated by their own proceed­

ings. For, through a reluctancy of mingling in frequent

expeditions, a majority of them, to redeem their personal

attendance, were rated at certain sums of money, equivalent

to the expence of the ships they ought to have furnished.

• Cimon was a great general) a worthy patriot, brave, open, and ingeni­

ous, upright in his political conduct like Aristides, and though an able po­

litician, yet not so mischievously refined as to discard honesty and sincerity

from public measures. His father Miltiades, after performing most signal

services to his country, was heavily fined, thrown into prison, because una­

ble to pay, and there ended his days. Cimon afterwards paid the fine, is now

going also to perform great services to the state, is afterwards banished, but

recalled, and again employed in foreign commands, dying at last in the

service of his country, highly regretted, not only at Athens, but throughout

Greece.

