B. IV. TEAR VII.—BEFORE CHRIST 425. 301

The news of this arrived at Sparta during the celebration

of some public festival. They set light by it; assured, that,

so soon as they appeared in sight, the enemy would either

abandon it, or the place be recovered by an easy effort. And

they were something more dilatory because their army was

yet in Attica.

The Athenians, having completed their works on the side

towards the land and on the other necessary spots in the space

of six days, leave Demosthenes with five ships to guard it,

and with the larger number resumed their voyage for Cotcyra

and Sicily.

But the Peloponnesians in Attica were no sooner adver­

tised of this seizure of Pylus, than they marched back with

all expedition. The Lacedaemonians, and Agis their king,

regarded this affair of Pylus as their own domestic concern.

And besides, as they had made the inroad early in the year,

and whilst the corn was yet green, many of them laboured un­

der a scarcity of provisions. The weather also, which proved

tempestuous beyond what was usual in that season, had very

much incommoded the army. In this manner, many acci­

dents concurred to accelerate their retreat, and to render this

the shortest of all their invasions. For the whole of their stay

in Attica was but fifteen days.

About the same time, Simonides, an Athenian command­

er, having gathered together a small party of Athenians from

the neighbouring garrisons and a body of the circumjacent

dependents, took possession of Ei'on in Thrace, a colony of

the Mendeans. It had declared against the Athenians, but

was now put into their hands by treachery. Yet, the Chal-

i cideans and Bottiaeans coming immediately to its relief, he

was beat out of it again, and lost a great number of his men.

After the retreat of the Peloponnesians out of Attica, the

Spartans*, in conjunction with those of their allies, marched

• The reader will be pleased to take notice, that the word Spartam is

here emphatical. It means those of the first class, the noblest persons id

the community, as is plain from the sequel.

Vol. I. 3 F

