90 THE PElOPONNESIAtt WAR.

" up those upon interest for immediate service, we are able by

" enlarging their pay, to draw away all the foreigners who man

" their fleets. The Athenian power is not supported by a natu-

" ral but a purchased strength. And our own is less liable to

" be injured by the same method, as we are strong in our per-

" sons more than in our wealth. Should we gain the victory

" but in one single engagement at sea, in all probability we have

" done their business ; or, in case they continue the struggle,

" we shall then have a longer space to improve our naval

" practice: And when once we have gained an equality of

u skill, our natural courage will soon secure us the triumph.

" For that valiant spirit which we enjoy by nature it is im-

" possible for them to acquire by rules : But that superiority,

" with which at present their skill invests them, we may

" easily learn to overmatch by practice.

" Those sums of money by which these points are chiefly

" to be compassed, we will respectively contribute. For

" would it not in reality be a grievous case, when their de-

" pendents are never backward to send in those sums which

" rivet slavery on themselves, if we, who want to be revenged

" on our foes, and, at the same time, to secure ourownpre-

" servation—if we should refuse to submit to expences, and

" should store up our wealth to be plundered by them, to

" purchase oppressions and miseries for ourselves ?

" We have other expedients within our reach to support

" this war, a revolt of their dependents: and, in conse-

" quence of that, a diminution of their revenue, the essence of

" their strength; erectingforts within their territory; and many

" others not yet to be foreseen. For war by no means yields to

" the direction of a pre-determined plan; but of itself, in

" every present exigence, confines and methodizeth its own

" course. In war, who moves along with a temper in proper

" command, hath got the firmest support: But he who hath

" lost his temper, is, for that reason, more liable to miscarry.

The wealth reposited in these places must have been very large, consider­

ing the great veneration universally paid these deities, and the numerous

ami valuable offerings sent annually to these famous temples.

