144 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAU.

" what they cannot equal, and immediately pronounce it

" false. Yet, as this solemnity hath received its sanction

" from the authority of our ancestors, it is my duty also to

" obey the law, and to endeavour to procure, as far as I am

" able, the good-will and approbation of all my audience.

" I shall therefore begin first with our forefathers, since

" both justice and decency require we should on this occasion

" bestow on them an honourable remembrance. In this our

" country they kept themselves always firmly settled, and

" through their valour handed it down free to every since

" succeeding generation. Worthy indeed of praise are they,

" and yet more worthy are our immediate fathers ; since en-

" larging their own inheritance into the extensive empire

" which we now possess, they bequeathed that their work of

" toil to us their sons. Yet even these successes, we ourselves

" here present, we who are yet in the strength and vigour of

" our days have nobly improved, and have made such pro-

" visions for this our Athens, that now it is all-sufficient in

" itself to answer every exigence of war and of peace. I

" mean not here to recite those martial exploits by which

" these ends were accomplished, or the resolute defences we

" ourselves and our fathers have made against the formidable

" invasions of Barbarians and Greeks—your own knowledge

" of these will excuse the long detail. But—by what methods

" we have rose to this height of glory and power ; by what

" polity and by what conduct we are thus aggrandized, I

" shall first endeavour to shew; and then proceed to the

" praise of the deceased. These, in my opinion, can be no

" impertinent topics on this occasion ; the discussion of them

:4 must be beneficial to this numerous company of Athenians

" and of strangers.

" We are happy in a form of government which cannot

" envy the laws of our neighbours :—for it hath served as a

" model to others, but is original at Athens. And this our

" form, as committed not to the few, but to the whole body

" of the people, is. called a democracy. How different soever

