Si I. INTRODUCTION. 5

in armour, like Barbarians. A proof of this is the continu­

ance still in some parts of Greece of those manners, which

were once with uniformity general to all. The Athenians

were the first who discontinued the custom of wearing their

swords, and who passed from the dissolute life into more po­

lite and elegant manners. And it is not a long time since

those amongst the rich, who were advanced in years and

studied their ease, left off wearing their linen garments and

fastening the hair of their head behind with grasshoppers*

of gold; though the aged amongst the Ionians have con­

stantly persevered in the use of these ornaments as marks

of their affinity. That modest uniformity of dress, which is

still in vogue, was first introduced by the Lacedaemonians ;

amongst whom in other points also there was the greatest

equality of dress and diet observed, both in the highest and

the meanest ranks. They also were the first who performed

their exercises naked, stripping themselves in public and

anointing with oil before they entered the lists ; though, be­

fore, the custom had prevailed at the Olympic games for the

champions to wear scarfs about their loins ; and it is only a

few years since these were quite disused]. But even yet,

amongst some Barbarians, more especially those of Asia,

where the matches of boxing and wrestling are in repute,

the combatants engage with scarfs round their loins. Many

other arguments might with ease be alleged to prove that

ancient Greece had forms and modes of living quite similar

to those of the present Barbarian world.

As for cities, so many as are of a later foundation, and

better placed for The increase of wealth, since the improve­

ment of naval skill; all these have been built on the sea

shore, and walled about, and are situated upon necks of land

jutting out into the sea, for the sake of traffic and greater

• To intimate their being the original possessors and pure natives of the

soil, as much as the very grasshoppers, which they supposed to be a natural

and spontaneous production of the earth. They regarded themselves as

coteinporary with the insects.

t See Mr. West's Dissertation on the Olympic Games, p. 50.

Vol. I. P

