76 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR.

the Libyans bordering upon Egypt, taking his route from

Maraea, a city beyond the Pharos, had seduced the greatest

part of Egypt into a revolt from king Artaxerxes. He him­

self was constituted their leader, and he brought over the

Athenians to associate in the enterprize. They happened at

that time to be employed in an expedition against Cyprus,

with a fleet of two hundred ships of their own and their

allies: But relinquishing Cyprus, they went upon this new

design. Being arrived on that coast, and sailed up the Nile,

they were masters of that river, and two thirds of the city of

Memphis, and were making their attack upon the remaining

part, which is called the White-wall. It was defended by

the Persians and Medes who had resorted thither for refuge,

and by those Egyptians who had stood out in the general de­

fection.—

The Athenians, further, having made a descent at Haliae,

a battle ensued against the Corinthians and Epidaurians, in

which the victory was on the Corinthian side.—And after­

wards the Athenians engaged at sea near Cecryphelea with a

fleet of Peloponnesians, and compleatly gained the victory.

—A war also breaking out after this between the iEginetae

and Athenians, a great battle was fought at sea by these two

contending parties near iEgina. Both sides were joined by

their respective confederates ; but the victory remained with

the Athenians; who, having taken seventy of their ships,

landed upon their territory, and laid siege to the city, under

the command of Leocrates the son of Stroebus. The Pelo­

ponnesians, then desirous to relieve the iEginetae, transported

over to .<Egina three hundred heavy-armed, who before were

auxiliaries to the Corinthians and Epidaurians. In the next

place they secured the promontory of Geranea. The Co­

rinthians now with their allies made an incursion into the

district of Megara, judging it impossible for the Athenians

to march to the relief of the Megareans, as they had so large

a force already abroad in iEgina and in Egypt; or, if they

Were intent on giving them relief, they must of necessity

