B. IV. 377 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

was taken. And not long after, a herald dispatched by the

Athenians came again, but quite ignorant of this event, to sue

for the dead, which were now delivered by the Boeotians, who

no longer laid any stress upon their former reply.

In the battle, there perished of the Boeotians very little

under five hundred ; of the Athenians, few less than a thou­

sand, and Hippocrates the general; but of light-armed and

baggage-men a considerable number indeed*.

Somewhat later in time than this battle, Demosthenes,

who, on his appearance before Sipha, had been disappointed

in his hope of having it betrayed to him, having the land-

force still on board his fleet, consisting of four hundred

heavy-armed Acarnanians and Agraeans and Athenians, made

a descent on Sicyonia. But before all his vessels could land

their men, the Sicyonians had marched down to make head

against them. They defeated those that were landed, and

chased them again on board. Some they killed, and some

they took alive ; and after erecting their trophy, they de­

livered up the dead by truce.

• The Athenians received in truth a terrible blow on this occasion. The

Boeotians, a people heavy and stupid to a proverb, continued ever after the

terror of the Athenians, the politest and most enlightened people upon

earth. Nay, thut gross and stupid people had, this day, well nigh com-

pleated the destruction of all that was pre-eminently wise and good at this

time upon earth ; and done an irreparable mischief to sound reason and

good sense for ever after. When the two troops of horse, after fetching a

compass round the hill, had compleated the rout of the Athenians, who

were now flying away with the utmost speed, the divine Socrates was left

almost alone, facing the enemy, and fighting and retreating like a lion over­

powered. Alcibiades,. who served in the cavalry, was making off on horse­

back ; but, seeing Socrates in such imminent danger, he rode up to hini,

covered his retreat, and brought him off safe. He thus repaid him the

great obligation he had formerly received frnm him at Potidaa. Strabo

relates further (Gcog. I. 9.) that Xenopiion also the same day owed his

life to Socrates. Having fallen from his horse, and being trampled among

the crowd, Socrates took him upon his shoulders, and carried him to a

place of safety. Upon the whole, brutal strength and mere bodily merit

were never so near getting a total conquest over all the light and under­

standing which human nature hath to boast of, that did not come directly

down from heaven.

