lxx A Survey of the Histori/.

it that appearance in the original plan of Inigo Jones for

the magnificent palace once designed to be erected ? Some­

thing of this nature may justly be pleaded in favour of Thu-

cydides, and teach us not to judge too hastily of a whole,

when we cannot survey all the parts, because they never

were finished. Moved by decorum, I would gladly justify

my author, but I by no means pretend to decide the point.

Book II. The Second Book opens with the first act of

hostility. The Thebans march by night, and enter by sur­

prize the city of Plataea. This city and petty State, though

just within Boeotia, was not comprised in the union, of which

all the other cities of Boeotia were constituents with Thebes

at their head, but had ever been firmly attached, even in the

worst of times, to the common liberty of Greece, and was

under the protection of and in fast alliance with Athens.

This surprize of Plataea our author describes in all its turns,

till its enemies are driven out or slaughtered, and a place is

secured for the Athenians.

A rupture hath now been made, and the war is going to

be general. Thucydides sounds the charge in all the dis­

position and spirit of Homer. He catalogues the allies on

both sides. He awakens our expectation ; and fast engages

our attention. All mankind are concerned in the impor­

tant point now going to be decided. Endeavours are made

to disclose futurity. Heaven itself is interested in the dis­

pute. The earth totters, and nature seems to labour with

the great event. This is his solemn and sublime manner of

setting out. Thus he magnifies a war between two, as Ra-

pin styles them, petty States ; and thus artfully he supports a

little subject by treating it in a great and noble method.

Writers who have been long contemplating the vast gigan­

tic size of the Roman Empire, if they cast their eyes on the

State of Athens even at the present juncture, are apt to form

a low idea of it. Athens, it is true, was at this time in the

highest meridian of her power. Yet, why ever to be pitching

upon the most disadvantageous and incongruous parallels ?

