THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" those which progressively improve must, like all the works

" of art, be ever the best. Were indeed the continuance of

" peace ensured, unvarying manners would certainly be pre-

" ferable : But such people as are liable to frequent vicissi-

" tudcs of foreign contest, have need of great address to vary

" and refine their conduct. For this cause, the manners of

" the Athenians, improved by a long tract of experience, are

" formed in respect of yours upon a model entirely new.

" Here therefore be the period fixed to that slow-moving

" policy you have hitherto observed. Hasten to the relief of

" others, to that of the Potidaeans, as by contract you are

" bound. Invade Attica without loss of time, that you may

" not leave your friends and your relations in the mercy of

" their most inveterate foes, and constrain us through your

" sloth to seek redress from a new alliance. Such a step,

" if taken by us, could neither scandalize the gods who take

" cognizance of solemn oaths, nor men who own their ob-

" ligation: For treaties are not violated by those who

" left destitute by some have recourse to others, but by such

" as being sworn to give it, withhold their assistance in the

" time of need. Yet, if you are willing and ready to per-

" form your parts, with you we firmly abide. In changing

" then we should be guilty of impiety; and we never shall

" find others so nicely suited to the disposition of our own

" hearts. Upon these points form proper resolutions ; and

" exert yourselves, that the honour of Peloponnesus be not

"impaired under your guidance, who have received from

" your ancestors this great pre-eminence."

To this effect the Corinthians spoke. And it happenedr

that at this very juncture an Athenian embassy was at Lace-

daemon, negotiating some other points; who, so soon as they

were advertised of what had been said, judged it proper to

demand an audience of the Lacedaemonians. It was not

their design to make the least reply to the accusations pre­

ferred against them by the complainant-states, but in general

to convince them, that " they ought not to form any sudden

