■l II. YEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431.

pompus the son of Clinias, who, making several descents,

plundered many maritime places, and took Thronium. He

carried from thence some hostages, and at Alope defeated a

body of Locrians who were marching to its relief.

The same summer, the Athenians transported from iEgina

all the inhabitants, not only the men but the children and the

women, reproaching them as the principal authors of the pre­

sent war. And judging they might securely keep possession

of iEgina, which lay so near to Peloponnesus, if they peopled

it with a colony of their own—with this view, not long after,

they fixed some of their own people in possession of it. The

Lacedaemonians received the iEgineta e on their expulsion, and

assigned them Thyraa for their place of residence, and the

country about it for their subsistence, not only on account of

their own enmity to the Athenians, but the particular obliga-

tions they lay under to the .(Eginet*, for the succour they had

given them in the time of the earthquake and the insurrec­

tion of the Helots. The district of Thyraa lies between Ar-

gia and Laconia, declining quite down to the sea. Here some

of them fixed their residence, but the rest were dispersed in­

to other parts of Greece.

The same summer, on the first day of the lunar month, at

which time alone it can possibly fall out, there was an eclipse

of the sun in the afternoon. The sun looked for a time like

the orescent of the moon, and some stars appeared, but the

full orb shone out afterwards in all its lustre.

The same summer also, the Athenians, who had hitherto

regarded as their enemy Nymphodorus, the son of Pythes of

Abdera, whose sister was married to Sitalces, and who had a

great influence over him, made him their public friend, and in­

vited him to Athens. They hoped by this to gain over Sital­

ces, the son of Teres king of Thrace, to their alliance. This

Teres, father of Sitalces, was the first who made the kingdom

of Odrysa the largest in all Thrace: For the greater part of

the Thracians are free, and governed by their own laws. But

this Teres was not in the least related to Tereus, who marri­

