PREFACE. Xlii

them insolent and mutinous. It detects and exposeth venal

orators and false patriots ; but it exhibits men, who are stu­

dious and eloquent in behalf of public welfare, and active in

support of liberty and honest power, in full beauty and pro­

portion. And his lessons lie not so apposite and ready for

the application of any State now existing in the world, as for

that of Great Britain.

The reader may by this time have caught a glimpse of

several reasons, for which the present translation of Thucy-

dides was finished and is now made public. No care hath

been omitted to make it as correct as possible. It hath been

attentively reviewed ; the narrative part, more than once ;

the oratorial part, with repeated endeavours to reach the

spirit and energy of the original. In the former, the Author

hath been followed step by step : Bold deviations here might

imperceptibly have misrepresented or distorted the facts, and

quite banished the peculiar stile and manner of the author.

In the latter, it hath been often judged necessary to dilate

the expression in order fully to include the primary idea;

though, where it seemed possible, the studied conciseness of

the author hath been imitated, provided the thought could be

clearly expressed, and the sententious maxim adequately

conveyed. The turns and figures of expression have been

every where diligently noted, and an endeavour constantly

made at imitation. This was judged a point of duty ; or a

point at least, where though something may be permitted to

a translator's discretion or to the genius of a modern language,

yet he must not indulge himself in too wide a scope, lest,

when what ought to be a copy is exhibited, the prime dis­

tinctions of the original be lost, and little or no resemblance

be left behind.

It is very just and true what Mr. Hobbes hath observed,

that " this author so carrieth with him his own light through-

" out, that the reader may continually see his way before htm,

" and by that which goeth before expect what is to follow

And he, who applies to any commentator but Thucydidt s

