B. IV. 361 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

" many of them, as could claim the merit of having done

" signal service to the Lacedaemonians in the present war,

" should enter their claims, and be rewarded with freedom."

The view in this was to sound them, imagining that such,

who had the greatness of spirit to claim their freedom in re­

quital of their merit, must be also the ripest for rebellion.

About two thousand claimants were adjudged worthy, and

accordingly were led about in solemn procession to the

temples, crowned with garlands, as men honoured with their

freedom. But, in no long time after, they made away with

them all, nor hath the world been able to discover, in what

manner they were thus to a man destroyed.

Now also, with alacrity they sent away seven hundred of

their heavy-armed under the orders of Brasidas. The rest

of his body were mercenaries, whom he had hired in Pelo­

ponnesus. And it was in compliance with his own particu­

lar desire, that Brasidas was employed in this service by the

Lacedaemonians.

The Chalcidfeans, however, were highly satisfied with a

person, who had ever passed in Sparta for one of the most

active and accomplished citizens ; and who, in his foreign

employments, had performed very signal services for his

country. From his first appearance amongst them, his jus­

tice and moderation so instantly recommended them to the

adjacent cities, that some voluntarily submitted, and others

were by intrigue put into his possession. By him the Lace­

daemonians were actually impowered, if the accommodation

they wished for took place, which it afterwards did, to make

exchange and restitution of towns, and so relieve Pelopon­

nesus from the hardships of the war.

Nay more, even in succeeding time, upon the breaking

out of the Sicilian war, the virtue and prudence of Brasi­

das exerted at this juncture, which some attested by their own

experience, others upon sound and unsuspected report, im­

printed a zeal on the confederates of Athens to go over to

the Lacedaemonians. Fpr, having been the first sent out to

