4 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

planted himself with colonies, having expelled the Carians,

and substituted his own sons in their different commands.

And then of course he exerted his utmost power to clear

that sea of pirates, for the more secure conveyance of his

own tributes.

The Grecja£s_ formerly, as well as those Barbarians who,

though seated on the continent, lived upon the coast, and

all the islanders, when once they had learned the method of

passing to and fro in their vessels, soon took up the business

of j>iracy under the command of persons of the greatest

ability amongst them, for the sake of enriching such adven­

turers and subsisting their poor. They landed, and plun­

dered by surprise unfortified places and scattered villages,

and from hence they principally gained a subsistence. This

was by no means at that time an employment of reproach,

but rather an instrument of glory. Some people of the con­

tinent are even to this day a proof of this, who still attri­

bute honour to such exploits if genteelly* performed: so

also are the ancient poets, in whom those that sail along the

coasts are every where equally accosted with this question,

Whether they are pirates ? as if neither they to whom the

question was put would disown their employment, nor they

who are desirous to be informed would reproach them with

it. The people of the continent also exercised robberies

upon one another, and to this very day many people of

Greece are supported by the same practices ; for instance,

the Ozolian Locrians, and ./Etolians, and Acarnanians, and

their neighbours on the continent: and the custom of wearing

their weapons, introduced by this old life of rapine, is still re­

tained amongst them.

The custom of wearing weapons once prevailed all over

Greece, as their houses had no manner of defence, as tra­

velling was full of hazard, and their whole lives were passed

• " With due respect, with humanity," as the scholiast explains it. For

then they never made booty of, or carried away by stealth the labouring

cattle: They never made their attacks by night, nor committed any mur.

der.

