B. I. r - INTRODUCTION.

without exertions of skill, and very much resembling a battle

upon land. When they had laid one another close, they

were not easily separated again, because of the number and

hurry of the vessels. The greatest hope of victory was placed

in the heavy-armed fighting on the decks, who, fixed to their

post, engaged hand to hand, whilst their ships continued

without any motion. They had no opportunity to make their

charges and tacks, but fought it out by dint of strength and

courage without any dexterity. The tumult was great on all

sides, and the whole action full of disorder: In which the

Athenian ships relieved the Corcyrean wherever they were

pressed too hard, and did what they could to intimidate the

enemy ; but their commanders refrained from any direct at­

tack, remembering with awe the orders of the Athenians.

The right wing of the Corinthians suffered the most: For

the Corcyreans, with twenty ships, having put them to flight,

chased them, when dispersed, to the continent j and continu­

ing the pursuit to their very camp, land immediately, where

they set fire to their abandoned tents, and carried off all the

baggage: In this part, therefore, the Corinthians and their al­

lies were vanquished, and the Corcyreans plainly superior.

But in the left, where the Corinthians personally engaged,

they easily prevailed, as twenty ships of the Corcyreans, and

those too from a number at first inferior, were gone off in the

pursuit. But the Athenians, seeing the Coreyreans thus dis­

tressed, now came up to their support more openly than be­

fore, having hitherto refrained from any direct attack. And

when the chace was clearly begun, and the Corinthians fol­

lowed their suqeess, then every one amongst them applied

himself to action. There was no longer any time for discre­

tion : Corinthians and Athenians were forced by absolute

necessity to engage one another.

The chace being thus begun, the Corinthians towed not

after them the hulks of the vessels they had sunk, but turned

all their attention to the men who were footing about, and

cruize at large more to slaughter than take alive. And,

Voi. I. T

