1. II. TEAR II.—BEFORE CHRIST 430. 165

" launch out to sea. Why is not this extensive power re-

" garded in balancing the loss of your houses and lands,

" those intolerable damages which you think you have suf-

" fered ?—It is not so reasonable to grieve and despond un-

" der such petty losses, as to despise from the thought, that

"they are merely the trappings and embellishments of

" wealth; to fix the firm remembrance within us, that liber-

" ty, in defence of which we are ready to hazard our all,

" will easily give us those trifles again; and that by tamely

" submitting to our enemies, the possession of all we have

" will be taken from us. We ought not in either of these

" respects to degenerate from our fathers. By toil and toil

" alone they gained these valuable acquisitions, defended

" themselves in the possession, and bequeathed the precious

" inheritance to us. And to lose the advantages we have

" possessed will be much more disgraceful than to have mis-

" carried in their pursuit. But we ought to encounter our

" enemies not with valour only, but with confidence of suc-

" cess. Valour starts up even in a coward, if he once prevails

" through lucky ignorance ; but such a confidence must be

" in every mind, which is seriously convinced of its own

" superiority, as is now our case. Nay even when the match

" is equal, the certainty of what must be done arising from

" an inward braver}-, adds the greater security to courage.

" Confidence then is not built on hope, which acts only in

" uncertainty, but on the sedate determination of what it is

" able to perform, an assurance of which is more guarded

" against disappointments.

" It is further your duty to support the public character

" (as in it to a man you pride yourselves) with which its ex-

" tensive rule invests our community, and either not to fly

" from toils, or never to aim at glory. Think not you have

" only one point at stake, the alternative of slavery instead of

" freedom; but think also of the utter loss of sovereignty,

" and the danger of vengeance for all the offences you have

" given in the practice of it. To resign it is not in your

Vol. I. 2 M

