B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 383

mankind when their passions are warm, to give themselves

up to blind and sanguine hope, and to throw aside with de­

spotic scorn whatever seemeth to be counter to their wishes.

It was but lately that the Athenians had been vanquished

by the Boeotians ; and Brasidas had been making such re­

citals as might persuade, though in fact they were collusive,

that at Nisaea with his single force he offered battle to the

Athenians and they declined it. This made them confident,

and they became perfectly convinced, that there was no

longer a strength sufficient to chastise them. But what had

the greatest influence on their thoughts, and disposed them

entirely to run all hazards, was the immediate pleasure they

promised themselves in a change, and that now they were

going for the first time to experience the sweets of Lacedae­

monian friendship.

These inclinations were perceived by the Athenians, who

sent garrisons into each of these cities in order to curb them,

with as much expedition as the shortness of time and the

wintry season would permit.

Brasidas also had sent to Lacedaemon, soliciting a speedy

reinforcement, and was busy himself in providing materials to

build triremes in the Strymon. But the Lacedaemonians ne­

glected to supply him, partly through the envy which the

leading men at Sparta had conceived against him, and partly

because their attention was principally confined to the recove­

ry of their people made prisoners in Sphacteria, and to bring

the war to a conclusion.

The same winter, the Megareans having recovered their

long -walls, which were in the possession of the Athenians,

levelled them with the ground.

Brasidas thus master of Amphipolis gathereth together

the allies, and leadeth them into the district called Acte. It

is the tract, which stretcheth out into the sea from the canal

which was dug by Xerxes, and Athos the highest mountain

in Acte is its utmost verge upon the iEgean sea. The cities

in it are ; Sane, a colony of Andrians, seated close to the ca­

