DISCOURSE III. lxi

sive alliance with Corcyra. The war is renewed; and the

Athenians send the Corcyreans a petty aid, which they

afterwards reinforce. Corcyra is secured, and all the

projects of the Corinthians are baffled, who are highly ex­

asperated against the Athenians, and never will forgive

them.

Another affair soon happens, to embroil them more, and

to make the second pretext for a general war. Potidaea, a

town in the Isthmus of the Pallene, was a Corinthian colony,

but at this time tributary to the Athenians. Its situation

between two bays, and amongst the Athenian colonies on the

coast of Thrace and Macedonia, would enable it to gall the

Athenians sorely in case of a rupture. They order it there­

fore to be dismantled. The Potidaeans refuse obedience, and

revolt. A war ensues. The Athenians attempt to reduce

Potidaea; and the Corinthians to support the revolt. It is at

length besieged by the former. The siege runs out into a

great length of time, and at last becomes one of the conside­

rable events of the Peloponnesian war.

The Corinthians, after this repeated provocation, are full

of resentments, and leave no stone unturned to stir up a ge­

neral war in Greece. They were parties themselves in the

Peloponnesian league, of which the Lacedaemonians were

the head. The Corinthians never set up for a leading State.

They were ever content with the secondary rank, though

the first in that rank. Their turn was always more to com­

merce than war. Commerce had long since made them

rich ; riches had made them luxurious; and, though they

often produced great and excellent soldiers, yet they never

piqued themselves on being a martial or formidable people.

Athens indeed they hated: Athens had rivalled them in

trade, and very much abridged the extent of their commerce.

One of the gulfs on which Corinth is seated, that of Sarone,

was now intirely in the jurisdiction of the Athenians, who

had also begun to curb and straiten them much in the gulf

of Crissa. They were consequently bent on the demolition

