THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" with our superiority in arms and numbers, so that we may

" easily march into their territory and lay it waste: Yet,

" other territories, and of large extent, are subject to their

" power, and by sea they will import all necessary supplies.

" If, further, we tempt their dependents to a revolt, we

" shall want a naval strength to support them in it, as the

" majority of them are seated upon islands. What therefore

" will be the event of this our war ? For, if we are unable

" either to overpower them at sea, or divert those revenues

" by which their navy is supported, we shall only by acting

" prejudice ourselves. And in such a situation to be forced

" to give it up will be a blemish on our honour; especially

" if we shall be thought to have been the authors of the

" breach. For let us not be puffed up with idle hope that

" this war must soon be over, if we can lay their territory

" waste : I have reason on better grounds to apprehend, that

" we shall leave it behind us a legacy to our children. It is

" by no means consistent with the spirit of Athenians either

" to be slaves to their soil, or, like unpractised soldiers, to

" shudder at a war. Nor again, on the other hand, am I so

" void of sensibility as to advise you to give up your confe-

" derates to their outrage, or wilfully to connive at their en-

" croachments ; but only not yet to have recourse to arms,

" to send ambassadors to prefer our complaints, without be-

" traying too great an eagerness for war, or any tokens of

" pusillanimity. By pausing thus, we may get our own af-

," fairs in readiness, by augmenting our strength through

" an accession of allies, either Grecian or Barbarian, where-

" soever we can procure supplies of ships or money. And

" the least room there cannot be for censure, when a people

" in the state we are at present, exposed to all the guiles of the

" Athenians, endeavour to save themselves not merely by Gre-

" cian but even by Barbarian aid. And at the same time let

" us omit no resource within the reach of our own ability.

" If indeed, upon our sending an embassy, they will

u hearken to reason, that will be the happiest for us all. If

