286 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

But Demosthenes the Athenian (for he had continued

at Naupactus ever since the vEtolian miscarriage) having

received intelligence of this army, and dreading the loss of

this place, had addressed himself to the Acarnanians, and

with some difficulty, owing to his departure from Leucas,

persuades them to send a succour to Naupactus. Accord­

ingly, they put a thousand of their heavy-armed under his

orders, whom he threw into the town by sea, which effec­

tually preserved it. For the danger before was manifest, as

the wall was very large in compass, and the number of de­

fendants inconsiderable.

When Eurylochus and his council had discovered that

such a succour had been received into the town, and that

its reduction was now impracticable, they marched away

their forces, not towards Peloponnesus, but to that iEtolia

which is now called Calydon, to Pleuron, to the neighbour­

ing towns, and to Proschion of iEtolia. The Ambraciots

had now been with and prevailed upon them, to join in

some attempts upon Argos in Amphilochia, upon the rest

of that province, and Acarnania ; assuring them, that could

these be reduced, the whole continent there would instantly

go over to the Lacedaemonian league. Eurylochus having

assured them of his concurrence, and given the iEtolians

their dismission, halted thereabouts with his army, till the

Ambraciots had entered upon the expedition against Argos,

and it was time for him to join them. And here the sum­

mer ended.

The Athenians in Sicily, the beginning of the winter,

putting themselves at the head of their Grecian allies, and

as many of their Sicilian as unable to support the Syracusan

yoke had revolted from Syracuse to join them, began fresh

operations of war in concert, and assaulted Nessa a town of

Sicily, the citadel of which was in the hands of the Syra-

cusans. But the attempt was unsuccessful, and they again

determined to draw off. During the retreat, the Syracusans

sallying forth, fell upon those allies of the Athenians who

marched in the rear, and with such force, that they put

