DISCOURSE II.

could look calmly on the storm that was raging, or the battle

that was fighting below, could note every incident, distinguish

every turn, and with a philosophical tranquillity enjoy it all.

In short, he now was, and continued all the rest of the Pelo-

ponnesian War, a citizen of the world at large, as much as

any man ever actually was.

But, before this separation from the community, whilst

yet he continued at Athens, where liberty opened the field*

to all passionate chaces after power, where consequently

competitions were ever fermenting, and party was always

alive and active,—can we find him associated with any par­

ticular set of men ? can we find him dabbling in political in­

trigue ? a leader of, or led by any party ? or, can we as­

suredly find out his principles ? or even guess at his real

thoughts about the form of government under which he had

lived ? His biographers indeed, though ever parading his

candour and impartiality, are often tracing out signs and

marks of party-zeal and personal prejudices from the very

characters in his history. Marcellinus says, " he described

" Cleon as a madman because he hated him ;" forgetful, what

Cleon really was, and of the concurrent testimonies to the

truth of the character. The anonymous writer says, " he op-

" posed Pericles at Athens, got the better of him, and be-

" came the first man in the republic." A ridiculous story !

void of all manner of support. According to this writer's

way of arguing in other places, who says, " he cajoled the

" Lacedaemonians, and inveighed against the tyrannic all-

" grasping temper of the Athenians, in his history, because

" he had no opportunity to rail at them in any other shape,"

—he should have left a far different. character of Pericles

behind him, than he hath actually left. But these are strange

compilers of patch-work, and deserve no regard. From

what the former hath said about him, a reader might be

tempted to judge him of the oligarchical: from what the lat­

ter hath said of him, of the democratical principle. Mr.

Hobbes imagines he hath dived to the bottom of his real

