B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427.

44 bare character of a man less enlightened indeed, but quite

" as honest. If he be charged with corruption, his point

" he may carry, but his honesty will ever be suspected ; and

" if his point be lost, he must pass for knave and blockhead

" both. Such methods can never be conducive to the pub-

" lie good. The men, best able to advise, are by this means

" intimidated : Though the public welfare would then be

" best secured, if every person of so disingenuous a temper

" was not able to open his mouth ; for then, by his seduce-

" ments, the public could never be misled. But it is the

" duty of every true patriot to despise the slanders of oppo-

" nents, and on fair and impartial views to get his own

" advice accepted. It is the duty of every well-regulated

" public, not indeed to load a man with honours for having

44 given the best advice, but never to abridge him of his

" present portion; and if he cannot prevail, by no means

" to disgrace, much less to punish him: For then, neither

" would the successful debater, from a view of inhancing

44 his own personal honours, ever speak against conscience,

" or aim merely at applause ; nor would he, who hath been

44 unsuccessful in his motions, be greedy of proposing what-

" ever may cajole, and so earn popularity for himself. But

" the method in vogue with us is the reverse of this ; and

" what is worse, if a person be suspected of corruption,

" though he advise the most prudent expedients, yet the

" odium raised against him upon the weak suggestion of

" lucre, quite weighs him down, and we are deprived of

" the manifest service he could do to the State. Nay, such

" is our method, that even the best advice, if readily of-

" fered, can escape suspicion no more than the worst. And

" hence it is necessarily incumbent, as well upon him who

44 would persuade the public into the most prejudicial mea-

44 sures, to seduce the people with art; as upon him who

u would advise the best, to disguise the truth in order to

" prevail. Amidst these jugglings, the public alone is de-

44 barred the service of its most able counsellors, since in a

