B. I. INTRODUCTION. 75

the rebels in Ithome, and so raise them fresh embarrassments,

give a dismission to them alone of their allies. They strove

indeed to conceal their suspicions, by alleging " they have no

longer any need of their assistance." The Athenians were

convinced that their dismission was not owing to this more

plausible colour, but to some latent jealousy. They reckoned

themselves aggrieved: and thinking they had merited better

usage from the hands of the Lacedaemonians, were scarcely

withdrawn, than in open disregard to the league subsisting

between them against the Mede ; they clapped up an alliance

with their old enemies the Argives: And in the same oaths

and same alliance the Thessalians also were comprehended

with them both.

The rebels in Ithome, in the tenth year of the siege, un­

able to hold out any longer, surrendered to the Lacedemo­

nians on the following conditions—that " a term of security

be allowed them to quit Peloponnesus, into which they shall

never return again; that if any one of them be ever found

there, he should be made the slave of whoever apprehended

him." The Pythian oracle had already warned the Lacedae­

monians " to let go the suppliants of Jupiter Ithometes."

The men therefore, with their wives and children, went out

of Ithome, and gained a reception from the Athenians, who

acted now in enmity to the Lacedaemonians, and assigned

them Naupactus for th«ir residence, which they had lately

taken from the Locrians of Ozoli.

The Megareans also deserted the Lacedaemonians, and

went over to the Athenian alliance, because the Corinthians

had warred upon them in pursuance of a dispute about

settling their frontier. Megara and Pegae were put into the

hands of the Athenians, who built up for the Megareans the

long fva/lf that reach down, from Megara to Nisa;a, and took

their guard upon themselves. This was by no means the

least occasion of that violent enmity now beginning to arise

between the Corinthians and Athenians.

Inarus, the son of Psammetichus, a Libyan, and king of

