B. II. 159 YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430.

adapted the interpretation to what they now suffered.—But in

my sentiments, should they ever again be engaged in a Doric

war, and a famine happen at the same time, they will have re­

course with equal probability to the other interpretation. It

was further remembered by those who knew of the oracle given

to the Lacedaemonians, that when they inquired of the God,

" whether they should engage in this war," his answer was,

that—" if they carried it on with all their strength, they should

" be victorious, and he himself would fight on their side ;"—

and therefore they concluded that what now befel was the com­

pletion of the oracle. The pestilence broke out immediately

upon the irruption of the Peloponnesians, and never extended

itself to Peloponnesus, a circumstance which ought to be re­

lated. It raged the most, and for the longest time in Athens,

but afterwards spread into the other towns, especially the most

populous.—And this is an exact account of the plague.

The Peloponnesians, after they had ravaged the inland parts,

extended their devastations to those which are called The

Coast, as far as Mount Laurium*, where the Athenians had

silver-mines. And here they first ravaged the part which

looks towards Peloponnesus, and afterwards that which lies

towards Euboea and Andros. But Pericles, who was then in

the command, persisted in the same opinion as before, in the

former incursion, that " the Athenians ought not to march out

against them." Yet, whilst the enemy was up in the country,

before they had advanced as far as the coast, he had equipped

a fleet of a hundred ships to invade Peloponnesus ; and when

every thing was ready, he put to seaf. On board these ships

• The silver-mines at Laurium originally belonged to private persons, but

were united to the public domain by Themistocles. A great number of

slaves were employed in working them, and the produce paid amply for

all the labour bestowed upon them- Whether the state was much enriched

by them is a question ; the undertakers and proprietors of the slaves who

wrought them drew great wealth from them, as we are told by Xenophon

in his treatise of revenue.

t Plutarch relates in the life of Pericles that on this occasion, when all

wus ready, " when the f >rces were shipped, and Pericles himself was jus'

