B. II. YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 179

sheep-skins and hides of beasts, to defend the workmen

from missive weapons, and to preserve the wood from being

fired by the enemy. This work within was raised to a great

height, and the mount was raised with equal expedition

•without. Upon this, the Plataeans had recourse to another

device. They broke a hole through the wall, close to which

the mount was raised, and drew the earth away from under

it into the city. But this being discovered by the Pelopon-

nesians, they threw into the hole hurdles made of reeds and

stuffed with clay, which being of a firm consistence could

not be dug away like earth. By this they were excluded,

and so desisted for a while from their former practice. Yet

digging a subterranean passage from out of the city, which

they so luckily continued that it undermined the mount,

they again withdrew the earth from under it. This prac­

tice long escaped the discovery of the besiegers, who still

heaping on matter, yet the work grew rather less, as the

earth was drawn away from the bottom, and that above fell

in to fill up the void. However, still apprehensive, that as

they were few in number, they should not be able long to

hold out against such numerous besiegers, they had recourse

to another project. Thev desisted from carrying on the

great pile which was to counterwork the mount, and beginning

at each end of it where the wall was low, they run another

wall in the form of a crescent along the inside of the city,

that if the great wall should be taken this might afterwards

hold out, might lay the enemy under a necessity of throwing

up a fresh mount against it, and that thus the further they

advanced the difficulties of the siege might be doubled, and

be carried on with increase of danger.

When their mount was compleated, the Peloponnesiaus

played away their battering-engines against the wall ; and

one of them they worked so dextrously from the mount against

the great pile within, that they shook it very much, and

threw the Platreans into consternation. Others they applied

in different parts against the wall, the force of which was

