B. III. TEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 243

" ought not therefore with the rigour of judges to inflict the

" exactest punishments upon these offenders. We ought

" rather to provide for futurity, and by moderate correction

" still to preserve those cities in a full capacity of paying us

" the needful tribute. To keep men firm in their duty, we

44 should scorn the expedient of severe and sanguinary laws,

" since mild discretionary caution would better answer the

" purpose. This prudent conduct we are now reversing, if,

" when re-possessed of a city stripped of its former liberty

" and ruled with violence, sufficient motives of revolt, that it

" may again become independent; if now we judge, that

" this ought to be avenged with a weight of severity. Men

" who have known what liberty is, ought not to be too se-

" verely chastised, if they have dared to revolt; but we

" ought to observe them with timely vigilance before they

" revolt, to prevent their taking the least step towards it, or

" even once entertaining a thought about it; at least, when

" we have quelled the insurrection, the guilt should be fas-

" tened upon as few as possible.

" Consider, I beseech you, with yourselves, how greatly

" you will err in this, and in another respect, if Cleon's ad-

" vice be approved. For now, the populace of all the cities

" are generally well-affected towards us. They either refuse

" to concur with the few in their revolts; or, if their con­

currence be forced, they instantly turn enemies to those

" who forced them ;—and you proceed to determine the

" contest, assured that the populace of the adverse city will

" be active in your favour. But if you doom to general

" excision the people of Mitylene, those who had no share

" in the revolt; who, when once they had got arms into

" their hands, spontaneously delivered up the place ;

" you will be guilty, first of base ingratitude, for murdering

" your own benefactors,—and you will, next, establish such

" a precedent, as the factious great above all things wish to

" see. For then, whenever the latter effect the revolt of

" cities, they will instantly have the people attached to their

