84 THK PKLOPONNESIAN WAR.

the Samians and Milesians about Priene. The Milesians,

having the worst in the dispute, had recourse to the Athenians,

to whom they bitterly exclaimed against the Samians. Nay,

even some private citizens of Samos joined with them in this

outery, whose scheme it was to work a change in the govern­

ment. The Athenians therefore, putting to sea with a fleet of

forty sail, landed upon Samos, where they set up a democracy;

and exacted from them fifty boys and as many grown men for

hostages, whom theydeposited at Lemnos. Theyhad farther,

at their departure, left a garrison behind to secure that island.

But a body of Samians, who would not submit to the new

form of government, and therefore had refuged themselves

upon the continent, having gained the correspondence of the

most powerful persons abiding in Samos, and the' alliance of

Pissuthncs son of Hystaspes, at that time governor at Sardis,

the scheme nowcarrying on by Pericle9, to extend the sovereignty or Athens

by sea. Yet the comic poets and writers of memoirs and private history,

give another account of the affair, which it is surprising to find the authors

of the Universal History inclined to think as welt founded as what is given

by Thucydides, that " Pericles engaged the republic in this war, merely

to gratify the resentment of Aspasia, who was a native of Miletus, against

the Samians." As this Aspasia had all the honour of Pericles's merit im­

puted to herself, and he hath suffered a weight of reproach in her behalf,

the reader will accept a short account of this famous lady. She is allowed

on all hands to have been a woman of the greatest beauty and the first ge­

nius ; but averred by some to have been a libertine, a prostitute, a bawd,

nay every thing scandalous and vile. Pericles was doatingly fond of her,

and got divorced from a wife whom he did not love, to marry her. She

taught him, it is said, his refined maxims of policy, his lofty imperial elo­

quence ; nay, even composed the speeches on which so great a share of his

reputation was founded. The best men in Athens frequented her house,

and brought their wives to receive lessons from her of economy and right

.deportment. Socrates himself was her pupil in eloquence, and gives her

the honour of that funeral oration which he delivers in the Menexenus of

Plato. There must have been some ground even for complimenting her in

this extraordinary manner. And after every abatement, what must we

think of a lady who was in such high esteem with the greatest men that

ever lived at Athens, who taught force to orators, grace to philosophers,

and conduct to ministers of state ; in a word, who had Pericles for her

lover, and Socrates for her encomiast ? See Bayle's Dictionary, under Peri­

cles, and Universal History, vol. vi. p. 415, note. £

