B. II. 183 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429.

them, that—" if they would join them with a land and a

" naval force at the same time, it would be impossible for

" the Acarnanians to succour one another by sea; that

" hence they might easily get all Acarnania into their power,

" from whence they might become masters of Zacynthus

" and Cephallene, and a stop would then be made to the

" Athenian cruizes on the coasts of Peloponnesus; nay,

" that there was even a hope of reducing Naupactus."

This scheme was pleasing to the Lacedaemonians, who or­

dered Cnemus (yet their admiral) to sail thither with a few

ships, having on board the heavy-armed ; and circulated or­

ders to their confederates to fit out their ships, and repair

with all expedition to Leucas. The Corinthians were those

who shewed most zeal for the Ambraciots, a colony of their

own; and the shipping of Corinth, Sicyon, and the adjacent

places, was prepared with all possible expedition; but that

of Leucas, Anactorium, and Ambracia was already at Leu­

cas, and waiting for the rest. Cnemus and the thousand

heavy-armed performed their voyage undiscovered by Phor-

mio, who commanded the Athenian fleet of twenty sail,

stationed round Naupactus, and immediately landed his men

for the destined service. Besides the thousand Peloponne-

sians he brought with him, he was now joined by the Am­

braciots, Leucadians, Anactorians, of the Grecians; of

the Barbarians, by a thousand Chaonians, not subject to a

regal government, but commanded by Photius and Nicanor,

men of those families which had a right to command by an­

nual election. With the Chaonians came the Thesprotians,

who also had no king. Sabylinthus, guardian of their king

Tharyps, yet a minor, led the Melossians and Antitanians.

The Paravaeans were headed by their own king Ordoeus, who

had also the command of a thousand Orestians, subjects of

Antiochus, which served with his troops by the permission of

Antiochus. Perdiccas sent also a thousand Macedonians,

of which the Athenians were ignorant, but these were not

yet come up.

