82 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Citium: And being come up to the height of Salamis in Cy­

prus, they engaged at one time a united force of Phoenicians

and Cyprians and Cilicians, both by land and sea. They gained

the victory in both engagements: and being rejoined by the

detachment they had sent to Egypt, returned home.

After this, the Lacedaemonians engaged in that which is

known by the name of the holy war; and having recovered

the temple of Delphi, delivered it up to the Delphians. But

no sooner were they withdrawn, than the Athenians marched

out in their turn, retook it, and delivered it into the hands of

the Phocians.

At no great interval of time from hence, the Athenians

took the field against the Boeotian exiles, who had seized Or-

chomenus and Chaeronaea, and some other cities of Boeotia.

Their force, sent out upon this service, consisted of a thou­

sand heavy-armed of their own with proportional quotas from

their allies, and was commanded by Tolmidas the son of Tol-

maeus. Having taken and enslaved Chaeronaea, they placed

a fresh garrison in it, and so withdrew. But upon their

march, they are attacked at Coronea by a body of men con­

sisting of the Boeotian exiles sallying out of Orchomenus, join­

ed by Locrians and the exiles from Euboea and others of their

partizans. After a battle, the victory remained with the lat­

ter, who made great slaughter of the Athenians, and took

many prisoners. Upon this, the Athenians evacuated Boeotia,

and to get the prisoners released consented to a peace. The

Boeotian exiles, and all others in the same circumstances,

were by this re-settled in their old habitations, and recovered

their former liberty and rights.

It was not a great while after these last occurrences that

Euboea revolted from the Athenians. And Pericles was no

sooner landed upon that island with an Athenian army to

chastise them, than news was brought him that " Megara also

had revolted ; that the Peloponnesians were going to make an

incursion into Attica; that the Athenian garrison had been

put to the sword by the Megareans*, excepting those who

• This revolt of Megara, a little republic almost surrounded by the do­

minions of Atbens, leagued closely with her, and under her protection, gave

