18 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

it into the Lacedaemonians made the contest necessary. But

the pretences,, publicly alleged on either side for breaking the

truce and declaring open war, shall now be related.

EPIDAMNUS is a city on the right hand as you sail into

the Ionian gulf: Adjoining to it live the Barbarian Tau-

lantii, a people of Illyria. The Corcyreans settled a colony

here, the leader of which was Phalius the son of Herato-

clidcs, a Corinthian by birth, of the lineage of Hercules,

invited to the office out of the mother-city, according to the

custom of ancient times : and besides this, some Corinthians

and others of Doric descent joined themselves to this colony.

In process of time, the city of the Epidamnians became

great and populous. Yet, having been afterwards harassed

with seditions of many years continuance, they were brought

very low (according to report) by a war waged against them

by the neighbouring Barbarians, and were deprived of the

greatest share of their power. But the most recent event at

Epidamnus before the present war was, that the people there

had driven the nobles out of the city. These sheltering them­

selves amongst the Barbarians, began depredations on those

who remained behind, both by land and sea. The Epidam­

nians of the place, suffering vastly from these depredations,

dispatched ambassadors to Corcyra as their mother-city, be­

seeching them, " Not to behold their destruction with eyes

unconcerned, biit to reconcile their exiles to them, and to

deliver them from this Barbarian war." The ambassadors,

sitting down submissively in the temple of Juno, offered these

supplications. ' But the Corcyreans, refusing to receive them,

sent them home again without effect. The Epidamnians, thus

convinced that no redress could be had from Corcyra, and

ignorant how to proceed in their present perplexities, sent

to Delphos to enquire of the God, " Whether they should

surrender their city to the Corinthians as their founders, and

should seek security from their protection ?" He answered,

that " they should surrender and take them for their leaders."

The Epidamnians, in pursuance of this oracle, arriving at

