liv On his Qualifications as a Historian.

As to the Roman Historians, who saw what these mighty

originals had done before them, I cannot judge it fair to form

decisive parallels. Time had enabled them to judge maturely

about the defects and excellencies of their Greek predeces­

sors. Yet every Roman historian shews plainly he is a Roman

himself; he stood not so aloof from his subject as Thucy-

dides. The loss of a Peloponnesian writer is never regretted

in regard to the latter; the loss of Carthagenian and histo­

rians of other nations is highly regretted in regard to the

former. National impartiality will admit no comparison

here; though excellence of composition may admit a great

deal. Sal ust is the only one, who seems to have had our au­

thor ever in his eye, and to have been his professed imitator.

Sal us t frequently translates his political maxims, copies him

exactly in the conciseness and laboured energy of his phrase;

and Salust, for that reason, is like him very often obscure.

It is entirely in his manner, that he draws up his orations,

contrasts his speakers, and fights his battles. Salust hath

many, hath deservedly many admirers : And I hope, if I am

so fortunate as to bring Thucydides into more general ac­

quaintance, that the admirers of the one will bestow regard

upon the other, and pay due honour to his historic progenitor.

I shall wind up this essay on Thucydides as a Historian

with a passage from the Critic on the Sublime*, only desiring

the reader to keep Thucydides in remembrance, as Longinus

extended his view to writers both in poetry and prose—

" I readily allow, that writers of a lofty and towering ge-

" nius are by no means pure and correct, since whatever is

" neat and accurate throughout, must be exceedingly liable to

" flatness. In the Sublime, as in great affluence of fortune,

" some minuter articles will unavoidably escape observation.

" But it is impossible for a low and grovelling genius to be

" guilty of error, since he never endangers himself by soaring

" on high, or aiming at eminence, but still goes on in the same

" uniform secure track, whilst its very height and grandeur

• Longinus, Section 33.

