B. II. 141 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

sians, exclusively of other Acarnanians. They took also by

storm Astacus, of which Evarchus was tyrant, whom they

forced to fly away, and added the town to their own associa­

tion. Sailing from hence to the island Cephallene, they re­

duced it without a battle. Cephallene lies towards Acarna-

nia and Leucas, and hath four cities; the Pallensians, Cra-

nians, Sampans, Pronaeans. Not long after this the fleet

sailed back to Athens.

In the autumn of this summer, the Athenians with all

their forces, citizens and sojourners, made an incursion into

the territories of Megara, under the command of Pericles

the son of Xantippus. Those also who had been cruizing

about Peloponnesus in the fleet of one hundred sail (for

they were now at iEgina), finding, upon their return, that

all their fellow-citizens were marched in the general expe­

dition against Megara, followed them with the fleet and

came up to them. By this means, the army of the Athe­

nians became the largest they had ever at any time got to­

gether, the city being now in its most flourishing state, and as

yet uninfected with the plague: For there were of Athenian

citizens only no less than ten thousand heavy-armed, exclu­

sive of the three thousand who were now at Potidaea: The

sojourners of Athens who marched out along with them,

were not fewer than three thousand heavy-armed: They had

besides a very large number of light-armed soldiers. They

laid waste the greatest part of the country, and then returned

to Athens. Every succeeding year of the war the Athenians

constantly repeated these incursions into the territory of

Megara, sometimes with their cavalry, and sometimes with

all their united force, till at last they made themselves mas­

ters of Nisaea.

In the close also of the Summer, Atalante, an island lying

near the Locrians of Opus, till now uninhabited, was forti­

fied and garrisoned by the Athenians, to prevent the pirates

of Opus, and other parts of Locris, from annoying Eubcra.

Vol. I. 2 I

