63 TH&PELOPONNESIAN WAR,

" set out without proper preparations. The state of which

" we are the constituents, hath ever been free and most cele-

" brated by fame: And that reproach can at most be nothing

" but the inborn sedateness of our minds. By this we are

" distinguished as the only people who never grow insolent

" with success, and who never are abject in adversity. And

" when again they invite us to hazardous attempts by uttering

" our praise, the delight of hearing must not raise our spirits

" above our judgment. If any, farther, endeavour to exas-

" perate us by a flow of invective, we are not by that to be

" provoked the sooner to compliance. From tempers thus

" evenly balanced it is, that we are warm in the field of bat-

" tle, and cool in the hours of debate : The former, because

" a sense of duty hath the greatest influence over a sedate

" disposition, and magnanimity the keenest sense of shame:

" And good we are in debate, as our education is not polite

" enough to teach us a contempt of laws, and by its severity

" giveth us so much good sense as never to disregard them.

--*4 We are not a people so impertinently wise, as to invalidate  
" the preparations of our enemies by a plausible harangue,

" and then absurdly proceed to a contest; but we reckon the

" thoughts of our neighbours to be of a similar cast with our

" own, and that hazardous contingencies are not to be de-

" termined by a speech. We always presume that the pro­

jects of our enemies are judiciously planned, and then se-

" riously prepare to defeat them. For we ought not to found

" our success upon the hope that they will certainly blunder

" in their conduct, but that we have omitted no proper step

" for our own security. We ought not to imagine, there is so

»" mighty a difference between man and man; but that he is

" the most accomplished who hath been regularly trained

" through a course of needful industry and toil.

" Such is the discipline which our fathers have handed*

" down to us ; and by adhering to it, we have reaped consi-

" derable advantages. Let us not forego it now, nor in a

" small portion of only one day precipitately determine a

