B. IV. YEAR VlII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 387

" force ; the preceding opposition therefore deserved forgive-

" ness."

Having spake thus and revived their spirits, when the

truce was expired, he made assaults upon Lecythus. The

Athenians defended themselves from a paltry rampart and

the battlements of the houses. One whole day they effec­

tually repulsed them. But on the following, when a machine

was to be planted against them by the enemy, from whence

they intended to throw fire upon their wooden fences, and

the army was now approaching to the spot which seemed

convenient for lodging their machine and whence it might

be played off with effect; they raised for prevention a wooden

turret, the base of which was an edifice that lay ready at

hand, and carried up many buckets and tubs of water and

heavy stones ; and upon it also many defendants were mount­

ed. But the edifice, too heavily laden, on a sudden was

crushed by the weight. The crash with which it fell was

great; and those of the Athenians, who stood near and saw

it, were rather concerned than terrified. But those at a dis­

tance, and especially such as were most remote, imagining

the place was already taken in that quarter, fled amain to the

sea and to their vessels.

When Brasidas perceived they were quitting the battle­

ments, and had himself beheld the accident, he led his army

to the assault, and immediately carrieth the fortress. Such

as were found within it were instantly destroyed. And the

Athenians in boats and ships, after having thus abandoned it

to the enemy, crossed over to the Pallene.

But Brasidas (for in Lecythus there is a temple of Miner­

va ; and before he proceeded to the assault he had publicly

proclaimed, that a reward of thirty mina* of silver should

be given the man who first mounted the rampart,) concluding

now that it was taken less by human than some other means,

reposited the thirty mina: in the temple, as an offering to the

Goddess. And having demolished Lecythus and cleared all

• 9Q. 15s. sterling.

