310 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR.

" not our purpose to run out into a long unaccustomed flow

" of words. We shall adhere to the rule of our country, to

" spare many words where few may suffice ; and then only to

" enlarge, when the important occasion requireth an exact de-

" tail for the more judicious regulation of necessary acts.

" Receive therefore our discourse with an attention cleared of

" enmity. Be informed as men of understanding ought ;

" and conclude that you are only to be put in mind of that

"judicious method of procedure, of which yourselves are

"such competent judges.

" You have now an opportunity at hand to improve a pre-

" sent success to your own interest and credit, to secure the

" possession of what you have hitherto acquired, and to adorn

" it with the accession of honour and glory. You are only

" to avoid that insolence of mind so frequent to men who

" have been, till the present, strangers to success. Such men

" are ever apt to presume too much on larger acquisitions,

" though merely because their present prosperity was beyond

" their expectation: Whilst they who have experienced the

" frequent vicissitudes of fortune, have gained a more judi-

" cious turn, and presume the least upon continuance of suc-

" cess. And there is the highest reason to conclude, that ex-

" perience hath improved the commonwealth of Athens and

" us Lacedaemonians in this piece of wisdom, much more

" than any other people.

" But be assured of it now, when you behold the calami-

" ties with which we are at present environed; we, who are

" invested with the highest honours and dignities of Greece,

" are this moment addressing ourselves to you, begging such

" favours as we formerly thought were more peculiarly

" lodged in our own dispensation. Not that we are thus re-

" duced through failure of our strength, or through former

" strength too haughtily exerted, but merely through the

" weight of such unforeseen disasters as continually happen,

" and to which the whole of mankind alike are ever subject.

" And from hence it is right that you should learn, amidst

