DISCOURSE III. CV

under Demosthenes, the carnage in the river Asinarus of the

troops under Nicias, his surrender too, the butchery of the

generals, and the miseries of the captivated residue of once

so flourishing and gallant an army.—These are the several

incidents of this book, for which an attentive reader will give

the highest commendation to the Historian, when he hath

read them through: He will have no leisure until then to

think of Thucydides.

Book VIII. The catastrophe hath now taken place in this

history, and the reader is assured how all will end. The

wings of this soaring republic of Athens are clipped, never

to reach their full growth again: Yet, like an eagle in the

same situation, she will struggle hard a long time (as it were)

with beak and talons, and would yet repulse her assailants,

did she not grow sick at heart. Intestine faction will assist

her enemies to finish her ruin, as a State imperial and com­

mercial. A regular deduction of such incidents as these is

the subject of the Eighth and last book of Thucydides. As a

writer he now performs in a more faint and less engaging

manner, compared with what hath gone before. He hath but

drawn his lines, but just sketched his pieces : But the draw­

ings and sketches will still manifest the master's hand. We

will give them a cursory view: The reader will give them a

more exact and deliberate perusal.

He sets out in his usual grave and solemn manner, to de­

scribe the people of Athens, dispirited and distressed as they

are bv the overthrow in Sicily. All the passions and emo­

tions of the human nature take their turn. They are incre­

dulous ; they are angry; they are convinced ; and then, they

despond ; they pluck up their spirits again, and are resolved

to stand it out, nor abandon their own preservation. They

now cast their thoughts towards every resource, and prepare

again for war with spirit and resolution. All the rest of

Greece is ready to concur with the victorious party ; all are

eagerly running in to share the glory and the spoil. Their

own dependents are meditating revolts, and some make them

Voi. I. O

