xxxviii On the Life of Thucydides.

at proper seasons to observe transactions, and pick up intelli­

gence. He was now more conversant in person on the Pelo-

ponnesian side. Some private correspondences he might

still carry on with Athenians. And he had money to pur­

chase all proper materials, was ready, and knew how to lay

it out. This was his employment until the very end of the

war; and it is certain he had collected materials for carrying

down his history to that period of time " when (in his own

" words*) the Lacedaemonians and their allies put an end to

" to the empire of Athens, and became masters of the Long-

" walls and the Piraeus." But whoever reads it, will be in­

clined to think, that he drew it not up in that accurate and

elaborate manner in which it now appears, until the war was

finished. He might keep every thing by him in the form of

annals ; he might go on altering or correcting, as he saw bet­

ter reason or gained more light. His compleat well-connected

history, though the first thing in his intention, was the last in

execution.

His exile lasted twenty years. It commenced in the eighth

year of the war, in the year before Christ four hundred

twenty-three. Consequently, he was restored the year be­

fore Christ four hundred and three, being at that time sixty-

eight years old. In that very year an amnesty was published

at Athens, in the archonship of Euclides, after the demoli­

tion of the thirty tyrants by Thrasybulus.

Thucydides was now at liberty, if he pleased, to return

and pass the remainder of his days at Athens. Whether he

did so or not is left quite in the dark. He lived twelve years

after, and died in the year before Christ three hundred

ninety-one, being then about fourscore years old. He was

constantly employed in giving coherence and dignity to this

History ;—with what accuracy, what severity, what toil, the

reader may judge, since he will find that after all he left it

imperfect. The first seven books are indeed fully and exactly

• Book the fifth.

