R. I. 73 INTRODUCTION.

The sums paid on these occasions to the Athenians were em­

ployed by them to increase their own naval force; and the

tributaries thus drained, whenever they presumed to revolt,

had parted with the needful expedients of war, and were

without resource.

After these things it happened, that the Athenians and

their confederates fought against the Medes both by land

and sea, at the river Eurymedon in Pamphylia. Cimon the

son of Miltiades commanded; and the Athenians were victo­

rious the very same day in both elements. They took and

destroyed the ships of the Phoenicians, in the whole about

two hundred.

Later in time than this happened a revolt of the Thasians,

arising from disputes about places of trade on the opposite

coasts of Thrace, and the mines which they possessed there.

The Athenians with a sufficient force sailed against Thasus;

and, after gaining a victory by sea, landed upon the island.-—

About the same time, they had sent a colony, consisting of

about ten thousand of their own and confederate people,

towards the Strymon, who were to settle in a place called

the Nine-ways, but now Amphipolis. They became mas­

ters of the Nine-ways by dispossessing the Edonians. But

advancing farther into the midland parts of Thrace, they

were all cut off at Drabescus of Edonia by the united force

of the Thracians, who were all enemies to this new set­

tlement now forming at the Nine-ways.—But the Tha­

sians, defeated in a battle and besieged, implored the suc­

cour of the Lacedaemonians, and exhorted them to make a

diversion in their favour by breaking into Attica. This they

promised unknown to the Athenians, and were intent on

the performance, but were prevented by the shock of an

earthquake. The Helots*, farther, had seized this opportu-

• Helots was the name given in general to the slaves of the I.acedamo-

niani. The first of the kind were the inhabitants of Helos in Messenia,

who were conquered and enslaved by the Lacedaemonians; and all their

slaves in succeeding times had the same denomination. The tillage of the

ground, the exercise of trades, all manual labour, and every kind of drudge­

ry was thrown upon them. They were always treated by their Spartan

