360 THE PELOPOKTNESIAN WAR.-

proceeded to Phacium, and from thence into Peraebia.

Being so far advanced, his Thessalian guides received their

dismission ; and the Peraebians, who are tributaries to the

Thessalians, escorted him to Dium in the kingdom of Per-

diccas : it is a fortress of Macedonia situated under mount

Olympus on the Thessalian side. In this manner Brasidas,

advancing so expeditiously as to prevent all obstruction,

compleatcd his passage through Thessaly, and arrived in the

dominion.i of Perdiccas and the region of Chalcis. For

those in Thrace, who revolted from the Athenians, had joined

with Perdiccas in procuring this auxiliary force out of Pelo­

ponnesus, because the great success of the Athenians had

struck a terror amongst them. The Chalcideans were per­

suaded, that they should be first attacked by the Athenians :

and in truth their neighbour-states, who yet persevered in

their obedience, were secretly instigating them to it. Per­

diccas, indeed, had not yet declared himself their enemy ;

but he dreaded the vengeance of the Athenians for former

grudges ; and now he had a scheme at heart for the subjec­

tion of Arribaeus king of the Lyncestians.

Other points concurred to facilitate the procurement of

such a succour from Peloponnesus, suph as the misfortunes

by which the Lacedaemonians at present were afflicted. For,

the Athenians pressing hard on Peloponnesus, and not least

of all on Laconia, they hoped in case they could equally

annoy them in this quarter, by thus marching an army

against their dependents, to effect a diversion. And thev

were more encouraged by the offers of maintenance for their

troops, and solicitations to support revolts. They were at

the same time glad of a pretext to rid themselves of their

Helots, lest, in the present state of affairs, now that Pylus was

in hostile hands, they might be tempted to rebel. This far­

ther gave rise to the following event:—Dreading the youth

and number of these slaves (for many precautions have ever

been put in practice by the Lacedaemonians to curb and

awe their Helots) they made public proclamation, that " so

