B. I. INTRODUCTION. 83

had thrown themselves into Nisaea ; and that the Megareans

had effected this revolt by a junction of Corinthians and Sicy-

onians and Epidaurians." Upon hearing this, Pericles re-

embarked with the utmost expedition, and brought back his

army from Euboea. And soon after, the Peloponnesians march­

ing into Attica as far as Eleusis and Thria, laid the country

waste, under the command of Pleistionax* the son of Pausa-

nias king of Sparta: And then, without extending the ravage

any farther, they withdrew to their own homes. Now again

the Athenians transported a military force into Euboea, under

the command of Pericles, and soon completed its reduction.

The tranquillity of the rest of the island was re-established

upon certain conditions ; but they wholly ejected all the inha­

bitants of Hestiaea, and repeopled it with a colony of their own.

—And not long after their return from Euboea, they concluded

a peace for thirty years with the Lacedaemonians and their al­

lies, in pursuance of which they restored them Nisaea and Chal-

cis, and Pegae and Traezene; all which places, though belonging

to the Peloponnesians, were in the hands of the Athenians.

In the sixth year of this peacef a war broke out between

rise to that decree which excluded the Megareans from the ports and mar­

kets of Athens. Others add, that they slew an Athenian herald, who was

sent to expostulate with them on this account. Could such outrages be

pocketed by Athenians ? Could Pericles dissuade the people of Athens

from shewing resentment ? They decreed farther, though not explicitly

mentioned by Thucydides, that the generals of the state should swear, at their

election, to make an incursion twice a year into the Megaris. We shall

soon see that the Peloponnesians made it a pretext for the ensuing war, and

that Pericles justified the decree, and persuaded the Athenians to hazard

a war rather than repeal it. This is the true history of the point, though

comedy and raillery and libelling, strangely vary tho account.

• As Pleistionax on this occasion evacuated Attica on a sudden, he was

banished from Sparta, as having been bribed by the Athenians to quit their

territory. Diodorus Siculus relates, that he did it by the advice of Clean-

dridas his guardian, who attended him in the field on account of his youth ;

and that Pericles afterwards passing his accounts at Athens, charged " ten

talents properly laid out for the service of the state," which passed without

farther explanation or exception.

t Pericles here performed a great and signal service to his country. The

motives to this war are, according to our historian, sufficiently strong, upon

