B. II. 191 TEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429.

In such terms did their commanders animate the Pelo-

ponnesians. But Phormio,—who began to apprehend a de­

pression of spirits in his own men, since he plainly saw that

by keeping their ships close together they were afraid of

the numerous ships of the enemy—had a mind by calling

them together to reinspire them with courage, and give them

an exhortation suitable to their present condition. He had

hitherto in all his discourses insisted, and induced them to

give him credit, that—" no number of ships could be got

together large enough to make head against them." And

his seamen had long since been elated with this presumption,

that " as they were Athenians, they ought not to avoid any

fleet of the Peloponnesians, however numerous." But, when

he saw them intimidated by the formidable object before

their eyes, he thought it high time to endeavour to revive

their sinking courage. The Athenians being gathered round

him, he harangued them thus

" I HAVE observed, my fellow- soldiers, that the num-

" ber of your enemies hath struck you with fear.—I have

" therefore called you together, as I cannot bear to see you

" terrified with what is by no means dreadful. These ene-

" mies of yours, whom you have already conquered, who in

" no wise think themselves a match for you, have got

" together a great number of ships and a superior force. In

" the next place they come confidently to attack you with

" the vain presumption, that valour is only peculiar to

" themselves. Their confidence is occasioned by their skill

" in the service of the land. Their frequent successes there

" induce them to suppose that they must also for certainty

" be victorious at sea. If they have any reason to presume

" so far upon their excellence at land, you have more to

" form presumptions in your own favour, since in natural

" courage they are not in the least superior to us, and

" if larger degrees of skill give either side an advantage,

" we have hence an argument to be more confident of suc-

" cess. The Lacedaemonians, now at the head of their

