376 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

to the Atheniaa jurisdiction, and yet that it was impossible

for them to be carried off by force; and truce farther they

would grant none, where the point related to Athenian

ground ; that it was therefore the most proper reply—

" they should quit their territory, and so obtain their de-

" mands." The herald of the Athenians having heard this,

departed without effect.

Immediately after, the Boeotians, having sent for darters

and slingers from the Melian bay, and being reinforced by

two thousand heavy-armed Corinthians, and the Pelopon-

nesian garrison which had evacuated Nisaea, and a party of

Megareans, all which had joined them since the battle,

marched against Delium, and assaulted the fortification.

They tried many methods, and took it at last by the help of

a machine of a very particular structure.—Having split

asunder a large sail-yard, they hollowed it throughout, and

fixed it together again in a very exact manner, so as to re­

semble a pipe. At its extremity they fastened a caldron by

help of chains, into which a snout of iron was bent down­

wards from the yard. The inside, farther, of this wooden

machine was lined almost throughout with iron. They

brought it from a distance to the fortification on carriages,

and applied it where the work consisted chiefly of vines and

timber. And when near enough, they put a large bellows

to that extremity of the yard which was next themselves,

and begun to blow. But the blast, issuing along the bore

into the caldron, which was filled with glowing coals and

sulphur and pitch, kindled up a prodigious flame. This set

fire to the work, and burnt with so much fury, that not a

soul durst any longer stay upon it, but to a man they aban­

doned it and fled away amain: and in this manner was the

fortress carried. Of the garrison, some were put to the

sword, but two hundred were made prisoners. The bulk of

the remainder, throwing themselves on board their vessels,

escaped in safety to Athens.

It was the seventeenth day after the battle that Delium

