B. IV. YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423.

a second time into Lyncus against Arribaeus. They com­

manded their separate bodies; one, the forces of the Mace­

donians subject to himself, and the heavy-armed Grecians

who dwelled amongst them: the other, the remainder of his

own Peloponnesians reinforced by Chalcideans and Acanthi-

ans, and quotas from other cities such as they were able to

furnish. The number of heavy-armed Grecians computed

together amounted to about three thousand: The cavalry that

attended, both of Macedonians and Chalcideans, was upon

the whole little less than a thousand: And the remaining

crowd of Barbarians was great.

Breaking thus into the territory of Arribaeus, and find­

ing the Lyncestians already in the field to oppose them,

they also sat down and faced them. The infantry on each

side were posted on an eminence, and a plain lay between

them. This yielding room for the excursions of the horse,

the cavalry of both began a skirmish first. But then Bra-

sidas and Perdiccas, so soon as the Lyncestian heavy-armed

were moving first from the eminence to the aid of their ca­

valry and were ready to engage, marched also down into

the plain to oppose them, where they charged and routed

the Lyncestians. A large number of the latter M ere slain,

the rest fled for preservation to the eminences, and there

stood quiet.

The victors after this, having erected a trophy, continued

for two or three days in the same post, waiting for the Illy-

rians who were coming up to join Perdiccas for a stipulated

pay. And then Perdiccas intended to advance farther

against the villages of Arribaeus, and sit no longer inactive.

Mende however was still uppermost in the care of Bra-

sidas:—That place must be lost, should the Athenians ar­

rive before it in the interval:—The Illyrians besides were not

yet come up. He relished not the project, and was more

inclined to go back. This engendered some disputes be­

tween them, in the midst of which the news was brought

that the Illyrians had deserted Perdiccas, and joined them­

