58 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" pressions of the Mede they bore with patience, but our

" government they look upon as severe : It may be so: For

" to subjects the present is always grievous. If you therefore

" by our overthrow should gain the ascendant over them, you

" would soon perceive that good disposition towards you,

" which a dread of us hath occasioned, to be vanishing away;

" especially should you exert your superiority according to

" the specimens you gave during your short command against

" the Mede. For the institutions established here amongst

" yourselves have no affinity with those of other places: and

ft more than this, not one Spartan amongst you, when delega-

" ted to a foreign charge, either knoweth how to apply his

*4 own, or make use of those of the rest of Greece.

" Form your resolutions therefore with great deliberation,

" as on points of no small importance. Hearken not so far

" to the opinions and calumnies of foreign states as to embroil

" your own domestic tranquillity. Reflect in time on the

" great uncertainty of war, before you engage in it. Pro-

" tracted into long continuance, it is generally used to end in

" calamities, from which we are now at an equal distance ;

" and to the lot of which of us they will fall, lieth yet to be

" determined by the hazardous event. Men who run eager-

" ly to arms are first of all intent on doing some exploits,

" which ought in point of time to be second to something

" more important; and, when smarting with distress, they

" have recourse to reason. But since we are by no means

" guilty of such rashness ourselves, nor as yet perceive it in

" you, we exhort you, whilst healing measures are in the elec-

" tion of us both, not to break the treaty, not to violate your

" oaths, but to submit the points in contest to fair arbitration,

" according to the articles subsisting between us. If not, we

" here invoke the Gods, who take cognizance of oaths, to bear

M us witness, that we shall endeavour to revenge ourselves

" upon the authors of a war, by whatever methods yourselves

a shall set us an example."

These things were said by the Athenian embassy. And

