190 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" own. There can be no reason for men, who were not con-

" quered by superior courage, but wh6 can explicitly account

" for the means of their defeat, to let their spirits be sunk by

" a calamity merely accidental; but they ought to reflect,

" that though fortune may disconcert the human enterprizes,

" yet that men can never be deserted by their own valour ;

" and where true valour is, they ought not to catch a plea

" from want of experience to palliate what signs of cowardice

" they betray. Inferior skill in you is by no means a balance

" for your superior valour. The expertness of your enemies,

" which you so much dread, if it be accompanied with va-

" lour, will indeed direct them in a performance of their

" duty, amidst all the- hazards of war; but if it wants true

" valour, those hazards will be too hard for all human art.

" For fear banisheth the remembrance of what ought to be

" done ; and art without strength is quite unavailing. Place

" therefore your own superior valour in the balance against

" their superior skill; and remove the apprehensions flowing

"from your defeat by the recollection that you were not pre-

•4 pared to fight. You have now the advantage of a larger

" number of ships, and an opportunity of fighting on your

" own coasts, in sight of a land-army of your own. Victory

" is generally obtained by those who are most in number

" and best provided. So that, upon close examination, no

" reason appears why we should dread the event. Our for-

'' mer miscarriages make not against us ; nay, the past com-

" mission of them will instruct us now. Let every mas-

" ter, therefore, and every mariner act his part with manly

" resolution; let each take care to perform his duty, nor quit

" the post to which he is appointed. We shall take care to

" order the engagement, in no worse a manner than our pre-

" decessors have done ; and shall leave no man any reason to

" excuse his cowardice. Yet, if any one will be a coward, he

" shall certainly receive the punishment he deserves ; but the

" valiant shall be honoured with rewards proportioned to their

•* merit."

