B. I. INTRODUCTION. 51

" mies, push forward as far as they can go ; and if defeated,

" are dispirited the least of all men. More than this, they

" are as lavish of their lives in the public service as if those

" lives were not their own, whilst their resolution is ever in

" their power, ever ready to be exerted in the cause of their

" country. Whenever in their schemes they meet with dis-

" appointments, they reckon they have lost a share of their

" property : When those schemes are successful, the acqui-

" sition secmeth small in comparison with what they have

4'' farther in design : If they are baffled in executing a pro-

" ject, invigorated by reviving hope, they catch at fresh ex-

" pedients to repair the damage. They are the only people,

" who instantaneously project and hope and acquire: so ex-

" peditious are they in executing whatever they determine.

" Thus, through toils and dangers they labour forwards so

*4 long as life continueth, never at leisure to enjoy what they  
" already have, through a constant eagerness to acquire

" more. They have no other notion of a festival than of a

" day whereon some needful point should be accomplished ;

" and inactive rest is more a torment to them than laborious

" employment. In short, if any one abridging their charac-

" ters should say, they are formed by nature never to be at

" quiet themselves nor to suffer others to be so, he describeth

" Mew justly.

" When such a state hath taken the lists of opposition

" against you, do ye dally, O Lacedaemonians ? do you ima-

" gine that those people will not continue longest in the en-

" joyment of peace, who timely prepare to vindicate them-

" selves, and manifest a settled resolution to do themselves

" right whenever they are wronged ? You indeed are so far

" observers of equity as never to molest others, and stand on

" your guard merely to repel damage from yourselves;—

" points, you would not without difficulty secure, though this

" neighbouring state wese governed by the same principles

" as you are: But now, as we have already shewn you, your

•1 customs compared with them are quite obsolete ; whereas

