xciv A Survey of the History.

Nicias declares himself " totally averse to the expedition,

" but doth it with that diffidence, which was a principal foi-

" ble in his character. The honour conferred upon himself,

*4 in his nomination to the command, shall not suppress his  
" real sentiments. He is neither fond, nor prodigal of his

" life: But he loves his country, and would advise them to

" give up the expedition.—He next runs over the political

" topics, and shews it to be in every light an undesirable and

" ill-judged project. And then, without naming him, strikes

" at Alcibiades ; proves him not qualified in any respect for

u so important a command ; he reflects with some severity on

" his life and behaviour; and, though owning himself afraid

" he shall be out-voted, yet would fain have the question put

" again, whether the expedition shall proceed ?"

- Beside all the natural vivacity and fire of his temper, Al­  
cibiades was now provoked by the personalities that Nicias

had thrown out against him. He had been a constant oppo-

ser of the latter, who was beloved at Athens for his amiable

qualities. For, though Nicias had not spirit enough to lead

the people, yet he had influence enough oftentimes to check

and restrain the aspiring busy Alcibiades. The reply he

makes on this occasion strongly marks the character and com­

plexion of Alcibiades ; and delivered with that life and grace,

and pretty lisp for which he was remarkable, must have en­

gaged all the attention of his hearers, and drawn their appro­

bation perhaps in spite of their judgment.

" Censured and provoked by Nicias, he begins with a vin-

" dication of himself. He maintains his right to the com-

" mand. He hints at the splendor of his birth, his public

" spirit, the generosity of his heart. He recites with a haughty

" and exulting air, his victories at the Olympic games, his

" magnificence at home, and his capacity for political intrigue

" already and successfully exerted. He then justifies the

" wisdom of the decree for the Sicilian expedition. He shews

" all the political topics in a different light from Nicias. He

" insinuates the advice of the latter to proceed from indo­

