Iviii A Survey of the History.

exact calculation, and astronomy be made the faithful guide

of chronology.

Book I. The First Book of Thucydides is introductory

to the rest. It is a comprehensive elaborate work of itself.

It clears away rubbish, opens a view from the earliest ages,

strikes out light from obscurity, and truth from fable, that

the reader may enter upon the Peloponnesian war with a

perfect insight into the state of Greece, and the schemes,

interest, and strength of the contending parties. The au<-

thor unfolds his design in writing, magnifies his subject,

complains of the ignorance and credulity of mankind, rec­

tifies their mistakes, removes all prejudice, and furnishes us

with the knowledge of every thing proper to be known, t»

enable us to look at the contention with judgment and dis­

cernment, when the point contended for is no less than the

sovereignty of the sea, which that of the land must necessari-.

ly follow.

He begins at the source, and traces the original of the

Greek communities from certain and indisputable facts; and

the growth of Attica in particular, from the natural barren*

ness of the soil, which tempted no invasions ; and from the

shelter its inhabitants gave to all, who would settle amongst

them, and share their polity .—He shews the invention of

shipping to have been exceedingly mischievous at first. It

filled the sea with pirates, to whom it gave a ready convey­

ance from coast to coast, enabling them suddenly to seize,

and at leisure to carry off and secure their booty. No con­

siderable commerce, or rather none at all, could be carried

on, till the shore was cleared of such annoyance. And

when few durst venture to settle on the coasts, no marts

could be opened for traffic, and no ports were yet secure.

A ship was merely the instrument of ready conveyance from

place to place: It was not yet become an engine of attack

and defence on the water. Minos king of Crete made the

first attempt with success to obtain a naval strength*, by

• Years before Christ 1006.

