158 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Thus did the pestilence give their first rise to those ini­

quitous acts which prevailed more and more in Athens.

For every one was now more easily induced openly to do

what for decency they did only covertly before. They saw

#ie strange mutability of outward condition, the rich un­

timely cut off, and their wealth pouring suddenlv on the in­

digent and necessitous ; so that they thought it prudent to

catch hold of speedy enjoyments and quick gusts of plea­

sure ; persuaded that their bodies and their wealth might ba

their own merely for the day. Not any one continued reso­

lute enough to form any honest or generous design, when

so uncertain whether he should live to effect it. Whatever

he knew could improve the pleasure or satisfaction of the

present moment, that he determined to be honour and in­

terest. Reverence of the Gods or the laws of society laid no

restraints upon them ; either judging that piety and impiety

were things quite indifferent, since they saw that all men

perished alike; or throwing away every apprehension of

being called to account for their enormities, since justice

might be prevented by death ; or rather, as the heaviest of

judgments to which man could be doomed, was already

hanging over their heads, snatching this interval of life for

pleasure, before it fell.

With such a weight of calamity were the Athenians at

this time on all sides oppressed. Their city was one scene

of death, and the adjacent country of ruin and devastation.

In this their affliction they called to mind as was likely they

should, the following predict ion, which persons of the greatest

age informed them had been formerly made,

Two heavy judgments will at once befall,

A Doric war without, a plague within your wall.

There had indeed been a dispute before whether their

ancestors in this prediction read Am)*®* a plague, or Auw3>- a

famine. Yet in their present circumstances all with proba­

bility agreed that a»7,««!^ a plague, was the right: For they

