B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 373

wing of the Boeotians, even to the centre, was routed by the

Athenians, who pressed upon those who composed it, but es­

pecially on the Thespiensians. For, the others who were

drawji up with them giving way before the shock, the Thes­

piensians were inclosed in a small compass of ground, where

such of them as were slaughtered defended themselves

bravely till they were quite hewed down. Some also of the

Athenians, disordered in thus encompassing them about,

knew not how to distinguish, and slew one another. In this

quarter, therefore, the Boeotians were routed, and fled to­

wards those parts where the battle was yet alive. Their

right wing, in which the Thebans were posted, had the better

of the Athenians. They had forced them at first to give

ground a little, and pressed upon them to pursue their

advantage. It happened that Pagondas had detached two

troops of horse (which motion was not perceived) to fetch a

compass round the eminence and support the left wing which

was routed. These suddenly appearing in sight, the victo­

rious wing of Athenians, imagining a fresh army was coming

up to the charge, was struck into consternation. And now

being distressed on both sides by this last turn, and by the

Thebans who pursued their advantage close and put them

into a total disorder, the whole Athenian army was routed

and fled. Some ran towards Delium and the sea, others to

Oropus, and others towards mount Parnes ; all, to whatever

place they hoped was safe. But the Boeotians, especially

their horse, and the Locrians who had come up to the field

of battle just as the rout began, pursued them with great exe­

cution. But the night putting an end to the chace, the bulk

of the flying army preserved themselves more easily.

The day following, such of them as had reached Delium

and Oropus, leaving behind a garrison in Delium, which still

remained in their possession, transported themselves by sea

to Athens. The Boeotians also, having erected a trophy,

carried off their own dead, rifled those of the enemy, and

having posted a guard upon the field of battle, retired to

Vol.. I. 3 P

