INTRODUCTION. 41

The Corinthians, in their passage homewards, by strata­

gem seized Anactorium, which lieth in the mouth of the gulf

of Ambracia. It belonged in common to the Corcyreans

and themselves. They put it entirely into the hands of the

Corinthian inhabitants, and then retired to their own home.

Eight hundred of their Corcyrean prisoners, who were slaves,

they sold at public sale. Two hundred and fifty they reserv­

ed in safe custody, and treated them with extraordinary good

usage, that after their ransom they might serve them in their

design of gaining Corcyra: For the majority of them were

persons of the greatest authority in that state. Thus, there­

fore, is Corcyra preserved in the war of the Corinthians; and

the ships of the Athenians after such service left them. But '

this was the first ground of war to the Corinthians against j

the Athenians, because they had assisted the Corcyreans in a #

naval engagement against themselves, who were in treaty

with them.

IMMEDIATELY after this transaction, other misunder­

standings also happened between the Athenians and Pelo-

ponnesians, tending to a war. For, all the schemes of the

Corinthians aiming at revenge, the Athenians jealous of

their enmity sent an order to the inhabitants of Potidaea si­

tuated upon the isthmus of Pallene, (and though a Corin­

thian colony, yet allied with and tributary to them) " to de-

" molish that part of the wall which faceth the Pallene, to

" give them hostages, to send away the epidemiurgi, and

" not to receive those magistrates for the future, who were

" annually sent them from Corinth." They were apprehen­

sive of a revolt at the instigation of Perdiccas and the Co­

rinthians, and their seducing into the same defection the

other dependents of Athens in Thrace. These steps the

Athenians thought proper to take with the people of Poti­

daea, immediately after the sea-fight of Corcyra. For the

Corinthians were manifestly at variance witli them, and Per­

diccas the son of Alexander king of the Macedonians was

now become their enemy, who before had been their ally

