342 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

there, to assist those who were employed in the new fortifica­

tion ; and yet, though earnestly pressed by the iEginetae,

they refused to accompany them within their walls, being

averse to run the risk of a new blockade. They chose rather

to retreat towards the eminences, as they judged themselves

disabled by the inferiority of their number from facing the

enemy, and remained there in a state of inaction.

By this time the Athenians, having compleated their land­

ing and advanced with their whole force, take Thyrea by-

storm. They set the city in flames and destroyed whatever

was within it. Such of the iEginetae as survived the instant

carnage, they carried prisoners to Athens ; and with them

Tantalus son of Patrocles, who commanded there as general

for the Lacedaemonians. He had been wounded, and so

taken prisoner. They also carried thither some few persons

whom they had taken in Cythera, such as for its security it

was expedient to remove. These the Athenians after a con­

sultation decreed " to be disposed of in the islands, but

" the rest of the Cythereans still to occupy their own lands

" subjected to the yearly tribute of four talents*; but the

" iEginetae, as many as had been taken prisoners, to be all in-

" stantly put to death," (to gratify that eternal rancour they

bore them) " and Tantalus to be kept in prison along with his

" countrymen taken in Sphacteria."

The same summer, a suspension of arms was agreed on

in Sicily; first, between the Camarineans and Geloans:

and then, the other Sicilians, holding a general congress at

Gela, whither the ambassadors from the several States re­

sorted, entered into conferences about the terms of a gene­

ral reconciliation. Many different expedients were proposed

on all sides and many disputes arose, each insisting on a re­

paration suitable to their own private sense of grievance.

But Hermocratesf the son of Hermon a Syracusan, who

• Seven hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling.

t This great and accomplished Syracusan seems to be ushered into

this history with peculiar dignity, as the very month of Sicily, exhorting;

