B. II. 199 YEAR III.—BEFORE CHRIST 429.

mountains, and make use of scimetars, who are distinguished

by the name of Dians, and dwell most of them about Rho-

dope. Some of these he took into pay, but some of them

voluntarily attended. He had levies also from amongst the

Agrianians, Leaeans, and the other nations of Paeonia sub­

ject to himself. These were the furthest people in his domin­

ions, reaching up to the Graaeans and Leaeans of Paeonia and

the river Strymon, which deriving its source from mount

Scomius waters the Graaeans and Leaeans, and is the boun­

dary of his empire from those Paeonians who still are free.

Towards the Triballians, who are also a free people, the

boundary is formed by the Trerians and Tilat«ans. These

live to the north of mount Scomius, and reach westerly as

far as the river Oscius, which riseth out of the same moun­

tain with the Nestus and the Heber, a great but barren

mountain adjoining to the Rhodope.

The kingdom of Odrysa is of this large extent along

the coast, reaching from the city of Abdera to the mouth of

the river Ister in the Euxine sea. The shortest cut round

its coast requireth four days and as many nights for a trad­

ing-vessel, of the round-built, sailing directly before the

wind. A good walker will also be eleven days in going the

nearest way by land from Abdera to the Ister. So large was

its extent along the coast. But towards the continent, to

go along it from Byzantium to the Leaeans and the Stry­

mon, for so far does it run upwards from the sea, would

cost an expeditious walker thirteen days continued journey.

The yearly tribute exacted from this tract of Barbaric land,

and his cities in Greece, by Seuthes, who succeeding Sital-

ces in these dominions very much improved the revenue,

amounted to four hundred talents of silver*, though it might

be paid either in silver or gold. The presents constantly

made to him either of gold or silver were not less in value,

besides gifts of vestments both figured and plain, and all

kinds of furniture, which were not only made to him, but

• 78,940/. sterling.

