\% THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR.

remes, but consisted chiefly of vessels of fifty oars and barges

of the more ancient model. And it was but a little while be­

fore the Median war and the death of Darius who succeeded

Cambyses in the kingdom of Persia, that the tyrants of Sicily

and the Corcyreans became masters of any considerable num­

ber of triremes. For these last were the only instances of a

naval strength in Greece, before the invasion of it by Xerxes,

that deserve particular mention. The vessels of the iEgine-

tae, of the Athenians, and some others, were few in number,

and most of them but of fifty oars. It was not till later times,

when the Athenians had war with the iEginetae and also ex­

pected the approach of Xerxes, that at the persuasion of The-

mistocles they built those ships with which they fought suc­

cessfully against the Barbarians; and even these were not

yet compleatly decked over.

Such therefore were the navies of Greece, both of an earlier

and later date. And the states to which they belonged gain­

ed by them considerable strength, through an increase of

their revenue and the enlargement of their dominions. Em­

barkations grown more frequent, especially to those who were

pent up in a narrow soil, occasioned the reduction of the isles:

but for a land war, and in consequence of that, an accession

of power, none such was at that time known. All conflicts of

that sort, which ever happened, were-disputes of boundaries

between contiguous states. The Grecians had not yet launch­

ed forth into distant expeditions, nor aimed ambitiously at

foreign conquests. There were no dependent cities, which

furnished quotas at the will of others who gave them law; nor

did those who were upon equality concur in any joint under­

taking ; each petty state took up arms occasionally in its own

defence against the incroachments of its neighbours. At most,

the greatest division of Greece that ever happened was in the

old rupture between the Clulcideans and Erctrians, when

leagues were formed in favour of both.

By these means was the growth of many states prevented,

and that of the Ionians by a different cause—the great and

