cvi A Survey of the History.

at once without premeditation. The Lacedaemonians, amidst

the many applications made to them, are puzzled which of

the revolving States they shall first countenance and assist.

Alcibiades is busy at Sparta, advising proper measures, and

guiding their counsels. Even the Persian monarch, by his

lieutenants, enters into league against them; and some of

their finest islands are immediately rent asunder from sub­

jection to the Athenians.

The various turns of war at Chios, and on the coast of

Ionia, are distinctly but concisely related, until Alcibiades

appears in action, and exerts his busy and intriguing genius.

Suspected at length and hated by the Lacedaemonians, he

became again their enemy, and turned all his projects on ac­

complishing his return to Athens, and saving his country

from impending ruin. His partizans, in the fleet and troops

of Athens now lying at Samos, cabal in his favour. A change

of government is judged a necessary measure to bring about

his recalment. It is the scheme of Alcibiades himself;

but it is opposed, and disconcerted by Phrynichus; by

Phrynichus, who soon after turns out a violent enemy to

the democracy, whilst Alcibiades is active and zealous in its

support.

None but our author's pen could have so clearly unfolded

that series of caballings, that fluctuation both in principle and

conduct, and that horrid embroilment of the leading mem-

t bers of the Athenian State amongst themselves, which brought

on seditions amongst the troops abroad, and a revolution of

government in the city of Athens. The democracy is at

length overturned : and an oligarchy, consisting of four hun­

dred persons, erected in its stead. The Athenians atSamos,

where the project was first laid, declare against the Atheni­

ans at Athens. Alcibiades is grown again a hearty republi­

can ; and Thrasybulus alone manifests throughout a sincere

love and regard for his country. Parties newly formed are

broke again into divisions ; and Athens was indebted to no­

thing but the indolence of the Lacedaemonians, that she did

