346 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" which all the world allovveth ;—what hindereth us then, why

" we should not firmly establish it with one another ? or, do

" you rather imagine, that if the condition of one man be

" happy and that of another be wretched, tranquillity will not

" contribute sooner than warfare to amend the state of the

" latter, and to preserve the state of the former from a sad

" reverse! or, that peace is not better calculated to preserve

4* unimpaired the honours and splendors of the happy, and all

" other blessings, which, should we descend to a minute de-

" tail, might largely be recounted, or might be set in the

" strongest light by opposing to them the calamities which

" ensue from war ? Fix your minds therefore on these con-

" siderations, that you may not overlook my admonitions, but

*4 in compliance with them look out respectively in time for  
" expedients of prevention.

" In case it be presumed, that success must result from

" power, without taking into debate the justice or violence

" of the cause, let me detect the dangerous fallacy of such a

" sanguine hope, which must be blasted in the end. Many

" are they, it is well known, who would have gratified their

" revenge on violent oppressors, and many who have exerted

" their utmost force for their own aggrandisement; yet the

" first, so far from accomplishing their revenge, have met

" destruction in its pursuit; and it hath been the fate of the

" latter, instead of inlarging, to suffer the loss of what they

" already possessed. For revenge is not certain, because

"justly sought after to retaliate violence; nor is power as-

" sured of its end, because invigorated with sanguine expec-

" tation. Events are for the most part determined by the

" fallible unsteady balance of futurity; which, though de-

" ceivable as deceit can be, yet holds out before us the most

" instructive hints. For thus, armed equally beforehand

" with needful apprehension, we embark into mutual contests

" with wise premeditation. Now therefore, checked by the

" gloomy dread of the yet invisible event, and awed on all

" sides by the terrors which the presence of these Athenians

