B, I. INTRODUCTION. Tl

money which each state was to furnish against the Barbarian.

The colour pretended was, " to revenge the calamities they

had hitherto suffered, by carrying hostilities into the domin­

ions of the King.'' This gave its first rise to the Athenian

office of General Receivers of Greece*, whose business it was

to collect this tribute : For the contribution of this money

was called by that title. The first tribute levied in conse­

quence of this, amounted to foiir hundred and sixty talents.

Delos was appointed to be their treasury; and the sittings

were held in the temple there.

Their command was thus at first over free and independ­

ent confederates, who sat with them at council, and had a vote

jn public resolutions. The enlargement of their authority

was the result of wars and their own political management

during the interval between the invasion of the Medes and

the present war, when the contests were against the Barbari­

an, or their own allies endeavouring at a change, or those of

the Peloponnesians who interfered on every occasion on pur­

pose to molest them. Of these I have subjoined a particular

detail, and have ventured a digression from my subject, be­

cause this piece of history hath been omitted by all preceding

writers. They have either confined their accounts to the

affairs of Greece prior in time, or to the invasions of the

Medes. Hellanicus is the only one of them, who hath touch­

ed it in his Attic history ; though his memorials are short, and

not accurately distinguished by proper dates. But this, at

the same time, will most clearly shew the method in which the

Athenian empire was erected.

* This nice and difficult point was adjusted by Aristides, to the general  
satisfaction of all parties concerned. Greece conferred upon him this most

important trust, he was called to this delicate commission by the united

voice of his country ; " Poor (says Plutarch) when he set about it; but

poorer when he had finished it," The Athenian state was now furnished

with a large annual fund, by which it was enabled not only to annoy the

foreign enemies of Greece, but even those Greeks who should at any time

presume to oppose the measures of Athens. They soon found out that

their own city was a more convenient place for keeping this treasure than

•he isle of Delos, and accordingly took care to remove it thither.

