B. a. 119 TEAR I.—BEFORE CBRIST 431,

prevented their escape, so that many of them perished.

The gates by which they entered, and which only had been

opened, one of the Plataeans had barred fast by thrusting

the point of a spear into the staple instead of a bolt, so that

they could not possibly get out there. Thus pursued about

the city, some of them got upon the walls, and threw them­

selves over, but most of these were killed by the fall: Some

of them found a gate unguarded, and a woman supplying

them with a hatchet, they cut the bolt in pieces unperceived,

though few only escaped by this means, for they were soon

discovered. Others were separately slain in the different

quarters of the city. But the greatest part, and chiefly those

who had kept in a body, threw themselves into a great house

contiguous to the walls, the doors of which happened to be

open, imagining the doors of this house to be the city-gates,

and a certain passage to a place of safety. When the Pla­

taeans saw them thus shut up, they consulted together, whe­

ther they should fire the house and burn them all in their

inclosure, or reserve them for some other punishment. But

at last these and all the other Thebans yet surviving, who

were scattered about the city, agreed to give up their arms,

and surrender themselves to the Plataeans prisoners at discre-

* tion. Such was the issue of this attempt on Plataea.

The other Thebans, who ought during night to have come

up with all their strength, to reinforce the first body in case

they miscarried, and were still upon the march, when the

news of this defeat met them, advanced with all possible

expedition. Plataea is distant from Thebes about seventy

stadia*, and the rain which fell that night had retarded their

march ; for the river Asopus was so much swelled by it that

it was not easily fordable. It was owing to the march in

such a heavy rain and the difficulty of passing this river,

that they came not up till their men were either slain or

made prisoners. When the Thebans were convinced of that

About seven English miles.

