178 THE HELOPONNESIAN WAS.

" blessings you sent down upon their prayers overcame the

" Medes, and which you then made that fortunate field

" whereon the arms of Greece were crowned with victory—

" and that whatever we shall here undertake, our every step

" shall be agreeable to justice. We have offered many ho-

" nourable conditions to them, which are all rejected.

" Grant therefore our supplications, that the first trans-

" gressors of justice may receive their punishment, and that

" those who fight with equity may obtain revenge." After

this solemn address to the Gods, he roused up his army into

action.

He first of all formed an inclosure round about them

with the trees they had felled, so that no one could get out

of the city. In the next place, they raised a mount of

earth before the place, hoping that it could not long hold

out a siege against the efforts of so large an army. Having

felled a quantity of timber on mount Cithaeron, with it they

framed the mount on either side, that thus cased it might

perform the service of a wall, and that the earth might be

kept from mouldering away too fast. Upon it they heaped

a quantity of matter, both stones and earth, and whatever

else would cement together and increase the bulk. This

work employed them for seventy days and nights without

intermission, all being alternately employed in it, so that one

part of the army was carrying it on, whilst the other took

the necessary refreshments of food and sleep. Those Lace­

daemonians who had the command over the hired troops of

the other States, had the care of the work, and obliged them

all to assist in carrying it on. The Plataeans, seeing this

mount raised to a great height, built a counterwork of wood,

close to that part of the city-wall against which this mount

of earth was thrown up, and strengthened the inside of it

with bricks, which they got for this use by pulling down the

adjacent houses. The wooden case was designed to keep it

firm together, and prevent the whole pile from being weak­

ened by its height. They farther covered it over with

