B. I. INTRODUCTION. 33

" truth of them from his elders, and acknowledge that we

ft ought to be properly requited. Let him not entertain the

" thought, that what we say is agreeable to equity, but that in

" case of a war interest inclineth another way: For interest is

" most surely to be found there where the least injustice is

" committed. The contingency of that war, from the dread

" of which the Corcyreans encourage you to act unjustly, lieth

" yet in obscurity, and ought not to inflame you into open and

" immediate hostilities against the Corinthians. It would be

" prudent, farther, to lessen that jealousy we have already con-

" ceived from the proceedings at Megara. For a latter obn-

" gation, by the favour of time, though of less weight in itselfi

" is able to cancel a charge of greater moment. Neither suf-

" fer yourselves to be allured with the promise of a powerful

" conjunction of naval force : For never to act unjustly against

" equals is a firmer security of power than to be elevated upon

" present plausibilities, and enlarge it through a scries of dan-

" gers. Our present circumstances resemble those concerning

" which we expressly declared at Lacedaemon, that every state

" had a right to proceed against its own dependents: And now

" we beg that liberty from you ; and that you, who have reaped

" the benefit of such a suffrage from us, would not prejudice us

"by yours. Render us for it the just requital ; remembering

" that this is the critical season, in which he who aideth is the

" best of friends, and he that opposeth the greatest foe. And,

" as for these Corcyreans, take them not into your alliance in

" despite of us, nor abet them in the injuries they have done

" us. By acting in this manner you will discharge the obli-

" gations incumbent upon you, and will take those measures

" which are most for your own advantage."

This is the substance of what was said by the Corinthians.

The Athenians having heard both parties*, met twice in full

assembly on this occasion. At the first meeting they thought

• Here the English reader should be informed in what manner business

went on when difficulties, diversities of opinion, and consequently debates

ensued.

