DISCOURSE III.

the Jews rebelled against theocracy, and would have a man

to reign over them, Archons for life succeeded, whose

term was afterwards abridged to ten years ; then, to a single

year. All general histories point out the variations, till they

came to the popular form which now prevailed.

The enemy, after heavy depredations, at length evacuated

Attica; and the Athenians take the field to retaliate upon

them. Their squadron had been all the time at sea, cruizing

upon and infesting the coasts of Peloponnesus. But, in the

winter, we are called to Athens to see the public funeral of

those, who were killed in the first campaign. Here, the first

time it occurs, our author describes this solemnity, and Peri­

cles makes the Funeral-oration.

I shall make no reflections on this celebrated performance.

Should the reader not think it deserving of its high reputa­

tion, I fear the translator will be sadly to blame. It is hard

to give such noble ideas their proper energy, and such re­

fined ones their due exactness. The great orators of Athens

were always glad to display their abilities on the same oc­

casion. Plato hath entered the lists with a high spirit of

emulation, and with a high degree of success: And a great

master* this way hath lately made him English. If Thu-

eydides suffers by a comparison, which now the unlearned

but judicious reader is impowered to make, the latter must

be intreated to observe, that the eloquence of Plato was be­

yond dispute more smooth and fluent, more accomplished in

all that is beautiful and sweet than the eloquence of Thucy-

dides, but an adjudged inferiority in any other respect must

be laid at the door of his translator.

After such an exhilarating and enlivening piece, for such it

must have been to all who heard it, and must have deter­

mined every Athenian to suffer any thing with intrepidity

and patience in the cause of his country, a very mournful

scene immediately succeeds, which lays them under such a

load of affliction and distress, as no arguments, no philoso-

• Mr. West.

Vol. I. K

