B. IV. 397 YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423.

"full grandeur of your souls. Upon you it is incumbent to

" behave with gallantry in every martial scene, upon the ac-

" count, not merely of acting in the open field in the presence

" of so many confederates, but of your own hereditary valour.

" Your souls ought not to be dismayed at a multitude of

" foes, since you were not born under governments where the

" many control the ferv, but where the few command the

" many. And the only means by which you acquired this

" noble privilege, was victorious perseverance in the fields of

" battle. Yet of these Barbarians, your fears of whom are

" the result of your ignorance, you ought to be informed,

" from what you have learned yourselves in former conflicts

" against them with the Macedonians, as well as from what

" I conjecture, and what I depend upon from the accounts of

" others, that in action they will be by no means terrible.

" For when a hostile force, though in reality weak, carrieth

" with it the appearance of strength, a true discovery of its

" state is no sooner obtained, than it redoubleth the courage

" of their opponents. But men, in whom valour is firmly im-

" planted, none can assault with extraordinary spirit but such

" as know them not. These enemies of yours are dreadful

" for a while, merely till brought to trial. Their multitude

" rendereth them terrible to the sight; the loudness of their

" shouts is insupportable to the ear. Their weapons, bran-

" dished about and clashing in the air, have a frightful and

" menacing look. But their spirit will not answer their shew,

" when charging against such as will sustain their shock.

" They are not drawn up with skill, nor will they blush

"when compelled to quit their ground. To fly from or to

" fly after an enemy is equally a matter of glory to them :

" By such things is their valour established and rescued

" from reproach. For a battle, where every combatant is

" his own commander, leaveth a specious and handsome

" opportunity to each of providing for his safety. They this

"moment judge it more safe to intimidate us at a distance

Vol. I. S S

