». IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 359

and his army. And as soon as he was met at Melitia of

Achaea by Panaerus, and Dorus, and Hippolochidas, and To­

ry laus, and Strophacus, who had been formerly the public

host of the Chalcideans, he continued his march forwards.

Others also of the Thessalians assisted in conducting him,

and from Larissa Niconidas the friend of Perdiccas. The

passage through Thessaly without proper guides is always

difficult, and must be more so to an armed body. Besides,

to attempt such a thing through a neighbouring dominion

without permission first obtained, hath ever been regarded

by all the Grecians with a jealous eye, and the bulk of the

Thessalians had been ever well-affected to the Athenians.

Nor could Brasidas have possibly effected it, had not the

Thessalian been rather despotic than free governments. For

upon his route he was stopped at the river Enipeus by some

of contrary sentiments to the rest of their countrymen, who

ordered him to proceed at his peril, and taxed him with in­

justice in having come so far without the general permis­

sion. His conductors told them in return, that " without

" such permission he should not proceed; but, as he had

" come amongst them on a sudden, they thought themselves

" obliged in friendship to conduct him." Brasidas also gave

them strong assurances, that " he was come thither for the

" service of Thessaly and of them ; that his arms were not

" intended against them, but against the common enemy,

" the Athenians; that he never suspected any enmity be-

" tween Thessalians and Lacedaemonians, why they might

" not tread upon one another's ground; that even now,

" should they withhold their consent, he was neither willing

" nor indeed able to proceed ; but he conj ured them

" however to give him no molestation." Having heard

these declarations, they acquiesced and withdrew. Brasi­

das now, by the advice of his conductors, advanced with the

utmost speed without ever halting, in order to anticipate fresh

and more potent obstruction. Nay, the very same day that

he left Melitia, he advanced as far as to Pharsalus, and en­

camped upon the banks of the Apidanus. From thence he

