B. III. 255 YEAR V. BZrORE CHRIST 42?.

" they conceived, had been indulged in a much longer dis-

" course, than was requisite to answer the question." Leave

accordingly was given, and they proceeded thus—

" WE should not have requested your attention to any

" thing we had to offer, if these Plataeans had replied in

" brief to the question, and had not run out into slander and

" invective against us ;—if they had not defended themselves

" in points quite foreign to the purpose, and not at all charged

" against them as crimes ; and launched forth into their own

" praise, uncensured and unprovoked. But now it is incum-

" bent upon us, in some points to contradict and in some to

" refute, to prevent the bad effects which might result, either

" from the criminations uttered against us, or the pompous

" praise they have bestowed upon themselves ; that you, un-

" der proper information with whom the greater truth re-

" mains, may fairly decide between us.

" Our enmity against them we openly avow, as it proceed-

" ed from just and honourable motives: since to us, who

" were the founders of Plataea, after we had gained possession

" of Baeotia and of other towns as well as Plataea, which, after

" being purged from extraneous mixtures, remained in our

"jurisdiction,—these men disdained to pay submission, and

" scorned original and fundamental laws. They wilfully di-

" vided from the other Boeotians, transgressing the laws of

" their country, and, when likely to be forced back into their

" duty, they went over to the Athenians, and in concert with

" them accumulated wrongs upon us, which have since been

"justly retaliated upon them.

" But, when the Barbarian invaded Greece, they were the

" only Boeotians who did not join the Mede. This they

" allege, and hence they arrogate applause to themselves,

" and lavish their calumnies upon us. We grant indeed

" they did not join the Mede; and the reason was, because

" the Athenians did not join him. Yet afterwards, when

" with the same all-grasping ambition the Athenians invaded

•4 Greece, they were the only Boeotians then who joined those

