212 THE PELOPO&fcESIAN WAR.

" ance with the Athenians—not to enslave the rest of Greece

" to Athenians, but to deliver Greece from the Barbarian

" yoke. And whilst they led us on in just equality, so long

" with alacrity we followed their guidance. But when once

"we perceived that they relaxed in their zeal against the

" Mede, and were in earnest in rivetting slavery upon allies,

" we then began to be alarmed. It was impossible, where

" so many parties were to be consulted, to unite together

" in one body of defence, and thus all the allies fell into

" slavery, except ourselves and the Chians. We indeed,

" left in the enjoyment of our own laws, and of nominal

" freedom, continued still to follow them to war: But, from

" the specimens we had hitherto seen of their behaviour,

" we could no longer regard these Athenians as trusty and

" faithful leaders. For it was not in the least probable, that

" after enslaving those who were comprehended in the same

" treaty with ourselves, they would refrain from treating

" such as yet were free in the same tyrannic manner, when-

" ever opportunity served. Had we all indeed been left in

" the free exercise of our own laws, we should then have

" had the strongest proof that the Athenians acted upon ho-

" nest uninnovating principles. But now, when they have

" laid their yoke upon the greater number, though they

" still continue to treat us as their equals, yet undoubtedly

" it highly grates them; and they cannot long endure,

" when such numbers couch beneath their power, that our

" State alone should stand up and claim equality. No; it

" cannot be! For the more their power hath swelled in

" bulk and strength, by so much are we become more deso-

" late. The only secure pledge of a lasting alliance is that

" mutual awe which keeps the contracting parties in proper

" balance. For then, if any be disposed to make incroach-

" ments, he finds he cannot act upon advantage, and is ef-

" feetuallv deterred. Our preservation hitherto hath not

"been owing to their honesty but their cunning. Their

" scheme hath been gradually to advance their empire by

