B. I. INTRODUCTION. 105

of nature was most vigorously shewn ; and by it, he was so

highly distinguished above the bulk of mankind, as to deserve

the greatest admiration. By the mere force of his natural

genius, without any improvement from study, either in his

youth or more advanced age, he could give the best advice

upon sudden emergencies with the least hesitation, and was

happy in his conjectures about the events of the future.

Whatever he undertook he was able to accomplish ; and

wherein he was quite inexperienced, he had so prompt a dis­

cernment that he never was mistaken. In a matter of ambi­

guity, he foresaw with extraordinary acuteness the better and

the worse side of the question. Upon the whole, by the force

of natural genius, he was most quick at all expedients, and at

the same time excellent, beyond competition, at declaring in­

stantly the most advisable measures of acting upon every oc­

currence. But, being seized with a fit of sickness, his life is

at an end. Some indeed report, that he put an end to his

own life by taking poison, when he judged it impossible to

perform what he had promised the king. His monument how­

ever is at Magnesia in Asia, in the forum. Of this province

he was governor through the bounty of the king, who assigned

him Magnesia (which yielded him fifty talents* yearly,) for

his bread, Lampsacus for his wine, (which place was in the

greatest repute for wine,) and Myus for his meat. His bones

are said to have been conveyed home by his relations, in pur­

suance of his own desire, and to have been interred in Attica

without the privity of the Athenians. For it was against law

to bury him there, as he had been outlawed for treason}.

• 9,687/. 10*. Sterling

t Some authors have related, that his countrymen afterwards honoured

him with a cenotaph in the Piraeus. Plutarch however disbelieves the

fact, and thinks it merely a presumption formed on the following verses of

Plato, the comic poet.

To thee, Themistocles, a tomb is due,

Plac'd in the most conspicuous point of view ;

Merchants from every port with just acclaim

Should shout thy honour, and confess thy fame ;

