Ixxiv A Survey of the History.

phy can alleviate. The plague breaks out at Athens ; and

the reader must be ready to feel very sharp emotions in be­

half of his fellow-creatures, and in behalf of morality and

virtue too. Amidst their accumulated distresses, Pericles is

the only support of the community; and, like the greatest

benefactors to ungrateful men, is cursed for being their sup­

port, and reproached for being steadily wise and in the

right. At last he convenes them, and addresses them with

such an air of ingenuity, such spirit, and conscious dignity,

and firm reliance on a good cause; as only two orators that

I know of have ever equalled on parallel occasions. Those;

I mean are Demosthenes and St. Paul. All the world of

letters and good taste are well acquainted with the oration

of the former against iEschines about the crown ; and every

class of readers is surely well versed in the Second Epistle of

Paul to the Corinthians. I can but hint these resemblances,

since now I must attend on Pericles, who sooths or thunders

his countrymen out of all their discontent and malice, and

sends them home convinced and ashamed. But domestic

distress soon efFaceth any other impressions; their passions

are again inflamed by inwardly corroding anguish, and Peri­

cles after all must be fined, and turned out of his employ­

ments. Yet people are not always mad; good sense and

conviction return upon them ; and he is begged, because

most worthy, again to accept the sole administration. He

enjoys it but a little time, before he is carried off by the

plague. Athens then lost her ablest, honestest statesman.

He was able to have sat at the helm of government, to

have steered the republic safe through every storm, and to

have insured her not bare security but open triumph. His

successors were very alert at catching hold of that helm ;

but, none of them could hold it long; and the vessel, through

their mutual quarrels, must needs run aground or founder at

last.

But the next remarkable passage in the history, is the

march of the Peloponnesians to invest Plataea, and the so­

