354 THE PELOPONNESIAH WAR.

cessary hazards, they might join their own favourite party

if victorious.

Brasidas, when he could not prevail, withdrew again to

the main of his army. By the succeeding dawn the Boeo­

tians joined him, who had resolved to succour Megara, even

previous to the summons sent by Brasidas, since they re­

garded the danger that place was in as their own. They

were actually advanced with their whole force as far as

Plataea ; and the messenger having met with them here,

they became much more eager than before. They sent for­

wards a detachment of two and twenty hundred heavy-

armed, and six hundred horsemen, but dismissed the multi­

tude to their own homes. When the whole force was thus

united, consisting of at least six thousand heavy-armed, and

the heavy-armed Athenians stood drawn up in order near

Nisaea and the sea-shore, whilst their light-armed were

straggling about the plain, the Boeotian cavalry made an

unexpected sally against those stragglers, and chaced them

to the shore : For hitherto no aid whatever had taken the

field in behalf of the Megarfcans. The Athenian cavalry

clapped spurs to repel the Boeotian, and a battle ensued.

The horse were a long time thus engaged, and both sides

claimed a victory. For the general of the Boeotian cavalry,

and a small number of his party the Athenians drove be­

fore them to Nisaea, where they put them to the sword

and rifled them. They remained masters of the dead bo­

dies, gave them up afterwards by truce, and erected a tro­

phy : But neither side so keeping their ground as to render

the action decisive, they retreated as it were by consent ;

the Boeotians to their main-army, and the Athenians to

Nisaea.

Brasidas, after this, advanced nearer to the sea, and to

the city of Megara with his army. Having occupied there

some advantageous gronnd, they drew up in order and stood

still, imagining the Athenians would attack them; and as­

sured, that the Megareans were intently observing for whom

