9i THE PELOPONNESiAN WAR.

however, that he had the true sense of the oracle, he put his

enterprize in execution. The Athenians, taking the alarm,

ran out of the country in one general confluence to put a

stop to these attempts, and investing the citadel quite block­

ed them up. But in process of time, being wearied out with

the tediousness of the blockade, many of them departed,

leaving the care of it to the nine Archons, with a full power

of " acting in whatever manner they should judge most ex­

pedient :" For at that time most parts of the public adminis­

tration were in the management of the Archons. The party

with Cylon, thus closely invested, were reduced very low

through scarcity of bread and water. Cylon therefore and

his brother privately escape. But the rest, reduced to extre­

mities, and some of them had already perished by famine, set

themselves down as suppliants by the altar in the citadel.

The Athenian guard, having ordered them to arise as they

saw them just ready to expire in the temple, to avoid the

guilt of profanation, led them out and slew them. But some

of the number, who had seated themselves at the venerable

goddesses, at the very altars, they murdered in the act of re­

moval*. And for this action not only the persons concerned

in it but their descendants also were called the sacrilegious

and accursed of the Goddess. The Athenians indeed banished

those sacrilegious persons out of the city: Cleomenes the La­

cedaemonian drove them out again, when he was at Athens,

on account of a sedition; nay, on this occasion they not

only drove away the living, but even dug up the bones of the

dead, and cast them out; Yet, in process of time^ they re­

turned again, and some of their posterity are still in Athens.

• When these suppliants were ordered to come out, they tied a string

round the altar in the citadel, and keeping hold of it were come as far as

the altars of the venerable goddesses. Just there the string happened to

break, upon which the Archons rushed in to seize them, as if Minerva had

thrown them out of her protection. Some of the number sat instantly

down for fresh protection at the altars of the venerable goddesses: It was an

unavailing resource, and they were immediately slain upon the spot. iVu-

Tkrch in .Wen.

