ft. IV. 30G YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425.

the opposite shore ; for by these dispositions the Athe­

nians would be incommoded from the island, and excluded

from landing on the main land: And as on the opposite

coast of Pylus without the harbour there is no road where

ships can lie, they would be deprived of a station from

whence to succour the besieged: And thus, -without the

hazard of a naval engagement, it was probable they should get

possession of the place, as the quantity of provisions in it

could be but small, since the seizure had been executed with

slender preparation.—Acting upon these motives they threw

the body of heavy-armed into the island, who were draughted

by lot out of all the bands. These for a time were succes­

sively relieved by others. But the last body, who guarded

that post, and were forced to continue in it, consisted of

about four hundred and twenty exclusive of the Helots who

attended them, and these were commanded by Epitadas, the

son of Molobrus.

Demosthenes perceiving by these dispositions that the

Lacedaemonians would attack him by land and sea, provided

for his own defence. The triremes yet remaining with him

he drew ashore, and ranged them by way of palisade be­

fore the fortress. The mariners he armed with bucklers,

sorry ones indeed, as most of them were only twigs of osier

plaited. Better arms were not to be procured in so desart a

place. And even these they had taken out of a cruizer of

thirty oars and a light packet belonging to Messenians, who

happened accidentally to put in. The Messenians on board

were about forty heavy-armed, whom he ranged amongst his

own body. The greater part therefore of the unarmed as

well as some who had armour, he placed on the strongest

parts of the fortress towards the continent, with orders to

beat off the land army whenever they approached. And

having selected from his whole number sixty heavy-armed

and a few archers, he marched out of the fortress to that part

of the beach where he supposed the enemy would endeavour

to land. The shore indeed was rough and rocky, and bor­

