ft. M. TEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 201

the greater part were foot, but about a third of them were

horse. The greatest share of the horse was provided by the

Odrysians, and next to them by the Getae. Of the foot,

the free Thracians that came from about mount Rhodope,

and used scimetars^ were the most valiant: All the rest that

followed were a mixt crowd, formidable only in their num­

ber. All these therefore were got together at Doberus, and

preparing to break in to the lower Macedonia, subject to

Perdiccas, under the ridge of the mountains. For in the

general name of Macedonians are comprised the Lynces-

tians and Helimiotians, and other nations lying upwards,

allied to and dependent upon the rest, yet governed as dis­

tinct kingdoms. The dominion over the maritime Mace­

donia was first obtained by Alexander, father of Perdiccas,

and his ancestors the Temenidae, who derived their original

from Argos. These, by a successful war, had driven the

Pierians out of Pieria, who afterwards fixed their residence

at Phagres under mount Pangaeus, on the other side the

Strymon, and at other places ; for which reason, the tract

of ground lying under Pangaeus towards the sea is still called

the gulf of Pieria. From the region called Bottia they also

expelled the Bottiaeans, who now live upon the confines of

the Chalcideans. And further, they seized in Paeonia, near

the river Axius, a narrow tract of land running along from

the mountains down to Pella, and the sea; and got posses­

sion of that which is called Mygdonia, lying between the

Axius and the Strymon, by driving away the Edonians.

They expelled the Eordians out of what is now called Eordia

(of whom the greatest part were destroyed, but a small

number dwell now about Physca); and out of Almopia, the

Almopians. These Macedonians also conquered other na­

tions, of which they are still in possession, as Anthemus,

Grestonia, and Bisaltia, and a large part of the territories

belonging to the other Macedonians. But this whole tract

of country hath the general name of Macedonia, and Per­

diccas, son of Alexander, reigned over them when Sitalce*

formed this invasion.

