B. I. INTRODUCTION. 11

were built. It is a known fact, that Aminocles, a s.hip-car-

penter from Corinth, built four ships for the Samians: Now,

from the arrival of Aminocles at Samos to the conclusion of

the -war which is now my subject, there passed at most but

three hundred years. The oldest sea-fight we know any

thing of, was that of the Corinthians against the Corcyreans:

But the distance between that and the same period is not

more than two hundred and sixty. For the city of the Co­

rinthians, being seated on the Isthmus, hath ever been a place

of trade, as formerly the Grecians both within and without

Peloponnesus, more accustomed to land than sea, could have

no traffic with one another without passing through their

territory. They were also remarkable for wealth, as clearly

appeareth from the ancient poets, who have given that city

the epithet of rich. And, when once navigation was prac­

tised in Greece, they lost no time in their own equipments ;

they cleared the sea of pirates ; and, opening their town as a

public mart, both by land and sea, made Corinth powerful

by the increase of its revenue. The Ionians had no naval

force till a long time after this, in the reign of Cyrus, first

king of the Persians, and his son Cambyses: And, waging

war with Cyrus, they were for a time masters of the sea

which lieth upon their own coasts. Polycrates also, who

was tyrant of Samos, in the reign of Cambyses, having a

powerful navy, subdued many of the islands, and among

the rest Rhenea, which as soon as conquered he consecrated

to Delian Apollo. The Phoceans also, when planting their

colony at Marseilles, had a successful engagement at sea

against the Carthaginians.

These were the most remarkable equipments of a naval

force; and these, though beyond contest many generations

later than the war of Troy, had a very small number of tri-

were also masted and carried sails ; but they generally lowered the sails

when they came to action, and relied chiefly on their oars, that they might

be more able to tack about, or to run down upon the enemy with more

force aijd steadiness. See Potter's \rtfi:w>logia, voL ii. c. 14.

