Pbormio in the gulf of Crissa ; and when reinforced beaten by him a

second time before Naupactus. A project to seize the Pirxus quite dis­

concerted. War between Thracians and Macedonians. Motions in

Acamania, with an account of that country . . p. 175

CONTENTS OF BOOK III.

Year IV. Attica invaded. Lesbos revolts from the Athenians : The latter

sent out a fleet to reduce them. Continuation of the siege of Platxa.

The escape of a body of Platxans over all the works of the besiegers

p. 200

Year V. Attica invaded. Surrender of Mitelene in Lesbos. A bloody

decree made at Athens against all the Mitylen£ans ; but re-considered,

and repealed; though very near being put in execution. Platxa surren­

ders ; and the inhabitants are put to death. The sedition at Corcyra.

The Athenians meddle in the wars of Sicily. The plague rageth again

at Athens . • • • • . p- 224

Year VI. Earthquakes. The affairs of Sicily. Expedition of Demosthenes

into ./Etolia, where he receives a total defeat. Delos purified by the Athe­

nians. Invasion of Argos in Amphilochia: Battle of Olpe: a second

battle, or rather slaughter of the Ambraciots at Idomene. Eruption of

mount iEtna ...... p. 276

CONTENTS OF BOOK IV.

Year VII. The Athenians seize and fortify Pylus in Laconia. The Lace­

demonians make slight of it at first, yet afterwards exert their utmost

efforts to dislodge them, though in vain. Their body thrown into Sphac-

teria is intercepted, and blocked up by the Athenian fleet. A suspension

of arms and a truce ensue, but soon broke. Proceedings in Sicily: A

naval engagement in the strait of Messene. At Athens, Cleon is drawn

in by his own bravado to undertake the reduction of Sphacteria. He

repairs thither, and compleats the work beyond all expectation. The

Lacedxmonians, terribly distressed, send many proposals for a peace, but

none are accepted. The Athenians invade the Corinthians. Battle of

Soligia. Tragical period of the sedition at Corcyra. Death of Artax-

erxes Longimanus ..... p. 298

Year VIII. Expedition against Cythera. Continuation of affairs in Sicily.

The surprise of Megara unsuccessfully attempted. A project formed

for a total revolution in Bccotia- Brasidas beginneth his march for Thrace,

and by his noble behaviour carries all before him. The battle of Delium.

Successful progress of Brasidas in Thrace * . p. 33&

Year IX. Truce for a year. The affairs of Thrace continued p. 388

