100 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

rus as a suppliant, and refuge in a cell built double by a par­

tition. In the inner part of this cell he hid some of the Epho­

ri : And, Pausanias coming to him and demanding the reason

of his supplication, they heard distinctly all that passed. The

man complained bitterly to him about the clause in the let­

ters relating to himself, and expostulated with him about eve­

ry particular—" why he, who had been so trusty to him dur-

" ing the whole course of his negotiations with the king,

" should now be so highly honoured, as to be murdered up-

" on an equal rank with the meanest of his tools ?" Pausanias

confessed the truth of all that he alleged ; begged him " not

" to be exasperated with what at present appeared;" assured

him " he should not be hurt if he would leave his sanctuary;"

and earnestly intreated him, " with all possible speed to go

" the journey, and not to obstruct the schemes that were then

" in agitation." The Ephori, having exactly heard him,

withdrew: And now beyond a scruple convinced, they de­

termined to apprehend him in the city. But it is reported,

that at the instant fixed for his arrest, as he was walking

along, and beheld the countenance of one of the Ephori ap­

proaching towards him, he immediately discovered his bu­

siness ; and another of them out of kindness intimating the

matter by a nod, he took to his heels, and fled away faster

than they could pursue him. The Chalcitrcan happened to

be near, and into a little house within the verge of that

temple he betook himself, and sat quietly down to avoid the

inclemency of the outward air. They, who had lost the

start, came too late in the pursuit. But afterwards, they

stripped the house of its roof and doors ; and, watching their

opportunity when he was within, they encompassed him

round about*, immured him within, and placing a constant

guard around, kept him beset, that he might perish with hun­

ger. When he was ready to expire, and they found in how

bad a state he lay within the house, they led him out of the

• Alcithea, the mother of Pausanias, is said to have brought the first

atone on th'i9 occasion : Such was the spirit of the ladies at Lacedxmnn.

