H. III. YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. 217

first before the Isthmus in great parade, they displayed their

force, and then made descents at pleasure all along the coast.

The Lacedaemonians seeing them thus strong beyond what

they had imagined, concluded that the Lesbians had pur­

posely amused them with fictions ; and being perplexed how

to act, as their confederates were not yet come up to join

them, and as information was brought them, that the first

Athenian squadron consisting of thirty sail was laying waste

the territory round about their city, they retired to their own

homes.

Afterwards they set about the equipment of a fleet to be

sent to Lesbos ; and ordered the confederate cities to send in

their contingents, the whole amounting to forty sail; and

further appointed Alcidas to be admiral in chief, who was

ready to put himself at the head of the expedition. The

Athenians departed off the coast with their hundred sail,

when they saw their enemies had retreated.

cution of this design he divided the Athenians into four ranks, according

to every man's estate; those who were worth five hundred medimns of

liquid and dry commodities he placed in the first rank, calling- them Pen-

tacotiomedimni. The next were the horsemen, or Ifipeii, being such as were

of ability to furnish out a horse, or were worth three hundred medinuu.

The third class consisted of those that had two hundred medimns, who

were called Zeugita. In the last he placed all the rest, called them Thetet,

and allowed them not to be capable of bearing any office in the government,

only gave them a liberty to give their votes in all public assemblies ; which,

though at the first it appeared inconsiderable, was afterwards found to be

a very important privilege ; for it being permitted every man after the de­

termination of the magistrates to make an appeal to the people assembled

in convocation, hereby it came to pass, that causes of the greatest weight

and moment were brought before them. And thus he continued the power

and magistracy in the hands of the rich men, and yet neither exposed the

inferior people to their cruelty and oppression, nor wholly deprived them

of having a share in the government. And of this equality he himself

makes mention in this manner :

What power was fit I did on all bestow,

Nor rais'd the poor too high, nor press'd too low i

The rich that rul'd and every office bore,

Confin'd by laws they could not press the poor :

Both parties I secured from lawless might,

So none prevail'd upon another's right."—Mr. Ciu.cca.

