B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 307

armed soldiers, the harbour also to be occupied by the ships

of the enemy, which lay quiet in their posts, than perplexed

how to act they sailed back for the present to the isle of

Prone not far distant and desart, and there spent the night.

The day following, being formed into the order of bat­

tle, they shewed themselves again as ready for engagement,

should the enemy venture to stand out against them into the

open sea ; and if not, were determined to force their way

into the harbour. The enemy still kept in the same quiet

posture, nor set about executing their former design of bar­

ring the entrances. They continued in their usual position

along the shore, when they had manned their vessels, and

got every thing ready to engage the assailants should they

break into the harbour, where there was no danger of being

straitened for room. The Athenians, perceiving their in­

tent, broke into the harbour at both entrances. Falling

there upon the greater number of vessels now advanced into

deep water to obstruct the passage, they put them to flight;

and following the chace, which could be but short, they

shattered several, and took five, one of which had her

whole crew on board. They proceeded to attack the rest,

which had fled amain towards the shore. Some moreover,

which had just been manned, were disabled before they

could launch into the deep. Others, deserted by the mari­

ners who had fled along the shore, they fastened to their

own, and towed away empty. The Lacedaemonians seeing

these things, and prodigiously alarmed at the sad event,

lest now the communication should be cut off with the body

in the island, rushed down with all their force to prevent

it. Armed as they were they plunged into the water, and

catching hold of the vessels in tow pulled them back to­

wards the shore. It was now the apprehension of every

soul amongst them, that the business flagged wherever he

himself was not present. Great was the tumult in this con­

test for the ships, inverting the general custom of both con­

tending parties. For the Lacedaemonians, inflamed and

