hnri A Survey of the History.

though soon after he lost his country, through the malice of

his personal enemies and the enemies of his country in con­

junction with them, yet the statesmen and patriots left behind

pursued his plan of naval power: And the steps of its pro­

gress and advancement are minutely traced out by our His­

torian.

Themistocles had made all safe and secure at home.

The Lorig-walls were built; the Piroeus, a spacious harbour,

opened and fortified, a magazine for traffic, and an arsenal

for war. Aristides, as true a patriot as ever lived, made all

secure abroad. Through his honest management, all Greece

submitted to an annual tax, for the guard of their common

liberty against future invasions; and the leaders at sea were

made collectors and treasurers of this naval fund. The isle

of Delos was the place, at first, of lodging this fund; but it

was soon after removed to Athens ;—a shrewd political step,

yet capable however of an ample if not full justification.

The war is briskly carried on against the Persian monarch ;

the isles and seas are cleared of the common enemy; the

cities on the coast are regained or conquered. Cimon also

performs his part nobly; he earns two victories the same day,

by sea and land, on the coast of Ionia, from the Persians.

He compleated a negotiation with the petty maritime States,

confederate with Athens, who were tired of incessant war­

fare, for accepting sums of money instead of ships and per­

sonal attendance. By this means the shipping of those

States soon mouldered away, and their money was by their

own agreement sent thither, to increase and strengthen the

maritime power of Athens. In spite of all the opposition,

which the Corinthians and Boeotians gave them at home,

whose rancour to them was never to be appeased, in the

course of no large number of years, they had established a

very extensive and formidable empire indeed. The isles and

coasts of the iEgtan sea were mostly their own. The bay

of Sarone was intirely in their own jurisdiction: And, by

being masters of Naupactus, they considerably awed the

