B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 347

" spreads amongst us ; deterred further by these hopes already

" blasted, which assured us alternately of success against one

" another, had not they interfered to obstruct and controul

" us ; let us send far away from Sicily these enemies that are

" hovering about us ; let us enter into firm and lasting uni-

" on with one another; at least, let us conclude a truce for

" so long a time as can possibly be agreed, and defer our

" own private disputes to a remote decision. In a word, let

" us acknowledge, that, if my advice takes place, we shall

" continue free in our respective communities, where, mas-

" ters of ourselves and accountable to none besides, we shall

" be enabled to recompence both our friends and our foes ac-

" cording to their deserts. But, in case it be obstinately re­

jected, and the mischievous insinuations of others prevail,

" why then adieu henceforth to the just vindication of our

" own wrongs ; or, if we are violently bent upon effecting it,

" we must strike up a friendship with unrelenting foes, and

" must range ourselves in opposition there, where nature hath

" most closely attached us.

" For my own part, who now (as I observed at setting

u out) represent the greatest of the Sicilian states, and in

" this character am more accustomed to attack another than

" to defend myself, I here, in her name, conjure you to make

" use of conviction and unite together in a speedy accom-

" modation, nor so eagerly to thirst after the damage of our

" foes as to plunge ourselves into irreparable mischiefs. I

" am not conscious to myself of that foolish haughtiness of

" heart, which expects to be absolute in its own private will;

" or that fortune, whose master I am not, should attend my

" orders ; but I am ready to give way to good sense and rea-

" son. And I require you all respectively thus to give way

" to one another, and not to wait till you are compelled to

" do so by your enemies. It can argue no baseness, for

" kinsmen to give way to kinsmen, a Dorian to a Dorian, or

" a Chalcidean to others of his own race. Nay, what is

" most comprehensive, we are all neighbours, all joint-in­

