282 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

as they knew so well their method of battle, and their country.

Having reposed his army one night within the verge of the

temple of the Nemean Jove (in which the inhabitants have a

tradition that Hesiod the poet expired*, in pursuance of an

oracle which had fixed Nemea for the place, of his death), he

marched again at break of day and entered iEtolia. On the first

day he taketh Potidania, on the second Crocylium, and on the

third Tichium. There he halted, and sent away the booty to

Eupolium of Locris. It was now his resolution, after he had

subdued the rest, to march last of all against the Ophionians,

if they did not voluntarily submit beforehand, in his retreat

back to Naupactus.

This preparation against them did by no means escape

the iEtolians. The scheme was no sooner formed than they

had gained intelligence of it; and by that time the army

• The story of Hesiod's death is related by Plutarch in the The banquet

of the seven viite nun. Solon interposing here, said, " Such things, Diodes,

" must be referred immediately to the Gods, they are above human condi-

" t ion. But the case of Hesiod is within the lot of humanity, and concerns

" us all. But perhaps you know the story." 1 do not, he replied. " It is

" then well worth your hearing. A certain Milesian, it seems, in whose

" company Hesiod was hospitably lodged and entertained in Locris, had se-

" cretly debauched the daughter of their host. When the affair came to

" light, it was suspected that Hesiod had all along been privy to the in-

" trigue, and concealed such base behaviour; and though he was entirely

" innocent, he fell a victim to hasty resentment and foul calumniation. The

" brothers of the damsel laid wait for and slew him at the Nemean temple

" in Locris, and with him his servant, whose name was Troilus.' Their bo.

" dies being thrown into the sea, that of Troilus indeed, floating up into

" the river Daphnus, was stopped at a rock quite surrounded with water a

" small distance from the sea. But the moment Hesiod's body was thrown

" into the sea, a shoal of dolphins caught it and carried it to Rhium and

" Molycrium. The Locrians that very day were assembled at Khium for

'' a solemn festival and sacrifice, which they still continue to celebrate at

'4 the same place. The dead body was no sooner beheld in its approach,

" than, full of wonder, as was likely, they hurried down to the beach, and,

" knowing it to be the body of Hesiod, and very fresh, they postponed

" every other care to the discovery of this murder, from their high regard

" for Hesiod. This was soon done : the assassins were found out, whom

'' they threw headlong into the sea, and demolished their houses. But

" Hesiod was buried by them in the temple of the Nemean Jove."

