B. II. TEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431. 125

" Thus will they be always ready to attack with spirit, and

" be most firmly secured against a surprise.

" We are not marching against a people who are unable

" to defend themselves, but excellently well qualified for it

" in every respect; so that we may certainly depend upon

" their advancing against us to give us battle ;—not yet per-

" haps in motion, so long as no enemy appears ; but most

" assuredly so when once they see us in their territory,

" wasting and destroying their substance. All men must

" kindle into wrath, when uncommon injuries are unex-

" pectedly done them, when manifest outrage glares before

" them. Reflection then may indeed have lost its power,

"but resentment most strongly impels them to resistance.

"Something like this may more reasonably be looked for

M from Athenians than from other people. They esteem

" themselves worthy to command others, and their spirit is

" more turned to make than to suffer depredations. Against

" so formidable a people are we now to march ; and by the

" event, whatever it be, shall we acquire the greatest glory or

" disgrace for our ancestors and ourselves.—Let it therefore

" be the business of every man to follow his commander, ob-

" servant in every point of discipline and the rules of war,

" and obeying with expedition the orders you receive. The

" finest spectacle and the strongest defence is the uniform ob»

" servation of discipline by a numerous army."

When Archidamus had finished his oration and dismissed

the assembly, the first thing he did was sending to Athens

Melesippus a Spartan, the son of Diacritus, to try, whether

the Athenians were grown any thing more pliant, since they

found an army upon the march against them. But they

would not allow him to come into the city, nor grant him a

public audience. For the advice of Pericles had before this

gained the general assent, that " no herald or embassy should

be received from the Lacedaemonians so long as they were

in the field against them." They send him back therefore

unheard, and ordered him " to quit their territories that very .

Vol. I. 2 G

