B. III. 225 YEAR. V.—BEFORE CHRIST 427.

gan to flourish, and whatever had been spared in former in­

cursions, now fell before their fury. And this incursion, next

to the second, was the sharpest they ever made upon the

Athenians. For, having continued their stay so long, as to

give time to their squadron to arrive at Lesbos, and send

them news of their success, they had leisure to extend their

devastations over almost all the country. But when all their

expectations ended in disappointment, and forage began to

fail, they withdrew, and were disbanded to their respective

cities.

In the mean time the Mityleneans, when they saw nothing

of the squadron from Peloponnesus (which was loitering

in the course), and their provisions began to fail, are neces­

sitated to capitulate with the Athenians, upon this occasion—

Salaethus, who had also himself given up all hopes of relief,

causeth the populace, who before were light-armed, to put

on heavy armour, with a design to make a sally on the Athe­

nians. But they, so soon as they had received their armour,

would no longer obey their governors, but assembling together

in bodies, ordered those in authority either publicly to pro­

duce what provisions they had and divide equally among

them, or otherwise they would immediately make their own

terms with the Athenians, and give up the city. Those in

command being sensible that they had not force sufficient to

hinder this, and that their own danger would be extreme,

should they by standing out be excluded the capitulation,

join with them in procuring the following terms from Paches

and the Athenians—

" That it should be submitted to the people of Athens to

44 determine as they please in relation to the Mityleneans.

" That the Mityleneans should immediately receive their

" army into the city—and dispatch an embassy to them to

" know their pleasure.

" That sufficient respite should be indulged for this,

" during which Paches should put no one Mitylenean in

