B. III. 277 YEAR VI.—BEFORE CHRIST 426.

At Peparethus also the surge of the sea rose very high, but

did not overflow. An earthquake however demolished part

of the fortification*, the town-house, and some few dwel­

ling houses. My solution of such effects is this : Where

the shock of the earthquake was most violent, it forcibly

drove away the sea before it, which suddenly returning again

occasioned these more violent swells. And without an earth­

quake I deem all such accidents impossible.

The same summer many of other nations, as they hap­

pened to be drawn into the quarrel, were engaged in the war

of Sicily as well as the Sicilians themselves who took up

arms one against another, and the Athenians together with

their allies. Yet, the most memorable actions alone, either

of the allies thus aided by the Athenians, or of the common

enemy against the Athenians, shall I now relate.—Charoea-

das the Athenian commander having lost his life in the Sy-

racusan war, Laches, who had now the sole command of the

fleet, injunction with the allies, appeared before Myla of

the Messenians. The garrison of Mylae consisted of two

companies of Messenians ; and these had formed an am­

buscade to cut off the enemy when landed. But the Athe­

nians and allies drive them from the place of ambush with

great slaughter. Then they proceeded to assault the works,

which necessitated the defendants to give up their citadel

by capitulation, and even to attend them against Messene.

But after this, the Athenians and allies were no sooner ap­

proached, than the Messenians also compounded, giving

hostages and all other securities required for their future be­

haviour.

The same summer, the Athenians with thirty sail of

ships commanded by Demosthenesf the son of Alcisthenes-

• Prytaneum.

t This Demosthenes will make a considerable figure in the course of

this war. The most celebrated orator of the same name hath ranked him

amongst the greatest of his countrymen, with Aristides, Pericles, and Ni-

cias. He stiles him also an orator; and Thucydides will give us hereaf­

ter a specimen of his manner of haranguing. His name-tah indeed hath

Vol. I. 3 C

