DISCOURSE II. liii

graceful; his final colouring is neither bright nor cheerful.

But, though his pieces are not so completely finished as to

stand every test, yet they are certainly high-wrought in his

own peculiar style, and for greatness of design and strength

of expression are beyond every other hand.

I think no fair comparison can be made of him, except

with the historians who are his countrymen, who like him­

self are original in their own way, and the first in their man­

ner. These are only two, Herodotus and Xenophon. In

point of life, Thucydides was junior a little to the former,

and senior to the latter. In stateliness, grandeur, and ma­

jesty, he far surpasseth them both. The manner of Hero­

dotus is graceful and manly; his address is engaging; he

loves to tell a story ; and, however fabulous or trifling that

story, he will be heard with pleasure. The course of his

History is clear and smooth, and yields a most cheerful pros­

pect: That of Thucydides is deep, rapid, impetuous, and

therefore very apt to be rough and muddy. You may clearly

perceive the bottom of the one : But it is very hard to dive

to the bottom of the other. Herodotus, like a master on the

horn, can wind a lofty air, and without any harshness sink

down into the lowest and mellowest notes. Thucydides

sounds the trumpet; his blasts are sonorous and piercing, and

they are all of the martial strain*. Xenophon never pretends

to grandeur; his character is a beautiful simplicity; he is

sweeter than honey ; he charms every ear; the Muses them­

selves could not sing sweeter than he hath wrote. Each

beats and is beaten by the others in some particular points.

Each hath his particular excellence: That of Herodotus is

gracefulness ; that of Thucydides, grandeur; that of Xeno­

phon, sweetness itself. If generals and admirals and states­

men were to award the first rank, it would undoubtedly be

given for Thucydides ; if the calmer and more polite gentry,

it would go for Herodotus ; if all in general who can read or

hear, Xenophon hath it all to nothing.

• Cam quodammodo Mlicum. Cicero in the Orator.

