B. tV. TEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

" that is Attic, whilst those of Chalcidic, because of that

" Ionian affinity, are sure of their protection. The Athenians

" invade us not from private enmity, because we are peopled

" here from these divided races, but to gratify their lust after

" those blessings in which Sicily abounds, and which at pre-

" sent we jointly possess. Nay, this they have already

" clearly declared, by their ready compliance with the invi-

" tation of those of the Chalcidic race. For though they

" have never claimed assistance from hence by virtue of

" their natural attachments here, yet they have shewn a

" greater readiness in support of those than any compact be-

" tween them required. Yet though the Athenians be in

" this manner rapacious, in this manner politic, by me at

" least they ought to be forgiven; since I blame not men

" who are greedy of empire, but such as are too eager to

" bend their necks to their yoke : Because it is the constant

" never-failing turn of the human temper, to control who

" will submit, but to make head against more powerful in-

" croachments. As for us, who know these things, and yet

" will not timely provide against them, though each in this

" assembly be separately convinced, that it demands our

" greatest attention to unite in dissipating a storm which

" threatens us all, we err strangely in our conduct; especially,

" when its diversion might be so readily effected, would we

" only bring our private quarrels to an amicable determina-

" tion: For it is not from quarters of their own, that the

" Athenians rush thus to annoy us ; but from ground which

" belongs to those who invited them. Thus of course, with-

" out any intervening trouble, one war will not be terminated

"by another, but dissension will at once subside in peace.

" And these new-comers, who, under specious colours, are

" here for our ruin, must return again with a disappointment,

" which they may as speciously palliate. So desirable a bene-

" fit will at once infallibly accrue from proper determinations

" in regard to the Athenians.

" That peace is the greatest of human blessings, is a truth

