B. III. YEAR V.—'BEFORE CHRIST 427. 263

monians, since they had miscarried at Lesbos, to augment

their fleet, and sail immediately for Corcyra now embroiled

in sedition, as there were no Athenians in those parts, except­

ing only twelve ships which were stationed at Naupactus—

and thus their design might be effectuated, before a fleet large

enough to obstruct them could be sent from Athens.

This was their plan, and Brasidas and Alcidas prepared for

its execution.

The Corcyreans were now embroiled in a sedition, ex­

cited by the return of the prisoners, whom the Corinthians

had taken in the naval engagements of Epidamnus. They

had obtained their release, as was publicly given out, for

the sum of eighty talents*, for the payment of which their

former friends at Corinth had joined in a security ; but in

fact, for a secret promise they had made the Corinthians, to

put Corcyra into their hands. To fulfil their engagements

they tampered with every single Corcyrcan in order to bring

about a revolt from the Athenians. An Athenian and Co­

rinthian ship arrived at the same time with ambassadors on

board. These were admitted together to an audience, at

which the Corcyreans decreed, " to maintain their alliance

" with the Athenians according to treaty,—but to be friends

" to the Peloponnesians as in preceding times." Pythias,

who at that time was at the head of the people, entertained

and lodged the Athenians without the public warrant. And

therefore against him the accomplices prefer an accusation,

as plotting how to subject Corcyra to Athenian slavery.

Pythias being acquitted, in his turn exhibits a charge

against five of the most considerable of their number, for

having cut pales in the sacred grove of Jupiter and Alcinus.

The fine for every pale was by law a staterj. Being con­

demned to pay the whole, they fled into the temples and sat

down as supplicants, in hope to obtain a mitigation of their

line, which was quite exorbitant. Pythias, who was also

• 15,5001. .terlinfc. f H. 0s. 94.

