xxxvi On the Life of Thuctdides.

by surprise of the important city of Amphipolis: He had

very nearly succeeded. Eucles commanded there for the

Athenians. Thucydides was at this time in the isle of

Thasus, about half a day's sail from Amphipolis. A mes­

senger was dispatched to him, to hasten him up for the de­

fence of that city. He put to sea immediately with a small

squadron of seven ships. Brasidas, knowing he was com­

ing, opened a negotiation with the Amphipolitans, and

gained admission for his troops. Thucydides stood up the

Strymon in the evening, but too late, since Brasidas had got

fast possession of Amphipolis. The city of Eton is situated

also upon the river Strymon lower down, and about two miles

and a half from Amphipolis. Thucydides put in here, and

secured the place. " Brasidas (in his own words*) had de-

" signed that very night to seize Eton also. And, unless

" this squadron had come in thus critically to its defence, at

" break of day it had been lost." Thucydides, without losing

a moment, provided for its defence. Brasidas, with armed

boats, fell down the river from Amphipolis, and made two

attempts upon it, but was repulsed in both: tJpon which, he

gave up the scheme, and returned back.

One would imagine that Thucydides had done all that

could be done on this occasion, and deserved to be thanked

instead of punished. The people of Athens made a different

determination. Cleon was now the demagogue of greatest

influence there, and is generally supposed to have exasperated

them against the man, who had not wrought impossibilities

in saving their valuable town of Amphipolis. It is certain

their fury rose so high against him, that they stripped Thucy­

dides of his command, and passed the sentence of banish­

ment upon him. It is himself who tells usf, " It was his lot

" to suffer a twenty years exile from his country after the

" affair of Amphipolis."

We have thus lost Thucydides the commander to secure

more fast Thucydides the historian. Though sadly treated,

• Book the fourth. f B°°k the fifth.

