318 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR;

of them were forced to dig into the gravel upon the beach

of the sea, and take up with such water as could thus be

got. They were further very much straitened in their sta­

tion for want of room. They had not road enough for their

ships to ride in with tolerable convenience, so that alternately

one division lay ashore to take their necessary repasts, whilst

the other launched more to sea. But what discouraged them

most was the length of the blockade, so contrary to what

they had expected. They had imagined a few days siege

would have worn out a body of men shut up in a barren

island, and having only salt-water for their drink. But this

had been redressed by the Lacedaemonians, who had, by a

public edict, encouraged all who were willing to carry over

into the island meal, and wine, and cheese, and any other

eatable which might enable them to hold out, assigning a

large pecuniary reward for any successful attempt of this

nature, and promising freedom to every Helot who carried

them provisions. This was performed through a series of

dangers by several; but the Helots were most active of all,

who, putting off from Peloponnesus (wherever they chanced

to be), landed by favour of the dark on the side of the island

which lies upon the main-sea. Their chief precaution was

to run over in a hard gale of wind. For whenever the wind

blew from the sea, they were in less danger of being disco­

vered by the guard of triremes, which then could not safely

lie quite round the island. In executing this service they

put every thing to hazard. As a prior valuation had been

given in, they run their vessels on shore at all adventures;

and the heavy-armed soldiers were ready to receive them at

every place most convenient for landing. Those, however,

who ventured out when the weather was calm, were cer­

tainly intercepted. Such, further, as were expert at diving,

swam over through the harbour, dragging after them by a

string bottles filled with poppies mixed up with honey and

the powder of linseed. These for a time escaped discovery,

hut were afterwards closelv watched. No artifice was left

