250 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" selves your friends. But at length we became your

" enemies ! For that blame only yourselves : Because

•4 when we stood in great want of support against the vio-

" lence and oppression of the Thebans, to you we applied,

" and by you were rejected. You commanded us then to

" address ourselves to Athens. Athens you said was near,

" but Sparta lay too remote to serve us. Yet, notwithstand-

" ing this, in the present war we have committed no one

" dishonourable act in regard to you, nor should ever have

" committed. You injoined us indeed to revolt from the

" Athenians, and we refused to comply ; but in this we have

" done no injustice. For they marched chearfully to our

44 succour against the Thebans, when you shrunk back ; and

44 to betray them afterwards had been base in us; in us,

" who were highly indebted to them, who at our own re-

44 quest were received into their friendship, and honoured

44 by them with the freedom of Athens. No, it was rather

" our duty boldly to advance wherever they pleased to or-

44 der. And whenever either you or the Athenians lead out

44 your allies into the field, not such as merely follow you

44 are to be censured for any wrong you may respectively

" commit, but those who lead them out to its commission.

" Manifold and notorious are the instances in which the

44 Thebans have injured us. But outrageous above all is the

" last, about which you need no information, since by it we

"are plunged into this depth of distress. A right un-

" doubtedly we had to turn our avenging arms upon men,

" who in the midst of peace, and what is more, upon the sa-

" cred monthly solemnity, feloniously seized upon our city.

" We obeyed herein that great universal law, which justi-

44 fieth self-defence against a hostile invader ; and there-

44 fore cannot, with any appearance of equity, be now doom-

44 ed to punishment at their instigation. For, if your own

" immediate interest, and their present concurrence with you

" in war, is to prescribe and regulate your sentence, you

" will shew yourselves by no means fair judges of equity,

»4 but partially attached to private interest. What ? though

