252 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. -

" upon us whose reputation is yet unblemished; take care

" that you do not incur the general abhorrence, by an inde-

" cent sentence against valuable men, though you yourselves

" are more to be valued ; nor reposit in her common tem-

" pies those spoils you have taken from us the benefactors

" of Greece. How horrible will it seem for Plataea to be de-

" stroyed by Lacedaemonians ! that your fathers inscribed the

" city upon the tripod of Delphos in justice to its merit, and

" that you expunged its very being from the community of

" Greece to gratify the Thebans ! To such excess of misery

" have we been ever exposed, that if the Medes had prevail-

u ed we must have been utterly undone ; and now must be

" compleatly ruined by the Thebans, in the presence of you

" who were formerly our most cordial friends! Two of the

*4 sharpest, most painful trials we are to undergo, who but  
" latelv, had we not surrendered our city, must have gradu-

" allv perished by famine ; and now stand before a tribunal

" to be sentenced to death. Wretched Plataeans, by all man-

" kind abandoned ! We, who beyond our strength were once

" the supports of Greece, are now quite destitute, bereft of

" all redress! Not one of our old allies to appear in our behalf;

" and even you, O ye Lacedaemonians, you our only hope, as

" we have too much reason to apprehend, determined to give

" us up!

" But, by the Gods, who witnessed once the social oaths

" we mutually exchanged ; by that virtue we exerted for the

" general welfare of Greece ; by those we abjure you to be

" moved with compassion, and to relent, if with the Thebans

" you are combined against us. In gratitude to us, beg the

"favour of them, that they would not butcher whom you

" ought to spare ; demand such a modest requital from them

" for your base concurrence, and intail not infamy upon

" yourselves, to give others a cruel satisfaction. To take

" away our lives will be a short and easy task ; but then, to

" efface the infamy of it, will be a work of toil. You have

" no colour to wreak your vengeance upon us as enemies,

