166 THK PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" power, and of this let him be assured, who refines

" through fear, and hopes to earn indemnity by exerting it

" no longer. In your hands it hath run out into a kind of

" tyranny. To take it up seems indeed unjust, but to lay it

41 down is exceeding dangerous. And if such dastardly

" souls could persuade others, they would soon bring this

" state to utter ruin, or indeed any other, where they were

" members and enjoyed the chief administration of affairs.

" For the undisturbed and quiet life will be of short continu-

" ance without the interposition of a vigilant activity. Sla-

" very is never to be endured by a state that once hath go-

" verned—such a situation can be tolerable only to that which

" hath ever been dependent.

" Suffer not yourselves therefore to be seduced by men

" of such mean and groveling tempers, nor level your re-

" sentments at me—since, though I advised the war, it was

" not begun without your approbation—if the enemy hath

"invaded in such a manner as you could not but expect

" from your own resolutions never to be dependent. What

" though beyond our apprehensions we have suffered the

« sad visitation of pestilence! Such misfortunes no hu-

" man foresight will be able to prevent—though I know

" that even this hath in some measure served to sharpen

" your aversion to me. But if this be just, I claim as my

"lawful right the glory of all those happy contingencies,

" which may ever befal you beyond your expectation. The

" evils inflicted by heaven must be borne with patient resig­

nation; and the evils by enemies with manly fortitude.

" Such rational behaviour hath hitherto been habitual in

" Athens; let it not now be reversed by you ; by you,

" who know to what a pitch of excellence this State hath

" rose in the esteem of the. world, by not yielding to adver-

" sity, but by braving all the horrors of war, and pouring

"forth its blood in the glorious cause, hath reached the

" highest summit of power, and ever since retained it. The

" memory of this, time itself will never be able to efface.

