32 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" not please, to reverse your proceedings, and join with us in

" opposition to them—For, to the Corinthians you are bound

" by firm and lasting treaties, with the Corcyreans you have

" never yet transacted even for a truce, and by no means to

" establish a new law for receiving rcvolters from the other

" league. We ourselves did not, upon the Samian revolt,

" give our suffrage against you, when the rest of the Pelo-

" ponnesians were divided upon the question—whether they

" ought to be supported: But we openly maintained, that

" every state had a right to proceed against its own depend-

" ents. For if you receive and undertake the defence of

" those who have behaved amiss, the event will shew that

*- the greater number will come over to our side, and that  
" you establish a law prejudicial to yourselves much more

" than to us.

" The points of justice we have thus sufficiently cleared

" up to you, according to the general laws of Greece. We

" have only to add a word of advice and the claim of a fa-

" vour, such a one as we now affirm upon a principle of grati-

" tude ought not to be denied us who are neither your ene-

" mies so far as to hurt you, nor ever were your friends so

" far as to burden you. When formerly, before the invasion

" of the Medes, you were in want of long ships in your war

" against the iEginetae, you were supplied by the Corinthians

" with twenty. The service which we then did you, and

" that other more recent about the Samians, when we pre-

" vented their receiving any support from the Peloponnesi-

" ans, enabled you in their turns to vanish the iEgineta e and

" to chastise the Samians. And these services were done you

" at a season when the human attention, fixed intirely on war,

" regardeth nothing but what tendeth to victory. Whoever

" forwardeth this, men esteem their friend, though he was be-

" fore their foe ; and him who checketh it their foe, though

" perhaps he may be their real friend. For even domestic

" affairs are sorrily conducted at a time when the mind is in-

" flamed by contention.

" Recollect these things. Let the young man learn the

