DISCOURSE II. xllX

tory, which is pithy, nervous, and succinct, yet plain, strik­

ing, and manly. He never flourisheth, never plays upon

words, never sinks into puerilities, never swells into bom­

bast. It is a relation from the mouth of a very great man,

whose chief characteristic is gravity. Others talk more in­

genuously ; others utter themselves with a more cheerful

air; yet, every one must attend to Thucydides, must hearken

with serious and fixed attention, lest they lose a word, a

weighty and important word, by which the whole story

would be spoiled. It is in his Orations that he is most re­

markably obscure. He might not be so in so high a degree

to the apprehensions of mankind, when his history was first

-"made public. The world was then used to hear continual  
harangues: No business of a public nature could be carried

on without them. In his time, the speakers aimed intirely

at strength and brevity. If they were not exceeding quick,

the apprehensions of the Athenians would outstrip, or at

least affect to outstrip, their utterance. They must think

much, and yet leave much of what they had thought to the

ready conception of the audience. An orator in the follow­

ing history* calls them " Spectators of speeches." They

affected to discern at the first glance, and without waiting

for formal deduction and solemn inference, to be masters

of the point as it were by intuition. The more copious and

diffusive eloquence was the improvement of the next gene­

ration. But the most forcible orator, that even Athens ever

boasted, improved, if he did not quite learn, his peculiar

manner from Thucydides. It was Demosthenes, who co­

pied him in the close energy of his sentences, and the abrupt

rapidity of his thoughts. Demosthenes is said to have tran­

scribed him eight times over with his own hand: so diligently

did he persevere to form an intimate acquaintance with him,

and habituate himself to his quick manner of conception,

and to his close and rapid delivery. Cicero says howeverf,

that " no rhetorician of Greece ever drew any thing from

• Cleon's speech in book the third. t IQ ll|e Orator.

Vol, I, G

