civ A Survey of the History.

a time on a spot of ground, where nothing but ruin and de­

struction could befal them ? Men so dispirited can make

but faint opposition against an always high-spirited and now

successful enemy. They soon lose another battle, and the

decisive engagement is fast approaching.

But before it is fought, Thucydides, animated with more

than historic spirit, emulates his admired Homer, reviews

the parties concerned, and catalogues the troops now warring

against and in defence of Syracuse. This catalogue is far

from being a mere muster-roll of names. It is full of such

strokes as must imprint many useful and moral reflections in

the mind. His little incidental sketches represent mankind

in a true light, as Homer's do the world of nature. Homer

paints the soil, and Thucydides the people.

The mouth of the harbour is now barred up by the

enemy. The Athenians must fight their way out; or, burn

all their ships and march off by land. It is determined to

attempt the former: and the consequence is the battle with­

in the harbour of Syracuse. A more striking, more astonish­

ing battle-piece was never exhibited ; and a masterly pencil,

though none but a masterly one, might exactly delineate it

from this description. The present temper of the comba­

tants on both sides is strongly marked in the harangues be­

fore the engagement. Nicias then said all, and the Athe­

nians in action did their best; but all was unavailing. I

shall say no more about it, since the reader hath nothing

to do but to turn his eye towards it, and distinctly view it

through the whole of its process, till the Syracusans sail in

triumph to their city, and raise the most glorious of all their

trophies.

The wretched perplexities of the Athenians, the raising

of the siege, the mournful decampment, the good heart of

Nicias sympathising in all their distress, and endeavouring

to chear a little their desponding minds, their laborious

marches whilst the enemy is harassing them both in front

and in rear and on all sides, the surrender of the column

