SOME ACCOUNT OF DR. SMITH. six

ber 8, 1739, we read:—Mr. Smith, Rector of Trinity in Ches­

ter, "justly deserves the notice and thanks of the public for

" his version of Longinus on the Sublime. Though the learned

" will not be satisfied without tasting the beauties of the origi-

" nal, which cannot be translated in all their perfection, yet

" they may reap benefit and pleasure from the judicious sen-

u timents and ingenuity of the Translator, in his account of

" his Author, and from the notes which help to illustrate the

" text, and discover the excellency of the rules. To the un-

" learned also it may be of use, and give pleasure. It will

" enable him to read with more satisfaction, when he can

" read with more judgment and distinguish the perfections

" and faults of a writer. He will be the better able to bear

" his part in a rational conversation, and appear with credit,

" when his observations are just and natural. Such compo-

" sitions, while they form the understanding to a true taste,

" kindle an inclination to literature, and excite an emulation

" in mankind to distinguish themselves by such excellencies

" as distinguish men from brutes. Athens and Rome were

" even the glory of the whole world, when they were the

44 universities of the whole world; and those were reckoned

M the most accomplished gentlemen, who were the greatest

*4 scholars, the deepest philosophers, the most eloquent ora-  
" tors, and the best moralists. In England—would I could

" go on without reproaching my country." Mr. Hooker sent

a copy of this Miscellany to Mr. Smith, with the following

letter:

" Rev. Sir,

"Though I have not the happiness of being known

" to you, yet as I perceive by your public writings, that you

" are a gentleman of learning and parts, I take the liberty of

" desiring your assistance in the public design* committed to

" my care. Though it is the common concern of every one

" who wishes well to Religion and the Church of England,

• Mr. Smith did not comply with Ihia request respecting the Weekly

Miscellany.

