36 THE PEtOPONNESIAN WAR.

of Barbarians: For the people on that coast have ever con­

tinued their friends. When every thing was in order among

the Corinthians, taking in provisions for three days, they

weigh by night from Chimerium with a design to fight; and

having sailed along till break of day, they discover the ships

of the Corcyreans already out at sea, and advancing against

them. When thus they had got a view of each other, both

sides form into the order of battle. In the right wing of

the Corcyreans were the Athenian ships; the rest of the fleet

was all their own, ranged into three squadrons, each of

which were respectively under the orders of the three com­

manders : In this manner was the order of the Corcyreans

formed. In the right of the Corinthians were the ships of

the Megareans and Ambraciots; in the centre the other

allies in their several arrangements: The Corinthians formed

the left wing themselves, as their ships were the best sailers, to

oppose the Athenians and the right of the Corcyreans.

When* the signal-flags were hoisted on both sides, they ran

together and began the engagement; both sides having

stowed their decks with bodies of heavy-armed, with many

further that drew the bow or tossed the javelin. Their pre­

parations still retained something of the awkward manner of

antiquity. The engagement was sharply carried on, yet

* To give the English reader, once for all, a proper light into their  
I method of beginning an engagement, I shall quote the following para­

graph from archbishop Potter's Archaologia,\o\. ii. c. 21.

'' Before they joined battle, both parties invoked the Gods to their assist­

ance by prayers and sacrifices ; and the admirals going from ship to ship

in some of the lighter vessels, exhorted their soldiers in a set oration to

behave themselves like men : Then all things being in readiness, the sig­

nal was given by hanging out of the admiral's galley a gilded shield, as we

read in Plutarch, or a red garment or banner, which was termed ctlfm

vrifwitt. During the elevation of this the fight continued, and by its de­

pression or inclination towards the right or left, the rest of the ships were

directed in what manner to attack their enemies, or retreat from them.

To this was added the sound of trumpets, which was begun in the admi­

ral's galley, and continued round the whole navy; it was likewise usual for

the soldiers, before the fight, to aing a paran or hymn to Mars, and, after

the fight, another to Apollo."

