104 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR.

Salamjs; and, that out of regard to him, he had prevented

the breaking down of the bridges, which was mere fiction ;)

" and now, able to perform great services for you, I am

" near at hand, having been persecuted by the Grecians

" for my friendship to you. I beg only a year's respite,

" that I may notify to you in person those points which are

" the subject of my journey hither."

The king, it is said, was surprized at the spirit* of the

man, and ordered him to act as he desired. The time of

respite he had thus obtained he spent in making all possible

progress in the Persian language, and in learning the man­

ners of the country. When the year was elapsed, appearing

at court, he became a favourite with the iing; a greater than

any Greek had ever been before, as well on account of the

former lustre of his life, as the hope he suggested to him of

enslaving Greece ; but above all, by the specimens he gave

of his fine understanding.—For, in Themistocles the strength

• The boldness and intrepidity of Themistocles hath been the subject of

admiration, in throwing himself on the protection of the Persian monarch,

who had fixed a price on bis head. And yet be was so high in his esteem,

that the night after first giving him audience, he cried aloud thrice in hia

sleep, "1 have got Themistocles the Athenian." He afterwards acknow­

ledged himself 200 talents (near 40,0001. sterling) in his debt; " For so

much I promised the man that brought you to me." Themistocles soon

gave him a specimen of his fine understanding. He was desired by the

king to speak his mind freely in relation to the affairs of Greece : He an­

swered by his interpreter, that " discourse, like a Persian carpet, had in it

a variety of figures, which never appeared to advantage unless it was quite

unfolded, but were not to be apprehended, when wrapped up in the piece."

By this ingenious plea he obtained a year's respite to learn the Persian

language, that he might be enabled to deliver explicitly his own sentiments

to the king in his own words and method. He became afterwards so great

a favourite, that the most engaging promise in future times, that the Per­

sian monarch could make to a Greek whom he had a mind to inveigle into

his service, was " that he should live with him as Themistocles did with

" Artaxerxes." And yet no attachment to his royal friend ever made him an

enemy to his country; nor did his disinterested patriotism, of which never

man had more, ever render him ungrateful to his benefactor. Through his

bounty, he lived the remainder of his life in pomp and affluence, and was

used to say humorously to his children, " We had been undone, my

children, if we had not been undone."

