I On his Qualifications as a Historian.

" Thucydides. He hath indeed been praised by all; I own

" it; but, as a man, who was an explainer of facts with

" prudence, severity, and gravity: Not as a speaker at the

" bar, but a historical relater of wars. And therefore he was

" never numbered amongst the orators." Cicero learned

nothing from him: He could not, neither, in his own words,

" would he if he could." His talents were different; he

was quite in all respects accomplished; he was eloquence

itself. But Demosthenes—and can there be higher praise ?

—Demosthenes certainly loved, and studied Thucydides;

for whose perfection I am not arguing; I would only esta­

blish his character of loftiness and sublimity. Longinus*

proposeth him as the model of true grandeur and exaltation

in writing history.

And now I have mentioned this princely and most ju­

dicious critic, let us call Thucydides to take a trial at his

bar, and see whether he hath all the genuine constituents of

the true sublime.—For elevation of thought, for his power

in alarming and interesting the passions, for his bold and fre­

quent use of figures, his character will soon be established.

Even Dionysius of Halicarnassus bears testimony here, who

loved him not, and would have been glad to degrade him.

Plutarch calls him the most pathetic, and a writer of the

greatest energy and variety that ever was. The scenes in

his history are strong, most expressive paintings. He makes

the past to be present; he makes hearing sight. In the

very words of Plutarchf—" His readers are thrown into

" the same astonishment and hurry of passion, as the eye-

" witnesses to every scene must have felt. Demosthenes

" drawing up his men on the craggy shore of Pylus—Bra-

" sidas calling out on his pilot to run the vessel ashore, get-

" ting himself on the stairs, then wounded, fainting, falling

" down on the gunnel; here, the Spartans fighting a land-

" battle from the water, the Athenians a naval-battle from

the shore ;—and again, in the Sicilian war, the land-

• On the Sublime. Stfctiun 14. t De Gloria Atheniensium.

