fciBCbtrftsE in. lix

which he cleared the isles of the pirates, who had settled up*

on them to set out readier from thence on their plundering

excursions.—The grand fleet, that carried such a numerous

army to Troy, was a mere collection of transports. Thucy-

dides gives us a just and clear idea of that famous expedi­

tion. After this celebrated sera*, the Corinthians were the

first people of Greece, who became in reality a maritime

power, Theii1 peculiar situation gave them an inclination

and opportunity for commerce ; and commerce must have

strength to guard and support it. They first improved a

vessel of burden into a ship of warf, and set power afloat as

well as wealth.

Their neighbours in the isle of Corcyra soon followed their

example, and, though originally a colony of their own, be*

came a rival power at sea. They fought on their own dar-

Jing element for superiority*.. This was the most ancient

sea-fight, but it was not decisive. They continued for twc*

Centuries more to be rival and jarring powers ; till a third*

that of Athens grew up, which politically joined with one to

gain the ascendant over them both, and to assert the empire

of the sea for itself.

The claim both of Corcyra and Corinth to the town of

Epidamnus had occasioned their most recent embroilment^,

and a hot war, in which the Corcyreans applied for the al­

liance and aid of Athens. On this was afterwards grounded

the first pretext for the Peloponnesian war, and therefore

our Author opens the affair at large. Athens held the ba­

lance of power in her hands : How she came to be possessed

of it will soon give room for as pertinent a digression as

Thucydides could have wished. Ambassadors from both

parties are soon at Athens; one, to negotiate alliance and

aid; the other, to traverse their negotiation. The people of

Athens, in whom the supreme power was vested, admit

them both to audience, and orations of course must follow.

• Before Christ 904. f Before Christ 697.

\ Before Christ 657. § Before Christ 433.

