334 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

The number of Corinthians slain in the battle was two

hundred and twelve ; that of Athenians somewhat less than

fifty.

The Athenians, leaving the islands, appeared the same

day before Crommyon, situated in its territory, and distant

from the city of Corinth one hundred and twenty stadia*.

They landed and ravaged the country, and that night re­

posed themselves there. The day following they sailed

along the coast, first to Epidaurus ; and, after a kind of de­

scent there, arrived at Methone, which lies between Epidau­

rus and Troezen. Possessing themselves there of the isthmus

of Cherronesus on which Methone is situated, they run up

a wall across it, and fixed a garrison of continuance in that

post, which for the future extended their depredations over

all the districts of Troezen, Halias, and Epidaurus. But the

fleet, when once this post was sufficiently secured, sailed away

for Athens.

During the space of time which co-incided with these

transactions, Eurymedon and Sophocles, who with the ships

of the Athenians had quitted Pylus to proceed in the voyage

to Sicily, arrived at Corcyra. They joined the Corcyreans

of the city, marching out against those who were posted on

the mount of Istone, that party who repassing soon after the

sedition were at this time masters of the country, and corn-

two bodies was, according to that writer, an actual renunciation of the vic­

tory ; since it was against all rules for persons who had condescended to

such a submission, to erect a trophy. But, without disparaging the good

qualities of Nicias, or his obedience to the institutions of his country in
re­

gard to the dead, which were ever most sacredly observed, it may be ques­

tioned, whether he renounced the victory on this occasion. Thucydides

says the trophy was already erected, which ascertained, without doubt, the

honour of the victory, and nothing is said of its demolition by the Corinthi­

ans, when they received this request of truce from Nicias. His re-em­

barking in a hurry seems a distinct affair. It had no connexion with the

late battle, which had been clearly and fairly won ; but was owing to a

fresh army coming into the field on the side of the enemy. This stopped

him indeed from gaining any fresh honour, but surely did not deprive him

of what he was already possessed of.

• About 12 English miles.

