B. IV. 393 YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423.

the town to secure it, and then repassed to Torone. But

soon after he transported thither the greater part of his force,

designing with the aid of the Scioneans to make attempts

upon Mende and Potidaea. He concluded however that the

Athenians would lose no time in throwing in a succour as

into an island, and so he endeavoured to be beforehand with

them.

He had already formed an intelligence to the prejudice of

those cities to get them betrayed: and he was now intent on

executing his schemes against them. But during this pause,

Aristonymus dispatched by the Athenians, and Athenaeus

by the Lacedaemonians to circulate the news, arrive in a tri足

reme, and notify to him the suspension of arms. His forces

were then transported back to Torone.

The persons employed communicated the articles of thcs

truce to Brasidas, and all the Lacedaemonian confederates

in Thrace declared their acquiescence in what had been

done. Aristonymus was well satisfied in other respects, but

finding, by computing the days, that the revolt of the Scio足

neans was too late in point of time, he protested against

their being intitled to the benefit of the truce. Brasidas on

the other hand urged many arguments to prove it prior in

time, and refuseth to restore that city. When therefore

Aristonymus had reported this affair at Athens, the Athe足

nians in an instant were ready to take up arms again for the

reduction of Scione. But the Lacedaemonians, by an em足

bassy purposely dispatched, remonstrated that " they should

" regard such a proceeding as a breach of the truce," and

asserted " their right to the city as they reposed entire cre-

" dit on Brasidas ; however, they were ready to refer the

" dispute to a fair arbitration." The others refused to abide

by so hazardous a decision, but would recover it as soon as

possible by force of arms. They were irritated at the

thought, that persons seated as it were upon an island should

presume to revolt from them, and place such confidence in

the unprofitable land power of the Lacedaemonians. There

