B. iV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 379

except such as were privy to his design. For there resided

in the place a body of Argillians, who are an Andrian co­

lony, and others who acted in combination with him, some

of them at the instigation of Perdiccas, and others at that

of the Chalcideans: But in a more particular manner the

Argillians, who had a place of residence very near it, who

farther had ever been suspected by the Athenians, and were

really intent on the ruin of the place when now a fair op­

portunity was within their reach, and Brasidas at hand (who

long before had been tampering with these inhabitants of

foreign mixture) in order to have the city betrayed to him.

The Argyllians at this juncture received him into their own

city, and revolting from the Athenians led his army forwards

that very night to the bridge laid over the Strymon. The

city is seated at some distance from this pass; and it was

not then defended by a fort as it is now, but was only the

station of a small party of guards. Brasidas therefore easily

forced the guard, being favoured in some degree by treachery,

not a little also by the season and his own unexpected ap­

proach. He then passed the bridge, and was immediately

master of all the effects of those Amphipolitans who reside

in all the tract without the walls. Thjs passage was so

sudden, that those within the city had no notice of it; and

as to those without, many of them being seized, and others

flying for preservation within the wall, the Amphipolitans

were thrown into vast confusion, increased by their mutual

suspicions of one another. And it is said, that if Brasidas,

instead of permitting his troops to disperse for plunder, had

advanced directly against the city, it must unavoidably have

fallen into his hands. But he, on the contrary, having or­

dered them to halt, employed himself in the ravage of what

lay without; and, finding nothing effectuated in his favour

by accomplices within, he for the present desisted. But

those his accomplices were overpowered in number by the

opposite party, who prevented their opening the gates im­

mediately to Brasidas; and, acting in concert with Eucles.

