Xti PREFACE.

are used, which Thucydides ever studiously avoided. Such

frequently occur in the midst of some grand circumstance,

which they throw into a kind of burlesque, and may excite a

reader's laughter. The English language has gone through

a great variation, hath been highly polished, since Mr. Hobbes

wrote. Hence, though his terms be in general very intelli­

gible, yet they have not that neatness, precision, and dignity,

to which the polite and refined writers within the last century

have habituated our eats. And, after all, I am inclined to

think, that Mr. Hobbes either executed in great haste, or per­

formed his revisals in a very cursory and negligent manner.

I am inclined to think so from the very many passages, neces­

sary and emphatical periods, nay sometimes in the very

speeches, which to my great surprise I have found omitted

in his translation. A particle, an epithet, or even a comma,

may with the greatest attention sometimes be dropped in a

long work. But the omissions in Mr. Hobbes are too nu­

merous and important, to be excused in any tolerable con­

sistence with repeated care and circumspection.

Monsieur Bayle hath ascribed the translation of Thucy­

dides by Mr. Hobbes to a motive of which he hath not left

the least hint himself in his preface ;—" in order to shew the

" English, in the history of the Athenians, the disorders and

" confusions of a democratical government." Mr. Hobbes

could not possibly, so long before they happened, foresee the

strange revolutions, that were soon to take place in the go­

vernment of his country. The very actors in them could

not possibly discern the consequences of their own embroil­

ments. Some violent incroachments had indeed been made

on the liberty and property of Englishmen, and a spirit of dis­

content began to spread throughout the nation. But it can­

not be supposed, that the plan of a commonwealth was form­

ed at that time, or for several years after. The history of

Thucydides abundantly shews, how dangerous and destruc­

tive is faction in a State ; that severe or wanton power may

make men desperate ; and that liberty abused may make

