B. I. 115- INTRODUCTION.

"be found neither in the fields, nor the markets, nor by sea, nor by land.

4' Upon this, being- just ready to starve, away they go to Lacedaemon, to

" get the decree reversed which had been made on account of three

" whores. It would not do, embassy after embassy had no avail, and then

" immediately rose all this clattering of shields."

Calumny hath a dart always left in her quiver, and in another comedy of

Aristophanes we find another let fly at Pericles. This was, his being an

accomplice with Phidias in secreting some of the gold issued from the pub-

lit- treasury for the statue of Minerva in the citadel, the workmanship of

that celebrated artist. In his comedy called The Peace, Mercury says

" Ye wise husbandmen, attend to my words, if you have a mind to know

"how things came into this sad confusion. Phidias was the first cause of

"it by cheating the public. Then Pericles helped it forwards, for fear he

"should share the fate of Phidias. He stood in awe of your tempers : he

" was afraid of falling under your censure ; so, to prevent his own personal

" danger, he set the whole continuity in a flame, by lighting up first that

" little spark of the decree against Megara. He then blew up that spark

" into this mighty war, the smoke of which hath fetched tears from all the

" eyes of Greece, from Grecians on both sides."

Pericles had employed Phidias in adorning Athens. The fine taste of

the patron and fine execution of the artist have been universally acknow­

ledged. An accusation however was preferred against Phidias by one of

his workmen, that he had secreted some gold. By the advice of Pericles

he had laid it on so artfully, that it might be taken off without prejudicing

the statue. The trial accordingly was made, and the gold found to answer

weight. It seems, however, that Phidias was banished; because as the

enemies of Pericles attacked him at the same time, for impiety in the per­

sons of his beloved Aspasia and his preceptor in philosophy Anaxagoras,

and for a cheat in that of his favourite artist, he had only influence enough

to save the former, by pleading earnestly for her, and softening his plea

with abundant tears.

Both Plutarch and Cornelius Ncpos have recorded a third story of Peri­

cles in relation to this war. It is this—Alcibiades, then a youth, saw him

in a very pensive and melancholy mood, and demanded the reason of it.

Pericles told him " great sums of public money had passed through his

" hands, and he knew not how to make up his accounts." " Contrive

" then," replied Alcibiades, " to give no account at all." And in pursuance

of this advice he is said to have involved the state in the Pelopomesian

war. But is not Thucydides more to be depended upon than a whole host

of writers of scandal, memoirs, private history, and satire .' If we listen to

the latter, there never was and never will he any truth in history ; there

never was, nor is there this moment any true worth or merit in the world.

A buffoon can degrade a hero, a spiteful satirist cloud every good quality

in others, and the ears and hearts of men will he filled with nothing but

detraction and slander.

