120 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

event, they cast their attention towards the Plataeans, who

were still without: For the people of Plataea were scattered

about the adjacent country with their implements of hus­

bandry, because annoyance in time of peace was quite un«

expected. They were desirous to catch some of these as ex­

change for their own people within the city, if any were yet

living and prisoners there. On this they were fully bent;

but in the midst of their project the Plataeans, who suspected

the probability of some such design, and were anxious for

their people yet without, dispatched a herald to the The-

bans, representing to them—" the injustice of the attempt

already made ; since treaties subsisting, they had endea­

voured to surprize the city;" and then warned them " to

desist from any violence to those without. If not, they po­

sitively declared they would put all the prisoners yet alive

to the sword; whereas, in case they retired peaceably out

of their territory, they would deliver them up unhurt." This

account the Thebans give, and say farther it was sworn

to. The Plataeans disown the promise of an immediate dis­

charge of the prisoners, which was reserved for terms to be

agreed on in a subsequent treaty, and flatly deny that they

swore. The Thebans however retired out of their territory,

without committing any violence. But the Plataeans, when

they had with expedition fetched into the city all their effects

of value that were out in the fields, immediately put all their

prisoners to the sword. The number of those that were taken

was one hundred and eighty. Eurymachus was amongst

them, with whom the traitors had concerted the surprize.

And this done, they dispatched a messenger to Athens ; and

restored to the Thebans their dead under truce. And then

they regulated the affairs of the city in the manner most suit­

able to their present situation.

The news of the surprised of Plataea had soon reached

the Athenians, who immediately apprehended all the Boeo­

tians then in Attica, and dispatched a herald to Plateea with

orders—" to proceed no farther against the Theban pri­

