43 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

and friend. His enmity was occasioned by an alliance the

Athenians had formed with his brother Philip and Derdas,

who were jointly in opposition against him. Alarmed at

this, he sent proper persons to Lacedaemon to stir up against

them a Peloponnesian war, and to draw over the Corin­

thians into his interest, in order to bring about the revolt of

Potidxa. He had also been tampering with the Chalci-

deans of Thrace and the Bottiaeans to persuade them to re­

volt at the same time ; concluding, that if he could bring

about a junction of the adjacent people, he might venture a

war against them with greater probability of success. The

Athenians perceived, his scheme, and were desirous to pre­

vent the revolt of the cities. They had begun an expedi­

tion against his territories with a fleet of thirty ships and a

thousand heavy-armed, under the command of Achestratus

the son of Lycomedes associated with ten others in this ser­

vice. They gave particular orders to the commanders to

take hostages from the Potidaeans and to demolish their

walls, and to keep a watchful eye over the neighbouring

cities that they might not revolt. The Potidaeans had al­

ready sent ambassadors to the Athenians, to dissuade them

if possible from the execution of any new designs against

them: And had at the same time dispatched an embassy

to Lacedaemon along with the Corinthians, instructed to

procure a promise of redress if there should be occasion.

But, when their long negotiation at Athens proved quite in­

effectual, and the fleet was gone out to sea both against Ma­

cedonia and themselves; when, farther, the regency at La-

ceda:mon had given a promise to make an irruption into

Attica, if the Athenians should attempt any thing against

Potidaea; upon this encouragement, without loss of time,

they revolt in conjunction with the Chalcideans and Bot-

tiaeans, all combined by an oath of mutual defence and sup­

port. Perdiccas, farther, prevaileth with the Chalcideans to

abandon and demolish all their towns upon the sea-coast,

and then to remove to Olynthus and fortify that town by a

