B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 367

dreaded the loss of their fruit, resolved to revolt from the

Athenians. Then they required of Brasidas himself to swear

the oath of their security, which the Lacedaemonian magis­

trates had at his departure injoined him to take, that " what-

" ever people was brought over into their alliance by him

" should remain in possession of their own liberties and laws,"

and this done, they receive his army. Not long after, Sta-

gyrus also, another colony of the Andrians, revolted. And

thus ended the transactions of this summer.

Very early in the succeeding winter, when the strong places

of Boeotia were to have been betrayed to Hippocrates and

Demosthenes the Athenian commanders,preparatory to which

Demosthenes was to shew himself with his fleet before Siphae,

and the other to march to Delium, there happened a mistake

about the days prefixed for execution. Demosthenes indeed,

who steered towards Siphae, and had on board the Acarna-

nians, and many of the confederates of that quarter, is totally

disappointed. The whole scheme had been betrayed by Ni-

comachus, the Phocian of Phanotis, who gave information of

it to the Lacedaemonians, and they to the Boeotians. All

Boeotians now taking up arms to prevent consequences (for

Hippocrates was not yet in their country to distress them on

that side), Siphae and Chaeronea are secured in time. And

so soon as the conspirators perceived that things went wrong,

they gave up all farther thoughts of exciting commotions in

the cities.

Hippocrates, having summoned into the field the whole

force of Athens, as well citizens as sojourners, not excepting

even foreigners who chanced at that time to be there, ar-

riveth too late before Delium, not before the Boeotians were

returned home again from Siphae. He incamped his forces,

and set about fortifying Delium, the temple of Apollo, in the

following manner.—Round about the temple and its pre­

cincts they sunk a ditch: Of the earth thrown up they formed

a rampart instead of a wall. They drove into the ground on

each side a row of stakes, and then threw on the vines they

