£. I. Ill INTRODUCTION.

" fully exercised at starts ; or rather, there is nothing -which

" so much requireth an uninterrupted application.

" If, farther, they should secrete the funds laid up at Olym-

" pia and Delphi, and endeavour, by an increase of pay to se-

" duce from our service the foreigners, who are on board our

" fleets ;—in case we were not their equals in strength, and

" they themselves and such foreigners could entirely apply

" themselves to the work:—This then might be terrible in-

" deed. But nought would it avail them now, whilst—what

" is our peculiar advantage—we have commanders Athenian-

" born and seamen to man our fleets, in larger number and of

" greater skill than all the rest of Greece together. Besides,

" in so dangerous a crisis, not one of these foreigners would

" think of bartering an exile from his own settlement, and a

" desertion to that side where the prospect of victory is not

*4 near so inviting, for an enlargement of his pay of few days  
" continuance.

" The state of the Peloponnesians I judge to be such, or

" very nearly such as I have described it; whereas our own

" is exempt from those defects which I have pointed out in

" them, and enjoys other great advantages far beyond their

" competition. Grant, that they may invade our territories

" by land: We too shall make descents upon theirs. And—

" whether is the greatest damage, only some part of Pelopon-

" nesus, or all Attica put to fire and sword—will admit of no

" comparison. In the former case they will have no other

" land to repair the damage, but what they must earn by dint

" of arms: Whilst we have large tracts already in our power,

" both in the islands and on the main. Of vast conse-

" quence indeed is the dominion of the sea. But—consider

" it with attention. For, were we seated upon an island,

" which of us would be subdued with greater difficulty ?

" And now, you ought to think, that our present situation is

" as nearly as possible the same ; and so, to evacuate your

" lands and houses here, to confine your defence to the

" sea, and to Athens itself; and not exasperated against the

" Peloponnesians for the sake of those, to hazard a battle

