THE PELOPOSNESIA* WAR.

the keenest spirit. They most daringly projected, and then

regularly executed the most dreadful machinations. Their

revenge was not limited by justice or the public welfare ; it

aimed at more ample satisfaction. Either side constantly

measured it by such retaliation as was judged the sweetest,

either by a capital condemnation through an iniquitous sen­

tence, or by earning the victory with their own hands, in

which they were always ready to glut the present rancour of

their hearts. And hence it was, that the pious and upright

conduct was on both sides disregarded. And, when any

point of great importance was before them, to carry it by

specious collusive oratory was the greatest enhancement of

their credit. Yet all this while, the moderate members of

such communities either hated because they would not

meddle, or, envied for such obnoxious conduct, fell victims

to both.

Seditions in this manner introduced every species of out­

rageous wickedness into the Grecian manners. Sincerity,

which is most frequently to be found in generous tempers,

was laughed out of countenance and for ever vanished. It

was become the universal practice, to keep up a constant

enmity of intention against one another, and never to be­

lieve. No promise was strong enough, no oath sufficiently

solemn, to banish such mutual diffidence. Those who ex­

celled in shrewd consideration resigned all hope of any last­

ing security, and stood ever on their guard against whom it

was impossible for them to trust. But persons of meaner

understandings took more effectual means for their preser­

vation. Living in constant apprehensions, from their own

inferiority and the craft of their opponents, lest by words

they should be over-reached, or that such subtle heads

might execute their treacheries upon them unawares, they

boldly seized the present moment, and at once dispatched

the men they dreaded ; who, presuming too much on their

own penetration, and that it was superfluous to aim a blow

at those whom they could at any time supplant by cunning.

