B. I. INTRODUCTION.

This was the pollution which the Lacedaemonians required

them to drive away; with a face indeed of piety, as vindicat­

ing the honour of the Gods; but knowing at the same time

that Pericles the son of Xantippus was tainted with it by the

side of his mother; and thence concluding that if he could be

removed, the Athenians would more easily be brought to an

accommodation with them. They could not carry their hopes

so far as actually to effect his banishment, but to raise against

him the public odium, as if the war was partly owing to the

misfortune they suffered in him. For, carrying with him

the greatest sway of any Athenian then alive, and presiding

entirely in the administration, he was most steady in opposi­

tion to the Lacedaemonians, dissuading the Athenians from

any concession, and exciting them to the war.

The Athenians in return required the Lacedaemonians

" to drive away the pollution contracted at Taenarus." For

the Lacedaemonians some time ago, having caused their sup­

plicant Helots to rise out of Neptune's temple at Taenarus,

had led them aside, and slew them. And to this action they

themselves impute the great earthquake, which happened af­

terwards at Sparta.

They further required them " to drive away the pollution

of the Chalciaecan Pallas," the nature of which was this:

When Pausanias the Lacedaemonian, upon his being first

recalled by the Spartans from his command in Hellespont!

and brought to his trial before them, was acquitted of the

charge of male-administration, but was no longer intrusted

with the public commission; fitting out an Hermionian tri­

reme on his own private account, he arriveth in Hellespont,

without any authority from the Lacedaemonians. He gave

out that he did it for the service of the Grecian war; but his

intention was to carry on his negotiations with the king,

which, aspiring to the monarchy of Greece, he had begun

before. He had formerly conferred an obligation upon the

king, from which the whole of his project took its date.

When, after the return from Cyprus, during his first appear­

