400 THE PKI.OPONNF.SIAN WAR.

Stionc with the armament they had provided, consisting of

fifty ships, ten of which were Chian, of a thousand heavy-

armed of their own citizens, six hundred archers, a thousand

mercenary Thracians, and a body of targeteers furnished by

their adjacent dependents : Nicias the son of Niceratus and

Nicostratus the son of Diotrephes had the command of the

whole. They weighed from Potidaea, and landing at the

temple of Neptune marched directly for Mende. The Men-

dans, with their own force and three hundred Scioneans

who were come to their succour, and the Peloponnesian

auxiliaries, in all seven hundred heavy-armed under the com­

mand of Polydamidas, were encamped without the city upon

a strong eminence. Nicias taking with him a hundred and

twenty light-armed Methoneans and sixty picked men of the

heavy-armed Athenians, and all the archers, attempted to

mount by a path that led up the eminence ; but, being galled

by the enemy, was not able to force the ascent. Nicostratus,

with all the rest of the force, having fetched a compass about,

in order to mourn: in a remote quarter, where the ascent was

impracticable, was quite thrown into disorder; and thus the

whole Athenian army narrowly escaped a total defeat. As

therefore the Mend^ans and allies maintained their post the

whole clay, the Athenians drew off and encamped. And,

when night came on, the Mendeans withdrew into the city.

The next day, the Athenians sailing round to the Scione-

side possessed themselves of the suburbs, and spent the

whole day in ravaging the country, as not a soul sallied out

to obstruct them: For some bustles now were on foot in the

city inclining to a sedition. The three hundred Scioneans

departed also in the succeeding night to their own home :

And the day following Nicias, advancing with a moiety of

the force within their frontier, ravaged the district of the

Scioneans ; whilst Nicostratus, with the remainder, sat down

before the upper gates of Mende, from whence the road

leadcth to Potidaea. But Polvdamidas. as the MeatU-ans

