242 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" are the sources of all our evils; and these invisible princi-

" pies within us are too strong for all the terrors that are

" seen without. To these add fortune, who contributes her

" ample share to divest the mind of its balance. She shews

" herself by unexpected starts, and encourageth even the in-

" competent to venture dangers, and hath a greater influence

" over communities, as the ends proposed by them are of

" the greatest concern, such as liberty or dominion, where

" every individual, amidst the universal ardour, unaccount-

" ably plumes himself up, and acts with a spirit above him-

" self. But in truth, it is quite impossible: it is a proof of

" egregious folly to imagine, when human nature is impelled

" by its own impetuous passions towards such objects, that

" the force of laws or any intervening terror is strong enough

" to divert them from the mark. Hence therefore ariseth

" the strongest dissuasive to us from confiding in the penal-

" ty of death as the only pledge of our future safety, which

"must betray us into weak prejudicial measures, which

" must drive all revolters into utter despair, by shewing

" them plainly, that we shall never accept repentance,

44 shall not give them one moment's indulgence to palliate

" their offences.

" Consider with yourselves, in the merciful light, that a

" revolted city, when for certainty assured that it cannot

" hold out, may submit upon our own conditions, whilst yet

" in a capacity to reimburse our expences, and to advance

M the future tribute. But in the opposite case, can you ima­

gine there is any city which will not better prepare itself

" for revolt than M itylene hath done ; and hold out a siege

" to the last extremity ? Is there no difference between a

" quick and a slow submission ? Shall not we be hurt, if

" forced through their despair to continue a tedious and ex-

" pensive siege ; and, when the place is taken, to be masters

" only of one heap of desolation, unable for the future

" to squeeze the least pittance of revenue from it ? It is re-

" venue alone which renders us a terror to our foes. We

«i

