B. III. TEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426. 279

themselves under the Athenian protection; but afterwards,

apprehending they might not be hearty in their support,

they made application to Lacedsrmbn by Tisamenus the de­

legate appointed by them on this occasion. The Dorians

too, from whom the Lacedaemonians are descended, sent

their embassadors also to accompany and join with him in

the negociation, for they likewise were infested by these

Oetfeans. The Lacedaemonians, after an audience, resolved

to send out this colony, as a sure expedient not only to pro­

tect the Trachinians and Dorians from insult, but to annoy

the Athenians more sensibly, in the course of the war, from

a city so commodiously seated. For thence they could at

any time make an attack upon Euboea, as the passage was

but short; and further, it lay most conveniently upon the

road to Thrace. In a word, they were very eager about

building this city. In the first place therefore, they begged

the advice of the God at Delphi. His answer being favour­

able, they sent out a colony composed of their own and the

neighbouring people ; encouraging farther all Grecian adven­

turers whatever to join in this settlement, except Ionians

and Achaeans, and some of foreign nations. Three Lace­

daemonians are appointed to be the leaders of this colony ;

Leon, and Alcidas, and Damagon. These arriving at the

spot erect upon a new foundation and wall round the city

which is now called Heraclea, distant about forty stadia*

from Thermopyl*, and twenty from the sea. They proceed­

ed next to build the naval docks ; and these they began at

Thermopylae close under the straits, since there the}' were

capable of the strongest defence.

The Athenians, when they saw the large resort to this co­

lony, were at first under great apprehensions. They sus­

pected it to be chiefly intended for the annoyance of Eu­

boea, as the passage from it was short to Cenaeum in Eu-

bcea ; though, in the sequel, their apprehensions proved en­

tirely groundless. Not the least damage accrued to them

* About four miles'.

