DISCOURSE III. XCI

at peace with Sparta, by means of truces for thirty years.

Young Alcibiades doth all he can to promote the quarrel,

till at length the troops of Sparta and Argos come to an en足

gagement near the city of Mantinea. Thucydides intro-

duceth the battle with all the spirit and precision of Homer.

The -auxiliaries are marshalled, and animated by such exhor足

tations, as are best suited to the peculiar circumstances of

each. The Spartans are exhibited at last in all their glorv.

Trained up for a camp and the day of battle, we shall view

them in their discipline and actual exertion of their personal

bravery. They were excellent combatants indeed ; and the

reader will judge, whether Thucydides did not love good

soldiers, and take a pleasure in doing them justice. It was

the greatest battle, which for many years had been fought

in Greece. The Spartans, on this occasion, wiped off all the

imputations that had lately been thrown on their bravery,

because they had not been always successful: And the

Spiring State of Argos is compelled to acquiesce in her

usual rank, and still leave the contention for supremacy to

the leading States of Athens and Sparta.

This Book affords but one incident more, of consequence

enough to be particularly distinguished ; and that is the

conquest of the isle of Melos by the Athenians, which fell

out in the sixteenth year of the war. When the Athenians

were landed and encamped on that island, they summon the

Melians to a conference, of which Thucydides hath drawn

out the particulars. It is really an uncommon one, and had

sadly puzzled the critics, whether they should praise or con足

demn it. But, is there any thing more unnatural in reciting

what was said at it, than in holding a conference ? It is my

business only to look at the management of it, and not draw

a veil over the Athenian politics, as they are avowed on this

occasion, since my author was too impartial to do it. No足

thing could tempt him to make palliating representations,

or to suppress the truth.

" The Athenians, on this occasion, avow without a blush

