fc, II. ' YEAR II. BEFORE DCHRIST 430. in

the island Zacynthus which lies over-against Elis. They

are a colony of the Achaeans of Peloponnesus, and were

then in league with the Athenians. On board this fleet

were a thousand heavy-anryed Lacedaemonians; and Cne-

mus the Spartan commanded in the expedition. Making a

descent upon the island they ravaged great part of the coun­

try,—but finding the entire reduction of it impracticable, they

re-embarked and returned home.

In the close of the same summer, Aristeus the Corinthian,

Aneristus, Nicolaus, Protodemus, and Timagoras of Tegea,

ambassadors from the Lacedaemonians, and Polis the Ar-

give without any public character, travelling into Asia, to

engage the Persian king to supply them with men and

money for carrying on the war, on their journey stop first

in Thrace, and address themselves to Sitalces the son of

Teres. They had a mind to try if they could prevail upon

him to quit the Athenian alliance, to march to the relief of

Potidaea, now besieged by the Athenians, to desist for the

future from giving the latter any assistance, and to obtain

from him a safe conduct through his territory for the con­

tinuance of their journey beyond the Hellespont to Phar-

naces son of Pharnabazus, who would afterwards conduct

them in safety to the royal court. Learchus the son of

Callimachus, and Ameiniadas the son of Philemon, happen­

ing at that time to be with Sitalces, on an embassy from

Athens, persuade the son of Sitalces, who had been made a

citizen of Athens, to seize and deliver them up to them,

that they might not go fonvard to the king, to the prejudice

of that community of which he was a member. He hearken­

ing to their advice arrests them just as they were going on

shipboard to cross the Hellespont, after they had travelled

through Thrace to the spot marked for their embarkation.

He executed this by means of some trusty persons dispatched

purposely after them along with Learchus and Ameiniades,

and expressly ordered to deliver them up to the latter:

They, so soon as they had got them in their power, carried

them to Athens. Upon their arrival there, the Athenians

