B. I. INTRODUCTION.

" other contents of your letter I am delighted. Let neither

" night nor day relax your earnest endeavours to effectuate

" those points you promise me : Nor stop at any expence of

" gold or silver or greatness of military force, if such aid be

" any where requisite. But confer boldly with Artabazus, a

" trusty person, whom I have sent to you, about mine and your

" own concerns, that they may be accomplished in the most

" honourable and most advantageous manner for us both."

Upon the receipt of this letter, Pausanias, who before had

been in high credit with the Grecians, through the lustre of

his command at Plataea, was elevated much more than ever,

and could no longer adjust his demeanor by the modes and

customs of his native country. He immediately dressed him­

self up in Persian attire, and quitting Byzantium, travelled

through Thrace, attended with Persian and Egyptian guards;

and refined his table into Persian elegance. His ambition he

was unable any longer to conceal, but by short sketches mani­

fested too soon, what greater schemes he had formed in his

mind for future accomplishment. He then shewed himself

difficult of access, and let his anger loose so violently and so

indiscriminately upon all men, that no one could approach

him. And this was not the least motive to the confederacy

for going over to the Athenians. But the Lacedaemonians,

informed of this, recalled him the first time upon the account

of such behaviour ; and, when he was returned again in the

Hermionian vessel without their permission, he plainly ap­

peared to have re-assumed again his former practices. And

when forced to remove from Byzantium by the opposition

raised against him by the Athenians, he went not back to

Sparta ; But withdrawing to Colona e of Troas, information was

given that " he was negotiating with the Barbarians, and had

" fixed his residence there for very bad designs." Upon this

they could no longer be patient, but the Ephori dispatched him

a herald and the Scijtak*, with an order—" Not to stay be-

• The Scytale is a famous instrument peculiar to the Lacedaemonians, and

used by them for the close conveyance of orders to their ministers abroad.

