B. III. * YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 271

lany, or could persuade a well-designing person to it, was

sure to be applauded.

Men now, who were allied in blood, were less valued or

caressed, than such as were connected by voluntary combim -

tion; since the latter, unscrupulous, and uninquisitive, were

more ready to embark in any scheme whatever. For now as­

sociations were not formed for such mutual advantage as is

consistent with, but for the execution of such rapines as are

contrary to human laws. In mutual trust they persisted,

not out of any regard to religious obligation, but from the

bond of communicated guilt. To the fair and honest propo­

sals of adversaries they hearkened indeed, when such by ac­

tive strength could controul them, but never through candid

ingenuity. Revenge upon another was a more valued pos­

session than never to have suffered injury. Oaths, if ever

made for present reconciliation, had a temporary force, so

long as neither knew how to break them ; but never when

either party had power to abet their violation. He who, at

inviting opportunity, durst first incur the perjury, if the ad­

versary was off his guard, executed his rancour with higher

spirit, than from enmity open and avowed. Such a step was

thought most secure ; and, because he had thus surpassed in

guile, it was certainly extolled as a master-piece of cunning.

Large is the number of villains, and such obtain more easily

the reputation of dexterity than their dupes can that of good­

ness : The latter are apt to blush ; the former most impudent­

ly triumph.

The source of all these evils is a thirst of power, in con­

sequence either of rapacious or ambitious passions. The

mind, when actuated by such, is ever ready to engage in

party-feuds. For the men of large influence in communi­

ties avowing on both sides a specious cause, some standing

up for the just equality of the popular, others for the fair

decorum of the aristocratical government, by artful sounds

embarrassed those communities for their own private lucre.

Both sides, intent on victory, carried on the contention with

