74 THE PELOPONMESIAN WAR.

nity, in concert with the neighbouring Thuriafce and Ethe-

ans, to revolt and seize Ithome, Most of the Helots were

descendants of the ancient Messenians then reduced to

slavery, and on this account all of them in general were

called Messenians. This war against the revolters in Ithome

gave full employ to the Lacedaemonians. And the Thasians,

after holding out three years blockade, were forced to surren­

der upon terms to the Athenians :.—They were " to level their

walls, to give up their shipping, to pay the whole arrear of

their tribute, to advance it punctually for the future, and to

quit all pretensions to the continent and the mines."

The Lacedaemonians, as their war against the rebels in

Ithome ran out into a length of time, demanded the assist­

ance of their allies, and amongst others of the Athenians,

No small number of these were sent to their aid, under the

command of Cimon. The demand of assistance from them

was principally owing to the reputation they then were in for

their superior skill in the methods of approaching and at­

tacking walls. The long continuance of the siege convinced

them of the necessity of such methods, though they would

fain have taken it by storm. The first open enmity between

the Lacedaemonians and Athenians broke out from this expe­

dition. For the Lacedaemonians, when the place could not

be carried by storm, growing jealous of the daring and in­

novating temper of the Athenians, and regarding them as

aliens, lest by a longer stay they might be tampering with

masters with great severity, and often with the utmost barbarity; at their

caprice, or sometimes for reasons of state, they were wantonly put to death

or inhumanly butchered. There is a remarkable instance of the latter in

the fourth book of this history. According to Plutarch it was a common

saying in Greece, That a freeman at Sparta was the freest, and a slave the

greatest slave in the world.—Tims miserably oppressed, no wonder they

seized an opportunity of revolt. The earthquake here mentioned was so

violent, that (according to Plutarch) it demolished all the houses in Sparta,

except five. The Helots rose at once effectually to demolish those Spar­

tans too, who were not buried in the ruins. But Archidumus had already,

by way of precaution, sounded an alarm, and got them together in a body.

The Helots, thus prevented, marched off, and seized Ithome. where they

made a long and obstinate resistance.

