B. IV. TEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 313

" to be obliged rather than compelled. Reflect within

" yourselves how many benefits must in all probability re-

" suit from such a lucky coincidence. For you cannot but

" know, that when we and you shall act with unanimity, the

" rest of Greece, conscious of inferiority, will pay us the ut«

" most honour and regard."

The Lacedaemonians talked in this strain upon the pre­

sumption, that the Athenians had formerly been desirous of

peace, and had been obstructed merely through their oppo­

sition ; but now, thus freely tendered, they would accept it

with joy, and give up the men. The Athenians, on the con­

trary, reckoning the Spartans in the island already in their

power, imagined that a peace would be at any time in their

own option, and were now very eager to improve their pre­

sent success. But such a measure Was insisted upon most of

all by Cleon the son of Cleaenetus, the greatest demagogue

at this time, and most in credit with the people. It was he

who persuaded them to return the following answer.

" THAT, previous to all accommodation, the Spartans

" shut up in the island must deliver up their arms and their

" persons, and be brought prisoners to Athens. When this

" was done, and the Lacedaemonians had surrendered Nisaea

" and Pegae, and Troezene and Chalcis, (of which places

" they had not possessed themselves by arms, but in pursu-

" ance of a former treaty, when distress exacted compliance

" from the Athenians, and they had been obliged upon any

" terms to purchase peace), then they might fetch away

" their countrymen, and conclude a peace for whatever term

" both parties should agree."

To this answer the Lacedaemonians made no direct re­

ply*, they only requested that a committee might be appoint-

• Diodorus Siculus, 1. 12. says further, That the Lacedsmonian ambas­

sadors offered to set at liberty an equal number of Athenians, who were

now their prisoners. And, when this offer was rejected, the ambassadors

replied freely, "It was plain they set a higher value on Spartans than on

•' their own citizens, since they judged an equal number of the latter not

" to be an equivalent." „

