8. II. 151 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

" flows not from the absence of those good things we have

" never yet experienced, but from the loss of those to which

" we have been accustomed. They who are not yet by age

" exempted from issue, should be comforted in the hope of

" having more. The children yet to be born will be a private

" benefit to some, in causing them to forget such as no

" longer are, and will be a double benefit to their country,

" in prerenting its desolation, and providing for its security.

" For those persons cannot in common justice be regarded

" as members of equal value to the public, who have no

" childnn to expose to danger for its safety. But you,

" whose age is already far advanced, compute the greater

" share »f happiness your longer time hath afforded for so

" much jain, persuaded in yourselves, the remainder will be

" but short, and enlighten that space by the glory gained by

" these. It is greatness of soul alone that never grows old;

" nor is t wealth that delights in the latter stage of life, as

" some give out, so much as honour.

" To jou, the sons and brothers of the deceased, whatev-

" er number of you are here, a field of hardy contention

" is opened. For him, who no longer is, every one is ready

" to commend, so that to whatever height you push your de-

" serts, jou will scarce ever be thought to equal, but to be

" somewhat inferior to these. Envy will exert itself against

" a competitor, whilst life remains; but when death stops the

" competition, affection will applaud without restraint.

" If af:er this it be expected from me to say any thing to

" you, wto are now reduced to a state of widowhood, about

"female virtue, I shall express it all in one short admonition;

" It is your greatest glory not to be deficient in the

" virtue peculiar to your sex, and to give the men as little

"handle aapossible to talk of your behaviour, whether well

" or ill.

" I have now discharged the province allotted me by the

"laws, and said what I thought most pertinent to this as-

" sembly. Our departed friends have by facts been already

