328 THE PELOPOKNESIAN \Ar. •

to that of their countrymen at Thermopylae*. For those

being hemmed in by the Persians in a narrow pass, were utter­

ly destroyed: These, now inl ike manner beset on both sides,

were no longer able to contend. Being but a handful of men

opposed to superior numbers, and much weakened in their

bodies for want of food, they quitted their post. And thus

the Athenians became masters of all the approaches.

But Cleon and Demosthenes, assuredly convinced that

should the foe give way too fast, it would only conduce to

their expeditious slaughter under the fury of the victorious

troops, began to stop their fury and to draw off their men.

They were desirous to carry them alive to Athens, in case

they would so far hearken to the voice of a herald as to throw

down their arms, dejected as they must be in spirit and over­

powered with the instant danger. It was accordingly pro­

claimed, that " such as were willing should deliver up their

" arms and their persons to the Athenians, to be disposed of

" at discretion."

When this was heard, the greater number threw down

their bucklers and waved their hands in token of accepting

the proposal. A suspension of arms immediately took

place, and a conference was held between Cleon and De­

mosthenes on one side, and Styphon, the son of Pharax, on

the othen Of those who had preceded in the command,

Epitadas, who was the first had been slain, and Hippagretes

who was his successor, lying as dead among the slain, though

he had yet life in him, Styphon was now the third appointed

to take the command upon him, according to the provision

• The famous three hundred Spartans with king I.eonidas at their head,

who stopped the vast army of Xerxes at the pass of Thermopylx, and at

length perished all to a man. They were all afterwards intombed on the

spot where they fell with this short epitaph ;

Tell, traveller, at Sparta what you saw,

That here'trelie obedient to her law.

The same spirit and resolution was at this time generally expected from

the Spartans, now encompassed round about by thrir enemies, in tlir isti-

of Sphacteria.

