1. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 309

" nians. That they should refrain from making any attempt

" whatever upon the fortress, either by sea or land."

" That the Athenians should permit the Lacedaemonians

" on the main-land to carry over a stated quantity of provi-

" sions to those in the island, two Attic chanixes of meal

" with two cotyls of wine*, and a piece of flesh for every

" Spartan, and a moiety of each for every servant. These

" provisions to be carried thither under the inspection of the

" Athenians ; and no vessels whatever to cross over without

" permission."

" That the Athenians, notwithstanding, be at liberty

" to continue their guard round the island, but not to

" land upon it: and should refrain from giving any annoy-

" ance to the army of the Peloponnesians either by sea or

" land."

" That if either party should violate these conditions, either

" in the whole or any part whatever, the truce to be immedi-

" ately void ; otherwise, to continue in force till the return of

" the Lacedaemonian embassy from Athens."

" That the Athenians should convoy that embassy thither

" and back again in a trireme."

" That upon their return the truce should be ended,

" when the Athenians should restore the ships now delivered

" to them, in the same number and condition as they were

" in before."

On these conditions a suspension of arms took place, in

pursuance of which the ships were delivered up to the num­

ber of sixty, and the ambassadors dispatched away, who, ar­

riving at Athens, addressed themselves as followeth:

" HITHER, O Athenians, we are sent on the part of the

" Lacedaemonians, to negotiate with you in behalf of their

" citizens in the island, and to propose an expedient which

" will tend very much to your advantage, and will at the same

" time preserve as much as possible our own honour, in the

" great calamity with which we are at present beset. It is

• More than two pints of meal, and one pint of wine, Engtish niea--iir«.

Vol. I. 3 G

