B. I. INTRODUCTION. 15

former times had known, even during the greatest vigour of

their state, and the most perfect harmony between them and

their allies.

Such are the discoveries I have made concerning the an­

cient state of Greece; which, though drawn from a regular

series of proofs, will not easily be credited: For it is the cus­

tom of mankind, nay even where their own country is con­

cerned, to acquiesce with ready credulity in the traditions of

former ages, without subjecting them to the test of sedate ex­

amination. Thus, for instance, it is yet a received opinion

amongst the bulk of the Athenian People, that Hipparchus

was the tyrant, and therefore slain by Harmodius and Aris-

togiton; and they have not yet discovered, that Hippias then

governed by virtue of his being the eldest of the sons of Pi-

sistratus, and that Hipparchus and Thessalus were his bro­

thers. Harmodius and Aristogiton, on the very day appoint­

ed, and just at the crisis, suspecting that information had

been given to Hippias by some who were privy to the design,

made no attempt upon him as put already on his guard. Yet

willing, before they were apprehended, to shew their resolu­

tion and contempt of danger, they accidentally found Hippar­

chus at the Leocorium superintending the Panathenaical pro­

cession*, and immediately slew him. There are many other

things of a more recent date, and of memory not yet invali­

dated by time, about which the other Grecians are very

wrong in their notions; such as, that the Lacedaemonian

kings had each of them a double and not a single vote in

public questions ; and, that amongst them the Pittanate was a

a military band, which never yet existed. So easy a task to

numbers is the search of truth ; so eager are they to catch

at whatever lieth next at hand !

• This procession was made at the great Panathenxa, which festival was

celebrated once in five years in commemoration of the union of all the peo­

ple of Attica by Theseus. The lesser Panathenxa was celebrated every

third year, some say every year, and was lengthened out by public games.

These were also used at the great Panathenxa, in which the greatest

splendour and magnificence were employed, and the procession added,

here mentioned by Thucydides, and of which the curious reader may see

a particular account in Potter's Archxologia, vol. i. p. 421.

