172 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

standing in great fear of Aristeus, lest upon escape he might

do them further mischief, since before this he had been the

author of all the projects to their prejudice both at Potidaea

and in Thrace, put them to death on the very day of their

arrival, unjudged and suing in vain to be heard, and cast

them into pits. This cruel usage of them they justified from

the example of the Lacedaemonians, who had in the same

manner put to death and cast into pits the Athenian mer­

chants and those of their allies, whom they had seized in

the trading vessels upon the coasts of Peloponnesus. For,

in the beginning of the war, the Lacedaemonians had put to

death as enemies all those whom they could take at sea—

not those only who belonged to the States in alliance with

the Athenians, but even such as were of the yet neutral com­

munities.

About the same time in the end of summer, the Ambra-

ciots in conjunction with many of the Barbarians whom

they had excited to take up arms, invaded Argos of Amphi-

lochia, and made excursions over all its dependent territory.

Their enmity against the Argives took its original from

hence. This Argos was first built, and this province of

Amphilochia first planted by Amphilochus the son of Am-

phiaraus, immediately after the Trojan war, who on his re­

turn home, being dissatisfied with the state of affairs in that

ether Argos, founded this city in the gulf of Ambracia, and

gave it the same name with the place of his nativity. It

soon became the largest city of Amphilochia, and the inha­

bitants were most powerful of any thereabouts. Yet many

generations after, being sunk by misfortunes, they pre­

vailed upon the Ambraciots bordering upon Amphilochia

to unite with them. This community of residence brought

them to their present use of one common language, the

Greek: But the rest of the Amphilochians are still Barba­

rians. Yet in process of time, the Ambraciots drive the

Argives from amongst them, and keep possession of the city

for themselves. Upon this event the Amphilochians threw

