X PREFACE.

All men have neither the turn of mmd, nor the leisure, to

make themselves proficients in the dead and learned lan­

guages. Such as have are certainly honestly, perhaps bene­

ficently, employed, in holding out light to others. The Greek

historians, as they take a precedency in time, lay further a

strong claim to precedency in merit. Thucydides is the most

instructive of these ; and, since the restoration of letters in

the western world, each nation, that hath piqued itself at all

about humanity or politeness, as his manner was soon found

to be excellent, have given thanks to those who have endea­

voured to investigate his matter and lay it open to public

view.

It is to the honour of the French, that they took the lead.

The first translation of Thucydides into French, published at

Paris in 1527, was that of Claude de Seyssel, bishop of Mar­

seilles. However performed, it went, within the space of lit­

tle more than thirty years, through four impressions. It is

said to have been done at the command of Francis I. king of

France; and, to have been carried about with him in his

wars, and diligently studied by the Emperor Charles V. The

Germans had also a translation of him soon afterwards in the

year 1533. In 1545, Francis di Soldo Strozzi published an

Italian translation dedicated to Cosmo di Medicis. The first

English translation made its appearance in London in 1550•

but, in fact, was only the translation of a translation, since it

was intitled a version from the French of Claude de Seyssel.

In 1564, he was published in Spanish. A second French

translation by Louis Jonsaud d'Usez was published at Gene­

va in 1600. The second into English, by the famous Mr.

Hobbes of Malmsbury, was first published in the year 1628,

about which it will be necessary immediately to inlarge. A

third French translation, by the Sieur d'Ablancourt, was

published at Paris in 1662, and hath since gone through

four editions. There is a Danish translation, which clo-

seth the list given of them in the Bibliotheca Graca of Fa­

bric i us.

