50 THE PELOPOKKESIAN WAR.

" against their invasions ; and, to expose yourselves more to

" the hazards of war against a grown augmented power.

" And all this while you know, that the Barbarian was guilty

" of many errors in his conduct: And the very Athenians

" frequently, in their contests with us, have been defeated

" more through their own blunders than the vigour of your

" resistance: For their confidence in you hath caused the

" destruction of some, who upon that very confidence were

" taken unprepared.

" Let no one in this assembly imagine, that we speak

" more from malice than just grounds of complaint. Com-

" plaint is just towards friends who have failed in their duty ;

" accusation is against enemies guilty of injustice. And

" surely, if ever any people had, we have good reason to

" think we have ample cause to throw blame upon our

" neighbours; especially, when such great embroilments

* have arose, of which you seem to have no manner of feel-  
" ing, nor ever once to have reflected, in regard to the

" Athenians, with what sort of people, how far, and how in

" every point unlike yourselves, you must soon contend.

" They are a people fond of innovations, quick not only to

M contrive, but to put their schemes in effectual execution:

" Tour method is, to preserve what you already have, to

" know nothing further, and, when in action, to leave some-

" thing needful ever unfinished. They again are daring be-

" yond their strength, adventurous beyond the bounds of

"judgment, and in extremities full of hope: Tour method

" is, in action to drop below your power, never resolutely to

" follow the dictates of your judgment, and in the pressure

" of a calamity to despair of a deliverance. Ever active as

" they are, they stand against you who are habitually indo-

" lent: ever roaming abroad, against you who think it misery

" to lose sight of your homes. Their view in shifting place

" is to enlarge their possessions: Ton imagine, that in foreign

" attempts you may lose your present domestic enjoyments.

" They, whtn once they have gained superiority over ene­

