xxxiv On the Life of Thucydides.

war, lay all the adjacent country waste. He must have

Inarched under Pericles to retaliate on the territories of Me-

gara, since the whole force of the State was obliged to take

the field on this occasion. He must have assisted at the

public funeral solemnized in the winter for the first victims

of this war, and heard Pericles speak in honour of the dead

and the living, and make his countrymen enamoured of their

Own laws and constitution. The plague broke out immedi­

ately after this; we are absolutely certain he was then in

Athens. He himself assures us of it. He was an eye­

witness to all that horrid scene. He had the plague himself;

and hath given a circumstantial detail of it.

The war proceeds with vigor, and through a great variety

of events. Thucydides must have borne his share in the

service ; the particulars he haih not recorded. No man was

ever less guilty of eg otism; he never mentions himself but

when it is absolutely necessary. His next six years were cer­

tainly employed in fighting and in writing; the latter was

his passion, and the former his duty. In the forty-seventh

year of his age, he was joined in the command of an Athe­

nian squadron and land-force on the coasts of Thrace. He

might be assigned to this particular station, on account of

his possessions and interest in this part of the world. It was

judged at Athens, that he was best qualified to senx his

country in this department. The Lacedaemonian com­

mander in Thrace dreaded his opposition. Let us wait a

little for the event: It is the most important passage in the

Life of Thucydides.

It was intirely on the authority of Plutarch, that Thucy­

dides was asserted above to be a descendant from Miltiades,

and in the mode of consanguinity to have inherited his fine

estate in this part of the world. Marcellinus, who is for

ever jumbling and confounding facts, hath also made him

marry a Thracian lady, who brought him his gold-mines for

her fortune. Mr. Hobbes is willing to reconcile the facts,

and solves all the difficulty in a very plausible manner.

