xcii A Survey of the History.

" that principle on which conquerors and tyrants have al-

" ways acted, and yet have been ashamed to own: They are

" ever hunting for colourings and pretexts, and would fain

" give to greedy power a little of the air of equity: But here,

" without the least shame or remorse, the Athenians assert

" their right to inslave another community, because it suits

" their own interest, and because they have power to do it.

" This is the principle from which they argue ; and, how

" scandalous soever it be, they argue strongly from it. They

" represent the politics of their own State, of the Lacedae-

" monian State, nay of all mankind, as incroaching, oppres-

" sive, rapacious, and totally estranged from humanity, good-

" faith, and the least tincture of morality. The whole con-

" ference yields perhaps a just representation of human na-

" ture in the gross ; but then, the representation is distaste-

" ful to a mind, that is cool and disengaged. Such a mind

" must interest itself on the side of the Melians ; and be

" sorry, that the Athenians have not more equity and hon-

" our to qualify their power ; or, that the Melians, with the

" regard they show to honour and justice, should not have

" had more power, or been able to interest at least one ally

" in defence of their liberties and rights. In short, through

" the whole course of this History, the Athenians never

" make so scandalous a figure as on this occasion."

Book VI. In the Sixth Book, a spacious theatre is

opened for a renewal of the war. The scene is going to

shift from Greece to Sicily. The Athenians, who have so

bravely resisted all their enemies in Greece, are now going

to do for those enemies what they could not do themselves.

No patriot, no statesman, no orator is able to dissuade them

from lavishing their strength on the projects of sanguine am­

bition and foreign conquests. Their enemies, in the mean

time, are at leisure to note their indiscretions, and improve

them all to their own advantage, till the great name of

Athens is quite eclipsed, and an end is put to that empire of

the sea, which she had maintained for seventy years with

great lustre and reputation.

