B. II. TEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 195

first with this vessel, and fetching a compass round her, runs

directly against the Leucadian that was chasing, and instantly

sinks her. By this accident, so sudden and unexpected, the

Peloponnesians are thrown into consternation; and having

besides followed the chace without any regular order, as se­

cure of victory, some of the ships now dropping their oars,

stopped further motion. This was an unlucky expedient

when so near the enemy; but their design was to wait for

the greater number of ships that were yet behind. Some of

them, being ignorant of the coast, ran upon the shelves and

were stranded. When the Athenians saw them suffer these

distresses, their courage began to revive. Shouting out aloud

with one voice, they encouraged one another to attack. The

miscarriages of which they were this moment sensible, and

their irrecoverable disorder, prevented the others from mak­

ing any long resistance. And they soon were forced to run

back again towards the station of Panormus, from whence

they came. The Athenians, chasing them thither, took the

six ships that were most behind, and recovered their own,

which were in the enemy's hands by having been run ashore,

and afterwards brought off in tow. Some met) besides they

killed, and made some prisoners.

On board the Leucadian, which was sunk near the trading

vessel, was Timocrates the Lacedaemonian, who, when the

ship received the stroke that sunk her, immediately slew him­

self*, and floated afterwards into the harbour of Naupactus.

The Athenians, returning thither again, erected a trophy

• We have here a notable proof of the peculiar spirit and genius of the

Spartans. They regarded the land aa their own element, in which they

were superior to the rest of the world. And yet now they were convinced,

that without practice at sea, they should never be able to pull down the

power of Athens. Their first attempts are awkward and unsuccessful -

The art shewn by the Athenians in tacking round, darting out again, and

sinking a ship at one stroke, put them all to a stand; and it seems made so

sudden and strong an impression on Timocrates, whose passion it was to die

fighting, and with wounds all before, that he could not endure the thought of

perishing in a whole skin, and therefore snatched the mument, and killed

himself for fear he should be drown-d.

