326 THE PELOPONKESIAN WAR.

with excess of courage. Experience had now lessened that

terror in which they had been used to regard this foe. They

now had met with no rough reception from them, which

fell out quite contrary to what they firmly expected at their

first landing, when their spirits had sunk very low at the

thought, that it was against Lacedaemonians. Contempt

ensued ; and embodying, with a loud shout they rushed up­

on them ; pouring in stones and arrows and darts, whatever

came first to hand. At such a shout, accompanied with so

impetuous a charge, astonishment seized their foes, quite un­

practised in such a form of engagement; at the same time,

the ashes of the wood, which had been burnt, were mounting

largely into the air. So that now each lost the sight of what

was close before him, under the showers of darts and stones

thrown by such numbers, and whirling along in a cloud of

dust.

Amidst so many difficulties the Lacedaemonians now

were solely distressed. The safe-guards on their heads and

breasts were no longer proof against the arrows, and their

javelins were broke to pieces when poised for throwing.

They were quite at a loss for some means of defence ; they

were debarred the prospect of what was passing just before

them ; and the shouts of the enemy were so loud that they

could no longer hear any orders. Danger thus surrounding

them on all sides, they quite despaired of the possibility of

such resistance as might earn their safety. At last, a great

part of that body being wounded, because obliged to adhere

firmly to the spot on which they stood, embodying close,

they retreated towards the fort on the skirt of the island,

which lay at no great distance, and to their guard which

was posted there. But when once they began to move off,

the light-armed, growing more resolute and shouting louder

than ever, pressed hard upon their retreat; and whatever

Lacedaemonian fell within their reach, in the whole course

of the retreat, was instantly slaughtered. The bulk of them

with difficulty recovered the fort, and in concert with the

