B. IV. 339 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

furnished with all the expedients of war, nay, might act of­

fensively from thence, might terribly annoy Lesbos which

lies near it, and reduce the iEolian fortresses along the coast.

This was the plan which now they were intent to put in

execution.

The same summer the Athenians, with a fleet of sixty

ships, and taking with them two thousand heavy-armed, a

few horsemen, the Milesians, and others of their confede­

rates, made an expedition against Cythera. The command

was lodged with Nicias son of Niceratus, Nicostratus son of

Diotrephes, and Autocles son of Tolmaeus. Cythera is

an island: it lies upon the coast of Laconia over-against

Malea. The inhabitants are Lacedaemonians, resorting thi­

ther from the neighbouring coast. A magistrate was sent

over yearly from Sparta by the stile of Judge of Cythera .

the garrison of heavy-armed established there was regularly

relieved ; and no care omitted in the good government and

management of the place. It was the port which their trad­

ing ships first entered, in their return from Egypt and Libya.

It was the chief security of Laconia against those piratical

parties which might infest it from the sea, from whence

alone they are capable of doing them any mischief: for by

its situation it hath intirely the command of the seas of

Sicily and Crete. The Athenian armament therefore arriv­

ing here, with a detachment of ten ships and two thousand

heavy-armed, surprise a maritime town which is called Scan-

dea. With the rest of their force they made a descent on

that part of the island which is opposite to Malea, and ad­

vanced toward the city of Cythera situated also on the sea,

and they found immediately that all the inhabitants were

drawn out into the field in readiness to receive them. An

engagement ensued, wherein the Cythereans maintained

their ground for a small space of time, but then turning

about, fled amain into their citadel. They soon afterwards

capitulated with Nicias and his colleagues, submitting to the

Athenians at discretion, barring only the penalty of death.

