B. t. INTRODUCTION. 29

-

" we are not to be abandoned: There are but three naval

" powers amongst the Grecians of any consideration, your

" own, our own, and that of the Corinthians. If you indo-

" lently suffer two of these to be incorporated, by leaving us

" a prey to the Corinthians, you must for the future make

" head against the Corcyreans and Peloponnesians both:

" But, if you grant your alliance to us, the contest will lie

" against them alone, and your own naval strength be con-

" siderably augmented."

In this manner the Corcyreans spoke ; and when they

had concluded, the Corinthians took their turn as follow-

eth

" SINCE these Corcyreans have not confined their dis-

" course merely to solicit the favour of your alliance, but

" have enlarged it with invectives against our injustice iri

" making war upon them, we also lie under a necessity to

" make some previous observations on both of those points,

" before we proceed to other matters. By this means you

" will perceive your own great security in complying with

" our demands, and what weighty reasons you have to reject

" their importunate solicitations.

" They allege it as a maxim of prudence that they have

" been hitherto averse to any foreign alliance: But their

" motives in this were founded upon malice^ and not upon

" virtue. They would have no ally to be a witness of the

" wrongs they do ; they declined the society of such as

" might put them to the blush. Their very island farther,

" which is finely situated for such arbitrary tempers, suffer-

" eth them alone to judge those outrages they themselves

u commit: exempting them from fair and equitable trials,

" because they seldom go abroad to visit their neighbours,

" as their harbours are the constant and necessary resort of

" others. Here then lieth the modesty of their unassociating

"maxim: It was designed to prevent their having anypart-

" ners in violence, that they might have it all to themselves ;

" that, when they were superior, they might oppress without

Vol. I. S

