112 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" against superior numbers. Should we be thus victorious,

" we must fight it over again with another body not inferior;

" and should we be vanquished, at that instant we lose all our

" dependents, the very essence of our strength. For the mo-

" ment we cease to be able to awe them by our forces, they

" will be no longer obedient to our commands. We ought

" not to wail and lament for the loss of our houses or our

" lands, but for the lives of our people : Because lands and

" houses can never acquire men, but arc by men acquired.

" Durst I presume on a power to persuade, I would ex-

" hort you to march out yourselves, with your own hands to

" execute the waste, and let the Peloponnesians see that for

" things of such value you will never think of compliance.

" I have many other inducements to hope for victory, if in-

" tending this war alone, you will forbear the ambition of en-

" larging your dominions, and not plunge into voluntary su­

perfluous hazards. For, in truth, I am more afraid of our

" own indiscretions than the schemes of the enemy. But the

" explanation of what at present I only hint at, shall be re-

" served till due occasions offer in the course of action. Let

" us now dismiss the ambassadors with the following an-

" swer

" That we will open our market and harbours to the Me-

" gareans, provided the Lacedaemonians, in their prohibition

" of foreigners, except us and our confederates: For neither

" was that act in us, nor will this act in them be contrary to

" treaty.

" That we will suffer the states to govern themselves at

" their own discretion, if they were possessed of that right

" when the treaty was made, and so soon as ever they relax

" the necessity they lay upon the states in their own league

" of governing themselves by that model, which suits best

" the Lacedaemonian interest, and allow them the choice of

" their own polity.

" That, farther, we are willing to submit to a judicial de-

" termination, according to treaty.

