24 THE FELOPONNESIAN WAR.

embassy at the same time also to Athens, instructed by any

means to prevent the junction of the Athenian to the naval

strength of the Corcyreans, which might hinder them from

bringing this war to a successful issue. The Athenians being

met in general assembly*, both embassies rose up to plead

their own cause; and the Corcyrean spoke as followeth:

• The lx*.X>>ri* or assembly of the people. In this the sovereignty was

vested ; and it is proper the English reader should grow acquainted with

this particular form in the Athenian democracy.

The people of Athens were divided into ten tribes, which presided by

rotation. The year was divided into ten courses, and each tribe presided

about five weeks. The tribe in course elected fifty persons to manage by

their authority and in their name : These were called Prytanes. This being

too large a number for business, they were subdivided into tens, each of

these divisions presiding for a week : and these were called Proedri. One

of the Proedri presided or was in the chair for a day, and was stiled Epis-

tates. For that day, and he never enjoyed this pre-eminence a second time

in his life, he was invested with the highest trust in the government. He

kept the public seal and the keys of the citadel and treasury. In the as-

sembly of the people he ordered all the proclamations, regulated proceed­

ings, put the question, and declared the majority.

The assemblies of the people were of two kinds, ordinary and extraordina­

ry. Of the first kind, four were regularly held during each presidency of

the tribes, and at the third of them ambassadors from foreign states had

public audience. The latter were occasionally convened by the president!

in course, or by the generals of the state. Some days before-hand, notice

was publicly given by the senate or council of five hundred upon what sub­

jects they were to deliberate; but this could not be observed upon sudden

emergencies.

They met early in the morning, generally in the Pnyx, at the summons of

the public crier. At the second summons they were obliged to attend at

their peril. For then the proper officers ran along the forum with a rope

stretched across, and rubbed over with vermilion, and all upon whom a mark

was found were fined ; but those who attended early and regularly, received

half a drachma each for attendance. The number which attended gene­

rally amounted to five or six thousand.

The assembly opened with the sacrifice of a young pig to Ceres, and the

blood was sprinkled round by way of purification. Then a prayer was pro­

nounced aloud by the crier for the prosperity of the commonwealth of

Athens ; which ended, a curse was next pronounced on every citizen who

did sny thing to the prejudice of his country. Then the presidents of the

week opened the points upon which they were convened, and the assem­

bly proceeded to business.

