THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

During the former transactions at Delium, Shakes also

king of the Odiysians was killed in an expedition he had form­

ed against the Triballians, who encountered and vanquished

him. And Seuthes the son of Sparadocus, his nephew by the

brother, succeeded him in the kingdom of the Odrysians and

the rest of Thrace over which he had reigned.

The same winter, Brasidas, in conjunction with the allies

of Thrace, marched against Amphipolis, an Athenian colony,

upon the river Strymon.

The spot of ground on which the city now standeth, Aris-

tagoras the Milesian formerly, when he fled from king Da­

rius had endeavoured to plant, but was beat off by the Edo-

nians. Two and thirty years after, the Athenians made the

same attempt, having sent thither a colony consisting of ten

thousand of their own people and such others as voluntarily

came in, all of whom were destroyed by the Thracians at

Drabescus. But after an interval of twenty-nine years, the

Athenians came hither again with a fresh colony led by

Agnon the son of Nicias, who having drove away the Edo-

nians built this city upon that spot of ground which had

formerly been called the nine-roads. They rushed to the

seizure from Eion, a maritime emporium situated at the ri­

ver's mouth, and belonging to them. Eion is distant twenty

stadia* from the spot where the city now standeth, and which

by Agnon was named Amphipolis, because it is almost sur­

rounded by the Strymon which floweth along it on both

sides. Running therefore a wall from the river to the river,

' 5he planted his colony on a spot conspicuous both to the land

and to the sea.

Against this place, Brasidas, decamping from Arne of

Chalcidica, advanced with his army. About sun-set he ar­

rived at Aulon and Bromiscus, where the lake Bolbe issueth

into the sea. From hence, after taking the evening-repast,

he continued his march by night. It was winter, and a

snow was falling. This favoured and encouraged his enter-

\ prize, as he intended to surprize the people of Amphipolis,

• About two English miles.

