IOME ACCOUNT 01 DR. SMITH.

•4 The History of the Peloponnesi an War, translated from

" the Greek of Thucydides." The Translator has added

three preliminary Discourses; on the Life of Thucydides;

on his Qualifications as a Historian; and a Survey of his

History. In these Discourses, as well as in the Life of Lon-

ginus, he has abundantly proved his own excellence in origi­

nal composition. This work has been several times reprinted

in 8vo. and was highly recommended by the Reviewers and

others on its first publication, and since that period.

In January, 1758, the Deanry of Chester became vacant

by the decease of the Rev. Thomas Brooke, LL. D. There

were many candidates for this dignity: but Mr. Smith was so

well supported by several of his illustrious friends, especially

by his noble patron the carl of Derby, whose interest was

powerful at Court, and who prevailed on the Right Hon. Earl

Granville, then Lord President of the Council, and on his

Grace the Duke of Newcastle, to unite with him in recom­

mending Mr. Smith; that his Majesty King George the Second

presented him to the Deanry. He now took the Degree of

Doctor in Divinity. On the 28th of July, Doctor Smith re­

ceived institution, and was installed the same day by that

learned and accomplished preacher, the Rev. Mr. Mapletoft,

Vicedean. On the 30th day of April, 1766, the Dean was

instituted to the Rectory of Handley near Chester, on the

presentation of the Dean and Chapter.

Doctor Smith had, since he left the University, if we except

short excursions, chiefly resided first with my Lord of Derby,

afterwards at the Rectory of Trinity in Chester, then one year

in Essex, and of late at St. George's in Liverpool, from whence

he went occasionally to Chester Cathedral. But about the

beginning of the year 1767, he resolved to resign St. George's

Church, and wrote a letter to that effect to the body corporate :

which letter produced the following resolution.

" At a Council held this fourth day of February, 1767.

" On Mr. Dean Smith's Letter this day to the Council, inti-

" matinghis desire of resigning his Chaplainship of St. George'6

