262 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

those surviving Plataeans who had been friends to the The-

ban interest. But afterwards they levelled it with the earth,

rooted up its whole foundation, and near to Juno's temple

erected a spacious inn two hundred feet square, partitioned

within both above and below into a range of apartments.

In this structure they made use of the roofs and doors that

had belonged to the Plataeans ; and of the other moveables

found within their houses, of the brass and iron, they made

beds which they consecrated to Juno, in whose honour they

also erected a fane of stone one hundred feet in diameter.

The land being confiscated to public use, was farmed out for

ten years, and occupied by Thebans. So much, nay so

totally averse to the Plataeans were the Lacedaemonians be­

come ; and this, merely to gratify the Thebans, whom they

regarded as well able to serve them in the war which was

now on foot*. And thus was the destruction of Plataea

compleated in the ninety-third year of its alliance with Athens.

The forty sail of Peloponnesians, which had been sent

to the relief of Lesbos, after flying through the open sea to

avoid the pursuit from Athens, were driven by a tempest on

the coast of Crete ; and from thence they separately dropped

into Cyllene a Peloponnesian harbour, where they find

thirteen triremes of Leucadians and Ambraciots, with Brasi-

das the son of Tellis sent thither purposely to assist Alcidas

with his counsel. It was now the project of the Lacedae-

• Thucydides hath here been very sparing of his censure. Nothing bad

enough can be said of the Lacedaemonian behaviour on this occasion. To

put brave men to death coolly and deliberately, who had most gallantly de­

fended themselves, and merely for their steady attachment to liberty and

the Athenians were hated by the Thebans, shews the public spirit of Spar­

tans at this time to have been none at all. The city of Plataea, thus bar­

barously demolished, was rebuilt after the peace of Antalcidas, which put

an end to the Peloponnesian war. But not long after it was again demo­

lished by the Thebans, for a refusal to join them against the Lacedaemoni­

ans. However, Alexander the Great once more re-established it, in a

generous acknowledgment of the services that little State had rendered

to Greece ; and the Hataeans continued, even in the time of Plutarch, to

celebrate the annual festival in honour of those, who at the famous battle

of Platae* had died for the liberties of Greece.

