xcvi A Survey of the History.

At this juncture, some drunken frolics, in which Alcibi-

ades was engaged, threw Athens into consternation. They

were soon construed by his enemies into a plot to bring about

a revolution in the government. Informers came in, and he

was directly accused of being a party. He avowed his inno­

cence, insisted on an immediate trial, which he was sure

would end in his justification. The plot, which in fact was a

plot against Alcibiades, was not yet ripe enough to ruin him ;

and therefore, by a strange preposterous stroke of cunning, he

is ordered to proceed in the expedition, and take his trial at

his return.

Our author next describes the departure of the grand ar­

mament in all its solemnity, and with all the medley of hopes

and fears shewn by the whole people of Athens on this occa­

sion. He lays open to our view the very hearts of the spec­

tators. The prime flower of their strength, nay Athens itself,

is now sailing out of the Pineus, never again to return.

They make the best of their way to Corcyra, where they are

left for a time, that we may be made privy to the consulta­

tions and defensive measures of Sicily. The scene is now

removed to Syracuse, the most powerful state in that island,

inhabited by Grecians, and if indeed inferior, yet second at

this time to no other State in Greece but Athens alone. It

had frequently been harassed by seditions, had often been

plagued with tyrants, but was at present under a democratic

constitution.

Advice had been received there of the intended invasion.

The people are convened about it. Harangues are made ;

and the temper of mankind, when party is fermenting, justly

exemplified. Some are incredulous; others magisterially

pronounce it all a falsehood. At length Hermocrates riseth

up, and gives them his own sense of the affair.

He assures them " his country is eminently indangered,

" and neither incredulity nor ridicule shall awe him into si-

" lence. To his certain knowledge, the Athenians are already

" at sea. fully bent on the conquest of Sicily. The Syracusan"?

