64 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" neither suffer the Athenians to grow still greater, nor let us

" betray our own confederates; but, with the Gods on our

" side, march out against these authors of injustice."

Having spoke thus, by virtue of his office as presiding in

the college of Ephori*, he put the question in the Lacedaemo­

nian council. But, as they vote by voice and not by ballot,

he said " he could not amidst the shout distinguish the ma-

" jority ;" and, being desirous that each of them, by plainly

declaring his opinion, might shew they were more inclined to

war, he proceeded thus " To whomsoever of you, Lace-

" daemonians, the treaty appeareth broke, and the Athenians

" to be in the wrong, let him rise up and go thither," point­

ing out to them a certain place: " But, whoever is of the con-

" trary opinion, let him go yonder." They rose up and were

divided ; but a great majority was on that side which voted

the treaty broke.

Upon this, calling in their confederates, they told them,

" They had come to a resolution that the Athenians were

" guilty of injustice ; but they were desirous to put it again to

" the vote in a general assembly of all their confederates, that

" by taking their measures in concert, they might briskly ply

" the war, if determined by common consent."

Matters being brought to this point, they departed to

their respective homes, and the Athenian ambassadors,

having ended their negotiations, staid not long behind.

This decree of the Lacedaemonian council that " the treaty

was broke," was passed in the fourteenth year of the treaty

eoncluded for thirty years after the conquest of Euboea.

But the Lacedaemonians voted this treaty broke and a war

• The college of Ephori (or inspectors) at Sparta consisted of five. They

were annually elected by the people from their own body, and were design,

cd to be checks upon the regal power. They never forgot the end of their

institution, and in fact quite lorded it over the kings. In a word, the whole

administration was lodged in their hands, and the kings were never sove­

reigns but in the field, at the head of the troops. One of the Ephori had

the honour to give its stile to the year, in the same manner as the first

Archon did at Athens.

