t. III. 293 YEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426.

endeavouring to escape without permission, and therefore set

out in the pursuit of the Peloponnesians. Their officers en­

deavoured to stop them, crying out, that "leave was given

" for their escape."—Upon which a soldier, concluding their

officers had been guilty of treachery, darted his javelin

amongst them. But afterwards they connived at the escape

of the Mantineans and Peloponnesians, but made slaughter

of the Ambraciots. Great indeed was the tumult, and the

perplexity also to distinguish which was an Ambraciot, and

which was a Peloponnesian ; and amidst the confusion about

two hundred were slain. The rest made their escape into

the bordering kingdom of Agraeis, where Salythius king of

the Agraeans, who was their friend, took them under his pro­

tection.

The Ambraciots of the city were now advanced as far as

Idomene. They are two lofty eminences which are called

by this name. The higher of the two, by favour of the dark,

the detachment sent before by Demosthenes from the camp

had seized without being discovered, and had posted them­

selves upon it. The Ambraciots had possessed themselves

already of the lower, and halted there for the night. De­

mosthenes after his evening repast, and the remainder of

the army about shut of evening, began to march. He him­

self took half of them to attack the enemy in front, whilst the

other was fetching a compass round the mountains of Am-

philochia.

The next morning was no sooner in its dawn, than he comes

upon the Ambraciots yet in their beds, still ignorant of all that

had passed, and rather supposing these new-comers to be their

friends. For Demosthenes had poKtkly placed the Messeni-

ans in the van, and ordered them to discourse as they moved

along in the Doric dialect, thus to prevent any alarm from their

advanced guards, who further so long as the dark continued

could not possibly distinguish their faces. By this means,

he no sooner assaulted the camp than the rout began.

Numbers of them were slain upon the spot. The remainder

Vol. I. 3 E

