44 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

arrival of that body under Aristeus, they send away two

thousand of their heavy-armed and forty ships, under the

command of Callias the son of Calliades and four colleagues*,

to reduce the revolted. These, arriving first of all in Ma­

cedonia, find the former thousand employed in besieging

Pydne, having a little before got possession of Therme.

They sat down with them for a time to carry on the siege of

Pydne ; but afterwards, making with Perdiccas a composi­

tion and alliance the best the.y could in their present exi-.

gency, since Potidoea and the arrival of Aristeus were very

urgent points, they evacuate Macedonia. They marched

next to Beraea; and turning from thence, after having first

made an unsuccessful attempt upon the place, they marched

by land towards Potidaea. Their army consisted of three,

thousand heavy-armed of their own, without including a

large body of auxiliaries, and six hundred Macedonian horse

who had served with Philip and Pausanias : Seventy ships at

the same time sailed along the coast. And thus, by moderate

inarches, they came up in three days to Gigonus, and there

encamped.

The Potideans with the body of Pcloponnesians com­

manded by Aristeus, expecting the Athenians, had formed a

camp near Olynthus within the isthmus, and had a market

kept for them without the city. The command of the in­

fantry had been given to Aristeus by the voice of the con­

federates, and that of the cavalry to Perdiccas: For now

again he had abruptly broke with the Athenians and joined

the Potidaeans, deputing Iolaus to command in his absence.

It was the design of Aristeus, by encamping the body under

his own command within the isthmus, to observe the mo­

tions of the Athenians if they advanced, whilst without the

isthmus the Chalcideans and allies and two hundred horse

belonging to Perdiccas should continue at Olynthus, whov

when the Athenians came forwards against them, were to

throw themselves in their rear, and thus shut up the enemy

between the two bodies. But Callias, the general of the

