xc A Survey of the History.

mer had been laughed into a general, and is now grown

so conceited that he wants to enter the lists against that

truly heroic Spartan. He accordingly arrives in Thrace, at

the head of a squadron and a fine body of land-forces. He

retakes a town or two: is confident he shall soon recover

the important city of Amphipolis; and, though contemned

by his own soldiers, he endeavours to brave the enemy.

Brasidas, having harangued his men with his usual spirit,

throws open the gates, sallies out of Amphipolis, and routs

him in an instant. Cleon falls a victim to his own cowar­

dice, and Brasidas also drops a victim to his own valour.

The latter lives long enough to know his own side had con­

quered, and then expires, admired by all that knew him, and

most highly regretted by the allies of his country.

Their riddance from Cleon diminished the loss of Athens

in this defeat, and the Lacedaemonians had dearly purchased

the victory with the loss of their hero. As the principal

States were now pretty nearly balanced, and sadly tired of

the war, a truce is concluded for a year, and a peace soon

after settled by the management chiefly of Nicias. Thucy-

dides hath given us the forms of negotiating and drawing up

treaties. They are curious morsels of antiquity, and the

reader will see with admiration, how solemn, how concise,

and yet how guarded they are. The peace turns out to be

merely nominal. The Corinthians, who cannot relish it at

all, set their invention to work in order to embroil Greece

afresh, and to re-kindle a general war. Several wars break

out, in which the Athenians and Lacedaemonians are con­

cerned as auxiliaries. And another State in Greece, which

hitherto had been neutral and saving its strength entire,

endeavours now to seize the primacy of Greece for itself.

We shall be made privy to all her negotiations for carrying

on the plan, and see it all blasted by one battle at Manti-

nea. This State was the republic of Argos in Peloponne­

sus, which had been in long alliance with but in no depend­

ence at all upon Athens, and had been for a long time also

