». II. 189 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429.

chor just without it. This cape belonged to the Athenian

alliance, but the other cape*, over against it, belonged to the

Peloponnesians. The arm of sea which divides them is

about seven stadiaf over; and this is the mouth of the gulf

of Crissa. The Peloponnesians with a fleet of seventy-seven

ships rode also at anchor under the cape of Achaia, which

is not far distance from Panormus, where their land-forces

lay. When they had here a sight of the Athenians, both

parties lay for six or seven days over-against each other, in­

tent on the needful preparations for engaging. The scheme

on each side was this: The Peloponnesians, struck with

their former defeat, would not sail from without their capes

into the open sea: The Athenians would not enter into

the straits, judging it would be an advantage to the enemy

to fight in a narrow compass. At length Cnemus, Brasidas,

and the other Peloponnesian commanders, desirous to come

soon to an engagement, before the Athenian squadron should

receive a reinforcement, called first their soldiers together,

and seeing some of them not yet recovered from the terror

occasioned by the former defeat, and by no means eager to

fight again, endeavoured to animate and rouse up their cou­

rage by the following harangue

" If the former engagement, ye men of Peloponnesus,

" affects any of you with sad apprehensions about the event

" of another, know that it by no means affords you any rea-

" sonable ground for such desponding thoughts. That was

" owing, as you well know, to a deficiency in all needful

" preparations ; for you were not then fitted out for service

" of sea, but for the service of land. We then were dis-

" tressed in several respects by the adverse turns of fortune;

" and in some, we who fought for the first time at sea run

" into errors through want of skill. It thus happened that

" we were defeated, but not through any cowardice of our

• The cape on the Peloponnesian side was called Rhium, or the Rhium

of Achaia: the opposite cape Antirrhiuni, or Molychrium.

t About three quarters of a mile.

Vol. I. 2 P

