A Survey of the History.

menceth in form. It is clearly represented in the whole of

its progress, in all its forms. Every skirmish is a distinct

and lively picture. In one of them old Lamachus is killed,

and Nicias of course left singly in the whole command.

He carries on the siege with vigor and success for a short

space of time ; but Gylippus from Sparta, and the Pelopon-

nesian aids are now only not arrived.

Book VII. " If you would read truly great things,"

said a Spartan to Augustus Caesar, " read the Seventh Book

" of Thucydides." Thither we have now brought this cur­

sory survey. The reader of it will undoubtedly own, that

no Historian ever executed so closely, so strongly, so clearly,

and so pathetically as Thucydides. "No fleet but that of

" the Athenians," it is the observation of Cicero*, " was

" ever able to enter the harbour of Syracuse. The fleet

" was only able to atchieve it by the mighty force and

" number of three hundred ships. But here first was the

" power of Athens defeated, lessened, depressed^ In this

" harbour the fame, the empire, the glory of Athens are

" judged to have suffered a total wreck." Schemes projected

and actions conducted by Hermocrates and Gylippus the

Spartan prove too hard for Nicias, whose phlegm and natural

diffidence are no match against such vigilance and activity.

The besieging party soon becomes as it were the besieged.

The Letter of Nicias to the people of Athens represents all

the difficulties to which he finds himself reduced. No man

ever wrote so precisely and perspicuously about military af­

fairs. The reader of it wants no light, no dictionary of arts,

or an adept in war to explain the terms ; and can judge, as

could the meanest citizen of Athens to whom it was read,

what was proper to be done. Secure in the consciousness

of his own integrity, he neatly reprimands his countrymen

for the great foible in their behaviour, justifies his own con­

duct, and begs to be recalled. In short, Nicias is finely

jcharacterized bv his own pen in this epistle.

• Orat. quinla in Vcrrcm.

