218 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

During the time this fleet was out at sea, though the

Athenians at the commencement of the war had as large if

not a larger number of ships, yet they never had their whole

navy so completely fitted out for service and with so much

pomp as now. One hundred of their ships were stationed

for guards round Attica and Euboea and Salamis ; and ano­

ther hundred were coasting all along Peloponnesus, beside

those that were at Potidaea, and in other parts, insomuch

that the whole number employed this summer amounted to

two hundred and fifty sail. The expence of this, with that

of Potidaea, quite exhausted their treasure. For the pay^ of

the heavy-armed who were stationed at Potidaea, was two

drachmas a day, each of them receiving a drachma* for

himself and another for his servant. The number of the

first body sent thither was three thousand, and not fewer

than those were employed during the whole siege ;—but the

sixteen hundred who came with Phormio were ordered away

before its conclusion. The whole fleet also had the same

pay. In this manner was their public treasure now for the

first time exhausted—and such a navy, the largest they ever

had, compleatly manned.

The Mityleneans, during the time the Lacedaemonians

lay at the Isthmus, with a body of their own and auxiliaries

marched by land against Methymne, expecting to have it

betrayed to them. Having assaulted the place, and being

disappointed in their expectations, they marched back by

way of Antissa and Pyra and Eressus. In each of these

places they halted for a while, to settle affairs in as firm or­

der as possible, and to strengthen their walls, and then with*

out loss of time returned to Mitylene.

Upon their departure, the Methymneans marched out

against Antissa. The Antisseans with a party of auxiliaries

sallying out to meet them, gave them a terrible blow, so that

many of them were left dead upon the spot, and those who

escaped made the best of their way back.

The Athenians—advised of these incidents, and that fur-

• Seven pence three farthings.

