B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 5247

used it as a garrison. But it was the scheme of Nicias, to

fix the post of observation for the Athenians there, as being

much nearer situated, and to remove it from Budorus and

Salamis. This would prevent the sudden courses of the

Peloponnesians, frequent from thence; would curb the pi­

ratical cruizers ; and, at the same time, stop all importations

into Megara. Beginning therefore with the two forts de­

tached from Nisaea, he took them by means of the engines he

played against them from the sea; and having thus opened

the channel between them and the island, he took in by a wall

of fortification that part of the main land from whence, only

by crossing the morass and the help of a bridge, a succour

could be thrown into the island, which lay at a very small

distance from the continent. This work was compleated in

a few days, after which Nicias, leaving behind in the island

a-sufficient garrison to defend the works, drew off the rest of

his army.

About the same time this summer, the Plataeans, whose

provisions were quite spent, and who could not possibly hold

out any longer, were brought to a surrender in the following

manner The enemy made an assault upon their wall,

which they had not sufficient strength to repel. The Lace­

demonian general being thus convinced of their languid

condition, was determined not to take the place by storm.

In this he acted pursuant to orders sent him from Lacedae-

mon, with a view, that whenever a peace should be conclu­

ded with the Lacedaemonians, one certain condition of which

must be reciprocally to restore the places taken in the war,

Plataea might not be included in the restitution, as having

freely and without compulsion gone over to them. A herald

is accordingly dispatched with this demand—" Whether they

" are willing voluntarily to give up the city to the Lacedae-

" monians, and accept them for their judges who would pun-

" ish only the guilty, and contrary to forms of justice not

" even one of those."—The herald made this demand aloud.

And the Plataeans, who were now reduced to excessive weak­

ness, delivered up the city.

