DISCOURSE III. lxXXV

will distinctly view these strange occurrences; they are

painted strong; the groupes are not mere heaps of confu­

sion, and the principal figures are eminently distinguished.

The body of Spartans intercepted in the isle of Sphacteria,

who must either starve, or, what to Lacedaemonians is full

as bad, must surrender their persons and their arms, is a

point that exceedingly alarms that martial community.

Things had long since gone against them ; but now, then-

hereditary honour and military glory, on which and which

alone they piqued themselves, are in danger of being misera­

bly tarnished. Their proud spirits condescend to heg a truce,

that they may send an embassy to Athens to solicit an no

commodatlon.

It must have afforded a high degree of spiteful joy at

Athens, to find the Lacedaemonians lengthening their mo­

nosyllables and petitioning for peace. It is curious to heaf

in what manner they solicit, when admitted to audience.

They declare themselves sent, " in behalf of their country-

" men, to propose an expedient very much for the honour

44 of Athens, and which would extricate themselves from

" difficulties that now bore hard upon them. Athens never

" had so fine an opportunity of raising her credit, securing

" her acquisitions, and carrying her glory to the highest

" pitch. They should not be puffed up, but reflect on the

" strange vicissitude of human affairs. Who could expect,

" the Lacedaemonians should ever be sunk so low, as to sue

44 for peace ? Yet what was the lot of Sparta might possibly

" become, some time or other, the lot of Athens. The lat-

44 ter should be moderate now, should accept of offered

" friendship, should chearfully receive a submission, made

" only to prevent desperation in great and gallant souls, and

" open a field for mutual benevolence. The rival States

" may now be reconciled; and only now, before things are

-4 brought to extremities, and disgrace hath rendered one  
" party desperate. At this crisis, the Athenians may con-

44 fer on Greece the bksaiag of a firm and lasting peace.

