274 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR.

their lives, to the number of about five hundred, having

seized their forts upon the opposite shore, got possession of

their own land, on that side the water. Putting out hence,

they plundered the Corcyreans in the island, and made such

havoc that a violent famine ensued in the city. They further

sent a deputation to Lacedaemon and Corinth, to negociate

the means of their restoration. But nothing of this kind suc­

ceeding, they got together afterwards a body of auxiliaries

and transports, and so passed over to the island of Corcyra,

to the amount of six hundred men. Having now set fire to

their transports, to preclude every other expedient but gain­

ing firm footing where now they were, they marched up to

the mountain Istone, and having fortified themselves there,

made cruel work with those in the city, and were masters of

the country round about.

About the end of the same summer, the Athenians sent

out twenty sail for Sicily, under the command of Laches

the son of Melanopus and Charoeadas the son of Euphile-

tus. A war was now on foot between the Syracusans and

Leontines. Confederate with the Syracusans were, except­

ing Camarina, all the Doric cities, which had formerly en­

tered into alliance with the Lacedaemonians before this war

broke out, but had yet no where effectually joined them.

With the Leontines were the Chalcidic cities, and Cama­

rina. Of Italy, the Locrians sided with the Syracusans;

and the Rhegians, from the motive of consanguinity, with

the Leontines. The allies therefore of the Leontines sent

to Athens*, petitioning the Athenians in respect of their

• One of the persons, or the chief, employed on this occasion, is said to

be Gorgias of Leontium, the first rhetorician of that or of any age. When

he had his audience from the Athenians to deliver the reasons of his em­

bassy, he made a speech so smooth and flowing-, so new in the manner of

its turns, so pretty in the expression, and so nicely diversified by a change

and opposition of figures, that he won their hearts, and succeeded in his

negociation. Our historian indeed, who takes no notice of Gorgias, gives

two political reasons just after the ready compliance of the Athenians on

