DISCOURSE I.

I can only say that he was undoubtedly a serious man, and

of a large fund of solid sense, which deriving originally from

the bounty of nature, he had most certainly improved by a

regular and sound education.

For a reason of much less weight, Antipho is assigned

for his master in rhetoric—because he speaks handsomely of

him in the eighth book. He there indeed pays due acknow­

ledgment to the merit of Antipho as a speaker; but it can­

not be inferred from hence, that he had ever any connexion

with him. Others have made Antipho a scholar of Thucy-

dides*, with full as little reason. Thucydides certainly was

never a teacher by profession. It is pity to waste so much

time on uncertainties. It is certain Thucydides had a libe­

ral education, though the particular progress of it cannot

now be traced.

But, to shew the peculiar bent of his genius, and a re­

markable prognostic what sort of person he would prove, the

following story is recorded by several authors, and dated by

Mr. Dodwell in the fifteenth year of his age.—His father

carried him to the Olympic games. He there heard Hero­

dotus read his history to the great crowd of Grecians assem­

bled at that solemnity. He heard him with fixed attention;

and, at length, burst out into tears. " Tears childish in­

deed !" it hath been remarked: But however such as few

children would have shed, and highly expressive of his in­

ward spirit. The active aspiring mind of Themistocles was

not stronger shewn, when the trophy of Miltiades would

not let him be at rest; nor the genius of the lad at West­

minster-school, when he could not sleep for the colours in

Wesminster-hall. Herodotus is said to have observed it,

and to have complimented Olorus on his having a son, that

had so violent a bent to letters. A similar passage in any

person's life would always be called to mind, when he was

the subject of conversation.

In about two years more, Thucydides was obliged bj

• Plutarch's Livef of the ten Orators-

