B. I. 53 INTRODUCTION.

resolutions, but to consider matters with sedate deliberation."

They were further desirous " to represent before them the

extensive power of their own state, to excite in the minds of

the elder a recollection of those points they already knew, and

to give the younger information in those of which they were

ignorant;" concluding, that " such a representation might

turn their attention more to pacific measures than military

operations." Addressing themselves therefore to the Lace­

daemonians, they expressed their desire to speak in the present

assembly, if leave could be obtained. An order of admit­

tance being immediately sent them, they approached and de­

livered themselves as followeth:

" IT was not the design of this our. embassy to enter into

" disputations with your confederates, but to negotiate the

" points for which our state hath employed us. Yet, having

" been advertised of the great outcry raised against us, hither

" we have repaired: not to throw in our plea against the ac-

" cusations of the complainant states: for you are not the

" judges before whom either we or they are bound to plead ;

" but, to prevent your forming rash and prejudicial resolu-

" tions, upon concerns of high importance, through the in-

" stigation of these your confederates. Our view is, farther,

" to convince you, notwithstanding the long comprehensive

f charge exhibited against us, that we possess with credit

" what we have hitherto obtained, and that the state of

" Athens is deserving of honour and regard.

" And what need is there here to go back to remote an-

" tiquity, where hearsay tradition must establish those facts

" to which the eyes of the audience are utter strangers ? This

" we shall waive ; and call forth first to your review the Per-

" sian invasions and those incidents of which you are con-

" scious, without regarding that chagrin which the remem-

" brance of them will constantly excite in you. Our achieve-

" meats there were attended with the utmost danger: The

" consequence was public benefit, of which you received a

" substantial share: and though the glory of that acquisi-

Vol. I. ^

