278 THE PEL0PONNESIAK WAR.

and Procles the son of Theodoras, appeared upon the coast

of Peloponnesus ; whilst a larger armament of sixty, and

two thousand heavy-armed, was employed against Melos,

under the command of Nicias son of Niceratus. Melos is

an island; and as the inhabitants of it were averse to the

Athenian subjection, and had refused to accede to their al­

liance, they were now bent on its reduction. Having laid

the island waste, and the Melians still refusing to submit,

the Athenians put again to sea, and crossed over to Oropus

on the opposite shore ; where arriving at night, the heavy-

armed were detached to march with all expedition by land

towards Tanagra of Boeotia. Notice being given of their

arrival there, they were instantly joined by the whole force

of Athens, which had marched out of the city under the

orders of Hipponicus the son of Callias and Eurymedon the

son of Thucles. A camp they formed ; and having for the

space of a day laid the territory waste, they reposed them­

selves there the succeeding night. But the next morning

having gained a victory over the Tanagreans, who aided by

a party of Thebans sallied out upon them, they only staid

to gather up the arms and erect a trophy, and then marched

away—these back again to the city; and those to the fleet.

Nicias upon this, putting out again with his sixty sail, plun­

dered all the sea-coast of Locris, and then returned into the

harbour of Athens.

It was about this time that the Lacedaemonians founded

the colony of Heraclea in Trachinia. Their view in doing

it was this: Those, who in general are stiled Melien-

sians, are divided into three bodies ; Paralians, Hierensians,

and Trachinians. The last of these, the Trachinians, who

had been terribly distressed by a war made upon them by

the bordering Oeteeans, had first of all intended to throw

carried off all the glory of eloquence : But the Dcmotthenca, who is the

subject of this note, was an able general, Tory enterprizing, and very

brave; always vigilant in the service of bis country, though more as a sol­

dier than a statesman ; and, provided hi* country was served, not too anx­

ious about who carried off the honour. In short, he was an open-hearted,

disinterested, worthy Athenian.

