A Survey of the History.

" ment of death hath never effectually awed the tempers of

" mankind. To make men desperate is very impolitic ; to

44 extirpate their dependents is lopping off their own limbs,

" and ruining their own revenue. Men should be retained

M in their duty by mild discretionary precautions ; severe

" and sanguinary proceedings never answer the purpose.

" And, what cruelty to doom a whole people to destruc-

" tion! to involve the innocent with the guilty! to murder

" even such as had been their friends and benefactors ! He

" advises them not to give too large a scope to mercy, but

" to punish the guilty, and the guilty alone. This will suf-

" ficiently intimidate others ; will secure their interest in

" Lesbos better for the future; and convince the world

" how soundly Athenians can deliberate upon all their con-

«* eerns."

Diodotus carries his point. The Athenians, cruel only in

the fit of choler, but habitually humane, repeal the bloody sen­

tence ; and dispatch a vessel with all haste to stop execution,

which arrives at Mitylene but just time enough to prevent

the massacre.

The next event of importance contrasts the Lacedaemo­

nian character with that of the Athenians. The author takes

no pains to point it out; but it lies too ready and obvious

to pass unobserved.—Platcea, after a tedious blockade, is

obliged by famine to surrender. They surrender however

to the Lacedaemonians, on condition of being brought to a

judicial trial, and only, if found guilty of unjust behaviour

to be put to death. Some delegates arrive from Sparta to

preside in this court of mere inquisition, since the whole

process is confined to a single question—" Whether they

" had done any positive service to the Lacedaemonians and

" allies"—that is, to their declared and determined enemies—

" in the present war ?" The question plainly manifested a

deliberate resolution to put them all to death. And all the

favour they obtain is, to be suffered to make a kind of dying

speech before men, who were styled indeed judges, but in

