«0 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

eth Megabazus, the son of Zopyrus, a Persian noble, against

them with a numerous army, who, marching by land, fought

with and defeated the Egyptians and their allies ; then drove

the Grecians out of Memphis ; and at last shut them up in

the isle of Prosopis. Here he kept them blocked up for a

a year and six months ; till, having drained the channel, by

turning the water into a different course, he stranded all their

ships, and rendered the island almost continent. He then

marched his troops across, and took the place by a land-assault.

And thus a war, which had employed the Grecians for six

continued years, ended in their destruction. Few only of the

numbers sent thither, by taking the route of Libya, got safe

away to Cyrene ; the far greater part were entirely cut off.

Egypt was now again reduced to the obedience of the king:

Amyrteus alone held out, who reigned in the fenny parts.

The large extent of the fens prevented his reduction; and

besides the Egyptians of the fens are the most remarkable of

all for military valour. Inarus, king of the Libyans, the au­

thor of all these commotions in Egypt, was betrayed by

treachery, and fastened to a cross. Beside this, fifty triremes

from Athens and the rest of the alliance, arriving upon the

coast of Egypt to relieve the former, were come up to Me-

dasium, a mouth of the Nile, quite ignorant of their fate.

These, some forces assaulted from the land, whilst a squadron

of Phoenicians attacked them by sea. Many of the vessels

were by this means destroyed, hut some few had the good for­

tune to get away. And thus the great expedition of the Athe­

nians and allies into Egypt was brought to a conclusion.

But farther, Orestes, son of Echecratidas, king of the

Thessalians, being driven from Thessaly, persuaded the

Athenians to undertake his restoration. The Athenians, in

conjunction with the Boeotians and Phocians, now their allies,

marched up to Pharsalus of Thessaly. They became mas­

ters of the adjacent country, so far as they could be whilst

-keeping in a body; for the Thessalian cavalry prevented any  
detachments. They took not that city, neither carried any

