162 THE PELOPONNESIAN' WAR.

to expect they would, called a general assembly of the people,

which, by still continuing in the command of the-army, he

was authorised to do. He had a mind to encourage them,

to soothe the hot resentments fermenting in their breasts, and

bring them into a more calm and confident temper. He pre­

sented himself before them, and spoke as follows

" I FULLY expected, I freely own it, to become the

" object of your resentments. I am not ignorant of the

" causes of it; and for this purpose have convened this as-

" sembly, to expostulate with, nay even to reprimand you,

" if without any reason you make me the mark of your dis-

" pleasure, or cowardly sink under the weight of your mis-

" fortunes: For it is my firm opinion, that by the full health

" and vigour of a state the happiness of its constituents is

" better secured, than when each separate member is thriv-

" ing whilst the public welfare totters. Be the situation of

" any private person prosperous and fine as his heart can

" wish—if his country be ruined, he himself must neces-

" sarily be involved in that ruin. But he that is unfortunate

" in a flourishing community, may soon catch hold of expe-

a dients of redress. When therefore your country is able

" to support the misfortunes of its every member, and yet

" each of those members must needs be inveloped in the

" ruin of his country, why will you not join and unite

" your efforts to prevent that ruin—and not (as you are

" now going to do, because confounded with your do-

" mestic misfortunes) basely desert the public safety, and

" cast the most unjust of censures upon me who advised

" this war, upon your own selves also who approved this

H advice? What—I am the man that must singly stand the

" storm of your anger ? 1 am indeed the man who I

" am confident is not inferior to any one amongst you in

" knowing what ought to be known, and in speaking what

" ought to be spoke, who sincerely loves his country, and is

t: superior to all the sordid views of interest. For he wh#

