On the Life of Thucydides.

hath not intirely preserved his memory, and been solely in­

strumental in ennobling and perpetuating the man.

His education no doubt was such, as might be expected

from the splendor of his birth, the opulence of his family,

and the good taste then prevailing in Athens, the politest

city that then existed, or ever yet existed in the world. It

is impossible however to give any detail of it. The very

little to be found about it in writers of any class whatever,

seems merely of a presumptive though probable kind. It is

said Anaxagoras was his preceptor in philosophy, because

the name of Anaxagoras was great at this period of time.

Anaxagoras, the preceptor of Euripides, of Pericles, and of

Socrates, is named also by Marcellinus for the preceptor of

Thucydides. And he adds, quoting Antyllus for an evi­

dence, that " it was whispered about that Thucydides was

" atheistical, because he was so fond of the theory of Anax-

" agoras, who was generally reputed and stiled an atheist."

The solution of an eclipse from natural causes, accounting

for appearances from the laws of motion, and investigating

the course of nature, were sufficient proofs of atheism

amongst a people so superstitious as the Athenians. Thu­

cydides, possibly, might be well acquainted with the philo­

sophy of Anaxagoras, without having personally attended

his lectures. However that be, his own history abundantly

shews that he was no atheist; it may be added, and no

polytheist. By his manner of speaking of the oracles and

predictions tossed about in his own time, it is plain he

looked upon them as equivocal, or rather insinuates them to

be mere forgeries. " And yet, says Mr. Hobbes*, he con-

" firms an assertion of his own, touching the time this war

" lasted, by the oracle's prediction." The passage occurs in

the fifth book of this history. But whoever considers it, will

find it only an argumentum ad hominem, to stop the mouths

of such as believed in oracles, from contesting his own com­

putation of the. whole time the Peloponnesian war lasted.

Of the Life and History of Thucydides.

