B. IV. YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423 . 401

and the auxiliaries had chanced to ground their arms in this

quarter within the wall, drew them up in order of battle,

and exhorted the Mendeans to sally out. It was replied in

a seditious manner by one of the popular faction, that

" they would not sally, and would have nothing to do with

" the war." At such a refusal Polydamidas having laid

hands upon the person, a tumult at once ensued,-in which

the people ran immediately to arms, and, furious with anger,

made towards the Peloponnesians, and all those of the op足

posite faction who sided with them. They fell upon and

routed them in an instant, terrified as they were at this sud足

den assault; and the gates were thrown open at the same

time to the Athenians. They supposed this insurrection had

been made against them in consequence of some previous

combination; and as many as escaped out of the scuffle

with life, fled away to the citadel, which was before in their

possession.

But the Athenians (for Nicias was now returned before

the city) bursting into Mende, for it was not opened by

composition, with their whole united force, plundered it as

though taken by storm; nay, the generals had some diffi足

culty to restrain their soldiers from putting the inhabitants

to the sword. And after this they issued their commands

to the Mendeans to continue their government in the usual

form, and to proceed judicially against those of their body

whom they esteemed the principal authors of the revolt.

Those in the citadel they shut up with a wall extending on

both sides to the sea, and posted a guard to secure the

blockade.

When in this manner they had possessed themselves of

Mende, they marched against Scione. The inhabitants, with

the Peloponnesian aids, coming out to receive them, posted

themselves on a strong eminence before the city ; which, un足

less the enemy could take it, would infallibly prevent their

walling them about. But the Athenians stormed the post,

and after an engagement forced them to dislodge, they formed

