B. IV. TEAR Til.—BEFORE CHRIST 425. 317

the Messenians. This the Naxians perceiving, became more

courageous, and animating one another with the thought that

the Leontines and their other Greek allies were now march­

ing to their relief, they suddenly sally out of the city and fall

upon the Messenians, whom they put to flight, and slaughtered

more than a thousand of them; the remainder, with difEculty,

escaped to their own homes: for the Barbarians attacked

them upon their road, and made great havoc of them. The

ships upon the station of Messene brake up soon after, with­

drawing respectively to their own harbours.

Immediately the Leontines and allies, in concert with the

Athenians, appeared before Messene, as now reduced to a

very low ebb. They assaulted it on all sides ; the Athenians

making their attempt from their ships on the side of the har­

bour, whilst the land-forces did the same on the body of

the place. But the Messenians, and a party of Locrians

commanded by Demoteles, who, after their late blow, had

been left there for the security of the place, made a sudden

sally from the city, and falling unexpectedly on the army of

the Leontines, put the greater part to flight, and did great

execution upon them. This was no sooner perceived by the

Athenians, than they threw themselves ashore to succour

their confederates, and falling in with the Messenians, who

had lost the order of their battle, drove them again behind

their walls. This done, having erected a trophy, they put

over to Rhegium. And after this, the Grecians of Sicily

continued a land war against one another, in which the Athe­

nians had no participation.

At Pylus, the Athenians still kept the Lacedaemonians

blocked up in the island, and the army of the Peloponne-

sians remained in their old posts upon the continent, in a

state of inactivity. Their constant guard subjected the

Athenians to excessive hardships, since provisions and fresh

water were equally scarce. There was but one single foun­

tain for their use, which lay within the fortress of Pylus,

and yielded but a slender quantity of water. The majority

Vol. I. 3 H

