J04- THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

dered on the main sea; yet, as the wall was weakest in this

quarter, he judged it would soonest tempt and animate an

assault. For never imagining they should be outnumbered

in shipping, they had left the wall on this side but weak ; and

should the enemy now force a landing, the place would un­

doubtedly be lost.

Sensible of this, and determined if possible to prevent their

landing, Demosthenes posted himself with his chosen band

on the very edge of the water, and endeavoured to animate

them by the following harangue.

"MY fellow soldiers, here posted with me in this dan-

" gerous situation, I conjure you, in so urgent an extremity,

u to throw away all superfluous wisdom. Let not a soul

" amongst you compute the perils which now inviron us,

" but regardless of the issue and inspirited by hope let him

" charge the foe, and be confident of success. A situation

" desperate like this alloweth no room for calm considera-

" tion, but demands the most precipitate venture. Superior

" advantages however are along with us ;—of this I am con-

" vinced, provided we only stand firm together, and, scorn-

" ing to be terrified at the number of our foes, do not wil-

" fully betray those advantages which are now in our fa-

" vour. The shore is most difficult of access :—This in my

"judgment makes abundantly for us ;—This will support us,

" if we keep our ground. But if we give way, difficult as

" it is now, their landing will be easy—when there are none

" to obstruct it. Nay, what is worse, we shall make the

" enemy more furious, when, if we may afterwards press

" hard upon him, it is no longer in his power to re-em-

" bark with ease. For so long as they continue on board they

" may most easily be encountered ; whilst they are busy in

" landing, they cannot so far overmatch us, as that we

" ought to shrink before their numbers. Large though they

"be, the spot of action will be small for want of ground to

" draw up in order. What though their force be superior

" for the land, that advantage will be lost in their present

