346 THE tELOPONNESlAN WAR.

Some of the Cythereans had before-hand obtained a confer­

ence with Nicias. This rendered the capitulation more easy

and expeditious, and not only the present, but all future

points were by this means speedily and satisfactorily ad­

justed. For the Athenians insisted that they should eva-

cuate Cythera, because they were Lacedaemonians, and be-»

cause the island lay so conveniently on the Laconic coast.

The accommodation being once perfected, the Athenians,

having secured Scandea, the fortress situated upon the har­

bour, and fixed a garrison in Cythera, stood away for Asine

and Helas, and most of the adjacent places on the coast.

There they made descents, and reposing themselves in the

nights at the most convenient of those places, they spent

about seven days in ravaging the country.

The Lacedaemonians, though they saw the Athenians

had possessed themselves of Cythera, and expected further

that they would proceed to make more such descents upon

their territories, yet no where drew together in a body to re­

pulse them. They only stationed their parties of guard in

such posts as were of greatest importance. In other re­

spects they exerted their utmost vigilance, being under ap­

prehensions that the very form of their government was in

danger of subversion. Their loss in Sphacteria was unex^

pected and great indeed. Pylus was now in the hands of

the enemy, as was also Cythera. War was bursting in upon

them on all sides with irresistible impetuosity. This com­

pelled them, contrary to their usual maxims, to form a

body of four hundred horse and archers. If they were ever

dejected by the prevalence of fear, at this juncture they

were more feelingly so, when they saw the necessity of en­

tering the lists contrary to all that practice of war to which

they had been inured, in a naval contest, and in this against

the Athenians, whose passion it was to compute as so much

loss whatever they left unattempted. Their general misfor­

tune besides, which so suddenly and so fast had poured in

upon them, had thrown them into the utmost consternation.

