B. III. YEAR V.«--BEFORE CHRIST 427. 269

had lodged without ; and, having ordered the ships which

they had manned to come about into the Hyllaic harbour,

whilst they were going about in pursuance of this order,

they put all the adverse faction whom they found to the

sword. Those further, who had took on in the ships at their

persuasion, they threw into the sea and then retired. They

afterwards went to Juno's temple, and persuaded a party of

suppliants there, to the amount of fifty, to undergo a judicial

trial, in which they were all condemned to die. The majo­

rity of suppliants, who refused to hear such persuasion, no

sooner saw the fate of their brethren, than they either slew

one another within the temple, or hung themselves up upon

the trees within its verge; each finding some expedient for

his own dispatch. During those seven days that Euryme-

don with his reinforcement continued at Corcyra, the peo­

ple of that city extended the massacre to all whom they

judged their enemies. The crime oh which they justified

their proceedings, was their attempt to overturn the demo­

cracy.

Some perished merely through private enmity; some for

the sums they had lent, by the hands of the borrowers.

Every kind of death was here exhibited. Every dreadful

act usual in a sedition, and more than usual, was perpetrated

now. For fathers slew their children; some Were dragged

from altars; and some were butchered at them. And a

number of persons immured in the temple of Bacchus were

starved to death. So cruel was the progress of this sedition,

and so excessively cruel did it appear, because the first of so

black a nature that ever happened. But afterwards the con­

tagion spread, one may say, through the whole extent of

Greece, when factions raged in every city, the popular de­

magogues contending for the Athenians, the aspiring fen

for the Lacedaemonians. In peace, it is true, they were

void of all pretext, of all opportunity to invite these rivals.

But now, amidst declared hostilities, and the quest of al­

liance to afflict their enemies and add an increase of strength

Vol. I. 3 B

