». IV. YEAR VII.—BEFORE CHRIST 425. 315

sea when the weather was tempestuous. And to strengthen

their guard, they had now received a reinforcement of twenty-

sail from Athens, so that the number of their shipping

amounted in the whole to seventy. The Peloponnesians

maintained their post on the continent, and made frequent as­

saults upon the fort: intent all along to seize the first favour­

able opportunity, and to accomplish the preservation of their

countrymen.

In Sicily, this while, the Syracusans and confederates,

augmenting the number of their guard-ships on the station

of Messene with another squadron they had since equipped,

from Messene renewed the war. The Locrians spared no

pains to spur them on from the great aversion they bore to

the Rhegians. They had now broke into the territories of

the latter with their whole force. They had even a mind to

hazard a naval engagement against them, as they saw the

number of Athenian ships at hand to be very inconsiderable,

and had received intelligence that the larger numbers design­

ed for this service were stopped for the present to block up

the isle of Sphacteria. For should they once get the better

at sea, they hoped, as they then might attack Rhegium both

by sea and land, to find it an easy conquest, and so the pos­

ture of their own affairs would be considerably strengthened.

For as Rhegium, which is a promontory of Italy, lies at a

very small distance from Messene in Sicily, they could then

prevent the approach of the Athenians, and be entirely mas­

ters of the strait. This strait is that part of the sea which

runs between Rhegium and Messene, and over which lies the

shortest cut from Sicily to the continent. It is the place

which was formerly called Charybdis, and through which

Ulysses is said to have sailed. As the current here sets in

strongly from two great seas, the Tyrrhene and Sicilian, and

runs with great rapidity, it is not at all strange that it should

have been esteemed a dangerous passage.

Yet in the very middle of this strait the Syracusans and

