316 THE JELOPONNES1AN WAR.

confederates, with a number of ships little more than thirty,

were forced to engage in the evening of the day, the dispute

beginning about a vessel that was passing through. They

stood away to oppose sixteen sail of Athenians and eight of

Rhegians. They were worsted by the Athenians ; but each

side separated in hurry and confusion, just as they could, to

their several stations at Messene and Rhegium. They lost

one ship in this action, which was stopped by the sudden ap­

proach of night.

But after this, the Locrians evacuated the territory of

Rhegium, and the whole collected fleet of the Syracusans

and confederates took a new station at Peloris of Messene,

and their whole land-force attended. The Athenians and

Rhegians sailing up to their station, and finding none at

present on board the ships, rushed in amongst them. Yet

they lost one of their own vessels by the force of a grappling

iron fastened upon it, the crew of which was saved by

swimming. Immediately after this the Syracusans got on

board, and being towed along the shore towards Messene,

the Athenians came up again to attack them ; but, the enemy-

running oft' into the deep and giving the first charge, they

lose another of their ships. Though continuing to be towed

along the shore, and to charge in this manner, yet the Syra­

cusans, without suffering any loss, got safe into the harbour

of Messene. And now the Athenians, having received intel­

ligence that Camarina was betrayed to the Syracusans by Ar-

chias and his accomplices, stood away for that place.

In the mean while the Messenians, with their whole force

by land, and accompanied by their ships, marched away

against Chalcidic Naxus, which /bordered upon their own

territory. The first day they force the Naxians to shelter

themselves behind their walls, and then they plundered the

country. The day following, sailing up the river Acesine,

they plundered along the shore, and with their land-force

made an assault upon the city. The Siculi, who live upon

the mountains, were now pouring down in numbers to repel

