B. II. TEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431. 149

" it extends to the public ; their private demeanors reached

" only to a few. Yet, not one of these was at all induced to

" shrink from danger through fondness of those delights

" which the peaceful affluent life bestows,—not one was the

" less lavish of his life, through that flattering hope attend-

" ant upon want, that poverty at length might be ex-

" changed for affluence. One passion there was in their

" minds much stronger than these, the desire of venge­

ance on their enemies. Regarding this as the most ho-

" nourable prize of dangers, they boldly rushed towards the

" mark, to glut revenge, and then to satisfy those secon-

" dary passions. The uncertain event they had already se-

" cured in hope ; what their eyes shewed plainly must be

" done they trusted their own valour to accomplish, think-

" ing it more glorious to defend themselves and die in the

" attempt, than to yield and live. From the reproach of

" cowardice indeed they fled, but presented their bodies to

" the shock of battle ; when, insensible of fear, but tri-

" umphing in hope, in the doubtful charge they instantly

" dropt—and thus discharged the duty which brave men owe

" to their country.

" As for you, who now survive them—it is your business

" to pray for a better fate—but, to think it your duty also to

" preserve the same spirit and warmth of courage against

"your enemies ; not judging of the expediency of this from

" a mere harangue—where any man indulging a flow of

" words may tell you, what you yourselves know as well as

" he, how many advantages there are in fighting valiantly

" against your enemies—but rather, making the daily-in-

" creasing grandeur of this community the object of your

" thoughts, and growing quite enamoured of it. And when

" it really appears great to your apprehensions, think again,

" that this grandeur was acquired by brave and valiant

" men ; by men who knew their duty, and in the moments

" of action were sensible of shame ; who, whenever their

" attempts were unsuccessful, thought it dishonour their

Vol. I. . 2 K

