B. I. INTRODUCTION. SI

" Let us nemember, that if any one single state amongst

" us had a contest with its foes about a frontier, there would

" be need of perseverance. But now, the Athenians are a

" match for us all united, and quite too strong for any of us

" separately to resist: So that unless we support one another

" with our collective forces, unless every nation and every

" state unanimously combine to give a check to their ambi-

" tion, they will oppress us, apart and disunited, without a

" a struggle. Such a triumph, how grating soever the bare

" mention of it may be to any of your ears, yet be it known,

" can end in nothing else but plain and open slavery. To

" hint in mere words so base a doubt, that so many stateu

" may be enslaved by one, is disgrace to Peloponnesus. In

" such a plunge, we should either be thought justly to have

" deserved it, or through cowardice to suffer it, the degenerate

" offspring of those ancestors who were the deliverers of

" Greece. And yet we have not spirit enough remaining to

" defend our own liberty. We suffer one single state to

" erect itself into a tyrant, whilst we claim the glory of

" pulling down monarchs in particular societies. We know

" not by what methods to extricate ourselves from these

" three, the greatest of calamities, from folly, or cowardice,

" or sloth. For exempt from these in fact you are not, by

" taking up the plea of contempt of your enemies, for which

"such numbers have suffered. The many misfortune*

" arising from this have changed the sense of the word, and

" caused it to stand for arrant folly.

" But on the past what necessity is there to enlarge ? or to

" blame any farther than may be necessary for the present ?

*4 To prevent worse events for the future, we ought by im-  
•4 mediate efforts, with toil and perseverance, to seek for re-

" dress. Through toil to acquire virtues, is hereditary to Pe-

" loponnesians. This custom is not to be dropped though

" now in wealth and power you have made some petty ad-

" vancements : For it never can become you to let go in af-

" fluence what was gained in want. It becomes you rather

44 upon many accounts, with manly confidence to declare

