JDISCOVRSE III. ixiii

0

V They had ever been the most strenuous, most disinterested,

44 and most gallant champions for liberty. They pompously

" detail their battles of Marathon and Salamis ; their evacu-

" ating Athens on the last occasion: and, when they had no

" polity of their own subsisting, fighting ardently and success-

" fully for the other communities of Greece. Their power

" had been nobly earned; and, must they forego it, because

" it was envied ? They had honourably gained and justly

" used it; much more jusdy, than the Lacedaemonians had it

" either in will or ability to have done. They are calumnia-

44 ted merely from that spite and discontent so common to

ft mankind, who ever hate and abuse their superiors, and ever

" repine at subjection though to the most gentle masters.—

*4 Lacedaemonians have neither skill nor judgment for large  
" command, and though most eagerly grasping at it, are un-

M able to manage it with any measure of dexterity and address.

" They should reflect again and again, before they ventured

" upon war: It might last longer, and involve them in more

«4 calamities, than they seemed willing to apprehend. They

" had better submit their complaints to fair arbitration: If

*4 not, the Athenians invoke the Gods to witness their readi-  
" ness to defend themselves, whenever and however their

*4 enemies shall attack them."

All parties now withdraw ; and the Lacedaemonians go to

council amongst themselves. Exasperated by the Corinthi­

ans, and mortified. by the speech of the Athenians, the ma­

jority are for an immediate declaration of war. Archidamus,

one of their kings, rose up to temper their fury. And the

speech of his Spartan majesty on this occasion, carries all

the marks of a good king, an able statesman, and a thorough

patriot: It does honour both to his heart and head. A Spar­

tan king never made a royal figure but at the head of an

army: Then he reigned indeed. And yet, Archidamus re­

tains no selfish considerations ; they are lost in his regard for

the public welfare.

He tells them, " he is not fond of war himself; raw un­

