B. III. 249 YEAR V.—BEFORE CHRIST 427.

" though never was persuasion so much to be despaired of

" as at present. Were we indeed, who are the persecuted

" party, entirely unknown to our judges, we might then al-

" lege such evidence as through ignorance you could not

" overturn, and so further our defence. But now we must

" speak before men who are informed of every point. Nor

" do our fears result from the prior knowledge you have had

" of us, as if you were now proceeding against us for having

" in valour been inferior to yourselves ; but, from our own

" sad forebodings, that we are cited to a tribunal which hath

" already condemned us, to gratify others. Yet, what we

" can justly say for ourselves in regard to all our differences

" with the Thebans, we shall boldly allege ; the good ser-

" vices we have done to you and the rest of Greece we shall

" fairly recite and strive, if possible, to persuade.

" To your concise demand—Whether we have done any

" good service in this war to the Lacedaemonians and their

" allies ?—we answer thus : " If you interrogate us as ene-

" mies, though we have done you no good, yet we have

" done you no harm ; If you regard us as friends, you have

" offended more than we, in making war upon us."—In re-

" gard to the peace and against the Mede, we have ever

" honestly performed our duty: The peace was not violated

" first by us against him, we alone of all the Breotians at-

" tended you in the field to maintain the liberty of Greece.

" For, though an inland people, we boldly engaged in the

" sea-fight at Artemisium ; and in the battle, fought upon

" this our native ground, we assisted you and Pausanias;' and

" whatever the danger to which Greece, in that trouble-

" some period of time, was exposed, in all we bore a share

" beyond our strength. To you in particular, O ye Lace-

" daemonians, in that greatest consternation Sparta ever felt,

" when after the earthquake your rebellious Helots had

" seized upon Ithome, we immediately dispatched the third

" part of our force for succour. These things you are bound

" in honour never to forget. For thus upon former, and

" those most critical occasions, we with honour shewed our­

