256 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" Athenians. But consider further the respective situations

" from which such conduct ensued in both. Our city at that

" time was not administered by the few who presided with

" an equal and steady rule, nor directed by the general voice

" of the people. Its state was such as with laws and sound

" policy is quite incompatible ; it bordered close upon a ty-

" ranny : the incroaching ambition of a handful of men held

" fast possession of it. These with no other view than the

" strong establishment of their own private authority in the

" success of the Mede, by force overawed the people, and

" opened their gates to the invader. This was not the act of

" a whole city, of a city master of its own conduct; nor ought

" she to be reproached for offences committed in despite of

" her laws. But on the other hand, when the Mede was once

" repulsed and the city repossessed of her ancient polity, you

" ought then to consider—fresh invasions being formed by

" the Athenians, projects attempted to bring the rest of Greece

" and our dominions also into their subjection, sedition fo-

" mented amongst us, by favour of which they seized the

" greater part—whether in the field of Coronea we fought

" them and prevailed, recovered the liberty of Boeotia, pro-

" ceed even now with all alacrity to regain their liberty for

" others, supplying them with horse and all other military

" provision, far beyond any other confederate. Such is the

" apology we make for all the charge against us in having

" joined the Mede. But—that you have been the most out-

" rageous foes to Greece, and are most deserving of whatever

" punishment can be inflicted upon you, we shall next endea-

" vour to demonstrate.

" In order to procure some revenge on us, it is your

" own plea, " you became confederates and citizens of

" Athens."—Be it so. You ought then to have marched in

" their company only against us ; you ought not to have

" followed them in their expeditions against others. Had

" your own wills been averse to attend them on these occa­

