146 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" seeing what is never concealed. We place not so great a

" confidence in the preparatives and artifices of war, as in the

" native warmth of our souls impelling us to action. In point

"of education, the youth of some people are inured by a course

" of laborious exercise, to support toil and exercise like men;

" but we, notwithstanding our easy and elegant way of life,

" face all the dangers of war as intrepidly as they. This

" may be proved by facts, since the Lacedaemonians never in-

" vade our territories, barely with their own, but with the uni-

" ted strength of all their confederates. But, when we in-

" vade the dominions of our neighbours, for the most,part we

" conquer without difficulty in an enemy's country those who

" fight in defence of their own habitations. The strength of

" our whole force no enemy yet hath ever experienced, be-

" cause it is divided by our naval expeditions, or engaged in

" the different quarters of our service by land. But if any

" where they engage and defeat a small party of our forces,

" they boastjngly give it out a total defeat; and if they are

" beat, they were certainly overpowered by our united strength.

" What though from a state of inactivity rather than laborious

" exercise, or with a natural rather than an acquired valour,

" we learn to encounter danger ?—this good at least we re-

" ceive from it, that we never droop under the apprehension

" of possible misfortunes, and when we hazard the danger,

" are found no less courageous than those who are continu-

" ally inured to it. In these respects our whole community

" deserves justly to be admired, and in many we have yet to

" mention.

" In our manner of living we shew an elegance tem-

" pered with frugality, and we cultivate philosophy without

" enervating the mind. We display our wealth in the sea-

" son of beneficence, and not in the vanity of discourse. A

" confession of poverty is disgrace to no man, no effort

" to avoid it is disgrace indeed. There is visibly in the same

" persons an attention to their own private concerns and

" those of the public ; and in others engaged in the labours

