B. III. 229 YEAR V*. BEFORE CHRIST 427.

come up with them by sea, thought a great point was carried,

in. not finding them refuged in any harbour, where they

must have been under a necessity to fortify their station, and

oblige him to a regular procedure and attack.

In sailing back he touched at Notium of the Colopho-

nians, in which at this time the Colophonians resided, the

upper city having been taken by Itamenes and the Barba­

rians, who had broke in by favour of an intestine sedition.

It was taken about the time, that the Peloponnesians made

their second incursion into Attica. But in Notium a

second sedition broke out, between those who resorted thither

for refuge and the old inhabitants. The latter having ob­

tained an aid of Arcadinns and Barbarians from Pissuthness

kept within a part separated by a traverse wall, and the

management of affairs was in the hands of some Colophoni­

ans of the upper city, who were in the Medish interest, and

had been received amongst them as an aid. But the former,

who had resorted hither for refuge, and were a body of

exiles, apply to Paches for protection. He invited Hippias,

the commander of the Arcadians within the transverse wall,

to come out to a conference, assuring him, " if they came

" to no agreement, he would replace him within both safe

" and sound." Upon this Hippias came out; And Paches

immediately put him under an arrest, but laid no bonds upon

him. This done, he on a sudden assaults the wall: by favour

of the surprize carries it; and puts all the Arcadians and

Barbarians within to the sword. After this, he replaceth

Hippias within, in the same state he had promised; but

when he had him there, immediately apprehends him again

and shoots him to death with arrows. Notium he delivers

into the hands of the Colophonians, excluding those only

who were in the interest of the Mede. In process of time,

the Athenians having sent leaders thither on purpose, and

declared Notium an Athenian colony, settled in it the Colo­

phonians that were any where to be found, under the accus­

tomed regulations.

Vol. I. 2 V

