B. III. TEAK IV.—BEFORE CHRIST 428. 211

" we are sensible of that method of procedure, which hath

" hitherto prevailed amongst the Grecians—Revolters whilst

" a war is on foot, and deserters from a former alliance, they

" readily receive, and so long as their own interest is further-

" edby it, abundantly caress them: Yet, judging them trai-

" tors to their former friends, they regard them as persons

" who ought not to be trusted. To judge in this manner is

certainly right and proper, where those who revolt and those

M from whom they break asunder happen to be equal to one

" another in turn of principle, in benevolent affection, and

" well matched together in expedients of redress and military

" strength, and no just reason of revolt subsists.—But the

" case is quite different between us and the Athenians. And

" we ought not to be treated with censure and reproach, from

" the appearance of having deserted them in extremities, af-

" ter having been honourably regarded by them in the season

" of tranquillity. This our conduct to justify and approve,

" especially as we come to request your alliance, our words

" shall first be employed, as we know that friendship can be

" of no long continuance in private life, nor public associa-

" tions have any stability unless both sides engage with an

" opinion of reciprocal good faith, and are uniform in princi-

" pie and manners. For out of dissonancy of temper, diver-

" sities of conduct continually result.

" An alliance, it is true, was formerly made between us

" and the Athenians, when you withdrew yourselves from

" the Median war, and they stayed behind you to compleat

" what was yet to be done. We grant it—we made an alli-

suspect nothing from the presence of the Mityleneans, who were equally

bound in duty to attend. The Lacedaemonians and allies had thus an op.

port unity of assembling together to receive complaints, and to encourage

revolts from Athens, without danger of suspicions or a detection of their

counsels, till they were ripe for execution. " The Lacedaenlonians, (it is

"a remark which will afterwards occur in this history,) amongst one ano-

" ther and in paying all due regard to the laws of their country, gave am-

'' pie proofs of honour and virtue. But in regard to the rest of mankind,

" they reputed as honourable the things which pleased them, and as just

" the things which promoted their interest."

