B. III. 233 YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427.

" ver decreed; or, instigated by lucre, will endeavour to

" seduce you by the elaborate and plausible artifice of

" words. In such contentions, the State indeed awards the

" victory to whom she pleaseth, but she sustains all the da-

" mage herself. You are answerable for this, Athenians !

" You! who fondly doat on these wordy competitions !

" You ! who accustomed to be spectators of speeches and

" hearers of actions. You measure the possibility of future

M effects by the present eloquence of your orators ; you

"judge of actions already past, not by the certain conviction

" of your own eyes, but the fallible suggestions of your

" ears, when soothed by the inveigling insinuating flow of

" words. You are the best in the world to be deceived by

" novelty of wit, and to refuse to follow the dictates of the

44 approved judicious speaker,—slaves as you are to whatever

" trifles happen always to be in vogue, and looking down

" with contempt on tried and experienced methods. The

" most earnest wish that the heart of any of your body ever

" conceived is, to become a speaker; if that be unattaina-

" ble, you range yourselves in opposition against all who

" are so, for fear you should seem in judgment their infe-

" riors. When any thing is acutely uttered, you are ready

" even to go before it with applause, and intimate your own

" preconception of the point, at the same time dull at dis-

" cerning whither it will tend. Your whole passion, in a

" word, is for things that are not in reality and common

" life; but of what passeth directly before your eyes you

" have no proper perception. And, frankly, you are quite

" infatuated by the lust of hearing, and resemble more the

" idle spectators of contending sophists, than men who meet

" to deliberate upon public affairs. From such vain amuse-

" ments endeavouring to divert you, I boldly affirm, that

" no one city in the world hath injured you so much as Mi-

44 tylene.

" Those who, unable to support the rigour of your go-

44 vernment, or who, compelled to do it by hostile force,

