lyviii A Survey of the History.

gin its operations. In the mean time, the Athenians are to

be amused with embassies and negotiations merely to gain

time and save appearances. Frivolous they really are, but

our author minutely details them, as they give him an op­

portunity of introducing some notable passages relating to

Cylon, Pausanias, and Themistocles. He then shifts the

scene to Athens; and introduces Pericles, the most com­

manding orator, the greatest general, the most consummate

statesman, and at this time prime minister of the republic—

introduces Pericles, I say, in the assembly of the people, to

give them an insight into the schemes of their enemies, and

a plan for their own conduct; to encourage them to a brave

and steady resistance, in strict adherence to such methods,

as in the end will infallibly not barely secure but aggrandize

their State.

The thoughts in this speech of Pericles are so grand, so

nervous, so emphatically and concisely just, that if the rea­

der be not immediately struck into an adequate conception

of them, I know no method of opening his eyes or enlarging

his understanding. He says but little, but says every thing

in that little. He demolisheth all the assertions of the Co­

rinthians in their last speech at Sparta, as if he had heard

them speak. Perhaps Thucydides here hath not sufficiently

concealed his art in writing. But the speech is intirely in

character, compleatly suited to the heart and hsad and

mouth of Pericles. Pericles, I observe it with pleasure, is

an Englishman both in heart and judgment. England hath

adhered and will adhere to the lessons which Athens ne­

glected and forgot—" Of vast consequence indeed," (says this

enlightened statesman,) " is the dominion of the sea. But,

" consider it with attention. For, were we seated on an

" island," (as the force of his argument evidently implies,)

" we could never be subdued. And now you ought to think,

" that our present situation is nearly as possible the same,

." and so to evacuate your houses and lands in Attica, and

" to confine your defence to the sea." If this can need a

