B. I. INTRODUCTION. 113

" That a war shall not begin, but will retaliate upon those

" that do.

" Such an answer is agreeable to justice, and becomes

" the dignity of the Athenian state. But you ought to be

" informed, that a war unavoidably there will be; that the

" greater alacrity we shew for it, the more shall we damp the

" spirits of our enemies in their attacks; and, that the

" greatest dangers are ever the resource of the greatest hon-

" ours to communities as well as individuals. It was thus

" that our fathers withstood the Medes, and rushing to arms

" with resources far inferior to ours, nay abandoning all their

" substance, by resolution more than fortune, by courage more

" than real strength, beat back the Barbarian, and advanced

" this state to its present summit of grandeur. From them

" we ought not to degenerate, but by every effort within our

" ability avenge it on our foes, and deliver it down to posteri-

" ty, unblemished and unimpaired."

In this manner Pericles spoke; and the Athenians, judging

that what he advised was most for their interest, decreed in

conformity to his exhortation. They returned a particular

answer to the Lacedaemonians, according to his directions,

nay in the very words of his motion ; and in fine concluded—

that " they would do nothing upon command, but were ready

to submit the points in contest to a judicial determination, ac­

cording to treaty, upon a fair and equal footing." Upon this,

the ambassadors departed; and here all negotiations came to

a conclusion.

Such were the pretexts and dissensions on both sides pre­

vious to the war, and which took their first rise from the busi­

ness of Epidamnus and Corcyra. These however never in­

terrupted their commercial dealings nor mutual intercourse,

which still were carried on without the intervention of heralds,

but not without suspicions. For such incidents manifestly

tended to a rupture, and must infallibly end in war*.

• As the Athenians -were a free people, they made use of their liberty

on all occasions to asperse, calumniate, and ridicule the great men amongst

them. They were at this time exhibited on the stage by name ; and At is-

