160 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

he had embarked four thousand heavy-armed Athenians; and

in vessels for transporting horse, now first fitted up for this ser­

vice out of old ships, three hundred horsemen. The Chians

and the Lesbians joined in the expedition with fifty sail. At

the very time this fleet went to sea from Athens, they left the

Peloponnesians on the coast of Attica. When they were ar­

rived before Epidaurus, a city of Peloponnesus, they ravaged

great part of the country about it, and making an assault on the

city itself, had some hopes of taking it, but did not succeed.

Leaving Epidaurus, they ravaged the country about Troexene,

Halias, and Hermione ; all these places are situated on the

seacoast of Peloponnesus. But, sailing hence, they came be­

fore Prasiae, a fort of Laconia, situated upon the sea, around

which they laid the country waste ; and having taken the fort

by assault, demolished it. After these performances they re­

turned home and found the Peloponnesians no longer in At­

tica, but retired within their own dominions.

The whole space of time that the Peloponnesians were

upon the lands of the Athenians, and the Athenians employ­

ed in their sea-expedition, the plague was making havoc

both in the troops of the Athenians, and within the city.

This occasioned a report, that the Peloponnesians, for fear of

the infection, as having been informed by deserters that it

raged in the city, and been witnesses themselves of their

frequent interments, retired out of their territory with some

precipitation. Yet they persevered in this incursion longer

than they had ever done before, and had made the whole

" got on board hi; trireme, the sun was eclipsed. It soon grew so dark,

" that all men were astonished at so dreadful a prodigy. Pericles, seeing

" his own pilot quite terrified and confounded, threw a cloak over his face,

" and wrapping him up in it, asked, Whether he saw any thing dreadful,

'4 or any thing that portended danger ? The pilot answering in the nega-

" tive,' What difference then (he went on) between this affair and that,

" unless that what hath darkened the sun is bigger than a cloak." Pericles

had easily learned of his preceptor, Anaxagoras, how to account for eclipses.

But whether Plutarch hath placed this incident in right time, is a ques­

tion : For Tbucydides, who is exact in these things, mentions no eclipse

of the sun this summer.

