B. I. " INTRODUCTION. 9

expressly informed us, that every person of the crews be­

longing to the ships of Philoctetes were both mariners and

soldiers, since he hath made all who plied at the oar to be

expert at the bow. It is not probable that any ships carried

supernumeraries, excepting kings or persons in command,

especially as their point was a mere transportation with all the

necessary habiliments of war, and as their ships were not

decked, but built entirely in the fashion of the old piratical

cruizers. If therefore a mean be taken between the largest

and smallest rates, the number of the whole will turn out*

of small account for quotas sent in general from the whole

of Greece. The reason of this was not so much a scarcity

of men as want of money. They adjusted the number of

men to the slender store of provisions they already had, and

the probability of procuring a competent subsistence in the

course of the war. On their first landing they got the bet­

ter in fight; the proof is, that they could not otherwise have

fortified their camp with a wall. Neither doth it appear that

they exerted all their strength at once, numbers being de­

tached for supplies of provisions, to till the Chersonesus,

and to forage at large. Thus divided as they were, the Tro­

jans were better able to make a ten years resistance, being

equal in force to those who were at any time left to carry

on the siege. For had the stores of provision at the first land­

ing been ample enough for the whole number of men they

brought, and had they been able to prosecute the war free

from the avocations of foraging and tillage, their superiority

in the field must have given them an easy and expeditious

conquest. Cut in fact they did not ply the work with all

their number, but only with a part constantly reserved for

the purpose : Had they formed the siege with their whole

force, in less time and with less difficulty they must have

taken Troy. Through want of money tt was that expedi-

• Thucydides makes it of small account, in repardtotliewar which is his

subject. But the number of men employed in the expedition against Troy

was 102000. For the mean between 120 and 50 is 85, and 85 x by 1200

= 102000.

