92 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. *

"for war. The oracle of a God prescribeth it; that

" God himself hath promised his assistance ; and the rest

" of Greece is ready to join you in the contest, some from

" a principle of fear, and some from a principle of interest.

" Neither on you will the first breach of the peace be charged.

"The God who adviseth war plainly judgeth that to be

" already broke: You will only act to redress its violation.

" For the breach is not to be charged on those who arm to

" revenge it; but on those who were the first aggressors.

" Since then war, considered in every light, appears hon-

" Durable in regard to you, ye Lacedaemonians; since we,

" with united voices, encourage you to it, as most strongly

" requisite for our general and separate interests defer no

" longer to succour the Potidaeans, Dorians by descent, and

" besieged by Ionians (the reverse was formerly the case), and

" to fetch again the liberty of others. The business will ad-

44 mit of no longer delay, when some already feel the blow ;

" and others, if it once be known that we met here together,

" and durst not undertake our own defence, will in a very

" little time be sensible of the same. Reflect within your-

" selves, confederates, that affairs are come to extremities,

" that we have suggested the most adviseable measures, and

44 —give your ballot for war. Be not terrified at its im-

" mediate dangers ; but animate yourselves with the hope of

" a long lasting peace to be procured by it. For a peace

" produced by war is ever the most firm; but from tranquility

" and ease to be averse to war, can by no means abate or

"dissipate our danger. With this certain conclusion, that

*4 a state in Greece is started up into a tyrant, and aims indif-  
" ferently at the liberty of us all, her arbitrary plan being

" partly executed and partly in agitation—let us rush against

" and at once pull her down. Then shall we pass the remainder

" of our lives exempt from dangers, and shall immediately re-

" cover liberty for those Grecians who are already enslaved."

In this manner the Corinthians spoke : and the Laceda-

monians, when they had heard them all deliver their several

opinions, gave out the ballots to all the confederates that

