270 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

to themselves, opportunities were easily found by such as

were fond of innovations to introduce the side they favoured.

The consequence of this was sedition in cities, with all its

numerous and tragical incidents. Such were now, and such

things ever will be, so long as human nature continues the

same ; but under greater or less aggravations, and diversified

in circumstances, according to the several vicissitudes of con­

junctures, which shall happen to occur. In the seasons of

peace and affluence, communities as well as individuals have

their tempers under better regulation, because not liable to

that violence which flows from necessity. But war, which

snatcheth from them their daily subsistence, is the teacher of

violence, and assimilates the passions of men to their present

condition.

By these means were cities harassed with seditions. And

those to whose fate the later commotions fell, through en­

quiry what had happened in such instances before, grew

enormously ambitious to suppress the machinations of others,

both in policy of attempts and extravagance of revenge.

Even words lost now their former significance, since to pal­

liate actions they were quite distorted. For truly, what be­

fore was a brutal courage, began to be esteemed that forti­

tude which becomes a human and sociable creature; pru­

dent consideration to be specious cowardice; modesty, the

disguise of effeminacy ; and being wise in every thing, to

be good for nothing: The hot fiery temper was adjudged

the exertion of true manlv valour: cautious and calm deli-

beration, to be a plausible pretext for intended knavery.

He who boiled with indignation was undoubtedly trusty;

who presumed to contradict, was ever suspected. He who

succeeded in a roguish scheme was wise; and he who sus­

pected such practices in others, was still a more able genius.

But, was he provident enough, so as never to be in need

of such base expedients, he was one that would not stand

to his engagements and most shamefully awed by his foes,

fn short, he who could prewnt another in executing vil-

