B. II. 145 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

" in a private capacity, we all enjoy the same general equali-

" ty our laws are fitted to preserve; and superior honours

" just as we excel. The public administration is not confined

" to a particular family, but is attainable only by merit.—

" Poverty is not a hindrance, since whoever is able to serve

" his country meets with no obstacle to preferment from his

first obscurity. The offices of the state we go through with-

" out obstructions from one another ; and live together in the

" mutual endearments of private life without suspicions ; not

" angry with a neighbour for following the bent of his own

" humour, nor putting on that countenance of discontent,

" which pains though it cannot punish—so that in private life

" we converse without diffidence or damage, whilst we dare

" not on any account offend against the Public, through the

" reverence we bear to the magistrates and tlje laws, chiefly

" to those enacted for redress of the injured, and to those un-

" written, a breach of which is allowed disgrace. Our laws

" have further provided for the mind most frequent intermis-

" sions of care by the appointment of public recreations and

" sacrifices throughout the year*, elegantly performed with a

" peculiar pomp, the daily delight of which is a charm that

" puts melancholy to flight. The grandeur of this our Athens

" causeth the produce of the whole earth to be imported

" here, by which we reap a familiar enjoyment, not more of

" the delicacies of our own growth, than of those of other na-

" tions.

" In the affairs of war we excel those of our enemies,

" who adhere to methods opposite to our own. For we lay

" open Athens to general resort, nor ever drive any stranger

" from us whom either improvement or curiosity hath

" brought amongst us, lest any enemy should hurt us by

• Beside the vast number of festivals, which were celebrated at Athens

with pompous processions, costly sacrifices and sometimes public games,

the presidents in course offered up sacrifices every morning constancy fur

the public welfare.

