148 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" only people who, repelling the attacks of an invading

" enemy, exempts their defeat from the blush of indigna-

" tion, and to their tributaries yields no discontent, as if

" subject to men unworthy to command. That we deserve

" our power, we need no evidence to manifest. We have

" great and signal proofs of this, which entitle us to the ad-

" miration of the present and of future ages. We want no

" Homer to be the herald of our praise; no poet to deck

" off a history with the charms of verse, where the opinion

" of exploits must suffer by a strict relation. Every sea hath

" been opened by our fleets, and every land hath been pe-

" netrated by our armies, which have everywhere left bc-

" hind them eternal monuments of our enmity and our

" friendship.

" In the just defence of such a State these victims of

*4 their own valour, scorning the ruin threatened to it, have  
M valiantly fought and bravely died. And every one of

" those who survive is ready, I am persuaded, to sacrifice

" life in such a cause. And for this reason have I enlarged

" so much on national points, to give the clearest proof

" that in the present war we have more at stake than men

" whose public advantages are not so valuable, and to il-

" lustrate by actual evidence, how great a commendation is

" due to them who are now my subjects, and the greatest

w part of which they have already received. For the enco-

" miums with which I have celebrated the State, have been

" earned for it by the bravery of these, and of men like

" these. And such compliments might be thought too high

" and exaggerated, if passed on any Grecians but them

" alone. The fatal period, to which these gallant souls are

" now reduced, is the surest evidence of their merit—an

" evidence begun in their lives and compleated in their

" deaths. For it is a debt of justice to pay superior honours

u to men, who have devoted their lives in fighting for their

" country, though inferior to others in every virtue but that

*of valour. Their last service effaceth all former demerits.

