136 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Pericles seeing their minds thus chagrined by the present

state of their affairs, and in consequence of this intent upon

unadviseable measures, but assured within himself of the

prudence of his own conduct in thus restraining them from

action, called no general assembly of the people, nor held

any public consultation, lest passion, which was more alive

than judgment, should throw them into indiscretions. He

kept strict guard in the city, and endeavoured as much as

possible to preserve the public quiet. Yet he was always

sending out small parties of horse, to prevent any damage

that might be done near the city, by adventurous stragglers

from the army. By this means, there happened once at

Phrygii a skirmish between one troop of the Athenian horse

accompanied by some Thessalians, and the horsemen of Boe-

otia, in which the Athenians and Thessalians maintained

their ground, till some heavy armed foot reinforced the Ba-

otian horse. Then they were forced to turn about, and some

few, both Thessalians and Athenians, were slain. However

they fetched off their bodies the same day without the enemy's

Leave, and the next day the Peloponnesians erected a trophy.

The aid sent now by the Thessalians was in consequence of

an ancient alliance between them and the Athenians. These

auxiliaries consisted of Larisseans, Pharsalians, Parasians,

Cranonians, Peirasians, Gyrtonians, Pheraeans. Those from

Larissa were commanded by Polymedes and Aristonus, each

heading those of his own faction; those from Pharsalus, by

Menon ; and those from the rest of the cities had their res­

pective commanders.

The Peloponnesians, when the Athenians made no shew of

coming out against them, broke up from Acharnae, and laid

waste some other of the Athenian boroughs, which lay between

the mountains Parnethus and Brilissus.

During the time of these incursions, the Athenians sent

out the hundred ships they had already equipped, and which

had on board a thousand heavy-armed soldiers and four hun­

dred archers, to infest the coast of Peloponnesus. The com­

