240 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" plain and open method they cannot possibly act, and artifice

" must clear the way before them. For the man who openly

" bestows any benefit upon it, is constantly suspected of doing

" underhand a greater to himself.

" When affairs therefore of so high concern are before

" you, when the general temper is so over-run with jealousy,

" we, who presume to advise, must enlarge our prospect

" farther than you, who only assist at a transient consulta-

" tion; because we are accountable for what we propose,

" and you are not accountable for the prejudices with which

" you hear. For if not only he who proposed, but he who

" complied, were equally answerable for events, your deter-

" minations would be better framed than they are at present.

" But now, hurried along as you are by your hasty resent-

" ments on any sinister event, you wreak your fury only upon

" the single opinion of the person who advised, and not upon

" your own joint opinions, by concurrence of which the mis-

" carriage was incurred.

" For my part, I neither stand up to deny certain facts

" in favour of the Mityleneans, nor to waste the time in

" fruitless accusations. We are not debating now what

" wrongs they have done us, since that would be a reproach

" to sense ; but what determination about them is best.

" For though I can prove, beyond a scruple, that they have

" injured us in the most outrageous manner, yet I shall not

" for that reason advise you to butcher them, unless it be

" expedient; nor, were they objects of forgiveness, should

" I advise forgiveness, unless I judged it for the interest of

" the public. I apprehend, that our consultations turn

" more upon a future than a present view. And Cleon

" here most confidently asserts, that the surest expedient of

" your future welfare is, to prevent all other revolts by in-

" flicting death in doom of this; but, equally confident of

" the just expedient of future security, I declare quite on

" the other side. And I intreat you, by no means to reject

" the real advantage of mine for tbe specious colourings of

