B. II. YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 185

of the Barbarians, when they saw them give way, durst not

keep their ground, but fled immediately. Neither of the

Grecian bodies knew anything of this engagement, so hastily

had those advanced, and were supposed to have done it only

to encamp with greater expedition. But when the Barbari­

ans came running back to them in disorderly rout, they re­

ceived them into shelter, and all closing firm together stood

quiet the rest of the day. The Stratians durst not directly-

assault them, because the other Acarnanians were not yet

come up to their assistance, but were continually slinging at

them from a distance, thus harassing them abundantly, but

unable, without better weapons, to make them dislodge : The

Acarnanians only could have attacked them with effectual

vigour.

By the favour of a dark night, Cnemus withdrew his army

by a quick march to the river Anapus, which is eighty stadia*

distant from Stratus. The next day he obtains a truce to

fetch off the dead. And the Oeniadae coming up in a friend­

ly manner to his relief, he went to take refuge amongst them,

before the Acarnanians could draw their succours together,

and from thence the forces which composed his army march­

ed to their own homes. But the Stratians erected a trophy

on account of their victory over the Barbarians.

The fleet of Corinth and the other confederate states, that

was to sail from the gulf of Crissa, to attend the orders of

Cnemus, and prevent the Acarnanians on the coast from suc­

couring those within the land, never arrives : For about the

time of the action at Stratus, they had been compelled to

fight the Athenian squadron of twenty ships, stationed at

Naupactus under the command of Phormio. Phormio had

watched their coming out of the gulf, intending to attack so

soon as ever they got out to sea. The Corinthians and their

allies sailed out indeed, yet not so well prepared to fight by sea,

as to forward the land expedition on Acaniania. They never

• About eight miles.

