B. II. YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 177

" we will restore every thing again. In the mean time, we

" will make the best use of every thing intrusted to us, and

" pay you an annual equivalent for your subsistence." Upon

hearing this, they again returned into the city, and the whole

body of the people assisting at a general consultation, they

returned for answer—" That they desired only to communi-

" cate the proposals to the Athenians, and then with their

" approbation would accept them. In the mean time they

" begged a suspension of arms, and to have their lands spared

" from depredation." He granted them a truce for the time

requisite to receive an answer, and forbore ravaging the

country'.

The ambassadors of Plntaea, having been at Athens, and

consulted with the Athenians, return again with this answer

to their city. " The Athenians say, that in no preceding

" lime, ever since we entered into confederacy with them,

" did they ever suffer us in any respect to be injured ; that

" neither will they neglect us now, but send us a powerful

" aid. And you they solemnly adjure by the oaths which

" your fathers have sworn, to admit no change or innovation

" in the league subsisting between you and them."—When

the ambassadors had thus delivered the answer of the Athe­

nians, after some consultation the Plateeans resolved, " never

" to desert them, to bear any devastation of their lands, nay

" if such must be the case, to behold it with patience, and to

" suffer any extremities to which their enemies might reduce

" them ; that, further, no person should stir out of the city,

" but an answer be given from the walls—" That it was im-

" possible for them to accept the terms proposed by the Lace-

" daemonians."

This was no sooner heard than Archidamus the king

made this solemn appeal to all their tutelary Heroes and

Gods.—"Ye Gods and Heroes, said he, who protect this

" region of Plataea, bear witness to us, that it was not till

" after a violation of oaths already sworn, that we have

" marched into this country, where our fathers through the

