8 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

strength at sea: But, from this armament we have good light

afforded to guess at the preceding. /

What though Mycenavwas a small city, or though any

place at that time remarkable appear at present inconsidera­

ble to us ; yet, no one ought on these motives prematurely

to imagine that armament to have been less considerable

than it is described by the poets and reported by tradition.

Supposing the city of Lacedaemon to be now in a ruinated

condition, nothing left but the temples and the pavements of

the mass, I fancy, in process of time, posterity could not

easily be induced to believe that their power had ever been

proportioned to their glory. Of the five divisions* of Pelo­

ponnesus they are actually possessed of two, have the com­

mand of the whole, and of many confederate states without ;

yet, as the city is neither closely built, as the temples and

public edifices are by no means sumptuous, and the houses

detached from one another after the old mode of Greece,

it would suffer disparagement from such a view. If we far­

ther suppose the Athenians in the same reverse of fortune,

from the view the city then would afford, it might be guess­

ed that once it had double the strength which it really hath.

We ought not therefore to be incredulous, nor so much to

regard the appearance of cities as their power; and of

course, to conclude the armament against Troy to have

been greater than ever was known before, but inferior to

those of our age. And whatever credit be given to the po­

etry of Homer in this respect, who no doubt as a poet hath

set it off with all possible enlargement, yet even according

to his account it appeareth inferior. For he hath made it

to consist of twelve hundred ships; those of the Boeotians

carrying each one hundred and twenty men, those of Phi-

loctetes fifty; pointing out, as I imagine, the largest and

the smallest rates ; for of the rate of other ships he hath not

made the least mention in his catalogue, though he hath

• These were Laconia, Arcadia, Argolica, Messenia, and Elis. The

Lacedemonians were possessed of I.aconia and Messenia. Scholiast.

