B. IV. 305 YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425.

" service, when they must act from their vessels and on the

" water, where many lucky contingencies are requisite.

" And thus am I satisfied, that with these disadvantages they

" are but merely a balance for our smallness of number.

" As for you, O Athenians, who are now present, and who,

*4 by the long experience of frequent descents, are perfectly  
" convinced that men, who stand firm and scorn to give way

" before the dash of the surge or the menacing approach of a

" vessel, can never be beat off—from you I insist, that firmly

" embodied together and charging the enemy on the very

" margin of the water, you preserve all us who are here, and

" preserve this fortress."

In this manner Demosthenes having encouraged his men,

the Athenians became more animated than ever ; and, march­

ing forwards to the very margin of the sea, posted themselves

there in order of battle. The Lacedaemonians were also in

motion ; their land force was marching to assault the fortress,

and their fleet was approaching the shore. It consisted of

forty-three vessels, and a Spartan, Thrasymelidas the son of

Cratesicles, was on board as admiral. He steered directly for

the spot on which Demosthenes expected his coming. In

this manner were the Athenians assaulted on both sides, by

land and sea.

The ships of the enemy came on in small divisions, be­

cause there was not room for larger. They slackened by in­

tervals, and endeavoured by turns to force their landing.

They were brave to a man, and mutually animated one ano­

ther to beat off the Athenians and seize the fortress.

But Brasidas signalized himself above them all. He com­

manded a trireme ; and observing that the other comman­

ders and pilots, though they knew they could run aground,

yet kept aloof because the shore was craggy, and shunned

every hazard of staving their vessels, he shouted aloud,

" that it was shameful for the saving of timber to suffer ene-

" mies to raise fortifications within their territory." He en­

