134 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

be this. He presumed that the Athenians, who flourished

at that time in a numerous youth, and who never before had

been so well prepared for war, would probably march out

against him, and would not sit quiet whilst their lands were

ravaged before their eyes. But when he had advanced to

Eleusis and the plain of Thriasia without any resistance, he

had a mind to try whether laying siege to Acharnae would

provoke them to come out. This place seemed further to

him a convenient spot for a long encampment. Besides, he

could not persuade himself, that the Acharnians, so consi­

derable a body amongst the citizens of Athens (for three

thousand of them now wore the heavy armour), could see

with patience their own properties ruined by hostile devasta­

tion, without inciting all their fellow-citizens to rush out to

battle. And if the Athenians would not come out against

them this campaign, he might another campaign with greater

security extend his devastation even to the very walls of

Athens. He thought it not likely that the Acharnians, when

all their lands had been ruined in this manner, would chear-

fully run into hazards to prevent the losses of others, and

that hence much dissention might be kindled up* amongst

• Aristophanes wrote his comedy of The Acharnians upon this plan, and

abundantly ridiculed the public conduct as injurious to the citizens of
Athens.

Though it was not brought upon the stage till the sixth year of the war,

it amply shews us, how the Acharnians resented their being thus exposed

to the ravage of the enemy; and how the wits, that lived upon the public

passions, helped still more to exasperate them, and misrepresented the

measures of the ablest politicians, and who perfectly well understood and

aimed at the general welfare of the whole community, as weak, corrupt,

and mischievous. No care to redress, and no commiseration for the

Acharnians, as Dicmopolia hints, who was one of that borough " And

4' what! it will be said, Can this possibly be helped > Be helped, do you

"say? why not ! Tell me, if you can. Suppose only, that a Lacedxmo-

"nian had stood across in his skiff to Seriphus, and after killing a favour

"ite lap-dog got off again safe : Would ye now in this case sit still!

" Quite the contrary. You would immediately be putting out to sea with

" three hundred sail of ships: Athens would roar with the tumult of

" soldiers ; the captains of vessels would be shouting, pay delivering, and

"our gold Bying about- What a bustle would there be in the long portico !

" what distributing of provisions, skins, thongs, casks full of olives, onions
in

