140 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR.

ed from Athens Procne, the daughter of Pandion, nor did they

both belong to the same part of Thrace. Tereus lived in

Daulia, a city of that province which is now called Phocis,

and which in his time was inhabited by Thracians. Here it

was that the women executed the tragical business of Itys ;

and many poets who make mention of the nightingale, do it by

the name of the Daulian bird. And it is more probable that

Pandion matched his daughter to a person at this lesser dis­

tance from him, from the view of mutual advantage, than to

one seated at Odrysa?, which is many days journey further

off. But Teres, whose name is not the same with Tereus, was

the first king of Odrysae, and compassed the regal power by

violence. This man's son Sitalces, the Athenians admitted

into their alliance, hoping he might gain over to their side

the cities of Thrace and Perdiccas. Nymphodorus arriving

at Athens finished the alliance with Sitalces, and made his son

Sadocus an Athenian. He also undertook to bring the war

how in Thrace to an end, and to persuade Sitalces to send to

the Athenians a body of Thracian horsemen and targeteers.

He also reconciled Perdiccas to the Athenians by procuring

for him the restitution of Therme : Immediately after which,

Perdiccas joined the Athenians and Phormio in the expedi­

tion against the Chalcideans. Thus was Sitalces the son of

Teres, a Thracian king, and Perdiccas, the son of Alexander,

a Macedonian king*, brought into the Athenian league.

The Athenians in the fleet of one hundred sail, still con­

tinuing their cruize on the coast of Peloponnesus, took So­

lium a fort belonging to the Corinthians, and delivered the

place with the district of land belonging to it to the Paliren-

• Macedonia at.this time was not reckoned a part of Greece, and both

king and people were regarded as Barbarians. Alexander, father of this

Perdiccas, was obliged to plead an Argive pedigree, in order to assist at

the Olympic games And Perdiccas now himself, whose successor Alex­

ander the Great, not many years af4er, was leader of Greece and conqueror,

of Asia, was at this time balancing between the Lucedxmonians and Athe­

nians, important to either merely as a neighbour to their colonies in Thrice.

The Greek generals will be sometimes seen in this history to use the

monarch of Macedonia very cavalierty.

