308 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

terrified, fought a sea-fight (if it may be so expressed) from

the shore: The Athenians, already victorious, and eager to

give their good fortune its utmost completion, fought a land-

battle from on board. The struggle on both sides was long

and laborious, and blood was abundantly shed before the

dispute could be ended. But at length the Lacedaemonians

recovered all their empty vessels, excepting such as had

been taken on the first onset. Each party being retired to

their respective posts, the Athenians erected a trophy, and

delivered up the dead, and were masters of all the wreck

and shatters of the action. Then, without loss of time, they

ranged their vessels in circuit quite round the island, and

kept a strict watch, as hnving intercepted the body of men

which was posted there. But the Peloponnesians on the

main-land, with the accession of their auxiliaries who had

now joined them, remained upon the opposite shore near

Pylus.

When the news of this action at Pylus was brought to

Sparta, it was resolved, as the great calamity was so urgent,

that the magistrates in person should repair to the camp,

and consult upon the very spot what resource they had left.

And when their own eyes had shewed them the impossi­

bility of relieving their men, and they were loth to leave

them in the wretched extremity either of perishing by fa­

mine, or, overpowered by superior numbers, of being shame­

fully made prisoners, it was concluded " to send to the

" Athenian commanders to ask a suspension of arms at Pylus,

" whilst they dispatched an embassy to Athens to procure

" an accommodation, and to obtain leave as soon as possible

" to fetch off their Spartans." These commanders accepting

the proposal, the suspension was agreed upon on the follow­

ing conditions.

" THAT the Lacedaemonians should immediately deliver

"up the ships in which they .had fought; and all the ships

" of war in general, which they had any where in Laconia,

" they should bring to Pylus, and deliver up to the Athe­

