196 THE FELOPONNESIAN WAR.

near the place from whence they had pursued this victory.

They took up their dead, and the shattered pieces of their

ships, whatever they found on their own coasts, and by a truce

gave permission to the Peloponnesians to fetch off theirs.

The Peloponnesians also erected a trophy, in token of a

victory gained by forcing ashore and damaging some of the

enemy's ships. The ship they took they consecrated on the

Rhium of Achaia, near their trophy. Yet, after this, being

in some dread of the reinforcement expected from Athens,

all of them, except the Leucadians, sailed away by favour

of the night into the gulf of Crissa and Corinth. The Athe­

nians, in the twenty ships from Crete, that ought to have

been up with Phormio before the engagement, not long after

the above retreat of the other ships, arrived at Naupactus.

And here this summer ended.

Before the separation of the fleet that withdrew into

Corinth and the gulf of Crissa, Cnemus, Brasidas, and the

other commanders of the Peloponnesians, by the advice of

the Megareans, formed a design, in the beginning of this

winter, to make an attempt on the Piraeus, the haven of the

Athenians. It was not guarded or secured in the usual

manner; nor was this judged requisite, as the naval power

of Athens was become so extensive. Their project was, that

every mariner carrying with him an oar, a cushion, and a

leathern thong, should march over-land from Corinth, to

the sea on which Athens is situated, and that making the

best of their way to Megara, and drawing out the forty ships

that lay there in the Nisaean dock, they should immediately

stand into the Piraeus. For there was not so much as one

ship appointed to its guard ; nor was there the least suspicion

at Athens that the enemy would attempt in this manner to

surprise them : For, openly, and in a regular train, they

durst not attempt it; nor could a project which required

deliberate procedure have escaped discovery. But no sooner

bad they resolved upon, than they set out to execute the

present scheme. Arriving in the night, they drew the ships

