DISCOURSE Til. Ixxvii

the preceding. The incidents crowd fast upon one another,

and politics and oratory are in full employ. The revolt of

Lesbos is the first occurrence of importance. The people

of that isle had been long in the Athenian league : But the

number of this league were dependents rather than confe­

derates. Thucydides always employs the same Greek word

(<rvn/uix»i) for the members of either league: The idea it

gives is that of companions in war. But there is great dif­

ference between such as accompany, because they chuse

it; and such as accompany, because they are summoned

and cannot help it. The former was in general the case of

those who sided with Sparta; the latter, of those who sided

with Athens. The least thought of compulsion is grating to

any State, which thinks it ought, and is able, to be quite

independent. This was the case with the Lesbians, a people

considerable in many respects, but especially for their naval

strength. It was well worth the while of the Lacedaemo-

nions to gain such confederates ; it must be a sad blow to

the Athenians to lose such dependents. The fact was; all

the cities of Lesbos, except Methymne, declare a revolt.

The Athenians lose no time, but are at once with a powerful

squadron before Mitylene, and block it up. The Mityle-

neans had sent ambassadors to beg immediate aid from the

Lacedaemonians. They had an audience from them and

the rest of their league at Olympia, so soon as the games

were ended. The speech they make on this occasion is very

artful, very insinuating, and nicely adapted to carry their

point.

" They open the nature of a revolt, and the cases in

" which it merits protection and succour from others. They

" have been ill used by the Athenians; have been made

" their tools in inslaving their compatriots of Greece ; have

" been long caressed indeed, but are well assured what their

" own fate would soon have been. Every State hath a na-

" tural right to take preventive measures against the loss of

" their liberty, and to stand on their defence. They had

