xcviii A Survey of the History.

" it. Athenians invade them ? The Athenians esteem them*

" selves happy they are not invaded by the Syracusans. Yet,

" supposing them so mad, nothing but their own disgrace

" and ruin can be the consequence. But it is all a fiction ; a

" scheme to dishearten the friends of the people, and seize the

" government of the State. Some men have ever been, and

" ever will be dabbling in such vile machinations. But let

" them not hope to escape detection. The intention is plain

" already, and ought to be punished like open treason. He

" then exhorts the people or the many to support their friends,

" and intirely to disarm the malice of their domestic foes ;

" and inveighs severely against the few, or the party

" whom he supposeth to be bent on the overthrow of the de-

" mocracy at Syracuse."

The speech of Athenagoras was so full of ill-timed

choler and party-animosity, that had the debate proceeded,

dissensions might have run very high at a season when un­

animity was so needful in all the members of that commu­

nity. A General of great eminence and weight thinks it

high time to interpose ; who, in a short speech, reprimands

Athenagoras, recals the general attention to their own pre­

servation from the imminent danger, and adjourns the as­

sembly.

The grand fleet of Athens is now putting to sea from

Corcyra. The Historian takes a review of the whole, and

gives a short account of its numbers and strength. They

arrive on the coast of Italy, where they are refused a recep­

tion. Every thing yields them a discouraging and gloomy

aspect. They soon find, they had been grossly deluded by

their Sicilian friends, who instigated them chiefly to the ex­

pedition. The trick, which the Egesteans had put on their

embassadors, is particularly recited. The commanders, at a

council of war, differ highly in opinion, and at last come to

no sound resolution. They hover about the coast of Sicily,

and parade in sight of Syracuse. Alcibiades endeavours to

persuade the Catanians to join with and receive them, but a

