DISCOURSE III.

people of Athens to such a pitch of inhumanity; which, how­

ever, instantly subsided. They are struck with horror at

their own resolution, and will have it again debated. We

shall hear the two speakers on each side of the question, Cleon

and Diodotus.

" Cleon sets out with all the fury and fire of a man, who

" hath a bad heart. He hath abjured humanity to shew

" himself a most zealous patriot. Eloquent he is acknow-

" ledged to have been, and so appears in his invectives

" against his own masters and his own tools, the people, for

" their foolish commiseration, for their being the eternal

" dupes of orators, of subtle and venal speakers. For his

" own part, he loves his country and hates her enemies.

M Guilt shall never find an advocate in him ; he calls out for

" vengeance on the Mityleneans; none but their pensioners,

" none but men who are bribed and corrupted can offer a

" plea in their behalf. He bids his audience throw away all

" foolish pity, all womanish forbearance, to fix their atten-

" tion on the crimes of the guilty, and not on the horrors

a of their punishment; and give this proof to their depend-

" ents, that death shall inevitably be the portion of all re-

" volters, that their arms may be henceforth employed in op-

" posing their public enemies, and not in chastising their own

" subjects."

Diodotus replies in a speech that shews him a real patriot,

and a man who thought good-manners, a calm considerate

temper, and a regard to humanity to be very consistent

with the true patriot-spirit. " He therefore defends the re-

" committing of their former resolution, since repeated con-

" sulfations cannot be prejudicial to the public welfare. It

" is a base and odious method to lavish the charge of ig-

" norance and venality on men who differ in sentiment; it

" robs the public of its ablest counsellors and sincerest

" friends. Strict justice, in the present instance, may be

" with Cleon; but the future and lasting welfare of their

" country is the object now to be kept in view. The punish­

