188 THE PELOPONKESTAN WAR.

his naval conduct, ordering him to get ready for a more suc­

cessful engagement, and not to leave the dominion of the sea

to such a small number of ships. For their late defeat ap­

peared to them quite unaccountable, especially as this was

the first trial they had of an engagement at sea; nor could

they think it so much owing to a want of skill in naval affairs,

as to a want of courage, never balancing the long experience

of the Athenians with their own short application to these

matters. These persons therefore they sent away in anger,

who, coming to Cnemus^ issued their circular orders to the

states for new quotas of shipping, and refitted what was al­

ready there for another engagement. Phormio also sends

messengers to Athens with an account of these preparations,

and to report the victory they had already gained ; request­

ing a further reinforcement of as many ships as they could

expeditiously dispatch, since he was in daily expectation of

another fight.

Twenty ships were the number they agfee to send him,

but they ordered him who was to carry them to touch by the

way at Crete. For Nicias a Cretan of Gortys, a public

friend of the Athenians, had persuaded them to appear be­

fore Cydonia, assuring them that this place, which had been

an enemy to them, should soon be their own. This he in­

sinuated merely to gratify the Polychnitae, who bordered

upon the Cydonians. The commander therefore with these

ships went to Crete, and joining the Polvchnita?, ravaged the

territory of the Cydonians ; by which, together with adverse

winds and weather unfit for sea, no little time was unseasona­

bly wasted away.

The Peloponnesians at Cyllene, (lining the time that the

Athenians lay weather-bound in Crete, having got every

thing in readiness for another engagement, sailed along the

coast of Panormus of Achaia, where the land-forces of the

Peloponnesians were come to forward their attempts. Phor­

mio likewise, with the twenty ships which had fought the

former battle, sailed up to cape Molychrium, and lay at an­

