discourse in. xciii

The Sicilian war, which some critics* are inclined to think

hath no connection with the subject of Thucydides, and to be

mere digression, whatever it may appear at first, the reader

will at length be satisfied was an essential part of the Pelopon-

nesian war, and hastened its decision. But, supposing it

remote from the principal subject, it must however be ac­

knowledged, that it is the history of a war nobly related, well

connected, very closely followed, and full of incidents to en­

gage attention, to alarm and interest the passions. Thucy­

dides, in the course of it, which takes up the two following

books, which display the excellencies of the poet and the

painter as well as of the historian. Let his merit be regula­

ted from this portion of his work, it is presumed that, with­

out a negative, he will be allowed the master of History.

He begins with describing the theatre on which two mighty

States are going to enter the lists.—The geography and an­

tiquities of Sicily could not in their nature be very entertain­

ing, and therefore they are drawn up in the concisest manner.

—The soaring enterprising genius of Alcibiades hath formed

a superb plan for the aggrandizement of himself and his

country. Alcibiades could plan with all the magnificence

and wild ambition of an Alexander ; but a citizen of Athens

could not have the means of executing in so imperial a man­

ner as the Monarch of Macedonia and Captain-General of

Greece. He was able soon to convince the younger and more

numerous part of the Athenian community, that the enter­

prise was most inviting, and carried with it such a probabi­

lity of success as over-balanced all expence and hazard. It

was long the subject of general conversation; it gradually-

inflamed the public ardour; and at length ingrossed all their

hopes and wishes. In a word, the expedition to Sicily is for­

mally proposed and decreed in the assembly of the people.

A second assembly is convened on ways and means. On this

occasion a grand debate ensued, the managers of which are

Nicias and Alcibiades.

• See Rapin's comparison of Thucydides and Liry.

