INTRODUCTION. 69

of the sea; and immediately began to put the plan in execu­

tion. And by his direction it was, that they built the wall

round the Piraus of that thickness which is visible to this

day. For two carts carrying the stone passed along it by

one another ; Within was neither mortar nor mud ; but the

entire structure was one pile of large stones hewn square to

close their angles exactly, and grappled firmly together on

the outside with iron and lead ; though in height it was not

carried up above half so far as he intended. He contrived it

to be, both in height and breadth, an impregnable rampart

against hostile assaults ; and he designed, that a few, and

those the least able of the people, might be sufficient to man

it, whilst the rest should be employed on board the fleet.

His attention was chiefly confined to a navy ; plainly dis­

cerning, in my opinion, that the forces of the King had a

much easier way to annoy them by sea than by land. He

thence judged the Piraus to be a place of much greater im­

portance than the upper city. And this piece of advice he

frequently gave the Athenians, that " if ever they were press­

ed hard by land, they should retire down thither, and with

their naval force make head against all opponents." In this

manner the Athenians, without losing time, after the retreat

of the Medes, fortified their city, and prepared all the neces­

sary means for their own security.

Pausanias the son of Cleombrotus was sent out from La-

cedaemon, as commander in chief of the Grecians, with

twenty sail of ships from Peloponnesus, joined by thirty

Athenians and a number of other allies. They bent their

course against Cyprus, and reduced most of the towns there.

From thence they proceeded to Byzantium garrisoned by

the Medes, and blockaded, and carried the place under his

directions.

But, being now grown quite turbulent in command, the

other Grecians, especially the Ionians and all who had lately

recovered their liberty from the royal yoke, were highly cha­

grined. They addressed themselves to the Athenians, re-

Vol. I. Z

