122 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

whole number of their shipping might be mounted to five

hundred.—They were farther to get a certain sum of money

in readiness ; but in other respects to remain quiet: and till

their preparations could be compleated, never to admit more

than one Athenian vessel at a time within their ports.—The

Athenians made a careful survey of the strength of their own

alliance, and sent pressing embassies to the places round

about Peloponnesus, to Corcyra, to Cephallene, to the Acar-

nanians, and to Zacynthus ; plainly seeing, that if these

were in their interest, they might securely attack Pelopon­

nesus on all sides.—The minds of both parties were not a

little elated, but were eager after and big with war. For it

is natural to man, in the commencement of every important

enterprize, to be more than usually alert. The young men,

who were at this time numerous in Peloponnesus, numerous

also at Athens, were for want of experience quite fond of

the rupture. And all the rest of Greece stood attentively at

gaze on this contention between the two principal states.

Many oracles were tossed about, the soothsayers sung abun­

dance of predictions, amongst those who were upon the

point to break, and even in the cities that were yet neutral.

Nay, Delos had been lately shook with an earthquake, which

it had never been before in the memory of the Greeks. It

was said, and indeed believed, that this was a prognostic of

something extraordinary to happen; and all other accidents of

an uncommon nature whatever were sure to be wrested to

the same meaning.

The generality of Greece was indeed at this time much

the best affected to the Lacedaemonians, who gave out the

specious pretence, that " they were going to recover the li­

berty of Greece." Every one made it both his private pas­

sion and his public care, to give them all possible succour

both in word and act; and every one thought that the busi­

ness certainly flagged in those places where he himself was

not present to invigorate proceedings. So general an aver­

sion was there at this time formed against the Athenians,

when some were passionately desirous to throw off their yoke.

