B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 261

"juries wc have suffered, requiting so that chearful friend-

" ship we have ever shewn you ; and let not their flow of

" words overturn our just demands. Make now a precedent

" for Greece hereafter to follow. Shew them, that deci-

" sions must be formed, not according to what men may say,

" but according to what they have done: If their actions

" have been right, that a short simple narration may at any

" time suffice: But if those actions have been wrong, that

" all studied ornamental periods are intended to disguise the

" truth. If those who preside at judgments, as you at pre-

" sent, would proceed in a summary way, to a general de-

" termination against the guilty, little room would be left to

" disguise unjustifiable actions by plausible speeches."

In this manner the Thebans replied ; and the Lacedae­

monian judges agreed in the resolution, that the question,—

" Whether they had received any good service from them

" in the war ?"—was properly and fairly conceived. They

grounded this, upon the former proposal made to them to

remain neutral according to the old treaty of Pausanias after

the Medish invasion, and upon another more lately, which

they had offered before they had blocked them up, to be

common friends to both sides in conformity to the same

treaty. But after this double refusal, looking upon them­

selves as no longer bound to observe those articles, which

others had deliberately infringed to traverse their interest,—

they now proceed again to bring them forwards man by

man, and put the question—" Whether they had done good

" service to the Lacedaemonians and allies in the present

" war?"—and upon their answering -iVo, led them aside and

slew them. Not one of the number did they exempt; so

that in this massacre there perished of Plataeans not fewer

than two hundred, and twenty-five Athenians who had been

besieged in their company ; and all the women were sold

for slaves. The Thebans assigned the city, for the space of

a year, to be the residence of certain Megarfeans, who had

been driven from home in the rage of a sedition, and to

Vol. I. 3 A

