32Q THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" an errand was quite superfluous, since opportunities might

" be lost by so dilatory a measure: if they were really

" convinced of the truth of the report, they should at once

" put to sea against their enemies." He then proceeded to

a malicious glance against Nicias, son of Niceratus, who at

that time presided over the military affairs. He hated him,

and sneered him thus—That " if their generals were really

" men, it would be any easy matter to sail thither with an

" additional strength, and make a seizure of those in the

44 island; for his own part, was he in command, he would

" do it in a trice." The Athenians began immediately to

clamour and rail at Cleon, for not instantly setting about

that enterprise himself, which to him appeared so easy.

This Nicias laying hold of, chagrined at the same time by

the sneer upon himself, called upon him aloud—" To take

" what force he pleased, and to perform the service in his

" stead." Cleon, imagining this to be a mere verbal offer,

declared himself ready. But when he found that Nicias

was earnest in the point of resignation, he drew back, al­

leging, that " it could not be, since not he but Nicias was

" general." He trembled now, since he never suspected

that the other would venture to give up his office to him.—

Nicias however called a^ second time upon him, and for­

mally surrendered his office to him, so far as related to Pylus,

desiring the Athenians to be his witnesses. The people now

(for such is the temper of the multitude) the more pains

Cleon took to decline the voyage, and disentangle himself

from his own bravados, called out so much the more vehe­

mently upon Nicias to give up the command, and roared

aloud at the other to go on board. Unable now to extricate

himself, he intimates his acceptance of the employ, and

standing forth, averred, that " he was not under the least

" dread of the Lacedaemonians, would not be accompanied

" by so much as one Athenian, but would take only what

" Lemnians and Imbrians were at hand, and those targeteers

" who were come to their aid from iEnus, and the four hun­

