B. t. 99 IHTRODUCTION.

For Persia's hosts o'erthrown, and Graecia freed.

To Phoebus THIS Pausanias hath decreed,

Who led the Grecians to the glorious deed.

These verses indeed the Lacedaemonians immediately de­

faced from the tripod, and placed in their stead the names of

the several states which had joined in the overthrow of the

Barbarian, and in making this oblation. This therefore was

now recollected to the prejudice of Pausanias ; and, in his

present situation, it was interpreted, from the circumstances

of his late behaviour, as an argument that he had been equally

guilty long before. They had moreover got an information

that he was tampering with the Helots, which in fact was

true : For he promised them their liberty and the privilege

of citizens of Sparta, if they would rise at his command, and

co-operate with him in the whole of his project. But even

this would not prevail: They disdained to place so much con­

fidence in the informations given by Helots, as to run into ir­

regularities to punish him. They adhered to the custom

ever observed amongst them, never to be hasty in forming a

sentence never to be recalled against a citizen of Sparta,

without unquestionable evidence. At length they obtained

the fullest conviction, as it is said, by means of an Argyllian,

an old minion of his, and the person most in his confidence,

who was to convey Artabazus the last letters he wrote to the

king. This man, alarmed by the recollection that no person

sent on these errands before him had ever returned again,

having already counterfeited the seal, to the end that if he

was deceived in his suspicions, or Pausanias should demand

them again to make any alteration, he might avoid discovery,

breaks open the letters. He found by them, that he was go­

ing on the errand his fears foreboded, and that his own mur­

der was expressly enjoined. He carried upon this the pac­

ket to the Ephori, who were now more than ever convinced,

but still were desirous to hear themselves, from the mouth of

Pausanias, an acknowledgment of the truth. They therefore

contrived, that this person should go to sanctuary at Tsena­

