330 THE PELOPOKNESIAN WAR.

of Cleon, mad as it had been, was fully executed. For within

the twenty days, he brought them prisoners to Athens, and

made his words good*.

The expectation of Greece was more disappointed by this

event, than by any other occurrence whatever in the series of

the war. It was generally presumed that neither famine noo

any extremity could have reduced these Lacedaemonians to

deliver up their arms, but that, sword in hand, and fighting

to the last gasp, they would have bravely perished. They

could not afterwards believe that those who surrendered were

like to those who were slain. Some time after, a soldier in

one of the confederate bands of the Athenians, demanding

with a sneer of one of them who were taken prisoners in the

island, " if the slain were not men of true gallantry and cou-

" rage ?" the other replied, that " a spindle, (by which he

" meant an arrow) would be valuable indeed, if it knew how

" to distinguish the brave ;" intimating by this answer, that

the slain were such as stones and darts dispatched in the med­

ley of battle.

When the prisoners were brought to Athens, it was the

public resolution there " to keep them in bonds, till some

" definitive treatv could be agreed on. And if, previously

" to this, the Peloponnesians should repeat their inroad into

" the Attic territory, they should all undergo a public exe-

" cution." They established also a garrison for Pylus. And

the Messenians of Naupactus sending thither the most pro­

per of their own people, as into their own native country

• It should be added here, that he also robbed for the present a very able

and gallant officer of the praise he merited on this occasion. The whole

affair of Pylus was planned, carried into execution, and brought to a suc­

cessful and glorious issue by the conduct and bravery of Demosthenes.

Aristophanes (in the A'nighttJ hath made a low comic character of the lat­

ter, and introduced him venting sad complaints against Cleon for pilfering

the honour from him. " This Paphlagonian (says he) hath snatched from

" every one of us whatever nice thing we had got to suit the palate of our

" lord and master (the people J. 'Tis but the other day, I myself had cooked

" up a nuble pasty of Lacedxmonians at P>lus, when this vilest of scouu-

" drels came running thither, pilfered it away from me, and hath served it

" up to table, as if it was of his own dressing."

