B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 357

at sea, by furnishing them with pilots; but farther, were

continually alarming the Samians at home, and sheltering

their deserters. From these apprehensions they assembled a

force from among their dependents, sailed thither, and hav足

ing defeated in battle those who came out of Antandrus to

oppose them, gain once more possession of that town. And

no long time after, Lamachus, who had been detached to

Pontus, having anchored in the river Calex in the district

of Heraclea, lost all his ships. A heavy rain had fallen in

the upper country, and the land-flood rushing suddenly

down, bore them all away before it. He himself and the

men under his command were forced to march over land

through Bithynia (possessed by those Thracians who acre

seated on the other side of the strait in Asia) to Chalcedon,

a colony of the Megareans, in the mouth of the Euxine

sea.

This summer also Demosthenes, immediately after he had

quitted the Megaris, with the command of forty sail of Athe足

nians, arrives at Naupactus. For with him, and with Hip足

pocrates, some persons of the Boeotian cities in those parts

had been concerting schemes how to change the government

of those cities, and introduce a democracy on the Athenian

model. The first author of this scheme was Ptoeodotus an

exile from Thebes, and matters were now ready for exe足

cution.

Some of them had undertaken to betray Siphae: Siphae

is a maritime town in the district of Thespiae, upon the gulf

of Crissa. Others of Orchomenus engaged for Chaeronea,

a town tributary to that Orchomenus which was formerly

called the Minyeian but now the Boeotian. Some Orchome-

nian exiles were the chief undertakers of this point, and were

hiring soldiers for the purpose from Peloponnesus. Chaero-

nea is situated on the edge of Boeotia towards Phanotis of

of Phocis, and is in part inhabited by Phocians. The share

assigned to the Athenians was the surprisal of Delium, a

temple of Apollo in Tanagra, looking towards Euboea. These

Vol.. I. 3 N

