34 THE PELOPONNESIAK WAR.

there was validity in the arguments of the Corinthians ; but,

at the second, they came to a different resolution—not indeed

to form such an alliance with the Corcyreans as to have the

same enemies and the same friends (for then, if the Corcyreans

should summon them to join in an expedition against Corinth,

their treaty with the Peloponnesians would be broke); but an

alliance merely defensivej for the reciprocal succour of one an­

other, if either Corcyra or Athens or any of their respective

allies should be assaulted. A war with the Peloponnesians

seemed to them unavoidable ; and they had no mind to leave

Corcyra, which had so great a naval force, for a prey to the

Corinthians ; but, to break them to the utmost of their power

against one another, that upon occasion they might be the bet­

ter able to war with the Corinthians, thus weakened to their

hands, though joined by other states of Greece which had pow­

er at sea. At the same time that island appeared to them most

conveniently situated in the passage to Italy and Sicily. Upon

these motives the Athenians received the Corcyreans into their

alliance: And, not long after the departure of the Corinthians,

sent ten ships to their aid under the command of Lacedaemonius

When it appeared that the point proposed would not pass unanimously,

the crier, at the command of the president in the chair, proclaimed aloud,

*' What citizen above fifty years of age hath a mind to speak i" When such  
had been heard, the crier made a second proclamation, that " any Athenian

" whatever had liberty to speak." The debate being ended, the president

in the chair bade the crier put the question. It was decided by holding up

of hands. The chairman distinguished the numbers in the affirmative and

negative, and declared the majority. Then the resolution or decree was

drawn up in form : and the Archon's name who gave title to the year, the

day of the month, and the name of the presiding tribe were prefixed.

The public decorum of the Athenians is worthy observation. The sen­

timents of age and experience were first to be heard, and then the spirit

and resolution of the younger were called in to assist at the public consul­

tation. Nay, they carried it farther; no person convicted of profaneness,

debauchery, cowardice, or public misdemeanor, was suffered to speak in

this assembly. From them they expected no sound instruction, no disin.

terested advice. If any such offered to speak, the president.-! of the
assembly

immediately enjoined them silence ; or, if they were refractory, ordered1

their officers to pull them down and turn them out of the assembly.

