B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 349

tune, that they imagined nothing could disconcert their

schemes ; that enterprizes of the greatest as well as of small

importance, no matter whether adequately or insufficiently

supported, must be ended to their wish. This was owing

to the unexpected good luck with which most of their pro­

jects had of late succeeded, and now invigorated all their

expectations.

The same summer, the Megareans of the city of Me-

gara, pressed hard by the Athenians, who constantly twice

a year made an inroad into their territory with their whole

united force; harassed at the same time by their own out­

laws, who having been ejected by the popular party in the

train of a sedition had settled at Pegae, and from thence

were continually plundering them, began to have some con­

ference about the expediency of recalling their outlaws, that

the city might not doubly be exposed to ruin. The friends

of these exiles, perceiving such a design to be in agitation,

insisted more openly than ever that the affair should be re­

gularly considered. The leaders of the people being con­

vinced that their own and the strength of the people united

in their present low condition could not possibly over-rule

it, were so far influenced by their fears as to make a secret

offer to the Athenian generals, Hippocrates the son of

Ariphron, and Demosthenes the son of Alcisthenes, " to put

" the city into their hands;" concluding, they should be

less endangered by such a step than by the restoration of

the exiles whom they themselves had ejected. It was agreed,

that in the first place the Athenians should take possession

of the long-walls (these were eight stadia* in length, reach­

ing down from the city to Nisaea their port) to prevent any

succour which might be sent from Nisaea by the Peloponne-

sians, since there alone they kept their garrison for the se­

curity of Megara. After this, they promised their endea­

vours to put them in possession of the upper city. And this

they would be able to effect more easily, when the former

point was once secured.

•About three quarters of a mile

Vol. I. 3 M

