DISCOURSE I. XXXV

" In Thrace, says he, lay also the possessions of Thucy-

" dides and his wealthy mines of gold, as he himself pro-

" fesseth in his fourth book. And although those riches

" might come to him by a wife (as is also by some affirmed)

" which he married in Scapte-Hyle, a city of Thrace; yet

" even by that marriage it appeareth, that his affairs had

" a relation to that country, and that his nobility was not

" there unknown." I cannot believe, that Thucydides ever

married a lady that was not purely Attic. He seems to

have been high-spirited in this respect, and proud of his

country. Miltiades indeed had married a Thracian princess;

and nothing, but the vast estate brought into the family by

this match, could have made his descendants easy with such

a blemish in their pedigree : For a blemish undoubtedly it

must have been thought at Athens. Let us see how Thucy­

dides himself drops his sentiment of such another match.

The passage I have in view occurs in the sixth book. He

is speaking of Hippias the son of Pisistratus, tyrant of

Athens. " To iEantidas the son of Hippoclus tyrant of

" Lampsacus—to a Lampsacene, though he himself was an

" Athenian—he married his daughter Archedice." I can­

not think, that he, who let such a sarcasm fall from his

own serious pen, could ever condescend to marry a Barba­

rian, let her fortune be never so great. The reader, if it

be worth his while to think at all about it, may determine

for himself.—This digression was caused by the express

mention Thucydides hath made of his mines, the very mo­

ment he is going to enter the lists against the most gallant

and active commander at this time in the armies of the

Lacedaemonian league.

It was Brasidas, the Spartan, who was now at the head

of the Peloponnesian troops in Thrace. He had made a

forced march thither through Thessaly and Macedonia. By

his fine deportment and his persuasive address, joined to

uncommon vigilance and activity, he had hitherto carried

all before him. He at length endeavoured to get possession

