DISCOURSE II.

For modes of government let fools contest,

That which is best administered is best.

That studied obscurity, in which he hath veiled himself,

will not let us discover, whether on instant and critical oc­

casions he ever suffered himself to be actuated by any of the

darker passions, or too fondly indulged those of a brighter

cast. But it cannot be found from what he writes, that he

hath praised any man from fondness, or even from gratitude,

degraded any one through envy, or reproached any one with

malice and ill-nature. The same will hold in regard to

States or whole communities. Doth he ever censure the

Athenians in the wrong place ? or commend the Lacedaemo­

nians but in the right ? Were his name expunged from the

beginning of the whole work, and the conclusions of the

years, could any one guess to what State he had ever be­

longed, whether he was a Lacedaemonian, a Corinthian, an

Athenian, or a Sicilian, except from the purity of the Attic

dialect in which he writes ? In that dialect he was cradled;

he could not possibly swerve from it; without it he could

neither write nor speak. Could he have thought, that this

might yield suspicion of an impassioned or prejudiced spirit,

he might perhaps have endeavoured to write in the Doric or

Ionic idiom.

Independent, further, he certainly must have been, since

he had no great man to cajole, and no prince to dread or

flatter. The powers of Greece or the monarch of Persia

could affect him no more, than the Germanic body or the

grand monarch of France the quiet and contented refugee,

who lives on the sunny side of a hill in Switzerland. The

circumjacent powers had no more, perhaps not so much, in­

fluence at Scaptesyle, than the neighbouring kingdoms can

have at Lausanne. The States of Greece had garrisons on

the coasts, but were not masters of Thrace. Thrace was full

of little communities and petty principalities. Thucydides

had credit enough amongst them to insure his personal safe­

ty and guard his retirement. He could disoblige those about

