174 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

having been forced to feed upon one another; they held a

parley about their surrender with the Athenian officers, who

commanded in the siege*, Xenophon, the son of Euripides,

Hestiodorus, the son of Aristoclides, and Phanomachus, the

son of Callimachus. They, sensible of the hardships their

troops suffered by long lying abroad in the winter season, and

that the carrying on of the siege had already cost Athens two

thousand talentsf, granted them a composition. The terms

agreed on were these " That they should quit the place

" with their wives, their children, and auxiliaries, every man

" with one suit of .clothing, but the women with two ; and with

" a certain sum of money to defray the expence of their de-

" parture." By virtue of this composition they went away

to Chalcis, where every one shifted for himself. But the Athe­

nians called their^r/wc/s to account for their conduct, because

they had signed this composition without their privity (for

they thought it in their power to have made them surrender at

discretion), and afterwards sent to Potidaea some of their peo­

ple whom they settled in a colony there.—These things were

done this' winter, and so ended the second year of this war,

the history of which hath been compiled by Thucydides.

• In this siege of Potidaca, two persons served amongst the heavy-armed

as private soldiers, one of whom was the glory of human nature ; and the

other the glory and bane of his country: I mean the divine Socrates, and

at this time young Alcibiades. Plutarch (in the life of Alcibiades) says,

they lay in the same tent, and fought always side by side- Once, in a sharp

skirmish, both of them distinguished themselves above all their fellow-sol-

diers. Alcibiades at length was wounded and dropped; Socrates stood

over and defended him, and saved both him and his arms from the enemy.

Socrates therefore had the justest right to the public reward, as the person

who had behaved best in this action. But when the gtneralt, on account

of Alcibiades's quality, shewed a great desire to confer honour upon him.

Socrates, willing also to increase his ardour for gallant actions, turned wit­

ness in his favour, and procured bim the wreath and the public present of

acompleat suit of armour. Socrates coveted no recompence for brave ex­

ploits but the consciousness of having performed them, and young Alcibi­

ades was to be nursed up to virtue. He was capable of every degree either

of virtue or vice : And Socrates always endeavoured to encourage him in

the former, and give his eager and enterprising soul the just direction.

+ 387.500.'. sterling.

