B. III. 257 YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427'.

" sions, it was always in your power to have recourse to that

" Lacedaemonian league, in which you concurred against the

" Mede, and about which you make at present the greatest

" parade. That would have been amply sufficient to turn

" aside our enmity from you ; and, what is above all, had se-

" curely enabled you to rectify your measures. But it was

" not against your will, neither was it upon compulsion, that

" you have solely adhered to the Athenians.

" But, then you rejoin—" It was base to betray your bene-

" factors."—Yet it was much more base and more enormous

" to betray at once the whole body of Grecians, with whom

" you had sworn a mutual defence, than the single Atheni-

" ans ; the Athenians truly have inslaved your country ; and

" the others would regain its freedom. You have not made

" your benefactors the requital which gratitude injoined, or

" which is exempted from reproach.—" Injured and oppres-

" sed you applied, it is pretended, to them for redress —and

" then you co-operated with them in oppressing others. But it

" is not more dishonourable to be wanting in any act of grati-

" tude, how justly soever it may be due, than to make the re-

" turn in a manner in itself unjust. You yourselves by act-

" ing thus have afforded undeniable proofs, that you alone

" did not join the Mede, from a zeal for the Grecians, but

" merely because the Athenians did not join him. You were

" desirous to act in concert with the latter, but in opposition

" to the former ; and now modestly claim to be recompensed

" by your country, for all the iniquitous services you have

" done to a party. But, justice will never suffer this. To

" Athenians you gave the preference, strive therefore from

" them to obtain redress. Cease vainly to allege the mutual

" oaths you once exchanged, as if they were obliged at pre­

sent to preserve you:—You renounced, you violated first

" those oaths, who rather concurred to inslave the iERinet*

" and some other people of the same association, than endea-

" voured to prevent it; and all without compulsion ; still hap­

