B. HI, 7EAR V. BEFORE CHRI8T 427. 227

" ble also that their land force is dispersed, in that negligent

" manner which victory indulgeth, into the scattered houses

" of refreshment. If therefore we can come upon them by

" surprize and by night, I hope by the assistance of our

" friends within, if really within we have a friend remaining,

" to give a new turn to our affairs. Let us not be staggered

" at the danger of the attempt, but remember, that all the

" turns of war are owing to some such reverse as this : which,

" that commander who is most on his guard against, and who

" can discern and seize such critical moments for assaulting

" his enemies, must be most frequently successful."

He gave his opinion thus, but it had no effect upon Al-

cidas. Some other persons, exiles from Ionia, and some

Lesbians who were also on board, advised him further

" That since he seemed to be discouraged by the apparent

" danger of that attempt, he should seize some city in Ionia,

" or Cyme in iEtolia: that, by favour of such a hold for war,

" they might bring about the revolt of Ionia: That in such

" a step success might justly be hoped, as his presence would

" be highly acceptable there: That, if they could cut off the

" very great revenue which accrued thence to the Athenians,

" the loss, added to the expence of endeavouring a recovery,

" must drain their treasure.—That they further thought they

" could prevail on Pissuthness, to join with them in the war."

But Alcidas would not listen to these proposals, and got

a majority to support his own opinion—'• That, since it was

" too late to succour Mitylene, they should, without loss of

" time, return to Peloponnesus." Weighing therefore from

Embatus, he put again to sea; and touching at Myonesus

of the Teians, he there butchered in cold blood a number of

prisoners, whom he had taken in the voyage. Putting af­

terwards into Ephesus, he was attended there by an embassy

from the Samians of Anaea, representing to him—" That it

" was no honourable method of vindicating the liberty of

" Greece, to butcher men, who had not so much as lift up

" the hand against him, who were not enemies in heart, but

