48 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

were dropped, they retired again within the walls, and the

Macedonians marched away to the Athenians: so that the

cavalry of neither side had any share in the action. After

the battle the Athenians erected a trophy, and granted a sus­

pension of arms to the Potida?ans for fetching off their dead.

There were killed of the Potidaeans and allies very near three

hundred, and of the Athenians one hundred and fifty, with

Callias their general.

The Athenians, without loss of time, throwing up a work

against the wall which faceth the isthmus, blockaded the

place on that side, but the wall towards the Pallene they left

as they found it. For they thought their number was by

no means sufficient to keep the guard within the isthmus,

and to pass over to the Pallene side, and block it up also

there. They were apprehensive, that thus divided the Poti-

daeans and their allies might fall upon them. And the Athe­

nians at home, hearing there was no work on the Pallene

side, send thither a thousand and six hundred heavy-armed

of their own people, under the Command of Phormio the son

of Asopius, who arriving upon the Pallene, and having

landed his men at Aphytls, marched forwards to Potidaea,

advancing slowly and laying waste the country as he moved

along. And, as nobody ventured out to give him opposi­

tion, he also threw up a work against that side of the wall

which faceth the Pallene. By these methods was Potidaea

closely blocked up on either side, and also by the ships

which lay before it at sea.

The blockade being thus perfected, Aristeus, destitute of

any means of saving the place, unless some relief should ar­

rive from Peloponnesus, or some miracle should happen, pro­

posed it as his advice that " all excepting five hundred men

should lay hold of the first favourable wind to quit the place,

that the provisions might for a longer time support the rest;"

declaring " his own readiness to be one of those who stayed

behind." Though he could not prevail with them, yet

willing in this plunge to do what could be done, and to man­

age affairs abroad in the best manner he was able, he made

