B. I. INTRODUCTION. 7

It is farther my opinion, that the assemblage of that ar­

mament by Agamemnon was not owing so much to the at­

tendance of the suitors of Helen in pursuance of the oaths

they had sworn to Tyndarus, as to his own superior power.

4t is related by those who received from their ancestors the

most certain memorials of the Peloponnesian affairs, that

Pelops, arriving there from Asia with abundance of wealth,

soon gained so great an influence over those needy people,

that, though a foreigner, he had the honour to have the

Country called after his own name ; and that the power thus

gained by him was successively enlarged by his posterity.

Eurystheus indeed, whose mother was the sister of Atreus,

perished in Attica by means of the Heraclida e ; and Euryst­

heus, when he departed on that expedition, left the govern­

ment of Mycenae and his kingdom, because of his affinity,

in the care of Atreus, who then resided with him, having

fled from his father upon the murder of Chrysippus. When

therefore the return of Eurystheus was prevented by death,

and the Myceneans from a dread of the Heraclida e were well

inclined to Atreus, as a person of great abilities and deep in

the affections of the people, he easily obtained the kingdom

of Mycenae and all the territories which had belonged to

Eurystheus ; and from hence the family of Pelops quite

overpowered the family of Perseus. To these enlargements

of power Agamemnon succeeding, and being also superior

to the rest of his countrymen in naval strength, he was

enabled in my opinion to form that expedition more from

awe than favour. It is plain that he equipped out the largest

number of ships himself, besides those he lent to the Arca­

dians. Homer is my witness here, if his testimony have any

force ; who hath farther at the delivery of the sceptre, styled

him,

" Or many isles, and sf all Argos king."

And a king who lived upon the continent could not possibly

be lord of islands, except such as were adjacent, the number

of which must needs be small, unless he had a competent

