B. I. 59 INTRODUCTION.

when the Lacedaemonians had thus heard the accusations

of their allies against the Athenians, and what the Athe­

nians had urged in their turn, ordering all parties to with­

draw, they proceeded to serious consultation amongst them­

selves. The majority agreed in the opinion, that "the

Athenians were already guilty of injustice, and that a war

ought to be immediately declared." But Archidamus their

king, esteemed a man of good understanding and temper,

standing forth, expressed his own sentiments thus

" I HAVE learned myself by the experience of many

" wars, and I see many of you, ye Lacedaemonians, as great

" proficients in years as I am, that no one should be fond of

" an enterprize because it is new, which is a vulgar Weak-

44 ness, judging it thence both advisable and safe. The war,

" which is at present the subject of your -consultation, you

" will find, if examined discreetly, to bode a very long con-

" tinuance. Against Peloponnesians, it is true, and bor-

M derers upon ourselves, we have ever a competent force

" in readiness, and by expeditious steps con advance against

" any of them. But, against a people whose territories are

" far remote, who are farther most expert in naval skill, who

" with all the expedients of war are most excellently pro-

" vided, with wealth both private and public, with shipping,

" with horses, with arms, and with men, far beyond what

" any other state in Greece can singly pretend to, who, more

" than this, have numerous dependent states upon whom

" they levy tribute—where is the necessity sanguinely to

" wish for war against such a people ? and wherein is our

44 dependence, if thus unprepared we should declare it

" against them ? Is it on our naval force ? But in that we

44 are inferior: And if to this we shall apply our care, and

44 advance ourselves to an equality with them, why this will

" be a work of time. Or, is it on our wealth ? In this we

" are yet much more deficient: and neither have it in any

" public fund, nor can readily raise it from private purses.

44 But the confidence of some may perhaps be buoyed up

