B. IV. YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423. 399

that marched with him to advance full speed up that hill

which he thought was most practicable and possess them足

selves of it, and this with the utmost expedition, each as he

was able without regarding form, and endeavour to drive the

Barbarians thence, who were already posting themselves

upon it, before they were joined by larger numbers and

could invest him on all sides. They did so, attacked, and

made themselves masters of the hill, which enabled the main

body of the Grecians to march up without obstruction. For

now the Barbarians were thrown into consternation, when

their detachment had in this manner been beat off from the

eminence. And here they discontinued the pursuit, imagin足

ing the enemy had already passed the frontier, and secured

their retreat.

Brasidas, when once he was master of the eminences,

marched on without molestation; and the very same day

reached Arnissa, the first place within the dominions of Per-

diccas. His soldiers indeed, who were exasperated against

the Macedonians for having thus precipitately abandoned

them, whatever yokes of oxen they met with on their route,

or whatever baggage lay dropped upon the ground, (as such

things it was likely should happen in a retreat by night and

confused by fear), the former they unyoked and cut to pieces,

and secreted the latter as lawful plunder. Here, Perdiccas

first began to regard Brasidas as his enemy, and ever after

forced himself against his inclinations to hate the Peloponne-

sians ; not indeed in his judgment preferring the Athenians,

but prevailed upon by the exigencies of his own affairs, he

cast about for the means of being again reconciled to the lat足

ter, and disentangling himself from the former.

Brasidas, having retreated through Macedonia to Torone,

findeth the Athenians already in possession of Mende. Judg足

ing it impossible now to pass over into the Pallene and drive

out the enemy, he chose to remain there and securely to

garrison Torone. For, during the time of the expedition into

JL.yncus, the Athenians had put to sea against Mende and

