110 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

44 but that others are intent on watching for himself to share

" the benefit; and, whilst this error universally prevailed!

44 amongst all the several members, the general welfare insen-

" sibly drops to ruin. But the greatest obstruction to them

il will be a scarcity of money j which as they can but slowly

44 raise, their steps must needs be dilatory; and the urgent oc-

" casions of war can never tarry.

" As for any forts they can erect within our territory, or

" their application to a navy, it is beneath us to form any

" apprehensions from thence. To effectuate the former,

" would be difficult for a people of equal strength, in a sea-

" son of tranquillity: Much more so must it be, upon the

" lands of an open enemy, and when we are impowered to

44 put the same expedients in execution against them. And,

" if they should fix a garrison in Attica, they might by ex-

" cursions or desertions from us annoy some part of our ter-

" ritory; but, whatever works they can raise will be insuffi-

" cient to block us up, to prevent our descents upon their

"coastSj and making reprisals upon them by our fleets,

" wherein we are superior. For, we are better qualified for

44 land-service by the experience we have gained in that of

" the sea, than they for service at sea by their experience at

44 land. To learn the naval skill they will find to be by no

44 means an easy task. For even you, who have been in con-

44 stant exercise ever since the Persian invasion, have not yet

" attained to a mastery in the science. How then shall men,

44 brought up to tillage and strangers to the sea, whose prac-

44 tice farther will be ever interrurupted by us, through the

" continual annoyance which our larger number of shipping

" will give them, effect any point of eclat ? Against small

44 squadrons they might indeed be sometimes adventurous, em-

44 boldening their want of skill by multiplying their num-

" bers : But when awed by superior force, they will of neces-

" sity desist; and so, by practice interrupted, the growth of

" their skill will be checked, and in consequence of it their

44 fears be increased. The naval, like other sciences, is the

" effect of art. It cannot be learned by acccident, nor use­

