B. I. 17 VNTRODUCTIBN.

delightful to the ears. But it will afford sufficient scope to

those who love a sincere account of past transactions, of such

as in the ordinary vicissitude of human affairs may fully oc­

cur, at least be resembled again. I give it to the public as

an Everlasting Possession, and not as a contentious in­

strument of temporary applause.

Of former transactions, the greatest was that against the

Medes, which however, by two engagements at sea and as

many at land, was brought to a speedy conclusion. But the

continuance of this war ran out into a much greater length ;

and Greece in the course of it was plunged into such cala­

mities as were never known before in an equal space. Never

had so many cities been made desolate by victories, some by

Barbarians and some by the violence of intestine feuds ; to

say nothing of those where captivity made room for new

possessors: Never so many instances of banishment; never

so many scenes of slaughter either in battles or seditions.

Such calamities farther, as were known only by report, but

had rarely been felt in fact, now gained credit from experi­

ence : Earthquakes, for instance, which affected the largest

part of the habitable globe, and shook it with the utmost vio­

lence-: Eclipses of the sun, which happened more frequently

than former times had remembered ; Great droughts in some

places, the consequence of which was famine: And, what

made not the least ravage, but did its share of destruction,

the noisome pestilence. For all these things ensued in

the sequel of this war, which was carried on between the

Athenians and Peloponnesians, after breaking the thirty

years truce concluded between them upon the reduction of

Euboea.

The reasons for which this truce was broke, and their

course of Variance, I have in the first place thought proper

to write, that none may be at a loss about the origin of so

momentous a war among the Grecians. The growth of the

Athenian power I conceive to have been the truest occasion

of it, though never openly avowed: The jealousy struck by

