'234 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" have revolted from you, I readily absolve. But for a

" people who inhabit an island, a fortified island ; who had

" no reason to dread the violence of our enemies, except by

" sea; who even at sea, by the strength of their own ship-

" ping were able to guard themselves against all attacks,

" who enjoyed their own model of government, and were

" ever treated by us with the highest honour and regard—

" for such a people to revolt in this manner is never to be

" forgiven. Is not their whole procedure one series of

"treachery? Have they not rather made war upon than

" revolted against us ? for revolt can only be ascribed to

" those who have suffered violence and outrage. Have they

" not further sought out our implacable foes, and begged to

" participate with them in our destruction ? This certainly

" is a much greater aggravation of guilt, than if merely on

" their own domestic strength they had rebelled against us.

" They would not be deterred by the calamities of their

" neighbours, who have frequently before this revolted, and

" been punished for it by a total reduction ; nor would they

" so far acquiesce in present felicity, as not to hazard the

" dangerous reverse of misery. Audacious in regard to the

" future, presumptuous above their strength, but below their

" intention, they made war their choice, and in preferring

" violence to the just observance of duty have placed their

" glory. For, though uninjured and unprovoked, the first

" moment they saw a probability of prevailing, they seized

" it and rebelled.

" It is the usual effect of prosperity, especially when felt

" on a sudden, and beyond their hope, to puff up a people

" into insolence of manners. The successes of mankind,

"when attained by the rational course, are generally of

" much longer continuance than when they anticipate pur-

" suit. And in a word, men are much more expert at re-

" pelling adversity than preserving prosperity. By this

" ought we long ago to have adjusted our conduct towards

" the Mityleneans, never distinguishing them above others

