186 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

imagined that the Athenians with their twenty ships durst pre­

sume to attack them who had forty-seven. Yet when they saw

them steering the same course on the opposite shore, they kept

first along their own coast, and afterwards from Patrae of

Achaia stretched over to the opposite side in order to make for

Acarnania. Butnow again they descried them standing direct­

ly against them from Chalcis and the river Evenus, and found

they had observed their anchoring the night before. Thus are

they compelled to come to an engagement in the midst of the

open sea*. The ships of every state were under the com­

mand of those who had been appointed by their principals :

Over the Corinthians were Machon, Isocrates, and Agathar-

chidas. The Peloponnesians drew up their ships in form of a

circle, as large as they possibly could, without leaving open a

passage for the ships of the enemy. The heads of the ships

stood to sea, the sterns were turned inwards. Within were

ranged the small vessels that attended the fleet and five ships

that were prime sailers, which were to start out at narrow

passages, wherever the enemy should begin the attack. The

Athenians drawing up their ships in a line, and sailing quite

round them, brushed along by them in their passage, and

making successive feints of engaging, forced them to draw

into a smaller compass. Phormio had beforehand given

strict orders not to engage without the signal: for he hoped

the enemy could not long preserve that order of battle like

• Phormio was watching to catch them in the open sea, it tv ti/f u^af <'«,

as Thucydidea words it above. They were now out of the gulf, stretching

across the sea, in the midst of which Phormio came up to them, and en­

gaged, *ara aurti r x-oftftit. The sea without the capes that form the

mouth of the gulf of Crissa, is indeed a narrow sea, or ttiptfiiir, but then

it was open sea in regard to the gulf within the capes, and gave Phormio

all the advantages which more expert seamen knew how to use. As the

Peloponnesian Heet stood out from Petra in Achaia, and the Athenian from

Chalcis in ittolia, the situation of those two places easily guides to the

place of the engagement. Phormio got a deal of honour by this action,

which Plutarch, in his piece about the glory of the Athenians, reckons up

amongst the most remarkable exploits related by our historian.

