DISCOURSE III. lxv

" their wrongs." He then put the question—Whether the

peace was broke ?—divided the council; told the votes ; and

declared, in the English style, that the Ayes had it.

The confederates were now called in, and acquainted

with the resolution. Yet it seems the advice of Archida-

mus had carried some weight, and actual war was to be de­

ferred, till all the parties in the Lacedaemonian league had

ripened their measures, and were ready to act with unanimity

and vigor.

Here the author again makes his appearance, and assures

us the true motive of the determination for a war at Sparta,

was a JEALOUSY of the Athenian power now very great,

and a dread of its more extensive growth ; the latter of which

they were determined to prevent, and to reduce the former

within less distasteful and terrific bounds.

Then follows a most pertinent digression, in which Thu-

cydides points out the steps, by which the Athenians had so

highly exalted their State. In a close and succinct manner

he runs over the history of Athens for fifty years, from the

invasion of Xerxes to the breaking out of the Peloponne-

sian war. He arranges all the incidents in due place and

time. Herodotus hath related the splendid passages of the

Grecian history during that invasion ; hath exhibited The-

mistocles in all the lustre of his command at the battle of

Salamis, where the Athenians, who had abandoned their all,

fought, and through the address of Themistocles obliged all

parties to fight, for liberty against Xerxes. On this day

they earned a greater title than that of citizens of Athens;

they were afterwards acknowledged the sovereigns of the

sea. The Lacedaemonians became mortified at it; but the

Athenians had gloriously deserved it. Themistocles was the

very life and soul of Greece on this occasion. In the midst

of difficulties he formed a most extensive plan for his be-*

loved Athens, which he began to execute at once. Thu-

cydides describes his address and foresight. He soon sets

the city bevond the reach of envy and jealousy. And

Vol. 1. ' I

