130 THE FELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Their private properties he left to them entire, but made

them rest contented with Athens alone for their city;

which, when all its subjects were now jointly contributing

to its support, was quickly enlarged, and delivered so by

Theseus to the succeeding kings. In memory of this, from

the days of Theseus quite down to the present time, the

Athenians have held an anniversary solemnity to the Goddess,

which they call Synctcia or Cohabitation. Before this, that

which is now the Citadel, and that part which lies on

the south-side of the citadel, was all the city. The temples

built either within the citadel or without sufficiently shew

it. For in the south-part of the city, particularly, stand the

temples of the Olympian Jove, of the Pythian Apollo, of

Terra, and of Bacchus in Linn*, in honour of whom the

old Bacchanalian feasts are celebrated on the twelfth day of

the month Anthesterion*: which custom is still retained

to this day by the Ionians of Attic descent. All the other

ancient temples are seated in the same quarter. Near it

• The English reader may perhaps call this a hard word, but I hope

will not be frightened. The names of other Attic months will occur in the

sequel, which I shall leave as I find ihem, because no exact correspondence

hath been found out between the Attic months which were lunar and those

now in use. Monsieur Tourreil, the celebrated French translator of De­

mosthenes, hath made it a very serious point. " I have long doubted (says

" he) whether in my translation I should give the months their old Greek

" names, or such as they have in our language. The reason that made me

" balance is the impossibility of computing the months so that they shall

" answer exactly to our French. My first determination was to date in

" our own manner; I chose to be less exact, rather than frighten the

•' greatest part of my readers by words to which they are not accustomed.

" For what French ears would not be appalled at the words, Thergolion,

" Boedroinion, Etapheholion," &c. ! He then gives reasons for retaining

Greek ones, and adds, " I declare then once for all, that I am far from pe-

" dantically affecting the terms of an old calendar conceived in a language

" barbarous to numbers of people, who, shocked at the sound, would per-

" haps impute to me a taste which thank God I have not. I protest that

" to my ear, no less than to theirs, the French name of the word would be

" more pleasing and would sound better. But neither false delicacy nor

" vicious complaisance hath been able to prevail with me to expose myself

" to reproaches, for knowingly leading others into mistake, and using

" words appropriated to Roman and solar months, which hare no corres"

