B.III. 219 YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428.

ther the Mityleneans were quite masters of the country, and

that their own soldiers were not numerous enough to bridle

their excursions—about the beginning of autumn send a re­

inforcement of a thousand heavy-armed of their own people

commanded by Pachus, the son of Epicurus. These, having

rowed themselves the transports which brought them, arrive;

and build a single wall in circle quite round Mitylene, and on

the proper spots of ground strengthened it by erecting forts.

Thus was Mitylene strongly besieged on all sides, both by

sea and land And by this time it began to be winter.

But the Athenians, wanting money to carry on the siege,

determined now to tax themselves, and by their first contri­

bution* raised two hundred talentsf for the present service ;

and at the same time dispatched twelve ships under the com­

mand of Lysicles and four colleagues, to levy money abroad.

He, intent on raising contributions, made a visit for this pur­

pose to several places ; and, having landed at Myus, in Caria,

intending to pierce through the plain of Maeander as far as

the hill of Sandius, he was attacked on his route by the Ca-

rians and Anaeitans, where himself and a great part of his ar­

my perished.

This winter the Plataeans—for they were still blocked up

by the Peloponnesians and Boeotians finding themselves

much distressed by the failure of their provisions, giving up

all hope of succour from the Athenians, and quite destitute;

of all other means of preservation, formed a project now in

concert with those Athenians who were shut up with them

' It was a voluntary contribution : The original term implieth it. The

manner was no doubt the same as was observed in succeeding times, when

the necessities of the state called for an extraordinary supply. On such oc­

casions the president* of the assembly laid before the Athenians the present

want of money, and exhorted them with chearfulness and generosity to

contribute towards the national support. Such as were willing rose up in

turn, saying, " I contribute so much," and naming the sum. Such as,

though rich, were niggardly and strangers to all public spirit, sat silent on

these occasions, or as fast as they could stole out'of the assembly.

f 38,750/.

