156 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

of the carcases. But the dogs, because of their familiarity

with man, afforded a more notorious proof of the event.

The nature of this pestilential disorder was in general—

for I have purposely omitted its many varied appearances, or

the circumstances particular to some of the infected in

contradiction to others—such as hath been described. None

of the common maladies incident to human nature prevailed

at that time ; or whatever disorder any where appeared, it

ended in this. Some died merely for want of care; and

some, with all the care that could possibly be taken; nor

was any one medicine discovered, from whence could be

promised any certain relief, since that which gave ease to

one was prejudicial to another. Whatever difference there

was in bodies, in point of strength or in point of weakness,

it availed nothing ; all were equally swept away before it, in

spite of regular diet and studied prescriptions. Yet the most

affecting circumstances of this calamity were—that dejec­

tion of mind, which constantly attended the first attack ;

for the mind sinking at once into despair, they the sooner

gave themselves up without a struggle—and that mutual

tenderness, in taking care of one another, which commu­

nicated the infection, and made them drop like sheep*.

This latter case caused the mortality to be so great. For if

fear withheld them from going near one another, they died

for want of help, so that many houses became quite desolate

for want of needful attendance : And if they ventured, they

were gone. This was most frequently the case of the kind

• This passage is thus translated upon the authority of Dr. Mead, in his

treatise on the Plague, which convinced me that the comma should be omit­

ted in the original after x, and be governed of «

Lucretius hath given it a different turn, as if the resemblance to sheep was

not in their dying fast, but to the forlorn and solitary manner in which

those creatures die ; and lie hath put before it wbut follow sa little after
in

Thucydides.

Nam quicunque suos fugitabant visere ad aegros,

Vitai nimum cupidi, mortisque timentes,

Pccnibat puulo post turpi morte malaqoe

Dt'sertos, opis rxpertes, incuria maclans,

Lanigeraa taiiquam pecudes, ct bucera saecla.

