S. II. YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

also is the fountain, now called the Enneakrounos or Nine-

pipe, from the manner in which it was embellished by the

Tyrants*; but formerly, when all the springs were open,

called Callirrhat; and which, as near at hand, they pre­

ferred on the most solemn occasions. And that ancient

custom is to this day preserved, by making use of the same

water in connubial and many other religious rites. And

further, it is owing to such their ancient residence in the

citadel, that it is eminently called by the Athenians to this

very day, The City.

In the manner above-mentioned, were the Athenians for a

long series of time scattered about the country, in towns and

communities at their own discretion. And as not only the

more ancient, but even the latter Athenians, quite down to the

present war, had still retained the custom of dwelling about

the country with their families, the general removals into the

city, after they were formed into one body, were attended

with no small embarrassment; and particularly now, when

they had been refitting their houses, and resettling themselves

after the Persian invasion. It gave them a very sensible grief

and concern to think, that they must forsake their habitations

and temples, which, from long antiquity, it had been their

forefathers and their own religious care to frequent; that they

must quite alter their scene of life, and each abandon as it

were his native home. When they were come into the city,

some few had houses ready for their reception, or sheltered

themselves with their friends and relations. The greater part

" pondence with the lunar or Attic." He says a deal on the subject so little

affecting his countrymen, that since his death they have again thrown all

the Greek terms into the margin, and placed in the text the incongruous

modern ones, for the sake of familiar sounds. If the English reader be as

delicate, he may read April or May at his option. The ablest chronologcrs

are unable to exchange them into currency with any tolerable exactness. A

great deal of learning might be also displayed about the days of the month

and the Grecian method of counting them: But as it is exceeding easy to

translate these right, learning may be excused in a point where no light is

wanting.

• The Pisistratidi.

