Discourse hi. xcvii

" ought to believe it, and to prepare for their defence. Fear

" will unite all Sicily against the invaders. Athens will only

u reap disgrace, but Syracuse abundant glory on this occasion.

" Large armaments are seldom successful; they moulder

" away for want of supplies, or are ruined for want of con-

" duct. They should therefore prepare for gallant resistance,

" by getting every thing in readiness at home, and strength-

" ening themselves by foreign alliances. They should do

" more ; they should at once put out to sea, and dispute their

" very passage with the enemy. A defeat, or even delay

" thus given them, might oblige them to give up the pro-

"ject. He supports his advice by many strong and judici-

" ous arguments ; and ends with warm exhortations to his

" countrymen to be lively and active, by no means to de-

" spise the enemy except in action, but vigorously and with

" all their foresight to prepare for resistance, since their ene-

" mies are undoubtedly at sea, and only not arrrived on their

" coasts."

Such advice was now given to the people of Syracuse by

Hermocrates. , That community, it is evident, was full of

cabal and faction, since this worthy patriot was regarded as

a party-tool and a public incendiary. Athenagoras, the blus­

tering demagogue who replies, treats him in this light. His

virulence shews, that he regarded Hermocrates, as one who

wanted by any means whatever to force himself into employ­

ment. He seems more alarmed for the lucrative posts of the

State than for the welfare of his country. He throws out a

deal of good-sense, but in a very impertinent and scurrilous

manner. Such are the persons, who study popularity more

than duty, and sacrifice all their talents to ambition or private

lucre.

He affirms, that " none but cowards and traitors wish

" the Athenians might not invade them, and so infallibly

" meet their destruction : But the whole account is a glaring

" falsehood, the forgery of a factious cabal. He appeals to

" his audience whether it carries the least probability with

Vol. I. N

