142 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

These were the transactions of the Summer, after the

departure of the Peloponnesians out of Attica.

The Winter following, Evarchus the Acarnanian, who

had a great desire to recover Astacus, prevailed with the Co足

rinthians to carry him thither, with a fleet of forty ships,

and a force of fifteen hundred heavy-armed, and endeavour

to re-establish him. He himself also hired some auxiliaries

for the same purpose. This armament was commanded by

Euphymadas son of Aristonymus, Timoxenus son of Timo-

crates, and Eumachus son of Chrysis ; who sailing thither

executed their business. They had a mind to endeavour the

reduction of some others of the maritime towns of Acarna-

nia, but miscarrying in every attempt they made, they re足

turned home. But in their passage touching at Cephallene,

and debarking upon the lands of the Cranians, they were

treacherously inveigled into a conference, where the Cra足

nians falling suddenly upon them, kill some of their men.

It was not without difficulty, that they drew the others safely

off, and gained their own ports.

But the same Winter, the Athenians, in conformity to

the established custom of their country, solemnized a public

funeral for those who had been first killed in this war, in the

manner as follows;

The bones of the slain are brought to a tabernacle erected

for the purpose three days before, and all are at liberty to

deck out the remains of their friends at their own discretion.

But when the grand procession is made, the cypress-coffins

are drawn on carriages, one for every tribe, in each of which

are separately contained the bones of all who belonged to

that tribe. One sumptuous bier is carried along empty for

those that are lost, whose bodies could not be found amongst

the slain. All who are willing, both citizens and strangers,

attend the solemnity ; and the women who were related to

the deceased, stand near the sepulchre groaning and la足

menting. They deposit the remains in the public sepulchre.

