DISCOURSE III. lxxxiii

Lacedaemonians, and they purchase it at a mighty price in­

deed. The wretched Plateans, by all mankind abandoned,

are butchered one after another, to the number of two hun­

dred ; their wives are sold for slaves ; their city is rooted up

from its foundations.

Thucydides soon after describes the sedition of Corcyra,

the horrors of which are scarcely to be paralleled in story.

He paints all the dreadful consequences of faction in a

community. And what pity it is, that a warm, generous,

and innate love of liberty, when carried to excess, should

be the source of so much misery to reasonable creatures!

Our author, contrary to his custom, runs out here into manv

grave and judicious reflexions, in the interest of no party,

a champion for no particular form, but as a friend to man,

and a friend to virtue. It is the lust of power, that throws

embroilments and confusions into all communities. In go­

vernments strictly republican, the ambitious are eager to ob­

tain more than an equal share. In an oligarchical form,

the few in power want ever to retain and often to enlarge

their share ; and the cry of liberty is shouted loudest by

those who want most to overthrow it. But yet, was- the mat­

ter ever mended, or the miseries of mankind prevented by

setting up a single tyrant ? Communities have suffered more,

for the caprice, for the support of the nominal glory of such

a head, than they have done by a number of popular seditions.

The reader will certainly all along reflect on the fine model

of government established in his own country ; and own, that

a community may be governed and yet be happy, that the

power of the one and of the few and of the many may be

tempered into an apt and lasting consistence; and, as it hath

been for ages in a train of improvement, keep it but unhurt

by intestine faction, may last to the dissolution of this great

globe itself.

After this tragical business of Corcyra, Thucydides en­

ters upon the affairs of Sicily. The seeds of war are sow­

ing in that island, which will afterwards grow into a mighty

