B. III. YEAR VI.—BEFORE CHRIST 426. 983

composed of Tolophus the Ophionian, Bofiades the Euryst-

hanian and Tisander the Apodotian prevail there in their

suit for a diversion against Naupactus, because the Athe*

nians had invaded their territories. It was about autumn

when the Lacedaemonians marched away three thousand

heavy-armed of their allies; of which number five hundred

belonged to Heraclea, the city so lately founded in Trachi*

nia. Eurylochus, a Spartan, was appointed to command in

the expedition, and was accompanied by two other Spartans,

Macarius and Menedaeus. The army being drawn into

a body at Delphi, Eurylochus dispatched a herald to the'

Ozolian-Locri: His route to Naupactus lay through their

territory. He was also desirous to detach them from the

Athenian alliance. The Amphissensians were the readiest

of all the Locri to give their concurrence, as standing in

perpetual awe of the hatred bore them by the Phocians.

These therefore were the first who sent in hostages, and

who persuaded others to follow their example, from a dread

of this army which was now approaching. Accordingly,

the Myonensians, their own borderers, were the first who

complied ; for their part of Locris is most difficult of access1.

These were followed by the Ippensians, and Messapians,

and Tritaeensians, and Challaeans, Tolophonians, Hessians,

and Oeanthians; and all these gave a personal attendance

in the expedition. The Olpeans indeed sent in their hos­

tages, but would not attend. The Hyasans refused their

hostages till one of their villages called Polis was seized.

When all things were ready, and the hostages placed

securely at Cytinium of Doris, Eurylochus with his army,

taking the route of Locris, advanced against Naupactus.

He seized upon Oeneon and Eupolium as he marched for

refusing to concur. When they had entered the territory

of Naupactus, and were joined by the Etolian aid, they

wasted the country to the very suburb, of which also, be­

cause unfortified, they took possession. Turning thence to

Molycrium, a Corinthian colony, but now subject to the

Athenians, they reduce it.

Vol. I. 3D

