B. III. 209 YEAR IV. BETORE CHRIST 428.

did also the Imbrians and Lemnians and some few other of

their allies.

The Mityleneans once indeed made a general sally with

all their people against the station of the Athenians. Here­

upon a battle ensued, after which the Mityleneans, though

by no means worsted, yet durst not continue all night in the

field, but diffident of their own strength retreated behind

their walls. After this they kept themselves quiet, unwill­

ing to run any more hazards, till they had got some addi­

tional strength from Peloponnesus, and were in other re­

spects better provided. By this time Meleas a Lacedaemo­

nian and Hermaeondas a Theban are arrived among them,

who had been dispatched on some business before the re­

volt, and unable to compass the return before the Athenian

fleet came up, had now in a trireme got in undiscovered

since the battle. It was the advice of these to dispatch ano­

ther trireme and embassy in company with them, which is

accordingly done. But the Athenians, as the Mityleneans

remained in so quiet a posture, became more full of spirits

than before, and sent summons of aid to their confederates,

who came in with more than ordinary alacrity, as they saw

such an appearance of weakness on the side of the Lesbians.

Having now formed a station on the south side of the city,

they fortified by a wall two camps, which invested the place

on both sides, whilst their shipping was so stationed as to

shut up both the harbours. By this means the communica­

tion by sea was quite cut off from the Mityleneans. Of

the land indeed the Mityleneans and other Lesbians, who

had now flocked to their aid, were for the most part masters.

The quantity which the Athenians had occupied by their

camps was but inconsiderable, as the station of their shipping

and their market was held chiefly at Malea: And in this

posture stood the war against Mitylene.

About the same time this summer, the Athenians send

out thirty sail of ships against Peloponnesus, under the

command of Asopius the son of Phormio, in pursuance of

