B. IV. TEAR IX.-—BEFORE CHRIST 423. 389

" they promise to send heralds on purpose, and to spare

" no pains to procure the consent of the Boeotians and

" Phocians.

" As to the treasure belonging to the God, care shall be

" taken by us to find out those who have presumed to embez-

" zle it; and this fairly and honestly, according to the laws

" of our country, both by you, and by us, and by all others

" who are willing ; all proceeding respectively according to

" the laws of their several constitutions.

" It hath farther seemed good to the Lacedaemonians and

" their other allies, if the Athenians agree to the truce, that

" both parties shall keep within their own bounds, and hold

" what we are at present respectively possessed of; that is to

" say ; the former to keep in Coryphasium*, within the

" mountains of Bouphras and Tomeus; the latter in Cythera;

" without enlarging the communication for the procuring of

" alliance, neither on our side against you, nor on your side

" against us. That those in Nisaea and Minoa pass not be-

" yond the road that leads from the gates of Megara adja-

" cent to the temple of Nisus towards the temple of Neptune,

" and from the temple of Neptune carrieth directly to the

" bridge laid across to Minoa: That neither the Megareans

" nor their allies pass beyond the same road, nor into the island

" which the Athenians have taken; both keeping within their

" bounds, and upon no occasion whatever to have any inter-

" course with one another: The Megareans still to retain

" what they possess in Troezen, and whatever they hold by

" compact with the Athenians ; to have farther the free use

" of the sea upon their own coasts, and those of their al-

" liance.

" That the Lacedaemonians and allies shall not navigate

" the sea in a long shipf, but in any other vessels rowed

" with oars, and of no larger burden than five hundred

" talents}.

• In which stood the fort of Pylus. t A ship of war.

\ Five and twenty tons.

Vol. I. 3 R

