198 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

again over-land to Corinth. The Athenians, finding they

were gone from Salamis, sailed home again. But ever after

this they guarded the Piraeus in a stricter manner, barring

up the mouth of the haven, and omitting no method of se­

curing it effectually for the future.

About the same time, in the beginning of this winter,

Shakes the Odrysian, son of Teres, a Thracian king,

marched an army against Perdiccas, the son of Alexander,

king of Macedonia, and the Chalcideans bordering on

Thrace, to enforce the execution of two engagements, one

made to and the other by himself. For Perdiccas, who had

entered into some engagement to him, for reconciling him

to the Athenians when he was formerly pressed hard with

war, and for not restoring his brother Philip, then at enmity

with him, to his throne, had not yet performed that en­

gagement. And he himself was under an engagement to

the Athenians, since the late alliance offensive and defen­

sive made between them, that he would finish the war for

them against the Chalcideans of Thrace. On both these

accounts, he undertook the present expedition, carrying

along with him Amyntas the son of Philip, to restore to him

the kingdom of Macedonia, with the Athenian ambassadors

commissioned to attend him on this occasion, and Agnon

an Athenian general: Though the Athenians had obliged

themselves by treaty to accompany the expedition with a

fleet by sea and a numerous land-army.

Beginning the march himself from Odrysae, he sum­

mons to attend him first all his Thracian subjects that live

within the mountains Haemus and Rhodope, quite down to

the Hellespont and Euxine sea; next, the Getae beyond

mount Haemus, and as many other nations as lay between

the river Ister and along quite down to the Euxine. The

Getae, and the nations so situated, border upon the Scy­

thians, wearing the same habiliments of war, and all like

them drawing the bow on horseback. He procured also to

join him many of the free Thracians that live upon the

