126 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

day; that further, the Lacedaemonians should retire within

their own frontier; and then, if they had any thing to transact

with them, should send their ambassadors for the purpose."

They even commission some persons to guard Melesippus

back, that he might have no conference with any person

whatever. When he was brought to the borders and received

his dismission, he parted from them with these words—

" This day is the beginning of great woes to the Grecians."

Upon his return to the camp, Archidamus was convinced that

the Athenians were inflexible as ever, so that he immediately

dislodged and advanced withhis army into their territories.—

The Boeotians sent their quota of foot and their horse to join

the Peloponnesians in this expedition, but with the rest of

their forces they marched towards Plataea, and laid the coun­

try waste.

Whilst the Peloponnesians were yet assembling at the

Isthmus, or yet on the march, before they had entered Atti­

ca, Pericles the son of Xantippus, who with nine others had

been appointed to command the Athenian forces, when he

saw an irruption from the Peloponnesians unavoidable, had

conceived a suspicion that Archidamus, whom the hospi­

table* intercourse had made his friend, from a principle

of good-nature willing to oblige him, would leave his lands

untouched, or, might be ordered to do so by the policy of

the Lacedaemonians, as they had already demanded an ex­

communication on his account; by which means he must

' The tie of hospitality was sacred and inviolable amongst the ancients.

It was a necessary exertion of humanity at first from the want of inns and

lodging-houses, and was frequently improved into friendship and endear­

ment. This between Pericles and Archidamus was merely of a private

nature, between the royal family of Sparta and a principal one in the re­

public of Athens. The family of Alcibiades was the public host of the

Spartan state, and entertained their ambassadors and public ministers.

The state of Athens had likewise in all places a public host who lodged

their ministers. Yet amongst private persons it was a frank disinterested

tie ; when once they had eat salt together, or sat at the same table, they

regarded themselves as under mutual obligations, which small points

ought not to abolish. They who swerved from this laudable custom through

caprice or ingratitude were looked upon as infamous execrable persons.

