B. II. YEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431. 129

no less in any one article were the military provisions of the

Athenians, when the Peloponnesians had formed the de­

sign of invading them, and both sides began the war.—

These, and such like arguments, was Pericles continually

employing, to convince them that they were well able to

carry on a successful war.

The Athenians heard him with attention, and followed

his advice. They withdrew from the country their chil­

dren, their wives, all tlie furniture of their houses there,

pulling down with their own hands the timber of which they

were built. Their flocks and their labouring-cattle they sent

over into Euboea and the adjacent islands. But this re­

moval was a very grievous business to them, since it had

been the ancient custom of many of the Athenians to reside

at large in the country.

This method of living had been more habitual to the

Athenians than to any other Greeks, from their first com­

mencement as a people. From the time of Cecrops and

their first series of kings down to Theseus, Attica had been

inhabited in several distinct towns, each of which had its

own Archons and its own Prytaneum*; and, unless in

times of danger, had seldom recourse to the regal authority,

since justice was administered in every separate borough,

and each had a council of its own. Sometimes they even

warred against one another; for instance, the Eleusinians,

when they sided with Kumolpus against Erectheus. But

when the regal power devolved upon Theseus, a man of an

extensive understanding, and who knew how to govern, in

several respects he improved the whole territory; and be­

sides, dissolving all the councils and magistracies of the

petty boroughsf, he removed them to the metropolis, as it

is at present, and constituting one grand Senate and Pryta­

neum, made it the point of union in which all concentred.

• That is—Magistrates of its own, and a common-hall, in which those,

magistrates performed the duties of their office in administering justice,

and offering sacrifices, and where they had their diet at the puhlic expence-

t The number of the boroughs in Attica was one hundred seventy-four.

