23ft THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" of mere necessity dependent on the Athenians: that, uh-

" less he changed his conduct, he would bring over but few

" of his enemies into friendship, but turn a far greater num-

" ber of friends into enemies." He was wrought upon by

this remonstrance, and set all the Chians and others, whom

he had yet reserved, at liberty. For those, who had at any

time descried this squadron, had never thought of flying, but

boldly approached it as certainly Athenian. They really had

no ground to imagine, that whilst the Athenians were mas­

ters of the sea, a Peloponnesian fleet should dare to put over

to Ionia.

From Ephesus, Alcidas made the best of his way, or ra­

ther fled outright; for he had been discovered by the Sa-

laminian and the Paralus, whilst he lay at anchor near

Claros. These vessels happened at that time to be on a

course from Athens. He was now apprehensive of a chace,

and so stretched out to sea; determining, if possible, not to

make any land again till he had reached Peloponnesus.

Notice of him came first to Paches and the Athenians from

Erythraea; it was then repeated from all parts. For as the

country of Ionia is quite unfortified, the sight of the Pelo-

ponnesians on that coast, had struck a panic, lest, though

their intention was not to continue there, they should at

once assault and destroy their cities. The Salatninian* also

and Paralus, after they had descried him at Claros, came

voluntarily to notify the tidings. Paches set upon the chace

with warmth, and pursued it as far as the isle of Latmos.

But there giving up all hope of reaching him, he turned

back again for his post; and since he had not been able to

! • These two vessels seem to have been the packets or yachts of the State

of Athens. Their force was small in comparison of the ships of war, as

they were chiefly designed for nimbleness and expedition. They carried

ambassadors to and fro, went on all public errands, whether of a civil or

religious nature, and transported magistrates and generals to and from their

posts. They were navigated only by free-born citizens of Athens, who be-

sides receiving more pay, esteemed it also a greater honour to serve on

board these vessels, which were sacred.

