fell I. INTRODUCTION, 109

" bodily labour, without wealth either in the purses of indivi-

" duals, or in any public fund. Again, in wars of long con-

" tinuance, or wars by sea, they are quite unpractised; since

" the hostilities in which they have been embroiled with one

" another have been short and transient, in consequence of

" their poverty. Such people can neither compleatly man

" out a fleet, nor frequently march land-armies abroad,

" abandoning the care of their domestic concerns, even

" whilst from these they must answer a large expence, and,

" more than this, are excluded the benefit of the sea. Funds

" of money are a much surer support of war, than contribu-

" tions exacted by force. And men, who subsist by the la-

" bour of their hands, are more ready to advance a service

" with their bodies than with their money; since the former,

" though exposed, they strongly presume will survive the dan-

" ger, but the latter, they apprehend, must be too speedily ex-

" hausted, especially if the war run out into a greater length

" than they expect, which will probably be the case. In a

" single battle, it is true, the Peloponnesians and their con-

" federates are able to make head against united Greece ;

" but they are not able to support a war of continuance

" against an enemy in all respects provided better than

" themselves; since, by one general council they are not

"guided, but execute their momentary schemes in sudden

" and hasty efforts: since, farther, having all of them an

" equality of suffrage, and being of different descents, each

" of them is intent on the advancement of a separate inter-

" est. In such circumstances no grand design can ever

" be accomplished. Some of them are eager to obtain a

" speedy vengeance on a foe; others are chiefly intent on

" preserving their substance from unnecessary waste. It is

" long before they can meet together to consult: and then,

" with great precipitancy they form their public determina-

" tions, as the largest part of their time is devoted to domes-

" tic concerns. Each thinks it impossible, that the public

" welfare can be prejudiced by his own particular negligence,

Vol. I. 2 E

