B. I. TNTRODOCTIOW 39

up, and then they also fell back themselves: For now it

began to be dark, and the Corinthians being turned about,

had dissolved their order. In this manner were they sepa­

rated from one another: And the naval engagement ended

With the night*

The Corcyreans having recovered their station at Leucym-

na, those twenty ships from Athens, under the command of

Glauco the son of Leager, and Andocides the son of Leogo-

ras, having passed through floating carcases and wrecks, came

up to the station not long after they had been descried. Yet

the Corcyreans (for now it was night) were in great conster­

nation lest they should be enemies: But they were soon

known, and then came to anchor.

Next morning the thirty Athenian ships, accompanied by

such of the Corcyreans as were fit for sea, weighed away and

made over for the haven at Sybota where the Corinthians lay,

designing to try whether or no they would engage again. The

Corinthians, putting their ships from off the shore, and draw­

ing up into order in the deeper water, remained there without

advancing. They had no design or inclination to begin an­

other engagement, as they were sensible of the junction of the

fresh Athenian ships, and of the numerous difficulties with

which they were beset, about the custody of the prisoners

whom they had on board, and the want of necessary materials

to repair their ships upon this desert coast. Their thoughts

were more employed upon their return home, and the method

to accomplish it, from the apprehension lest the Athenians,

judging the league to be broke as they had come to blows, might

obstruct their passage. For this reason they determined be­

forehand to dispatch a boat with proper persons, though with­

out the solemn protection of a herald, and so to sound their

intentions. The message to be delivered was this :

" YOU are guilty of injustice, ye men of Athens, in be-

" ginning war and violating treaties: For you hinder us

" from taking due vengeance upon our enemies, by lifting

" up your arms against us. If you are certainly determined

