DISCOURSE I.

distress, but emerged again in Cimon. Cimon the same day

gained a victory both by land and sea over the Persians at

Mycale. By his conduct he very much enlarged the power

of Athens, and put it in a train of much greater advance­

ments. In civil affairs he clashed with Pericles, who was

leader of the popular party; Cimon always sided with the

noble or the few ; as were the party-distinctions in vogue at

Athens.

The proofs that Thucydides was of this family are strong

and convincing. Plutarch directly asserts it in the life of

Cimon. His father, in grateful at least if not honourable re­

membrance of the Thracian king, whose daughter Miltiades

had married, bore the name of Olorus. His mother also

was another Hegesipyle. He inherited rich possessions in

Thrace; particularly some mines of gold. A monument of

him was to be seen for many ages after, in the Coele at Athens,

amongst the Cimonian, or those belonging to the family of

Cimon; and stood next, according to Plutarch, to that of El-

pinice, Cimon's own sister. His father's name in the in­

scription on this monument, at least some later grammarians

have averred it, was Orolus. Thucydides himself, in the

fourth book of his history, calls it Olorus. Can we want

stronger authority ? Whether any stress ought to be laid on

the variation, or whence the mistake, though a very minute

one, might proceed, are points too obscure and trifling to

take up any attention.

Such was the family of which Thucydides was descended.

His pedigree might be fetched from the Gods ; since that

of Miltiades is traced down from ifiacus. But, like my au­

thor, I should choose to keep as clear of the fabulous as

possible, Cicero says of him, "Though he had never

" written a history, his name would still have been extant,

" be was so honourable and noble*." I quote this, merely

as a testimony to the splendor of his birth, since it may be

questioned whether the historian, in the present instance,

• In the Oral op.

