150 THE JMXOPONNESIAN WAR.

"country could stand in need of any thing their valour

" could do for it, and so made it the most glorious present.

" Bestowing thus their lives on the public, they have every

" one received a praise that will never decay, a sepulchre

" that will always be most illustrious—not that in which

" their bones lie mouldering, but that in which their fame

" is preserved, to be on every occasion when honour is the

" employ of either word or act, eternally remembered.

" This whole earth is the sepulchre of illustrious men ; nor

" is it the inscriptions on the columns in their native soil

" alone that shews their merit, but the memorial of them,

" better than all inscriptions, in every foreign nation, repo-

" sited more durably in universal remembrance, than on

" their own tomb. From this very moment, emulating

"these noble patterns, placing your happiness in liberty,

" and liberty in valour, be prepared to encounter all the

" dangers of war. For to be lavish of life is not so noble

" in those whom misfortunes have reduced to misery and

" despair, as in men who hazard the loss of a comfortable

" subsistence, and the enjoyment of all the blessings this

" world affords, by an unsuccessful enterprize. Adversity,

" after a series of ease and affluence sinks deeper into the

" heart of a man of spirit, than the stroke of death insensibly

" received in the vigour of life and public hope.

" For this reason, the parents of those who are now gone,

" whoever of them may be attending here, I do not bewail,

" 1 shall rather comfort. It is well known to what un-

" happy accidents they were liable from the moment of their

" birth ; and that happiness belongs to men who have reach-

" the most glorious period of life, as these now have who

" are to you the source of sorrow,—these, whose life hath

" received its ample measure, happy in its continuance, and

" equally happy in its conclusion. I know it in truth a diffi-

" cult task to fix comfort in those breasts, which will have

" frequent remembrances in seeing the happiness of others,

" of what they once themselves enjoyed. And sorrow

