B. III. 281 YEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426.

" was now at the head of so large a force, to invade the ALto-

" lians, who were such plagues to Naupactus ; and, if their

" reduction could be compleated, the rest of that continent

" might easily be brought into the Athenian subjection. For,

" though the iEtolians were a great and warlike people, yet,

" as they dwelled in open villages remote from one another,

" as light armour only was in use amongst them, they pre-

" sumed he might easily complete their reduction, before any

" succour could reach them." They advised him further,

" to begin with the Apodoti, to take the Ophionians next, then

" to proceed to the Eurytanians (which is the most numerous

" people of iEtolia, reported also to speak in a most barbarous

" dialect, and to feed upon raw flesh); that, if these could be

" surprised, the rest of /Etolia would submit of course." He

therefore—willing to oblige the Messenians, and incited above

all by the thought, that without exposing the Athenian forces,

after he had done with the ./Etolians, he might march with the

allied strength of the continent and penetrate by land as far as

Boeotia, through the Locrians of Ozoli, to Cytinium in Doris,

keeping Parnassus on his right till he got down amongst the

Phocians,who he reckoned, from their constant friendship with

the Athenians would readily join him, or, however, might ea­

sily be compelled to do it; and then, that Boeotia borders next

on the Phocians :—Demosthenes, I say, weighing from Leu-

cas with his whole force, to the great regret of the Acarnani-

ans, coasted along to Solium. He there communicated his plan

to the Acarnanians, in which they refused to join beause he

had refused the blockade of Leucas. Demosthenes, with hi3

other force, the Cephallenians, and Messenians, and Zacyn-

thians, and three hundred soldiers draughted from on board

the Athenian ships (the fifteen Corcyrean were already de­

parted), set about this expedition against the iEtolians. He

began it from Oeneon in Locris: For the Locrians, called

Ozoke, were allies, and had notice to meet the Athenians with

all their force in the midland parts. These, being not only-

borderers, but using also the same kind of arms with the iEto-

lians, were judged most proper to accompany the expedition,

