B. I. BTTRODUCTIOW. • 57

" feriors should be controled by their superiors. To be the

" latter we thought ourselves deserving: You thought so too

" till now, when private interests engaging your attention,

" you begin to cry out for justice, which no people ever yet

" so studiously practised, as, when able to carry a point by

" strength, to check their inclination and let it drop. And

" worthy, farther, are they of applause, who, pursuing the

" dictates of human nature, in gaining rule over others,

" observe justice more steadily than their scope of power

" requireth from them. And so far we have reason to con-

" elude, that were our power lodged in other hands, plain

" evidence would soon decide with what peculiar modera-

" tion we use it: Though, so hard indeed is our lot, that

" calumny and not applause hath been the consequence of

" such our lenity. In suits of contract against our depend-

" ents we are often worsted; and, though ever submitting

" to fair and impartial trials in our own courts, we are

" charged with litigiousness. Not one of them reflecteth,

" that those who are absolute in other places, and treat not

" their dependents with that moderation which we observe,

" are for that very reason exempted from reproach: For,

" where lawl«ss violence is practised there can be no room

4* for appeals to justice. But our dependents, accustomed

" to contest with us upon equal footing, if they suffer never

" so little damage where they fancy equity to be along with

" them, either by a judicial sentence or the decision of

" reigning power, express no gratitude for the greater share

" of property they yet enjoy, but resent with higher chagrin

44 the loss of such a pittance, than if at first we had set law

" aside, and seized their all with open violence: Even, in

" this case, they could not presume to deny, that inferiors

" ought to submit to their superiors. But mankind, it

" seemeth, resent the acts of injustice more deeply than the

" acts of violence: Those, coming from an equal, are look-

" ed upon as rapines: these, coming from a superior, are

n complied with as necessities. The far more grievous op­

