B. III. 253 fYEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427.

" who have ever wished you well, and bore arms against you

" in mere self-defence. Your decisions can in no wise be

" righteous, unless you exempt us from the dread of death.

" Retollect in time, that you received us by free surrender,

" that to you we held forth our hands ; the law forbids Gre-

" cians to put such to death ; and that we have been from

" time immemorial benefactors to you. For cast your eyes

" there upon the sepulchres of your fathers, who fell by the

" swords of the Medes and were interred in this our earth:

" These we have annually honoured with vestments, and all

" solemn decorations at our public expence. Whatever hath

" been the produce of our soil, to them we have ever offered

" the first-fruits of the whole ; as friends, out of earth that

" was dear to them; as companions, to those who once

" fought together in the same field; and, lest all this, by a

" wrong determination, you instantly disannul, maturely re-

" fleet. For Pausanias interred them here, judging he had

" laid them in a friendly soil, and in the care of men with

" friendly dispositions. If therefore you put us to death,

" and turn this Plataan into Theban soil, what is this but to

" leave your fathers and relations in a hostile land and in the

" power of those who murdered them, never again to receive

" the sepulchral honours ? Will you further inslave the spot

" on which the Grecians earned their liberty ? Will you lay

" desolate the temples of those Gods, to whom they address-

" ed their vows before that battle against the Medes, and

" so were victorious ? And will you abolish the solemn

" sacrifices, which those gallant patriots have founded and

" appointed ?

" It cannot, O Lacedaemonians, be consistent with your

" glory, to violate the solemn institutions of Greece, the

" memory of your own forefathers, and your duty to us your

" benefactors, thus, merely to gratify the malice of a hos-

" tile party, to put men to death who have never wronged

" you. No ; but—to spare, to relent, to feel the just emo-

" tions of compassion, to recal the idea not only what mise-

Vol. I. 2 Z

