306 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

couraged them on the contrary " to force their landing,

" though they dashed their vessels to pieces ;" begging the

confederates " in this juncture not to refuse bestowing their

" ships on the Lacedaemonians in lieu of the great services

" they had done them, but to run them ashore, and landing at

" all adventures to seize the enemy and the fortress." In

this manner he Animated others, and having compelled his

own pilot to run the vessel ashore he was at once upon the

stairs, and endeavouring to get down was beat back by the

Athenians. After many wounds received, he fainted with

loss of blood ; and falling down upon the gunnel, his shield

tumbled over into the water. It was brought ashore and

taken up by the Athenians, who afterwards made it a part of

the trophy, which they erected for this attack.

The others indeed with equal spirit endeavoured, but yet

could not possibly land, as the ground was difficult of access,

and the Athenians stood firm, and no where at all gave way.

Such now was the strange reverse of fortune, that the Athe­

nians upon land, upon Laconic land, beat off the Lacedaemo­

nians who were fighting from the water; and the Lacedaemo­

nians from ships were endeavouring a descent upon their own

now hostile territory against Athenians. For at this period

of time it was the general opinion, that those were landmen,

and excelled most in land engagements, but that these were

seamen, and made the best figure at sea.

The attack was continued the whole day and part of the

n^xt before it was given up. On the third day, they de­

tached some vessels to Asine to fetch timber for engines,

hoping by them to accomplish the taking of the wall adja­

cent to the harbour, which though of a greater height yet

might easier be approached by sea.

During this pause, forty sail of Athenians came up from

Zacynthus. This fleet had been enlarged by the accession

of some guard-ships from off the station of Naupactus, and

four sail of Chians. These no sooner discovered the main

land about Pylus and the island Sphacteria to be full of

