B. IV. 329 YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425.

made by their law, in case their generals drop. Styphon

intimated his desire of leave to send over to the Lacedaemo­

nians on the continent for advice. This the Athenians re­

fused, but however called over some heralds to him from the

continent. Messages passed backwards and forwards twice

or thrice; but the last who crossed over to them from the

Lacedaemonians on the continent brought this determination

—" The Lacedaemonians permit you to take care of your own

concerns, provided you submit to nothing base." In conse­

quence of this, after a short consultation with one another

apart, they delivered up their arms and their persons. The

remainder of the day and the succeeding night the Atheni­

ans confined them under a strong guard. But the day follow­

ing, having erected a trophy upon the island, they got them­

selves in readiness to sail away, and distributed the prisoners

to the custody of the captains of the triremes. The Lacedae­

monians, having obtained permission by a herald, fetched ofT

their dead.

The number of those who were slain, and those who were

taken alive, stood thus: They who had thrown themselves

into the island amounted in the whole to four hundred and

twenty heavy-armed. Of these three hundred wanting eight

were carried off alive, the rest had been destroyed. Among

the prisoners were about one hundred and twenty Spartans.

The number of Athenians slain was inconsiderable : for it

was not a standing fight. The whole space that these men

were besieged in the island, from the engagement at sea

till the battle in the island, was seventy-two days. Twenty

of these, during the absence of the ambassadors to nego-

ciate an accommodation, they were supplied with food: The

remainder of the time, they were fed by such as got over

by stealth. Nay, meal and other eatables were found in

the island, even when all was over. Their commander, Epi-

tadas, had made a more sparing distribution than his stores

required.

Now the Athenians and Peloponnesians respectively drew

off their forces from Pylus to return home : And the promise

