78 THE PELOPONNESIAN'WAR.

tiona* son of Pausanias their king who was yet a minor;

and having forced the Phocians to surrender upon terms the

town they had taken, were preparing for their return. Now,

in case they attempted it by passing over the sea in the gulf

of Crissa, the Athenians having got round with a squadron

were ready to obstruct it. Nor did they judge it safe to at.

tempt it by way of Geranea, as Megara and Pegai were in

the hands of the Athenians ; for the pass of Geranea is ever

difficult, and now was constantly guarded by the Athenians ;

and should they venture this route, they perceived that the

Athenians were there also ready to intercept them. They de­

termined at last to halt for a time in Boeotia, and watch for

an opportunity to march away unmolested. Some citizens

of Athens were now clandestinely practising with them, to

obtain their concurrence in putting a stop to the democracy

and the building of the long-walls. But the whole body of

the Athenian people rushed out into the field against them,

with a thousand Argives and the respective quotas of their

allies, in the whole amounting to fourteen thousand. They

judged them quite at a loss about the means of a retreat; and

the design also to overthrow their popular government began

to be suspected. Some Thessalian horsemen came also up

to join the Athenians, in pursuance of treaty, who afterwards

in the heat of action revolted to the Lacedaemonians.

They fought at Tanagra of Boeotia, and the victory

rested with the Lacedaemonians and allies; but the slaughter

was great on both sides. The Lacedaemonians afterwards

took their route through the district of Megara; and having

cut down the woods, returned to their own home through

Geranea, and the Isthmus.

On the sixty-second day after the battle of Tanagra, the

Athenians had taken the field against the Boeotians, under

the command of Myronides*. They engaged them, and

• Plutarch in his Apothegm relates, that when Myronides was putting

himself at the head of the Athenians on this occasion, his officers told him

" they were not all come out yet into the field," he replied briskly, " All

are come out that will fight," and marched oft'.

