314 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

ed, with whom, after the arguments on each side should be

freely offered and discussed, they might agree upon some

expedient to mutual satisfaction. Cleon upon this broke

out into loud invectives against them, affirming, " he knew

" beforehand that they intended nothing just or fair ; but

" now their view was manifest to all, as they had absolutely

" refused to have any transactions with the body of the

" people, and had thus expressed a desire to negotiate with

" a small committee: If their views were fair and upright,

" he called upon them to explain themselves in the pre-

" sence of all." But the Lacedaemonians perceiving that

nothing they could urge would have any influence on the

people, and in case, to ward off the distress they feared, they

should make too large proposals, these offered and unac­

cepted, would expose them to the censure of their confede­

rates; and that further, the Athenians would not comply

with their demand on any reasonable terms ; they broke ofF

all further conference, and quitted Athens. The very mo­

ment they return to Pylus, the truce was at an end. The

Lacedaemonians re-demanded their ships according to the

article for that purpose agreed on. But the Athenians ob­

jecting some infractions to them, such as an incursion to­

wards the fortress, expressly prohibited by the articles, and

some other matters of little consequence, absolutely refused

a restitution. They justified the refusal upon this express

stipulation between them, that " if the conditions were in

" any degree violated, the truce should immediately be

" void." The Lacedaemonians protested against these pro­

ceedings, and, charging the detention of their ships with the

highest injustice, broke off all further debate and prepared

for war.

Pylus was now the scene in which both these warring

parties exerted their utmost efforts. The Athenians sailed

the whole day round the island with two ships in an oppo­

site course : in the night, their whole fleet was stationed

round it upon guard, except on that side towards the main

