B. III. YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428.

battlements, and sheltering themselves in the turrets, as near

at hand and covered over-head, there they continued their

watch. Such was the form of the work by which the Plataeans

were inclosed on every side.

The enterprising body, when every thing was ready, laying

hold of the opportunity of a night tempestuous with wind

and rain, and further at a dark moon, marched out of the

place. The persons, who had been authors of the project,

were now the conductors. And first, they passed the ditch

which surrounded the town ; then they approached quite up

to the wall of the enemy, undiscovered by the guards. The

darkness of the night prevented their being seen, and the

noise they made in approaching was quite drowned in the

loudness of the storm. They advanced also at a great dis足

tance from one another, to prevent any discovery from the

mutual clashing of their arms. They were further armed in

the most compact manner, and wore a covering only on the

left foot, for the sake of treading firmly in the mud. Atone

of the intermediate spaces between the turrets they got under

the battlements, knowing they were not manned. The bear足

ers of the ladders went first and applied them to the wall.

Then twelve light-armed with only a dagger and a breast足

plate scaled, led by Ammeas the son of Choraebus., who was

the first that mounted. His followers, in two parties of six

each, mounted next on each side of the turrets. Then other

light-armed with javelins succeeded them. Behind came

others holding the bucklers of those above them, thus to faci足

litate their ascent, and to be ready to deliver them into their

hands, should they be obliged to charge. When the greater

part of the number was mounted, the watchmen within the

turrets perceived it. For one of the Plataeans, in fastening

his hold, had thrown down a tile from off the battlements,

which made a noise in the fall; and immediately was shouted

an alarm. The whole camp came running towards the wall,

yet unable to discover the reason of this alarm, so dark was

Vol. I. 2 T

