B. III. 237 YEAR V.—BEFORE CHRIST 427.

" recollecting with yourselves what kind of usage you would

" have received from them, had they succeeded in their plots,

" they! the uninjured, unprovoked aggressors. It is an al-

" lowed truth, that men who, without the least provocation,

" have recourse to acts of malice, will be sated with nothing

" less than complete destruction, as they must ever be terri-

" fied at the sight of a surviving foe. For he who suffers from

" a quarter whence he never deserved it, will not so easily

" lay down his resentments, as when mutual enmity hath kin-

" died the contention. Be not therefore traitors to your own

" selves. Figure to yourselves, as strongly as you can, the

" miseries they designed you; remember how you wished

" for nothing in this world so much as to have them in your

" power, and now retaliate upon them. Relent not at the

" scene of horror imagination may present to your fancy, but

" fix your remembrance fast on that weight of misery, which

" was just now suspended over your own heads. Punish these

" wretches according to their deserts ; make them a notable

" example to the rest of your dependents, that death must be

" the portion of whoever dares revolt. For when once they

" are certain of this, your arms will no more be recalled from

" your foreign enemies, to be employed in the chastisement of

" your own dependents."

In this manner Cleon* supported the decree, and when he

• From the short sketch of Cleon's character given before by Tliucydi-

des, and the speech lie hath now made, it is likely he can be no favourite

with the reader. Cicero hath styled him, " a turbulent but eloquent Atlie-

man." By means of his eloquence, and an impudence that never could be

dashed, he was now a prime favourite with the people, but the scorn and

terror of all good men at Athens. He had ever been a snarler at Pericles,

but so long as he lived could obtain no share in the public administration.

He had now got the ascendant by cajoling the people, and by his loud and

daily invectives against their ministers and commanders. He will make a

very splendid and very despicable figure in the sequel. Aristophanes, who

had a particular grudge against him, hath exhibited him in the most dis­

tasteful light. His comedy of the Hnrtemen or Knights is entirely employed

to shew him off. He calls him throughout the Paphlagotdan, to brand his

low and brutal disposition, who, "quitting his original trade of selling lea-

Vol. I. 2 X

