B. II. 135 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

them. Of these imaginary schemes was Archidamus full,

whilst he lay before Acharnae.

The Athenians, so long as the enemy remained about Eleu-

sis and the plain of Thriasia, conceived some hopes that they

would advance no farther. They put one another in mind,

that Pleistoanax, son of Pausanias king of the Lacedaemonians,

when, fourteen years before this war, he invaded Attica with

an army of Peloponnesians, came only as far as to Eleusis and

Thrias, and then retreated without penetrating any farther-

that, upon this account he had been banished Sparta, because

it looked as if he had been bribed to such an unseasonable re­

treat. But when they saw the enemy advanced to Acharnae,

which was distant but sixty stadia* from Athens, they thought

their incursions were no longer to be endured. It appeared, as

it reasonably might, a heavy grievance, to have all their inlands

thus ravaged within their sight; a scene like this the young­

er sort never had beheld, nor the elder but once—in the Persian

war. The bulk of the people, but especially the younger part,

were for sallying out and fighting, and not to stand tamely

looking upon the insult. Numbers of them assembled toge­

ther in a tumultuous manner, which was the rise of great con­

fusion, some loudly demanding to march out against the ene­

my, and others restraining them from it. The soothsayers

gave out all manner of predictions, which every hearer inter­

preted by the key of his own passions. The Acharnians, re­

garding themselves as no contemptible part of the Athenian

body, because their lands had been wasted, in a most earnest

manner insisted upon a sally. The whole city was in a fer­

ment, and all their resentment centered on Pericles. They

quite forgot the prudent conduct he had formerly planned out

for them.—They reproached him as a general that durst not

head them against their enemies, and regarded him as author

of all the miseries which their city endured.

" nets, ifc. t3V. Isfc. all the decks would be crowded with seamen. What

"a dashing of oars, music sounding, boatswains bawling; nothing but

" hurry and confusion! Such. I am well assured, would then be the case."

• About six English miles.

