B. II. TEAR I. BEFOR'E CHRIST 431. 143

which stands in the finest suburb of the city ; . for it hath

been the constant custom here to bury all who fell in war,

except those at Marathon, whose extraordinary valour they

judged proper to honour with a sepulchre on the field of

battle. As soon as they are interred, some one selected for

the office by the publice voice, and ever a person in great

esteem for his understanding, and of high dignity amongst

them, pronounces over them the decent panegyric and

this done, they depart. Through all the war, as the occasions

recurred, this method was constantly observed. But over

these, the first victims of it, Pericles son of Xantippus was ap­

pointed to speak. So, when the proper time was come, walk­

ing from the sepulchre, and mounting a lofty pulpit erected

for the purpose, from whence he might be heard more dis­

tinctly by the company, he thus began

" MANY of those, who have spoken before me on these

" occasions, have commended the author of that law which

" we are now obeying, for having instituted an oration to the

" honour of those who sacrifice their lives in fighting for their

" country. For my part, I think it sufficient, for men who

" have approved their virtue in action, by action to be ho-

" noured for it—by such as you see the public gratitude now

M performing about this funeral; and—that the virtues of

M many ought not to be endangered by the management of

" any one person, when their credit must precariously de-

" pend on his oration, which may be good and may be bad.

" Difficult indeed it is, judiciously to handle a subject, where

" even probable truth will hardly gain assent. The hearer,

" enlightened by a long acquaintance, and warm in his af-

" fection, may quickly pronounce every thing unfavourably

" expressed, in respect to what he wishes and what he knows,

"—whilst the stranger pronounceth all exaggerated, through

" envy of those deeds which he is conscious are above his

" own achievement. For the praises bestowed upon others

44 are then only to be endured, when men imagine they can

" do those feats they hear to have been done : They envy

