386 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

sidas caused proclamation to be made to those Toroneans

who had fled for refuge to the Athenians, that " such as were

" willing might return to their old habitations, and should

" enjoy their rights without any molestation." But to the

Athenians a herald was sent expressly, commanding them

" to evacuate Lecythus which rightfully belonged to the

" Chalcideans, and a truce should be granted them to re-

" move themselves and their baggage." An evacuation they

absolutely refused, but requested one day's truce to fetch off

their dead : He solemnly accorded two. During this space

he was very busy in strengthening the houses adjacent to

Lecythus, and the Athenians did the same within.

He also convened the Toroneans to a general assembly,

and harangued them very nearly in the same manner as he

had done at Acanthus,—that " it was unjust to look upon

"those, who had been his coadjutors in the surprisal of the

" city, as men worse than their neighbours, or as traitors ;

" they had no inslaving views, nor were biassed to such a

" conduct by pecuniary persuasions ; the welfare and liberty

" of the city had been their only object. Neither should

" they, who had no share in the event, be more abridged

*4 than those who had. He was not come thither to destroy  
" the city, or so much as one private inhabitant of it. For

" this very reason he had caused the proclamation to be made

" to those who had sheltered themselves amongst the Athe-

" nians, because such an attachment had not in the least im-

" paired them in his esteem, since it was entirely owing to

" their ignorance that they had thus undervalued the Lace-

" daemonians, whose actions, as they were always more just,

" would for the future entitle them much more to their be-

" nevolence ; their terror hitherto had been merely the result

" of inexperience." He then exhorted them in general " to

" take care for the future to be steady and firm allies, since

" should they henceforth offend, they would be made answer-

" able for the guilt. They were not chargeable for the past,

'4 as they had rather been sufferers themselves from superior

