B. IV. 385 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424.

These after an interval of time wondered at the delay, and

by gradually advancing were got close to the city. Such of

the Toroneans within, as acted in concert with those who

had entered, when once the postern was burst, and the

gates leading to the forum were thrown open after bursting

the bar, in the first place conducting some of them about

led them in at the postern, that they might strike a sudden

panic on the ignorant inhabitants when attacked in rear and

in flank and on all sides. This done they lifted up the

appointed signal of fire, and gave instant admittance to the

rest of the targeteers through the gates which led to the

forum.

Brasidas, when once he saw the signal, roused up his army

and led them running towards the place, shouting all at once

aloud, and thus striking the greatest consternation into the

inhabitants. Some immediately rushed in at the gates ;

others mounted over the square wooden machines, which, as

the wall had lately fallen down and was now rebuilding, lay

close to it for the raising of stones. Brasidas, with the bulk

of his force, betook himself immediately to the upper parts of

the city; intending to seize the eminence, and possess him­

self effectually of the place. The rest dispersed themselves

equally through every quarter.

Amidst this surprisal, the majority of the Toroneans, quite

Vgnorant of the plot, were in vast confusion. But the agents

in it and all their party were quickly ranged with the assail­

ants. The Athenians, (for of them there were about fifty

heavy-armed asleep in the forum,) when they found what

was done, some few excepted who were slain instantly on the

spot, fled away for preservation; and some by land, others in

the guard-ships stationed there, got safe into Lecythus, a fort

of their own. They kept this in their own hands, as it was the

extremity of the city towards the 6ea stretched along on a

narrow isthmus. Hither also those of the Toroneans, who

persevered in their fidelity, fled to them for refuge.

It being now broad day and the city firmly secured, Bra­

