DISCOURSE I. xxxix

finished. The eighth, though moulded into due form, hath

plainly not had a final revisal, and breaks off abruptly. The

whole work is said to have fallen into Xenophon's possession,

who, at the time of the death of Thucydides, was exiled from

Athens: And Xenophon is also said to have made it public.

This carries a great air of probability with it, since Xenophon

became the continuator of Thucydides, not in so lofty and

majestic, but in a sweeter and more popular style. There is

a chasm indeed between the time the History of Thucydides

breaks off, and the Grecian- History of Xenophon begins.

There is no accounting for this but by conjecture. May I

venture to offer one, I believe entirely new, but which, for

that reason, I shall readily give up to the first person of judg­

ment, who thinks it hath no foundation ? It is this—That

Thucydides left somewhat more behind him than now ap­

pears. How it came to be suppressed or lost, I will not pre­

tend to guess. It is natural to imagine, that his acknow­

ledged continuator resumed the subject at the very spot

where his predecessor had left off. Nearly two years are

however wanting, in which several important incidents took

place. It is pity, but we have no redress. General histo­

rians are by other means enabled to supply the deficiency;

but the loss of any thing from so masterly a hand is still to

be regretted.

The place of the death and interment of Thucydides was

most probably Scaptesyle in Thrace. Long habitude might

have made him fond of a spot, where he had passed so many

years in studious and calm retirement. The hurry and bus­

tle and engagements of Athens could not have been much to

the relish of so grave, and now so old a man. His monu­

ment there among the Cimonian confirms this opinion, since

most writers agree, it had the mark upon it which shewed it

to be a cenotaph, and the words, Here lieth, were not in the

inscription*. I have nothing to add about his family. It is

• M&rcellinus.

