20 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

twenty-five ships, which were soon followed by another equip­

ment, they command them " at their peril to receive their

exiles ;"—For those who had been driven out of Epidamnus

had already been at Corcyra, where pointing to the sepulchres,

and claiming the rights of consanguinity, they had intreated

them to undertake their restoration:—" and to send away the

garrison and new inhabitants which they had received from

Corinth." The Epidamnians were quite deaf to these

haughty commands. And upon this the Corcyreans, with a

squadron of forty ships accompanied by the exiles whom they

pretended to restore, and an aid of Illyrians, began hostili­

ties. Having blocked up the city, they made proclamation,

" That all Epidamnians who were willing and the strangers

might depart without molestation, or otherwise they should

be treated as enemies." But this having no effect, the Cor­

cyreans beset the place, which is situated upon an isthmus, on

all sides, in regular siege.

The Corinthians upon the arrival of messengers from

Epidamnus with an account of the siege, dr&w their forces

together. They also gave public notice, " That a new co­

lony was going to Epidamnus, into which all that would

enter should have equal and like privileges with their prede­

cessors ; that, if any one was unwilling to set out immedi­

ately, and yet chose to have the benefit of the colony, he

might deposit fifty Corinthian drachmas, and be excused

his personal attendance." The number of those who entered

for immediate transportation, and of these who deposited

their money, was large. They sent farther to the Mega-

reans, requesting a number of ships to enlarge their con­

voy, that their passage might not be obstructed by the Cor­

cyreans, from whom they received a supply of eight, and

four more from Pale of the Cephallenians. The same re­

quest was made to the Epidaurians, who sent five. A single

ship joined them from Hermione ; two from Troezene ; ten

from the Leucadians ; and eight from the Ambraciots. Of

the Thebanr, and Phliasians they requested money; of the

