B. I. 101 INTRODUCTION.

verge yet breathing a little ; and, being thus brought out, he

immediately died. They next intended to cast his body into

the Caeada, where they are used to throw their malefactors ; but

afterwards changed their minds, and put him into the ground

somewhere thereabouts. But the God at Delphi warned the

Lacedaemonians afterwards by an oracle " to remove his body

" to the place where he died:"—And now it lies in the area

before the temple, as the inscription on the pillars sheweth—

" and, as in what they had done they had violated the laws of

" sanctuary, to restore two bodies to the Chalcicecan for that

M one." To this they so far conformed, as to dedicate there

two statues of brass, as atonements for Pausanias.

(The Athenians, upon the principle that the God himself

had judged this a pollution, required of the Lacedaemonians,

by way of retaliation, to clear themselves of it.)

The Lacedaemonians at that time sent ambassadors to

Athens, to accuse Themistocles also of carrying on the same

treasonable correspondence with the Mede as Pausanias, which

they had discovered from the papers which had been evidence

against Pausanias, and demanded that " he should be equally

punished for it." The Athenians complied with this demand.

But as he then happened to be under the ostracism*, and re-

• The Ostracism was a compliment of an extraordinary kind paid by the

people of Athens to superior merit. When a person had done them great

services, and they grew apprehensive they might possibly shew him too

much gratitude, to the prejudice of their own liberties, they banished him

for ten years. On some particular day each citizen gave in the name of a

person, wrote upon an ostracum (a shell or piece of tile), whom he desired

should be sent into retirement. Six thousand of these votes carried the point;

and he, who had thus a legal number of votes, was obliged to quit Athena

within ten days. The most disinterested patriot, and most successful

commander received, for the most part, this public acknowledgment of

their services. At length, a scoundrel fellow, one Hyperbolus, was thus

honourably distinguished by the public voice. The Athenians thought

afterwards they had profaned the ostracism by treating him like a Themis­

tocles, an Aristides, or a Cimon, and therefore abolished this strange inju­

rious privilege, by which wanton libertv was enabled to triumph over its

best friend, public spirit. Other republics in Greece had something of the

same nature amongst them. Authors vary much about the circumstances

Vol. I. 2D

