268 THE PELOPO1TNESIAN WAR.

take up the persons in the island, or by some other method

attempt to distress them. For this reason, they removed the

prisoners again from the island into the temple of Juno, and

applied themselves to guard the city. But the enemy,

though victorious at sea, durst not think of proceeding to

attack the city; but satisfied with taking thirteen ships be­

longing to the Corcyreans, they returned to the main, from

whence they had sallied to the engagement. The next day

also, they refrained from making any attempt upon the city,

where the disorder and consternation were as great as ever.

Brasidas is reported urgently to have pressed it upon Alci-

das, but in the council of war was quite over-ruled. They

landed, however, at cape Leucymne, and plundered the

country.

The Corcyrean people, whose fears were still suggesting

that they should be attacked by the enemy's fleet, had con­

ferred with the suppliants and others about the only means

to preserve the city. And some of them they persuaded to

join in navigating their ships ; for by some means or other

they had again manned thirty, expecting every moment the

enemy's approach. But the Peloponncsians continued the

ravage of their fields only till noon, and then repassed to

their former stations. Yet before the dawn of the succeed­

ing day, they saw sixty lights held up, to denote an equal

number of Athenian ships advancing from Leucas. The

Athenians, advertised of the sedition and the course of the

fleet under Alcydas against Corcyra, had sent away this re­

inforcement under the command of Eurymedon the son of

Thucles. Upon this, the Peloponncsians, whilst yet it was

night, crept homewards along the shore, and carrying their

vessels over the isthmus of Leucas, lest they should be dis­

covered in going round it, are safely retreated within their

own confines.

When the Corcyreans had discovered the approach of

the Athenian reinforcement, and the departure of the enemy,

they received the Messenians within their walls who till now

