292 THE PELOPONNEStAN WAR.

up their own dead to the number of about three hundred.

But a truce for their departure was not openly granted to

them all. Demosthenes, in concert with the Acarnanian

generals, agreed to a secret article with the Mantineans and

Menedaeus and the other Peloponnesian officers, and as many

Others as were of any consideration—that " they should de­

part immediately." His policy was, to have the Ambraciots

and the promiscuous body of mercenaries left quite destitute,

wishing above all things for such a pretext to calumniate the

Lacedaemonians and Peloponnesians amongst the Grecians of

those parts, " as men who wilfully abandon their friendsj

" from a mere selfish treacherous regard to their own safe-

" ty." Having leave therefore to fetch off their dead, they

interred them all so well as their hurry would admit. And

those in the secret were busy in concerting the means of their

departure.

But now intelligence is brought to Demosthenes and the

Acarnanians, that the Ambraciots of the city with their whole

collected force had, in pursuance of the former summons, be­

gan their march for Olpae, through Amphilochi, designing to

join their countrymen at Olpae, and quite ignorant of the late

defeat. Upcn this he immediately detacheth a part of his

army, to beset all the passes, and to seize all the advantageous

posts upon their route, and got ready at the same time to march

against them with the remainder of his force.

In the mean time, the Mantineans, and those compre­

hended in the secret article, going out of the town upon the

pretext of gathering herbs and fuel, went gradually off in

small parties, gathering what they pretended to come out for

as they passed along. But when they had thus straggled

to a considerable distance from Olpae, they moved away in a

more nimble pace. The Ambraciots and others, who in

great numbers came out in their company, when they per­

ceived them thus stealing off, felt an inclination to follow,

and so taking to their heels, ran speedily after them. The

Acarnanians imagined at first, that they vere all equally

