B. II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. . 153

ness began first to appear amongst the Athenians, such as was

reported to have raged before this in other parts, as about

Lemnos, and other places. Yet a plague so great as this, and

so dreadful a calamity, in human memory could not be paral­

lelled. The physicians at first coidd administer no relief,

through utter ignorance ; nay, they died the fastest, the closer

their attendance on the sick, and all human art was totally

unavailing. Whatever supplications were offered in the tem­

ples, whatever recourse to oracles and religious rites, all were

insignificant; at last, expedients of this nature they totally re­

linquished, overpowered by calamity. It broke out first, as

it is said, in that part of Ethiopia which borders upon Egypt;

it afterwards spread into Egypt and Lybia, and into great part

of the king's dominions, and from thence it on a sudden fell on

the city of the Athenians. The contagion shewed itself first

in the Piraeus, which occasioned a report that the Peloponne-

sians had caused poison to be thrown into the wells, for as yet

there were no fountains there. After this it spread into the

upper city, and then the mortality very much increased. Let

every one, physician or not, freely declare his own sentiments

about it; let him assign any credible account of its rise, or

the causes strong enough in his opinion to introduce so terri­

ble a scene 1 shall only relate what it actually was, and,

as from an information in all its symptoms, none may be quite

at a loss about it, if ever it should happen again, I shall give

to medicina timore." The letters of Hippocrates, which mention this af­

fair, are certainly spurious: The facts they would establish are without any

grounds, as Le Clerc hath proved to conviction in his Histoirc de la nude-

cine, 1. 3. They make the plague to have broke out first in Europe, and to

have spread from thence into the dominions of the king of Persia. This is

quite contrary to the account of Thucydides, and to the experience of eve­

ry age. All plagues and infectious distempers have had their rise in

Africa. Need I say more than that Dr. Mead hath proved it ! But whe­

ther his account of this plague at Athens be duly succinct, not too minute,

serious, affecting ; and, whether Thucydides hath well managed the op­

portunity it gave him to moralize like a man of virtue and good sense, every

reader will judge for himself. The transtator hath chiefly endeavoured to

preserve that solemn air, which he thought the prime distinction of the

original.

V

