244 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" party; since you yourselves have inforced the precedent,

" that punishment must fall upon the heads, not only of the

" guilty, but even of the innocent. Whereas indeed, though

" they had been guilty, we ought to have dissembled our

" knowledge of it, that we might not force the only party

" which ever takes our side into utter enmity and aversion.

" And I esteem it much more conducive to the firm support

" of empire, rather to connive at the wrongs we may have

"felt, than in all the-severity of justice to destroy those per-

" sons whom in interest we ought to spare. And thus, that

" union of justice to others and duty to yourselves in this in-

" stance of punishing the Mitylencans, as alleged by Cleon,

" is plainly found to be grossly inconsistent, to be utterly im-

" possible.

" Own yourselves therefore convinced, that the greatest

" advantages will result from the conduct which I have re-

" commended ; and, without giving too wide a scope to

" mercy or forbearance, by which I could never suffer you

" to be seduced, follow my advice, and in pursuance of it re­

solve " To judge and condemn, at your own discretion,

"those guilty Mityleneans whom Paches hath sent hither

" to attend your decisions, and to let the others continue as

" they are." These are expedients of your future welfare,

" and of immediate terror to your foes. For they who can

" form the soundest deliberations, stand stronger up against

" hostile opposition, than the men who rush to action with

" indiscreet unpremeditating strength."

Diodotus ended here. And when these two opinions,

diametrically opposite to one another, had been thus deliv­

ered, the Athenians had a stiff contest in support of each,

and, upon holding up of hands, there seemed near an

equality j but the majority proved at last to be along with

Diodotus.

Upon this they immediately sent away another trireme,

enjoining all possible dispatch, lest this second, not coming

in time, might find the city already destroyed, as the other

u

