Discourse hi. lvii

give, perhaps applaud him, for his great care to prevent

confusion, and to give a neat and precise conception of all

that passeth. He constantly gives notice, when he is ne­

cessitated, by the method he laid down for himself, to make

such transitions: And, when we have been amused with

what looks like a ramble from an engaging part of history,

but is really a coincidence of events not to pass unheeded j

when we have been so long at it, that we are convinced it

lies in the road, and is no excursion at all; yet we are glad

to see him re-connect, and land us on a spot, where we are

already well acquainted. He shews a steady and inviolable

attachment to chronology, a necessary attendant upon his­

tory. But the chronology of Thucydides is like a herald,

that exactly marshals a long stately procession, adjusts the

rank, clears the way, and preserves every step distinct and

unincumbered.

No writer had done this before him. No settled JEra

was yet in use, not even the famous one of the Olympiad.

The several States of Greece computed time by a method

of their own. It was not easy to make those methods coin­

cide with one another. The Athenians reckoned by their

annual archons; the Lacedaemonians by their ephori; the

Argives by the years of the priestess of Juno. The seasons

of the year, when the two former entered on their offices,

were fixed, but did not suit together in point of time ; the

beginning of the years of the latter was variable, since it

depended on the death or removal of a predecessor. Thu­

cydides, to avoid confusion, left all these artificial jarring

rules, and adhered to the course of nature. He divided the

natural year into two halves, into a summer and winter. His

summer includes the spring, and reacheth from the vernal

to the autumnal equinox; the other half-year is compre­

hended in his winter. He always records eclipses, as strange

events, and proper concomitants for the horrors of this war.

I must not be so sanguine as to imagine, that he supposed

such appearances might some time or other be reduced to

Vol. I. H

