168 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

worst of all, that instead of peace they had the sad alternative

of war. However, neither poor nor rich abated their displea­

sure to Pericles, till they had laid upon him a pecuniary fine*.

And yet, no long time after—so unsteady are the humours of

the people—they elected him general again, and intrusted him

with the administration of affairs. The keen sense they had

at first of their^own private losses soon grew blunt and unaffect-

ing, and they could not but allow him the most capable per­

son to provide for all the urgent necessities of the public. For

the supreme authority he enjoyed in times of peace he had

exercised with great moderation ; he was vigilant and active

for the good of the community, which never made so great a

figure as under his administration ; and after war broke out

it is plain he best knew the reach of its ability to carry it on.

He lived two years and six months from its commencement:

and after his deathf, his judicious foresight in regard to this

• Plutarch (in the life of Pericles) says, authors are not agreed about the

quantity of the fine al this time laid upon Pericles Some lower it to fif­

teen talents, others mount it up to fifty. The demagogue, who incited the

people to fine him, is also said by some to have been Clean, with whose ge­

nius and character the reader will soon become acquainted.

t As the historian is here going to take his leave of Pericles, he adjoins

a true representation of his patriot spirit, his great abilities, his
judicious

foresight, and successful administration. And here the reader may be in­

formed of some points, which Thucydides either thought needless when he

wrote, or foreign to his subject. Pericles had two sons by his former

wife. The eldest of them proved a great vexation to his father, who was

unable to support him in his expensive way of living. Pericles had no

large estate, and he was not rjcher for fingering the public money. He

Uid it all out in adorning his Athens, and was rewarded for it by giving so

many magnificent and lasting proofs of his fine taste in painting, sculpture,

and building. For the city of Rome received not so much decoration from

her foundation till the time of the Caesars, as Athens did from Pericles

alone- Yet economy was his passion at home, as that of his son Xantippus

was luxury. This son however was taken off by the plague, as was after­

wards a sister of Pericles, most of his intimates and relations, and his other

son Paralus. This last was the heaviest blow ; he fell it deeply : And all

Athens did all that lny in their power to comfort him, since, contrary to a

Uw of Pericles' own making, the} enrolled his son Pericles, whom he had

by Aspasia, an Athenian of the full blood. At length he was seized him­

self by the plague ; and, after languishing a long lime, in a manner differ­

