3. I. INTR0DUCTI0H. 85

and collected a body of seven hundred auxiliaries, passed over

by night into Samos. They first exerted their efforts against

the popular party, and got a majority of them into their pow­

er : In the next place, they conveyed away the hostages from

Lemnos by stealth ; they openly declared a revolt ; and deli­

vered up the Athenian garrison, with their officers whom they

had seized, to Pissuthnes; and then immediately prepared

to renew their war against Miletus. The Byzantines farther

joined with them in the revolt.

No sooner were the Athenians informed of this, than they

put out against Samos with sixty sail, though sixteen of them

were detached for other services. Some of the latter were

stationed upon the coast of Caria to observe the motions of

a Phoenician fleet, and the rest were ordered to Chios and »

Lesbos to give there a summons of aid. The remaining

forty-four, commanded by Pericles* and nine colleagues, en­

gaged near the isle of Tragia with the Samian fleet, consist­

ing of seventy sail, twenty of which had land-soldiers on

board, and the whole was now on the return from Miletus ;

and here the Athenians gained a signal victory. Afterwards

forty sail arrived from Athens to reinforce them, and twenty-

five from the Chians and the Lesbians. With this accession

• The Athenians in the assembly of the people chose ten generals every

year, according to the number of their tribes. They were sometimes, as

in the present instance, all sent out in the same employ. They rolled, and

each in his turn was gentral of the day. Thucydides seldom gives more

than the name of one, whom we may conclude to have been the person of

the greatest weight and influence amongst them, in fact a general in chief.

Philip of Macedon was used to joke upon this multiplicity of generals.

" For my part (said he) I have never had the good fortune to find more

than one general in my life ; and yet the Athenians find ten fresh ones

every year." Not but that these generals were often re-elected and con-

tinned years in commission. Pericles, it is plain, did so : and in latter

times Phocion is said to have been elected five and forty times. Their

power was great not only in the field but at Athens Every point that bad

relation to war came under their department. Pericles in a foreign em­

ploy was always first of the generals, and within the walls of Athens was

the first or rather absolute minister of state.

Vol. I. 2 B

