324 The peloponnesian war.

whole advanced guard to the sword, having surprised then!

yet in their huts, and but seeking to lay hold of their arms.

Their landing was yet undiscovered, since the enemy judged

their vessels to be only the usual guard which was every

night in motion.

No sooner also was the dawn completely broke, than

the remainder of the Athenian force was landed from a

number of vessels somewhat more than seventy. All the

mariners came ashore, in their respective distinctions of

arms, excepting the rowers of the lowest bench*. They

were eight hundred archers, and a body no less numerous

of targeteers. The Messenian auxiliaries attended, and

all in general who had been employed at Pylus, except such

as were necessarily detained for the guard of the fortress.

According to a disposition formed by Demosthenes, they

advanced in separate bodies, consisting of near two hundred

more or less, and took possession of all the eminences. The

design was, thus to reduce the enemy to a plunge of distress

by surrounding them on all sides, and puzzling them in their

choice which party first to make head against, that at the

sight of numbers on all sides they might be quite confound­

ed; and, should they then attack the body in their front,

they might be harassed by others in their rear; or, should

they wheel towards those on either flank, they might be ex­

posed to the bodies both in front and rear. Which way

soever the enemy might turn, they were sure to have behind

them the light-armed and less martial of their opponents,

• It is in the original, excepting the Thalamii. The rowers on the differ­

ent benches were distinguished by a peculiar name. Those of the upper­

most were called Thramue ,- those of the middle, Zeugita,- and those of

the lowest, Thalamii. The labour of the Thalamii was the least, though

most constant, because of ttieir nearness to the water, and the shortness of

their OBrs. Much more strength and skill were required on the upper

benches, and most of all on the uppermost, who for that reason had better

pay. Those on the lowest bench seem to have been mere drudges at the

oar, and quahfied for nothing better (-the others were more complete sea­

men, and ready on all occasions for the duty both of rowing and fighting-

