?0 TJJE PELOPONJJESIAN WAR.

questing them " from the tie of consanguinity to undertake

their protection, and not to leave them thus largely exposed

to the violence of Pausanias." This request was favourably

heard by the Athenians, who expressed their willingness to

put a stop to such grievances, and to re-settle the general or­

der, to the best of their power.—But during this the Lacedae­

monians recalled Pausanias, that he might answer what was

laid to his charge. Many of the Grecians had carried to them

accusations against him for an unjust abuse of his power,

since in his behaviour he resembled more a tyrant than a

general. And it so fell out, that he was recalled just at the

time when the confederates, out of hatred to him, had ranged

themselves under the Athenian orders, excepting those troops

which were of Peloponnesus. Upon his return to Lacedae-

mon, he was convicted upon trial of misdemeanors towards

particulars, but of the heaviest part of the charge he is ac­

quitted : For the principal accusation against him was an at*

tachment to the Medish interest: and it might be judged too

clear to stand in need of proof. Him therefore they no longer

intrust with the public command, but appoint in his stead

Dorcis with some colleagues to command what little force of

their own remained. To these the confederates would no

longer yield the supreme command; which so soon as they

perceived, they returned home. And here the Lacedaemoni­

ans desisted from commissioning any others to take upon

them that post; fearing, lest those who should be sent might

by their behaviour still more prejudice the Lacedaemonian in­

terest, a case they had reason to dread from the behaviour of

Pausanias. They were now grown desirous to rid them­

selves of the Medish war: they acknowledged the Athenians

had good pretensions to enjoy the command, and at that time

were well affected towards them.

The Athenians having in this manner obtained the su­

preme command, by the voluntary tender of the whole con­

federacy in consequence of their aversion to Pausanias ; they

F.xed by their own authority the quotas, whether of ships or

