182 THE PELOPOVNESIAN WAR.

a faction they had within. But a contrary party, having

sent in good time to Olynthus, had procured from thence an

aid of heavy-armed and other force for their protection.

These even made a sally out of Spartolus, and forced the

Athenians to a battle under the walls of the town. The

heavy-armed Chalcideans, with some of their auxiliaries, are

defeated by the Athenians, and retire into Spartolus. The

horse and light-armed Chalcideans get the better of the

horse and light-armed Athenians; but they had with them

a small number of targeteers from the province called Cru-

sis. On the first joining of battle other targeteers came to

their assistance from Olynthus. The light-armed of Spar­

tolus seeing this reinforcement just come up, and reflecting

that they had received no loss before, with reanimated cou­

rage again charge the Athenians, in conjunction with the

Ghalcidean horse, and the fresh reinforcement. The Athe­

nians retire to the two companies which they had left to

guard the baggage. Here they drew up again, and when­

ever they thought proper to charge, the enemy fell back ;

when they retreated from the charge, the enemy pressed

upon and infested them with missive weapons. The Ghal­

cidean horse rode up where they thought they could break

them, and falling in without fear of a repulse, put the Athe­

nians to flight, and pursued them to a great distance. The

Athenians fly for refuge to Potidaea ; and afterwards, obtain­

ing a truce to fetch off their dead, return with their shattered

army to Athens. In this action they lost four hundred and

thirty men, and all their commanders. The Chalcideans

and Bottiaeans erected a trophy, and having taken proper

care of their dead; separated to their own cities.

Not long after this, in the same summer, the Ambraciots

and Chaonians, who aimed at the total reduction of Acar-

nania, and to compass a general defection there from the

Athenians, prevailed upon the Lacedaemonians to supply

them with shipping from their confederate cities, and to

send a thousand heavy-armed into Acarnania. They told

