202 THE PELOPONN£SIAN WAR.

The Macedonians, unable to make head against the nu­

merous army by which they were invaded, retired within the

walled and fortified places of the country, which at this time

were not many. But Archelaus son of Perdiccas, succeed­

ing his father in the kingdom, built those fortresses which

are now there, opened the roads, and made many other regu­

lations, both in the military way about horses and arms, and

in other public matters, more than all the eight preceding

kings put together. The Thracian army from Doberua

broke first into that part of the country, which was formerly

in the possession of Philip. They took Eidomene by storm;

and got Gortynia, Atalante, and some other places by com­

position, which were readily brought to capitulate, out of

their regard for Amyntas, whose son Philip now appeared

amongst them. They also laid siege to Europus, but were

not able to reduce it. They afterwards advanced into the

other Macedonia, lying to the left of Pella and Cyrrhus.

Within these, they did not advance into Bottiaea and Pieria;

but ravaged Mygdonia, Grestonia, and Anthemus. The

Macedonians never once thought of being able to make

head against them with their foot; but, sending for horse

from their allies in the upper Macedonia, wherever by the

advantage of ground a few could encounter with many, they

made frequent attacks upon the Thracian army. They

made so strong an impression, that nothing could resist such

excellent horsemen and so completely armed. For this

reason, the enemy enclosed them about with their numerous

forces, and thus made it exceeding hazardous for them to

fight against such manifold odds of numbers ; so that at last

they were forced to give over these skirmishes, judging it

imprudent to run any hazards against so large an inequality

of strength.

Sitalces, at a parley held with Perdiccas, imparted to

him the motives of the war. And, as the Athenians were not

yet come up with their fleet, because diffident of his punc­

tuality to the engagement between them, and had only sent

him presents and embassadors, he detached part of his army

