300 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

formerly called Messenia; but the name given it by the

Lacedaemonians is Coryphasium. The others replied, "There

" are many barren capes in Peloponnesus, which those may

" secure who have a mind to plunge the commonwealth into

" needless expenses." This place however seemed to him to

be better marked out for this purpose than any other, as

being possessed of a harbour ; and as the Messenians, who

formerly bore some relation to it, and still used the same dia­

lect with the Lacedaemonians, might from hence give them

great annoyance, and at the same time effectually keep pos­

session of it. But when neither the commanders nor sol­

diers, nor the inferior officers*, to whom he afterwards com­

municated his project, would be brought to a compliance, he

quietly let it drop till the mere love of employment, during

the idleness of their suspended voyage, seditiously inclined

the private soldiers to compass it with a wall. They took

the work in hand, and plied it briskly. Tools they had none

for hewing and fitting the stones ; but picked out and carried

such as they judged most proper for the work, and laid them

one upon another as compactly as they could. The mud, that

was any where requisite, for want of vessels they carried on.

their shoulders, bending forwards as much as possible that it

might have room to stick on, and holding it up with both

hands clasped fast behind that it might not slide down. They

spared no pains to prevent the Lacedaemonians, and to put

the place in a proper posture of defence, before they could

come to their disturbance. For the largest part of it was so

well fortified by nature, that it stood in no need of the de­

fence of art.

• The word in the original is Taxiarchi. They seem to be nearly the

same with Captains of a Company, in the modern stile, as their command

was over aboutlone hundred men. Taxiarcht were also officers of a higher

class, in number ten, every Athenian tribe appointing one, whose business

it was to marshal the armies, to order the inarches and encampments, to

take care of provisions, and to punish military offences. But the former

seem to be the ajji;ers to whom Demosthenes applied himself in the pre •

' sent instance.

