352 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" instantly determined by blows." They gave not the least

hint as if they had discovered the design, but strenuously

insisted that their own measure was most adviseable, and

stood firm together for the security of the gates. Thus it

•was no longer possible for the conspirators to put their plot

in execution.

The Athenian commanders, being sensible that the pro­

ject had been somehow crossed, and that they were not able

themselves to take the city by storm, immediately run up a

wall to invest Nisaea; concluding, that could they carry it

before any succours came up, it would be impossible for

Megara to hold out much longer. Iron and workmen, and

all proper materials, were quickly supplied them from Athens.

They begun at the wall which they had lately surprised,

they ran it along for some time parallel with Megara, and

then down to the sea on both sides of Nisaea. The work,

both of ditch and wall, was divided amongst the army.

They made use of the stones and bricks of the suburbs, and

having felled some trees and wood, they strengthened what

was weak with an additional palisade. The houses of the

suburbs, being topped with battlements, served the use of

turrets. This whole day they plied hard at the work ; and

about the evening of the succeeding day it was only not com­

pleted. The garrison within Nisaea was in great consterna­

tion. They laboured already under a scarcity of provisions,

which they had been used to fetch daily from the upper city.

Thus concluding that the Peloponnesians could not succour

them with sufficient expedition, and imagining the Mega-

reans were combined against them, they capitulated with the

Athenians on the following terms:

" To be dismissed every man at a certain ransom, after

"delivering up their arms."

" But as for the Lacedaemonians, their commander, and

" every other person in that number, these to be disposed of

" by the Athenians at discretion."

These terras being agreed to, they evacuated Nisaea. And

