38 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

having not yet discovered the defeat of their right, they

slaughtered through ignorance their own friends. For the

number of ships being large on either side, and covering a

wide extent of sea, after the first confusion of the engage­

ment they were not able easily to distinguish which were

the victors or which the vanquished: Since Grecians

against Grecians had never at any time before engaged

at sea with so large a number of vessels. But after the Co­

rinthians had pursued the Corcyreans to land, they returned

to look after their shattered vessels and their own dead. And

most of these they took up and carried to Sybota, where also

lay the land force of their Barbarian auxiliaries: This Sy­

bota is a desert haven in Thesprotis. Having performed this

duty, they gathered together again into a body and went in

quest of the Corcyreans, who, with those- damaged vessels

that yet could swim, and with all that had no damage, toge­

ther with the Athenians, came out to meet them, fearing

lest they might attempt to land upon their shore. It was

now late in the day, and they had sung their pcean as going

to attack, when on a suden the Corinthians slackened*

their course, having descried a reinforcement of twenty sail

coming up from Athens. This second squadron the Athe­

nians had sent away to support the former ten, fearing (what

really happened) lest the Corcyreans might be vanquished,

and their own ten ships be too few for their support. The

Corinthians, therefore, having got a view of them, and sus­

pecting they came from Athens, and in a larger number

than they yet discovered, began gradually to fall away.

They were not yet descried by the Corcyreans (for the course

kept them more out of their ken) who were surprized to see

the Corinthians thus slacken their course, till some, who had

gained a view, informed them that such ships are coming

• The original is trpifittit Upttotlt, they knocked the hind-deet, a phrase

elegantly applied by Thucydides to those that retreat fighting, and still

facing their enemies. It was done by running their ships backwards upon

their hind decks in order to tack about. See Potttt't Architolagia, vol. ii.
c. 20.

