ft. IV. 323 YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425.

tuals sent in by stipulation he was used to compute them.

He then judged it highly to concern the Athenians to exert

their utmost efforts: and, as the island was now become

more opportune for a descent, he got every thing in readi­

ness for its execution, having sent for a supply of men from

the adjacent confederates, and busied himself about all the

dispositions needful for success. He had further received

an express from Cleon notifying his approach, who now,

at the head of the supply he himself had demanded, ar-

riveth at Pylus. No sooner were they joined, than they

dispatched a herald to the camp on the continent, demand­

ing—" Whether they were willing to order their people in

" the island to surrrender their arms and persons, without

" risking extremities, on condition to be kept under an easy

" confinement till the whole dispute could be properly ac­

commodated ?"—This being positively refused, they re­

mained quiet one day longer; but on the succeeding day,

having embarked their whole strength of heavy-armed on

board a few vessels, they put out by night, and a little before

the ensuing dawn landed on each side of the island, both

from the main sea and the harbour, amounting in the whole

to eight hundred men in heavy armour. They advanced

with their utmost speed towards the first guard on the island.

This was done in pursuance of a previous disposition: For

this first guard consisted of about thirty heavy armed: The

main body under Epitadas was posted about the centre,

where the ground was most level and watery : And another

party guarded the extremity of the island facing Pylus,

which towards the sea was a rocky cliff, and by land altoge­

ther impregnable. On the top further of this cliff was

seated a fort, built some ages before of stones picked care­

fully for the purpose. This they judged might be service­

able to them, should they be forced to shelter themselve

from superior violence. In this manner was the enemy

posted.

The Athenians immediately, in their first carrer. put the

