222 THE PELOPONNESIAK WAR.

the night, and violent the storm. At this crisis the Plataeans,

who were left behind in the city, sallied forth and assaulted

the work of the Peloponnesians, in the part opposite to that

where their friends were attempting to pass, from them to

divert as much as possible the attention of the enemy. Great

was the confusion of the enemy yet abiding in their posts,

for not one durst leave his station to run to the place of

alarm, but all were greatly perplexed to guess at its meaning.

At last the body of three hundred, appointed for a reserve of

succour upon any emergency, marched without the work to

the place of alarm. Now the lighted torches, denoting ene­

mies, were held up towards Thebes. On the other side,

the Plataeans in the city held up at the same time from the

wall many of these torches already prepared for this very

purpose, that the signals given of the approach of foes might

be mistaken by their enemies the Thebans, who judging the

affair to be quite otherwise than it really was, might refrain

from sending any succour, till their friends who had sallied

might have effectuated their escape, and gained a place of

security.

In the mean time those of the Plataeans, who having

mounted first, and by killing the guards had got possession

of the turrets on either hand, posted themselves there to se­

cure the passage, and to prevent any manner of obstruction

from thence. Applying further their ladder to these turrets

from the top of the wall, and causing many of their num­

ber to mount, those now upon the turrets kept off the ene­

mies, running to obstruct them both above and below, by

discharging their darts ; whilst the majority, rearing many

ladders at the same time, and throwing down the battle­

ments, got clean over at the intermediate space between the

turrets. Every one, in the order he got over to the outward

side, drew up upon the inner brink of the ditch, and from

thence, with their darts and javelins, kept off those who

were flocking towards the work to hinder their passage.

When all the rest were landed upon the outside of the work,

