208 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

which he gets a quick passage to Mitylene, and on the third

day after his setting out from Athens, gives notice to the

Mityleneans that such a fleet was coming to surprize them.

Upon this they adjourned their festival, and patching up

their half-finished walls and harbours as well as they could,

stood ready on their guard. Not long after the Athenian

fleet arrived, and finding the alarm had been given, the com­

manders notified to them the injunctions they brought; with

which as the Mityleneans refused to comply, they ranged

themselves for action.

The Mityleneans, unprepared as they were, and thus sud­

denly necessitated to make some resistance, advanced on

board their ships a little beyond the mouth of their harbour,

us willing to engage. But being forced to retreat upon the

approach of the Athenian fleet, they begged a parley with

the commanders, from a view, if it were possible upon easy

conditions, to rid themselves of that fleet for the present.

And the Athenian commanders readily accorded, from the

apprehension, they had not sufficient strength to support the

war against all Lesbos.

Hostilities having thus ceased for a time, the Mityle­

neans dispatched their agents to Athens, and amongst the

number one of those persons who had sent intelligence of

their motions, but had now repented of the step—to pro­

cure, if possible, the recalment of the fleet, by assurances,

that they were not bent on any innovations. But in the

mean time, undiscovered by the Athenian fleet, which lay

at anchor in the road of Malea, to the north of the city,

they send away a trireme to carry an embassy to Laccd*-

mon ; for they had no room to believe they should succeed

in their negociation at Athens. This embassy, after a la­

borious and dangerous voyage, arriving at Lacedaemon, be­

gan to solicit a speedy succour. And when their agents

returned from Athens, totally unsuccessful, the Mityleneans

and all the rest of Lesbos, excepting Methymne, prepare

for war. This last place sent in aid to the Athenians, as

