B. IV. YEAR VII.-—BETORE CHRIST 425. 299

About the same season of the spring, before the corn

was fully grown, the Peloponnesians and allies made their

inroad into Attica. Agis, the son of Archidamus, king of

the Lacedaemonians, commanded. They fixed their camp,

and ravaged the country.

The Athenians now sent out to sea the forty ships already

prepared for the Sicilian voyage, under the command of

Eurymedon and Sophocles, who stayed behind to bring up

this reinforcement, since Pythodorus the third in the com­

mission was already in his post at Sicily. They had orders

also in the course of the voyage to touch at Corcyra, and

provide effectually for the preservation of those in the city,

who were sadly infested by the outlaws posted on the moun­

tain. Sixty sail of the Peloponnesians were now upon that

coast, to act in support of those on the mountain, who, as

the city was sorely oppressed with famine, presumed they

should with ease carry all before them. Demosthenes fur­

ther, who had been in no public employ since his return

from Acarnania, procured leave to go on board this fleet with

authority to employ it on the coast of Peloponnesus, if he

judged it for the service.

When they were got to the height of Laconia, intelli­

gence is brought them, that " the Peloponnesian fleet is now

" in Corcyra." Eurymedon and Sophocles were for making

the best of their way thither. But it was the advice of De­

mosthenes to go first to Pylus, and after they had secured

that place, to proceed in their voyage. This was positively

refused; but it so happened, that a storm arose which drove

the whole fleet to Pylus. Demosthenes insisted that they

should immediately fortify the place, since this was the

motive of his attendance in the fleet. He shewed them,

that " there was at hand plenty of timber and stone for the

" work ; that, beside the strength of its natural situation, the

" place itself was barren, as was also the greatest part of the

" adjacent country." For Pylus lies at the distance of about

four hundred stadia* from Sparta, in the district which was

• About forty English miles.

