B. IV. 321 YEAR VII^—BEFORE CHRIST 425.

" dred archers from other places. With these, he said, add-

" ed to the military force already at Pylus, he would either

" in the space of twenty days bring off all the Lacedaemonians

" alive, or put them all to death upon the spot."

This big way of talking raised a laugh among the people;

all men of sense however were not a little delighted. They

concluded, they should compass by it one of these two desi­

rable ends ; either to rid themselves effectually of Cleon,

which they chiefly expected; or, should they be disappointed

of this, to get those Lacedaemonians into their power*.

Having thus transacted the requisite points in the public

assembly, where the Athenians had awarded the expedition

to him by a formal decree, and Demosthenes, at Cleon's own

request, was joined in the commission of commanders at Py­

lus, he hastened to his post with the utmost speed. His rea­

son for associating Demosthenes in the command, was owing

• The honour of Athens was very deeply concerned in the point, which

had been the subject of this day's debate in the assembly of the people, and

yet it hath turned out a mere comic scene. The dignity of the republic.

had never been well supported on thes« occasions, since the death of Peri­

cles. Cleon had introduced all kinds of drollery and scurrility into the de­

bates ; and it was now become quite the same thing to the people, whether

they laughed with or laughed at him. He hath now railed Nicias, though

none but a person of so diffident and fearful a temper as Nicias could so

have been railed, out of an honourable command ; and then is laughed him­

self into it, and though an arrant poltroon is metamorphosed into a general

of the first class, and soon after swells into a very hero. However, the

Athenian good sense, whatever turn Thucydides gives it, can hardly be

justified on this occasion, in thrusting so important a commission upon Cleon

purely for a joke. Plutarch says, they always bore his impertinent and

mad way of talking, because it was humorous and diverting. Once, when

the assembly had been met some time, and the people had sat long expect­

ing his coming, at length he made his appearance with a garland on his

head, and begged the favour of them to adjourn till the morrow, " For at

" present, said he, 1 am not at leisure, since I have sacrificed to-day, and

'• must entertain my friends." A loud laugh ensued at his impudence, and

then they rose and adjourned. This affair of Pylus was, however, far from

a jocular point; and the Athenians might have paid very dear for their

mirth, had not Cleon been wise enough to associate Demosthenes with

him in the command.

