258 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" py in the uninterrupted possession of your own rights, and

" not compelled to receive law from others, as was our fate.

" Nay, to the very last moment, before this blockade was

" formed against you, when we calmly invited vou to be quiet

" and neutral, you insolently refused. Which therefore is

" the people, on whom all Greece may fasten her hatred more

" deservedly than on you, who have made it a point to exert

" your bravery in ruining your country ? Those former good

" dispositions you have so largely boasted, you have now

" shewn plainly to be repugnant to your genius. What

" your natural turn hath ever been, the event hath with

" truth ascertained. The Athenians took the road of vio-

" lence, and you attended them through all the journey.—

" And thus, ample proof hath been exhibited by us, that

" against our wills we served the Persian, and that you with

" most chearful disposition have promoted the Athenian

" tyranny.

" But in regard to your finishing charge against us as

" guilty of excessive outrage and injustice: that, con-

" trary to every law, in the midst of peace, on a day of

" sacred solemnity, we seized upon your city.—This great

" offence, in our opinion, is less to be imputed to us than to

" yourselves. Had we marched indeed against your city in

" a hostile manner, had we scaled your walls and put your

" property to fire and sword, the charge had then been just.

" But if men, of the first rank amongst you both for wealth

" and birth, desirous to put a stop to your foreign combina-

" tions, and recal you to the common institutions of all

" Boeotians ; if such at their own free motion invited our

" presence, wherein are we unjust ? For the leaders, in all

" cases, are greater transgressors than the followers. Though,

" in the present, neither are they in our judgments, nor are

" we transgressors. They were citizens as well as you;

" they had larger concerns at stake ; and therefore opening

" their gate and receiving us within their walls as friends

