216 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" will reflect security and advantage upon all; and who, if

" you now continue to be deaf to their intreaties, must drop

" into such a ruin as will at length involve you all. At this

" crisis shew yourselves to be the men, which the voice of

" Greece united in your praise and our dreadful situation re-

" quire you to be."

In this manner the Mityleneans urged their plea ; and the

Lacedaemonians and confederates, having listened with atten­

tion, and owned themselves convinced, admitted the Lesbians

into their alliance, and decreed an incursion into Attica. To_

put this in execution, orders were issued to the confederates

then present expeditiously to march with two-thirds of their

forces to the Isthmus. The Lacedaemonians themselves ar­

rived there first, and got machines ready at the Isthmus to

convey their ships over-land from Corinth to the sea of

Athens, that they might invade them at the same time both by

land and sea. They indeed were eager and intent on the en-

terprize: Bnt the other confederates were very slow in as­

sembling together, as they were busy in getting in their har­

vest, and began to be sadly tired of the war.

When the Athenians found that such preparations

were made against them, as an avowed insult on their ima­

gined weakness, they had a mind to convince their foes that

such imaginations were erroneous, and that they were well

able, without countermanding their fleet from before Lesbos,

to make head against any force that could come from Pe­

loponnesus. Accordingly, they manned out a hundred ships,

obliging all, as well sojourners as citizens (those excepted of the

first and second class*), to go on board. Shewing themselves

• The original is, " except those who were worth five hundred medimns,

and the Horaetnen or Knights." The Athenians were ranged into classes

by Solon. Plutarch hath described the manner in the life of Solon, as thus

translated in Potter's Antiquities of Greece, v. i. p. 14.

" Solon finding the peoplep-ariousl^affected, some inclined to a monarchy,

others to an oligarchy, others to a democracy, the rich men powerful and

haughty, the poor men groaning under the burden of their oppression, en­

deavoured as far as was possible to compose all their differences, to ease

their grievances, andjgive*all reasonable persons.satbfaction. In the prose-

