B. I. INTRODUCTION. 61

" not; after two or three years delay, then, better provided,

" we may, if it be thought expedient, take the field against

" them. But in good time perhaps, when they see our pre-

" parations and the intent of them clearly explained by our

" own declarations, they may make each requisite concession,

" before their territory is destroyed by ravage, and whilst

" yet they may save their property from utter devastation.

" Regard their territory, I beseech you, in no other light than

" as a hostage for their good behaviour, and the more firm-

" ly such the better may be its culture. Of this we ought to

" be sparing as long as possible, that we drive them not into

" desperate fury, and render more impracticable their defeat.

" For if, thus unprovided as we are, and worked up to anger

" by the instigations of our confederates, we at once begin

" this ravage, reflect whether we shall not taint its reputa-

" tion, and the more embroil Peloponnesus: Since accusa-

" tions as well of states as private persons it is possible to

" clear away: But in a war, begun by general concurrence

" for the sake of a single party, which it is impossible to see

" how far it will extend, we cannot at pleasure desist, and

" preserve our honour.

" Let no one think it a mark of pusillanimity, that many

" as we are we do not rush immediately upon one single State.

" That State has as large a number of dependents who con-

" tribute to its support: And a war is not so much of arms

" as of money, by which arms are rendered of service ; and

"the more so, when a landed power is contending against a

" naval. Be it therefore our earliest endeavour to provide

• amply for this, nor let us prematurely be too much fer-

" mented by the harangues of our allies. Let us, to whose

" account the event, whatever it be, will be principally charged

" Let us, with sedate deliberation, endeavour in some

" degree to foresee it; and be not in the least ashamed of

" that slow and dilatory temper, for which the Corinthians

"so highly reproach you. For through too great precipi-

" tancy you will come more slowly to an because you

Vol. I. Y

