>. It. 147 TEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

" of life, there is a competent skill in the affairs of govern-

" ment. For we are the only people who think him that

" does not meddle in state-affairs—not indolent, but good for

"nothing. And yet we pass the soundest judgments, and

" are quick at catching tbe right apprehensions of things, not

" thinking-that words are prejudicial to actions, but rather

" the not being duly prepared by previous debate, before we

" are obliged to proceed to execution. Herein consists our

" distinguishing excellence, that in the hour of action we shew

" the greatest courage, and yet debate beforehand the expe-

" diency of our measures. The courage of others is the re-

" suit of ignorance ; deliberation makes them cowards. And

" those undoubtedly must be owned to have the greatest souls,

" who, most acutely sensible of the miseries of war and the

" sweets of peace, are not hence in the least deterred from

" facing danger.

" In acts of beneficence, further, we differ from the man)'.

" We preserve friends, not by receiving but by conferring

" obligations. For he, who does a kindness, hath the advan-

" tage over him, who by the law of gratitude becomes a debtor

" to his benefactor. The person obliged is compelled to act

44 the more insipid part, conscious that a return of kindness is

" merely a payment and not an obligation. And we alone

" are splendidly beneficent to others, not so much from inte-

" rested motives, as for the credit of pure liberality. I shall

" sum up what yet remains by only adding that our Athens

" in general is the school of Greece ; and, that every single

" Athenian amongst us is excellently formed by his personal

" qualifications for all the various scenes of active life, acting

44 with a most graceful demeanor, and a most ready habit of

" dispatch.

" That I have not on this occasion made use of a pomp

44 of words, but the truth of facts, that height to which, by

44 such a conduct, this State hath rose, is an undeniable

" proof. For we are now the only people of the world wh©

44 are found by experience to be greater than in report—the

