lxxxii A Survey of the History.

" add no more, and yet dare not end; and' again intreat

" the Lacedaemonians to save those worthy patriots, to

" whom all Greece is indebted for her liberty and indepen-

" dence."

The Thebans, who were afraid the Lacedaemonians had a

higher sense of honour and gratitude than they really had,

demand also to be heard.

In the speech they make on this occasion, " they first

" accuse the Plataeans of slander and invective. They en-

" deavour to palliate the reproach on themselves, for desert-

" ing the cause of liberty and joining the arms of Persia.

" The Plataeans had been active ever since to betray it to

" the Athenians ; that wicked scheme, which with all their

" power the Thebans had ever opposed. By such iniqui-

" tous conduct the Plataeans had extinguished their former

" glory, had effaced all their former merits. Nobody was

" bound to redress or pity them, but their friends the Athe-

" nians. Their temper had been always bad; always bent

"on violence and mischief; always addicted to set up ty-

" ranny in Greece, provided Athenians were the tyrants.

" They then endeavour to throw an anti-pathetic into their

" own representations. They paint the death of their coun-

" trymen slain at the surprise of Plataea in a mournful light,

" as put to death contrary to every law, and murdered in

" the very act of stretching out their hands and pleading

" a promise of life. The lives therefore of such butchers

" are forfeited to justice; and they insist the forfeit shall

" be taken: The Lacedaemonians are bound in honour to

" take it. They beg them therefore to be deaf to vain com-

" plaints and intreaties, to revenge the injured, and to punish

" the guilty; to regard what bad men have done, and not

" what they have said; to defy eloquence, and heed only

" simple unsophisticated truth; by which alone men, who

" preside in judgment, can satisfy their conscience and their

" duty."

An alliance with Thebes is necessan in this war to the

