366 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" not expose you to our resentments ; if you allege that the

" dangers through which your liberty must be sought to over-

" balance the prize; that in justice it ought only to be pro-

" posed to such as are able to embrace the offer, but that no

" one ought to be compelled against his own inclinations;

" I shall beseech the tutelary gods and heroes of this island

44 to bear me witness, that whereas I come to serve you, and

" cannot persuade, I must now, by ravaging your country,

" endeavour to compel you. And, in acting thus, I shall not

" be conscious to myself of injustice, but shall justify the

" step on two most cogent motives:—For the sake of the

" Lacedaemonians ; lest whilst they have only your affections,

" and not your actual concurrence, they may be prejudiced

" through the sums of money you pay to the Athenians:—

" For the sake of all the Grecians ; that they may not be ob-

" structed by you in their deliverance from bondage. This

" is the end we propose, and this will justify our proceedings.

" For without the purpose of a public good, we Lacedaemo-

" nians ought not to set people at liberty against their wills.

" We are not greedy of empire, but we are eager to pull down

" the tyranny of others. And how could we answer it to the

" body of Greece, if, when we have undertaken to give libertv

" to them all, we indolently suffer our endeavours to be tra-

" versed by you ?

" Deliberate seriously on these important points, and ani-

" mate yourselves with the glorious ambition of being the

" first who enter the list for the liberties of Greece, of gain-

" ing an eternal renown, of securing the uninterrupted pos-

" session of your private properties, and investing the State

" of which you are members with the most honourable of

" all titles*."

Here Brasidas concluded. And the Acanthians, who

had already heard this affair largely discussed on both sides,

and secretly declared their votes—the majority, because the

arguments of Brasidas were prevailing, and because they

• Free.

