B. II. 203 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429.

against the Chalcideans and Bottiaeans ; where, by driving

them into their fortresses, he ravaged the country. During

his stay in these parts, the southern Thessalians, Magnetians,

and other people subject to the Thessalians, and the Grecians

as far as Thermopylae, grew apprehensive that his army might

be turned against them, and prepared for their defence. Un­

der the same apprehensions were the northern Thracians be­

yond the Strymon that inhabit the plains, the Panaeans, the

Odomantians, the Droans, and the Dersaeans, who are all of

them free and independent. He farther gave occasion for a

rumour that spread amongst the Grecians, enemies to Athens,

that his army, brought into Greece by virtue of an alliance

with them, would invade them all in their turns. Yet, with­

out advancing any further, he was at one and the same time

continuing his ravage upon Chalcidica, and Bottitea, and Ma­

cedonia. But unable to execute any of those points for

which he formed this invasion, when his army began to want

provisions, and to suffer by the rigor of the winter's cold, he

is persuaded by Seuthes, the son of Sparadoxus, and his own

cousin-german, who had a greater influence over him than any

other person, to march back again with the utmost expedition.

This Seuthes had been secretly gained by Perdiccas, who

promised to give him his sister, and a large dower with her.

Thus persuaded, after a stay upon the whole of but thirty days,

and eight of these in Chalcidica, he retired precipitately into

his own dominions. Perdiccas, according to promise, soon

after gives his sister Stratonice in marriage to Seuthes. And

to this end came this grand expedition of Sitalces*.

The same winter, the Athenians at Naupactus, after the se-

• Sitalces, and his son Sadocus, who as Thucydides relates above, was

made a citizen of Athens, have not escaped the buffoonery of Aristophanes,

in his comedy of The Acharnians. Act. I. Sc. 4. " Crier. Embassador to

" Sitalces, come into court. Embtut. Here. Diatopoli*. Oh ! here's ano-

" tlier knave summoned to make his appearance. Emboss. We should not

"have stayed so long in Thrace Dicxopotis. I believe you, unless you

" had been well paid for it. Kmbass. Had not a great snow fallen and

"covered all the country, and all the rivers at the same time been froze

" over. When Theognis was contending here for glory, we were drinking

