DISCOURSE III.

The Athenians are too high-spirited to recal their troops,

and have too good an opinion of Nicias to dismiss him from

the command. Though Attica was now invaded by the Pe-

loponnesians, and a fortress raised by them within sight of

Athens itself for their lasting annoyance, they send a power­

ful reinforcement to Nicias under the command of Demos­

thenes. They empty Athens of the residue of her strength,

so highly wanted for domestic support. The Syracusans,

when advised of this reinforcement, redouble their alacrity,

and hope to finish the war before it could arrive. They

had had a career of success against Nicias, had just beat

him both by land and sea, when Demosthenes steered into

the harbour of Syracuse. The sight caused a strange alter­

native of elevating hope and dreadful apprehensions in the

contending parties. The Syracusans again become the be­

sieged ; and Demosthenes is intent to put an end to the siege,

if possible, by vigorous and daring measures.

His attempt to re-take Epipohe is, in our author's de­

scription of it, as fine a night-piece as can possibly be

drawn, and no pencil could express it stronger. The moon

shines just bright enough to shew us the Athenians gaining

the ascent, and to give a glimpse of the approaches of the

armies and their first struggles with one another. The whole

soon becomes gloomy confusion and horrid tumult. What

a medley of singing their paeans, of conflict, of flight, of

pursuit! friends and countrymen routing one another, till

numbers come tumbling down the precipices, and perish in

the fall! The hope of the Athenians is blasted: Syracuse

erects her trophies fast.

Demosthenes is now convinced the most prudent step

they could take is to raise the siege, and Nicias at last com-

plies. The very moment they are going to embark their

troops, the moon is eclipsed. Who but must pity the weak­

ness of Nicias at so dangerous a crisis ? who but be sorry in­

deed, that so good and amiable a man should stop an army

from a principle of superstition, and detain them for so long

