1. III. 223 YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428.

those upon the turrets coming down last of all, and with dif­

ficulty got also to the ditch. By this time the reserve of three

hundred was come up to oppose them, by the light of torches.

The Plataeans by this means, being in the dark, had a clear

view of them, and, from their stand upon the brink of the

ditch, aimed a shower of darts and javelins at those parts of

their bodies which had no armour. The Plataeans were all

obscured, as the glimmering of lights made them less easy

to be distinguished ; so that the last of their body got over

the ditch, though not without great difficulty and toil. For

the water in it was froze, not into ice hard enough to bear,

but into a watery congelation, the effect not of the northern

but eastern blasts. The wind blowing hard, had caused so

much snow to fall that night, that the water was swelled to a

height not to be forded without some difficulty. However,

the violence of the storm was the greatest furtherance of their

escape.

The pass over the ditch being thus completed, the Pla­

taeans went forwards in a body, and took the road to Thebes,

leaving on their right the temple of Juno, built by Andro-

crates. They judged it would never be supposed, that they

had taken a route which led directly towards their enemies:

And they saw at the same time the Peloponnesians pursuing

with torches along the road to Athens, by Cythaeron and the

Heads of the Oak*. For six or seven stadiaf they continued

their route towards Thebes, but then turning short, they

took the road to the mountains by Erythrae and Hysiae ; and

having gained the mountains, two hundred and twelve of the

number completed their escape to Athens. Some of them,

indeed, turned back into the city, without once attempting to

get over; and one archer was taken prisoner at the outward

ditch.

The Peloponnesians desisted from the fruitless pursuit,

and returned to their posts. But the Plataeans within the

city, ignorant of the real event, and giving ear to the assu-

• Drvoscephalac. t Above half a mile.

