108 THE PELOPONNESTAN WAR.

" to remonstrate, but actually to give us law. They command

" us—to quit the blockade of Potidaea, to permit iEgina to

" govern itself by its own model, and to repeal the decree

" against the Megareans Nay, this their last and peremp-

" tory embassy authoritatively enjoins us—to restore the Gre-

" cians to their former independence. But, let not one of you

" imagine that we excite a war for a trifling concern, if we

M refuse to repeal that decree against the Megareans. The

" stress they lay upon it, that, if it be repealed, a war shall

" not ensue, is nothing but a colour: Nor think there will be

" any ground for self-accusation, though for so trifling a con-

" cern you have recourse to arms ; since that concern, trifling

" as it is, includes within it the full proof and demonstration

" of Athenian spirit. If, for instance, you condescend to this

" demand, you will immediately be enjoined some other con-

" descension of greater consequence, as if this your compliance

" was owing to the prevalence of your fear. But, if at once

" you strenuously refuse to hearken to them, you will convince

" them in a manner clearly to be understood, that they must

" treat with you for the future as with men who are their

"^equals.

" From the present crisis, I exhort you, therefore, to form

" a resolution, either timely to make your submission, before

" you begin to suffer ; or, if we shall determine for war

" (which to me seemeth most expedient), without regarding

" the pretext of it, be it important or be it trifling, to refuse

" every the least concession, nor to render the tenure of what

" we now possess precarious and uncertain. For not only

" the greatest, but the most inconsiderable demand, if au-

" thoritatively enjoined by equals upon their neighbours, be-

" fore justice hath decided the point, hath the very same

" tendency to make them slaves. But, from the posture in

" which the affairs of both parties are at present, that we may

" risk a war with a prospect of success as fine and as inviting

" as our rivals can suffer me distinctly to set the reasons

" before you, and be «onvinced of their weight.

" The Peloponnesians are a people, who subsist by their

