discourse in. lxxxvii

Athenians under Nicias, the consequence of which is the

battle of Solygia. We are then recalled to view the last

acts of the tragical sedition at Corcyra, quite of a piece

with, or rather in cruelty and horror transcending the pre­

ceding.

In the eighth year of the war, the Athenians proceed

with success. The conquest of the isle of Cythera by

Nicias is another sad blow to the Lacedaemonians. They

are quite dispirited ; and dare no longer face in the field

these active and lively, and now more so because successful,

enemies.

Our author repasseth to Sicily. The Athenians had been

hovering with a squadron on that coast, on pretence of aid­

ing the Egesteans, but in fact to excite a war and embroil

the States of that island. Syracuse, the leading State, per­

ceived all their schemes, and endeavoured to prevent them.

They first obtain a suspension of arms amongst all the par­

ties at war; and prevail on the Sicilians to hold a general

congress at Gela, for the amicable adjustment of all their

quarrels, and a perfect re-union against foreign enemies.

Hermocrates, the plenipotentiary from Syracuse, opens the

true interest of Sicily on this occasion. The warrior must

now give place to the politician, who shews himself a master

in the business.

" He is here (he tells them) as representative of the

" greatest of the Sicilian States. As such, he cannot speak

" from pusillanimity or a sense of fear, though he declares

" himself averse to war. It is difficult to enlighten ignor-

" ance, and difficult to check ambition. But there is a pru-

" dence, which all ought to learn ; a prudence, which points

" out the proper season for every pursuit. It was separate

" interest, that first kindled the flames of war in Sicily; but

" separate interests should always be hushed, when the ge-

" neral welfare is at stake. The Athenians have been busy

" amongst them, to inflame their mutual resentments, to

" note their indiscretions, and turn them to their own ad­

