8. I. INTRODUCTIQN. 2/

" If, farther, they tax with a breach of justice your pre-

" suming to interfere with their colonies; let them learn, that

" every colony, whilst used in the proper manner, payeth ho-

4* nour and regard to its mother-state, but, when treated with

" injury and violence, is become an alien. They are not sent

" out to be the slaves, but to be the equals of those who remain

" behind. Their violence and injustice require no proofs.

" For, invited by us to submit the business of Epidainnus to

" a judicial trial, they chose rather to prosecute their claims

" at war than at equity. And let such behaviour towards tis,

" their relations, put you timely on your guard, that you may

" not be over-reached by their collusions, nor hesitate one

" moment to grant our petitions. For he who findeth the

" least room to repent of having gratified his enemies, is most

" likely to persevere in uninterrupted security.

" You will not break your treaty with the Lacedaemonians

" by our admission, who are allied to neither of you. By that

" treaty it is expressly stipulated, that—" If any of the states

" of Greece be not at present in alliance with either of the

u contracting parties, permission is given them to go into

Ci either league, at their own discretion." And terrible in-

" deed it is, if they must be at liberty to man their fleets out

" of places in their alliance, nay more than that out of Greece

" at large, and to no small amount, even out of your depend-

" ents : and we must be debarred not only your most inviting

" alliance, but every possible expedient of succour: then, after

" all they must raise a cry of injustice, if we offer our re-

" quests to you and have them granted. But much greater rea-

" sons of complaint will lie with us, if we cannot prevail upon

" you. For then you will throw at a distance those who are be-

" set with dangers and never were your enemies; you will not

" only not restrain the incroachments of enemies and invaders,

" but will behold them through your negligence assuming

" strength out of your dominions, which you ought never to

" endure. You ought either to hinder them from seducing

" your subjects into their pay, or send an imipediate succour

