368 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

cut from within the precincts of the temple. They did the

same by the stones and bricks of the adjacent buildings

which had been demolished, and omitted no expedient to

give height and substance to the work. They erected wooden

turrets upon such spots as seemed most to require it. No part

of the old pile of the temple was now standing: The portico,

which stood the longest, had lately fell down. They began

the work the third day after their marching out from Athens.

That day they plied it, and the following, and continued it

on the fifth till the time of repast. Then, the work being for

the most part compleated, they drew off their army to the dis­

tance of about ten stadia* from Delium, in order to return

home. Their light-armed indeed, for the most part march­

ed off directly, but the heavy-armed halting there sat down

upon their arms.

Hippocrates stayed behind for the time necessary to

post the proper guards, and to put the finishing hand to

those parts of the fortification which were not yet perfectly

compleated. But during all this space the Boeotians had

been employed in drawing their forces together to Tanagra.

When the quotas from the several cities were come up, and

they perceived the Athenians were filing off towards Athens,

the other rulers of Boeotia (for they were eleven in all) de­

clared their resolution not to engage, since the enemy is no

longer on Boeotian ground: for the Athenians, when they

grounded their arms, were within the borders of Oropia.

But Pagondas, the son of ^Eoladas, one of the Boeotian rulers

in the right of Thebes, and at this time in the supreme com­

mand, in concert with Arianthidas, the son of Lysimachidas,

declared for fighting. He judged it expedient to hazard an

engagement; and addressing himself to every battalion apart,

lest calling them together might occasion them to abandon

their firms, he prevailed upon the Boeotians to march up to

the Athenians, and to offer battle. His exhortation to each

was worded thus:

• About an English mile.

