Ixxxviii A Survey of the History.

" vantage; that, when the Sicilians have warred one an-

" other down, they may seize the whole island for them-

" selves. The great passion of these Athenians is conquest;

" they regard no ties of consanguinity ; they aim at acquir-

" ing vassals, no matter who. He blames them not; he

" can never blame men, who are desirous of command ; but

" he must blame such as are ready and willing to put on

" their chains. The Athenians have no strength in Sicily,

" but in the division of its States. Let those States but once

" re-unite, and Athenians must get them gone ; and may

" depart with a face of success, as if they had united

" whom they really wanted to disunite, and had effectually

k4 re-settled peace, when their latent design was war."—He

toucheth every topic in a succinct but masterly manner. He

hath recourse often to figures; renders his addresses em-

phatical by making his own community speak from his

mouth. He applies the first person and the singular number

with great energy and weight. He useth those figures in

in the same manner as Saint Paul does in the Epistle to the

Romans. He presseth harmony and cordial re-union amongst

them in a manner best fitted to persuade. The whole

speech, in a word, is a very interesting and persuasive piece

of oratory.

The consequence is, a peace is settled in Sicily to general

satisfaction ; and the Athenian commanders are obliged to

return to Athens with their squadron, to be punished there

for what they could not possibly prevent.

The war continues hot through the remainder of this

book. The Athenians take their turn in being checked and

vanquished. Their attempt on Megara is related at large ;

and this piece of narration, is by far the most intricate of

the kind to be met with in Thucydides. The matter is quite

too much crowded, when he endeavours to comprehend in

a few terms the various incidents of this struggle for Megara,

the fluctuation of events, the views and motives of the par­

ties engaged. Brasidas at last secures the city, and quite

