t A survey of the History.

and ardor of Homer. The Athenians had the better ; yet not

so decisively, as to think proper to continue in their post, since

they re-embark, and sail back to Catana.

The winter, it is true, was approaching, which both sides

spend in negociations for the acquisition of allies. That at

Camarina, where ambassadors from both the warring parties

are at the same time admitted to an audience, is particularly

recited. Hermocrates, in behalf of Syracuse, makes the first

address. " It is masterly, like all that Hermocrates per-

" forms. It is designed to convince the Camarineans, how

" insidious and how vile the schemes of the Athenians had

" ever been, and still continue to be. He arraigns all their

" politics and all their conduct since the Persian invasion ;

" and gives that artful turn to his remarks, which might

" well deter others from entering into any connexion or alli-

" ance with them. His strokes are severe and cutting. He

" makes use of the figures, which give force and energy to

" discourse. No person better understood the common wel-

" fare of Sicily ; and no person could better explain it. He

" unfolds the political scheme at present in agitation ; de-

" clares the consequence in case the Athenians prevail, to

" alarm the concern of the Camarineans for their country,

" and further to alarm their fears for themselves. He even

" threatens them with a severe revenge, in case the Syracu-

" sans, without their aid, get the better of the invaders." In

short, if the Camarineans had been good Sicilians, his argu­

ments must have prevailed.

Euphemes, who is the mouth of the Athenian embassy

»n this occasion, makes a bold and spirited defence for his

country. " He at once briskly attacks Hermocrates for the

" bitter imputations he had cast upon Athens. He asserts

"her fair reputation, and justifies her series of politics ever

" since the invasion of Xerxes. Liberty had been the ob­

ject of all her care and all her conduct. The Athenians

" had guarded, had established it in Greece ; and were

" come to support and secure it in Sicily. He throws back

