». IJ. TEAR L—BEFORE CHRIST 431. 121

soners, till they should send their determination about them ;

for they were not yet informed of their having been

actually put to death. The first messenger had been sent

away immediately upon the irruption of the Thebans—the

second so soon as they were defeated and made prisoners—

as to what happened afterwards, they were utterly in the

dark. Thus ignorant of what had since been done, the Athe­

nians dispatched away their herald, who upon his arrival

found them all destroyed. Yet after this, the Athenians

marching a body of troops to Plataea, carried thither all ne­

cessary provisions, left a garrison in the place, and brought

away all the hands that would be useless in a siege, with the

women and children.

After this business of Plataea, and so manifest a breach

of peace, the Athenians made all necessary preparations for

immediate war. The Lacedaemonians also and their confe­

derates took the same measures. Nay, both sides were in­

tent on dispatching embassies* to the king\, and to several

other Barbarian powers, wherever they had hope of forming

some effectual interest for themselves, and spared no pains

to win those states over to their alliance, which had hitherto

been independent. In the Lacedaemonian league, besides

the ships already furnished out for them in Italy and Sicily,

the confederates there were ordered to prepare a new quota,

proportioned to the abilities of the several states, that the

• By this means the intestine quarrels of Greece were going to throw a

power into the hands of the Persian monarch which he could not obtain by

force. Each party could cringe to tlie common enemy, in order to obtain

subsidies from him to enable them to distress each other. And thus the

balance of power rested at last in his hands, and he became for a time su­

preme arbiter of Greece. Aristophanes, in his comedy of The Acarmam,

hath described these embassies and the Persian monarch too with exces­

sive buffoonery, but quite too low and ridiculous to quote. He bears hard

upon the Athenian ambassadors for lengthening out the time of their em-

ploy as much as possible for the lucre of the salary paid them by the state,

which is there mentioned at two drachmas a day. Was it either avarice

or public rapine—this exorbitant salary of 15Jd. a day to an imibassad-jr

from the republic of Athens to the great kiog of Persia ?

\ Artaxerxcs of Longin;anits.

