B. IV. 319 YEAR VII. BErORE CHRIST 425.

unpractised on either side ; some being ever intent to carry

provisions over, and others to intercept them.

At Athens, in the mean time, the people being informed

of the hardships to which their own forces are reduced, and

that those in the island receive supplies of provision, were

perplexed how to act. They were full of apprehensions lest

the winter should put a stop to their siege, being conscious of

the impossibility of procuring them subsistence from any

part of Peloponnesus ; and more so, as the soil about them

was barren, and that even in summer they were not able to

furnish them with necessary supplies; that further, as no

harbours were in the parts adjacent, there would be no

commodious road for their shipping; so that, in case they

relaxed their guard, the besieged would go securely away;

or otherwise, they might get off, by the favour of stormy

weather, in those vessels which brought over provisions.

But they were most of all alarmed at the conduct of the La-

cedaemonians, who, because they had now a safe resource

in prospect, had discontinued all manner of negotiation.—

In a word, they highly repented the refusal of their for­

mer offers.

Cleon, conscious to himself that the blame of baffling

that accommodation would be thrown upon him, taxed them

who brought the last advices as broachers of falsehoods.

But those who had been sent to make the report, demanded,

" since they could not be credited, that a deputation might

" be sent to know its truth." For which office Cleon him­

self was nominated by the Athenians, in conjunction with

Theogenes.

But now he plainly saw, that he must either be necessi­

tated to make the same report as those had done whom he

had charged with falsehood ; or, should he report differently,

must soon be convicted of a lie. He perceived also, that

the inclinations of the people were mostly bent on an am­

ple reinforcement; upon which he ventured to give them

this further advice—That " sending a deputation on s«eh

