B. III. YEAR V.—BEFORE CHRIST 427. 275

old alliance and their Ionic descent, to send them a succour

of shipping: For the Syracusans had now blocked them up

both by land and sea. The Athenians immediately sent one,

giving out that they were bound in duty to take this step ; but

their real motive was, to prevent the exportation of corn

from thence to Peloponnesus, and also to sound the possibility

of bringing Sicily into their own subjection. Their squad­

ron therefore, arriving at Rhegium on the Italian shore, sup­

ported their allies in the present war; and in this the sum­

mer ended.

In the beginning of the winter, the plague broke out a se­

cond time at Athens, not that during this whole interval of

time it had wholly ceased, though its rage had very much

abated. But now the mortality began again and continued

not less than a year; but the former had raged for the space

of two. There was nothing which lay upon the Athenians so

hard as this, or so much impaired their strength. It appear­

ed from the muster-rolls, that there perished four thousand

and four hundred of those citizens who wore the heavy-ar­

mour, and three hundred of the horsemen. The number of

the lower people that died was not to be computed. There

happened at the same time many earthquakes : at Athens ;

in Eubcca; amongst the Boeotians, and especially at the

Boeotian Orchomenus.

The same winter, the Athenians and Rhegians, on the

coast of Sicily, form an expedition with thirty sail, against

those which are called the isles of iEolus. This was not

feasible in the summer-season, for want of water. These isles

are inhabited by the Lipareans, who were a colony from Cni-

dus. Their residence is chiefly in one of them called Lipare,

though by no means large. They go from hence to the til­

lage of the others, Didyme and Strongyle and Hiera. It

this occasion. It is a step, which draws great consequences after it.—

Thucydides in the sequel will open all the plan, and give an exact detail of

the operations of this new war, into which the Athenians are beginning to

embark.

