86 THE PELOPOKNESIAN WAR.

of force, they landed upon the island, overthrew the Samians

in battle, invested their city with a triple wall, and at the

same time blocked it up by sea.

But Pericles, drawing off sixty of the ships from this ser­

vice, steered away with all possible expedition towards Cau-

nus and Caria, upon receiving advice that " a Phoenician

" fleet is coming up against them." Stesagoras also and

others had before been sent from Samos with five ships to

meet that fleet. In this interval, the Samians launched out

in a sudden sally, fell upon the unfortified station* of the

Athenians, sunk the vessels moored at a distance, by way of

guard, and engaging those who put out against them, victo­

riously executed their purpose, were masters of their own sea

for fourteen days continuance, and made whatever importa­

tions or exportations they pleased: But, as Pericles then re­

turned, they were again blocked up by seaf. He afterwards

received fresh supplies from Athens, forty ships under Thu-

cydides and Agnon and Phormio, and twenty under Tlepo-

lemus and Anticles, beside thirty others from Chios and

Lesbos. And though after this the Samians ventured a short

engagement at sea, yet they now found all farther resistance

impracticable, so that in the ninth month of the siege they

surrendered on the following terms—" To demolish their

walls ; to give hostages ; to deliver up their shipping ; and

to reimburse by stated payments the expences of the

• When the Grecians continued long on a station, or were apprehensive

of being attacked by an enemy, they fortified their naval station and camp

towards the land with a ditch and rampart, and towards the sea with a

palisade. At other time a number of their ships lay out more to sea, by

way of guard or watch to the rest, which were generally dragged ashore,

whilst the soldiers lay round them in their tents. Sometimes they were

only moored to the shore, or rode at anchor, that they might be ready upon

on alarm. See Potter'* Archxologia, Vol. II. c. 20.

f The manner of doing this was " to environ the walls and harbour

" with ships, ranged in order from one side of the shore lo the other, and

" so closely joined together by chains and bridges, on which armed men

" were placed, that without breaking their order, there could be no pas-

" asage from the town to the aea." Potter's Archtologia.

