B. II. YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

and others apprehensive of falling under their subjection.'—

With such preparations and such dispositions did they run

into the war.

The states in league with either party, upon the breaking

out of the war, were these. In confederacy with the Lace­

daemonians, were all Peloponnesians within the Isthmus, ex­

cept the Argives and Achaeans, for these had treaties subsist­

ing with both parties. But of the Achaeans, the Pellenians

singly were the first who went over, though they were after­

wards joined by all the rest. Without Peloponnesus were

the Megareans, Locrians, Boeotians, Phocians, Ambraciots,

Leucadians, Anactorians. Of these they were supplied with

shipping by the Corinthians, Megareans, Sicyonians, Pel­

lenians, Eleans, Ambraciots, Leucadians; with horse by

the Boeotians, Phocians, Locrians : and the other states fur­

nished them with foot. This was the confederacy of the

Lacedaemonians. With the Athenians were the Chians,

Lesbians, Plataeans, the Messenians of Naupactus, most of

the Acarnanians, the Corcyreans, Zacynthians, and other

states tributary to them in so many nations: Namely, the

maritime people of Caria, the Dorians* that border upon the

Carians, Ionia, Hellespont, the cities on the coast of Thrace,

all the islands situated to the east between Peloponnesus and

Crete, and all the Cyclades, except Melos and Thera. Of

these, they were supplied with shipping by the Chians, Les­

bians, Corcyreans ; the rest supplied them with foot and with

money. This was the alliance on both sides, and the ability

for the war.

The Lacedaemonians, immediately after the attempt on

Plataea, sent circular orders to the states both within and

without Peloponnesus, to draw their quotas of aid together,

and get every thing in readiness for a foreign expedition, as

intending to invade Attica. When all was ready, they as­

sembled on the day appointed, with two-thirds of the force

• These were the Dorians, who were seated in the islands of Rhodes.

Cqi, and Cnidui, according to the Schotintt.

