B. I. INTRODUCTION. 107

" peace there may be, if you will permit the Grecians to go-

" vern themselves at their own discretion."

The Athenians summoned an assembly, where every one

was invited to deliver his opinion. They determined, after

deliberate consultation on all the points in contest, to return

one definitive answer. Several others spoke on this occasion,

and were divided in their sentiments ; some insisting on the

necessity of a war; others, that peace should not be obstructed

by that decree, which ought to be repealed. At length, Pe­

ricles, the son of Xantippus, standing forth, who was at that

time the leading man at Athens, and a person of the greatest

abilities both for action and debate, advised them, thus:

" I FIRMLY persevere, Athenians, in the same opinion

" that I have ever avowed to make no concessions to the

" Lacedaemonians—though at the same time sensible, that

" men never execute a war with that warmth of spirit through

" which they are first impelled to undertake it, but sink in

" their ardour as difficulties increase. I perceive it, however,

" incumbent upon me, to persist in the same uniform advice :

" And I require those amongst you who are influenced by it,

" as they concur in the measures, either to unite their efforts

M for redress, if any sinister event should follow; or else, upon

" a series of success, to make no parade of their own discern-

" ment. It is usual enough for accidents unforeseen to baffle

" the best concerted schemes ; since human intentions are by

" nature fallible. And hence it comes to pass, that whatever

" falls out contrary to our expectations, we are accustomed to

" throw all the blame upon fortune.

" The treacherous designs of the Lacedaemonians, formerly,

" against us were visible to all; nor are they, this very mo-

" ment, less clear than ever. For, notwithstanding that ex-

" press stipulation—That, upon controversies between us, we

" should reciprocally do and submit to justice, each party re-

" maining in their present possessions—yet, they have never

" demanded justice, nor accept the offer of it from us. Their

" allegations against us they are determined to support by

" arms and not by evidence: And here they come no longer

