40 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

"•to hinder our course, either against Corcyra, or«ny other'

" place whither we are willing to go, and so violate treaties,

" take us first who are here in your power, and treat us as

" enemies."

The persons sent thus delivered their message: and the

whole company of the Corcyreans who heard it, shouted out

immediately to " apprehend and put them to death." But

the Athenians returned this answer:

" We neither begin war, ye men of Peloponnesus, nor vio-

" late treaties. We are come hither auxiliaries to these Cor-

" cyreans our allies. If therefore you are desirous to sail to

" any other place, we hinder you not. But, if you go against

" Corcyra, or any other place belonging to it, we shall endea-

" vour to oppose you to the utmost of our power."

UPON receiving this answer from the Athenians, the

Corinthians prepared for their return home, and erected a

trophy at Sybota on the continent. But the Corcyreans

were employed in picking up the wrecks and bodies of the

dead, driving towards them by favour of the tide and the

wind, which, blowing fresh the night before, had scattered

them all about; and, as if they too had the victory, erected

an opposite trophy at Sybota in the island. The reasons

upon which each side thus claimed the victory were these—

The Corinthians erected> a trophy, because they had the

better of the engagement till night, and so were enabled to

pick up most of the shatters and the dead ; they had, further,

taken a number of prisoners, not less than a thousand, and

had disabled about seventy ships of the enemy.—The Cor­

cyreans did the same ; because they also had disabled about

thirty; and, upon the coming up of the Athenians, had re­

covered all the wreck and dead bodies driving towards them j

and because the Corinthians, tacking about, had retired from

them the night before, so soon as they descried the Athenian

ships ; and when they came to offer them battle at Sybota,

durst not come out against them. In this manner did both

sides account themselves victorious.

