INTRODUCTION.

were present, in regular order, both to the greater ahd lesser

states: and the greatest part of them ballotted for war. But,

though thus decreed, it was impossible for them, as they were

quite unprepared, immediately to undertake it. It was agreed

therefore, that "every state should get in readiness their

" several contingents, and no time to be lost." However, in

less than a year, every thing needful was amply provided ;

and, before its expiration, an irruption was made into Attica,

and the war openly on foot. But even this interval was em­

ployed in sending embassies to Athens, charged with accusa­

tions, that reasons strong as possible for making war might

appear on their side, if those should meet with disregard.

BY the first ambassadors therefore whom the Lacedaemo­

nians sent, they required the Athenians " To drive away

the pollution of the Goddess." And the pollution was this—

There was one Cylon, an Athenian, who had been victor

at the Olympic games, a person of noble descent, and of

great consequence in his own person. He married a daugh­

ter of Theagenes, a Megarean, who in those days was tyrant

of Megara. This Cylon, asking advice at Delphi about a

scheme he had projected, was directed by the God—" To

" seize the citadel of Athens upon the greatest festival of

" Jupiter." In pursuance of this, being supplied with a party

of men by Thiagenes, and having obtained the concurrence

of his own friends, upon the day of the Peloponnesian Olym­

pics, he seized the citadel as instrumental to his tyranny.

He imagined that to be the greatest festival of Jupiter, and

to bear a particular relation to himself, who had been an

Olympic victor. But whether the greatest festival meant

was to be held in Attica, or any other place, he had never

considered, nor had the oracle declared. There is a festival

of Jove observed by the Athenians, which is called the great­

est festival of Jupiter the propitious. This is celebrated with­

out the city, jin full concourse of the people, where many

sacrifices are offered, not of real victims, but of artificial

images of creatures peculiar to the country. Concluding

Vol. I. 2 C

