98 THE PELOPONMKSIAN WAR.

" hind the herald ; if he did, war was proclaimed against him

" by the Spartans." And he, desirous to clear himself as

much as possible from suspicion, and confident that with mo­

ney he could baffle any accusation, returned the second time

to Sparta. The first treatment he met with there was, to be

thrown into prison by order of the Ephori: For the Ephori

have so large an authority, even over ^king. But afterwards,

by some private management, he procured his enlargement,

and offers to submit to a trial against any who were willing to

accuse him. The Spartans indeed had no positive evidence

against him, not even his private enemies, nor the general

community—none, to support them in proceeding capitally

against a person of the royal descent, and at that time invested

with the regal dignity: For, being uncle to Pleistarchus, the

son of Leonidas, their king, though yet in minority, he was

regent-guardian. But, by his disregard of the laws, and his

affectation of the Barbarian manners, he afforded them strong

reasons to suspect, that he would never conform to the equality

then in vogue. They called to remembrance those other pas­

sages of his behaviour, in which he had at any time deviated

from the institutions of his country ; and that further upon the

tripod at Delphi, which the Grecians offered as the choicest

part of the Persian spoils, he had formerly presumed, by his

own authority, to place this inscription 1

It was a long black stick, and the contrivance was this—" When the ma-

" gistrates gave commission to any general or admiral, they took two round

" pieces of wood exactly equal to one another ; one of these they kept, and

" the other was delivered to the commander; to whom, when they had any

" thing of moment to communicate, they cut a long narrow scroll of parch*

" ment, and rolling it about their own staff, one fold close upon another,

" they wrote their business upon it; then taking it off, dispatched it away

" to the commander, who applying it to his own staff, the folds exactly fell

" in one with another, as at the writing; and the characters, which, before

"it was wrapped up, were confusedly disjoined and unintelligible, appeared

" very plain.-' Potter't Archteohgia, Vol. II c. 13.

If it be asked (says the Scholiast) how Pausanias came to have the Scy-

tale with him now, as he was abroad without the public commission ; the

answer is, he had kept it ever since his former employments.

