B. IV. YEAH VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425.

infesting them with their bows and darts and stones. These

would do execution from a distance: an enemy could not pos足

sibly engage with them; since, even flying, they would pre足

vail, and when the enemy retreated would return briskly to

their work. With so much address had Demosthenes previ足

ously planned the order of landing, and in close adherence to

it brought them now to action.

The body commanded by Epitadas, and which was the

bulk of the whole force in the island, when they saw their

advanced guard entirely cut off and the enemy advancing

to attack them next, drew up in order and marched towards

the heavy-armed of the Athenians, designing to engage

them. For the latter was so placed as to oppose them in

front; the light-armed were posted on either of their flanks,

and in the rear. But against those heavy-armed they could

not possibly come to action, nor gain an opportunity to exert

their own distinguishing skill. For the light-armed, pouring

in their darts on either of their flanks, compelled them to

halt; and their opposites would not move forwards to meet

them, but stood quiet in their posts. Such indeed of the

light-armed, as adventured in any quarter to run up near

their ranks, were instantly put to flight; however, they soon

faced about and continued their annoyance. They were

not incumbered with any weight of armour; their agility

easily conveyed them beyond the reach of danger, as the

ground was rough, and ever left desart had never been level足

led by culture. In such spots the Lacedaemonians, under

the load of their arms, could not possibly pursue. In this

kind of skirmish, therefore, they were for a small space of

time engaged.

When the Lacedaemonians had no longer sufficient

agility to check the attacks of these skirmishing parties, the

light-armed soon took notice that they slackened in their

endeavours to beat them off. It was then, that their own

appearance, many times more large than that of their foes,

and the very sight of themselves, began to animate them

Vol. I. 3 I

