B. I. 89

" of the maritime situations, the danger will soon advance

" quite up to them, and they of course no less than we are

" concerned in the issue of our present determinations. For

" this reason they ought, without the least hesitation, to make

" the timely exchange of peace for war.

" It is indeed the duty of the prudent, so long as they

" are not injured, to be fond of peace. But it is the duty of the

" brave, when injured, to throw up peace, and to have recourse

" to arms; and when in these successful, to lay them down

" again in peaceful composition ; thus, never to be elevated

" above measure by military success, nor delighted with the

" sweets of peace to suffer insults. For he who, apprehensive

" of losing this delight, sits indolently at ease, will soon be de-

44 prived of the enjoyment of that delight which interesteth

" his fears; and he whose passions are inflamed by military

" success, elevated too high by a treacherous confidence,

"hears no longer the dictates of his judgment. Many are

" the schemes which, though unadvisedly planned, through

" the more unreasonable conduct of an enemy turn out success-

" ful: But yet more numerous are those, which, though seem-

" ingly founded on mature counsel, draw after them a dis-

" graceful and opposite event. This proceeds from that great

" inequality of spirit, with which an exploit is projected, and

" with which it is put into actual execution. For in council

" we resolve, surrounded with security : in execution we faint,

" through the prevalence of fear.

" We now, having been grossly injured, and in abundant

" instances aggrieved, are taking up arms; and, when we have

" avenged ourselves on the Athenians, shall at a proper time lay

" them down again. Success, upon many considerations, we

" may promise ourselves: In the first place, as we are superior

" in numbers and military skill: In ihe next, as we all advance

" with uniformity to accomplish our designs. A naval force,

" equal to that in which their strength consists, we shall be en-

" ablcd to equip, from competent stores we separately possess,

" and the funds laid up at Delphi and Olympia*. If we take

• In the temple of Apollo at Delphi, and that of Jupiter at Olympia.

