2 84 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

and pouring in whole showers of missive weapons, they turn­

ed about and fled. Now tumbling into caverns from whence

they could not recover themselves, or bewildered in places

of which they had no knowledge, they were miserably de­

stroyed. For Cromon, the Messenian, who laid out all the

routes, had been killed in the battle. The iEtolians pursued

with their darts, and being not only swift of foot, but also

lightly armed, easily overtook many of them in their flight,

and did great execution. A large party who had lost their

way, threw themselves into a wood which was quite impas­

sable. The iEtolians set the wood on fire, in the flames of

which they were all consumed. Every affecting species of

flight and destruction was now the fate of the Athenian army.

Those who had the good fortune to escape, effected it by

reaching the sea and Oeneon of Locris, from whence they first

began the expedition.

The number of the allies who thus perished, was large ;

that of heavy-armed Athenians was about a hundred and

twenty ; so considerable was the loss, and all of them in the

very flower of their youth. In the whole course of this war,

the State of Athens never lost at any one time so many of

her most gallant citizens as now. Procles also, the other

commander in this expedition, perished.

They afterwards fetched off their dead by a truce obtained

from the ./Etolians. This being done, they retired to Nau-

pactus, and there shipped themselves for Athens. Demos­

thenes however was left behind at Naupactus, and the parts

adjacent. After such a miscarriage he durst not presume to

face the people of Athens.

About the same time, the Athenians on the Sicilian station,

having sailed towards Locris, landed upon that coast. They

destroyed a party of Locrians who endeavoured to make

head against them ; and then take Peripolium, a town situ­

ated on the river Hal ex.

The same summer the iEtolians, who had some time be­

fore dispatched an embassy to Corinth and Lacedwmon,

