THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Such an end had the lives of Pausanias the Lacedaemonian,

and Themistocles the Athenian, who in their own age made

the greatest figure of any Grecians.

The Lacedaemonians, by their first embassy, had enjoined,

what was as amply in turn required of them, to do as hath

been above recited, concerning the expulsion of the sacrilegi­

ous. But, coming a second time to the Athenians, they com­

manded them—" to quit the blockade of Potidcea ;" and—

" to permit iEgina to govern itself at its own discretion ;" and,

above all other points, insist upon this, declaring most ex­

pressly that in this case war should not be made.—" If they

would revoke their decree concerning the Megareans, in

which they had been prohibited from entering any harbour

whatever in the dominion of Athens, and from the Attic

markets."

But the Athenians listened to none of these demands, nor

would revoke the decree, but reproached the Megareans for

tilling land that was sacred, land not marked out for culture,

and for giving shelter to runaway slaves.

At last, the final ambassadors arrived from Lacedaemon,

namely, Ramphias and Melesippus and Agesander, who,

waving all other points which they had formerly required,

said thus—" The Lacedaemonians are desirous of peace, and

Each fleet return'd or setting out should join

In owning all the naval glory thine ;

It should command, high rais'd, yon wat'ry plain.

And point that fight which gave us all the main.

I cannot end this note about Themistocles, without begging the reader to

accept a translation of an epigram in the Anthologia, which appears to have

been written with a spirit worthy of this illustrious Athenian.

Be Greece the monument; and crown the height

With all the trophies of the naval fight.

Let Persia's Mars and Xerxes swell the base ;

Such forms alone Themistocles can grace.

Next, like a column of majestic size,

His acts inscrib'd, let Salamis arise.

Swell every part, and give the hero room,

For nothing small should scandalize the tomb.

