B. IV. TEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 375

" as many other people, who this moment were possessed

" of lands from which they had ejected the old proprietors,

" made a seizure first of those temples which had belonged

" to others, and continued in the free possession of them.

" For their own parts, could they conquer more of their ter-

" ritory they should manfully retain it; and as to the spot

" they now occupied, their position there was voluntary, and

" as it was their own they would not quit it. It was ne-

" cessity alone made them use the water, which ought not to

" be ascribed to any insolent or profane motive, but to the pre-

" ceding invasions their enemies had made, self-preservation

" against which laid them under a present necessity of acting

" as they did. It might with reason be hoped, that every

" proceeding to which war and violence indispensably obliged,

" would obtain forgiveness from the God : For the altars are

" a refuge to involuntary offences, and transgression is im-

" puted only to those who are bad without compulsion, and

" not to such as urgent necessities may render daring. The

*4 guilt of impiety belonged more notoriously to such as in-  
" sisted on the barter of temple for the bodies of the dead,

"than to those who are content to lose their just demands

" rather than submit to so base an exchange." They farther

injoined him in their name to declare, that " they would not

" evacuate Boeotia, since the ground which they occupied in

" it belonged to no Boeotians, but was now their own property

" acquired by dint of arms. All they required was a truce

" for fetching off their dead, according to the solemn institu-

" tions of their common country."

The Boeotians replied thus—" If they are now in Boeotia,

" let them quit the ground which belongeth to us, and carry

" off what they demand. But, if they are upon ground of

" their own, they themselves know best what they have

" to do." They judged indeed that Oropia, on which it

happened that the bodies of the dead were lying, as the

battle had been fought upon the lines of partition, belonged

