B. II. 193 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429.

" all things, when we come to action, observe the rules of dis-

" cipline without hurry and noise: For these are matters of

" great importance in every scene of war, and of not the least

" in a naval engagement;—and charge your enemies with a

" spirit worthy of your former achievements. Great indeed

" are the points you are now to decide, the hopes of the Pelo-

" ponnesians of making a figure at sea are now either to be

" totally demolished, or the power of the sea must become

" precarious to the Athenians, even near their own homes.

" Once more I call to your remembrance, that great part of

" these enemies you have already conquered—and the courage

" of enemies once conquered is seldom equal to what it was,

" when unconscious of defeat."

In this manner Phormio encouraged his men.—But the

Peloponnesians, when they found that the Athenians would

not sail into the gulf and straits, had a mind to compel them

to it against their inclinations. At break of day they began

to move, their ships being ranged in lines consisting of four,

and stood along their own coasts within the gulf, the right

wing leading the course in the same order as they had lain

at anchor. In this wing they had ranged twenty of their best

sailers, with a view that if Phormio should imagine they had

a design upon Naupactus, and he himself should hasten to its

succour, the Athenians might not be able to outsail them and

escape their outermost squadron, which composed the right

wing, but be surrounded on all sides. He, just as they ex­

pected, being alarmed for that place, which he knew was de­

fenceless, no sooner saw them under sail, than against his

will and in no little hurry he got on board, and sailed along

his own coast—the land forces of the Messenians marching

along the adjacent shore to be ready with their assistance.

The Peloponnesians seeing them move along in a line ship

after ship, and that they were now within the gulf and near

the shore, which was what they chiefly wanted—on a signal

given at once altered their course, pouring down directly up­

on the Athenians, all as fast as their ships could advance, in

