S. III. 'VJBAR V.—BEFORE CHRIST 427. 235

" with peculiar regard; and then, they never would have

" been that insolent people we have found them now. For

" so remarkably perverse is the temper of man, as ever to

" contemn whoever courts him, and admire whoever will not

* bend before him.

" Let condign punishment therefore be awarded to their

" demerits. Let not the guilty be avenged upon the heads

"of the _/«*>, and the bulk of offenders escape unpunished.

" The whole people to a man have rebelled against us, when

" it was in their power to have been sheltered here, and now

* again to be reinstated in their former seats. But they  
"judged the danger would be lessened by the general concur-

" rence with the few, and so all revolted in concert.

" Extend further your regards to the whole body of your

" dependents ; for if you inflict the same punishments on

" those who revolt by compulsion of enemies, and who revolt

a on pure deliberate malice, which of them, do you think,

" will not seize the least pretext to throw off your yoke ;

" when, if he succeeds, his liberty is recovered, and, though

" he fails, the hurt is so easy to be cured ? Besides this, our

" lives and fortunes will be endangered upon every single at-

" tempt which shall be made. Suppose we succeed, we only

" recover an exhausted ruinated city, but shall for the future

" be deprived of the revenue arising from it, the essence of

" our strength : But, if we cannot prevail, we shall enlarge

" the number of enemies we already have: And at a time

" when we ought to be employed in resisting our present ad-

" versaries, we shall be intangled in wars against our own de-

" pendents. We ought not therefore to encourage the hope,

" whether raised by the force of intreaty, or purchased by the

" force of corruption, that their errors are but the errors of

" men, and shall therefore be forgiven. The damage they

" have done was not involuntary, but they have been delibe-

" rate determined villains: Forgiveness is only for those who

" erred not by design.

" Moved by the ardency and zeal of my former plea, you

