B. I. 4y INTRODUCTION.

" loponnesus with the greatest navy. But to your account

" these events are to be charged, who, after the invasion of

44 the Medes, first suffered the strength of Athens to be en-

" creased, and afterwards their long-rvalln to be erected.

44 Ever since, you have connived at liberty overthrown, not

only in whatever communities they have proceeded to en-

" slave, but now, where even your own confederates are con-

44 cemed. For, not to the men who rivet on the chains of

44 slavery, but to such as, though able, yet neglect to prevent

" it, ought the sad event with truth to be imputed ; especially,

" when assuming superior virtue they boast themselves the

" deliverers of Greece.

" With much ado we are now met together in council,

44 but not even now upon the plain and obvious points. We

" ought not to be any longer debating whether we have been

" injured, but by what measures we should avenge ourselves.

" The aggressors, having long since planned out their pro-

" ceedings, are not about to make but are actually making

" attacks upon those, who are yet come to no resolution.

" Nor are we unexperienced by what steps, what gradual

" advance*, the Athenians break in upon their neighbours.

" Imagining themselves to be still undiscovered, they shew

" themselves the less audacious because you are insensible.

" But when once they know you alarmed and on your guard,

" they will press more resolutely forwards. For you, Lace-

44 daemonians, are the only people of Greece, who sit iudo-

" lently at ease, protecting not with present but with pro-

44 mised succour: You alone pull down, not the commencing

" but the redoubled strength of your foes. You have indeed

44 enjoyed the reputation of being steady, but are indebted

" for it more to report than fact. We ourselves know, that

44 the Persian had advanced from the ends of the earth quite

" into Peloponnesus, before you exerted your dignity in re-

-" sistance. Now also you take no notice of the Athenians,  
" not remote as he was, but seated near you ; and, instead of

" Invading them, criuse rather te lie upon year defener

