btiv A Survey of the History.

" experienced youth alone is liable to such weakness. The

44 war now under consideration is a most important point.

M It may run out into a great length of time. It is against

" Athenians—a remote people—a naval power—abounding

" in wealth—excellently provided in all respects. He de-

" mands, in every single article, whether they can presume

" to become a match for such antagonists ? They should re-

" remember the high spirit, the habits of activity and perse-

" verance so natural to these Athenians, who are not to be

" dejected at the first loss, nor frightened at big words or

" haughty threats. Insults indeed must not be brooked;

" but, adequate preparations should be made to avenge

" them, and time be gained to make such preparations.

" It would be most prudent to begin a negociation, to spin it

" out into length. If affairs can be amicably adjusted, it

" would deserve their choice ;—If not, when they are com-

" petently enabled, it will be soon enough to act offensively.

" He dreads not war himself, yet, war cannot be carried on

" without money. Ample funds must be provided, a work

" of time and deliberation. Circumspection is no real re-

" proach; precipitation draws positive mischiefs after it.

" Lacedaemonians are used to be calm and considerate;

" they should not now be cajoled or exasperated out of their

"judgment. The Athenians are a wise and dextrous people.

" The Lacedaemonians should keep that in remembrance,

" and support their own characters of calmness of spirit and

" true manly resolution: They should begin with caution,

" proceed with temper, end all things amicably if they can ;

" if not, when duly prepared and adequately provided, they

" might trust the decision to arms."

The Kings of Sparta were ever justled on their thrones

by the haughty overbearing Ephori. Sthenelai'das, one of

that college, answers Archidamus in a short, blunt, properly

laconic speech. " He is severe upon the Athenians, sneers

" Archidamus, and avers that Lacedaemonians should not

." deliberate upon, but instantly take the field and avenge

