INTRODUCTION*.

his escape by sea undiscovered by the Athenian guard* Con­

tinuing now amongst the Chalcideans, he made what military

efforts he could, and killed many of the inhabitants of Ser-

myle by an ambuscade he formed before that city ; and en­

deavoured to prevail with the Peloponnesiahs to send up a

timely relief. Phormio, also, after compleating the works

round Potidaea, with his sixteen hundred men ravaged Chal-

cidica and Bottiaea: And some fortresses he took by storm.

THESE were the reciprocal causes of dissension between

the Athenians and Peloponnesians. The Corinthians were

enraged at the blockade of Potidaea, a colony of their own, in

which were shut up both Corinthians and other Peloponne­

sians. The Athenians resented the proceedings qf the Pelo­

ponnesians in seducing to a revolt a city in alliance with and

tributary to them, and siding openly by a voluntary expedition

with the warring rebels of Potidaea. Yet a war open and

avowed had not yet broke out between them: Hostilities

were suspended for a time. Hitherto it was merely a private

quarrel of the Corinthians.

But, when once the blockade of Potidaea was formed, the

Corinthians could hold no longer. In it their own people were

shut up, and they were at the same time in anxiety about the

place. They summoned their allies to repair immediately to

Lacedaemon, and thither they went themselves with loud ac­

cusations against the Athenians, that " they had violated the

treaty, and injured Peloponnesus." The iEginetae indeed,

from a dread of the Athenians, did not openly dispatch their

embassy ; but underhand they had a great share in fomenting

the war, asserting that" they were restrained in the privilege

of governing themselves, which had been allowed them by

the treaty."

The Lacedaemonians, summoning to appear before them

not barely their allies, but whoever had any manner of charge

to prefer against the Athenians, assembled in grand council

as usual, and commanded them to speak: Others who were

present laid open their respective complaints, but the Mega­

