370 THE PEJLOPONNESIAN WAR.

"the masters of it all, beyond controul. So much more

" have we to fear from these neighbours of ours, than any

" other people.

" Those again, who in all the daring insolence of su-

" perior strength are wont to invade their neighbours, as

*4 these Athenians now do us, march with extraordinary de-  
" grees of confidence against such as are inactive, and de-

" fend themselves only on their own soil. His schemes are

" more painfully compleated, when men sally boldly beyond

" their borders to meet the invader, and if opportunity

" serveth attack him first. Of this truth our own experi-

" ence will amply convince us. For ever since the defeat

" we gave these very men at Coronea, when taking the ad-

" vantage of our seditions they had possessed themselves of

" our lands, we have kept Boeotia quiet from every alarm

" till the present. This we ought now to remember, that

" the seniors among us may proceed as they then begun ;

" that the juniors, the sons of those sires who.then displayed

" such uncommon bravery, may exert themselves to preserve

" unblemished their hereditary virtues. We ought all to

" be confident, that the God will fight on our side, whose

" temple they pollute by raising ramparts, and dwelling

" within its verge. And, as the victims we have offered are

" fair and auspicious, we ought at once to advance to the

" charge of these our foes, and make them know, that their

" lust and rapine they only then can gratify, when they in-

" vade such cowards as abandon their own defence : but

" from men, who were born to vindicate their own country

" for ever by the dint of arms, and never unjustly to inslave

" another;—that from such men they shall not get awav

" without that struggle which honour injoins."

In this manner Pagondas exhorted the Boeotians, and

persuaded them to march against the Athenians. He put

them instantly in motion, and led them towards the enemy :

For it wa£ now late in the day. When he had approached

the spot on which they were posted, he halted in a plact­

