B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 251

" these incendiaries seem now a people well worth your gain-

" ing ? There was a season, a most dangerous and critical sea-

" son, when you yourselves, and the other Grecians, were

" in different sentiments. Now indeed, incited by ambition,

" you aim the fatal blow at others ; but at that season, when

" the Barbarian struck at inslaving us all, these Thebans

" were then that Barbarian's coadjutors. And equitable cer-

" tainly it is, that our alacrity at that season should be set in

" the balance against our present transgressions, if transgres-

" sors at present we have been. You then would find our

" greater merits quite outweighing our petty offences ; and

" our merits to be dated at a time when it was exceeding

" rare to see Grecian braver)' ranged in opposition to the

" power of Xerxes ; when praise was ascribed, not to those,

" who, intent on self-preservation, dropped all the means of

" withstanding his invasion, but who chose, through a series

" of danger, courageously to execute the most glorious acts.

" Of this number are we, and as such have been pre-emi-

"nently, most honourably distinguished. And yet, from

" this original we fear our ruin now may have taken its rise,

" as we chose to follow the Athenians from a regard to jus-

" tice, rather than you from the views of interest. But so

" long as the nature of things continues to be the same, you

4* also ought to convince the world, that your sentiments

" about them are not changed, that your principles still sug-

" gest it to you as your greatest interest, that whenever your

" gallant compatriots have laid upon you an obligation strong

" enough to be eternally in force, something on every pre-

" sent occurrence should be done for us by way of just ac-

" knowledgement.

" Reflect further within yourselves, that you are now

" distinguished by the body of Greece as. examples for the

" upright disinterested conduct. Should you therefore de-

" termine in regard to us what in justice cannot be support-

" ed—for the eyes of the world are now intent on your pro-

" ceedings, and as judges applauded for their worth you sit

