230 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Paches, being returned to Mitylene, compleated the re­

duction of Pyrra and Eressus ; and having aprehended Sa-

laethus the Lacedaemonian, who had been concealed in the

city, sends him to Athens along with those citizens of Mity­

lene from Tenedos, whom he had kept in safe custody there,

and all others who appeared to have been concerned in the re­

volt. As an escort to these he sends away also the greater

part of his army. With the remainder he himself stayed be­

hind to regulate the affairs of Mitylene and the rest of Les­

bos, to the best of his discretion.

When the authors of the revolt and Salitthus were ar­

rived at Athens, the Athenians instantly put Salaethus to

death. He made them many fruitless proposals to save his

life; and amongst the rest, that the siege of Plabea should

be raised, which was still besieged by the Peloponnesians.

They next entered into consultation, what should be done

with the revolters; and in the warmth of anger decreed—

" That not only those who were now at Athens should be

" put to death, but the same sentence should extend to all

" the men of Mitylene who were adult; and the women and

" children be sold for slaves. They were exasperated

against them not only because they had revolted, but be­

cause they had done it without the provocation which others

had received in the rigour of their government. The Pelo-

ponnesian fleet added the greater impetuosity to this their

resentment, as they had dared to venture so far as Ionia i»

aid of the Rebels. For it plainly appeared to them, that

the revolt had not been made without much previous delibera­

tion. In short, they dispatch a trireme to notify their de­

cree to Paches, with orders to see it put in immediate exe­

cution upon the Mityleneans.

. The day following, repentance on a sudden touched

their hearts, moved by the reflection, that they had passed

a savage and monstrous decree in dooming a whole city to

that destruction, which was only due to the authors of the

guilt. This was no sooner perceived by the Mitylenean

