290 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

by night into Argia. They afterwards passed undiscovered

betwixt the city of the Argians, and the post of the Acarna-

nians at Crenae, and so perfected their junction with the Am-

braciots at Olpae. After this junction, their numbers being

large, they take possession next morn, at break of day, of a

post called Metropolis, and there fix their encampment.

Not long after this the Athenian squadron of twenty sail

comes into the bay of Ambracia, to succour the Argians.

Demosthenes also arrived, with two hundred heavy-armed

Messenians, and sixty Athenian archers. The station of

the fleet was fixed under the fort of Olpae. But the Acar-

nanians, and some few of the Amphilochians, who had al­

ready gathered into a body at Argos (for the majority of

them was obstructed by the Ambraciots), got every thing in

readiness to engage the enemy. They elect Demosthenes to

be the commander of the whole associated force, with the

assistance of their own generals. He caused them to ad­

vance near Olpae, and there encamped them. A great hol­

low lay between the armies. For five days they remained

m a state of inaction, but on the sixth both sides drew up in

order of battle. The Peloponnesians were more numerous,

and their line of course was further extended. Demos­

thenes therefore, that he might not be inclosed, placeth an

ambuscade of the heavy and light-armed, to the number in

all of about four hundred, in a hollow way overgrown with

shrubs and bushes, with orders that in the heat of the charge

they should rise up and attack the over extended line of the

enemy in their rear. When all things were ready on both

aides, they came to blows. Demosthenes led the right wing,

composed of the Messenians, and his few Athenians. The

other consisted of the Acarnanians, drawn up in the order

they happened to fall into as they came up, and the Am-

philochian darters who were at hand. But the Peloponne­

sians and Ambraciots were drawn up promiscuously, except

the Mantineans. The Mantineans stood embodied rather

to the left, but not in the extremity : For Eurylochus, with a

