xlii On his Qualifications as a Historian.

friend doth he commend? or, what enemy doth he re­

proach ?—Brasidas was the immediate occasion of his dis­

grace and exile. Yet, how doth he describe him ? He

makes the most candid acknowledgments of his personal

merit, and doth justice to all his shining and superior abili­

ties. Cleon is generally supposed to have irritated the peo­

ple against him, and to have got him most severely punished,

when he merited much better returns from his country.

Doth he shew the least grudge or resentment against this

Cleon ? He represents him indeed in his real character of

a factious demagogue, an incendiary, a bully, and of course

an arrant coward. And how do all other writers ? how doth

Aristophanes paint this worthless man, this false bellowing

patriot ? I would never call Aristophanes for an evidence

to character, but in cases where every other writer accorded

fully with him, on the same foundation of truth, though not

with the same superstructure of bitterness and abuse. He

should not be a voucher in regard to Socrates, or Pericles;

but certainly may be heard about a Hyperbolus or a Cleon.

Thucydides never mentions himself as opposed to any man

but Brasidas; and never so much as drops an insinuation

that he was hurt by Cleon. And thus, by general consent,

he had gained immortal honour by giving fair and true re­

presentations of men, whom he never felt to be such, but

whom succeeding writers have assured us to have actually

been his enemies.—As to things; though in the first seven

years of the war he must in some measure have had employ­

ment, yet he was soon disentangled from all business what­

ever, in a manner which bore hard upon his reputation. He

hath stated the fact ; and then with the greatest calmness and

unconcern, he hath left the decision to posterity.

He was henceforth of no country at all. Cut off from the

republic of Athens, he never sought after or desired a natu­

ralization in any other State of Greece. He was now only

to choose out and fix a proper spot of observation, from

whence, like a person securely posted on a promontory, he

