3S0 THE PELOP0NNE8IAX WAR.

The Athenians therefore, when all was fixed and deter­

mined on both sides, crossed over by night to Minoa the

island of the Megareans with six hundred heavy-armed,

commanded by Hippocrates, and sat themselves down in a

hollow whence the bricks for the walls had been taken,

and which lay near enough for their purpose : whilst another

body, under Demosthenes the other commander, consisting

of light-armed Plateeans, and the Athenian patroles, con­

cealed themselves near the temple of Mars, which lies still

nearer. Not a soul within the city knew any thing of these

motions, excepting those whose vigilance it concerned this

night to observe them. When the morning was ready to

break, the plotters of Megara proceeded thus—

Through a series of time they had established a custom

to have the gates of the long walls opened to them in the

night, by carrying out a wherry upon a carriage, which they

persuaded the officers posted there, they conveyed nightly

down the ditch into the sea, and so went upon a cruize.

And before it was light, bringing it back again to the walls

upon the carriage, they conveyed it through the gates, that

it might escape the notice of the Athenian watch on Minoa,

who by this means might be eluded, as they never would

descry any boat in the harbour. The carriage was now at

the gates, which were opened as usual for the reception of

the wherry. This the Athenians observing (for this was the

signal agreed on), came running from their place of ambush

to take possession of the gates before they could be shut

again. The very moment the carriage was between, and

obstructed the closing thenl together, both they and the

Megarean coadjutors, put the watch which was posted at

the gates to the sword. The Plataans and patroling parties

under Demosthenes rushed in first to that spot where the

trophy now stands, and having thus gained an entrance (for

the Peloponnesians who were nearest had taken the alarm)

the Plataeans made good their ground against those who at­

tacked them, and secured the gates till the heavy-armed.

Athenians, who were coming up with all speed, had entered.

