DISCOURSE III. xcix

mere accident accomplishes what his eloquence could not.

The command of Alcibiades came here to an end. One of

the State-vessels arrives, and summons him to Athens to

take his trial for the late frolics and irregularities committed

there. That city, ever since the departure of the fleet, had

been filled with confusion and horror. A plot there was,

or rather a plot it was determined there must be, to set up a

tyrant, that most odious sound to Attic ears. Recollection

of the dismal things they had heard about the tyranny of

the Pisistratidae increased their fears, and drove them into

furious and desperate proceedings. Thucydides here digres-

seth to settle some facts relating to that set of tyrants, and

their demolition; particularly the affair of Harmodius and

Aristogiton, one of the most famous incidents in the annals

of Athens. He differs indeed from most other writers, and

the moderns have not thought proper to rest the point upon

his authority, great as it is ; or though no man ever traced

out facts, or made his enquiries with more sedateness and

impartiality.

But to return to Alcibiades : He was obliged to quit the

command, and he seemed quietly to submit to the orders of

the State. But, determined not to face his countrymen in

their present mood, nor to hazard a trial, he gave them who

were sent for him the slip, and sheltered himself in Pelopon足

nesus. He became instantly a most violent and dangerous

enemy to his country. He is gone to pave the way for the

ruin of Athens ; of Athens, which he loved better than any

thing, except the parade of his own personal importance, and

the gratification of his private caprice.

Nicias and Lamachus, who now remained in the com足

mand of the fleet, by help of a stratagem, land at Syracuse

without opposition, and seize a strong post for their encamp足

ment. The Syracusans determine on a battle to dislodge

them. Both sides form in order. Nicias encourages his

men by a short, but spirited and forcible, harangue. Thu足

cydides paints the battle with the exactness, perspicuity,

