B. III. YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. 215

" so that, either they must be unable thus divided to make

" head against you, if you singly attack them, or the union

" of us both they will not be able to face.

" Let no one amongst you imagine, that this will be en-

" dangering your own domestic welfare for the sake of fo-

" reigners with whom you have no connexion. For though

" Lesbos lies apparently at a great distance from you, yet the

" conveniences of it will lie near at hand for your service.

" For the war will not be made in Attica, as such a one

" supposeth, but in those parts whence Attica deriveth its sup-

" port. Their revenue ariseth from the tribute paid by their

" dependents. And that revenue will be increased if they

" can compass the reduction of us. For then not a soul will

" dare to revolt, and their own will be enlarged by the addi-

" tion of our strength, and more grievous burdens will be

" laid upon us, as being the last who have put on their yoke.

" On the other hand, if with proper alacrity you undertake

" our support, you will gain over a State possessed of a con-

" siderable navy, that acquisition you so greatly want; and

" you will more easily be enabled to demolish the Athenians,

" by withdrawing their dependents from them: For then,

" every one of that number will with assurance and confi-

" dence revolt—and you yourselves be cleared of the bad im-

" putation you at present lie under, of rejecting those who

" fly to you for protection. If, added to this, you manifest

" your views to re-establish the general freedom, you will so

" considerably strengthen the sinews of war, that all resist-

" ance will be unavailing.

" Reverencing therefore as you ought, these hopes which

" Greece hath conceived of you ;—Reverencing further Olym-

" pian Jove, in whose temple we now stand, like supplicants

" distressed and suing for redress Grant to the Mitylene-

" ans the honour of your alliance, and undertake their pro-

" tection. Reject not the intreaties of men, who have now

" indeed their lives and properties exposed to dangers merely

" their own, but whose deliverance from their present plunge

