B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 327

guard posted there' drew up in order to defend it in what­

ever quarter it might possibly be assaulted. The Athenians,

speedily coming up, were hindered by the natural site of the

place from forming a circle and besetting it on all sides.—

Advancing therefore directly forwards, they endeavoured to

beat the defendants off. Thus, for a long time, for the

greatest part of the day, both sides persisted in the contest,

under the painful pressures of battle and thirst and a burn­

ing sun. No efforts were spared by the assailants to drive

them from the eminence ; nor by the defendants to maintain

their post. But here the Lacedaemonians defended them­

selves with more ease than in the preceding engagement,

because now they could not be encompassed on their

flanks.

When the dispute could not thus be brought to a decision,

the commander of the Messenians, addressing himself to

Cleon and Demosthenes, assured them, " they took a deal of

" pains to no manner of purpose ; but would they be per-

" suaded to put under his guidance a party of the archers and

" light-armed, to get a round-about way on the enemies rear

" by a track which he himself could find, he was confident he

" could force an entrance." Having received the party he

demanded, marching off from a spot undescried by the La­

cedaemonians in order to conceal the motion, and continuing

to mount higher and higher along the ridge of rock that lay

upon the verge of the island, in the quarter where the Lace­

daemonians depending upon its natural strength had placed

no guard, with great difficulty and fatigue he got behind them

undiscovered. Now shewing himself on a sudden upon the

summit and in their rear, he astonished the enemy with this

unexpected appearance ; and his friends, who now beheld

what they so earnestly looked for, he very much emboldened.

The Lacedaemonians were now exposed to the missive

weapons on both sides ; and (if a point of less consequence

may be compared to one of greater) were in a state parallel

