DISCOURSE I. XXX111

His own Introduction, of itself, in a great measure esta­

blished the fact. He perceived the storm was gathering;

he knew the jealousies of the States which composed the

Lacedaemonian league; he also knew the real strength of

Athens, and heard all the preventive measures recommend­

ed by Pericles to put his countrymen in a proper posture of

defence. He himself seems to have been alert for the con­

tention, and ready both with lance and pen, not only to bear

his share in the events, but also to perpetuate the memory of

them. His own words (iati«-««- and TiKn*ie*nit»r) seem to

denote the great earnestness and attention of his mind to the

wide field of matter, which was now going to be opened.

He longed to become a historian ; he saw a fine subject for

history fast approaching ; he immediately set about noting all

occurrences, began at once to collect materials ; and was re­

solved to write the History of The Pehponnestan War before

it was actually on foot.

Can we doubt then of his residence during this portion of

time at Athens ? He was arrived, at the breaking out of

this war, to the full vigour and ripeness of his years and

understanding, according to his chronologist (Mr. Dodwell)

was just forty years old. We learn from himself*, that he

knew personally the whole series of things ; he was ever

present at the transactions of one or other of the contend­

ing parties; more, after his exile, at those of the Pelopon-

nesians ; and consequently, before his exile, at those of the

Athenians. He speaks of Pericles, as one who was an eye­

witness of his conduct; as one who heard him harangue in

the assembly of the people, convincing that a war there

would necessarily be, and for that reason they ought not to

weaken themselves by ill-judged concessions, but gallantly

to exert that naval power, which had made Athens envied

and dreaded, and which alone, as it had made, could keep

her great. He must regularly have taken his post upon the

walls, and seen the Peloponnesians, in the first year of the

■ Book the fifth.

Vol. I. E

