lxii A Survey of the History.

of this all-grasping rival, but were unable to effect it by*

their own strength. They solicit all the confederates to re­

pair to Lacedaemon, all full of complaint and remonstrance

against the Athenians. The Corinthians reserve themselves

for the finishing charge ; and our author repeats (or makes

for them) their most inveigling and alarming speech on this

occasion.

" They address the Lacedaemonians with an artful mix-

" ture of commendation and reproach, of commendation,

" for their strict adherence to good faith; of reproach, for

" their indolence and sloth. They had suffered the State of

" Athens to grow too mighty for their neighbours. Though

" the acknowledged deliverers of Greece, they had now for

" a length of time taken no notice of the incroachments of

" the Athenians ; but, through wilful ignorance and habitual

" supineness, had let them grow too big, and able now to en-

" slave them all.—They do all they can to irritate and pro-

" voke them. They draw an admirable parallel between them

" and the Athenians ; invidious and reproachful, but directly

" tending to exasperate those whom they want to exasperate.

" —Then, they warmly renew their applications to the pride

" of the Lacedaemonians ; they alarm their fears ; they flatter

" and reproach their foibles. They even threaten to abandon

4* their league, unless they exert themselves in defence of their

" friends; they endeavour to prove the necessity of active

" and vigorous measures ; and end with a very artful stroke

" of insinuating and persuasive address."

An Athenian embassy, now residing at Lacedaemon, being

informed of these loud and bitter outcries against their mas­

ters, beg an immediate audience. Accordingly, they are

admitted ; not indeed to plead before Lacedaemonians, as their

judges or superiors—Athenians scorn such self-debasement;

but, to vindicate their State from misrepresentations, to clear

her reputation, and justify her power.

" With this view, they run over the great services they

" had done to Greece, in the time of the Persian invasions:

