B. I. . INTRODUCTION. 77

raise their siege from iEgina. The Athenians however re­

called not their army from iEgina, but marched away all the

old and young that were left in Athens to the aid of Megara,

under the command of Myronides: And having fought a

drawn battle against the Corinthians, both sides retired, and

both sides looked upon themselves as not worsted in the

action. The Athenians however, upon the departure of the

Corinthians, as being at least so far victorious, erected a tro­

phy. The Corinthians at their return heard nothing but re­

proaches from the seniors in Corinth: so, after bestowing an

interval of about twelve days to recruit, they came back

again; and, to lay their claim also to the victory, set about

erecting a trophy of opposition. Upon this, the Athenians

sallying with a shout out of Megara, put those who were busy

in erecting this trophy to the sword, and routed all who endea­

voured to oppose them. The vanquished Corinthians were

forced to fly; and no small part of their number, being closely

pursued and driven from any certain route, were chased into

the ground of a private person, which happened to be encom­

passed with a ditch so deep as to be quite impassable, and

there was no getting out. The Athenians, perceiving this,

drew up all their heavy-armed to front them, and then form­

ing their light-armed in a circle round them, stoned every

man of them to death. This was a calamitous event to the

Corinthians: But the bulk of their force got home safe again

from this unhappy expedition.

About this time also the Athenians began to build the

long-walls reaching down to the sea, both towards the Pha-

lerus and towards the Piraus.

The Phocians were now embroiled with the Dorians,

from whom the Lacedaemonians are descended. Having

made some attempts on Boeon, and Cytinium, and Erineus,

and taken one of those places, the Lacedaemonians marched

out to succour the Dorians with fifteen hundred heavy-armed

of their natives, and ten thousand of their allies commanded

by Nicomedes the son of Cleombrotus in the right of Pleis»

Vol. I. 2 A

