DISCOURSE III. lxil

comment, Xenophon will give it in his Polity of the Athe­

nians.—»"Tn one point (says he) the Athenians are deficient.

" ¥iif, beside their being sovereigns of the sea, they were

" seated on an island, it would be ever in their power to ra-

" vage others at pleasure, and yet they could not be ravaged

" themselves so long as they held the mastery at sea; their

" lands could never be laid waste, no enemy could post

" themselves upon them. But now the occupiers of lands

" and the wealthy Athenians fly before invaders ; whilst the

4 people in general, conscious they have nothing to be burnt

" and nothing to be plundered, live exempt from fear nor

" fly before an invader. The expedient used on such occa-

" sions is, that the former deposit their most valuable ef-

" fects in the isles, and trusting to their superiority at sea,

" slight all the devastations an enemy can make in Attica."

England is complete where Athens was deficient. And how

fond must both Pericles and Xenophon have been of the

island and maritime power of Great Britain ? I will not pre­

tend to anticipate the reader's pleasure by descending into

more particularities. It may suffice to add, that the final

answer of the Athenians is drawn up by the advice of Pe­

ricles, that " they will do nothing by command; they had

" already offered to refer all disputes to a fair judicial deci-

" sion; so far only, but no farther, compliance must be ex-

" pected from Athens." Here all negociation comes to

an end; and the war will very soon commence.

Thus I have endeavoured to give some idea of the first

book of Thucydides. It is a grand piece of work beyond all

denial. But Rapin thinks our author hath overdone it " out

" of a desire of prefixing a too stately portal to his his-

" tory." Could the portal have been thought too stately, if

the whole fabric had been compleatly finished ? To form a

right judgment here, we should examine the Resign and not

the execution: The latter is imperfect, is broke off. So,

look at it from the park, the Banqueting-house at Whitehall

k too big and towering for what stands near it. But hath

