B. II. 117 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

with the Athenians. They were induced to this attempt, and

had the gates opened to them by Nauclides, and associates,

citizens of Plataea, who had formed a design, for the sake of

aggrandizing themselves, to destroy all their fellow-citizens,

averse to their schemes, and to gain the city for the Thebans.

But the affair was managed by Eurymachus, the son of Leon-

tiadas, a person of the greatest authority among the Thebans.

For the Thebans, foreseeing a war unavoidable, had, even

now while peace was actually subsisting and the war not yet

declared, a strong desire to get possession of Plataea, which

had been at eternal enmity with them. No regular watch was

as yet kept in it, which was a means of facilitating their en­

trance. When they had gained admission, they drew them­

selves up in order of battle on the public forum, contrary to

the scheme proposed by the conspirators, of marching imme­

diately to the houses of their enemies, and putting them to

the sword. Their own design was, publicly to offer some

fair proposals, and gain the city by an amicable composition.

With this view, their herald proclaimed aloud, that—" All

" who were willing to enter into league, according to the an-

" cieivt custom of all Boeotians*, should come and join their

" arms with them." By this method they thought the city

would easily be brought to an accommodation.

The Plataeans, when they found that the Thebans were

already got in and had surpriszed the town, being in great

consternation, and thinking the enemy more numerous than

they really were, for the night prevented a view of them,

came soon to a composition ; and accepting what terms

• Bocotia was one large republic formed by the union of several little

states. The sovereignty (as Tlmcydides informs us, book the fifth) was

lodged in four councils, composed of deputies sent from every city in the

union. These were the states-general, and sat at Thebes, the principal city

of Bocotia. The executive and military powers were lodged in eleven per-

sons, chosen annually, and stilcd Rulers of Bocotia, in whose election each

city had a share. They rolled, and at the battle of Delium, Pagondas was

in the chief command, in right of Thebes. PlaUea had no share in this

union, but was closely allied with and under the protection of Athens.

Vol. I. 2 F

