B. III. TEAR VI.—BEFORE CHRIST 426.

" Then they cannot belong to those of our party." The other

replied, " They must, if you fought yesterday at Idomene."

" We fought no where yesterday; we suffered the day before

" in our retreat from Olpae." " But we fought yesterday

" against those Ambraciots, who were advancing from the

" city to relieve you." When the herald heard this, and

found that the army of relief from the city was thus destroy­

ed, he burst into a groan ; and, quite overpowered with the

weight of the present calamities, he went off abruptly, and

without renewing his demand about the dead.

During the whole course of this war, no other Grecian city

suffered so great a loss in so short a time. I have not pre­

sumed to mention the number of the slain, because it is said

to have been incredibly great, when compared with the size

of their city. But I am well convinced, that, if in compliance

with the advice of the Athenians and Demosthenes, the Acar-

nanians and Amphilochians would have proceeded to the

excision of Ambracia, they might have done it with a bare

shout of their voice. But they dreaded its falling into the

hands of the Athenians, who might prove worse neighbours

to them than the old.

But to return. A third part of the spoils was bestowed

upon the Athenians, the rest was divided amongst the confe­

derate cities. Those allotted the Athenians were lost at sea.

For the three hundred suits of armour which are reposited in

the Temples of Athens, were selected for Demosthenes, who

now returned thither, and brought^them with him. The

dread he had been under ever since his miscarriage in iEto-

lia was quite dispelled by the good service he had now per­

formed.

The Athenians, with their squadron of twenty sail, were

now returned to Naupactus ; and, since the departure of the

Athenians and Demosthenes, the Acarnanians and Amphilo­

chians had granted by treaty to those Ambraciots and Pelo-

ponnesians, who had refuged with Salynthius and the Agrae-

ans, a safe retreat from amongst the Oeniadae, who had also

