B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 333

of the Athenians. They were apprehensive the enemy would

endeavour to force their way to the village of Solygia. For

a considerable space the battle was obstinate, neither side

giving way ; but at length, through the advantage on the

Athenian side of being assisted by a party of horse, whereas

their opposites had none, the Corinthians were broke and

driven up the ascent, where grounding their arms, they came

down no more to the charge, but remained in a quiet posture.

In this route of the right wing, numbers of the Corinthians

perished, and Lycophron their general. But the rest of the

body had the good fortune to make a safe retreat, and so to

secure themselves upon the eminence, as they could not be

briskly pursued, and were not compelled to move off with pre­

cipitation. When the Athenians perceived that the enemy

would no more return to the pharge, they rifled the bodies

of the foes whom they had slain, and carried off their own

dead, and then without loss of time erected their trophy.

That division of the Corinthians which had been posted

at Cenchrea to prevent any attempt upon Crommyon, had

the view of the battle intercepted from them by the moun­

tain Oneius. But when they saw the cloud of dust, and

thence knew what was doing, they marched full speed to­

wards the spot. The aged inhabitants also, when they are

informed of the battle, rushed out of Corinth to succour

their own people. The Athenians perceiving the approach

of such numerous bodies, and judging them to be succours

sent up by the neighbouring Peloponnesians, threw them­

selves immediately on board their ships, with what spoil they

had taken, and the bodies of their own dead excepting two,

which not finding in this hurry they left behind. They were

no sooner re-embarked than they crossed over to the adjacent

islands, from whence they dispatched a herald to demand

leave, which was granted, to fetch off the dead bodies they

had left behind*.

• This incident is related by Plutarch (in Me Life jfNicias) as a proof of

the great piety and humanity of Nicias. His asking leave to fetch off these

Vol. I. 3 K

