B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 241

" his advice. Strict justice, I grant, may be with him ; and,

" enraged as you are against the Mityleneans, may have a

" sudden influence upon you. But we meet not here in judg-

" ment upon them, and justly to decide is not now our em-

" ployment; we are only to consult how to dispose of them

" best for our own advantage.

" In the public communities of men, death is the pe-

" nalty awarded to several crimes, to such as are not enor-

" mous like this, but of a less guilty nature. Yet, puffed up

" with hope, men run all hazards, and no one ever yet hath

" boldly incurred the danger, if self-convinced beforehand,

" that he could not survive the attempt. Where was the

" city so bent on revolt, that when its own domestic

" strength, or the aid of others, were judged unequal to the

" work, durst ever attempt it ? The whole of mankind,

" whether individuals or communities, are by nature liable

" to sin : and a law of infallible prevention will never be

" enacted. Men by repeated trials have inforced all kinds

" of punishment, attentive, if possible, to restrain the out-

" rages of the wicked. And in the early age it is probable,

" that milder penalties were assigned for the most enormous

" wrongs ; but, being found by experience ineffectual, they

" were afterwards extended generally to loss of life: This

" however is not yet effective. Some terror therefore must

" be invented, even more alarming than this, or this will

" never sufficiently restrain. But then there is a poverty

" which renders necessity daring; there is a power which

" renders pride and insolence rapacious. There are other

" contingencies, which in the fervour of passions, as every

" human mind is possessed by some too stubborn to admit

"a cure, drive them on boldly to confront extremities.

" But the greatest incentives of all are hope and love : This

" points out a path, and that moves along according to

" direction: This thoughtlessly proposeth the scheme, and

" that immediately suggesteth a certainty of success. Thesr

