xliv On his Qualifications as a Historian.

principles, and avers him a tight and sound royalist. He

is sure, that he least of all liked the democracy; as sure,

he was not at all fond of an oligarchy. He founds this as­

surance on a passage in the eighth book—" They decreed

" the supreme power, to be vested in the Jive thousand, which

" number to consist of all such citizens as were enrolled for

" the heavy armour, and that no one should receive a

" salary."—Thucydides just after pronounceth this, in his

own opinion, " a good modelling of their government, a

" fine temper between the few and the many, and which

" enabled Athens from the low state into which her affairs

" were plunged to re-erect her head." If this passage proves

any thing of the author's principles, it certainly proves them

in a pretty strong degree republican. Mr. Hobbes however

sets out from hence to prove him a royalist. " For (says he)

" he commendeth the government of Athens more, both

" when Pisistratus reigned (saving that it was an usurped

" power), and when in the beginning of this war it was de-

" mocratical in name, but in effect monarchical under Pe-

" ricles." He praiseth, it is true, the administration at both

these periods ; and he also praiseth the good effects resulting

from an administration lodged in the hands of five thousand

men. Under Pericles it was lodged in more, but the extra­

ordinary abilities and influence of the man had taught all

their voices to follow the dictates of his heart. Yet, Pericles

was all the time a strong republican, and owned his masters.

Plutarch says, he never harangued them without praying

beforehand, that, " not a word might slip out of his mouth,

" that was not pertinent to the business in hand;" and that

he never put on his armour to lead them out into the field

without saying to himself—" Remember, Pericles, you are

" going to command free men and Grecians." I leave it to

the reader, whether the principles of Thucydides can thus be

discovered. It appears only, that he was always candid to

a good administration, and might possibly think of govern­

ment, as Mr. Pope hath wrote :

