266 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

signed between both parties and the Athenians—" to have

" the same friends and the same foes." Having so far carried

his point, he was intent on immediate departure. But the?

managers for the people made him a proposal, to leave five

ships of his squadron with them, to deter the enemy from

any fresh commotion, which should be replaced by five of

the in own, which they would instantly man to attend him

on .his station. With this proposal he complied ; and they

named distinctly the mariners, who to a man were of the

opposite party. Affrighted at this as a pretext to convey

them to Athens, they sit down in the temple of the Dioscuri.

Nicostratus endeavoured to raise them up and chear their

despondency. Yet all he could say was unavailing; and the

people run again to arms, pretending that such a refusal to

put to sea was a plain proof that their intentions were in­

sincere throughout. Then they rifled their houses of all the

arms they could find ; and some of them who fell into their

hands had immediately been butchered if Nicostratus had not

interposed.

A second party, terrified at these proceedings, take their

seats also as suppliants in the temple of Juno. The num­

ber of these was not less than four hundred. The people,

grown now apprehensive of some fatal turn, persuade them

to leave their sanctuary ; and having prevailed, transport

them into that island which faceth the temple of Juno,

whither every thing needful for their sustenance was care­

fully sent them.

The sedition continuing in this posture, about the fourth or

fifth day after the transportation of the latter body into the

island, the Peloponnesian ships, which had assembled at Cyl-

lene after the voyage of Ionia, appear in sight to the number

of fifty-three. Alcidas was commander in chief as before,

and Brasidas attended as his council. They came to anchor

in the harbour of Sybota on the main ; and next morning, at

break of day, steered directly for Corcyra.

Great was the tumult now at Corcvra : Thev were afraid

