383 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

Mercinus also, a city of Edonia, revolted to him upon

the death of Pittacus king of the Edonians, who was killed by

the sons of Goaxis and his own wife Braures. Gapselus soon

after did the same, and Oesyme: They are colonies of the

Thrasians. These events were owing to the practices of

Perdiccas, who came thither in person immediately after

the surrender of Amphipolis.

The loss of that city cast the Athenians into great con­

sternation, and with reason, because it was a place of great

importance to them, since from thence they had materials

for building ships and a pecuniary revenue ; and farther, be­

cause, after a safe conduct through Thessaly, the route was

now open to the Lacedaemonians as far as the Strymon, to

annoy their dependents. Yet had they not possessed them­

selves of the bridge, the large lake formed above by the ri­

ver, and the check given by the triremes stationed at Eion,

would have hindered the Lacedaemonians from penetrating

further. But all obstacles appeared to the Athenians now

quite easy to be surmounted ; and their apprehensions, that

their dependents would revolt, alarmed them much. For

Brasidas in the rest of his conduct gave constant proofs of

an excellent temper ; and the declaration was ever in his

mouth, " that he had been sent thither to restore the liberty

" of Greece." Accordingly the cities, which were subject

to the Athenians, had no sooner heard of the surrender of

Amphipolis together with the brave exploits and the mild

engaging deportment of Brasidas, than they conceived the

most ardent inclination to shake off the yoke. They se­

cretly dispatched their agents to him, earnestly desiring a

visit from him,- with respective assurances from each, that

they w<5uld be the first to revolt. They judged, there

was no longer room to apprehend any bad consequences

from such a step; falsely estimating the Athenian power

to be much less considerable than it afterwards appeared.

But this their judgment was founded more upon uncertain

presumption than deliberate prudence. It is the turn of

