372 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. '

both citizens and foreigners. The crowd of these, so sooq

as ever the route was pointed homewards, were, excepting

a few, gone speedily off. But, when they were drawn up in

the order of battle, and were every moment expecting the

charge, Hippocrates the general shewing himself in the

front of the Athenians, animated them with the following

harangue :

" THE admonition, Athenians, I intend to give you will

" be very concise, but such a one is sufficient to the brave :

" I pretend not to encourage Athenians, but merely to re-

" mind them of their duty. Let the thought be a stranger to

" every heart amongst you, that we are going to plunge into

" needless hazards in the territory of a foe. Be it the terri-

" tory of a foe, yet in it you must fight for the security of

" your own. And, if we conquer now, the Peloponnesians,

" will never again presume, without the aid of the Boeotian

" horse, to repeat their inroads into Attica. By one battle

" therefore you acquire this, and secure your own land from

" future annoyance. Charge therefore your enemies, as you

" ought, with a spirit worthy of the State of Athens, that

" State which every soul amongst you boasts to be the first

" of Greece ; and worthy of your great forefathers, who

" formerly at Oenophyta, under the conduct of Myronides,

" defeated these people in the field, and possessed for a time

" all Bocotia as their prize."

Hippocrates had not gone along half the line encouraging

them in this manner, when he was compelled to desist and

leave the greater part of his army unaddressed. For the

Boeotians, to whom Pagondas also had given but a short ex­

hortation and had this moment finished the paean of attack,

were coining down from the eminence. The Athenians ad­

vanced to meet them, and both sides came running to the

charge. The skirts of both armies could not come to an en­

gagement, as some rivulets that lay between stopped them

equally on both sides. The rest closed firm in a stubborn

fight, and with mutual thrusts of their shields. The left

