ft. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 231

ambassadors then residing at Athens, and such of the Athe­

nians, as inclining to mercy had a mind to save them, than

they addressed themselves to the magistrates, begging the

decree might be again debated. Their request was the more

easily granted, as the magistrates had discovered that the

bulk of the city were desirous to have a second opportunity

of declaring their sentiments. An assembly of the people

is again convened, and various opinions were offered by

different persons, till Cleon the son of Cleanetus, who in the

former assembly had proposed and carried the murdering

sentence, who in all other respects was the most violent of

all the citizens, and at this time had by far the greatest in­

fluence over the people, stood forth again and spoke as fol­

lows

" UPON many other occasions my own experience hath

" convinced me, that a democracy is incapable of ruling

" over others ; but I see it with the highest certainty now in

" this your present repentance concerning the Mityleneans.

" In security so void of terror, in safety so exempt from

" treachery, you pass your days within the walls of Athens,

" that you are grown quite safe and secure about your de-

" pendents. Whenever, soothed by their specious intrea-

" ties, you betray your judgment or relent in pity, not a soul

" amongst you reflects that you are acting the dastardly

" part, not in truth to confer obligations upon those depen-

" dents, but to endanger your own welfare and safety. It

" is then quite remote from your thoughts, that your rule

" over them is in fact a tyranny, that they are ever intent

" on prospects to shake off your yoke that yoke, to

" which they ever reluctantly submitted. It is not forgive-

" ness on your part, after injuries received, that can keep

" them fast in their obedience, since this must be ever the

" consequence of your own superior power and not of grati-

" tude in them.

" Above all, I dread that extremity of danger to which

" we are exposed, if not one of your decrees must ever be

