B. I. INTRODUCTION. 21

Eleans, empty ships and money. And the number of ships

fitted out by themselves amounted to thirty and three thou­

sand heavy armed.

When the Corcyreans were informed of these prepara­

tions, they went to Corinth, purposely accompanied by am­

bassadors from Lacedaemon and Sicyon. There they charged

the Corinthians " to fetch away their garrison and new set­

tlement from Epidamnus, as having no manner of preten­

sions there: That, if they had any thing to allege to the con­

trary, they were willing to submit to a fair trial in Pelopon­

nesus before such states as both sides should approve; and

to whichever party the colony should be adjudged, by them

it should be held." They also intimated " their readiness to

refer the point in dispute to the oracle at Delphos ;—war, in

their own inclinations, they were quite against: But if it

must be so, on their sides-, (they said) mere necessity would

prescribe the measure ; and if thus compelled to do it, they

should for assistance have recourse to friends, not eligible

indeed, but better able to serve them than such as they already

had." The Corinthians answered, that " if they would with­

draw their fleet and their Barbarians from before Epidamnus,

they would then treat of an accommodation; but, till this was

done, their honour would not suffer them to submit to a re­

ference, whilst their friends were undergoing the miseries of

a siege." The Corcyreans replied, that " if they would recall

their people from Epidamnus, themselves also would do the

like ; but were ready further to agree, that both parties should

remain in their present situation, under a suspension of arms,

till the affair could be judicially determined."

The Corinthians were not only deaf to every proposal, but

so soon as ever they had manned their ships and their allies

were come up, dispatching a herald before-hand to declare

war against the Corcyreans, and then weighing anchor with

a force of seventy-five ships and two thousand heavy-armed,

they stretched away for Epidamnus to make head against

the Corcyreans. The commanders of this fleet were Aris-

Vol. I. R

