xlviii On his Qualifications as a Historian.

mired him, and I hope will continue to admire him gratis :

We are bound to thank him, and never to lose sight of that

grand political scheme, formed by a Themistocles, and

warmly and successfully pursued by an Aristides, a Cimon,

and a Pericles; the swerving from which at Athens drew

after it the loss of the sovereignty at sea, then sunk her into

a petty State, and made her end at last in a mere academy,

though most excellent in its kind.

From such considerations it will also follow, that the hi

tory of Thucydides is more useful than that of Livy ; at

least, that we have more reason to applaud the choice of the

former. I design no comparison between these two histori­

ans. The performance of the Jesuit Rapin on that point is

in general reading. Livy's history is certainly more au­

gust, more splendid, more amazing: I only insist that it is

not more useful. And, though Livy be happier in his sub­

ject, this ought not to degrade Thucydides, who seized the

only fine subject that could offer itself to him: In regard to

him, it was either this or none at all. The parallel should

be only drawn in regard to execution, where much hath been

said on both sides, and the superiority still remains unde­

cided.

This brings me to the inward abilities of genius and un­

derstanding, which capacitated my author to execute his

work. His genius was certainly of the highest order: It was

truly sublime. Here the critics unanimously applaud. In

the arrangement of his matter he emulated Homer. In the

grandeur of his thoughts and loftiness of his sense he copied

Pindar. He is ever stately and majestic; his stateliness

perhaps too formal, his majesty too severe. He wrote, as

he thought, far beyond an ordinary person. He thinks

faster than he can utter: His sentences are full-stored with

meaning: And his very words are sentences. Hence comes

his obscurity. Where pure thought is the object, he connects

too fast, nor is enough dilated for common apprehension.

But this is not the case with the narrative part of his his­

