lxxxiv A Survey of the History.

harvest.—He relates other incidents, until he comes to a

remarkable scene of war in iEtolia, where Demosthenes the

Athenian commander is totally defeated.—He describes the

purification of the isle of Delos by the Athenians ; and hath

found the art to make it a cheerful and entertaining piece,

for the relief of the reader, after he hath been engaged in

so many scenes of horror and destruction, and is soon going

to be engaged in more.—The battles of Olpe and Idomene

are sufficiently stored with slaughter, to glut any reader who

delights in blood. The armies in this- history have been

often thought not to be sufficiently numerous. They make

no havoc ; they do not knock one another on the head fast

enough to preserve attention. But these old Greeks were

men and not brutes. And it is pity, that the history of men

should be so much a history of the destruction of the human

species.

Book IV. In the Fourth Book, the Athenians and La­

cedaemonians, principals in the war, are matched directly

against one another. Demosthenes, a wise and brave com­

mander, had seized and fortified Pylus in the territories of the

latter, had placed such a garrison in it as annoyed the whole

country, and in the end might wound the very vitals of that

State. The Lacedaemonians slight it at first, as if their bare

appearance would remedy all. But upon trial, their land-

armies and their squadrons are unable to dislodge the enemy.

It is with the true martial spirit of an experienced and gal­

lant commander, that Demosthenes harangues his small

body of Athenians, when he draws them up on the beach of

the sea, to beat off the ships of the enemy. Thucydides

shines on these occasions ; in him the addresses are always

made, and pertinently made, to the soldiers who are present;

they interest and animate, but never run out into declama­

tion and common-place.—The turns of war at Pylus are sud­

den, and engage attention. They fight by land, and fight

by sea; nay, what is more, land-battles are fought from the

water, and naval battles fought from off the shore. The eye

