SOME ACCOUNT OF DR. SMITH.

" yet I find the observation strictly verified, that what is every

" body's business is nobody's business; and whilst it is

" generally presumed that I have a great deal of help, I have

" in fact little or none, though I stand much in need of it. I

" hope you will excuse the notice I have taken of you in my

" paper. In hopes of your correspondence, I am, Sir, with

" respect, your very humble servant,

"R. HOOKER."

On a state fast, the 4th of February, 1740, our Author

preached in Trinity Church on Prov. xiv. 34. " Righteous­

ness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people."

This Sermon was printed at the request of his parishioners,

and inscribed to them. The Right Hon. Edward Earl of

Derby had succeeded that nobleman who presented Mr. Smith

to Trinity Church: but Mr. Smith still continued to be es­

teemed at Knowsley, notwithstanding Knowsley had changed

its master. He, who had been long considered as the Earl

of Derby's Chaplain, was constituted in form, by letters patent,

the 2d day of August, 1743. On the 31st of July, 1746, our

Author preached an Assize-Sermon at Lancaster, on St.

John viii. 32. " Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall

" make you free." This Sermon is inscribed to the High

Sheriff and Grand Jury, being " published at their command."

In the year 1748, the Grammar-School of Brentwood, in

the parish of South Weald, in the county of Essex, being va­

cant, was suffered by Lord and Lady Strange to lapse to the

Bishop of London, who, at their recommendation, appointed

Mr. Smith Schoolmaster there for life, by letters patent bear­

ing date the 15th day of February, and by licence dated the

17th of the same month. He held this school only one year,

as he did in no wise relish the laborious life of a schoolmaster.

On the 8th of June, 1753, he was licenced as one of the Min­

isters of St. George's Church in Liverpool, on the nomination

of the Corporation there,

In the year 1753, Mr Smith published, in two volumes,

4to. dedicated to his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales,

