B. II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 167

" even though we may suffer it to droop and perish in our

" hands—as what is human must decline—Our memory, I say,

" who, though Grecians ourselves, gave laws to all other Gre-

" cians, stood the shock of most formidable wars, resisted

" them all when combined against us, conquered them all when

" separately engaged, and maintained ourselves in possession

" of the most flourishing and most powerful State in the world.

" These things let the indolent and sluggish soul condemn, but

" these let the active and industrious strive to emulate, for

" these they who cannot attain will envy.

" To be censured and maligned for a time, hath been the

" fate of all those whose merit hath raised them above the

" common level;—but wise and judicious is the man who, en-

" joying the superiority, despiseth the envy. An aversion so

" conceived will never last. His merit soon breaks forth in all

" its splendour, and his glory is afterwards handed down to

" posterity never to be forgot. You, who have so clear a pros-

" pect before you, both of what will be some time glorious, and

" of what at present is not disgraceful, recollect your own

" worth and secure both. Sink not so low as to petition terms

" from the Lacedaemonians; nor let them imagine that you feel

" the weight of your present misfortunes.- The man whose re-

" solution never sinks before it, but strives by a brave opposi-

" tion to repel calamity, such—whether in a public or private

" capacity—must be acknowledged to be the worthiest man."

By arguments like these did Pericles endeavour to mollify

the resentments of the Athenians against himself, and to divert

their minds from their public calamities. In regard to the

public, they seemed to be satisfied with all that he had urged ;

they desisted from soliciting an accommodation with the La­

cedaemonians ; and were more hearty than ever for continuing

the war. Yet, in their own private concerns, they were griev­

ously dejected under their present misfortunes. The poor

citizens who had but little, could not bear with patience the loss

of that little. The rich and the great regretted the loss of their

estates, with their country-seats and splendid furniture;—but

