». II. YEAR II. BEEORE CHRIST 430. 155

to an excessive weakness, were carried off. For the malady

beginning in the head, and settling first there, sunk afterwards

gradually down the whole body. And whoever got safe

through all its most dangerous stages, yet the extremities of

their bodies still retained the marks of its violence. For it

shot down into their privy-members, into their fingers and

toes, by losing which they escaped with life. Some there

were who lost their eyes ; and some who being quite recover­

ed had at once totally lost all memory, and quite forgot not

only their most intimate friends, but even their own selves.

For as this distemper was in general virulent beyond expres­

sion, and its every part more grievous than yet had fallen to

the lot of human nature, so, in one particular instance, it ap­

peared to be none of the natural infirmities of man, since the

birds and beasts that prey on human flesh either never ap­

proached the dead bodies, of which many lay about uninter-

red ; or certainly perished if they ever tasted*. One proof

of this is the total disappearance then of such birds, for not

one was to be seen, either in any other place, or about any one

• This passage is translated close to the letter of the original. It was in­

tended by the author to shew the excessive malignancy of the plague, as

the very Beth of the dead bodies was so fatally pestilential to carnivorous

animals ;—'' Either they never tasted ; or, if they tasted, died." One proof

of this is presumptive, arising from the disappearance of all birds of prey.

The second was certain, and an object of sensible observation. Every body

could see that dogs, those familiar animals who live with and accompany

men abroad, either never tasted; or, if hunger at any time forced them to

it, they certainly lost their lives. Lucretius literally translates the
circum­

stance itself, but hath enlarged in the proofs, and intimates that the distem­

per raged amongst those animals even without eating the flesh of the dead,

and was general to every living species.

Multaque hum! cum inhumata jacerent corpora supra

Corporibus, tamen alituum genus atque ferarum.

Autprocul absiliebat, ut acrem exiret odorem ;

Aut, ubi gustarat, languebat morte propinqua.

Nec tamen omnino tcmere illis solibus ulla

Comparebat avis, nec noctibu' ssecla ferarum

Exibant sylvis : languebant pleraque morbo,

Et moriebantur : cum primis fida canum vis '

Strata viis animam ponebat in omnibus aegram :

Extorquebat enim vitam vis morbida membrit.

