xlvi On his Qualifications as a Historian.

whom he wrote, without fear of their resentment, and could

praise without being in the reach of a requital. Human na­

ture will not admit of a stricter independence.

His unconcern about the opinions of a present generation,

is strong and clear. It looks as if he thought they would

scarce give him a reading, so little care had he taken to sooth

or to amuse them. He had a greater aim than to be the

author in vogue for a year. He hated contention, and scorn­

ed short-lived temporary applause. He threw himself on

posterity. He appealed to the future world for the value of

the present he had made them. The judgment of succeed­

ing ages hath approved the compliment he thus made to

their understandings. So long as there are truly great

princes, able statesmen, sound politicians, politicians that do

not rend asunder politics from good order and the general

happiness, he will meet with candid and grateful acknow­

ledgments of his merit.

Other historians have sooner pleased, have more diffu­

sively entertained. They have aimed more directly at the

passions, have more artificially and successfully struck at the

imagination. Truth in its severity, and Jteason in its robust

and manly state, are all the Muses and Graces to which

Thucydides hath done obeisance. Can we wonder, that he

hath not been more generally read and admired ? or, could

we wonder, if he had not been so much ? A great work

planned under such circumstances and with such qualifica­

tions as I have been describing, cool serious judgment will

always commend as a noble design, even though executed it

may prove too cheerless to the more lively passions, its relish

not sufficiently quick for the popular taste, or piquant enough

to keep the appetite sharp and eager.

But to proceed. Thucydides hath been censured in re­

gard to the choice of his subject. It hath occasioned the

solidity of his judgment and excellence of his taste to be

called in question. Dionysius of Halicarnassus hath exert­

ed himself much on this account; hath tried him by laws,

