THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" tions, nor by self-desertion utterly to efface their native dig-

" nity. The world will always have equal reason to condemn

" the person who sinks from a height of glory by his own

" pusillanimity, and to hate the person who impudently pre-

" tends to what he never can deserve. It must be therefore

" your duty to suppress this too keen a sensibility of your own

" private losses, and with united fortitude to act in the de-

" fence of the public safety. Let us therefore bravely un-

" dergo the toils of this war ; and if the toil increaseth, let

" our resolution increase with it. And let these, added to all

" those other proofs of my integrity I have exhibited on other

" occasions, suffice to convince you that your present censures-

" and suspicions of me are rash and groundless.

" I shall now lay before you a point, which, so far as I

" can judge, you have as yet never properly considered, nor

" have I in any former discourse insisted upon—" the

" means within your reach, of rising to supreme dominion."

" Nor should I meddle even now with a point*, pompous be-

" yond poetic visions, did I not see you beyond measure fear-

" ful and dejected. You think you are only masters of your

" own dependents; but I loudly aver that you are greater

" masters now both at land and sea, those necessary spheres

" for carrying on the services of life, than any other power ;

" and may be greater yet, if so inclined. There is not now

" a king, there is not any nation in the universal world, able

"to withstand that navy, which at this juncture you can

• Pericles here is about to convince the Athenians, that they may rise to

supreme dominion in consequence of their naval superiority. It was his ambi­

tion to execute the grand extensive plan which was formed originally by

Themistocles. And the words, in which he introduceth this topic are so

full of energy, that they bear hard upon a translator. He calls it a point

KtnTrHfartpaet ix"l4 r\m ir^oiraeitiTii. My first attempts at them were

very faint and imperfect. I was soon convinced of it by the greatest genius

of the age, who did me the honour to read over this speech in manuscript,

and who, as he thinks and speaks like Pericles, could not endure that any of

his words should be depreciated. I hope now I have expressed all the

ideas which the original words include. Mr. Hobbcs hath entirely dropped

them in his translation.

