B. I. INTRODUCTION. $3

" point wherein so many lives, so vast an expence, so many

" states, and so much honour are at stake. But let us more

" leisurely proceed, which our power will warrant us in doing

" more easily than others. Dispatch ambassadors to the

" Athenians concerning Potidaea; dispatch them concerning

" the complaints our allies exhibit against them ; and the

" sooner, as they have declared a readiness to submit to fair

" decisions. Against men who offer this we ought not to

" march before they are convicted of injustice. But, during

" this interval, get every thing in readiness for war. Your

" resolutions thus will be most wisely formed, and strike into

" your enemies the greatest dread."

Archidamus spoke thus. But Sthenelaidas, at that time

one of the Ephori, standing forth the last on this occasion,

gave his opinion as followeth:

" THE many words of the Athenians, for my part, I do

" not understand. They have been exceeding large in the

" praise of themselves; but as to the charge against them, that

" they injure our allies and Peloponnesus, they have made no

" reply. If, in truth, they were formerly good against the

" Medes, but are now bad towards us, they deserve to be

" doubly punished; because, ceasing to be good, they are

" grown very bad. We continue the same persons both then

" and now, and shall not, if we are wise, pass over the injuries

" done to our allies, nor wait any longer to revenge them, since

" they are past waiting for their sufferings. But other

" people, forsooth, have a great deal of wealth, and ships, and

" horses .We too have gallant allies, whom we ought not

" to betray to the Athenians, nor refer them to law and plead-

" ings, since it was not by pleadings they were injured : But

" we ought, with all expedition and with all our strength, to

" seek revenge. How we ought to deliberate when we have

" been wronged, let no man pretend to inform me: It would

" have better become those who designed to commit such

" wrongs to have deliberated a long time ago. Vote then the

" war, Lacedaemonians, with a spirit becoming Sparta. And

