214 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" felt the miseries designed us:—that person chargeth us

" without a reason.. For had our situation been such, that

" we could have formed equal schemes to their prejudice and

" disconcerted all their projects, what necessity did we lie

" under to resign our equality and receive their law ? But,

" as the power of attempting was ever within their reach, we

" ought certainly to lay hold of every proper expedient to

" ward off the blow.

" Such are the reasons, ye men of Lacedaemon, and you

" their confederates, such the grievances which induced our

" revolt; reasons so clear, that all that hear them must

"justify our conduct—grievances so heavy, that it was time

" to be alarmed, and to look for some expedient of safety.

" We long since shewed our inclination to find this expedient,

" when, during the peace, we sent you to negotiate a revolt,

" but, by you rejected, were obstructed in our scheme. And

" now, no sooner did the Boeotians invite, than we, without

" a pause, obeyed the call. Now we have determined to

" make a double revolt;—one from the Grecians, no longer

" in concert with the Athenians to force the load of oppres-

" sion upon them, but with you to vindicate their freedom

u another from the Athenians, that we may not in the

" train of affairs be undone by them, but timely vindicate our

" own safety.

" Our revolt, we grant it, hath been too precipitate and

" unprepared—But this lays the stronger obligation upon

" you to admit us to alliance, with the utmost expedition to

" send us succours, that you may shew your readiness te

" redress the oppressed, and at the same instant annoy your

" foes. Such a juncture for this was never known before.

" What with the plague and the exorbitant expence of the

" war, the Athenians are quite exhausted. Their fleet is

" divided, some to cruize upon your coast, others to make

" head against us. It is not probable they can have now

" the competent reserve of shipping, should you invade

" them a second time this summer both by land and sea:

