t»«vi A Survey of the History.

ment. The project is described, and the probability of suc­

cess established. But the very grandeur of the attempt de­

ters the undertakers. Athens indeed is alarmed, and thrown

into a great consternation; but, the project totally miscarries,

and the Piraeus is better secured for the future.

All Thrace is now arming under Sitalces against Perdic-

cas king of Macedonia. A vast army of Barbarians is as­

sembled, marches over a great length of country, strikes a

general panic, effectuates no real service, and soon disperses

or moulders away. Such bulky unwieldy armies make an

awkward figure, compared with the regularity, exact disci­

pline, and personal bravery of the diminutive armies of

Greece.

Thucydides gives us once more a sight of Phormio and

his gallant squadron; and then closeth the book, and the

history of the third year of the war. " Never history (says

" Rapin) comprised so much matter in so little room, nor

"so much action in so few words. If any thing can be

"found fault with, it is that the exploits are too closely

" crowded with one another, so that the coherence seems

" somewhat intricate and confused, and the multiplying of

" objects tends only to dissipate the attention of the reader."

An historian however is to take his incidents in their natu­

ral order, as they subsist in fact. He is not so much to

dispose, as to describe them. If he does the latter perti­

nently, accurately, and with a due attention to their im­

portance, he hath acquitted himself of his duty. The poet

or writer of fiction must pick out and heighten his incidents,

with a view to fill up properly, and give to every distinct

object its needful splendor: He is to exert his choice, and

by exerting it judiciously to gain applause. The historian is

not to pick but to make the best use of his materials. He

may give them indeed all possible lustre; but, if they crowd

too thick upon one another, the reader may be embarrassed

with the number, yet nobody can be justly blamed.

Book III. The Third Book is no less full of matter than

