30 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR.

" controul, when there were none to watch them they might

44 engross the spoil, and might enjoy their rapine without

" danger of a blush. Had they been those virtuous souls they

" proclaim themselves, then, clear of every bad imputation

" from their neighbours, they had a fine opportunity to

" manifest their integrity to the world, by doing and by sub-

44 mining to justice.

" But such neither we nor any other people have in fact

" experienced them. For, though planted by us, they have

" ever^isowned their^ allegiance to us, and now wage open

" war against us, pleading that they were not sent abroad to

" be maltreated and oppressed. We also aver in our own

" behalf, that neither did we send them to receive their in-

" jurious requitals, but to retain them in lawful dependence,

" and to be honoured and reverenced by them. Such duti-

" ful returns the rest of our colonies punctually make us, and

" by such no other people are so well respected as ourselves.

" From the great satisfaction therefore we give to all the

" rest, it plainly appeareth, that we afford no reasonable dis-

44 gust to these alone, and that without some glaring injury,

" we should have had no inclination to declare war against

" them. But, though we had actually transgressed, it would

" have been quite decent on their part to have shewn con-.

" descension when we were angry; and then it would have

" been base in us to have pressed too far on such moderation.

44 To their pride and the insolence of wealth their many

" transgressions against us are justly to be ascribed. Hence

" it was, that they laid no claim to Epidamnus, which be-

" longeth to us, whilst harrassed with intestine feuds; but when

" we came to its redress, then by force they seize and detain

" it. And now they pretend that previous to that they were

" willing to have submitted to a fair arbitration.—Such pleas

" are not to be regarded, when offered by men who are

44 already masters in possession, and on that security make ap-

" peal to justice: They are only of weight, when facts and

" words are equitably to be judged, before the point hath

