398 The peloponnesian war.

" than to run to the charge : for otherwise, before this they

" had attacked us. And you plainly see, that all the terror

" which now runs before them, will vanish at the onset, as

" terrible only to sight and hearing. When therefore they

" advance to the charge, sustain it and repulse them; and

" when opportunity serveth, fall back into your ranks again

" with regularity and order. You shall thus the sooner se-

" cure your retreat, and be convinced for the time to come,

" that such rabbles, to men who can stand the first fury of

" their onset, have only made, at a distance and by their

" pausing, a vain and menacing parade of valour ; but such

" as will give ground and fly before them, they pursue

" with eagerness ; and are excellently brave, when there is no

" resistance.

After this exhortation, Brasidas caused his army to file

leisurely off. The Barbarians perceiving it pressed forward

with great noise and clamour, supposing that he fled, and

that they might intercept and cut him off. But when the

appointed parties sallied out from all quarters to receive them,

and Brasidas himself with his picked body sustained their

charge, they repulsed them at their first assault, to the great

surprize of the enemy. Afterwards, receiving every repeat­

ed attack, they beat them off continually ; and then during

the intervals of pause retreated in good order; till at length,

the bulk of the Barbarians discontinued their efforts in the

plain against the Greeks under Brasidas, and leaving only a

part of their body to follow and annoy them in their retreat,

the rest wheeled speedily off to pursue the flying Macedoni­

ans, and such as they overtook they slaughtered. To the

narrow pass farther between two hills which was the en­

trance into the territories of Arribaeus, they hurried before

in order to secure it, knowing it to be the only rout by which

Brasidas could retreat. He was now drawing near it, and in

the most difficult part of the passage they were spreading

themselves circularly to encompass him on all sides. But

Brasidas perceiving their design, ordered the three hundred

