discourse ii. xlvii

which have poetry rather than history for their object; and

censures him for not delighting, when his profession was

only to instruct. Mr. Hobbes hath gallantly defended his

author, and shewn all the arguments of Dionysius to be

impertinent, and to proceed from partiality and envy. I

shall not repeat, it will suffice to refer the curious reader to

what Mr. Hobbes hath written upon this topic. Homer had

celebrated the Trojan war, and intermingled in his poems all

the historic strokes of that and of preceding ages, enliven­

ing and exalting every thing he touched. That splendid

part of the Grecian history, in which his countrymen resist­

ed and triumphed over the very formidable arms of the Per­

sian monarch, had already been recorded by Herodotus.

Should Thucydides plunge back into dark and fabulous ages,

and turn a mere legendary and romantic writer ? He had,

he could have no subject equal to his ambition and his

abilities, but the war, which broke out in his own days, which

he foresaw would prove extensive and important, when the

efforts of her enemies would be vigorously exerted to pull

down the power of Athens, to demolish that naval strength

which gave her the sovereignty of the sea, and made her the

dread and envy of her neighbours. Coolly therefore with

my reason as an examiner of things, and warmly with my

passion as an Englishman, I cannot but applaud his choice,

who hath projected the soundest and best system of English

politics, so long before the constitution had existence; and

hath left us fine lessons, such as his factious countrymen

would not observe, how to support that dominion of the sea,

on which our glory is built, and on which our welfare in-

tirely depends. In this light it is a most instructive and in­

teresting history, and we may felicitate ourselves on the

choice of Thucydides. I must not anticipate : Thucydides

would have his readers pick out their own instructions. I can

only add, that Thucydides is a favourite historian with the

statesmen, and patriots of Great-Britain: This fits him also

to be a Historian for the people. Other nations have ad­

