B. IV. YEAR VII.—BEFORE CHRIST 425.

In this manner the Corcyreans from the mountains were

destroyed by the people. And a sedition so extensive was

brought to this tragical period, so far at least as relates to the

present war. For nothing of the same nature broke out af­

terwards so remarkable as to need a particular relation.

The Athenians departed from Corcyra, made the best of

their way for Sicily, whither they were bound at first setting

out, and prosecuted the war there in concert with their

allies.

In the close of this summer, the Athenians on the station

of Naupactus, marching in junction with the Acarnanians,

possessed themselves of Anactorium, a city of the Corinthi­

ans, situated on the mouth of the gulf of Ambracia. It was

put into their hands by treachery. In consequence of this,

the Corinthian inhabitants were ejected, and the place repeo-

pled by new inhabitants invited thither from all parts of Acar-

nania. And the summer ended.

The ensuing winter, Aristides the son of Archippus, one

of those who commanded the squadrons which the Atheni­

ans had put out to raise contributions among their depend­

ents, apprehended Artaphernes, a noble Persian, at Eion on

the river Strymon. He was going to J-acedaemon on a com­

mission from the King. Being conveyed to Athens, the

Athenians had his letters, which were wrote in Assyrian,

translated and read in public. Their contents were large,

but the principal was this passage, addressed to the Lacedae­

monians that " he was not yet properly informed what it

" was they requested of him. For though he had been at-

" tended by frequent embassies, yet they did not all agree in

" their demands. If therefore they were desirous to make

" an explicit declaration, they should send some of their body

" to him in company with this Persian." But the Athenians

afterwards sent Artaphernes back to F.phesus in a trireme,

and with an embassy of their own, who meeting at that place

with the news that Artaxcrxes the son of Xerxes was lately

