B. II. 169 YEAR II. BET0RE CHRIST 430.

war was more and more acknowledged. For he had assured

them the)7 could not fail of success, provided they would not

meddle by land, but apply themselves solely to their navy,

without being solicitous to enlarge their territories in this

war, or exposing Athens itself to danger. But they had re­

course to schemes quite opposite to these, nay even to some

that had no connexion at all with this Avar, wherein private

ambition or private interest pushed them to such management

as was highly prejudicial to themselves and their allies. When­

ever these politic schemes succeeded, private persons carried

off all the honour and advantage ;—whenever they miscar­

ried, the hardships of the war fell more severely on the State.

The reason was this Pericles, a man of acknowledged

worth and ability, and whose integrity was undoubtedly proof

against corruption, kept the people in order by a gentle ma­

nagement, and was not so much directed by them as their prin­

cipal director. He had not worked himself into power by

indirect methods, and therefore was not obliged to sooth and

ent to most others, died of it. In his last moments lie shewed to ■ friend

who was visiting him a charm which the women had hung about his neck,

as if he was sick indeed when he could submit to such foolery. When

several of them were sitting round his bed, anil, thinking he did not hear

them, were enumerating the great exploits of his life, the shining incident!

of his administration, his victories, and the nine trophies he had erected, he

interrupted them with these words, '' I wonder you lay stress upon such

" actions, in which fortune claims a share along wilh me, and which many

" others have performed as well as myself, and yet pass over the highest

"glory and most valuable part of my character, that no citizen of Athens

"ever put on mourning through me." The wonderful man, though en­

gaged flirty years in business, and constantly attacked by every furious, se­

ditious, and turbulent Athenian, had never amidst all his power given way

to the spirit of revenge. For this, as Plutarch finely observes, he in some

measure deserved the lofty title of 0!;mpian, too arrogant in any other

light for man to wear; since gentleness of manners and the hahils of mercy

and forgiveness raise men to the nearest resemblance of the Gods. Plutarch

adds, that the Athenians never regretted any man so much, and with so

much reason.—If the reader be willing to hear any more of Astasia, the same

writer tells us, that afier the death of Pericles, she married one Lysicles,

u low and obscure man and a dealer in cattle, whom bowevei s'te improved

into an Athenian of the first class.

