302 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

without loss of time to the recovery of Pylus. The rest of

the Lacedaemonians were longer in their approach, as but just

returned from another expedition. Yet a summons had been

sent all round Peloponnesus, to inarch directly for Pylus.

Their fleet of sixty sail was also remanded from Corcyra,

which, being transported by land over the isthmus of Leucas,

arrive before Pylus, undescried by the Athenians who lay

at Zacynthus. And by this time the land army had also ap­

proached.

Demosthenes, before the coming up of the Peloponne-

sian fleet, had timely dispatched two vessels to Eurymedon

and the Athenians on board that fleet now lying at Zacyn-

-thus, pressing them to return, as the place was in danger of  
being lost; which vessels made the best of their way, in

pursuance of the earnest commands of Demosthenes. But

the Lacedaemonians were now preparing to attack the for­

tress both by land and sea, presuming it would easily be

destroyed, as the work had been raised with so much preci­

pitation and was defended by so small a number of hands.

But, as they also expected the return of the Athenian ships

from Zacynthus, they designed, in case they took not the

place before, to bar up the mouths of the harbour, so as to

render the entrance impracticable to the Athenians. For

an isle, which is called Sphacteria, lying before and at a

small distance, locks it up and rendereth the mouths of the

harbour narrow ; that near the fortress of the Athenians and

Pylus a passage for two ships only a-breast, and that be­

tween the other points of land for eight or nine. The whole

of it, as desart, was overgrown with wood and quite untrod,

and the compass of it at most is about fifteen stadia*. They

were therefore intent on shutting up these entrances with

ships moored close together, and their heads towards the

sea. And to prevent the molestation apprehended, should

the enemy take possession of this island, they threw into it

a body of their heavy-armed, and posted another body on

< • One mile and a half.

