II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. 173

themselves under the protection of the Acarnanians, and both

together implored the succour of the Athenians, who sent

thirty ships to their assistance under the command of Phor-

mio. Upon Phormio's arrival they take Argos by storm,

make all the Ambraciots slaves, and then both the Amphilo-

chians and Acarnanians settle themselves together in the city.

To these incidents was first owing the league offensive and

defensive between the Athenians and Acarnanians. The

chief cause of the inveteracy which the Ambraciots bore to

the Argives, was their having made them in this manner

slaves ; and which afterwards impelled them, in the confusion

of this war, to form this invasion with the junction of the

Chaonians and some other neighbouring Barbarians. Ad­

vancing up to Argos, they were entire masters of the whole

territory, but in vain endeavoured to take the town by as­

sault ; upon which they again returned home and dispersed

to their respective nations.—Such were the transactions of

the summer.

On the first approach of winter, the Athenians sent out

twenty ships to cruize on the coasts of Peloponnesus, under

the command of Phormio ; who, fixing his station before

Naupactus, kept so strict a guard, that nothing durst pass in

nor out from Corinth and the gulf of Crissa.—Six other ships

they send to Caria and Lycia, under the command of Mele-

sander, to levy contributions there, and to stop the excursions

of the Peloponnesian privateers, harbouring in those parts,

from molesting the course of their trading vessels from Pha-

celis, Phoenicia, and the adjacent continent. MeUsander,

with the Athenian and confederate force he had on board his

ships, landed in Lycia, and was defeated in the first battle, in

which he lost part of his army and his own-life.

The same winter, the Potidaeans, as they were no longer

able to hold out the siege ; and as, besides, the irruptions of

the Peloponnesians into Attica had not induced the Athenians

to raise it; their provisions being quite spent; and amongst

other calamities to which their extremities had reduced them,

Vol. I. 2 N

