DISCOURSE III. Cl

-

" the charge of inslaving projects on the Syracusans, who

" now are eager to deprive the rest of Sicily of their best

" defence, by raising distaste towards the Athenians. He

" spares no artifice, omits no topic that is likely to affect,

" He proves a notable advocate for his Athens, pompously

" celebrates her passion and her care for liberty, and most

" ingeniously strives to conceal her present ambition under a

" veil of most generous and disinterested principles."

The issue is, that the orators have just counterpoised

one another's arguments, and the Camarineans declare a.

neutrality.

The embassies from Syracuse succeed much better in Pe足

loponnesus. The Corinthians are zealous and active in

their behalf; and they have now got an advocate to rouse

up and inflame the phlegmatic Spartans, who was born to

be of every party, and to be the best support of whatever

party he by times espoused. It is the exiled Alcibiades,

who pleads most effectually in their behalf at a grand con足

sultation at Sparta. His speech on this occasion is a mas足

terpiece. " He insinuates himself into the favour and con-

" fidence of men who had feared and hated him. Whilst

" he is making his own personal justification, he praiseth

" and magnifieth himself. He betrays all the schemes of

" Athens, discloseth all her plan, points out her weak and

" unguarded parts, directs towards them the attack of her

* foes ; and, full as he is of resentment against, and skilful  
" to annoy her, she totters whilst he speaks." Syracuse and

Sparta are now to grow famous by the debasement of this

mighty and imperial Republic. Her glory hath reached its

summit: It immediately will begin to sink, and her laurels

will fade away apace.

In the summer of the eighteenth year of this war, the

Athenians stand away from Catana, and land by night at

Syracuse. They instantly march, and seize Epipolae, a strong

post that commanded the city. The Syracusans fight, but

without success, to beat them from it. The siege now com足

