238 THE PEtOPONNESIAN WAR.

had concluded, Diodotus the son of Eucrates, who in the for足

mer assembly had most strenuously opposed the bloody sen足

tence against the Mityleneans, stood forth, and thus replied.

" I NEITHER blame those who proposed the resumption

" of the decree against Mitylene, nor do I praise the men

" who inveigh against repeated consultations on points of the

" greatest importance. But I lay it down for certain, that

" there are no two greater impediments of sound mature coun-

" sel than precipitation and anger ; of which, the one is closely

" connected with madness, the other with raw inexperience

" and short limitary judgment.

" It may indeed be warmly asserted, that words are not the

" proper guides to actions. But the author of such an asser-

" tion is either wanting in discernment, or confines it only to

" his own selfish views. He is wanting in discernment, if he

" imagines there is any other possible method of putting light

" into things that are future or unseen ; or confines it only to

" himself, if willing to recommend a scandalous measure, and

" conscious he hath not eloquence enough to support it openly,

" he launcheth out into plausible calumnies, to intimidate his

" opponents as well as his audience.

" But odious beyond all support is their procedure who

" prematurely condemn the advice of others as purchased

" and corrupt. For would they only acquiesce in the charge

" of ignorance, the defeated opponent goes off with the

" ther, vile leather, since people rather swam than walked in the shoes

" made of it, was now become the leading politician, the scourge and pest

" of the republic." The chorus of the play salutes him with the most vil足

lainous titles. And an oracle is cooked up, which prophesieth that they

shall never get rid of Cleon, till he is overpowered by a greater scoundrel

than himself. A dealer in black-puddings is at last procured to be his

competitor. The contest is carried on with all the ribaldry and scurrility

that unbridled wit could forge for such characters, and Cleon is at length

defeated. This is the event upon the stage, but was by no means so in the

State of Athens. The wit of Aristophanes seldom hurt knaves and scoun足

drels i it wounded and was mischievous only to the ablest ministers and

the warmest patriots

