XVlii SOME ACCftUNT OF DR. SMITH.

ministry, he took Deacon's orders at Grosvenor Chapel in

Westminster, on Sunday, the first of June, 1735, from Benja­

min Bishop of Winchester. On the 10th of September fol­

lowing, he was presented by his Patron, James Earl of Der­

by, to the Rectory of Trinity Church in Chester. On the

14th of the same month he took Priest's orders in the Cathe­

dral Church of Chester, from Samuel the Bishop of that See:

was instituted the same day, and inducted the next.

Mr. Smith's first publication was* " Dionysius Longinus

on the Sublime, translated from the Greek, with Notes and

Observations, and some Account of the Life, Writings, and

Character of the Author:" in one volume 8vo. inscribed to

the Right Hon. the Earl of Macclesfield. The anony­

mous Author of " the History of the Works of the Learned,"

for May, 1739, says of this work :—" The Translation of

" Longinus is, according to the most impartial judgment I

" can frame of it, after a comparison with others, the most

" elegant version that has been made of that Author into the

" English tongue. The preliminary Discourse excels that of

" the celebrated Boileau, which he has prefixed to his edition."

Father Philips, in " A Letter to a Student at a Foreign Uni­

versity," published 1756, recommending, among other books,

Longinus on the Sublime, says:—" A late English Translation

" of the Greek Critic, with Notes and Observations by Mr.

" Smith, is a credit to the Author, and reflects a lustre on

" Longinus himself. As conversant as you are in the original

" language, you cannot but be highly pleased with this per-

" formance." In the " Weekly Miscellany" by Richard

Hooker,of the Temple, Esq. No. 363, dated Saturday, Decem-

• The fourth is the best edition of Longinus. The Dean corrected txco co­

pies of the third edition : the one for the Printer to follow, the other for

himself to keep; the Dean's copy I possess. I shewed the Dean Mr.

Troup's aitictsm of his Translation. The Dean knowing Troup to be in the

wrong, thought him not worth answering-; he said, " I followed Pearce,

and Pearce is the best. I shall lake no notice of Troup." The frontispiece

to Longinus describes the power of eloquence. It was delineated, not by a

professed limner, but by Dr. Wall of Worcester, an eminent physician,

