CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Preface - •

Some account of Dr. Smith.

On the Life of Thucydides

On his Qualifications as a Historian

A Survey of the History .

Pageix

XVU

XXV

xli

lvi

CONTENTS OF BOOK I.

Introduction, containing the Author's reasons for writing this History,

upon a review of the affairs of Greece from the earliest times.—The

true reason of the Peloponnesian War was a jealousy of the Athenian

power. Those pretended were, I. The affair of Epidamnus, which is

opened at large ; II. The revolt of Potidxa, the circumstances of which

are exactly related. Consultations held at Sparta by the members of the

Lacedxmonian League, where at length War is decreed, but the rupture

protracted for a year. The Lacedemonians act from a dread of the

growing power of Athens. A Digression shewing how that power arose,

which gives the Author an opportunity to relate the history of fifty years

between the retreat of Xerxes, and the breaking out of this War. Em­

bassies accusing and recriminating are sent to and fro, in the account of

which are interwove the stories of Cylon, Pausanias, and Themistocles.

The Lacedemonians send a final demand to Athens ; and the Athenians,

at the persuasion of Pericles, return a resolute answer, upon which all

negotiations are ended, and an open rupture ensueth. , p. 1

CONTENTS OF BOOK II.

Year I. Hostilities begin. The Thebans by night surprize Platxa, but

are afterwards repulsed and slaughtered. The Peloponnesians invade

Attica: The Athenians in their turn cruize and make descents on the

coast of Peloponnesus. A public Funeral solemnized at Athens, for

those who fell in the first campaign, and the Oration spoke on that oc­

casion by Pericles ..... p. 116

Year II. Early the next year Attica again invaded. The Plague breaks

out in Athens. Its symptoms, progress, and mortality described. The

Athenians being greatly dejected murmur against Pericles : His justifi­

cation. The Ambraciots war against the Amphilocians. The surren­

der of Potidsea ...... p. 132

Year III. In the beginning of the third year the Peloponnesians appear

before Platxa ; a parley without effect: The siege is begun and carried

on with great industry and art. The Peloponnesians beaten at sea by

