Ixxxvi A Survey of the History.

" and reap all the honour and advantage of it, since all the

" credit of it will be their own. Lacedamonians may be

" obliged, but will not be compelled. At length, they propose

" their expedient, not explicitly, but with a shrewd insinuation,

" that would the Athenians strike up a bargain with them,

" they might jointly lord it over Greece for the future,

" beyond controul."

Had Pericles been now alive, we may easily guess, how

readily he would have laid hold on this opportunity to end

a burthensome and distressful war, which on the side of

Athens had at first been necessitated and merely defensive.

But success had elevated Athens quite too high ; and no real

friend to the State had at present so much influence as Cleon,

that loud and boisterous demagogue. Hence it comes, that

such terms are insisted upon as the Lacedaemonians cannot

in honour accept. The truce expires ; and all the attention

of Greece is fixed on the important scene of contention at

Pylus.

The author here interposeth an account of what was now

doing in Sicily, and then returns to Pylus. The Spartans in

the isle seem as far off a surrender as ever. The people of

Athens murmur at the slowness of their troops, and begin to

think that after all they shall not carry the point. Cleon

amuses them with lies, and exasperates them by slanders :

In short, though quite undesigning it, he bullies himself into

the command; and, at the head of a reinforcement, joins

Demosthenes at Pylus. The author describes the event with

so much state and dignity, that he raises it into another

Thermopylae. There three hundred Spartans stopped for a

long time the whole numerous army of Xerxes, and perished

in the sen-ice. About the same number of them struggle

here as long as they can against the troops of Athens ; but,

to the disappointment of all Greece, they at last surrender

prisoners of war, and are carried, nay are carried by Cleon,

in triumph to Athens.

The territories of Corinth are invaded soon after by the

