132 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

were forced to settle in the less frequented quarters of the city,

in all the buildings sacred to the Gods and Heroes, except

those in the citadel, the Eleusinian, and any other from whence

they were excluded by religious awe. There was indeed u

spot of ground below the citadel, called the Pelasgic, which

to turn into a dwelling-place, had not only been thought pro-

faneness, but was expressly forbid by the close of a line in a

Pythian oracle, which said,

hi" Best is Pelasgic empty."

Yet this sudden urgent necessity constrained them to convert

it to such a use. To wrr, I own, that oracle seems to have

carried a different meaning from what they gave it. For the

calamities of Athens did not flow from the profane habitation

of this place, but from the war which laid them under a ne­

cessity of employing it in such a manner. The oracle makes

no mention of the war, but only hints that its being some time

inhabited would be attended with public misfortune. Many

of them, further, were forced to lodge themselves within the

turrets of the walls, or wherever they could find a vacant cor­

ner. The city was not able to receive so large a conflux of

people. But afterwards, the Long-walls, and a great part of

the Piraeus, were portioned out to them for little dwellings.

At the same time they were busied in the military preparations,

gathering together the confederate-forces, and fitting out a fleet

of one hundred ships to infest Peloponnesus. In affairs of

such great importance were the Athenians engaged.

The Peloponnesian army, advancing forwards, came up

first to Oenoe, through which they designed to break into

Attica. Encamping before it they made ready their engines,

and all other necessaries for battering the walls. For Oenoe,

being a frontier-town between Attica and Boeotia, was walled

about, since the Athenians were used, upon the breaking out

of war, to throw a garrison into it. The enemy made great

preparations for assaulting it, and by this and other means

spent no little time before it.

This delay was the occasion of drawing very heavy cen­

sures on Archidamus. He had before this been thought

