B. II. 137 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

manders in the expedition were Carcinus son of Xenotimus,

Proteas son of Epicles, and Socrates son of Antigenes. Un­

der their orders, the fleet so furnished out weighed anchor

and sailed away.

The Peloponnesians, continuing in Attica till provisions

began to fail them, retired not by the same route they camt

in, but marched away through Boeotia. And passing by

Oropus, they wasted the tract of ground called Piraice, which

was occupied by the Oropians, who were subject to Athens.

On their return into Peloponnesus, the army was dispersed

into their several cities.

After their departure, the Athenians settled the proper

stations for their guards both by land and sea, in the same

disposition as they were to continue to the end of the war.

They also made a decree, that " a thousand talents should be

taken from the fund of treasure in the citadel, and laid up

by itself; that this sum should not be touched, but the ex­

pense of the war be defrayed from the remainder—and, that

if any one moved or voted for converting this money to any

other use, than the necessary defence of the city, in case the

enemy attacked it by sea, he should suffer the penalty of

death." Beside this, they selected constantly every year a

hundred of their best triremes, with the due number of able

commanders. These also they made it capital to use upon

any other occasion, than that extremity for which the reserve

of money was destined.

The Athenians on board the fleet of one hundred sail on

the coasts of Peloponnesus, being joined by the Corcyreans

in fifty ships and by some other of their confederates in

those parts, hovered for a time and infested the coast, and

at length made a descent and assaulted Methone a town of

Laconia, whose walls were but weak and poorly manned.

It happened that Brasidas* the son of Tellis a Spartan had

• Here the name of BrcuiJas first occurs, and I must beg tlic reader to

note him as one who is to make no ordinary figure in the sequel. Trained

up through the regular and severe discipline ot Sparta, he was brave, vigi.

lant, and active, lie was second to none of his countrymen, in those ga.A

