184 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

With these forces Cnemus began his march, without

waiting the arrival of the ships from Corinth, and passing

through Argia, they destroyed Limnaea, a village unfortified.

They march next for Stratus, the capital city of Acarnania,

judging that if they first took this, all other places would

readily submit. The Acarnanians, finding a large army

broke in amongst them by land, and more enemies coming

to attack them by sea, gave up all view of succouring one

another, and stood separately on their own defence. They

sent information to Phormio, and requested him to come up

to their relief. He sent them word, " he could not possibly

" leave Naupactus without a guard, when a fleet was ready

" to sail from Corinth." The Peloponnesians and their

allies, dividing themselves into three bodies, advanced to­

wards the city of the Stratians, with a design to appear before

it, and if it did not surrender at once, to storm it without

loss of time. The Chaonians and the rest of the Barbarians

marched in the middle; to the right were the Leucadians,

Anactorians, and their auxiliaries; to the left, Cnemus with

his Peloponnesians, and the Ambraciots ; each body at so

great a distance from the rest, that sometimes they were out

of one another's sight. The Grecians, in their march, kept

firm within ranks, and guarded all their motions, till they

came up to the spot fit for their encampment. But the Cha­

onians, confident of their own bravery, and valuing them­

selves as the most martial people in that part of the world,

could not bear the delay of encamping, but, with the rest of

the Barbarians, rushing eagerly forwards, thought to take the

town at a shout, and carry all the honour. The Stratians

finding them thus advanced, thought, that could they master

them, thus detached, the Grecians would become more averse

to attack them. With this view they place ambuscades in

the approaches of the city; and when the enemy was near,

rush up at once from the places of ambush, and out of the

city, charging them on all sides. The Chaonians are thrown

into consternation, and many of them are slain. The rest

