B. III. 267 TEAR. V. BEFORE CHRIST 427.

of the malccontents within, and the hostile fleet approach­

ing the city. They got sixty ships immediately on float,

and each so fast as it was manned advanced to meet the foe.

The Athenians indeed proposed, to put out first to sea them­

selves ; and that the Corcyreans should afterwards come

out and join them, when they had got all their ships toge­

ther. But, as they advanced in a straggling manner to­

wards the enemy, two ships went directly over to them ; and

on board others the mariners were at blows with one another.

In short, there was no manner of order in any of their mo­

tions. The Lacedaemonians, perceiving how it was, with

twenty of their ships drew up to engage the Corcyrdans, and

opposed the remainder to the twelve Athenian, two of which

were only the Salaminian and the Paralus.

The Corcyrians, who charged in this disorderly manner,

and with few ships in a line, were on their side terribly dis­

tressed ; whilst the Athenians, fearing, lest the other, vastly

superior in number, might quite surround their little squa­

dron, would not venture to attack them when altogether, nor

to break upon the middle of the enemy's line ; but, assault­

ing them towards one of the extremities, sink one of their

ships. Upon this, the Peloponnesians having formed a cir­

cle, the Athenians sailed round and round, and endeavoured

to break their order. Those who pursued the Corcyreans

perceiving this, and fearing what had happened formerly at

Naupactus, steered away from thence to support their own

squadron. And now, with their whole embodied strength,

they designed to pour upon the Athenians. They, having

already shifted the helm, fell gradually away. They were

desirous to favour the flight of the Corcyrtans beyond the

possibility of a chace, and so they fell off entirely at their

own leisure, keeping the enemy in their front still ranged in

order. Such was this engagement, which at the setting of

the sun was quite ended.

The Corcyreans were afraid lest the enemy, in prosecu­

tion of their victory, shoidd immediately assault the city, or

