102 THE PELOPONNESIANTVAR.

siding chiefly at Argos, though he frequently visited other

parts of Peloponnesus, they send a party along with the La­

cedaemonians, who readily joined in his pursuit, with orders to

seize him wherever they could find him. Themistocles, ad­

vised in time, flieth out of Peloponnesus into Corcyra, to

which people he had done a signal kindness*. The Corcy-

reans expressing their fear of giving him refuge, lest it might

expose them to the resentment both of Lacedaemonians and

Athenians, he is conveyed away by them to the opposite con­

tinent. Now, pursued by those who were appointed to do it,

and who had by enquiry discovered his route, he is compelled

by mere distress to turn in to Admetus king of the Molos-

siansf, who was by no means his friend. It happened that

Admetus was not at home ; and Themistocles, the suppliant,

addressing himself to the wife, is by her directed to take their

child in his hand, and sit himself down upon the hearth. Ad­

metus returning soon after, he tells him who he was, and

conjures him—" though he had formerly opposed him in a

" suit he had preferred to the people of Athens, not to take

" revenge upon an exile. To make him suffer now, would

" be taking those advantages over a man in distress, which he

" ought to disdain—The point of honour consisted in equals

" revenging themselves upon equal terms—He had, it is

" true, stood in opposition to him, but merely in a point

" of interest, and not where life was at stake—But if he now

" gave him up" (telling him by whom, and why he was perse­

cuted) " he deprives him of the only resource he had left to

" preserve his life." Admetus, having heard him, bids him

of the (utracitm. I have mentioned those points only which are universally

agreed.

• At the time of the Persian invasion, the Corcyreans had refused tc join

the common cause of Greece. The Grecians therefore had afterwards a

design to fall upon and destroy them. But Themistocles interposed, and

saved them by remonstrating, that by such proceedings Greece would be

plunged into greater calamities, than it would have suffered under the des­

potic power of Xerxes.

t Admetus had formerly negotiated an alliance at Athens, but was re­

jected by the influence of Themistocles.

