B. I. 19 INTRODUCTION.

Corinth, make there a tender of the colony, representing

that " the leader of it had been at Corinth," and communi足

cating the oracle ; and farther intreated them " not to look

on with eyes of unconcern till their destruction was com-

pleated, but to undertake their redress." The Corinthians

granted them their protection from a regard to justice, ima足

gining themselves to be no less interested in this colony than

the Corcyreans. But they were also actuated by a hatred

of the Corcyreans, from whom, though a colony of their

own, they had received some contemptuous treatment: For

they neither paid them the usual honour on their public so足

lemnities, nor began with a Corinthian in the distribution of

the sacrifices, which is always done by other colonies. This

their contempt was founded as well on the sufficiency of

their own wealth, in which at that time they equalled the

richest of the Greeks, as on the superiority of their military

force. Their insolence became greater, in time, with the

enlargement of their navy, and they assumed glory to them足

selves in a naval character as succeeding the Phaeacians in

the possession of Corcyra. This was their chief incentive to

furnish themselves with a naval strength, and in it they were

by no means inconsiderable : For they were masters of an

hundred and twenty triremes, when they began this war.

Upon all these reasons the resentments of the Corinthians

rising high against them, they undertook with pleasure the

relief of Epidamnus ; encouraging all who were so disposed,

to go and settle there, and sending thither a garrison of Am-

braciots and Leucanians and their own people. These

marched by land to Apollonia, which is a colony of the

Corinthians, from a dread of the Corcyreans, lest they

should have hindered their passage had they attempted it

by sea.

As soon as the Corcyreans heard that the new inhabitants

and garrison were got to Epidamnus, and that the colony

was delivered into the hands of the Corinthians, they grew

hot with indignation: and putting out immediately with

