DISCOURSE III.

bay of Crissa. Their squadrons cruized round and quite

awed the coasts of Peloponnesus. Their interest at Ce-

phallene, and the new alliance which gained them the acces­

sion of the naval strength of Corcyra, rendered them masters

of the Ionian, and they had colonies to extend their traffic and

influence both in Italy and Sicily.

These points are opened step by step in this digression by

Thucydides, till jealousy in the Lacedaemonians and malice

in the Corinthians irritated all the Peloponnesian States and

their allies against them, and ended in the determination for

war. The Corinthians had now carried their point, and soon

hoped to gratify all their resentments. Accordingly, at the

second grand congress at Sparta, when all the rest of the

States had declared their minds, they warmly encourage them

to enter at once upon an offensive war, in a very studied and

elaborate speech.

" They set out with handsome compliments to the Lace-

" daemonians. They animate the landed States of Pelopon-

" nesus to join effectually with those on the coasts. A firm

" and lasting peace can only be obtained by a vigorous war;

" and the power of Athens must needs be reduced.—They

" open a plan—for establishing funds—for weakening the

" marine of Athens, and consequently for improving and

" strengthening the marine of her enemies—for effectuating

" the revolts of her dependents—and raising fortifications

" in Attica itself. Independence can never be earned at

" too great a price; it costs as much to be voluntary and

" obedient slaves. A single State should never be suffered

" to play the tyrant in Greece. Their own reputation, their

" dignity, their liberty, their welfare, a most righteous cause,

" nay the very Gods themselves summon them to action.

" They close with a very warm and pathetic recapitulation,

" sounding as it were the alarm for the destruction of

" Athens."

Now war is a second time resolved upon by ballot.

All are ordered to get ready, with the utmost dispatch, to be­

