124 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR.

of every state, at the Isthmus. When the whole army was

thus drawn together*, Archidamus king of the Lacedimo-

nians, who commanded in the expedition, convened the com-

manders from all the auxiliary states, with all those that were

in authority, and most fitting to be present, and addressed

them as follows

" PELOPONNESIANS and allies, many are the expe-

" ditions in which our fathers have been engaged both with-

" in and without Peloponnesus. Even some of us, who are

u more advanced in years, are by no means unexperienced

" in the business of war. Yet never before did we take the

" field with a force so great as the present. But, numerous

" and formidable in arms as we may now appear, we are how-

" ever marching against a most powerful state. Thus is it in-

" cumbent upon us to shew ourselves not inferior in valour

" to our fathers, nor to sink below the expectations of the

" world. The eyes of all Greece are fixed attentively on

* our motions. Their good-will to us, their hatred of the

" Athenians, make them wish for our success in all our un-

" dertakings. It is therefore our business, without placing

" too great confidence in superior numbers, or trusting to the

" presumption that our enemies dare not come out to fight

" us—for no reasons like these, to relax our discipline, or

" break the regularity of our march—but, the commander

" of every confederate body and every private soldier ought

" to keep within himself the constant expectation of being

" engaged in action. Uncertain are the turns of war ; great

" events start up from a small beginning, and assaults are

" given from indignation. Nay, frequently an inferior num-

" ber engaging with caution hath proved too hard for a more

" numerous body, whom contempt of their enemy exposeth

" to attacks for which they are not prepared, Upon hostile

" ground, it is always the duty of soldiers to be resolutely

" bold, and keep ready for action with proper circumspection.

• Plutarch informs us, tbat the number amounted to sixty thousand,

