PREFACE.

their applause, the clamour of some will not terrify, nor the

silence of others mortify at all. The bookseller, it is true,

forms his own judgment, and then dictates to the judgment

of others from the sale. And it must be owned, that every

original writer as well as every copyist is heartily glad to re­

ceive that mark of public approbation.

The present translation of Thucydides Is accompanied with

a few notes, and three preliminary Discourses. Concerning

each of these something must be added.

The notes are only designed for the English reader, to give

him light into that antiquity, with which he may be little ac­

quainted : And therefore the first time that any thing rela­

ting to the constitution or forms of the Athenian republic, or

peculiar to their fleets and land armies occurs, I have endea­

voured in a note.to give him a competent perception of it.

I have done the same in regard to the characters of the chief

personages in the history, which seemed to need a farther

opening than what Thucydides hath given them. The per­

sons were well known when he wrote : But a modern reader

may not be displeased to be regularly introduced, and early

to be made acquainted with the characters of the principal

agents in these busy and important scenes. In notes of ver­

bal criticism or mere learning I have been very sparing,

judging they would never be read with patience.

Of the preliminary Discourses, the two first were due, by -V

the rules of decorum observed by editors and translators, to

the author. In the last, I have thrown into one continued

discourse what might have been broke into pieces, and inter­

spersed occasionally by way of notes. The method observed

appeared most eligible, as it will give the reader a clear pros­

pect of the whole history ; preparing him for or inciting him

to a close and attentive perusal of it; or enabling him, after

he hath perused it, to recollect the most instructive passages

and most material occurrences. By this means also, a more

lively and succinct account could be given of the speakers and

