10 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

tions prior to this, and even this, the most celebrated of all

that ever happened, are plainly found to have been less in re­

ality than they are in fame or current estimation at present

through poetical assistance.

/ Nor did the prosperous event of the Trojan expedition put

/ an end to the unsettled and fluctuating state of Greece, or

secure that tranquillity so necessary to advancement. The

return of the Grecians from Ilium, after so long-an absence,

gave rise to many innovations. Seditions were excited in

almost every city; and those who were forced to withdraw,

built cities for themselves in other places. The present Boeo­

tians, for instance, being driven out of Arne by the Thessa-

lians, sixty years after the taking of Troy, planted them­

selves in the country now called Boeotia, though before that

time Cadmeis: But a body of them had already seated them­

selves there, of whom were those who went in the expedition

against Troy: And eighty years after it, the Dorians with the

Heraclidae took possession of Peloponnesus. It was not

without much ado and length of time, that Greece quiet and

settled at home had opportunity to send colonies abroad.

Then the Athenians planted Ionia and most of the islands;

the Peloponnesians the greatest part of Italy and Sicily, and

even some colonies in the different tracts of Greece. But all

these transactions are of a later date than the Trojan war.

But when once the state of Greece was grown more ro­

bust, and increase of wealth became their study more than

ever before, as the public revenues grew apace, in many

places tyrannies started up: For before this kingdoms were

hereditary and with limited authority. Now Greece through­

out was employed in building navies, and became addicted

to naval affairs with unusual application. The Corinthians

are said to have been the first, who by varying the make of

their ships, brought them to that model which is now in use,

and Corinth to be the first place of Greece where triremes*

' The triremes were the ships of war, of the galley kind, and take their

name from the three banks of oars with which they were furnished. They

