204 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

paration of the Peloponnesian fleet, coasting from thence under

the command of Phormio, appeared before Astacus. Making

there a descent, they pierced into the midland parts of Acarna-

nia, with four hundred heavy-armed Athenians from on board

the fleet, and four hundred Messenians ; and expelled from

Stratus, Coronta, and other places, the disaffected part of the in­

habitants ; and having re-established at Coronta, Cynes, the

son of Theolytus, embarked again on board their ships. They

judged it not adviseable in the winter season, to undertake

any thing against the Oeniadae, the only people of Acarnania

who had persisted in continual hostilities against them. For

the river Achelous, that takes its rise from mount Pindus,

and runs through Dolopia, the provinces of the Agraans and

the Amphilochians, and all the plains of Acarnania, passing

above by the city of Stratus, and discharging itself into the sea

near the Oeniadae, renders all the adjacent country one conti­

nued morass, and by a stagnation of water makes it impracti­

cable for an army in the winter-season. Most of the isles of

the Echinades lie over-against the Oeniade, not greatly distant

from the mouth of the Achelous; insomuch that the river

being great, causeth a continual afflux of sand, and by it some

of these islands are already joined to the main-land; and it

is expected that all the rest in a short time will be so too :

For the current is large and rapid, and brings down with it

great quantities of sand. The isles stand thick ; and stopping,

bind fast together from farther dissipation, the sands brought

down by the current. They lie not in a line, but in an al­

ternate situation one from another, preventing the strait

course of the waters forwards into the sea. They are further

uncultivated, and of no large extent. The tradition is—that

" all the time with Sitalces. He is an honest heart, and loves Athenians

"dearly. In good truth, he is doatingly fond of you all: He is for ever

" writing upon the walls, O rare Athenians J And his son, whom we made

"an Athenian, longs mightily for some of your dainty sausages, and hath

"pressed his father to succour his dear countrymen. He, at a solemn sa-

" crifice, swore he would; and hath got such a numerous army at his

" heels, that the Athenians cry out What a vast swarm of gnats is

" coming along here !"

