26 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" ours will turn out highly to your honour upon several

" accounts.

" In the firstplace, you will favour those with your assist-

" ance who have felt but never committed injustice. In the

" next place, by protecting those whose lives and liberties are

" at stake, you will confer so vast an obligation that the memo-

" ry of it can never be abolished. We are now masters of

" the greatest naval force except your own. Consider there-

" fore how fair an occasion, very seldom to be met with, of

" the greatest advantage to yourselves, of the greatest vexation

" to your enemies, now lieth before you ; when that very

" power, the accession of which you would readily have pur-

" chased with ample sums of money and a weight of obliga-

" tion, cometh here to invite your acceptance and make a ten-

" der of itself without any danger or expence to you ; nay,

*4 what is more, enabling you to gain the praise of the world,  
" the grateful acknowledgments of those you defend, and an

" increase of power to yourselves. Few people, in pre-

" ceding ages, have ever had at any one time so many fine op-

" portunities within their reach. And few there are, who,

" suing for alliance, do it not rather from a view of receiving

" than conferring security and reputation by their suit.

" If there be any one amongst you, who imagineth that war

" will never happen in which we may do you service, in such

" imagination he is quite mistaken. He doth not penetrate

" the designs of the Lacedaemonians, who, alarmed at your

" power, are intent on war ;1 nor those of the Corinthians,

" who, powerful of themselves, and your enemies, have begun

" with us to open the way for attacking you ; that, united by

" common resentments, we might not stand up in our mutual

" defence against their violence: nor they be disappointed at

" least in one of their views, either effectually to humble us,

" or securely to establish their own power. It is your in-

" terest to prevent them, by accepting that alliance which we

" offer, and rather to anticipate their designs than countef-

" plot them when ripening into act.

