INTRODHCTIOJJ. 55

" to any stranger who hath appeared amongst you. We our*

" selves shewed further, on this occasion, the most daring cou-

" rage; since, though none before marched up to our succour,

" and every state already enslaved had opened the road against

" us, we bravely determined to abandon even Athens, to de-

M stroy our own effects, nor, like the generality of those who

u were yet undemolished, to desert the common cause, or, dis-

" persing ourselves, to become useless to our allies, but—

" to embark at once, to face the urgent danger, without the

* least resentment against you for your preceding backward-  
" ness of aid. So that we avfer the service we then did you

" to be no less than what we afterwards received. Forto our

" aid indeed at last you came, from cities yet inhabited, from

" cities you ever designed should still be inhabited, when once

" you were alarmed for your own safety much more than for

" ours. So long as we were safe, your presence was in vain

" expected: But we, launching forth from a city no longer our

" own, and hazarding our all for a place we almost despaired

" of recovering, effected our own preservation, and with it, in

" a great measure, yours. Had we, overcome wUhiear, gone

" over early to the Mede, as others did, to save our lands ; had

" we afterwards not dared, as men undone beyond recovery,

" to throw ourselves on board ; you never had been obliged

" to fight at sea, as not having sufficient strength to do it; but

" decided. Themistocles, however, waa celebrated and honoured as the

" man, who, in prudence, far surpassed all the Grecians then alive. Thus

" denied the honour due to him for having undoubtedly excelled them all

" in the affair of Salamis, he immediately repaired to Lacedaemon, desirous

" to have justice done him there. The Lacedaemonians received him no-

" bly, and honoured him abundantly. They gave indeed to Euribiades the

" crown of olive as first in valour; but for wisdom and dexterity they be-

" stowed a second crown of olive on Themistocles. They presented him

" further with the first chariot in Sparta. And after so much applause, he

" was conducted, in his return, to the frontier of Tegea, by three hundred

" picked Spartans, who composed the royal guard. He was «4>e only per-

" son ever known Ui have received such a compliment from the Spartan1!."

Herodotus in Urania-

