1. II. 133 YEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431.

too dilatory in gathering together the confederate-army, and

too much attached to the Athenians, because he never de­

clared warmly for the war. But after the army was drawn

together, his long stay at the Isthmus, and the slow marches

he had made from thence, exposed him to calumny, which

was still heightened by the length of the siege of Oenoe :

For, in this interval of delay, the Athenians had without mo­

lestation withdrawn all their effects from the country, though

it was the general opinion, that, had the Peloponnesians ad­

vanced with expedition, they might undoubtedly have seized

them, were it not for these dilatory proceedings of Archi-

damus. Under such a weight of resentment did Archida-

mus still lie with his army before Oenoe. His remissness

was said to be owing to his presumption, that the Athenians,

if their territory was spared, would make some concessions,

and that they dreaded nothing more than to see it destroyed.

But after their assault on Oenoe, and the successive mis­

carriage of all the methods employed to take it, the Athe­

nians still resolutely refraining from the least shew of sub­

mission, they broke up the siege and marched into Attica,

in the height of summer, when the harvest was ripe, about

eighty days after the Thebans had miscarried in the surprize

of Plataea. They were still commanded by Archidamus son

of Zeuxidamus, king of the Lacedaemonians, and having

formed their camp began their devastations. They first of

all ravaged Eleusis and the plain of Thriasia. Near Rheiti

they encountered and put to flight a party of Athenian horse.

Then they advanced farther into the country through Ce-

cropia, leaving mount iEgaleon on their right, till they came

to Acharnae, the greatest of all those which are called The

Boroughs of Athens. They sat down before it, and having

fortified their camp, continued a long time there, laying all

the adjacent country waste.

The design of Archidamus in stopping thus before Achar-

nae, keeping there his army ready for battle, and not march­

ing down there this first campaign into the plains, is said to

Vol. I. 3 H

