-280 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

from this colony; and the reason was this : The Thessalians,

who were masters of all the country round about it, and up­

on whose very land it was built, fearing lest this new settle­

ment might prove too powerful a neighbour at last, gave it

all possible annoyance, and harassed the new inhabitants

with continual war, till from the large number they were at

first, they mouldered into nothing. When the Lacedaemo­

nians first declared the colony, the whole world was eager

to get a settlement in the city, which they thought would

want no support. Not but that its sudden decay was owing

also in great measure to the Lacedaemonian leaders. From

the first moment of their arrival they had spoiled every thing

wherein they meddled ; they reduced their numbers to a

handful of men, because their fears had driven away the rest,

as the government was always severe, and not always just.

The neighbouring people, surprising them in such a state,

prevailed against them with the utmost ease.

The same summer, and even during that interval of time

the Athenians were employed at Melos, the Athenians of

the fleet of thirty sail who were upon the Peloponnesian

coast, in the first place, having placed an ambush at Elo-

menus of Leucadia, intercepted and cut off a part of the

garrison. In the next place, with an augmented force they

came up to Leucas, being attended now by the whole

strength of the Acarnanians except the Oeniadae, by the Za-

cynthians and Cephallenians, and fifteen sail of Corcyreans.

The Leucadians, though their territory was laid waste both

without and within the Isthmus, where the city of Leucas and

the temple of Apollo are seated, yet durst not venture out

against such superior numbers. Upon this, the Acarnani­

ans vehemently pressed it upon Demosthenes the Athenian

general, to block them up by a wall of circumvallation ;

imagining they might easily reduce them, and rid them­

selves of a city, which had been their eternal foe. But De­

mosthenes chose rather to hearken at this time to the sug­

gestions of the Messenians ; " how glorious it would be, as he

