B. III. YEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426. 289

the sea side. This place had been formerly fortified by the

Acarnanians, who used it for the public tribunal of justice.

It is distant from the city of Argos, which is also a maritime

town, about twenty-five stadia*. The Acarnanians were

now in motion, some running to the defence of Argos, others

to encamp at the important post of Crena in Amphilochia,

to observe the motions of the Peloponnesians commanded by

Eurylochus, that they might not perfect their junction with

the Ambraciots, without some molestation on their route.

They also send to Demosthenes the Athenian general in the

iEtolian expedition, to come and put himself at their head ;

and to the Athenian squadron of twenty sail, which was then

upon the coast of Peloponnesus, under the command of Aris­

totle son of Timocrates, and Hierophon son of Antimnestus.

The Ambraciots at Olpae sent also a messenger to their

own city, ordering them, to a man, to come out into the

field. They were afraid lest Eurylochus might not be able

to pass the Acarnanians, and so they should be compelled

either to fight alone ; or, should they attempt a retreat, to

find it full of danger.

But the Peloponnesians commanded by Eurylochus had

no sooner heard that the Ambraciots were at Olpae, than

dislodging from Proschium they marched with all expedi­

tion to their support. After passing the Achelous, they took

the route of Acarnania, desolate at present, as the inhabi­

tants were fled to the defence of Argos, having on their right

the city and garrison of the Stratians, and the rest of Acar­

nania on their left. When they had passed through the ter­

ritory of the Stratians, they crossed Phytia, and again through

the extremity of Medeon, and then marched across Lim-

naea. They now entered the kingdom of the Agraans,

which had deserted the Acarnanian to favour the Pelopon-

nesian interest. Securing then the mountain Thyamus, a

wild uncultivated spot, they crossed it, and descended thence

About two miles and a. half.

