2 THE PELOPONKESIAN WAR.

by sea and land, as then the only view of culture was to

earn a penurious subsistence, and superfluous wealth was a

thing unknown, as planting was not their employment, it

being uncertain how soon an invader might come and dis­

lodge them from their unfortified habitations, and as they

thought they might every where find their daily necessary

support, they hesitated but little about shifting their seats:

And for this reason they never flourished in the greatness of

their cities or any other circumstance of power. But the

richest tracts of country ever were more particularly liable

to this frequent change of inhabitants, such as that which is

now called Thessaly, and Boeotia, and Peloponnesus most­

ly except Arcadia, and in general every the most fertile

part of Greece. For the natural wealth of their soil increas­

ing the power of some amongst them, that power raised

civil dissentions, which ended in their ruin, and at the same

time exposed them more to foreign attacks. It was only

the barrenness of the soil that preserved Attica through the

longest space of time quiet and undisturbed, in one unin­

terrupted series of possessors. One, and not the least con­

vincing, proof of this is, that other parts of Greece, because

of the fluctuating condition of the inhabitants, could by no

means in their growth keep pace with Attica. The most

powerful of those, who were driven from the other parts of

Greece by war or sedition, betook themselves to the Athe­

nians for secure refuge, and as they obtained the privileges

of citizens*, have constantly, from remotest time, continued

to enlarge that city with fresh accessions of inhabitants, in-

• They were admitted to the same privileges with free born Athenians.

But this was practised only in the infancy and early growth of that state.

It was afterwards an honour veiy seldom and with difficulty granted. Those

who came from other places to settle at Athens are distinguished from

mAitmi citizens, by the name of fi-iroiKti sojourners. who had taken up

their residence and cohabited with them. They performed several duties

as subjects to the state which gave them protection, but never became

Athenians, or citizens of Athens, in the emphatical sense of those terms.

The English reader will please to remember this, as the distinction often

uccurs in the sequel of our history.

