B. I. INTRODUCTION.

gained a compleat victory at Oenophyta*; in consequence

of which, they seized all the territories of Bosotia and Phocis,

and levelled the walls of Tanagra. They took from the Lo-

crians of Opus one hundred of their richest persons for hos­

tages ; and had now completed their own long-walls at

Athens.

Soon after, the iEginete surrendered to the Athenians upon

terms.—They " demolished their fortifications, gave up their

shipping, and submitted to pay an annual tribute for the

future."

The Athenians, farther, in a cruize, infested the coast of

Peloponnesus, under the command of Tolmidas, the son of

Tolmaeus. They burnt a dock of the Lacedaemonians, took

Chalcis, a city belonging to the Corinthians, and landing

their men, engaged with and defeated the Sicyonians.

During all this interval, the army of the Athenians and

allies continued in Egypt, amidst various incidents and events

of war. At first, the Athenians had the better of it in Egypt.

Upon this, the king] dispatched to Lacedaemon, Megabazus,

a Persian noble, furnished with great sums of money, in order

to prevail upon the Lacedaemonians to make an incursion into

Attica, and force the Athenians to recal their troops from

Egypt: When Megabazus could not prevail, and some money

had been spent to no manner of purpose, he carried back

what was yet unexpended with him into Asia. He then send-

• This battle is represented by some as more glorious to the Athenians

than even those of Marathon or Plataea. In the latter they fought, accom­

panied by their allies, against Barbarians ; but here, with their own single

force, they defeated a far more numerous body of the choicest and best

disciplined troops in Greece. Plato hath marked it in his Funeral Oration,

and told us those who fell in this battle were the first who were honoured

with a public interment in the Ceramicus. " These brave men (says he,

'' as translated by Mr. West), having fought against Grecians for the liber-

" ties of Grecians, and delivered those whose cause they had undertaken

" to defend, were the first after the Persian war upon whom the common-

" wealth conferred the honour of being buried in this public cemetery."

t Alexander Longimanui

