B. III. YEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426. 291

select party, was posted there over-against the Messenians

and Demosthenes.

No sooner was the battle joined, and the Peloponnesians

on that wing were moving forward their superior numbers

to surround the right of their adversaries, than the Acarna-

nians, starting up from their ambuscade, falling upon them

in the rear, assault and put them to flight. They gave way

before the very first shock, and struck such a consternation

into the bulk of the army, that they also began to run: For

they no sooner saw the party with Eurylochus, and which

was the flower of their strength, intirely broke, than they felt

a panic for themselves. And the Messenians, who fought

at the same post with Demosthenes, behaved so very well

that they finished the rout. The Ambraciots in the mean

time, and those in the right, had got the better of their oppo­

nents, and were pursuing them towards Argos ; for, beyond

a doubt, they are the most warlike people of any in those

parts. But when they were returned from the pursuit, they

perceived the bulk of their army was defeated; and the rest

of the Acarnanians beginning to charge them, with much dif­

ficulty they threw themselves into Olpae. The number of the

slain was great, as they had made their attacks without any

order, and with the utmost confusion: We must except the

Mantineans, who kept most firmly together, and retreated in

the best order of the whole enemy. The battle was ended

only with the night.

The next morning, as Eurylochus was killed and Maca-

rius also, the command devolved upon Menedaeus. The de­

feat was irrevocably great, and he was highly perplexed—

whether he should abide a siege, in which he must not only

be shut up by land, but by the Athenian ships be blocked

up also by sea—or, whether he should ei.deavour to secure

his retreat. At length—he treats with Demosthenes and

the Acarnanians for a suspension of arms both for his own

departure and the fetching off the dtad. The dead they

at once delivered, and set up atrophy themselves, and took

