1|8 tHE I'ELbPOKNEftlAN WAR.

" which would not amount to less than five hundred talents."

—He mentioned further, " the great wealth that wa6 stored

" up in other temples, which they had a right to use ; and if

" this right should be denied them, they might have re-

" course to the golden ornaments of the Goddess herself."

He declared, " that her image had about it to the weight

" of forty talents of gold without alloy, all which might be

" taken off from the statue.—That, for the preservation of

" their country it might lawfully be employed ;" but added

" that it ought afterwards to be amply replaced." In this

manner did he render them confident that their funds of

money would suffice. -He told them further, that "they

" had thirteen thousand men that wore heavy armour, ex-

" elusive of those that were in garrisons, and the sixteen

" thousand on the guard of the city ;"—for so large a num­

ber, draughted from the youngest and oldest citizens and

sojourners, who wore the heavy armour, was employed in

this service upon the first invasion of their enemies. For

the length of the Phalerian-wall to the place where it joined

the circle of the city was thirty-five stadia*, and that part

of the circular wall which was guarded was forty-threef in

length; but that which lay between the long wall and the

Phalerian had no guard. The long walls continued down

to the Piraeus are forty stadia}:, but the outermost of them

only was guarded. The whole compass of the Piraeus, in­

cluding Munichia, is sixty stadia^, but then only one half

of this had a guard||. He then assured them, that "they

" had, including the archers that were mounted, twelve

" hundred horsemen, sixteen hundred archers, and three

" hundred triremes fit for sea."—So great in general, and

• About 3J English miles. f Above 4 miles.

\ About 4 English miles. § About 6 English miles.

|| The whole compass of the walls of Athens was 178 stadia, or above 22

Attic miles. But, according to Dr. Arbuthnot, the Attic mile consisted of

but 805 paces, whereas the English is 1056. Hence, the compass of Athens

appears to have been about 17 English miles.

