DISCOURSE III. IXXXJ

fact wert butchers. It was a case of great commiseration,

and the speaker lays it open with all that natural eloquence

which flows from an inward and keen sensibility. If men

were not deaf to persuasion, it must have persuaded. The

cause was most alarming, and a more pathetic plea hath never

been exhibited.

" They insist that on a fair and explicit condition they

" had surrendered to the Lacedaemonians, whereas now they

" were prejudged and precondemned to gratify their unre-

" lenting foes the Thebans. The insidious question left them

" no plea at all. They could not answer it, and must not

" be silent. Since life is at stake, something must be said,

" even by men who despair of persuading. Their quarrel

" with the Thebans had been just and honourable; quarrel

" with the Lacedaemonians they never had any. Nay,

" merely at the desire of the latter had they cultivated

" Athenian friendship, that unpardonable crime, for which

" they were now doomed to destruction. They expatiate

" with truth and energy on the great services they had done

" to the liberty of Greece. All Greece was bound in ho-

*4 nour, in gratitude, in deference to positive and solemn  
" oaths, to preserve the Plataeans. Ought every tie to be

" rent asunder, generosity to be quite expunged, and all be-

" nevolence thrown aside, to serve a private turn ? Ought

" Plataeans to be thus basely reduced, as they really had

" been, either to be starved or to be butchered ? The Lace-

" cUemonians should intreat the Thebans for them, should

" beg them to save the lives of friends and benefactors ; at

" least should replace them within their walls, and leave

" them to the fate of war. They apply to their generosity,

" to their humanity ; they strive to give them some emotions

" of pity; they represent the liableness of mankind to cala-

" mity; how brutal it is to be deliberately hard-hearted;

" how sinful it is to be resolutely ungrateful! They call upon

" heaven and earth to interpose in their behalf; they run

" over every pathetic and persuasive topic ; until they can

Voi. I. L

