2j2 • THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

teus the son of Pellicas, Callicrates the son of Callias, and

Timanor the son of Timanthes: Those of the land forces

were Archetimus, the son of Eurytimus, and Isarchidas the

son of Isarchus.

When they were come up as far as Actium, in the district

of Anactorium, where standeth the temple of Apollo, in the

mouth of the gulf of Ambracia, they were met by a herald,

dispatched expressly in a row-boat by the Corcyreans, forbid­

ding them " at their peril to proceed." But at the same time

the Corcyreans were busied at home in manning their own

ships, repairing such as were old, to make them fit for service,

and equipping the rest with the utmost expedition. When

the herald brought back nothing pacific from the Corinthians,

and their squadron was now compleated to eighty ships (for

they had forty employed in the siege of Epidamnus), they

sailed in quest of the enemy, and drawing up against them,

came to an engagement. The victory fell beyond dispute to

the side of the Corcyreans, and fifteen ships of the Corinthi­

ans were utterly destroyed.

Their good fortune was such, that on the very same day Epi­

damnus was surrendered to the besiegers upon a capitulation,

by which " all the strangers in the place were to be sold for slaves,

" but the Corinthians to be detained prisoners at discretion."

After the engagement at sea, the Corcyreans having

erected a trophy* upon Leucimna, a promontory of Cor-

• This was constantly done by the Grecians upon a victory. Nay, when

the victory was claimed on both sides, both sides erected trophies, of which

several instances occur in Thucydides. The trophies for a victory at land

were decked out with the arms they had taken : Those for a victory at sea,

with arm s also, and the shatters of the enemy's ships. "To demoKsh a tro-

" phy was looked on as unlawful, and a kind of sacrilege, because they were

" all consecrated to some deity : Nor was it less a crime to pay divine ado.

" ration before them, or to repair them when decayed, as may be likewise

Cl observed of the Roman triumphal arches : This being the means to revive

" the memory of forgotten quarrels, and engage posterity to revenge the

" disgrace of their ancestors : For the same reason, those Grecians, who

" tirst introduced the custom of erecting pillars for trophies, incurred a se-

'• vere censurr from the ages thry lived in." Putter's Archwlogia, vol. ii. c.
1.2-

