200 THE PELOPONNEBIAN VAlt.

to all his officers and the noble Odryssians. The custom

observed by them and general to all the Thracians, " of

receiving rather than bestowing," was contrary to that which

prevails in the Persian court, where it was a greater shame

to be asked and to deny, than to ask and be denied. Yet,

as their power was great, this practice continued long in

vogue amongst them; for nothing could be obtained by

him who brought no present: And this afforded a large in­

crease of power to his kingdom. It had the greatest reve­

nue, and was in other respects the most flourishing of all

the kingdoms in Europe between the gulf of Ionia and the

Euxine sea. But in military strength and numerous armies,

it was the second, though at a great distance from the Scy­

thians. For there is no one nation in Europe, nor even in

Asia, that in these points can in any degree be a match for

them; or when standing singly, nation against nation, is

able to make head against the Scythians, united and in good

harmony with one another. Yet, at the same time, in every

point of conduct, and management of all the necessary af­

fairs of life, they fall vastly short of other people.

Sitalces therefore, who was king of so large a country,

got his army together; and, when every thing was ready,

marched against Macedonia. He first of all passed through

his own dominions; then over Cercine a desert mountain,

the boundary between the Sintians and Paeonians. He went

over it by a passage he had, by cutting down the wood,

made formerly himself, in an expedition against the Paeo-

nians. In their march from Odrysae over this mountain,

they left the Paeonians on their right, but on their left the

Sintians, and Mcedians. On their descent from it, they ar­

rived at Doberus, a city of Paeonia. He lost none of his

army in the march, but by sickness; notwithstanding which

it was very much increased : For many of the free Thra­

cians came daily in without invitation, and followed for the

sake of plunder ; so that the whole number is said at last to

have amounted to a hundred and fifty thousand. Of these.

