B. II. TEAK III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 187

a land-army, but that the ships must fall foul upon one ano­

ther, and the small vessels within give them no little embar­

rassment ; that further, the wind would blow out of the gulf,

as was usual every morning ; in expectation of which he con­

tinued to sail round about them, and then they could not pos­

sibly keep firm in their stations for any time. He thought

farther, that the time of engagement was entirely in his own

power, as his ships were best sailers, and that it was most ad-

viseable to begin at such a juncture. As soon as that wind be­

gan to rise, and the greater ships, now contracted into a nar­

row circle, were disordered both by the wind and the smaller

vessels within, one falling foul upon another, the poles ap­

plied to push them off again ; amidst the noise caused by this

.confusion, calling out to take care, and cursing one another,

they could no longer hear the orders of their commanders or

their masters ; and the sea beginning to run so high as to ren­

der useless the oars of unexperienced mariners, as they were,

they left the unmanageable ships to the pilots' art. Exactly

at this juncture Phormio gives the signal. The Athenians

engage, and at the first shock sink one of the admiral-ships,

and several more afterwards in the different parts of the en­

gagement: They pursued their success with so much fury,

that amidst the general disorder not one durst think of resist­

ing, but all with the greatest precipitation, fled towards Pa-

tra e and Dyme of Achaia. The Athenians pursuing, and

taking twelve of their ships, and having slaughtered most of

the crews, draw off to Molychrium ; and having erected a

trophy on the promontory, and consecrated a ship to Nep­

tune, returned to their station at Naupactus.

The Peloponnesians, without loss of time, crept along

the coast with the remnant of their fleet saved at Patra and

Dyme, to Cyllene a dock belonging to the Eleans ; whither,

after the battle of Stratus, arrived also from Leucas, Cnemus

and the ships of that station, which ought to have been

joined by these other. The Lacedaemonians send thither

Timocrates, Brasidas, and Lycophron to assist Cnemus in

