PREFAGE.

himself for an explanation of his own meaning, must exceed­

ingly often get quite wide of the sense. The writers of

Scholia and the notes of verbal critics put us frequently on a

wrong scent, and more frequently leave us utterly in the dark.

But, if we will be patient at a dead lift, something will soon

occur in the author himself to help us out, the obscurity will

vanish, and light beam in upon us. Though sometimes we

may be forced to divine his meaning, since in many cases it

is vain to apply to the aids of Grammar to develope the con­

struction, yet the context at length will shew whether we have

succeeded, or help us to ascertain the sense. This however

demands repeated and attentive revisals. The present trans­

lator hath not been frugal of his time or labour in these points.

And wliether he hath generally succeeded in ascertaining the

thought and properly expressing it in another language, must

be left to the decision, not of men of no learning nor of mere

learning, but to that class of judges, who are well acquainted

with the state of Athens at the time of the history, and are

really Attic both in taste and judgment. This class, it may­

be thought, will be but small: It is larger however, and

higher seated in this our community, than the generality have

either opportunity enough to discover or good nature enough

to own.

The complaints so often made by the most able translators

are indeed alarming. Their performances (they say) may

very much disgrace, but can never commend them. The

praise of all that is clear, and bright, and pleasing, and inn

structive, is reflected back upon the original author; but

every appearance of a different nature is laid with severity of

censure at the door of the translator. If it be so, we know

the terms beforehand on which, either able or unable, we en­

gage, and must patiently acquiesce in the issue. But candor

is always expected, nay ever will be had from persons of

good sense and sound judgment. Few but such may be

pleased with Thucydides either in his old native Greek, or

in a modern English garb ; and, if such confer the honour of

