DISCOURSE II. li

" armies of both parties on the beach, whilst a naval en-

" gagement is yet under decision on the water, sympathising

" in all the contest, adjusting themselves to all the various

" turns of battle, by new attitudes, quick contorsions of the

" body;—All these things are set before the readers in ac-

" tual representation, in all the disposition, all the expres-

" sion and perspicuity of picture." Through the whole

course of the history, a battle either at land or sea is an ob­

ject clear and distinct. The writer is never confounded him­

self, nor throws confusion on his reader. That reader sees

the whole, from the paean of attack to the erecting of the

trophy; he discerns the whole train of fight, and beholds

exactly the loss or gain of the victory. He further assists

at the assemblies of the people and all important consulta­

tions. He learns the state of affairs from the managers

themselves; he hears the debates, is let into the tempers of

the assembly, pries into all the politics, and preconceives

the resolution. Where the politics are bad, he will own no

other could be expected from those who recommend them.

Where they are sound and good, nor wilfully severed from

duty to their country, and in moral consistence with the

welfare of their fellow-creatures, the reader will applaud,

and think he hath been himself discovering the fine maxims

which the author hath been teaching, who never appears

in person, never puffs his own integrity and discernment,

and without digressing into comments or setting up for a

politician, is found upon reflexion the best of the kind that

ever wrote.

To quote passages for the proof of his sublime thought

or his pathetic address, would be to transcribe the greater

part of the following history. They will be observed in the

orations of these two different casts, and the incidents of

the work. His figures are thick set; the figures, that regard

both the sentiment and the diction. His metaphors are

strong and uncommon; his hyperboles far but not over­

stretched, the tone is still preserved, they flow out from a

