PREFACE.

Mr. Hobbes declares in his Preface, that " the virtues of

" this author so took his affection, that they begot in him a

M desire to communicate him further." He considered also,

that " he was exceedingly esteemed of the Italian and French

" in their own tongues, notwithstanding that he be not very

" much beholding for it to his interpreters." He says after­

wards, that, by the first translation of Nicholls from the

French of Seyssel, "he became at length traduced rather

" than translated into our language ;" alluding perhaps to the

Italian sarcasm on translators, Traduttore traditore. He then

resolved himself " to take him immediately from the Greek

" —knowing, that when with diligence and leisure I should

" have done it, though some errors might remain, yet they

" would be errors but of one descent; of which nevertheless

" (says he) I can discover none, and hope they be not

" many.

Mr. Hobbes, however sorry and mischievous a philoso­

pher, was undoubtedly a very learned man. He hath shewn

it beyond dispute in his translation of Thucydides. He is

an excellent help, for any one who consults him, to find out

the meaning and adjust the sense. But, though his transla­

tion hath now passed through three editions, and hath pro­

fitably been read by many, yet (I speak not from my own

private judgment) he cannot now be read with any compe­

tent degree of pleasure. He is faithful, but most servilely

so, to the letter of his author. Even in the orations, he mere­

ly acts the interpreter, and hath quite forgot the orator. He

translates literally throughout, and numbers rather than

weighs the words of Thucydides. By this means the con­

struction is very often intricate and confused, the thoughts

pregnant with sense are not sufficiently opened, nor the glow­

ing ideas of the author or his orators transfused with proper

degrees of warmth and light. Too scrupulous an attachment

to the letter of die original hath made the copy quite flat and

heavy, the spirit is evaporated, the lofty and majestic air hath

intirely disappeared. Too many low and vulgar expressions.

