. DISCOURSE in. cvii

not fall immediately into their hands, through the violence

of her own intestine seditions. But the new administration

proved of short continuance ; the democracy, though on a

model somewhat varied, is again established ; and Athens

thus obtains a respite.

Full of matter as this part of the history is, Thucydides

hath kept his narration clear and unembarrassed. But then,

it is a simple, unadorned narration, and never received the

finishing hand. There are scattered occasionally through­

out it some short accounts, in what manner the principal

agents delivered their sentiments at important junctures.

They seem to have been memorials, laid down as the ground­

work, for regular and full orations. The reader will be sorry

the author was hindered, by what accidents can only be

guessed, from drawing out some of them at least into full

proportion; particularly that of the deputation from the

army at Samos to Athens, in which " the people are per-

" suaded to part with their darling democracy „•" of Thrasy-

bulus to the troops at Samos, when they mutiny in favour

of the democracy, in which, " he must pathetically have

" expatiated on the revolt of Athens from liberty and her

" choicest patriots, who might now form another Athens at

" Samos, and preserve her empire, though they had lost

" the city;" that of Alcibiades further, when on his recal-

ment he harangues the army at Samos which recalled him,

where " he deplores the malignity of his fate, magnifies his

" ability yet to serve his country, and again shines in the

" character of an able statesman, a subtle politician, and a

" zealous patriot."

Upon the whole. One point more must be particularly

distinguished in honour of the Athenians. The characters of

them and of the Lacedaemonians are strongly contrasted

through the whole course of this History, and highly to the

credit of the former. Their spirits rise with difficulties, and

patriotism starts out of mutiny and faction. The Lacedae­

monians are indolent in success, and shew neither alacrity

