358 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

things farther were to be atchieved on a day prefixed, that

the Boeotians might be disabled from rushing to the rescue of

Delium with all their force, by the necessity of staying at

home to defend their respective habitations. Should the at­

tempt succeed, and Delium once be fortified, they easily pre­

sumed that, though the change of the Boeotian government

might not suddenly be effected, yet, when those towns were

in their hands, when their devastations were extended all

over the country, and places of safe retreat lay near at hand

for tneir parties, things could not longer remain in their for­

mer posture ; but in process of time, when the Athenians ap­

peared in support of the revolters, and the Boeotians could not

unite in a body to oppose them, the designed revolution must

necessarily take place. This was the nature of the scheme at

present in agitation.

Hippocrates, having the whole force of Athens under his

command, was ready at the proper time to march into Bceo-

tia. But he had dispatched Demosthenes beforehand to

Naupactus with forty ships, that after he had collected a suf­

ficient force in those parts from the Acarnanians and their

other confederates, he should appear with his fleet before

Siphae, which was then to be betrayed to him. A day also

was fixed upon between them, in which both of them were at

once to execute the parts assigned them.

Demosthenes, being arrived at Naupactus, found the Oeni-

adae already compelled by the united Acarnanians into an as­

sociation with the confederates of Athens. He marched away,

therefore, at the head of the whole confederacy in those parts,

and invaded first Salynthius and the Agraeans ; and having

carried some other points, got all in readiness to shew himself

before Siphae at the time appointed.

About the same time this summer, Brasidas, at the head

of seventeen hundred heavy-armed, began his march to­

wards Thrace. When he was come up to Heraclea in Tra-

chis, he dispatched a messenger beforehand to his corres­

pondents in Pharsalus, to beg a safe conduct for himself

