B. II. 127 YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431.

certainly incur the public jealousy. He declared therefore

to the Athenians, in a general assembly of the people—That

" though Archidamus was his friend, he should not be so to

" to the prejudice of the state, and that if the enemy spared

" his lands and houses in the general ravage, he made a free

" donation of them to the public ; so that for any accident of

" that nature he ought not to fall under their censure." He then

exhorted all who were present, as he had done before " to

" prepare vigorously for war, and to withdraw all their ef-

" fects from out of the country—by no means to march out

" against the enemy, but keep within the walls, and mind only

" the defence of the city ;—to fit out their navy, in which their

" strength principally consisted, and keep a tight rein over all

" their dependants. By the large tributes levied upon those,

" he said, their power was chiefly to be supported, since suc-

" cess in war was a constant result from prudent measures

" and plentiful supplies.—He exhorted them by no means to

" let their spirits droop, since besides their certain revenue,

" six hundred talents were annually paid them by their tri-

" butary states, and they had still in the citadel six thou-

" sand talents of silver coined*." Their primary fund was

nine thousand seven hundred talents, out of which had been

taken what defrayed the expence of refitting the gates of

the citadel, of other public works, and the exigencies of

Potidaea.—" That, besides this, they had gold and silver

" uncoined, both in public and private repositories, many

" valuable vases destined for religious uses and their public

"solemnities, and the Persian spoils, the whole value of

• The account here given sheweth Athens at this time to be have been a

very opulent state. Heduced to English money it stands thus The tri­

bute paid them annually amounted to 116,250/. sterling. The fund yet re­

maining in the citadel was 1,162,500/. sterling. Tbey had expended lately

on their public works 3.700 talents, which is equal to 716,875/. sterling.

The weight of the gold on the statue of Minerva was 40 talents, which,

computing the talent only at 65/. Troy, to avoid fractions, and the gold at

4'. sterling an ounce, amounts in value to 124,800/. sterling.

