6. THE PELOPONNE5IAN WAR.

security from the insults of neighbouring people. But those

of an earlier date, having been more subject to piratical de­

predations, are situated at a great distance from the sea,

not only on islands but also upon the main. For even those

who lived upon the coast, though inexpert at sea, were used

to make excursions up into the country for the sake of

plunder: And such inland settlements are discernible to this

very day.

But the people of the islands, that is the Carians and the

Phoenicians, were by much the most expert at these piratical

adventures: For by them the greatest part of the isles was

inhabited. This is proved from the expiation solemnized at

Delos in the course of this war ; on which occasion all the

sepulchres of the dead in that island being broke open, more

than half of the number appeared to be Carians, known to be

such from the weapons found in their graves, and a particu­

larity of interment* still used amongst them. It was not till

after the equipment of fleets by Minos, that a communication

was opened at sea. For by him the mischievous banditti

was ejected from the islands, and many colonies of his own

planted there in their stead. And from this period it was

that the maritime people, grown more intent on the acquisi­

tion of wealth, became also more fond of settled habitations ;

And such of them as then surpassed in wealth strengthened

their settlements by walling them about. And this their pas­

sion for gain continuing to increase, the poorer hired out their

services to those who had affluence ; and the great, who had

all needful supplies at hand, reduced less powerful cities into

their own subjection. And their power by these methods

gradually advancing, they were enabled in process of time to

undertake the Trojan expedition.

• The Carians first invented the boss of shields and the crest of helmets.

In remembrance of this, a small shield and a crest were always buried

with them. By this means were the Carians known. The Ph4enicians

were distinguished by the manner of their interment. For, whereas

<Uier nations laid the faces of their dead towards the east, the Phrenicians

vf CersMl theposture, and laid thrm to the west. Scholiast.

