154- THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

an exact detail of them ; having been sick of it myself, and

seen many others afflicted with it.

This very year, as is universally allowed, had been more

than any other remarkably free from common disorders; or

whatever diseases had seized the body, they ended at length in

this. But those who enjoyed the most perfect health were sud­

denly, without any apparent cause, seized at first with head-

achs extremely violent, with inflammations, and fiery redness

in the eyes. Within—the throat and tongue began instantly to

be red as blood; the breath was drawn with difficulty and had

a noisome smell. The symptoms that succeeded these were

sneezing and hoarseness ; and not long after the malady de­

scended to the breast, with a violent cough; But when once

settled in the stomach, it excited vomitings, in which was

thrown up all that matter physicians call discharges of bile, at­

tended with excessive torture. A great part of the infected

were subject to such violent hiccups without any discharge, as

brought upon them a strong convulsion, to some but of a short,

to others of a very long continuance. The body, to the out­

ward touch, was neither exceeding hot, nor of a pallid hue, but

reddish, livid, marked all over with little pustules and sores.

Yet inwardly it was scorched with such excessive heat, that

it could not bear the lightest covering or the finest linen upon it,

but must be left quite naked. They longed for nothing so

much as to be plunging into cold water; and many of those who

were not properly attended, threw themselves into wells, hur­

ried by a thirst not to be extinguished; and whether they

drank much or little, their torment still continued the same.

The restlessness of their bodies and an utter inability of com­

posing themselves by sleep never abated for a moment. And

the body, so long as the distemper continued in its height,

had no visible waste, but withstood its rage to a miracle, so that

most of them perished within nine or seven days, by the heat

that scorched their vitals, though their strength was not ex­

hausted ; or, if they continued longer the distemper fell in­

to the belly, causing violent ulcerations in the bowels, ac­

companied with an incessant flux, by which many, reduced

