260 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" termined right: And for these, for all offences, you shall

" have your reward.

" We have thus distinctly run over this affair, for your

" sakes, O ye Lacedaemonians, as well for our own ; that you

" may be convinced with how much equity you are going to

" condemn them, and that we have pursued the offenders

" upon yet stronger obligations of justice. Let not the reci-

" tal of their former virtues, if virtues truly they ever had,

" mollify your hearts. Virtue should be pleaded by men

" who have suffered; but, on those who have committed base-

" ness, it should redouble their punishment, because they sin

" in foul contrariety to their former selves. Let them not

" save themselves by lamentations and pathetic complaints,

" though they cried out so movingly upon the sepulchres of

" your fathers, and their own destitute forlorn condition. For

" to stop their cries we have proved against them, that our

" youths, when butchered by them, met with a more cruel

" and unjust fate: those youths, some of whose fathers, re-

" conciling Boeotia with you, died in the field of Coronea; the

" rest, now advanced in years, bereft of their children, their

" houses desolate, prefer a supplication far more just to you,'

" to avenge them upon these Plataeans. Those are most de-

" serving of pity, who have suffered some great indignity;

" but when vengeance is duly inflicted on such men as these

" Plataeans, the world hath cause to triumph. Their present

" destitute forlorn condition is the work of themselves. They

" wilfully rejected a better alliance ; and, though uninjured,

" broke every law against us; executioners of hatred more

" than justice, though now about to suffer less than the prece-

" dent they set requireth. For they shall be executed by

" lawful sentence ; not like men who with stretched-out hands

" obtained fair quarter, as they describe themselves, but who

" surrendered on this condition—to submit to justice.

" Avenge, therefore, O Lacedaemonians, the law of

" Greece so grossly violated by them. Retaliate all the in­

