B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 341

They excessively dreaded the weight of such another calami­

ty, as they had been sensible of in the blow at Sphacteria.

Intimidated thus, they durst no longer think of fighting ; nay,

whatever measures they concerted, they at once desponded

of success, as their minds, accustomed till of late to an unin­

terrupted career of good fortune, were now foreboding

nothing but disappointments. Thus, for the most part,

whilst the Athenians were extending their devastations all

along their coasts, they remained inactive. Each party on

guard, though the enemy made a descent in the face of their

post, knowing themselves inferior in number and sadly dis­

pirited, made no offer to check them. One party indeed,

which was posted near Cortyta and Aphrodisia, perceiving

the light-armed of the enemy to be straggling, ran speedily to

charge them ; but when the heavy-armed advanced to their

support, they retreated with so much precipitation, that some

(though few) of them were killed, and their arms rifled.

The Athenians, after erecting a trophy, re-embarked and re­

passed to Cythera.

From thence they sailed again along the coast to the Li-

merian Epidaurus ; and, after ravaging part of that district,

they arrived at Thyrea, which, though it lies in the district

called Cynuria, is the frontier-town which parts Argia and

Laconia. This place belonged to the Lacedaemonians, who

had assigned it for the residence of the exiled iEginetae, in

requital of the services they had done them at the time of the

earthquake and the insurrection of the Helots, and further

because, though subject to the Athenians, they hadjever firmly

abided in the Lacedaemonian interest. The iEginetae, thus

again invaded by the Athenians, abandoned the fortification

upon the sea-side, which they were busy in throwing up, and

retreated into the city, which was the place of their residence,

seated higher up at the distance of about ten stadia* from

the shore. A party of Lacedaemonians had been posted

Vol. I.

• About a mile.

3L

