B. II. 181 YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429.

wind had happened to have blown along with it, as the ene­

my hoped, they must all unavoidably have perished. It is

now reported, that a heavy rain falling on a sudden, attended

with claps of thunder, extinguished the flames, and put an

end to this imminent danger.

The Peloponnesians, upon the failure of this project,

marched away part of their army ; but, continuing the re­

mainder there, raised a wall of circumvallation quite round

the city, the troops of every confederate state executing a

determinate part of the work. Both inside and outside of

this wall was a ditch, and by first digging these they had

got materials for brick. This work being compleated about •

the rising of Arcturus*, they left some of their own men to

guard half of the wall, the other half being left to the care

of the Boeotians ; then marched away with the main army,

and dismissed the auxiliary forces to their respective cities.

The Plataeans had already sent away to Athens their

wives, their children, their old people, and all the useless

crowd of inhabitants. There were only left in the town

during this siege four hundred Plataeans, eighty Athenians,

and one hundred and ten vomen to prepare their food.

This was the whole number of them when the siege was first

formed ; nor was there any other person within the wall,

either slave or free.—And in this manner was the city of

Plataea besieged in form.

The same summer, and about the time that the army ap­

peared before Plataea, the Athenians, with a body of their

own people, consisting of two thousand heavy-armed, and

two hundred horsemen, invaded the Chalcideans of Thrace

and the Bottiaeans. The corn was in the ear, when this

army was led against them under the command of Xeno-

phon the son of Euripides and two colleagues. Coming up

to Spartolus, a town in Bottiaea, they destroyed the corn, and

hoped to get possession of the place by the management of

• Beginning of September.

Vol. I. 2 O

