THE FELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" tion may not be all our own, yet of a beneficial share we

" ought not to be deprived. This shall boldly be averred;

" not with a view of soothing you but doing justice to our-

" selves, and giving you to know against what a State, if

" your resolutions now are not discreetly taken, you are going

" to engage. For we aver, that we alone adventured to en-

" S^S^ (he Barbarian in that most dangerous field of Mara-

" thon. And when, upon the second invasion, we were not

" able to make head by land, we threw ourselves on ship-

" board with all our people, to fight in conjunction with you

" by sea at Salamis ; which prevented his sailing along the

" coast of Peloponnesus, and destroying one by one your

" cities, unable to succour one another against that formid-

tfc able fleet. The truth of this the Barbarian himself hath

" undeniably proved : For, thus defeated at sea, and unable

" to gather together again so large a force, he hastily retired

" with the greatest part of his army. In this so wonderful an

" event, where beyond dispute the preservation of Greece

" was atchieved at sea, the three most advantageous instru-

" ments were contributed by us the largest number of

" shipping a person of the greatest abilities to command

" and the most intrepid courage. For of the number

" of ships, amounting in all to four hundred, very near two

" thirds were our own. Themistocles was the commander,

" to whom principally it was owing that the battle was

" fought in the straits, which was undeniably the means of

" that great deliverance : And you yourselves paid him ex-

" traordinary honour* on that very account, more than ever

• Herodotus relates, that after the great victory at Salamis, " the Gre-

" cians sailed to the Isthmus, to bestow the prize upon him who had de-

" served best of Greece by his behaviour in the war. But upon their arri-

" val, when commanders gave in their billets on the altar of Neptune, in

" which they had wrote the name of him who had behaved best, and of

" htm who was second, each of tbem had given the preference to his own

" self, but most of them agreed in awarding the second place to Themis-

"tocles. Thus, while each competitor was only honoured with his own

•' single voice for the first place, Themistocles was clearly adjudged to de-

" serve the second. Envy prevented ihe Grecians from proceeding to a

" just declaration, and they broke up and departed, leaving the point un­

