DISCOURSE III. Ixxxix

disconcerts the main project of the Athenians.—The latter

also had another great scheme in agitation for a total revo­

lution in Boeotia. Arms and intrigues were at once to act,

both without and within. The whole force of Athens takes

the field on this occasion, under the command of Hippo­

crates. The famous battle of Delium ensues, before which

the generals harangue their troops. Pagondas the Theban

is an excellent speaker on this occasion. The Boeotians are

not represented in this history, as that gross and stupid peo­

ple, which was their character from the succeeding wits of

Athens. The Athenian general begins also to harangue his

troops, but is cut short by the attack of the enemy. The

battle is finely described, and the dispute afterwards about

the dead. The Athenians have received a dreadful blow,

which will soon make them begin to accuse their own judg­

ments^ in refusing the accommodation lately offered from

Sparta.

In other quarters also, the balance of war begins to in­

cline in favour of the enemy. Brasidas, that active and ac­

complished Spartan, had now compleated a march, at the

head of a small army, through Thessaly and Macedonia into

Chalcidic Thrace. His bravery prevails much, but his con­

duct more. He disjoins Perdiccas king of Macedonia from

the Athenian league. Whenever he fights, he conquers;

and whenever he harangues, he effectually persuades. His

speech to the Acanthians is strong, pertinent, laconic. He

says all that can be said in favour of his countrymen, in

recommendation of the cause of liberty. There is that air

of sincerity and good-faith in it, which were constantly ap­

proved and verified by his personal deportment. The towns

revolt to him as fast he hath opportunities to address them.

The reader will follow him with pleasure through his many

and great exploits, and acknowledge he wears his laurels

deservedly, and with peculiar grace.

Book V. In Book the Fifth, Cleon appears again upon

the stage, to stop the rapid conquests of Brasidas. The for-

Vol. I. M

