he A Surtey of the History.

Our grave Historian is now retired, to make way for states­

men and orators to mount the stage, who are very well worth

hearing.

The Corcyr6ans, who take the lead, recognize " the ne-

" cessity of alliances, which, though sometimes intangle-

w ments, are generally security and defence. Wronged as

" they now are, they sue for alliance as the means of redress.

" In granting it to them, the Athenians would shew honour

" and virtue, and at the same time promote their own private

" interest. The accession of the naval strength of Corcyra

" to their own was very well worth the gaining ; in the end,

" it might preserve their State.—They open the nature of

" colonies, shew the original contract between them and the

" mother-country; obedience and protection are reciprocal,

" and imply one another.—They prove that Athens may

" grant them alliance, in consistence with all other engage-

" ments ; by doing it, may secure herself in time against the

" envy and attack of the Peloponnesians; since the naval

"strength of Corinth, joined to all the efforts of the latter in

" a future war, will be weak and ineffectual against the com-

" bined fleets of Corcyra and Athens."

The Corinthians, in their answer, inveigh highly against

the Corcyreans. " They describe them as a very designing,

" iniquitous set of men, and a colony in the highest degree

" undutiful to its mother-state. " They endeavour to prove

" it unjust, and ungrateful too, in the Athenians, to take them

" into alliance, and abet their criminal behaviour. They

" maintain, that true honour points out another conduct;

" and schemes of interest should never supersede the laws

" of equity and good-faith. What may happen should be

" less regarded, than what on present occasions is strictly

" right. They intreat at last, though with a menacing air ;

44 and close, with warmly adjuring the Athenians, to stand

" neutral in the quarrel."

The Athenians however resolve to enter into a defen­

