lii On his Qualifications as a Historian.

warm pathetic in the midst of some grand circumstance.

The figures in which he most delights, are the Interroga­

tion s the Change of number and time; the Hyperbaton, or

transposing and inverting the order of things which seem na­

turally united and inseparable ; and above all, the Antithesis.

This last he hath fondly used, almost to satiety. Term is

not only opposed to term, but thought to thought, sentence to

sentence, and sometimes whole orations to one another, even

where the latter speaker cannot possibly be supposed to have

heard the former. A constant adherence to this method car­

ries with it the danger of glutting the reader. I am sensible

there should have been more variety to make the whole quite

beautiful and graceful.

As to the fourth constituent of sublimity, which, accord­

ing to Longinus, is noble and graceful expression, our au­

thor's claim cannot be so well established. Noble undoubt­

edly he is, but as for the graceful—the reader may wish he

had been more careful in this particular, and I am sure his

translator wishes it from his heart. For fear of being vul­

gar he is too set and solemn; and from the passion to be

always great, he hath lost the air of ease and genteelness.

Dionysius of Halicarnassus says he studiously affected hard

and obsolete words. But yet the same writer sets him up as

the standard of Attic purity ; nay, hath frequently strength­

ened his own style by using the hard and obsolete words of

Thucydides. However this be, it is certain Thucydides

hath in this respect fallen half-way short: And more so, in

the fifth constituent of sublimity, composition or structure

of his periods. He hath no harmony, hath given little or

no proof of having a good ear. He is rough, austere ; his

periods are sometimes a mile long, in which he labours

himself both out of tune and time. I acknowledge his im­

perfections, and beg the reader would weigh them and set

them in the balance with his excellencies: He may then

judge if the latter do not greatly preponderate. He thinks

nobly; affects surprisingly ; his expression is noble, but not

