ft. III. TEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 259

" and not as foes, they intended to prevent the corrupted

" part of your body from growing worse, and protect the

" worthy and good according to their merit. They calmly

" studied the welfare of your minds and your bodies,' not

" suffering your city to become an alien, but recovering it

" again to its duty and relations, exempting it from being

" the foe of any honest Grecian, and re-uniting it in the

" bonds of amity with them all.—There are proofs besides,

" that we did not intermeddle in a hostile manner. We did

" no manner of violence to any one; we proclaimed aloud,

" that " whoever was desirous to conform to the primitive

" institutions of all Boeotians, should come and join us."—•

" You heard our voice with pleasure ; you came in and en-

" tered into articles with us ; you remained for a time with-

" out disturbance; but at length, having discovered the

" smallness of our number, and then perhaps we were judged

" to have proceeded inhumanly in presuming to enter with-

" out the consent of your populace, you then returned us

" not such treatment as you had received from us, you made

" no remonstrances against innovations, nor persuaded us

" to depart, but in open breach of articles you rushed upon

" us. We lament not here so much the death of those whom

" you slew in this base attack upon us ; some colour of law

" might be alleged for their destruction: but when, con-

" trary to every law, in cold blood you murdered men, who

" had spread their arms for mercy, and had surrendered

" themselves prisoners on promise of their lives,—was not

" that a monstrous act ? In one short interval of time you

" were guilty of three outrageous enormities, an infraction

" of articles, the succeeding butchery of our people, and a

" breach of the solemn promise made to us, that you would

" not kill them, provided we refrained from plundering your

" lands. Yet still you cry aloud, that ive are the breakers of

" law ; you still remonstrate, that you arc not debtors to jus-

" tice. It is false. The point, we presume, will soon be dc­

