B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 371

from whence, as an eminence lay between, they could have

no view of one another. There he drew up his men, and

made all ready for the attack.

When the news was brought to Hippocrates, who was

yet at Delium, that " the enemy is advancing to the charge,"

he sendeth orders to the main-body to form into the order

of battle. And not long after he himself came up, having

left about three hundred horse at Delium, to guard that place

in case an attempt should be made upon it, or seizing a fa­

vourable opportunity to fall upon the rear of the Boeotians

during the engagement. Not but that the Boeotians had

posted a party of their own to watch their motions, and find

them employment. When therefore the whole disposition

was perfected, they shewed themselves on the top of the

eminence, and there grounded their arms, remaining still

in the same order in which they designed to attack, being

in the whole about seven thousand heavy-armed, more than

ten thousand light-armed, a thousand horse, and five hun­

dred targeteers. The right wing was composed of Thebans

and those who ranked with them ; the centre of the Haliar-

tians and Coroneans and Copiensians, and others that live

about the lake (Copaeis) ; and the left of Thespiensians, Ta-

nagreans, and Orchomenians. In the wings were posted the

cavalry and light-armed. The Thebans were drawn up in

files of twenty-five ; the others variously, as circumstances

required. And such was the order and disposition of the

Boeotians.

On the Athenian side, the heavy-armed, being in num­

ber equal to their enemies, were drawn up in one entire body

of eight in depth. Their cavalry was posted on either wing.

But light-armed soldiers, armed as was fitting, the Athenians

had none at this juncture, neither in the field nor in thp city.

The number which had taken the field at first to attend this

expedition exceeded many times over the number of the

enemy ; but then most of them had no arms at all, since the

summons had been extended to all who resided in Athens,

