312 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR.

" humanity, and having succeeded by valour quite beyond

" their expectations, determine the contest with temper and

" moderation. Then the foe, who hath not felt the extremity

" of force, is henceforth disarmed by the strength of grati-

" tude, and is more securely bound by the affections of his

" own mind to abide for the future by all his compacts.

" Such ready deference mankind are more apt to shew to-

" wards those who have been with a remarkable superiority

" their enemies, than to such as they have opposed in more

" equal competition. It is natural, when men take the me-

" thod of voluntary submission, for the pleasing contest of

" generosity to be kindled between them ; but to hazard the

" last extremities, and even grow desperate against that

" haughtiness which will not relent.

" Now, if ever, is the crisis come to effect such a pleasing

" reconciliation between us both, before the intervention of

" some incurable event to ulcerate our passions, which may

" lay us under the sad necessity of maintaining an eternal

" enmity, both public and private, in regard to you, and you

" lose the benefit of those advantageous offers we now lay

" within your option. Whilst the event is yet undetermined,

" whilst the acquisition of glory, and of our friendship is

" within your reach, whilst yet we only feel the weight of a

" supportable calamity, and are clear from foul disgrace, let

" us now be mutually reconciled ; let us give the preference

" to peace over war, and effectuate a cessation of miseries to

" the other Grecians. The honour of such an event will by

" them be more abundantly ascribed to you. At present

" they are engaged in a perplexing warfare, unable yet to

" pronounce its authors. But, in case a reconciliation now

" take place, a point for the most part within your decision,

" they will gratefully acknowledge you for generous bene-

" factors.

" If then you thus determine, you gain an opportunity

" to render the Lacedaemonians your firm and lasting

" friends, since now they request your friendship, and choose

