54» THE DECtINE AND FALL

his acts were rescinded, his exiles recalled; and under the gentle

administration of Nerva, while the innocent were restored to their

rank and fortunes, even the most guilty either obtained pardon or

escaped punishment

Ignorance of II. About ten years afterwards, under the reign of Trajan, the

cernmgthe younger Pliny was entrusted by his friend and master with the

Chnslians. government of Bithynia and Pontus. He soon found himself at

a loss to determine by what rule of justice or of law he should

direct his conduct in the execution of an office the most repugnant

to his humanity. P^iny had never assisted at any judicial proceedings

against the Christians, with whose name alone he seems to be ac­

quainted; and he was totally uninformed with regard to the nature

of their guilt, the method of their conviction, and the degree of

their punishment. In this perplexity he had recourse to his usual

expedient, of submitting to the wisdom of Trajan an impartial*

and in some respects, a favourable account of the new superstition*

requesting the emperoF, that he would condescend to resolve his

doubts, and to instruct his ignorance s6. The life of Pliny had

been employed in the acquisition of learning, and in the business of

the world. Since the age of nineteen he had pleaded with distinc­

tion in the tribunals of Rome 57, filled a place in the senate, had

been invested with, the honours of the consulship, and had formed

very numerous connexions with every order of men, both in Italy

and in. the provinces. From his ignorance therefore we may derive

some useful information. We may assure ourselves, that when he

accepted the government of Bithynia, there were no general laws-

or decrees of the senate in force against the Christians; that neither

Trajan nor any of his virtuous predecessors, whose edicts were re­

ceived into the civil and criminal jurisprudence, had publickly

declared, their intentions concerning the new sect; and that what*

ever proceedings had been carried on against the Christians, there

were

