kjp THE DECLINE AND FALL

they professed. But the scandal of the pious Christian, and the fal­

lacious triumph of the Infidel, should cease as soon as they recol­

lect not only by ivhom, but likewise to 'whom, the Divine Reve­

lation was given. The theologian may indulge the pleasing task

of describing Religion as she descended from Heaven, arrayed in

her native purity. A more melancholy duty is imposed on the his­

torian. He must discover the inevitable mixture of error and cor­

ruption, which she contracted in a long residence upon earth,,

among a weak and degenerate race of beings.

Five causes of Our curiosity k naturally prompted to inquire by what means

ChrManity. the Christian faith obtained so remarkable a victory over the esta­

blished religions of the earth. To this inquiry, an obvious but

satisfactory answer may be returned, That it was owing to the con­

vincing evidence of the doctrine itself, and to the ruling providence

of its great Author. But as truth and reason seldom find so favour­

able a reception in the world, and as the wisdom of Providence fre­

quently condescends to use the passions of the human heart, and

the general circumstances of mankind, as instruments to execute its

purpose; we may still be permitted, though with becoming sub­

mission, to ask, not indeed what were the first, but what were the

secondary causes of the rapid growth of the Christian church. It

will, perhaps, appear, that it was most effectually favoured and

assisted by the five following causes: I. The inflexible,, and, if we

may use the expression, the intolerant zeal of the Christians, de­

rived, it is true, from the Jewish religion, but purified from the

narrow and unsocial spirit, which, instead of inviting, had deterred

the Gentiles from embracing the law of Moses. II. The doctrine

of a future life, improved by every additional circumstance

which could give weight and efficacy to that important truth.

III. The miraculous powers ascribed to the primitive church..

IV. The pure and austere morals of the Christians. V. The union

and discipline of the Christian republic, which gradually formed

, an

3

