NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. lix

of Helenopolis, and Justinian adorned with many

splendid buildings (Procop. de Ædiriciis, v. 2.).

It is indeed probable enough that Helena's father

kept an inn at Drepanura; and that Constantius

might lodge there when he returned from a Persian

embassy in the reign of Aurelian. But in the wan­

dering life of a soldier, the place of his marriage,

and the place where his children are born, have

very little connexion with each other. j. The

claim of Naissus is supported by the anonymous

writer, published at the end of Ammianus, p. 710,

and who in general copied very good materials; and

it is confirmed by Julius Firmicius, (de Astrologia,

1. i. c. 4.) who flourished under the reign of Con­

stantine himself. Some objections have been raised

against the integrity of the text, and the application

of the passage of Firmicius; but the former is esta­

blished by the best MSS. and the latter is very ably

defended by Lipfius dc Magnitudine Romana, 1. iv.

c. 11. et supplement,

[ii] Literis minus instructus. Anonym, ad

Ammian. p. 710.

[12] Galerius, or perhaps his own courage, ex­

posed him to single combat with a Sarmatian

(Anonym, p. 710.), and with a monstrous lion. See

Praxagoras apud Photium, p. 63. Praxagoras, an

Athenian philosopher, had written a life of Con-

stantine, in two books, which are now lost. He

was a contemporary.

[13] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 78, 79, Lactantius de

M. P. c. 24. The former tells a very foolish story,

that Constantine caused all the post horses, which he

had used, to be hamstrung. Such a bloody execu­

tion, without preventing a pursuit, would undoubt­

edly have occasioned suspicions that might have

stopped his journey.

[14] Anonym, p- 710. Panegyr. Veter. vii. 4.

But Zosimus, 1. ii, p. 79. Euscbius de Vit. Con­

stant. 1. i. c. 21. and Lactantius de M. P. c. 24.

suppose, with less accuracy, that he found his father

on his death-bed.

[15] Cunctis qui aderant annitentibus, fed præ-

cipue Croco (alii EroceJ Alamannorum Rege,

auxilii gratia Constanti'um comitato, imperium capit.

Victor Junior, c. 41. This is perhaps the first

instance of a barbarian king, who assisted the Ro­

man arms, with an independent body of his own

subjects. The practice grew familiar, and at last

became fatal.

[16] His panegyrist Eumenius (vii. 8.) ventures

to affirm, in the presence of Constantine, that he

put spurs to his horse, and tried, but in vain, t#

escape from the hands of his soldiers.

[17] Lactantius de M. P. c. 25. Eumenii:*

(vii. 8 ) gives a rhetorical turn to the whole trans­

action.

[18] The choice of Constantine, by his dying

father, which is warranted by reason, and insinuated

by Eumenius, seems to be confirmed by the most

unexceptionable authority, the concurring evidence

of Lactantius (de M. P. c. 24.) and of Libanius

(Oration i.), of Euscbius (in Vit. Constantine, L i.

c. 18. zi.J, and of Julian (Oration L).

[19] Of the three sisters of Constantine, Con-

stantia married the emperor Licinius, Anastasia the

Cæsar Bassianus, and Eutropia the consul Nepo*

tianus. The three brothers were, Dalmatius, Juliu*

Constantius, and Annibalianus, of whom we shall

have occasion to speak hereafter.

[20] See Gruter Inscript. p. 178. The sixprinces

are all mentioned, Diocletian and Maximian as

the senior Augusti and fathers of the emperors.

They jointly dedicate, for the use of their oiva

Romans, this magnificent edifice. The architects

have delineated the ruins of these Thermæ; and the

antiquarians, particularly Donatus and Nardini,

have ascertained the ground which they covered. One

of the great rooms is now the Carthusian church;

and even one of the porter's lodges is sufficient to

form another church, which belongs to the Feu-

illans.

[21] See Lactantius de M. P. c. 26.31.

[22] The vith Panegyric represents the conduct

of Maximian in the most favourable light, and the

ambiguous expression of Aurelius Victor, "re-

"tractante diu," may signify, either that he con­

trived, or that he opposed the conspiracy. See

Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 79. aud Lactantius de M. P.

c. zf.

[23] The circumstances of this war, and the

death of Scvcrus, are very doubtfully and variously

told in our ancient fragments (see Tillemont, Hist,

des Empercurs, torn. iv. part i. p. 555-). 1 havj

endeavoured to extract from them a consistent and

probable narration..

h 2 I he

