OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

part of the treasure, and, what was dearer than any treasure, several

of the women of the Great King; who was at last obliged to repass

the Euphrates with some marks of haste and confusion '*9. By this

exploit, Odenathus laid the foundations of his future fame and for足

tunes. The majesty of Rome, oppressed by a Persian, was protected

by a Syrian or Arab of Palmyra.

The voice of history, which is often little more than the organ Treatment of

of hatred or flattery, reproaches Sapor with a proud abuse of the Vakria11,

rights of conquest. We are told that Valerian, in chains, but in足

vested with the imperial purple, was exposed to the multitude a con足

stant spectacle of fallen greatness; and that whenever the Persian

monarch mounted on horseback, he placed his foot on the neck of a

Roman emperor, Notwithstanding all the remonstrances of hia

allies, who repeatedly advised him to remember the vicissitude of

fortune, to dread the returning power of Rome, and to make his

illustrious captive the pledge of peace, not the object of insult, Sapor

still remained inflexible. When Valerian sunk under the weight of

shame and grief, his sldn, stuffed with straw, and formed into the

likeness of a human figure, was preserved for ages in the most cele足

brated temple of Persia; a more real monument of triumph, than

the fancied trophies of brass and marble so often erected by Roman

vanity150. The tale is moral and pathetic, but the truth of it may

very fairly be called in question. The letters still extant from the

princes of the East to Sapor, are manifest forgeries ,J'; nor is it

natural to suppose that a jealous monarch should, even in the person

of a rival, thus publickly degrade the majesty of kings. Whatever

treatment the unfortunate Valerian might experience in Persia, it is

at least certain, that the only emperor of Rome who ever fell into

the hands of the enemy, languished away his life in hopeless

captivity.

The emperor Gallienus, who had long supported with impatience, Character and

the censorial severity of his father and colleague, received the in- of QdSnS?

telligence

