THE DECLINE AND FALL

various tribes of Britons possessed valour without conduct, and the

love of freedom, without the spirit of union. They took up arms

with savage fierceness; they laid them down, or turned them

against each other with wild inconstancy; and while they fought

singly, they were successively subdued. Neither the fortitude of

Caractacus, nor the despair of Boadicea, nor the fanaticism of the

Druids could avert the slavery of their country, or relist the steady

progress of the Imperial generals, who maintained the national

glory, when the throne was disgraced by the weakest, or the most

vicious of mankind. At the very time when Domitian, confined to

his palace, felt the terrors which he inspired; his legions, under the

command of the virtuous Agricola, defeated the collected force

of the Caledonians, at the foot of the Grampian hills; and his fleets,

venturing to explore an unknown and dangerous navigation,

displayed the Roman arms round every part of the island. The

conquest of Britain was considered as already atchieved; and it was

the design of Agricola to complete and ensure his success, by the

easy reduction of Ireland, for which, in his opinion, one legion and

a few auxiliaries were sufficient9. The western ifle might be

improved into a valuable possession, and the Britons would wear

their chains with the less reluctance, if the prospect and example of

freedom was on every side removed from before their eyes.

But the superior merit of Agricola soon occasioned his removal

from tha-government of Britain; and for ever disappointed this

rational, though extensive scheme of conquest. Before his depar­

ture, the prudent general had provided for security as well as for

dominion. He had observed, that the island is almost divided into

two unequal parts, by the opposite gulfs, or as they are now called*

the Firths of Scotland. Across the narrow interval of about forty

miles, he had drawn a line of military stations, which was after­

wards fortified in the reign of Antoninus Pius, by a turf rampart

erected on foundations of stone *°. This wall of Antoninus, at a

small

