212 THE DECLINE AND FALL

A. D. 216.

Artaxerxes

claimi the

provinces of

Asia, and de­

clares war

against the

Romans.

A. D. 230.

a mixed race of Greeks, Arabs, Syrians, and Armenians*'. The

feeble sovereigns of Osrhoene, placed on the dangerous verge of

two contending empires, were attached from inclination to the Par­

thian cause; but the superior power of Rome exacted from them a

reluctant homage, which is still attested by their medals. After the

conclusion of the Parthian war under Marcus, it was judged pru­

dent to secure some substantial pledges of their doubtful fidelity.

Forts were constructed in several parts of the country, and a, Roman

garrison was fixed in the strong town of Nisibis. During the trou­

bles that followed the death of Commodus, the princes of Osrhoene

attempted to shake off the yoke: but the stern policy of Severus

confirmed their dependence44, and the perfidy of Caracalla com­

pleted the easy conquest. Abgarus, the last king of Edessa, was sent

in chains to Rome, his dominions reduced into a province, and his

capital dignified with the rank of colony; and thus the Romans,

about ten years before the fall of the Parthian monarchy, obtained

a firm and permanent establishment beyond the Euphrates45.

Prudence as well as glory might have justified a war on the side of

Artaxerxes, had his. views been confined to the defence or the acqui­

sition of a useful frontier. But the ambitious Persian openly avowed a

far more extensive design of conquest; and he thought himself able

to support his lofty pretensions by the arms of reason as well as by

those of power. Cyrus, he alleged, had first subdued, and his suc­

cessors had for a long time possessed, the whole extent of Asia, as

far as the Propontis and the Ægaean sea; the provinces of Caria

and Ionia, under their empire, had been governed by Persian satraps,

and all Egypt, to the confines of Æthiopia, had acknowledged their

sovereignty46. Their rights had been suspended, but not destroyed,

by a long usurpation j and as soon as he received the Persian dia­

dem, which birth and successful valour had placed upon his head,

the first great duty of his station called upon him to restore the an­

cient limits and splendour of the monarchy. The Great King, there­

fore,

