OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

lifhed, instead of being condemned as the effect of jealous tyranny, ^e0^freJe

deserves to be applauded as an act of prudence.and humanity. He chymy.

caused a diligent inquiry to be made "for all the ancient books

u which treated of the admirable art of making gold and silver,

"and without pity committed them to the flames; apprehensive,

«* as we are assured, lest the opulence of the Egyptians should in-

"spire them with confidence to rebel against the empire SV But

if Diocletian had been convinced of the reality of that valuable

art, far from extinguishing the memory, he would have converted

the operation of it to the benefit of the public revenue. It is much

more likely that his good fense discovered to him the folly of such

magnificent pretensions, and that he was desirous of preserving the

reason and fortunes of his subjects from the mischievous pursuit.

It may be remarked, that these ancient books, so liberally ascribed Novelty
and

to Pythagoras, to Solomon, or to Hermes, were the pious frauds [hafart.

of more recent adepts. The Greeks were inattentive either to the

use or to the abuse of chymistry. In that immense register, where

Pliny has deposited the discoveries, the arts, and the errors of man­

kind, there is not the least mention of the transmutation of metals;

and the persecution of Diocletian is the first authentic event in the

history of alchymy. The conquest of Egypt by the Arabs diffused

that vain science over the globe. Congenial to the avarice of the

human heart, it was studied in China as in Europe, with equal

eagerness, and with equal success. The darkness of the middle

ages ensured a favourable reception to every tale of wonder, and

the revival of learning gave new vigour to hope, and suggested

more specious arts of deception. Philosophy, with the aid of expe­

rience, has at length banished the study of alchymy; and the pre­

sent age, however desirous of riches, is content to seek them by the

humbler means of commerce and industry

The reduction of Egypt was immediately followed by the Persian The Persia*

war. It was reserved for the reign of Diocletian to vanquish that **r"

B b b 2, powerful

