THE DECLINE AND FALL

founded, if we required such a list of three hundred and sixty

Afrk% cities, as Pliny has exhibited under the reign of Vespasian '7. III.

Three hundred African cities had once acknowledged the authority

of Carthage T', nor is it likely thafc their numbers diminished

under the administration of the emperors; Carthage itself ..rose

with new. splendor from its ashes; and that capital, as .well as

Capua and Corinth, soon recovered all the advantages whish .sap

be separated from independent sovereignty.,,; IV. The provinces,

Asu. of the east present the contrast of Roman magnificence with

Turkish barbarism. The ruins of antiquity scattered over un­

cultivated fields, and ascribed, by ignorance, to the power as

magic, scarcely afford a shelter *o the oppressed peasant ;or wan­

dering Arab. Under the reign of the Cæsars, the proper Asia

alone contained five hundred populous cities 79, enriched with all

the gifts of nature, and adorned with all the refinements of art.

Eleven cities of Asia had once disputed the honour of dedicating a

temple to Tiberius, and their respective merits were examined by

the senate 8°. Four of them were immediately rejected as unequal

ro the burthen ;. and among these was Laodicea, whose splendor is

^ill displayed in its ruins 8'. Laodicea collected a very considerable

revenue from its flocks of sheep, celebrated for the fineness of their

wool, and had received, a little before the contest, a legacy of above

four hundred thousand pounds by the -testament of a generous

citizen81. If such was the poverty of Laodicea, what must have

been the. wealth of those cities, whose claim appeared preferable,

and particularly of Pergamus, of Smyrna, and .of Ephesus, who

so long disputed with each other the titular primacy of Asia8i. The

capitals of Syria and Egypt held a still superior rank in Xhe empire:

Antioch and Alexandria looked down with disdain on a.crowd of

dependent cities84, and yielded, with reluctance, to the majesty of

Rome itself. . t

