THE DECLINE AND FALL

ledging any supreme head, or representative assembly 7+. But the

principle of the two confederacies was extremely different. A peace

of two hundred years has rewarded the wife and honest policy

of the Swiss. An inconstant spirit, the thirst of rapine, and a disre­

gard to the most solemn treaties, disgraced the character of the Franks.

They invade ■ The Romans had long experienced the daring valour of the

Gaul,.

people of Lower Germany. Their united strength threatened Gaul

with a more formidable invasion, and required the presence of

Gallienus, the heir and colleague of imperial power 75. Whilst that

prince, and his infant son, Saloninus, displayed in the court of

Treves, the majesty of the empire, its armies were ably conducted

by their general Posthumus, who, though he afterwards betrayed the

family of Valerian,, was ever faithful to the great interest of the

monarchy. The treacherous language of panegyrics and medals,

darkly announces a long series of victories. Trophies and titles

attest (if such evidence can attest) the fame of Posthumus, who is

repeatedly styled The conqueror of the Germans, and the saviour

of Gaul 76..

r?.wge Spain, But a single fact, the only one indeed of which we have any dis­

tinct knowledge, erases, in a great measure, these monuments of

vanity and adulation. The Rhine, though dignified with the

title of Safe-guard of the provinces, was an imperfect barrier

against the daring spirit of enterprise with which the Franks were

actuated. Their rapid devastations stretched from the river to ths

foot of the Pyrenees: nor were they stopped by those mountains.

Spain, which had never dreaded, was unable to resist, the inroads of

the Germans. During twelve years, the greatest part of the reign of

Gallienus, that opulent country was the theatre of unequal and

destructive hostilities. Tarragona, the flourishing capital of a peace­

ful province, was sacked and almost destroyed 77, and so late as

the days of Orosius, who wrote in the fifth century, wretched cot­

tages, scattered amidst the ruins of magnificent cities, still recorded

Z- the:

