94 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Dissolute

pleasures of

Commodus.

His igno­

rance and

low sports.

massacre. The prætorians, at length, gave way, oppressed with

numbers; and the tide of popular fury returned with redoubled

violence against the gate of the palace, where Commodus lay, dis­

solved in luxury, and alone unconscious of the civil war. It was

death to approach his person with the unwelcome news. He would

have perished in this supine security, had not two women, his

eldest sister Fadilla, and Marcia, the most favoured of his concu­

bines, ventured to break into his presence. Bathed in tears, and

with dishevelled hair, they threw themselves at his feet; and with

all the pressing eloquence of fear, discovered to the affrighted em­

peror, the crimes of the minister, the rage of the people, and the

impending ruin, which, in a few minutes, would burst over his

palace and person. Commodus started from his dream of pleasure,

and commanded that the head of Cleander should be thrown out to

the people. The desired spectacle instantly appeased the tumult;

and the son of Marcus might even yet have regained the affection

and confidence of his subjects l8.

But every sentiment of virtue and humanity was extinct in the

mind of Commodus. Whilst he thus abandoned the reins of em­

pire to these unworthy favourites, he valued noting in sovereign

power, except the unbounded licence of indulging his sensual appe­

tites. His hours were spent in a seraglio of three hundred beautiful

women, and as many boys, of every rank, and of every province;

and if the arts of seduction were ineffectual, the brutal lover had

recourse to violence. The ancient historians *9, have expatiated on

these abandoned scenes of prostitution, which scorned every restraint

of nature or modesty ; but it would not be easy to translate their too

faithful descriptions, into the decency of modern language. The

intervals of lust were filled up with the basest amusements.. The

influence of a polite age, and the labour of an attentive education,

had never been able to infuse into his rude and brutish mind, the

least tincture of learning, and he was the first of the Roman empe­

rors

«

