36* THE DECLINE ANI> FAL1

of Rome; and the latter, after saving his country from the designs

of Catiline, enabled her to contend with Athens for the palm of

eloquence 17.

vinceT0 ^ne Provinces °f rtie empire (as they have been described in the

preceding chapter) were destitute of any public force, or constitu­

tional freedom. In Etruria, in Greece 28, and in Gaul19, it was

the first care of the senate to dissolve those dangerous confederacies

which taught mankind, that, as the Roman arms prevailed by di­

vision, they might be resisted by union. Those princes, whom an

ostentation of gratitude or generosity permitted for a while to hold

a precarious scepter, were dismissed from their thrones, as soon as

they had performed their appointed task of fashioning to the yoke

the vanquished nations. The free states and cities which had em­

braced the cause of Rome, were rewarded with a nominal alliance,

and insensibly sunk into real servitude. The public authority

was every where exercised by the ministers of the senate and of the

emperors, and that authority was absolute, and without control.

But the same salutary maxims of government, which had secured

the peace and obedience of Italy, were extended to the most dis­

tant conquests. A nation of Romans was gradually formed in the

provinces, by the double expedient of introducing colonies, and of

admitting the most faithful and deserving of the provincials to the

freedom of Rome.

Colonies and "Wheresoever the Roman conquers, he inhabits," is a very just

towM.IFal observation of Seneca'% confirmed by history and experience.

The natives of Italy, allured by pleasure or by interest, hastened to enjoy

the advantages of victory; and we may remark, that about forty years

after the reduction of Asia, eighty thousand Romans were massacred

in one day, by the cruel orders of Mithridates ". These voluntary

exiles were engaged, for the most part, in the occupations of com­

merce, agriculture, and the farm of the revenue. But after the legions

were rendered permanent by the emperors, the provinces were peopled

by

