THE DECLINE AND FALL

move his suspicions; and even the care of their own safety urged

them to share the fortune of an enterprise, of which (if unsuccessful)

they were sure to be the first victims. These considerations, and

perhaps others of a more private nature, were debated in a previous

conference of the consuls and the magistrates. As soon as their

resolution was decided, they convoked in the temple of Castor the

whole body of the senate, according to an ancient form of secrecy

calculated to awaken their attention, and to conceal their decrees.

"Conscript fathers," said the consul Syllanus, " the two Gordians,

"both of consular dignity, the one your proconsul, the other your

"lieutenant, have been declared emperors by the general consent

"of Africa. Let us return thanks," he boldly continued, " to the

"youth of Thysdrus; let us return thanks to the faithful people

M of Carthage, our generous deliverers from an horrid monster.—

"Why do you hear me thus coolly, thus timidly? Why do you cast

"those anxious looks on each other? why hesitate? Maximin

"is a public enemy! may his enmity soon expire with him, and

<c may we long enjoy the prudence and felicity of Gordian the fa-

«' ther, the valour and constancy of Gordian the son"!" The

noble ardour of the consul revived the languid spirit of the senate,

and declares By an unanimous decree the election of the Gordians was ratified,

Maximin a *

publicenemy. Maximin, his son, and his adherents, were pronounced enemies of

their country, and liberal rewards were offered to whosoever had

the courage and good fortune to destroy them.

Assumes the During the Emperor's absence, a detachment of the Prætorian

RomTand0*' guards remained at Rome, to protect or rather to command the

Iul>'' capital. The præfect Vitalianus had signalized his fidelity to Maxi­

min, by the alacrity with which he had obeyed, and even prevented,

the cruel mandates of the tyrant. His death alone could rescue the

authority of the senate and the lives of the senators, from a state of

danger and sufpence. Before their resolves had transpired, a quæstor

and some tribunes were commiflioned to take his devoted life -

They

