OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 377

as favourable to the operations of infantry, as it was inconvenient

for the motions of cavalry 7°. Adversity had confirmed the Ro­

man discipline, whilst the barbarians, elated by success, were become His
victory

so negligent and remiss, that in the moment when they least ex­

pected it, they were surprised by the active conduct of Galerius>

who, attended only by two horsemen, had with his own eyes secretly

examined the state and position of their camp. A surprise, especially

in the night-time, was for the most part fatal to a Persian army.

Their horses were tied, and generally shackled, to prevent their run­

ning away ; and if an alarm happened, a Persian had his housing to

«* fix, his horse to bridle, and his corflet to put on, before he could

"mount 7V On the occasion, the impetuous attack of Galerius

spread disorder and dismay over the camp of the barbarians. A

flight resistance was followed by a dreadful carnage, and in the

general confusion, the wounded monarch (for Narses commanded

his armies in person) fled towards the deserts of Media. His

sumptuous tents, and those of his Satraps, afforded an immense

booty to the conqueror; and an incident is mentioned, which

proves the rustic but martial ignorance of the legions in the elegant

superfluities of life. A bag of shining leather silled with pearls,

fell into the hands of a private soldier; he carefully preserved the

bag, but he threw away its contents, judging, that whatever was of

no use could not possibly be of any value 7\ The principal loss £^5"

of Narses was of a much more affecting nature. Several of his "P"*"-

wives, his sisters, and children, who had attended the army, were

made captives in the defeat. But though the character of Ga~

lerius had ip general very little affinity with that of Alexander,

he imitated, after his victory, the amiable behaviour of the Ma­

cedonian towards the family of Darius. The wives and children

of Narses were protected from violence and rapine, conveyed

to a place of safety, and treated with every mark of respect and

Vol. I. C c c tenderness,

