OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3%

The diflike expressed by Diocletian towards Rome and Roman Debasement

freedom, was not the effect of momentary caprice, but the remit 0f the senate,

of the most artful policy. That crafty prince had framed a new

system of imperial government, which was afterwards completed

by the family of Constantine, and as the image of the old con­

stitution was religioufly preserved in the senate, he resolved to

deprive that order of its small remains of power and consideration.

We may recollect about eight years before the elevation of Dio­

cletian, the transient greatness, and the ambitious hopes, of the

Roman senate. As long as that enthusiasm prevailed, many of the

nobles imprudently displayed their zeal in the cause of freedom;

and after the successors of Probus had withdrawn their countenance

from the republican party, the senators were unable to disguise their

impotent resentment. As the sovereign of Italy, Maximian was

intrusted with the care of extinguishing this troublesome, rather

than dingerous, spirit, and the task was perfectly suited to his

cruel temper. The most illustrious members of the senate, whom

Diocletian always affected to esteem, were involved, by his col­

league, in the accusation of imaginary plots; and the possession of

an elegant villa, or a well cultivated estate, was interpreted as a

convincing evidence of guilt9}. The camp of the Prætorians,

which had so long oppressed, began to protect, the majesty of Rome;

and as those haughty troops were conscious of the decline of their

power, they were naturally disposed to unite their strength with the

authority of the senate. By the prudent measures of Diocletian,

the number* of the Praetorians were insensibly reduced, their pri­

vileges abolished 9+, and their place supplied by two faithful legions
Ncwbedies o

of Illyricum, who, under the new titles of Jovians and Herculians, fns, and °'

were appointed to perform the service of the imperial guards 9S. IlCrculians*

But the most fatal though secret wound, which the senate received

from the hands of Diocletian and Maximian, was inflicted by the in­

evitable operation of their long absence. As long as the emperors

Vol. I. D d d resided

