OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 4-

■

"beasts in the amphitheatre. The virgin's declaration that she

"had been carried away with her own consent, instead of saving

"her lover, exposed her to share his fate. The duty of a public

"prosecution was intrusted to the parents of the guilty or unfor-

w tunate maid; and if the sentiments of Nature prevailed on them

** to dissemble the injury, and to repair by a subsequent marriage the  
u honour of their family, they were themselves punished by exile and

"confiscation. The slaves, whether male or female, who were con-

** victed of having been accessary to the rape or seduction, were burnt  
** alive, or put to death by the ingenious torture of pouring down their  
"throats a quantity of melted lead. As the crime was of a public

"species, the accusation was permitted even to strangers. The

"commencement of the action was not limited to any term of

"years, and the consequences of the sentence were extended to the

"innocent offspring of such an irregular union 9S." But whenever

the offence inspires less horror than the punishment, the rigour of

penal law is obliged to give way to the common feelings of man­

kind. The most odious parts of this edict were softened or re­

pealed in the subsequent reigns 96; and even Constantine himself

very frequently alleviated by partial acts of mercy the stern tem­

per of his general institutions. Such, indeed, was the singular hu­

mour of that emperor, who shewed himself as indulgent, and even

remiss, in the execution of his laws, as he was severe, and even

cruel, in the enacting of them. • It is scarcely possible to observe a.

more decisive symptom of weakness, either in the character of the

prince, or in the constitution of the government97.

The civil administration was sometimes interrupted by the mili- The Gothic

tary defence of the empire. Crispus, a youth of the most amiable A.b. 322.

character, who had received with the title of Cæsar the command

of the Rhine, distinguished his conduct, as well as valour, in several

victories over the Franks and Alemanni; and taught the barbarians

of that frontier to dread the eldest son of Constantine, and the

Vol. I. L 1 1 grandson

