S58 THE DECLINE AND FALL

lives, the fortunes, and the dignity of his adversaries, and even

continued in their respective stations the greater number of the ser­

vants of Carinus *. It is not improbable that motives of prudence

might assist the humanity of the artful Dalmatian; of these ser­

vants, many had purchased his favour by secret treachery; in others,

he esteemed their grateful fidelity to an unfortunate master. The

discerning judgment of Aurelian, of Probus, and of Carus, had

filled the several departments of the state and army with officers of

approved merit, whose removal would have injured the public ser­

vice, without promoting the interest of the successor. Such a con­

duct, however, displayed to the Roman-world the fairest prospect

of the new reign, and the emperor affected to confirm this favour­

able prepossession, by declaring, that among all the virtues of his

predecessors, he was the most ambitious of imitating the humane

.philosophy of Marcus Antoninus s.

Association The first considerable action of his reign, seemed to evince bis

of Maximtuu sincerity as well as his moderation. After the example of Marcus,

Aprii'i286 he gave himself a colleague in ithe person of Maximian, on whom

heibestowed at first the title of Cæsar, and afterwards that of Augustus 6.

■But the-motives of his conduct, as well as the object of his choice, were

of a very different nature from those of hisadmired predecessor. By

investing a (luxurious youth with the honours of the purple, Marcus

bad discharged a debt of privategratitude, at the expcnce, indeed, of the

'happiness of the state. By associating a friend and a fellow-soldier to

the labours of government, Diocletian, in a time of public, danger, pro­

vided for'the defence both of the East and of the West. Maximian

was born a peasant, and, like Aurelian, in .the territory of Sirmium.

Ignorant of letters7, careless of laws, 'the rusticity of his appear­

ance and manners still'betrayed in -the most elevated fortune the

meanness of his extraction. War-was the only art which he pro-

fessed. In a long course of service, he had distinguished himself on

every frontier of the empire 5 -and-though his military talents were

formed

