Ot THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 297

TJlpius Crinitus, whose blood was derived from the fame source as

that of Trajan, adopted the Pannonian peasant, gave him his daughter

in marriage, and relieved with his ample fortune the honourable

poverty which Aurelian had preserved inviolate ,8.

The reign of Aurelian was only four years and about nine Aurelian's

months; but every instant of that short period was filled by some reign,

memorable atchievment. He put an end to the Gothic war, chas­

tised the Germans who invaded Italy, recovered Gaul, Spain, and

Britain out*of the hands of Tetricus, and destroyed the proud mo­

narchy which Zenobia had erected in the East, on the ruins of the

afflicted empire.

It was the rigid attention of Aurelian, even to the minutest ar- His severe
dis.

licles of discipline, which bestowed such uninterrupted success on his

arms. His military regulations are contained in a very concise

epistle to one of his inferior officers, who is commanded to enforce

them, as he wishes to become a tribune, or as he is desirous to live.

Gaming, drinking, and the arts of divination, were severely pro­

hibited. Aurelian expected that his soldiers should be modest,

frugal, and laborious; that their armour should be constantly kept

bright, their weapons .sharp, their clothing and horses ready for

immediate service; that they should live in their quarters with chas­

tity and sobriety, without damaging the corn fields, without stealing

even a sheep, a fowl, or a bunch of grapes, without exacting from

their landlords either salt, or oil, or wood. "The public allow-

u ance,'.' continues the emperor, "is sufficient for their support;

u their wealth should be collected from the spoil of the enemy, not

'* from the tears of the provincials 'V A single instance will serve

to display the rigour, and even cruelty, of Aurelian. One of the

soldiers had seduced the wife of his host. The guilty wretch was

fastened to two trees forcibly drawn towards each other, and his limbs

torn asunder by their sudden separation. A few such examples im­

pressed a salutary consternation. The punishments of Aurelian were

Vol. I. Q^q terrible j

