THE DECLINE AND FALL

to the throne, and his abilities were employed to supplant, not to

serve, his indulgent master. The minds of the soldiers were irri­

tated by an artificial scarcity, created by bis contrivance in the

camp; and the distress of the army was attributed to the youth and

incapacity of the prince. It is not in our power to trace the suc­

cessive steps of the secret conspiracy and open sedition, which were

at length fatal to Gordian. A sepulchral monument was erected

Murder of 6 r

Gordian. to his memory on the spot where he was killed, near the conflux

March. °f tne Euphrates with the little river Aboras 5*. The fortunate

Philip, raised to the empire by the votes of the soldiers, found a

ready obedience from the senate and the provinces "'.

Form of ^e cannot f°tD€ar transcribing the ingenious, though somewhat

military re. fanciful description, which a celebrated writer of our own times

public. .

has traced of the military government of the Roman empire.

*< What ist that age was called the Roman empire, was only an  
n irregular republic, not unHke the Aristocracy51 of Algiers", where

"the militia, possessed of the sovereignty, creates and deposes a

magistrate, who is styled a Dey. Perhaps, indeed, it may be laid

"* down as a general rule, that a military government is, in some

*' respects, more republican than monarchical. Nor can it be said  
**■ that the soldiers only partook of the government by their dis-  
41 obedience and rebellions. The speeches made to them by the

"emperors, were they not at length of the fame nature as those

4* formerly pronounced to the people by the consuls and" the tri-

*■ bunes? And although the armies had no regular place or forms  
**■ of assembly; though their debates were short, their action sudden,  
** and their resolves seldom the result of cool reflection, did they not  
*• dispose, with absolute sway, of the public fortune? What was

the emperor, except the minister of a violent government elected

44 for the private benefit of the soldiers?

"When the army had elected Philip, who was Prætorian

** prefect* to the third Gordian j the latter demanded, that he  
6 «■ might

