160 THE DECLINE AND FALL"

"nefactor, who bestows upon you the corn, the cloathing, and the

"money of the provinces. Be silent, or I shall no longer style you

"soldiers, bnt citizens77, if those indeed who disclaim the laws of

"Rome deserve to be ranked among the meanest of the people.*'

His menaces inflamed the fury of the legion, and their brandished

arms already threatened his person. "Your courage," resumed the

intrepid Alexander, " would be more nobly displayed in a field of

"battle; me you may destroy, you cannot intimidate; and the

"severe justice of the republic would punisli your crime and revenge

"my death." The legion still persisted in clamorous sedition, when

the emperor pronounced, with a loud voice, the decisive sentence,

"Citizens! lay down your arms, and depart in peace to your re-

"spective habitations.'' The tempest was instantly appeased; the

soldiers, filled with grief and shame, silently confessed the justice of

their punishment and the power of discipline, yielded up their arms

and military ensigns, and retired in confusion, not to their camp,

but to the several inns of the city. Alexander enjoyed, during

thirty days, the edifying spectacle of their repentance; nor did he

restore them to their former rank in the army, till he had punished

with death those tribunes whose connivance had occasioned the

mutiny. The grateful legion served the emperor whilst living, and

revenged him when dead 7i.

Defects of h'» The resolutions of the multitude generally depend on a moment;

character. and the caprice of passion might equally determine the seditious

legion to lay down their arms at the emperor's feet, or to plunge

them into his breast. Perhaps if the singular transaction had been

investigated by the penetration of a philosopher, we should discover

the secret causes that authorized the boldness of the prince and com­

manded the obedience of the troops; and perhaps if it had been

related by a judicious historian, we should find this action, worthy

of Cæsar himself, reduced nearer to the level of probability and the

common standard of the character of Alexander Severus. The abi­

lities

