THE DECLINE AND FALL

increased, the pretences of levying it, a victory, a birth, a marriage, or

an imperial consulship, were proportionally multiplied4+. Maxentius

had imbibed the fame implacable aversion to the senate, which had

characterised most of the former tyrants of Rome: nor was it possible

for his ungrateful temper to forgive the generous fidelity which

had raised him to the throne, and supported him against all his

enemies. The lives of the senators were exposed to his jealous

suspicions, the dishonour of their wives and daughters heightened

the gratification of his sensual passions 4S. It may be presumed,

that an imperial lover was seldom reduced to sigh in vain ; but

whenever persuasion proved ineffectual, he had recourse to violence;

and there remains one memorable example of a noble matron,

who preserved her chastity by a voluntary death. The soldiers

were the only order of men whom he appeared to respect, or

studied to please. He filled Rome and Italy with armed troops*

connived at their tumults, suffered them with impunity to plunder,

and even to massacre, the defenceless people 46, and indulging

them in the fame licentiousness which their emperor enjoyed,

Maxentius often bestowed on his military favourites the splendid

villa, or the beautiful wife of a senator. A prince of such &

character, alike incapable of governing either in peace or in warr

might purchase the support, but he could never obtain the esteem

of the army. Yet his pride was equal to his other vices. Whilst

he passed his indolent life, either within the walls of his palace,

or in the neighbouring gardens of Sallust, he was repeatedly heard!

to declare, that he alone was emperor, and that the other princes

were no more than his lieutenants, on whom he had devolved the

defence of the frontier provinces, that he might enjoy without

interruption the elegant luxury of the capital. Rome, which had:

fo long regretted the absence, lamented, during the six years of hi*

reign, the presence of her sovereign *\

Though

