Soo THE DECLINE ANU FALL

bic war.

September.

age, their own ancestors, already seated in the Dacian provinces,,

had received the instructions of Zamolxis, and checked the victorious

arms of Sesostris and Darius z*.

The Aleman- While the vigorous and moderate conduct of Aurelian restored

the Illyrian frontier, the nation of the Alemanni 1S violated the

conditions of peace, which either Gallienus had purchased, or

Claudius had imposed, and inflamed by their impatient youth',

suddenly flew to arms. Forty thousand horse appeared: in the

field *6, and the numbers of the infantry doubled those of the ca*,

valry 11. The first objects of their avarice were a few cities of the

Rhætian frontier; but their hopes soon rising with success, the

rapid march of the Alemanni traced a line of devastation from the

Danube to the Po lS;

A. D. 270. The emperor was almost at the fame time informed of the irrupt

tion, and of the retreat, of the barbarians. Collecting an active

body of troops, he marched with silence and celerity along the

■fleirts of the Hercynian forest:; and the Alemanni, laden with the

spoils of Italy, arrived at the Danube, without suspecting, that on

the opposite bank, and in an advantageous post, a Roman army lay

concealed and prepared to intercept their return. Aurelian indulged

the fatal security of the barbarians, and permitted about half

their forces to pass the river without precaution. Their situation

and astonishment gave him an easy victory; his skilful conduct im­

proved the advantage. Disposing the legions in a semicircular form,

he advanced the two horns of the crescent across the Danube,

and wheeling them on a sudden towards the center, inclosed the

rear of the German host. The dismayed barbarians, on whatsoever

side they cast their eyes, beheld with despair, a wasted country, a

deep and rapid stream, a victorious and implacable enemy.

Reduced to this distressed condition, the Alemanni, no longer

disdained to sue for peace. Aurelian received their ambassadors at

the head of his camp, and with every circumstance of martial pomp

that

