382 THE DECLINE AND FALL

was Frequently honoured with the residence of Tiridates, and as

k sometimes bore the name of Ecbatana, he imitated, in the build-

Iberia, fogs and fortifications, the splendid capital of the Mcdes 8\ IV. The

country of Iberia was barren, its inhabitants rude and savage. But

they were accustomed to the use of arms,, and they separated from

the empire barbarians much fiercer and more formidable than

themselves. The narrow defiles of Mount Caucasus were in their

hands, and it was in their choice, either to admit or to exclude

the wandering tribes of Sarmatia, whenever a rapacious spirit

urged them to penetrate into the richer climates of the South 8?.

The nomination of the kings of Iberia, which was resigned by

the Persian monarch to the emperors, contributed to the strength

and security of the Roman power in Asia 8*. The East enjoyed

a profound tranquillity during forty years; and the treaty be­

tween the rival monarchies was strictly observed, till the death of

Tiridates; when a new generation, animated with different views

and different passions, succeeded to the government of the world j

and the grandson of Narses undertook a long and memorable war

against the princes of the house of Corrstantine.

Triumph of The arduous work of rescuing the distressed empire from tyrants

Diocletian . _'

and Maxi- and barbarians had now been completely atchieved by a succession

A*D. 303. of Illyrian peasants. As soon as Diocletian entered into the
twentieth

year of his reign, he celebrated that memorable -aera, as well as the

success of his arms, by the pomp of a Roman triumph 8$. Maxi-

mian, the equal partner of his power, was his only companion in

the glory of that day. The two Cæsars had fought and con­

quered, but the merit of their exploits was ascribod, according to the

rigour of ancient maxims, to the auspicious influence of their fathers

and emperors The triumph of Diocletian and Maximian was

less magnificent perhaps than those of Aurelian and Probus, but it

was dignified by several circumstances of superior fame and good

fortune. Africa and Britain, the Rhine, the Danube, and the Nile,

furnistied their respective trophies; but the most distinguished

ornament

mian.

A..D

November 20.

