OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.. 547

bition is always prepared to encounter in the pursuit of honours.

Four Roman emperors, with their families, their favourites, and

their adherents, perished by the sword in the space of ten years,

during which, the bishop of Carthage guided by his authority

and eloquence the counsels of the African church. It was only

in the third year of his administration, that he had reason, during a

few months, to apprehend the severe edicts of Decius, the vigilance Hi]£,n8er

r . ° and night f

of the magistrate, and the clamours of the multitude, who loudly

demanded, that Cyprian, the leader of the Christians, mould be

thrown to the lions. Prudence suggested the necessity of a tem­

porary retreat, and the voice of prudence was obeyed. He with­

drew himself into an obscure solitude, from whence he could

maintain a constant correspondence with the clergy and peo­

ple of Carthage; and concealing himself till the tempest was

past, he preserved his life without relinquishing either his power

or his reputation. His extreme caution did not however escape

the censure of the more rigid Christians who lamented, or the

reproaches of his personal enemies who insulted, a conduct which

they considered as a pusillanimous and criminal desertion of the

most sacred duty ?6. >The propriety of reserving himself for the

future exigencies of the church, the example of several holy

bishops 77, and the divine admonitions which, as he declares him­

self, he frequently received in visions, and extafies, were the reasons

alleged in his justification 7 *. But his best apology may be found

in the cheerful resolution, with which, about eight years afterwards>

"he suffered death in the cause of religion. The authentic history

of his martyrdom has been recorded with unusual candour and

impartiality. A short abstract therefore of its most important cir­

cumstances will convey the clearest information of the spirit, and of

the forms, of the Roman persecutions 7'.

When Valerian was consul for the third, and Gallienus for the A. D. 2;^

fourth time; Paternus, proconsul of Africa, summoned Cyprian

4 A 2 to

