OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1&3

for a civil

war.

They executed the order with equal boldness and success; and with

their bloody daggers in their hands, ran through the streets, pro­

claiming to the people and the soldiers, the news of the happy re­

volution. The enthusiasm of liberty was seconded by the promise

of a large donative, in lands and money; the statues of Maximin

were thrown doWnj the capital of the empire acknowledged, with

transport, the authority of the two Gordians and the senate1'; and

the example of Rome was followed by the rest of Italy.

A new spirit had arisen in that assembly, whose long patience had and prepare*

been insulted by wanton despotism and military licence. The

senate assumed the reins of government, and, with a calm intre­

pidity, prepared to vindicate by arms the cause of freedom. Among

the consular senators recommended by their merit and services to the

favour of the emperor Alexander, it was easy to select twenty,

not unequal to the command of an army, and the conduct of a

war. To these was the defence of Italy intrusted. Each was ap­

pointed to act in his respective department, authorized to enrol and

discipline the Italian youth; and instructed to fortify the ports and

highways, against the impending invasion of Maximin. A number

of deputies, chosen from the most illustrious of the scnatorian and

equestrian orders, were dispatched at the same time to the governors

of the several provinces, earnestly conjuring them to fly to the

assistance of their country, and to remind the nations of their

ancient ties of friendship with the Roman senate and people. The

general respect with which these deputies were received, and the

zeal of Italy and the provinces in favour of the senate, sufficiently

prove that the subjects of Maximin were reduced to that uncommon

distress, in which the body of the people has more to fear from

oppression than from resistance. The consciousness of that melan­

choly truth, inspires a degree of persevering fury, seldom to be

found in thpse civil wars artificially supported for the benefit of a few

factious and designing leaders *4. ....

But

