OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387

Dominus, or Lord, in its primitive signification, was expressive,

not of the authority of a prince over his subjects, or of a comman­

der over his soldiers, but of the despotic power of a master over his

domestic staves9*. Viewing it in that odious light, it had been re­

jected with abhorrence by the first Cæsars. Their resistance insen­

sibly became more feeble, and the name less odious; till at length

the style of our Lord and Emperor was not only bestowed by flat­

tery, but was regularly admitted into the laws and public monu­

ments. Such lofty epithets were sufficient to elate and satisfy the

most excessive vanity; and if the successors of Diocletian still de­

clined the title of King, it seems to have been the effect not so much

of their moderation as of their delicacy. Wherever the Latin

tongue was in use, (and it was the language of government through­

out the empire) the imperial title, as it was peculiar to themselves,

conveyed a more respectable idea than the name of king, which

they must have shared with an hundred barbarian chieftains; or

which, at the best, they could derive only from Romulus or from

Tarquin. But the sentiments of the East were very different from

those of the West. From the earliest period of history, the sove­

reigns of Asia had been celebrated in the Greek language by the

title of Basileus, or King; and since it was considered as the

first distinction among men, it was soon employed by the servile

provincials of the East in their humble addresses to the Roman

throne". Even the attributes, or at least the titles of the Divinity,

were usurped by Diocletian and Maximian, who transmitted them

to a succession of Christian emperors ,0°. Such extravagant compli­

ments, however, soon lose their impiety by losing their meaning;

and when the ear is once accustomed to the sound, they are" heard

with indifference as vague though excessive professions of respect.

From the time of Augustus to that of Diocletian, the Roman Diocletian as-

pnnces, convening in a iamiliar manner among their fellow-citi- "lem, and in-

zens, were saluted only with the same respect that was usually paid t'ersian
cere-

dd 2 to

