OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

dies 97. The bloody sacrifices of Diana, the arrival of Orestes and

Pylades, and the triumph of virtue and religion over savage fierce­

ness, serve to represent an historical truth, that the Tauri, the

original inhabitants of the peninsula, were, in some degree, reclaimed

from their brutal manners, by a gradual intercourse with the Gre­

cian colonies, which settled along the maritime coast. The little

kingdom of Bosphorus, whose capital was situated on the Straits,

through which the Mæotis communicates itself to the Euxine, was

composed of degenerate Greeks, and half-civilized barbarians. It

subsisted, as an independent state, from the time of the Peloponnesian

war 9\ was at last swallowed up by the ambition of the Mi-

thridates ", and, with the rest of his dominions, funk under the

weight of the Roman arms. From the reign of Augustus the

kings of Bosphorus were the humble, but not useless, allies of the

empire. By presents, by arms, and by a flight fortification drawn

across the Isthmus, they effectually guarded against the roving

plunderers of Sarmatia, the access of a country, which, from its

peculiar situation and convenient harbours, commanded the Euxine

sea and Asia Minor ,c". As long as the scepter was possessed by a

lineal succession of kings, they acquitted themselves of their impor­

tant charge with vigilance and success. Domestic factions, and the

fears, or private interest, of obscure usurpers, who seized on the

vacant throne, admitted the Goths into the heart of Bosphorus.

With the acquisition of a superfluous waste of fertile foil, the con­

querors obtained the command of a naval force, sufficient to trans­

port their armies to the coast of Asia ,0\ The ships used in the Who acquire

navigation of the Euxine were of a very singular construction.

They were slight flat-bottomed barks framed of timber only, with­

out the least mixture of iron, and occasionally covered with a

shelving roof, on the appearance of a tempest ,0'. In these floating

houses, the Goths carelessly trusted themselves to the mercy of an

unknown sea, under the conduct of sailors pressed into the service,

Vol, F. Mm and

