378 THE DECLINE AND FALL

tenderness, that was due from a generous enemy, to their age, their

sex, and their royal dignity ,J.

Ntgoriation While the East anxiously expected the decision of this great

for peace,' j r o

contest, the emperor Diocletian, having assembled in Syria a strong

army of observation, displayed from a distance the resources of

the Roman power, and reserved himself for any future emer­

gency of the war. On the intelligence of the victory, he

condescended to advance towards the frontier; with a view

of moderating, by his presence and counsels, the pride of Ga-

lerius. The interview of the Roman princes at Nifibis, was

accompanied with every expression of respect on one side, and of

esteem on the other. It was in that city that they , soon afterwards

gave audience to the ambassador of the great king 7f. The power,

or at least the spirit, of Narses, had been broken by his last defeat;

and he considered an immediate peace, as the only means that could

stop the progress of the Roman arms. He dispatched Apbarban,

a servant who possessed his favour and confidence, with a com­

mission to negociate a treaty, or rather to receive whatever con-

Perfiinam ditions the conqueror should impose. Apharban opened the

baslador. conference by expressing his master's gratitude for the generous

treatment of his family, and by soliciting the liberty of those illus­

trious captives. He celebrated the valour of Galerius without

degrading the reputation of Narses, and thought it no dishonour to

confess the superiority of the victorious Cæsar, over a monarch who

had surpassed in glory all the princes of his race. Notwithstanding

the justice of . the Persian cause, he was empowered to submit the

present differences to the decision of the emperors themselves;

convinced as he was, that, in the midst of prosperity, they would

not be unmindful of the vicissitudes of fortune. Apharban con­

cluded his discourse in the style of eastern allegory, by observing

that the Roman and Persian monarchies were the two eyes of the

world,

