THE DECLINE AND FALL

as well as the provinces, congratulated the accession of the sons of

Carus. These fortunate youths were,strangers, however, to that con­

scious superiority either of birth or of merit, which can alone render

the possession of a throne easy, and as it were natural. Born and edu­

cated in a private station, the election of their father raised them at

once to the rank of princes; and hie death, which happened about

sixteen months afterwards, left them the unexpected legacy of a vast

empire. To sustain with temper this rapid elevation, an uncommon

share of virtue and prudence was requisite; and Carinus, the elder

of the brothers, was more than commonly deficient in those qua­

lities. In the Gallic war, he discovered some degree of personal

courage 80; but from the moment of His arrival at Rome, he aban->

doned himself to the luxury of the capital, and to the abuse of his

fortune- He was soft yet cruel, devoted to pleasure but destitute

of taste; and though exquisitely susceptible of vanity, indifferent

to the public esteem. In the course of a few months, he successively

married and divorced nine wives, most of whom he left pregnant;

and notwithstanding this legal inconstancy, found time to indulge

such a variety of irregular appetites, as brought dishonour on himself

and on the noblest houses of Rome. He beheld with inveterate hatred

all those who might remember his former obscurity, or censure his

present conduct. He banished, or put to death, the friends and coun­

sellors whom his father had placed about him, to guide his inexpe­

rienced youth; and he persecuted with the meanest revenge his school­

fellows and companions, who had not sufficiently respected the future

majesty of the emperor. With the senators, Carinus affected a lofty

and regal demeanour, frequently declaring, that he designed to distri­

bute their estates among the populace of Rome. From the dregs of

that populace, he selected his favourites, and even his ministers. The

palace, and even the imperial table, was filled with lingers, dancers,

prostitutes, and all the various retinue of vice and folly. One of his

door-keepers81 he entrusted with the government of the city. In

the

