*54 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Wise and mo­

derate admi­

nistration.

Education

and virtuous

temper of

Alexander.

Journal of his

ordinary life.

executed on the ready accusation of treason, and the wife of Alexander

driven with ignominy from the palace, and banished into Africa 6\

Notwithstanding this act of jealous cruelty, as well as some

instances of avarice, with which Mamæa is charged; the ge­

neral tenour of her administration was equally for the benefit of

her son and of the empire. With the approbation of the senate,

she chose sixteen of the wisest and most virtuous senators, as a per­

petual council of state, before whom every public business of mo­

ment was debated and determined. The celebrated Ulpian, equally

distinguished by his knowledge ofr and his respect, for, the laws of

Rome, was at their head; and the prudent firmness of this aristo-

qracy restored order and authority to the government. As soon as

they had purged the city from foreign superstition and luxury, the

remains of the capricious tyranny of Elagabalus, they applied them­

selves to remove his worthless creatures from every department of pub­

lic administration, and to supply their places with men of virtue and

ability. Learning, and the love of justice, became the only recom­

mendations for civil offices. Valour, and the love of discipline, thf>

only qualifications for military employments 6S.

But the most important care of IVfamsea and her wife counsellors^

was to form the character of the young emperor, on whose personal

qualities the happiness or misery of the Roman world must ulti­

mately depend. The fortunate soil assisted, and even prevented the

hand of cultivation. An excellent understanding soon convinced

Alexander of the advantages of virtue, the pleasure of knowledge,

and the necessity of labour. A natural mildness and moderation of

temper, preserved him from the assaults of pastlon and the allure­

ments of vice. His unalterable regard for his mother, and his

esteem for the wife Ulpian, guarded his unexperienced youth from

the poison of flattery.

The simple journal of his ordinary occupations exhibits a pleasing

picture of an accomplished emperor6', and with some allowance

• :for

