OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. If9

despair. A respite of three days, obtained with difficulty from the

rapacious treasurer, was employed in collecting from their estates a

great number of slaves and peasants, blindly devoted to the com­

mands of their lords, and armed with the rustic weapons of clubs

and axes. The leaders of the conspiracy, as they were admitted

to the audience of the procurator, stabbed him with the daggers

concealed under their garments, and, by the assistance of their tu­

multuary train, seized on the little town of Thysdrus and erected

the standard of rebellion against the sovereign of the Roman em­

pire. They rested their hopes on the hatred of mankind against

Maximin, and they judiciously resolved to set up in opposition to

that detested tyrant, an emperor whose mild virtues had already ac­

quired the love and esteem of the Romans, and whose authority

over the province would give weight and stability to the enterprise*

CrOrdianus, their proconsul, and the object of their choice, re­

fused, with unfeigned reluctance, the dangerous honour, and begged

With tears that they would suffer him to terminate in peace along

and innocent life, without staining his feeble age with civil blood.

Their menaces compelled him to accept the Imperial purple, his

only refuge indeed against the jealous cruelty of Maximin; since,

according to the reasoning of tyrants, those who have been esteemed

worthy of the throne deserve death, and those who deliberate have

already rebelled **.

The family of Gordianus was one of the most illustrious of the charafierand

Roman senate. On the father's side. he was descended from the the two Gor.

, Gracchi, onlus mother's, from the emperor Trajan. A great estate d anS*

enabled him to support the dignity of his birth, and, in the enjoy­

ment of it, he displayed an elegant taste and beneficent disposition.

The palace in Rome-, formerly inhabited by the great Pompey, had

beenr during several generations, in. the post^slion of Gordian's fa­

mily '*. h Was distinguished by ancient trophies of naval victories,

and decorated with the works of modern painting. His villa on the

A a 2 road

