THE DECLINE AND FALL

mon soldiers, like the mercenary troops of modern Europe, wer*

drawn from the meanest, and very frequently from the most pro足

fligate of mankind.

The ancient virtue of patriotism is derived from a strong fense

of our own interest, in the preservation and prosperity of the

free government of which we are members. Such a sentiment,

which had rendered the legions of the republic almost invincible,

could make but a very feeble impression on the mercenary servants

of a despotic prince; and it became necessary to supply that defect

by other motives, of a different,, but very forcible nature; honour

and religion. The peasant, or mechanic, imbibed the useful,

prejudice that he was advanced to the more dignified profession of

arms, in which his rank and reputation would depend on his own

valour: and that, although the prowess of a private soldier might

escape the notice of fame, it would be in his power to confer glory

or disgrace on the company, the legion, or even the army, to whose

honours he was associated. On his first entrancg, into the service, an

oath was administered to him, with every circumstance of solemnity..

He promised never to desert his standard, to submit his own will

to the commands of his leaders, and to sacrifice his life for the safety

of the emperor and, the empire ". The attachment of the Roman

troops to their standards, was inspired by the united influence of re足

ligion and of honour. The golden . eagle, which glittered in the

front of the legion, was the object of their fondest devotion j nor

was it esteemed less impious, than it was ignominious, to abandon that

sacred ensign in the hour of danger These motives, which de足

rived their strength from the imagination, were enforced by fears

and hopes of a more substantial kind. Regular pay, occasional do足

natives, and a stated recompence, after the appointed term of

service, alleviated the hardships of the military life55, whilst, on.the

other hand, it was impossible for cowardice or disobedience to escape

the severest punishment. The centurions had a right to punish with

blows}

