236 THE DECLINE AND FALL

mated strains. The view of arms and of danger heightened

the effect of the military song; and the passions which it tended to

excite, the desire of fame and the contempt of death, were the ha­

bitual sentiments of a German mind.

Causes wh-ch Such was the situation, and such were the manners of the ancient

checked the

progress at Germans. Their climate, their want of learning, of arts, and of

the Germans. . .

laws, their notions of honour, of gallantry, and of religion, their

fense of freedom, impatience of peaee, and thirst of enterprise, alj

contributed to form a people of military heroes. And yet we find

that during more than two hundred and fifty years that elapsed from

the defeat of Varus to the reign of Decius, these formidable barbar

rians made few considerable attempts, and not any material impres­

sion on the luxurious and-enstaved provinces of the empire. Their

progress was checked by their want of arms and discipline, and

their fury was diverted by the intestine divisions of ancient Germany.

Want of arms I. It has been observed, with ingenuity, and not without truth,..

that the command of iron soon gives a nation the command of gold.

But the rude tribes of Germany, alike destitute of both those

valuable metals, were reduced slowly to acquire, by their unassisted

strength, the possession of the one as well as the other. The face

of a German army displayed their poverty of iron.. Swords,.and the

longer kind of lances, they could seldom use. Their frames- (as

they called them in their own language) were long spears headed

with a sharp but narrow iron point, and which, as occasion ver

quired, they either darted from a distance or pussied in close onset.

With this spear, and with a shield, their cavalry was contented. A

multitude of darts,, scattered 71 with incredible force were an addi­

tional resource of the infantry.. Their military dress, when they

wore any,, was nothing more than a loose mantle. A variety of

colours was the only ornament of their wooden or their osier ssiields.

Few of the chiefs were distinguished by cuirasses", scarce any by

4 helmets..

