414 THE DECLINE AND FALL

ad of Max-

the freedom and dangers of a military life; they had advanced,

almost by equal steps, through the successive honours of the ser­

vice, and as soon as Galerius was invested with the imperial

dignity, he seems to have conceived the defign of raising his com­

panion to the fame rank with himself. During the ssiort period of

his prosperity he considered the rank of Caesar as unworthy of

the age and merit of Licinius, and rather chose to reserve for him

the place of Constantius, and the empire of the West. While the

emperor was employed in the Italian war, he intrusted his friend

with the defence of the Danube; and immediately after his return

from that unfortunate expedition, he invested Licinius with the

vacant purple of Severus, resigning to his immediate command

the provinces of Illyricum The news of his promotion was no

sooner carried into the East, than Maximin, who governed or rather

oppressed the countries of Egypt and Syria, betrayed his envy

and' discontent, disdained the inferior name of Cæsar, and not­

withstanding the prayers as well as arguments of Galerius, exacted*

almost by violence, the equal title of Augustus For the first,

and indeed for the last time, the Roman world was administered by

Sx emperors, six emperors. In the West, Constantine and Maxentius affected to

A. . 308. feverence their father Maximian. In the East, Licinius and

Maximin honoured with more real consideration their benefactor

Galerius. The opposition of interest, and the memory of a recent

was, divided the empire into two great hostile powers ; but their

mutual fears produced an apparent tranquillity, and even a feigned

reconciliation, till the deaths of the elder princes, of Maximian,

and more particularly of Galerius, gave a new direction to the views

and passions of their surviving associates.

Misfortunes When Maximian had reluctantly abdicated the empire, the

of Maximian. m

venal orators of the times applauded his philosophic moderation.

When his ambition excited, or at least encouraged, a civil war,

they returned thanks to his generous patriotism, and gently cen­

sured

■

