OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 269

the reservoir of all the springs of Mount Olympus, rose to an un-

. common height. The little river of Rhyndacus, that issues from it,

swelled into a broad and rapid stream, and stopped the progress of

the Goths. Their retreat to the maritime city of Heraclea, where

the fleet had probably been stationed, was attended by a long train

of waggons, laden with the spoils of Bithynia, and was marked by

the flames of Nice and Nicomedia, which they wantonly burnt"7.

Some obscure hints are mentioned of a doubtful combat that secured

their retreat"8. But even a complete victory would have been of

little service, as the approach of the autumnal equinox summoned

them to hasten their return. To navigate the Euxine before the

month of May, or after that of September, is esteemed by the mo­

dern Turks the most unquestionable instance of rashness and folly "9.

When we are informed that the third fleet, equipped by the Goths Third navaI

* * K _ • ■ expedition of

in the ports of Bosphorus, consisted of five hundred sail of ships "% the
Goths.

our ready imagination instantly computes and multiplies the for­

midable armament j but, as we are assured by the judicious Strabo

that the pyratical vessels used by the barbarians of Pontus and the

Lesser Scythia, were not capable of containing more than twenty-

five or thirty men, we may safely affirm, that fifteen thousand war­

riors, at the most, embarked in this great expedition. Impatient of

the limits of the Euxine, they steered their destructive course from

the Cimmerian to the Thracian Bosphorus. When they had almost

gained the middle of the Straits, they were suddenly driven back

to the entrance of them; till a favourable wind springing up the They pass the

next day, carried them in a few hours into the.placid sea, or rather
thesHeii«land

lake of the Propontis. Their landing on the little island of Cyzicus, spont*

was attended with the ruin of that ancient and noble city. From

thence issuing again through the narrow passage of the Hellespont,

they pursued their winding navigation amidst the numerous island*

scattered over the Archipelago, or the Ægean Sea. The assistance'

of captives and deserters, must have been very necessary to pilot their

vessels,

