THE DECLINE AND FALL

drachms of silver, or about three hundred thousand pounds a

year Twenty thousand pound weight of gold was annually re­

ceived from the provinces of Asturia,. Gallicia, and Luiitania94, . •

of the isle of . We want both leisure and materials to pursue this curious
inquiry

53 through the many potent states that were annihilated in the Roman-

empire. Some notion, however, may be formed of the revenue of

the provinces where considerable wealth had been deposited by na­

ture, or collected by man, if we observe the severe attention that

was directed to the abodes of solitude and sterility. Augustus once

received a, petition from the inhabitants of Gyarus, humbly praying

that they might be relieved from one third of their exceffive impo­

sitions. Their whole tax amounted indeed to no more than one

hundred and fifty drachms, or about five pounds: but Gyarus was

a little island, or rather a rock, of the Ægean sea, destitute of frestv

water and every neceflary of life, and inhabited only by a few

wretched fishermen95.

Amount of From the faint glimmerings of such doubtful and scattered lights,,

the revenue, wg n^^d incline to believe, ist, That (with every fair allowance
for

the difference of times and circumstance*) the general income of the

Roman provinces could seldom amount to less than fifteen or twenty

millions of our money9<s; and, 2dly, That so ample a revenue must

have been fully adequate to all the expences of the moderate go­

vernment instituted by Augustus, whose court was the modest family

of a private senator, and whose military establishment was calcu­

lated for the defence of the frontiers, without any aspiring views of

conquest, or any serious apprehension of a foreign invasion.

Taxes on Ro- Notwithstanding the seeming probability of both these conclusion^

!nst?t"edeby ^e ^ter °f them at least is positively disowned by the language

Augustus. and conduct of Augustus. It is not easy to determine whether, on:

this occasion, he acted a* the common father of the Roman world,

or as the oppressor of liberty; whether he wished to relieve the pro­

vinces, or to impoverish the senate and the equestrian order. But

4 no

