OF T.HE ROMAN EMPIRE. 215

1

he had every where opposed the invaders in person; and in cither

fortune, had united with the ablest conduct the most undaunted

resolution. But in several obstinate engagements against the vete­

ran legions of Rome, the Persian monarch had lost the flower of his

troops. Even his victories had weakened his power. The favour­

able opportunities of the absence of Alexander, and of the confu­

sions that followed that emperor's death, presented themselves ire

vain to his ambition. Instead of expelling the Romans, as he pre­

tended, from the continent of Asia, he found himself unable to

wrest from their hands the little province of Mesopotamia S*.

The reign of Artaxerxes, which from the last defeat of the Par- Character and

. maxims of

thians lasted only fourteen years, forms a memorable æra in the Artaxerxes.

history of the East and even in that of Rome. His character seems- A' D* 2+°"

to have been marked by those bold and commanding features, tha*

generally distinguish the princes who conquer, from those who

inherit, an empire. Till the last period of the Persian monarchy,,

his code of laws was respected as the ground-work of their civil and

religious policy53. Several of his sayings are preserved. One of

them in particular discovers a deep insight into the constitution of

government. " The authority of the prince,'' said Artaxerxes, " must

'* be defended by a military force; that force can only be main-

u tained by taxes; all taxes must, at last, fall upon agriculture; and

'* agriculture can never flourish except under the protection of

"justice and moderation JV Artaxerxes bequeathed his new em­

pire, and his ambitious designs against the Romans, to Sapor, a son

not unworthy of his great father; but those designs were too

extensive for the power of Persia, and served only to involve both

nations in a long series of destructive wars and reciprocal calamities.

The Persians, long since civilized and corrupted, were very far Military

from possessing the martial independence, and the intrepid hardi-

ness, both of mind and body, which have rendered the northern

barbarians masters of the world. The science of war, that con­

stituted the more rational force of Greece and Rome, as it now does

8 of

