178 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Oppreffion of As ionpr a9 the cruelty of Maximin was confined to the
illustrious

the provin- 0

cci. senators, or even to the bold adventurers, who in the court or army

expose themselves to the caprice of fortune, the body of the people

viewed their sufferings with indifference, or perhaps with pleasure.

But the tyrant's avarice, stimulated by the insatiate desires of the

soldiers, at length attacked the public property. Every city of the

empire was possessed of an independent revenue, destined to pur-

chafe corn for the multitude, and to supply the expences of the

games and entertainments. By a single act of authority, the whole

mass of wealth was at once confiscated for the use of the Imperial

treasury. The temples were stripped of their most valuable offer­

ings of gold and silver, and the statues of gods, heroes, and empe-

lors were melted down and coined into money. These impious or­

ders could not be executed without tumults and massacres, as in many

places the people chose rather to die in the defence of their altars,

than to behold in the midst of peace their cities exposed to the ra­

pine and cruelty of war. The soldiers themselves, among whom

this sacrilegious plunder was distributed, received it with a blush;

and, hardened as they were in acts of violence, they dreaded the juft

reproaches of their friends and relations. Throughout the Roman

world a general cry of indignation was heard, imploring vengeance

on the common enemy of human kind; and at length, by an act of

private oppreslion, a peaceful and unarmed province was driven into

rebellion against him ''.

Revolt in The procurator of Africa was a servant worthy of such a master,

A. D.' 237. who considered the fines and confiscations of the nobles as one of

ApnI* the most fruitful branches of the Imperial revenue. An iniquitous

sentence had been pronounced against some opulent youths of that

country, the execution of which would have stripped them of far

the greater part of their patrimony. In this extremity, a resolution

that must either complete or prevent their ruin, was dictated by

despair.

1

