OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

gaged to watch with the most vigilant attention over his own

behaviour, and over that of his brethren, since, as he must expect

to incur a part of the common disgraee, he may hope to enjoy

a share of the common reputation. When the Christians of Bi-

thynia were brought before the tribunal of the younger Pliny, they

assured the proconsul, that far from being engaged in any unlawful

conspiracy, they were bound by a solemn obligation to abstain from

the commission of those crimes which disturb the private or public

peace of society, from theft, robbery, adultery, perjury, and frauds-

Near a century afterwards, Tertullian, with an honest pride, could

boast, that very few Christians had suffered by the hand of the

executioner except on account of their religion Their serious

and sequestered Use, averse to the gay luxury of the age, inured them

to chastity, temperance, œconomy, and all the sober and domestic

virtues. As the greater number were of some trade or profession,

it was incumbent on them, by the strictest integrity and the fairest

dealing, to remove the suspicions which the prophane are too apt

to conceive against the appearances of sanctity. The contempt

of the world exercised them in the habits of humility, meekness,

and patience. The more they were persecuted the more closely

they adhered to each other. Their mutual charity and unsuspecting

confidence has been remarked by infidels, and was too often abused

by perfidious friends 8*.

It is a very honourable circumstance for the morals of the primi- Morality of

tive Christians, that even their faults, or rather errors, were derived the
sather5*

from an excess of virtue. The bishops and doctors of the church,

whose evidence attests, and whose authority might influence, the

professions, the principles, and even the practice, of their con­

temporaries, had studied the scriptures with less skill than devo­

tion, and they often received, in the most literal sense, those rigid

precepts of Christ and the apostles, to which the prudence of

succeeding commentators has applied a looser and more figurative

Vol. I. Q^q q mode

