468 THE DECLINE AND FALL

that their conduct in this life was never regulated by any serious

conviction of the rewards or punishments of a future state. At the

bar and in the senate of Rome the ablest orators were not appre­

hensive of giving offence to their hearers, by exposing that doc­

trine as an idle and extravagant opinion, which was rejected with

contempt by every man of a liberal education and understand­

ing 51.

among the Since therefore the most sublime efforts of philosophy can extend

Pagans of

Greece and no farther than feebly to point out the desire, the hope, or, at

most, the probability, of a future state, there is nothing, except a

divine revelation, that can ascertain the existence, and describe

the condition, of the invisible country which is destined to receive

the fouls of men after their separation from the body. But we

may perceive several defects inherent to the popular religions of

Greece and Rome, which rendered them very unequal to so arduous-

a task. i. The general system of their mythology was unsupported

by any solid proofs; and the wisest among the Pagans had already

disclaimed its usurped authority, a. The description of the infer­

nal regions had been abandoned to the fancy of painters and

of poets, who peopled them with so many phantoms and monsters>

who dispensed their rewards and punishments with so little equity,,

that a solemn truth, the most congenial to the human heart, was-

oppressed and disgraced by the absurd mixture of the wildest

fictions 3. The doctrine of a future state was scarcely con­

sidered among the devout polytheists of Greece and Rome as a

fundamental article of faith. The providence of the gods, as it

related to public communities rather than to private individuals,.

was principally displayed on the visible theatre of the present world.

The private petitions which were offered on the altars of Jupiter

or Apollo, expressed the anxiety of their worshippers for temporal

happiness, and their ignorance or indifference concerning a future

life ,+. The important truth of the immortality of the foul was

inculcated

