OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the rage of the barbarians 78. When the exhausted country no ?nn£j2jover

longer supplied a variety of plunder, the Franks seized on some

vessels in the ports of Spain79, and transported themselves into

Mauritania. The distant province was astonished with the fury of

these barbarians, who seemed to fall from a new world, as their

name, manners, and complexion, were equally unknown on the

coast of Africa 8°.

II. In that part of Upper Saxony beyond the Elbe, which is at °ri8'n and

renown of

present called the Marquisate of Lusace, there existed, in ancient the Suevi..

times, a sacred wood, the awful seat of the superstition of the

Suevi. None were permitted to enter the holy precincts, without

confessing, by their servile bonds and suppliant posture, the imme­

diate presence of the sovereign Deity Patriotism contributed aa

well as devotion to consecrate the Sonnenwald, or wood of the Sem-

nones '*. It was universally believed, that the nation had received

its first existence on that sacred spot. At stated periods, the

numerous tribes who gloried in the Suevic blood, resorted thither

by their ambassadors ;. and the memory of their common extraction

was perpetuated by Barbaric rites and human sacrifices. The wide

extended name of Suevi filled the interior countries of Germany,

from the banks of the Oder to those of the Danube. They were

distinguished from the other Germans by their peculiar mode of

dressing their long hair, which they gathered into a rude knot on

the crown of the head; and they delighted in an ornament that

fliewed their ranks more lofty and terrible in the eyes of the ene­

my 8'. Jealous, as the Germans were, of military renown, they

all confessed the superior valour of the Suevi; and the tribes of the

Usipetes and Tencteri, who with a vast army encountered the dictator

Cæsar, declared that they esteemed it not a disgrace to have fled:

before a people,, to whose arms the immortal gods themselves were,

unequal.8*..

Iru

