OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 397

columns, on one side of which we discover the square temple of

Æsculapius, on the other the octagon temple of Jupiter. The

latter of those deities Diocletian revered as the patron of his for­

tunes, the former as the protector of his health. By comparing

the present remains with the precepts of Vitruvius, the several

parts of the building, the baths, bedchamber, the atrium, the bafisica,

and the Cyzicene, Corinthian, and Egyptian halls, have been

described with some degree of precision, or at least of probability.

Their forms were various, their proportions just, but they were

all attended with two imperfections, very repugnant to our modern

notions of taste and conveniency. These stately rooms had*

neither windows nor chimnies. They were lighted from the

top (for the building seems to have consisted of no more than one

story), and they received their heat by the help of pipes that were

conveyed along the walls. The range of principal apartments'

was protected towards the south west, by a portico five hundred and

seventeen feet long, which must have formed a very noble and

delightful walk, when the beauties of painting and sculpture were

added to those of the prospect.

Had this magnificent edifice remained in a solitary country, it

would have been exposed to the ravages of time ; but it might, per­

haps, have escaped the rapacious industry of man. The village of

Aspalathus ,10, and long afterwards the provincial town of Spalatro,

have grown out of its ruins. The golden gate now opens into

the market place. St. John the Baptist has usurped the honours of

Æsculapius; and the temple of Jupiter, under the protection of the

Virgin, is converted into the cathedral church. For this account

of Diocletian's palace, we are principally indebted to an ingenious

artist of our own time and country, whom a very liberal curiosity car- Decline
of

ried into the heart of Dalmatia But there is room to suspect that the am*

the elegance of his designs and engraving has somewhat flattered

the objects which it was their purpose to represent. We are in*-

formed by a more recent and very judicious traveller, that the awful1

ruins

