OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Under the successors of Alexander, Syria was the feat of the sr\3' p,'œ-

* nitia, and

Seleucidæ, who reigned over Upper Asia, till the successful revolt Palestine,

of the Parthians confined their dominions between the Euphrates

and the Mediterranean. When Syria became subject to the Romans,

it formed the eastern frontier of their empire, nor did that province,

in its utmost latitude, know any other bounds than the moun­

tains of Cappadocia to the north, and towards the south, the con-

sines of Egypt, and the Red Sea. Phœnicia and Palestine were

sometimes annexed to, and sometimes separated from, the jurisdiction

of Syria. The former of these was a narrow and rocky coast; the

latter was a territory scarcely superior to Wales, either in fertility

or extent. Yet Phœnicia and Palestine will for ever live in the

memory of mankind; since America, as well as Europe, has received

letters from the one, and religion from the other8'. A sandy

desert skirted along the doubtful confine of Syria, from the Eu­

phrates to the Red Sea. The wandering life of the Arabs was in­

separably connected with their independence, and wherever, on

some spots less barren than the rest, they ventured to form any

settled habitations, they soon became subjects of the Roman

empire 8+.

The geographers of anticmity have sometimes hesitated to what Egypt,

portion of the globe they should ascribe Egypt8J. Its situation is

included within the immense peninsula of Africa, but it is accessible

only on the side of Asia, whose revolutions, in almost every period

of history, Egypt has humbly obeyed. A Roman præfect was

seated on the splendid throne of the Ptolemies; and the iron sceptre

of the Mamalukes is now in the hands of a Turkish pastia. The

Nile flows down the country, above five hundred miles from the

tropic of Cancer to the Mediterranean, and marks, on either side,

the extent of fertility by the measure of its inundations. Cyrene,

situate towards the west, and along the sea-coast, was first a Greek

Vol. I. E colony,

