3<*4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Power of

Cvaufiaia

A.D. »8a,

acknowledg­

ed by the

other empe.

iors.

become the seat of an independent monarchy *7. During the space

of seven years, it was possessed by Caraufius j and fortune con­

tinued propitious to a rebellion, supported with courage and ability.

The British emperor defended the frontiers of his dominions against

the Caledonians of the North, invited, from the continent, a great

number of skilful artists, and displayed, on a variety of coins

that are still extant, his taste and opulence. Born on the confines

of the Franks, he courted the friendship of that formidable people,

by the flattering imitation of their dress and manners. The

bravest of their youth he enlisted among his land or sea forces;

and in return for their useful alliance, he communicated to the

barbarians the dangerous knowledge of military and naval arts.

Caraufius still preserved the possession of Boulogne and the ad­

jacent country. His fleets rode triumphant in the "channel, com­

manded the mouths of the Seine and of the Rhine, ravaged the

coasts of the ocean, and diffused beyond the columns of Hercules the

terror of his name. Under his command, Britain, destined in a

future age, to obtain the empire of the sea, already assumed its

natural and respectable station of a maritime power *8.

By seizing the fleet of Boulogne, Caraufius had deprived his

master of the means of pursuit and revenge. And when, after a

vast expence of time and labour, a new armament was launched

into the water*9, the imperial troops, unaccustomed to that eleiv.ent,

were easily baffled and defeated by the veteran sailors of. the

usurper. This disappointed effort was soon productive of a

treaty of peace. Diocletian and his colleague, who justly dreaded

the enterprising spirit of Caraufius, resigned to him the sovereignty

of Britain, and reluctantly admitted their perfidious servant to a

participation of the imperial honours'0. But the adoption of the

two Cæsars restored new vigour to the Roman arms; and while the

Rhine was guarded by the presence of Maximian, his brave as­

sociate Constantius, assumed the conduct of the British war. His

z first,

