i56 THE DECLINE AND FALX

Popular dis­

content.

Victory and

revolt of

Æmilianus.

A. D.153.

presents and subsidies were liberally distributed among friends and

suppliants, they were sternly refused to such as claimed them as a

debt But this stipulation of an annual payment to a victorious

enemy, appeared without disguise in the light of an ignominious

tribute; the minds of the Romans were not yet accustomed

to accept such unequal laws from a tribe of barbarians; and the

prince, who by a necessary concession had probably saved his

country, became the object of the general contempt and aversion.

The death of Hostilianus, though it happened in the midst of a

raging pestilence, was interpreted as the personal crime of

Gallus5*; and even the defeat of the late emperor was ascribed

by the voice of suspicion to the perfidious counsels of his hated suc­

cessor 5!. The tranquillity which the empire enjoyed during the first

year of his administration 56, served rather to inflame than to ap­

pease the public discontent; and, as soon as the apprehensions of

war were removed, the infamy of the peace was more deeply and

more sensibly felt.

But the Romans were irritated to a still higher degree, when they

discovered that they had not even secured their repose, though at the

expence of their honour. The dangerous secret of the wealth and

weakness of the empire, had been revealed to the world. New swarms

of barbarians, encouraged by the success, and not conceiving themselves

bound by the obligation of their brethren, spread devastation through

the Illyrian provinces, and terror as far as the gates of Rome. The

defence of the monarchy, which seemed abandoned by the pusillani­

mous emperor, was assumed by Æmilianus, governor of Pannonia

and Mæsia; who rallied the scattered forces, and revived the faint­

ing spirits of the troops. The barbarians were unexpectedly at­

tacked, routed, chaced, and pursued beyond the Danube. The vic­

torious leader distributed as a donative the money collected for the

tribute, and the acclamations of the soldiers proclaimed him emperor

on the field of battle ". Gallus, who, careless of the general wel­

fare,

