OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

that period, he hoped that the wounds of civil discord would

be completely healed, and that the republic, restored to its pristine

health and vigour, would no longer require the dangerous inter­

position of so extraordinary a magistrate. The memory of this

comedy, repeated several times during the life of Augustus, was

preserved to the last ages of the empire, by the peculiar pomp with

which the perpetual monarchs of Rome always solemnized the tenth

years of their reign 6.

Without any violation of the principles of the constitution, the Power of the

. _ . _ . , Roman ge-

general of the Roman armies might receive and exercise an au- neral*.

thority almost despotic over the soldiers, the enemies, and the

subjects of the republic. With regard to the soldiers, the jealousy

of freedom had, even from the earliest ages of Rome, given way to

the hopes of conquest, and a just fense of military discipline. The

dictator, or cousul, had a right to command the service of the

Roman youth; and to punisti an obstinate or cowardly disobedience

by the most severe and ignominious penalties, by striking the

offender out of the list of citizens, by confiscating his property,

and by felling his person into slavery '. The most sacred rights of

freedom, confirmed by the Porcian and Sempronean laws, were

suspended by the military engagement. In his camp the ge­

neral exercised an absolute power of life and death; his juris­

diction was not confined by any forms of trial, or rules of pro­

ceeding, and the execution of the sentence was immediate and with­

out appeal8. The choice of the enemies of Rome was regularly

decided by the legislative authority. On the most important occa­

sions, peace and war were seriously debated in the senate, and

solemnly ratified by the people. But when the arms of the legions

were carried. to a.great distance from Italy, the generals assumed the

liberty of directing them against whatever people, and in what­

ever manner, they judged most advantageous for the public service.

It was from the success, not from the justice of their enterprises,

that

