xg8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

chorus of twenty-seven youths, and as many virgins of noble fa­

milies, and whose parents were both alive, implored the propitious

gods in the favour of the present, and the hope of the rising gene­

ration; requesting, in religious hymns, that* according to the faith

of their astcient oracled, they would still maintain the virtue, the

felicity, and the empire of the Roman people The magnificence

of Philip's shows and entertainments dazzled the eyes of the mul­

titude. The devout were employed in the rites of superstition,

whilst the reflecting few revolved in their anxious minds the past

history and the future fate of the empire.

Decline ofthe Since Romulus, with a small band of shepherds and outlaws, for-

Roman cm- jjggj himself Qn the hills near the Tyber, ten centuries had already

elapsed5*. During the four first ages, the Romans, in the laborious

school of poverty, had acquired the virtues of war and government.

By the vigorous exertion of those virtues, and by the assistance of

fortune, they had obtained, in the course of the three succeeding

centuries, an absolute empire over many countries of Europe, Asia,

and Africa. The last three hundred years had been consumed in

apparent prosperity and internal decline. The nation of soldiers,

magistrates, and legiflators, who composed the thirty-five tribes

of the Roman people, was dissolved into the common mass of

mankind, and confounded with the millions of servile provin­

cials, who had received the name, without adopting the spirit

of Romans. A mercenary army, levied among the subjects and

barbarians of the frontier, was the only order of men who pre­

served and abused their independence. By their tumultuary elec­

tion, a Syrian, a Goth, or an Arab, was exalted to the throne of

Rome, and invested with despotic power over the conquests and over

the country of the Scipios. ""

The limits of the Roman empire still extended from the Western

Ocean to the Tigris, and from Mount Atlas to the Rhine and the

Danube. To th£ undiscerning eye of the vulgar, Philip appeared

a monarch

