OF T H E; R O M A N EMPIRE. 20

** addressed.'' Yet, at the same time, in the true spirit of a polytheist,  
he accuses them of adoring Earth, Water, Fire, the Winds, and

the Sun and Moon. But the Persians of every age have denied

the charge, and explained the equivocal conduct, which might

appear to give a colour to it. The elements, and more particu­

larly Fire, Light, and the Sun, whom they called Mithra, were the

objects of their religious reverence, because they considered them as

the purest symbols, the noblest productions, and the most powerful

agents of the Divine Power and Nature ". ( •.,

Every mode of religion, to make a deep and lasting impression on

the human mind, must exercise our obedience, by enjoining practices precept*,

of devotion, for which we can assign no reason ; and must acquire our

esteem, by inculcating moral duties analogous to the dictates of our

own hearts. The religion of Zoroaster was abundantly provided

with the former, and possessed a sufficient portion of the latter. Ar>

the age of puberty, the faithful Persian was invested with a mys­

terious girdle, the badge of the divine protection; and from that

moment, all the actions of his life, even the most indifferent}

or the most necessary, were sanctified by their peculiar prayers,,

ejaculations, or genuflexions; the omission of which, under any

circumstances, was a grievous sin, not inferior in guilt to the vio­

lation of the moral duties. The moral duties, however, of justice,,

mercy, liberality, &c. were in their turn required of the disciple of

Zoroaster* who wished to escape the persecution of Ahriman, and to

live with Ormusd in a blissful eternity, where the degree of felicity

is exactly, proportioned to the degree of virtue and piety '\

But there are some remarkable instances, in, which Zoroaster lays Encourage-

aside the prophet, assumes the legislator, and discovers a liberal *g"

concern for private and public happiness, seldom to be found among

the groveling or visionary schemes of superstition. Fasting and

celibacy, the common means of purchasing the divine favour,

he condemns with abhorrence, as a criminal rejection of the best

gifts

