OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 375

Sea 6l. The civil war was, however, soon terminated, either by a vic­

tory or by a reconciliation; and Narscs, who was universally acknow­

ledged a king of Persia, directed his whole force against the foreign

enemy. The contest then became too unequal; nor was the valour of

the hero able to withstand the power of the monarch. Tiridates, a

second time expelled from the throne of Armenia, once more took

refuge in the court of the emperors. Narses soon re-established his

authority in the revolted province; and loudly complaining of the

protection afforded by the Romans to rebels and fugitives, aspired

to the conquest of the East 6\

Neither prudence nor honour could permit the emperors to desert War between

the cause of the Armenian king, and it was resolved to exert the and'the Ro-

force of the empire in the Persian war. Diocletian, with the calm T"™' r

dignity which he uniformly affected, fixed his own station in the

city of Antioch, from whence he prepared and directed the military

operations 6!. The conduct of the legions was intrusted to the in­

trepid valour of Galerius, who, for that important purpose, was re­

moved from the banks of the Danube to those of the Euphrates.

The armies soon encountered each other in the plains of Mesopo- Defeat of

c r Galerius.

tamia, and two battles were fought with various and doubtful suc­

cess: but the third engagement was of a more decisive nature ; and

the Roman army received a total overthrow, which is attributed to

the rashness of Galerius, who, with an inconsiderable body of troops,

attacked the innumerable host of the Persians 6+. But the consider­

ation of the country that was the scene of action, may suggest ano­

ther reason for his defeat. The fame ground on which Galerius.

was vanquished, had been rendered memorable by the death of

Crassus, and the slaughter of ten legions. It was a plain of more

than sixty miles, which extended from the hills of Carræ- to the

Euphrates; a smooth and barren surface of sandy desert, without a.

hillock, without a tree, and without a spring of fresh water 6>. The

steady infantry of the Romans, fainting with, heat and thirst, could

neither.

■

