OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ij

fortified cities, which the Romans considered as the" refuge of weak­

ness or pusillanimity, the legions were encamped on the banks of

the great rivers, and along the frontiers of the barbarians. As their

stations, for the most part, remained fixed and permanent, we may-

venture to describe the distribution of the troops. Three legioas

were sufficient for Britain. The principal strength lay upon the

Rhine and Danube, and consisted of sixteen legions, in the follow­

ing proportions; two in the Lower, and three in the Upper Germany;

one in Rhætia, one in Noricum, four in Pannonia, three in Mæsia,

and two in Dacia. The defence of the Euphrates was intrusted to

eight legions, six of whom were placed in Syria, and the other two

in Cappadocia. With regard to Egypt, Africa, and Spain, as they

were far removed from any important scene of war, a single legion

maintained the domestic tranquillity of each of those great provinces.

Even Italy was not left destitute of a military force. Above twenty

thousand chosen soldiers, distinguished by the titles of City Cohorts

and Praetorian Guards, watched over the safety of the monarch and

the capital. As the authors of almost every revolution that distracted

the empire, the prætorians will, very soon, and very loudly demand

our attention; but, in their arms and institutions, we cannot find

any circumstance which discriminated them from the legions, unless

it were a more splendid appearance, and a less rigid discipline 6j.

The navy maintained by the emperors might seem inadequate to Navy,

their greatness; but it was fully sufficient for every useful purpose

of government. The ambition of the Romans was confined to the

land; nor was that warlike people ever actuated by the enter­

prising spirit which had prompted the navigators of Tyre, of Car­

thage, and even of Marseilles, to enlarge the bounds of the world

and to explore the most remote coasts of the ocean. To the Romans

the ocean remained an object of terror rather than of curiosity 66; the

whole extent of the Mediterranean, after the destruction of Carthage,

and the extirpation of the pirates, was included within their pro-

Vol. I. D vinces.

