OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4«

Though Constantinre might view the conduct of Maxentius with CiviI w" be"

° ° tween Con-

abhorrence, and the situation of the Romans with companion, we have famine and

Maxentius.

no reason to presume that he would have taken up arms to punish A. D. 312^

the one or to relieve the other. But the tyrant of Italy rashly

ventured to provoke a formidable enemy, whose ambition had been

hitherto restrained by considerations of prudence, rather than by

principles of justice *\ After the death of Maximian, his titles>

according to the established custom, had been erased, and his statue*

thrown down with ignominy. His son, who had persecuted and

deserted him when alive, affected to display the most pious re*-

gard for his memory, and gave orders that a similar treatment should

be immediately inflicted on all the statues that had been erected in

Italy and Africa to the honour of Constantine. That wife prince,

who sincerely wished to decline a war, the difficulty and im­

portance of which he was sufficiently acquainted with, at firifr

dissembled the insult, and sought for redress by the milder ex<-

pedients of negociation, till he was convinced, that the hostile and

ambitious designs of the Italian emperor, made it necessary for him

to arm in his own defence. Maxentius, who openly avowed his

pretensions to the whole monarchy of the West, had- already pre­

pared a very considerable force to invade the Gallic provinces ot*

the side of Rhætia, and though he could not expect any assistance from

Licinius, he was flattered, that the legions of Illyricum, allured by his

presents and promises, would desert the standard of that prince, and

unanimously declare themselves his soldiers and subjects 49. Con­

stantine no longer hesitated. He had deliberated with caution, he

acted with vigour. He gave a private audience to the ambassadors*

who, in the name of the senate and people, conjured him to deliver

Rome from a detested tyrant; and, without regarding the timid

remonstrances of his council, he resolved to prevent the enemy>

and to carry the war into the heart of Italy *°,

The

