THE DECLINE AND FALL

peculiarly miserable; and they experienced at once the complicated

tyranny of their masters, of the barbarians, of the soldiers, and of

the officers of the revenue

Their rebel- Their patience was at last provoked into despair. On every side

they rose in multitudes, armed with rustic weapons, and with;

irresistible fury. The ploughman became a foot soldier, the shep­

herd mounted on horseback, the deserted villages and open towns

were abandoned to the flames, and the ravages of the peasants

equalled those of the fiercest barbarians ". They asserted the natural

rights of men, but they asserted those rights with, the most savage

cruelty- The Gallic nobles justly dreading their revenge, either

took refuge in the fortified cities, or fled from the wild scene of"

anarchy. The peasants reigned without controul; and two of their

most daring leaders had the folly and rashness to assume the im­

perial ornaments Their power soon expired at the approach of

the legions. The strength of union and discipline obtained an easy

and chastise- victory over a licentious and divided multitude ".. A severe re­

taliation was inflicted on the peasants who were found in arms;

the affrighted remnant returned to their respective habitations, and

their unsuccessful effort for freedom served only to confirm their

slavery. So strong and uniform is the current of popular passions,

that we may venture, from very scanty materials, to relate the par­

ticulars of this war; but we are not disposed to believe that the

principal leaders Ælianus and Amandus were Christiansor to

insinuate, that the rebellion, as it happened in the time of

Luther, was occasioned, by the abuse of those benevolent principles

of Christianity, which inculcate the natural freedom of mankind.

A. D- 287. Maximian had no sooner recovered Gaul from the hands of the

Revolt of Ca-

raufiusio peasants, than he lost Britain by the usurpation of Carausius.

Ever since the successful rashness of the franks under the reign of

Probus, their daring countrymen had constructed squadrons of light

brigantines, in which they incessantly ravaged the provinces

i- adjacent

