OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of Rome. But this accidental benefit, which science might derive

from folly, is surely insufficient to justify such a wanton abuse of

the public riches. There occurs, however, a single instance in the

first Punic war, in which the senate wisely connected this amuse­

ment of the multitude with the interest of the state. A considerable

number of elephants, taken in the defeat of the Carthaginian army,

were driven through the circus by a few slaves, armed only with

blunt javelins 9°. The useful spectacle served to impress the Roman

soldier with a just contempt for those unwieldy animals; and he

no longer dreaded to encounter them in the ranks of war.

The hunting or exhibition of wild beasts, was conducted with a Theamphi-

magnificence suitable to a people who styled themselves the masters

of the world; nor was the edifice appropriated to that entertain­

ment less expressive of Roman greatness. Posterity admires, and will

long admire, the awful remains of the amphitheatre of Titus, which

so well deserved the epithet of Colossal''. It was a building of an

eliptic figure, five hundred and sixty-four feet in length, and four

hundred and sixty-seven in breadth, founded on fourscore arches, and

rising, with four successive orders of architecture, to the height of

one hundred and forty feet The outside of the edifice was en­

crusted with marble, and decorated with statues. The sloping sides

of the vast concave, which formed the inside, were filled and sur­

rounded with sixty or eighty rows of feats of marble likewise, co­

vered with cushions, and capable of receiving with ease above four­

score thousand spectators Sixty-four vomitories (for by that name

the doors were very aptly distinguished) poured forth the immense

multitude; and the entrances, passages, and stair-cafes, were.con­

trived with such exquisite skill, that each person, whether of the

senatorial, the equestrian, or the plebeian order, arrived at his des­

tined place without trouble or confusion 9+. Nothing was omitted

which, in any respect, could be subservient to the convenience and

pleasure

