Iviii NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.

ing to the lowest computation of that age, must have

exceeded three thousand pounds a year. He gene

rousty requeued the permission of employing it in

rebuilding the college. See his Oration De restau-

randis scholis ; which, though not exempt from

vanity, may atone for his panegyrics.

[124] Porphyry died about the time of Diocle­

tian's abdication. The life of his master Plotinus,

which he composed, will give us the most complete

idea of the genius of the sect, and the manners of

its professors. Thii very curious piece is inserted

in Fabricius, Bibliptheca Grxca, torn. iv. p.

88—148.

NOTES ON THE FOU

[1] li/s De Montesquieu (Considerations fur la

IVJs • Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains,

c. 17.) supposes, on the authority of Orosiu3 and

Eusebius, that, on this occasion, the empire, for the

first time, was real/y divided into two parts. It is

difficult, however, to discover in what respect the

plan of Galerius differed from that of Diocletian.

[2] Hie r.on modo amabilis, fed etiam venera-

bilis Gallis suit; praecipue quod Diocletiani fuf-

pectam prudentiam, et Maximiani sanguinariam

violentiam imperio ejus evaferanr. Eutrop. Bre-

viar. x. 1.

[3] Divitiis Provincialiura (mel. provinciarum)

ac privatorura studens, fisci commoda non admo.

dum affectans; ducensque melius publicas opes a

privatis haberi, quam intra unum claustrum reser-

vari. Id. ibid. He carried this maxim so far, that

whenever he gave an entertainment, he was obliged

to borrow a service os plate.

[4] Lactantius de Mort. Persecutor, c. 18. Were

the particulars of the conference more consistent

with truth and decency, we might still a(k, how

they came to the knowledge of an obscure rheto­

rician? But there are many historians who put

us in mind of the admirable saying of the great

Conde to cardinal de Retz; "Ces coquins nous

"font parler et agir, comme ils auroient fait eux-

"memes a notre place."

[(] Sublatus nuper a pecoribus et silvis (fays

Lactantius de M. P. c. 19.) statim Scutarius, continuo

Protector, mox Tribunos, postridie Cæsar, accepit

Orientem. Aurelius Victor is too liberal in giving

. him the whole portion of Diocletian.

RTEENTH CHAPTER.

[fi] His diligence and fidelity are acknowledged

even by Lactantius, de M. P. e. 18.

[7] These schemes however rest only on the very

doubtful authority of Lactantius, de M. P. c. ao.

[£] This tradition, unknown to the contempo­

raries of Constantine, was invented in the darkness

of monasteries, was embcllistied by Jeffrey of Mon-

mouth, and the writers of the xiith century, has

been defended by our antiquarians of the last age,

and is seriously related in the ponderous history of

England, compiled by Mr. Carte, (vol. i. p. 147.).

He transports, however, the kingdom of Coil, the

imaginary father of Helena, from Essex to the wall

of Antoninus.

[9] Eutropius (x. 2.) expresses, in a sew words,

the real truth, and the occasion of the error,"/'* cb-

"scuritri malrim'inio ejus filius." Zosimus (1. ii.

p. 78.) eagerly seized the most unfavourable report,

and is followed by Orosius (vii. 25»)> whose authority

is oddly enough overlooked by the indefatigable

but partial Tillemont. By insisting on the divorce

of Helena, Diocletian acknowledged her marriage.

[io] There are three opinions with regard to

the place of Constantine's birth. I, Our English

antiquarians were used to dwell with rapture

on the words of his panegyrist; '* Britannia*

illic oriendo nobiles fectsti." But this cele­

brated passage may be referred with as much pro­

priety to the accession as to the nativity of Con­

stantine. 2. Some of the modern Greeks have

ascribed the honour of his birth to Drepanum, a

town on the gulf of Nicomedia, (Cellarius, torn. ii.

p. 174.) which Constantine dignified with the name

of

