59S THE DECLINE AND FALL

ruins of Spalatro are not less expressive of the decline of the arts,

than of the greatness of the Roman empire in the time of Diocle­

tian '". If such was indeed the state of architecture, we must na­

turally believe that painting and sculpture had experienced a still

more sensible decay. The practice of architecture is directed by a

few general and even mechanical rules. But sculpture, and above

all, painting, propose to themselves the imitation not only of the

forms of nature, but of the characters and passions of the human

foul. In those sublime arts, the dexterity of the hand is of little

avail, unless it is animated by fancy, and guided by the most cor­

rect taste and observation.

Of letters. It is almost unnecessary to remark, that the civil distractions of

the empire, the license of the soldiers, the inroads of the barbari­

ans, and the progress of despotism, had proved very unfavourable

to genius and even to learning. The succession of Illyrian princes

restored the empire, without restoring the sciences. Their mili­

tary education was not calculated to inspire them with the love of

letters; and even the mind of Diocletian, however active and

capacious in business, was totally uninformed by study or specu­

lation. The professions of law and physic are of such common

use and certain prosit, that they will always secure a sufficient

number of practitioners, endowed with a reasonable degree of abili­

ties and knowledge; but it does not appear that the students in

those two faculties appeal to any celebrated masters who flourished

within that period. The voice of poetry was silent. History was

reduced to dry and confused abridgments, alike destitute of amuse­

ment and instruction. A languid and affected eloquence was still

retained in the <pay and service of the emperors, who encouraged

not any arts except those which contributed to the gratification of

their pride, or the defence of their power

ThenewPla- The declining age of learning and of mankind, is marked,

w'"° however, by the rife and rapid progress of the new Platonicians.

The school of Alexandria silenced those of Athens; and the ancient

sects

