SIO T.HE DECLINE AND FALL

hundred miles of her capital. The fate of the East was decided in

.two great hattles; so similar in almost every circumstance, that we

can scarcely distinguish them from each other, except by observing

that the first was fought near Antioch'5, and the second near

Emesa6S. In both, the queen of Palmyra animated the armies by

her presence, and devolved the execution of her orders on Zabdas,

who had already signalized his military talents by the conquest of

Egypt. The numerous forces of Zenobia, consisted for the most

part of light archers, and of heavy cavalry clothed in complete

steel. The Moorish and Illyrian horse of Aurelian, were unable to

sustain the ponderous charge of their antagonists. They fled in

real cur affected disorder, engaged the Palmyrenians in a laborious

pursuit, harassed them by a desultory combat, and at length dis足

comfited this impenetrable but unwieldy body of cavalry. The

light infantry, in the mean time, when they had-exhausted their

quivers, remaining without protection against a closer onset, exposed

their naked sides to the swords of the legions. Aurelian had chosen

these veteran troops, who were usually stationed on the Upper

Danube, and whose valour had been severely tried in the Alemannic

war67. After the defeat of Emesa, Zenobia found it impossible to

collect a third army. As far as the frontier of Egypt, the nations

subject to her empire had joined the standard of the conqueror, who

detached the bravest of his generals to possess himself of the Egyp足

tian provinces. Palmyra was the last resource of the widow of Ode-

nathus. She retired within the walls of her capital, made every

preparation for a vigorous resistance, and declared with the intrepi足

dity of a heroine, that the last moment of her reign and of her life

should be the same.

The state of Amid the barren deserts of Arabia, a few cultivated spots rife
like

islands out of the sandy ocean. Even the name of Tadmor, or Palmyra,

by its signification in the Syriac as well as in the Latin language, de足

noted the multitude of palm trees which afforded shade and verdure to

2 that

