OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

a general distinguished by his valour and ability, had under his

command the city of Verona, and all the troops that were stationed

in the province of Venetia. As soon as he was informed that Con足

stantine was advancing towards him, he detached a large body of

cavalry, which was defeated in an engagement near Brescia, and

pursued by the Gallic legions as far as the gates of Verona. The

necessity, the importance, and the difficulties of the siege of Verona,

immediately presented themselves to the sagacious mind of Con-

stantine ". The city was accessible only by a narrow peninsula to足

wards the west, as the other three sides were surrounded by the

Adige, a rapid river which covered the province of Venetia, from

whence the besieged derive'd an inexhaustible supply of men and

provisions. It was not without great difficulty, and after several

fruitless attempts, that Constantine found means to pass the river

at some distance above the city, and in a place where the torrent

was less violent. He then encompassed Verona with strong lines,

pushed his attacks with a prudent vigour, and repelled a desperate

sally of Pompeianus. That intrepid general, when he had used

every means of defence that the strength of the place or that of the

garrison could afford, secretly escaped from Verona, anxious not for

his own but for the public safety. With indefatigable diligence he

soon collected an army sufficient either to meet Constantine in the

field, or to attack him if he obstinately remained within his lines.

The emperor, attentive to the motions, and informed of the ap足

proach of so formidable an enemy, left a part of his legions

to continue the operations of the siege, whilst, at the head of

those troops on whose valour and fidelity he more particularly de足

pended, he advanced in person to engage the general of Maxen-

tius. The army of Gaul was drawn up in two lines, according to

the usual practice of war; but their experienced leader, perceiving

that the numbers of the Italians far exceeded his own, suddenly

changed his disposition, and reducing the second, extended the front

of his first line to a just proportion with that of the enemy. Such

Vol. I. I i i evolutions,

