OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3*7

continued a respectable member of the senate; nor was there any

one of the Roman nobility more esteemed by Aurelian, as well as

by his successors **.

So long and so various was the pomp of Aurelian's triumph, that His magni-

although it opened with the dawn of day, the flow majesty of the devotion,

procession ascended not the capitol before the ninth hour; and it

was already dark when the emperor returned to the palace. The

festival was protracted by theatrical representations, the games of

the circus, the hunting of wild beasts, combats of gladiators, and

naval engagements. Liberal donatives were distributed to the army

and people, and several institutions, agreeable or beneficial to the

capital, contributed to perpetuate the glory of Aurelian. A con­

siderable portion of his oriental spoils was consecrated to the gods

of Rome; the capitol, and every other temple, glittered with the

offerings of his ostentatious piety; and the temple of the Sun alone

received above fifteen thousand pounds of gold 8s. This last was a

magnificent structure, erected by the emperor on the side of the

Quirinal hill, and dedicated, soon after the triumph, to that deity

whom Aurelian adored as the parent of his life and fortunes. His

mother had been an inferior priestess in a chapel of the Sun; a

peculiar devotion to the god of Light, was a sentiment which the

fortunate peasant imbibed in his infancy; and every step of his ele­

vation, every victory of his reign, fortified superstition by gra­

titude 86.

The arms of Aurelian had vanquistied the foreign and domestic He suppresses

1 °< a sedition a

foes of the Republic. We are assured, that, by his salutary rigour, Rome,

crimes and factions, mischievous arts and pernicious connivance,

the luxuriant growth of a feeble and oppressive government, were

eradicated throughout the Roman world 8?. But if we attentively re­

flect how much swifter is the progress of corruption than its cure,

and if we remember that the years abandoned to public disorders

exceeded the months allotted to the martial reign of Aurelian, we

6 must

