OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 533

seemed to have dictated the edicts which regulated the disposition of

the streets and the construction of private houses; and as it usually

happens, in an age of prosperity, the conflagration of Rome, in

the course of a few years, produced a new city, more regular, and

more beautiful than the former. Bur all the prudence and huma­

nity of Nero were insufficient to protect him from the popular sus­

picion. Every crime might be imputed to the assassin of his wife

and mother; nor could the prince, who prostituted his person and

dignity on the theatre, be deemed incapable of the most extravagant

folly. The voice of rumour accused the emperor as the incendiary

of his own capital; and as the most incredible stories are the best

adapted to the genius of an enraged people, it was gravely reported,

and firmly believed, that Nero, enjoying the calamity which he

had occasioned, amused himself with singing to his lyre the de­

struction of ancient Troy ,0. To divert a suspicion, which the

power of despotism was unable to suppress, the emperor resolved

to substitute in his own place some fictitious criminals. "With

"this view, (continues Tacitus) he inflicted the most exquisite Cruel punifh-

"tortures on those men, who, under the vulgar appellation christians, as

"of Christians, were already branded with deserved infamy. neVofthe**

"They derived their name and origin from Christ, who in the c,ty*

"reign of Tiberius had suffered death, by the sentence of the pro-

"curator Pontius Pilate ". For a while, this dire superstition was

*' checked; but it again burst forth; and not only spread itself over  
"Judæa, the first seat of this mischievous sect, but was even intro-

"duced into Rome, the common asylum which receives and pro-

"tects, whatever is impure, whatever is atrocious. The confessions

"of those who were seized, discovered a great multitude of their

"accomplices, and they were all convicted, not so much for the

"crime of setting fire to the city, as for their hatred of human

** kind. They died in torments, and their torments were embit-  
"tered by insult and derision. Some were nailed on crosses; others

<c sewn

■

