OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

sured that love of ease and retirement which had withdrawn him

from the public service But it was impossible, that minds like

those of Maximian and his son, could long possess in harmony an

undivided power. Maxentius considered himself as the legal

sovereign of Italy, elected by the Roman senate and people; nor

would he endure the controul of his father, who arrogantly de­

clared, that by his name and abilities the rash youth had been

established on the throne. The cause was solemnly pleaded before

the Prætorian guards, and those troops who dreaded the severity, of

the old emperor espoused the party of Maxentius The life and

freedom of Maximian were however respected, and he retired from

Italy into Illyricum, affecting to lament the past, and secretly con­

triving new mischiefs. But Galerius, who was well acquainted

with his character, soon obliged him to leave his dominions, and

the last refuge of the disappointed Maximian was the court of his

son-in-law Constantine JJ. He was received with respect by that

artful prince, and with the appearance of filial tenderness by the

empress Fausta. That he might remove every suspicion, he re­

signed the imperial purple a second time professing himself at

length convinced of the vanity of greatness and ambition. Had

he persevered in this resolution, he might have ended his life with

less dignity indeed than in his first retirement, yet, however, with

comfort and reputation. But the near prospect of a throne, brought

back to his remembrance the state from whence he was fallen, and

he resolved, by a desperate effort, either to reign or to peristu

An incursion of the Franks had summoned Constantine, with a

part of his army, to the banks of the Rhine; the remainder of

the troops were stationed in the southern provinces of Gaul, which

Jay exposed to the enterprises of the Italian emperor, and a con­

siderable treasure was deposited in the city of Aries. Maximian

either craftily invented, or hastily credited a vain report of the

death of Constantine. Without hesitation he ascended the throne,

seized

