GF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

seen by the primitive Christians in a much more odious and formid­

able light. It was the universal sentiment both of the church and

of heretics, that the dæmons were the authors, the patrons, and

the objects of idolatry 57. Those rebellious spirits who had been

degraded from the rank of angels, and cast down into the infernal

pit, were still permitted to roam upon earth, to torment the bodies,

and to seduce the minds of sinful men. They soon discovered

and abused the natural propensity of the human heart towards

devotion, and, artfully withdrawing the adoration of mankind from

their Creator, they usurped the place and honours of the Supreme

Deity. By the success of their malicious contrivances, they at once

gratified their own vanity and revenge, and obtained the only

comfort of which they were yet susceptible, the hope of involving

the human species in the participation of their guilt and misery.

It was confessed, or at least it was imagined, that they had dis­

tributed among themselves the most important characters of poly­

theism, one dæmon assuming the name and attributes of Jupiter,

another of Æsculapius, a third of Venus, and a fourth perhaps of

Apollo38; and that by the advantage of their long experience and

aerial nature, they were enabled to execute, with sufficient skill and

^ignity, the parts which they had undertaken. They lurked

in the temples, instituted festivals and sacrifices, invented fables,

pronounced oracles, and were frequently allowed to perform,

miracles. The Christians, who, by the interposition of the

dæmons, could so readily explain every præternatural appear­

ance, were disposed and even desirous to admit the most extra­

vagant fictions of the Pagan mythology. But the belief of the

Christian was accompanied with horror. The most trifling mark of

respect to the national worship he. considered as a direct homage

yielded to the dæmon, and as an act of rebellion against the majesty

of God.

i la.

