OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i$?

nation the name of Geta was mentioned with decency, and he re­

ceived the funeral honours of a Roman emperor *+. Posterity, in

pity to his misfortune, has cast a veil over his vices. We consider

that young prince as the innocent victim of his brother's ambition,

without recollecting that he himself wanted power rather than in­

clination to consummate the same attempts of revenge and murder.

The crime went not unpunished. Neither business, nor pleasure, Remorse and

cruelty of

nor flattery, could defend Caracalla from the stings of a guilty con-
Caracalia.

science; and he confessed, in the anguish of a tortured mind, that

his disordered fancy often beheld the angry forms of his father

and his brother rising into life, to threaten and upbraid him,s.

The consciousness of his crime should have induced him to convince

mankind, by the virtues of his reign, that the bloody deed had been

the involuntary effect of fatal necessity. But the repentance of Cara-

calla only prompted him to remove from the world whatever could

remind him of his guilt, or recall the memory of his murdered bro­

ther. On his return from the senate to the palace, he found his

mother in the company of several noble matrons, weeping over the

untimely fate of her younger son. The jealous emperor threatened

them with instant death; the sentence was executed against Fadilla,

the last remaining daughter of the emperor Marcus; and even the

afflicted Julia was obliged to silence her lamentations, to suppress

her sighs, and to receive the assassin with smiles of joy and appro­

bation. It was computed that, under the vague appellation of the

friends of Geta, above twenty thousand persons of both sexes suf-.

fered death. His guards and freedmen, the ministers of his seri­

ous business, and the companions of his looser hours, those who by

his interest had been promoted to any commands in the army or

provinces, with the long-connected chain of their dependants, were

included in the proscription; which endeavoured to reach every one

who had maintained the smallest correspondence with Geta, who

lamented his death, or who even mentioned his name Helvius

Vol. I. T Pertinax,

