THE DECLINE AND FALL

father, ha introduced a division of Gaul equally adapted to

the progrese of the legions, to the course of the rivers, and to

the principal national distinctions, that before the conquest had

comprehended above an hundred independent states7'. The sea-

coast of the Mediterranean, Languedoc, Provence, and Dauphine,

received the provincial appellation from the colony of Narbonne.

The government of Aquitaiae was extended from the Pyrenees to

the Loire. Between, the Loire and the Seine was situate the Celtic

Gaul, which soon borrowed a new denomination from the celehrated

colony of Lugdunum, or Lyon*. The Belgic lay beyond the Seine,

and in more ancient times had been bounded only by the Rhine;

but a little before the age of Cæsar, the Germans abusing their su­

periority of valour, had occupied a considerable portion of the

Belgic territory. The Roman conquerors very eagerly embraced so

flattering a circumstance, and the Gallic frontier of the Rhine, from

Basil to Leyden, received the pompous names of the Upper and

the Lower Germany 7\ Such, under the reign of the Antonines,

were the six provinces of Gaul; the Narbonnese, Aquitaine, the

Celtic, or Lyonnese, the Belgic, and the two Germanies.

Britain. We have already had occasion to mention the conquest of

Britain, and to fix the boundary of the Roman province in this

island. It comprehended all England, Wales, and the lowland

counties of Scotland, as far as the Firths of Dunbarton and Edin­

burgh. Before Britain lost her freedom, it was irregularly divided

between thirty tribes of barbarians, of whom the most considerable

were the Belgæ in the West, the Brigantes in the North, the

Silures in South Wale8, and the Iceni in Norfolk and Suffolk 7\

As far as we can either trace or credit the resemblance of manners

• and language, Spain, Gaul, and Britain were peopled by the fame

hardy race of savages. Before they yielded to the Roman arms>

they often disputed the field, and often renewed the contest- After

their submission they constituted the western division of the Eu­

ropean

