OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE 143

and to arraign the hasty choice of the army. It had hitherto been

considered as a fundamental maxim of the constitution, that the

emperor must be always chosen in the senate, and the sovereign

power, no longer exercised by the whole body, was always delegated

to one of its members. But Macrinus was not a senator **. The

sudden elevation of the Prætorian prefects betrayed the meanness

of their origin; and the equestrian order was still in possession of

that great office, which commanded with arbitrary sway the lives and

fortunes of the senate. A murmur of indignation was heard, that

a man whose obscure 41 extraction had never been illustrated by any

signal service, should dare to invest himself with the purple, instead

of bestowing it on some distinguished senator, equal in birth and

dignity to the splendour of the Imperial station. As soon a6 the cha­

racter of Macrinus was surveyed by the sharp eye of discontent,

some vices, and many defects, were easily discovered. The choice

of his ministers was in several instances justly censured, and the dis­

satisfied people, with their usual candor, accused at once his indolent

tameness and his excessive severity 44.

His rash ambition had climbed a height where it was difficult to and thearmy.

stand with firmness, and impossible to fall without instant destruc­

tion. Trained in the arts of courts and the forms of civil business,

he trembled in the presence of the fierce and undisciplined multitude>

over whom be had assumed the command: his military talents were

despised, and his personal courage suspected: a whisper that circu­

lated in the camp, disclosed the fatal secret of the conspiracy against

the late emperor, aggravated the guilt of murder by the baseness of

hypocrisy, and heightened contempt by detestation. To alienate the

soldiers, and to provoke inevitable destruction, the character of a

reformer was only wanting: and such was the peculiar hardship of

his fate, that Macrinus was compelled to exercise that odious office.

The prodigality of Caracalla had left behind it a long train of ruin

and disorder j and if that worthless tyrant had been capable of re­

flecting

