OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 35^

tribunal, and raising his eyes towards the Sun, made a solemn pro­

fession of his own innocence, in the presence of that all-seeing

Deity ,o6. Then, assuming the tone of a sovereign and a judge, he

commanded that Aper should be brought in chains to the foot of the

tribunal. "This .man," said he, "is the murderer of Numerian;"

and, without giving him time to enter on a dangerous justification,

drew his sword, and buried it in the breast of the unfortunate præfect.

A charge supported by such decisive proof, was admitted without

contradiction, and the legions, with repeated acclamations, acknow­

ledged the justice and authority of the emperor Diocletian '°7.

Before we enter upon the memorable reign of that prince, it will JjJ^'i8*

be proper to punish and dismiss the unworthy brother of Numerian. Carinus.

.Carinus possessed arms and treasures sufficient to support his legal

title to the empire. But his personal vices overbalanced every

advantage of birth and situation. The most faithful servants of the

father despised the incapacity, and dreaded the cruel arrogance, of the

ion. The hearts of the people were engaged in favour 9s his rivaj,

and /even the senate was inclined to prefer an usurper to a tyrant.

The arts of Diocletian .inflamed the general .discontent; and the

winter was employed in secret intrigues, and open preparations-for a

civil war, In the spring, the forces of the EajR: ^and of the \^ejr. *• l8S*

encountered each other in the plains of Margus, a small city of

Mæsia, in the neighbourhood of the Danube ,o8. , The .troops, so

lately returned from the Persian war, had acquired their glory at

the expence of health and numbers, nor were they in a condition to

contend with the unexhausted strength of ,the legions of Europe,

Their ranks were broken, and, for a moment, .Diocletian.despaired

of the purple and of life. But the advantage which Carinus

had obtained by the valour of his soldiers, he quickly lost iby the

infidelity of his officers. A Tribune, whose wife he ,had seduced,

seized the opportunity of revenge, and by a single blow extin­

guished civil discord in -the blood of the adulterer ,u9.

Z z 2 CHAP.

