OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 19

We have attempted to explain the spirit which moderated, and Vle«r of the

* * * provinces 01

the strength which supported, the power of Hadrian and the Anto- the Roman

. r .r empire.

nines. We shall now endeavour with clearness and precision to

describe the provinces once united under their sway, but, at present,

divided into so many independent and hostile states.

Spain, the western extremity of the empire, of Europe, and of the Spain,

ancient world, has, in every age, invariably preserved the same na­

tural limits; the Pyrenæan mountains, the Mediterranean, and the

Atlantic Ocean. That great peninsula, at present so unequally

divided between two sovereigns, was distributed by Augustus into

three provinces, Lusitania, Bætica, and Tarraconensis. The king­

dom of Portugal has succeeded to the warlike country of the Lu-

sitanians; since the loss sustained by the former, on the side of the

East, is compensated by an accession of territory towards the North.

The confines of Grenada and Andalusia correspond with those of

ancient Baetica. The remainder of Spain, Gallicia, and the Asturias,

Biscay, and Navarre, Leon, and the two Castilles, Murcia, Va­

lencia, Catalonia, and Arragon, all contributed to form the third

and most considerable of the Roman governments, which, from the

name of its capital, was styled the Province of Tarragona 7°. Of

the native barbarians, the Celtiberians were the most powerful, as

the Cantabrians and Asturians proved the most obstinate. Confident

in the strength of their mountains, they were the last who sub­

mitted to the arms of Rome, and the first who threw off the yoke

of the Arabs.

Ancient Gaul, as it contained the whole country between the Gaul.

Pyrenees, the Alps, the Rhine, and the Ocean, was of greater ex­

tent than modern France. To the dominions of that powerful

monarchy, with its recent acquisitions of Alsace and Lorraine, we

must add the dutchy of Savoy, the cantons of Switzerland, the four

electorates of the Rhine, Liege, Luxemburgh, Hainault, Flanders,

and Brabant. When Augustus gave laws to the conquests of his

D 2 father,

