NOTES ON THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER;

Chroa. Paschal, p. 276. Procop. Hist. Arcan.c. 26.

[50] John Antioch in Excerp. Valcfian, p. 834.

Suidas in Diocletian.

[51] See a short history and confutation ofAlchy-

niy, in the works of that philosophical compiler,

La Mothele Vaye, torn. i. p. 3Z7—353.

set] Seethe education and strength of Tiridates

in the Armenian history of Moses of Chorene, 1. ii.

c. 76. He could seize two wild bulls by the horns,

and break them off with his hands.

[53] If we give credit to the younger Victor,

who supposes that, in the year 323, Licinius was

only sixty years of age, he could scarcely be the same

person, as the patron of Tiridates; but we know

from much better authority (Euseb. Hist. Ecclefiast.

1. x. c 8.), that Licinius was at that time in the

last period of old age: sixteen years before, he is re­

presented with grey hairs, and as the contemporary

of Galerius. See Lactant, c. 32. Licinius was

probably born about the year 250.

[54] See the sixty-second and sixty-third books

of Dion Caffius.

[55] Moses of Chorene, Hist. Armen. 1. ii. c.

74. The statues had been erected by Valarsaces,

who reigned in Armenia about 130 years before

Christ; was the first king of the family of Arsaces

(see Moses Hist. Armen. 1. ii. 2, 3.). The deification

of the Arsacides is mentioned by Justin (xli. ;.) and

by Ammianus Marcellinus (xxiii, 6.).

[56] The Armenian nobility was numerous and

powerful. Moses mentions many families which were

distinguished under the reign of Valarsaces (1. ii. 7.)

and which still subsisted in his own time, about the

middle of the fifth century. See the Preface of his

Editors.

{57] She was named Chosroiduchta, and had

not the ot patulvm like other women. (Hist. Armen.

1. ii. c. 79.) I do not understand the expreflion.

[58] Ib the Armenianiiistory (1. ii. 7S.), as well

as in the Geography (p. 367. J, China is called Zenia,

or Zenastan. It is characterized by the production

of silk, by the opulence of the natives, and by their

love of peace, above ajl the other nations of the

earth-

[59] Vou-ti, the first emperor of the seventh

dynasty, who then reigned in China, had political

transactions with Fergana, a province of Sogdiana,

and is said to have received a Roman embassy.

(Histoire des Huns, torn. i. p. 38.) In those agei

the Chinese kept a garrison at Kathgar, and one of

their generals, about the time of Trajan, marched

as far as the Caspian sea. With regard to the inter*

course between China and the Western countries, a

curious memoir of M. de Guignes may be con­

sulted in the Academic des Inscriptions, torn. xxxiL

P-35S*

[60] See Hist. Armen. 1. ii. c. 81.

[61] Ipsos PersasipfumqueRegera ascitis Saccis, et

Ruffis, et Gellis, petit frater Ormies. Panegyric.

Vet. iii. 1. The Sacæ were a nation of wandering

Scythians, who encamped towards the sources of

the Oxus and the Jaxartes. The Gelli were the in­

habitants of Ghilan along the Caspian sea, and

who so long, under the name of Dilemites, infested

the Persian Monarchy. See d'Herbelot Bibliotheqae

Orientate.

[62] Moses of Chorene takes no notice of this

second revolution, which I have been obliged to col­

lect from a passage of Ammianus Marcellinus

(I. xxiii. 5.). Lactantius speaks of the ambition of

Narses, " Concitatus domesticis exemplis avi sui

Saporis ad occupandum orientem magnis copiis in-

hiabat." De Mort. Persecut. c. 9.

[63] We may readily believe, that Lactantius

ascribes to cowardice the conduct of Diocletian.

Julian, in his oration, fays, that he remained with

all the forces of the empire; a very hyperbolical

expression.

[64] Our five abbreviates, Eutropius, Festns,

the two Victors, and Orosius, all relate the last and

great battle; but Orosius is the only one who speaks

of the two former.

[65] The nature of the country is finely described

by Plutarch, in the life of Crassus, and by Xeno-

phon, in the first book of the Anabasis.

[66] See Foster's Dissertation in the second Yolume

of the translation of the Anabasis by Spclman; which

