OF. TH £ ; ROMAN EMPIRE. 487

likewise, the situation of the first Christians coincided very happily

with their religious scruples, and that their aversion to an active

.life contributed rather to excuse them from the service, than to

.exclude them from the honours, of the state and army.

V. But the human character, however it may be exalted The fifth

or depressed by a temporary enthusiasm, will return by degrees to The Chris-

its proper and natural level*and will resume those passions that seem
f,ansactlve

* r 9 in thegovern-

the most adapted to its present condition. The primitive Christians ment os
tl>e

church.

were dead to the business and pleasures of the world; but their

love of action, which could never be entirely extinguished, soon

revived, and found a new occupation in the government of the

church. A separate society, which attacked the established religion

4)£ the empire, was obliged to adopt some form of internal policy,

and to appoint a sufficient, number of ministers, intrusted not only

rwith the spiritual functions, but even with the temporal direction

of the Christian commonwealth. The safety of that society, its

honour, its aggrandisement, were; productive, even in the most

pious minds, of a spirit of patriotism, such as the first of the

Romans had felt for the republic, and sometimes, of a similar

indifference, in the use of whatever means might probably conduce

to so desirable an end. The ambition of raising themselves or their

friends to the honours and offices of the church, was disguised by

the laudable intention of devoting to the public benefit, the power

And consideration, which, for that purpose only, it became their

duty to solicit. In the exercise of their functions, they were fre­

quently called upon to detect the. errors of heresy, or the arts of

faction, to oppose the designs of perfidious brethren, to stigmatize

their characters with deserved infamy, and to expel them from the

bosom of a society, whose peace and happiness they had attempted

.to disturb. The spiritual guides of Christianity were taught to

unite the wisdom of the serpent with the innocence of the dove;

but as the former was refined, so the latter was insensibly cor-

.• : .1 4 rupted,

