NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.

and those of Apollo, ac Claros and Miletus (Lucian.

torn. ii. p. 236. Edit. Reitz). The last of these,

whose singular history would furnish a very curious

episode, was consulted by Diocletian before he

published his edicts of persecution (Lactantius, de

M. P. c. u.).

[137] Besides the ancient stories of Pythagaras

and Aristeas; the cures performed at the shrine of

Æsculapius, and the sables related of Apollonius

ofTyana, were frequently opposed to the miracles

of Christ; though I agree with Dr. Lardner (fee

Testimonies, vol. iii. p. 252. 352.), tnat when

Philostratus composed the life of Apollonius, he

had no such intention.

[138] It is seriously to be lamented, that the

Christian fathers, by acknowledging the super­

natural, or, as they deem it, the infernal part of

Paganism, destroy with their own hands the great

advantage which we might otherwise derive from

the liberal concessions of our adversaries.

[139] Julian (p. 301. Edit. Spanheim) expresses

a pious joy, that the- providence of the gods had

extinguished the impious sects, and for the most part,

destroyed the books of the Pyrrhonians and Epi­

cureans, which had been very numerous, since Epi­

curus himself composed no less than 300 volumes.

See Diogenes Laertius, I. x. c. 26.

[140] Cumquc alios audiam mussitare indignan-

ter, et dicere opportere statui per Senatum, abole-

antur ut hæc scripta, quibus Christiana Religio

comprobetur, et vetustatis opprimatur auflorius.

Arnobius adversus Gcntes, 1. iii. p. 103, 104. He

adds very properly, Erroris convincite Ciceronem . .

nam intercipere scripta, et publicatam velle sub-

mergere lectionem,_ non est Deum defendere fed

veritatis testisicationem timerc.

[141] Lactantius (Divin. Institut. 1. v. c. 2, 3.)

gives a very clear and spirited account of two of

these philosophic adversaries of the faith. The

large treatise of Porphyry against the Christians-

consisted of thirty books, and wa composcu in

Sicily about the year 270.

[142] See Socrates Hist. Ecc.'esiast. 1. i. c. 9,

and Codex Theodosian. 1. i. tit. i. 1. 3,

[143] Euscbius, 1. viii. c. 4, c. 17. He limits

the number of military martyrs,, by a remarkable

expression (orcuiw; rtvrm »; vu *xi hvrtftt) of which

neither his Latin nor French translator have rendered

the energy. Notwithstanding the authority of

Eusebius, and the silence of Lactantius, Ambrose,.

Sulpicias, Orosius, &c. it has been long believed,

that the Thebasan legion, consisting of 6000 Chri­

stians, suffered martyrdom, by the order of Max-

imian, in the Valley of the Penine Alps. The story-

was first published about the middle of the vth

century, by Eucherius, bishop of Lyons, who re­

ceived it from certain persons, who received it from

Isaac Bishop of Geneva, who is said to have received

it from Theodore bishop of Octodurum. The-

Abbey of St. Maurice still subsists, a rich monu­

ment of the credulity of Sigifmond, king of Bur­

gundy. See an excellent Dissertation in the

xxxvith volume of the Bibliotheque Raifonnee,.

p. 427—454.

[144] Seethe Acta Sincera, p. 299. The ac­

counts of his martyrdom and of that of Marcellus-

bear every mark of truth and authenticity.

[143] Acta Sincera, p. 30?.

[146] De M. P. c. 11. Lactantius (or whoever

was the author of this little treatise) was, at that

time, an inhabitant of Nicomedia; but it seems

difficult to conceive how he could acquire so ac­

curate a knowledge of what passed in the imperial-

cabinet.

[147] The only circumstance which we can dis.

cover, is the devotion and jealousy of the mother,

os Galerius. She is described by Lactantius, as

Deorum montium cultrix; mulier admodum fup-

erititiosa. She had a great influence over her son,

and was offended by the disregard of some of her

Christian servants.

[14&] The worstn'p and festival of the God

Terminus are elegantly illustrated by M. de Boze.

Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. i. p. 50..

[149] In oar only MS. of Lactantius, we read

profeBtts 5 but reason, and the authority of all the.

critics, allow us, instead of that word, which destroys,

the sense of the passage, to substitute praft3us.

[150] Lactantius de M. P. c. 12. gives a very,

lively picture of the destruction of the church.

[151] Mosheimi

