Off THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 579

of the East, he indulged in their fullest extent his zeal and cruelty,

not only in the provinces of Thrace and Asia, which acknowledged

his immediate jurisdiction; but in those of Syria, Palestine, and

Egypt, where Maximin gratified his own inclination, by yielding

a rigorous obedience to the stern commands of his benefactor ''*.

The frequent disappointments of his ambitious views, the experience

of six years of persecution, and the salutary reflections which a

lingering and painful distemper suggested to the mind of Galerius,

at length convinced him that the most violent efforts of despotism

are insufficient to extirpate a whole people, or to subdue their

religious prejudices. Desirous of repairing the mischief that he

had occasioned, he published in his own name, and in those of

Licinius and Constantine, a general edict, which, after a pompous

recital of the imperial titles, proceeded in the following manner.

"Among the important cares which have occupied our mind fof Galerius pob-

& , - . e . . , l foe* an edict

u the utility and preservation or the empire, it was our intention to of
toleration.

"correct and re-establish all things according to the ancient laws

*' and public discipline of the Romans. We were particularly  
"desirous of reclaiming, into the way of reason and nature, the

"deluded Christians who had renounced the religion and cere-

"monies instituted by their fathers; and presumptuously despising

"the practice of antiquity, had invented extravagant laws and

n opinions according to the dictates of their fancy, and had col-

"lected a various society from the different provinces of our em-

"pire. The edicts which we have published to enforce the wor-

"ship of the gods, having exposed many of the Christians to danger

"and distress, many having suffered death, and many more, who

"still persist in their impious folly, being left destitute of atty

<l public exercise of religion, we are disposed to extend to those'

'* unhappy men the effects of our wonted clemency. We permit

"them therefore freely to profess their private opinions, and'

'i to assemble in their conventicles without fear or molestation,

4 E 2 "provided

