OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 77

suspicion of flattery. Above two hundred and fifty years after the

death of Trajan, the senate, in pouring out the customary accla­

mations on the accession of a new emperor, wished that he might

surpass the felicity of Augustus, and the virtue of Trajan

We may readily believe, that the father of his-country hesitated Hadria'Z*

whether he ought to intrust the various characters of his nephew

Hadrian with sovereign power. In his last moments, the arts of

the empress Plotina either fixed the irresolution of Trajan, or boldly

supposed a fictitious adoption,8; the truth of which could not be

safely disputed, and Hadrian was peaceably acknowledged as his-

lawful successor. Under his reign, as has been already mentioned,

the empire flourished in peace and prosperity. He encouraged the

arts, reformed the laws, asserted military discipline, and visited all

his provinces in person. His vast and active genius was equally

suited to the most enlarged views, and the minute details of civil

policy. But the ruling passions of his foul were curiosity and

vanity. As they prevailed, and as they were attracted by different

objects, Hadrian was, by turns, an excellent prince, a ridiculous

sophist, and a jealous tyrant. The general tenor of his conduct

deserved praise for its equity and moderation. Yet in the first days

of his reign, he put to death four consular senators, his personal

enemies, and men who had been judged worthy of empire; and the

tediousness of a painful illness rendered him, at last, peevish and

cruel. The senate doubted whether they should pronounce him a

god or a tyrant; and the honours decreed to his memory were

granted to the prayers of the pious Antoninus !9.

The caprice of Hadrian influenced his choice of a succeflor. Adoption of

..... l'ie el e a r.d

After revolving in his mind several men of distinguished merit, youngtr

whom he esteemed and hated, he adopted Ælius Verus, a gay and ™'

voluptuous nobleman, recommended by uncommon beauty to the

lover of Antinous *°. But whilst Hadrian was delighting himself

with his own applause, and the acclamations of the soldiers, whose

consent

