OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

mony was regulated and maintained by the skilful hand of the first

artist ,s.

This important measure was not carried into execution, till about Scries of

events.

fix years after the association of Maximian, and that interval of time

had not been destitute of memorable incidents. But we have pre­

ferred, for the fake of perspicuity, first to describe the more perfect

form of Diocletian's government, and afterwards to relate the^

actions of his reign, following rather the natural order of the

events, than the dates of a very doubtful chronology.

The first exploit of Maximian, though it is mentioned in a few A-D- 2,7-

r . State of the

words by our imperfect writers, deserves, from its singularity, to peasants of

be recorded in a history of human manners. He suppressed the

peasants of Gaul, who, under the appellation of Bagaudæ ,a, had

risen in a general insurrection; very similar to those, which in the

fourteenth century successively afflicted both France and England ,7«

It should seem, that very many of those institutions, referred by an

easy solution to the feudal system, are derived from the Celtic bar­

barians. When Cæsar subdued the Gauls, that great nation was

already divided into three orders of men; the clergy, the nobility,

and the common people. The first governed by superstition, the

second by arms, but the third and last was not of any weight or

account in their public councils. It was very natural for the Ple­

beians, oppressed by debt or apprehensive of injuries, to implore the

protection of some powerful chief, who acquired over their persons

and property, the fame absolute rights as among the Greeks and

Romans, a master exercised over his staves ,s. The greatest part

of the nation was gradually reduced into a state of servitude; com­

pelled to perpetual labour on the estates of the Gallic nobles, and

confined to the foil, either by the real weight of fetters, or by the

no less cruel and forcible restraints of the laws. During the long

series of troubles which agitated Gaul, from the reign of Gallienus

to that of Diocletian, the condition of these servile peasants was

Vol. I. A a a peculiarly

