NOTES ON THE EIGHTH CHAPTER.

(Hist. August, p. 165.); but the tumulus or mound

of earth which forms d the sepulchre, still subsisted in

the time of Julian. See A'mmian. Marcellin. xxiii. 5.

[51] Aurelius Victor. Eutrop. ix. 2. Orosius,

vii. 20. Ammianus Marcellinus, xxiii. 5. Zosimus,

1. i. p. 19. Philip, who was a native of Bosira, was

about forty years of age.

[52] Can the epithet of Aristocracy be applied,

with any propriety, to the government of Algiers?

Every military government floats between the ex­

tremes of absolute monarchy and wild democracy.

[53] The military republic os the Mimalokei in

Egypt, would have afforded M. deMontesquieu (see

Considerations fur la Grandeur et la Decadence des

Roirains, c. if.) a juster and more noble parallel.

[54] The Augustan History (p. 16:, i6f.) carr-

not, in this instance, be reconciled with itself or with

probability. How could Philip condemn his pre­

decessor, and yet consecrate his memory? How

could he order his public execution, and yet, in*

his letters to the senate, exculpate himself from the

guilt of his death? Philip, though an ambitious

usurper, was by. no means a mad tyrant. Some

chronological difficulties have likewise been dis­

covered by the nice eyes of Tillemont and Muratori,

in this supposed association of Philip to the empire.

[55] The account of the last supposed celebra­

tion, though in an enlightened period of history,

was so very doubtful and obscure, that the alterna­

tive seems not doubtful. When the popisn jubilees,

the copy of the secular games, were invented by

Boniface VIII, the crafty pope pretended, that he

only revived an ancient institution. See M. le

Chais Lettres fur les JubilCs.

[56] Either of a hundred, ora hundred and ten

years. Varro and Livy adopted the former opinion,

but the infallible authority of the Sybil consecrated

the latter (Censorinus de Die Natal, c. 17.). The

emperors Claudius and Philip, however, did not

treat the oracle with implicit respect.

[57] The idea of the secular games is best under­

stood from the p^m of Horace, and the description

of Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 167, &c.

[58] The received calculation of Varro, assigns

to the foundation of Rome, an æra that corresponds

with the 754th year before Christ. But so little is

the chronology of Rome to be depended on, in the

more early ages, that Sir Isaac Newton has brought

the fame even* as low as the year 6*7:

NOTES ON THE E

[1] A N ancient chionologist quoted by Velleius

il Paterculus (1. i c. 6.) observes, that the

Assyrians, the Medes, the Persians, and the Mace­

donians, reigned over Asia one thousand nine

hundred and ninety-five years, from the accession of

Ninus to the defeat of Antiocbus by the Romans.

As the latter of these great events happened 189

years before Christ, the former may be placed

2184 years before the fame a:ra. The Astronomical

observations, found at Babylon by Alexander, went

fifty, years higher.

[2] In the five hundred and thirty-eighth year of

the æra of Seleucus. See Agathias, 1. ii. p. 67.

This great event (such is the carelessness of the Ori­

entals) is placed by Eutychius, as high as the tenth

year of Commodus, and by Moses of Chorene, as

low as the reign of Philip. Ammianus Marcellinus

has so servilely copied (xxiii. 6.) hit ancient ma-

I.GHTH CHAPTER.

terials, which are indeed very good, that he de­

scribes the family of the Arsacides, as still seated

on the Persian throne in the middle of the fourth

century.

[3] The tanner's name wtjs Babec; the soldier's,

Sassan : from the former Artaxerxes obtained the sur­

name of Babegan ; from the latter all his descend­

ants have been styled Sajsa»iitt.

[4] D'Herbelot. Bibliotheque Orientate. Jrdjbir.

[0 Dion Cassius, 1. Ixxx. Herodian, 1. vi. p. 207.

Abulpharagius Dynast, p.- 80.

[6] See Moses Chorenensis, 1. ii. c. 65—71.

[ ] Hyde and Prideaux, working up the Per­

sian legend's and their own conjectures into a very

agreeable story, represent Zoroaster ai a con­

temporary of Dariot Hystafpes, But it is'sufficient

to­

