6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

dred miles in circumference. Its natural bqundaries were the

Niester, the Teyss, or Tibiscus, the Lower Danube, and the Euxine

Sea. The vestiges of a military road may still be traced from the

banks of the Danube to the neighbourhood of Bender, a place

famous in modern history, and the actual frontier of the Turkish

and Ruffian empires ,s.

Conquests of Trajan was ambitious of fame; and as long as mankind shall

Trajan in the . ,„

east. continue to bestow more liberal applause on their destroyers than

on their benefactors, the thirst of military glory will ever be the

vice of the most exalted characters. The praises of Alexander,

transmitted by a succession of poets and historians, had kindled a

dangerous emulation in the mind of Trajan. Like him the Roman

emperor undertook an expedition against the nations of the east, but

he lamented with a sigh that his advanced age scarcely left him any

hopes of equalling the renown of the son of Philip". Yet the

success of Trajan, however transient, was rapid and specious. The

degenerate Parthians, broken by intestine discord, fled before his

arms. He descended the river Tigris in triumph, from the moun­

tains of Armenia to the Persian gulph. He enjoyed the honour of

being the first, as he was the last, of the Roman generals, who

ever navigated that remote sea. His fl eets ravaged the coasts of

Arabia; and Trajan vainly flattered himself that he was approach­

ing towards the confines of India *\ Every day the astonished

senate received the intelligence of new names and new nations, that

acknowledged his sway. They were informed that the Kings of

Bosphorus, Colchos, Iberia, Albania, Osrhoene, and even the Par­

thian monarch himself, had accepted their diadems from the hands

of the emperor; that the independent tribes of the Median and

Carduchian hills had implored his protection, and that the rich

countries of Armenia, Mesopotamia, and Assyria, were reduced in­

to the state of provinces*'. But the death of Trajan soon clouded

the splendid prospect; and it was justly to be dreaded, that so many

distant

