OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 167

most probably, of fifty or an hundred pieces of gold IO'; nor could it

be exacted from the nearest of kin on the father's side lo*. When

the rights of nature and poverty were thus secured, it seemed

reasonable, that a stranger, or a distant relation, who acquired an

unexpected accession of fortune, should cheerfully resign a twentieth

part of it, for the benefit of the state ,0S. . ...

Such a tax, plentiful as it must prove in every wealthy com- Suited to th«

munity, was most happily suited to the situation of the Romans, manner"1!

who could frame their arbitrary wills, according to the dictates

of reason or caprice, without any restraint from the modern fetters

of entails and settlements. Even the partiality of paternal affection,

often lost its influence over the stern patriots of the commonwealth,

and the dissolute nobles of the empire; and if the father bequeathed

to his son the fourth part of his estate, he removed all ground

of legal complaint,oS. But a rich childless old man was a do­

mestic tyrant, and his power increased with his years and in­

firmities. A servile crowd, in which he frequently reckoned

prætors and consuls, courted his smiles, pampered his avarice, ap­

plauded his follies, served his passions, and waited with impatience

for his death. The arts of attendance and flattery were formed into

a most lucrative science, those who professed it acquired a peculiar

appellation; and the whole city, according to the lively descripi-

tions of satire, was divided between two parties, the hunters and

their game ,07. Yet while so many unjust and extravagant wills

were every day dictated by cunning, and subscribed by folly, a few

were the result of rational esteem and virtuous gratitude. Cicero^

who had so often defended the. lives and fortunes of his fellow-

citizens, was rewarded with legacies to the amount of an hundred

and seventy thousand pounds 108; nor do the friends of the younger

Pliny, seem to have been less generous to that amiable orator ,0'.

Whatever was the motive of the testator, the treasury claimed, with"

out distinction, the twentieth part of his estate? and in the course

of

