45j THE DECLINE AND FALL

Preparations. The enterprise was as full of danger as of glory; and the un-

1 successful event of two former invasions was sufficient to inspire

the most serious apprehensions. The veteran troops who revered

the name of Maximian, had embraced in both those wars the party

of his son, and were now restrained by a sense of honour, as well as

of interest, from entertaining an idea of a second desertion. Max-

entius, who considered the Prætorian guards as the firmest defence

of his throne, had increased them to their ancient establishment;

and they composed, including the rest of the Italians who were in-

listed into his service, a formidable body of fourscore thousand men.

Forty thousand Moors and Carthaginians had been raised since the

reduction of Africa. Even Sicily furnished its proportion of troops;

and the army of Maxentius amounted to no less than one hundred

and seventy thousand foot, and eighteen thousand horse. The

wealth of Italy supplied the expences of the war; and the adjacent

provinces were exhausted to form immense magazines of corn and

every other kind of provisions. The whole force of Constantine

consisted of ninety thousand foot and eight thousand horse51; and

as the defence of the Rhine required a more than common atten­

tion during the absence of the emperor, it was not in his power to

employ above half his troops in the Italian expedition, unless he

sacrificed the public safety to his private quarrel 5\ At the head of

about forty thousand soldiers, he marched to encounter an enemy

whose numbers were at least four times superior to his own. But

the armies of Italy, placed at a secure distance from danger, were

•enervated by indulgence and luxury. Habituated to the,baths and

theatres of Rome, they took the field with reluctance, and were

chiefly composed of veterans who had almost forgotten, or of new

levies who had never acquired, the use of arms and the practice

of war. The hardy legions of Gaul had long defended the fron­

tiers of the e'nipire against the barbarians of the North; and in the

performance of that laborious service, their valour was exercised

and

■

