THE DECLINE AND FALL

432

The defeat,

April 30.

and death of

the former.

August.

fortune of a civil war. He moved out of Syria towards the frontiers

of Bithynia in the depth of winter. The season was severe and

tempestuous; great numbers of men as well as horses perished

in the snow; and as the roads were broken up by incessant rains,

he was obliged to leave behind him a considerable part of the

heavy baggage which was unable to follow the rapidity of his forced

marches. By this extraordinary effort of diligence, he arrived,

with a harassed but formidable army on the banks of the Thracian

Bosphorus, before the lieutenants of Licinius were apprized of his

hostile intentions. Byzantium surrendered to the power of Max-

imin, after a siege of eleven days. He was detained some day*

under the walls of Heraclea ; (and he had no sooner taken possession

of that city, than he was alarmed by the intelligence, that Licinius

had pitched his camp at the distance of only eighteen miles. After

a fruitless negociation, in which the two princes attempted to

seduce the fidelity of each other's adherents, they had recourse

to arms. The emperor of the East commanded a disciplined and

■veteran army of above seventy thousand men, and Licinius, who

had collected about thirty thousand Illyrians, was at first oppressed

by the superiority of numbers. His military skill, and the firmness

of his troops restored the day, and obtained a decisive victory. The

incredible speed which Maximin excited in his flight, is much more

celebrated than his prowess in the battle. Twenty-four hours after­

wards he was seen pale, trembling, and without his imperial orna­

ments, at Nicomedia, one hundred and sixty miles from the place of

his defeat. The wealth of Asia was yet unexhausted ; and though the

flower of his veterans had fallen in the late actiqn, he had still power, if

he could obtain time, to draw very numerous levies from Syria and

Egypt. But he survived his misforune only three or four months.

His death, which happened at Tarsus, was variously ascribed to despair,

to poison, and to the divine justice. As Maximin was alike destitute

of abilities and of virtue, he was lamented neither by the people nor

b7

