418 THE DECLINE AND FALL

in the might of the Roman world, were covered with soldiers, with

arms, and with fortifications. The deaths of Maximian and of

Galerius reduced the number of emperors to four. The fense

• of their true interest soon connected Licinius and Constantine; a

secret alliance was concluded between Maximin and Maxentius, and

their unhappy subjects expected with terror the bloody consequences

of their inevitable dissensions, which were no longer restrained

by the fear or the respect which they entertained for Galerius

Administra- Among so many crimes and misfortunes occasioned by the

ftamine iT~ passions of the Roman princes, there is some pleasure in
discovering

5u& 306— a single action which may be ascribed to their virtue. In the

3I* sixth year of his reign Constantine visited the city of Autun, and

generously remitted the arrears of tribute, reducing at the fame

time the proportion of their assessment, from twenty-five to eighteen

thousand persons, subject to the capitation 4o. Yet even this

indulgence affords the most unquestionable proof of the public

misery. This tax was so extremely oppressive, either in itself

or in the mode of collecting it, that whilst the revenue was

increased by extortion, it was diminished by despair: a consider­

able part of the territory of Autun was left uncultivated; and great

numbers of the provincials rather chose to live as exiles and

outlaws, than to support the weight of civil society. It i&

but too probable that the bountiful emperor relieved, by a par­

tial act of liberality, one among the many evils which he had

caused by his general maxims of administration. But even those

maxims were less the effect of choice than of necessity. And if

we except the death of Maximian, the reign of Constantine in Gaul

seems to have been the most innocent and even virtuous period of

his life. The provinces were protected by his presence from the

inroads of the barbarians, who either dreaded or experienced his

active valour. After a signal victory over the Franks and Ale-

nianni, several of their princes were exposed by bis order to the

a * wild

