£10 THE DECLINE AND FALL

tests the state of religion in that city ahout the middle of the third

century, and after a peace of thirty-eight years. The clergy, at

that time, consisted of a bishop, forty-six presbyters, seven deacons,

as many sub-deacons, forty-two acolythes, and fifty readers, exor­

cists, and porters. The number of widows, of the infirm, and of

the poor, who were maintained by the oblations of the faithful,

amounted to fifteen hundred '6?. From reason, as well as from the

example of Antioch, we may venture to estimate the Christians of

Rome at about fifty thousand. The populousness of that great

capital cannot perhaps be exactly ascertained; but the most modest

calculation will not surely reduce it lower than a million of inhabitants,

of whom the Christians might constitute at the most a twentieth

. 168

part

in Africa and The western provincials appeared to have derived the knowledge

provinces."1 of Christianity from the fame source which had diffused among

them the language, the sentiments, and the manners of Rome. In

this more important circumstance, Africa, as well as Gaul, were

gradually fashioned to the imitation of the capital. Yet notwith­

standing the many favourable occasions which might invite the

Roman missionaries to visit their Latin provinces, it was late before

they passed either the sea or the Alps 169; nor can we discover in

those great countries any assured traces either of faith or of perse­

cution that ascend higher than the reign of the Antonines'70. The

flow progress of the gospel in the cold climate of Gaul, was ex­

tremely different from the eagerness with which it seems to have

been received on the burning sands of Africa. The African Chris­

tians soon formed one of the principal members of the primitive

church. The practice introduced into that province, of appointing

bissiops to the most inconsiderable towns, and very frequently to

the most obscure villages, contributed to multiply the splendor and

importance of their religious societies, which during the course of

the third century were animated by the zeal of Tertullian, directed

* i by

