ioo THE DECLINE AND FALL

their hands to conduct him to the senate-house, that the military-

consent might be ratified by the civil authority,

and by the This important night was now far spent; with the dawn of day,

senate,

A. D. 193. and the commencement or the new year, the senators expected a

istjanua.y. fummons to attend an ignominious ceremony. In spite of all remon足

strances, even of those of his creatures, who yet preserved any re足

gard for prudence or decency, Commodus had resolved to pass the

night in the gladiators school, and from thence to take possession of

the consulship, in the habit and with the attendance of that infa足

mous crew. On a sudden, before the break of day, the senate was

called together in the temple of Concord, to meet the guards, and

to ratify the election of a new emperor. For a few minutes they

fat in silent suspence, doubtful of their unexpected deliverance, and

suspicious of the cruel artifices of Commodus; but when at length

they were assured that the tyrant was no more, they resigned themr

selves to all the transports of joy and indignation. Pertinax, who

modestly represented the meanness of his extraction, and pointed out

several noble senators more deserving than himself of the empire,

was constrained by their dutiful violence to ascend the throne, and

received all the titles of Imperial power, confirmed by the most

The memory sincere vows of fidelity. The memory of Commodus was branded

modus de- with eternal infamy. The names of tyrant, of gladiator, of public

enemy, resounded in every corner of the house. They decreed in

tumultuous votes, that his honours should be reversed, his titles

erased from the public monuments, his statues thrown down, his

body dragged with a hook into the stripping room of the gladiators,

to satiate the public fury; and they expressed some indignation

against those officious servants who had already presumed to screen

his remains from the justice of the senate. But Pertinax could

not refuse those last rites to the memory of Marcus, and the tears

of his first protector Claudius Pompeianus, who lamented the cruel

fate

dared infa足

mous

1

1

