OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tine. The ideas of inheritance and succession are so very familiar,

that the generality of mankind consider them as founded, not only in

reason, but in nature itself. Our imagination readily transfers the fame

principles from private property to public dominion : and whenever a

virtuous father leaves behind him a son whose merit seems to justify

the esteem, or even the hopes, of the people, the joint influence of

prejudice and of affection operates with irresistible weight. The

flower of the western armies had followed Constantius into Britain,,

and the national troops were reinforced by a numerous body of

Alemanni, who obeyed the orders of Crocus, one of their hereditary

chieftains IS. The opinion of their own importance, and the as­

surance that Britain, Gaul, and Spain would acquiesce in their no­

mination, were diligently inculcated to the legions by the adherents

of Constantine. The soldiers were asked, Whether they could hesi­

tate a moment between the honour of placing at their head the

worthy son of their beloved emperor, and the ignominy of tamely

expecting the arrival of some obscure stranger on whom it might

please the sovereign of Asia to bestow the armies and provinces of

the West. It was insinuated to them, that gratitude and liberality

held a distinguished place among the virtues of Constantine; nor

did that artful prince shew himself to the troops, till they were

prepared to salute him with the names of Augustus and Emperor.

The throne was the object of his desires; and had he been less ac­

tuated by ambition, it was his only means of safety. He was well

acquainted with the character and sentiments of Galerius, and suffi­

ciently apprized, that if he wished to live he must determine to

reign. The decent and even obstinate resistance which he chose to

affect l6, was contrived to justify his usurpation; nor did he yield

to the acclamations of the army, till he had provided the proper

materials for a letter, which he immediately dispatched to the em­

peror of the East. Constantine informed him of the melancholy

event of his father's death, modestly asserted his natural claim to

the

