THE DECLINE AND FALL

must confess that a few short intervals of peace were insufficient for

the arduous work of reformation. Even his attempt to restore the

integrity of the coin, was opposed by a formidable^ insurrection.

The emperor's vexation breaks out in one of his private letters.

"Surely," fays he, " the gods have decreed that my life should be

"a perpetual warfare. A sedition within the walls has just now

"given birth to a very serious civil war. The workmen of the mint,

"at the instigation of Felicissimus, a stave to whom I had entrusted

"an employment in the finances, have risen in rebellion. They

"are at length suppressed; but seven thousand of my soldiers have

"been flain in the contest, of those troops whose ordinary station

"is in Dacia, and the camps along the Danube88." Other writers,

who confirm the fame fact, add likewise, that it happened soon after

Aurelian's triumph; that the decisive engagement was fought on

the Cælian hill; that the workmen of the mint had adulterated the

coin* and that the emperor restored the public credit, by delivering

out good money in exchange for the bad, which the people was

commanded to bring into the treasury

Observation! We might content ourselves with relating this extraordinary

upon it. ,

transaction, but we cannot dissemble how much in its present form

it appears to us inconsistent and incredible. The debasement of the

coin is indeed well suited to the administration of Gallienus; nor is

it unlikely that the instruments of the corruption might dread the

inflexible justice of Aurelian. But the guilt, as well as the profit,

must have been confined to a few; nor is it easy to conceive by what

arts they could arm a people whom they had injured against a mo­

narch whom they had betrayed. We might naturally expect, that

such miscreants should have shared the public detestation with the

informers and the other ministers of oppression; and that the re­

formation of the coin should have been an action equally popular

with the destruction of those obsolete accounts, which by the empe­

ror's order were burnt in the forum of Trajan 9°. In an age when

2 the

