NOTES ON THE Si: TEENTH CHAPTER. Ixxxi

F.mong the more learned catholics. They now re­

quire, as a proof of sanctity and martyrdom, the

letters B M, a viol full of red liquor, supposed to

be blood, or the figure of a palm-tree. But the

two former signs are of little weight, and with re­

gard to the last, it is observed by the critics, i. That

the figare, as it is called, of a palm, is perhaps a

cypress, and perhaps only a stop, the flourish of a

comma used in the monumental inscriptions.

2. That the palm was the symbol of victory among

the Pagans. 3. That among the christians it served

as the emblem, not only of martyrdom, but in ge­

neral of a joyful resurrection. See the epistle of

P. Mabillon, on the worship of unknown saints,

and Muratori sopra le Antichita ltaliane, Dissertat.

lviii.

[7?] As a specimen os these legends, we may be

satisfied with io.coo christian soldiers crucified in

one day, either by Trajan or Hadrian, on mount

Ararat. See Baronius ad Martyrologium Roma-

num. Tillemont, Mem. Ecclesiast. torn. ii. part

ii. p. 438. and Geddes's Miscellanies, vol. ii. p.

203. The abbreviation of Mil. which may sig­

nify either soldiers or thousands, is said to have oc­

casioned some extraordinary mistakes.

[74] Dionysius ap. Euseb. I. vi. c. 41, One of

the seventeen was likewise accused of robbery.

[7;] The letters of Cyprian exhibit a very ca­

rious and original picture, both of the man and of

the times. See likewise the two lives of Cyprian,

composed with equal accuracy, though with very

different views; the one by Le Clerc, (Bibliothe-

que Universelle, torn. xii. p. 208—378.) the other

by Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiqnes, torn. iv.

part i. p. 76—459.

[76] See the polite but severe epistle of the clergy

of Rome, to the bishop of Carthage (Cyprian Epist.

8, 9.). Pontius labours with the greatest care and

diligence to justify his master against the general

censure.

[77] In particular those of Dionysius of Alex­

andria, and Gregory Thaumaturgus of Neo-Caesa-

rea. See Euseb. Hist. Ecclesiast. 1. vi. c. 40. and

Memoires de Tillemont, torn. iv. part ii. p. 685.

[78] See Cyprian, Epist. 16. and his life by

Pontius.

Vol. I.

[79] We have an original life of Cyprian by the

deacon Pontius, the companion of his exile, and

the spectator of his death; and we likewise possess

the ancient proconsular acts of his martyrdom.

These two relations are consistent with each other,

, and with probability; and what is somewhat re­

markable, they are both unsullied by any miracu­

lous circumstances.

[80] It should seem that these were circular or­

ders, sent at the same time to all the governors.

Dionysius (ap. Euseb. I. vii. c. 11.) relates the history

of his own banishment from Alexandria, almost in

the same manner. But as he escaped and survived

the persecution, we must account him either more, or

as he considered it himself, lesj fortunate than

Cyprian.

[Si] See Plin. Hist. Natur. v. 3. Cellarius, Geo-

graph. Antiq. part iii. p. 96. Shaw's Travels, p.

90.; and for the adjacent country, (which is ter­

minated by Cape Bona, or the promontory of Mer­

cury) l'Afrique de Marmot, torn. ii. p. 474. There

are the remains of an aqueduct, near Curubis, or

Curbis, at present altered into Gurbes; and Dr.

Shaw read an inscription, which styles that city,

Colonia Fulvia. The deacon Pontius (in Vit. Cy­

prian, c. 12.) calls it " ApricUm et competentent

locum, hofpitium pro voluntate secretum, et quic-

quid apponi eis ante promissum est, qui regnum et

jullitiam Dei quærunt."

[82] See Cyprian. Epistol. 77. Edit. Fell.

[83] Upon his conversion he had fold those gar­

dens for the benefit of the poor. The indulgence

of God (most probably the liberality of some chris­

tian friend) restored them to Cyprian. See Pontius,

c. 15.

[84] When Cyprian, a twelvemonth before, was

sent into exile, he dreamt that he mould be put to

death the next day. The event made it necessary to

explain that word, as signifying a year. Pontius,

c. iz.

[85] Pontius (c. 15.) acknowledges that Cy­

prian, with whom he supped, passed the night

custodiu delicata. The Bishop exercised a last and

very proper act os jurisdiction, by [directing that

the younger females, who watched in the street,

should be removed from the dangers and tempta-

1 tions

