OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 433

by the soldiers. The provinces of the East, delivered from the terrors

of civil war, cheerfully acknowledged the authority of Licinius 79.

The vanquished emperor left behind him two children, a boy of Cruelty of

about eight, and a girl of about seven years old. Their inoffensive

age might have excited compaffion, but the compassion of Licinius

was a very feeble resource, nor did it restrain him from extinguiJJjing

the name and memory of his adversary. The death of Severianus

will admit of less excuse, as it was dictated neither by revenge

nor by policy. The conqueror had never received any injury from

the father of that unhappy youth, and the stiort and obscure reign

of Severus in a distant part of the empire was already forgotten. But

the execution of Candidianus was an act of the blackest cruelty and

ingratitude. He was the natural son of Galerius, the friend and bene­

factor of Licinius. The prudent father had judged him too young to

sustain the weight of a diadem; but he hoped that under the protection

of princes, who were indebted to his favour for the imperial purple

Candidianus might pass a secure and honourable life. He was now

advancing towards the twentieth year of his age, and the royalty

of his birth, though unsupported either by merit or ambition

was sufficient to exasperate the jealous mind of Licinius So. To

these innocent and illustrious victims of his tyranny, we must add

the wife and daughter of the emperor Diocletian. When that

prince conferred on Galerius the title of Cæsar, he had given him in

marriage his daughter Valeria, whose melancholy adventures might

furnish a very singular subject for tragedy. She had fulfilled and even
Unfortunate

surpassed the duties of a wife. As she had not any children her- empress vV

self, flie condescended to adopt the illegitimate son of her hufbandj Jj;"th™d
^

and invariably displayed towards the unhappy Cardidianus the

tenderness and anxiety of a real mother. After the death of Ga­

lerius, her ample possessions provoked the avarice, and her personal

attractions excited the desires of his successor Maxioun He

Vol. I. Kkk had

