THE DECLINE AND FALL

tonally separated to act in the line, and to compose a part of the

■wings of the army s°. The cavalry of the emperors was no longer

composed, like that of the ancient republic, of the noblest youths

of Rome and Italy, who, by performing their military service on

horseback, prepared themselves for the offices of senator and consul;

and solicited, by deeds of valour, the future suffrages of their

countrymen 51. Since the alteration of manners and government,

•the most wealthy of the equestrian order were engaged in the admi­

nistration of justice, and of the revenue51; and whenever they

embraced the profession of arms, they were immediately intrusted

with a troop of horse, or a cohort of footTrajan and Hadrian

formed their cavalry from the same provinces, and the fame class of

their subjects, which recruited the ranks of the legion. The horses

were bred, for the most part, in Spain or Cappadocia. The Roman

troopers despised the complete armour with which the cavalry of the

East was encumbered. Their more useful arms consisted in a

helmet, an oblong shield, light boots, and a coat of mail: A ja­

velin, and a long broad sword, were their principal weapons of

offence. The use of lances and of iron maces they seem to have bor­

rowed.from the barbarians I+.

The safety and honour of the empire was principally intrusted to

the legions, but the policy of Rome condescended to adopt every

useful instrument of war. Considerable levies were regularly made

•among the provincials, who had not yet deserved the honourable

distinction of Romans. Many dependent princes and communities,

dispersed round the frontiers, were permitted, for a while, to hold

their freedom and security by the tenure of military service 5S.

Even select troops of hostile barbarians were frequently compelled

or persuaded to consume their dangerous valour in remote climates,

and for the benefit of the state 5°. All these were included under

the general name of auxiliaries; and however they might vary ac­

cording to the difference of times and circumstances, their numbers

were

