Si6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

of later ages, it will be more prudent to convert the occasion of

scandal into, a subject: of edification. Our serious thoughts will

suggest to us, that the apostles themselves were chosen by pro­

vidence among the fishermen of Galilee, and that the lower we

depress the temporal condition of the first Christians, the more

reason we shall find to admire their merit and success. It is in­

cumbent on us diligently to remember, that the kingdom of

Heaven was promised to the poor in spirit, and that minds afflicted

by calamity and the contempt of mankind, cheerfully listen to the

divine promise of future happiness; while, on the contrary, the fortu­

nate are satisfied with the possession of this world; and the wife abuse

in doubt and dispute their vain superiority of reason and knowledge.

Rejected by We stand in need of such reflections to comfort us for the loss of

men"™""' s°me illustrious characters, which in our eyes might have seemed

con/cen^ mo^ wortny °f heavenly present. The names of Seneca,

turies. cf tjie elder and the younger Pliny, of Tacitus, of Plutarch, of

Galen, of the slave Epictetus, and of the emperor Marcus Anr

toninus, adorn the age in which they flourished, and exalt the

dignity of human nature. They filled with glory their respective

stations, either in active or contemplative life; their excellent

understandings were improved by study; Philosophy had purified

their minds from the prejudices of superstition; and their days were

spent in the pursuit of truth and the practice of virtue. Yet all

these sages (it is no less an object of surprise than of concern) over­

looked or rejected the perfection of the Christian system. Their

language or their silence equally discover their contempt for the

growing sect, which in their time had diffused itself over the

Roman empire. Those among them who condescend to mentioa

the Christians, consider them only as obstinate and perverse en­

thusiasts, who exacted an implicit submission to their mysterious

doctrines, without being able to produce a single argument that

could engage the attention of men of fense and learning ,8'.

It

