THE DECLINE AND FALL

his flight he bestowed the precarious title of Cæsar on Valens, his

general of the Illyrian frontier 8'.

The plain of Mardia in Thrace was the theatre of a second

battle no less obstinate and bloody than the former. The troops on

both sides displayed the same valour and discipline; and the victory

was once more decided by the superior abilities of Constantine,

who directed a body of five thousand men to gain an advantage­

ous height, from whence, during the heat of the action, they at­

tacked the rear of the enemy, and made a very considerable slaugh­

ter. The troops of Licinius, however, presenting a double front,

still maintained their ground, till the approach of night put an end

to the combat, and secured their retreat towards the mountains of

Macedonia 9°. The loss of two battles, and of his bravest veterans,

reduced the fierce spirit of Licinius to sue for peace. His ambas­

sador Mistrianus was admitted to the audience of Constantine; he

expatiated on the common topics of moderation aud humanity,

which are so familiar to the eloquence of the vanquished; repre­

sented, in the most insinuating language, that the event of the

war was still doubtful, whilst its inevitable calamities were alike

pernicious to both the contending parties; and declared, that he

was authorised to propose a lasting and honourable peace in the

name of the two emperors his masters. Constantine received the

mention of Valens with indignation and contempt. "It was not

M for such a purpose," he sternly replied, "that we have advanced

u from the banks of the western ocean in an uninterrupted course

"of combats and victories, that, after rejecting an ungrateful kins-

*' man, we should accept for our colleague a contemptible slave.  
<*> The abdication of Valens, is the first article of the treaty It

was necessary to accept this humiliating condition, and the unhappy

Valens, after a reign of a few days, was deprived of the purple

and of his life. As soon as this obstacle was removed, the tran­

quillity of the Roman world was easily restored. The successive de­

feat*

