4<5$ THE DECLINE AND FALL

with a garland of flowers. This innocent and elegant practice

might perhaps have been tolerated as a mere civil institution. But

it most unluckily happened that the doors were under the protection

of the household gods, that the laurel was sacred to the lover of

Daphne, and that garlands of flowers, though frequently worn

as a symbol either of joy or mourning, had been dedicated in

their first origin to the service of superstition. The trembling

Christians, who were persuaded in this instance to comply with-

the fashion of their country, and the commands of the magistrate,

laboured under the most gloomy apprehensions, from the reproaches

of their own conscience, the censures of the church, and the de­

nunciations of divine vengeance *5.

Zeal for Such was the anxious diligence which was required to guard the

Christianity. cyia^-ty 0f tne gGfpei fr0m the infectious breath of idolatry.
The

superstitious observances of public or private rites were carelessly prac­

tised, from education and habit, by the followers of the established

religion. But as often as they occurred, they afforded the Christians

an opportunity of declaring and confirming their zealous opposition.

By these frequent protestations their attachment to the faith was

continually fortified, and in proportion to the increase of zeal, they*

combated with the more ardour and success in the holy war, which

they had undertaken against the empire of the dæmons.

The second If. The writings of Cicero J° represent in the most livery colours-

The doctrine the ignorance, the errors, and the uncertainty of the ancient
phi-

uijtyofthe' losophers with regard to the immortality of the foul. When

[he'phToso- ttey are denrous °f arming their disciples against the fear of
death,

phers; thev inculcate, as an obvious though melancholy position, that

the fatal stroke of our dissolution releases us from the calamities of

life; and that those can no longer suffer who no longer exist.

Yet there were a few sages of Greece and Rome who had conceived

a more exalted, and, in some respects, a juster idea of human

nature; though it must be confessed, that in the sublime inquiry.

~ their

