NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER

have imagined, all that Epiphanius has received,

and all that Tillemont has copied. M. de Beau-

sobre (Hist, du Manieheisme, L ix. c. 8, 9.) has

exposed with great spirit, the disingenuous arts of

Augustin and Pope Leo I.

[22] When Tertullian became a Montanist, he

aspersed the morals of the church which he had

so resolutely defended. Sed majoris est Agape,

"quia per hanc Adolefcentes tui cum Sororibus

"dormiunt, appendices scilicet gulae lascivia et

"luxuria." De Jejuniis, c. 17. The 35th canon

of the council of Illiberis provides against the

scandals which too often polluted the vigils of the

church, and disgraced the Christian name, in the

eyes of unbelievers.

[73] Tertullian (Apolog. c. a.) expatiates on

the fair and honourable testimony of Pliny, with

much reason, and some declamation.

[74] In the various compilation of the Acgcstan

History, (a part of which was composed under

the reign of Constantine) there are not six lines

which relate to the Christians; nor has the dili­

gence of Xiphilin discovered their name in the large

history of Dion Cassius.

[2,-] An obscure passage of Suetonius (in Claud,

c. 25.) may seem to offer a proof how strangely the

Jews and Christians of Rome were confounded

with each other.

[26] See in the xviiith and xxvth chapters of the

Acts of the Apostles, the behaviour of Gallio, pro­

consul of Achaia, and of Festus, procurator of

Judea.

[27] In the time of Tertullian and Clemens of

Alexandria, the glory of martyrdom was confined

to St. Peter, St. Paul, and St. James. It was

gradually bestowed on the rest of the apostles, by

the more recent Greeks, who prudently selected

for the theatre of their preaching and sufferings,

some remote country beyond the limits of the Ro­

man empire. See Molheim, p. 81, and Tillemont,

Memoires Ecclesiafliques, torn. i. part iii.

[28] Tacit. Annal. xy. 38—44. Sueton. in

Neron.^r. 38. Dion Caflius, 1. lxii. p. 1014. Oro-

sius, vii. 7.

[29] The price of wheat (c robably of the nodtiti)

was reduced as low as ttrmi Nummi; which would be

equivalent to about fifteen shillings the English

quarter.

[30] We may observe, that the rumour is men­

tioned by Tacitus with a very becoming distrust and

hesitation, whilst it is greedily transcribed by Sue­

tonius, and solemnly confirmed by Dion.

[31] This testimony is alone sufficient to expose

the anachronism of the Jews, who place the birth of

Christ near a century sooner (Basnage, Histoire des

Juifs, 1. v. c. 14, 15.). We may learn from Jose-

phus (Antiquitat. xviii. 3.), that the procuratorlhip

of Pilate corresponded with the last ten years of

Tiberius, A. D. 27—37. As to the particular time

of the death of Christ, a very early tradition fixed

it to the 25th of March, A. D. 29, under the con­

sulship of the two Gemini (Tertullian adv. Judæos,

c. 8.). This date, which is adopted by Pagi, cardi­

nal Norris,and LeClerc, seems, at least, as probable

as the vulgar æra, which is placed (I know not from

what conjectures) sour years later.

[32] Tacit. Annal. xv. 44.

[33] Nardini Roma Antica, p. 387. Donatus

de Roma Antiqua, 1. iii. p. 449.

[34] Sueton. in Nerone, c. 16. The epithet of

maltfica, which some sagacious commentators have

translated magical, is considered by the more rational

Mostieim as only synonymous to the exitiabilii of

Tacitus.

[35] The passage concerning Jesus Christ, which

was inserted into the text of Josephus, between the

time of Origen and that ofEusebius, may furnish

an example of no vulgar forgery. The accom­

plishment of the prophecies, the virtues, miracles,

and resurrection of Jesus, are fairly related. Jose­

phus acknowledges that he was the Messiah, and

hesitates whether he should call him a man.

[36] See the lives of Tacitus by Lipsius and the

Abbe de la fileterie, Dictionnaire de Bayle a Par-

tide Tacite, and Fabricius, Biblioth. Latin, torn,

ii. p. 386. Edit. Ernest.

[37] Principatum Divi Nerva?, et imperium

Trajani, uberiorem securioremque materiam se-

nectuti sepofui, Tacit. Hist. i.

[38] See Tacit. Annal. ii. 61. iv. 4.

[39] The player's name was Aliturus. Through

the fame channel, Josephus (de Vita fua, c. 3.)

about two years before, had obtained the pardon

and

