5a4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

of Athens or Carthage. Every Christian rejected with contempt the

superstitions of his family, his city, and his province. The whole

body of Christians unanimously refused to hold any communion with

the gods of Rome, of the empire, and of mankind. It was in vain

■ that the oppressed believer asserted the inalienable rights of con­

science and private judgment. Though his situation might excite

the pity, his arguments could never reach the understanding, either

of the philosophic or of the believing part of the Pagan world.

To their apprehensions, it was no less a matter of surprise, that any

individuals should entertain scruples against complying with the

established mode of worship, than if they had conceived a sudden

abhorrence to the manners, the dress, or the language of their na­

tive country 8.

Christianity The surprise of the Pagans was soon succeeded by resentment;

atheism, and and the most pious of men were exposed to the unjust but danger-

Jhestpfopiey ous imputation of impiety. Malice and prejudice concurred in

sophers'10" representing the Christians as a society of atheists, who, by the
most

daring attack on the religious constitution of the empire, had me­

rited the severest animadversion of the civil magistrate. They had

separated themselves (they gloried in the confession) from every

mode of superstition which had been adopted in any part of the

globe by the various temper of polytheism: but it was not altogether

so evident what deity, or what form of worship they had substituted

to the gods and temples of antiquity. The pure and sublime idea

which they entertained of the Supreme Being escaped the gross

conception of the Pagan multitude, who were at a loss to discover

a spiritual and solitary God, that was neither represented under any

corporeal figure or visible symbol, nor was adored with the accus­

tomed pomp of libations and festivals, of altars and sacrifices '. The

sages of Greece and Rome, who had elevated their minds to the

contemplation of the existence and attributes of the First Cause, were

induced by reason or by vanity to reserve for themselves and their

chosen disciples the privilege of this philosophical devotion ,0. They

were

i

