272 THE DECLINE AND FALL

*

Mmpieo'f6 *n tne genera* calamities of mankind, the death of an individual,

Ephesus. however exalted, the ruin of an edifice, however famous, are passed

over with careless inattention. Yet we cannot forget, that the tem­

ple of Diana at Ephesus, after having risen with increasing splendor

from seven successive misfortunes ,l8, was finally burnt by the Goths

in their third naval invasion. The arts of Greece, and the wealth

of Asia, had conspired to erect that sacred and magnificent structure.

It was supported by an hundred and twenty-seven marble columns

of the Ionic order. They were the gifts of devout monarchs, and

each was sixty feet high. The altar was adorned with the masterly

sculptures of Praxiteles, who had, perhaps, chosen from the favou­

rite legends of the place the birth of the divine children of Latona,

the concealment of Apollo after the flaughter of the Cyclops, and

the clemency of Bacchus to the vanquished Amazons "9. Yet the

length of the temple of Ephesus was only four hundred and twenty-

five feet, about two thirds of the measure of the church of St.

Peter's at Rome "°. In the other dimensions, it was still more in­

ferior to rhat sublime production of modern architecture. The

spreading arms of a Christian cross, require a much greater breadth

than the oblong temples of the Pagans; and the boldest artists of

antiquity, would have been startled at the proposal of raising in

the air a dome of the size and proportions of the pantheon. The

temple of Diana was, however, admired as one of the wonders

of the world. Successive empires, the Persian, the Macedonian,

and the Roman, had revered its sanctity, and enriched its splen­

dor,5'. But the rude savages of the Baltic were destitute of a taste

for the elegant arts, and they despised the ideal terrors of a foreign

superstition

Conduct of Another circumstance is related of these invasions, which might

Athens. deserve our notice, were it not justly to be suspected as the fanciful

conceit of a recent sophist. We are told, that in the sack of Athens,

the Goths had collected all the libraries, and were on the point of

setting

