wfl THE DEGLIN'E AND FALL

ard of a young and liberal prince, who had taken up arms to re-

. venge his father's death and the oppression of the military order 47.

Defeat and Whilst a conspiracy of women and eunuchs was concerted with

cfinus!fMa* prudence, and conducted with rapid vigour," Macrirrus, who by a

decisive motion might have crushed his infant enemy, floated be­

tween the opposite extremes of terror and security, which alike fixed

him inactive at Antioch. A spirit of rebellion diffused itself through

all the camps and garrisons of Syria, successive detachments mur­

dered their officers4*, and joined the party of the rebels; arid the

tardy restitution of military pay and privileges was imputed to the

acknowledged weakness of Macrinus. At length he marched out

of Antioch, to meet the increasing and zealous army of the young

pretender. His own troops seemed to take the field with faintnesa

A. D. 218. andrehictance; but in the heat of the battle *9, the Praetorian
guards,

^hjune. almost by an involuntary impuise, asserted the superiority of their

valour and discipline. The rebel ranks were broken; when the

mother and grandmother of the Syrian prince, who according to their

eastern custom had attended the army, threw themselves from the

covered chariots, and, by exciting the compassion of the soldiers, en­

deavoured to animate their drooping courage. Antoninus himsclf>

who in the rest of his life never acted like a man, in this important

crisis of his fate approved himself a hero, mounted his horse, and

at the head of his rallied troops charged sword in hand among the

thickest of the enemy; whilst the eunuch Gannys, whose occupations

had been confined to female cares and the soft luxury of Asia,

displayed the talents of an able and experienced general. The

battle still raged with doubtful violence, and Macrinus might have

obtained the victory, had he not betrayed his own cause by a shame­

ful and precipitate flight. His cowardice served only to protract

his life a few days, and to stamp deserved ignominy on his mis­

fortunes. It is scarcely necessary to add, that his son Biadume-

3 nianus.

