Uxxviii' NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.

of his viiith book, which relates to the province of

Thebais in Egypt, may seem to contradict our mo­

derate computation; but it will only lead us to ad­

mire the artful management of the historian.

Chusing for the scene of the most exquisite cruelty,

the most remote and sequestered country of the Ro­

man empire, he relates that in Thebais, from ten

to one hundred persons had frequently suffered

martyrdom in the same day. But when he pro­

ceeds to mention his own journey into Egypt, his

language insensibly becomes more cautious and mo­

derate. Instead of a large, but definite number,

he speaks of many christians ;and most

artfully selects two ambiguous words (..-.^jaus, and

pœo/MiKuroj) which may signify either what he had

seen, or what he had heard, either the expectation

or the execution of the punilhmedt. Having thus

provided a secure evasion, he commits the equivo­

cal passage to his readers and translators; justly con­

ceiving that their piety would induce them to prefer

the most favourable fense. There was perhaps some

malice in the remark of Theodorus Metochita, that

all who, like Eufebius, had been conversant with

the Egyptians, delighted in an obscure and intri­

cate style. (See Valesius ad loc )

[182] When Palestine was divided into three, the

prefecture of the east contained/orty eight, pro­

vinces. As the ancient distinctions of nations were

long since abolished, the Romans distributed the

provinces, according to a general proportion of

their extent and opulence.

[183] Ut gloriari poffint nullum fe innocentium

peremisse, nam et ipfe audivi aliquos gloriantes,

quia administratio sua, in hac pane, fuerit incru-

enta. Lactant. Institut. Divin. v. 11.

[184] Grot. Annal. de Rebus Belgicis, 1. i. p.

12. Edit. so!.

[185] Fra-Paolo (Istoria del Concilio Tridentino,

1. iii.) reduces the number of Belgic martyrs to

50,000. In learning and moderation, Fra-Paolo

was not inferior to Grotius. The priority of time

gives some advantage to the evidence of the former,

which he loses by the distance of Venice from the

Netherlands.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME,

