502 THE DECLINE AND' FALL

tion of the

five causes.

Weakness of

Polytheism.

■** impunity (it is thus that the bishop of Carthage chides the

"lenity of his colleague) if such irregularities are suffered, there

* is an end of Episcopal vigour ,4T; an end of the sublime and  
"divine power of governing the church, an end of Christianity

w itself." Cyprian had renounced those temporal honours, which

it is probable he would never have obtained; but the acquisition of

such absolute command over the consciences and understanding of a

congregation, however obscure or despised by the world, is more

truly grateful to the pride of the human heart, than the possession

of the most despotic power, imposed by arms and conquest on a re­

luctant people.

In the course of this important, though perhaps tedious, inquiry*

I have attempted to display the secondary causes which so effica­

ciously assisted the truth of the Christian religion. If among these

causes we have discovered any artificial ornaments, any accidental

circumstances, or any mixture of error and passion, it cannot appear

surprising that mankind should be the most sensibly affected by

such motives as were suited to their imperfect nature. It was by

the aid of these causes, exclusive zeal, the immediate expectation of

another world, the claim of miracles, the practice of rigid virtue,

and the constitution of the primitive church, that Christianity spread

itself with so much success in the Roman empire. To the first of these

the Christians were indebted for their invincible valour, which

disdained to capitulate with the enemy whom they were resolved to

vanquish. The three succeeding causes supplied their valour with the

most formidable arms. The last of these causes united their courage,

directed their arms, and gave their efforts that irresistible weight,

which even a small band of well-trained and desperate volunteers

has so often possessed over an undisciplined multitude, ignorant

of the subject, and careless of the event of the war. In the various

religions of Polytheism, some wandering fanatics of Egypt and

Syria, who addressed themselves to the credulous superstition of

