THE EECilNE AND TALL

emperor

Tacitus.

Mveretl the provinces of Asia from the terror of the Scythian wr*-

vafion ,?.

Beatlvof the But the glory and life of Tacitus were of short duration; Trans­

ported, in'the depth of winter, front the soft retirement of Cam­

pania, to the foot of mount Caucasus-, he funk under the unaccus­

tomed hardships of a military life. The fatigues of the body were

aggravated by those of the mind. For a while, the angry and selfish-,

paffiohs of the- soldiers had been suspended' by the enthusiasm of

public virtue. They soon broke out with redoubled violence, and.

raged in the camp, and even in the tent, of the aged emperor. Htfc -

mild and amiable character served only to inspire contempt, and he.

was incessantly tormented by factions which he couki not aflvvage*.

and by demands which it was impossible to satisfy. "Whatever flat­

tering expectations he had conceived of reconciling the public

disorders^ Tacitus soon was convinced, that the licentiousness of the

army disdained the feeble restraint of laws, and his last hour was

hastened by anguisti and disappointment. It may be- doubtful

whether the soldiers imbrued their hands in the blood, of this inno­

cent pftBce ,s. It is certain, that their insolence was the cause of his-

death. He expired at Tyane in Cappadocia, after a reign of onlyv

six months and about twenty days '9.

The eyes of Tacitus were scarcely closed, before his brother

Florianus shewed himself unworthy to reign, by the hasty usurpation

of the purple, without expecting the approbation of the senate.

The reverence for the Roman constitution, which yet influenced

the camp, and the provinces, was sufficiently strong to dispose them-

to censure, but not to provoke them to oppose, the precipitate am­

bition of Florianus. The discontent would have evaporated in

idle murmurs, had not the general of the East, the heroic Probus,

boldly declared, himself the avenger of the senate. The contest,

however, was .still unequal i aor could the most able leader, at the

head

-April 12.

Usurpation

and death of

his brother

llOslJIlUS.

