3>y© THE DECLINE AND FALL

vessels, and to direct their various incursions, as well on the coast of

Greece as on that of Asia. "fU length the Gothic fleet anchored in

the port of Piræus, five miles distant from Athens'", which had

attempted to make some preparations for a vigorous defence. Cleo-

damus, one of the engineers employed by the emperor's orders to

fortify the maritime cities against the Goths, had already begun to

repair the ancient walls fallen to decay since the time of Sylla,

The efforts of his skill were ineffectual, and the barbarians be­

came masters of the native feat of the muses and the arts. But

while the conquerors abandoned themselves to the licence of plunder

and intemperance, their fleet, that lay with a slender guard in the

harbour of Piræus, was unexpectedly attacked by the brave Dexip-

pus, who flying with the engineer Cleodamus from the sack of

i • Athens, collected a hasty band of volunteers, peasants as well as

soldiers, and in some measure avenged the calamities of his

Country

ravage But this exploit, whatever lustre it might shed on the declining

threa"nluiy. age or~ Athens, served rather to irritate than to subdue the
undaunted

spirit of the northern invaders. A general conflagration blazed out

at the fame time, in every district of Greece. Thebes and Argos,

Corinth and Sparta, that had formerly waged such memorable wars

against each other, were now unable to bring an army into the field,

or even to defend their ruined fortifications. The rage of war,

both by land and by sea, spread from the eastern point of Suniam,

< .' t© the western coast of Epirus. The Goths had already advanced

within sight of Italy, when the approach of such imminent danger

awakened the indolent Gallienus from his dream of pleasure. The

emperor appeared in arms; and his presence seems to have checked

the ardour, and to have divided the strength of the enemy. Nau-

Their divi- lobatus, a chief of the Heruli, accepted an honourable capitula-

tre"t.and ™ iion, entered with a large body of his countrymen into the service

of Rome, and was invested with the ornaments of the consular dig­

nity,

