OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

only architects of their dominions. Their example was universally

imitated by their principal subjects, who were not afraid of declar­

ing that they had spirit to conceive, and wealth to accomplish, the

noblest undertakings. Scarcely had the proud structure of the

Coliseum been dedicated at Rome, before edifices of a smaller scale

indeed, but of the same design and materials, were erected for

the use, and at the expence, of the cities of Capua and Verona 6'.

The inscription of the stupendous bridge of Alcantara, attests that

it was thrown over the Tagus by the contribution of a few Lusi-

tanian communities. When Pliny was intrusted with the govern­

ment of Bithynia and Pontus, provinces by no means the richest or

most considerable of the empire, he found the cities within his juris­

diction striving with each other in every useful and ornamental

work, that might deserve the curiosity of strangers, or the gratitude

of their citizens. It was the duty of the Proconsul to supply their

deficiencies, to direct their taste, and sometimes to moderate their

emulation 66. The opulent senators of Rome and1 the provinces

esteemed it an honour, and almost an obligation, to adorn the

splendour of their age and country; and the influence of fashion

very frequently supplied the want of taste or generosity. Among

a crowd of these private benefactors, we may select Herodes At"

ticus, an Athenian citizen, who lived in the-age of the An-

tonines. Whatever might be the motive of his conduct, his mag­

nificence would have been worthy of the greatest kings.

The family of Herod, at least after it had been favoured by Example

fortune, was lineally descended from Cimon and Miltiades, Theseus Atticu"

and Cecrops, Æacus and Jupiter. But the posterity of so many gods

and heroes was fallen into the most abject state. His grandfather

had suffered by the hands of justice, and Julius Atticus, his father,

must have ended his life in poverty and contempt, had he not dis­

covered an immense treasure buried under an old house, the last

remains of his patrimony. According to the rigour of law, the

emperor.

