THE DECLINE AND FALL

those, who remembered and regretted the luxurious prodigality of

Commodus *'.

To heal* as far as it was possible, the wounds inflicted by the hand

of tyranny, was the pleasing, but melancholy task of Pertinax. The

innocent victims, who yet survived, were recalled from exile, re*

leased from prison, a#d restored to the full possession of their ho­

nours and fortunes. The unburied bodies of murdered senators (for

the cruelty of Commodus endeavoured to extend itself beyond death)

were deposited in, the sepulchres of their ancestors; their me­

mory was justified; and every consolation was bestowed on their

ruined and afflicted families. Among these consolations one of the

most delicious was. the punishment of the Delators; the common

enemies of their master, of virtue, and of their country. Yet even

in the inquisition of these legal assassins, Pertinax proceeded with a

steady temper, which gave every thing to justice, and nothing to

popular prejudice and resentment.

The finances of the state demanded the most vigilant care of the

emperor. Though, every measure of injustice and extortion had

been adopted, which could collect: the property of the subject into

the coffers of the prince; the rapaciousness of Commodus had been

so very inadequate to his extravagance, that, upon his death,- no

more than eight thousand pounds were found in the exhausted trea­

sury 5°, to defray the current expences of government, and to dis­

charge the pressing demand of a_ liberal donative, which the new

emperor had been obliged to promise to the Prætorian guards. Yet

under these distressed circumstances, Pertinax had the generous firm­

ness to remit all the oppressive taxes, invented by Commodusj and

to cancel all the unjust claims of tfeec treasury; declaring in a decree

of the senate, '* that he was better satisfied to administer a poor re-

** public with innocence, than to acquire riches by the ways of ty-  
*' ranny and dishonour." Oeconomy and industry he considered as the

7 pure

