2jo THE DECLINE AND FALL

within their district, was absolutely vested in their hands, and they

distributed it every year according to a new division r\ At the

same time they were not authorized to punish with death, to imprison,

or even to strike a private citizen A people thus jealous

of their persons, and careless of their possessions, must have been

totally destitute of industry and the arts, but animated with a high

fense of honour and independence.

Voluntary The Germans respected only those duties which they imposed on

engagements.

themselves. The most obscure soldier resisted with disdain, the

authority of the magistrates. "The noblest youths blushed not

"to be numbered among the faithful companions of some renowned

"chief, to whom they devoted their arms and service. A noble

'* emulation prevailed among the companions to obtain the first

"place in the esteem of their chief; amongst the chiefs to acquire

"the greatest number of valiant companions. To be ever fur-

"rounded by a band of select youths, was the pride and strength

"of the chiefs, their ornament in peace, their defence in war.

* The glory of such distinguished heroes diffused itself beyond the  
"narrow limits of their own tribe. Presents and embassies solicited

*' their friendship, and the fame of their arms, often ensured  
"victory to the party which they espoused. In the hour of danger

"it was shameful for the chief to be surpassed in valour by his

u companions; shameful for the companions not to equal the

•* valour of their chief. To survive his fall in battle, was indelible

"infamy. To protect his person, and to adorn his glory with the

'* trophies of their own exploits, were the most sacred of their

H duties. The chiefs combated for victory, the companions for the

"chief. The noblest warriors, whenever their native country was

"funk in the laziness of peace, maintained their numerous bands

"in some distant scene of action, to exercise their restless spirit, and

"to acquire renown by voluntary dangers. Gifts worthy of

*' soldiers, the warlike steed, the bloody and ever victorious lance,

1«were

