BO* THE DECLINE AND FALL

groaned above five centuries since the death of Dariu6. The Par-

thians were defeated in three great battles. In the last of these

their king Artaban was flain, and the spirit of the nation wa6 for

ever brokenJ. The authority of Artaxerxes was solemnly acknow­

ledged in a great assembly held at Balch in Khorasan. Two

younger branches of the royal house of Arsaces were confounded

among the prostrate satraps. A third, more mindful of ancient

grandeur than of present necessity, attempted to retire, with a

numerous train of vassals, towards their kiniftnan, the king of

Armenia j but this little army of deserters was intercepted, and cut

off, by the vigilance of the conqueror 6, who boldly assumed the

double diadem, and the title of King of Kings, which had been

enjoyed by his predecessor. But these pompous titles, instead of

gratifying the vanity of the Persian, served only to admonisli him

of his duty, and to inflame in his foul, the ambition of restoring, in

their full splendour, the religion and empire of Cyrus.

Reformation j# During the long servitude of Persia under the Macedonian

•f ihe Magian °"

religion. and the Parthian yoke, the nations of Europe and Asia had mu­

tually adopted aud corrupted each other's superstitions. The

Arsacides, indeed, practised the worship of the Magi ; but they

disgraced and polluted it with a various mixture of foreign idolatry.

The memory of Zoroaster, the ancient prophet and philosopher

of the Persians 7, was still revered in the East ; but the obsolete and

mysterious language, in which the Zendavesta was composed %

opened a field of dispute to seventy sects, which had arisen in.

his religion, and were all equally derided by a crowd of infi­

dels, who rejected the divine mission and miracles of the prophet.

To suppress the idolaters, reunite the schismatics, and confute the

unbelievers, by the infallible decision of a general council, the

pious Artaxerxes summoned the Magi from all parts of his dominions.

These priests, who had so long sighed in contempt and obscurity,

obeyed the welcome summons j and on the appointed day appeared,

i to

