OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303,

guarded mistress of the world. But Aurelian, who, watchful for

the safety of Rome, still hung on their rear, found in this place

the decisive moment, of giving them a total and irretrievable de­

feat 57. The flying remnant of their host was exterminated in a

third and last battle near Pavia; and Italy was delivered from the

inroads of the Alemanni.

Fear has been the original parent of superstition, and every new cala-
Superstitious

. r ceremonies.

mity urges trembling mortals to deprecate the wrath of their invisible

enemies. Though the best hope of the republic was in the valour

and conduct of Aurelian, yet such was the public consternation,

when the barbarians were hourly expected at the gates of Rome,

that, by a decree of the senate, the Sibylline books were consulted.

Even the emperor himself, either from a principle of religion or of

policy, recommended the salutary measure, chided the tardiness of

the senateand offered to supply whatever expence, whatever

animals, whatsoever captives of any nation, the gods mould require.

Notwithstanding this liberal offer, it does not appear, that any

human victims expiated with their Wood the fins of the Roman

people. The Sibylline books enjoined ceremonies of a more harm- a. D. 271.

less nature, processions of priests in white robes, attended by a ■January ,u

chorus of youths and virgins; lustrations of the city and adjacent

country, and sacrifices, whose powerful influence, disabled the bar­

barians from passing the mystic ground on which they had ,been

celebrated. However puerile in themselves, these superstitious arts

were subservient to the success of the war; and if, in the decisive

battle of Fano, she Alemanni fancied they saw an army of spectres

combating on the side of Aurelian, he received a very powerful aid

from this imaginary reinforcement39.

But whatever confidence might be placed in ideal ramparts, the Fortification*

experience of the past, and the dread of the future, induced the ° Ro,ne'

Romans to construct fortifications of a grosser and more substantial

kind..

