OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4cj

absolutely devoted to the commands of his benefactor Galerius, who,

reserving to himself the intermediate countries from the confines of

Italy to those of Syria, firmly established his power over three

fourths of the monarchy. In the full confidence, that the ap­

proaching death of Constantius would leave him sole master of the

Roman world, we are assured that he had arranged in his mind

a long succession of future princes, and that he meditated his own

retreat from public life, after he should have accomplistied a glorious

reign of about twenty years 7.

But within less than eighteen months, two unexpected revolutions Ambition of

> Galerius dis-

overturned the ambitious schemes of Galerius. The hopes of unit- appointed by

ing the weflern provinces to his empire, were disappointed by the tions.

elevation of Constantine, whilst Italy and Africa were lost by the

successful revolt of Maxentius.

I. The fame of Constantine has rendered posterity attentive to the Birth>
educa-

tion, and es-

most minute circumstances of his life and actions. The place of cape of Con-

his birth, as well as the condition of his mother Helena, have been a!d°%^,

the subject not only of literary but of national disputes. Notwith­

standing the recent tradition, which assigns for her father, a

British king, we are obliged to confess, that Helena was the

daughter of an innkeeper 8; but at the fame time we may defend

the legality of her marriage, against those who have represented her

as the concubine of Gonstantius 9. The great Constantine was most

probably born at Naissus, in Dacia '% and it is not surprising,

that in a family and province distinguished only by the profession of

arms, the youth should discover very little inclination to improve his

mind by the acquisition of knowledge". He was about eigh- A.'D.291.

teen years of age when his father was promoted to the rank of Cæsar;

but that fortunate event was attended with his mother's divorce;

and the splendor of an imperial alliance reduced the son of Helena

to a state of disgrace and humiliation. Instead of following Con-

stantius into the West, he remained in the service of Diocletian,

F f f 2 signalised

