OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 32$

He gratified their avarice by a liberal distribution of treasure, under

the names of pay and donative. He engaged their esteem by a

spirited declaration, that although his age might disable him from

the performance of military exploits, his counsels mould never be

unworthy of a Roman general, the successor of the brave Au-

relian ,6.

Whilst the deceased emperor was making preparations for a fe- TheAlaniio.

cond expedition into the east, he had negociated with the Alani, and are re-

a Scythian people, who pitched their tents in the neighbourhood of Tachas'.7

the lake Mceotis. Those barbarians, allured by presents and sub­

sidies, had promised to invade Persia with a numerous body of light

cavalry. They were faithful to their engagements; but when they

arrived on the Roman frontier, Aurelian was already dead, the design

of the Persian war was at least suspended, and the generals, who,

during the interregnum, exercised a doubtful authority, were unpre­

pared either to receive or to oppose them. Provoked by such treat­

ment, which they considered as trifling and perfidious, the Alani had

recourse to their own valour for their payment and revenge; and as

they moved with the usual swiftness of Tartars, they had soon spread

themselves over the provinces of Pontus, Cappadocia, Cilicia, and

Galatia. The legions, who from the opposite shores of the Bosphorus,

could almost distinguish the flames of the cities and villages, impa­

tiently urged their general to lead them against the invaders. The

conduct of Tacitus was suitable to his age and station. He convinced

the barbarians, of the faith, as well as of the power, of the empire.

Great numbers of the Alani, appeased by the punctual discharge of

the engagements which Aurelian had contracted with them, relin­

quished their booty and captives, and quietly retreated to their own

deserts, beyond the Phasis. Against the remainder who refused peace,

the Roman emperor waged, in person, a successful war. Seconded by

an army of brave and experienced veterans, in a few weeks he de-.

Vol. I. U u livered

