76 THE DECLINE AND FALL

of Nero, the grandson of Germanicus, and the lineal successor of

Augustus. It was not without reluctance and remorse, that the

prætorian guards had been persuaded to abandon the cause of the

tyrant 5\ The rapid downfal of Galba, Otho, and Vitellius, taught

the armies to consider the emperors as the creatures of their will,

and the instruments of their licence. The birth of Vespafian was

mean; his grandfather had been a private soldier, his father a

petty officer of the revenue 35; his own merit had raised him, in an

advanced age, to the empire; but his merit was rather useful than

shining, and his virtues were disgraced by a strict and even sordid

parsimony. Such a prince consulted his true interest by the asso­

ciation of a son, whose more splendid and amiable character might

turn the public attention* from the obscure origin, to the future

glories of the Flavian house. Under the mild administration of

Titus, the Roman world enjoyed a transient felicity, and his be­

loved memory served to protect, above fifteen years, the vices of

his brother Domitian.

Ai D. 964 Nerva had scarcely accepted the purple from the assassins of Do-

^artctwof mitian, before he discovered that his feeble age was unable to stem

Trajan. tjie torrent of public disorders, which had multiplied under the long

. tyranny of his predecessor. His mild disposition was respected by

the good; but the degenerate Romans required a more vigorous

character, whose justice fliould strike terror into the guilty. Though

he had several relations, he fixed his choice on a stranger. He

adopted Trajan, then about forty years of age, and who com­

manded a powerful army in the lower Germany; and immediately,

by a decree of the senate, declared him his colleague and successor

A. D„ 98: jn the empire It is sincerely to be lamented, that whilst we are

fatigued with the disgustful relation of Nero's crimes and follies,

we are reduced to collect the actions of Trajan from the glimmer­

ings of an abridgment, or the doubtful light of a panegyric.

There remains, however, one panegyric far removed beyond the

7 suspicion:

