58 THE DECLINE AND FALL

the Antonines, who were themselves men of learning and cu­

riosity. It was diffused over the whole extent of their em­

pire; the most northern tribes of Britons had acquired a taste for

rhetoric: Homer as well as Virgil were transcribed and studied on

the banks of the Rhine and Danuhe j and the most liberal rewards

sought out the faintest glimmerings of literary .merit "°» The

sciences of physic and astronomy were cultivated with some degree

of reputation: but if we except the inimitable Lucian, an age of

indolence passed away without producing a single writer of genius

who deserved the attention of posterity. The authority of Plato

and Aristotle, of Zeno and Epicurus, still reigned in the schools,

and their systems, transmitted with blind deference from one gene­

ration of disciples to another, precluded every generous attempt to

correct the errors, or enlarge the bounds, of the human mind.

The beauties of the poets and orators, instead of kindling a fire like

their own, inspired only cold and servile imitations: or if any

ventured to deviate from those models, they deviated at the fame

time from good fense and propriety. On the revival of letters,

the youthful vigour of the imagination, after a long repose, national

emulation, a new religion, new languages, and a new world,

called forth the genius of Europe. The provincials of Rome,

trained by a uniform artificial foreign education, were engaged in a

very unequal competition with those bold ancients, who, by ex­

pressing their genuine feelings in their native tongue, had already

occupied every place of honour. The name of Poet was almost

forgotten; that of Orator was usurped by the sophists. A cloud of

critics, of compilers, of commentators, darkened the face of learn­

ing, and the decline of genius was soon followed by the corruption

of taste.

. Degeneracy. The sublime Longinus, who in somewhat a later period, and in

the court of a Syrian queen, preserved the spirit of ancient Athens,

observes and laments this degeneracy of his contemporaries, which

debased

