THE DECLINE AND FALL

form a just idea of his true character. Under the philosophic cloak

of austerity, he stands accused of concealing most of the vices which

degrade human nature". But his accusers are those venal writers

who adored the fortune of Severus, and trampled on the aflies of an

unsuccessful rival. Virtue, or the appearances of virtue, recom­

mended Albinus to the confidence and good opinion of Marcus; and

his preserving with the son the same interest which he bad acquired

with the father, is a proof at least that he .was possessed of a very

flexible disposition. The favour of a tyrant does not always sup­

pose a want of merit in the object of.it; he may, without in­

tending it, reward a man of worth and ability, or he may find such

a man useful to his own service. It does not appear that Albinus

served the son of Marcus, either as the minister of his cruelties, or

even as the associate of his pleasures. He was employed in a dis­

tant honourable command, when he received a -confidential letter

from the emperor, acquainting him of the treasonable designs of

some discontented generals, and authorizing him to declare himself

the guardian and successor of the throne, by assuming the title and

ensigns of Cæsar ,8. The governor of Britain wisely declined the

dangerous honour, which would have marked him for the jealousy,

or involved him in the approaching ruin, of CommoduSi He

courted power by nobler, or, at least, by more specious, arts. Oa

a premature report of the death of the emperor, he assembled his

troops; and in an eloquent discourse, deplored the inevitable mis­

chiefs of despotism, described the happiness and glory.Which their

ancestors had enjoyed under the consular ^government, and declared

his firm resolution to reinstate the senate and people in their legal

authority. This popular harangue was answered by the loud accla­

mations of the British legions, and received at Rome with a secret

murmur of applause. Safe in the'possession .ofihis little world, and

in the command, of an army less distinguished indeed for discipline

than for numbers and valour '% Albinus braved the menaces of

Commodus,

