402 THE DECLINE AND FALL

as he had held the scepter with glory, he would have resigned it

without disgrace.

The two c*. After the elevation of Conscantius and Galerius to the rank of

lars, Severuj

andMaximin. August'^ two new Casars were required to supply their place, and

to complete the system of the imperial government. Diocletian

was sincerely desirous of withdrawing himself from the world .

he considered Galerius, who had married his daughter, as the

firmest support of his family and of the empire; and he consented,

without reluctance, that his successor should assume the merit as well

as the envy of the important nomination. \t was fixed without

consulting the interest or inclination of the princes of the Weft.

Each of them had a son who was arrived at the age of manhood*

and who might have been deemed the most natural candidates for

the vacant honour. But the moderate Constantius was not disposed

to assert his claims by arms, and the impotent resentment of

Maximian was no longer to be dreaded. The two persons whom.

Galerius promoted to the rank of Cæfer, were much better suited

to serve the views of his ambition; and their principal recom­

mendation seems to have consisted in the want of merit or personal

consequence. The first of these was Daza, or, as he was after­

ward* called, Maximin, whose mother was the lister of Galerius.

The unexperienced youth still betrayed by his manners and lan­

guage his rustic education, when, to his own astonishment as well as

that of the world, he was invested by Diocletian with the purple, ex­

alted to the dignity of Cæsar, and intrusted with the sovereign

command of Egypt and Syria J. At the same time, Severus,

a faithful servant, addicted to pleasure, but not incapable of busi­

ness, was sent to Milan, to receive from the reluctant hands of

Maximian the Cæsarean ornaments, and the possession of Italy and

Africa6. According to the forms of the constitution, Severus

acknowledged the supremacy of the western emperor ; but he was

absolutely

