THE DECLINE AND FALL

and destroying their feeble enemy, continued inactive in those nar­

row streights where its superiority of numbers was of little use or

advantage. Crispus, the emperor's eldest son, was intrusted with

the execution of this daring enterprise, which he performed with

so much courage and success, that he deserved the esteem, and most

probably excited the jealousy of his father. The engagement

lasted two days, and, in the evening of the first, the contending

fleets, after a considerable and mutual loss, retired into their

respective harbours of Europe and Asia. The second day about

noon a strong south wind ,08 sprang up, which carried the vessels

of Crispus against the enemy, and as the casual advantage was im­

proved by his stcilful intrepidity he soon obtained a complete

"victory. An hundred and thirty vessels were destroyed, five thou­

sand men were slain, and Amandus, the admiral of the Asiatic

fleet, escaped with the utmost difficulty to the mores of Chalcedon.

As soon as the Hellespont was open, a plentiful convoy of pro­

visions flowed into the camp of Constantine, who had already

advanced the operations of the siege. He constructed artificial

mounds of earth of an equal height with the ramparts of Byzan­

tium. The lofty towers which were erected on that foundation,

galled the besieged with large stones and darts from the military

engines, and the battering rams had shaken the walls in several

places. If Licinius persisted much longer in the defence, he ex­

posed himself to be involved in the ruin of the place. Before he

wras surrounded he prudently removed his person and treasures to

Chalcedon in Asia; and as he was always desirous of associating

companions to the hopes and dangers of his fortune, he now be­

stowed the title of Cæsar on Martinianus, who exercised one of the

most important offices of the empire

„. , , Such were still the resources, and such the abilities, of Licinius,

Battle of

Chrysopoiis. that, after so many successive defeats, he collected in Bithynia
a

4 new

