238 THE DECLINE AND FALL

an army of Germans into Gaul, prevailed on the powerful cities of

Treves and Langres, to embrace his cause, defeated the legions,

destroyed their fortified camps, and employed against the Romans

the military knowledge which he had acquired in their service.

When at length, after an obstinate struggle, he yielded to the power

of the empire, Civilis secured himself and his country by an ho­

nourable treaty. The Batavians still continued to occupy the ifland

of the Rhine ?6, the allies not the servants of the Roman monarchy.

Civil dissen- H. The strength of ancient Germany appears formidable, when we

lions of Ger­

many, consider the effects that might have been produced by its united

effort. The wide extent of country might very possibly contain a

million of warriors, as all who were of an age to bear arms, were

of a temper to use them. But this fierce multitude, incapable of

concerting or executing any plan of national greatness, was agi­

tated by various and often hostile intentions. Germany was divided

into more than forty independent states; and even in each state the

union of the several tribes was extremely loose and precarious.

The barbarians were easily provoked; they knew not how to for­

give an injury, much less an insult; their resentments were bloody

and implacable. The casual disputes that so frequently happened

in their tumultuous parties of hunting or drinking, were sufficient

to inflame the minds of whole nations; the private feud of any

considerable chieftains, diffused itself among their followers and al­

lies. To chastise the insolent, or to plunder the defenceless, were

alike causes of war. The most formidable states of Germany af­

fected to encompass their territories with a wide frontier of solitude

and devastation. The awful distance preserved by their neighbours,

attested the terror of their arms, and in some measure defended them

from the danger of unexpected incursions

Fomented by "The Bructeri (it is Tacitus who now speaks) were totally ex-

Rome.1'03'0 "terminated by the neighbouring tribes78 provoked by their inso-

"lence, allured by the hopes of spoil, and perhaps inspired by the

"tutelar

