THE DECLINE AND FALL

of the sacerdotal order, whose dignity, either from policy or devo­

tion, that prince restored to its ancient splendour ,!.

Spirit of per- The first counsel of the Magi was agreeable to the unsociable
ge-

C i t ,nius of their faith14, to the practice of ancient kings 1J, and even

to the example of their legislator, who had fallen a victim to a re­

ligious war, excited by his own intolerant zeal l4. By an edict of

Artaxerxes, the exercise of every worship, except that of Zoroaster,

-was severely prohibited. The temples of the Parthians, and the sta­  
tues of their deified monarchs, were thrown down with ignominy 17.

The sword of Aristotle (such was the name given by the orientals to

the polytheism and philosophy of the Greeks) was easily broken 18;

the flames of persecution soon reached the more stubborn Jews and

Christians "; nor did they spare the heretics of their own nation and

religion. The majesty of Ormusd, who was jealous of a rival, was

seconded by the despotism of Artaxerxes, who could not suffer a

rebel; and with the assistance of what his prelates no doubt called

wholesome severities, the schismatics within his vast empire were

soon reduced to the inconsiderable number of eighty thousand J0.

This spirit of persecution reflects dishonour on the religion of Zo­

roaster; but as it was not productive of any civil commotion, it served

•to strengthen the new monarchy by uniting all the various inhabit­

ants of Persia in the bands of religious zeal.

Establishment II. Artaxerxes, by his valour and conduct, had wrested the scep-

of the royal ter of ^ £ast from the anc;ent r0yai family of Parthia. There

2iitnority in S

the provinces, ftjn remained the more difficult task of establishing,
throughout the

vast extent of Persia, a uniform and vigorous administration. The

weak indulgence of the Arfacides, had resigned to their sons and

brothers, the principal provinces, and the greatest offices of the king­

dom, in the nature of hereditary possessions. The vitaxt, or eigh­

teen most powerful satraps, were permitted to assume the regal title j

and the vain pride of the monarch was delighted with a nominal

dominion

