OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

can, however, fill up their time by the pursuits of interest or glory,

by the improvement of their estate or of their understanding, by

the duties, the pleasures, and even the follies of social life. The

Germans were not possessed of these varied resources. The care of

the house and family, the management of the land and cattle, were

delegated to the old and the infirm, to women and slaves. The

lazy warrior, destitute of every art that might employ his leisure

hours, consumed his days and nights in the animal gratifications of

fleep and food. And yet, by a wonderful diversity of Nature, (ac­

cording to the remark of a writer who had pierced into its darkest

recesses) the fame barbarians are by turns the most indolent and the

most restless of mankind. They delight in floth, they detest tran­

quillity 5°. The languid foul, oppressed with its own weight, anxi­

ously required some new and powerful sensation; and war and dan­

ger were the only amusements adequate to its fierce temper. The

found that summoned the German to arms was grateful to his ear.

It roused him from his uncomfortable lethargy, gave him an active

pursuit, and, by strong exercise of the body, and violent emotions of

the mind, restored him to a more lively fense of his existence. In

the dull intervals of peace, these barbarians were immoderately ad­

dicted to deep gaming and excessive drinking; both of which, by

different means, the one by inflaming their passions, the other by

extinguishing their reason, alike relieved them from the pain of

thinking. They gloried in passing whole days and nights at table;

and the blood of friends and relations often stained their numerous

and drunken assemblies3'. Their debts of honour (for in that light

they have transmitted to us those of play) they discharged with

the most romantic fidelity. The desperate gamester, who had staked

his person and liberty on a last throw of the dice, patiently submitted

to the decision of fortune, and suffered himself to be bound, chas­

tised, and sold into remote flavery, by his weaker but more lucky

antagonist

Vol. I. G g Strong

