368 THE DECLINE AND FALL

of barbarians on the Roman territory 15. The brave and active

Constantius delivered Gaul from a very furious inroad of the

Alemanni; and his victories of Langres and Vindonissa appear

to have been actions of considerable danger and merit. As he tra足

versed the open country with a feeble guard, he was encompassed

on a sudden by the superior multitude of the enemy. He retreated

with difficulty towards Langres; but, in the general consternation,

the citizens refused to open their gates, and the wounded prince

was drawn up the wall by the means of a rope. But on the

news of his distress, the Roman troops hastened from all fides to

his relief, and before the evening he had satisfied his honour and

revenge by the slaughter of six thousand Alemanni '6. From the

monuments of those times, the memory of several other victories

over the barbarians of Sarmatia and Germany might possibly be

collected; but the tedious search would not be rewarded either with

amusement or with instruction.

Treatment os The conduct which the emperor Probus had adopted in the dis-

tne barba- x *

liant, pofal of the vanquistied, was imitated by Diocletian and his asso足

ciates. The captive barbarians, exchanging death for flavery,

were distributed among the provincials, and assigned to those districts

(in Gaul, the territories of Amiens, Beauvais, Cambray, Treves,

Langres, and Troy es, are particularly specified '7) which had been

depopulated by the calamities of war. They were usefully em足

ployed as shepherds and husbandmen, but were denied the exercise of

arms, except when it was found expedient to enrol them in the

military service. Nor did the emperors refuse the property of lands,

. with a less servile tenure, to such of the barbarians as solicited

the protection of Rome. They granted a settlement to several

colonies of the Carpi, the Bastarnae, and the Sarmatians; and, by a

dangerous indulgence, permitted them in some measure to retain

their national manners and independence 5S. Among the pro足

vincials, it was a subject of flattering exultation, that the barbarian,

so

