4H THE DECLINE AND PALL

part of the garrison. The flames were extinguished by the care of

Constantine, and the remains of Susa preserved from total destruc­

tion. About forty miles from thence, a more severe contest awaited

him. A numerous army of Italians was assembled under the lieu-

Battle of tenants of Maxentius in the plains of Turin. Its principal strength

consisted in a species of heavy cavalry, which the Romans, since

the decline of their discipline, had borrowed from the nations of the

v East. The horses, as well as the men, were clothed in complete

armour, the joints of which were artfully adapted to the motions

of their bodies. The aspect of this cavalry was formidable, the

weight almost irresistible; and as, on this occasion, their generals

liad drawn them up in a compact column or wedge, with a fliarp

point, and with spreading flanks, they flattered themselves that they

should easily break and trample down the army of Constantine.

They might perhaps have succeeded in their design, had not

their experienced adversary embraced the same method of defence,

which in similar circumstances had been practised by Aurelian.

The skilful evolutions of Constantine divided and baffled this massy

column of cavalry. The troops of Maxentius fled in confusion to­

wards Turin; and as the gates of the city were (hut against them,

very few escaped the sword of the victorious pursuers. By this

important service, Turin deserved to experience the clemency and

even favour of the conqueror. He made his entry into the imperial

palace of Milan, and almost all the cities of Italy between the Alps

and the Po not only acknowledged the power, but embraced with

zeal the party of Constantine s6.

Siege and From Milan to Rome, the Æmilian and Flaminian highways

y'apnas opened an easy march of about four hundred miles; but though

Constantine was impatient to encounter the tyrant, he prudently

turned his arms against another army of Italians, who, "by their

strength and position, might either oppose his progress, or, in cafe

#f a misfortune, might intercept his retreat. Ruricius Pompeianus,

3 a general

