OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 75

unstnined with civil blood, and undisturbed by revolutions. The

ernperor was elected by the authority of the senate and the consent

os the soldiers *\ The legions respected their oath of fidelity, and

it requires a minute inspection of the Roman annals to discover

three inconsiderable rebellions, which were all suppressed in a few

months, and without even the hazard of a battle 5'.

In elective monarchies, the vacancy of the throne is a moment Designation

.. . _ r of a successor.

big with danger and mischief. The Roman emperors desirous to

spare the legions thai interval of suspense, and the temptation of an

irregular choice, invested their designed successor with so large a share

of present power, as should enable him, after their decease, to

assume the remainder, without suffering the empire to perceive the

change of masters. Thus Augustus, after all his fairer prospects Of Tiberius,

had been snatched from him by untimely deaths, rested his last

hopes on Tiberius, obtained for his adopted son the censorial and

tribunitian powers, and dictated a law, by which the future prince

was invested with an authority equal to his own, over the provinces

and the armies 5\ Thus Vespasian subdued the generous mind of Of Titus,

his eldest son. Titus was adored by the eastern legions, which,

under his command, had just finished the conquest of Judæa. His

power was dreaded, and, as his virtues were clouded by the intem­

perance of youth, his designs were suspected. Instead of listening

to such unworthy suspicions, the prudent monarch associated Titus

to the full powers of the Imperial dignity; and the grateful son ever

approved himself the humble and faithful minister of so indul­

gent a father

The good sense of Vespasian engaged him indeed to embrace every The race of

measure that might confirm his recent and precarious elevation, and the^a-

The military oath, and the fidelity of the troops, had been conse- vian
family'

crated by the habits of an hundred years, to the name and family

of the Cæsars: and although that family had been continued only

by the fictitious rite of adoption, they still revered, in the person

L 2 of

