OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i8j

"dignity. Let us elect two emperors, one of whom may con-

"duct the war against the public enemy, whilst his colleague

"remains at Rome to direct the civil administration. I cheerfully

"expose myself to the danger and envy of the nomination, and

"give my vote in favour of Maximus and Balbinus. Ratify my

"choice, conscript fathers, or appoint in their place, others more

worthy of the empire." The general apprehension silenced the

whispers of jealousy; the merit of the candidates was universally

acknowledged; and the house resounded with the sincere acclama­

tions, of " long life and victory to the emperors Maximus and

"Balbinus. You are happy in the judgment of the senate; may

"the republic be happy under your administration 46!"

The virtues and the reputation of the new emperors justified the Their cha-

P . . racters-

most sanguine hopes of the Romans. The various nature of their

talents seemed to appropriate to each his peculiar department

of peace and war, without leaving room for jealous emulation. Bal­

binus was an admired orator, a poet of distinguished fame, and a

wife magistrate, who had exercised with innocence and applause,

the civil jurisdiction in almost all the interior provinces of the

empire. His birth was noble *7, his fortune affluent, his manners

liberal and affable. In him, the love of pleasure was corrected by a

fense of dignity, nor had the habits of ease deprived him of a

capacity for business. The mind of Maximus was formed in a

rougher mould. By his valour and abilities he had raised himself

from the meanest origin to the first employments of the state and

army. His victories over the Sarmatians and the Germans, the

austerity of his life, and the rigid impartiality of his justice, whilst

he was præfect of the city, commanded the esteem of a people,

whose affections were engaged in favour of the more amiable Bal­

binus. The two colleagues had both been consuls, (Balbinus had

twice enjoyed that honourable office) both had been named among

the twenty lieutenants of the senate, and since the one was sixty

Vol. I. B b and

