OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

titles of that amiable prince, seem to have been inadequate to the

difficulties of his situation, the firmness of his conduct inferior to

the purity of his intentions. His virtues, as well as the vices of

Elagabalus, contracted a tincture of weakness and effeminacy from

the soft climate of Syria, of which he was a native; though he

blushed at his foreign origin, and listened with a vain complacency

to the flattering genealogists, who derived his race from the ancient

flock of Roman nobility The pride and avarice of his mother

cast a shade on the glories of his reign; and by exacting from his

riper years the fame dutiful obedience which she had justly claimed

from his unexperienced youth, Mamaea exposed to public ridicule

both her son's character and her own 8o. The fatigues of the Persian

war irritated the military discontent; the unsuccessful event de­

graded the reputation of the emperor as a general, and even as a

soldier. Every cause prepared, and every circumstance hastened a

revolution, which distracted the Roman empire with a long series of

civil discord.

The dissolute tyranny of Commodus, the civil wars occasioned Digression on

by his death, and the new maxims of policy introduced by the house of the
empire,

of Severus, had all contributed to increase the dangerous power of

the army, and to obliterate the faint image of laws and liberty that

was still impressed on the minds of the Romans^ This internal

change which undermined the foundations of the empire, we have

endeavoured to explain with some degree of order and perspicuity.

The personal characters of the emperors, their victories, laws, follies,

and fortunes, can interest us no farther than as they are connected

with the general history of the Decline and Fall of the monarchy.

Our constant attention to that great object, will not suffer us to over­

look a most important edict of Antoninus Caracalla, which com­

municated to all the free inhabitants of the empire the name and

privileges of Roman citizens. His unbounded liberality flowed

not, however, from the sentiments of a generous mind; it was the

Vol. I. Y sordid

