OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

other. The cruel fate of Caracalla, though her good sense must Jj^JkgJjr

have lone taught her to expect: it, awakened the feelings of a mother simusand

. . ... A*on:nus.

and of an empress. Notwithstanding the respectful civility ex­

pressed by the usurper towards the widow of Severus, flie descended

with a painful struggle into the condition of a subject, and soon

withdrew herself by a voluntary death from the anxious and humi­

liating dependence 4\ Julia Mæsa, her sister, was ordered to leave

the court and Antioch. She retired to Emesa with an immense for­

tune, the fruit of twenty years favour, accompanied by her two

daughters, Soæmias and Mamæa, each of whom was a widow, and

each had an only son. Bassianus, for that was the name of the son

of Soæmias, was consecrated to the honourable ministry of high

priest of the Sun; and this holy vocation, embraced either from

prudence or superstition, contributed to raise the Syrian youth to

the empire of Rome. A numerous body of troops was stationed at

Emesa; and as the severe discipline of Macrinus had constrained

them to pass the winter encamped, they were eager to reyenge the

cruelty of such unaccustomed hardships* The soldiers, who resorted

in crowds to the temple of the Sun, beheld with veneration and

delight the elegant dress and figure of the young pontiff: they re­

cognised, or they thought that they recognised, the features of Cara­

calla, whose memory they,now adored^ The artful Mæsa saw and

cherished their rising partiality, and readily sacrificing her daugh­

ter's reputation to the fortune of her grandson, flie insinuated that

Bassianus was the natural son of their murdered sovereign. The

sums distributed by her emissaries with a lavish hand, silenced every

objection, and the profusion sufficiently- proved the affinity, or at

least the resemblance, of Bassianus with, the great original.. The

young Antoninus (for he assumed and polluted that respectable

name) was declares emperor by the troops of Emesa, asserted his a. D. 218.

hereditary right, and called aloud on the armies to follow the stand- May l6.

Vol. I. 'U '' '' ard

