OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

bly deferred till the return of the younger brother to Rome, where

a triumph was decreed to the young emperors, for the glorious suc­

cess of the Persian war ,Co. It is uncertain whether they intended to

divide between them the administration, or the provinces, of the

empire; but it is very unlikely that their union would have

proved of any long duration. The jealousy of power must have

been inflamed by the opposition of characters. In the most corrupt

of times, Carinus was unworthy to live: Numerian deserved to

reign in a happier period. His affable manners and gentle vir­

tues secured him, as soon as they became known, the regard and

affections of the public. He possessed the elegant accomplishments of a

poet and orator, which dignify as well as adorn the humblest and the

most exalted station. His eloquence, however it was applauded by the

senate, was formed not so much on the model of Cicero, as on that

of the modern declaimers ; but in an age very far from being destitute

of poetical merit, he contended for the prize with the most celebrated

of his contemporaries, and still remained the friend of his rivals;

a circumstance which evinces either the goodness of his heart, or the

superiority of his genius lo'. But the talents of Numerian were

rather of the contemplative, than of the active kind. When his

father's elevation reluctantly forced him from the shade of retire­

ment, neither his temper ncr his pursuits had qualified him for the

command of armies. His constitution was destroyed by the hard­

ships of the Persian war ; and he had contracted, from the heat of

the climate *01, such a weakness in his eyes, as obliged him, in the

course of a long retreat, to confine himself to the solitude and dark­

ness of a tent or litter. The administration of all affairs, civil as

well as military, was devolved on Arrius Aper, the Prætorian præ-

fect, who, to the power of his important office, added the honour

of being father-in-law to Numerian. The imperial pavilion was

strictly guarded by his most trusty adherents; and during many

Vol. I. Z z daysi

