THE DECLINE AND FALL

caufes°bable Although the progress of civilization has undoubtedly contributed

to asswage the fiercer passions of human nature, it seems to have

been less favourable to the virtue of chastity, whose most dangerous

enemy is the softness of the mind. The refinements of life cor­

rupt while they polish the intercourse of the sexes. The gross ap­

petite of love becomes most dangerous when it is elevated, or

rather, indeed, disguised by sentimental passion. The elegance of

dress, of motion, and of manners, give a lustre to beauty, and in­

flame the senses through the imagination. Luxurious entertain­

ments, midnight dances, and licentious spectacles, present at once

temptation and opportunity to female frailty From such dangers,

the unpolissied wives of the barbarians were secured, by poverty,

solitude, and the painful cares of a domestic life. The German huts,

open, on every side, to the eye of indiscretion or jealousy, were a

better safe-guard of conjugal fidelity, than the walls, the bolts, and

the eunuchs of a Persian haram. To this reason, another may be

added of a more honourable nature. The Germans treated their

women with esteem and confidence, consulted them on every occa­

sion of importance, and fondly believed, that in their breasts re­

sided a sanctity and wisdom, more than human. Some of these

interpreters of fate, such as Velleda, in the Batavian war, governed

in the name of the deity, the fiercest nations of Germany s8. The

rest of the sex, without being adored as goddesses, were respected as

the free and equal companions of soldiers; associated even by the

marriage ceremony to a life of toil, of danger, and of glory 59. In

their great invasions, the camps of the barbarians were filled with

a multitude of women, who remained firm and undaunted amidst

the sound of arms, the various forms of destruction, and the ho­

nourable wounds of their sons and husbands 6o. Fainting armies of

Germans have more than once been driven back upon the enemy,

by the generous despair of the women, who dreaded death much

less than servitude. If the day was irrecoverably lost, they well

knew

