*94 THE DECLINE AND FALL

The third

Gordian re­

mains sole

emperor.

Innocence

and virtues of

Gordian.

A. D. *4*>.

Administra-

i of Misi-

their bodies, mangled with a thousand wounds, were left exposed to

the insults or to the pity of the populace

In the space of a few months, six princes had been cut off by

the sword. Gordian, who had already received the title of Cæsar,

was the only person that occurred to the soldiers as proper to sill

the vacant throne **. They carried him to the camp, and unani­

mously saluted him Augustus and emperor. His name* was dear to

the senate and people; his tender age promised a long impunity of

military licence; and the submission of Rome and the provinces to

the choice of the Prætorian guards,. saved the republic, at the ex-

pence indeed of its freedom and dignity, from the horrors of a new

civil war in the heart of the capital +s.

As the third Gordian was only nineteen years of age at the time

of his death, the history of his life, were it known to us with

greater accuracy than it really is, would contain little more than the

account of his education, and the conduct of the ministers, who by

turns abused or guided the simplicity of his unexperienced youth.

Immediately after his accession, he fell into the hands of his mo­

ther's eunuchs, that pernicious vermin of the East, who, since the

days of Elagabalus, had infected the Roman palace. By the artful

conspiracy of these wretches, an impenetrable veil was drawn be­

tween an innocent prince and his oppressed subjects, the virtuous

disposition of Gordian was deceived* and the honours of the empire

sold without his knowledge, though in a very public manner, to

the most worthless of mankind. We are ignorant by what fortu­

nate accident the emperor escaped from this ignominious slavery,

and devolved his confidence on a minister, whose wise councils had

no object except the glory of his sovereign, and the happiness of

the people. It should seem that love and learning introduced Misi-

theus to the favour of Gordian. The young prince married the

daughter of his master of rhetoric, and promoted his father-in-law

