3©2 THE DECLINE AND FALL

In their rear, which were more feebly or less carefully guarded; and

with incredible diligence, but by a different road, returned towards

the mountains of Italy '*. Aurelian, who considered the war as

totally extinguished, received the mortifying intelligence of the

escape of the Alemanni, and of the ravage which they already

-committed in the territory of Milan. The legions were com­  
manded to follow with as much expedition as those heavy bodies

were capable of exerting, the rapid flight of an enemy, whose in­

fantry and cavalry moved with almost-equal swiftness. A few days

afterwards the emperor himself marched to the relief of Italy, at

the head of a chosen body of auxiliaries (among whom were the

hostages and cavalry of the Vandals), and of all the Prætorian guards

who had served in the wars on the Danube

*t»d are at last As the light troops of the Alemanni had spread themselves from  
aSm? y the Alps to the Apennine, the incessant vigilance of Aurelian and

his officers was exercised in the discovery, the attack, and the pursuit

of their numerous detachments. Notwithstanding this desultory

war, three considerable battles are mentioned, in which the principal

force of both armies was obstinately engaged '*. The success was

various. In the first, fought near Placentia, the Romans received

so severe a blow, that, according to the expression of a writer ex­

tremely partial to Aurelian, the immediate dissolution of the empire

was apprehended 5S. The crafty barbarians, who had lined the

woods, suddenly attacked the legions in'the dusk of the evening,

and, as it is most probable, after the fatigue and disorder of a long

march. The fury of their charge was irresistible; but at length,

aster a dreadful slaughter, the patient firmness of the emperor rallied

his troops, and restored, in some degree, the honour of his arms.

The second battle was fought near Fano in Umbria; on the spot

which, five hundred years before, had been fatal to the brother of

Hannibal '6. Thus far the successful Germans had advanced along

-the Æmilian and Flaminian way, with a design of sacking the un-

.8 guarded

