OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

querors were distinguished from the vanquished nations, only as the

■first and most honourable order of subjects; and their increase,

however rapid, was no longer exposed to the same dangers. Yet

the wisest princes, who adopted the maxims of Augustus, guarded

with the strictest care the dignity of the Roman name, and diffused

the freedom of the city with a prudent liberality ts.

Till the privileges of Romans had been progressively extended Italy«

to all the inhabitants of the empire, an important distinction was

preserved between Italy and the provinces. The former was es­

teemed the centre of public unity, and the firm basis of the con­

stitution. Italy claimed the birth, or at least the residence, of the

emperors and the senate **. The estates of the Italians were exempt

from taxes, their persons from the arbitrary jurisdiction of gover­

nors. Their cities, formed after the perfect model of the capital,

were intrusted, under the immediate eye of the supreme power,

with the execution of the laws. From the foot of the Alps to the

extremity of Calabria, all the natives of Italy were born citizens of

Rome. Their partial distinctions were obliterated, and they in­

sensibly coalesced into one great nation, united by language, man­

ners, and civil institutions, and equal to the weight of a powerful

empire. The republic gloried in her generous policy, and was

frequently rewarded by the merit and services of her adopted sons.

Had she always confined the distinction of Romans to the an­

cient families within the walls of the city, that immortal name

would have been deprived of some of its noblest ornaments. Virgil

was a native of Mantua; Horace was inclined to doubt whether he

mould call himself an Apulian or a Lucanian; it was in Padua that

an historian was found worthy to record the majestic series of Ro­

man victories. The patriot family of the Catos emerged from

Tusculum; and the little town of Arpinum claimed the double

honour of producing Marius and Cicero, the former of whom de­

served, after ftom'uiu* and Camilhrs, to be staled the Third Founder

F 2 of

