282 THE DECLINE AND FALL

tiom

tion, by the respectful conduct which he always maintained to­

wards the son of Valerian. With the general applause of the

Romans and the consent of Gallienus, the senate conferred the

title of Augustus on the brave Palmyrenian; and seemed to intrust

him with the government of the East, which he already possessed,

in so independent a manner, that, like a private succession, he be­

queathed it to his illustrious widow Zcnobia164.

Fatal conse- The rapiJ and perpetual transitions from the cottage to the

quences of t a * o

tUese usurpa- throne, and from the throne to the grave, might have amused an

indifferent philosopher j were it possible for a philosopher to remain

indifferent amidst the general calamities of human kind. The

election of these precarious emperors, their power and their death,

were equally destructive to their subjects and adherents. The price

of their fatal elevation was instantly discharged to the troops, by an

immense donative, drawn from the bowels of the exhausted people-

However virtuous was their character, however pure their inten­

tions, they found themselves reduced to the hard necessity of support­

ing their usurpation by frequent acts of rapine and cruelty. When

they fell, they involved armies and provinces in their fall. There is

still extant a most savage mandate from Gallienus to one of his

ministers, after the suppression of Ingenuus, who had assumed the

purple in Illyricum. "It is not enough," fays that soft but in­

human prince, " that you exterminate such, as have appeared in

M arms : the chance of battle might have served me as effectually..

** The male sex of every age must be extirpated; provided that, in  
"the execution of the children and old men, you can contrive

*' means to save our reputation. Let every one die who has dropt  
u an expression, who has entertained a thought against me, against

"me, the son of Valerian, the father and brother of so many

"princes l6s. Remember that Ingenuus was made emperor: tear,

"kill, hew in pieces. I write to you with my own hand, and

«' would inspire you with my own feelings •66."' Whilst the public

4 forces

