OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Z&3

filled up their numbers, by insisting into the public service, the

stoutest and most willing of the Plebeians. The Alemanni, asto­

nished with the sudden appearance of an army more numerous than

their own, retired into Germany, laden with spoil; and their retreat

was esteemed as a victory by the unwarlike Romans 39.

When Gallienus received the intelligence that his capital was de- The senators

. , excluded by

livered from the barbarians, he was much less delighted, than alarmed,
Gallienus

with the courage of the senate, since it might one day prompt them tury
service,

to rescue the republic from domestic tyranny, as well as from foreign

invasion. His timid ingratitude was published to his subjects, in

an edict which prohibited the senators from exercising any military

employment, and even from approaching the camps of the legions.

But his fears were groundless. The rich and luxurious nobles>

sinking into their natural character, accepted, as a favour, this dis­

graceful exemption from military service; and as long as they were

indulged in the enjoyment of their baths, their theatres, and their

villas; they cheerfully resigned the more dangerous cares of em­

pire, to the rough hands of peasants and soldiers 90."

Another invasion of the Alemanni, of a more formidable aspect, Gallienus

contracts an

but more glorious event, is mentioned by a writer of the lower em- alliance
with

c l-i the Altmannv

pire. Three hundred thousand of that warlike people are said to

have been vanquished, in a battle near Milan, by Gallienus in per­

son, at the head of only ten thousand Romans 9'. We may how­

ever, with great probability, ascribe this incredible victory, either to

the credulity of the historian, or to some exaggerated exploits of one

of the emperor's lieutenants. It was by arms of a very different

nature, that Gallienus endeavoured to protect Italy from the fury of

the .Germans. He espoused Pipa the daughter of a king of the

Marcomanni, a Suevic tribe, which was often confounded with the

Alemanni in their wars and conquests **. To the father, as the

price of his alliance, he granted an ample settlement in Pannonia.

The native charms of unpolished beauty seem to have fixed the

daughter

