THE DECLINE AND- FALL,,

service, it was sometimes indulged to the business or conveniency

Navigation, of private citizens9o. Nor was the communication of the Roman

empire less free and open by sea than it was by land. The provinces

surrounded and enclosed the Mediterranean; and Italy, in the shape

of an immense promontory, advanced into the midst of that great

lake. The coasts of Italy are, in general, destitute of safe harbours >

but human industry had corrected the deficiencies of nature; and

the artificial port of Ostia, in particular, situate at the mouth of the

Tyber, and formed by the emperor Glaudiu6, Was a useful monu­

ment of Roman greatness9'. From the port which was only

sixteen miles from the capital, a favourable breeze frequently car­

ried vessels in seven days to the columns of Hercules, and in nine or

ten to Alexandria, in Egypt L v i .'..;:! . 'j

Improvement Whatever evils either reason or declamation have imputed to

wremthe extensive empire, the power of Rome was attended with some be-

Coumriesof P^fic^ consequences to mankind j and the fame freedom of inter-

the empire, course which extended the vices, diffused likewise the
improvements,

pf social life. In die, more remote ages of antiquity, the world Was

unequally divided. The east was in the immemorial possession of

arts and luxury; whilst the west was inhabited by rude and war?

like barbarians, who -either disdained agriculture, or to whom it

was totally unknown. Under the protection of an established

government, the productions off happier climates, and the industry

of more civilized nations, were gradually introduced into the

western countries of Europe; and the natives were encouraged, by

an open and profitable commerce* to multiply the former, as well

as to improve the latter. It would be almost impossible to enu*

merate all the articles, cither of the animal or the vegetable reign,

which were successively imported into Europe, from Asia and

Egypt9'; but it will not be unworthy 'of the dignity, and much

less of the utility of an historical work,. slightly to touch on ja few

of the principal heads, i. Almost an the flowers, the herbs, and

