fi2 THE DECLINE AND FALL

favour, will have no. attachment, except to the person of their

benefactor. Cleander, the successor of Perennis, was a Phrygian

by birth j of a nation, over whose stubborn, but servile temper,

blows only could prevail M« He had been sent from his native

country to Rome, in the capacity of a slave. As a slave he en­

tered the Imperial palace, rendered himself useful to his masters

passions, and rapidly ascended to the most exalted station which a

subject could enjoy. His influence over the mind of Commodus*

was much greater than that of his predecessor; for Cleander was.

devoid of any ability or virtue which could inspire the emperor

His avarice with envy or distrust. Avarice was the reigning passion of his
soul,

ajidcrueky. ^ great principle of his administration, 'she rank of Consul,.

of Patrician, of Senator, was exposed to publk sale j and it would

have been considered as disaffection, if any one had refused to pur­

chase these empty and disgraceful honours with the greatest part of

his fortune v. In the lucrative provincial employments, the mi­

nister shared with the governor the spoils of the people. The

execution of the laws was venal and arbitrary. A wealthy crimi­

nal might obtain, not only the reversal of the sentence by which he-

was justly condemned; but might likewise inflict whatever punish*

roent he pleased on- the accuser, the witnesses, and the judge.

By these means, Cleander, in the space of three years, had ac

cumulated more wealth than had ever yet been possessed by any-

freedman '*. CotamoduSr was perfectly satisfied with the magni­

ficent presents, which the artful courtier laid at hie feet in the most

seasonable moments. To divert the public envy, Cleander, under

the emperor's name, erected baths, porticos, and places of exer­

cise, fop the use of the people He flattered himself that the

Romans, dazzled and amused by this apparent liberality, would

be less affected by the bloody scenes which, were daily exhibited;

that they would forget the death of Byrrhus, a senator on whose su­

perior merit, the late emperor had bestowed one of his daughters ;.

2 and

