OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

cian, were guilty of the same crime, the knowledge of his original

obscurity. For this crime many were put to death ; and by the exe­

cution of several of his benefactors, Maximin published, in charac­

ters of blood, the indelible history of his baseness and ingratitude9.

The dark and sanguinary soul of the tyrant, was open to every

suspicion against those among his subjects who were the most dis­

tinguished by their birth or merit. Whenever Tie was alarmed with

the sound of treason, his cruelty was unbounded and unrelenting.

A conspiracy against his life was either discovered or imagined, and

Magnus, a consular senator, was named as the principal author of

it. Without a witness, without a trial, and without an opportunity

of defence, Magnus, with four thousand of his supposed accom­

plices, were put to death; Italy and the whole empire were infested

with innumerable spies and informers. On the slightest accusation,

the first of the Roman nobles, who had governed provinces, com­

manded armies, and been adorned with the consular and triumphal

ornaments, were chained on the public carriages, and hurried away

to the emperor's presence. Confiscation, exile, or simple death,

were esteemed uncommon instances of his lenity. Some of the un­

fortunate sufferers he ordered to be sewed up in the hides of slaugh­

tered animals, others to be exposed to wild beasts, others again to

be beaten to death with clubs. During the three years of his reign,

he disdained to visit either Rome or Italy. His camp, occasionally

removed from the banks of the Rhine to those of the Danube, was

the feat of his stern despotism, which trampled on every principle

of law and justice, and was supported by the avowed power of the

sword. No man of noble birth, elegant accomplishments, or know­

ledge of civil business, was suffered near his person; and the court

of a Roman emperor revived the idea of those ancient chiefs of

slaves and gladiators, whose savage power had left a deep impression

of terror and detestation 'V

Vol. I. A a As

