386 THE DECLINE AND FALL

resided at Rome, that assembly might be oppressed, but it could scarcely

be neglected. The successors of Augustus exercised the power of dic­

tating whatever laws their wisdom or caprice might suggest; but those

laws were ratified by the sanction of the senate. The model of an­

cient freedom was preserved in its deliberations and decrees; and wife

princes, who respected the prejudices of the Roman people, were in

some measure obliged to assume the language and behaviour suitable to

the general and first magistrate of the republic. In the armies and in

the provinces, they displayed the dignity of monarchs; and when

they fixed their residence at a distance from the capital, they for ever

laid aside the dissimulation which Augustus had recommended to his

successors. In the exercise of the legislative as well as of the executive

power, the sovereign advised with his ministers, instead of consulting

the great council of the nation. The name of the senate was men­

tioned with honour till the last period of the empire; the vanity of

its members was still flattered with honorary distinction'6, but the

assembly, which had so long been the source, and so long the instru­

ment of power, was respectfully suffered to sink into oblivion.

The senate of Rome, losing all connexion with the imperial court

and the actual constitution, was left a venerable but useless monument

of antiquity on the Capitoline hill.

Civil magi- When the Roman princes had lost sight of the senate and of their

aside!'la d ancient capital, they, easily forgot the origin and nature of
their

legal power. The civil offices of consul, of proconsul, of censor,

and of tribune, by the union of which it had been formed, betrayed

to the people its republican extraction. Those modest titles were

laid aside 97; and if they still distinguished their high station by the

appellation of Emperor, or Imperator, that word was understood

in a new and more dignified fense, and no longer denoted the gene­

ral of the Roman armies, but the sovereign of the Roman world.

imperiaHig- The name of Emperor, which was at first of a military nature, was

titles. associated with another of a more servile kind. The epithet of

4 Dominos,

