THE PECLINE AND FALL

and the two

Antonines.

almost a perpetual journey; and as he possessed the various talents

of the soldier, the. statesman, and the scholar, he gratified his cu­

riosity in the discharge of his duty. Careless of the difference of

seasons and of climates, he marched on foot, and bare-headed, over

the snows of Caledonia, and the sultry plains of the Upper Egypt;

nor was there a province of the empire, which, in the course of his

reign, was not honoured with the presence of the monarch,s.

But the tranquil life of Antoninus Pius was spent in the bosom of

Italy; and, during the twenty-three years that he directed the public

administration, the longest journies of that amiable prince, were

no more than from his palace in Rome> to the retirement of his

Lanuvian Villal5.

ImalmT Nowithstanding this difference in their personal conduct, the

general system of Augustus was equally adopted and uniformly

pursued by Hadrian and by the two Antonines. "They persisted in

the design of maintaining the dignity of the empire, without at­

tempting to enlarge its limits. By every honourable expedient they

invited the friendship of the barbarians; and endeavoured to

convince mankind, that the Roman power, raised above the tempta­

tion of conquest, was actuated only by the love of order and justice.

During a long period of forty-three years their virtuous labours

were crowned with success; and if we except a few flight hostili­

ties that served to exercise the legions of the frontier, the reigns of

Hadrian and Antoninus Pius offer the fair prospect of universal

peace 11. The Roman name was revered among the most re­

mote nations of the earth. The fiercest barbarians frequently sub­

mitted their differences to the arbitration of the emperor, and we

are informed by a cotemporary historian, that he had seen am­

bassadors who were refused the honour which they came to solicit,

of being admitted into the rank of subjectsl8.

Defensive The terror of the Roman arms added weight and dignity to the

MsAwoni!'" moderation of the emperors. They preserved peace by a constant

nus* - preparation

