OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

by the clamorous return of the murderers, bearing on a lance the

head of Pertinax. T hough history has accustomed us to .observe

every principle and every passion yield to the imperious dictates of

ambition, it is scarcely credible that, in these- moments o,f horrot^

Sulpicianus should have aspired to ascend,a throne streaming with,

the blood of so near a relation, and so excellent a prince. He had

already begun to use the only, effectual argument, and to treat for

the Imperial dignity?; but the. more pr-udent of the Prætorians, ap(^t

prehensive thatj in this private contract, they should not obtain a

just price for so valuable a commodity, ran out upon the ramparts;

and, with a loud voice, proclaimed that the Roman world was to

be disposed of-to the best bidder by public .auction . ' . .

, This infamous offer, the most insolent excess of military
licence,.Itii'purchased

diffused a universal grief* shame, and indignation throughout the A. D. 193.

cjty. It reached at length the ears of Didius Julianus, a wealthy March28th-

senator, who, regardless of the public calamities, was indulging him-r

self in the luxury of the tables. : His wife and his daughter, his,'

freedmen and his parasites, easily convinced him that he deserved

the throne, and earnestly conjured him to embrace so fortunate

an opportunity. The vain old man hastened to the Prætorian camp,

where Sulpicianus was still in treaty with the guards; and began to,

bid against him from the foot of the rampart. The unworthy ne-

gociation was transacted by faithful emissaries, who passed alter­

nately from one candidate to. the other, and acquainted each of them,,

with the offers of his rival. Sulpicianus had already promised a

donative of five thousand drachms (above one hundred and sixty

pounds) to each soldier; when Julian, eager for the prize, rose' at

once to the sum of six thousand two hundred and fifty drachms, or

upwards of two hundred pounds sterling. The gates of the camp

were instantly thrown open to the purchaser; he was declared em­

peror, and received an oath of allegiance from the soldiers, who re­

tained

