OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2

Roman provinces, the Rhine and the Danube, were frequently frozen

over, and capable of supporting the most enormous weights. The

barbarians, who often chose that severe season for their inroads,

transported, without apprehension or danger, their numerous

armies, their cavalry, and their heavy waggons, over a vast and

solid bridge of ice '. Modern ages have not presented an instance of

a like phænomenon. 2. The rein deer, that useful animal, from

whom the savage of the North derives the best comforts of his

dreary life, is of a constitution that supports, and even requires,

the most intense cold. He is found on the rock of Spitzberg, within

ten degrees of the pole; he seems to delight in the snows of Lapland

and Siberia; but at present he cannot subsist, much less multiply,

in any country, to the South of the Baltic +. In the time of Cæsar,

the rein deer, as well as the elk, and the wild bull, was a native

of the Hercynian forest, which then overshadowed a great part

of Germany and Poland $. The modern improvements sufficiently

explain the causes of the dimunition of the cold. These immense

woods have been gradually cleared, which intercepted from the

earth the rays of the fun 6. The morasses have been drained, and,

in proportion as the foil has been cultivated, the air has become

more temperate. Canada, at this day, is an exact picture of an­

cient Germany. Although situated in the same parallel with the

finest provinces of France and England, that country experiences

the most rigorous cold. The rein deer are very numerous, the

ground is covered with deep and lasting snow, and the great river

of St. Lawrence is regularly frozen, in a season, when the waters

of the Seine and the Thames are perfectly free from ice 7.

It is difficult to ascertain, and easy to exaggerate, the influence of Its
effects on

the climate of ancient Germany over the minds and bodies of the

natives. Many writers have supposed, and most have allowed,

though, as it should seem, without any adequate proof, that the

rigorous cold of the North was favourable to long life and genera-

F f 2 tive

