OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 87

perious and unsociable nature, since the pride of one man requires

the submission of the multitude. In the tumult of civil discord,

the laws of society lose their force, and their place is seldom sup*

plied by those of humanity. The ardor of contention, the pride of

victory, the despair of success, the memory of past injuries, and

the fear of future dangers, all contribute to inflame the mind, and to

silence the voice of pity. From such motives almost every page of

history has been stained with civil blood; but these motives will

not account for the unprovoked cruelties of Commodus, who had

nothing to wish, and every thing to enjoy. The beloved son of a. D. 18a.

Marcus succeeded to his father, amidst the acclamations of the se­

nate and armies 6, and when he ascended the throne, the happy

youth saw round him neither competitor to remove, nor enemies to

punish. In this calm elevated station, it was surely natural, that he

should prefer the love of mankind to their detestation, the mild

glories of his five predecessors, to the ignominious fate of Nero and

Domitian.

Yet Commodus was not, as he has been represented, a tiger born character of

with an insatiate thirst of human blood, and capable, from his Commodau-

infancy, of the most, inhuman actions 7. Nature had formed him

of a weak, rather than a wicked disposition. His simplicity and

timidity rendered him the slave of his attendants, who gradually

corrupted his mind. His cruelty, which at first obeyed the dictates

of others, degenerated into habit, and at length became the ruling

passion of the foul8.

Upon the death of his father, Commodus found himself em- He returns tan*

barrassed with the command.of a great army, and the conduct of a Romf''

difficult war9. The servile and profligate youth's whom Marcus had

banished, soon regained their station and influence about the new

emperor. They exaggerated the hardships and dangers of a cam­

paign in the wild countries beyond the Danube; and they assured

the indolent prince, that the terror of his name and the arms of his

6 lieutenants*.

