34^ THE DECLINE AND FALL

His victories

and extraor­

dinary death.

A.D. 283.

December 25,

Persians expressed their desire of being introduced to the presence of the

Roman emperor. They were at last conducted to a soldier, who was

seated on the grass. A piece of stale bacon and a few old pease com­

posed his supper. A coarse woollen garment of purple was the only

circumstance that announced his dignity. The conference was con­

ducted with the fame disregard of courtly elegance. Carus, taking off

a cap which he wore to conceal his baldness, assured the ambassadors,

that, unless their master acknowledged the superiority of Rome, he

would speedily render Persia as naked of trees, as his own head was

destitute of hair 11. Notwithstanding some traces of art and prepa­

ration, we may discover in this scene the manners of Carus, and the

severe simplicity which the martial princes, who succeeded Gallienus,

had already restored in the Roman camps. The ministers of the great

king trembled and retired.

The threats of Carus were not without effect. He ravaged

Mesopotamia, cut in pieces whatever opposed his passage, made

himself master of the great cities of Seleucia and Ctesiphon (which

seem to have surrendered without resistance), and carried his vic­

torious arms beyond the Tigris 74. He had seized the favourable

moment for an invasion. The Persian councils were distracted by

domestic factions, and the greater part of their forces were detained on

the frontiers of India. Rome and the East received with transport

the news of such important advantages. Flattery and hope painted,

in the most lively colours, the fall of Persia, the conquest of Arabia

the submission of Egypt, and a lasting deliverance from the inroads

of the Scythian nations 7S. But the reign of Carus was destined to

expose the vanity of predictions. They were scarcely uttered

before they were contradicted by his death; an event attended with

such ambiguous circumstances, that it may best be related in a

letter from his own secretary to the praefect of the city. "Carus,"

fays he, "our dearest emperor, was confined by sickness to his bed,

"when a furious tempest arose in the camp. The darkness which

overspread

«<

♦

