THE DECLINE AND FALL

crated by the reverence of succeeding generations. Their secret

gloom, the imagined residence of an invisible power, by presenting

no distinct object of fear or worship, impressed the mind with a still

deeper sense of religious horror6t; and the priests, rude and illiterate

ajs they were, had been taught by experience, the use of every

ajtifice that could preserve and fortify impressions so well suited to

their own interest.

Its effeas in The fame ignorance, which renders barbarians incapable of con-

peace,

cei ving or embracing the useful restraints of laws, exposes them naked

and unarmed to the blind terrors of superstition. The German priests,

improving this favourable temper cf their countrymen, had assumed

a jurisdiction, even in temporal concerns, which the magistrate

could not venture to exercise; and the haughty warrior patiently

submitted to the lasli of correction, when it was inflicted, not by

any human power, but by the immediate order of the god of

war 6+. The defects of civil policy were sometimes supplied by

the interposition of ecclesiastical authority. The latter was con­

stantly exerted to maintain silence and decency in the popular

assemblies; and was sometimes extended to a more enlarged concern

for the national welfare. A solemn procession was occasionally ce­

lebrated in the present countries of Mecklenburg and Pomerania.

The unknown symbol of the Earth, covered with a thick veil, was

placed on a carriage drawn by cows; and in this manner, the

goddess, whose common residence was in the ifle of Rugen, visited

ieveral adjacent tribes of her worshippers. During her progress, the

found of war was hushed, quarrels were suspended, arms laid aside,

and the restless Germans had an opportunity of tasting the blessings

of peace and harmony 6s. The truce of God, so often and so in­

effectually proclaimed by the clergy of the eleventh century, was an

obvious imitation of this ancient custom 66.

in war. But the influence of religion was far more powerful to inflame,

than to moderate, the fierce passions of the Germans. Interest and

fanaticism

5

