OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

coast lest destitute by nature of secure harbours '°9. The city was

large and populous; a double enclosure of walls seemed to defy the

fury of the Goths, and the usual garrison had been strengthened by a

reinforcement of ten thousand men. But there are not any advan­

tages capable of supplying the absence of discipline and vigilance.

The numerous garrison of Trebizond, dissolved in riot and luxury,

disdained to guard their impregnable fortifications. The Goths soon

discovered the supine negligence of the besieged, erected a lofty pile

of fascines, ascended the walls, in the silence of the night, and

entered the defenceless city, sword in hand. A general massacre of

the people ensued, whilst the affrighted soldiers escaped through the

opposite gates of the town. The most holy temples, and the most

splendid edifices, were involved in a common destruction. The

booty that fell into the hands of the Goths was immense: the wealth

of the adjacent countries had been deposited in Trebizond, as in a

secure place of refuge. The number of captives was incredible, as

the victorious barbarians ranged without opposition through the

extensive province of Pontus "°. The rich spoils of Trebizond

filled a great fleet of ships that had been found in the port. The

robust youth of the sea coast were chained to the oar; and the

Goths, satisfied with the success of their first naval expedition,

returned in triumph to their new establishments in the kingdom of

Bosphorus "*. . . , ',

'The second expedition of the Goths was undertaken with Second e

dicion of

greater powers of men and ships, but they steered a different Goths.

course, and disdaining the exhausted provinces of Pontus, followed

the western coast of the Euxine, passed before the wide mouths of

the Borysthenes, the Niester, and the Danube, and increasing their

fleet by the capture of a great number of fishing barks, they ap­

proached the narrow out-let through which the Euxine sea pours its

waters into the Mediterranean, and divides the continents of Europe

and Asia. The garrison of Chalcedon was encamped near the

- ..M m 2 temple

