OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2$

pellation, is a province of the Venetian state, and the feat of the

little republic of Ragusa. The inland parts have assumed the Scia-

vonian names of Bosnia and Croatia; the latter obeys an Austrian

governor, the former a Turkisti pasha; but the whole country is

still infested by tribes of barbarians, whose savage independence

describes the doubtful limit of the Christian and Mahometan

power '*.

After the Danube had received the waters of the Teyss and the ^æfiaand;

Save, it acquired, at least, among the Greeks, the name of Ister '\

It formerly divided Mæsia and Dacia, the latter of which, as we

have already seen, was a conquest of Trajan, and the only pro­

vince beyond the river. If we inquire into the present state of those

countries, we shall find that, on the left hand of the Danube,

Temeswar and Transylvania are annexed, after many revolutions,

to the crown of Hungary; whilst the principalities of Moldavia and

Walachia acknowledge the supremacy of the Ottoman Porte. On

the right hand of the Danube, Mæsia, which, during the middle

ages, was broken into the barbarian kingdoms of Servia and Bul­

garia, is again united in Turkish flavery.

The appellation of Roumelia, which is still bestowed by the Thrace, Ma-

Turks on the extensive countries of Thrace, Macedonia, and Greece* «doniaand

'Greece.

preserves the memory of their ancient state under the Roman

empire. In the time of the Antonines, the martial Thrace,

from the mountains of Haemus and Rhodope, to the Bosphorus and

the Hellespont, had assumed the form of a province. Notwith­

standing the change of masters and of religion, the new city of.

Rome, which Gonstantine founded on the banks of the Bosphorus,

has ever since remained the capital of a great monarchy. The

Kingdom of Macedonia, that, under the reign of Alexander, had.

given laws to Asia, derived more solid advantages from the policy

of the two Philips; and with its dependencies of Epirus aod;

Theffaly, extended from the Ægean to the Ionian sea. Whem

1 war

