OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. IOI

fate of his brother-in-law, and lamented still more that he had de­

served it *7.

These effusions of impotent raere against a dead emperor, whom the Legal
juris-

r o o * diction of th

senate had flattered when alive with the most abject servility, betrayed
senate over

/-../- 11 • n • i r the emperor*

a spirit of revenge, more agreeable to justice than to generouty..

The legality of these decrees was however supported by the prin­

ciples of the Imperial constitution. To censure, to depose, or to

punisli with death, the first magistrate of the republic, who had

abused his delegated trust, was the ancient and undoubted preroga­

tive of the Roman senate but that feeble assembly was obliged to

content itself with inflicting on a fallen tyrant that public justice^

from which, during his life and reign, he had been shielded by the

strong arm of military despotism.

Pertinax found a nobler way of condemning his predecessor's virtues of

memory; by the contrast of his own virtues, with the vices of Pertinax-

Commodus. On the day of his accession, he resigned over to his

wife and son his whole private fortune; that they might have no

pretence to solicit favours at the expence of the state. He refused

to flatter the vanity of the former with the title of Augusta; or to

corrupt the inexperienced youth of the latter by the rank of Cæsar.

Accurately distinguishing between the duties of a parent, and those

of a sovereign, he educated his son with a severe simplicity, which,

while it gave him no assured prospect of the throne, might in time

have rendered him worthy of it. In public, the behaviour of Pertinax

was grave and affable. He lived with the virtuous part of the senate

(and in a private station, he had-been acquainted with the true cha­

racter of each individual), without either pride or jealousy; con­

sidered them as friends and companions, with whom he had shared

the dangers of the tyranny, and with whom he wished to enjoy the

security of the present time. He very frequently invited them to

familiar entertainments, the frugality of which was ridiculed by

those,,

