OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. t

and that they would forgive the execution of Arrius Antoninus, the

last representative of the name and virtues of the Antonines. The

former, with more integrity than prudence, had attempted to

lay open to his brother-in-law, the true character of Oleander..

An equitable sentence pronounced by the latter, when Proconsut

of Asia, against a worthless creature of the favourite, proved fatal"

to him **.. Afeer the fall of Perennis, the terrors of Commodus

had, for a short time, assumed the appearance of a return to virtue.

He repealed the most odious of his acts, loaded his memory with

the public execration, and ascribed to the pernicious counsels of

that wicked minister, all the errors of his inexperienced youth.

But his repentance lasted only thirty days; and, under Oleander's

tyranny, the administration of Perennis was often regretted.

Pestilence and famine contributed to fill up the measure of the Sedition and

calamities of Rome15. The first could be only imputed to the ander.

just indignation of the gods; but a monopoly of corn, supported by 'D' '89'

the riches and power of the minister, was considered as the imme­

diate cause of the second. The popular discontent, after it had

long circulated in whispers, broke out in the assembled cisOtt.

The people quitted their favourite amusements, for the more deli­

cious pleasure of revenge, rushed in crowds towards a palace in the-

siiburbs, one of the emperor's retirements, and demanded, with;

angry clamoars, the head of the public enemy. Cleander, who

commanded the Praetorian guards ordered a body of cavalry to<

sally forth, and disperse the seditious multitude. The multitude

fled wkh precipitation towards the city; several were stain, and-

many more were trampled to death :. but when the cavalry entered

the streets, their pursuit was checked by a shower of stones and!

darts from the roofs and windows of the houses. The foot

guards *7, who had been long jealous of the prerogatives and in­

solence of the prætorian cavalry, embraced the party of the people.

Tb* tumult became a.regular engagement, and threatened a general;

massacre.

