574 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Mamgo, with his followers, retired to the banks of the Oxus, and

implored the protection of Sapor. The emperor of China claimed

the fugitive, and alleged the rights of sovereignty. The Persian

monarch pleaded the laws of hospitality, and with some difficulty

avoided a war, by the promise that he would banish Mamgo to the

uttermost parts of the West; a punishment, as he described it, not

less dreadful than death itself. Armenia was chosen for the place

of exile, and a large district was assigned to the Scythian horde, on

which they might feed their flocks and herds, and remove their en­

campment from one place to another, according to the different

seasons of the year. They were employed to repel the invasion of

Tiridates; but their leader, after weighing the obligations and in­

juries which he had received from the Persian monarch, resolved to

abandon his party. The Armenian prince, who was well acquainted

with the merit as well as power of Mamgo, treated him with dis­

tinguished respect; and by admitting him into his confidence, ac­

quired a brave and faithful servant, who contributed very effectually

to his restoration 6\

The Persian! For a while, fortune appeared to favour the enterprising valour
of

menia. Tiridates. He not only expelled the enemies of his family and coun­

try from the whole extent of Armenia, but in the prosecution of his

revenge he carried his arms, or at least his incursions, into the heart

of Assyria. The historian, who has preserved the name of Tiridates

from oblivion, celebrates, with a degree as national enthusiasm, his

personal prowess; and, in the true spirit of eastern romance, de­

scribes the giants and the elephants that fell beneath his invincible arm.

It is from other information that we discover the distracted state of the

Persian monarchy, to which the king of Armenia was indebted for

some part of his advantages. The throne was disputed by the am­

bition of contending brothers; and Hormuz, after exerting without

success the strength of his own party, had recourse to the dangerous

assistance of the barbarians who inhabited the banks of the Caspian

6 Sea.

