OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 30.1

that could display the greatness and discipline of Rome.. The

legions stood to their arms in well ordered ranks and awful silence.

The principal commanders, distinguished by the ensigns of their

rank, appeared on horseback on either side of the imperial throne.

Behind the throne, the consecrated images of the emperor, and his

predecessors the golden eagles, and the various titles of the

legions, engraved in letters of gold, were exalted in the air on

lofty pikes covered with silver. When Aurelian assumed his seat,

his manly grace and majestic figure 30 taught the barbarians to

revere the person as well as the purple of their conqueror. The

ambassadors fell prostrate on the ground in silence. They were

commanded to rife, and permitted to speak. By the assistance of

interpreters they extenuated their perfidy, magnified their exploits*

, expatiated' on the vicissitudes of fortune and the advantages of

peace, and, with an ill-timed confidence, demanded a large subsidy,

as the price of the alliance which they offered to the Romans.

The answer of the emperor was stern and imperious. He treated

their offer with contempt, and their demand with indignation,

reproached the barbarians, that they were as ignorant of the arts of

war as of the laws of peace, and finally dismissed them with the

choice only of submitting to his unconditioned mercy, or awaiting

the utmost severity of his resentment3'. Aurelian had resigned a

distant province to the Goths; but it was dangerous to trust or to

pardon these perfidious barbarians, whose formidable power kept

Italy itself in perpetual alarms.

Immediately after this conference, it should seem that some un- The Ale-

expected emergency required the emperor's presence in Pannonia. faty"1""'

He devolved on his lieutenants the care of finishing the destruction

of the Alemanni, either by the sword, or by the surer operation of

famine. But an active despair has often triumphed over the indo­

lent assurance of success. The barbarians, finding it impossible to

traverse the Danube and the Roman camp, broke through the posts

