OF THE ROMAN. EMPIRE. i3i

I

obtained her hand*. Julia Domna (for that was her name) deserved

all that the stars could promise her. She preserved to an advanced

age the beauties of her person \ and united to a lively imagination,

a firmness of mind, and strength of judgment, seldom bestowed on

her sex. Her amiable qualities never made any deep impression on

the dark and jealous temper of her husband; but in her son's reign,

me administered the principal, affairs of the empire, with a pru­

dence, that supported his authority ; and with a moderation, that

sometimes corrected his wild extravagancies6. Julia applied herself

to letters and philosophy, with some success, and great reputation.

She was the patroness of every art, and the friend of every man of

genius 7. -The grateful flattery of the learned has celebrated her

merit j but if we may credit the scandal of ancient history, chastity

was not the favourite virtue of the empress Julia 8. . .'

Two sons, Caracalla 9 and Geta, were the fruit of this marriage, Their two

and the destined heirs of the empire. The fond hopes of the father, Genu*"*

and of the Roman world, were soon disappointed by these vain

youths, who displayed the indolent security of hereditary princes %.

and a presumption that fortune would supply the place of merit and

application. Without any emulation of virtue or talents, they dis­

covered, almost from their infancy, a fixed and implacable antipa­

thy for each other. Their aversion, confirmed by years, and so- Their mutual,

mented by their interested favourites, broke out in childish, and «ch other-

gradually in more serious competitions ; and at length divided the

theatre, the circus, and the court, into two factions; actuated by

the hopes and fears of their respective leaders. The prudent em­

peror endeavoured, by every expedient of advice and authority, to>

allay this growing animosity. The unhappy discord of his sons

clouded all his prospects, and threatened to overturn a throne raised

with so much labour, cemented with so much blood, and guarded:

with every defence of arms and treasure. With an impartial hand,

he maintained between them an exact balance of favour, conferred;

S z on

