OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 95

rors totally devoid of taste for the pleasures of the understanding.

Nero himself excelled, or affected to excel, in the elegant arts of

music and poetry; nor should we despise his pursuits, had he not

converted the pleasing relaxation of a leisure hour into the serious

business and ambition of his life. But Commodus, from his earliest

infancy, discovered an aversion to whatever was rational or liberal,

and a fond attachment to the amusements of the populace; the

sports of the circus and amphitheatre, the combats, of gladiators*

and the hunting of wild beasts. The masters in every branch of

learning, whom Marcus provided for his son, were heard with in­

attention and disgust; whilst the Moors and Parthians, who taught

him to dart the javelin and to shoot with the bow, found a disciple

who delighted in his application, and soon equalled the most skil­

ful of his instructors, in the steadiness of the eye, and the dexterity

of the hand.

The servile crowd, whose fortune depended on their master's Hunting of

vices, applauded these ignoble pursuits. The perfidious voice of .Wlldbeasts>

flattery reminded him, that by exploits of the fame nature, by the

defeat of the Nemæan lion, and the slaughter of the wild boar of

Erymanthus, the Grecian Hercules had acquired a place among the

gods, and an immortal memory among men. They only forgot

to observe, that in the first ages of society, when the fiercer animals

Often dispute with man the possession of an unsettled country, a

successful war against those savages, is one of the most innocent

and beneficial labours of heroism. In the civilized state of the Ro­

man empire, the wild beasts had long since retired from the face of

men, and the neighbourhood of populous cities. To surprise them

in their solitary haunts, and to transport them, to Rome, that they

might be slain in pomp by the hand of an emperor, was an. enter­

prise equally ridiculous for the prince, and oppressive for the peo­

ple '°. Ignorant of these distinctions, Commodus eagerly embraced

the glorious resemblance, and styled himself (as we still read on his-

medals")

