OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

sure of the most abject and dangerous superstition. The Magi, or

sacerdotal order, were extremely numerous, since, as we have already

seen, fourscore thou&nd of them attended a general council. Their

forces were multiplied by discipline. A regular hierarchy was

diffused through all the provinces of Persia; and the Archimagus,

who resided at Balch, was respected as the visible head of the

church, and the lawful successor of Zoroaster '7. The property of

the Magi was very considerable. Besides the lese invidious posses­

sion of a large tract of the most fertile lands of Media ,s, they levied

a general tax on the fortunes and the industry of the Persians

"Though your good works," fays the interested prophet, "exceed

"in number the leaves of the trees, the drops of rain, the stars in

** the heaven, or the sands on the sea shore, they will all be un-  
** profitable to you, unless they are accepted by the deftour, or priest.  
"To obtain the acceptation of this guide to salvation, you must

"faithfully pay him tythes of all you possess, of your goods, of

** your lands, and of your money. If the destour be satisfied, your  
.'* foul will escape hell tortures; you will secure praise in this world,,

41 and happiness in the next. For the destours are the teachers of

« religion ; they know all things, and they deliver all men *°."

These convenient maxims of reverence and implicit faith were

doubtless imprinted with care on the tender minds of youth; since

the Magi were the masters of education in Persia, and to their hands-

the children even of the royal family were intrusted The Persian'

priests, who were of a speculative genius, preserved and investigated i

the secrets of Oriental philosophy; and acquired, either by supe­

rior knowledge or superior art, the Teputation of being well versed i

in feme occult sciences, which have derived their appellation from

the Magi**. Those of more active dispositions, mingled with the

world in courts and cities; and it is observed, that the administra­

tion of Artaxerxes was in a great measure directed by the counsels

of.

