9^ THE DECLINE AND FALL

Commodus

display! his

(kill in the

amphithea­

tre.

medals'1) the Roman Hercules. The club and the lion's hide

were placed by the side of the throne, amongst the ensigns of so­

vereignty; and statues were erected, in which Commodus was

represented in the character, and with the attributes of the God,

whose valour and dexterity he endeavoured to emulate in the daily

course of his ferocious amusements

Elated with these praises, which gradually extinguished the in­

nate sense of shame, Commodus resolved to exhibit, before the eyes

of the Roman people, those exercises, which till then he had decently

confined within the walls of his palace, and to the presence of a

few favourites. On the appointed day, the various motives of

flattery, fear, and curiosity, attracted to the amphitheatre an innu­

merable multitude of spectators; and some degree of applause was

deservedly bestowed on the uncommon skill of the Imperial per­

former. Whether he aimed at the head or heart of the animal, the

wound was alike certain and mortal. With arrows, whose point

was shaped into the form of a crescent, Commodus often inter­

cepted the rapid career, and cut asunder the long bony neck of the

ostrichA panther was let loose; and the archer waited till he

had leaped upon a trembling malefactor. In the same instant the

lhaft flew, the beast dropt dead, and the man remained unhurt.

The dens of the amphitheatre disgorged at once a hundred lions;

a hundred darts from the unerring hand of Commodus laid them

dead as they ran raging round the Arena. Neither the huge bulk

of the elephant, nor the scaly hide of the rhinoceros, could defend

them from his stroke. Æthiopia and India yielded their most ex­

traordinary productions; and several animals were slain in the am­

phitheatre, which had been seen only in the representations of art,

or perhaps of fancy J+. In all these exhibitions, the securest pre­

cautions were used to protect the person of the Roman Hercules

from the desperate spring of any savage; who might possibly disre­

gard the dignity of the emperor, and the sanctity of the god

But

