OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. J27

Severus, that from all the legions of the frontiers, the soldiers most

distinguished for strength, valour, and fidelity, should be occasionally

draughted and promoted, as an honour and reward, into the more

eligible service of the guards 67. By this new institution, the Italian

youth were diverted from the exercise of arms, and the capital was

terrified by the strange aspect and manners of a multitude of bar­

barians. But Severus flattered himself, that the legions would con­

sider the chosen Prætorians as the representatives of the whole mili­

tary order; and that the present aid of fifty thousand men, superior

in arms and appointments to any force that could be brought into

the field against them, would for ever crush the hopes of rebellion,

and secure the empire to himself and his posterity.

The command of these favoured and formidable troops soon be- The office of

came the first office of the empire. As the government degene- præfect.

rated into military despotism, the Prætorian præfect, who in his origin

had been a simple captain of the guards, was placed, not only at the

head of the army, but of the finances, and even of the law. In

every department of administration, he represented the person,

and exercised the authority, of the emperor. The first præfect who

enjoyed and abused this immense power was Plautianus, the favou­

rite minister of Severus. His reign lasted above ten years, till the

marriage of his daughter with the eldest son of the emperor, which

seemed to assure his fortune, proved the occasion of his ruin68. The

animosities of the palace, by irritating the ambition and alarming

the fears of Plautianus, threatened to produce a revolution, and

obliged the emperor, who still loved him, to consent with reluctance

to his death 69. After the fall of Plautianus, an eminent lawyer,

the celebrated Papinian, was appointed to execute the motley office

of Prætorian præfect.

Till the reign of Severus, the virtue and even the good fense of The scnate

the emperors had been distinguished by their zeal or affected reve- oppressed
by

military d«s-

rence for the senate, and by a tender regard to the nice frame of civil
potism.

policy

