OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

ductive of sentiments of veneration. Like the modesty affected

by Augustus, the state maintained by Diocletian was a thea­

trical representation; but it must be confessed, that of the two

comedies, the former was of a much more liberal and manly

character than the latter. It was the aim of the one to disguise,

and the object of the other to display, the unbounded power which

the emperors possessed over the Roman world.

Ostentation was the first principle of the new system instituted by New so™ of

Diocletian. The second was division. He divided the empire, the tion>two

. ... Augusti, and

provinces, and every branch of the civil as well as military admi- two Cæsars,

nistration. He multiplied the wheels of the machine of govern­

ment, and rendered its operations less rapid but more secure.

Whatever advantages, and whatever defects might attend these

innovations, they must be ascribed in a very great degree to the

first inventor; but as the new frame of policy was gradually

improved and completed by succeeding princes, it will be more

satisfactory to delay the consideration of it till the season of its full

maturity and perfection ,C5. Reserving, therefore, for the reign of

Constantine a more exact picture of the new empire, we shall con-

'tent ourselves with describing the principal and decisive outline, as-

it was traced by the hand of Diocletian. He had associated three

colleagues in the exercise of the supreme power; and as he was

convinced that the abilities of a single man were inadequate to the

public defence, he considered the joint administration of four princes

not as a temporary expedient, but as a fundamental law of the con­

stitution. It was his intention, that the two elder princes should

be distinguished by the use of the diadem, and the title of Augusti i

that, as affection or esteem might direct their choice, they should

regularly call to their assistance two subordinate colleagues; and

that the Cœfors, rising in their turn to the first rank, should supply

an uninterrupted succession' of emperors. The empire wc:s divided

into four parts. The East and Italy were the most honourable, the

Danube

