+8o THE DECLINE AND FALL

•of baptism, the guilt of their past conduct, for which the temples

of the gods refused to grant them any expiation. But this reproach,

when it is cleared from misrepresentation, contributes as much to

the honour as it did to the increase of the church 8|. The friends

of Christianity may acknowledge without a blush, that many of

the -most eminent saints had been before their baptism the most

abandoned of sinners. Those persons, who in the world had

followed, though in an imperfect manner, the dictates of bene­

volence and propriety, derived such a calm satisfaction from the

opinion of their own rectitude, as rendered them much less sus­

ceptible of the sudden emotions of shame, of grief, and of terror,

which have given birth to so many wonderful conversions. After

the example of their Divine Master, the missionaries of the gospel

addressed themselves to men, and especially to women oppressed by

the consciousness, and very often by the effects, of their vices. As

they emerged from sin and superstition to the glorious hope of

immortality, they resolved to devote themselves to a life, not only

of virtue, but of penitence. The desire of perfection became the

ruling passion of their foul; and, it is well known, that while reason

embraces a cold mediocrity, our passions hurry us, with rapid-

violence, over the space which lies between the most opposite

extremes.

Care of their When the new converts had been enrolled in the number of the

faithful, and were admitted to the sacraments of the church, they

found themselves restrained from relapsing into their past disorders

by another consideration of a less spiritual, but of a very innocent

and respectable nature. Any particular society that has departed

from the great body of the nation, or the religion to which it

belonged, immediately becomes the object of universal as well as

invidious observation. In proportion to the smallness of its num­

bers, the character of the society may be affected by the virtues

and vices of the persons who compose it; and every member is en-

7 gage^

■f.'puution.

