OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 279

in every province of the empire, against the son of Valerian. It

was probably some ingenious fancy, of comparing the thirty

tyrants of Rome with the thirty tyrants of Athens, that induced the

writers of the Augustan history, to select that celebrated number

which has been gradually received into a popular appellation'56.

But in every light the parallel is idle and defective. What resem­

blance can we discover between a council of thirty persons, the

united oppressors of a single city, and an uncertain list of independ­

ent rivals, who rose and fell in irregular succession, through the ex­

tent of a vast empire? Nor can the number of thirty be completed

unless we include in the account the women and children, who were

honoured with the imperial title. The reign of Gallienus, distracted Their
real

"... , "number was

as it was, produced only nineteen pretenders to the throne; Cy" 00 m.<ve
than-'

riades, Macrianus, Balista, Odenathus, and Zenobia in the east; nmeIeen*

in Gaul, and the western provinces, Postumus, Lollianus, Victo-

rinus and his mother Victoria, Marius, and Tetricus. In Illyricum

and the confines of the Danube, Ingenuus, Regillianus and Au-

reolus; in Pontus ,S7, Saturninus; in Isauria, Trebellianus; Piso

in Thessaly; Valens in Achaia; Æmilianus in Egypt; and Celsus

in Africa. To illustrate the obscure monuments of the life and

death of each individual, would prove a laborious task, alike barren

of instruction and of amusement. We may content ourselves with

investigating some general characters, that most strongly mark the

condition of the times, and the manners of the men, their preten­

sions, their motives, their fate, and the destructive consequences of

their usurpation ,j8.

It is sufficiently known, that the odious appellation of Tyrant was
Characterand

often employed by the ancients to express the illegal seizure of tyrant".''

supreme power, without any reference to the abuse of it. Several

of the pretenders, who raised the standard of rebellion against the

emperor Gallienus, were shining models of virtue, and almost all

possessed a considerable share of vigour and ability. Their merjt

had

