OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

a prisoner, and his astonished troops laid down their arms'". In

such a momeht of triumph, the pride and policy of Sapor prompted

him to fill the vacant throne with a successor entirely dependent on

his pleasure. Cyriadea, an obscure fugitive of Antioch, stained

with every vice, was chosen to diflionour the Roman purple; and

the will of the Persian victor could not fail of being ratified by the

acclamations, however reluctant, of the captive army ,4°.

The imperial Have was eager to secure the favour of his master, S-porover-

runs Syria,

by an act of treason to his native country. He conducted Sapor Ciacia, and

over the Euphrates, and by the way of Chalcis to the metropolis of PPadoC1*'

the East. So rapid were the motions of the Persian cavalry, that, if

We may credit a Very judicious historian ,4', the city of Antioch was

surprised when the idle multitude was fondly gazing on the amuse­

ments of the theatre. The splendid buildings of Antioch, private

as well as public, were either pillaged or destroyed; and the nume­

rous inhabitants were put to the sword, or led away into captivity

The tide of devastation was stopped for a moment by the resolution of

the high priest of Emesa. Arrayed in his sacerdotal robes, he ap- ■

peared at the head of a great body of fanatic peasants, armed only

with flings, and defended his god and his property from the sacri­

legious hands of the followers of Zoroaster l+J. But the ruin of

Tarsus, and of many other cities, furnilh a melancholy proof

that, except in this singular instance, the conquest of Syria and

Cilida scarcely interrupted the progress of the Persian arms. The

advantages of the narrow passes of mount Taurus were abandoned,

in which an invader, whose principal force consisted in his cavalry,

would have been engaged in a very unequal combat: and Sapor wa6

permitted to form the siege ofCæsarea, the capital of Cappadocia; a

city, though of the second rank, which was supposed to contain

four hundred thousand inhabitants. Demosthenes commanded in

the place, not so much by the commission of the emperor, as in the

voluntary defence of his country. For a long time he deferred its

N n 2 fate;

