OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 149

brated with every circumstance of cost and solemnity. The richest

wines, the most extraordinary victims, and the rarest aromatics, were

profusely consumed on his altar. Around the altar a chorus of

Syrian damsels performed their lascivious dances to the found of bar­

barian music, whilst the gravest personages of the state and army,

clothed in long Phœnician tunics, officiated in the meanest functions,

with affected zeal and secret indignation

To this temple, as to the common center of religious worship,

the Imperial fanatic attempted to remove the Ancilia, the Palladium 54,

and all the sacred pledges of the faith of Numa. A crowd of in­

ferior deities attended in various stations the majesty of the god of

Emefa; but his court was still imperfect, till a female of distin­

guished rank was admitted to his bed. Pallas had been first chosen

for his consort; but as it was dreaded that her warlike terrors might

affright the soft delicacy of a Syrian deity, the Moon, adored by

the Africans under the name of Astarte, was deemed a more suitable

companion for the Sun. Her image, with the rich offerings of her

temple as a marriage portion, was transported with solemn pomp from

Carthage to Rome, and the day of these mystic nuptials was a gene­

ral festival in the capital and throughout the empire JJ.

A rational voluptuary adheres with invariable respect to the tern- Hs
profligate

perate dictates of nature, and improves the gratifications of fense by
natekxury.,

social intercourse, endearing connexions, and the soft colouring of

taste and the imagination. But Elagabalus, (I speak of the emperor

of that name) corrupted by his youth, his country, and his fortune,

abandoned himself to the grossest pleasures with ungoverned fury,

and soon found disgust and satiety in the midst of his enjoyments.

The inflammatory powers of art were summoned to his aid: the

confused multitude of women, of wines, and of dishes, and the

studied variety of attitudes and fauces, served to revive his languid

appetites. New terms and new inventions in these sciences, the

only ones cultivated and patronised by the monarch sS, signalized his

