38o THE DECLINE AND FALL

in Media. The secret motive of Narses in this delay, had been to

collect such a military force, as might enable him, though sincerely

desirous of peace, to negociate with the greater weight and

dignity. Three persons only assisted at this important conference,

the minister Apharban, the præfect of the guards, and an officer

who had commanded on the Armenian frontier 76. The first

condition proposed by the ambassador, is not at present of a very

intelligible nature; that the city of Nisibis might be established

for the place of mutual exchange, of,^as we should formerly have

termed it, for the staple of trade between the two empires. There

is no difficulty in conceiving the intention of the Roman princes,

to improve their revenue by some restraints upon commerce; but

as Nisibis was situated within their own dominions, and as they were

masters both of the imports and exports, it mould seem, that

such restraints were the objects of an internal law rather than of a

foreign treaty. To render them more effectual, some stipulations

were probably required on the fide of the king of Persia, which

appeared so very repugnant either to his interest or to his dignity, that

Narses could not be persuaded to subscribe them. As this was the

only article to which he refused his consent, it was no longer in­

sisted on; and the emperors either suffered the trade to flow in

its natural channels, or contented themselves with such restrictions,

as it depended on their own authority to establish.

ni articles of As soon as this difficulty was removed, a solemn peace was

the treaty. t 1

concluded and ratified between the two nations. The conditions of*

a treaty so glorious to the empire, and so necessary to Persia,,

may deserve a more peculiar attention, as the history of Rome

presents very few transactions of a si milar nature; most of her wars,

having either been terminated by absolute conquest, or waged against

The Aboras barbarians ignorant of the use of letters. I. The Aboras, or as it

limit between is called by Xenophon, the Araxes, was fixed as the boundary

the empires, between the two monarchies 11. That river which rises near the

Tigris, was increased a few miles below Nisibis, by the little stream

of

