OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7*

deification. A regular custom was introduced, that on the decease

of every emperor who had neither lived nor died like a tyrant, the

senate by a solemn decree should place him in the number of the

gods : and the ceremonies of his Apotheosis were blended with

those of his funeral. This legal, and as it should seem, injudicious

profanation, so abhorrent to our stricter principles, was received

with a very faint murmur *4, by the easy nature of Polytheism;

but it was received as an institution, not of religion but of policy.

We should disgrace the virtues of the Antonines, by comparing

them with the vices of Hercules or Jupiter. Even the character of

Cæsar or Augustus were far superior to those of the popular deities.

But Lt was the misfortune of the former to live in an enlightened

ager and their actions were too faithfully recorded to admit of

such a mixture of fable and mystery, as the devotion of the vulgar

requires. As soon as their divinity was established by law, it funk

into oblivion, without contributing either to ther own fame, or to

the dignity of succeeding princes.

In the consideration of the Imperial government, we have fre- Titles of Au-

quently mentioned the artful founder, under his well known title c^,'r*nd

of Augustus, which was not however conferred upon him, till the

edifice was almost completed. The obscure name of Octavianus,

he derived from a mean family, in the little town of Aricia. It

was stained with the blood of the proscriptions: and he was desir­

ous, had it been possible, to erase all memory of his former life.

The illustrious surname of Cæsar, he had assumed, as the adopted

son of the dictator; but he had too much good sense, either to hope

to be confounded, or to wish to be compared with that extraordi­

nary man. It was proposed in the senate, to dignify their minister

with a new appellation; and after a very serious discuflion, that

of Augustus was chosen among several others, as being the most

expressive of the character of peace and sanctity, which he uni­

formly affected %$. Augustus was therefore a personal, Cæsar a

family

