OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE: 5:3

mysterious doctrines which were already diffused among the people,

insensibly attracted the curiosity of <their sovereigns. When the em- a. d.
us.

press Mammæa passed through Antiooh, she expressed a desire of

conversing with the celebrated OrigEn, the fame of whose piety and

learning was spread over the East. Origen obeyed so flattering an

invitation, and though lie could not expect to succeed in the con­

version of an artful and ambitious woman, she listened with pleasure

to his eloquent exhortations, and honourably dismissed him to his

retirement in Palestine "+. The sentiments of Mammæa were adopted

by her son Alexander, and the philosophic devotion of that emperor

was marked by a singular but injudicious regard for the Christian

religion. In his domestic chapel he placed the statues of Abraham,

of Orpheus, Apollonius, and of Christ, as of the most respectable

soges who had instructed mankind in the various modes of addres­

sing their homage to the supreme and universal deity "s. A purer

faith, as well as worship, was openly professed and practised among

his household. Bishops, perhaps for the first time, were seen at

court; and, after the death of Alexander, when the inhuman Maxi- A n

min discharged his fury on the favourites and servants of his un­

fortunate benefactor, a great number of Christians, of every rank

and of both sexes, were involved in the promiscuous mastacre, which,,

r account, has improperly received the name of Persccu-

the cruel disposition of Maximin, the effects of . .

r Of Maximin,.

his resentment against the Christians were of a very local and tem- Philip,
and

f . # Decius.

porary nature, arid the piou6 Origen, who had been proscribed as &

devoted victim, was still reserved to convey the truths of the Gospel

to the ear Of monarchs4'7. He addressed several edifying letters a.D. 344^

to the emperor Philip, to his wife, and to his mother; and as soon

as that prince, who was born in the neighbourhood of Palestine,

had usurped the imperial sceptre, the Christians acquired a friend

and a protector. The public and evea partial favour of Philip to-

5. wards

tion"6.

