OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 379

world, which would remain imperfect and mutilated if either

of them should be put out.

"It well becomes the Persians," replied Galerius, with a transport Answer of

of fury, which seemed to convulse his whole frame, ** it well be- "a"

"comes the Persians to expatiate on the vicissitudes of fortune,

"and calmly to read us lectures on the virtues of moderation.

"Let them remember their own moderation towards the unhappy

"Valerian. They vanquished him by fraud, they treated him

"with indignity. They detained him till the last moment of

"his life in shameful captivity, and after his death they exposed

"his body to perpetual ignominy." Softening, however, his tone,

Galerius insinuated to the ambassador, that it had never been the

practice of the Romans to trample on a prostrate enemy; and that,

on this occasion, they should consult their own dignity, rather than

the Persian merit. He dismissed Apharban with a hope, that

Narses would soon be informed on what conditions he might obtain,

from the clemency of the emperors, a lasting peace, and the

restoration of his wives and children. In this conference we may

discover the fierce passions of Galerius, as well as his deference to

the superior wisdom and authority of Diocletian. The ambition of Moderation

of Diocletian.

the former grasped at the conquest of the East, and had proposed

to reduce Persia into the state of a province. The prudence of the

latter, who adhered to the.moderate policy of Augustus and the

Antonines, embraced the favourable opportunity of terminating a

successful war by an honourable and advantageous peace 7S.

in pursuance of their promise, the emperors soon afterwards Conclusion

appointed Sicorius Probus, one of their secretaries, to acquaint the

Persian court with their final resolution. As the minister of peace}

he was received with every mark of politeness and friendship; but,

under the pretence of allowing him the necessary repose after

so long a journey, the audience of Probus was deferred from day

to day; and he attended the flow motions of the king, till at

length he was admitted to his presence, near the river Asprudus,

C c c 2 in

