252 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Decius re- At the fame time wheiTBecius was struggling with the violence

vives the office j

of censor in of the tempest, his mind, calm and deliberate amidst the tumult
of

ofVSeriL. war, investigated the more general causes, that, since the age of

the Antonines, had so impetuously urged the decline of the Roman

greatness. He soon discovered, that it was impossible to replace

that greatness on a permanent basis, without restoring public virtue,

ancient principles and manners, and the oppressed majesty of the

laws. To execute this noble but arduous design, he first resolved to*

revive the obsolete office of censor; an office, which, as long as it

had subsisted in its pristine integrity, had so much contributed to the

perpetuity of the state '% till it was usurped and gradually neglected

by the Caesars Conscious that the favour of the sovereign may

confer power, but that the esteem of the people can alone bestow

authority, he submitted the choice of the censor to the unbiassed'

A. D. 251. voice of the senate. By their unanimous votes, or rather acclama*

27 th October. _ \

tions, Valerian, who was afterwards emperor, and who then served

with distinction in the army of Decius, was declared the molt

worthy of that exalted honour. As soon as the decree of the senate

was transmitted to the emperor, he assembled a great council in*

his camp, and before the investiture of the censor elect, he apprized'

him of the difficulty and importance of his great office. "Happy

n Valerian," said the prince, to hi6 distinguished subject, ** happy

** in the general approbation of the senate and of the Roman re-  
•* public! Accept the censorship of mankind; and judge of our

u manners. You will select those who deserve to continue mem-

* bers of the senate; you will restore the equestrian order to its  
*' ancient splendour; you will improve the revenue, yet moderate the  
4< public burdens. You will distinguisli into regular classes the

** various and infinite multitude of citizens, and accurately review  
"the military strength, the wealth, the virtue, and the resources

"of Rome. Your decisions shall obtain the force of laws. The

** army, the palace, the ministers of justice, and the great officers of

"the

