n8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

culture and commerce, the goodness of the roads, the discipline of

the legions, and the indolent subdued temper of the provinces ,7.

Disgrace of The first cares of Severus were bestowed on two measures, the

guards?10"" one dictated by policy, the other by decency; the revenge, and the

honours due to the memory of Pertinax. Before the new emperor

entered Rome, he issued his commands to the Prætorian guards,

directing them to wait his arrival on a large plain near the city,

without arms, but in the habits of ceremony, in which they were

accustomed to attend their sovereign. He was obeyed by those

haughty troops, whose contrition was the effect of their just

terrors. A chosen part of the Illyrian army encompassed them

with levelled spears. Incapable of flight or resistance, they ex­

pected their fate in silent consternation. Severus mounted the

tribunal, sternly reproached them with perfidy and cowardice,

dismissed them with ignominy from the trust they had betrayed,

despoiled them of their splendid ornaments, and banished them,

on pain of death, to the distance of an hundred miles from the

capital. During the transaction, another detachment had been sent

to seize their arms, occupy their camp, and prevent the hasty

consequences of their despair 38.

Funeral and -yjjg funeral and consecration of Pertinax was next solemnized

apotheosis or

Pertinax. with every circumstance of fad magnificence 39. The senate, with

a melancholy pleasure, performed the last rites to that excellent

prince, whom they had loved, and still regretted. The concern of

his successor was probably less sincere. He esteemed the virtues of

Pertinax, but those virtues would for ever have confined his ambition

to a private station. Severus pronounced his funeral oration with

studied eloquence, inward satisfaction, and well acted sorrow; and

by this pious regard to his memory, convinced the credulous mul­

titude that he alone was worthy to supply his place. Sensible,

however, that arms, not ceremonies, must assert his claim to the

empire;

