OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 333

cc

August 3.

and the power which you derive from your ancestors, will de-

*' scend to your posterity. Happy would it have been, if Flori-  
"anus, instead of usurping the purple of his brother, like a pri-

"vate inheritance, had expected what your majesty might deter-

"mine, either in his favour, or in that of any other person. The

** prudent soldiers have punislied his rashness. To me they have  
"offered the title of Augustus. But I submit to your clemency my

"pretensions and my merits *6." When this respectful epistle was ^A. D. 276.

read by the consul, the senators were unable to disguise their satis­

faction, that Probus should condescend thus humbly to solicit a

scepter which he already possessed. They celebrated with the

warmest gratitude his virtues, his exploits, and above all his mode­

ration. A decree immediately passed, without a dissenting voice, to

gratify the election of the eastern armies, and to confer on their

chief all the several branches of the imperial dignity: the names of

Caesar and Augustus, the title of Father of his country, the right

of making in the fame day three motions in the senate t7, the office

of Pontifex Maximus, the tribunitian power, and the proconsular

command; a mode of investiture, which, though it seemed to mul­

tiply the authority of the emperor, expressed the constitution of the

ancient republic. The reign of Probus corresponded with this fair

beginning. The senate was permitted to direct the civil admini­

stration of the empire. Their faithful general asserted the honour

of the Roman arms, and often laid at their feet crowns of gold

and barbaric trophies, the fruits of his numerous victories 1V Yet

whilst he gratified their vanity, he must secretly have despised their

indolence and weakness. Though it was every moment in their

power to repeal the disgraceful edict of Gallienus, the proud succes­

sors of the Scipios patiently acquiesced in their exclusion from all

military employments. They soon experienced, that those who re­

fuse the sword, must renounce the scepter.

. The

