OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

himself to the discretion of the conqueror. The judgment of the

army pronounced him worthy of death, and Claudius, after a feeble

resistance, consented to the execution of the sentence. Nor was the

zeal of the senate less ardent in the cause of their aew sovereiga.

They ratified, perhaps with a sincere transport of zeal, the election

of Claudius; and as his predecessor had shewn himself the personal

enemy of their order, they exercised under the name of justice a

severe revenge against his friends and family. The senate was per足

mitted to discharge the ungrateful office of punishment, and the em足

peror reserved for himself the pleasure and merit of obtaining by

his intercession a general act of indemnity \

Such ostentatious clemency discovers less of the real character of Clemency
and

* justice ot

Claudius, than a trifling circumstance in which he seems to have Claudius,

obeyed the dictates of his heart. The frequent rebellions of the

provinces had involved almost every person in the guilt of treason,

almost every estate in the case of confiscation; and Gallienus often

displayed his liberality, by distributing among his officers the pro足

perty of his subjects. On the accession of Claudius, an old woman

threw herself at his feet, and complained that a general of the late

emperor had obtained an arbitrary grant of her patrimony. The gene足

ral was Claudius himself, who had not entirely escaped the contagion

of the times. The emperor blushed at the reproach, but deserved the

confidence which she had reposed in his equity. The confession of

his fault was accompanied with immediate and ample restitution

In the arduous talk which Claudius had undertaken,of restoring the He under-

empire to its ancient splendor, it was first necessary to revive among
formation'of

his troops a fense of order and obedience. With the authority of thcarnjy-

a veteran commander, he represented to them, that the relaxation

of discipline had introduced a long train of disorders, the effects of

which were at length experienced by the soldiers themselves; that

a people ruined by oppression, and indolent from despair, could no'

longer supply a numerous army with the means of luxury, Or even

P p 2 of

