OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 79

Titus Antoninus Pius has been justly denominated a second Numa. Charactcr

J 4 and reign of

The same love of religion, justice, and peace, was the distinguishing Pws.

characteristic of both princes. But the situation of the latter opened

a much larger field for the exercise of those virtues. Numa could

only prevent a few neighbouring villages from plundering each

other's harvests. Antoninus diffused order and tranquillity over the

greatest part of the earth. His reign is marked by the rare advan­

tage of furnishing very few materials for history; which is, indeed,

little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunes

of mankind. In private life, he was an amiable, as well as a good

man. The native simplicity of his virtue was a stranger to vanity

or affectation. He enjoyed, with moderation, the conveniencies of

his fortune, and the innocent pleasures of society **; and the be­

nevolence of his foul displayed itself in a cheerful serenity of

temper.

The virtue of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus was of a severer and Of Marcus,

more laborious kind 4S. It was the well-earned harvest of many a

learned conference, of many a patient lecture, and many a midnight

lucubration. At the age of twelve years he embraced the rigid

system of the stoics, which taught him to submit his body to his

mind, his passions to his reason; to consider virtue as the only

good, vice as the only evil, all things external, as things in­

different46. His meditations, composed in the tumult of a camp,

are still extant; and he even condescended to give lessons of philo­

sophy, in a more public manner, than suited the modesty of a sage»

or the dignity of an emperor *7. But his life was the noblest com­

mentary on the precepts of Zeno. He was severe to himself, in­

dulgent to the imperfection of others, just and beneficent to all

mankind. He regretted that Avidius Cassius, who excited a re­

bellion in Syria, had disappointed him, by a voluntary death, of

the pleasure of converting an enemy into a friend, and he justified

the sincerity of that sentiment, by moderating the zeal of the senate

against

