OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 537

braced the faith of Jesus of Nazareth **, and the zealots who had

followed the standard of Judas the Gaulonite 4'. The former were

the friends, the latter were the enemies, of humankind; and the

only resemblance between them, consisted in the same inflexible con­

stancy, which, in the defence of their cause, rendered them insen­

sible of death and tortures. The followers of Judas, who impelled

their countrymen into rebellion, were soon buried under the ruins

of Jerusalem; whilst those of Jesus, under the more celebrated name

of Christians, diffused themselves over the Roman empire. How

natural was it for Tacitus, in the time of Hadrian, to appropriate

to the Christians, the guilt and the sufferings, which he might, with

far greater truth and justice, have attributed to a sect whose odious

memory was almost extinguished! 4. Whatever opinion may be

entertained of this conjecture, (for it is no more than a conjecture) it

is evident that the effects, as well as the cause of Nero's persecution,

were confined to the walls of Rome 41; that the religious tenets of

the Galilæans, or Christians, were never made a subject of punishment,

or even of inquiry; and that, as the idea of their sufferings was,

for a long time, connected with those of cruelty and injustice, the

moderation of succeeding princes inclined them to spare a sect, op­

pressed by a tyrant, whose rage had been usually directed against

virtue and innocence.

It is somewhat remarkable, that the flames of war consumed al- Oppression of

the Jews and

most at the fame time the temple of Jerusalem and the Capitol of Christians by

Rome 4J; and it appears no less singular, that the tribute which de- Dom,tian*

votion had destined to the former, should have been converted by

the power of' an insulting victor to restore and adorn the splendor

of the latter44. The emperors levied a general capitation tax on

the Jewish people; and although the sum assessed on the head of

each individual was inconsiderable, the use for which it was designed,

and the severity with which it was exacted, were considered as an

intolerable grievance 4J. Since the officers of the revenue extended

. Vol. I. 2 z 2 their

