THE DECLINE AND FALL

he once more turned his face towards Syria. Antioch was alarmed

by his rapid approach, and the helpless city of Palmyra felt the irre足

sistible weight of his resentment. We have a letter of Aurelian

himself, in which he acknowledges that old men, women, chil足

dren, and peasants, had been involved in that dreadful execution,

which should have been confined to armed rebellion; and although

his principal concern seems directed to the restoration of a temple

of the Sun, he discovers some pity for the remnant of the Palmy-

xenians, to whom he grants the permission of rebuilding and inha足

biting their city. But it is easier to destroy than to revive. The

feat of commerce, of arts, and of Zenobia, gradually funk into an

obscure town, a trifling fortress, and at length a miserable vilfage.

The present citizens of Palmyra, consisting of thirty or forty fami足

lies, have erected their mud cottages within the spacious court of a

magnificent temple.

Aurelian sup- Another and a last labour still awaited the indefatigable
Aurelian;

beilion of Fir- to suppress a dangerous though obscure rebel, who, during the
re-

auiftio gypt. ^ pajmvra) ha(j arifen on the banks of the Nile. Firmus,

the friend and ally, as he proudly styled himself, of Odenathus and

Zenobia, was no more than a wealthy merchant of Egypt. In the

course of his trade to India, he had formed very intimate connections

with the Saracens and the Blemmyes, whose situation on either coast

of the Red Sea, gave them an easy introduction into the Upper

Egypt. The Egyptians he inflamed with the hope of freedom,

and, at the head of their furious multitude, broke into the city of

Alexandria, where he assumed the imperial purple, coined money,,

published edicts, and raised an army, which, as he, vainly boasted,

he was capable of maintaining from the sole profits of his paper

trade. Such troops were a feeble defence against the approach of

Aurelian; and it seems almost unnecessary to relate, that Firmus

was routed, taken, tortured, and put to death. Aurelian might now

congratulate the senate,, the people, and himself, that in little more

than

