OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 435

Salona, and to close the eyes of her afflicted father 8'. He entreated,

but as he could no longer threaten, his prayers were received with

coldness and disdain; and the pride of Maximin was gratified,

in treating Diocletian as a suppliant, and his daughter as a criminal.

The death of Maximin seemed to assure the empresses of a favour­

able alteration in their fortune. The public disorders relaxed the

vigilance of their guard, and they easily found means to escape

from the place of their exile, and to repair, though with some

precaution, and in disguise, to the court of Licinius. His be­

haviour, in the first days of his reign, and the honourable re­

ception which he gave to young Candidianus, inspired Valeria

with a secret satisfaction, both on her own account, and on that of

her adopted son. But these grateful prospects were soon succeeded

by horrour and astonishment, and the bloody executions which

stained the palace of Nicomedia, sufficiently convinced her, that the

throne of Maximin was filled by a tyrant more inhuman than

himself. Valeria consulted her safety by a hasty flight, and, stilj

accompanied by her mother Prisca, they wandered above fifteen

months ** through the provinces, concealed in the disguise of.

plebeian habits. They were at length discovered at Thessalonica;

and as the sentence of their death was already pronounced, they

were immediately beheaded, and their bodies thrown into the sea.

The people gazed on the melancholy spectacle; but their grief

and indignation were suppressed by the terrors of a military guard.

Such was the unworthy fate of the wife and daughter of Diocletian.

We lament their misfortunes, we cannot discover their crimes, and

whatever idea we may justly entertain of the cruelty of Licinius, it

remains a matter of surprise, that he was not contented with

some more secret and decent method of revenge 8J.

The Roman world was now divided between Constantine and QUnre! he.

Licinius, the former of whom was master of the West, and the fanti°e«>d

latter of the East. It might perhaps have been expected that the i,ll~iu5'

K k k 2 conquerors,

