OF THE "ROMAN EMPIRE.

more art and solidity than the uncertain mythology of Greece and

Rome,S\

. From this impartial though imperfect survey of the progress of General pro-

portion of

Christianity, it may perhaps seem probable, that the number of its Christiani

proselytes has been excessively magnified by fear on the one side, and Pagan!*

and by devotion on the other. According to the irreproachable

testimony of Origen '8,} the proportion of the. faithful was very in足

considerable when compared with the multitude of an unbelieving . ,

world; but, as we are left without any distinct information, it is impos足

sible to determine, and it is difficult even to conjecture, the real num足

bers of the primitive Christians. The most favourable calculation,

however, that can be deduced from the examples of Antioch and of

Rome, will not permit us to imagine that more than a twentieth

part of the subjects of the empire had enlisted themselves under

the banner of the cross before the important conversion of Con-

ftantine. But their habits of faith, of zeal, and of union, seemed

to multiply their numbers; and the fame causes which contributed

to their future increase, served to render their actual strength

more apparent and more formidable.

Such is the constitution of civil society, that whilst a few persons Whether
the

first Christians

are distinguished by riches, by honours, and by knowledge, the were mean

body of the people is condemned to obscurity, ignorance, and

poverty. The Christian religion which addressed itself to the whole

human race must consequently collect a far greater number of pro足

selytes from the lower than from the superior ranks of life. This

innocent and natural circumstance has been improved into a very

odious imputation, which seems to be less strenuoufly denied by the

apologists than it is urged by the adversaries of the faith; that The

new sect of Christians was almost entirely composed of the dregs of

the populace, of peasants and mechanics, of boys and women, of

beggars and staves, the last of whom might sometimes introduce the

missionaries into the rich and noble families to which they belonged.

Vol. I. U u u These

and ignorant.

