OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 38:

of the Mygdonius, passed under the walls of Singara, and fell

into the Euphrates at Circefium, a frontier town, which, by the

care of Diocletian, was very strongly fortified ?8. Mesopotamia, the

object of so many wars, was ceded to the empire; and the Persians,

by this treaty renounced all pretensions to that great province.

II. They relinquished to the Romans five provinces beyond the Cession of five

/ * x * provinces

Tigris Their situation formed a very useful barrier, and their bfy°?d the

natural strength was soon improved by art and military skill. Four &

of these, to the north of the river, were districts of obscure fame

and inconsiderable extent; Intiline, Zabdicene, Arzanene, and Mox-

oene: but on the east of the Tigris, the empire acquired the large

and mountainous territory of Carduene, the ancient feat of the

Carduchians, who preserved for many ages their manly freedom in the

heart of the despotic monarchies of Asia. The ten thousand Greeks

traversed their country, after a painful march, or rather engage­

ment, of seven days; and it is confessed by their leader, in his

incomparable relation of the retreat, that they suffered more from ,

the arrows of the Carduchians, than from the power of the great

king 8\ Their posterity, the Curds, with very little alteration

either of name or manners, acknowledge the nominal sovereignty of

the Turkish sultan. III. It is almost needless to observe, thatTiridates,
Armenia,

the faithful ally of Rome, was restored to the throne of his fathers,

and that the right of the imperial supremacy were fully asserted

and secured. The limits of Armenia were extended as far as the

fortress of Sintha in Media, and this increase of dominion- was

not so much an act of liberality as of justice; Of the provinces

already mentioned beyond the Tigris, the four first had been

dismembered by the Parthians, from the crown of Armenia 81; and

when the Romans acquired the possession of them, they stipulated,

at the expence of the usurpers, an ample compensation, which

invested their ally with the extensive and fertile country of Atropatene.

Its principal city, in the fame situation perhaps as the modern Tauris,

was.

