OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

would only serve to oppress the memory and perplex the attention

of the reader.

I. As the posterity of the Franks compose one of the greatest and Origin and

, confo leracv

most enlightened nations of Europe, the powers of learning and oftheFiank*.

ingenuity have been exhausted in the discovery of their unlettered

ancestors. To the tales of credulity, have succeeded the systems of

fancy. Every passage has been fisted, every spot has been surveyed,

that might possibly reveal some faint traces of their origin. It has

been supposed, that Pannonia 6?, that Gaul, that the northern parts

of Germany6S, gave birth to that celebrated colony of warriors.

At length the most rational critics, rejecting the fictitious emigra足

tions of ideal conquerors, have acquiesced in a sentiment whose sim足

plicity persuades us of its truth 69. They suppose, that about the year

two hundred and forty 7% a new confederacy was formed under the

name of Franks, by the old inhabitants of the Lower Rhine and the

Weser. The present circle of Westphalia, the Landgraviate of

Hesse, and the dutchies of Brunswick and Luneburgh, were the

ancient seat of the Chauci, who, in their inaccessible morassea,

defied the Roman arms 71; of the Cherusci, proud of the fame

of Arminius j of the Catti, formidable by their firm and intrepid

infantry, and of several other tribes of inferior power and re足

nown 7\ The love of liberty was the ruling passion of these

Germans; the enjoyment of it their best treasure; the word that

expressed that enjoyment, the most pleasing to their ear. They

deserved, they assumed, they maintained the honourable epithet of

Franks or Freemen; which concealed, though it did not extinguish,

the peculiar names of the several states of the confederacy7S. Tacit

consent, and mutual advantage, dictated the first laws of the union;

it was gradually cemented by habit and experience. The league of

the Franks may admit of some comparison with the Helvetic body;

in which every canton, retaining its independent sovereignty, con足

sults with its brethren in the common cause, without acknow-

L 1 2 ledging

