244 THE DECLINE AND FALL

by the senate and provinces. It is reported, that immediately after

his reluctant acceptance of the title of Augustus, he had assured

Philip by a private message, of his innocence and loyalty, solemnly

protesting, that on his arrival in Italy, he would resign the imperial

ornaments and return to the condition of an obedient subject.

His professions might be sincere. But in the situation where for­

tune had placed him, it was scarcely possible that he could either

forgive or be forgiven 3.

^■"st'the" ^e emPeror L>ecius had employed a few months in the works

Goths. of peace and the administration of justice, when he was summoned

'to the banks of the Danube by the invasion of the Goths. This

is the first considerable occasion, in which history mentions that

great people, who afterwards broke the Roman power, sacked the

capitol, and reigned in Gaul, Spain, and Italy. So memorable was

the part which they acted in the subversion of the Western empire,

that the name of Goths, is frequently but inproperly used as a

general appellation of rude and warlike barbarism.

^hin of the jn the beginning of the sixth century, and after the conquest of

Scandinavia. Italy, the Goths, in possession of present greatness, very
naturally

indulged themselves in the prospect of past and of future glory. They

wished to preserve the memory of their ancestors, and to transmit

to posterity their own atchievements. The principal minister of the

court of Ravenna, the learned Cassiodorus, gratified the inclination

of the conquerors in a Gothic history, which consisted of twelve

books, now reduced to the inperfect abridgment of Jornandes +.

These writers passed with the most artful conciseness over the mis­

fortunes of the nation, celebrated its successful valour, and adorned

the triumph with many Asiatic trophies, that more properly belonged

to the people of Scythia. On the faith of ancient songs, the

uncertain, but the only, memorials of barbarians, they deduced the

first origin of the Goths, from the vast island, or peninsula, of Scan­

dinavia 5. That extreme country of the North was not unknown

to­

