OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

relieved her distresses by a liberal contribution of alms. But when

numerous and opulent societies were established in the great cities

of the empire, in Antioch, Alexandria, Ephesus, Corinth, and Rome,

the reverence which Jerusalem had inspired to all the Christian co­

lonies insensibly diminished. The Jewish converts, or as they were

afterwards called, the Nazarenes, who had laid the foundations of the

church, soon found themselves overwhelmed by the increasing mul­

titudes, that from all the various religions of polytheism inlisted

under the banner of Christ: and the Gentiles, who, with the ap­

probation of their peculiar apostle, had rejected the intolerable

weight of Mosaic ceremonies, were gradually tempted to refuse to

their more scrupulous brethren the fame toleration which at first

they had humbly solicited for their own practice. The ruin of the

temple, of the city, and of the public religion of the Jews, was

severely felt by the Nazarenes, as in their manners, though not in

their faith, they maintained so intimate a connexion with their im­

pious countrymen, whose misfortunes were attributed by the Pagans

to the contempt, and more justly ascribed by the Christians, to the

wrath of the supreme deity. The Nazarenes retired from the ruins

of Jerusalem to the little town of Pella beyond the Jordan, where

that ancient church languished above sixty years in solitude and

obscurity ,8. They still enjoyed the comfort of making frequent

and devout visits to the Holy City, and the hope of being one day

restored to those seats which both nature and religion taught them

to sove as well as to revere. But at length, under the reign of Ha­

drian, the desperate fanaticism of the Jews filled up the measure

of their calamities; and the Romans, exasperated by their re­

peated rebellions, exercised the rights of victory with rigour.

The emperor founded, under the name of Ælia Capitolina, a new

city on Mount Sion '', to which he gave the privileges of a colony;

and denouncing the severest penalties against any of the Jewish

people who should dare to approach its precincts^ he fixed a vigilant

Vol. I. Nnn garrison

