266 THE DECLINE AND FALL5

and whose skill and fidelity were equally suspicious. But the hopes

of plunder had banished every idea of danger, and a natural fear­

lessness of temper, supplied in their minds the more rational confidence,

which is the just result of knowledge and experience. Warriors of

such a daring spirit, must have often murmured against the cowardice

of their guides, who required the strongest assurances of a settled

calm, before they would venture to embark; and would scarcely

ever be tempted to lose sight of the land. Such, at least, is the

practice of the modern Turks ,0*; and they are probably not in­

ferior, in the art of navigation, to the ancient inhabitants of Bos­

phorus.

MpeditSof The fleet of the Goths» having the coast of Circassia on the left

theGoths. hand, first appeared before Pityus ,oS, the utmost limits of the Ro­

man provinces; a city provided with a convenient port, and forti­

fied with a strong wall. Here they met with a resistance more ob­

stinate than they had reason to expect from the feeble garrison of a

distant fortress. They were repulsed; and their disappointment

seemed to diminish the terror of the Gothic name. As long as

Successianus, an officer of superior rank and merit, defended that

frontier, all their efforts were ineffectual; but as soon as he was

removed by Valerian to a more honourable but less important

station, they resumed the attack of Pityus; and, by the destruction

of that city, obliterated the memory of their former disgrace ,o6.

TheGoths Circling round the eastern extremity of the Euxine sea, the

take^rre"?./ navigation from Pityus to Trebizond is about three hundred

miles 107. The course of the Goths carried them in sight of the

country of Colchis, so famous by the expedition of the Argo­

nauts ; and they even attempied, though without success, to pillage

a rich temple at the mouth of the river Phasis. Trebizond, cele­

brated in the retreat of the ten thousand, as an ancient colony o£

Greeksderived its wealth and splendor from the munificence of

the emperor Hadrian, who had constructed an artificial port on a

2 coast

zond.

