OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

"were the rewards which the companions claimed from the

liberality of their chief. The rude plenty of his hospitable board

"was the only pay, that he could bestow, or they would accept.

"War, rapine, and the free-will offerings of his friends, supplied

"the materials of this munificence This institution, however

it might accidentally weaken the several republics, invigorated the

general character of the Germans, and even ripened amongst them,

all the virtues of which barbarians are susceptible; the faith and

valour, the hospitality and the courtesy, so conspicuous long after­

wards in the ages of chivalry. The honourable gifts, bestowed by

the chief on his brave companions, have been supposed, by an in­

genious writer, to contain the first rudiments of the fiefs, distributed,

after the conquest of the Roman provinces, by the barbarian lords

among their vassals, with a similar duty of homage and military

service 5V These conditions are, however, very repugnant to the

maxims of the ancient Germans, who delighted in mutual presents i

but without either imposing, or accepting, the weight of obliga­

tions "..

"In the days of chivalry, or more properly of romance, all the ^™ty"

u men were brave, and all the women were chaste and notwith­

standing the latter of these virtues is acquired and preserved with

much more difficulty than the former, it is ascribed, almost without

exception, to the wives of the ancient Germans. Polygamy was -

not in use, except among the princes, and among them only for the

fake of multiplying their alliances. Divorces were prohibited by

manners rather than by laws. Adulteries were punished as rare

and inexpiable crimes; nor was seduction justified by example and

fashion s6. We may easily discover, that Tacitus indulges an honest

pleasure in the contrast of barbarian virtue, with the dissolute con­

duct of the Roman ladies: yet there are some striking circumstances -

that give an air of truth, or at least of probability, to the conjugal

faith and chastity of the Germans.

Although

