THE DECLINE AND FALL

gagement, he would shut himself up within the walls of Rome.

His ample magazines secured him against the danger of famine;

and as the situation of Constantine admitted not of delay, he might

have been reduced to the sad necessity of destroying with fire and

sword the imperial city, the reward of his victory, and the deliverance

of which had been the motive, or rather indeed the pretence, of the

civil war6f. It was with equal surprise and pleasure, that on hi6 arrival

at a place called 5axa Rubra, about nine miles from Rome66, he

discovered the army of Maxentius prepared to give him battle67.

Their long front filled a very spacious plain, and their deep array

reached to the banks of the Tyber, which covered their rear, and

forbade their retreat. We ate informed, and we may bplieve, that

Constantine disposed his troops with consummate skill, and that he

chose for himself the post of honour and danger. Distinguished

by tbe splendour of his arms, he charged in person the cavalry of

his rival; and his irresistible attack determined the fortune of the

day. The cavalry of Maxentius was principally composed either

of unwieldy cuirassiers, or of light Moors and Numidians. They

yielded to the vigour of the Gallic horse, which possessed more acti­

vity than the one, more firmness than the other. The defeat of

the two wings left the infantry without any protection On its

flanks, and the undisciplined Italians fled without reluctance from

the standard of a tyrant whom they had always hated, and whom

they no longer feared. The Prætorians, conscious that their of­

fences were beyond the reach of mercy, were animated by revenge

and despair. Notwithstanding their repeated efforts, those brave vete­

rans were unable to recover the victory: they obtained, however, an

honourable death; and it was observed, that their bodies covered the

fame ground which had been occupied by their ranks68. The confusion

then became general, and the dismayed troops of Maxentius, pursued

by an implacable enemy, rushed by thousands into the deep and rapid

stream of the Tyber. The emperor himself attempted to escape

back

