lxvi NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.

by whose example and authority they had been se­

duced, the name os Herodians. But their numbers

were so inconsiderable, and their duration so short,

that Joseph us has not thought them worthy of his

notice. See Prideaux's Connection, vol. ii. p. 285.

[5] Cicero pro Flacco, c. 23.

[6] Philo de Legatione. Augustus left a foun­

dation for a perpetual sacrifice. Yet he approved

of the neglect which his grandson Caius expressed

towards the temple of Jerusalem. See Sueton. in

August, c. 93. and Casaubon's notes on that pas­

sage.

[7] See, in particular, Joseph. Antiquitat. xvii. 6.

xviii. 6. andde Bel. Judaic, i. 33. and ii. 9.

[8] jufli a Caio Cæsare, effigiem ejus in templo

locare arma potius surapsere. Tacit. Hist. v. 9.

Philo and Josephus gave a very circumstantial, but

* very rhetorical account of this transaction, which  
exceedingly perplexed the governor of Syria. At

the first mention of this idolatrous proposal, King

Agrippa fainted way; and did not recover his

fenses till the third day.

[9] For the enumeration of the Syrian and

Arabian deities, it may be observed, that Milton

has comprized in one hundred and thirty very beau-

tifal lines, the two large and learned syntagmas,

which Sclden had composed on that abstruse sub­

ject.

[10] All that relates to the Jewish proselytes has

been very ably treated by Basnage, Hist, des Juifs,

1. vi. c. 6, 7.

[11] See Exod. xxiv. 23. Deut. xvi. 16. the

commentators, and a very sensible note in the Uni­

versal History, vol. i. p. 603. ediu foL

[12] When Pompey, using or abusing the right

of conquest, entered into the Holy of Holies, it was

observed with amazement, "Nulla intus Deum

effigie, vacuam scdem et inania arcana." Tacit.

Hist. v. 9. It was a popular saying, with regard to

the Jews,

Nil præter nubes et cœli numen adorant.

[■?] A second kind of circumcision was inflicted

on a Samaritan or Egyptian proselyte. Tbe sullen

indifference of the Talmudists, with respect to the

conversion of strangers, may be seen in Basnage,

Histoire des Jui£» 1. vi. c. 6.

[14] These arguments were urged with great in­

genuity by the Jew Orobio, and refuted with equal

ingenuity and candour by the Christian Limborch.

See the Arnica Collatio (it well deserves that name),

or account of the dispute between them.

[i^] Jesus - - - circumcisus erat; cibis uteba-

tur Judaicis; vestitu firaili; purgatos fcabie mit-

tebat ad sacerdotes; Pafcbata et aliot dies festoj re­

ligiose observabat: Si quos fanavit fabatho, ostendit

non tantura ex lege, fed et exceptis sententiis talia

opera fabatho non interdicts. Grotius de Veritate

Religionis Christiana;, 1. v. c. 7. A little afterwards

(c. I2.>, he expatiates on the condescension of the

apostles.

[16] Pæne omnes Christum Deum sub Iegis ob-

fervatione credebant. Sulpicuis Severus, ii. jt.

See Eusebius, Hist. Ecclesiact. 1. iv. c. 5.

[17] Mofheim de Rebus Christianis ante^Con-

stantinum Magnum, p. 153. In this masterly per­

formance, which I (hall often have occasion to quote,

he enters much more fully into the state of the pri­

mitive church, than he has an opportunity of doing

in his General History.

[18] Eusebius, 1. iii.c. 5. Le Clerc Hist. Eccle-

siast p. 605. During this occasional absence, the

bishop and church of Pella still retained the title of

Jerusalem. In the same manner, the Roman pon­

tiffs resided seventy years at Avignon; and the pa­

triarchs of Alexandria have long' since transferred

their episcopal seat to Cairo.

[19] Dion Caffius, 1. lxix. The exile of the

Jewish nation from Jerusalem is attested by Aristoof

Pella (apnd.Euseb. 1. iv. c. 6 ), and is mentioned by

several ecclesiaflical writers; though some of them

too hastily extend this interdiction to tbe whole

country of Palestine.

[20] Eusebius, 1. iv. e. 6. Sulpicins Severns,

ii. 31. By comparing their unsatisfactory accounts,

Mofheim (p. 32-, &c.) has drawn out a very dis­

tinct representation of the manner and motives of

this revolution.

[21] Le Clerc (Hist. EcclesiafL p, 477, etc..)

seems to have collected from Eusebius, Jerome, Epi-

phanius, and other writers, all the principal circum­

stances that relate to the Nazarenes or Ebionites.

The nature of their opinion soon divided them into

a stricter

