3o6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

respondence reached the ears of the soldiers, it would most pro­

bably have cost Tetricus his life; nor could he resign the scepter

of the West, without committing an act of treason against himself.

He affected the appearances of a civil war, led his forces into the

field against Aurelian, posted them in the most disadvantageous

manner, betrayed his own counsels to the enemy, and with a few

chosen friends deserted in the beginning of the action. The rebel

legions, though disordered and dismayed by the unexpected trea­

chery of their chief, defended themselves with a desperate valour,

till they were cut in pieces almost to a man, in this bloody and me­

morable battle, which was fought near Chalons in Champagne 5°.

The retreat of the irregular auxiliaries, Franks and Batavians

whom the conqueror compelled or persuaded to repass the Rhine,,

restored the general tranquillity, and the power of Aurelian was ac­

knowledged from the wall of Antoninus to the columns of Hercules.

As early as the reign of Claudius, the city of Autun, alone and

unassisted, had ventured to declare against the legions of Gaul.

After a siege of seven months, they stormed and plundered that

unfortunate city, already wasted by famine s\ Lyons, oh the con­

trary, had resisted with obstinate disaffection the arms of Aurelian.

We read of the punishment of Lyons but there is not any men­

tion of the rewards of Autun. Such, indeed, is the policy of civil

war; severely to remember injuries, and to forget the most import*

ant services. Revenge is profitable, gratitude is expensive.

A.D. 273. Aurelian had no sooner secured the person and provinces of Tetri-

Zenobfa i °f cus» than he turned his arms against Zenobia, the celebrated
queen

of Palmyra and the East. Modern Europe has produced several

illustrious women who have sustained with glory the weight of em­

pire; nor is our own age destitute of such distinguished characters.

But Zenobia is perhaps the only female, whose superior genius

broke through the servile indolence imposed on her sex by the cli­

mate and manners of Asia'*. She claimed her descent from the

Macedonian

