336" THE DECLINE AND FALL

i

granted them an honourable capitulation, and permitted them to

return in safety to their native country. But the losses which they

suffered in the march, the battle, and the retreat, broke the power

of the nation: nor is the Lygian name ever repeated in the history

either of Germany or of the empire. The deliverance of. Gaul is

reported to have cost the lives of four hundred thousand of the in­

vaders; a work of labour to the Romans, and of expence to the

emperor, who gave a piece of gold for the head of every barba­

rian '9. But as the fame of warriors is built on the destruction of

human kind, we may naturally suspect, that the sanguinary account

was multiplied by the avarice of the soldiers, and accepted without

any very severe examination by the liberal vanity of Probus.

and carries Since the expedition of Maximin, the Roman generals had con-

Gcrmany.nt0 fined their ambition to a defensive war against the nations of
Ger­

many, who perpetually pressed on the frontiers of the empire. The

more daring Probus pursued his Gallic victories, passed the Rhine,

and displayed his invincible eagles on the banks of the Elbe and the

Necker. He was fully convinced that nothing could reconcile the

minds of the barbarians to peace, unless they experienced in their

own country the calamities of war. Germany, exhausted by the

ill success of the last emigration, was astonished by his presence.

Nine of the most considerable princes repaired to his camp, and fell

prostrate at his feet. Such a treaty was humbly received by the

Germans, as it pleased the conqueror to dictate. He exacted a

strict restitution of the effects and captives which they had carried

away from the provinces; and obliged their own magistrates to

punish the more obstinate robbers who presumed to detain any part

of the spoil. A considerable tribute of corn, cattle, and horses, the

only wealth of barbarians, was reserved for the use of the garrisons

which Probus established on the limits of their territory. He even

entertained some thoughts of compelling the Germans to relinquish

she exercise of arms, and to trust their differences to the justice,

their

