OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 283

-

forces of the state were dissipated in private quarrels, the defence­

less provinces lay exposed to every invader. The bravest usurpers

were compelled by the perplexity of their situation, to conclude ig­

nominious treaties with the common enemy, to purchase with op­

pressive tributes the neutrality or services of the barbarians, and to

introduce hostile and independent nations into the heart of the)

Roman monarchy 161.

Such were the barbarians, and such the tyrants, who, under the

reigns of Valerian and Gallienus, dismembered the provinces, and

reduced the empire to the lowest pitch of disgrace and ruin, from

whence it seemed impossible that it should ever emerge. As far as

the barrenness of materials would permit, we have attempted to

trace, with order and perspicuity, the general events of that cala­

mitous period. There still remain some particular facts; I. The

disorders of Sicily; II. The tumults of Alexandria; and III. The rebel­

lion of the Isaurians, which may serve to reflect a strong light on the

horrid picture.

I. Whenever numerous troops of banditti, multiplied by success Disorders of

and impunity, publickly defy, instead of eluding, the justice of their y

country, we may safely infer, that the excessive weakness of the

government is felt and abused by the lowest ranks of the com­

munity. The situation of Sicily preserved it from the barbarians;

nor could the disarmed province have supported an usurper. The

sufferings of that once flourishing and still fertile island, were in­

flicted by baser hands. A licentious crowd of slaves and peasants

reigned for a while over the plundered country, and renewed the

memory of the servile wars of more ancient times ,6S. Devastations

of which the husbandman was either the victim or the accomplice*

must have ruined the agriculture of Sicily; and as the principal

estates were the property of the opulent senators of Rome, who

often enclosed within a farm the territory of an old republic; it is

• O o 2 not

