THE DECLINE AND FALL

equestrian order, till the homage of flattery was insensibly con­

verted into an annual and solemn protestation ©f fidelity.

Consular snd Although Auguctus considered a military force, as the firmest

tribunician , _ _ . .

powers. foundation, he wuely rejected it, as a very odious instrument of

government. It was more agreeable to his temper, as well as to his

■policy, to reign under the -venerable names of ancient magistracy,

and artfully to eoi4ect, 4n his own per son, *11 the scattered rays of

-civil jurisdiction. With thi« view lie permitted the senate to con­  
fer upon him, for his life, the powers of the consular1' and lri~

brunitian office* **, which were, in the fame manner, continued to

all his succeffbrs. The consuls had succeeded to the kings of Rome,

and represented the dignity of the state. They superintended the

ceremonies of religion, levied and commanded the legions, gave

audience to foreign ambassadors, and presided in the assemblies

hoth of the senate and people. The general control of the finances

was intrusted to their care, and though they seldom had leisure to

administer justice in person, they were considered as the supreme

guardians of law, equity, and the public peace. Such was their

ordinary jurisdiction; but whenever the senate empowered the first

magistrate to consult the safety of the commonwealth, he was raised

by that 4egree above the laws, and exercised, in the defence of

liberty, a temporary despotism". The character of the tribunes

was, in every respect, different from that of the consuls. The

appearance of the former was modest and humble; but their person3

were sacred and inviolable; Their force was suited rather for op­

position than for action*. They were instituted to defend the

oppressed, to pardon offences, to arraign the enemies of the people,

and when they judged it necessary, to Hop, by a single word, the

whole machine of government. As long as the republic sub­

sisted, the dangerous influence, which either the consul or the

tribune might derive from their respective jurisdiction, was dir-

i mkulhed

