OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 295

rians made descents on various coasts both of Europe and Asia; but

the open country was already plundered, and they were repulsed

with shame and loss from several of the fortified cities. A spirit

of discouragement and division arose in the fleet, and some of their

chiefs sailed away towards the islands of Crete and Cyprus; but

the main body pursuing a more steady course, anchored at length

near the foot of mount Athos, and assaulted the city of Thessalonica,

the wealthy capital of all the Macedonian provinces. Their attacks,

in which they displayed a fierce but artless bravery, were soon in­

terrupted by the rapid approach of Claudius, hastening to a scene

of action that deserved the presence of a warlike prince at the head

of the remaining powers of the empire. Impatient for battle, the

Goths immediately broke up their camp, relinquished the siege of

Thessalonica, left their navy at the foot of mount Athos, tra­

versed the hills of Macedonia, and pressed forwards to engage the

last defence of Italy.

We still possess an original letter addressed by Claudius to the Distress and

senate and people on this memorable occasion. "Conscript fathers," Claudius,

fays the emperor, "know that three hundred and twenty thousand

*' Goths have invaded the Roman territory. If I vanquish them,  
"your gratitude will reward my services. Should I fall, remember

"that I am the successor of Gallienus. The whole republic is fa-

"tigued. We shall fight after Valerian, after Ingenuus, Regilli-

"anus, Lolliænus, Posthumus, Celsus, and a thousand others, whom

"a just contempt for Gallienus provoked into rebellion. We are

0 in want of darts, of spears, and of shields. The strength of the

'* empire, Gaul, and Spain, are usurped by Tetricus, and we blush

"to acknowledge that the archers of the East serve under the ban-

'* ners of Zenobia. Whatever we shall perform, will be sufficiently

"great11." The melancholy firmness of this epistle, announces a

hero careless of his fate, conscious of his danger, but still deriving

a well grounded hope from the resources of his own mind.

The

