OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

** the empire, are all subject to your tribunal. None are exempted,  
** excepting only the ordinary consuls the praefect of the city,  
** the king of the sacrifices, and (as long as she preserves her cha-  
** stity inviolate) the eldest of the vestal virgins. Even these few,  
"who may not dread the severity, will anxiously solicit the esteem

"of the Roman censor

A magistrate, invested with such extensive powers, would have ap- The design

peared not so much the minister aa the colleague of his sovereign4I. and
wUhout*'

Valerian justly dreaded an elevation so full of envy and of suspicion. effect"

He modestly urged the alarming greatness of the trust, his own in­

sufficiency, and the incurable corruption of the times; He artfully

insinuated, that the office of censor was inseparable from the impe­

rial dignity, and that the feeble hands of a subject were unequal

to the support of so immense a weight of cares and of power +\

The approaching event of war, soon put an end to the prosecution

of a project so specious but so impracticable; and whilst it preserved

Valerian from the danger, saved- the emperor Decius from the dis­

appointment, which would most probably have attended it. A cen­

sor may maintain, he can never restore the morals of a state. It

is impossible for such a magistrate to exert his authority with bene­

fit, or even with effect, unless he is supported by a quick sense of

honour and virtue in the minds of the people; by a decent reve­

rence for the public opinion, and by a train of useful prejudices com­

bating on the side of national manners. In a period when these

principles are annihilated, the censorial jurisdiction must either sink

into empty pageantry, or be converted into a partial instrument of

vexatious oppression 45. It was easier to vanquish the Goths, than to

eradicate the public vices; yet even in the first of these enterprises,

Decius lost his army and his life.

The Goths were now, on every side, surrounded and pursued Defeat and

a c . j i • death ofDe-

by the Roman arms* The nower or their troops had pertfbied in cius and hit

the long siege of Philippopoiis, and the exhausted couatry could no son"

6 longer

