,48 THE DECLINE AND FALL

the temples dedicated to the goddess of Peace and to the genius of

Rome 71. These monuments of architecture, the property of the

Roman people, were adorned with the most beautiful productions

of Grecian painting and sculpture; and in the temple of Peace, a

very curious library was open to the curiosity of the learned. At

a small distance from thence was situated the Forum of Trajan. It was

surrounded with a lofty portico, and in the centre arose a column

of marble, whose height, of one hundred and ten feet, denoted the

elevation of the hill that had been cut away. This column, which

still subsists in its ancient beauty, exhibited an exact representation

of the Dacian victories of its founder. The veteran soldier con­

templated the story of his own c-ampaigns, and by an easy illusion

of national vanity, the peaceful citizen associated himself to the

honours of the triumph. All the other quarters of the capital, and

all the provinces of the empire, were embellished by the same liberal

spirit of public magnificence, and were silled with amphitheatres,

theatres, temples, porticos, triumphal arches, baths, and aqueducts,

all variously conducive to the health, the devotion, and the pleasures

of the meanest citizen. The last mentioned of those edifices

deserve our peculiar attention. The boldness of the enterprise,

the solidity of the execution, and the uses to which they were

subservient, rank the aqueducts among the noblest monuments of

Roman genius and power. The aqueducts of the capital claim a

just pre-eminence; but the curious traveller, who, without the light

of history, should examine those of Spoleto, of Metz, or of Segovia,

would very naturally conclude, that those provincial towns had

formerly been the residence of some potent monarch. The solitudes

of Asia and Africa were once covered with flouristiing cities, whose

populousness, and even whose existence was dei.'Ved from such ar­

tificial supplies of a perennial stream of frefli water

Number and We have computed the inhabitants, and contemplated the public

greatness of _wort8 Qf tne Roman empire. The observation of the number and

the cries ot *

the empire. greatness

