OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of the Christians, who were spared by the excessive lenity of the

government, had at length provoked the Divine Justice? It was

not among a licentious and exasperated populace, that the forms of

legal proceedings could be observed; it was not in an amphitheatre

stained with the blood of wild beasts and gladiators, that the voice

of compassion could be heard. The impatient clamours of the

multitude denounced the Christians as the enemies of gods and

men, doomed them to the severest tortures, and venturing to accuse-

by name some of the most distinguished of the new sectaries, re­

quired with irresistible vehemence, that they should be instantly

apprehended and cast |to the lions \ The provincial governors-

and magistrates who presided in the public spectacles were usually

inclined to gratify the inclinations, and to appease the rage of the

people, by the sacrifice of a few obnoxious victims. But the wisdom

of the emperors protected the church from the danger of these

tumultuous clamours and irregular accusations, which they justly

censured as repugnant both to the firmness and to the equity of their

administration. The edicts of Hadrian and of Antoninus Pius ex­

pressly declared that the voice of the multitude should never be ad~

mitted as legal evidence to convict or to punish those unfortunate per­

sons who had embraced the enthusiasm of the Christians 6'.

III. Punishment was not the inevitable consequence of conviction, Trials os
the-,

and the Christians, whose guilt was the most clearly proved by Ck"*1"***-

tbje testimony of witnesses, or even by their voluntary confession,,

still retained in their own power the alternative of life or death*

Lt was not so much the past offence, as the actual, resistance, which,

excited the indignation of the magistrate. An easy pardon was

granted to repentance, and if they consented to cast a few grains* o£

incense upon the altar, they were dismissed from the tribunal in:

safety and with applause. It was esteemed the duty of a humane-

judge to endeavour to reclaim, rather than to punissi, those deluded

enthusiasts. Varying his tone according to the age, the sex, or the-

situation.

