OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE/ 69

the-immediate jurisdiction of the senate. With regard to civil obi.

jects, it was the supreme court of appeal; with regard to criminal

matters, a tribunal, constituted for the trial of all offences that were

committed by men in any public station, or that affected the peace

and majesty of the Roman people. The exercise of the judicial

power became the most frequent and serious occupation of the senate;

and the important causes that were pleaded before them, afforded

a last refuge to the spirit of ancient eloquence. As a council of

state, and as a court of justice, the senate possessed very considerably

prerogatives; but in its legislative capacity, in which it was sup­

posed virtually to represent the people, the rights of sovereignty

were acknowledged to reside in that assembly. Every power was

derived from their authority, every law was ratified by their sanc­

tion. Their regular meetings were held on three stated days in

every month, the Calends, the Nones, and the Ides. The de­

bates were conducted with decent freedom; and the emperors

themselves, who gloried in the name of senators, fat, voted, and

divided with their equals- . . * •

To resume, in a few words, the system of the Imperial govern- General idea

ment; as it was instituted by Augustus, and maintained by those rial system?

princes who understood their own interest and that of the

people,, it may be defined an absolute monarchy disguised

by the forms of a commonwealth. The masters of the Roman

world surrounded their throne with darkness, concealed their irre­

sistible strength, and humbly professed themselves the accountable

ministers of the senate, whose supreme decrees they dictated and

'9

The face of the court corresponded with the forms of the admini- Court of the

stration. The emperors, if we except those tyrants whose capricious eropero"'

folly violated every law of nature and decency, disdained that pomp

and ceremony which might offend their countrymen, but could

add nothing to their real power. In all the offices of life, they af-

• • • - fectedi

