OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 193

new doctrine of submission to the senate ; and whatever clemency

was affected by that politic assembly, they dreaded a flow revenge,

coloured by the name of discipline, and justified by fair pretences

of the public good. But their fate was still in their own hands,

and if they had courage to despise the vain terrors of an impotent

republic, it was easy to convince the world, that those who were

masters of the arms, were masters of the authority of the state.

When the senate elected two prinees, it is probable that, besides Massacre of

the declared reason of providing for the various emergencies of Baibinu«.

peace and war, they were actuated by the secret desire of weakenr-

ing by division the despotism of the supreme magistrate. Their

policy was effectual, but it proved fatal both to their emperors and

to themselves. The jealousy of power was soon exasperated by the

difference of character. Maximus despised Balbinus as a luxurious

noble, and was in his turn disdained by his colleague as an obseure

soldier. Their silent discord was understood rather than seen 41;

but the mutual consciousness prevented them from uniting in any

vigorous measures of defence against their common enemies of the

Praetorian camp. The whole city was employed in the Capkoline A D t}S

games* ami the emperors were left almost alone in the palace. On July «5«

a sudden they were alarmed by the approach of a troop of desperate

afiaflins. Ignorant of each other's situation or designs, for they al­

ready occupied very distant apartments, afraid to give or to receive

assistance, they wasted the important moments in idle debates and

fruitless recriminations. The arrival of the guards put an end to

the vain strife. They seized on these emperors of the senate, for

such they called them with malicious contempt, stripped rhem of

their garments, and dragged them in insolent triumph through the

streets of Rome, with a design of inflicting a slow and cruel death

on these unfortunate princes. The fear of a rescue from the faith­

ful-Germans of the Imperial guards, shortened their tortures, and

Vol. I. C c their

