£T28 THE DECLINE AND FALL

means riches and despotism could penetrate into a remote corner of

the North, and extinguish the generous flame that blazed with such

fierceness on the frontier of the Roman provinces: or how the an­

cestors of those Danes and Norwegians, so distinguished in later

ages by their unconquered spirit, could thus tamely resign the great

character of German liberty **. Some tribes, however, on the coast

of the Baltic, acknowledged the authority of kings, though without

relinquishing the rights of men ;but in the far greater part of

Germany, the form of government was a democracy, tempered, in­

deed, and controuled, not so much by general and positive laws, as

by the occasional ascendant of birth or valour, of eloquence or su­

perstition **.

Assemblies of Civil governments, in their first institutions, are voluntary
asso-

the people. ciations for mutual defence. To obtain the desired end, it is
abso­

lutely necessary, that each individual should conceive himself obliged

to submit his private opinion and actions, to the judgment of the

greater number of his associates. The German tribes were contented

with this rude but liberal outline of political society. As soon as a

youth, born of free parents, had attained the age of manhood, he

was introduced into the general council of his countrymen, solemnly

invested with a shield and spear, and adopted as an equal and worthy

member of the military commonwealth. The assembly of the war­

riors of the tribe was convened at stated seasons, or on sudden emer-

gencies* The trial of public offences, the election of magistrates* and

the great business of peace and war, were determined by its inde­

pendent voice. Sometimes, indeed, these important questions were

previoufly considered; and prepared in a more select council of the-

principal chieftains45. The magistrates might deliberate and per­

suade, the people only could resolve and execute; and the resolu­

tions of the Germans were fbr the most part hasty and violent.

Barbarians accustomed to place their freedom in gratifying the

present passion, and their courage in overlooking all future conse­

quences,

