222 THE DECLINE AND FALL

and of too decisive a nature to leave room for any reply. The Ger­

mans, in the age of Tacitus, were unacquainted with the use of let­

ters 16 i and the use of letters is the principal circumstance that distin­

guishes a civilized people from a herd of savages incapable of know­

ledge or reflection. Without that artificial help, the human me­

mory soon diflipates or corrupts the ideas intrusted to her charge;

and the nobler faculties of the mind, no longer supplied with mo­

dels or with materials, gradually forget their powers: the judge­

ment becomes feeble and lethargic, the imagination languid or irre­

gular. Fully to apprehend this important truth, let us attempt, in

an improved society, to calculate the immense distance between the

man of learning and the illiterate peasant. The former, by reading

and reflection, multiplies his own experience, and lives in distant

ages and remote countries; whilst the latter, rooted to a single spot,

and confined to a few years of existence, surpasses, but very little,

his fellow-labourer the ox in the exercise of his mental faculties.

The fame, and even a greater, difference will be found between

nations than between individuals; and we may safely pronounce,

that without some species of writing, no people has ever preserved

the faithful annals of their history, ever made any considerable pro­

gress in the abstract sciences, or ever possessed, in any tolerable de­

gree of perfection, the useful and agreeable arts of life.

Of am and Of these arts, the ancient Germans were wretchedly destitute.

agriculture, fhey passed their lives in a state of ignorance and poverty,
which it

has pleased some declaimers to dignify with the appellation of vir­

tuous simplicity. Modern Germany is said to contain about two

thousand three hundred walled towns '7. In a much wider extent

of country, the geographer Ptolemy could discover no more than

ninety places, which he decorates with the name of cities 18; though,

according to our ideas, they would but ill deserve that splendid

title. We can only suppose them to have been rude fortifications,

constructed in the center of the woods, and designed to secure the

women,

