2S8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

a prince who so lately bad been tbe object of their partial choice.

The guilt was theirs, but the advantage of it was Valerian's; who

obtained the possession of the throne by the means indeed of a civil

war, but with a degree of innocence singular in that age of revo­

lutions; since he owed neither gratitude nor allegiance to his pre­

decessor, whom he dethroned.

Character of Valerian was about sixty years of age6' when he was invested

Valerian. y^th the purple, not by the caprice of the populace, or the cla­

mours of the army, but by the unanimous voice of the Roman

world. In his gradual ascent through the honours of the state, he

had deserved the favour of virtuous princes, and had declared him­

self the enemy of tyrants6*. His noble birth, his mild but unble­

mished manners, his learning, prudence, and experience, were re­

vered by the senate and people; and if mankind (according to the

observation of an ancient writer) had been left at liberty to chuse a

master, their choice would most assuredly have fallen on Valerian 6j.

Perhaps the merit of this emperor was inadequate to his reputation;

perhaps his abilities, or at least his spirit, were affected by the lan­

guor and coldness of old age. Perhaps the emergency of the times

demanded the talents of a soldier, as well as the virtues of a censor.

Gensrai mis- But the whole reign of Valerian, which together with that of Gal-

the reigns c f lienus, his son, his associate 66, and his successor, lasted
fifteen years,

Galiienus?n was one uninterrupted period of confusion and calamity. As the

268? 253~~ R°man empire was at the fame time, and on every side, attacked by

the blind fury of foreign invaders, and the wild ambition of do­

mestic usurpers, we-shall consult order and perspicuity, by pursu­

ing, not so much the doubtful arrangement of dates, as the more

natural distribution of subjects. The most dangerous enemies of

Inroads of the Rome, during the reigns of Valerian and Gallienus, were, 1. The

barbarians. Franks, 2. The Alemanni. 3. The Goths; and, 4. The Persians.

Under these general appellations, we may comprehend the adven­

tures of less considerable tribes, whose obscure and uncouth names-

would

