OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Z9S

"disgraces the most virtuous and capable among his subjects.

«' By such infamous arts, added Diocletian, the best and wisest

** princes are fold to the venal corruption of their courtiers '".**  
A just estimate of greatness, and the assurance of immortal fame,

improve our relish for the pleasures of retirement; but the Roman

emperor had filled too important a character in the world, to enjoy

without allay the comforts and security of a private condition.

It was impossible that he could remain ignorant of the troubles

which afflicted the empire after his abdication. It was impossible

that he could be indifferent to their consequences. Fear, sorrow, and

discontent, sometimes pursued him into the solitude of Salona.

His tenderness, or at least his pride, was deeply wounded by the

misfortunes of his wife and daughter ; and the last moments of

Diocletian were embittered by some affronts, which Licinius and

Constantine might have spared the father of so many emperors, and

the first author of their own fortune. A report, though of a very and death,

doubtful nature, has reached our times, that he prudently withdrew '"3 3*

himself from their power by a voluntary death "*.

Before we dismiss the consideration of the life and character of Description
of

Diocletian, we may, for a moment, direct our view to the place of the adjacent

his retirement. Salona, a principal city of his native province of coantrjs*

Dalmatia, was near two hundred Roman miles (according to the

measurement of the public highways) from Aquileia and the con­

fines of Italy, and about two hundred and seventy from Sirmium,

the usual residence of the emperors, whenever they visited the

IUyrian frontier ,,s. A miserable village still preserves the name of

Salona, but so late as the sixteenth century, the remains of a theatre,

and a confused prospect of broken arches and marble columns, con­

tinued to attest its ancient splendour I""5. About six or seven miles

from the city, Diocletian constructed a magnificent palace, and

we may infer from the greatness of the work, how long he had'

meditated his design of abdicating the empire. The choice of a

E e e 2 spot

