THE DECLINE AND FALL

Supposed e- The apology of Tertullian contains two very ancient, very sin-

dictsofTi- r fa/ . . . _ . .

berius and gular, but at the fame time very suspicious instances of imperial

toninm. clemency; the edicts published by Tiberius, and by Marcus An­

toninus, and designed not only to protect the innocence of the

Christians, but even to proclaim those stupendous miracles which

had attested the truth of their doctrine. The first of these examples

is attended with some difficulties which might perplex a sceptical

mind We are required to believe, that Pontius Pilate informed

the emperor of the unjust sentence of death which he had pro­

nounced against an innocent, and, as it appeared, a divine, person;

and that without acquiring the merit, he exposed himself to the

danger, of martyrdom; that Tiberius, who avowed his contempt for

all religion, immediately conceived the design of placing the Jewish

Messiah among the gods of Rome; that his servile senate ventured

ro disobey the commands of their master; that Tiberius, instead of

resenting their refusal, contented himself with protecting the Chris­

tians, from the severity of the laws, many years before such laws,

were enacted, or before the church had assumed any distinct name

or existence; and lastly, that the memory of this extraordinary

transaction was preserved in the most public and authentic records*

which escaped the knowledge of the historians of Greece and Rome,

and were only visible to the eyes of an African Christian, who com­

posed his apology one hundred and sixty years after the death of

Tiberius. The edict of Marcus Antoninus is supposed to have been

the effect of his. devotion and gratitude, for the miraculous deliver­

ance which he had obtained in the Marcomannic war. The distress

of the legions, the seasonable tempest of rain and hail, of thunder

and of lightning, and the dismay and defeat of the barharians, have

been celebrated by the eloquence of several pagan writers. If there-

were any Christians in that army, it was natural that they should

ascribe some merit to the fervent prayers* which in the moment of

danger they had offered up for their own and the public safety.

But

