THE DECLINE AND FALL

«u«, to deduce the most important circumstances of its decline and

fall; a revolution which will ever be remembered, and is still felt

by the nations of the earth.

Moderation The principal conquests of the Romans were atchieved under the

of Augustas. * * * ,

republic; and the emperors, for the most part, were satisfied with

preserving those dominions which had been acquired by the policy

of the senate, the active emulation of the consuls, and the martial

enthusiasm of die people. The seven first centuries were filled with

a rapid succeflion of triumphs; but it was reserved for Augustus,

to relinquish the ambitious design of subduing the whole earth, and

to introduce a spirit of moderation into the public councils. In­

clined to peace by his temper and situation, it was easy for him to

discover, that Rome, in her present exalted situation, had much

less to hope than to fear from the chance of arms j and that, in the

prosecution of remote wars, the undertaking became every day

more difficult, the event more doubtful, and the possession more

precarious, and less beneficial. The experience of Augustus added

weight to these salutary reflections. Instead of exposing his person

and his legions to the arrows of the Parthians, he satisfied himself

with the restitution of tbe standards and prisoners which were taken

in the defeat of Crassus *. .

His generals, in the early part of his reign, attempted the re­

duction of Æthiopia and Arabia Felix. They marched near a

thousand miles to the south of the tropic; but the heat of the climate

loon repelled the invaders, and protected the unwarlike natives 'of

those sequestered regions*. The northern countries of Europe

scarcely deserved the expence and labour of the conquest. The forests

and morasses of Germany were filled with a hardy race of barbari­

ans, who despised life when it was separated from freedom; and

though, on the first attack, they seemed to yield to the weight

of the Roman power, they soon, ty a signal act of despair, re-»

gained their independence, and reminded Augustus of the vicis-

4 , situde

