THE DECLINE AND FALL

She revenges After a successful expedition against the Gothic plunderers of
Asia,

her husband's x

death, the Palmyrenian prince returned to the city of Emesa in Syria. Invin­

cible in war, he was there cut off by domestic treason, and his favourite

amusement of hunting was the cause, or at least the occasion, of his

death s&. His nephew, Mæonius, presumed to dart his javelin before

that of his uncle; and though admonished of his error, repeated the

fame insolence. As a monarch and as a sportsman, Odenathus was

provoked: took away his horse, a mark of ignominy among the bar­

barians, and chastised the rash youth by a short confinement. The

offence was soon forgot, but the punishment was remembered j and

jfc.D. 267. Mæonius, with a few daring associates, assassinated his uncle in
the

midst of a great entertainment. Herod, the son of Odenathus,

though not of Zenobia, a young man of a soft and effeminate

temper S7, was killed with his father. But Mæonius obtained only

the pleasure of revenge by this bloody deed. He had scarcely time

to assume the title of Augustus, before he was sacrificed by Zenobia

to the memory of her husband SS.

and reigns With the assistance of his most faithful friends, she immediately

over the East , J

and Egypt, filled the vacant throne, and governed with manly counsels Palmyra,

Syria, and the East, above five years. By the death of Odenathus,

that authority was at an end which the senate had granted him only

as a personal distinction j but his martial widow, disdaining both the

senate and Gallienus, obliged one of the Roman generals, who was sent

against her, to retreat into Europe, with the loss of his army and his

reputationS9. Instead of the little passions which so frequently perplex

a female reign, the steady administration of Zenobia was guided by the

most judicious maxims of policy. If it was expedient to pardon, she

covdd calm her resentment: if it was necessary topunifh, she could im­

pose silence on the voice of pity. Her strict ceconomy was accused

of avarice; yet on every proper occasion (he appeared magnificent

and liberal. The neighbouring states of Arabia, Armenia, and

Persia, dreaded her enmity, and solicited her alliance. To the do­

minions

