THE DECLINE AND FALL

longer afford subsistence for the remaining multitude of licentious

barbarians. Reduced to this extremity, the Goths would gladly

have purchased, by the surrender of all their booty and prisoners,

the permission of an undisturbed retreat. But the emperor, confident

of victory, and resolving, by the chastisement of these invaders, to

strike a salutary terror into the nations of the North, refused to

listen to any terms of accommodation. The high-spirited barbarians

preferred death to slavery. An obscure town of Mæsia, called

Forum Terebronii44, was the scene of the battle. The Gothic army

was drawn up in three lines, and, either from choice or accident,

the front of the third line was covered by a morass. In the begin­

ning of the action, the son of Decius, a youth of the fairest hopes,

and already associated to the honours of the purple, was slain by an

arrow, in the sight of his afflicted father; who summoning all his

fortitude, admonished the dismayed troops, that the loss of a single

soldier was of little importance to the republic45. The conflict was

terrible; it was the combat of despair against grief and rage. The

first line of the Goths at length gave way in disorder; the second,

advancing to sustain it, ihared its fate; and the third only remained

entire, prepared to dispute the passage of the morass, which was

imprudently attempted by the presumption of the enemy. "Here

"the fortune of the day turned, and all things became adverse to the

"Romans: the place deep with ooze, sinking under those who stood,

** slippery to such as advanced; their armour heavy, the waters deep;  
"nor could they wield in that uneasy situation their weighty jave-

"lins. The barbarians, on the contrary, were enured to encounters

"in the bogs, their persons tall, their spears long, such as could

** wound at a distance +V In this morass the Roman army, after an  
ineffectual struggle, was irrecoverably lost; nor could the body of

the emperor ever be found47. Such was the fate of Decius, in the

fiftieth year of his age; an accomplished prince, active in war, and

affable in peace48; who, together with his son, has deserved to be

compared,

