THE DECLINE AND FALL

almost without business. The names and forms of the ancient!

administration were preserved by Augustus with the most anxious

care. The usual number of consuls, prætors, and tribunes ,s, were

annually invested with their respective ensigns of office, and con­

tinued to discharge some of their least important functions. Those

honours still attracted the vain ambition of the Romans, and the

emperors themselves, though invested for life with the powers of the

consulship, frequently aspired to the title of that annual dignity, which,

they condescended to share with the most illustrious of their fellow-

citizens'6. In the election of these magistrates .the people, during

the reign of Augustus, were permitted to expose all the incon­

veniences of a wild democracy. That artful prince, instead of

discovering the least symptom of impatience, humbly solicited their

suffrages for himself or his friends, and scrupulously practised all

the duties of an ordinary candidate'7. But we may venture to-

ascribe to his councils, the first measure of the succeeding feign, by

which the elections were transferred to the senate The as­

semblies of the- people were for ever abolished, and the emperors

were delivered from a dangerous multitude, who, without re­

storing liberty, might have disturbed, and perhaps endangered, the-

established government.

By declaring themselves the protectors of the people, Marius-

and Cæsar had subverted the constitution of their country; But as'

soon as the senate had been humbled and disarmed, such an assembly,

consisting of five or six hundred'persons, was found1 a very tracta­

ble and useful instrument of dominion. It was on the dignity of;

the senate, that Augustus and his successors founded their new em­

pire; and they affected, on every occasion, ta adopt the language

and principles of Patricians. In the administration of their own

powers, they frequently consulted the great national council, and

seemed to refer to its decision the most important concerns of peace'

and war. Rome, Italy, and the internal, provinces were subject to

the

