THE DECLINE AND FALL

Sedition of

the guard?,

and murder

of Elagabalufi

A. D. 2Z2.

10th March,

Accession of

Alexander

Severus.

Pjwer or \.'»

mother

præfects to watch over the safety of Alexander, and the conduct of

the emperor

It was impossible that such a reconciliation should last, or that

even the mean soul of Elagabalus could hold an empire on

such humiliating terms of dependence. He soon attempted, by a

dangerous experiment, to try the temper of the soldiers. The report

of the death of Alexander, and the natural suspicion that he had

been murdered, inflamed their passions into fury, and the tempest of

the camp could only be appeased by the presence and authority of

the popular youth. Provoked at this new instance of their affection

for his cousin, and their contempt for his person, the emperor

ventured to punish some of the leaders of the mutiny. His unsea­

sonable severity proved instantly fatal to his minions, his mother,

and himself. Elagabalus was massacred by the indignant Præto­

rians, his mutilated corpse dragged through the streets of the city,

and thrown into the Tyber. His memory was branded with

eternal infamy by the senate; the justice of whose decree has been

ratified by posterity

In the room of Elagabalus, his cousin Alexander was raised to

the throne by the Prætorian guards. His relation to the family of

Severus, whose name he assumed, was the fame as that of his pre­

decessor; his virtue and his danger had already endeared him to

the Romans, and the eager liberality of the senate conferred upon

him, in one day, the various titles and powers of the Imperial

dignity 6j. But as Alexander was a modest and dutiful youth, of

only seventeen years of age, the reins of government were in the

hands of two women, of his mother Mamæa, and of Mæsa, his

grandmother. After the death of the latter, who survived but a

short time the elevation of Alexander, Mamæa remained the sole

regent of her son and the empire.

In every age and country, the wiser, or at least the stronger of

the two sexes, has usurped the powers of the state, and confined the

other

