OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

than three years, he had restored universal peace and order to the

Roman world7<S.

Since the foundation of Rome, no general had more nobly deserved A.p. 274

... . Triumph o

a triumph than Aurelian; nor was a triumph ever celebrated with Aureiian.

superior pride and magnificence11. The pomp was opened by twenty

elephants, four royal tygers, and above two hundred of the most curi­

ous animals from every climate of the North, the East, and the South,

They were followed by sixteen hundred gladiators, devoted to the

cruel amusement of the amphitheatre. The wealth of Asia, the arms

and ensigns of so many conquered nations, and the magnificent plate

and wardrobe of the Syrian queen, were disposed in exact symmetry

or artful disorder. The ambassadors of the most remote parts of

the earth, of Æthiopia, Arabia, Persia, Bactriana, India, and China*

all remarkable by their rich or singular dresses, displayed the fame

and power of the Roman emperor, who exposed likewise to the

public view the presents that he had received, and particularly a

great number of crowns of gold, the offerings of grateful cities.

The victories of Aurelian were attested by the long train of cap­

tives who reluctantly attended his triumph, Goths, Vandals, Sar-

matians, Alemanni, Franks, Gauls, Syrians, and Egyptians. Each

people was distinguished by its peculiar inscription, and the title of

Amazons was bestowed on ten martial heroines of the Gothic na­

tion who had been taken in arms7". But every eye, disregarding

the crowd of captives, was fixed on the emperor Tetricus, and the

queen of the East. The former, as well as his son, whom he had

created Augustus, was dressed in Gallic trowscrs 7% a saffron tunic,

and a robe of purple. The beauteous figure of Zenobia was confined

by fetters of gold; a slave supported the gold chain which encircled

her neck, and she almost fainted under the intolerable weight of

jewels, She preceded on foot the magnificent chariot, in which she

once hoped to enter the gates of Rome. It was followed by two

other chariots, still more sumptuous, of Odenathus and of the

S s 2 Persian

