i68 THE DECLINE AND FALL

of two or three generations, the whole property of the subject

must have gradually passed through the coffers of the state.

In the first and golden years of the reign of Nero, that prince,

from a desire of popularity, and perhaps from a blind impulse

of benevolence, conceived a wish of abolishing the oppression of the

Regulations customs and excise. The wisest senators applauded his magnanimity;

e m but they diverted him from the execution of a design, which would

have dissolved the strength and resources of the republic "°. Had

it indeed been possible to realize this dream of fancy, such princes

as Trajan and the Antonines would surely have embraced with

ardour, the glorious opportunity of conferring so signal an obli­

gation on mankind. Satisfied, however, with alleviating the pub­

lic burden, they attempted not to remove it. The mildness and

precision of their laws ascertained the rule and measure of taxation,

and protected the subject of every rank against arbitrary interpret­

ations, antiquated claims, and the insolent vexation of the farmers

of the revenue"'. For it is somewhat singular, that in every age,

the best and wisest of the Roman governors persevered in this per­

nicious method of collecting the principal branches at least of

the excise and customs

Edict of The sentiments, and, indeed, the situation of Caracalla, were very

Caracalla. different from those of the Antonines. Inattentive, or rather

averse to the welfare of his people, he found himself under the

necessity of gratifying the insatiate avarice, which he had excited

in the army. Of the several impositions introduced by Augustus,

the twentieth on inheritances and legacies, was the most fruitful,

as well as the most comprehensive. As its influence was not con­

fined to Rome or Italy, the produce continually increased with the

gradual extension of the Roman City. The new citizens, though

charged, oft equal terms ,,J, with the payment of new taxes, which

had not affected them as subjects, derived an ample compensation

from the rank they obtained, the privileges they acquired, and the

fair

