THE DEC LINE AND FALL

decisive victoryThe war was finished by that memorable

day.'

decided by The civil wars of modern Europe have been distinguished, not

battles/*" only by the fierce animosity, but likewise by the obstinate
perseve­

rance of the contending factions. They have generally been jus­

tified by some principle, or, at least, coloured by some pretext, of

religion, freedom, or loyalty. The leaders Were nobles of indepen­

dent property and hereditary influence. The troops fought like

men interested in the decision of the quarrel; and as military spirit

and party zeal were strongly diffused throughout the whole com­

munity, a vanquished chief was immediately supplied with new

adherents, eager to shed their blood in the same cause. But the

Romans, after the fall of the republic, combated only for the

choice of masters. Under the standard of a popular candidate for

empire, a few inlisted from affection, some from fear, many from

interest, none from principle. The legions uninflamed by party

zeal, were allured into civil war by liberal donatives, and still

more liberal promises. A defeat, by disabling the chief from the

performance of his engagements, dissolved the mercenary allegi­

ance of his followers; and left them to consult their own safety, by

a timely desertion of an unsuccessful cause. It was of little moment

to the provinces, under whose name they were oppressed or governed;

they were driven by the impulsion of the present power, and as

soon as that power yielded to a superior force, they hastened to

implore the clemency of the conqueror, who, as he had an im­

mense debt to discharge, was obliged to sacrifice the most guilty

countries to the avarice of his soldiers. In the vast extent of the

Roman empire there were few fortified cities, capable of protecting

a routed army; nor was there any person, or family, or order of

inen, whose natural interest, unsupported by the powers of govern­

ment, was capable of restoring the cause of a sinking party 5\

Yet

