THE DECLINE AND PALL

their unjust claim to many persons who were strangers to the blood

or religion of the Jews, it was impossible that the Christians, who

had so often sheltered themselves under the made of the synagogue,

should now escape this rapacious persecution. Anxious as they were

to avoid the flightest infection of idolatry, their conscience forbade

them to contribute to the honour of that dæmon who had assumed

the character of the Capitoline Jupiter. As a very numerous though

declining party among the Christians still adhered to the law of

Moses, their efforts to dissemble their Jewish origin were detected

by the decisive test of circumcision 46: nor were the Roman magi­

strates at leisure to inquire into the difference of their religious

tenets. Among the Christians who were brought before the tribu­

nal of the emperor, or, as it seems more probable, before that of

the procurator of Judæa, two persons are said to have appeared, di­

stinguished by their extraction, which was more truly noble than

that of the greatest monarchs. These were the grandsons of St. Jude

the apostle, who himself was the brother of Jesus Christ *7. Their

natural pretensions to the throne of David, might perhaps attract

the respect of the people, and excite the jealousy of the governor; but

the meanness of their garb, and the simplicity of their answers,

soon convinced him that they were neither desirous nor capable of

disturbing the peace of the Roman empire. They frankly confessed,

their royal origin, and their near relation to the Messiah; but they

disclaimed any temporal views, and professed that his kingdom,

which they devoutly expected, was purely of a spiritual and angelic

nature. When they were examined concerning their fortune and

occupation, they (hewed their hands hardened with daily labour,,

and declared that they derived their whole subsistence from the culti­

vation of a farm near the village of Cocaba, of the extent of about

twenty-four English acres *', and of the value of nine thousand

drachms, or three hundred pounds sterling. The grandsons of St.

Jude were dismissed with compassion and contempt **•

But

