OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 445

the effort or terror of his invincible arm, he broke, slaughtered,

and put to flight a host-of an hundred and fifty thousand men.

The credulity of Zosimus prevailed so strongly over his passion,

that among the events of the memorable battle of Hadrianople, he

seems to have selected and embellished, not the most important*

but the most marvellous. The valour and danger of Constantino

are attested by a flight wound which he received in the thigh, but it

may be discovered even from an imperfect narration, and perhaps a

corrupted text, that the victory was obtained no less by the conduct

of the general than by the courage of the hero; that a body of

five thousand archers marched round to occupy a thick wood in

the rear of the enemy, whose attention was diverted by the prepa­

ration of a bridge, and that Licinius, perplexed by so many artful

evolutions, was reluctantly drawn from his advantageous post, to

combat on equal ground in the plain. The contest was no longer

equal. His confused multitude of new levies was easily vanquished

by the experienced veterans of the West. Thirty-four thousand

.men are reported to have been slain. The fortified camp of Lici­

nius was taken by assault the evening of the ,battle; the greater part

of the fugitives, who had retired to the mountains, surrendered then>

selves the next day to the discretion of the conqueror; and his

rival, who could no longer keep the field, confined himself within

the walls of Byzantium ,p7.

The siege of Byzantium, which was immediately, undertaken by Siege of By.

! i • i ii i • t "ntiumand

Constantine, was attended with great labour and uncertainty. In naval victory,

the late civil wars, the fortifications of that place, so justly considered of
CnsPw-

as the key of Europe and Asia, had been repaired and strengthened;

and as long as Licinius remained master of the sea, the garrison

was much less exposed to the danger of famine than the army of

the besiegers. The naval commanders of Constantine were sum­

moned to his camp, and received his positive orders to force the

passage of the Hellespont, as the fleet of Licinius, instead of seeking

andi

