OF THE ROMAN EMPIRfe." $6$

of schism and heresy, were either commanded or permitted to plead

their cause -before the tribunal of the conqueror. This public arid

very singular trial affords a convincing proof, that the existence*

the property, the privileges, and the internal policy of the Christians

were acknowledged, if not by the laws, at least by the magistrates

of the empire. As a pagan and as a soldier, it could scarcely be

expected that Aurelian should enter into the discussion, whether the

sentiments of Paul or those of his adversaries were most agreeable to

the true standard of the orthodox faith. His determination, however) The
sentence

_ is executed by

was founded on the general principles of equity and reason. He Aurelian.

considered the bishops of Italy as the most impartial and respectable A*D'*74-

judges among the Christians, and as soon as he was informed, that

they had unanimously approved the sentence of the council, he ac­

quiesced in their opinion, and immediately gave orders that Paul

should be compelled to relinquish the temporal possessions belonging

to an office, of which, in the judgment of his brethren, he had

been justly deprived. But while we applaud the justice, we should

not overlook the policy, of Aurelian; who was desirous of restoring

and cementing the dependance of provinces on the capital, by every

means which could bind the interest or prejudices of any part of his

subjects "9.

Amidst the frequent revolutions of the empire, the Christians still Peace and

. -in- prosperity of

flourished in peace and prosperity; and notwithstanding a cele- the church

brated aera of martyrs has been deduced from the accession of Dio-

cletian '!°, the new system of policy, introduced and maintained by z84~~

the wisdom of that prince, continued, during more than eighteen

years, to breathe the mildest and most liberal spirit of religious tole­

ration. The mind of Diocletian himself was less adapted indeed to

speculative inquiries, than to the active labours of war and govern­

ment. His prudence rendered him averse to any great innovation,

and though his temper was not very susceptible of zeal or enthu­

siasm, he always maintained an habitual regard for the ancient

4 C 2 , deities

