Ixxxiv NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.

[i2oJ Lactantius, de Mortibus Persecutorum, c.

3, 4. After celebrating the felicity and increase of

the church, under a long succession of good princes:

he adds, u Extitit post annos plurimos, execrabile

animal, Decius, qui vexaret Ecclesiam."

[121] Eufeb. 1. vi. c. 39. Cyprian Epistol. 55.

The fee of Rome remained vacant from the martyr­

dom of Fabianus, to the zoth of January, A. D.

250, till the election of Cornelius, the 4th of June,

A. D. 251. Deciu3 had probably left Rome, since

he was killed before the end of that year.

[122] Euseb. 1. vii. c. rc. Mostieim (p, 548.)

has very clearly (hewn, that the Præfect Macrianus,

and the Egyptian Magui, are one and the fame

person.

[123] Eusebius (1. vii. c. 13.) gives us a Greek

version of this Latin edict, which seems to have

been very concise. By another edict, he directed,

that the Cacmtttria should be restored to the Chris­

tians.

[124] Euseb. 1. vii. c. 30. Lactantius de M. P.

«. 6. Hieronym. in Chron. p. 177. Orosius, 1. vii.

c. 23. Their language is in general so ambiguous

and incorrect, that we are at a loss to determine

how far Aurelian had carried his intentions before

he was assassinated. Most of the moderns (except

Dodwell, Dissertat. Cyprian, xi. 64.) have seized

the occasion of gaining a few extraordinary martyrs.

[125] Paul was better pleased with the title ofDu-

tmariui, than with that of bishop. The Ducenarius

was an imperial procurator, so called from his salary

of two hundred Sejitrtia, or 1,600 1. a year. (See

Salmasius ad Hist. August, p. 124.) Some critics

suppose, that the bilhop of Antioch had actually

obtained such an office from Zcnobia, while others

consider it only as a figurative expression of his

pomp and insolence.

[126] Simony was not unknown in those times;

and the clergy sometimes bought what they intend-

ed to sell. It appears that the bishopric os Car­

thage was purchased by a wealthy matron, named

Lucilla, for her servant Majorinus. The price was

400 Folles. (Monument. Antiq. ad calcem Optati,

oj: p. 263.) Every Folliscontained iz; pieces of silver,

and the whjole sum may be computed at about

2,400 1.

[127] If we are desirous of extenuating the vices

of Paul, we mull suspect the assembled bishops of the

East of publilhing the most malicious calumnies in a

circular epistle, addressed to all the churches of the

empire (ap. Euseb. 1. vii. c. 30).

[128] His heresy (like those of Noetus and Sa-

bcllius, in the fame century) tended to confound the

mysterious distinction of the divine persons. See

Mostieim, p. 702, &c.

[129] Euseb. Hist. Ecclesiast. 1. vii. c. 30. We

are entirely indebted to him for the curious story of

Paul of Samofota.

[i3oJ The Æra of Martyrs, which is still in use

among the Copts and the Abyssinians, must be rec­

koned from the 29th of August, A. D- 2-4; as the

beginning of the Egyptian year was nineteen days

earlier than the real accession of Diocletian. See

Dissertation preliminaire a l'Art de verifier les

Dates*.

[131] The expression of Lactantius (de M. P.

c. 15.) "sacrificio pollui coegit," implies their

antecedent conversion to the faith; but does not seen

to justify the assertion of Mostieim (p, 91-'.), that

they had been privately baptised.

[132] M. deTillemont(MemoiresEcclesiasliques,

torn. v. parti, p. 11, 12.) has quoted from the

Spicilegium of Dom Luc d'Acheri, a very curious

instruction which bilhop Theonas composed for the

use of Lucian.

[133] Lactantius de M. P. c. 10..

[134] Euscbius Hist. Ecclesiast. I. viii. c. 1. The

reader, who consults the original will not accuse me

of heightening the picture. Eusebius was about

sixteen years of age, at the accession of the empe.or

Diocletian.

f 13 5.3 We might quote, among a great number

of instances, the mysterious worship of Mithras,

and the Taurobolia; the latter of which became

fashionable in the time of the Antonines (See a

Dissertation of M. de Boze, in the Memoires tie

l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. ii. p. 443.}.

The romance of Apulcius is as full of devotion as

of satire.

[136] Thfr impostor Alexander very strongly

recommended the oracle of Trcphonius at Mallei,

and

