0:F THE ROMAN EMPIRE. $0$.

adorned' with all that could attract the curiosity, the wonder* and

the veneration of the people. In their actual disposition, as' they

were almost disengaged from their artificial prejudices, but equally

susceptible and desirous of a devout attachment; an object fftucfo'

less deserving would have- been sufficient to fill the vacant place in

their hearts, and to gratify the uncertain eagerness of their passions.

Those who are inclined to pursue this reflection, instead of viewing

With astonishment the rapid progress' of Christianity, will perhaps

be surprised that its success was1 not still more rapid and' still more

universal.

It has been observed, with truth as well as- propriety, that the as well as
the

... peace and

conquests of Rome prepared and facilitated those of Christianity, union of the

In the second chapter of this work we have attempted to explain pire?3"Cm

in what manner the most civilized provinces of Europe, Asia,

and Africa, were united under the dominion of one sovereign,

and gradually connected by the most intimate ties of laws, of man­

ners, and of language. The Jews of Palestine, who had fondly

expected a temporal deliverer, gave so cold a reception .to the mi­

racles of the divine prophet, that it was found unnecessary to

publish, or at least to preserve, any Hebrew gospel '5°. The au­

thentic histories of the actions of Christ were composed in the

Greek language, at a considerable distance from Jerusalem, and

after the Gentile converts were grown extremely numerous"'.

As soon as those histories were translated into the Latin tongue,

they were perfectly intelligible to all the subjects of Rome, excepting

only to the peasants of Syria and Egypt, for whose benefit par­

ticular versions were afterwards made. The public highways,

which had been- constructed for the use of the legions, opened an

easy passage for the Christian missionaries from Damascus to Corinth,

and from Italy to the extremity of Spain or Britain] nor did those

spiritual conquerors encounter any of the obstacles which usually

retard or prevent the introduction of a foreign religion-into a

Vol. L T t t distant

