OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, izt

Whilst Severus was engaged in his eastern war, he had reason to swards Al-

Dill US*

apprehend that the governor of Britain might pass the sea and

the Alps, occupy the vacant feat of empire, and oppose his return

with the authority of the senate and the forces of the west. The

ambiguous conduct of Albinus, in not assuming the Imperial title,

left room for negociation. Forgetting, at once, his professions of

patriotism, and the jealousy of sovereign power, he accepted the

precarious rank of Caesar, as a reward for his fatal neutrality.

Till the first contest was decided, Severus treated the man whom

he had doomed to destruction, with every mark of esteem and re­

gard. Even in the letter, in which he announced his victory over

Niger, he styles Albinus the brother of his soul and empire, fends

him the affectionate salutations of his wife Julia, and his young

family, and intreats him to preserve the armies and the republic

faithful to their common interest. The messengers charged with

this letter, were instructed to accost the Cæsar with respect, to de­

sire a private audience, and to plunge their daggers into his

heart *s. The conspiracy was discovered, and the too credulous

Albinus, at length, passed over to the continent, and prepared for

an unequal contest with his rival, who rushed upon him at the head

of a veteran and victorious army.

The military labours of Severus seem inadequate to the import- Event of the

ance of his conquests. Two engagements, the one near the Helles- civi1 warf»

pont, the other in the narrow defiles of Cilicia, decided the fate

of his Syrian competitor; and the troops of Europe asserted their

usual ascendant over the effeminate natives of Asia 49. The battle

of Lyons, where one hundred and fifty thousand Romans s" were

engaged, was equally fatal to Albinus. The valour of the British

army maintained, indeed, a sharp and doubtful contest, with the

hardy discipline of the lllyrian legions. The fame and person of

Severus appeared, during a few moments, irrecoverably lost, till

- that warlike prince rallied his fainting troops, and led them on to a  
Vol. I. R decisive

