202 THE DECLINE AND FALL

of subsistence: that the danger of each individual had increased

with the despotism of the military order, since princes who tremble

on the throne, will guard their safety by the instant sacrifice of

every obnoxious subject. The emperor expatiated on the mischiefs

of a lawless caprice which the soldiers could only gratify at the ex-

pence of their own blood; as their seditious elections had so fre­

quently been followed by civil wars, which consumed the flower of

the legions either in the field of battle or in the cruel abuse of vic­

tory. He painted in the most lively colours the exhausted state of

the treasury, the desolation of the provinces, the disgrace of the

Roman name, and the insolent triumph of rapacious barbarians. It

was against those barbarians, he declared, that he intended to point

the first effort of their arms. Tetricus might reign for a while over

the West, and even Zenobia might preserve the dominion of the

East,0. These usurpers were his personal adversaries; nor could

he think of indulging any private resentment till he had saved an

empire, whose impending ruin would, unless it was timely pre-

* vented, crufli both the army and the people.  
A.D. 269. The various nations of Germany and Sarmatia, who fought under

invLtethe' tne Gothic standard, had already collected an armament more for-

empire. midable than any which had yet issued from the Euxina On the

banks of the Niester, one of the great rivers that discharge them­

selves into it, they constructed a fleet of two thousand, or even of

six thousand vessels"; numbers which, however incredible they

may seem, would have been insufficient to transport their pretended

army of three hundred and twenty thousand barbarians. Whatever

might be the real strength of the Goths, the vigour and success of

the expedition were not adequate to the greatness of the prepara­

tions. In their passage through the Bosphorus, the unskilful pilots

were overpowered by the violence of the current; and while the

multitude of their ships were crowded in a narrow channel, many

were dashed against each other, or against the shore. The barba­

rians

