THE DECLINE AND FALL

long before the age prescribed by the military regulations. The

tribune soon justified his choice, by a victory over a great body of

Sarmatians, in which he saved the life of a near relation of Vale­

rian; and deserved to receive from the emperor's hand the collars,

bracelets, spears, and banners, the mural and the civic crown, and

all the honourable rewards reserved by ancient Rome for successful

valour. The third, and afterwards the tenth, legion were entrusted to

the command of Probus, who, in every step of his promotion, shewed

himself superior to the station which he filled. Africa- and Pontus,

the Rhine, the Danube, the Euphrates, and the Nile, by turns afforded

him the most splendid occasions of displaying his personal prowess and

military knowledge. Aurelian was indebted to him for the conquest

of Egypt, and still more indebted for the honest courage with which he

often checked the cruelty of his master. Tacitus, who desired by the

abilities of his generals to supply his own deficiency of military ta­

lents, named him commander in chief of all the eastern provinces,

with five times the usual salary, the promise of the consulsliip, and the

hope of a triumph. When Probus ascended the imperial throne, he

was about forty-four years of age 1+; in the full possession of his fame,

of the love of the army, and of a mature vigour of mind and body.

His acknowledged merit, and the success of his arms against

Florianus, left him without an enemy or a competitor. Yet if we

may credit his own professions, very far from being desirous of the

empire, he had accepted it with the most sincere reluctance. "But

*' it is no longer in my power," fays Probus, in a private letter,  
"to lay down a title so full of envy and of danger. I must con-

"tinue to personate the character which the soldiers have imposed

14 upon me *V His dutiful address to the senate displayed the

sentiments, or at least the language, of a Roman patriot: "When

*« you elected one of your order, conscript fathers! to succeed the  
-*• emperor Aurelian, you acted in a manner suitable to your justice  
." and wisdom. For you are the legal sovereigns of the world,

M and

8

