THE DECLINE AND FALL

of the first Christians, who, according to the lively expression of

Sulpicius Severus, desired martyrdom with more eagerness than his

own contemporaries solicited a bishopric S*. The epistles which

Ignatius composed as he was carried in chains through the cities of

Asia, breathe sentiments the most repugnant to the ordinary feelings

of human nature. He earnestly beseeches the Romans, that when

he should be exposed in the amphitheatre, they would not, by their

kind but unseasonable intercession, deprive him of the crown of

glory; and he declares his resolution to provoke and irritate the

wild beasts which might be employed as the instruments of his

death '*. Some stories are related of the courage of martyrs, who

actually performed what Ignatius had intended; who exasperated

the fury of the lions, pressed the executioner to hasten his office,

cheerfully leaped into the sires which were kindled to consume them,

and discovered a sensation of joy and pleasure in the midst of the

most exquisite tortures. Several examples have been preserved of a

zeal impatient of those restraints which the emperors had provided

for the security of the church. The Christians sometimes supplied

by their voluntary declaration the want of an accuser, rudely dis­

turbed the public service of Paganism 9J, and rushing in crowds round

the tribunal of the magistrates, called upon them to pronounce and

to inflict the sentence of the law. The behaviour of the Christians

was too remarkable to escape the notice of the ancient philosophers .

but they seem to have considered it with much less admiration than

astonishment. Incapable of conceiving the motives which sometimes

transported the fortitude of believers beyond the bounds of prudenie

or reason, they treated such an eagerness to die as the strange result

of obstinate despair, of stupid insensibility, or of superstitious

phrenzy9*. "Unhappy men," exclaimed the proconsul Antoninus

to the Christians of Asia, " unhappy men, if you are thus weary of

"your lives, is it so difficult for you to find ropes and precipices 95?"

He was extremely cautious (as it is observed by a learned and pious

4 historian)

