4^4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Abhorrence

of the Chris­

tians for

idolatry.

Ceremonies.

Arts.

In consequence of this opinion, it was the first but arduous duty

•of a Christian to preserve himself pure and undefiled by the practice

of idolatry. The religion of the nations was not merely a specu­

lative doctrine professed in the schools or preached in the temples.

The innumerable deities and rites of polytheism were closely inter­

woven with every circumstance of business or pleasure, of public

or of private life; and it seemed impossible to escape their obser­

vance, without, at the same time, renouncing the commerce of

mankind, and all the offices and amusements of society The

important transactions of peace and war were prepared or con­

cluded by solemn sacrifices, in which the magistrate, the senator,

and the soldier, were obliged to preside or to participate40. The

public spectacles were an essential part of the cheerful devotion of

the Pagans, and the gods were supposed to accept, as the most

grateful offering, the games that the prince and people celebrated

in honour of their peculiar festivals *'. The Christian, who with

pious horror avoided the abomination of the circus or the theatre,

found himself encompassed with infernal snares in every convivial

entertainment, as often as his friends, invoking the hospitable

deities, poured out libations to each other's happiness **. When

the bride, struggling with well-affected reluctance, was forced in

hymenæal pomp over the threshold of her new habitation 4{; or

when the sad procession of the dead slowly moved towards the

funeral pile 4+, the Christian, on these interesting occasions, was

compelled to desert the persons who were the dearest to him, rather

than contract the guilt inherent to those impious ceremonies.

Every art and every trade that was in the least concerned in the

framing or adorning of idols was polluted by the stain of idola­

try *% a levere sentence, since it devoted to eternal misery the far

greater part of the community, which is employed in the exercise

of liberal or mechanic professions. If we cast our eyes over the

numerous remains of antiquity, we shall perceive, that besides the

immediate

