NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixvii

^stricter and a milder sect; and there is some rea­

son to conjecture, that the family of Jesus Christ

remained members, at least, of the latter and more

moderate party.

[22] Some writers have been pleased to create an

Ebion, the imaginary author of their sect and name.

Bar we can more safety rely on the learned Eusebius

than on the vehement Tertuiliaa, or the credulous

Epipbanius.

[23] See the very curious Dialogue of Justin

Martyr with the Jew Tryphon. The conference

between them was held at Ephesas, in the reign of

Antoninus Pius, and about twenty years after the

return of the church of Pella to Jerusalem. For this

date consult the accurate note of riilemont. Me-

moires Ecclesiasliques, torn. ii. p. 511*

[24}Of all the fy stems of Christianity, that of Abys­

sinia is the only one which still adheres to the Mosaic

rites (Geddes's Church History of Æthiopia, and Dis­

sertations de le Grand, fur la Relation du P. Lobo).

The eunuch of the queen Candace might suggest

some suspicions; but as we are assured (Socrates, i.

19. Sozomen, ii. 24. Ludolphus, p. 281.J that

the Æthiopians were not converted till the fourth

century; it is more reasonable to believe, that they

respected the Sabbath, and distinguished the forbidden

meats, in imitation of the Jews, who in a very early

period, were seated on both sides of the Red Sea.

Circumcision had been practised by the most ancient

Æthiopians, from motives of health and cleanliness,

which seem to be explained in the Recherches Phi-

losophiques fur les Americains, torn. ii. p. 117.

[2;] fieausobre, Histoire du Manicheifme, 1. i.

c. 3. has fiated their objections, particularly those of

Faustus, the adversary of Augustin, with the most

learned impartiality.

[26] Apud ipsos fides obstinata, mifericordia in

promptu: adversus omnes alios hostile odium.

Tacit. Hist. v. 4. Surety Tacitus had seen the

Jews with too favourable an e/e. The perusal of

Joseph us must have destroyed the antithesis.

[27] Dr. Burnet (Archæologia, 1. ii. c. 7.) has

discussed the first chapters of Genesis with too much

wit and freedom.

[28] The milder Gnostics considered Jehovah, the

Creator, as a Being of a mixed nature between God

and the Dæmon. Others confounded him with the

evil principle.

[29] SeeBeausobre, Hist, du Manicheifme, 1. i. c. 4.

Origen and St. Augustin were among the Allegorilt*.

[30] Hegesippas, ap. Euseb. I. iii. 32. iv. 22.

Clemens Alexandrin. Stromat. vii. 17.

[31] In the account of the Gnostics of the second

and third centuries, Mofheim is ingenious and can­

did ; Le Clerc, dull, but exact; Beaufobre almost

always an apologist; and it is much to be feared,

that the primitive fathers are very frequently calum­

niators.

[32] See the catalogues of Irenasus and Epipha-

nius. It must indeed be allowed, that those writers

were inclined to multiply the number of sects which

opposed the unity of the church.

[33] Eusebius, 1. iv. a. 15. See in Bayle, in the

article of Marciou, a curious detail of a dispute on

that subject. It mould seem that some of the Gnos­

tics (the Basilidians) declined, and even refused

the honour of martyrdom. Their reasons were

singular and abstruse. See Moiheim, p. 359.

[34] See a very remarkable passage of Origen

(Proem, ad Lucam). That indefatigable writer, who

had consumed his life in the study of the scriptures,

relies for their authenticity on the inspired authority

of the church. It was impossible that the Gnostics

could receive our present gospels, many parts of

which (particularly in the resurrection of Christ)

are directly, and as it might seem designedly, pointed

against their favourite tenets. It is therefore some­

what singular that Ignatius (Epist. ad Smyrn. Patr.

Apostol. torn. ii. p. 34.) should chuse to employ a

vague and doubtful tradition, instead of quoting the

certain testimony of the evangelists.

[35] Habent apes favos; habent ecclesias et

Marcionitæ, is the strong expression of Tertullian,

which I am obliged to quote from memory. In the

time of Epipnanius (advers. Hareses, p. 302.) the

Maicidnir.es were very numerous in Italy, Syria,

Egypt> Arabia, and Persia.

[36] Augustin is a memorable instance of this

gradual progress from reason to faith. He was,

during several years, engaged in the Manichæan secti

[37] The unanimous sentiment of the primitive

church is very clearly explained by Justin Martyr.

Apolog. Major, by Athenagoras Lcgat. c. 2z, &c.

and by Lactantius, Institut. Divin. ii. 14—19.

i 2 [37] Ter-

