9a THE DECLINE AND. FALL

Condianus; whose fraternal love has saved their names from obli­

vion, and endeared their memory to posterity. Their studies and

their occupations, their pursuits and their pleasures, were still the

fame. In the enjoyment of a great estate, they never admitted the

idea of a separate interest; some fragments are now extant of a-

treatise which they composed in common; and in every action of

life it was observed, that their two bodies were animated by one foul.

The Antonines, who valued their virtues, and delighted in their

union, raised them, in the some year, to the consulship; and

Marcus afterwards intrusted to their joint care, the civil admi­

nistration of Greece, and a great military command, in which they

obtained a signal victory over the Germans. The kind cruelty of

. . Commodus united them in death ' •.

The minister The tyrant's rage, after having shed the noblest blood of the se­

nate, at length recoiled on the principal instrument of his cruelty.

Whilst Commodus was immersed in blood and luxury, he devolved

the detail of the public business on Perennis ; a servile and ambitious

minister, who had obtained his post by the murder of his predecessor,

but who possessed a considerable share of vigour and ability. By

acts of extortion, and the forfeited estates of the nobles sacrificed to

his avarice, he had accumulated an immense treasure. The Præ­

torian guard's were under his immediate command; and his son,

who already discovered a military genius, was at the head of the

Illyrian legions. Perennis aspired to the empire; or what, in the

eyes of Commodus, amounted to the fame crime, he was capable

of aspiring to it, had he not been prevented, surprised, and put to

t8ty death. The fall of a minister is a very trifling incident in. the

general history of the empire; but it was hastened by an extra­

ordinary circumstance, which proved how much the nerves of dis­

cipline were already relaxed. The legions of Britain, discontented

with the administration of Perennis, formed a deputation of fifteen

hundred select men, with instructions to march to Rome, and lay

their

