l62 THE DECLINE AND FALL

sordid result of avarice, and will naturally be illustrated by some

, observations on the finances of that state, from the victorious ages of

the commonwealth to the reign of Alexander Severus.

Establishment The siege of Veii in Tuscany, the first considerable enterprise
of

the Romans, was protracted to the tenth year, much less by the

strength of the place than by the unfkilfulneso of the besiegers.

The unaccustomed hardships of so many winter campaigns, at the

distance of near twenty miles from home 8l, required more than

common encouragements; and the senate wisely prevented the cla­

mours of the people, by the institution of a regular pay for the

soldiers, which was levied by a general tribute, assessed according to

an equitable proportion on the property of the citizens *\ During:

more than two hundred years after the conquest of Veii, the victo­

ries of the republic added less to the wealth than to the power of

Rome. The states of Italy paid their tribute in military service

only, and the vast force both by sea and land, which was exerted in

the Punic wars, was maintained at the expence of the Romans them­

selves. That high-spirited people (such is often the generous en­

thusiasm of freedom) cheerfully submitted to the most excessive but

voluntary burdens, in the just confidence that they should speedily

enjoy the rich harvest of their labours. Their expectations were

not disappointed. In the course of a few years, the riches of Syra­

cuse, of Carthage, of Macedonia, and of Asia, were brought in tri-

and abolition umph to Rome. The treasures of Perseus alone amounted to near

on RomantC two millions sterling, and the Roman people, the sovereign of so

cmzens. many nations, was for ever delivered from the weight of taxes 85.

The increasing revenue of the provinces was found sufficient to

defray the ordinary establishment of war and government, and the

superfluous mass of gold and silver was deposited in the temple of

Saturn, and reserved for any unforeseen emergency of the state *4.

Tributes of History has never perhaps suffered a greater or more irreparable

the provinces mjurVj fa&J1 [n fa iQf8 0f t^at curious register bequeathed by
Au­

gustus­

