OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. J57

to restore the glories and felicity of the age of the genuine An-

tonines 7*«

In the civil administration of Alexander, wisdom was enforced He attempts

hy power, and the people, sensible of the public felicity, repaid army,

their benefactor with their love and gratitude. There still remained a

greater, a more necessary, but a more difficult enterprise; the refor­

mation of the military order, whose interest and temper, confirmed by

long impunity, rendered them impatient of the restraints of dis­

cipline, and careless of the blessings of public tranquillity. In the

execution of his design the emperor affected to display his love,

and to conceal his fear, of the army. The most rigid œconomy

in every other branch of the administration, supplied a fund of gold

and silver for the ordinary pay and the extraordinary rewards of

the troops. In their marches he relaxed the severe obligation of

carrying seventeen days provision on their shoulders. Ample

magazines were formed along the public roads, and as soon as they

entered the enemy's country, a numerous train of mules and camek

waited on their haughty laziness. As Alexander despaired of

correcting the luxury of his soldiers, he attempted, at least, to di­

rect it to objects of martial pomp and ornament, fine horses, fplenr

did armour, and shields enriched with silver and gold. He shared

whatever fatigues he was obliged to impose, visited, in person, the

sick and wounded, preserved an exact register of their services

and his own gratitude, and expressed, on every occasion, the

warmest regard for a body of men, whose welfare, as he affected

to declare, was so closely connected with that of the state 7\ By

the most gentle arts he laboured to inspire the fierce multitude

with a sense of duty, and to restore at least a faint image of that

discipline, to which the Romans owed their empire over so many

other nations> as warlike and more powerful than themselves. But

his prudence was vain, his courage fatal, and the attempt towards

a reformation served only to inflame the ills it was meant to cure.

The

