OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

A rapid succession of monarchs had arisen and fallen in the pro- Succession os

* * Usurpers in

vinces of Gaul. The rigid virtues of Posthumus were fatal to him. Gaul.

After suppressing a competitor, who had assumed the .purple at

Mentz, he refused to gratify his troops with the plunder of thd

rebellious city; and in the seventh year of his reign, became the

victim of their disappointed avarice *6. The death of Victorinus,

his friend and associate, was occasioned by a less worthy cause*

The shining accomplishments 47 of that prince were stained by

a licentious passion, which he indulged in acts of violence,

with too little regard to the laws of society, or even to those of

love 4". He was slain at Cologne, by a conspiracy of jealous huf-1

bands, whose revenge would have appeared more justifiable had

they spared the innocence of his son. After the murder of so many

valiant princes, it is somewhat remarkable, that a female for a long

time controuled the fierce legions of Gaul, and still more singular,

that she was the mother of the unfortunate Victorinus. The

arts and treasures of Victoria enabled her successively to place

Man us and Tetricus on the throne, and to reign with a manly

vigour under the name of those dependent emperors. Money of

copper, of silver, and of gold, was coined in her name; she as­

sumed the titles of Augusta and Mother of the Camps: her power

ended only with her life; but her life was perhaps shortened by the

ingratitude of Tetricus 49.

When, at the instigation of his ambitious patroness, Tetricus The reign and

assumed the ensigns of royalty, he was governor of the peaceful tricus.

province of Aquitaine, an employment suited to his character and

education. He reigned four or five years over Gaul, Spain, and

Britain, the slave and sovereign of a licentious army, whom he

dreaded, and by whom he was despised. The valour and fortune of

Auretian, at length opened the prospect of a deliverance. He ven­

tured todHclose his melancholy situation, and conjured the emperor

to hasten to the relief of his unhappy rival. Had this secret cor- A. D. 271.

Vol. I. Rr - respondence Summer*

