OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. a#?

quences, turned away with indignant contempt, from the remon­

strances of justice and policy, and it was the practice to signify by a t

hollow murmur, their dislike of such timid councils. But whenever

a more popular orator proposed to vindicate the meanest citizen, from

either foreign or domestic injury, whenever the called upon his fel­

low-countrymen to assert the national honour, or to pursue some

enterprise full of danger and glory, a loud clashing of shields and

spears expressed the eager applause of the assembly. For the Ger­

mans always met in arms, and it was constantly to be dreaded, lest

an irregular multitude, inflamed with faction and strong liquors,

should use those arms to enforce, as well as to declare their furious

resolves. We may recollect how often the diets of Poland have

been polluted with blood, and the more numerous party has been

compelled to yield to the more violent and seditious *6.

A general of the tribe was elected on occasions of danger; and, if
^'princetand

the danger was pressing and extensive, several tribes concurred in magistrates

the choice of the fame general. The bravest warrior was named

to lead his countrymen into the field, by his example rather than by

his commands. But this power, however limited, was still invi­

dious. It expired with the war, and in time of peace, the German

tribes acknowledged not any supreme chief+7. Princes were, how­

ever, appointed* in the general assembly, to administer justice,

or rather to compose differences 48, in their respective districts.

In the choice of these magistrates, as much regard was shewn to

birth as to merit *9. To each was given, by the public, a guard',

and a council of an hundred persons; and the first of the princes

appears to have enjoyed a pre-eminence of rank and honour which

sometimes tempted the Romans to compliment him with the regal

title 5°.

The comparative view of the powers of the magistrates, in two more absolute

over the pro-

remarkable instances, is alone sufficient to represent the - whole perty than

mi -r r t- over the per-

system of German manners. The disposal of the landed property son. of the

. , . Germans.

within

