64 THE DECLINE AND FALL

that they expected the honours of a triumph. In the use of victory,

especially after they were no longer controlled by the commissioners

of the senate, they exercised the most unbounded despotism. When

Pompey commanded in the east, he rewarded his soldiers and

allies, dethroned princes, divided kingdoms, founded colonies, and

distributed the treasures of Mithridates. On his return to Rome

he obtained, by a single act of the senate and people, the universal

ratification of all his proceedings 9. Such was the power over the

soldiers, and over the enemies of Rome, which was either granted

to, or assumed by, the generals of the republic. They were, at

the fame time, the governors, or rather monarchs of the conquered

provinces, united the civil with the military character, administered

justice as well as the finances, and exercised both the executive

and legislative power of the state.

Lieutenants From what has been already observed in the first chapter of this

peror.Cm work, some notion may be formed of the armies and provinces

thus intrusted to the ruling hand of Augustus. But as it was im­

possible that he could personally command the legions of so many

distant frontiers, he was indulged by the senate as Pompey had

already been, in the permission of devolving the execution of his

great office on a sufficient number of lieutenants. In rank and

authority these officers seemed not inferior to the ancient proconsuls;

but their station was dependent and precarious. They received and

held their commissions, at the will of a superior, to whose auspicious

influence the merit of their actions was legally attributed '°. They

were the representatives of the emperor. The emperor alone was

the general of the republic, and his jurisdiction, civil as well as

military, extended over all the conquests of Rome. It was some

Satisfaction, however, to the senate, that he always delegated his

power to the members of their body. The Imperial lieutenants

were of consular or prætorian dignity; the legions were com­

manded.

