OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Bi

0

that absolute power, which they had exerted for the benefit of their

people. The ideal restraints of the senate and the laws might serve

to display the virtues, but could never correct the vices of the emperor.

The military force was a blind and irresistible instrument of oppression;

and the corruption of Roman manners would always supply flat­

terers eager to applaud, and ministers prepared to serve, the fear or

the avarice, the lust or the cruelty, of their masters.

These gloomy apprehensions had been already justified by theexpe- Memory of

rience of the Romans. The annals of the emperors exhibit a strong i^u^N^o]

and various picture of human nature, which we should vainly seek Donu*

among the mixed and doubtful characters of modern history. In the

conduct of those monarebs we may trace the utmost lines of vice and

virtue; the moist exalted perfection, and the meanest degeneracy of

our own species. The golden age of Trajan and the Antonines,

had been preceded by an age of iron. It is almost superfluous to

enumerate the unworthy successors of Augustus. Their unpa­

ralleled vices, and the splendid theatre on which they were acted,

have saved them from oblivion. The dark unrelenting Tiberius,

the furious Caligula, the stupid Claudius, the profligate and cruel

Nero, the beastly Vitellius 5°, and the timid inhuman Domitian,

are condemned to everlasting fame. During fourscore years (ex­

cepting only the short and doubtful respite of Vespasian's reign JI)

Rome groaned beneath an unremitting tyranny, which exterminated

the ancient families of the republic, and was fatal to almost every

virtue, and every talent, that arose in that unhappy period.

Under the reign of these monsters, the slavery of the Romans „

° , ' Peculiar mi-

was accompanied with two peculiar circumstances, the one occasion- se|7 °f «he

ed by their former liberty, the other by their extensive conquests, der their
ty.

which rendered their condition more wretched than that of the ran's"

victims of tyranny in any other age or country. From these

causes were derived, i. The exquisite sensibility of the sufferers;

and, 2. The impossibility of escaping from the hand of the oppressor.

Vol. I. M I. When

