OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

dart from an uncertain hand. Before he expired, a patriotic senti- ^rj^ *£9,

ment riling in the mind of Gallienus, induced him to name a Death of

. . Galhenus.

deserving successor, and it was his last request, that the imperial

ornaments should he delivered to Claudius, who then commanded a

detached army in the neighbourhood of Pavia. The report at least

was diligently propagated, and the order cheerfully obeyed by the

conspirators, who had already agreed to place Claudius on the

throne. On the first news of the emperor's death, the troops ex­

pressed some suspicion and resentment, till the one was removed and

the other asswaged by a donative of twenty pieces of gold to each

soldier. They then ratified the election, and acknowledged the

merit of their new sovereign \

The obscurity which covered the origin of Claudius, though it Character and

'6 ° elevation of

might leave room for some flattering fictionssufficiently reveals the emperor

the meanness of his birth. We can only discover that he was a

native of one of the provinces bordering on the Danube; that his

youth was spent in arms, and that his modest valour attracted the

favour and confidence of Decius. The senate and people already •

considered him as an excellent officer, equal to the most important

trusts; and censured the inattention of Valerian, who suffered him

to remain in the subordinate station of a tribune. But it was not long

before that emperor distinguished the merit of Claudius, by declaring

him general in chief of the Illyrian frontier, with the command of

all the troops in Thrace, Mæsia, Dacia, Pannonia, and Dalmatia, the

appointments of the præfect of Egypt, the establishment of the pro­

consul of Africa, and the sure prospect of the consulship. By his

victories over the Goths, he deserved from the senate the honour of a

statue, and excited the jealous apprehensions of Gallienus. It was

impossible that a soldier could esteem so dissolute a sovereign, nor is it

easy to conceal a just contempt. Some unguarded expressions which

dropt from Claudius, were officioufly transmitted to the royal ear.

The emperor's answer to an officer of confidence, betrays his own

Vol. I. Pp character

