OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

for the difference of manners, might well deserve the imitation of

modern princes. Alexander rose early: the first moments of the day

were consecrated to private devotion, and his domestic chapel was

filled with the. images of those heroes, who, by improving or reforn*-

irig human life, had deserved the grateful reverence of posterity.

But, as he deemed the service of mankind the most acceptable

worship of the gods, the greatest part of his morning hours waS

employed in his council, where he discussed public affairs, and

determined private causes, with a patience and discretion above his

years. The dryness of business was relieved by the charms of

literature; and a portion of time was always set apart for his fa­

vourite studies of poetry, history, and philosophy. The works of

Virgil and Horace, the republics of Plato and Cicero, formed his

taste, enlarged his understanding, and gave him the noblest ideas of

man and government. The exercises of the body succeeded to

those of the mind; and Alexander, who was tall, active, and ro­

bust, surpassed most of his equals in the gymnastic arts. Refreshed

by the use of the bath and a flight dinner, he resumed, with new

vigour, the business of the day, and, till the hour of supper, the

principal meal of the Romans, he was attended by his secretaries,

with whom he read and answered the multitude of letters, memo­

rials, and petitions, that must have been addressed to the master of

the greatest part of the world. His table was served with the most

frugal simplicity; and whenever he was at liberty to consult his

own inclination, the company consisted of a few select friends,

men of learning and virtue, amongst whom Ulpian was con­

stantly invited. Their conversation was familiar and instructive;

and the pauses were occasionally enlivened by the recital of some pleas­

ing composition, which supplied the place of the dancers, come­

dians, and even gladiators, so frequently summoned to the tables

of the rich and luxurious Romans 7". The dress of Alexander was

plain and modest, his demeanor courteous and affable: at the-

X 2 proper

