OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. j

It had hitherto been the peculiar felicity of the Romans, and m £^ydr"dnny

the worst of times their consolation, that the virtue of the empe- over the

whole em«

rors was active, and their vice indolent. Augustus, Trajan, Ha- pire.

drian, and Marcus, visited their extensive dominions in person, and

their progress was marked by acts of wisdom and beneficence.

The tyranny of Tiberius, Nero, and Domitian, who resided almost

constantly at Rome, or in the adjacent villas, was confined to the

senatorial and equestrian orders". But Caracalla was the com­

mon enemy of mankind. He left the capital (and he never returned

to it) about a year after the murder of Geta. The rest of his reign A. D. 213.

was spent in the several provinces of the empire, particularly those

of the East, and every province was by turns the scene of his rapine

and cruelty. The senators compelled by fear to attend his capricious

motions, were obliged to provide daily entertainments at an immense

expence, which he abandoned with contempt to his guards; and to

erect, in every city, magnificent palaces and theatres, which he ei­

ther disdained to visit, or ordered to be immediately thrown down.

The most wealthy families were ruined by partial fines and confis­

cations, and the great body of his subjects oppressed by ingenious

and aggravated taxes **. In the midst of peace, and upon the

slightest provocation, he issued his commands, at Alexandria in

Egypt, for a general massacre. From a secure post in the temple

of Serapis, he viewed and directed the slaughter of many thousand

citizens, as well as strangers, without distinguishing either the num­

ber or the crime of the sufferers; since, as he coolly informed the

senate, all the Alexandrians, those who had perished and those who

had escaped, were alike guilty 5 5. '*

The wise instructions of Severus never made any lasting impres- R"'a«tion

sion on the mind of his son, who, although not destitute of imagi- °f
dlsciplme'

nation and eloquence, was equally devoid of judgment and huma­

nity 3*. One dangerous maxim, worthy of a tyrant, was remem­

bered and abused by Caracalla, *' To secure the affections of the

T a «

army.

»

