360 THE DECLINE AND FALL

acquired the denomination of Chlorus were the two persona

invested with the second honours of the imperial purple. In

describing the country, extraction, and manners of Herculius, we

have already delineated those of Galerius, who was often, and not

improperly, styled the younger Maximian, though, in many in­

stances both of virtue and ability, he appears superior to the elder*

The birth of Constantius was less obscure than that of his colleagues.

Eutropius, his father, was one of the most considerable nobles of

Dardania, and his mother was the niece of the emperor Claudius

Although the youth of Constantius had been spent in arms, he

possessed a mild and amiable disposition, and the popular voice had

long since acknowledged him worthy of the rank which he at last

attained. To strengthen the bonds of political, by those of domestic

union, each of the emperors assumed the character of a father to

one of the Cæsars, Diocletian to Galerius, and Maximian to Con­

stantius; and each obliging them to repudiate their former wives,

bestowed his daughter in marriage on his adopted son'5. These

four princes distributed among themselves the wide extent of the

Departments Roman empire. The defence of Gaul, Spain ,+, and Britain, was

ofdthearfour"y entrusted to Constantius: Galerius was stationed on the banks
of

princes. ^ jjanubej as the safeguard of the Illyrian provinces. Italy and

Africa were considered as the department of Maximian, and for his

peculiar portion, Diocletian reserved Thrace, Egypt, and the rich

countries of Asia. Every one was sovereign within his own juris­

diction; but their united authority extended over the whole mo­

narchy; and each of them was prepared to assist his colleagues with

his counsels or presence. The Cæsars, in their exalted rank, revered

the majesty of the emperors, and the three younger princes in­

variably acknowledged, by their gratitude and obedience, the com­

mon parent of their fortunes. The suspicious jealousy of power

found not any place among them; and the singular happiness of

their union, has been compared to a chorus of music, whose har­

4 mony

