OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.'' 4%

Christians were desirous of making themselves either agreeable

or useful. • . i .');.'.. 1 .:

The acquisition of knowledge, the exercise of our reason or fancy, Theprimi-

and the cheerful flow of unguarded conversation, may employ condem"

the leisure of a liberal mind. They were rejected however with flTur""nd

abhorrence, or admitted with the utmost caution, by the severity of

the fathers, who despised all knowledge that was not useful to sal­

vation, and who considered all levity of discourse as a criminal

abuse of the gift of speech. In our present state of existence, the

body is so inseparably connected with the soul, that it seems to

be our interest to taste, with innocence and moderation, the enjoy­

ments of which that faithful companion is susceptible. Very

different was the reasoning of our devout predecessors; vainly

aspiring to imitate the perfection of angels, they disdained, or they

affected to disdain, every earthly and corporeal delight ,<S. Some

of our fenses indeed are necessary for our preservation, others for

our subsistence, and others again for our information, and thus

far it was impossible to reject the use of them. The first sensation

of pleasure was marked as the first moment of their abuse. The

unfeeling candidate for Heaven was instructed, not only to resist

the grosser allurements of the taste or smell, but even to shut his

ears against the profane harmony of sounds, and to view with

indifference the most finished productions of human art; gay

apparel, magnificent houses, and elegant furniture, were supposed

to unite the double guilt of pride and of sensuality. A simple

and mortified appearance was more suitable to the Christian who

was certain of his sins and doubtful of his salvation. In their

censures of luxury, the fathers are extremely minute and cir­

cumstantial 87; and among the various articles which excite their

pious indignation, we may enumerate false hair, garments of any

colour except white, instruments of music, vases of gold or silver,

downy pillows (as Jacob reposed his head on a stone), white bread/

Qji q 2 foreign

