3?6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

spot which united all that could contribute either to health or to.

luxury, did not require the partiality of a native. "The soil was

** dry and fertile, the air is pure and wholesome, and though ex-

*c tremely hot during the summer months* this country seldom

"feels those sultry and noxious winds, to which the coast of

«c Istria and some parts of Italy are exposed. The views from

"the palace are no less beautiful than the foil and climate was in-

«' viting. Towards the west lies the fertile shore that stretchea

"along the Hadriatic, in which a number of small islands are

** scattered in such a manner, as to give this- part of the sea the

"appearance of a great lake. On the north side lies the bay,.

"which led to the ancient city of Salona; and the country be-

** yond it, appearing in sight, forms a. proper contrast, to that

*•* more extensive prospect of water, which the Hadriatic presents-

"both to the south and to the east. Towards the north, the view

"U terminated by high and irregular mountains, situated at a..

u proper distance, and, in. many places, covered with villages,.

"woods, and vineyards"7."

OfDiode- Though Constantine,. from a- very obvious prejudice, affects to

tian's palace. . . ,

mention the palace of Diocletian with contempt , yet one of their

successors, who could only fee it in a neglected and mutilated state*.

celebrates its magnificence in terms of the highest admiration "9. It

covered an extent of ground consisting of between nine and ten Eng~

lish acres. The form was quadrangular* flanked with sixteen towers*.

Two of the sides were near six hundred, and the other two near seven

hundred feet in length. The whole was constructed of a beautifuL

free-stone, extracted from the neighbouring quarries of Trau or

Tragutium, and very little inferior to marble itself. Four streets,.

intersecting each other at right angles, divided the several parts of

this great edifice, and the approach to the principal apartment

was from a stately entrance, which is still denominated the Golden

gate. The approach was terminated by a periftylium of granite-

v columns,

