OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 523

gratifications. They embraced every opportunity of over-reaching

the idolaters in trade; and they pronounced secret and ambiguous

imprecations against the haughty kingdom of Edom \

Since the Jews, who rejected with abhorrence the deities adored The Jews

by their sovereign and by their fellow-subjects, enjoyed however the which
fol-

free exercise of their unsocial religion; there must have existed some
chHst!th

ians, a

other cause, which exposed the disciples of Christ to those severities
{^J^erel

from which the posterity of Abraham was exempt. The difference ''g"00 of their

between them is simple and obvious; but according to the senti足

ments of antiquity, it was of the highest importance. The Jews

were a nation; the Christians were a seSi: and if it was natural for

every community to respect the sacred institutions of their neigh足

bours, it was incumbent on them to persevere in those of their an足

cestors. The voice of oracles, the precepts of philosophers, and the

authority of the laws, unanimously enforced this national obligation.

By their lofty claim of superior sanctity, the Jews might provoke

the Polytheists to consider them as an odious and impure race. By

disdaining the intercourse of other nations they might deserve their

contempt. The laws of Moses might be for the most part frivolous

or absurd; yet since they had been received during many ages by a

large society, his followers were justified by the example of mankind;

and it was universally acknowledged, that they had a right to prac足

tise what it would have been criminal in them to neglect. But

this principle which protected the Jewish synagogue, afforded not

any favour or security to the primitive church. By embracing the

faith of the Gospel, the Christians incurred the supposed guilt of an

unnatural and unpardonable offence. They dissolved the sacred ties

of custom and education, violated the religious institutions of their

country, and presumptuoufly despised whatever their fathers had

believed as true, or had reverenced as sacred. Nor was this apostacy

(if we may use the expression) merely of a partial or local kind j

since the pious deserter who withdrew himself from the temples of

Egypt or Syria, would equally disdain to seek an asylum in those

X x x 2 of

