53o THE DECLINE AND- FALL

Or a Louis XIV, might have acquired a just knowledge of the rights

of conscience, of the obligation of faith, and of the innocence of

error. But the princes and magistrates of ancient Rome were

strangers to those principles which inspired and authorized the in­

flexible obstinacy of the Christians in the cause of truth, nor could

they themselves discover in their own breasts, any motive which

would have prompted them to refuse a legal, and as it were a natu­

ral submission to the sacred institutions of their country. The fame

reason which contributes to alleviate the guilt, must have tended to

abate the rigour of their persecutions. As they were actuated, not

by the furious zeal of bigots, but by the temperate policy of legis­

lators, contempt must often have relaxed, and humanity must fre­

quently have suspended the execution of those laws, which they

enacted against the humble and obscure followers of Christ. From

the general view of their character and motives we might naturally

conclude: I. That considerable time elapsed before they considered

the new sectaries as an object deserving of the attention of govern­

ment. II. That in the conviction of any of their subjects who

were accused of so very singular a crime, they proceeded with cau­

tion and reluctance. III. That they were moderate in the use of

punishments; and IV. That the afflicted church enjoyed many in­

tervals of peace and tranquillity. Notwithstanding the careless

indifference which the most copious and the most minute of the

pagan writers have shewn to the affairs of the Christiansl+, it may

still be in our power to confirm each of these probable supposi­

tions, bv the evidence of authentic facts.

They neglect- L By the wife dispensation of Providence, a mysterious veil was

dan* afa sect ca^ over tne infancy of the church, which served to protect the

•fjews. Christians till their faith was matured, and their numbers were

multiplied, not only from the malice, but even from the knowledge

of the pagan world. The slow and gradual abolition of the Mosaic

ceremonies afforded a safe and innocent disguise to the more early

pro­

