THE DECLINE AND FALL

granted them a very liberal indulgence of craft a nd dissimulation.

Yet the arts of Severus cannot be justified by the most ample pri.

vileges of state reason. He promised only to betray, he flattered

only to ruin, and however he might occasionally bind himself by

oaths and treaties, his conscience, obsequious to his interest, always

released him from the inconvenient obligation 4!.

If these two competitors, reconciled by their common danger, had

advanced upon him without delay, perhaps Severus would have

funk under their united effort. Had they even attacked him, at

the fame time, with separate views and separate armies, the contest

might have been long and doubtful. But they fell, singly and suc­

cessively, an easy prey to the arts as well as arms of their subtle

enemy, lulled into security by the moderation of his professions, and

overwhelmed by the rapidity of his action. He first marched

against Niger, whose reputation and power he the most dreaded:

but he declined any hostile declarations, suppressed the name of his

antagonist, and only signified to the senate and people, his intention

of regulating the eastern provinces. In private he spoke of Niger,

his old friend and intended successor 4+, with the most affectionate

regard, and highly applauded his generous design of revenging the

murder of Pertinax. To punish the vile usurper of the throne

was the duty of every Roman general. To persevere in arms, and

to resist a lawful emperor, acknowledged by the senate, would

alone render him criminal4J. The sons of Niger had fallen into

his hands among the children of the provincial governors, detained

at Rome as pledges for the loyalty of their parents +6. As long

as the power of Niger inspired terror, or even respect, they were

educated with the most tender 'care, with the children of Severus

himself; but they were soon involved in their father's ruin, and

removed first by exile, and afterwards by death, from the eye of

public compassion 1,1.

Whilst

