5^3 THE DECLINE AND FALL

an annual present from the churches within their jurisdiction, as the

price, or as the reward, of their moderation ,0\ The controversy

concerning the precise time of the celebration of Easter armed the

bishops of Asia and Italy against each other, and was considered as

the most important business of this period of leisure and tranquil­

lity '°9. Nor was the peace of the church interrupted, till the ir>

creasing numbers of proselytes seem at length to have attracted' the

A.D. 198. attention, and to have alienated the mind, of Severus. With the

design of restraining the progress of Christianity, he published an

edict, which, though it seemed to affect only the new converts, could

not be carried into strict execution, without exposing to danger and

punishment the most zealous of their teachers and missionaries. Ia

thi6 mitigated persecution, we may still discover the indulgent spirit

of Rome and of Polytheism, which so readily admitted every excuse

in-favour of those who practised the religious-ceremonies of their fa­

thers'*0.

0/the succes- But. the laws which Severus had enacted soon expired with

sors cfSeve- , , „ •. . • , ^_ . . „

rus. the authority or that emperor j and5 the' Christians, after this

249° 2M_ accidental tempest, enjoyed a calm of thirty-eight* years-"*. Tifl

this period they had usually held their assemblies in private houses

and sequestered places. They were now permitted to erect and con^

sccrate convenient edifices for the purpose of religious worfliip;

to purchase lands, even at Rome itself, for the use of the commu­

nity; and' to conduct the elections of1 their ecclesiastical ministers in

so public, but at the same time in so exemplary, a manner, as to

deserve the respectful attention of the Gentiles '". This long repose

of the church was accompanied with dignity. The reigns of those

princes, who derived: their extraction from the Asiatic provinces

proved, the most: favourable to the Christians; the. eminent per­

sons of the sect, instead of being reduced, t0; implore the pro­

tection of a slave or concubine,, were admitted,into the;palace in

the honourable characters of priests and philosophers; and their

mys­

