2 ($4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

daughter in the affections of the inconstant emperor, and the bands

of policy were more firmly connected by those of love. But the

haughty prejudice of Rome still refused the name of marriage, to

the profane mixture of a citizen and a barbarian ; and has stigmatized

the German princess with the opprobrious title of concubine of Gal-

lienus

inroads ofthe uj. \ye have already traced the emigration of the Goths from

Goths. .'

Scandinavia, or at least from Prussia, to the mouth of the Bory-

sthenes,and have followed their victorious arms from the Borysthenes,

to the Danube. Under the reigns of Valerian and Gallienus the

frontier of the last mentioned river was perpetually infested by

the inroads of Germans and Sarmatians; but it was defended by

the Romans with more than usual firmness and success. The pro­

vinces that were the feat of war, recruited the armies of Rome with

an inexhaustible supply of hardy soldiers; and more than one of

these Illyrian peasants attained the station, and displayed the abi­

lities, of a general. Though flying parties of the barbarians, who

incessantly hovered on the banks of the Danube, penetrated some­

times to the confines of Italy and Macedonia ; their progress was

commonly checked, or their return intercepted, by the imperial

lieutenants 9+. But the great stream of the Gothic hostilities was

diverted into a very different channel. The Goths, in their new

settlement of the Ukraine, soon became masters of the northern

coast of the Euxine: to the south of that inland sea, were situated

the soft and wealthy provinces of Asia Minor, which possessed all

that could attract, and nothing that could resist, a barbarian con­

queror.

Conquest of The banks of the Borysthenes are only sixty miles distant from

the Boiphorus

by the Goths. the narrow entrance 9S of the peninsula of Crim Tartary, known
to

the ancients under the name of Chersonefus Taurica 9<s. On that

inhospitable shore, Euripides, embellishing with exquisite art the tales

of antiquity, has placed the scene of one of his most affecting trage­

dies,

