lxviii NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.

[33] Tertullian (Apolog. c. 23.) alleges the con­

fession of the Demons themselves as often as they

were tormented by the Christian exorcists.

[39] Tertullian has written a most severe treatise

against idolatry, to caution his brethren against

the hourly danger of incurring that guilt. Re-

cogita sylvam, et quanta; latitant spinæ. De ldo-

latria, c. 10.

[40] The Roman senate was always held in a

temple or consecrated place (Aulus Gellius, xiv. 7.).

Before they entered on business, every senator dropt

some wine and frankincense on the altar. Sueton.

in August, c. 3 j.

[41] See Tertullian, De Spcctaculis. This se­

vere reformer shews no more indulgence to a tra­

gedy of Euripides, than to a combat of gladiators.

The dress of the actors particularly offends him. By

the use of the lofty buskin, they impiously strive to

add a cubit to their stature, c. 23.

'[42] The ancient practice of concluding the en­

tertainment with libations, may be found in every

clastic. Socrates and Seneca, in their last moments,

made a noble application of this custom. Postquam

slagnum calidæ aquae introiit, respergens proximo*

servorum, addita voce, libare se liquorem ilium

Jovi Liberatori. Tacit. Annal. xv. 64.

[43] See the elegant but idolatrous hymn of

Catullus, on the nuptials of Manlius and Julia.

O Hymen, Hymensce lo! Quis huic Deo comparier

ausit?

[44] The ancient funerals (in those of Misenus

and Pallas) are no less accurately described by

Virgil, than they are illustrated by his commen­

tator Servius. The pile itself was an altar, the

flames were fed with the blood of victims, and all

the assistants were sprinkled with lustral water.

[45] Tertullian de Idolatria, c. 11.

[46] See every part of Montsaucon's Anti­

quities. Even the reverses of the Greek and Ro-

man coins were frequently of an idolatrous nature.

Here indeed the scruples of the Christian were sus­

pended by a stronger passion.

[47] Tertullian de Idolatria, c. 2c, 21, jz. If

a Pagan friend (on the occasion perhaps of sneez­

ing) used the familiar expression of " Jupiter bless

"you," the Christian was obliged to protest against

the divinity of Jupiter.

[48] Consult the most laboured work of Ovid, his

imperfect Fasti. He finished no more than the first

six months of the year. The compilation of

Macrobins is called the Saturnalia, but it is only a

small part of the first book that bears any relation

to the title.

[49] Tertullian has composed a defence, or rather

panegyric, of the rash action of a Christian soldier,

who, by throwing away his crown of laurel, had ex­

posed himself and his brethren to the most imminent

danger. By the mention of the emperors (Severus

and Caracalla) it is evident, notwithstanding the

wishes of M. de Tillemont, that Tertullian com­

posed his treatise De Corona, long before he was en­

gaged in the errors of the Montanists. See Memoires

Ecclesiastiqucs, torn. iii. p. 384.

[50] In particular, the first book of the Tusculan

Questions, and the treatise De Senectute, and the

Somnium Scipionis, contain, in the most beautiful

language, every thing that Grecian philosophy,

or Roman good sense, could possibly suggest on this

dark but important subject.

[51] The pre-existence of human souls, so far at

least as that doctrine is compatible with religion,

was adopted by many of the Greek and Latin fa-

thers. See Beausobre, Hist, du Manicheisme, 1. vi,

c. 4.

[52] See Cicero pro Cluent. c. 6:. C-rsir ap.

Sallust de Bell. Catilin. c. 50. Juvenal Saiir. ii.

Esse aliquos manes, et subterranea regna, •

i '• t'"

Nec pueri credunt, nisi qui nondum ære lavantur. -

[53] The xith book of the Odyssey gives a very

dreary and incoherent account of the infernal

shades. Pindar and Virgil have embellished the

picture; but even those poets, though more correit

than their great model, are guilty of very strange

inconsistencies. See Bayle, Reponscs au questions

d' un Provincial, part iii. c. 22.

[54] See the xvith Epistle of the first Book of

Horace, the xiiith Satire of Juvenal, and the iid

Satire of l:ersius: these popular discourses express

the sentiment and language of the muhitude.

[55] The Druids borrowed sums of money on

bonds made payable to the creditor in.the other

world.

3

