OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 309

minions of Odenathus, which extended from the Euphrates to the

frontiers of Bithynia, his widow added the inheritance of her an­

cestors, the populous and fertile kingdom of Egypt. The emperor

Claudius acknowledged her merit, and was content, that, while he

pursued the Gothic war,yZ>£ should assert the dignity of the empire in

the East 6\ The conduct, however, of Zenobia, was attended with

some ambiguity; nor is it unlikely that she had conceived the design

of erecting an independent and hostile monarchy. She blended with

the popular manners of Roman princes, the stately pomp of the

courts of Asia, and exacted from her subjects the fame adoration

that was paid to the successors of Cyrus. She bestowed on her three

sons 61 a Latin education, and often shewed them to the troops adorned

with the imperial purple. For herself she reserved the diadem,

with the splendid but doubtful title of Queen of the East.

When Aurelian passed over into Asia, against an adversary whofe sex The
expedf-

alone could render her an object of contempt, his presence restored obe-
ran.°f Aure*

dience to the province of Bithynia, already shaken by the arms and A'D"

intrigues of Zenobia 6\ Advancing at the head of his legions, he ac­

cepted the submission of Ancyra, and was admitted into Tyana after

an obstinate siege by the help of a perfidious citizen. The generous

though fierce temper of Aurelian, abandoned the traitor to the rage

of the soldiers: a superstitious reverence induced him to treat with

lenity the countrymen of Apollonius the philosopherfiJ. Antioch

was deserted on his approach, till the emperor, by his salutary edicts,

recalled the fugitives, and granted a general pardon to all who,

from necessity rather than choice, had been engaged in the service

of the Palmyrenian queen. The unexpected mildness of such a

conduct, reconciled the minds of the Syrians, and, as far as the

gates of Emesa, the wishes of the people seconded the terror of his

arms6+.

Zenobia would have ill deserved her reputation, had she indo- dci^i^he™*

lently permitted the emperor of the West to approach within an sn thebTtties

4 hundred ^°e£

