4$% THE DECLINE AND FALL

Manichæans. Each of these sects could boast of its bistiops and

congregations, of its doctors and martyrs and, instead of the

four gospels adopted by the church, the heretics produced a mul­

titude of histories, in which the actions and discourses of Christ and

of his apostles were adapted to their respective tenets K. The

success of the Gnostics was rapid and extensive They covered

Asia and Egypt, established themselves in Rome, and sometimes

penetrated into the provinces of the West. For the most part they

arose in the second century, flourished during the third, and were

suppressed in the fourth or fifth, fcy the prevalence of more fashion­

able controversies, and by the superior ascendant of the reigning

power. Though they constantly disturbed the peace, and fre­

quently degraded the honour, of religion, they contributed to

aflist rather than to retard the progress of Christianity. The Gen­

tile converts, whose strongest objections and prejudices were di­

rected against the law of Moses, could find admission into many

Christian societies, which required, not from their untutored mind,

any belief of an antecedent revelation. Their faith was insensibly

fortified and enlarged, and the church was ultimately benefited by

the conquests of its most inveterate enemies ,6.

The dæmons But whatever difference of opinion might subsist between the

the gods of Orthodox, the Ebionites, and the Gnostics, concerning the divinity
or

the obligation of the Mosaic law, they were all equally animated

by the same exclusive zeal, and by the same abhorrence for idolatry

which had distinguished the Jews from the other nations of the

ancient world. The philosopher, who considered the system of

polytheism as a composition of human fraud and error, could dis­

guise a smile of contempt under the mask of devotion, without ap­

prehending that either the mockery, or the compliance would ex­

pose him to the resentment of any invisible, or as he conceived them,

imaginary powers. But the established religions of Paganism were

seen

antiquity.

