xxvi NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.

an aureus, and proportional pieces of gold were [i 16] See the lives of
Agricola, Vespasian,

coined by Alexander's order. Hist. August, p. 127, Trajan, Severus, and his
three competitors ; and

with the commentary of Salmasius. indeed of all the eminent men of those
times.

NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER.

11] r I x HERE had beenno example of three suc-

JL cefsive generations on the throne; only

three instances of sons who succeeded their fathers.

The marriages of the Cæsars (notwithstanding the

permillion, and the frequent practice of divorces)

were generally unfruitful.

[2] Hist. August, p. 138.

[3] Hist. August, p. 140. Herodian, L vi.

p. 223. Aurelius .Victor. By comparing these au­

thors, it mould seem, that Maximin had the parti­

cular command of the Triballian horse, with the

general commission of disciplining the recruits of the

whole army. His Biographer ought to have marked,

with more care, his exploits, and the successive

steps of his military promotions.

[4] See the original letter of Alexander Severus,

Hist. August, p. 149.

[5] Hist. August, p. 135. I have softened some

of the most improbable circumstances of this

wretched biographer. From this ijl-worded narra­

tion, it mould seem, that the prince's buffoon hav-

ing accidentally entered the tent, and awakened the

llumbering monarch, the fear of punishment urged

him to persuade the disaffected soldiers to commit

the murder.

[6] Herodian, 1. vi. p. 223—227.

[7] Caligula, the eldest of the four, was only

twenty-five years of age when he ascended the

throne; Caracalla was twenty-three, Commodus

nineteen, and Nero no more than seventeen.

[8] It appears that he was totally ignorant of the

Greek language; which, from its universal use in

conversation and letters, was an essential part of

every liberal education.

[9] Hist. August, p. 141. Herodian, I. vii.

p. 237. The latter of these historians hat been

most unjustly censured for sparing the vices of

■ Maximin.

[10] He was compared to Spartacus and Athenio.

Hist. August, p. 141.

[11] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 238. Zosimus, I. u

p. 1;.

[12] In the fertile territory of Byzacium, one

hundred and fifty miles to the south of Carthage.

This city was decorated, probably by the Gordians,

with the title of colony, and with a fine amphithe­

atre, which is still in a very perfect state. See

Itinerar. Wesseling. p. 59, and Shaw's travels,

p. 117.

[13] Herodian,!, vii. p. 239. Hist. August, p. 153.

[14] Hist. August, p. 1J2. The celebrated house

of Pompey in carinis, was usurped by Marc Antony,

and consequently became, after the Triumvir's

death, a part of the imperial domain. The em­

peror Trajan allowed and even encouraged the

rich senators to purchase those magnificent and

useless palaces (Plin. Panegyric, c. 5c.) ; and it may

seem probable, that on this occasion, Pompey's

house came into the possession of Gordian's great

grandfather.

[ijl The Claudian.tbe Numidian, theCarystian,

and the Synnadian. The colours of Roman mar­

bles have been faintly described and imperfectly

distinguished. It appears, however, that the Ca-

rystian was a sea green, and that the marble of

Synnada was white mixed with oval spots of purple.

See Salmasius ad Hist. August, p. 164.

[16] Hist.- August, p. 1,51, 152. He sometimes

gave five hundred pair of Gladiators, never less than,

one hundred and fifty. He once gave for the use of

'the Circus one-hundred Sicilian, and as many Cap-

padocian horses. The animals designed for hont-

*

