OE THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

■head of the effeminate troops .of Egypt and Syria, encounter, witfc.

any hopes of victory, the legions of .Europe, whose irresistible

strength appeared to support the brother of Tacitus. But the

fortune and activity of Probus triumphed over every obstacle.

The hardy veterans of his rival, accustomed to cold climates,

sickened and consumed away in the sultry heats of Cilicia, where

the summer proved remarkably unwholesome. Their numbers were

diminished by frequent desertion, the passes of the mountains were

feebly defended; Tarsus opened its gates, and the soldiers of J!k>r

xianus, when they had permitted him to enjoy the imperial title

about three months, -delivered the empire from civil war by the J«ly.

easy sacrifice of a peince whom they despised l0.

The perpetual revolutions of the throne had so perfectly erazed Their family

every notion of hereditary right, .that the family of an unfortunate
scurfr/.'"0t>"

emperor was incapable of exciting the jealousy of his successors.

The children of Taoitus and Elorianus were permitted to descend

into a private station, and to mingle with the general mass of the

people. Their poverty indeed became an additional safeguard to

their innocence. When Tacitus was elected by the senate, he

resigned his ample patrimony to the public service an act of ge­

nerosity specious in appearance, but which evidently disclosed his

intention of transmitting the empire to his dependents. The only

consolation of their fallen state was the remembrance of transient

greatness, and a distant hope, the child of a flattering prophecy, that,

at the end of a thousand years, a monarch of the race of Tacitus

mould arise, the protector of the senate, the restorer of Rome, and

the conqueror of the whole earth

The peasants of Illyricum, who had already given Claudius and Cna raster a nl

. . . elevation of

Aurelian to the sinking empire, bad an equal right to glory in the themperje

elevation of Probus *\ Above twenty years before, the emperor Probus'

Valerian, with his usual penetration, had discovered the rising merit

of the young soldier, on whom he conferred the rank of tribune,

U u 9, long

