OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4%S

by divorce or by death. The practice of second nuptials

branded with the name of a legal adultery; and the persons who

were guilty of so scandalous an offence against Christian purity,

were soon excluded from the honours, and even from the alms, of

the church ',. Since desire was imputed as a crime, and marriage

was tolerated as a defect, it was confident with the fame principles

to consider a state of celibacy as the nearest approach to the Divine

perfection. It was with the utmost difficulty that ancient Rome

could support the institution of six vestals 9*; but the primitive

church was filled with a great number of persons of either sex, who

had devoted themselves to the profession of perpetual chastity 9i. A

few of these, among whom we may reckon the learned Origen, judged

it the most prudent to disarm the tempter 9*. Some were insensible

and some were invincible against the assaults of the flesh. Disdaining

an ignominious flight, the virgins of the warm climate of Africa

encountered the enemy in the closest engagement; they permitted

priests and deacons to share their bed, and gloried amidst the flames

in their unsullied purity. But insulted Nature sometimes vindicated

her rights, and this new species of martyrdom served only to in­

troduce a new scandal into the church 9S. Among the Christian

ascetics, however, (a name which they soon acquired from their

painful exercise) many, as they were less presumptuous, were pro­

bably more successful. The loss of sensual pleasure was supplied

and compensated by spiritual pride. Even the multitude of Pagans

were inclined to estimate the merit of the sacrifice by its apparent

difficulty; and it was in the praise of these chaste spouses of Christ

that the fathers have poured forth the troubled stream of their

eloquence a<5. Such are the early traces of monastic principles and

institutions, which, in a subsequent age, have counterbalanced all

the temporal advantages of Christianity

The Christians were not less averse to the business than to the Their aw.

pleasures of this world. The defence of our persons and property bofiaefiof

war and

*"ey governor, ut

