OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE;- «7

Having now finished the circuit of the Roman empire* we may The Medi-

°' ''terraneati

observe, that Africa is divided from Spain by a narrow strait of with its

about twelve miles, through which the Atlantic flows into the Medi­

terranean. The columns of Hercules, so famous among the ancients,

were two mountains which seemed to have been torn asunder by

some convulsion of the elements; and at the foot of the European*

mountain, the fortress of Gibraltar is now seated. The whole ex­

tent of the Mediterranean Sea, its coasts, and its islands, were com­

prized within the Roman dominion. Of the larger islands, the two

Baleares, which derive their names of Majorca and Minorca from

their respective size, are subject at present, the former to Spain, the

latter to Great Britain. It is easier to deplore the fate, than to

describe the actual condition of Corsica. Two Italian sovereigns

assume the regal title from Sardinia and Sicily. Crete, or

Candia, with Cyprus, and most of the smaller islands of Greece

and Asia, have been subdued by the Turkish arms; whilst the

little rock of Malta defies their power, and has emerged, under

the government of its military Order, into fame and opulence.

This long enumeration of provinces, whose broken fragments General M«

have formed so many powerful kingdoms, might almost induce us empiref°maB

to forgive the vanity or ignorance of the ancients. Dazzled with

the extensive sway, the irresistible strength, and the real or affected

moderation of the emperors, they permitted themselves to despise,

and sometimes to forget, the outlying countries which had been left

in the enjoyment of a barbarous independence; and they gradually

assumed the licence of confounding the Roman monarchy with the

globe of the earth88. But the temper, as well as knowledge, of a

modern historian, require a more sober and accurate language. He

may impress a juster image, by observing that the empire was above

two thousand miles in breadth, from the wall of Antoninus and the

northern limits of Dacia, to mount Atlas and the tropic of Cancer;

E 2 that

