OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 581

But this treacherous calm was of short duration, nor could the Max,",in pre­

pares to renew

Christians of the East place any confidence in the character of their
jhepersceu-

sovereign. Cruelty and superstition were the ruling passions of the

foul of Maximin. The former suggested the means, the latter

pointed out the objects, of persecution. The emperor was devoted

to the worship of the gods, to the study of magic, and to the be­

lief of oracles. The prophets or philosophers, whom he revered as

the favourites of heaven, were frequently raised to the government

of provinces, and admitted into his most secret councils. They

easily convinced him, that the Christians had been indebted for their

victories to theip regular discipline, and that the weakness of poly­

theism had principally stowed from a want of union and subordi­

nation among the ministers of religion. A system of government

was therefore instituted, which was evidently copied from the policy

of the church. In all the great cities of the empire, the temples

wererepaired and beautified by the order of Maximin; and the offi­

ciating priests of the various deities were subjected to the authority

of a superior pontiff, destined to oppose the bishop, and to pro­

mote the cause of paganism. These pontiffs acknowledged, in their

turn, the supreme jurisdiction of the metropolitans or .high-priests!

of the province, who acted as the immediate vicegerents of the.em~

peror himself. A white robe was the ensign of their dignity; and

these new prelates were carefully selected from the most noble and

opulent families. By the influence of the magistrates, and of the

sacerdotal order, a great number of dutiful addresses were obtained,,

particularly from the cities of Nicomedia, Antioch, and Tyre, which,

artfully represented the well-known intentions of the court as the

general fense of, the people; solicited the emperor to consult the laws,

of justice rather than the dictates of his clemency; expressed their,

abhorrence of the Christians, and humbly prayed that those impi­

ous sectaries might at least he excluded from the limits of their,

respective territories. The answer of Maximin to the address which

he

