OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE..

flourishing cities oppressed by the barbarians of Germa'ny, who,

si-nce the death of Aurelian, had ravaged that great province with

impunity 3+. Among, the various multitude of those fierce invaders,-

we may distinguish, with some degree of clearness, three great armies,,

or rather nations, successively vanquished by the valour of Probus.

He drove back the Franks into their morasses; a descriptive cir­

cumstance from whence we may infer, that the confederacy known

by the manly appellation of Free, already occupied the flat maritime

country, intersected and almost overflown1 by the stagnating water*

of the Rhine, and that several tribes of the Frisians and Batavians

had acceded to their alliance. He vanquished the Burgundians, a

considerable people of the Vandalic race. They had wandered in

quest of booty from the banks of the Oder to those of the Seine.

They esteemed themselves sufficiently fortunate to purchase, by the

restitution of all their booty, the permission of an undisturbed retreat.

They attempted to elude that article of the treaty. Their punish­

ment was immediate and terrible ,5. But of all the invaders of Gaul

»

the most formidable were the Lygians, a distant people who reigned •

over a wide domain on the frontiers of Poland and Silesia In

theLygian nation, the Arii held the first rank by their numbers-

and fierceness* "The Arii (it is thus that they are described by the

** energy of Tacitus) study to improve by art and circumstances the  
"innate terrors of their barbarism. Their shields are black, their'

** bodies are painted black. They chuse for the-combat the darkest  
"hour of the night. Their host advances, covered as it were with

"a funereal shade 57; nor do they often find an enemy capable of

** sustaining so strange and infernal an aspect. Of all our senses,,  
44 the eyes are the first vanquished in battle'Yet the arms-

and discipline of the Remans easily discomfited these horrid phan- -

toms. The Tygii were defeated in a general engagement, and SemnO, .

the most renowned of their chiefs, fell alive into the hands of Probus.

That prudent emperor, unwilling to reduce a brave people to despair,..

granted

