268 THE DECLINE AND FALL

temple of Jupiter Urius, on a promontory that commanded the

entrance of the Strait: and, so inconsiderable were the dreaded in­

vasions of the barbarians, that this body of troops surpassed in num-

the'citFes of" ^er tne Gothic army. But it was in numbers alone that they fur-

Bitbyma. passed it. They deserted with precipitation their advantageous

post, and abandoned the town of Chalcedon, most plentifully stored

with arms and money, to the discretion of the conquerors. Whilst

they hesitated whether they should prefer the sea or land, Europe

or Asia, for the scene of their hostilities, a perfidious fugitive pointed

out Nicomedia, once the capital of the kings of Bithynia, as a

rich and easy conquest. He guided the march, which was only

sixty miles from the camp of Chalcedon "*, directed the resistless

attack, and partook of the booty; for the Goths had learned sufficient

policy to reward the traitor, whom they detested. Nice, Prusa,

Apaemæa, Cius, cities that had sometimes rivalled, or imitated, the

splendor of Nicomedia, were involved in the fame calamity, which,

in a few weeks, raged without controul through the whole province

of Bithynia. Three hundred years of peace, enjoyed by the soft

inhabitants of Asia, had abolished the exercise of arms, and removed

the apprehension of danger. The ancient walls were suffered to

moulder away, and all the revenue of the most opulent cities was

reserved for the construction of baths, temples, and theatres '".

Retreat of When the city of Cyzicus withstood the utmost effort of MithrU

the Goths* 'J

dates "+, it was distinguished by wise laws, a naval power of two

hundred galKes, and three arsenals; of arms, of military engines, and

of corn It was still the feat of wealth and luxury; but of its

ancient strength, nothing remained except the situation, in a little

island of the Propontis, connected with the continent of Asia only

by two bridges. From the recent sack of Prusa, the Goths ad­

vanced within eighteen miles"6 of this city, which they had de­

moted to destruction; but the ruin of Cyzicus was delayed by a for­

tunate accident. The season was rainy, and the lake Apolloniates,

the

