OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 85

same as that of Cato and Cicero. From Grecian philosophy, they

had imbibed the justest and most liberal notions of the dignity of

human nature, and the origin of civil society. The history of their

own country had taught them to revere a free, a virtuous, and-a

victorious commonwealth; to abhor the successful crimes of Cæsar

and Augustus; and inwardly to despise those tyrants whom they

adored with the most abject flattery. As magistrates and senators,

they were admitted into-the great council, which had once dictated

laws to the earth, whose name still gave a sanction to the acts of

the monarch, and whose authority was so often prostituted to the

vilest purposes of tyranny. Tiberius, and those emperors who

adopted his maxims, attempted to disguise their murders by the

formalities of justice, and perhaps enjoyed a secret pleasure in ren­

dering the senate their accomplice, as well as their victim. By

this assembly, the last of the Romans were condemned for ima­

ginary crimes and real virtues. Their infamous accusers assumed

the language of independent patriots, who arraigned a dangerous

citizen before the tribunal of his country; and the public service

was rewarded by riches and honours The servile judges asserted

the majesty of the commonwealth, violated in the person of its

first magistrate 56, whose clemency they most applauded when they

trembled the most at his inexorable and impending cruelty The

tyrant beheld their baseness with just contempt, and encountered

their secret sentiments of detestation with sincere and avowed hatred

for the whole body of the senate. i»

II. The division of Europe into a number of independent states, Extent of

connected, however, with each other, by the general resemblance {e1ftlrthemPno

of religion, language, and manners, is productive of the most bene- of r#"

ficial consequences to the liberty of mankind. A modern tyrant,

who should find no resistance either in his own breast, or in his

people, would soon experience a gentle restraint from the example

of his equals, the dread of present censure, the advice of his allies,

M a and

