$o6, THE DECLINE AND FALL

distant country. There is the strongest reason to believe, that be­

fore the reigns of Diocletian and Constantine, the faith of Christ

had been preached in every province, and in all the great cities of

vfe^offhe tne empire > Dut tne foundation of the several congregations, the

Christianity numbers of the faithful who composed them, and their proportion

to the unbelieving multitude, are now buried in obscurity, or dis­

guised by fiction and declamation. Such imperfect circumstances

however, as have reached our knowledge concerning the increase

of the Christian name in Asia and Greece, in Egypt, in Italy, and

in the West, we shall now proceed to relate, without neglecting

f' the real'or imaginary acquisitions which lay beyond the frontiers of

t the Roman empire. . .

ntfie'Eafe The rich provinces that extend from the Euphrates to the Ionian

sea, were the principal theatre on which the apostle of the Gentiles

displayed his zeal and piety. The feeds of the gospel, which he

bad scattered in a fertile soil, were diligently cultivated by his dis­

ciples; and it should seem that, during the two first centuries,

the most considerable body of Christians was contained within

those limits. Among the societies which were instituted in Syria,

none were more ancient or more illustrious than those of Damascus,

of Berea or Aleppo, and of Antioch. The prophetic introduction

of the Apocalypse has described and immortalised the seven churches

of Asia; Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamus, Thyatira Sardes, Lao-

dicea, and Philadelphia; and their colonies were soon diffused over

that populous country. In a very early period, the islands of

Cyprus and Crete, the provinces of Thrace and Macedonia, gave-

a- favourable reception to the new religion; and Christian republics

were soon founded in the cities of Corinth, of Sparta, and of

Athens '5*. The antiquity of the Greek and Asiatic churches

allowed a sufficient space of time for their increase and multipli­

cation, and even the swarms of Gnostics and other heretics serve to

display the flourishing condition* of the orthodox church, since the

3 •' appellatioa

