lvi "NOTES ON THE THI ITEENTH CHAPTER.

[87] Eutropius (ix. 27.) mentions them as a

part of the triumph. As the persons had been re­

stored to Narses, nothing more than their images

could be exhibited.

[88] Livy gives us a speech of Camillus on that

subject (v. 51—5s,), full of eloquence and sensibi­

lity, in opposition to a design of removing the seat

•of government from Rome to the neighbouring city

ofVeii.

[89] Julius Cæsar was reproached with the in­

tention of removing the empire to Ilium or Alex­

andria. See Sueton. in Cæsar, c. 79. According

to the ingenious conjecture of Le Fevre and Dacier,

the third ode of the third book of Horace was

intended to divert Augustus from the execution of

a similar design.

[90] See Aurelius Victor, who likewise men­

tions the buildings erected by Maximian at Car­

thage, probably duiing the Moorish war. We

stall insert some verses of Ausonius de Clar. urb. v.

Et Mediolani mira omnia : copia rerum;

lnnumeræ cultæque domus; fecunda virorum

Ingenia, et mores læti, turn duplice muro

Amplificata loci species; populique voluptas

"" Circus; et inclusi moles cuneata Theatri

Templa, Palatinacque arces, opulensque Moneta,

Et regio Herculei Celebris sub honorc lavacri.

Cunctaque marmoreis ornata Perystyla signis;

Mœniaque in valli form am circumdata labro,

Omnia quæ magnis operum velut æmula formis

Excellunt: nec junctæ premit vicinia Romæ.

[91] Lactant. de M. P. c. 7. Libanius Orat.

viii. p. 203.

[92] Lactant. de M. P. c. 17. On a similar occa­

sion Ammianus mentions the dhacitaspltbis, as not

. very agreeable to an imperial ear. (See 1. xvi.

c. 10.)

[513] Lactantius accuses Maximian of destroying

fictis criminationibus lumina senatus. (De M. P.

c. 8.) Aurelius Victor speaks very doubtfully of

the faith of Diocletian towards his friends.

[94] Truncatæ vires urbis, imminuto prætori-

arum cohortium atque in armis vulgi numcro. Au­

relius Victor. Lactantius attributes to Galerius

the prosecution of the same plan, (c, 26.)

(55] They were old corps stationed in illyricum;

and according to the ancient establishment, they

each consisted os six thousand men. They had ac­

quired much reputation by the use of the plumlatte,

or darts loaded with lead. Each soldier carried

five of these, which he darted from a considerable

distance, with great strength and dexterity. See

Vegetius, i. 17.

[96] See the Theodosian Code, 1. vi. Tit. ii.

with Godefroy's commentary.

[97] See the 12th dissertation in Spanheim's

excellent work De usu Numismatum. From medals,

inscriptions, and historians, he examines every title

separately, and traces it from Augustus to the

moment of its disappearing.

[98] Pliny (in Panegyr. c. 3. 55, &c.) speaks of

,Dcminus with execration, as synonymous to Tyrant,

and opposite to Prince. And the fame Pliny regu­

larly gives that title (in the tenth book of the

epistles) to his friend rather than master, the virtu­

ous Trajan. This strange expression puzzles the

commentators, who think, and the translators, who

can write.

[99] Synesius de Regno, Edit. Petav. p. 15. I am

indebted for this quotation to the Abbe de la Ble-

terie.

[ico] See Vandale de Confecratione, p. 354,

&c. It wai customary for the emperors to mention

(in the preamble of laws) their numtn, saertd majesty,

divine orecles, (Jc. According to Tillemont, Gre­

gory of Nazianzen complains most bitterly of the

profanation, especially when it was practised by an

Arian emperor.

[101] See Spanheim de Usu Numismat. Dissert,

xii.

[102] Aurelius Victor. Eutropius, ix. 26. It

appears by the Panegyrists, that the Romans were

soon reconciled to the name and ceremony of ado­

ration.

[103] The innovations introduced by Diocletian,

are chiefly deduced,—1st, from some very strong pas­

sages in Lactantius; and, 2dly, from the new and

various offices, which, in the Theodosian code,

appear already establislied in the beginning of the

reign of Conllantine..

[104] Lactant. de M. P. c. 7.

[io;1] Indicta lex nova, quæ fane illorum tempo-

rum modestia tolerabilis, in perniciem proceffir.

Aurel.

