86 THE DECLINE AND FALl

To his son

Commodus.

Accession of

the emperor

Commodus.

her proofs of the most tender confidence, and of a respect which

ended not with her life. In his Meditations, he thanks the gods,

who had bestowed on him a wife, so faithful, so gentle, and of

such a wonderful simplicity of manners *. The obsequious senate,

at his earnest request, declared her a goddess. She was represented

in her temples, with the attributes of Juno, Venus, and Ceres;

and it was decreed, that, on the day of their nuptials, the youth of

either sex should pay their vows before the altar of their chaste

patroness s.

The monstrous vices of the son, have cast a (hade on the purity

of the father's virtues. It has been objected to Marcus, that he

sacrificed the happiness of millions to a fond partiality for a worth­

less boy; and that he chose a successor in his own family, rather

than in the republic. Nothing, however, was neglected by the an­

xious father, and by the men of virtue and learning whom he

summoned to his assistance, to expand the narrow mind of young

Commodus, to correct his growing vices, and to render him wor­

thy of the throne, for which he was designed. But the power of

instruction is seldom of much efficacy, except in those happy dis­

positions where it is almost superfluous. The distasteful lesson of a

grave philosopher was, in a moment, obliterated by the whisper of

a .profligate favourite; and Marcus himself blasted the fruits of this

laboured education, by admitting his son, at the age of fourteen

or fifteen, to a full participation of the Imperial power. He lived

but four years afterwards; but he lived long enough to repent a

rash measure, which raised the impetuous youth above the restraint

of reason and authority.;

Most of the crimes which disturb the internal peace of society, are

produced by the restraints which the necessary, but unequal laws

of property, have imposed on the appetites of mankind, by con­

fining to a few the possession of those objects that are coveted by

many. Of all our passions, the love of power is of the most im­

perious

