Ot'THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 135

sword. Their rapid journey through Gaul and Italy, during which

they never eat at the same table, or slept in the same house, dis­

played to the provinces the odious spectacle of fraternal discord.

On their arrival at Rome, they immediately divided the vast ex­

tent of the Imperial palace ,S. No communication was allowed •

between their apartments; the doors and passages were diligently

fortified, and guards posted and relieved with the fame strictness as

in a besieged place. The emperors met only in public, in the pre­

sence of their afflicted mother; and each surrounded by a numerous

train of armed followers. Even on these occasions of ceremony,

the dissimulation of courts could ill disguise the rancour of their

hearts 19. . .

This latent civil war already distracted the whole government, Fruitless ne-

•when a scheme was suggested that seemed of mutual benefit to the firidm^he

hostile brothers. It was proposed, that since it was impossible to emPire }*~

* 4 r tween them.

xeconcile their minds, they should separate their interest, and divide

the empire between them* The conditions of the treaty were al­

ready drawn with some accuracy. It was agreed, that Caracalla, as the

elder brother, should remain in possession of Europe and the western

Africa; and that he should relinquish the sovereignty of Asia and

Egypt to Geta, who might six his residence at Alexandria or Anti-

och, cities little inferior to Rome itself in wealth and greatness;

that numerous armies should be constantly encamped on either side

of the Thracian Bosphorus, to guard the frontiers of the rival

monarchies; and that the senators of European extraction should ac­

knowledge the sovereign of Rome, whilst the natives of Asia fol­

lowed the emperor of the East. The tears of the empress Julia

interrupted the negociation, the first idea of which had filled every

Roman breast with surprise and indignation. The mighty mass of

conquest was so intimately united by the hand of time and policy1,

that it required the most forcible violence to rend it asunder. The

Romans had reason to dread, that the disjointed members would soon

be

■

