OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE 345

noontide heat, retire into the cave of Faunus. On a spreading

beech they discover some recent characters. The rural deity had

described, in prophetic verses, the felicity promised to the empire,

under the reign of so great a prince. Faunus hails the approach of

that hero, who, receiving on his moulders the sinking weight of the

Roman world, shall extinguish war and faction, and once again

restore the innocence and security of the golden age 7°.

It is more than probable that these elegant trifles never reached Cams defeati

the ears of a Veteran general, who, with the consent of the legions, [j]^3™"

was preparing to execute the long suspended design of the Persian jj^Eart-'"'*

war. Before his departure for this distant expedition, Carus con­

ferred on his two sons, Carinus and Numerian, the title of Cæsar,

and investing the former with almost an equal share of the im­

perial power, directed the young prince, first to suppress some

troubles which had arisen in Gaul, and afterwards to fix the feat

of his residence at Rome, and to assume the government of the

western provinces 7'. The safety of Illyricum was confirmed by

a memorable defeat of the Sarmatians; sixteen thousand of those

barbarians remained on the field of battle, and the number of captives

amounted to twenty thousand. The old emperor, animated with the

fame and prospect of victory, pursued his march, in the midst of winter,

through the countries of Thrace and Asia Minor, and at length, with

his younger son Numerian, arrived on the confines of the Persian mo­

narchy. There, encamping on the summit of a lofty mountain, he

pointed out to his troops the opulence and luxury of the enemy

whom they were about to invade.

The successor of Artaxerxes, Varanes or Bahram, though he had A. d. 283.

subdued the Segestans, one of the most warlike nations of Upper dience^the

P C

Asia '\ was alarmed at the approach of the Romans, and endea- basladors."1

voured to retard their progress by a negociation of peace. His

ambassadors entered the camp about sunset, at the time when the

troops were satisfying their hunger with a frugal repast. The

Vol. I. Y y Persians

