THE DECLINE AND FALL

Prætorian guards, who trembled for their wives and children in the

camp of Alba, near Rome, executed the sentence of the senate.

Maximin, abandoned by his guards, was flain in his tent, with his

son, whom he had associated to the honours of. the purple, Anu-

linus the præfect, and the principal ministers of hi3 tyranny }fc.

Their heads, borne on the point of spears, convinced the citizens of

Aquileia, that the siege was at an end; the gates of the city were

thrown open, a liberal market was provided for the hungry

troops of Maximin, and the whole army joined in solemn protesta­

tions of fidelity to the senate and people of Rome, and to their

portrait. iawfui emperors Maximus and Balbinus. Such was the deserved-

fate of a brutal savage, destitute, as he has generally been re-*

presented, of every sentiment that distinguishes a civilized or

even a human being. The body was suited to the foul. The sta­

ture of Maximin exceeded the measure of eight feet, and circum­

stances almost incredible are related of his matchless strength and

appetite ,6. Had he lived in a less enlightened age, tradition and

poetry might well have described him as one of those monstrous

giants, whose supernatural power was constantly exerted for the

destruction of mankind,

the It is easier to conceive than to describe the universal joy of the

Roman world on the fall of the tyrant, the news of which is said

to have been carried in four days from Aquileia to Rome. The re­

turn of Maximus was a triumphal procession, his colleague and young

Gordian went out to meet him, and the three princes entered the capi­

tal attended by the ambassadors of almost all the cities of Italy, saluted

with the splendid offerings of gratitude and superstition, and re­

ceived with the unfeigned acclamations of the senate and people, who

persuaded themselves that a golden age would succeed to an age of

iron57. The conduct of the two emperors corresponded with these

expectations. They administered justice in person; and the rigour

of the one was tempered by the other's clemency. The oppressive

2 taxes

