498 THE DECLINE AND FALL

abuse of their confidence could not be very frequent, and the

general uses to which their liberality was applied, reflected honour

on the religious society. A decent portion was reserved for the

maintainance of the bishop and his clergy; a sufficient sum was

allotted for the expences of the public worship, of which the feasts

of love, the agapæ, as they were called, constituted a very pleasing

and essential part. The w,hole remainder was the sacred patrimony

of the poor. According to the discretion of the bishop, it was dis­

tributed to support widows and orphans, the lame, the sick, and

the aged of the community; to comfort strangers and pilgrims, and

to alleviate the misfortunes of prisoners and captives, more especially ,

when their sufferings had been occasioned by their firm attach­

ment to the cause of religion "9. A generous intercourse of charity

united the most distant provinces, and the smaller congregations

were cheerfully assisted by the alms of their more opulent bre­

thren ,4°. Such an institution, which paid less regard to the merit

than to the distress of the object, very materially conduced to the

progress of Christianity. The Pagans, who were actuated by a fense

of humanity, while they derided the doctrines, acknowledged the

benevolence of the new sect '*'. The prospect of immediate relief

and of future protection allured into its hospitable bosom many

of those unhappy persons whom the neglect of the world would

have abandoned to the miseries of want, of sickness, and of old

age. There is some reason likewise to believe, that great num­

bers of infants, who, according to the inhuman practice of the

times, had been exposed by their parents, were frequently rescued

from death, baptised, educated, and maintained by the piety of

the Christians, and at the expence of the public treasure '**.

Excommum ^' 1S undoubted right of every society to exclude from

cation. its communion and benefits, such among its members as reject or

violate those regulations which have been established by general con­

sent. In the exercise of this- power, the censures of the Christian-

2 church;

