;92 THE DECLINE AND PALL

of fortune, and the disappointment of his favourite schemes urged

him to relinquish a power which he found inadequate to his am­

bition. But the reign of Diocletian had slowed with a tide of unin­

terrupted success; nor was it till after he had vanquished all his

enemies, and accomplished all his designs, that he seems to have

entertained any serious thoughts of resigning the empire. Neither

Charles nor Diocletian were arrived at a very advanced period of

life; since the one was only fifty-five, and the other was no more

than fifty-nine years of age; but the active life of those princes,

their wars and journies, the cares of royalty, and their application

to business, had already impaired their constitution, and brought on

A. D. 304. the infirmities of a premature old age107.

Long illness m , ,

of Diocletian. - Notwithstanding the severity of a very cold and rainy winter,
Dio­

cletian left Italy soon after the ceremony of his triumph, and began his

progress towards the East round the circuit of the Illyrian provinces.

Erom the inclemency of the weather, and the fatigue of the journey,

he soon contracted a flow illness; and though he made easy marches,

and was "generally carried in a close litter, his disorder, before he ar­

rived at Nicomedia, about the end of the summer, was become very

serious and alarming. During the whole winter he was confined to

his palace; his danger inspired a general and unaffected concetn;

but the people could only judge of the various alterations of his

health, from the joy or consternation which they discovered in the

countenances and behaviour of his courtiers. The rumour of his death

was for some time universally believed, and it was supposed to be

concealed, with a view to prevent the troubles that might have hap­

pened during the absence of the Cæsar Galerius. At length, however,

on the first of March, Diocletian once more appeared in public, but so

pale and emaciated, that he could scarcely have been recognised by

His prudence, those to whom his person was the most familiar. It was time to

put an end to the painful struggle, which he had sustained during

more than a year between the care of his health and that of his

dignity.

