;8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

consent had been secured by an immense donative, the new Cæsar **

was ravistied from hie embraces by an untimely death. He left

only one son. Hadrian commended the boy to the gratitude of the

Antonines. He was adopted by Pius; and, on the accession of

Marcus, was invested with an equal share of sovereign power.

Among the many vices of this younger Verus, he possessed one

virtue; a dutiful reverence for his wiser colleague, to whom he

willingly abandoned the ruder cares of empire. The philosophic

emperor dissembled his follies, lamented his early death, and cast a

decent veil over his memory.

Adoption of As soon as Hadrian's passion was either gratified or disappointed,

tonines. he resolved to deserve the thanks of posterity, by placing the most

exalted merit on the Roman throne. His discerning eye easily

discovered a senator about fifty years of age, blameless in all the

offices of life, and a youth of about seventeen, whose riper years

opened the fair prospect of every virtue: the elder of these was

declared the son and successor of Hadrian, on condition, howevef,

that he himself should immediately adopt the younger. The two

Antonines (for it is of them that we are now speaking) governed the

A.D. 138— Roman world forty-two years, with the fame invariable spirit of

wisdom and virtue. Although Pius had two sons41, he preferred

the welfare of Rome to the interest of his family, gave his daughter

Faustina in marriage to young Marcus, obtained from the senate

the tribunitian and proconsular powers, and with a noble disdain1,

or rather ignorance of jealousy, associated him to all the labours of

government. Marcus, On the other hand, revered the character of

his benefactor, loVed him as a parent, obeyed him as his sove­

reign 45, and after he was no more, regulated his own administra­

tion by the example and maxims of his predecessor. Their united

reigns are possibly the only period of history in which the happiness

of a great people was the sole object of government.

7 Titus

