OF THE ROMAN EMPIRL i

to the number of about eighty thousand. But as neither reason*

nor enthusiasm could have guided so tumultuary- an aflembly, it

was reduced, by successive operations, to forty thousand;, to four

thousand, to four hundred, to forty, and at last to seven Magi,

the most respected for their learning and piety. One of these,

Erdaviraph, a young but holy prelate, received from the hands

of his brethren, three cups of soporiferous wine. He drank them

off, and instantly fell into a long and profound sleep. As soon

as he waked, he related to the king and to the believing multi­

tude, his journey to Heaven, and his intimate conferences with the

Deity. Every doubt was silenced by this supernatural evidence»

and the articles of the faith of Zoroaster were fixed with equal

authority and precision 9. A short delineation of that celebrated

system will be found useful, not only to display the character of the

Persian nation, but to illustrate many of their most important trans­

actions, both in peace and war, with the Roman empire io.

The ereat and fundamental article of the system, was the ce- P,ersian **■

lebrated doctrine of the two principles, a bold and injudicious principles,

attempt of Eastern philosophy to reconcile the existence of moral

and physical evil, with the attributes of a beneficent Creator and

governor of the world. The first and original Being, in whom, or

by whom, the universe exists, is denominated in the writings

of Zoroaster, Time without bounds; but it must be confessed, that

this infinite substance seems rather a metaphysical abstraction of the

mind, than a real object endowed with self-consciousness, or possessed

of moral perfections. From either the blind, or the intelligent

operation of this infinite Time, which bears but too near an affinity

with the chaos of the Greeks, the two secondary but active prin­

ciples of the universe, were from all eternity produced, Ormusd

and Ahriman, each of them possessed of the powers of creation, but

each disposed, by his invariable nature, to exercise them with dif­

ferent designs. The principle of good is eternally absorbed in light;

D d z the

