OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 247

If so many successive generations of Goths were capable of pre- Ehm'£ra^on cf

serving a faint tradition of their Scandinavian origin, we must not
fromScaodi-

expect, from such unlettered barbarians, any distinct account of the p^uffia."
°

time and circumstances of their emigration. To cross the Baltic

was an easy and natural attempt. The inhabitants of Sweden were

masters of a sufficient number of large vessels, with oars ", and the

distance is little more than one hundred miles from Carlscroon to the

nearest ports of Pomerania and Prussia. Here, at length, we land on

firm and historic ground. At least as early as the Christian æra

and as late as the age of the Antonines IS, the Goths were established

towards the mouth of the Vistula, and in that fertile province, where

the commercial cities of Thorn, Elbing, Koningsberg, and Dantzick,

were long afterwards founded ,6. Westward of die Goths, the

numerous tribes of the Vandals were spread along the banks of the

Oder, and the sea coast of Pomerania and Mecklenburgh. A strik­

ing resemblance of manners, complexion, religion, and language,

seemed to indicate that the Vandals and the Goths were originally

one great people ,?. The latter appear to have been subdivided

into Ostrogoths, Visigoths, and Gepidæ ,8. The distinction among

the Vandals was more strongly marked by the independent names

of HerulL, Burgundians, Lombards, and a variety of other petty

states, many of which, in a future age, expanded themselves into-

powerful monarchies.

In the age of the Antonines, the Goths were still seated in From Pmffiat

Prussia. About the reign of Alexander Severus, the Roman pro- Ukraine,

vince of Dacia had already experienced their proximity by frequent

and destructive inroads '9. In this interval therefore, of about

seventy years, we must place the second migration of the Goths,

from the Baltic to the Euxine; but the cause that produced it lies

concealed among the various springs of action, incident to unsettled,

barbarians. Either a pestilence, or a famine, a victory, or a defeat,

2. ana

