274 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Rome with a deep sense of the insult as well as of the danger. Va­

lerian flattered himself, that the vigilance of his lieutenants would

sufficiently provide for the safety of the Rhine and of the Danube;

hut he resolved, notwithstanding his advanced age, to march in

person to the defence of the Euphrates. During his progress

through Asia Minor, the naval enterprises of the Goths were sus­

pended, and the afflicted province enjoyed a transient and fallacious

calm. He passed the Euphrates, encountered the Persian mo­

narch near the walls of Edessa, was vanquished, and taken prisoner

Is defeated by Sapor. The particulars of that great event, are darkly and im-

sonertJsapor perfectly represented; yet by the glimmering light which is
afforded

^"i^fof3' us» we mav discover a long series of imprudence, of error, and of

deserved misfortunes on the side of the Roman emperor. He re­

posed an implicit confidence in Macrianus, his prætorian præfect"V

That worthless minister rendered his master formidable only to the

oppressed subjects, and contemptible to the enemies of Rome ,}S.

By his weak or wicked counsels, the imperial army was betrayed

into a situation, where valour and military skill were equally un­

availing M7. The vigorous attempt of the Romans to cut their way

through the Persian host, was repulsed with great flaughter 1,8 j and

Sapor, who encompassed the camp with superior numbers, patiently

waited till the increasing rage of famine and pestilence had ensured

his victory. The licentious murmurs of the legions, soon accused

Valerian as the cause of their calamities; their seditious clamours

demanded an instant capitulation. An immense sum of gold was

offered to purchase the permission of a disgraceful retreat. But the

Persian, conscious of his superiority, refused the money with dis?

dain; and detaining the deputies, advanced in order of battle to

the foot of the Roman rampart, and insisted on a personal confer­

ence with the emperor. Valerian was reduced tP the necessity of

intrusting his life and dignity to the faith of an enemy. The in­

terview ended as it was natural to expect. The emperor was made

6 a prisoner,

