OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

other to the cares and pleasures of private life. In hereditary mo­

narchies, however, and especially in those of modern Europe, the

gallant spirit of chivalry, and the law of succession, have accustomed

us to allow a singular exception; and a woman is often acknow­

ledged the absolute sovereign of a great kingdom, in which she

would be deemed incapable of exercising the smallest employment,

civil or military. But as the Roman emperors were still considered

as the generals and magistrates of the republic, their wives and

mothers, although distinguished by the name of Augusta, were never

associated to their personal honours; and a female reign would have ap­

peared an inexplicable prodigy in the eyes of those primitive Romans,

who married without love, or loved without delicacy and respect64

The haughty Agrippina aspired, indeed, to share the honours of the

empire, which she had conferred on her son; but her mad am­

bition, detested by every citizen who felt for the dignity of Rome,

was disappointed by the artful firmness of Seneca and Burrhus 6*.

The good fense, or the indifference of succeeding princes, restrained

them from offending the prejudices of their subjects; and it was

reserved for the profligate Elagabalus, to disgrace the acts of the

senate, with the name of his mother Sosemias, who was placed by

the fide of the consuls, and subscribed, as a regular member, the

decrees of the legislative assembly. Her more prudent sister, Ma-

mæa, declined the useless and odious prerogative, and a solemn law

was enacted, excluding women for ever from the senate, and de­

voting to the infernal gods, the head of the wretch by whom this

sanction should be violated6S. The substance, not the pageantry

of power was the object of Mamæa's manly ambition. She main­

tained an absolute and lasting empire over the mind of her son, and

in his affection the mother could not brook a rival. Alexander

• if

with her consent, married the daughter of a Patrician; but his

respect for his father-in-law, and love for the empress, were incon­

sistent with the tenderness or interest of Mamæa. The Patrician was

Vol. I. X executed

