OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 151

subjects with the fame contemptuous indifference, asserted without

control his sovereign privilege of lust and luxury.

The most worthless of mankind are not afraid to condemn in Dris">»«n»

ot the army.

others the fame disorders which they allow in themselves; and can

readily discover some nice difference of age, character, or station, to

justify the partial distinction. The licentious soldiers, who had

raised to the throne the dissolute son of Caracalla, blushed at their

ignominious choice, and turned with disgust from that monster, to

contemplate with pleasure the opening virtues of his cousin Alex­

ander the son of Mamæa. The crafty Mæsa, sensible that her grand­

son Elagabalus must inevitably destroy himself by hia own vices,

had provided another and surer support of her family. Embracing

a favourable moment of fondness and devotion, she had persuaded

the young emperor to adopt Alexander, and to invest him with the

title of Cæsar, that his own divine occupations might be no longer cIared
Cæsar»

0 A.D. 221.

interrupted by the care of the earth. In the second rank that ami­

able prince soon acquired the affections of the public, and excited

the tyrant's jealousy, who resolved to terminate the dangerous com­

petition either by corrupting the manners or taking away the life

of his rival. His arts proved unsuccessful; his vain designs were

constantly discovered by his own loquacious folly, and disappointed

by those virtuous and faithful servants whom the prudence of Mamæa

had placed about the person of her son. In a hasty sally of passion,

Elagabalus resolved to execute by force what he had been unable to

compass by fraud, and by a despotic sentence degraded his cousin

from the rank and honours of Cæsar. The message was received in

the senate with silence, and in the camp with fury. The Prætorian

guards swore to protect Alexander, and5 to revenge the dishonoured

majesty of the throne. The tears and promises of the trembling

Elagabalus, who only begged them to spare his life, and to leave

him in the possession of his beloved Hierocles, diverted their just

indignation j and they contented themselves with empowering their

prefects

