82 THE DECLINE AND FALL

through fix mouths received into the Euxine, which appears scarcely

equal to such an accession of waters 1%. The provinces of the

Danube soon acquired the general appellation of Illyricum, or the

Ulyrian frontier79, and were esteemed the most warlike of the

empire; but they deserve to be more particularly considered under

the names of Rhætia, Noricum, Pannonia, Dalmatia, Dacia, Mæsia,

Thrace, Macedonia, and Greece.

Rhætia. The province of Rhætia, which soon extinguished the name of

the Vindelicians, extended from the summit of the Alps to the

banks of the Danube; from its source, as far as its conflux with

the Inn. The greatest part of the flat country is subject to the

elector of Bavaria; the city of Augfburgh is protected by the con­

stitution of the German empire j the Grisons are safe in their

mountains, and the country of Tirol is ranked among the numerous

provinces of the house of Austria.

Noricum and The wide extent of territory, which is included between the Inn

Pannonw. ^ Danube, and the Save; Austria, Styria, Carinthia, Carniola,

the Lower Hungary and Sclavonia, was known to the ancients, un­

der the names of Noricum and Pannonia. In their original state

of independence, their fierce inhabitants were intimately connected.

Under the Roman government they were frequently united, and they

still remain the patrimony of a single family. They now contain

the residence of a German prince, who styles himself Emperor of

the Romans, and form the center, as well as strength, of the Austrian

power. It may not be improper to observe, that if we except

Bohemia, Moravia, the northern slcirts of Austria, and a part of

Hungary, between the Teyss and the Danube, all the other domi­

nions of the house of Austria were situate within the limits of the

Roman empire.

Dalmatia. Dalmatia, to which the name of Illyricum more properly belonged,

was a long, but narrow tract, between the Save and the Adriatic.

The best part of the sea-coast, which still retains its ancient ap­

pellation,

