OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ,65

manded by senators, and the præfecture of Egypt was the only

important trust committed to a Roman knight. ■; .

Within six days after Augustus had been compelled to accept so Division of

, the province*

very liberal a grant, he resolved to gratify the pride of the senate between
the

:by an easy sacrifice. He represented to them, that they had en- ^senate3."

larged his powers, even beyond that degree which might be

required by the melancholy condition of the times. They had not

permitted him to refuse the laborious command of the armies and

the frontiers; but he must insist on being allowed to restore the

more peaceful and secure provinces, to the mild administration of

.the civil magistrate. In the division of the provinces, Augustus

provided for his own power, and for the dignity of the republic.

The proconsuls' of the senate, particularly those of Asia, Greece,

and Africa, enjoyed a more honourable character than the lieute­

nants of the emperor, who commanded in Gaul or Syria. The

former were attended by lictors, the latter by soldiers. A law was

passed, that wherever the emperor was present, his extraordinary

commission should supersede the ordinary jurisdiction of the governor,

a 'custom was introduced, that the new conquests belonged to the

Imperial portion, and it was soon discovered, that the authority of

the Prince, the favourite epithet of Augustus, was the fame in every

part of the empire.

In return for this imaginary concession, Augustus obtained an The former

preserve! his

military com-

Important privilege, which rendered him master of Rome and pr^erves hls

Italy. By a dangerous exception to the ancient maxims, he was ™anrjsa"nd

authorized to preserve his military command, supported by a Rome itself,

numerous body of guards, even in time of peace, and in the heart

of the capital. His command, indeed, was confined to those citi-

-zens who were engaged in the service, by the military oath; but  
such was the propensity of the Romans to servitude, that the oath

was voluntarily taken by the magistrates, the senators, and the

VoLvI. K . equestrian

