jzc* THE DECLINE AND PALL

tive vigour, that the women were more fruitful, and the human

species more prolific, than in warmer or more temperate climates *^

We may assert, with greater confidence, that the keen air of Ger­

many formed the large and masculine limbs of the natives^ who*

were, iri general, of a more lofty stafture than the people of the

South 9, gave them a kind of strength better adapted to violent ex­

ertions, than to patient labour, and inspired them with- constitu­

tional bravery, which is the result 6f nerves and spirits. The

severity of a winter campaign, that chilled the courage of the-

Roman troops, was scarcely felt by these hardy children of the

North '% Who, in their turn, were Unable to resist the summer heats,,

and dissolved away in languor and sickness under the beams of an

Italian fun ".

Gwmanf he There is not any where upon the globe* a large tract of country,,

which we have discovered destitute of inhabitants, or whose first?

population can be fixed, with any degree of historical certainty..

And yet, as the most philosophic minds can seldom refrain from in­

vestigating the infancy of great nations, our curiosity consumes itself

in toilsome and disappointed efforts. When Tacitus considered the

purity of the German blood, and the forbidding aspect of this country,

he was disposed to pronounce those barbarians Indigent) or Natives of

the foil. We may allow with safety, and perhaps with truth,

that ancient Germany was not originally peopled by any foreign-

colonies, already formed into a political society "; but that the name-

and nation received their existence from the gradual union of some

wandering savages of the Hercynian woods. To assert those sa­

vages to have been the spontaneous production of the earth which

they inhabited* would be a conclusion condemned by religion, and.

unwarranted by reason.

fo^eauref Such rational doubt is but ill suited with the genius of popular

vanity. Among the nations who have adopted the Mosaic history of

the world, the ark of Noah has been of the fame use, as was formerly

to>

