2*6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Theiruttesor Strong beer, a liquor extracted with very little art from wheat
or

strong liquors. ° * *

barley, and corrupted (as it is strongly expressed by Tacitus) into a

certain semblance of wine, was sufficient for the grose purposes of

German debauchery. But those who had tasted the rich wines of

Italy, and afterwards of Gaul, sighed for that more delicious species

of intoxication. They attempted not, however, (as has since been

executed with so much success) to naturalise the vine on the banks •

of the Rhine and Danube-; nor did they endeavour to procure-

by industry the materials of an advantageous commerce. To

solicit by labour what might be ravished by arms, was esteemed un­

worthy of the German spirit ".- The intemperate thirst of strong

liquors, often urged the barbarians to invade the provinces on which

art or nature had bestowed those much envied presents. The

Tuscan who betrayed his country to the Celtic nations, attracted

them into Italy by the prospect of the rich fruits and delicious •

wines, the productions of a happier climate 3\ And in the fame

manner the German auxiliaries, invited into France during the

civil wars of the sixteenth century, were allured by the pro­

mise of plenteous quarters in the provinces of Champagne and Bur­

gundy 5S. Drunkenness, the most illiberal, but not the most dangerous

of our vices, had power in a less civilized state of mankind to occa­

sion a battle, a war, or a revolution*

Stateospopa- The climate of ancient Germany has been mollified, and the foil

lation.

fertilized, by the labour of ten centuries from the time of Charle­

magne. The fame extent of ground which at present maintains, in

ease and plenty, a million of husbandmen and artificers, was un­

able to supply an hundred thousand lazy warriors with the simple

necessaries of life '6. The Germans abandoned their immense forests

to the exercise of hunting, employed in pasturage the most consider­

able part of their lands, bestowed on the small remainder a rude

and careless cultivation, and then accused the scantiness and sterility

of a country that refused to maintain the multitude of its inhabi-

■ 5 tants.

