OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 141

instructions to inform himself of the successors of Caracalla, imme­

diately communicated the examination of the African to the Impe­

rial court, which at that time resided in Syria. But notwithstand­

ing the diligence of the public messengers, a friend of Macrinus

found means to apprize him of the approaching danger. The em­

peror received the letters from Rome; and as he was then engaged

in the conduct of a chariot race, he delivered them unopened to the

Prætorian praefect, directing him, to dispatch the ordinary affairs,

and to report the more important business that might be contained

in them. Macrinus read his fate, and resolved to prevent it. He

inflamed the discontents of some inferior officers, and employed the

hand of Martialis, a desperate soldier, who had been refused the

rank of centurion. The devotion of Caracalla had prompted him

to make a pilgrimage from Edessa to the celebrated temple of the

Moon at Carrhæ. He was attended by a body of cavalry; but

having stopped on the road for some necessary occasion, his guards

preserved a respectful distance, and Martialis approaching his person

under a pretence of duty, stabbed him with a dagger. The bold

assassin was instantly killed by a Scythian archer of the Imperial

guard. Such was the end of a monster whose life disgraced human

nature, and whose reign accused the patience of the Romans ". The

grateful soldiers forgot his vices, remembered only his partial libe­

rality, and obliged the senate to prostitute their own dignity and that

of religion by granting him a place among the gods. Whilst he Imitation of

was upon earth, Alexander the Great was the only hero whom this Alexander'

god deemed worthy his admiration. He assumed the name and en-

iigns of Alexander, formed a Macedonian phalanx of guards, per­

secuted the disciples of Aristotle, and displayed with a puerile en­

thusiasm the only sentiment that discovered any regard for virtue or

glory. We can easily conceive, that after the battle of Narva, and the

conquest of Poland, Charles the Twelfth (though he still wanted the

more elegant accomplishments of the son of Philip) might boast of

having;

