176 THE DECLINE AND FALL

pearance of Maximin, who declared himself the friend and advo­

cate of the military order, and was unanimously acknowledged em­

peror of the Romans by the applauding legions. The son of

Mamæa, betrayed and deserted, withdrew into his tent, desirous at

least to conceal his approaching fate from the insults of the multi­

tude. He was soon followed by a tribune and some centurions, the

ministers of death; but instead of receiving with manly resolution

the inevitable stroke, his unavailing cries and entreaties disgraced

the last moments of his life, and converted into contempt some

portion of the just pity which his innocence and misfortunes must

inspire. His mother, Mamæa, whose pride and avarice he loudly

accused as the cause of his ruin, perished with her son. The most

faithful of his friends were sacrificed to the first fury of the soldiers.

Others were reserved for the more deliberate cruelty of the usurper,

and those who experienced the mildest treatment were stripped of

their employments, and ignominioufly driven from the court and

army \

Tyranny of The former tyrants Caligula and Nero, Commodus and Caracalla,

were all dissolute and unexperienced youths7, educaced in the pur­

ple, and corrupted by the pride of empire, the luxury of Rome,

and the perfidious voice of flattery. The cruelty of Maximin was

derived from a different source, the fear of contempt. Though he

depended on the attachment of the soldiers, who loved him for vir­

tues like their own, he was conscious that his mean and barbarian

origin, his savage appearance, and his total ignorance of • the ajjts

and institutions of civil life 8, formed a very unfavourable contrast

with the amiable manners of the unhappy Alexander. He remem­

bered, that, in his humbler fortune, he had often waited before the

doors of the haughty nobles of Rome, and had been denied admittance

by the insolence of their slaves. He recollected too the friendship

of a sew who had relieved his poverty, and assisted his rising hopes.

But those who had spurned, and those who had protected the Thra­

cian,

