OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 73

mined republican; and the Romans who revered the memory of

Brutus 17, would applaud the imitation of his virtue. Cæsar had

provoked his fate, as much by the ostentation of his power, as by

his power itself. The consul or the tribune might have reigned in

peace. The title of King had armed the Romans against his life.

Augustus was sensible that mankind is governed by names, nor was

he deceived in his expectation, that the senate and people would

submit to flavery, provided they were respectfully assured, that they

still enjoyed their ancient freedom. A feeble senate and enervated

people cheerfully acquiesced in the pleasing illusion, as long as it

was supported by the virtue, or by even the prudence, of the suc­

cessors of Augustus. It was a motive of self-preservation, not a

principle of liberty, that animated the. conspirators against Cali­

gula, Nero, and Domitian. They, attacked the person of the

tyrant, without aiming their blow at the authority of the em­

peror. . .

There appears, indeed, one memorable occasion, in which the Attempt of

senate, after seventy-years of patience, made an ineffectual attempt after the

to reassume its long forgotten rights. When the throne was va- jjgui^.°f C*

cant by the murder of Caligula, the consuls convoked that assembly,

in the Capitol, condemned the memory of the Cæsars, gave the

watch word liberty to the few cohorts who faintly adhered to their

standard, and during eight and forty hours, acted as the independ­

ent chiefs of a free commonwealth. But while they deliberated,

the prætorian guards had resolved. The stupid Claudius, brother

of Germanicus, was already in their camp, invested with the Im­

perial purple, and prepared to support his election by arms. The

dream of liberty was at an end; and the senate awoke to all the

horrors of inevitable servitude. Deserted by the people, and threat­

ened by a military force, that feeble assembly was compelled to ratify

the choice of the prætorians, and to embrace the benefit of an

Vol. I. L amnesty,

