i6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

less familiar than that of the sword or pilum; nor is there an •

circumstance which more fully demonstrates the excellence of the

Roman discipline. Active valour may often be the present of na­

ture; but patient diligence can be the fruit only of reflection and

habit *

March. Whenever the trumpet gave the signal of departure, the camp

was almost instantly broke up, and the troops fell into their ranks

without delay or confusion. Besides their arms, which the legion­

aries scarcely considered as an encumbrance, they were laden with

their kitchen furniture, the instruments of fortification, and the

provision of many days *\ Under this weight, which would oppress

the delicacy of a modern soldier, they were trained by a regular

step to advance, in about six hours, near twenty miles 6\ On the

appearance of an enemy, they threw aside their baggage, and by easy

and rapid evolutions, converted the column of march into an order of

battle6*. The {lingers and archers skirmished in the front; the

auxiliaries formed the first line, and were seconded or sustained by

the strength of the legions. The cavalry covered the flanks, and

the military engines were placed in the rear.

Nambfrand Such were the arts of war, by which the Roman emperors de-

disposition of fen(ieci their extensive conquests, and preserved a military
spirit, at

the legions. * '4

a time when every other virtue was almost extinguished by the

progress of despotism. Tf, in the consideration of their armies, we

pass from their discipline to their numbers, we shall not find it

easy to appreciate them with any tolerable accuracy. We may

compute, however, that the legion which was itself a body of six

thousand eight hundred and thirty-one Romans, might, with its

attendant auxiliaries, amount to about twelve thousand five hundred

men. The peace establishment of Hadrian and his successors was

composed of no less than thirty of these formidable brigades; and

most probably formed a standing force of three hundred and seventy-

five thousand men. Instead of being confined within the walls of

4 fortified

