OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. z57

fore, indulged himself in the pleasures of Italy, was almost in the

fame instant informed of the success of the revolt, and of the rapid

approach of his aspiring lieutenant. He advanced to meet him as

far as the plains of Spoleto. When the armies came in fight of each

other, the soldiers of Gallus compared the ignominious conduct of

their sovereign with the glory of his rival. They admired the

valour of Æmilianus; they were attracted by his liberality, for he

offered a considerable increase of pay to all deserters18. The mur- Gallus
abaa.

. doned and

der of Gallus, and of his son Volusianus, put an end to the civil slain,

war; and the senate gave a legal sanction to the rights of conquest. May,'

The letters of Æmilianus to that assembly, were a mixture of mode­

ration and vanity. He assured them, that he should resign to their

wisdom the civil administration; and contenting himself with the

quality of their general, would in a short time assert the glory of

Rome, and deliver the empire from all the barbarians both of the

North and of the EastS9. His pride was flattered by the applause of

the senate; and medals are still extant, representing him with the name

and attributes of Hercules the Victor, and of Mars the Avenger 6".

If the new monarch possessed the abilities, he wanted the Valerian re­

time necessary to fulfil these splendid promises. Less than four deaofofGal-

months intervened between his victory and his fall6'. He had t^"^'^*

vanquished Gallus: he funk under the weight of a competitor more emPeror-

formidable than Gallus. That unfortunate prince had sent Vale­

rian, already distinguished by the honourable title of censor, to bring

the legions of Gaul and Germany 61 to his aid. Valerian executed

that commission with zeal and fidelity; and as he arrived too late

to save his sovereign, he resolved to revenge him. The troops of

Æmilianus, who still lay encamped in the plains of Spoleto, were

awed by the sanctity of his character, but much more by the supe­

rior strength of his army; and as they were now become as inca­

pable of personal attachment as they had always been of consti­

tutional principle, they readily imbrued their hands in the blood of A. D.
253.

Vol. I. LI a prince Ausust"

