140 THE DECLINE AND FALL

cc

Murder of

Caracalla.

A. D. 217.

8 th March.

army, and to esteem the rest of his subjects as of little moment,7."

But the liberality of the father had been restrained by prudence,

and his indulgence to the troops tempered by firmness and autho­

rity. The careless profusion of the son was the policy of one reign,

and the inevitable ruin both of the army and of the empire. The vi­

gour of the soldiers, instead of being confirmed by the severe disci­

pline of camps, melted away in the luxury of cities. The exces­

sive increase of their pay and donatives58 exhausted the state to

enrich the military order, whose modesty in peace, and service in

war, is best secured by an honourable poverty. The demeanor of

Caracalla was haughty and full of pride; but with the troops lie

forgot even the proper dignity of his rank, encouraged their inso­

lent familiarity, and neglecting the essential duties of a general, af­

fected to imitate the dress and manners of a common soldier.

It was impossible that such a character, and such a conduct aa

that of Caracalla, could inspire either love or efleem; but as long

as his vices were beneficial to the armies, he was secure from the

danger of rebellion. A secret conspiracy, provoked by his own jea­

lousy, was fatal to the tyrant. The Prætorian præfecture was di­

vided between two ministers. The military department was in­

trusted to Adventus, an experienced rather than an able soldier; and

the civil affairs were transacted by Opilius Macrinus, who, by his

dexterity in business, had raised himself, with a fair character, to

that high office. But his favour varied with the caprice of the emr

peror, and his life might depend on the slightest suspicion, or the

most casual circumstance. Malice or fanaticism had suggested to an

African, deeply skilled in the knowledge of futurity, a very dan­

gerous prediction, that Macrinus and his son were destined to reign

over,the empire. The report was soon diffused through the pro­

vince; and when the man was sent in chains to Rome, he still

asserted, in the presence of the præfect of the city, the faith of his

prophecy. That magistrate, who had received the most pressing

instructions

