284 THE DECLINE AND FALL

not improbable, that this private injury might affect the capital more

deeply, than all the conquests of the Goths or the Persians.

Tumults of II. The foundation of Alexandria was a noble design, at once

Alexandria. conceived and exectlted by the son of Philip. The beautiful and

regular form of that great city, second only to Rome itself, compre­

hended a circumference of fifteen miles 169; it was peopled by three

hundred thousand free inhabitants, besides at least an equal number

of staves ,7°. The lucrative trade of Arabia and India flowed

through the port of Alexandria, to the capital and provinces of the

empire. Idleness was unknown. Some were employed in blowing

of glass, others in weaving of linen, others again manufacturing

the papyrus. Either sex, and every age, was engaged in the pur­

suits of industry, nor did even the blind or the lame want occupa­

tions suited to their condition l7\ But the people of Alexandria, a

various mixture of nations, united the vanity and inconstancy of

the Greeks, with the superstition and obstinacy of the Egyptians.

The most trifling '^occasion, a transient scarcity of flesh or lentils, the

neglect of an accustomed salutation, a mistake of precedency in the

public baths, or even a religious dispute '7*, were at any time sufficient

to kindle a sedition among that vast multitude, whose resentments

were furious and implacable '7K After the captivity of Valerian

and the indolence of his son had relaxed the authority of the laws,

the Alexandrians abandoned themselves- to the ungoverned rage of

their passions, and their unhappy country was the theatre of a civil

war, that continued (with a few short and suspicious truces) above

twelve years '7*. All intercourse was cut off between the several

quarters of the afflicted city, every street was polluted with blood,

every building of strength converted into a citadel; nor did the

tumults subside, till a considerable part of Alexandria was irre­

trievably ruined. The spacious and magnificent district of Bruchion,

with its palaces and musæum, the residence of the kings and philo­

sopher*

