THE DECLINE AND FALL

nobia and os

the city.

"enumerate her warlike preparations, of stones, of arrows, and of

"every species of missile weapons. Every part of the walls is pro-

*' vided with two or three balistte, and artificial fires are thrown  
'* from her military engines. The fear of punishment has armed

"her with a desperate courage. Yet still I trust in the protecting

"deities of Rome, who have hitherto been favourable to all my

"undertakings70." Doubtful, however, of the protection of the

gods, and of the event of the siege, Aurelian judged it more pru­

dent to offer terms of an advantageous capitulation: to the queen,

a splendid retreat; to the citizens, their ancient privileges. His

proposals were obstinately rejected, and the refusal was accompanied

with insult.

wko kc°mes -phe firmnefs of Zenobia was supported by the hope, that in a

master of Ze- rr y r »

very short time famine would compel the Roman army to repass the

desert; and by the reasonable expectation that the kings of the East,

and particularly the Persian monarch, would arm in the defence of

their most natural ally. But Fortune and the perseverance of Aure­

lian overcame every obstacle. The death of Sapor, which hap­

pened about this time7', distracted the counsels of Persia, and the

inconsiderable succours that attempted to relieve Palmyra, were easily

intercepted either by the arms or the liberality of the emperor.

From every part of Syria, a regular succession of convoys safely

arrived in the camp, which was increased by the return of Probus

with his victorious troops from the conquest of Egypt. It was then

that Zenobia resolved to fly. She mounted the fleetest of her dro­

medaries 7% and had already reached the banks of the Euphrates,

about sixty miles from Palmyra, when she was overtaken by the

pursuit of Aurelian's light horse, seized, and brought back a captive

A- D. 273. to the feet of the emperor. Her capital soon afterwards
surrendered,

and was treated with unexpected lenity. The arms, horses, and

camels, with an immense treasure of gold, silver, silk, and precious

stones, were all delivered to the conqueror, who having only a

garrison

