THE DECLINE AND FALL

had recommended them to the favour of Valerian, and gradually

promoted them to the most important commands of the empire.

The generals who assumed the title of Augustus, were either

respected by their troops for their able conduct and severe discipline,

er admired for valour and success in war, or beloved for frankness

and generosity. The field of victory was often the scene of their

election, and even the armourer Marius, the most contemptible of

all the candidates for the purple, was distinguished however by

intrepid courage, matchless strength, and blunt honesty ,J9. His

mean and recent trade, cast indeed an air of ridicule on his eleva­

tion; but his birth could not be more obscure than was that of

the greater part of his rivals, who were born of peasants, and

Their obscure inlisted in the army, as private soldiers. In times of confusion

every active genius finds the place assigned him by Nature: in a

general state of war, military merit is the road to glory and to

greatness. Of rhe nineteen tyrants, Tetricus only was a senator;

Piso alone was a noble. The blood of Numa, through twenty-eight

successive generations, ran in the veins of Calphurnius Piso ,6°, who,

by female alliances, claimed a right of exhibiting in his house, the

images of Crassus and of the great Pompey ,6'. His ancestors had

been repeatedly dignified with all the honours which the common­

wealth could bestow; and of all the ancient families of Rome, the

Calphurnian alone had survived the tyranny of the Cæsars. The

personal qualities of Piso added new lustre to his race. The

usurper Valens, by whose order he was killed, confessed, with deep

remorse, that even an enemy ought to have respected the sanctity

of Piso; and although he died in arms against Gallienus, the senate,

with the emperor's generous permission, decreed the triumphal

ornaments to the memory of so virtuous a rebel l6\

The cause* The lieutenants of Valerian were grateful to the father whom

beilion!'" they esteemed. They disdained to serve the luxurious indolence of

his unworthy son. The throne of the Roman world was unsup­

ported

