4io THE DECLINE AND FALL

accustomed to obey his commands. Rome, according to the expression

of an orator, recalled her armies, and the unfortunate Severus, destitute

of force and of counsel, retired, or rather fled, with precipitation

to Ravenna. Here he might for some time have been safe. The

fortifications of Ravenna were able to resist the attempts, and the

morasses that surrounded the town, were sufficient to prevent the

approach, of the Italian army. The sea, which Severus commanded

with a powerful fleet, secured him an inexhaustible supply of pro­

visions, and gave a free entrance to the legions, which, on the re­

turn of spring, would advance to his assistance from Illyricum and

the East. Maximian, who conducted the siege in person, was

soon convinced that he might waste his time and his army in the

fruitless enterprise, and that he had nothing to hope either from

force or famine. With an art more suitable to the character of

Diocletian than to his own, he directed his attack, not so much

against the walls of Ravenna, as against the mind of Severus. The

treachery which he had experienced, disposed that unhappy prince

to distrust the most sincere of his friends and adherents. The emis­

saries of Maximian easily persuaded his credulity, that a conspiracy

was formed to betray the town, and prevailed upon his fears not

to expose himself to the discretion of an irritated conqueror, but to

accept the faith of an honourable capitulation. He was.at first re­

ceived with humanity, and treated with respect. Maximian con­

ducted the captive emperor to Rome, and gave him the most solemn

assurances that he had secured his life by the resignation of the

purple. But Severus could obtain only an easy death and an impe-

A. D. 307. rial funeral. When the sentence was signified to him, the manner

e ruary. ^ executing it was left to his own choice ; he preferred the favour­

ite mode of the ancients, that of opening his veins: and as soon as

he expired, his body was carried to the sepulchre which had been

constructed for the family of Gallienus ,J.

Though

