OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 295

the remainder was fold into servitude; and so considerable was the

number of female captives, that every soldier obtained to his share

two or three women. A circumstance from which we may con­

clude, that the invaders entertained some designs of settlement as

well as of plunder; since in a naval expedition they were accom­

panied by their families. III. The loss of their fleet, which was

either taken or funk, had intercepted the retreat of the Goths. A vast

circle of Roman posts distributed with skill, supported with firmness,

and gradually closing towards a common center, forced the barbarians

into the most inaccessible parts of mount Haemus, where they found a

safe refuge, but a very scanty subsistence. During* the course of a

rigorous winter, in which they were besieged by the emperor's

troops, famine and pestilence, desertion and the sword, continually

diminished the imprisoned multitude. On the return of spring, A. D. 270.

nothing appeared in arms except a hardy and desperate band, the

remnant of that mighty host which had embarked at the mouth of

the Niester.

The pestilence which swept away such numbers of the barbarians, Msrcb.

at length proved fatal to their conqueror. After a sliort but glo- emperor,
who

rious reign of two years, Claudius expired at Sirmium, amidst the Au^nsor

tears and acclamations of his subjects. In his last illness, he con- his
successor-

vened the principal officers of the state and army, and in their pre­

sence recommended Aurelian, one of his generals, as the most de­

serving of the throne, and the best qualified to execute the great de­

sign which he himself had been permitted only to undertake. The

virtues of Claudius, his valour, affability'4, justice, and tempe­

rance, his love of fame and of his country, place him in that short

list of emperors who added lustre to the Roman purple. Those vir­

tues, however, were celebrated with peculiar zeal and complacency

by the courtly writers of the age of Constantine, who was the great

grandson of Crifpus, the elder brother of Claudius. The voice of

flattery was soon taught to repeat, that the gods, who so hastily had

snatched

