OF THE ROMAN! EMPIRE.-

those princes were shackled by the forms of a commonwealth, and

disappointed by the repeated failure of their posterity ', it was im­

possible that any idea of hereditary succession should have taken

root in the minds of their subjects. The right to the throne, which

none could claim from birth, every one assumed from merit. The

daring hopes of ambition were set loose from the salutary restraints

of law and prejudice; and the last of mankind might, without folly,

entertain a hope of being raised by valour and fortune to a rank

in the army, in which a single crime would enable him to wrest

the scepter of the world from his feeble and unpopular master.

After the murder of Alexander Severus, and the elevation of

Maximin, no emperor could think himself safe upon the throne,

and every barbarian peasant of the frontier might aspire to' that

august, but dangerous station.

About thirty-two years before that event, the emperor Severus, Birth and

returning from an eastern expedition, halted in Thrace, to cele- Maximin!

brate, with military games, the birth-day of his younger son, Geta.

The country flocked in crowds to behold their sovereign, and a

young barbarian of gigantic stature earnestly solicited, in his rude

dialect, that he might be allowed to contend for the prize of wrest­

ling. As the pride of discipline would have been disgraced in the

overthrow of a Roman soldier by a Thracian peasant, he was.

matched with the stoutest followers of the camp, sixteen of whom

he successively laid on the ground. His victory was rewarded by

some trifling gifts, and a permission to insist in the troops. The

next day, the happy barbarian was distinguished above a crowd of

recruits, dancing and exulting after the fashion of his country.

As soon as he perceived that he had attracted the emperor's notice,

he instantly ran up to his horse, and followed him on foot, without

the least appearance of fatigue, in a long and rapid career. "Thra-

«' cian," said Severus, with astonishment, " art thou disposed to

"wrestle after thy race?" Most willingly, Sir, replied the un­

wearied

