33« THE DECLINE AND FALL

lity into the heart of the empire. But the experience of the world

from China to Britain, has exposed the rain attempt of fortifying

any extensive tract of country **. An active enemy, who can select

and vary his points of attack, must, in the end, discover some feeble

spot or some unguarded moment. The strength, as well as the at­

tention, of the defenders is divided; and such are the blind effects

of terror on the firmest troops, that a line broken in a single place,

is almost instantly deserted. The fate of the wall which Probus

erected, may confirm the general observation. Within a few years

after his death, it was overthrown by the Alemanni. Its scattered

ruins, universally ascribed to the power of the Dæmon, now serve

only to excite the wonder of the Swabian peasant.

Jntroduaion Among the useful conditions of peace imposed by Probus on the

oflhe ba™Wt vanquished nations of Germany, was the obligation of supplying

barUM- the Roman army with sixteen thousand recruit*, the bravest and

most robust of their youth. The emperor dispersed them through

all the provinces, and distributed this dangerous reinforcement in

inall bands, of fifty or sixty each, among the national troops;

judiciously observing, that the aid which the republic derived from

the barbarians, slvould be felt but not seen Their aid was now

become necefiary. The feeble elegance of Italy and the internal

provinces, could no longer support the weight of arms. The hardy

frontier of the Rhine and Danube still produced minds and bodies

equal to the labours of the camp; but a perpetual series of wars had

gradually diminimed their numbers. The infrequency of marriage,

and the ruin of agriculture, affected the principles of population, and

not only destroyed the strength of the present, but intercepted the

hope of future generations. The wisdom of Probus embraced a great

and beneficial plan of replenifliing the exhausted frontiers, by new co­

lonies of captive or fugitive barbarians, on whom he bestowed lands,

cattle, instruments of husbandry, and every encouragement that

might engage them to educate a race of soldiers for the service of

6 the

