OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 437

statues of Constantine, became the signal of discord between the two

princes 8?.

The first battle was fought near Cibalis, a city of Pannonia, F.'rst civil
«ar-

° J between them*

situated on the river Save, about fifty miles above Sirmium 88. From Battle of
Ci-

c ■ r balis-

the inconsiderable forces which in this important contest two such A. n. 314.

powerful monarchs brought into the field, it may be inferred, that 5 0 er'

the one was suddenly provoked, and that the other was unexpect­

edly surprised. The emperor of the West had only twenty thou-'

sand, and the sovereign of the East no more than five and thirty

thousand men. The inferiority of number was, however, com­

pensated by the advantage of the ground. Constantine had taken

post in a defile about half a mile in breadth, between a steep hill

and a deep morass, and in that situation he steadily expected and

repulsed the first attack of the enemy. He pursued his success,

and advanced into the plain. But the veteran legions of Illyricum

rallied under the standard of a leader who had been trained to arms

in the school of Probus and Diocletian. The missile weapons on

both sides were soon exhausted'; the two armies, with equal valour,

rushed to a closer engagement of swords and spears, and the doubt­

ful contest had already lasted from the dawn of day to a late hour

of the evening, when the right wing, which Constantine led in

person, made a vigorous and decisive charge. The judicious retreat

of Licinius saved the remainder of his troops from a total defeat;

but when he computed his loss, which amounted to more than

twenty thousand men, he thought it unsafe to pass the night in the

presence of an active and victorious enemy. Abandoning his camp

and magazines, he marched away with secrecy and diligence at the

head of the greatest part of his cavalry, and was soon removed be­

yond the danger of a pursuit. His diligence preserved his wife,

his son, and his treasures, which he had deposited at Sirmium.

Licinius passed through that city, and breaking down the bridge on

the Save, hastened to collect a new army in Dacia and Thrace. In

his

