62 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Resigns his Before an assembly thus modelled and prepared, Augustus pro~

usurped 't , ..... . .

power. nounced a studied oration, which displayed his patriotism, and

disguised his ambition. "He lamented, yet excused, his past

"conduct. Filial piety had required at his hands the revenge of

"his father's murder; the humanity of his own nature had some-

M times given way to the stern laws of necessity, and to a forcetl

"connexion with two unworthy colleagues; as long as Antony

"lived, the republic forbade him to abandon her to a degenerate

"Roman, and a barbarian queen. He was now at liberty to

"satisfy his duty and his inclination. He solemnly restored the

"senate and people to all their ancient rights; and wished only to

"mingle with the crowd of his fellow-citizens, and to share the

"blessings which he had obtained for his country

is prerailed It would require the pen of Tacitus, (if Tacitus had assisted at

samt h under tms &^m^y) to describe the various emotions of the senate; those

the title of were sUppressed, and those that were affected. It was danger-

emperor or rr

gerfeitf. ous to trust the sincerity of Augustus; to seem to distrust it, was
still

more dangerous. The respective advantages of monarchy and a

republic have often divided speculative inquirers; the present great­

ness of the Roman state, the corruption of manners, and the licence

of the soldiers, added new weight to the advocates- of monarchy j

and these general views of government were again warped by the

hopes and fears of each individual. Amidst this confusion of sen­

timents, the answer of the senate was unanimous and decisive.

They refused to accept the resignation of Augustus; they conjured

him not to desert the republic, which he had saved. After a de­

cent resistance, the crafty tyrant submitted to the orders of the

senate; and consented to receive the government of the provinces,

and the general command of the Roman armies, under the well

known names of Proconsul and ImpErator5. But he would!

receive them only for ten years. Even before the expiration of

a that

