lxi«r NOTES ON THE FOU RTEENTH CHAPTER.

pute between the sovereigns of Italy and of IUy-

ricum.

[88] Cibalis or Cibalse (whose name is ftil 1 pre­

served in the obscure ruins of Swilei) was situated

about fifty miles from Sirmium, the capital of illy-

ricum, and about one hundred from Taurunum, or

Belgrade, and the conflux of the Danube and the

Save. The Roman garrisons and cities on those

rivers are finely illustrated by M. Danville, in a

memoir inserted in l'Academie des Inscriptions,

torn, xxviii.

[S9] Zosimus; 1. ii p. go, 91.) gives a very parti­

cular account of this battle; but the descriptions

of Zosimus are rhetorical rather than military.

[90] Zosimus, 1 ii. p. 92, 93. Anonym Va-

lelian, p. 713. The Epitomes furnish some cir­

cumstances; but they frequently confound the two

wars between Licinius and Constantine.

[9;] Petrus Patricius in Excerpt. Legat. p. 27.

If it should be thought that y^jJfot signifies more

properly a son-in-law than a kinsman, we might

coijecture, that Constantine, assuming the name as

well as the duties of a father, had adopted his

younger brothers and sisters, the children of Tbe-

pdora.

[92] Zosimus, I ii p. ey. Anonym. Valesian,

p. 713. Eutropius, x. 5. Aurelins Victor. Euseb. in

Chron. Sozomen. 1. i.e. 2. Fourofthese writers affirm

that the promotion of the Cæsars was an article of

the treaty. It is however certain, that the younger

Constantine and Licinius were not yet born; and it

if high'y probable that the promotion was made the

l it of March, A. D. 317. The treaty had probably

stipulated that two might be created by the western,

and one only by the eastern emperor; but each of

them reserved to himself the choice of the persons.

[93] Codex Theodosian, 1. xi. tit. 27. torn,

iv. p. 188, with Godefroy's observations. See

likewise, 1. v. tit. 7—8.

[94] Omniaforis placita, domi prospera, annonae

ubertate, fructuum copi.i, &c. Panepyr. Vet. x. 38.

This oration of Nazarius was pronounced on the

day cf the Q^iiiquennaiia of the Cæsars, the 1st of

March, A. L>. 321.

[o;] See the edict of Constantine, addressed to

the Roman people in the slieodosian Code, 1. ix.

tit. 24. torn, iii p 189.

[96] His son very fairly assigns the true reason of

the repeal, "Ne sub specie atrocioris judieii ali-

qua in ulciseendo crimine diiatio uafeeretur." Cod.

Theod. torn. iii. p. 193.

[97] Eufebius (in Vita Constant. 1. iii. c. 1.)

chooses to affirm, that in the reign of his hero, the

sword of justice hung idle in the hands of the ma­

gistrates. Eufebius himself, (I. iv. c. 29. 54.) and

the Theodosian Code, will inform us, that this ex­

cessive lenity was not owing to the want either of

atrocious criminals or of penal laws.

[98] Nazarius in Panegyr. Vet. x. The victory

of Crispus over the Alemanni, is expressed on fume

medals.

[99] See Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 93, 94. Though the

narrative of that Historian is neither clear nor con­

sistent. The Panegyric ofOptatianus (c. 23.) men­

tions the alliance of the Sarmatiaos with the Carps

and Gctæ, and points out the several fields of battle.

It is supposed, ch t the Sarmatian games, celebrated

in the month of November, derived their origin froa

the success of this war.

[100] In the C.tsars of Julian (p. 329 Commen-

taire de Spanhcim, p. 252 ) Constantine boasts,

that he had recovered the province (Dacia), which

Trajan had subdued. But it is insinuated by Silenus,

that the conquests of Constantine were like the

gardens of Adonis, which fade and wither almost

the moment they appear.

[toi] Jornandes de Rebus Geticis, c. 21. I know

not whether we may entirely depend on his authority.

Such an alliance has a very recent air, and scarcely

is suited to the maxims of the beginning of ;he

fourth century.

[102] Eufebius in Vit. Constantine, I, i. c. 8.

This passage, however, is taken from a general de­

clamation on the greatness of Constantine, and not

from any particular account of the Gothic war.

[103] Constantinus tamen vir ingens, et omnia

efficere nitens quæ animo præparasict; simul prin-

cipatum totius orbis affectans Licinio bellum intulic.

Eutropius, x. 5. Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 89. The reasons

which they have assigned for the first civil war may,

with more propriety, be applied to the second.

[1C4] Zosimus, 1. ii, p. 94, 95,

[105] Con-

