OF. THE. ROMAN EMPIRE.

Roman people acknowledged in the features of the younger Gordian

the resemblance of Scipio Africanus, recollected with pleasure that

his mother was the granddaughter of Antoninus Pius, and rested the

public hope on those latent virtues which had hitherto, as they fondly

imagined, lain concealed in the luxurious indolence of a private life.

As soon as the Gordians had appeased the first tumult of a popu- They solicit

.' theconfirma-

lar election, they removed their court to Carthage. They were re- tion of
their

ceived with the acclamations of the Africans, who honoured their aut,onty'

virtues, and who, since the visit of Hadrian, had never beheld the

majesty of a Roman emperor. But these vain acclamations neither

strengthened nor confirmed the title of the Gordians. They were

induced by principle, as well as interest, to solicit the approbation

of the senate; and a deputation of the noblest provincials was sent,

without delay, to Rome, to relate and justify the conduct of their

countrymen, who, having long suffered with patience, were at length

resolved to act with vigour. The letters of the new princes were

modest and respectful, excusing the necessity which had obliged*

them to accept the Imperial title j but submitting their election and

their fate to the supreme judgment of the senate'9. •'

The inclinations of the senate were neither doubtful nor divided. Thesemte

ratifies their

The birth and noble alliances of the Gordians, had intimately election osthe

Gordian 5,

connected them with the most illustrious houses of Rome. Their

fortune had created many dependants in that assembly, their merit

had acquired many friends. Their mild administration opened the

flattering prospect of the restoration, not only of the civil but even

of the republican government* The terror of military vio­

lence, which had first obliged the senate to forget the murder of

Alexander, and to ratify the election of a barbarian peasant *°, now

produced a contrary effect, and provoked them to assert the injured

rights of freedom and humanity. The hatred of Maximin towards

the senate was declared and implacable; the tamest submission had

not appeased his fury, the most cautious innocence would not re­

7 move

