ai8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

successfully discussed, that it is now grown familiar to the reader,

and difficult to the writer. We shall therefore content ourselves

with observing, and indeed with repeating, some of the most im­

portant circumstances of climate, of manners, and of institutions,

which rendered the wild barbarians of Germanyj such formidable

enemies to the Roman power.

Extent of Ancient Germany, excluding from its independent limits the pro­

vince westward of the Rhine, which had submitted to the Roman yoke,

extended itself over a third part of Europe. Almost the whole of mo­

dern Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Livonia, Prussia,

and the greater part of Poland, were peopled by the various tribes of

one great nation, whose complexion, manners, and language, denoted

a common origin, and preserved a striking resemblance. On the

west, ancient Germany was divided by the Rhine from the Gallic,

and on the south, by the Danube, from the lllyrian provinces of

the empire. A ridge of hills, rising from the Danube, and called

the Carpathian Mountains, covered Germany on the side of Dacia

or Hungary. The eastern frontier was faintly marked by the mu­

tual fears of the Germans and the Sarmatians, and was often con­

founded by the mixture of warring and confederating tribes of the

two nations. In the remote darkness of the north, the ancients im­

perfectly descried a frozen ocean that lay beyond the Baltic Sea,

and beyond the Peninsula, or islands 1 of Scandinavia.

Climate. Some ingenious writers 1 have suspected that Europe was much

colder formerly than it is at present; and the most ancient descrip­

tions of the climate of Germany tend exceedingly to confirm their

theory. The general complaints of intense frost, and eternal winter,

are perhaps little to be regarded, since we have no method of re­

ducing to the accurate standard of the thermometer, the feelings, or

the expressions, of an orator, born in the happier regions of Greece

or Asia. But I shall select two strong and incontestible proofs of a

less equivocal nature. I. The great rivers which covered the

■ Roman.

