OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 373

adorned their new conquest with magnificent buildings; but those ^au^t°sthc

monuments were raised at the expence of the people, and abhorred

as badges of slavery. The apprehension of a revolt had inspired

the most rigorous precautions: oppression had been aggravated by

insult, and the consciousness of the public hatred had been produc­

tive of every measure that could render it still more implacable.

We have already remarked the intolerant spirit of the Magian re-r

ligion. The statue6 of the deified kings of Armenia, and the sacred

images of the fun and moon, Were broke in pieces by the zeal of the

conqueror; and the perpetual fire of Ormuzd was kindled and pre­

served upon an altar erected on the summit of mount BagavanSJ. It

was natural, thata people exasperated by so many injuries, should arm Revolt
os the

with zeal in the cause of their independence, their religion, and their
nobles.*1"1

hereditary sovereign. The torrent bore down every obstacle, and the

Persian garrison retreated before its fury. The nobles of Armenia

flew to the standard of Tiridates, all alleging their past merit,

offering their future service, and soliciting from the new king those

honours and rewards from which they had been excluded with dis­

dain under the foreign governments6. The command of the army

was bestowed on Artavasdes, whose father had saved the infancy of

Tiridates, and whose family had been massacred for that generous

action. The brother of Artavasdes obtained the government of a

province. One of the first military dignities was conferred on the

Satrap Otas, a man of singular temperance and fortitude, who pre­

sented to the king his sister 57 and a considerable treasure, both of

which, in a sequestered fortress, Otas had preserved from violation:

Among the Armenian nobles appeared an ally, whose fortunes are Story of

too remarkable to pass unnoticed. His name was Mamgo, his origin Mamg0,

was Scythian, and the horde which acknowledged his authority, had

encamped a very few years before on the skirts of the Chinese em­

pire S8, which at that time extended as far as the neighbourhood

of Sogdiana59. Having incurred the displeasure of his master,

Mamgo,,

