OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE,

Operation, the particular effects of which are felt in every society,

acted with much more diffusive energy in the Roman world. The

provinces would-soon have been exhausted of their wealth if the

manufactures and commerce of luxury had not insensibly restored

to the industrious subjects, the sums which were exacted from

them by the arms and authority of Rome. As long as the circu­

lation was confined within the bounds of the empire, it impressed

the political machine with a new, degree of activity, and its conse­

quences, sometimes beneficial, could never become pernicious.

But it is no easy task to confine luxury within the limits of an Fo

empire. The most remote countries of the ancient world were

ransacked to supply the pomp and delicacy of Rome. The forests

of Scythia afforded some valuable furs. Amber was brought over

land from the shores of the Baltic to the Danube; and the bar­

barians were astonished at the price which they received in exchange

for so useless a commodity ,0'. There was. a considerable demand

fpr Babylonian carpets, and other manufactures of the east; but

the most important and unpopular branch of foreign trade was

carried on with Arabia and India. Every year, about the time of

;tbe. summer solstice, a fleet of an hundred and twenty vessels failed

from Myos-hormos,' a port of Egypt; on the Red Sea. By the

.periodical assistance of the Monsoons, they traversed the ocean in

about forty days. The coast of Malabar, or the island of Ceylon

,,ot, was the usual term of their navigation, and it was in'those

markets that the merchants from the more remote countries of

Asia expected their arrival. The return of the fleet of Egypt was

fixed to the months of December or January; and as soon as their

rich cargo had been transported on the backs of camels, from

the Red Sea to the Nile, and had descended that river as far as

Alexandria, it was poured, without delay, into the capital of the

empire"". The objects of oriental traffic were splendid and trifling:

silk, a pound of which was esteemed not inferior in value to a

., • > pound

