OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 497

his residence in the capital These oblations, for the most

part, were made in money; nor was the society of Christians either

desirous or capable of acquiring, to any considerable degree, the

incumbrance of a landed property. It had been provided by several

laws, which were enacted with the fame design as our statutes of

mortmain, that no real estates should be given or bequeathed to any

corporate body, without either a special privilege or a particular

dispensation from the emperor or from the senate "JJ, who were

seldom disposed to grant them in favour of a sect, at first the object

of their contempt, and at last of their fears and jealousy. A

transaction however is related under the reign of Alexander Severus,

which discovers that the restraint was sometimes eluded or sus­

pended, and that the Christians were permitted to claim and to

possess a piece of ground within the limits of Rome itself,,<S. The

progress of Christianity, and the civil confusions of the empire,

contributed to relax the severity of the laws, and before the close

of the third century many considerable estates were bestowed on the

opulent churches of Rome, Milan, Carthage, Antioch, Alexandria,

and the other great cities of Italy and the provinces.

The bishop was the natural steward of the church', the public Distribution

stock was entrusted to his care without account or controul: the ofthe

'revenue.

presbyters were confined to their spiritual functions, and the more

dependent order of deacons was solely employed in the manage­

ment and distribution of the ecclesiastical revenue "7. If we may

give credit to the vehement declamations of Cyprian, there were

too many among his African brethren, who, in the execution of

their charge, violated every precept, not only of evangelic perfection,

but even of moral virtue. By some of these unfaithful stewards

the riches of the church were lavished in sensual pleasures, by others

they were perverted to the purposes of private gain, of fraudulent

purchases, and of rapacious usury "\ But as long as the contri-

v butions of the Christian people were free, and unconstrained, the

Vol. I. S s s abuse

