OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.. y

ministers of death. Two officers of rank, who were intrusted with

that commission, placed Cyprian between them in a chariot, and as the

proconsul was not then at leisure, they conducted him not to a pri­

son, but to a private house in Carthage, which belonged to one of

them. An elegant supper was provided for the entertainment of the

bishop, and his Christian friends were permitted for the last time

to enjoy his society, whilst the streets were filled with a multitude

of the faithful, anxious and alarmed for the approaching fate of

their spiritual father *5. In the morning he appeared before the tri­

bunal of the proconsul, who, after informing himself of the name

and situation of Cyprian, commanded him to offer sacrifice, and

pressed him to reflect on the consequences of his disobedience. The

refusal of Cyprian was firm and decisive; and the magistrate, when

he had taken the opinion of his council, pronounced with some

reluctance the sentence of death. It was conceived in the following

terms: "That Thascius Cyprianus should be immediately beheaded,

"as the enemy of the gods of Rome, and as the chief and ring-

"leader of a criminal association, which he had seduced into an

"impious resistance against the laws of the most holy emperor6,

"Valerian and Gallienus 86." The manner of his execution was

the mildest and least painful that could be inflicted on a person con­

victed of any capital offence: nor was the use of torture admitted to

obtain from the Bishop of Carthage either the recantation of his

principles, or the discovery of his accomplices.

As soon as the sentence was proclaimed, a general cry of " We His martyr-

"will die with him," arose at once among the listening multitude dom'

of Christians who waited before the palace gates. The generous

effusions of their zeal and affection were neither serviceable to

Cyprian nor dangerous to themselves. He was led away under a

guard of tribunes and centurions, without resistance and without

insult to the place of his execution, a spacious and level plain near

the city, which was already filled with great numbers of specta-

