OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 489

season, presumptuously disturbed the service of the assembly, and

by their pride or mistaken zeal they introduced, particularly into the

apostolic church of Corinth, a long and melancholy train of dis­

orders ,oS. As the institution of prophets became useless, and even

pernicious, their powers were withdrawn, and their office abolished.

The public functions of religion were solely entrusted to the esta­

blished ministers of the church, the bi/hops and the presbyters; two

appellations which, in their first origin, appear to have distinguished

the same office and the same order of persons. The name of Pres­

byter was expressive of their age, or rather of their gravity and

wisdom. The title of Bishop denoted their inspection over the faith

and manners of the christians who were committed to their pastoral

care. In proportion to the respective numbers of the faithful, a

larger or smaller number of these episcopal presbyters guided each

infant congregation with equal authority, and with united

counsels Io6.

But the most perfect equality of freedom requires the directing institution of

hand of a superior magistrate; and the order of public deliberations
presidents of

soon introduces the office of a president invested at least with the
prlityten! °f

authority of collecting the sentiments, and of executing the re­

solutions, of the assembly. A regard for the public tranquillity,

which would so frequently have been interrupted by annual or by

occasional elections, induced the primitive christians to constitute an

honourable and perpetual magistracy, and to choose one of the wisest

and most holy among their presbyters to execute, during his life, the

duties of their ecclesiastical governor. It was under these circum­

stances that the lofty title of Bishop began to raise itself above the

humble appellation of presbyter; and while the latter remained the

most natural distinction for the members of every christian senate,

the former was appropriated to the dignity of its new president '°7.

The advantages of this episcopal form of governments which ap­

pears to have been introduced before the end of the first century ,0%

, Vol. L R r r were

