OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. .8^

peror's sister, and widow of Lucius Verus, impatient of the second

rank, and jealous of the reigning empress, had armed the mur­

derer against her brother's life. She had not ventured to commu­

nicate the black design to her second husband Claudius Pompeianus,

a senator of distinguished merit and unfliaken loyalty; but among

the crowd of her lovers (for she imitated the manners of Faustina)

she found men of desperate fortunes and wild ambition, who were

prepared to serve her more violent, as well as her tender passions*

The conspirators experienced the rigor of justice, and the aban­

doned princes was punished first with exile, and afterwards with

death

But the words of the assassin funk deep into the mind of Com- Hatl"ed 4n<*

* cruelty of

modus, and left an indelible impression of fear and hatred against Commodus

towards the

the whole body of the senate. Those whom he had dreaded as im- senate,

portunate ministers, he now suspected as secret enemies. The De­

lators, a race of men discouraged, and almost extinguished under

the former reigns, again became formidable, as soon as they dis­

covered that the emperor was desirous of finding disaffection and

treason in the senate. That assembly, whom Marcus had ever

considered as the great council of the nation, was composed of the

most distinguished of the Romans; and distinction soon became cri­

minal. The possession of wealth stimulated the diligence of the

informers; rigid virtue implied a tacit censure of the irregularities

of Commodus; important services implied a dangerous superiority

of merit, and the friendship of the father always ensured the aver­

sion of the son. Suspicion was equivalent to proof. Trial to

condemnation. The execution of a considerable senator, was at­

tended with the death of all who might lament or revenge his fate;

and when Commodus had once tasted human blood, he became

incapable of pity or remorse.

Of these innocent victims of tyranny, none died more lamented The Qyimi-

. . . . lian brothers.

than the two brothers of the Quintilian family, Maximus and

Vol. I. N Condi-

