OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5G7

scarcely be expected that any government should suffer the action

of Marcellus the Centurion to pass with impunity. On the day of

a public festival, that officer threw away his belt, his arms, and the

ensigns of his office, and exclaimed with a loud voice, that he would

obey none but Jesus Christ the eternal King, and that he renounced

for ever the use of carnal weapons, and the service of an idolatrous

master. The soldiers, as soon as they recovered from their asto­

nishment, secured the person of Marcellus. He was examined in

the city of Tingi by the president of that part of Mauritania; and

as he was convicted by his own confession, he was condemned and

beheaded for the crime of desertion ,4S. Examples of such a nature*

savour much less of religious persecution than of martial or even

civil law: but they served to alienate the mind of the emperors, to

justify the severity of Galerius, who dismissed a great number of

Christian officers from their employments; and to authorize the

opinion, that a sect of enthusiasts, which avowed principles so re­

pugnant to the public safety, must either remain useless, or would

soon become dangerous subjects of the empire.

After the success of the Persian war had raised the hope* and the Galerius
pre*-

reputation of Galerius, he passed a winter with Diocletian in the cietlan^obel

palace of Nicomedia, and the fate of Christianity was the object of ^"^"Jn"1

their secret consultations M6. The experienced emperor was still in­

clined to pursue measures of lenity; and though he readily con­

sented to exclude the Christians from holding any employments in

the household or the army, he urged in the strongest terms the dan­

ger as well as cruelty of shedding the blood of those deluded fana^

tics. Galerius at length extorted from him the permission of sum­

moning a council, composed of a few persons the most distinguished:

in the civil and military departments of the state. The important

question was agitated in their presence, and those ambitious cour­

tiers easily discerned, that it was incumbent on them to second, by

their eloquence, the importunate violence of the Cæsar. It may bo:

presumed^,

