iSo THE DECLINE AND FALL

reign, and transmitted his infamy to-succeeding times. A capricious

prodigality supplied the want of taste and elegance; and whilst Ela-

gabalus lavished away the treasures of his people in the wildest ex­

travagance, his own voice and that of his flatterers applauded a

spirit and magnificence unknown to the tameness of his predecessors.

To confound the order of seasons and climates 57, to sport with the

passions and prejudices of his subjects, and to subvert every law of

nature and decency, were in the number of his most delicious amuse­

ments. A long train of concubines, and a rapid succession of wives,

among whom was a vestal virgin, ravished by force from her sacred

asylum 58, were ^insufficient to satisfy the impotence of his passions.

The master of the Roman world affected to copy the dress and

manners of the female sex, preferred the distaff to the scepter, and

dishonoured the principal dignities of the empire by distributing

them among his numerous lovers; one of whom was publickly in­

vested with the title and authority of the emperor's, or as he rather

styled himself, of the empress's husband S9.

Contempt The vices and follies of Elagabalus have most probably been

which distin- adorned by fancy, and blackened by prejudice 6o. Yet confining

guiihed the

Roman ty- ourselves to the public scenes displayed before the Roman people,

and attested by grave and contemporary historians, their inexpres­

sible infamy surpasses that of any other age or country. The licence

of an eastern monarch is secluded from the eye of curiosity by the

inaccessible walls of his seraglio. The sentiments of honour and

gallantry have introduced a refinement of pleasure, a regard for de­

cency, and a respect for the public opinion, into the modern courts

of Europe; but the corrupt and opulent nobles of Rome gratified

every vice that could be collected from the mighty conflux of nations

and manners. Secure of impunity, careless of censure, they lived

without restraint in the patient and humble society of their staves

and parasites. The emperor, in his turn, viewing every rank of his

subjects

rancr.

