Ixii NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.

Ceni« are supported in a specious, not to fay a con­

vincing, manner by M. Grosley. Observations fur

l'ltalie, torn. i. p. 40, &c.

[54] La Brunette near Suse, Demont, Exiles

Fenestrelles, Coni, &c.

[5;] See Ammian. Marcellin. xv. 10. His de­

scription of the roads over the Alps, is clear, lively,

and accurate.

[56] Zosimus as well as Eusebius hasten from tbe

passage of the Alps, to the decisive action near

Rome. We must apply to the two Panegyrics, for

the intermediate actions of Constantiae.

[57] The Marquis Masse! has examined the siege

and battle of Verona, with that degree of attention

and accuracy, which was due to a memorable action

that happened in his native country. The fortifi­

cations of that city, constructed by Gallienus, were

less extensive than the modern walls, and the Am­

phitheatre was not included within their circum­

ference. See Verona Ulustrata, Part i p. 142. 150.

[58] They wanted chains for so great a multi­

tude of captives; and the whole council was at a

loss; but the sagacious conqueror imagined the hap­

py expedient of converting into fetters the swords

of the vanquished. Panegyr. Vet. ix. 11.

[59] Panegyr, Vet. ix. 10.

[60] Litcras calamitacum fuarum indices fup-

primebat. Panegyr. Vet. ix. 15.

[61] Remedia malorum potius quam mala disse-

rebat, is the fine censure which Tacitus passes on

the supine indolence of Vitelliui.

[62] The Marquis Massei has made it extremely

probable that Constantine was still at Verona, the

1st of September, A. D. 312, and that the memo­

rable æra of the indictions was dated from his con-

quell of the Cisalpine Gaul.

[63] See Panegyr. Vet. xi. 16. Lactantius de

M. P. c. 44.

[64] Illo die hostem Romanorum esse peri'.arum.

The vanquished prince became of course the enemy

of Rome.

[65J See Panegyr. Vet. ix. 16. x. 27. The for­

mer of these orators magnifies the hoards of corn.

which Maxentius had collected from Africa and the

Islands. And yet, if there is any truth in the scarcity

mentioned by Eusebius, (in Vit. Constantin, 1. i. c.

36.} the Imperial granaries must, have been open

only to the soldiers.

[66] Maxentius . .. tandem urbe in Saxa mlra,

millia ferme novem segerrime progressus. Aure-

lius Victor. See Cellarius Geograph. Antiq. torn.

i. p. 463. Saxa Rubra was in the neighbourhood

of the Cremera, a trifling rivulet, illustrated by the

valour and glorious death of the three hundred

Fabii.

[67] The post which Maxentius had taken, with

the Tyber in his rear, is very clearly described by

the two Panegyrists, ix. 16. x. 28.

[68] Exceptis latrocinii illius primis auctoribus,

qui desperata venia, locum quern pugnæ sumpserant

texere corporibus. Panegyr. Vet. ix. 17.

[69] A very idle rumour soon prevailed, that

Maxentius, who had not taken any precaution for

his own retreat, had contrived a very artful snare to

destroy the army of the pursuers; but that tbe

wooden bridge which was to have been loosened on

the approach of Constantine, unluckily broke down

under the weight of the flying Italians. M. de

Tillemont (Hist, des Empereurs, torn. iv. part i.

p. 576.) very seriously examines whether in contra­

diction to common fense, the testimony of Eusebius

and Zosimus ought to prevail over the silence of

Lactantius, Nazarius, and the anonymous, but con­

temporary orator, who composed the ninth pa­

negyric.

[70] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. £6—83, and the two Pa­

negyrics, the former of which was pronounced a

few months afterwards, afford the clearest notion of

this great battle. Lactantius, Eusebius, and even

the Epitomes, supply several useful hints.

[71] Zosimus, the enemy of Constantine, allows,

(1. ii. p. 88.) that only a few of the friends of

Maxentius were put to death; but we may remark

the expressive passage of Nazarius (Panegyr. Vet. x.

6), Omnibus qui labefactari statum ejus poterant

cum stirpe deJetis. The other orator (Panegyr.

Vet ix. 2c, 21.) content's himself with observing,

that Constantine, when he entered Rome, did not

imitate the cruel massacres of Cinna, of Marius, or

of Sylla.

[72] See

