OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 43

an independent and increasing state in the heart of the Roman

empire.

I. We have already described the religious harmony of the ancient The First

world, and the facility with which the most different and even hos- Zealof'the

tile nations embraced, or at least respected, each other's superstitions.
^ews'

A single people refused to join in the common intercourse of man­

kind. The Jews, who, under the Assyrian and Persian monarchies,

had languished for many ages the most despised portion of their

slaves emerged from'obscurity under the successors of Alexander;

and as they multiplied to a surprising degree in the-East, and after­

wards in the West, they soon excited the curiosity and wonder

of other nations \ The sullen obstinacy with which they main­

tained their peculiar rites and unsocial manners, seemed to mark

them out a distinct species of men who boldly professed, or who

faintly disguised, their implacable hatred to the rest of human-kind

Neither the violence of Antiochus, nor the arts of Herod, nor the

example of the circumjacent nations, could ever persuade the Jews

to associate with the institutions of Moses the elegant mythology'

of the Greeks+. According to the maxims of universal toleration,

the Romans protected a superstition which they despiseds. The

polite Augustus condescended to give orders, that sacrifices should

be offered for his prosperity in the temple of Jerusalem6; while

the meanest of the posterity of Abraham, who should have paid the

same homage to the Jupiter of the capitol, would have been an

object of abhorrence to himself and to his brethren. The mode­

ration of the conquerors was insufficient to appease the jealous pre­

judices of their subjects, who were alarmed and scandalized at the

ensigns of paganism, which necessarily introduced themselves into

a Roman province 7. The mad attempt of Caligula to place his

own statue in the temple of Jerusalem, was defeated by the unani­

mous resolution of a people who dreaded death much less than such

an idolatrous profanation 8. Their attachment to the law of Moses

M m m 2 was

