6F THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

so lately an object of terror, now cultivated their lands, drove their

cattle to the neighbouring fair, and contributed by his labour to the

public plenty. They congratulated their masters on the powerful

accession of subjects and soldiers; but they forgot to observe, that

multitudes of secret enemies, insolent from favour, or desperate

from oppression, were introduced into the heart of the empire

While the Cæsars exercised their valour on the bank of the Rhine WarsofAsrica

and Danube, the presence of the emperor6 was required on the

southern confines of the Roman world. From the Nile to Mount

Atlas, Africa was in arms. A confederacy of five Moorish nations

issued from their deserts to invade the peaceful provinces 4\ Julian

had assumed the purple at Carthage Achilleus at Alexandria,

and even the Blemmyes, renewed or rather continued their in­

cursions into the Upper Egypt. Scarcely any circumstances have

been preserved of the exploits of Maximian in the western parts of

Africa; but it appears by the event, that the progress of his arms

was rapid and decisive, that he vanquished the fiercest barbarians of

Mauritania, and that he removed them from the mountains,

whose inaccessible strength had inspired their inhabitants with a law­

less confidence, and habituated them to a life of rapine and vio­

lence *\ Diocletian, on his side, opened the campaign in Egypt by ^ndiict9^

the siege of Alexandria, cut off the aqueducts which conveyed Diocletian in

the waters of the Nile into every quarter of that immense city4J,

and rendering his camp impregnable to the sallies of the besieged

multitude, he pushed his reiterated attacks with caution and vigour.

After a siege of eight months, Alexandria, wasted by the sword

and by fire, implored the clemency of the conqueror; but it ex­

perienced the full extent of his severity. Many thousands of the

citizens perished in a promiscuous flaughter, and there were few

obnoxious persons in Egypt who escaped a sentence either of death

or at least of exile 44. The fate of Busiris and of Coptos was still

more melancholy than that of Alexandria; those proud cities, the

Vol. I. B b b former

