OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. rfy

fair prospect of honours and fortune that was thrown open to their

ambition. But the favour, which implied a distinction, was lost

in the prodigality of Caracalla, and the reluctant provincials Thefreedom

were compelled to assume the vain title, and the real obliga- given to all

_ _ „ the provin-

tions, of Roman citizens. Nor was the rapacious Ion or oe- ciais, for the

verus contented with such a measure of taxation, as had appeared ["^ion.^

sufficient to his moderate predecessors. Instead of a twentieth, he

exacted a tenth of all legacies and inheritances; and during his

reign (for the ancient proportion was restored after his death) he

crushed alike every part of the empire under the weight of his

iron scepter "V . • I i

When all the provincials became liable to the peculiar impositions Temporary

of Roman citizens, they seemed to acquire a legal exemption from the
[heuibute.0

tributes which they had paid in their former condition of subjects.

Such were not the maxims of government adopted by Caracalla and

his pretended son. The old as well as the new taxes were, at the fame

time, levied in the provinces. It was reserved for the virtue of Alexan­

der to relieve them in a great measure from this intolerable grievance,

by reducing the tributes to a thirtieth part of the sum exacted at the

time of his accession "s. It is impossible to conjecture the motive that

engaged him to spare so trifling a remnant of the public evil; but

the noxious weed, which had not been totally eradicated, again sprang

up with the most luxuriant growth, and in the succeeding age,

darkened the Roman world with its deadly shade. In the course of

this history, we shall be too often summoned to explain the land-tax,

the capitation, and the heavy contributions of corn, wine, oil, and

meat, that were exacted from the provinces, for the use of the

court, the army, and the capital.

As long as Rome and Italy were respected as the center of govern- Consequences

ment, a national spirit was preserved by the ancient, and insensibly a
freedomTf

imbibed by the adopted citizens. The principal commands of the Rome'

army were filled by men who had received a liberal education, were

Vol. I. Z well

