THE DECLINE AND FALL

Toleration of

the Jewish

of heaven with the empire of the earth. It was by announcing

himself as their long-expected deliverer, and by calling on all the de­

scendants of Abraham to assert the hope of Israel, that the famous

Barchochebas collected a formidable army, with which he resisted

during two years the power of the Emperor Hadrian '.

Notwithstanding these repeated provocations, the resentment of

religion. the Roman Princes expired after the victory; nor were their appre­

hensions continued beyond the period of war and danger. By the

general indulgence of polytheism, and by the mild temper of Anto­

ninus Pius, the Jews were restored to their ancient privileges, and

once more obtained the permission of circumcising their children,

with the easy restraint, that they should never confer on any foreign

proselyte that distinguishing mark of the Hebrew race *. The nume­

rous remains of that people, though they were still excluded from

the precincts of Jerusalem, were permitted to form and to maintain

considerable establishments both in Italy and in the provinces, to

acquire the freedom of Rome, to enjoy municipal honours, and to

obtain at the fame time an exemption from the burdensome and

expensive offices of society. The moderation or the contempt of the

Romans gave a legal sanction to the form of ecclesiastical policy

which was instituted by the vanquished sect. The patriarch, who

had fixed his residence at Tiberias, was empowered to appoint his

subordinate ministers and apostles, to exercise a domestic jurisdiction*

and to receive from his dispersed brethren an annual contribution

New synagogues were frequently erected in the principal cities of

the Empire; and the sabbaths, the fasts, and the festivals, which

were either commanded by the Mosaic law, or enjoined by the tra­

ditions of the Rabbis, were celebrated in the most solemn and public

manner6. Such gentle treatment insensibly asswaged the stern"

temper of the Jews. Awakening from their dream of prophecy and

conquest, they assumed the behaviour of peaceable and industrious

subjects. Their irreconcilable hatred of mankind, instead of fla­

ming out in acts of blood and violence, evaporated in less dangerous

gratifications.

3

