OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

too much taste to relinquish their language, and too much vanity to

adopt any foreign institutions. Still preserving the prejudices, after

they had lost the virtues, of their ancestors, they affected to

despise the unpolished manners of the Roman conquerors,

whilst they were compelled to respect their superior wisdom and

power **. Nor was the influence of the Grecian language and

sentiments confined to the narrow limits of that once celebrated

country. Their empire, by the progress of colonies and con­

quest, had been diffused from the Hadriatic to the Euphrates and

the Nile. Asia was covered with Greek cities, and the long reign

of the Macedonian kings had introduced a silent revolution into-

Syria aud Egypt. In their pompous courts those princes united the

elegance of Athens with the luxury of the East, and the example of

the court was imitated, at an humble distance, by the higher ranks of

their subjects. Such was the general division of the Roman empire

into the Latin and Greek languages. To these we may add a third

distinction for the body of the natives irt Syria and especially in Egypt*

The use of their ancient dialects, by secluding them from the com­

merce of mankind, checked the improvements of those barbarians 4\.

The slothful effeminacy of the former, exposed them to the contempt *

the sullen ferociousness of the lattei, excited the aversion of the

Roman conquerors They seldom desired or deserved the- free*

dom of the city; and it was remarked that more than two hund<redi

and. thirty years elapsed after the ruin of the Ptolemies, before a

native Egyptian was admitted into the senate of Rome *K . .•:

H is a j*uft though trite observation, that victorious Rome was her- G

eneral use

fcl£ subdued by the arts of Greece. Those immortal writers whe* g2'g«.L'n*

still command the admiration of modern Europe, soon became the

favourite object of study and imitation- in Italy and the western pro­

vinces. But the elegant amusements of the Romans were not

suffered to interfere with their found maxims of policy. Whilst they

acknowledged the charms of the Greek, they asserted the dignity of

■Sv- js.t the*

