NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER, IxJx

world. The success of such a trade is one of the

strongest' instances of sacerdotal art and popular

credulity.

[56] The right reverend author of the Divine

-Legation of Moses asligns a very curious reason for  
the omitfion, and most ingeniously retorts it on the

unbelievers.

[57] See Le Clerc (Prolegomena ad Hist. Ec-

clesiast. c. 1. sect. 8.)- His authority seems to carry

the greater weight, as he has written a learned and

judicious commentary on the books of the Old

Testament.

[jSj Joseph. Antiquiut. 1. xili. c. 10. Accord­

ing to the most natural interpretation of his words,

the Saducees admitted only the Pentateuch; but it

has pleased some modern critics to add the prophets

to their c;eed, and to suppose, that they contented

themselves with rejecting the traditions of the

Pharisees.; Dr. Jortin has argued that point in his

Remarks on Ecclesiastical History, vol. ii. p. 103.

[,-9] This expectation was countenanced by the

twenty-fourth chapter of Sr. Matthew, and by the

first epistle of St. Paul to the Thessalonians. Eras­

mus removes the difficulty by the help of alle­

gory and metaphor; and the learned Grotius venr

tures to insinuate, that, for wife purposes, the pious

deception was permitted to take place.

[60] See Burnct's Sacred Theory, part iii. c. 5.

T his tradition may be traced as high as the author

of the Epistle of Barnabas, who wrote in the first

century, and who seems to have been half a Jew.

[61 ] The primitive church of Antioch, computed

almost 6oco years from the creation of the world

to the birth of Christ. Africanus, Lactantius, and

the Greek church, have reduced that number to'

55:0, and Euscbius has contented himself with

5200 years. These calculations were formed on

the Septuagint, which was universally received

during the six first centuries. The authority of

the Vulgate and of the Hebrew text has deter­

mined the moderns, Protestants as well as Catho­

lics, to prefer a period of about 4000 years; though,

in the study of profane antiquity, they often find

themselves streightened by those narrow limits.

[61] Most of these pictures were borrowed from

a misinterpretation of Isaiah,. Daniel, and the

Apocalypse. One of the grossest images may be found

in Irentus (I. v. p. 4.55.), the disciple of Papias,

who had seen the apostle St. John.

[63] See the second dialogue os Justin with

Tryphon, and the seventh book of Lactantius. It

is unnecessary to allege all the intermediate fathers,

as the fact is not disputed.

[64] Dupin, Bibliotheque Ecclesiastique, torn. i.

p. 223. torn. ii. p. 36s1. and Mosheim, p. 720;

though the latter of these learned divines is not

altogether candid oh this occasion.

[6;] In the council of Laodicea (about the year

360.) the Apocalypse was tacitly excluded from the

sacred canon by the same churches of Asia to

which it is addressed ; and we may learn from the

complaint of Sulpicius Scverus, that their sentence

had been ratified by the greater number of Chri­

stians of his time. From what causes then is the

Apocalypse at present so generally received by the

Greek, the Roman, and the Protestant churches I

The following ones may be assigned. 1. The

Greeks were subdued by the authority of an im­

postor, who, in the sixth century, assumed the

character of Dionysius the Areopagite. 2. A

just apprehension, that the grammarians might

become more important than the theologians,

engaged the council of Trent to fix the seal of

their infallibility on all the books of Scripture,

contained in the Latin Vulgate, in the number

of which the Apocalypse was fortunately included.

(Fra Paolo, llloria del Concilio Tridentino, 1. ii.)

3. The advantage of turning those mysterious pro­

phecies against the See of Rome, inspired the Pro­

testants with uncommon veneration for so useful

an ally. See the ingenious and elegant discourses

of the present biihop of Litchfield on that un­

promising subject.

[66] Lactantius (Institut. Divin,. vii.. if, &c.^

relates the dismal tale of futurity with great spirit

and eloquence. ..... -ii .•

[6/] On this subject every reader os taste will

be entertained with the third part ofBurnet's Sacred

Theory. He blends philosophy, scripture, and tra­

dition, into one magnificent system; in the descrip­

tion of which, he displays a strength of fancy not

inferior to that of Milton himself. . .

[63] And.

