192 THE DECLINE AND FALL

made desperate sallies into the city, set fire to a great number of

houses, and filled the streets with the blood of the inhabitants. The

emperor Balbinus attempted, by ineffectual edicts and precarious

truces, to reconcile the factions at Rome. But their animosity,

though smothered for a while, burnt with redoubled violence. The

soldiers, detesting the senate and the people, despised the weakness

of a prince who wanted either the spirit or the power to command

the obedience of his subjects19.

Discontent of After the tyrant's death, his formidable army had acknowledged,

guards!"0"2" from necessity rather than from choice, the authority of
Maximus,who

transported himself without delay to the camp before Aquileia. As

soon as he had received their oath of fidelity, he addressed them in

terms full of mildness and moderation; lamented, rather than

arraigned, the wild disorders of the times, and assured the soldiers,

that of all their past conduct, the senate would remember only their

generous desertion of the tyrant, and their voluntary return to their

duty. Maximus enforced his exhortations by a liberal donative,

purified the camp by a solemn sacrifice of expiation, and then dis­

missed the legions to their several provinces, impressed, as he hoped,

with a lively fense of gratitude and obedience 4°. But nothing could

reconcile the haughty spirit of the Prætorians. They attended the

emperors on the memorable day of their public entry into Rome;

but amidst the general acclamations, the sullen dejected countenance

of the guards, sufficiently declared that they considered themselves

as the object, rather than the partners of the triumph. When the

whole body was united in their camp, those who had served under

Maximin, and those who had remained at Rome, began to mingle

their complaints and apprehensions. The emperors chosen by the

army had perished with ignominy; those elected by the senate

were seated on the throne 41. The long discord between the civil

and military powers was decided by a war, in which the former

had obtained a complete victory. The soldiers must now learn a

new

