OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 541

were none of sufficient weight and authority to establish a precedent

for the conduct of a Roman magistrate.

The answer of Trajan, to which the Christians of the succeeding Trajan and

age have frequently appealed, discovers as much regard for justice establish a
S

and humanity as could be reconciled with his mistaken notions pr|ceed?ng °f

of religious policy s*. Instead of displaying the implacable zeal of
aga,nst'nem-

an inquisitor, anxious to discover the most minute particles of

heresy, and exulting in the number of his victims, the emperor

expresses much more solicitude to protect the security of the in­

nocent than to prevent the escape of the guilty. He acknowledges

the difficulty of fixing any general plan; but he lays down two

salutary rules, which often afforded relief and support to the

distressed Christians. Though he directs the magistrates to punish

such persons as are legally convicted, he prohibits them, with

a very humane inconsistency, from making any inquiries concern­

ing the supposed criminals. Nor was the magistrate allowed to

proceed on every kind of information. Anonymous charges the

emperor rejects, as too repugnant to the equity of his government;

and he strictly requires, for the conviction of those to whom the

guilt of Christianity is imputed, the positive evidence of a fair and

open accuser. It is likewise probable, that the persons who assumed

so invidious an office, were obliged to declare the grounds of their

suspicions, to specify (both in respect to time and place) the secret

assemblies, which their Christian adversary had frequented, and to

disclose a great number of circumstances, which were concealed

with the most vigilant jealousy, from the eye of the profane. If

they succeeded in their prosecution, they were exposed to the

resentment of a considerable and active party, to the censure of the

more liberal portion of mankind, and to the ignominy which, in

every age and country, has attended the character of an informer*

K, on the contrary, they failed in their proofs, they incurred the

severe and perhaps capital penalty, which,, according to a-law pub­

lished!

