OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tors; and the imperial camp was usually pitched in the plain of

Ctefiphon, on the eastern bank of the Tigris, at the distance of only

three miles from Seleucia The innumerable attendants on luxury

and despotism resorted to the court, and the little village of Ctefi­

phon insensibly swelled into a great city 40. Under the reign of

Marcus, the Roman generals penetrated as far as Ctefiphon and Se­

leucia. They were received as friends by the Greek colony; they A. D. 165.

attacked as enemies the feat of the Parthian kings ; yet both cities

experienced the fame treatment. The sack and conflagration of

Seleucia, with the massacre of three hundred thousand of the inha­

bitants, tarnished the glory of the Roman triumph Seleucia,

already exhausted by the neighbourhood of a too powerful rival,

sunk under the fatal blow; but Ctefiphon, in about thirty-three A.D. 198; .

years, had sufficiently recovered its strength to maintain an obsti­

nate siege against the emperor Severus. The city was, however,

taken by assault; the king, who defended it in person, escaped with

precipitation; an hundred thousand captives, and a rich booty, re­

warded the fatigues of the Roman soldiers 41. Notwithstanding these

misfortunes, Ctefiphon succeeded to Babylon and to Seleucia, as one

of the great capitals of the East. In summer, the monarch of Persia

enjoyed at Ecbatana the cool breezes of the mountains of Media;

but the mildness of the climate engaged him to prefer Ctefiphon for

his winter residence.

From these successful inroads, the Romans derived no real or Conquest of

Oirhoene by

lasting benefit; nor did they attempt to preserve such distant con- the
Romans,

quests, separated from the provinces of the empire by a large tract of

intermediate desert. The reduction of the kingdom of Osrhoene,

was an acquisition of less splendour indeed, but of a far more solid

advantage. That little state occupied the northern and most fertile

part of Mesopotamia, between the Euphrates and the Tigris. Edessa,

its capital, was situated about twenty miles beyond the former of

those rivers; and the inhabitants, since the time of Alexander, were

1 E e 2 a mixed

