NOTES ON THE SIXTH CHAPTER.

Bis officer's head, became entitled to his private

eflate, as well as to his military commission.

[49] Dion, I. Ixxviii. p, 1745. Herodian, 1. v.

p. 1S6. The battle was fought near the village

of Immæ, about two and twenty miles from An-

tioch.

[50] Dion, 1. lxxix. p. 1350.

[5.1] Dion, 1. lxxix. p. 1363. Herodian, L »<

p. 189.

[52] This name is derived by the learned from

two Syriac.words, Ela a God, and Gabai' to form,

the forming, or plastic God, a proper, and even

happy epithet for the Sun. Wotton's History of

Rome, p. 378.

[c.3] Herodian, 1. v. p. 190.

[51] He broke into the sanctuary of Vesta, and

carried away a. statue, which he supposed to be

the Palladium; but the vestals boasted, that by a

pious fraud, they had imposed a counterfeit image

on the profane intruder. Hist. August, p. 103.

[5;] Dion, 1. lxxix. p 13C0. Herodian, L v.

p. 193. The subjects of. the empire were obliged

to make liberal presents to the new-married couple;

and whatevei they had promised during the life of

Elagabalus, was carefully exacted under the ad*

ministration of Mamæa.

[56] The invention of a new sauce was liberally

rewarded; but if it was not relished, the inventor

was confined to eat of nothing else, till he had dis­

covered another more agreeable to the imperial

palate. Hist. August, p. III.

[57] He never would eat sea-fish except at a

great distance from the sea; he then would distri­

bute vast quantities of the rarest sous, brought at an

immense expence, to the peasants of the inland

country. Hist. August, p. 109.

[58] Dion, L lxxix. p. 1358. Herodian, 1. t.

p. 192.

[59] Hierocles enjoyed that honour; but he

would have been supplanted by one Zoticus, had

he not 'contrived, by a potion, to enervate the

powers of his rival, who being found on trial un­

equal to his reputation, was driven with ignominy

from the palace. Dion, 1. lxxix p. 1363, 1364.

A dancer was made præfect of the city, a charioteer

prefect of the watch, a barber pra:fcct of the pro­

visions. These three ministers, with many inferior

officers, were all recommended, tntrmitatt membrorum.

Hist. August, p. 105.

[60] Even the credulous compiler of his lift,

in the Augustan History (p 111.) is inclined to sus­

pect that his vices may have been exaggerated.

[61] Dion, 1. lxxix. p. 1365. Herodian, I. v.

p. 195—201. Hist. August, p. to?. The last of

the three historians seems to have followed the best

authors in his account of the revolution.

[62] The æra of the death of Elagabalus, ami

of the accession of Alexander, has employed the

learning and ingenuity of Pagi, Tillemont, Val-

fecchi, Vignoli, and Torre, bishop of Adria. The

question is most assuredly intricate; but I still ad­

here to the authority of Dion; the truth of whose

calculations is undeniable, and the purity of whose

text is justified by the agreement ofXiphilin, Zo-

naras, and Cedrenus. Elagabalus reigned three

years, nine months, and four days, from his victory

over Macrinus, and was killed March 10, 222.

But what shall we reply to the medals, undoubtedly

genuine, which reckon the fifth year of his tribu-

nitian power? We shall reply with the learned

Valsecchi, that the usurpation of Macrinus was an.

nihilated, and that the son of Caracalla dated his

reign from his father's death. After resolving this

great difficulty, the smaller knots of this question

may be easily untied, or cut asunder.

[63] Hist. August, p. 114. By this unusual

precipitation, the senate meant to- confound the

hopes of Pretenders, and prevent the factions of tho

armies.

£64] Metellus Numidicus, the censor, acknow­

ledged to the Roman people, in a public oration,

that had kind Nature allowed us to exist without

the help of women, we should be delivered from a

very troublesome companion; and he could recom­

mend matrimony, only as the sacrifice of private

pleasure to public duty. Aulus Gellius, i. 6.

[65] Tacit. Annal. xiii. 5.

[66] Hist.

