OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Macedonian kings of Egypt, equalled in beauty her ancestor Cleo­

patra, and far surpassed that princess in chastity55 and valour.

Zenobia was esteemed the most lovely as well as the greatest of her

sex. She was of a dark complexion (for in speaking of a lady, her beauty

1 x * , and learnin

these trifles become important). Her teeth were of a pearly white­

ness, and her large black eyes sparkled with uncommon fire, tem­

pered by the most attractive sweetness. Her voice wa3 strong and

harmonious. Her manly understanding was strengthened and

adorned by study. She was not ignorant of the Latin tongue, but

possessed in equal perfection the Greek, the Syriac, and the Egyp­

tian languages. She had drawn up for her own use an epitome of

oriental history, and familiarly compared the beauties of Homer and

Plato under the tuition of the sublime Longinus.

This accomplished woman gave her hand to Odenathus, who from her valour,

a private station raised himself to the dominion of the Eatst. She

soon became the friend and companion of a hero. In the intervals

of war, Odenathus passionately delighted in the exercise of hunt­

ing; he pursued with ardour the wild beasts of the desert, lions,

panthers, and bears; and the ardour of Zenobia in that dangerous

amusement was not inferior to his own. She had inured her con­

stitution to fatigue, disdained the use of a covered carriage, gene­

rally appeared on horseback in a military habit, and sometimes

marched several miles on foot at the head of the troops. The suc­

cess of Odenathus, was in a great measure ascribed to her incom­

parable prudence and fortitude. Their splendid victories over the

Great King, whom they twice pursued as far as the gates of Ctesi-

phon, laid the foundations of their united fame and power. The

armies which they commanded, and the provinces which they had

saved, acknowledged not any other sovereigns than their invincible

chiefs. The senate and people of Rome revered a stranger who had

avenged their captive emperor, and even the insensible son of Vale­

rian accepted Odenathus for his legitimate colleague.

'R r 2 After

