OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 491

maintained a mutual as well as friendly intercourse of letters and

deputations, the christian world was not yet connected by any su­

preme authority or legislative assembly. As the numbers of the

faithful were gradually multiplied, they discovered the advantages

that might result from a closer union of their interest and designs.

Towards the end of the second century, the churches of Greece

and Asia adopted the useful institutions of provincial synods,

and they may justly be supposed to have borrowed the model of a

representative council from the celebrated examples of their own

country, the Amphictyons, the Achæan league, or the assemblies of

the Ionian cities. It was soon established as a custom and as a law,

that the bishops of the independent churches should meet in the

capital of the province at the stated periods of spring and autumn.

Their deliberations were assisted by the advice of a few distinguished

presbyters, and moderated by the presence of a listening multi­

tude "'. Their decrees, which were styled Canons, regulated every

important controversy of faith and discipline; and it was natural

to believe that a liberal effusion of the holy spirit would be poured

on the united assembly of the delegates of the christian people.

The institution of synods was so well suited to private ambition and to

public interest, that in the space of a few years it was received through­

out the whole empire. A regular correspondence was established Union of the

between the provincial councils, which mutually communicated churLh-

and approved their respective proceedings; and the catholic church

soon assumed the form, and acquired the strength, of a great fede­

rative republic "*.

As the legislative authority of the particular chnrches was insen- Progress of

- sibly superseded by the use of councils, the bishops obtained by 'hority! *U  
their alliance a much larger share of executive and arbitrary power;

connected by a sense of their common interest, they were enabled

to attack, with united vigour, the original rights of their clergy

and people. The prelates of the third century imperceptibly

R r r 9 changed

