THE DECLINE AND FALL

wearied youth, and, almost ia a breath, overthrew seven of the

strongest soldiers in the army. A gold collar was the prize of

his matchless vigour and activity, and he was immediately ap­

pointed to serve in the horse-guards who always attended on the

person of the sovereign \

Maximin, for that was his name, though born on the territories

His military t

service and of the empire, descended from a mixed race of barbarians. His

father was a Goth, and his mother, of the nation of the Alani.

He displayed, on every occasion, a valour equal to his strength;

and his native fierceness was soon tempered or disguised by the

knowledge of the world. Under the reign of Severus and his son,

he obtained the rank of centurion, with the favour and esteem

of both those princes-, the former of whom was an excellent judge

of merit. Gratitude forbade Maximin to serve under the assassin of

Caracalla. Honour taught him to decline the effeminate insults of

Elagabalus. On the accession of Alexander he returned to court,

and was placed by that prince, in a station useful to the service;

and honourable to himself. The fourth legion, to which he was

appointed tribune, soon became, under his care, the best disciplined

of the whole army. With the general applause of the soldiers*

who bestowed on their favourite hero the names of Ajax and

Hercules, he was successively promoted to the first military' com­

mandand had not he still retained too much of his savage origin,

the emperor might perhaps have given his sister in marriage to the

son of Maximift +.

Conspiracy of Instead of securing his fidelity, these favours served only to
in-'

Maximin. flame the ambition of the Thracian peasant, who deemed his

fortune inadequate to his merit, as long as he was constrained to

acknowledge a superior. Though a stranger to real wisdom, he

was not devoid of a selfish cunning, which shewed him, -that the

emperor had lost the affection of the army, and taught him to

improve their discontent to his own advantage. It is easy for faction'

and

