OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the fruits, that grow in our European gardens, are of foreign ex- introduction

traction, which, in many cafes, is betrayed even by their nasties:

the apple was a native of Italy, and when the Romans had tasted the

richer flavour of the apricot, the peach, the pomegranate, the

citron, and the orange, they contented themselves with applying

to all these new fruits, the common denomination of apple, dis­

criminating them from each other by the additional epithet of their

country. 2, In the time of Homer, the vine grew wild in the

island of Sicily, and most probably in the adjacent continent 5 but

it was not improved by the skill, nor did it afford a liquor grateful

to the taste of the savage inhabitants 9+. A thousand years af­

terwards, Italy could boast, that of the fourscore most generous

and celebrated wines, more than two-thirds were produced from

her foil 9*. The blessing was soon communicated to the Narbon-

nese province of Gaul; but so intense was the cold to the north of

the Cevennes, that, in the time of Strabo, it was thought impossible

to ripen the grapes in those parts of Gaul 9\ - This -difficulty,

however, was gradually vanquished; and there is some reason to

believe that the vineyards of Burgundy are as old as the age of the-

Antonines 97. %. The olive, in the western world, was the com*- _

J The olive.

panion as well as the symbol of peace. Two centuries after the

foundation of Rome, both Italy and Africa were strangers to that

useful plant; it was naturalized in those countries; and at length

carried into the heart of Spain and Gaul. The timid errors of the

ancients, that it requieed a certain degree of heat, and could only

flourish in the neighbourhood of the sea, were insensibly explode*! by

industry and experience 9\ 4. The cultivation of flax was trabfc ^

ported from Egypt to Gaul* and enriched the whole country^

however it might impoverish the particular lands on which it was

sown". 1 $. The use of artificial graffea became familiar ta the Artificial

•farmers both of Italy and the provinces^ partkulayly thfi[iLuccrnej 8rafses*

which derivtd [its Iname and torigin frcra Medih *^-:;The astbiat

4 supply

