4oS THE DECLINE AND FALL

this occasion the injury was aggravated by the insult, and the sense,

of private interest was quickened by that of national honour. The

conquest of Macedonia, as we have already observed, had delivered

the Roman people from the weight of personal taxes. Though

they had experienced every form of despotism, they had now en­

joyed that exemption near five hundred years; nor could they pa­

tiently brook the insolence of an Illyrian peasant, who, from his

distant residence in Asia, presumed to number Rome among the tri­

butary cities of his empire. The rising fury of the people was en­

couraged by the authority, or at least the connivance, of the senate;

and the feeble remains of the Prætorian guards, who had reason to

apprehend their own dissolution, embraced so honourable a pretence,

and declared their readiness to draw their swords in the service of

their oppressed country. It was the wish, and it soon became the

hope, of every citizen, that after expelling from Italy their foreign

tyrants, they should elect a prince who, by the place of his resi­

dence, and by his maxims of government, might once more deserve

the title of Roman emperor. The name, as well as the situation of

Maxentius, determined in his favour the popular enthusiasm.

Maxemius Maxentius was the son of the emperor Maximian, and he had

declared em- f a> i «

peror at married the daughter of Galenus. His birth and alliance seemed

a°d!'3c6- to offer him the fairest promise of succeeding to the empire; but

^8th October. .n;S vices and incapacity procured him the fame exclusion from

-the dignity of Cæsar, which Constantine had deserved by a danger­  
ous superiority of merit. The policy of Galerius preferred such

associates, as would neither disgrace the choice, nor dispute the com-

■ mands of their benefactor. An obscure stranger was therefore

-raised to the throne of Italy, and the son of the late emperor of  
-the West was left to enjoy the luxury of a private fortune in a villa  
a few miles distant from the capital. The gloomy passions of his

•foul, sliame, vexation, and rage, were inflamed by envy on the

.news.of .Constantine's success j but the hopes of Maxentius revived

with

8

