THE DECLINE AND FALL

emperor might have asserted his claim, and the prudent Atticus p-e-

vented, by a frank confession, the officiousnefs of informers. But

the equitable Nerva, who then filled the throne, refused to accept

any part of it; and commanded him to use, without scruple, the

present of fortune. The cautious Athenian still insisted, that the

treasure was too considerable for a subject, and that he knew not

how to use it. Abuse it, then, replied the monarch, with a good-

natured peevishness; for it is your own 6?. Many will be of

opinion, that Atticus literally obeyed the emperor's last instructions;

since he expended the greatest part of his fortune, which was much

increased by an advantageous marriage, in the service of the

Public. He had obtained for his son Herod, the prefecture of the

free cities of Asia; and the young magistrate, observing that the

town of Troas was indifferently supplied with water, obtained from

the munificence of Hadrian, three hundred myriads of drachms

(about a hundred thousand pounds) for the construction of a new

aqueduct. But in the execution of the work the charge amounted

to more than double the estimate, and the officers of the revenue

began to murmur, till the generous Atticus silenced their com­

plaints, by requesting that he might be permitted to take upon

himself the whole additional expence ". •

The ablest preceptors of Greece and Asia had been invited by

liberal rewards to direct the education of young Herod. Their pupil

soon became a celebrated orator in the useless rhetoric of that age,

which, confining itself to the schools, disdained to visit either the

Forum or the Senate. He was honoured with the consulship at

Rome; but the greatest part of his life was spent in a philosophic

retirement at Athens, and his adjacent villas; perpetually surrounded

by sophists, who acknowledged, without reluctance, the superiority

of a rich and generous rival e">. The monuments of his genius

have perished; some remains still preserve the fame of his taste and

munificence: modern travellers have measured the ruins of the

stadium

