OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5/1

so fortunate as to. shed their blood in the cause of religion They

inculcated with becoming diligence, that the fire of martyrdom sup­

plied every defect and expiated every fin; that while the souls of

ordinary Christians were obliged to pass through a flow and painful

purification, the triumphant sufferers entered into .the immediate

fruition of eternal bliss, where, in the society of the patriarchs, the

apostles, and the prophets, they reigned with Christ, and acted as

his assessors in the universal judgment of mankind. The assurance

of a lasting reputation upon earth, a motive so congenial to the ta-

nity of human nature, often served to animate the courage of the

martyrs. The honours which Rome or Athens bestowed on those

citizens who had fallen in the cause of theif country were cold and

,unmeaning demonstrations of respect, when compared with the

ardent gratitude and devotion which the primitive church expressed

towards the victorious champions of the faith. The annual com­

memoration of their virtues and sufferings was observed as a sacred

ceremony, and at length terminated in religious worship. Among

the Christians who had publickly confessed their religious principles,

those, who, (as it very frequently happened) had been dismissed from

the tribunal or the prisons of the pagan magistrates, obtained such

honours as were justly due to their imperfect martyrdom and their

generous resolution. The most pious females courted the permission

of imprinting kisses on the fetters which they had worn, and on the

wounds which they had received. Their persons were esteemed

holy, their decisions were admitted with deference, and they too

often abused, by their spiritual pride and licentious manners, the

pre-eminence which their zeal and intrepidity had acquired 9o. Di­

stinctions like these, whilst they display the exalted merit, betray

the inconsiderable number of those who suffered* and of those who

died for the profession of Christianity.

The sober discretion of the present age will more readily censure A rdour of
&e

than admire, but can more easily admire than imitate, the fervour
^irstCh^lstlan5•

'J r of

