NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixxxvii

partment of Constantius, as Cæsar, did not include

Spain, which still continued under the immediate

jurisdiction of Maximian.

[166] Eusebius, 1. viii. c. II. Gruter. Inscript.

p. 1171. No. 18. Rufinus has mistaken the office

of Adauctus as well as the place of his martyrdom.

[167] Eusebius, 1. viii. c. 14. But as Maxentius

was vanquished by Constantine, it suited the pur­

pose of Lactantius to place his death among those

of the persecutors.

[168] The epitaph of Marcel 1 us is to be found

in Gruter, Inscript. p. 1172. No. 3. and it con­

tains all that we know of his history. Marcellinus

and Marcellus, whose names follow in the list of

popes, are supposed by many critics to be different

persons; but the learned Abbe de Longuerue was

convinced that they were one and the fame.

Veridicus rector lapsis quiacrimina Here

Prædixit miseris, suit omnibus hostis amarns.

Hinc furor, hinc odium; sequitur difcordia, lites,

Scditio, cædes; solvuntur fcedera pacis.

Crimen ob alterius, Christum qui in pace negavic

Finibus expulsus patriæ est feritate Tyranni.

Hax breviter Damasus voluit comperta reserre

Marcelli populus meritum cognoscere posset.

We may observe that Damasus was made bishop

of Rome, A. D. 366.

[169] Optatus contr. Donatist. 1. i. c. 17, 18.

[170] The Acts of the Passion of St. Boniface,

which abound in miracles and declamation, are

published by Ruinart, (p. 283 — 291.) both in Greek

and Latin, from the authority of very ancient ma­

nuscripts.

[171] During the four first centuries, there exist

sew traces of either bishops or bishoprics in the

western Myricum. It has been thought probable

that the primate of Milan extended his jurisdiction

over Sirmium, the capital of that great province.

See the Geographia Sacra of Charles de St. Paul, p.

68—76. with the observations of Lucas Hol-

sterius.

[172] The viiith book of Eusebius, as well as the

supplement concerning the martyrs of Palestine,

principally relate to the persecution ofGalerius and

Maximin. The general lamentations with which

Lactantius opens the vth book of his Divine Initi-

iutions, allude to their cruelty.

[173] Eusebius (I. viii. c. 17.) has given us a

Greek version, and Lactantius (de M. P. c. 34.),

the Latin original,of this memorable edict. Neither

of these writers seem to recollect how directly it

contradicts, whatever they have just affirmed of the

remorse and repentance of Galerius.

[174] Eusebius, 1. ix. c 1. He inserts the

epistle of the Prafect.

[175] See Eusebius, 1. viii. c. 14. 1. ix. c. 2—8.

Lactantius de M P. c. 36. These writers agree in

representing the arts of Maximin: but the former

relates the execution of several martyrs, while the

latter expressly affirms, occidi servos Dei vetuit.

[176] A sew days before his death, he published

a very ample edict of toleration, in which he imputes

all the severities which the christians suffered to

thejudgcs and governors, who had misunderstood his

intentions. See the Edict in Eusebius, 1. ix. c. 10.

[177] See two remarkable passages in Eusebius,

1. viii. c. 2. and de Martyr. Palestin, c. 12. The

prudence of the historian has exposed his own cha­

racter to censure and suspicion. It was well known

that he himself had been thrown into prison; and

it was suggested that he had purchased his deliver­

ance by some dishonourable compliance. The re­

proach was urged in his lifetime, and even in his

presence, at the council of Tyre. See Tilsemont,

Memoires Ecclesiastiques, torn. viii. part i. p 67.

[178] The ancient, and perhaps authentic ac­

count of the sufferings of Tarachus, and his compa­

nions (Acta Sincera Ruinart, p. 419—448) is filled

with strong expressions of resentment and contempt

which could not fail of irritating the magistrate.

The behaviour of Ædesius to Hierocles, pnesect of

Egypt, was still more extraordinary, Xoyou ti xat

ipyois to» tuum .... is<fi]S«?vw>. Euseb. de Martyr.

Palestin. c. 5.

[170] Euseb. de Martyr. Palestin. c. 13.

[180] Augustin. Collat. Carthagin. Lei, iii. c*

13. ap. Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiques, torn,

v. part i. p. 46. The controversy with the Dona-

tists has reflected some, though perhaps a partial,

light on the history of the African church.

[181] Eusebius de Martyr. Palestin. c. 13. He

closes his narration, by assuring us that these were

the martyrdoms inflicted in Palestine, during the

nthflt course of the persecution. The vth chapter

