OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3*

names, and with various ceremonies, they adored the fame deities.

The elegant mythology of Homer gave a beautiful, and almost a

regular form, to the polytheism of the ancient world !.

The philosophers of Greece deduced their morals from the na- Of phiioso-

ture of man rather than from that of God. They meditated, how- rherS*

ever, on the Divine Nature, as a very curious and important spe足

culation, and in the profound inquiry, they displayed the strength

and weakness of the human understanding 6. Of the four most

considerable sects, the Stoics and the Platonicians endeavoured to

reconcile the jarring interests of reason and piety. They have left

us the most sublime proofs of the existence and perfections of the

first cause; but as it was impossible for them to conceive the creation

of matter, the workman in the Stoic philosophy was not sufficiently

distinguished from the work ; whilst, on the contrary, the spiritual

God of Plato and his disciples, resembled more an idea than a

substance. The opinions of the Academics and Epicureans were of

a less religious cast; but when the modest science of the former

induced them to doubt, the positive ignorance of the latter urged

them to deny, the providence of a Supreme Ruler. Yet the Sages

of Greece, divided as they were, agreed in one great principle,

an absolute disbelief of the popular superstition; which they com足

municated to the ingenuous youth, who, from every part, resorted

to Athens, and the other feats of learning in the Roman empire.

How, indeed, was it possible, that a philosopher should accept, as

divine truths, the idle tales of the poets, and the incoherent tradi足

tions of antiquity; or, that he should adore, as gods, those im足

perfect beings whom he must have despised, as men! Against such

unworthy adversaries, Cicero condescended to employ the arms of

reason and eloquence; but the satire of Lucian was a much more

adequate, as well as more efficacious weapon. We may be well

assured, that a writer, conversant with the world, would never have

ventured to expose the gods of his country to public ridicule, had

they

