OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 333

the republic. Into Britain and most probably into Cambridge­

shire 46, he transported a considerable body of Vandals. The im­

possibility of an escape, reconciled them to their situation, and in

the subsequent troubles of that island, they approved themselves the

most faithful servants of the state *\ Great numbers of Franks

and Gepidse were settled on the banks of the Danube and the

Rhine. An hundred thousand Bastarnæ, expelled from their own

country, cheerfully accepted an establishment in Thrace, and sooa

imbibed the manners and sentiments of Roman subjects *8. But

the expectations of Probus were too often disappointed. The

impatience and idleness of the barbarians could ill brook the flow

labours of agriculture. Their unconquerable love of freedom,

rising against despotism, provoked them into hasty rebellions, alike

fatal to themselves and to the provinces 49; nor could these artificial

supplies, however repeated by succeeding emperors, restore the im­

portant limit of Gaul and Illyricum to its ancient and native

vigour.

Of all the barbarians who abandoned their new settlements, and Dar'"g enter­

prise of the

disturbed the public tranquillity, a very small number returned to their
Franks,

own country. For a short season they might wander in arms through

the empire; but in the end they were surely destroyed by the power

of a warlike empercr. The successful rashness of a party of Franks

was attended with such memorable consequences, that it ought not to

be passed unnoticed. They had been established by Probus, on

the sea coast of Pontus, with a view of strengthening that frontier

against the inroads of the Alani. A fleet stationed in one of the

harbours of the Euxine, fell into the hands of the Franks; and they

resolved, through unknown seas, to explore their way from the

mouth of the Phasis to that of the Rhine. They easily escaped

through the Bosphorus and the Hellespont, and cruizing along the

Mediterranean, indulged their appetite for revenge and plunder,

by frequent descents on the unsuspecting shores of Asia, Greece, and

X x 2 Africa.

