OF THE; ROMAN EMPIRE.

and calumny to shed their poison on the administration of the best

-of princes, and to accuse even their virtues by artfully confounding  
them with those vices, to which they bear the nearest affinity. The

troops listened with pleasure to the emifiaries of Maximin. They

blushed at their own ignominious patience, which during thirteen

years had supported the vexatious discipline imposed by an effemi­

nate Syrian, the timid slave of his mother and of the senate. It

was time, they cried, to cast away that .useless phantom of the civil

power, and to elect for their prince and general a real soldier, edu­

cated in camps,< exercised in war, who would assert the glory, and

distribute among his companions the treasures, of the empire* A

great army, commanded by the emperor in person, was at that

• lime assembled on the banks of the Rhine against the Germans

and the important care of training and reviewing the new levies,

-was intrusted to Maximin. One day as he entered the field of exer­  
cise, the troops, either from a sudden impulse or a formed conspi­

racy, saluted him emperor, silenced by their loud acclamations his

obstinate refusal, and hastened to consummate their rebellion by the ^ D -

murder of Alexander Severus. March '9-

The circumstances of his death are variously related. The wri- .

* Murder of

ters, who suppose that he died in ignorance of the ingratitude and Alexander.

. 'a Severus,-

ambition of Maximin, affirm, that after taking a frugal repast in

the fight of the army, he retbed to sleep, and that about the

seventh hour of the day, a party of his own guards broke into the

Imperial tent, and, with many wounds, astaffinated their virtuous-

and unsuspecting prince5. If we credit another, and indeed a more

probable account, Maximin was invested with the purple by a nu*-

merous detachment, at the distance of several miles from the headV

quarters; and he trusted for success rather to the secret wishes than

to the public declarations of the great army. Alexander had suffi­

cient time to awaken a faint sense of loyalty among his troops; but

their reluctant professions of fidelity quickly vanished on the ap-

3 pearance

