lxxxvi NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER,

[151] Mofheim (p. 922—926.), from many

scattered passages of Lactantius and Eusebius has

collected a very just and accurate notion of this

edict; though he sometimes deviates into conjecture

and refinement.

[152] Many ages afterwards, Edward I. prac­

tised, with great success, the fame mode of per­

secution against the clergy of England. See Hume's

History of England, vol. i. p. 300, last 4W edition.

[153] Lactantius only calls him quidam, etsi jion

recte, magno tamen animo, &c. c. 12. Eusebius

(1. viii. c. 5.) adorns him with secular honours.

Neither have condescended to mention his name;

but the Greeks celebrate his memory under that of

John. See Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiques,

torn. v. part ii. p. 320.

. [154] Lactantius de M. P.C. 13, 14. Potentiffimi

quondam Eunuchi necati, per quos Palatium et

ipse constabat. Eusebius (1. viii. c. 6.) mentions

the cruel executions of the eunuchs, Gorgonius and

Dorotheus, and of Anthimius, bishop of Nico-

media; and both those writers, describe in a vague

but tragical manner, the horrid scenes which were

acted even in the Imperial presence.

[155] See Lactantius, Eusebius, and Constantine,

ad Cœtum Sanctorum, c, 2;. Eusebius confesses

his ignorance of the cause of the fire.

[156] Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiast. torn. v.

part i. p. 43.

[157] See the Acta Sincera of Ruynart, p. 353;

those of Fcelix of Thibara, or Tibiur, appear

much less corrupted than in the other editions,

which afford a lively specimen of legendary license.

[158] See the first book of Optatus of Milevis

against the Donatists at Paris, 1700. Edit. Dupin.

He lived under the reign of Valens.

[159^ The ancient monuments, published at the

end of Optatus, p. 261, &c. describe, in a very cir­

cumstantial manner, the proceedings of the gover­

nors in the destruction of churches. They made a

minute inventory of the plate, &c. which they found

in them That of the church of Cirta, in Nu-

midia, is still extant. It consisted of two chalices

of gold, and six of silver; six urns, one kettle, seven

lamps, all likewise of silver; besides a large quantity

of brass utensils, and wearing apparel.

[160] Lactantius (Institut. Divin. v. 11.) con­

fines the calamity to the conucHticulum, with its con­

gregation. Eusebius (viii. 11.) extends it to a whole

city, and introduces something yery like a regular

siege. His ancient Latin translator, Rufinus, adds

the important circumstance of the permission given

to the inhabitants of retiring from thence. Al

Phrygia reached to the confines of Ifauria, it is

poflible that the restless temper of those independent

Barbarians may have contributed to this misfortune.

[161] Eusebius, 1. viii. c. 6. M. de Valois (with

some probability) thinks that he has discovered the

Syrian rebellion in an oration of Libanius; and

that it was a rash attempt of the tribune Eugenius,

who with only five hundred men seized Antioch,

and might perhaps allure the Christians by the

promise of religious toleration. From Eusebius

(1. ix. c.8.) as well as from Moses ofChorene (Hist.

Armen. 1. ii. c. 77, &c.) it may be inferred, that

Christianity was already introduced into Armenia.

[162] See Mofheim, p. 938; the textof Eusebius

very plainly shews, that the governors, whose powers

were enlarged, not restrained, by the new laws,

could punish with death the most obstinate Chri­

stians, as an example to their brethren.

[16 ] Athanasius, p. 833, ap. Tillemont, Mem.

Ecclesiast. torn. v. part L p. 90.

[164] Eusebius, I. viii. c. 13. Lactantius de M.

P. c. 15. Dodwell (Dissertat. Cyprian, xi. 75.)

represents them as inconsistent with each other.

But the former evidently speaks of Constanrius in

the station of Cæsar, and the latter of the same

prince in the rank of Augustus.

[16;] Datianus is mentioned in Gruter's Inscrip­

tions, as having determined the limits between the

territories of Pax Julia, and those of Ebora, both

cities in the southern part osLusitania. If we recol­

lect the neighbourhood of those places to Cape St.

Vincent, we may suspect that the celebrated deacon

and martyr of that name has been inaccurately

assigned by Prudentius, &c. to Saragossa, or Va­

lentia. See the pompous history of his sufferings,

in the Memoires de Tillemont, totn. v. part ii. p.

58—85. Some critics are of opinion, that the de­

partment

