OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

pure and genuine sources of wealth; and from them he soon derived

a copious supply for the public necessities. The expence of the

household was immediately reduced to one half. All the instru­

ments of luxury, Pertinax exposed to public auction gold and

silver plate, chariots of a singular construction, a superfluous ward­

robe of silk and embroidery, and a great number of beautiful staves

of both sexes; excepting only, with attentive humanity, those who

were born in a state of freedom, and had been ravished from the

arms of their weeping parents. At the fame time that he obliged

the worthless favourites of the tyrant to resign a part of their ill-

gotten wealth, he satisfied the just creditors of the state, and dis­

charged the long arrears of honest services. He removed the oppres­

sive restrictions which had been laid upon commerce, and granted all

the uncultivated lands in Italy and the provinces, to those who would

improve them; with an exemption from all tribute, during the term,

of ten years '\

Such an uniform conduct had already secured to Pertinax the no- and popu-

blest reward of a sovereign, the love and esteem of his people. *mr'

Those who remembered the virtues of Marcus were pleased to con­

template in their new emperor the features of that bright original}.

and flattered themselves, that they should long enjoy the benign,

influence of his administration* A hasty zeal to reform the cor­

rupted stater. accompanied with less prudence than might have beer*

expected from the years and experience of Pertinax, was fatal to

himself and to his country. His honest indiscretion united against

him the servile crowd, who found their private benefit in the pub­

lic disorders, and who preferred the favour of a tyrant to the inex­

orable equality of the laws

Amidst the general joy, the sullen and angry countenance of the Discontent of

Praatorian guards betrayed thier inward diflatisfaction. They had ^tD,txto*

reluctantly submitted to Pertinax; they dreaded the strictness of the

ancient discipline, which be was preparing to restore j and they re­

gretted.

