THE DECLINE AND FALt

of Europe, never made any considerable progress in the East. Those

disciplined evolutions which harmonize and animate a confused

multitude, were unknown to the Persians. They were equally un-

stcilled in the arts of constructing, .besieging, or defending regular

fortifications. They trusted more to their numbers than to their

t^vee 't'™ t c<HiraSe 5 more to their courage than to their discipline. The
infantry

jble. * was a half-armed spiritless crowd of peasants, levied in haste by the

allurements of plunder, and as easily dispersed by a victory as by a

defeat. The monarch and his nobles transported into the camp

the pride and luxury of the seraglio. Their military operations

were impeded by a useless train of women, eunuchs, horses, and ca­

mels, and in the midst of a successful campaign, the Persian host

was often separated or destroyed by an unexpected famine

Their cavalry But the nobles of Persia, in the bosom of luxury and despotism,

preserved a strong sense of personal gallantry and national honour.

From the age of seven years they were taught lo speak truth, to

shoot with the bow, and to ride; and it was universally confessed,

that in the two last of these arts, they had made a more than com­

mon proficiency s6. The most distinguished youth were educated

under the monarch's eye, practised their exercises in the gate of his

palace, and were severely trained up to the habits of .temperance and

obedience, in their long and laborious parties of hunting. In

every province, the satrap maintained a like school of military

virtue. The Persian nobles (so natural is the idea of feudal tenures)

received from the king's bounty lands and houses, on the condition

of their-service in war. They were ready .on the first summons to

mount.on .^horseback, with a martial and splendid train of follow­

ers, and to join the numerous bodies of guards, who were care­

fully selected from among the most robust slaves, and the bravest ad­

venturers of Asia. These armies, both of light and of heavy cavalry,

equally formidable by the impetuosity of their charge, and the

rapidity of their motions, threatened, as an impending cloud, the

pastern provinces of the .declining empire of Rome

CHAP.

