OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE* .543

a subaltern officer', named Marinus, was the object of their sedi­

tious choice. Philip was alarmed. He dreaded lest the treason of

the Mæsian army should prove the first spark of a general confla­

gration. Distracted with the consciousness of his guilt and of

his danger, he communicated the intelligence to the senate. A

gloomy silence prevailed, the effect of fear, and perhaps of disaffec­

tion: till at length Decius, one of the assembly, assuming a spirit Service, r

worthy of his noble extraction, ventured to discover more intre- V3 t' v'ct°ov

« and reign of

pidity than the emperor seemed to possess. He treated the whole 'he emperor

business with contempt, as a hasty and inconsiderate tumult, and a.d. 249.

Philip's rival as a phantom of royalty, who in a very few days

would be destroyed by the fame inconstancy that had created him.

The speedy completion of the prophecy, inspires Philip with a just

';esteem for so able a counsellor; and Decius appeared to him the only

person capable of restoring peace and discipline to an army, whose

tumultuous spirit had not entirely subsided after the murder of Ma*

rinus. Decius, who long resisted his own nomination, seems to have

insinuated the danger of presenting a leader of merit, to the angry and

apprehensive minds of the soldiers ; and his prediction was again con­

firmed by the event. The legions of Maesia forced their judge to

become their accomplice. They left him only the alternative of death /

or the purple. His subsequent conduct, after that decisive measure, was

unavoidable. He conducted, or followed, his army to the confines

of Italy, whither Philip, collecting all his force to repel the for­

midable competitor whom he had raised up, advanced to meet him.

The imperial troops were superior in number1; but the rebels

formed an army of Veterans, commanded by an able and experienced

leader. Philip was either killed in the battle, or put to death a

few days afterwards at Verona. His son and associate in the em­

pire, was massacred at Rome by the Prætorian guards; and the vic­

torious Decius, with more favourable circumstances than the ambi­

tion of that age can usually plead, was universally acknowledged

I i 2 by

