18 THE DECLINE AND FALL

vinces. The policy of the emperors was directed only to pre足

serve the peaceful dominion of that sea, and to protect the com足

merce of their subjects. With those views of moderation, Au足

gustus stationed two permanent fleets in the most convenient

ports of Italy, the one at Ravenna, on the Adriatic, the other

at Misenum, in the bay of Naples. Experience seems at length to

have convinced the ancients, that as soon as their gallies exceeded

two, or at the most three ranks of oars, they were suited rather for

vain pomp than for real service. Augustus himself, in the victory

of Actium, had seen the superiority of his own light frigates (they

were called Liburnians), over the lofty but unwieldy castles of his

rival67. From these Liburnians he composed the two fleets of

Ravenna and Misenum, destined to command, the one the eastern,

the other the western division of the Mediterranean; and to each of

the squadrons he attached a body of several thousand marines.

Besides these two ports, which may be considered as the principal

feats of the Roman navy, a very considerable force was stationed at

Frejus, on the coast of Provence, and the Euxine was guarded by forty

stiips, and three thousand soldiers. To all these we add the fleet

which preserved the communication between Gaul and Britain, and ~

a great number of vessels constantly maintained on the Rhine and

Danube, to harass the country, or to intercept the passage of

the barbarians 6S. Such is the general picture of the Im足

perial forces; the cavalry as well as infantry; of the legions, the

auxiliaries, the guards, and the navy. And yet, the most liberal

computation that reason can justify, will not allow us to fix the

Amount of entire establishment by sea and by land at more than four hundred

the whole e- j gfty thousand men: a military power, which, however formi-

dable it may seem, was equalled by a monarch of the last century,

whose kingdom was confined within a. single province of the Roman

empire *9.

We

