THE DECLINE AND FALL

the Latin tongue, and the exclusive use of the latter was inflexibly

maintained in the administration of civil as well as military govern­

ment 45. The two languages exercised at the same time their se­

parate jurisdiction throughout the empire : the former, as the natural

idiom of science; the latter, as the legal dialect of public trans­

actions. Those who united letters with business, were equally con­

versant with both; and it was almost impossible, in any province,

to find a Roman subject, of a liberal education, who was at once a

stranger to the Greek and to the Latin language.

Slaves. It was by such institutions that the nations of the empire insensibly

melted away into the Roman name and people. But there still re­

mained, in the centre of every province and of every family, an

unhappy condition of men who endured the weight, without fhar--

ing the benefits of society. In the free states of antiquity, the do-

Their treat- mestic slaves were exposed to the wanton rigour of despotism. The

menu

perfect settlement of the Roman empire was preceded by ages of

violence and rapine. The slaves consisted, for the most part, of

barbarian captives, taken in thousands by the chance of war, pur­

chased at a vile price +S, accustomed to a life of independence, and

impatient to break and to revenge their fetters. Against such in­

ternal enemies, whose desperate insurrections had more than once

reduced the republic to the brink of destruction 47, the most severe

regulations *8, and the most cruel treatment, seemed almost justified

by the great law of self-preservation. But when the principal

nations of Europe, Asia, and Africa, were united under the laws of

one sovereign, the source of foreign supplies flowed with much

less abundance, and the Romans were reduced to the milder but

more tedious method of propagation. In their numerous families,

and particularly in their country estates, they encouraged the mar­

riage of their slaves. The affections of nature, the habits of edu­

cation, and the possession- of a dependent species of property,

contributed to alleviate the hardships of servitude "9. The ex­

istence

