THE DECLINE AND FALL

proper hours his palace was open to all his subjects, but the voice

of a crier was heard, as in the Eleufinian mysteries, pronouncing the

fame salutary admonition; f Let none enter these holy walls, un-

«* less he is conscious of a pUre and innocent mind 7V

General hap- Such an uniform tenour of life, which left not a moment for vice

"inels or the

Ionian

world.

or folly, is a better proof of the wisdom and justice of Alexander's

A. D. 222— government, than all the trifling details preserved in the compila-

tion of Lampridius. Since the accession of Commodus the Roman

world had experienced, during a term of forty years, the successive

and various vices of four tyrants. From the death of Elagabalus

it enjoyed an auspicious calm of thirteen years. The provinces,

relieved from the oppressive taxes, invented by Caracalla and his

pretended son, flourished in peace and prosperity, under the ad­

ministration of magistrates, who were convinced by experience, that

to deserve the love of the subjects, was their best and only method

of obtaining the favour of their sovereign. While some gentle

restraints were imposed on the insolent luxury of the Roman peo-

ple, the price of provisions, and the interest of money, were re­

duced, by the paternal care of Alexander, whose prudent liberality,

without distressing the industrious, supplied the wants and amuse­

ments of the populace. The dignity, the freedom, the authority

of the senate was restored; and every virtuous senator might ap­

proach the person of the emperor, without a fear, and without a

blush.

Alexander re- The name of Antoninus, ennobled by the virtues of Pius and

ofsAntoninu* Marcus, had been communicated by adoption to the dissolute Ve-

rus, and by descent to the cruel Commodus. It became the ho­

nourable appellation of the sons of Severus, was bestowed on young

Diadumenianus, and at length prostituted to the infamy of the

high priest of Emesa. Alexander, though pressed by the studied,

and perhaps, sincere importunity of the senate, nobly refused the

borrowed lustre of a name; whilst in his whole conduct he laboured.

to

