•NOTES ON THE SIXTH CHAPTER.

[65] Hist. August, p. 102. 107.

[67] Dion, I. lxxx. p. 1369. Herodian, 1 vi.

p. zc6 Hist- August, p. 131. Herodian repre­

sents the Patrician as innocent. The Augustan

History, on the authority of Dexippus, condemns

him, as guilty of a conspiracy against the life of

Alexander. It is impossible to pronounce between

them: but Dion is an irreproachable witness of the

•jealousy and cruelty of Mamtea toward the young

•empress, whose hard fate Alexander lamented, but

durst not oppose.

[68] Herodian, 1. ti. p. 203. Hist. August.

jp. 119. The latter insinuates, that when any law

was to be passed, the council was assjsted by a

number of able lawyers and experienced senators,

•whose opinions were separately given, and taken

down in writing.

[6c] See his life in the Augustan History. The

undistinguishing compiler has buried these interest­

ing anecdotes under a load of trivial and unmeaning

circumstances,

[70] S«ethe 13th Satire of Juvenal.

[71] Hist. August, p. 119.

[72] See in the Hist. August, p. 116, 117, the

whole contest between Alexander and the senate,

extracted from the journals of that assembly. It

Jiappened on the sixth of March, probably of the

year 223, when the Romans had enjoyed, almost

a twelvemonth, the blessings of his reign. Before

the appellation of Antoninus was offered him as a

title of honour, the senate waited to see whether

Alexander would not assume it, as a family name.

[73] It was a favourite saying of the emperor's,

Se raiiites magrs servare, quam seipfurn ; quod s»-

lus publica in his esset. Hist. August, p. 130.

[743 Though the author of the life of Alexander

j(Hist August p. 132) mentions the sedition raised

against dpi an by the soldiers, he conceals the ca­

tastrophe, as it might discover a weakness in the

administration of his hero. From this designed

omission, we may judge of the weight and candour

-of that author.

[7-] For an account of Ulpian's fate and his

own danger, see the mutilated conclusion of Dion's

History, 1. lxxx p. 1371.

[67] Annotat. Reimar. ad Dion Cassius, t. lxxx.

p. 1369.

[77] Julius Cæsar had appeased a sedition with

the same word, Quirites; which thus opposed to

SoJJurs, was used in a sersse of contempt, and reduced

the offenders to the less honourable condition of mere

citizens. Tacit. Annal. i. 43.

[78] Hist. August, p. 132.

[79] From the Metelli. Hist. August, p. no.

The choice was judicious. In one short period of

twelve years, the Metelli could reckon seven consul­

ships, and five triumphs. See Velleius Paterculus,

ii 11. and the 'Fasti.

[80] The life of Alexander, in the Augustan

History, is the mere idea of a perfect prince, an

awkward imitation of the Cyropædia. The account

of his reign, as given by Herodian, is rational and

moderate, consistent with the general history of the

age; and, in some of the most invidious particulars,

•connrmed;by the decisive fragments of Dion. Yet

from a very paltry prejudice, the greater number

of our modem writers abuse Herodian, and copy

the Augustan History. See Mess, de Tillemont and

Wotton. From the opposite prejudice, the emperor

Julian (in Cresarib. p. 31 t ) dwells with a visible

satisfaction on the effeminate weakness of the Syrian,

and the ridiculous avarice of his mother.

[8j] According to the more accurate Diony si us,

the city itself wis only an hundred stadia, or twelve

miles and a half from Rome ; though some out-posts

might be advanced faTfher on the side of Etruria.

Nardini, in a professed treatise, has combated the

popular opinion and the authority of two popes, and

has removed Veii from Civita Castellana, to a little

spot called Isolo, in the midway between Rome and

the lake Bracciano.

[Sa] See the 4th and ;th books of Livy. In the

Roman Census, property, power and taxation, were

commensurate with each other.

(83J PJin. Hist- Natut. 1. xxxiii. c 3 CUero de

Ofrkiis, ii. 22 Plutarch, in P. Ætnil. p. 275,

[84J See a sine description of this accumuht J

wealth of ages, in Lacan'o Pharsalia, i. iii. v. 15;,

fee.

[%] Tach.

