OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 23?

"tutelar deities of the empire. Above sixty thousand barbarians

"were destroyed; not by the Roman arms, but in our sight, and

"for our entertainment. May the nations, enemies of Rome, ever

"preserve this enmity to each other! We have now attained the

"utmost verge of prosperity 79, and have nothing left to demand

"of Fortune except the discord of the barbarians 8°." These sen­

timents, less worthy of the humanity than of the patriotism of

Tacitus, express the invariable maxims of the policy of his coun­

trymen. They deemed it a much safer expedient to divide than to

combat the barbarians, from whose defeat they could derive nei­

ther honour nor advantage. The money and negociations of Rome,

insinuated themselves into the heart of Germany; and every art of

seduction was used with dignity, to conciliate those nations whom

their proximity to the Rhine or Danube might render the most useful

friends, as well as the most troublesome enemies. Chiefs of renown

and power were flattered by the most trifling presents, which they

received either as marks of distinction, or as the instruments of

luxury. In civil distensions, the weaker faction endeavoured to

strengthen its interest by entering into secret connexions with the

governors of the frontier provinces. Every quarrel among the Ger­

mans, was fomented by the intrigues of Rome; and every plan of

union and public good, defeated by the stronger bias of private jea­

lousy and interest81.

Transient

The general conspiracy which terrified the Romans under the union against

reign of Marcus Antoninus, embraced almost all the nations of Marcu,Ant0-

Germany, and even Sarmatia, from the mouth of the Rhine to that--

of the Danube81. It is impossible for us to determine whether

this hasty confederation was formed by necessity, by reason, or by

passion; but we may rest assured, that the barbarians were neither

allured by the indolence or provoked by the ambition of the Roman

monarch. This dangerous invasion required all the firmness and

vigilance of Marcus. He fixed generals of ability in the several

stations of attack, and assumed in person the conduct of the most

important

nmus.

