OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

and their discipline confirmed. There appeared the same difference

between the leaders as between the .armies. Caprice or flattery had

tempted Maxentius with the hopes of conquest: but these aspiring

hopes soon gave way to the habits of pleasure and the consciousness of

his inexperience. The intrepid mind of Constantine had been trained

from his earliest youth to war, to action, and to military command.

When Hannibal marched from Gaul into Italy, he was obliged,

first, to discover, and then to open, a way over mountains and Constantine

'passes the

through savage nations that had never yielded a passage to a regular Alps,

army The Alps were then guarded by nature, they are now forti­

fied by art. Citadels constructed with no less skill than labour and

expence, command every avenue into the plain, and on that side

render Italy almost inaccessible to the enemies of the king of Sar­

dinia 54. But in the course of the intermediate period, the generalsr

who have attempted the paflage, have seldom experienced any dif­

ficulty or resistance. In the age of Constantine, the peasants of

the mountains were civilized and obedient subjects; the country-

was plentifully stocked with provisions, and the stupendous high­

ways which the Romans had carried over the Alps, opened several

communications between Gaul and Italy ,!. Constantine preferred

the road of the Cottian Alps, or as it is now called, of Mount

Cenis, and led his troops with such active diligence, that he de­

scended into the plain of Piedmont before the court of Maxentius

had received any certain intelligence of his departure from the

banks of the Rhine. The city of Susa, however, which is situated

at the foot of Mount Cents, was surrounded with walls, and pro­

vided with a garrison sufficiently numerous to check the progress of

an invader; but the impatience of Constantine's troops disdained

the tedious forms of a siege. The fame day that they appeared be­

fore Susa, they applied fire to the gates, and ladders to the walls j

and mounting to the assault amidst a shower of stones and arrows^

they entered the place sword in hand> and cut in pieces the greatest

