OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 501

Galatian, who after his baptism had repeatedly sacrificed to idols*

might obtain his pardon by a penance of seven years, and-if

he had seduced others to imitate his example, only three years

more were added to the term of his exile. But the unhappy

Spaniard, who had committed the fame offence, was deprived of

the hope of reconciliation, even in the article of death; and his

idolatry was placed at the head of a list of seventeen other crimes^

against which a sentence no less terrible was pronounced. Among,

these we may distinguish the inexpiable guilt of calumniating a

bishop, a presbyter, or even a deacon '*6.

The well tempered mixture of liberality and rigour, the judicious The dignity-

dispensation of rewards and punishments, according to the maxims of eP:koPa ,

r . - . . government..

of policy as well as justice, constituted the human strength of the

church. The bishops, whose paternal care extended itself to the

government of both worlds, were sensible of the importance of

these prerogatives, and covering their ambition with the fair pre­

tence of the love of order, they were jealous of any rival in the

exercise of a discipline so necessary to prevent the desertion of

those troops which had inlisted themselves under the banner of the

cross, and whose numbers every day became more considerable.

From the imperious declamations of Cyprian, we should naturally

conclude, that the doctrines of excommunication and penance

formed the most essential part of religion; and that it was much

less dangerous for the disciples of Christ to neglect the observance of

the moral duties, than to despise the censures and authority of

their bishops. Sometimes we might imagine that we were listening

to the voice of Moses, when he commanded the earth to open,

and to swallow up,, in consuming flames, the rebellious race which

refused obedience to the priesthood of Aaron; and we should some­

times suppose that we heard a Roman consul asserting the majesty

©f the republic, and declaring his inflexible resolution to enforce

the rigour of the laws. ** If such irregularities are suffered with.

• * impunity

