OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

to the first offices of the empire. Two admirable letters that passed

between them, are stil! extant. The minister, with the conscious

dignity of virtue, congratulates Gordian that he is delivered from

the tyranny of the eunuchs *6, and still more, that he is sensible of

his deliverance. The emperor acknowledges, with an amiable con­

fusion, the errors of his past conduct; and laments, with singular

propriety, the misfortune of a monarch, from whom a venal tribe of

courtiers perpetually labour to conceal the truth 47.

The life of Misitheus had been spent in the profession of letters, The Persian

w<ir.

not of arms; yet such was the versatile genius of that great man, a. b. 242.

that, when he was appointed Prætorian præfect, he discharged the

military duties of his place with vigour and ability. The Persians

had invaded Mesopotamia, and threatened Antioch. By the per­

suasion of his father-in-law, the young emperor quitted the luxury

of Rome, opened, for the last time recorded in history, the temple of

Janus, and marched in person into the East. On his approach with

a great army, the Persians withdrew their garrisons from the cities

which they had already taken, and retired from the Euphrates to

the Tigris. Gordian enjoyed the pleasure of announcing to the

senate the first success of his arms, which he ascribed with a becom­

ing modesty and gratitude to the wisdom of his father and præfect.

During the whole expedition, Misitheus watched over the safety

and discipline of the army ; whilst he prevented their dangerous

murmurs by maintaining a regular plenty in the camp, and by esta­

blishing ample magazines of vinegar, bacon, straw, barley, and

wheat, in all the cities of the frontier48. But the prosperity of

Gordian expired with Misitheus, who died of a flux, not without . „

. ... . A. D. 243,

very strong suspicions of poison. Philip, his successor in the præ- Arts of

Philip.

fecture, was an Arab by birth, and consequently, in the earlier part

of his life, a robber by profession. His rife from so obscure a sta­

tion to the first dignities of the empire, seems to prove that he was

a bold and able leader. But his boldness prompted him to aspire

C c 2 to

