OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 365

first enterprise was against the important place of Boulogne. A

stupendous mole, raised across the entrance of the harbour, inter­

cepted all hopes of relief. The town surrendered after an ob- A. D» 292,

stinate defence; and a considerable part of the naval strength of

Caraufius fell into the hands of the besiegers. During the three

years, which Constantius employed in preparing a fleet adequate to

the conquest of Britain, he secured the coast of Gaul, invaded the

country of the Franks, and deprived the usurper of the assistance

of those powerful allies.

Before the preparations were finished, Constantius received the A.0.294,

-His death.

intelligence of the tyrant's death, and it was considered as a sure

presage of the approaching victory. The servants of Carausius

imitated the example of treason, which he had given. He was

murdered by his first minister Allectus, and the assassin succeeded to

his power and to his danger. But he possessed not equal abilities

either to exercise the one, or to repel the other. He beheld, with

anxious terror, the opposite shores of the continent, already silled

with arms, with troops, and with vessels; for Constantius had very

prudently divided his forces, that he might likewise divide the at­

tention and resistance of the enemy. The attack was at length A. D. 295.

made by .the principal squadron, which, under the command of the Britain by

præfect Asclepiodotus, an officer of distinguished merit, had been
ConstantluSk

assembled in the mouth of the Seine. So imperfect in those times

was the art of navigation, that orators have celebrated the daring

courage of the Romans, who ventured to set sail with a side wind,

and on a stormy day. The weather proved favourable to their

enterprise. Under the cover of a thick fog, they escaped the fleet

of Allectus, which had been stationed off the Isle of Wight to

receive them, landed in safety on some part of the western coast;

and convinced the Britons, that a superiority of naval strength will

not always protect their country from a foreign invasion. As­

clepiodotus had no sooner disembarked the imperial troops, than he

set

