OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 9

naia

preparation for war; and while justice regulated their conduct, they ^n0Jv^ar.

announced to the nations on their confines, that they were as little cas
Aatoni-,

disposed to endure as to offer an injury. The military strength,

which it had been sufficient for Hadrian and the elder Antoninus

to display, was exerted against the Parthians and the Germans, by

the emperor Marcus. The hostilities of the barbarians provoked

the resentment of that philosophic monarch, and in the prosecution

of a just defence, Marcus and his generals obtained many signal

victories, both on the Euphrates, and on the DanubeThe mi­

litary establishment of the Roman empire, which thus assured either

its tranquillity or success, will now become the proper and important

object of our attention.

In the purer ages of the commonwealth, the use of arms Military esta-

r 0 blithment of

was reserved for those ranks of citizen's who had a country to love, the Roman

i ., • > emperors.

a property to defend, and some share in enacting those laws, which

it Was their interest, as well as duty, to maintain. But in pro­

portion as the publ;c freedom was lost in extent of conquest, War

Was gradually improved into an art, And degraded into a trade !°.

The legions themselves, even at the time when they were recruited

in the most distant provinces, consisted of Roman citizens. That

distinction was generally considered, either as a legal qualification,

-or as a proper recompence for the soldier; but a more serious regard  
was paid to the essential merit of age, strength, and military

stature". In all leviesi a just preference was given to the climates

of the North over those of the South ^ the race of men born to the

exercise of arms, was sought for in the country rather than in cities;

and it was very reasonably presumed, that the hardy occupations of

smiths, carpenters, and huntsmen, would supply more vigour and re­

solution, than the sedentary trades vVhich are employed in the service

of luxury J\ After every qualification of property had been laid aside,

the armies of the Roman emperors Were still commanded, for the

most part, by officers of a liberal birth and education j but the com-

Vol. I. C mon

