334- THE DECLINE AND FALX

Viaories of she strength of Aurelian had crushed on every side the enemies

Piobus over

thebarba- of Rome. After his death they seemed to revive, and even to mul­

tiply. They were again vanquished by the active vigour of Probus,

who, in a short reign of about six years*9, equalled the fame of

;ancient heroes, and restored peace and order to every province of

the Roman world. The dangerous frontier of Rhqctia he so firmly-

secured, that he left it without the suspicion of an enemy. He

broke the wandering power of the Sarmatian tribes, and by the ter­

ror of his arms compelled those barbarians to relinquish their spoil.

'The'Gothic nation courted the alliance of so warlike an emperor 5°.

He attacked the Isaurians in their mountains4 besieged and took

several of their strongest castles and flattered himself that he had

for ever suppressed a domestic foe, whose independence so deeply

wounded the majesty of the empire. The troubles excited by the

usurper Firmus in the Upper Egypt, had never been perfectly ap­

peased, and the cities of Ptolemais and Coptos, fortified by the

alliance of the Blemmyes, still maintained an obscure rebellion,.

The chastisement of those cities, and of their auxiliaries the savages

of the South? is said to have alarmed the court of Persia and the

Great King sued in vain for the friendship of Probus. Most of the

exploits whioh distinguished his reign, were atchieved by the per­

sonal valour .and conduct of the emperor, insomuch that the writer

of his life expresses some amazement how, in so short a time, a

single man could be present in so many distant wars. The remain­

ing actions he entrusted to the care of his lieutenants, the judicious

choice of whom forms no inconsiderable part of his glory. Carus,

Dioclcsian, Maximian, Constantius, Galerius, Asclepiodatus, Anni-

balianus, and a crowd of other chiefs, who afterwards ascended or

supported the throne, were trained to arms in the severe school of

Aurelian and Probus 35.

A. D. 2-7. But the most important service which Probus rendered to the re-

^lulseoÆihe Pu^ucj was tne deliverance of Gaul, and the recovery of seventy

flourishing

