j86 THE DECLINE AND FALL

and the other seventy-four years old lS, they had both attained the

full maturity of age and experience.

Tumult at After the senate had conferred on Maximus and Balbinus an

younger Gcr- equal portion of the consular and trihunitian powers, the title
of Fa-

ci«edC*Cir. triers °^ t'ie^r Country and the joint office of Supreme Pontiff,
they

ascended to the Capitol, to return thanks to the gods, protectors of

Rome The solemn rites of sacrifice were disturbed by a sedi­

tion of the people. The licentious multitude neither loved the rigid.

Maximus, nor did they sufficiently fear the mild and humane Balbinus.

Their increasing numbers surrounded the temple of Jupiter; with ob­

stinate clamours they asserted their inherent right of consenting to>

the election of their sovereign, and demanded^ with an apparent

moderation, that besides the two emperors chosen by the senate, a

third, should be added of the family of the Gordians, as a just re—

turn of gratitude to those princes who had sacrificed their lives for

th,e republic. At the head of the city guards, and the youth of the

equestrian, order, Maximus and Balbinus attempted to cut their way

through the seditious multitude. The multitude, armed with sticks,

and stories, drove them back into the Capitol. It is prudent to yield,,

•when the contest, whatever may be the issue of it, must be fatal:

to both parties. A boyt only thirteen years of age, the grandson-

of the elder, and nephew of the younger, Gordian, was produced to

the people, invested with the ornaments and title of Cæsar. The-

tuinujt was appeased by this easy condescension; and the two

emperors, when they were peaceably acknowledged in Rome, pre­

pared to defend Italy against the common enemy.

Maximin p e- Whilst, in Rome and Africa revolutions succeeded each other with,

uc"the se" inconceivable, rapidity, the mind of Maximin was agitated by the

nae and their moA furious passions. He is said to have received the news of
the

emperors. ir _ ^m 1 ■

rebellion of the GordianSa. apd of the decree of the senate against-

hjm, not with the terpper of a man, but the rage of a wild beast j

which, as it could, not discharge itself on the distant senate, threat­

enedi

