OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25s

compared, both in life and death, with the brightest examples of

ancient virtue49.

This fatal blow humbled, for a very little time, the insolence of Election of

the legions. They appear to have patiently expected, and fubmis- A. D. xji..

fively obeyed, the decree of the senate, which regulated the succes- Deccmber*

sion to the throne. From a just regard for the memory of Decius,

the imperial title was conferred on Hostilianus, his only surviving

son; but an equal rank, with more effectual power, was granted to

Gallus, whose experience and ability seemed equal to the great trust

of guardian to the young prince and the distressed empire S°. The

first care of the new emperor was to deliver the Illyrian provinces A.D. 2jz.

from the intolerable weight of the victorious Goths. He consented

to leave in their hands the rich fruits of their invasion, an immense

booty, and what was still more disgraceful, a great number of pri­

soners of the highest merit and quality. He plentifully supplied Retreat of
the

, Goths.

their camp with every convemency that could assuage their angry

spirits, or facilitate their so much wislied-for departure; and he even

promised to pay them annually a large sum of gold, on condition

they should never afterwards infest the Roman territories by their

incursions5'.

In the age of the Scipios, the most opulent kings of the earth* Gallus Pur-

who courted the protection of the victorious commonwealth, were by'thc p"-"

gratified with such trifling presents as could only derive a value from
nuT/trlbute.""

the hand that bestowed them; an ivory chair, a coarse garment of

purple, an inconsiderable piece of plate, or a quantity of copper

coin 5\ After the wealth of nations had centered in Rome, the

emperors displayed their greatness, and even their policy, by the

regular exercise of a steady and moderate liberality towards the allies

of the state. They relieved the poverty of the barbarians, honoured

their merit, and recompensed their fidelity. 1 hese voluntary marks

of bounty were understood to flow not from the fears, but merely

from the generosity or the gratitude of the Romans; and whilst

presents

