OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. rcjr

taxes with which Maximin had loaded the rights of inheritance and"

focceffion, were repealed, or at least moderated. Discipline was

revived, and with the advice of the senate many wise laws were en­

acted by their imperial ministers, who endeavoured to restore a civiF

constitution on the ruins of military tyranny. •* What reward may

"we expect for delivering Rome from a monster?" was the question

asked by Maximus, in a moment of freedom and confidence. Bal-

binus answered it without hesitation, *' The love of the senate, or

'* the people, and of all mankind,*' "Alas!" replied his more

penetrating colleague, "Alas! I dread the hatred of the soldiers,

"and the fatal effects of their resentment His apprehensions-

were but too well justified by the event.

Whilst Maximus was preparing to defend Italy against the com- Seditions w.

mon foe, Balbinus, who remained at Rome, had been engaged in Rome*

scenes of blood and intestine discord. Distrust and jealousy reigned

in the senate; and even in the temples where they assembled, every-

senator carried either open or concealed arms. In the midst of their

deliberations, two veterans of the guards, actuated either by curiosity or

a sinister motive, audacioufly thrust themselves into the house, and

advanced by degrees beyond the altar of Victory. Gallicanus, a

consular,, and Mæcenas, a Prætorian senator, viewed with indigna­

tion their insolent intrusion: drawing their daggers they laid the

spies, for such they deemed them, dead at the foot of the altar, and

then advancing to the door of the senate, imprudently exhorted the

multitude to massacre the Prætorians, as the secret adherents of the

tyrant. Those who escaped the first fury of the tumult took refuge

in the camp, which they defended with superior advantage against

the reiterated attacks of the people, assisted by the numerous bands

of gladiators, the property of opulent nobles. The civil war lasted

many days, with infinite loss and confusion on both sides. When,

the pipes were broken that supplied the camp with water, the Præ­

torians were reduced to intolerable distress j but in their turn they

made

