OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 315

<

the principles of commerce were so imperfectly understood, the

most desirable end might perhaps be effected by harsh and injudi­

cious means; but a temporary grievance of such a nature can

scarcely excite and support a serious civil war. The repeti­

tion of intolerable taxes, imposed either on the land or on the

necessaries of life, may at last provoke those who will not, or who

cannot, relinquish their country. But the case is far otherwise in

every operation which, by whatsoever expedients, restores the just

value of money. The transient evil is soon obliterated by the per­

manent benefit, the loss is divided among multitudes; and if a few

wealthy individuals experience a sensible diminution of treasure, with

their riches they at the fame time lose the importance. However

Aurelian might chuse to disguise the real cause of the insurrection*

his reformation of the coin could furnish only a faint pre­

tence to a party already powerful and discontented. Rome, though

deprived of freedom, was distracted by faction. The people, to­

wards whom the emperor, himserf a plebeian, always expressed a

peculiar fondness, lived in perpetual dissension with the senate, the

equestrian order, and the Prætorian guards''. Nothing less than

the firm though secret conspiracy of those orders, of the authority

of the first, the wealth of the second, and the arms of the third,

could have displayed a strength capable of contending in battle with

the veteran legions of the Danube, which, under the conduct of a

martial sovereign, had atchieved the conquest of the West and of

the East.

Whatever was the cause or the object of this rebellion, imputed Cruelty of

with so little probability to the workmen of the mint, Aurelian used

bia victory with unrelenting rigour 9\ He was naturally of a

severe'disposition. A peaiant and a soldier, his nerves yielded not

easily to the impressions of sympathy, and he could sustain without

emotion the sight of tortures and death. Trained from his earliest

youth in the exercise of arms, he set too siaall a value 00 the life

of

Aurelian.

