THE DECLINE AND FALL

deities of the empire. But the leisure of the two empresses, of hU

wife Prisca and of Valeria his daughter, permitted them to listen

with more attention and respect to the truths of Christianity, which

in every age has acknowledged its important obligations to female

devotion"Sl. The principal eunuchs, Lucian "l and Dorotheus,

Gorgonius and Andrew, who attended the person, possessed the fa­

vour, and governed the household, of Diocletian, protected by their

powerful influence the faith which they had embraced. Their ex­

ample was imitated by many of the most considerable officers of the

palace, who, in their respective stations, had the care of the imperial

ornaments, of the robes, of the furniture, of the jewels, and even

of the private treasury;, and, though it might sometimes be in­

cumbent on them to accompany the emperor when he sacrificed in

the temple ,SS, they enjoyed, with their wives, their children, and

their staves, the free exercise of the Christian religion. Diocletian

and his colleagues frequently conferred the most, important offices

on those persons who avowed their abhorrence for the worship of

the Gods, but who had displayed abilities proper for the service of

the state. The bishops held an honourable rank in their respective

provinces, and were treated with distinction and respect, not only by

the people, but by the magistrates themselves. Almost in every

city, the ancient churches were found insufficient to contain the in­

creasing multitude of proselytes-; and in their place more stately

and capacious edifices were erected for the public worship of the

faithful. The corruption of manners and principles, so forcibly

lamented by Eusebius ''*, may be considered, not only as a conse­

quence but as a proof of the liberty which the Christians enjoyed

and abused under the reign of Diocletian. Prosperity had relaxed

the nerves of discipline. Fraud, envy, and malice, prevailed in every

congregation. The presbyters aspired to the episcopal office, which

every day became an object more worthy of their ambition. The

bishops, who contended with each other for ecclesiastical pre­

eminence,

