OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. S7S

which had required the direct and solemn testimony of an accuser,

it became the duty as well as interest of the imperial officers, to

discover, to pursue, and to torment, the most obnoxious among the

faithful. Heavy penalties were denounced against all who should

presume to save a proscribed sectary from the just indignation of

the gods, and of the emperors. Yet, notwithstanding the severity of

this law, the virtuous courage of many of the Pagans, in concealing

their friends or relations, affords an honourable proof, that the

rage of superstition had not extinguished in their minds the senti­

ments of nature and humanity ,6'.

Diocletian had no sooner published his edicts against the Chri- Geneial idea

. r . . of the perse-

ftians, than, as if he had been desirous of committing to other cution

hands the work of persecution, he divested himself of the imperial

purple. The character and situation of his colleagues and successors

sometimes urged them to enforce, and sometimes inclined them

to suspend the execution of these rigorous laws; nor can we ac­

quire a just and distinct idea of this important period of eccle­

siastical history, unless we separately consider the state of Chri­

stianity, in the different parts of the empire, during the space of

ten years, which elapsed between the first edicts of Diocletian, and

the final peace of the ehurch.

The mild and humane temper of Cbnstantius Was averse to the in the western

oppression of any part of his subjects. The principal offices of his CoMta"-"

palace were exercised by Christians. He loved their persons, esteemed
Jj"*^.00""

their fidelity, and entertained not any dislike to their religious prin­

ciples. But as long as Constantius remained in the subordinate

station of Cæsar, it was not in his power openly to reject the edicts

of Diocletian, or to disobey the commands of Maxhnian. Hi*

authority contributed, however, to alleviate the sufferings which he

pitied and abhorred. He consented, with reluctance, to the ruin of

the churches ; but he ventured to protect the Christians themselves

from the fury of the populace, and from the rigour of the laws-.'

! S The

