io4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

A conspiracy

prevented.

"Mil der of

tcitinax by

the Piæto-

rim«.

A. s>. ig?.

March 281I1.

grctted the licence of the former reign. Their discontents were se­

cretly fomented by Laetus their præfect, who found, when it was

too late, that his new emperor would reward a servant, but would

not be ruled by a favourite. On the third day of his reign, the sol­

diers seized on a noble senator, with a design to carry him to the

camp, and to invest him with the Imperial purple. Instead of be­

ing dazzled by the dangerous honour, the affrighted victim escaped

from their violence, and took refuge at the feet of Pertinax. A

short time afterwards Sosius Falco, one of the consuls of the year,

a rash youth 54, but of an ancient and opulent family, listened to the

voice of ambition; and a conspiracy was formed during a fliort

absence of Pertinax, which was .crushed by his sudden return to

Rome, and his resolute behaviour. Falco was on the point of be­

ing justly condemned to death, as a public enemy, had he not been

saved by the earnest and sincere entreaties of the injured emperor;

who conjured the senate, that the purity of his reign might not be

stained by the blood even of a guilty senator.

These disappointments served only to irritate the rage of the Prae­

torian guards. On the twenty-eighth of March, eighty-six days

only after the death of Commodus, a general sedition broke out in the

camp, which the officers wanted either power or inclination to sup­

press. Two or three hundred of the most desperate soldiers marched

at noon-day, with arms in their hands, and fury in their looks, to­

wards the Imperial palace. The gates were thrown open by their

companions upon guard; and by the domestics of the -old court,

who had already formed a secret conspiracy against the life of the

too virtuous emperor. On the news of their approach, Pertinax

disdaining either flight or concealment advanced to meet his assassins;

and recalled to their minds his own innocence, and the sanctity of

their recent oath. For a few moments they stood in silent suspence,

astiamed of their atrocious design, and awed by the venerable aspect

and majestic firmness of their sovereign, till at length the despair

of

