OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Sl7

■ It is at least doubtful whether any1 of these philosophers perused

the apologies which the primitive Christians repeatedly published

in behalf of themselves and of their religion; but it is much to

be lamented that such a cause was not defended by abler advo­

cates. They expose, with superfluous wit and eloquence, the

extravagance of Polytheism. They interest our compaction by

displaying the innocence and sufferings of their injured brethren.

But when they would demonstrate the divine origin of Christianity,

they insist much more strongly on the predictions which announced,

than on the miracles which accompanied, the appearance of the

Messiah. Their favourite argument might serve to edify a Christian

or to convert a Jew, since both the one and the other acknowledge

the authority of those prophecies, and both are obliged, with

devout reverence, to search for their sense and their accomplish­

ment. But this mode of persuasion loses much of its weight and in­

fluence, when it is addressed to those who neither understand nor

respect the Mosaic dispensation and the prophetic style '9<\ In the

unskilful hands of Justin and of the succeeding apologists, the

suhlime meaning of the Hebrew oracles evaporates in distant types,

affected conceits, and cold allegories; and even their authenticity

was rendered suspicious to an unenlightened Gentile, by the mixture

of pious forgeries, which, under the names of Orpheus, Hermes,

and the Sibyls ,9', were obtruded on him as of equal value with

the genuine inspirations of Heaven. The adoption of fraud and

sophistry in the defence of revelation, too often reminds us of

the injudicious conduct of those poets who load their invulnerable

heroes with a useless weight of cumbersome and brittle armour.

But how shall we explain or excuse the supine inattention and of mi.

of the Pagan and philosophic world, to those evidences which

were presented by the hand of Omnipotence, not to their rea­

son, but to their senses? During the age of Christ, of his

apostles,"and of their first disciples, the doctrine which they preached

races.

6 was

