OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

mand, with despotic sway, ten millions of subjects; and a body of

ten or fifteen thousand guards will strike terror into the most nume­

rous populace that ever crowded the streets of an immense capital.

The Praetorian bands, whose licentious fury was the first symptom The Præto-

and cause of the decline of the Roman empire, scarcely amounted to mn gu" S*

the last mentioned number They derived their institution from The!r inst!*

tutioo.

Augustus. That crafty tyrant, sensible that laws might colour, but

that arms alone could maintain, his usurped dominion, had gra­

dually formed this powerful body of guards in constant readiness to

protect his person, to awe the senate, and either to prevent or to

crush the first motions of rebellion. He distinguished these favoured

troops by a double pay, and superior privileges; but, as their for­

midable aspect would at once have alarmed and irritated the Roman

people, three cohorts only were stationed in the capital; whilst the

remainder was dispersed in the adjacent towns of Italy V But after Their camp.
,

fifty years of peace and servitude, Tiberius ventured on a decisive

measure, which for ever rivetted the fetters of his country. Under

the fair pretences of relieving Italy from the heavy burden of mi­

litary quarters, and of introducing a stricter discipline among the

guards, he assembled them at Rome, in a permanent campwhich was

fortified with stcilful care *, and placed on a commanding situation 5.

Such formidable servants are always necessary, but often fatal to Their

the throne of despotism. By thus introducing the Prætorian guards,
confidences,

as it were, into the palace and the senate, the emperors taught them

to perceive their own strength, and the weakness of the civil go­

vernment; to view the vices of their masters with familiar con­

tempt, and to lay aside that reverential awe, which distance only,

and mystery, can preserve, towards an imaginary power. In the

luxurious idleness of an opulent city, their pride was nourished by

the fense of their irresistible weight; nor was it possible to conceal

from them, that the person of the sovereign, the authority of the

senate, the public treasure, and the seat of empire, were all in their

P 2 hands.

