470 THE DECLINE AND FALL

among the

Chriltians.

Approaching

«nd.of the

world.

under the reign of the Asmonæan princes and pontiffs. The tem­

per of the Jews was incapable of contenting itself with such a cold

and languid assent as might satisfy the mind of a Poly thrift; and as

soon as they admitted the idea of a future state, they embraced it

with the zeal which has always formed the characteristic of the

nation. Their zeal, however, added nothing to its evidence, or

even probability: and it was still necessary, that the doctrine of life

and immortality, which had been dictated by nature, approved by

reason, and received by superstition, should obtain the sanction of

divine truth from the authority and example of Christ.

When the promise of eternal happiness was proposed to mankind,

on condition of adopting the faith and of observing the precepts

of the gospel, it is no wonder that so advantageous an offer should

have been accepted by great numbers of every religion, of every

rank, and of every province in the Roman empire. The ancient

Christians were animated by a contempt for their present existence,

and by a just confidence of immortality, of which the doubtful and

imperfect faith of modern ages cannot give us any adequate notion.

In the primitive church, the influence of truth was very powerfully

strengthened by an opinion, which, however it may deserve respect

for its usefulness and antiquity, has not been found agreeable to

experience. It was universally believed, that the end of the world»

and the kingdom of Heaven, were at hand. The near approach

of this wonderful event had been predicted by the apostles; the

tradition of it was preserved by their earliest disciples, and those

who understood in their literal sense the discourses of Christ himself,

were obliged to expect the second and glorious coming of the Son

of Man in the clouds, before that generation was totally extin­

guished, which had beheld his humble condition upon earth, and

which might still be witness to the calamities of the Jews under

Vespasian or Hadrian. The revolution of seventeen centuries haa

instructed us not to press too closely the mysterious language of

prophecy

