OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 113

Commodus, maintained towards Pertinax a stately ambiguous reserve,

and instantly declared against the usurpation of Julian. The convul­

sions of the capital added new weight to his sentiments, or rather to

his professions of patriotism. A regard to decency induced him to

decline the lofty titles of Augustus and Emperor; and he imitated

perhaps the example of Galba, who, on a similar occasion, had styled

himself the Lieutenant of the senate and people

Personal merit alone had raised Pescennius Niger from an obscure Pescennius

birth and station, to the government of Syria; a lucrative and im- sy'fj" m

portant command, which in times of civil confusion gave him a

near prospect of the throne. Yet his parts seem to have been better

suited to the second than to the first rank;'he was an unequal rival

though he might have approved himself an excellent lieutenant to

Severus, who had sufficient greatness of mind to adopt several

useful institutions from a vanquished enemy In his government,

Niger acquired the esteem of the soldiers and the love of the pro­

vincials. His rigid discipline fortified the valour and confirmed the

obedience of the former, whilst the voluptuous Syrians were less

delighted with the mild firmness of his administration than with

the affability of his manners, and the apparent pleasure with which

he attended their frequent and pompous festivals ". As soon as the

intelligence of the atrocious murder of Pertinax had reached Antioch,

the wishes of Asia invited Niger to assume the Imperial purple and

revenge his death. The legions of the eastern frontier embraced

his cause; the opulent but unarmed provinces from the frontiers of

Æthiopia *' to the Hadriatic, cheerfully submitted to his power; and

the kings beyond the Tigris and the Euphrates congratulated his

election, and offered him their homage and services. The mind of

Niger was not capable of receiving this sudden tide of fortune; he

flattered himself that his accession would be undisturbed by compe­

tition, and unstained by civil blood; and whilst he enjoyed the vain

pomp of triumph, he neglected to secure the means of victory. In-

Vol. I. stead

