OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 311

that temperate region. The air was pure, and the foil, watered

by some invaluable springs, was capable of producing fruits, as well

as corn,. A place possessed of such singular advantages, and situ­

ated at a convenient distance 6S, between the gulph of Persia and the

Mediterranean, was soon frequented by the caravans which con­

veyed to the nations of Europe a considerable part of the rich com­

modities of India. Palmyra insensibly increased into an opulent

and independent city, and connecting the Roman and the Parthian

monarchies by the mutual benefits of commerce, was suffered to

observe an humble neutrality, till at length, after the victories of

Trajan, the little republic funk into the bosom of Rome, and flou­

rished more than one hundred and fifty years in the subordinate

though honourable rank of a colony. It was during that peaceful

period, if we may judge from a few remaining inscriptions, that

the wealthy Palmyrenians constructed those temples, palaces, and

porticos of Grecian architecture, whose ruins, scattered over an ex­

tent of several miles, have deserved the curiosity of our travellers.

The elevation of Odenathus and Zenobia appeared to reflect new

splendour on their country, and Palmyra, for a while, stood forth the

rival of Rome: but the competition was fatal, and ages of prospe­

rity were sacrificed to a moment of glory 6'.

In his march over the sandy desert, between Emesa and Palmyra, it is besieged

by Aurelian,

the emperor Aurelian was perpetually harassed by the Arabs; nor

could he always defend his army, and especially his baggage, from

these flying troops, which were vexatious only from their minuteness

and activity. The siege of Palmyra was an object far more difficult and

important, and the emperor, who with incessant vigour pressed the

attacks in person, was himself wounded with a dart. *' The Roman

people," says Aurelian, in an original letter, " speak with contempt

"of the war which I am waging against a woman. They are ignorant

"both of the character and of the power of Zenobia. It is impossible to

"enumerate

