xx'ti NOTES ON THE SIXTH CHAPTER.

rant by their railleries, and perhaps by their tu­

mults.

[36] Dion, 1. lxxvii.p. 1296.

[37] Dion. l. lxxvi p. 1284. Mr. Wotton (Hist,

-of Rome, p. 330) suspects that this maxim was in-  
rented by Caracalla himself and attributed to his

father.

{38] Dion (1. Ixxviii. p. 13.13.) informs us that

the extraordinary gifts of Caracalla to the army

amounted annually to seventy milions of drachma:

(about two millions -three hundred and fifty thou­

sand pounds}. There is .another passage in Dion,

concerning the military pay, infinitely curious;

were it not obscure, imperfect, and probably cor­

rupt. The best fense seems to be, that the Præ­

torian guards received twelve hundred and fifty

drachma: (fort-y pounds) a year. (Dion, 1. Ixxvii.

p. 1307 ) Under the reign of Augustus, they were

paid at the rate of two drachmæ, or denarii, per

day-, 720a year (Tacit Annal. i. 17.). Domitian,

who increased the soldier's pay one fourth, mull

have raised the Prætorians to 960 drachmæ (Gro-

novius de Pecunia Veteri, 1. iii. c. 2.). These sue

costive augmentations ruined the empire, for with

the soldier's pay, their numbers too were increased.

"We have seen the Prætorians alone increased from

10,000 to 50,000 men.

[39] Dion, 1. Ixxviii. p. 1312. Herodian, 1. iv.

p. 168.

[40] The fondness of Caracalla for the name

and ensigns of Alexander, is still preserved on the

medals of that emperor. See Spanheim, de Ufu

Numifmatum. Dissertat. xii. Herodian (1. iv.

p. 154.) had seen very ridiculous pictures, in which

a figure was drawn, with one side of the face like

Alexander, and the other like Caracalla.

[41] Herodian, 1. iv. p. 169. Hist. August,

p. 94.

[42] Dion, 1. Ixxxvin. p. 13C0. Elagabalus re­

proached his predecessor, with daring to seat him­

self on the throne; though, as Prætorian præfect,

he could not have been admitted into the senate

after the voice of the cryer had cleared the house.

The personal favour of Piautianus and Sejanus had

broke through the established rule. They rose in­

deed from the equestrian order ; but they preserved

the prefecture with the rank of senator, and even

with the consulship.

[43J He was a native of Cæsarea, in Numidia,

and began his fortune by serving in the household of

Plautian, from whose ruin he narrowly escaped.

His enemies asserted, that he was born a slave, and

had exercised, among other infamous professions,

that of Gladiator. The fashion of aspersing the

birth and condition of an adversary, seems to have

lasted from the time of the Greek orators, to the

learned grammarians of the last age.

[44] Both Dion and Herodian speak of the vir­

tues and vices of Macrinus, with candour and impar­

tiality; but the author of his life, in the Augustas

History, seems to have implicitly copied some of

the venal writers, employed by Elagabalus, to

blacken the memory of his predecessor.

[4;] Dion, 1. Ixxxiii. p. 1336. The sense of

the author is as clear as the intention of the em­

peror, but M. Wotton has mistaken both, by under­

standing the distinction, not of veteran and re­

cruits, but of old and new legions. History of

Rome, p. 347-

[46] Dion, 1. Ixxviii. p. 1330. The abridge­

ment of Xiphilin, though less particular, is in this

place clearer than the original.

[47] According to Lampridius (Hist. August, p.

135 ) Alexander Severus lived twenty-nine years,

three months, and seven days. As he was killed

March 19, 231;, he was born December 12, 20$,

and was consequently about this time thirteen

years old, as his elder cousin might be about seven­

teen This computation suits much better the

history of the young princes than that, of Herodian,

(1. v. p. 181.) who represents them as three years

younger ; whilst, by an opposite error of chronology,

he lengthens the reign of Elagabalus two years be­

yond its real duration. For the particulars of the

conspiracy, see Dion, 1. Ixxviii. p. 1339. Hero­

dian, 1. v. p. 184.

[48] By a most dangerous proclamation of the

pretended Antoninus, every soldier who brought in

hit

