OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

appellation of heretics has always been applied to the less numerous

party. To these domestic testimonies we may add the confession,

the complaints, and the apprehensions of the Gentiles themselves.

From a philosophic writer who had studied mankind, and who de­

scribes their manners in the most lively colours, we may learn, that

under the reign of Commodus, his native country of Pontus was

filled with Epicureans and Christians ''*. Within fourscore years

after the death of Christ the humane Pliny laments the mag­

nitude of the evil which he vainly attempted to eradicate. In his

very curious epistle to the emperor Trajan, he affirms, that the tem­

ples were almost deserted, that the sacred victims scarcely found any

purchasers, and that the superstition had not only infected the cities,'

but had even spread itself into the villages and the open country of

Pontus and Bithynia's6. .- .

Without descending into a minute scrutiny of the expressions, or The church

of the motives of those writers who either celebrate or lament the

progress of Christianity in the East, it may in general be observed,

that none of them have left us any grounds from whence a just

estimate might be formed of the real numbers of the faithful in

those provinces. One circumstance, however, has been fortunately

preserved, which seems to cast a more distinct light on this obscure

but interesting subject. Under the reign of Theodosius, after Chri-,

stianity had enjoyed, during more than sixty years, the sunshine of

imperial favour, the ancient and illustrious church of Antioch con­

sisted of one hundred thousand persons, three thousand of whom,

were supported out of the public oblations ,S7. The splendor and

dignity of the queen of the East, the acknowledged populousness

of Cæsarea, Seleucia, and Alexandria, and the destruction of two

hundred and fifty thousand souls in the. earthquake which afflicted^

Antioch under the elder Justin M% are . so many convincing proofs

that the whole number of its inhabitants was not less than half a

million, and that the Christians, however multiplied bj zeal and,

'. i T11 2 ,v power,

