THE DECLINE AND FALL

himself from the luxury of the palace, he appeared in arms at the head

of his legions, and advanced beyond the Po to encounter his com­

petitor. The corrupted name of Pontirolo 1 still preserves the

memory of a bridge over the Adda, which, during the action, must

have proved an object of the utmost importance to both armies.

The Rhætian usurper, after receiving a total defeat and a dangerous

wound, retired into Milan. The siege of that great city was im­

mediately formed; the walls were battered with every engine in

use among the ancients; and Aureolus, doubtful of his internal

strength, and hopeless of foreign succours, already anticipated the

fatal consequences of unsuccessful rebellion.

His last resource was an attempt to seduce the loyalty of the

besiegers. He scattered libels through their camp, inviting the troops

to desert an unworthy master, who sacrificed the public happiness to

his luxury, and the lives of his most valuable subjects to the

slightest suspicions. The arts of Aureolus diffused fears and discon­

tent among the principal officers of his rival. A conspiracy was

formed by Heraclianus the Praetorian Præfect, by. Marcian a general

of rank and reputation, and by Cecrops, who commanded a

numerous body of Dalmatian guards. The death of Gallienus was

resolved, and notwithstanding their desire of first terminating the

siege of Milan, the extreme danger which accompanied every mo­

ment's delay, obliged them to hasten the execution of their daring

purpose. At a late hour of the night, but while the emperor still

protracted the pleasures of the table, an alarm was suddenly given,

that Aureolus, at the head of all his forces, had made a desperate

sally from the town; Gallienus, who was never deficient in personal

bravery, started from his silken couch, and, without allowing himself

time either to put on his armour, or to assemble his guards, he

mounted on horseback, and rode full speed towards the supposed

place of the attack. Encompassed by his declared or concealed

enemies, he soon, amidst the nocturnal tumult, received a mortal

dart

