OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 41

istence of a slave became an object of greater value, and though his

happiness still depended on the temper and circumstances of the

master, the humanity of the latter, instead of being restrained by

fear, was confirmed by the fense of his own interest. The pro­

gress of manners was enforced by the virtue or policy of the em­

perors; and by the edicts of Hadrian and the Antonines, the

protection of the laws was extended to the most abject part of man­

kind. The jurisdiction of life and death over the staves, a power

long exercised and often abused, was taken out of private hands,

and reserved to the magistrates alone. The subterraneous prisons

were abolished; and upon a just complaint of intolerable treat­

ment, the injured slave obtained either his deliverance, or a less

cruel master So.

Hope, the best comfort of our imperfect condition, was not denied Enfranchise-

to the Roman slave; and if he had any opportunity of making him­

self either useful or agreeable, he might very naturally expect'

that the diligence and fidelity of a few years would be reward­

ed with the inestimable gift of freedom. The benevolence of

the master was so frequently prompted by the meaner sug­

gestions of vanity and avarice, that the laws found it more ne­

cessary to restrain than to encourage a profuse and undistinguish-

ing liberality, which might degenerate into a very dangerous abuse5'.

It was a maxim of ancient jurisprudence, that as a slave had not any

country of his own, he acquired with his liberty an admission into

the political society of which his patron was a member. The

consequences of this maxim would have prostituted the privileges of

the Roman city to a mean and promiscuous multitude. Some sea­

sonable exceptions were therefore provided; and the honourable

distinction was confined to such slaves only, as for just causes, and

with the approbation of the magistrate, should receive a solemn and

legal manumission. Even these chosen freedmen obtained no more

than the private rights of citizens, and were rigorously excluded

from civil employments and military service. Whatever might be

Vol. I. G the

