THE DECLINE AND FALL

former distinguished by its antiquity, the latter enriched by the passage

of the Indian trade, were utterly destroyed by the arms and by the

severe order of Diocletian4S. The character of the Egyptian nation,

insensible to kindness, but extremely susceptible of fear, could alone

justify this excessive rigour. The seditions of Alexandria had often

affected the tranquillity and subsistence of Rome itself. Since the

usurpation of Firmus, the province of Upper Egypt, incessantly

relapsing into rebellion, had embraced the alliance of the savages

of Æthiopia. The numbers of the Blemmyes, scattered between the

island of Meroe and the Red Sea, was very inconsiderable, their

disposition was unwarlike, their weapons rude and inoffensive46.

Yet in the public disorders these barbarians, whom antiquity, shocked

with the deformity of their figure, had almost excluded from the

human species, presumed to rank themselves among the enemies of

Rome *7. Such had been the unworthy allies of the Egyptians;

and while the attention of the state was engaged in more serious

wars, their vexatious inroads might again harass the repose of the

province. With a view of opposing to the Blemmyes a suitable

adversary, Diocletian persuaded the Nobatæ, or people of Nubia,

to remove from their ancient habitations in the deserts of Lybia,

and resigned to them an extensive but unprofitable territory above

Syene and the cataracts of the Nile, with the stipulation, that they

should ever respect and guard the frontier of the empire. The

treaty long subsisted; and till the establishment of Christianity in­

troduced stricter notions of religious worship, it was annually ra­

tified by a solemn sacrifice in the ifle of Elephantine, in which

the Romans, as well as the barbarians, adored the fame visible or

invisible powers of the universe *8.

At the same time that Diocletian chastised the past crimes of the

Egyptians, he provided for their future safety and happiness by

many wife regulations which were confirmed and enforced under the

succeeding reigns49. One very remarkable edict, which he pub­

lished,

