; Of.THP. ROMAN EMPIRE. 383

ornament was of a more singular nature, a Persian, victory followed

by an .important conquest. The represeatations of rivers* moun­

tains, and provinces, were carried before tbe imperial cw?. The

images of the captive wives, sisters, and children of the great king*

afforded a new and grateful spectacle to the vanity of the people 8z.

In the eyes of posterity this triumph is remarkable, by a distinction

of a less honourable kind. It was the last that Rome ever be­

held. Soon after this period, the emperors ceased to vanquish.) and

Rome ceased to be the capital of the empire.

The spot on which Rome was founded, had been consecrated Long absence

* • • • -i n-n r oftheempe-

by ancient ceremonies and imaginary miracles. The pretence rorsfrom

of some god, or the memory of some hero, seemed to animate Rome*

Ævery part of the city* and the empire of the world had been

promised to the Capitol8S. The native Romans felt and confessed

the power of this agreeable illusion- It was derived from their

ancestors, had grown up with their earliest habits of life, and was

protected, in some measure, by the opinion of political utility.

The form and the seat of government were intimately blended

together, nor was it esteemed possible to transport the one without

destroying the other S'. But the sovereignty of the capital was

gradually annihilated in the extent of conquest ; the provinces rose to

the same level, and the vanquished nations acquired the name

and privileges, without imbibing the partial affections, of Romans.

During a long period, however, the remains of the ancient con­

stitution, and the influence of custom, preserved the dignity of

Rome. The emperors, though perhaps of African or Ulyrian

extraction, respected their adopted country, as the feat of their

power, and the center of their extensive dominions. The emer­

gency of war very frequently required their presence on the fron­

tiers ; but Diocletian and Maximian were the first Roman princes

who fixed, in time of peace, their ordinary residence in the pro»«

vinces j and their conduct, however it might be suggested by private

4 motives*

