OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 21

ropean provinces, which extended from the columns of Hercules

to the wall of Antoninus, and from the mouth of the Tagus to the

sources of the Rhine and Danube.

Before the Roman conquest, the country which is now called Italy.

Lombardy, was not considered as a part of Italy. It had been

occupied by a powerful colony of Gauls, who settling themselves

along the banks of the Po, from Piedmont to Romagna, carried

their arms and their name from the Alps to the Apenninc. The

Ligurians dwelt on the rocky coast, which now forms the republic

of Genoa. Venice was yet unborn; but the territories of that state,

which lie to the east of the Adige, were inhabited by the Vene­

tians **. The middle part of the peninsula, that now composes the

chitchy of Tuscany and the ecclesiastical state, was the ancient seat

of the Etruscans and Umbrians; to the former of whom Italy

was indebted for the first rudiments of a civilized life 7J. The Ty-

ber rolled at the foot of the seven hills of Rome, and the country

of the Sabines, the Latins, and the Volsci, from that river to the

frontiers of Naples, was the theatre of her infant victories. On

that celebrated ground the first consuls deserved triumphs; their

successors adorned villas, and their posterity have erected con­

vents '4. Capua and Campania possessed the immediate territory of

Naples; the rest of the kingdom was inhabited by many warlike

nations, the Marsi, the Samnites, the Apulians, and the Luca-»

nians; and the sea coasts had been covered by the flourishing colo­

nies of the Greeks. We may remark, that when Augustus divided

Italy into eleven regions, the little province of Istria was annexed to

that feat of Roman sovereignty77.

The European provinces of Rome were protected by the course The Danube

of the Rhine and the Danube. The latter of those mighty streams *nd n|yrian

o J 7 frontier,

which rises at the distance of only thirty miles from the former,

flows above thirteen hundred miles, for the most part, to the south­

east, collects the tribute of sixty navigable rivers, and is, at length,

through.

