aj>o THE DECLINE AND FALL

character and that of the times. *' There is not any thing capable

44 of giving me more serious concern, than the intelligence contained

"in your last dispatch 4; that some malicious suggestions have indis-

4< posed towards us the mind of our friend and parent Claudius.

"As you regard your allegiance, use every means to appease his

** resentment, but conduct your negociation with secrecy; let it  
'* not reach the knowledge of the Dacian troops; they are already

M provoked, and it might inflame their fury. I myself have sent

"him some presents: be it your care that he accept them with plea-

*' sure. Above all, let him not suspect that I am made acquainted  
"with his imprudence. The fear of my anger might urge him to

"desperate counsels5." The presents which accompanied this hum­

ble epistle, such as a monarch has seldom addressed to a discontented

subject, consisted of a considerable sum of money, a splendid

wardrobe, and a valuable service of silver and gold plate. By such

arts Gallienus softened the indignation, and dispelled the fears of

^ his Illyrian general; and, during the remainder of that reign, the

formidable sword of Claudius Was always drawn in the cause of a

master whom he despised. At last, indeed, he received from the

conspirators the bloody purple of Gallienus: but he had been absent

from their camp and councils; and however he might applaud the

deed, we may candidly presume that he was innocent of the know­

ledge of it6. When Claudius ascended the throne, he was about

fifty-four years of age.

Death of The siege of Milan was still continued, and Aureolus soon dis­

covered, that the success of his artifices had only raised up a more

determined adversary. He attempted to negociate with Claudius a

treaty of alliance and partition. "Tell him," replied the intrepid

emperor, " that such proposals should have been made to Gallienus;

44 he, perhaps, might have listened to them with patience, and ac-

44 cepted a colleague as despicable as himself7." This stern refuses

and a last unsuccessful effort, obliged Aureolus to yield the city and

himself

