THE DECLINE AND FALL

D.feat and But while the cause of the Gordians was embraced with such

death of the

twoGordian». diffusive ardour, the Gordians themselves were no more. The

A D. 237.

3d July. feeble court of Carthage was alarmed with the rapid approach of

Capelianus, governor of Mauritania, who, with a small band of

Veterans, and a fierce host of barbarians, attacked a faithful, but

unwarlike province. The younger Gordian sallied out to meet the

enemy at the head of a few guards, and a numerous undisciplined

multitude, educated in the peaceful luxury of Carthage. His use­

less valour served only to procure him an honourable death, in the

field of battle. His aged father, whose reign had not exceeded

thirty six days, put an end to his life on the first news of the de­

feat. Carthage, destitute of defence, opened her gates to the con­

queror, and Africa was exposed to the rapacious cruelty of a slave,

obliged to satisfy his unrelenting master with a large account of

blood and treasure 15.

Election of The fate of the Gordians filled Rome with just, but unexpected

^bl'nug by terror. The senate, convoked in the temple of Concord, affected to

the senate. transact the common business of the day ; and seemed to decline*

9thJuly. ''

with trembling anxiety, the consideration of their own, and the

public danger. A silent consternation prevailed on the assembly,

till a senator, of the name and family of Trajan, awakened his

brethren from their fatal lethargy. He represented to them, that

the choice of cautious dilatory measures had been long since out of

their power; that Maximin, implacable by nature, and exasperated

by injuries, was advancing towards Italy, at the head of the military

force of the empire; and that their only remaining alternative,

was either to meet him bravely in the field, or tamely to expect

the tortures and ignominious death reserved for unsuccessful re­

bellion. "We have lost, continued he, two excellent princes; but

"unless we desert ourselves, the hopes of the republic have not

*' perished with the Gordians. Many are the senators, whose vir-  
** tues have deserved, and whose abilities would sustain, the Imperial

41 dignity.

