132 THE DECLINE AND FALL

on both the rank of Augustus, with the revered name of Antoninus,

Three cmpe- ant* for the first time the Roman world beheld three emperors,0.
Yet

lor'* even this equal conduct served only to inflame the contest, whilst the

fierce Caracalla asserted the right of primogeniture, and the milder

Geta courted the affections of the people and the soldiers. In the

anguish of a disappointed father, Severus foretold, that the weaker

of his sons would fall a sacrifice to the stronger; who, in his turn,

would be ruined by his own vices ".

The Caledo- In these circumstances the intelligence of a war in Britain, and
of

A. D. 208. an invasion of the province by the barbarians of the North, was re­

ceived with pleasure by Severus. Though the vigilance of his

lieutenants might have been sufficient to repel the distant enemy,

he resolved to embrace the honourable pretext of withdrawing

his sons from the luxury of Rome, which enervated their minds

and irritated their passions, and of inuring their youth to the

toils of war and government. Notwithstanding his advanced age

(for he was above three-score), and his gout, which obliged

him to be carried in a litter, he transported himself in person

into that remote island, attended by his two sons, his whole

court, and a formidable army. He immediately passed the walls

of Hadrian and Antoninus, and entered the enemy's country,

with the design of completing the long attempted conquest of

Britain. He penetrated to the northern extremity of the island,

without meeting an enemy. But the concealed ambuscades of the

Caledonians, who hung unseen on the rear and flanks of his army,

the coldness of the climate, and the severity of a winter march across

the hills and morasses of Scotland, are reported to have cost the

Romans above fifty thousand men. The Caledonians at length

yielded to the powerful and obstinate attack, sued for peace, and sur­

rendered a part of their arms, and a large tract of territory. But

their apparent submission lasted no longer than the present terror.

As soon as the Roman legions had retired, they resumed their hostile

inde-

