THE DECLINE AND FALL

presence and example; and we are informed that Hadrian, as well

as Trajan, frequently condescended to instruct the unexperienced

soldiers, to reward the diligent, and sometimes to dispute with;

them the prize of superior strength or dexterity40, Under the

reigns of those princes, the science of tactics was cultivated with suc­

cess; and as long as the empire retained any vigour, their military

instructions were respected, as the most perfect model of Roman

discipline.

The legions Nine centuries of war had gradually introduced into the service

peroT*. n^any alterations and improvements. The legions described by

Polybius*', and commanded by the Scipios, differed very materially

from those which atchieved the victories of Caesar, or defended the

monarchy of Hadrian and the Antonines. The constitution of the

Imperial legion may be described in a few words 4\ The heavy-

armed infantry, which composed its principal strength 4J, was di­

vided into ten cohorts, and fifty-five companies, under the orders

of a correspondent number of tribunes and centurions. The first

cohort, which always claimed the post of honour and the custody of

the eagle, was formed of eleven hundred and five soldiers, the

most approved for valour and fidelity. The remaining nine cohorts

consisted each of five hundred and fifty-five; and the whole body

of legionary infantry amounted to six thousand one hundred men.

Arms. Their arms were uniform, and admirably adapted to the nature of

their service: an open helmet, with a lofty crest; a breast-plate, or

coat of mail j greaves on their legs, and an ample buckler on their

left arm. The buckler was of an oblong and concave figure, four sect

in length, and two and a half in breadth, framed of a light wood,

covered with a bull's hide, and strongly guarded with plates of

brass. Besides a lighter spear, the legionary soldier grasped in his

right hand the formidable pilumt a ponderous javelin, whose utmost

length was about six feet, and which was terminated by a massy

triangular point of steel of eighteen inches4*. This instrument

was

