OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 245

to the conquerors of Italy; the ties of ancient consanguinity were

strengthened by recent offices of friendship; and a Scandinavian

king cheerfully abdicated his savage greatness, that he might pass

the remainder of his days in the peaceful and polished court of Ra足

venna 6. Many vestiges, which cannot be ascribed to the arts of

popular vanity, attest the ancient residence of the Goths in the

countries beyond the Baltic. From the time of the geographer

Ptolemy, the southern part of Sweden seems to have continued in

the possession of the less enterprising remnant of the nation, and a

large territory is even at present divided into east and west Goth足

land. During the middle ages (from the ninth to the twelfth

century) whilst Christianity was advancing with a flow progress into

the north, the Goths and the Swedes composed two distinct and

sometimes hostile members of the fame monarchy 7. The latter of

these two names has prevailed without extinguishing the former.

The Swedes, who might well be satisfied with their own fame in

arms, have, in every age, claimed the ancient glory of the Goths.

In a moment of discontent against the court of Rome, Charles the

Twelfth insinuated, that his victorious troops were not degenerated

from their brave ancestors, who had already subdued the mistress of

the world 8.

Till the end of the eleventh century, a celebrated temple subsisted Religion
of

at Upsal, the most considerable town of the Swedes and Goths. It

was enriched with the gold which the Scandinavians had acquired

in their pyratical adventures, and sanctified by the uncouth repre足

sentations of the three principal deities, the god of war, the goddess

of generation, and the god of thunder. In the general festival,

that was solemnized every ninth year, nine animals of every species

(without excepting the human) were sacrificed, and their bleeding

bodies suspended in the sacred grove adjacent to the temple 9. The

only traces that now subsist of this barbaric superstition are con足

tained in the Edda, a system of mythology, compiled in Iceland about

the

