OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 249

1

tribes of the Peucini, the Borani, the Carpi, &c. derived its origin

from the Germans. With better authority, a Sarmatian extraction

may be assigned to the Venedi, who rendered themselves so famous

in the middle ages l6. But the confusion of blood and manners on Dislinafcmof

Germans and

that doubtful frontier, often perplexed the most accurate ob- Sarmatians.

servers *7. As the Goths advanced nearer the Euxine sea, they

encountered a purer race of Sarmatians, the Jazyges, the Alani,

and the Roxolani; and they were probably the first Germans who

saw the mouths of the Borysthenes, and of the Tanais. If we

inquire into the characteristic marks of the people of Germany and

of Sarmatia, we shall discover that those two great portions of human

kind were principally distinguished by fixed huts or moveable

tents, by a close dress, or flowing garments, by the marriage of

one or of several wives, by a military force, consisting, for the most

part, either of infantry or of cavalry; and above all by the use of

the Teutonic, or of the Sclavonian language; the last of which has

been diffused by conquest, from the confines of Italy to the neigh­

bourhood of Japan.

The Goths were now in possession of the Ukraine, a country of Description of

considerable extent and uncommon fertility, intersected with navi- tbe kraine*

gable rivers, which, from either side, discharge themselves into the

Borysthenes; and interspersed with large and lofty forests of

oaks. The plenty of game and fish, the innumerable bee-hives,

deposited in the hollow of old trees, and in the cavities of rocks, and

forming, even in that rude age, a valuable branch of commerce,

the size of the cattle, the temperature of the air, the aptness of the

soil for every species of grain, and the luxuriancy of the vegetation,

all displayed the liberality of Nature, and tempted the industry of

man l8. But the Goths withstood all these temptations, and still

adhered to a life of idleness, of poverty, and of rapine.

The Scythian hords, which, towards the east, bordered on the new TheGotlu

settlements of the Goths, presented nothing to their arms, except the roœm
p'o-

Vol. I. K k doubtful viDCes'

