OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419

312.

wild beasts in the amphitheatre of Treves, and the people seem

to have enjoyed the spectacle, without discovering, in such a

treatment of royal captives, any thing that was repugnant to the

laws of nations or of humanity *\

The virtues of Constantine were rendered more illustrious by the Tyranny of

. . . • • Maxentius ia

vices of Maxentius. Whilst the Gallic provinces enjoyed as much Italy and

happiness as the condition of the times was capable of receiving, a. d. 306—•

Italy and Africa groaned under the dominion of a tyrant as con­

temptible as he was odious. The zeal of flattery and faction has

indeed too frequently sacrificed the reputation of the vanquished, to

the glory of their successful rivals; but even those writers who

have revealed, with the most freedom and pleasure, the faults of

Constantine, unanimously confess, that Maxentius was cruel, ra­

pacious, and profligate 4\ He had the 'good fortune to suppress

a flight rebellion in Africa. The governor and a few adherents

had been guilty; the province suffered for their crime. The

'flourishing cities of Cirtha and Carthage, and the whole extent

of that fertile country, were wasted by fire and sword. The abuse

of victory was followed by the abuse of law and justice. A for­

midable army of sycophants and delators invaded Africa; the rich

and the noble were easily convicted of a connexion with the

rebels; and those among them who experienced the emperor's

clemency, were only punished by the confiscation of their estates 4'.

So signal a victory was celebrated by a magnificent triumph, and

Maxentius, exposed to the eyes of the people the spoils and cap­

tives' of a Roman province. The state of the capital was no Jess

deserving of compassion than that of Africa. The wealth of Rome

supplied an inexhaustible fund for his vain and prodigal expences,

and the ministers of his revenue, were skilled in the arts of rapine.

It was under his reign that the method of exacting a fret gift

from the senators was first invented, and as the sum was insensibly

H h h 2 increased*

