T-HE DECLINE AND FALL

supply of wholesome and plentiful food for the cattle during winter,

multiplied the number of the flocks and herds, which in their

turn contributed to the fertility of the foil. To all these im­

provements may be added an asliduous attention to mines and

fisheries, ;which, ,by employing a multitude of laborious hands,

serve to increase the pleasures of the rich, and the subsistence of

the poor. The elegant treatise of Columella describes the advanced

state of. the Spanish husbandry, under the reign of Tiberius; and

it may be observed, that those famines which so frequently afflicted

the infant republic, were seldom or never experienced by the ex­

tensive empire of Rome. The accidental scarcity, in any single

province, was immediately relieved by the plenty of its more fortu­

nate neighbours^ ... t , • '. '' >'

Agriculture is. the foundation of manufactures; since the pro­

ductions of nature are the materials of art. Under the Roman

empire, the labour of an industrious and ingenious people was

.variously, but incessantly employed, in the service of the rich.

In their dress, their table, their houses, and their furniture, the

favourites of fortune united every refinement of conveniency, of

elegance, and of splendour; whatever could sooth their pride or

gratify their sensuality. Such refinements, under the odious name

of luxury, have been severely arraigned by the moralists of every

age; and it might perhaps be more conducive to the virtue, as

well- as happiness of mankind, if all possessed the necessaries,

and none the superfluities of life. But in the present imperfect

condition of society, luxury, though it may proceed from vice or

folly, seems to be the only means that can correct the unequal dis­

tribution of property. The diligent mechanic, and the skilful

artist, who have obtained no share in the division of the earth,

receive a voluntary taxi from the possessors of land; and the latter

are prompted, by a fense of interest, to improve those estates, with

whose produce they may purchase . additional pleasures. This

-'y-fi operation>

