OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 28;

sophers of Egypt, is described above a century afterwards, as already

reduced to its present state of a dreary solitude "7S.

III. The obscure rebellion of Trebellianus, who assumed the Rebellion of

purple in Isauria, a petty province of Asia Minor, was attended with

strange and memorable consequences. The pageant of royalty was

soon destroyed by an officer of Gallienus; but his followers, de­

spairing of mercy, resolved to shake off their allegiance, not only to

the emperor, but to the empire, and suddenly returned to the savage

manners, from which they had never perfectly been reclaimed.

'Their craggy rocks, a branch of the wide extended Taurus, pro­

tected their inaccessible retreat. The tillage of some fertile

vallies ,:6, supplied them with the necessaries, and a habit of rapine

with the luxuries, of life. - In the heart of the Roman monarchy,

the Haurians ever continued a nation of wild barbarians. Suc­

ceeding princes, unable to reduce them to obedience, either by arms

or policy, were compelled to acknowledge their weakness, by sur­

rounding the hostile and independent spot, with a strong chain of

fortifications '77, which often proved insufficient to restrain the in­

cursions of these domestic foes. The Isaurians, gradually extending

their territory to the sea coast, subdued the western and mountainous

• part of Cilicia, formerly the nest of thole daring pyrates, against

whom the republic was obliged to exert its utmost force, un­

der the conduct of the great Pompey ,7S.

Our habits of thinking so fondly connect the order of the Famine an*

pcltilence.

universe with the fate of man, that this gloomy period of history

has been decorated with inundations, earthquakes, uncommon me­

teors, preternatural darkness, and a crowd of prodigies fictitious or

exaggerated '79. Eut a long and general famine was a calamity of a

more serious kind. It was the inevitable consequence of rapine and

oppression, which extirpated the produce of the present, and the

hope of future, harvests. Famine is almost always followed by epi­

demical diseases, the effect of scanty and unwholesome food. Other

causes

