OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 56s

eminence, appeared by their conduct to claim a secular and tyran­

nical power in the church; and the lively faith which still distin­

guished the Christians from the Gentiles, was shewn much less in

their lives, than in their controversial writings.

Notwithstanding this seeming security, an attentive observer Progress of

might discern some symptoms that threatened the church with a petition"

more violent persecution than any which she had yet endured. The pT^ns.'1"

zeal and rapid progress of the Christians awakened the Polytheists

from their supine indifference in the cause of those deities, whom

custom and education had taught them to revere. The mutual pro­

vocations of a religious war, which had already continued above

two hundred years, exasperated the animosity of the contending

parties. The Pagans were incensed at the rashness of a recent andv

obscure sect, which presumed to accuse their countrymen of error,

and to devote their ancestors to eternal misery.. The habits of justi­

fying the popular mythology against the invectives of an impla­

cable enemy, produced in their minds some sentiments of faith and

reverence for a system which they had been accustomed to consider

with the most careless levity. The supernatural powers assumed by the

church inspired at the same time terror and emulation. The fol­

lowers of the established religion intrenched themselves behind ct

similar fortification of prodigies; invented new modes of sacrifice,

of expiation, and of initiation ,JJ; attempted to revive the credit of.

their expiring oracles "6; and listened with eager credulity to every

impostor, who flattered their prejudices by a tale of wonders

Both parties seemed to acknowledge the truth of those miracles-

■which were claimed by their adversaries; aud while they were con­

tented with ascribing them to the arts of magic, and to the power

of dæmons, they, mutually concurred in restoring and establishing

the reign of superstition''8. Philosophy, her most dangerous ene­

my, was now converted into her most useful ally. The groves of

the academy, the gardens of Epicurus, and even the portico of th<j

6 Stoicij.

