OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7

distant nations would throw off the unaccustomed yoke, when they

were no longer restrained by the powerful hand which had imposed

it.

It was an ancient tradition, that when the Capitol was founded by Resigned by

one of the Roman kings, the god Terminus (who presided over Adrian,

boundaries, and was represented according to the fashion of that

age by a large stone) alone, among all the inferiour deities, refused

to yield his place to Jupiter himself. A favourable inference was

drawn from his obstinacy, which was imterpreted by the augurs, as a

sure presage that the boundaries of the Roman power would never

recede **. Daring many ages, the prediction, as it is usual, con­

tributed to its own accomplishment. But though Terminus had

resisted the majesty of Jupiter, he submitted to the authority of the

emperor Hadrian15. The resignation of all the eastern conquests

of Trajan was the first measure of his reign. He restored to the

Parthians the election of an independent Sovereign, withdrew the

Roman garrisons from the provinces of Armenia, Mesopotamia, and

Assyria, and, in compliance with the precept of Augustus, once

more established the Euphrates as the frontier of the empire *4.

Censure, which arraigns the public actions and the private motives

of princes, has ascribed to envy, a conduct, which might be attri­

buted to the prudence and moderation of Hadrian. The various

character of that emperor, capable, by turns, of the meanest and

the most generous sentiments, may afford some colour to the sus­

picion. It was, however, scarcely in his power to place the

superiority of his predecessor in a more conspicuous light, than by

thus confessing himself unequal to the task of defending the conquests

of Trajan.

The martial and ambitious spirit of Trajan, formed a very sin- Contrast os

gular contrast with the moderation of his successor. The restless Antoninus*

activity of Hadrian was not less remarkable when compared with Plu''

the gentle repose of Antoninus Pius. The life of the former was

almost

