OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 57

"influence, the fiercest barbarians were united by an equal govern-

"ment and common language. They affirm, that with the im>

"provement of arts, the human species was visibly multiplied.

"They celebrate the increasing splendor of the cities, the beau-

"tiful face of the country, cultivated and adorned like an im-

"mense garden; and the long festival of peace, which was en-

** joyed by so many nations, forgetful of their ancient animosities,  
"and delivered from the apprehension of future danger '°9."

Whatever suspicions may be suggested by the air of rhetoric and

declamation, which seems to prevail in these passages, the substance

of them is perfectly agreeable to historic truth.

It was scarcely possible that the eyes of contemporaries should Decline of

discover in the public felicity the latent causes of decay and cor- coura£c*

■ ruption. This long peace, and the uniform government of the

Romans, introduced a flow and secret poison into the vitals of the

empire. The minds of men were gradually reduced to the fame

level, the fire of genius was extinguished, and even the military

spirit evaporated. The natives of Europe were brave and robust^

Spain, Gaul, Britain, and Illyricum supplied the legions with ex­

cellent soldiers, and constituted the real strength of the monarchy.

Their personal valour remained, but they no longer possessed that

public courage which is nourished by the love of independence, the

fense of national honour, the presence of danger, and the habit of

command. They received laws and governors from the will of

their sovereign, and trusted for their defence to a mercenary army. .

The posterity of their boldest leaders was contented With the rank

of citizens and subjects. The most aspiring spirits resorted to the

:court oi; standard of the emperors; and the deserted provinces,

deprived of political strength or union, insensibly sunk into the lan­

guid indisserence of private life.

, The love of letters, almost inseparable from peace and re- ~, .

* r OfgeniM.

sinement, was fashionable among the subjects of Hadrian and

Vol. I. I the

