NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. Ixt

delight in recording the wonderful deaths of the

persecutors, I would recommend to their perusal

an admirable passage of Grorus iHist. 1. vii. p.

352.) concerning the last illness of Philip II. of

Spain.

[39] See Euscbius, 1. if. 6. 10. Lactantius de

M. P. c. 36. Zosimus is less exact, and evidently

confounds Maximian with Maximin.

[40] See the viiith Panegyric, in which Eu-

menius displays, in the presence of Constantine,

the misery and the gratitude of the city of Autun.

[41] Eutropius, x. 3. Panegyr. Vcter. vii. 10,

11,12. A great number of the French youth were

likewise exposed to the same cruel and ignominious

death.

[42] Julian excludes Maxentius from the banquet

of the Cæsars with abhorrence and contempt; and

Zosimus (1. ii. p. 85.) accuses him of every kind of

cruelty and profligacy.

[43] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 83—85. Aurelius

Victor.

[44] The passage of Aurelius Victor mould be

read in the following manner. Primus instituto

peflimo, muntrum specie, Patres Oratorefque pecu-

niam conferre prodigenti sibi cogeret.

[4;] Panegyr. Vet. ix, 3. Euseb. Hist. Eccles.

viii 14, et in Vit. Constantin. i. 33, 34. Rufinus,

c. 17. The virtuous Matron, who stabbed herself

to escape the violence of Maxentius, was a Christian,

wife to the prefect of the city, and her name was

Sophronia. It still remains a question among the

casuists, whether, on such occasions, Suicide is

justifiable.

[46] Prætorianis cxdem vulgi quondam annueret,

is the vague expression of Aurelius Victor. See

more particular, though somewhat different, ac­

counts of a tumult and massacre, which happened

at Rome, in Eusebius (I. viii. c. 14 ) and in Zosi­

mus (1. ii. p. 84..).

[47] See in the Panegyrics (ix. 14.). a lively de­

scription of the indolence and vain pride of Max­

entius. In another place, the orator observes, the

niches which Rome had accumulated in a period of

1060 years, were lavished by the tyrant on his mer-

7

cenary bands; rederriptis ad civilelatrocinium ma-

nibus ingesserat.

[4R] After the victory of Constantine, it was

universally allowed, that the motive of delivering

the republic from a detested tyrant, would, at any

time, havejuilified his expedition into Italy. Euseb.

in Vit. Constantine, 1. i. c. 26. Panegyr. Vet.

ix. 2.

[49] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 84, 85. Nazarius in

Panegyr. x. 7—13 .

[^o] See Panegyr. Vet. ix. 2. Omnibus fere

tuis Comitibus et Ducibus non solum tacite muf-

santibus, fed etiam aperte timentibus; contra con-

silia hominum, contra Haruspicum monita, ipse

per temet liberandæ urbis tempus venifle scntirej.

The embassy of the Romans is mentioned only by

Zonaras (1. xiii.) and by Cedrenus (in Ccmpend.

Hist. p. 2;o.): but those modern Greeks had the

opportunity of consulting many writers which have

since been lost, among which we may reckon the

life of Constantine by Praxagoras, an Atheniaa

philosopher. Photius (p. 63.) has drawn a stiort

extract from that historical work.

[51] Zosimus (I. ii. p. 86.) has given us this

curious account of the forces on both sides. He

makes no mention of any naval armaments, though

we are assured (Panegyr. 'Vet. ix. 25.) that the war

was carried on by/ea as well as by land; and that

the fleet of Constantine took possession of Sardinia,

Corsica, and the ports of Italy.

[52] Panegyr. Vet- ix. 3. It is not surprising

that the orator should diminish the numbers with

which his sovereign atchieved the conquest of Italy;

but it appears somewhat singular, that he should

esteem the tyrant's army at no more than ico.coo

men.

[55] The three principal passages of the Alps

between Gaul andltaly, are those ot'Mount St Ber­

nard, Mount Cenis. and Mount Genevre. Tradi­

tion, and a resemblance of names (Alfes Ptnnintr),

had assigned the first of these for the march of Han­

nibal (See Simler de Alpibus). The v. hevalier de

Folard (Polybe, torn, iv.) and M. Danville have

led him over Mount Genevre. But notwithstand­

ing the authority of an experienced officer, and a

learned geographer, the pretensions of Mount

Cenis

