NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. bait

[72] See the two Panegyrics, and the laws t>f this

and the ensuing year, in the Theodofian code.

[73] Panegyr. Vet. ix. 20. Lactantius dc M. P.

c. 44. Maximin, who was confessedly the eldest

Cæsar, claimed, with some Ihew of reason, the first

rank among the Auguili.

[74] Adhuc cuncta opera qua: magnifice construx-

erat, urbis fanum, atque bafilicam, Flavii meritis

patrei sacravere. Aurelius Victor. With regard

to the theft of Trajan's trophies, consult Flaminius

Vacca, apud Montfaucon, Diarium Italicum, p.

2,9, and l'Antiquice Expliquce of the latter, torn,

iv. p. 17 k.

[75] Prætoriæ legiones ac subsidia factionibus

aptiora quam urbi Komi, sublata penitus; simul

arma atque usus indumenti militaris. Aurelius

Victor. Zosimus (1. ii. p. 89.) mentions this fast

as an historian; and it is very pompously cele­

brated in the ninth Panegyric.

[76] Ex omnibus provinciis optimates viros

Curia; tun pigneraveris; ut Senatsis dignitas ... ex

totius Orbis store consisteret. Nazarius in Panegyr.

Vet. x. 35. The word pigntrcrveris might almost

seem malicioufly chosen. Concerning the senatorial

tax, seeZosimus, 1. ii. p. 115, the second title of the

sixth book of the Theodofian Code, with Gode-

froy's Commentary, and Memoires de l'Academie

des Inscriptions, torn, xxviii. p. 726.

[77] From the Theodofian Code, we may now

begin to trace the motions of the emperors; but the

dates both of time and place have frequently been

altered by the carelessness of transcribers.

[73] Zosimus (1. ii. p. 89) observes, that, before

the war, the sister of Constantine had been be­

trothed to Licinius. According to the younger

Victor, Diocletian was invited to the nuptials; but

having ventured to plead his age and infirmities, he

received a second letter filled with reproaches for

his supposed partiality to the cause of Maxentius

and Maximin.

[-9] Zosimus mentions the defeat and death of

Maximin as ordinary events; but Lactantius expa­

tiates on them, (de M. P. c. 4^—50.) ascribing

them to the miraculous interposition of Heaven.

Licinius at that time was one of the protectors of

the church,

[80] Lactantius de M, P. c. 50. Aurelius Victor

touches on the different conduct of Licinius, and of

Constantine, in the use of victory.

[81] The sensual appetites of Maximin were gra­

tified at the expence of his subjects. His eunuchs,

who forced away wives and virgins, examined theif

naked charms with anxious curiosity, lest any part

of their body should be found unworthy of the royal

embraces. Coyness and disdain were considered as

treason, and the obstinate fair one was condemned

to be drowned. A custom was gradually intro­

duced, that no person Ihould marry a wife without

the permission of the emperor, *' ut ipse in omni­

bus nuptiis prægustatoresset." Lactantius de M. P.

c 38.

[82] Lactantius de M. P. c. 39.

[83] Diocletian at last sent cognatum suum,

quendam militaremac potentem virum, to intercede

in favour of his daughter (Lactantius de M. P. c.

41). We are not sufficiently acquainted with the

history of these times, to point out the person who

was employed.

[84] Valeria quoque per varias provincias quin-

decim menfibus plebeio cultu pervagata. Lactan­

tius de M. P. c. 51. There is some doubt whether

we should compute the fifteen months from the mo­

ment of her exile, or from that of her escape. The

expression of pervagata seems to denote the latter;

but in that case we must suppose, that the'treatise

of Lactantius was written after the first civil war

between Licinius and Constantine. See Cuper,

p. 254.

[8;J Ita illis pudicitia et conditio exitio suit.

Lactantius de M. P. c. 51. He relates the misfor­

tunes of the innocent wise and daughter of Diocle­

tian with a very natural mixture of pity and ex­

ultation.

[86] Thecurious reader, who consultsthe Valesian

fragment, p. 713, will perhaps accuse me of giving

a bold and licentious paraphrase; but if he con­

siders it with attention, he will acknowledge that

my interpretation is probable and consistent.

[87] The situation of Æmona, or as it is now

called, Laybach, in Carniola, (Danville Geographie

Ancienne, torn. i. p. 187.) may suggest a conjecture.

As it lay to the north east of the Julian Alps, that

important territory became a natural object of dis-

4 pute

