OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 237

helmets. Though the horses of Germany were neither beautiful,

swift, nor practised in the skilful evolutions of the Roman manage,

several of the nations obtained renown by their cavalry; but, in

general, the principal strength of the Germans consisted in their in­

fantry 7I, -which was drawn up in several deep columns, according andofdisci-

to the distinction of tribes and families. Impatient of fatigue or plmc*

delay, these half-armed warriors rushed to battle with dissonant

shouts and disordered ranks; and sometimes by the effort of native

valour, prevailed over the constrained and more artificial bravery of

the Roman mercenaries. But as the barbarians poured forth their

whole fouls on the first- onset; they knew not how to rally or to

retire. A repulse was a- sure defeat; and a defeat was most com­

monly total destruction. When we recollect the complete armour

of the Roman soldiers, their discipline, exercises, evolutions, fortified

camps, and military engines, it appears a just matter of surprise

how the naked and unassisted valour of the barbarians could dare to

encounter in the field, the strength of the legions, and the various

troops of the auxiliaries, which seconded their operations. The

contest was too unequal, till the introduction of luxury had ener­

vated the vigour, and a spirit of disobedience and sedition had

relaxed the discipline, of the Roman armies. The introduction-of

barbarian auxiliaries into those armies, was a measure attended

with very obvious danger?, as it might gradually instruct the Ger­

mans in the arts of war and of policy. Although they were

admitted in small numbers and with the strictest precaution, the

example of Civilis might convince the Romans, that the danger was

not imaginary, and that their precautions were not always suffi­

cient '*. During the civil wars- that followed the death of Nero,,

that artful and intrepid Batavian, whom his enemies condescended

to compare with Hannibal and Sertorius formed a great design of

freedom and ambition. Eight Batavian cohorts, renowned in the

wars of Britain and Italy, repaired to his standard.. He introduced 1

an

