Ix NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER.

[24] The vith Panegyric was pronounced to ce­

lebrate ilie elevation of Constantino; but the pru­

dent orator avoids the mention either of Galerius

or of Maxentius. He introduces only one flight

allusion to the actual troubles, and to the majesty,

of Rome.

[25] With regard to this negociation, fee the

fragments of an anonymous Historian, published by

Valerius at the end of his edition of Arnmianus

Marcellinus, p. 711. These fragments have fur­

nished us with several curious, and as it should seem

authentic, anecdotes.

[zf>] Lactantius, de M. P. c. a8. The formw

of these reasons is probably taken from Virgil's

Shepherd; "Illam ego huic nostræ simrlem Me-

libxe putavi, &c." Laitantius delights in these

poetical allusions.

[27] Castra super Tusci si ponere Tybridis undas;

(jubtas)

Hcsperios audax veniam metator in agros.

Tu quoscunque voles in planum efFundere muros,

His aries actus disperget saxa lacertis;

Ilia licet penitus tolli quam jusseris urbem

Roma sit. Lucan. Pharsal. i. 381.

[28] Lactantius de M. P. c. 27. Zosim. I. ii.

p. 82. The latter insinuates, that Constantine, in

his interview with Maximian, had promised to de­

clare war against Galerius.

• [29] M. de Tillemont (Hist, des Empereurs,

torn. iv. part i. p. 559.) has proved, that Licinius,

without passing through the intermediate rank of

Citsar, was declared Augustus, the nth of Novem­

ber, A. D. 307, after the return of Galerius from

Italy.

[30] Lactantius de M. P. c. 32. When Ga­

lerius declared Licinius Augustus with himself, he

tried to satisfy his younger associates, by inventing,

for Constantine and Maximin (not Maxtntiui, fee

Ealuze, p. 81.) the new title of sons of the Augusti.

But when Maximin acquainted him that he had

been saluted Augustus by the army, Galerius was

obliged to acknowledge him, as well as Constan­

tine, as equal associates in the Imperial dignity.

[31] See Panegyr. Vet. vi. 9. Audi doloris nostri

liberam vocem, &c. the whole passage is imagined

with artful flattery, and expressed with an easy

flow of eloquence.

[32] Lactantius de M. P. c. 28. Zosim. 1. ii.

p. tiz. A report was spread, that Maxentius was

the son of some obscure Syrian, and had been substi­

tuted by the wise of Maximian as her own child.

See Aurelius Victor, Anonym. Valesian, and Pan­

egyr. Vet. ix. 3. 4.

[31] Ab urbe pulsum, ab Italia fugatum, ab>

lllyrico repudiatum, tuis provineiis, tuis copiis, tuo

palatio recepisti. Eumen.in i'anegyr. Vet. vii. 14.

[34] Lactantius de M. P. c. 29. Yet after the

resignation of the purple, Constantine still continued

to Maximian the pomp and honours of the Imperial

dignity; and on all public occasions gave the

right-hand place to his father-in-law. Panegyr.

Vet. vii. 15.

[35] Zosim. 1. ii. p. 82. Eumenius in Panegyr.

Vet. vii. 16—21. The latter of these has un­

doubtedly represented the whole affair in the most

favourable light for his sovereign. Yet even from his

partial narrative we may conclude, that the repeated

clemency of Constantine, and the reiterated treasons

of Maximian, as they arc described by Lactantius

(de M. P. c. 29, 30.), and copied by the moderns,

are destitute of any historical foundation.

[36] Aurelius Victor, c. 40. But that lake was

situated in the Upper Pannonia, near th« borders of

Noricum; and the province of Valeria (a name

which the wife of Galerius gave to [the drained

country) undoubtedly lay between the Drave and

the Danube (Sextus Rufus, c. c.). I ihould there­

fore suspect that Victor has confounded the lake

Pelso, with the Volocean marshes, or, as they are

now called, the Jake Sabaton. It is placed in the

heart of Valeria, and its present extent is not less

than 12 Hungarian miles (about 70 English) in

length, and two in breadth. See Severini Panno­

nia, 1. i. c. 9.

[57] Lactantius (de M. P. c. 33.) and Eusebius

(1. viii. c. 16.) describe the symptoms and pro­

gress of his disorder with singular accuracy and ap­

parent pleasure.

[38] If any (like the late Dr. Jortin, Remarks

of Ecclesiastical history, vol. ii. p. 307—356.) still

delight.

