OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 455

of God. By his, expiatory sacrifice, the imperfect sacrifices of the

temple were at once consummated and abolished. The ceremonial

law, which consisted only of types and figures, was succeeded by a

pure and spiritual worship, equally adapted to all climates as well

as,to every condition of mankind; and to the initiation of blood,

was substituted a more harmless initiation of water. The promise of

divine favour, instead of being partially confined to the posterity of

Abraham, was universally proposed to the freeman and to the slave,

to the Greek and to the barbarian, to the Jew and to the Gentile.

Every privilege that could raise the proselyte from earth to Heaven,

that could exalt his devotion, secure his happiness, or even gratify

that secret pride, which, under the semblance of devotion, insinuates

itself into the human heart, was still reserved for the members of

the Christian church; but at the fame time all mankind was per足

mitted, and even solicited, to accept the glorious distinction, which

was not only proffered as a favour, but imposed as an obligation.

It became the most sacred duty of a new convert to diffuse among .

his friends and relations the inestimable blefling which he had re足

ceived, and to warn them against a refusal that would be severely

puniflied as a criminal disobedience to the will of a benevolent but

all-powerful deity.

The enfranchisement of the church from the bonds of the syna- Obstinacyand

gogue, was a work however of some time and of some difficulty. beteWnjf

The Jewish converts, who acknowledged Jesus in the character of Jews*

the Messiah foretold by their ancient oracles, respected him as a

prophetic teacher of virtue and religion; but they obstinately ad足

hered to the ceremonies of their ancestors, and were desirous of

imposing them on the Gentiles, who continually augmented the

number of believers. These Judaismg Christians seem to have ar足

gued with some degree of plausibility from the divine origin of the

Mosaic law, and from the immutable perfections of its great author.

They affirmed, that if the Being, who is the fame through all

eternity.

