OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tyrant, and converted the free gift into a perpetual tax. The

senators, according to the declaration which was required of their

property, were divided into several classes. The most opulent paid

annually eight pounds of gold, the next class paid four, the last

two, and those whose poverty might have claimed an exemption,

were assessed however at seven pieces of gold. Besides the proper

members of the senate, their sons, their descendants, and even their

relations, enjoyed the vain privileges, and supported the heavy

burdens, of the senatorial order; nor will it any longer excite

our surprise, that Constantine should be attentive to increase the

number of persons who were included under so useful a descrip­

tion :S. After the defeat of Maxentius, the victorious emperor

passed no more than two or three months in Rome, which he

visited twice during the remainder of his life, to celebrate the solemn

festivals of the tenth and of the twentieth years of his reign*.

Constantine was almost perpetually in motion to exercise the legions,

or to inspect the state of the provinces. Treves, Milan, Aquileia,

Sirmium, Naissus and Thessalonica, were the occasional places of

his residence, till he founded a new Rome on the confines of

Europe and Asia

Before Constantine marched into Italy, he had secured the friend- His alliance

stiip or at least the neutrality of Licinius, the Illyrian emperor, a.D.'"iu*"

He had promised his sister Constantia in marriage to that prince; Marcb-

but the celebration of the nuptials was deferred till after the con­

clusion of the war, and the interview of the two emperors at

Milan, which was appointed for that purpose, seemed to unite

their families and interests ?8. In the midst of the public festivity

they were suddenly obliged to take leave of each other. An inroad

of the Franks summoned Constantine to the Rhine, and the hostile

approach of the sovereign of Asia, demanded the immediate pre­

sence of Licinius. Maximin had been the secret ally of Maxentius, War between

Maxitnin and

and without being discouraged by his fate, he resolved to try the Licinius.

A. D. 313-

fortune

