34© THE DECLINE AND FALL

Africa. The opulent city of Syracuse, in whose port the navies

of Athens and Carthage had formerly been funk, was sacked by'a

handful of barbarians, who massacred the greatest part of the

trembling inhabitants. From the island of Sicily, the Franks pro­

ceeded to the columns of Hercules, trusted themselves to the ocean,

coasted round Spain and Gaul, and steering their triumphant course

through the British channel, at length finished their surprising

voyage, by landing in safety on the Batavian or Frisian shores 5°.

The example of their success, instructing their countrymen to con­

ceive the advantages, and to despise the dangers, of the sea, pointed

out to their enterprising spirit, a new road to wealth and glory.

Revolt of Notwithstanding the vigilance and activity of Probus, it was almost

Saturninus in . ........ .

ihe E .ft; impossible that he could at once contain in obedience every part or
his

wide extended dominions. Hie barbarians who broke their chains,

had seized the favourable opportunity of a domestic war. When

the emperor marched to the relief of Gaul, he devolved the com­

mand of the East, on Saturninus. That general, a man of merit

.and experience, Was driven into rebellion by the absence of his so­

vereign, the levity of the Alexandrian people, the pressing in-

•stances of his friends, and his own fears; but from the moment of

his elevation, he never entertained a hope of empire, or even of

life. "Alas!" he said, "the republic has lost a useful servant,

and the rashness of an hour has destroyed the services of many

!*' years. You know not," continued he, "the misery of sovereign

"power; a sword is perpetually suspended over our head. We

•** dread our very guards, we distrust our companions. The choice

of action or of repose is no longer in our disposition, nor is there

"any age, or character, or conduct, that can protect us from the cen-

iU sure of envy. In thus exalting me to the throne, you have

"doomed me to a life of cares,- and to an untimely fate. The only

"consolation which remains is, the assurance that I shall not fall

** alone 'V But as the former part of his prediction was verified

