THE DECLINE AND FALL

4S2

Its gradual

increase.

Their reli­

gion better

suited to de­

fence than to

conquest.

was equal to their detestation of foreign religions. The current of

zeal and devotion, as it was contracted into a narrow channel, ran

with the strength, and sometimes with the fury, of a torrent.

This inflexible perseverance, which appeared so odious or so ri­

diculous to the ancient world, assumes a more awful character,

since Providence has deigned to reveal to us the mysterious his­

tory of the chosen people. But the devout and even scrupulous

attachment to the Mosaic religion, so conspicuous among the Jews

who lived under the second temple, becomes still more surprising,

if it is compared with the stubborn incredulity of their forefathers.

When the law was given in thunder from Mount Sinai; when the

tides of the ocean, and the course of the planets were suspended

for the convenience of the Israelites; and when temporal rewards

and punishments were the immediate consequences of their piety

or disobedience, they perpetually relapsed into rebellion against the

visible majesty of their Divine King, placed the idols of the nations

in the sanctuary of Jehovah, and imitated every fantastic ceremony

that was practised in the tents of the Arabs, or in the cities of

Phœnicia 9. As the protection of Heaven was deservedly withdrawn

from the ungrateful race, their faith acquired a proportionable de­

gree of vigour and purity. The contemporaries of Moses and

Joshua had beheld with careless indifference the most amazing

miracles. Under the pressure of every calamity, the belief of those

miracles has preserved the Jews of a later period from the universal

contagion of idolatry; and in contradiction to every known prin­

ciple of the human mind, that singular people seems to have yielded

a stronger and more ready assent to the traditions of their remote

ancestors, than to the evidence of their own fenses.

The Jewish religion was admirably fitted for defence, but it wa&

never designed for conquest; and it seems probable that the num­

ber of proselytes was never much superior to that of apostates. The

divine promises were originally made, and the distinguishing rite of

circumcision

