138 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Pertinax,son to the prince of that name, lost his life by an unseason­

able witticism 17. It was a sufficient crime of Thrasea Priscus, to

be descended from a family in which the love of liberty seemed an

hereditary quality 4\ The particular causes of calumny and suspi­

cion were at length exhausted; and when a senator was accused of

being a secret enemy to the government, the emperor was satisfied

with the general proof that he was a man of property and virtue.

From this well-grounded principle, he frequently drew the most

bloody inferences.

Death of The execution of so many innocent citizens was bewailed by the

Pap>man. secret tears Qf their friends and families. The death of Papinian,

the Prætorian praefect, was lamented as a public calamity. During

the last seven years of Severus, he had exercised the most important

office of the state, and by his salutary influence, guided the empe­

ror's steps in the paths of justice and moderation. In full assurance

of his virtue and abilities, Severus, on his death-bed, had conjured him

to watch over the prosperity and union of the Imperial family 19. The

honest labours of Papinian, served only to inflame the hatred which

Caracalla had already conceived against his father's minister. After

the murder of Geta, the praefect was commanded to exert the powers

of his skill and eloquence in a studied apology for that atrocious

deed. The philosophic Seneca had condescended to compose a simi­

lar epistle to the senate, in the name of the son and assassin of Agrip­

pina 30; " That it was easier to commit than to justify a parricide,**

was the glorious reply of Papinian Jl, who did not hesitate between

the loss of life and that of honour. Such intrepid virtue, which

had escaped pure and unsullied from the intrigues of courts, the

habits of business, and the arts of his profession, reflects more lustre

on the memory of Papinian, than all his great employments, his

numerous writings, and the superior reputation as a lawyer, which

he preserved through every age of the Roman jurisprudence

k

