OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 577

purple, Italy and Africa were administered under the name of

Severus, and were exposed, without defence, to the implacable

resentment of his master Galerius. Among the martyrs of Rome,

Adauctus deserves the notice of posterity. He was of a noble

family in Italy, and had raised himself, through the successive

honours of the palace, to the important office of treasurer of the

private demesnes. Adauctus is the more remarkable for being the

only person of rank and distinction who appears to have suffered

death, during the whole course of this general persecution "6.

The revolt of Maxentius immediately restored peace to the under

churches of Italy and Africa; and the fame tyrant who oppressed

every other class of his subjects, mewed himself just, humane, and

even partial, towards the afflicted Christians. He depended on

their gratitude and affection, and very naturally presumed, that the

iajuries which they had suffered, and the dangers which they still

apprehended from his most inveterate enemy, would secure the

fidelity of a party already considerable by. their numbers and opu­

lence ,67. Even the conduct of Maxentius towards the bissiops of

Rome and Carthage, may be considered as the proof of his tolera­

tion, since it is probable that the most orthodox princes would adopt

the fame measures with regard to their establissied clergy. Mar-

cellus, the former of those prelates, had thrown the capital into

confusion, by the severe pennance which he imposed on a great

number of Christians, who, during the late persecution, had re­

nounced or dissembled their religion. The rage of faction broke

out in frequent and violent seditions; the blood of the faithful was

shed by each other's hands, and the exile of Marcellus, whose pru­

dence seems to have been less eminent than his zeal, was found to

be the only measure capable of restoring peace to the distracted

church of Rome ,6\ The behaviour of Mensurius, bishop of Car­

thage, appears to have been still more reprehensible. A deacon of

that city had publissied a libel against the emperor. The offender

-Vol. I. 4 E took

