THE DECLINE AND FALL

to senators and magistrates. Their principal distinction was the

imperial or military robe of purple; whilst the senatorial gar­

ment was marked by a broad, and the equestrian by a narrow, band

or stripe of the fame honourable colour. The pride, or rather the

policy, of Diocletian, engaged that artful prince to introduce the

stately magnificence of the court of Persia I0t. He ventured to

assume the diadem, an ornament detested by the Romans as the

odious ensign of royalty, and the use of which had been considered

as the most desperate act of the madness of Caligula. It was no

more than a broad white fillet set with pearls, which encircled the

emperor's head. The sumptuous robes of Diocletian and his suc­

cessors were of silk and gold; and it is remarked with indignation,

that even their shoes were studded with the most precious gems.

The access to their sacred person was every day rendered more diffi­

cult, by the institution of new forms and ceremonies. The ave­

nues of the palace were strictly guarded by the various schools^ as

they began to be called, of domestic officers. The interior apart­

ments were intrusted to the jealous vigilance of the eunuchs; the in­

crease of whose numbers and influence was the most infallible symp­

tom of the progress of despotism. When a subject was at length

admitted to the imperial presence, he was obliged, whatever might

be his rank, to fall prostrate on the ground, and to adore, accord­

ing to the eastern fashion, the divinity of his lord and master "\

Diocletian was a man of fense, who in the course of private as well as

public life had formed a just estimate both of himself and of man­

kind: nor is it easy to conceive, that in substituting the manners of

Persia to those of Rome, he was serioufly actuated by so mean a prin­

ciple as that of vanity. He flattered himself, that an ostentation of

splendor and luxury, would subdue the imagination of the multi­

tude; that the monarch would be less exposed to the rude licence

of the people and the soldiers, as his person was secluded from the

public view 5 and that habits of submission would insensibly be pro­

ductive

