128 THE DECLINE AND FALL

policy instituted by Augustus. But the youth of Severus had been

trained in the implicit obedience of camps, and his riper years spent

in the despotism of military command. His haughty and inflexible

spirit could not discover, or would not acknowledge, the advantage

of preserving an intermediate power, however imaginary, between

the emperor and the army. He disdained to profess himself the

servant of an assembly that detested his person and trembled at his

frown; he issued his commands, where his request would have

proved as effectual; assumed the conduct and style of a sovereign and

a conqueror, and exercised, without disguise, the whole legislative as

well as the executive power.

N«w maxims The victory over the senate was easy and inglorious. Every eye

r^/preroga* ant* ever7 passion were directed to the supreme magistrate, who
pos-

tive* sessed the arms and treasure of the state; whilst the senate, neither

elected by the people, nor guarded by the military force, nor ani­

mated by public spirit, rested its declining authority on the frail and

crumbling basis of ancient opinion. The sine theory of a republic

insensibly vanished, and made way for the more natural and sub­

stantial feelings of monarchy. As the freedom and honours of Rome

were successively communicated to the provinces, in which the old

government had been either unknown, or was remembered with

abhorrence, the tradition of republican maxims was gradually obli­

terated. The Greek historians of the age of the Antonines 70 ob­

serve, with a malicious pleasure, that although the sovereign of Rome,

in compliance with an obsolete prejudice, abstained from the name

of king, he possessed the full measure of regal power. In the reign

of Severus, the senate was silled with polished and eloquent slaves

from the eastern provinces, who justified personal flattery by specu­

lative principles of servitude. These new advocates of prerogative

were heard with pleasure by the court, and with patience by the

people, when they inculcated the duty of passive obedience, and des­

canted on the inevitable mischiefs of freedom. The lawvers and

the

