OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i

with the public discontent, and he was easily persuaded to unite his

personal injury and pretensions with the cause of the Roman peo­

ple. Two Prætorian tribunes and a commissary of provisions under­

took the management of the conspiracy; and as every order of

men was actuated by the fame spirit, the immediate event was nei­

ther doubtful not difficult. The præfect of the city, and a few

magistrates, who maintained their fidelity to Severus, were massa­

cred by the guards; and Maxentius, invested with the imperial

ornaments, was acknowledged by the applauding senate and people

as the protector of the Roman freedom and dignity. It is uncer­

tain whether Maximian was previously acquainted with the conspi­

racy; but as soon as the standard of rebellion was erected at Rome, Maximian

the old emperor broke from the retirement where the authority of purple.

Diocletian had condemned him to pass a life of melancholy soli­

tude, and concealed his returning ambition under the disguise of pa­

ternal tenderness. At the request of his son and of the senate, he

condescended to reassume the purple. His ancient dignity, his ex­

perience, and his fame in arms, added strength as well as reputation

to the party of Maxentius "*.

According to the advice, or rather the orders, of his colleague, Defeat and

ri r death of

the emperor Severus immediately hastened to Rome, in the full Severus.

confidence, that, by his unexpected celerity, he should easily sup­

press the tumult of an unwarlike populace, commanded by a licen­

tious youth. But he found on his arrival the gates of the city shut

against him, the walls filled with men and arms, an experienced

general at the head of the rebels, and his own troops without

spirit or affection. A large body of Moors deserted to the enemy,

allured by the promise of a large donative; and, if it be true that

they had been levied by Maximian in his African war, preferring

the natural feelings of gratitude to the artificial ties of allegiance.

Anulinus, the Prætorian præfect, declared himself in favour of Max­

entius, and drew after him the most considerable part of the troops,

Vol. I. G g g accustomed

