OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 347

and Nume-

rian.

"overspread the sky was so thick, that we could no longer dis-

"tinguish each other; and the incessant flashes of lightning took

"from us the knowledge of all that passed in the general confusion.

*' Immediately after the most violent clap of thunder, we heard a  
"sudden cry, that the emperor was dead; and it soon appeared,

"that his chamberlains, in a rage of grief, had set fire to the

"royal pavillion, a circumstance which gave rife to the report that

"Carus was killed by lightning. But, as far as we have been able to

w investigate the truth, his death was the natural effect of his disorder76."

The vacancy of the throne was not productive of any disturbance. He !s
succeed-

The ambition of the aspiring generals was checked by their mu- sons Carina*

tual fears, and young Numerian, with his absent brother Carinus,

were unanimously acknowledged as Roman emperors. The public

expected that the successor of Carus would pursue his father's foot­

steps, and, without allowing the Persians to recover from their con­

sternation, would advance sword in hand to the palaces of Susa and

Ecbatana 11. But the legions, however strong in numbers and dis­

cipline, were dismayed by the most abject superstition. Notwith­

standing all the arts that were practised to disguise the manner of the

late emperor's death, it was found impossible to remove the opinion

of the multitude, and the power of opinion is irresistible. Places or

persons struck with lightning were considered by the ancients with

pious horror, as singularly devoted to the wrath of Heaven 78. An

oracle was remembered, which marked the river Tigris as the

fatal boundary of the Roman arms. The troops, terrified with the

fate of Carus and with their own danger, called aloud on young

Numerian to obey the will of the gods, and to lead them away

from this inauspicious scene of war. The feeble emperor was un­

able to subdue their obstinate prejudice, and the Persians wondered

at the unexpected retreat of a victorious enemy 7'.

The intelligence of the mysterious fate of the late emperor, was A. D. 284.

soon carried from the frontiers of Persia to Rome; and the senate,

Y y 2 , as

Vices of Ca­

rinus.

