kxviii NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER1.

[33] Muratori (Annali dTtalia, torn. ii.p. 29 V.)

thinks the meliingof the snows suits better with the

months of June or July, than with those of February.

The opinion of a man who passed his life between

the Alps and the Apennines, is undoubtedly of great

weight; yet I observe, 1. That the long winter, of

which Muratori takes advantage, is to be found

only in the Latin version, and not in the Greek

tevt of Herodian. 2. That the vicissitude of funs

and rains, to which the soldiers ofMaximin were

exposed, (Herodian, 1. viii. p. J77 ) denotes the

spring rather thtn the summer. We mayobserve like­

wise, that these several streams, as they, melted into

one, composed the Timavus, so poetically (in every

sense of the word) described by Virgil. They are

about twelve miles to the east of Aquileia. See

Cluver. Italia Antiqua, torn. i. p. 189, &c.

[34] Herodian, 1. viii. p. 272. The Celtic deity

was supposed to be Apollo, and received under that

name the thanks of the senate. A temple was

likewise built to Venus the bald, in honour of the

women of Aquileia, who had given up their hair to

make ropes for the military engines.

[35] Herodian, 1. viii. p. 279. Hist. August, p.

14/). The duration of iVlaximin's reign has not been

denned with much inaccuracy, except by Eutropius,

who allows him three years and a sew days (1. ix.

1.); we may depend on the integrity of the text, as

the Latin original is checked with the Greek ver­

sion of Pæanius.

[36] Eight Roman feet and one third, which

makes above eight English, as the two measures are

to each other in the proportion of 967 to 1000.

See Greaves's discourse on the Roman foot. Max»

imin could drink in a day an amphora (or about

seven gallons of wine) and eat thirty or forty pounds

of meat. He could move a loaded waggon, break

a horse's leg with his fist, crumble stones in his

hand, and tear up small trees by the roots. See his

life in the Augustan History.

[38] See the congratulatory letter of Claudius

Julian us the consul, to the two emperors,.in the Au­

gustan History.

[38] Hist. August, p. I7».

[39] Herodian, 1. viii. p. 258.

[40] Herodian, 1, viii. p. 213.

[41] The observation had been made imprudently,

enough in the acclamations of the senate, and with,

the soldiers, it carried the appearance of a wanton

insult. Hist. August, p. 170..

[42] Discordiae tacitae et qua? intelligerentur

potius quam viderentor. Hist. August, p. 170..

. This well chosen expression is probably stolen from

some better writer,

[43] Herodian, V, viii. p. 287, 288.

[44] Quia non alius erat in præsenti, is the ex­

pression of the Augustan History .

[45] Quintus Curtius (1. x. c. 9.) pays an ele.

gant compliment to the emperor of the day, for

having, by his happy accession, extinguished so

many fire-brands, sheathed so many swords, and-

put an end to the evil; of a divided government.

After weighing with attention every word of the

passage, I am of opinion, that it suits better with,

the elevation of Gordian, than with any other

period of the Roman History. In that case, it may

serve to decide the age of Quintus Curtius. Those*

who place him under the first Cæsars, argue from the

parity of his style, but are embarrassed by the silence

of Quintilian, in his accurate list of Roman his­

torians.

[46] Hist. August; p. 161. From some hints in

the two letters, I should expect that the eunuchs

were not expelled the palace, without some degrees

of gentle violence, and that young Gordian rather

approved of, than consented, to, their disgrace.

[47] Duxit uxorem filiam Misithei, quern causa;

eloquentiæ dignum parentela sua putavit; et præ-

sectum- statim fecit; post quod, non puerile jam et

contemptibile videbatur imperinm.

[48] Hist. August, p. 162. Aurelius Victor.

Porphyrius in Vit. Plotin. ap. Fabricium Bibliou

Grxc. 1. iv. c. 36. The philosopher Plotinusaccom.

panied the army, prompted by the love of knowledge,

and by the hope of penetrating as far at India.

[49] About twenty, miles from the little town or

Circesium, on the frontier of the two empires.

[50] The inscription (which contained a very

singular pun) was erased by the order of Liciniuj,

who claimed some degree of relationship to Philip

(Hist.)

