iid. THE DECLINE AND FALL

tained humanity enough to stipulate that he should pardon and for­

get the competition of Sulpicianus.

Julian is ac- It was now incumbent on the Prætorians to fulfil the conditions

bytheftaul of the sale. They placed their new sovereign, whom they served

and despised, in the center of their ranks, surrounded him on every

fide with their shields, and conducted him in close order of battle

through the deserted streets of the city. The senate was commanded

to assemble, and those who had been the distinguished friends of

Pertinax, or the personal enemies of Julian, found it necessary to

affect a more than common share of satisfaction at this happy revo­

lution '*. After Julian had filled the senate-house with armed sol­

diers, he expatiated on the freedom of his election, his own emi­

nent virtues, and his full assurance of the affections of the senate.

The obsequious assembly congratulated their own and the public fe­

licity, engaged their allegiance, and conferred on him all the se-

reral branches of the Imperial power". From the senate Julian

I 3KCS pOU€t>

swn of the was conducted by the fame military procession, to take possession
of

the palace. The first objects which struck his eyes, were the aban­

doned trunk of Pertinax, and the frugal entertainment prepared for

his supper. The one he viewed with indifference; the other with

contempt A magnificent feast was prepared by his order, and he

amused himself till a very late hour, with dice, and the performances

of Pylades, a celebrated dancer. Yet it was observed, that after

the crowd of flatterers dispersed, and left him to darkness, solitude,

and terrible reflection, he passed a sleepless night; revolving most

probably in his mind his own rash folly, the fate of his virtuous

predecessor, and the doubtful and dangerous tenure of an empire,

which had not been deserved by merit, but purchased by money"*.

The public He had reason to tremble. On the throne of the world he found

discontent. jjjmfe}f without a friend, and even without an adherent. The

guards themselves were ashamed of the prince whom their avarice

X had

