OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

barbarians who had never beheld Italy till they entered it in a ho­

stile manner. Had they not been restrained by motives of a more

interested nature, they would probably have answered Galerius in

the words of Cæsar's veterans: "If our general wishes to lead us

"to the banks of the Tyber, we are prepared to trace out his camp.

"Whatsoever walls he has determined to level with the ground,

"our hands are ready to work the engines: nor shall we hesitate,

"should the name of the devoted city be Rome itself." These are

indeed the expressions of a poet; but of a poet who had diligently

consulted both history and human nature *\

The legions of Galerius exhibited a very melancholy proof of His retreat;,

their disposition by the ravages which they committed in their

retreat. They murdered, they ravished, they plundered, they

drove away the flocks and herds of the Italians, they burnt the

villages through which they passed, and they endeavoured to

destroy the country, which it had not been in their power to

subdue. During the whole march, Maxentius hung on their reaT,

but he very prudently declined a general engagement with those

brave and desperate veterans. His father had undertaken a second

journey into Gaul, with the hope of persuading Constantine, who. .

had assembled an army on the frontier, to join the pursuit and to

complete the victory. But the actions of Constantine were guided

by reason and not by resentment. He persisted in the wise reso­

lution of maintaining a balance of power in the divided empire, and

he no longer hated Galerius, when that aspiring prince had ceased

to be an object of terror *8.

The mind of Galerius was the most susceptible of the sterner Elevation of

passions, but it was not however incapable of a sincere and lasting rankofAji-

friendship. Licinius, whose manners as well as character were ^i)\07,

not unlike his own, seems to have engaged both his affection and NovemberIIi

esteem. Their intimacy had commenced in the happier period

perhaps of their youth and obscurity. It had been cemented by

the

