4o6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

the succession, and respectfully lamented, that the affectionate vio­

lence of his troops had not permitted him to solicit the imperial

purple in the regular and constitutional manner. The first emotions

of Galerius were those of surprise, disappointment, and rage; and

as he could seldom restrain his passions, he loudly threatened, that

he would commit to the flames both the letter and the messenger.

Heisacknow- But his resentment insensibly subsided; and when he recollected
the

ledgedbyGa- doubtful chance of war, when he had weighed the character and

lenus, who

gives him strength of his adversary, he consented to embrace the honourable

only the title °

of Cæsar, and accommodation which the prudence of Constantine had left open to

gustustoSe- him. Without either condemning or ratifying the choice of the

Csu5' British army, Galerius accepted the son of his deceased colleague,

as the sovereign of the provinces beyond the Alps; but he gave

him only the title of Cæsar, and the fourth rank among the Roman

princes, whilst he conferred the vacant place of Augustus on his

favourite Severus. The apparent harmony of the empire was still

preserved, and Constantine, who already possessed the substance,

expected, without impatience, an opportunity of obtaining the ho­

nours of supreme power ,?.

The t nthers The children of Constantius by his second marriage were six in

Constantbe. number, three of either sex, and whose imperial descent might

have solicited a preference over the meaner extraction of the son of

Helena. But Constantine was in the thirty-second year of his age,

in the full vigour both of mind and body, at the time when the

eldest of his brothers could not possibly be more than thirteen years

old. His claim of superior merit had been allowed and ratified by

the dying emperor ,S. In his last moments, Constantius bequeathed

to his eldest son the care of the safety as well as greatness of the fa­

mily; conjuring him to assume both the authority and the senti­

ments of a father with regard to the children of Theodora. Their

liberal education, advantageous marriages, the secure dignity of their

lives, and the first honours of the state with which they were in­

vested,

