THE DECLINE AND FALL

54*

Inconsider­

able number

of martyrs.

Example of

Cyprian,

bishop of

Carthage;

triumph of an emperor, might speedily restore them by a general

pardon to their former state. The martyrs, devoted to immediate

execution by the Roman magistrates, appear to have been selected

from the most opposite extremes. They were either bishops and

presbyters, the persons the most distinguished among the Christians

by their rank and influence, and whose example might strike terror

into the whose sect t9; or else they were the meanest and most

abject among them, particularly those of the servile condition whose

lives were esteemed of little value, and whose sufferings were viewed

'by the ancients with too careless an indifference 70. The learned

Origen who, from his experience as well as reading, was intimately

acquainted with the history of the Christians, declares, in the most

express terms, that the number of martyrs was very inconsiderable7'.

His authority would alone be sufficient to annihilate that formidable

army of martyrs, whose relics, drawn for the most part from the

catacombs of Rome, have replenished so many churches 7%t and

whose marvellous atchievements have been the subject of so many

volumes of Holy Romance 75. But the general assertion of Origen

may be explained and confirmed by the particular testimony of his friend

Dionysius, who in the immense city of Alexandria, and under the

rigorous persecution of Decius, reckons only ten men and seven

women who suffered for the profession of the Christian name 7+.

During the same period of persecution, the zealous, the eloquent,

the ambitious Cyprian governed the church, not only of Carthage,

but even of Africa. He possessed every quality which could engage

the reverence of the faithful, or provoke the suspicions and resent­

ment of the Pagan magistrates. His character as well as his station

seemed to mark out that holy prelate as the most distinguished object

of envy and of danger 75. The experience, however, of the life

of Cyprian, is sufficient to prove, that our fancy has exaggerated the

perilous situation of a Christian bishop ; and that the dangers to which

he was exposed were less imminent than those which temporal ar

3 - . bit ion

