OF THE ROM AM EMPIRE. 393

dignity. The former required indulgence and relaxation, the latter

compelled him to direct, from the bed of sickness, the administration

of a great empire. He resolved to pass the remainder of his days

in honourable repose, to place his glory beyond the reach of

fortune, and to relinquish the theatre of the world to his younger

and more active associates

The ceremony of his abdication was performed in a spacious

plain, about three miles from Nicomedia. The emperor ascended a

lofty throne, and in a speech, full of reason and dignity, declared his

intention, both to the people and to the soldiers who were assembled

on this extraordinary occasion. As soon as he had divested himself of 3°S*

the purple, he withdrew from the gazing multitude; and traversing

the city in a covered chariot, proceeded, without delay, to the favourite

retirement which he had chosen in his native country of Dalmatia.

On the fame day, which was the first of May "", Maximian, as it had

been previously concerted, made his resignation of the imperial

dignity at Milan. Even in the splendour of the Roman triumph, Compliance

. .. r of Maximian.

Diocletian had meditated his design of abdicating the government.

As he wished to secure the obedience of Maximian, he exacted from

him either a general assurance that he would submit his actions to the

authority of his benefactor, or a particular promise that he would

descend from the throne, whenever he should receive the advice

and the example. This engagement, though it was confirmed

by the solemnity of an oath before- the altar of the Capitoline

Jupiter "°, would have proved a feeble restraint on the fierce tem­

per of Maximian, whose passion was the love of power, and who

neither desired present tranquillity nor future reputation. But

unable in one moment to surmount the habits of twenty years,

he submitted, however reluctantly, to the ascendant which his

wiser colleague had acquired over him, and retired, immediately

after his abdication, to a villa in Lucania, where it was almost im-

Vol. I. E e e possible

