S8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

person and dignity. Notwithstanding his manly resolution, Pom-

peianus escaped the resentment of the tyrant, and, with his honour,

had the good fortune to preserve his life *\

Commodus had now attained the summit of vice and infamy.

Amidst the acclamations of a flattering court, he was unable to dis­

guise, from himself, that he had deserved the contempt and hatred

of every man of sense and virtue in his empire. His ferocious

spirit was irritated by the consciousness of that hatred, by the envy

of every kind of merit, by the just apprehension of danger, and-

by the habit of slaughter, which he contracted in his daily amufe-

Conspiracy of ments. History has preserved a long list of consular senators
sacri­

ficed to his wanton suspicion, which sought out, with peculiar

anxiety, those unfortunate persons connected, however remotely,

with the family of the Antonines, without sparing, even the minister

of his crimes or pleasures His cruelty proved at last fatal to>

himself. He had shed with impunity the noblest blood of Rome:

he perished as soon as he was dreaded by his own domestics. Marcia,

his favourite concubine, Eclectus his chamberlain, and Lætus his

praetorian præfect, alarmed by the fate of their companions and

predecessors, resolved to prevent the destruction which every hour

hung over their heads, either from the mad caprice of the tyrant,

or the sudden indignation of the people. Marcia seized the occasion

of presenting a draught of wine to her lover, after he had fatigued

Deaili os himself with hunting some wild beasts. Commodus retired to steep;.

A°Dmi92! but whilst he was labouring with the effects of poison and drunken-

^istDecem- nefS> a roDust youth, by profession a wrestler, entered his
chamber,

and strangled him without resistance. The body was secretly con­

veyed out of the palace, before the least suspicion was entertained

in the city, or even in the court, of the emperor's death. Such

was the fate of the son of Marcus, and so easy was it to destroy a

hated tyrant, who by the artificial powers of government had op­

pressed, during thirteen years, so many millions of subjects, every

one

