NOTES ON THE THIRD CHAPTER. xiii

ninus, i. 16, Hist. August, p. 20. 21. Julian

in Cæsar.

[45] The enemies of Marcus charged him with

hypocrisy, and with a want of that simplicity

which distinguished Pius and even Verus (Hist.

Aug. 6. 34J. This suspicion, unjust as it was, may

serve to account for the superior applause bestowed

upon personal qualifications, in preference to the

social virtues. Even Marcus Antoninus has been

called a hypocrite; but the wildest scepticism never

insinuated that Cæsar might poslibly be a coward,

or Tully a fool. Wit and valour are qualifications

more easily ascertained, than humanity or the love

of justice,

[46] Tacitus has characterized, in a few words, the

principle of the portico: Doctores sapientiæ secutus

est, qui sola bona qux honesta, mala tantum quæ

turpia; potentiam nobiliratem cæteraque extra ani-

mum neque bonis neque malis adnumerant. Tacit.

Hist. iv. j.

[47] Before he went on the second expedition

against the Germans, he read lectures of philosophy

to the Roman people, during three days. He had

already done the fame in the cities of Greece and

Asia. Hist. August, in Caflio, c. 3.

[48] Dio, 1. lxxi. p. 1190. Hist. August, in

Avid. Caflio.

[49] Hist. August, in Marc. Antonin. c. 18.

[50] Vitellius consumed in mere eating, at least

fix millions of our money, in about seven months.

It is not easy to express his vices with dignity, or

even decency. Tacitus fairly calls him a hog; but

it is by substituting to a coarse word a very fine

image. "At Vitellius, nrnbraculis hortorum ab-

"ditus, ut igt&va stimuli a, qui bus si cibum sug-

*' gerasjaceattorpentque, præterita, instantia, fu-  
"tura, pari oblivione dimiserat. Atque ilium

"nemore Aricino dcsidem et marcentem, &c."

Tacit. Hist. iii. 36. ii. 95-. Sueton. in Vitell. c. 13.

Dio Caflius^ L lxv.' p.. 1062.

[51] The execution of Helvidius Priscus, and

of the virtuous Eponina, disgraced the reign os

Vespasian.

[52] Voyage de Chardin en Perse, voL iii.

p. 293.

6

[5 3 J The practice of raising slaves to the great

offices of state is still more common among the

Turks than among the Persians. The miserable

countries of Georgia and Circaffia supply rulers to

the greatest part of the east.

[54] Chardin fays, that European travellers have

diffused among the Persians some ideas of the free­

dom and mildness of our government. They

have done them a very ill office.

[55] They alleged the example of Scipio and

Cato. (Tacit. Annal. iii. 66.) Marcellus Eprius

and Crifpus Vibius had acquired two millions and

a half under Nero. Their wealth, which aggravated

their crimes, protected them under Vespasian. Sec

Tacit. Hist. iv. 43. Dialog, de Orator, c. 8.

For one accusation, Regulus, the just object of

Pliny's satire, received from the senate the consular

ornaments, and a present of sixty thousand pounds.

[56] The crime of majtsty was formerly a trea­

sonable offence against the Roman people. As tri­

bunes of the people, Augustus and Tiberius ap­

plied it to their own persons, and extended it to an

infinite latitude.

[57] After the virtuous and unfortunate widow

of Germanicus had been put to death, Tiberius-

received the thanks of the senate for his clemency.

She had not been publickly strangled; nor was the

body drawn with a hook to the Gemoniæ, where

those of common malefactors were exposed. See

Tacit. Annal. vi. 25. Sueton. in Tiberio, c. 53,

[58] Seriphus was a small rocky island in the

Ægean Sea, the inhabitants of which were despised

for their ignorance and obscurity. The place of

Ovid's exile is well known, by his just, but un­

manly lamentations. It should seem, that he only

received an order to leave Rome in so many days,

and to transport himself to TOmi. Guards and

gaolers were unnecessary.

[59] Under Tiberius, a Roman knight at­

tempted to fly to the Parthians. He was stopt in

the Streights of t>icily;. but so little danger did

there appear in the example, that the most jealous

of tyrants disdained to punisli it. Tacit. Annal.

vi. 14.

[60] Cicero ad Familiares, iv. 7.

NOTES.

