THE DECLINE AND FALL

colony, afterwards a province of Egypt, and is now lost in the desert

of Barca.

From Cyrene to the Ocean, the coast of Africa extends above fif­

teen hundred miles; yet so closely is it presled between the Me­

diterranean and the Sahara, or sandy desert, that its breadth seldom

exceeds fourscore or an hundred miles. The eastern division was

considered by the Romans as the more peculiar and proper pro­

vince of Africa. Till the arrival of the Phœnician colonies, that

fertile country was inhabited by the Libyans, the most savage of

mankind. Under the immediate jurisdiction of Carthage, it became

the center of commerce and empire; but the republic of Carthage

is now degenerated into the feeble and disorderly states of Tripoli and

Tunis. The military government of Algiers oppresses the wide extent

Qf Numidia, as it was once united under Massanissa and Jugurtha:

but m the time of Augustus, the limits of Numidia were contracted;

and, at least, two thirds of the country acquiesced in the name of

Mauritania, with the epithet of Gæsariensis. The genuine Mau­

ritania, or country of the Moors, which from the ancient city of

Tingi, or Tangier, was distinguished by the appellation of Tingi-

tana, is represented by the modern kingdom of Fez. Salle, on the

Ocean, so infamous at present for its piratical depredations, was no­

ticed by the Romans, as the extreme object of their power, and almost

of their geography. A city of their foundation may still be discovered

near Mequinez, the residence of the barbarian whom we condescend

to style the Emperor of Morocco; but it does not appear, that his

more southern dominions, Morocco itself, and Segelmessa, were ever

comprehended within the Roman province. The western parts of

Africa are intersected by the branches of mount Atlas, a name so

idly celebrated by the fancy of poets 8<s; but which is now diffused

aver the immense occean that rolls between the ancient and the new

continent *7.

5 Having

