OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

was indeed much inferior to our modern fire-arms; since it was ex足

hausted by a single discharge, at the distance of only ten or twelve

paces. Yet when it was launched by a firm and skilful hand, there

was not any cavalry that durst venture within its reach, nor any

shield or corslet that could sustain the impetuosity of its weight. As

soon as the Roman had darted his pilum, he drew his sword, and

rushed forwards to close with the enemy. It was a short well-

tempered Spanish blade, that carried a double edge, and was alike

suited to the purpose of striking, or of pushing; but the soldier was

always instructed to prefer the latter use of his weapon, as his own

body remained less exposed, whilst he inflicted a more dangerous

wound on his adversary 4V The legion was* usually drawn up eight

deep; and the regular distance of three feet was left between the

files as well as ranks *6. A body of troops, habituated to preserve

this open order, in a long front and a rapid charge, found them*

selves prepared to execute every disposition which the circumstances

of war, or the skill of their leader might suggest. The soldier

possessed a free space for hip arms and motions, and sufficient inter*-

vals were allowed, through which seasonable reinforcements might

be introduced to the relief of the exhausted combatants 47. The

tactics of the Greeks and Macedonians were formed on very differ足

ent principles. The strength of the phalanx depended on sixteen

ranks of long pikes, wedged together in the closest array+!. But

it was soon discovered by reflection, as well as by the event, that the

strength of the phalanx was unable to contend with the activity of

the legion *

The cavalry, without which the force of the legion would have

remained imperfect, was divided into ten troops or squadrons; the

first, as the companion of the first cohort, consisted of an hun足

dred and thirty-two men; whilst each of the other nine amounted

only to sixty-six. The entire establishment formed a regiment, if

we may use the modern expression, of seven hundred and twenty-

six horse, naturally connected with its respective legion, but occa足

sionally

