I26 THE DECLINE AND FALL

soul of the first Cæsar, or the deep policy of Augustus, were scarcely

equal to the task of curbing the insolence of the victorious legions.

By gratitude, by misguided policy, by seeming necessity, Severus

was induced to relax the nerves of discipline 6'. The vanity of his

soldiers was flattered with the honour of wearing gold rings; their

ease indulged in the permission of living with their wives in the

idleness of quarters. He increased their pay beyond the example

of former times, and taught them to expect, and soon to claim, ex­

traordinary donatives on every public occasion of danger or fes­

tivity. Elated by success, enervated by luxury, and raised above

the level of subjects by their dangerous privileges they soon be­

came incapable of military fatigue, oppressive to the country, and

impatient of a just subordination. Their officers asserted the supe­

riority of rank by a more profuse and elegant luxury. There is

still extant a letter of Severus, lamenting the licentious state of the

army, and exhorting one of his generals to begin the necessary re­

formation from the tribunes themselves; since, as he justly observes,

the officer who has forfeited the esteem, will never command the

obedience of his soldiers 6f. Had the emperor pursued the train of

reflection, he would have discovered, that the primary cause of this

general corruption might be ascribed, not indeed to the example,

but to the pernicious indulgence, however, of the commander

in chief.

New esta- T^ie Prætorians, who murdered their emperor and fold the em-

Ih^Præto.i'an Pire' had received the Just punishment of their treason; but the

guards. necessary, though dangerous, institution of guards was soon re­

stored on a new model by Severus, and increased to four times the

ancient number Formerly these troops had been recruited in

Italy; and as the adjacent provinces gradually imbibed the softer

manners of Rome, the levies were extended to Macedonia, Noricum,

and Spain. In the room of these elegant troops, better adapted to

the pomp of courts than to the uses of war, it was established by

3 Severus,

