OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 343

But in the prosecution of a favourite scheme, the best of men, satis- His
death,

fied with the rectitude of their intentions, are subject to forget the

bounds of moderation j nor did Probus himself sufficiently consult

the patience and disposition of his fierce legionaries 6o. The dangers

of the military profession seem only to be compensated by a life of

pleasure and idleness; but if the duties of the soldier are in­

cessantly aggravated by the labours of the peasant, he will at last

sink under the intolerable burden, or shake it off with indignation.

The imprudence of Probus is said to have inflamed the discontent

of his troops. More attentive to the interests of mankind than

to those of the army, he expressed the vain hope, that, by the

establishment of universal peace, he ihould soon abolish the necessity

of a standing and mercenary force 61. The unguarded expression

proved fatal to him. In one of the hottest days of summer, a« he

severely urged the unwholesome labour of draining the marches of

Sirmium, the soldiers, impatient of fatigue,, on a sudden threw

down their tools, grasped their arms, and broke out into a furious

mutiny. The emperor, conscious of his danger, took refuge in a

lofty tower, constructed for the purpose of surveying the progress

of the work 6z. The tower was instantly forced, and a thousand A.v.tSg.

swords were plunged at once in the bosom ©f tJie unfortunate *August"

Probus. The rage of the troops subsided as .seon as it had been

gratified. They then lamented their fatal rashness, forgot the se­

verity of the emperor, whom they had massacred, and hastened to

perpetuate, by an honourable monument, the memory of his vir­

tues and victories 6'.

When the legions had indulged their grief and repentance for Eleaion and

the death of Probus, their unanimous consent declared Carus, his caTus?" °f

Prætorian prefect, the most deserviug of the imperial throne.

Every circumstance that relates to this prince appears of a mixed

and doubtful nature. He gloried in the title of Roman Citizen;

and affected to compare the purity of his blood, with the foreign

and

