OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

had been suspected of an attachment to the Christian faith. In the

last three years and a half, listening to the insinuations of a minister

addicted to the superstitions of Egypt, he adopted the maxims, and

imitated the severity of his predecessor Decius "\ The accession of

Galienus, which increased the calamities of the empire, restored

peace to the church; and the Christians obtained the. free exercise of

their religion, by an edict addressed to the bishops, and conceived in such

terms as seemed to acknowledge their office and public character'1'.

The ancient laws, without being formally repealed, were suffered to A. D. 260—

fink into oblivion; and (excepting only some hostile intentions

which are attributed to the emperor Aureliah '**) the disciples of

Christ passed above forty years in a state of prosperity, far more

dangerous to their virtue than the severest trials of persecution.

The story of Paul of Samosata, who filled the metropolitan see of Paul of Sa.

Antioch, while the East was in the hands of Odenathus and Zeno- manners,

bia, may serve to illustrate the condition and character of the times. A,D*
2<5°*

The wealth of that prelate was a sufficient evidence of his guilt,

since it was neither derived from the inheritance of his fathers, nor

acquired by the arts of honest industry. But Paul considered the

service of the church as a very lucrative profession "5. His ecclesiasti­

cal jurisdiction was venal and rapacious; he extorted frequent con­

tributions from the most opulent of the faithful, and converted to

his own use a considerable part of the public revenue. By his

pride and luxury, the Christian religion was rendered odious in the

eyes of the Gentiles. His council chamber and his throne, the splen­

dor with which he appeared in public, the suppliant crowd who so-;

licited his attention, the multitude of letters and petitions to which (j[

he dictated his answers, and the perpetual hurry of business in <jf

which he was involved, were circumstances much better suited to

the state of a civil magistrate,xS, than to the humility of a primi­

tive bishop. When he harangued his people from the pulpit, Paul

affected the figurative style and the theatrical gestures of an Asiatic

Vol. I. 4C sophist,

