THE DECLINE AND FALL

the thirteenth century, and studied by the learned of Denmark and

Sweden, as the most valuable remains of their ancient traditions,

and death'of Notwithstanding the mysterious obscurity of the Edda, we can

Odin. easily distinguish two persons confounded under the name of Odin;

the god of war, and the great legislator of Scandinavia. The latter,

the Mahomet of the north, instituted a religion adapted to the climate

and to the people. Numerous tribes on either side of the Baltic

were subdued by the invincible valour of Odin, by his persuasive

eloquence, and by the fame, which he acquired, of a most skilful

magician. The faith that he had propagated during a long and

prosperous life, he confirmed by a voluntary death. Apprehensive

of the ignominious approach of disease and infirmity, he resolved to

expire as became a warriour. In a solemn assembly of the Swedes

and Goths, he wounded himself in nine mortal places, hastening

away (as he asserted with his dying voice) to prepare the feast of

heroes in the palace of the god of war '°.

Agreeable but The native and proper habitation of Odin, is distinguished by

hypothesis the appellation of As-gard. The happy resemblance of that name,

concerning ^s-burg, or As-of ", words of a similar signification, has given

rife to an historical system of so pleasing a contexture, that we could

almost wish to persuade ourselves of its truth. It is supposed that

Odin was the chief of a tribe of barbarians which dwelt on the banks of

the lake Maeotis, till the fall of Mithridates and the arms of Pompey

menaced the north with servitude. That Odin, yielding with in­

dignant fury to a power which he was unable to resist, conducted

his tribe from ihe frontiers of the Asiatic Sarmatia into Sweden,

with the great design of forming, in that inaccessible retreat of free­

dom, a religion and a people, which, in some remote age, might be

subservient to his immortal revenge; when his invincible Goths,

armed with martial fanaticism, should issue in numerous swarms

from the neighbourhood of the Polar circle, to chastise the op­

pressors of mankind ",

If

