OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

setting fire to this funeral pile of Grecian learning, had not one of

their chiefs, of more refined policy than his brethren, dissuaded

them from the design; by the profound observation, that as long

as the Greeks were addicted to the study of books, they would never

apply themselves to the exercise of arms "'. The sagacious coun­

sellor (should the truth of the fact be admitted) reasoned like an ig­

norant barbarian. In the most polite and powerful nations, genius

of every kind has displayed itself about the same period; and the

age of science has generally been the age of military virtue and

success.

IV. The new sovereigns of Persia, Artaxerxes and his son Sapor, Conquest of

had triumphed (as we have already seen) over the house of Arsaces. the
Persians.

Of the many princes of that ancient race, Chosroes, king of Arme­

nia, had alone preserved both his life and his independence. He

defended himself by the natural strength of his country; by the

perpetual resort of fugitives and malcontents; by the alliance of the

Romans, and, above all, by his own courage. Invincible in arms,

during a thirty years war, he was assassinated by the emissaries of

Sapor king of Persia. The patriotic satraps of Armenia, who as­

serted the freedom and dignity of the crown, implored the protec­

tion of Rome in favour of Tiridates the lawful heir. But the son

of Chosroes was an infant, the allies were at a distance, and the

Persian monarch advanced towards the frontier at the head of an

irresistible force. Young Tiridates, the future hope of his country,

was saved by the fidelity of a servant; and Armenia continued

above twenty-seven years a reluctant province of the great monarchy

of Persia "\ Elated with this easy conquest, and presuming on the

distresses or the degeneracy of the Romans, Sapor obliged the strong

garrisons of Carrhæ and Nisibis to surrender, and spread devasta­

tion and terror on either side of the Euphrates.

The loss of an important frontier, the ruin of a faithful and Valerian

natural ally, and the rapid success of Sapor's ambition, affected the East.
0'0

Vol. I. N n Rome

