I73 THE DECLINE AND FALL

and teaches us, that in a large society, the election of a monarch

can never devolve to the wisest, or to the most numerous part of

the people. The army is the only order of men sufficiently united

to concur in the same sentiments, and powerful enough to impose

them on the rest of their fellow-citizens: but the temper of soldiers,

habituated at once to violence and to slavery, renders them very

unfit guardians of a legal, or even a civil constitution. Justice,

humanity, or political wisdo.m> are qualities they are too little

acquainted with in themselves, to appreciate them in others. Va­

lour will acquire their esteem, and liberality will purchase their

suffrage; but the first of these merits, is often lodged in the most

savage breasts; the latter can only exert itself at the expence of the

public; and both may be turned against the possessor of the throne,

•• «. 3 . by the ambition of a daring rival.

Want of h in ; The superior prerogative of birth, when it has obtained the
sanc-

fhe Roman _ .... ...

empire pro- tion of time and popular opinion, is the plainest, and least
invidious,

greatest cala- of all distinctions among mankind. The acknowledged right

inUlc" extinguishes the hopes of faction, and the conscious security dis­

arms the cruelty of the monarch. To the firm establishment of this

idea, we owe the peaceful succession, and mild administration, of

European monarchies. To the defect of it, we must attribute the

frequent civil wars, through which an Asiatic Despot is obliged to

cut his way to the throne of his fathers. Yet, even in the East,

the sphere of contention is usually limited to the princes of the

reigning house, and as soon as the fortunate candidate has removed

his brethren, by the sword and the bow-string, he no longer enter­

tains any jealousy of his meaner subjects. But the Roman empire,

after the authority of the senate had sunk into contempt, was a

vast scene of confusion. The royal, and even noble, families of

the provinces, had long since been led in triumph before the car of

'the haughty republicans. The ancient families of Rome had

successively fallen beneath the tyranny of the Caesars; and whilst

! those

