s94 THE DECLINE AND FALL

His victory The event surpassed his own expectations and those of the world.

over ,'ie 11* •

Gothi. By the most signal victories he delivered the empire from this bar­

baric host, and was distinguished by posterity under the glorious

appellation of the Gothic Claudius. The imperfect historians of an

irregular war do not enable us to describe the order and circum­

stances of his exploits; but, if we could be indulged in the allu­

sion* we might distribute into three acts this memorable tragedy.

I. The decisive battle was fought near Naissus, a city of Dardania.

The legions at first gave way, oppressed by numbers, and dismayed

by misfortunes. Their ruin was inevitable, had not the abilities

of their emperor prepared a seasonable relief. A large detachment

rising out of the secret and difficult passes of the mountains, which, by

his order they had occupied, suddenly assailed the rear of the victo­

rious Goths. The favourable instant was improved by the activity

of Claudius. He revived the courage of his troops, restored their

ranks, and pressed the barbarians on every side. Fifty thousand men

are reported to have been flain in the battle of Naissus. Several

large bodies of barbarians, covering their retreat with a moveable

fortification of waggons, retired, or rather escaped, from the field

of flaughter. II. We may presume that some insurmountable dif­

ficulty, the fatigue, perhaps, or the disobedience of the conquerors,

prevented Claudius from completing in one day the destruction of

the Goths. The war was diffused over the provinces of Mæfia,

Thrace, and Macedonia, and its operations drawn out into a variety

of marches, surprises, and tumultuary engagements, as well by sea

as by land. When the Romans suffered any loss, it was commonly

occasioned by their own cowardice or rashness; but the superior

talents of the emperor, his perfect knowledge of the country, and his

judicious choice of measures and officers, assured on most occasions

the success of his arms. The immense booty, the fruit of so many

victories, consisted for the greater part of cattle and flaves. A select

body of the Gothic youth was ^received among the imperial troops;

the

