OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

knew how to deliver themselves and their children, with their own

hands, from an insulting victor Heroines of such a cast may

claim our admiration; but they were, most assuredly, neither lovelyt

nor very susceptible of love. Whilst they affected to emulate the

stern virtues of many they must have resigned that attractive softness

in which principally consist the charm and weakness of woman.

Conscious pride taught the German females to suppress every tender

emotion that stood in competition with honour, and the first honour

of the sex has ever been that of chastity. The sentiments and

conduct of these high-spirited matrons may, at once, be considered

as a cause, as an effect, and as a proof of the general character of

the nation. Female courage, however it may be raised by fanaticism,

or confirmed by habit, can be only a faint and imperfect imitation

of the manly valour that distinguishes the age or country in which

it may be found.

The religious system of the Germans (if the wild opinions of fa- ReFgion.

vages can deserve that name) was dictated by their wants, their fears,

and their ignorance 6\ They adored the great visible objects and

agents of Nature, the Sun and the Moon, the Fire and the Earth;

together with those imaginary deities, who were supposed to pre­

side over the most important occupations of human life. They were

persuaded, that, by some ridiculous arts of divination, they could

discover the will of the superior beings, and that human sacrifices

were the most precious and acceptable offering to their altars. Some

applause has been hastily bestowed on the sublime notion, enter-"

tained by that people, of the Deity, whom they neither confined

within the walls of a temple, nor represented by any human figure •

but when we recollect, that the Germans were unskilled in archi­

tecture, and totally unacquainted with the art of sculpture, we shall

readily assign the true reason of a scruple, which arose not so much

from a superiority of reason, as from a want of ingenuity. The

only temples in Germany were dark and ancient groves, consc-

Vo l. I. H h crated

