THE DECLINE AND FALL

seconded by favour or merit. The grandsons of the Gauls> who

had besieged Julius Cæsar in Alesia, commanded legions, governed

provinces, and were admitted into the senate of Rome Their

ambition, instead of disturbing the tranquillity of the state, was inti­

mately connected with its safety and greatness.

So sensible were the Romans of the influence of language over

national manners, that it was their most serious care to extend, with

the progress of their arms, the use of the Latin tongue ,7. The

ancient dialects of Italy, the Sabine, the Etruscan, and the Vene­

tian, sunk into oblivion; but in the provinces, the east was less

docile than the west, to the voice of its victorious preceptors. This

obvious difference marked the two portions of the empire with a

distinction of colours, which, though it was in some degree con-

. cealed during the meridian splendor of prosperity, became gradually

more visible, as the shades of night descended upon the Roman

world. The western countries were civilized by the fame hands

Avhich subdued them. As soon as the barbarians were reednciled to

obedience, their minds were opened to any new impressions of

knowledge and politeness. The language of Virgil and Cicero,

though with some inevitable mixture of corruption, waS so uni­

versally adopted in Africa, Spain, Gaul, Britain, and Pannonia

that the faint traces of the Punic or Celtic idioms were preserved

only in the mountains, or among the peasants Education and

study insensibly inspired the natives of those countries with the

sentiments of Romans ; and Italy gave fashions, as well as laws,

to her Latin provincials. They solicited with more ardour, and

obtained with more facility, the freedom and honours of the state;

supported the national dignity in letters*0 and in arms; and, at length,

in the person of Trajan, produced an emperor whom the Scipios

would not have disowned for their countryman. The situation 6f

the Greeks was very different from that of the barbarians. The

former had been long since civilized and corrupted. They had

