44 THE DECLINE AND FALL

emperors pervaded without an effort the wide extent of their

dominions, and was exercised with the same facility on the banks

of the Thames,.or of the Nile, as on those of the Tyber. The

legions were destined to serve against the public enemy, and the

eivil magistrate seldom required the aid of a military force61. In

this state of general security, the leisure as well as opulence both

of the prince and people, were devoted to improve and to adorn the

Roman empire.

Roman mo- Among the innumerable monuments of architecture constructed

r.uniu.t:. ky the Romans, how many have escaped the notice of history, how

few have resisted the ravages of time and barbarism! And yet even

the majestic ruins that are still scattered over Italy and the pro*

vinces, would be sufficient to prove, that those countries were once

the feat of a polite and powerful empire. Their greatness alone, or

their beauty, might deserve our attention; but they are rendered

more interesting, by two important circumstances which connect the

agreeable history of the arts, with the more useful history of

human manners. Many of those works were erected at private ex-

pence, and almost all were intended for public benefit.

Many of them It is natural to suppose that the greatest number, as well as the

most considerable of the Roman edifices, were the works of the

emperors, who possessed so unbounded a command both of men

and money. Augustus was accustomed to boast that he had found

his capital of brick, and that he had left it of marble 6+. The

strict ceconomy of Vespasian was the source of his magni­

ficence. The works of Trajan bear the stamp of his genius. The

public monuments with which. Hadrian adorned every province of

the empire, were executed, not only by his orders, but under his

immediate inspection. He was himself an artist; and he loved the

arts, as they conduced to the glory of the monarch. They were

encouraged by the Antonines, as they contributed to the happiness

of the people. But if the emperors were the first, they were not the

only

