• * OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i$9

cipline. Their brethren of Rome, embracing the common cause of

military licence, demanded the head of the reformer. Alexander,

however, instead of yielding to their seditious clamours, shewed a

just fense of his merit and services, by appointing him his colleague'

in the consulship* and defraying from his own treasury the expence

of that vain dignity: but as rt was justly apprehended that if the

soldiers beheld him with the ensigns of his office, they would re­

venge the insult in his blood, the nominal first magistrate of the

state retired, by the emperor's advice, from the city, and spent the

greatest part of his consulship at his villas in Campania7!.

. The lenity of the emperor confirmed the insolence of the troops; Tumults of

the legions imitated the example of the guards, and defended their thc
leg:on**

prerogative of licentiousness with the fame furious obstinacy. The

administration of Alexander was an unavailing struggle against the

corruption of his age. In Illyricum, in Mauritania, in Armenia, in

Mesopotamia, in Germany, fresh mutinies perpetually broke out ;,

his officers were murdered, his authority was insulted, and his life

at last sacrificed to the fierce discontents of the army '6. One par­

ticular fact well deserves to be recorded, as it illustrates the manners Se^^

of the troops, and exhibits a singular instance of their return to a

fense of duty and obedience. Whilst the emperor lay at Antioch,

in his Persian expedition, the punishment of some soldiers, who had

been discovered in the baths of women, excited a sedition in the «

legion to which they belonged. Alexander ascended his tribunal,,

and with a modest firmness represented to the armed multitude, the

absolute necessity as well as his inflexible resolution of correcting

the vices introduced by his impure predecessor, and of maintaining.-

the discipline, which could not be relaxed without the ruin of the

Roman name and empire. Their clamours interrupted his mild ex­

postulation. "Reserve your shouts," said the undaunted emperor,

"till you take the field against the Persians, the Germans, and the

«■ Sarmatians. Be silent in the presence of your sovereign and be-

. ^ M ne factor,.

