O.F THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

"by the victory, so the latter was disappointed by the clemency

of Probus. That amiable prince attempted even to save the un­

happy Saturninus from the fury of the soldiers. He had more than

once solicited the usurper himself, to place some confidence in

the mercy of a sovereign who so highly esteemed his character, that A-D* 27*

he had punished, as a malicious informer, the first who related the

improbable news of his defection *\ Saturninus might, perhaps,

have embraced the generous offer, had he not been restrained by

the obstinate distrust of his adherents. Their guilt was deeper, and

their hopes more sanguine, than those of their experienced leader.

The revolt of Saturninus was scarcely extinguished in the East, A. d. 280.

, r " of Bonosus

before new troubles were excited in the West, by the rebellion andProcuius

of Bonosus and Proculus, in Gaul. The most distinguished merit

of those two officers was their respective prowess, of the one in the

combats of Bacchus, of the other in those of Venus "•; yet neither

of them were destitute of courage and capacity, and both sustained,

with honour, the august character which the fear of punishment had

engaged them to assume, till they sunk at length beneath the

superior genius of Probus. He used the victory with his accus­

tomed moderation, and spared the fortunes as well as the lives of

their innocent families 5V

The arms of Probus had now suppressed all the foreign and do- A.D. 281.

". . . . . Triumph of

mestic enemies of the state. His mild but steady administration the emperor

confirmed the re-establishment of the public tranquillity; nor was

there left in the provinces a hostile barbarian, a tyrant, or even a,

robber, to revive the memory of past disorders. It was time that

the emperor should revisit Rome, and celebrate his own glory and

the general happiness. The triumph due to the valour of Probus

was conducted with a magnificence suitable to his fortune, and the

people who had so lately admired the trophies of Aurelian, gazed

with equal pleasure on those of his heroic successor 5S. We caniiott

<na.this occasion, forget the desperate courage of about fourscore

Gladiators»

