OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 189

The emperor Maximus, who had advanced as far as Ravenna, ^°a"^sof

to secure that important place, and to hasten the military prepa­

rations, beheld the event of the war in the more faithful mirror of

reason and policy. He was too sensible, that a single town could

not resist the persevering efforts of a great army; and he dreaded,

lest the enemy, tired with the obstinate resistance of Aquileia,

should on a sudden relinquish the fruitless siege, and march directly

towards Rome. The fate of the empire and the cause of freedom

must then be committed to the chance of a battle; and what arms

could he oppose to the veteran legions of the Rhine and Danube?

Some troops newly levied among the generous but enervated youth

of Italy; and a body of German auxiliaries, on whose firmness in

the hour of trial, it was dangerous to depend. In the midst of these

just alarms, the stroke of domestic conspiracy punished the crimes

of Maximin, and delivered Rome and the senate from the calamities

that would surely have attended the victory of an enraged barba­

rian.

The people of Aquileia had scarcely experienced any of the Murder of

common miseries of a siege, their magazines were plentifully sup- Msason.10
8nd

plied, and several fountains within the walls assured them an in- A' /Lri^*"

exhaustible resource of fresh water. The soldiers of Maximin

were, on the contrary, exposed to the inclemency of the season,

and the horrors of famine. The naked country was ruined, the

river3 filled with the slain and polluted with blood. A spirit of

despair and disaffection began to diffuse itself among the troops;

and as they were cut off from all intelligence, they easily believed

that the whole empire had embraced the cause of the senate, and that

they were left as devoted victims to-perish under the impregnable

walls of Aquileia. The fierce temper of the tyrant was exasperated

by disappointments, which he imputed to the cowardice of his

army; and his wanton and ill-timed cruelty, instead of striking

terror, inspired hatred and a just desire of revenge. A party of

Prætorian

