THE DECLINE AND FALL

power, did not exceed a fifth part of that great city. How differ­

ent a proportion must we adopt when we compare the persecuted

with the triumphant church, the West with the East, remote vil­

lages with populous towns, and countries recently converted to. the

faith, with the place where the believers first received the appellafloa,

of Christians. It must not, however, be disenabled, that* ia another

passage, Chrysostom, to whon\ we are indebted, for t'nis useful in­

formation, computes the multitude of the faithful $» pv$% superior

to that of the jews and Pagans ,5?. But the solution o£ this a;ppir

lent difficulty is easy and obvious. The eloquent preacher draws a-

parallel between the civil and the ecclesiastical constitution of An*-

tioch; between the list of Christiana who had acquired Heaven by

baptism, and the list of citizens who had a right to stwe the public

liberality. Slaves, strangers, and infants were comprised in the

former; they were excluded from the latter,

Egypt. she extensive commerce of Alexandria, and its- proximity* tr>

Palestine, gave an easy entrance to the new religion. It was at first

embraced by great numbers of the Therapeutae, or Esseniaos of the

lake Mareotis, a Jæwiih sect: which had abated much of its reverence

for the Mosaic ceremonies* The austere life of the Eflenians, their

fests and excommunications, the community of goods, the love of

celibacy, their zeal for martyrdom, and the warmth though not the

purity of their faith, already offered a very lively image of the

primitive discipline l6°. It was in the school of Alexandria that the

Christian theology appears to have assumed a regular and scientifical.

form; and when Hadrian visited Egypt, he found a church com­

posed of Jews and of Greeks, sufficiently important to attract the no­

tice of that inquisitive prince But the progress of Christianity

was for a long time confined within the limits of a single city, which

was itself a foreign colony, and till the close of the second century,

the predecessors of Demetrius were the only prelates of the Egyptian

church. Three bishops were consecrated by the hands of Demetrius*

4 and

