2H THE fcfcCLJNfe ANt) tAtt

days, Aper delivered to she arms the supposed mandates of their

invisible sovereign '°5.

Death of Nu- It was hot till eight months after the death of Cams, that the

menan. Roman army, returning by flow marches from thd banks of the

Tigris, arrived on those of the Thracian Botfphorus. The legions

halted at ChaTcedori in Asia, while the court passed over to He-

raclea, on the European side of the Propontis ,0*. But a report

soon circulated through the camp, at first in fec'rct whifttefs, and at

length in loud clamours, of the emperor's death, and of the pre­

sumption of his ambitious minister, who still exercised the sovereign

power in the name of a prince who was no more. The impa­

tience of the soldiers could not long support a state of suspense.

With rude curiosity they broke into the imperial tent, and dis­

covered only the corpse of Numeriah r°*. T'he gradual decline of

his health might have induced theni to believe that his death was

natural; but the concealment was interpreted as an evidence of

guilt, and the measures which Aper had taken to secure his election,

became the immediate occasion of his ruitf. Yet, eVen in the tran­

sport of their rage and grief, the troops observed a regular pro­

ceeding, which proves how firmly discipline had been re-establiflied

by the martial successors of Gallienus. A general assembly of the

army was appointed to be held at Chalcedoh, whither Aper Was

transported in chains, a^ a prisoner and a criminal. A Vacant

tribunal was erected in the midst of the camp, and the generals and

A. r>. 284. tribunes formed a great military council. They soon announced to

Electros17' &e multitude, that their choice had Fallen on Diocletian, com-

theemperor mander of the domestics or body-guards, as the person the most

Diocletian. ,

capable of revenging and succeeding their beloved emperor. The

future fortunes of the candidate depended on the charice Or conduct

of the present hour. Conscious that the station which he had

filled, exposed him to some suspicions, Diocletian ascended the

tribunal,

