OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117

he vainly tried to interrogate, or to appease the fates, by magic ce­

remonies, and unlawful sacrifices '*.

Severus, who dreaded neither his arms nor his enchantments, Is deserted by

guarded himself from the only danger of secret conspiracy, by the ans,

faithful attendance of fix hundred chosen men, who never quitted

his person or their cuirasses, either by night or by day, during

the whole march. Advancing with a steady and rapid course,

he passed, without difficulty, the defiles of the Apennine, received

into his party the troops and ambassadors sent to retard his progress>

and made a short halt at Interamnia about seventy miles from

Rome. His victory was already secure; but the despair of the

Prætorians might have rendered it bloody; and Severus had the

laudable ambition of ascending the throne without drawing the

sword '5. His emissaries, dispersed in the capital, assured the

guards, that provided they would abandon their worthless prince,

and the perpetrators of the murder of Pertinax, to the justice of the

conqueror, he would no longer consider that melancholy event

as the act of the whole body. The faithless Prætorians, whose re^

sistance was supported only by sullen obstinacy, gladly complied

with the easy conditions, seized the greatest part of the assassins,

and signified to the senate, that they no longer defended the cause

of Julian. That assembly, convoked by the consul, unanimously

acknowledged Severus as lawful emperor, decreed divine honours to

Pertinax, and pronounced a sentence of deposition and death against

his unfortunate successor. Julian was conducted into a private apart- and con­

demned and

ment of the baths of the palace, and beheaded as a common criminal, executed
by-

after having purchased, with an immense treasure, an anxious and senate? ''

precarious reign of only sixty six days'6. The almost incredible June's!*

expedition of Severus, who, in so short a space of time, conducted

a numerous army from the banks of the Danube to those of the

Tyber, proves at once the plenty of provisions produced by agri-

6 culture.

