366 THE DECLINE AND FALL

set fire to his ships; and as the expedition proved fortunate, hl«

heroic conduct: was universally admired. The usurper had posted

himself near. London, to expect:' the formidable attack of Con-

stantius, who commanded in person the fleet of Boulogne; but

the descent of a new enemy required his immediate presence in the

west. He performed that long march in so precipitate a manner,

that he encountered the whole force of the przefect with a small

body of harassed and disheartened troops. The engagement was.

soon terminated by the total defeat and death of Allectus; a single

battle, as it has often happened, deckled the fate of this great

island; and when Gonstantius landed on the shores of Kent, he

found them covered with obedient subjects. Their acclamations

were loud and unanimous; and the virtues, of the conqueror may

induce us to believe, that they sincerely rejoiced in a revolution,

which, after a separation of ten years, restored Britain to the body

of the Roman empire

Desenceof Britain had none but domestic enemies to dread; and as Ions: as

the iron tiers. 0

the governors preserved their fidelity, and the troops their disci­

pline, the incursions of the Scots or Irish could never materially

affect the safety of the province. The peace of the continent, and

the defence of the great rivers which bounded the empire, were ob­

jects of far greater difficulty and importance. The policy of Dio­

cletian, which inspired the councils of his associates, provided for

the public tranquillity, by encouraging a spirit of dissension among

the barbarians, and by strengthening the fortifications of the

Fortifications. Roman limit. In the East he fixed a line of camps from Egypt
to

the Persian dominions, and, for every camp, he instituted an

adequate number of stationary troops, commanded by their respec­

tive officers, and supplied with every kind of arms, from the new

arsenals which he had formed at Antioch, Emesa, and Damascus

Nor was the precaution of the emperor less watchful against the

well-known valour of the barbarians of Europe. From the mouth

of

