THE DECLINE AND FALL

be reduced by a civil war under the dominion of one master; but

if the separation was permanent, the division of the provinces must

terminate in the dissolution of an empire whose unity had hitherto

remained inviolate *°.

Murder of Had the treaty been carried into execution, the sovereign of Europe

Gets

a. D. zi2. would soon have been the conqueror of Asia; but Caracalla obtained

a7thFebru- an ea{ier though a more guilty victory. He artfully listened to his

mother's entreaties, and consented to meet his brother in her apart­

ment, on terms of peace and reconciliation. In the midst of their

conversation, some centurions, who had contrived to conceal them­

selves, rushed with drawn swords upon the unfortunate Geta. His

distracted mother strove to protect him in her arms; but in the una­

vailing struggle, she was wounded in the hand, and covered with

the blood of her younger son, while she saw the elder animating and

assisting" the fury of the assassins. As soon as the deed was perpe­

trated, Caracalla, with hasty steps and horror in his countenance,

ran towards the Prætorian camp as his only refuge, and threw him­

self on the ground before the statues of the tutelar deities The

soldiers attempted to raise and comfort him. In broken and dis­

ordered words he informed them of his imminent danger and for­

tunate escape; insinuated that he had prevented the designs of his

enemy* and declared his resolution to live and die with his faithful

troops. Geta had been the favourite of the soldiers; but complaint

was useless, revenge was dangerous, and they still reverenced the son

of Severus- Their discontent died away in idle murmurs, and

Caracalla soon convinced them of the justice of his cause, by distri­

buting in one lavish donative the accumulated treasures of his father's

reign The real sentiments of the soldiers alone were of import­

ance to his power or safety. Their declaration in his favour,

commanded the dutiful professions of the senate. The obsequious

assembly was always prepared to ratify the decision of fortune;

hut as. Caracalla wished to assuage the first emotions of public indig­

nation*

