n6 THE DECLINE AND FALL

joy and duty; that the important place of Ravenna had surrendered

without resistance, and that the Hadriatic fleet was in the hands of

the conqueror. The enemy was now within two hundred and fifty

miles of Rome; and every moment diminished the narrow span of

life and empire allotted to Julian.

Distress of pje attempted, however, to prevent, or at least to

Julian. r

ruin. He implored the venal faith of the Prætorians, filled the

city with unavailing preparations for war, drew lines round the

suburbs, and even strengthened the fortifications of the palace;

as if those last intrenchments could be defended without hope of

relief against a victorious invader. Fear and shame prevented the

guards from deserting his standard ■, but they trembled at the name

of the Pannonian legions, commanded by an experienced general,

and accustomed to vanquish the barbarians on the frozen Danube

They quitted, with a sigh, the pleasures of the baths and theatres*

to put on arms, whose use they had almost forgotten, and beneath

the weight of which they were oppressed. The unpractised elephants,

whose uncouth appearance, it was hoped, would strike terror into

the army of the north, threw their unskilful riders; and the awk­

ward evolutions of the marines, drawn from the fleet of Miscnum,

were an object of ridicule to the populace; whilst the senate enjoyed,

with secret pleasure, the distress and weakness of the usurper ".

His uncertain Every motion of Julian betrayed his trembling perplexity. He

insisted that Severus should be declared a public enemy by the se­

nate. He intreated that the Pannonian general might be associated

to the empire. He sent public ambassadors of consular rank to ne_

gociate with his rival; he dispatched private assassins to take away

his life. He designed that the Vestal virgins, and all the col!eges

of priests, in their sacerdotal habits, and bearing before them the

sacred pledges of the Roman religion, mould advance, in solemn

procession, to meet the Pannonian legions ; and, at the fame time,

he

conduct.

