OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 209

dominion over so many vassal kings. Even tribes of barbarians in

their mountain?, and the Greek cities of Upper Asia JI, within their

walls, scarcely acknowledged, or at least obeyed, any superior; and

the Parthian empire exhibited, under other names, a lively image of

the feudal system 51 which has since prevailed in Europe. But the

active victor, at the head of a numerous and disciplined army, visited

in person every province of Persia. The defeat of the boldest rebels,

and the reduction of the strongest fortifications diffused the terror

of "his arms, and prepared the way for the peaceful reception of his

authority. An obstinate resistance was fatal to the chiefs; but their

followers were treated with lenity '*. A cheerful submission was

rewarded with honours and riches; hut the prudent ArtaxerxCs,

suffering no person except himself to assume the title of king, abo­

lished every intermediate power between the throne and the people.

His kingdom, nearly equal in extent to modern Persia, was, on every Extent and

. population of

fide, bounded by the sea or by great rivers; by the Euphrates, the Persia.

Tigris, the Araxes, the Oxus, and the Indus, by the Caspian sea,

and the gulph of Persia. That country was computed to contain in

the last century, five hundred and fifty-four cities, sixty thousand

villages, and about forty millions of fouls If we compare the

administration of the house of Sassan with that of the house of Sefi,

the political influence of the Magian with that of the Mahometan

religion, we shall probably infer, that the kingdom of Artaxerxes

contained at least as great a number of cities, villages, and inhabit­

ants. But it must likewise be confessed, that in every age the

want of harbours on the sea coast, and the scarcity of frefli water

in the inland provinces, have been very unfavourable to the com­

merce and agriculture of the Persians; who, in the calculation of

their numbers, seem to have indulged one of the meanest, though

most common artifices, of national vanity.

As soon as the ambitious mind of Artaxerxes had triumphed over Recapitula­

te resistance of his vassals, he began to threaten the neighbouring war
between

tv, t 17 n thePaithian

Vol. I. E e • states,

