OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 337

their safety to the power of Rome. To accomplish these salutary

ends, the constant residence of an imperial governor, supported by

a numerous army, was indispensably requisite. Probus therefore

judged it more expedient to defer the execution of so great a de­

sign; which was indeed rather of specious than solid utility 40. Had

Germany been reduced into the state of a province, the Romans,

with immense labour and expence, would have acquired only a

more extensive boundary to defend against the fiercer and more

active barbarians of Scythia.

Instead of reducing the warlike natives of Germany to the con- He builds a

... e _ , . _ , , wall from thi

dition or lubjects, Probus contented himself with the humble ex- Rhine to the

pedient of raising a bulwark against their inroads. The country, Danube'

which now forms the circle of Swabia, had been left desert in the

age of Augustus by the emigration of its ancient inhabitants *\

The fertility of the soil soon attracted a new colony from the ad­

jacent provinces of Gaul. Crowds of adventurers, of a roving tem­

per and of desperate fortunes, occupied the doubtful possession, and

acknowledged, by the payment of tythes, the majesty of the em­

pire **. To protect these new subjects, a line of frontier garrisons was

gradually extended from the Rhine to the Danube. About the reign

of Hadrian, when that mode of defence began to be practised, these

garrisons were connected and covered by a strong intrenchment of trees

and palisades. In the place of so rude a bulwark, the emperor Probus

constructed a stone-wall of a considerable height, and strengthened

it by towers at convenient distances. From the neighbourhood of

Newstadt. and Ratifbon on the Danube, it stretched across hills,

vallies, rivers, and morasses, as far as Wimpfen on the Necker,

and at length terminated on the banks of the Rhine, after a wind­

ing course of near two hundred miles+J. This important barrier,

uniting the two mighty streams that protected the provinces of Europe*

seemed to fill up the vacant space through which the barbarians, and

particularly the Alemanni, could penetrate with the greatest faci-

, Vol. I. X x lity

