74 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Image os go­

vernment for

ihe ansies.

Their obe­

dience.

amnesty, which Claudius had the prudence to offer, and the

generosity to observe1*.

II. The insolence of the armies inspired Augustus with fears of

a still more alarming nature. The despair of the citizens could

only attempt, what the power of the soldiers was, at any time, able

to execute. How precarious was his own authority over men whom

he had taught to violate every social duty! He had heard their

seditious clamours; he dreaded their calmer moments of reflection.

One revolution had been purchased by immense rewards j but a

second revolution might double those rewards. The troops pro­

fessed the fondest attachment to the house of Caesar; but the at­

tachments of the multitude are capricious and inconstant. Au­

gustus summoned to his aid, whatever remained in those fierce

minds, of Roman prejudices; enforced the rigor of discipline by

the sanction of law; and interposing the majesty of the senate, be­

tween the -emperor and the army, boldly claimed their allegiance,

as the first magistrate of the republic

During a long period of two hundred and twenty years, from

the establishment of this artful system to the death of Commodus,

the dangers inherent to a military government were, in a great

measure, suspended. The soldiers were seldom roused to that

fatal sense of their own strength, and of the weakness of the civil

authority, which was, before and afterwards, productive of such

dreadful calamities. Caligula and Domitian were assassinated in

their palace by their own domestics: the convulsions which agitated"

Rome on the death of the former, were confined to the walls of the

city. But Nero involved the whole empire in his ruin. In the

space of eighteen months, four princes perished by the sword; and

the Roman world was fliaken by the fury of the contending armies.

Excepting only this short, though violent, eruption of military

licence, the two centuries from Augustus to Commodus, passed away

unstained

