24 THE DECLINE AND FALL

we reflect on the fame of Thebes and Argos, of Sparta and Athens,

we can scarcely persuade ourselves, that so many immortal repub­

lics of ancient Greece, were lost in a single province of the Roman

empire, which, from the superior influence of the Achæan league,

was usually denominated the province of Achaia.

Asia Minor. Such was the state of Europe under the Roman Emperors. The

provinces of Asia, without excepting the transient conquests of

Trajan, are all comprehended within the limits of the Turkish

power. But instead of following the arbitrary divisions of despotism

and ignorance, it will be safer for us, as well as more agreeable,

to observe the indelible characters of nature. The name of Asia

Minor is attributed with some propriety to the peninsula, which,

confined between the Euxine and the Mediterranean, advances from

the Euphrates towards Europe. Its principal division, westward of

mount Taurus and the river Halys, was dignified by the Romans

with the exclusive title of Asia. The jurisdiction of that province

extended over the ancient monarchies of Troy, Lydia, and Phrygia,

the maritime countries of the Pamphylians, Lycians, and Carians,

and the Grecian colonies of Ionia, which equalled in arts, though

not in arms, the glory of their parent. The kingdoms of Bi-

thynia and Pontus possessed the northern side of the peninsula from

Constantinople to Trebizond. On the opposite side, the province

of Cilicia was terminated by the mountains of Syria: the inland

country, separated from the Roman Asia by the river Halys, and

from Armenia by the Euphrates, had once formed the independ­

ent kingdom of Cappadocia. In this place we may observe, that

the northern shores of the Euxine, beyond Trebizond in Asia, and

beyond the Danube in Europe, acknowledged the sovereignty of

the emperors, and received at their hands, either tributary princes,

or Roman garrisons. Budzak, Crim Tartary, Circaffia, and Min-

grelia, are the modern appellations of those savage countries *\

3 Under

