72 THE DECLINE AND FALL

family distinction. The former should naturally have expired with

the prince, on whom it was bestowed; and however the latter was

diffused by adoption and female alliance, Nero was the last prince who

could claim so noble an extraction. But, at the time of his death, the

practice of a century had inseparably connected those appellations with

the Imperial dignity, and they have been preserved by a long succes­

sion of emperors, Romans, Greeks, Franks, and Germans, from the

fall of the republic to the present time. A distinction was, how­

ever, soon introduced. The sacred title of Augustus was always

reserved for the monarch, whilst the name of Cæsar was more freely

communicated to his relations; and, from the reign of Hadrian,

at least, was appropriated to the second person in the state, who

was considered as the presumptive heir of the empire.

Character and The tender respect of Augustus for a free constitution which he

Augustus. had destroyed, can only be explained by an attentive consideration

of the character of that subtile tyrant. A cool head, an unfeeling

heart, and a cowardly disposition, prompted him, at the age of

nineteen, to assume the mask of hypocrisy, which he never after­

wards laid aside. With the same hand, and probably with the same

temper, he signed the proscription of Cicero, and the pardon of

Cinna. His virtues, and even his vices, were artificial; and

according to the various dictates of his interest, he was at first the

enemy, and at last the father, of the Roman world **. When he

framed the artful system of the Imperial authority, his moderation

was inspired by his fears. He wished to deceive the people by an

image of civil liberty, and the armies by an image of civil govern­

ment.

jmageofii- - I. The death of Caesar was ever before his eyes. He had lavished

people. wealth and honours on his adherents; but the most favoured friends

of his uncle were in the number of the conspirators. The fidelity

of the legions might defend his authority against open rebellion ; but

•their vigilance could not secure his person from the dagger of a deter­

mined

