THE DECLINE AND FALL

1dnd. The seven hills of Rome had been surrounded by the suc­

cessors of Romulus, with an ancient wall of more than thirteen

miles 4\ The vast inclosure may seem disproportioned to the

strength and numbers of the infant state. But it was necessary to

secure an ample extent of pasture and arable land, against the fre­

quent and sudden incursions of the tribes of Latium, the perpetual

enemies of the republic. With the progress of Roman greatness,

the city and its inhabitants gradually increased, filled up the vacant

space, pierced through the useless walls, covered the field of Mars,

and, on every, fide, followed the public highways in long and

beautiful suburbs 4'. The extent of the new walls, erected by Au-

relian, and finished in the reign of Probus, was magnified by popu­

lar estimation to near fifty 41; but is reduced by accurate measure­

ment to about twenty-one miles 4J. It wasa great but a mela'ncholy

labour, since the defence of the capital betrayed the decline of the

monarchy. The Romans of a more prosperous age, who trusted to

the arms of the legions the safety of the frontier camps 44, were very

far from entertaining a.suspicion, that it would ever become necessary

to fortify the seat of empire against the inroads of the barbarians 4S.

^urdian sup- ^ne victory or" Claudius* over the Goths, and the success of

loesses the Aurelian against the Alemanni, had already restored to the arms of

;wo usurpers. ...

Rome their ancient superiority over the barbarous nations of the

North. To chastise domestic tyrants, and to reunite the dismem­

bered parts of the empire, was a task reserved for the latter of those

- warlike emperors. Though he was acknowledged by the senate and  
people, the frontiers of Italy, Africa, IHyricum, and Thrace, confined

the limits of his reign. Gaul, Spain, and Britain, Egypt, Syria, and

Asia minor, were still possessed by two rebels, who alone, out of so

numerous a list, had hitherto escaped the dangers of their situation j

and to complete the ignominy of Rome, these rival thrones had been

.usurped by women.

A rapid

