NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER.

[91] See a chain of tradition, from JuSia Mar­

tyr to Jerome, in the Morale des Peres, c. iv. 6—26.

[92] See a very curious Dissertation on the Vestals,

in the Memoires de l'Acaderoie des Inscriptions,

torn ii. p. 161—227. Notwithstanding the ho­

nours and rewards which were bestowed on those

virgins, it was difficult to procure a sufficient num­

ber; nor could the dread of the most horrible death

always restrain their incontinence.

[93] Cupiditatem procreandi aut unam scimus

autnullam. Minucius Fælix.c. 31. Justin. Apolog.

Major. Athenagoras in Legat. c. 28. Tertullian

de Cultu Fcemin. 1. ii.

[94] Eusebius, 1. vi. 8. Before the fame of

Origen had excited envy and persecution, this ex­

traordinary action was rather admired than censured.

As it was his general practice to allegorize scrip*

ture; it seems unfortunate that, in this instance

only, he sliould have adopted the literal fense.

[95] Cyprian. Epistol. 4. and Dodwell Difler-

tat. Cyprianic. iii. Something like this rash at­

tempt was long afterwards imputed to the founder

of the order of Fontevrault. Bay le has amused

himself and his readers on that very delicate subject.

[96] Dnpin (Bibliotheque Ecclefiastique, torn. i.

P- '95-) gives a particular account of the dialogue

of the ten virgins, as it was composed by Metho­

dius, Bishop of Tyre.. The praises of virginity are

excessive.

[97] The Ascetics (as early as the second cen­

tury) made a public profession of mortifying their

bodies, and of abstaining from the use of flesh and

wine. Mofheim, p 310.

[98] See the Morale des Peres. The fame pa­

tient principles have been revived since the Refor­

mation'by the Socinians, the modern Anabaptists,

and the Quakers. Barclay, the apologist of the

Quakers, has protected his brethren, by the autho­

rity of the primitive christians, p. 542—549.

[99] Tertullian, Apolog. c. 21. De Idolatria, c.

17, 18. Origen contra Celsum, 1. v. p. 253. L

vii. p. 348. L viii. p. 423—418.

[too] Tertullian (de Corona Militii, c. 11.) sug­

gests to them the expediences deserting; a counsel,

which, if it had been generally known, was not

very proper to conciliate the favour of the empe­

rors towards the chriijian sect.

[101] As well as we can judge from the muti-,

lated representation of Origen, (1. viii. p. 423 ) his

adversary, Celsus, had urged his objection with

great force and candour.

[102! The Aristocratical party in France, as well

as in England, has strenuously maintained the di­

vine origin of bishops. But the Calvinistical presr

byters were impatient of a superior; and the Ro­

man pontiff refused to acknowledge an equal. See

Fra-Paolo.

[103] In the history of the christian hierarchy,

I have, for the most part, followed the learned and

candid Mofheim.

[104] For the prophets of the primitive church,,

fee Mofheim, Dissertation es ad Hist. Ecclef. per-

tihentes, torn. ii. p. 132—208.

[105] See the epistles of St. Paul, and of

Clemens, to the Corinthians.

[106] Hooker's Ecclesiastical Polity, I vii.

[107] See Jerome ad Titum, c. 1. and Eplstol.

85 (in the Benedictine edition, tot). What he

observes of the bishop and presbyters of Alexandria,

receives a remarkable confirmation from the patri­

arch Eutychius (Annal. torn. i. p. 330. Vers.

Pocock); whose testimony I know not how to reject,

in spite of all the objections of the learned Pearson,

irr his Vindici* Ignatianx, part i. c. 11.

[108J See the introduction to the Apocalypse,

Bishops, under the name of Angels, were already

instituted in seven cities of Asia. And ytt the

epistle of Clemens (which is probably of as ancient

a date) does not lead us to discover any traces os'

episcopacy either at Corinth or Rome.

[109J Nulla Ecclesia sine Episcopo, was a fact as

well as a maxim from the time of Tertullian and

Irenæus.

[110] After we have passed the difficulties of the

first century, we find the episcopal government

universally established, till it was interrupted by the

republican

