OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the room of the prætorian praefect, whom he put to death, Carinus

substituted one of the ministers of his looser pleasures. Another,

who possessed the fame, or even a more infamous title to favour, was

invested with the consulship. A confidential secretary, who had a6*»

quired uncommon skill in the art of forgery, delivered the indolent

emperor, with his own consent, from the irksome duty of signing

his name.

When the emperor Carus undertook the Persian war, he was in­

duced, by motives of affection as well as policy, to secure the sot*

- tunes of his family, by leaving in the' hands of his eldest son the  
armies and provinces of the West. The intelligence which he soon

received of the conduct of Carinus, filled him with shame and re­

gret; nor had he concealed his resolution of satisfying the republic

by a severe act of justice, and of adopting, in the place of an un­

worthy son, the brave and virtuous Constantius, who at that time

was governor of Dalmatia. But the elevation of Constantius was

for a while deferred; and as soon as a father's death had released

Carinus from the controul of fear or decency, he displayed to the

Romans the extravagancies of Elagabalus, aggravated by the cruelty

of Domitian 8*.

The only merit of the administration of Carinus that history He celebrates

. ii i r i i • i 'he Roman

could record or poetry celebrate, was the uncommon lplendor with games,

which, in his own and his brother's name, he exhibited the Roman

games of the theatre, the circus, and the amphitheatre. More than

twenty years afterwards, when the courtiers of Diocletian repre­

sented to their frugal sovereign the fame and popularity of his mu­

nificent predecessor, he acknowledged, that the reign of Carinus

had indeed been a reign of pleasure 8\ But this vain prodigality,

which the prudence of Diocletian might justly despise, was enjoyed

with surprise and transport by the Roman people. The oldest of

the citizens, recollecting the spectacles of former days, the trium­

phal pomp of Probus or Aurelian, and the secular games of the em­

peror

