OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

He deserved his fate; but we should find more reason to applaud

the humanity of Constantine, if he had spared an old man, the

benefactor of his father, and the father of his wife. During the

whole of this melancholy transaction, it appears that Fausta sa­

crificed the sentiments of nature to her conjugal duties SJ.

The last years of Galerius were less shameful and unfortunate, Death of

and though he had filled with more glory the subordinate station of a. d. 31

Cæsar, than the superior rank of Augustus, he preserved, till the y"

moment of his death, the first place among the princes of the Roman

world. He survived his retreat from Italy about four years, and wifely

relinquishing his views of universal empire, he devoted his time to

the enjoyment of pleasure, and to the execution of some works of

public utility, among which we may distinguish the discharging

into the Danube the superfluous waters of the lake Pelso, and the

cutting down the immense forests that encompassed it; an opera­

tion which restored an extensive country to the use of his Pannonian

subjects 5<s. His death was occasioned by a very painful and lingering

disorder. His body, swelled by an intemperant course of life to an

unwieldy corpulence, was covered with ulcers, and devoured by

innumerable swarms of those insects, who have given their name

to a most loathsome disease5 7; but as Galerius had offended a very zeal­

ous and powerful party among his subjects, his sufferings, instead of

exciting their compassion, have been celebrated as the visible effects of

divine justice}8. He had no sooner expired in his palace of Nicomedia, Hfa
domi-

than the two emperors who were indebted for their purple to his favour between
M

began to collect their forces, with the intention either of disputing or
™c',nJ^d

of dividing the dominions which he had left without a master. They

were persuaded however to desist from the former design, and to

agree in the latter. The provinces of Asia fell to the share of

Maximin, aud those of Europe augmented the portion of Licinius.

The Hellespont and the Thracian Bosphorus formed their mu­

tual boundary, and the banks of those narrow seas, which flowed

Vol. L Hhh ia

