376 THE DECLINE AND FALL

neither hope for victory if they preserved their ranks, nor break their

ranks without exposing themselves to the most imminent danger. In

this situation they were gradually encompassed by the superior num­

bers, harassed by the rapid evolutions, and destroyed by the arrows of

the barbarian cavalry. The king of Armenia had signalized his valour

in the battle, and acquired personal glory by the public misfortune.

He was pursued as far as the Euphrates; his horse was wounded, and

it appeared impossible for him to escape the victorious enemy. In this

extremity Tiridates embraced the only refuge which he saw before

him: he dismounted and plunged into the stream. His armour was

heavy, the river very deep, and in those parts at least half a mile in

breadth66; yet such was his strength and dexterity, that he reached

in safety the opposite bank 6\ With regard to the Roman gene­

ral, we are ignorant of the circumstances of his escape; but when

His reception he returned to Antioch, Diocletian received him, not with the
ten-

byDwcieuan. ^ernef8 cf a frien(j amj colleague, but with the indignation of an

offended sovereign. The haughtiest of men, clothed in his purple,

but humbled by the fense of his fault and misfortune, was obliged

to follow the emperor's chariot above a mile on foot, and to exhibit,

before the whole court, the spectacle of his disgrace ".

Second cam- As soon as Diocletian had indulged his private resentment, and

ieriu".osGa* asserted the majesty of supreme power, he yielded to the
submissive

A. D. 297; entreaties of the Cæsar, and permitted him to retrieve his own
honour

as well as that of the Roman arms. In the room of the unwarlike

troops of Asia, which had most probably served in the first expe­

dition, a second army was drawn from the veterans and new levies

of the Illyrian frontier, and a considerable body of Gothic auxili­

aries were taken into the imperial pay*9. At the head of a chosen

army of twenty-five thousand men, Galerius again passed the Eu­

phrates; but, instead of exposing his legions in the open plains of

Mesopotamia, he advanced through the mountains of Armenia,

where he found the inhabitants devoted to his cause, and the country

as

