OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 439

feats of Licinius had ruined his forces, but they had displayed his

courage and abilities. His situation was almost desperate, but the

efforts of despair are sometimes formidable; and the good fense of

Constantine preferred a great and certain advantage to a third trial of

the chance of arms. He consented to leave his rival, or, as he again Treaty of

..... . peace.

styled Licinius, his friend and brother, in the possession of Thrace,
December.

Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt; but the provinces of Pannonia, Dal-

matia, Dacia, Macedonia, and Greece, were yielded to the western

empire, and the dominions of Constantine extended from the confines

of Caledonia to the extremity of Peloponnesus. It was stipulated by the

fame treaty, that three royal youths, the sons of the emperors, should

be called to the hopes of the succession. Crispus and the younger

Constantine, were soon afterwards declared Cæsars in the West,

while the younger Licinius was invested with the fame dignity in the

East. In this double proportion of honours, the conqueror asserted

the superiority of his arms and power '*.

The reconciliation of Constantine and Licinius, though it was General peace

embittered by resentment and jealousy, by the remembrance of re— Constantine.

cent injuries, and by the apprehension of future dangers, main- 3*3. 3'S~~

tained, however, above eight years, the tranquillity of the Roman

world. Asa very regular series of the imperial laws commences

about this period, it would not be difficult to transcribe the civil re­

gulations which employed the leisure of Constantine. But the most

important of his institutions are intimately connected with the new

system of policy and religion, which was not perfectly cstablisiHed till

the last and peaceful years of his reign. There are many of his

laws, which, as far as they concern the rights and property of indi­

viduals, and the practice of the bar, are more properly referred to

the private than to the public jurisprudence of the empire; and he •

published many edicts of so local and temporary a nature, that they

would ill deserve the notice of a general history. Two laws, how­

ever, may be selected from the crowd; the one, for its importance,

the

