OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.' 427

under the banners of Maximian, were at length compelled to in­

form his effeminate son of the imminent danger to which he was

reduced; and, with a freedom that at once surprised and convinced

him, to urge the necessity of preventing his ruin, by a vigorous ex­

ertion of his remaining power. The resources of Maxentius, both

of men and money, were still considerable. The Prætorian guards

felt how strongly their own interest and safety were connected with

his cause; and a third army was soon collected, more numerous

than those which had been lost in the battles of Turin and Verona.

It was far from the intention of the emperor to lead his troops in

person. A stranger to the exercises of war, he trembled at the ap­

prehension of so dangerous a contest; and as fear is commonly su­

perstitious, he gave a melancholy attention to the rumours of omens

and presages which seemed to menace his life and empire. Shame

at length supplied the place of courage, and forced him to take the

field. He was unable to sustain the contempt of the Roman people.

The circus resounded with their indignant clamours, and they tu-

multuoufly besieged the gates of the palace, reproaching the pusilla­

nimity of their indolent sovereign, and celebrating the heroic spirit

of Constantine65. Before Maxentius left Rome, he consulted .the

Sibylline books. The guardians of these ancient oracles were as

well versed in the arts of this world, as they were ignorant of the

secrets of fate; and they returned him a very prudent answer,

which might adopt itself to the event, and secure their reputation

whatever should be the chance of arms %, ■ , .:'

The celerity of Constantine's march has been compared to the Vl'ct<*y °f

"• n c r n r Constantine

rapid conquest of Italy by the first of the Cæsars; nor is the flatter- near
Rome,

ing parallel repugnant to the truth of history, since no more than fs'th
October,

fifty-eight days elapsed between the surrender of Verona and the

final decision of the war. Constantine had always apprehended that

the tyrant would listen to the dictates of fear, and perhaps of pru­

dence; and that, instead of risking his last hopes in a general en-

I i i 2 gagement,

