OF THE ROM AN EMPIRE. 479

or the spectators, very happily disposed them to adopt with the same

ease, but with far greater justice, the authentic wonders of the

evangelic history; and thus miracles that exceeded not the measure of

their own experience, inspired them with the most lively assurance of

mysteries which were acknowledged to surpass the limits of their

understanding. It is this deep impression of supernatural truths,

which has been so much celebrated under the name of faith; a

state of mind described as the surest pledge of the divine favour

and of future felicity, and recommended as the first or perhaps the

only merit of a Christian. According to the more rigid doctors,,

the moral virtues, which may be equally practised by infidels, are

destitute of any value or efficacy in the work of our justification. .

IV. But the primitive Christian demonstrated his faith by his The

FOURTH

virtues; and it was very justly supposed that the divine persuasion cause.

• which enlightened or subdued the understanding, must, at the same first
Chris-

time, purify the heart and direct the actions of the believer. The tians*

first apologists of Christianity who justify the innocence of their

brethren, and the writers of a later period who celebrate the sanctity

of their ancestors, display, in the most lively colours, the reforma­

tion of manners which was introduced into the world by the

preaching of the gospel. As it is my intention to remark only

such human causes as were permitted to second the influence of

revelation, I shall slightly mention two motives which might

naturally render the lives of the primitive Christians much purer

and more austere than those of their Pagan contemporaries or their

degenerate successors; repentance for their past sins, and the laudable

desire of supporting the reputation of the society in which they were

engaged.

It is a very ancient reproach, suggested by the ignorance or the Effect*-of

malice of infidelity, that the Christians allured into their party the ince.

most atrocious criminals, who, as soon as they were touched by a

fense of remorse, were easily persuaded to wash away, in the water.

their rej ent­

. 5 of

