OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 327

s,

senate was confirmed by the consent of the Roman people, and of

the Prætorian guards '*.

The administration of Tacitus was not unworthy of his life and Authority of

principles. A grateful servant of the senate, he considered that na­

tional council as the author, and himself as the subject, of the

laws He studied to heal the wounds which imperial pride, civil

discord, and military violence, had inflicted on the constitution,

and to restore, at least, the image of the ancient republic, as it had

been preserved by the policy of Augustus, and the virtues of Trajan

and the Antonines. It may not be useless to recapitulate some

of the most important prerogatives which the senate appeared to

have regained by the election of Tacitus ". 1. To invest one of their

body, under the title of emperor, with the general command of the

armies and the government of the frontier provinces. 2. To

determine the list, or as it was then styled, the College of Consuls.

They were twelve in number, who, in successive pairs, each, during

the space of two months, filled the year, and represented the dignity

of that ancient office. The authority of the senate, in the nomination

of them, was exercised with such independent freedom, that no

regard was paid to an irregular request of the emperor in favour of

his brother Florianus. "The senate," exclaimed Tacitus, with the

honest transport of a patriot, " understand the character of the prince

,( whom they have chosen." 3. To appoint the proconsuls and pre­

sidents of the provinces, and to confer on all the magistrates their

civil jurisdiction. 4. To receive appeals through the intermediate

office of the præfect of the city from all the tribunals of the empire.-

5. To give force and- validity, by their decrees, to such as they should

approve of the emperor's edicts. 6\ To these several branches of

authority, we may add some inspection over the finances, since, even

in the stern reign of Aurelian, it was in their power to divert a part

of the revenue from the public service I*..

Circular

