OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

gravest of the ecclesiastical historians, Eusebius himself, very frankly

confesses, that he has related whatever might redound to the glory,

and that he has suppressed all that could tend to the disgrace of reli­

gion "7. Such an acknowledgment will naturally excite a suspicion,

that a writer who has so openly violated one of the fundamental

laws of history, has not paid a very strict regard to the observance

of the other: and the suspicion will derive additional credit from

the character of Eusebius, which was less tinctured with credulity,

and more practised in the arts of courts than that of almost any of

his contemporaries. On some particular occasions, when the ma­

gistrates were exasperated by some personal motives of interest or

resentment, when the zeal of the martyrs urged them to forget the

rules-of prudence and perhaps of decency, to overturn the altars^ to

pdur out imprecations against the emperors, ot to strike the judge

as he fit on his tribunal, it maybe presumed that every mode of

tOrttire; which cruelty could invent or constancy could endure, was

exhausted on those devoted victims '78. Two'circumstances, how­

ever, have been unwarily mentioned, which insinuate that the ge­

neral treatment of the Christians who had been apprehended by the

officers of justicewas less, intolerable than it is usually imagined to

hare been. r. The confessors who were condemned to work in the

mines, were permitted; by the hurtianity or the negligence of their

keepers, to build'chapels, and freely to profess their religion in the'

midst0 of those dreary habitations ,7'. 2. The Bishops were obliged

to'check and to censure the forward zeal of the Christians, who vo­

luntarily threwthemsclves' into'th'e tiaffdVof tHemagiffrates. Softie of'

these were persons oppressed by poverty/and'debtfc', who blindly fought

to terminate a miserable existence by a glorious death. Others were1

allured by the hope, that a short'eonsinernent would'expiate the sins-'

of a whole life; and others again were actuated by the less'honour­

able motive of deriving a plentiful-subsistence,, arfdJ perhaps? a cOftsi**

drrable profit,, from the alms which the charity of the faithful bei.

z stowed:

