OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5^9

were obliged to content themselves with committing to the flames

the volumes of holy scripture. The ministers of Diocletian were

followed by a numerous body of guards and pioneers, who marched

in order of battle, and were provided with all the instruments used

in the destruction of fortified cities. By their incessant labour, a

sacred edifice, which towered above the imperial palace, and had

long excited the indignation and envy of the Gentiles, was in a

few hours levelled with the ground ,5°.

.;> The next day the general edict of persecution was published 151; The first
edict

and though Diocletian, still averse to the effusion of blood, had TOO-
Christians,

derated the fury of Galerius, who proposed, that every one refusing bruary. °

-to offer sacrifice, should immediately be burnt alive, the penalties  
inflicted on the obstinacy of the Christians, might be deemed suffi­

ciently rigorous and effectual. It was enacted, that their churches,

in all the provinces of the empire, should be demolished to their

foundations; and the punishment of death was denounced against

all who should presume to hold any secret assemblies for the pur­

pose of religious worship. The philosophers, who now assumed the

unworthy office of directing the blind zeal of persecution, had di­

ligently studied the nature and genius of the Christian religion;

■and ' as they were not ignorant that the speculative doctrines of the

faith were supposed to be contained in the writings of the prophets,

the evangelists, and the apostles, they most probably suggested the

order that the bishops and presbyters should deliver all their

sacred books into the hands of the magistrates, who were com-

-manded, under the-severest penalties, to burn them in a pub-  
lib and . solemn manner. By the> fame edict, the property of the

church.was at once confiscated-} and the several parts of which it

might consist, were either fold-to the highest bidder, united to thfe

imperial domain,.bestowed on the citie? and corporations, or granted

-tathe solicitations of rapacious -courtiers. After taking such effect  
,tual measures to abolish thei worship, and- to- dissolve the goverrr"-

j,;.\to.t*I. 4 D ment,

