Jxxx NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.

[56] Plin. Epistol. x. 97. The learned Molheim

expresses himself (p. 147. 232.) with the highest

approbation of Pliny's moderate and candid tem­

per. Notwithstanding Dr. Lardner's suspicions 'fee

Jewifhand Heathen Testimonies, vol. ii. p. 46 ) 1 am

unable to discover any bigotry in his language or

proceedings.

[57] Plin. Epistol v. 8. He pleaded his first

cause, A. D. 81. 1 he year after the famous erup­

tions of Mount Vesuvius, in which his uncle lost

his life.

[58] Plin. Epistol. x. 98. Tertullian (Apclog.

c. 5.) considers this rescript as a relaxation of the

ancient penal laws, "quas Trajanus ex parte fru-

ftratus est:" and yet Tertullian, in another part of

his Apologists, exposes the inconsistency of prohi­

biting inquiries, and enjoining punishments.

fj9] F.uscbius (Hist. Eccleliast. l.iv.c. 9.) has

preserved the edict of Hadrian, He has likewise

(c. 13.) given us one still more favourable under the

name of Antoninus; the authenticity of which is

not so universally allowed. The second apology os

Justin contains some curious particulars relative to

the accusations of christians.

[60] See Tertullian (Apolog. c. 40). The acts

of the martyrdom of Polycarp, exhibit a lively

picture of these tumults, which were usually fo­

mented by the malice of the Jews.

[61] These regulations are inserted in the above

nventioned edicts of Hadrian and Pius. See the

apology of Melito, (apud Euseb. 1. iv. c. 26.)

[62] See the rescript of Trajan, and the conduct

of Pliny. The most authentic acts of the martyrs

abound in these exhortations.

[63] In particular, fee Tertullian, (Apol. c. 2',

3,). and Lactantius (Institut. Divin. v. 9). Their

reasonings are almost the fame; but we may dis­

cover, that one of these apologists had been a lawyer,

and the other a rhetorician.

[64] See two instances of this kind of torture in

the Acta Sincera Martyrum. publistied by Ruinart,

p. 160. 399. Jerome, in his Legend of Paul the

Hermit, tells a strange story of a young man, who

'was chained naked on a bed of flowers, and as­

saulted by a beautiful and wanton courtezan. He

quelled the riling temptation by biting off his

tongue.

[65I The conversion of his wife provoked Clau­

dius Herminianus, governor of Cappadocia, to treat;

the christians with uncommon severity. Tertullian

ad Scapulam, c. 3.

f 66] Tertullian, in his epistle to the governor of

Africa, mentions several remarkable instances of

lenity and forbearance, which had happened within

his knowledge.

[67} Neque enim in universum aliquid quod

quasi certam formats habeat, constitui potest: an

expression of Trajan, which gave a very great lati­

tude to the governors of provinces.

[68] In Metalla damnamur, in insulas relege-

mur. Tertullian. Apolcg. c. 12. The mines ot

Numidia contained nine bishops, with a proportion­

able number of their Clergy aud people, to whom

Cyprian addresscd~a pious epistle of praise and com­

fort. See Cyprian. Epistol. j6, 77.

[69] Though we cannot receive with entire con­

fidence, either the epistles, or the acts of Ignatius,

(they may be found in the 2d volume of the Apo­

stolic Fathers) yet we may quote that bifliop of

Antioch as one of these txemplary martyrs. He was

sent in chains to Rome as a public spectacle: and

when he arrived at Troas, he received the pleasing

intelligence, that the persecution of Antioch was al­

ready at an end-

[70] Among the martyrs of Lyons, (Euseb. 1. v,

c. 1.) the stave Blandina was distinguished by more

exquisite tortures. Of the five martyrs so much ce­

lebrated in the acts of Felicitas and Perpetua, two

were of a sen ile, and two others of a very mean

condition.

[71] Origen advers. Celsum, I. iti. p. 116. Hi*

words deserve to be trai.scribed. "OXiyoi xur»

[72] If we recollect that til the Plebeians of

Rome were not christians, and that all the christians

were not saints and martyrs, we mayjudge with how

much safety religious honours can oe ascribed to

bones or urns, indiscriminately taken from the

public burial place. After ten centuries of a very

free and open trade, some suspicions hare arisen

among

