OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2S7

was declared the most worthy of the imperial throne. The malice

of religious zeal, whilst it arraigns the savage fierceness of his col­

league Maximian, has affected to cast suspicions on the personal

courage of the emperor DiocletianIt would not be easy to per­

suade us of the cowardice of a soldier of fortune, who acquired and

preserved the esteem of the legions, as well as the favour of so many

Warlike princes. Yet even calumny is sagacious enough to discover

and to attack the most vulnerable part. The valour of Diocletian

was never found inadequate to his duty or to the occasion; but he

appears not to have possessed the daring and generous spirit of a

hero, who courts danger and fame, disdains artifice, and boldly

challenges the allegiance of his equals. His abilities were useful

rather than splendid; a vigorous mind, improved by the experience

and study of mankind; dexterity and application in business; a

judicious mixture of liberality and ceconomy, of mildness and ri­

gour; profound dissimulation under the disguise of military frank­

ness; steadiness to pursue his ends; flexibility to vary his means;

and above all the great art of submitting his own passions, as well

as those of others, to the interest of his ambition, and of colouring

his ambition with the most specious pretences of justice and public

utility. Like Augustus, Diocletian may be considered as the found­

er of a new empire. Like the adopted son of Cæsar, he was dis­

tinguished as a statesman rather than as a warrior; nor did either

of those princes employ force, whenever their purpose could be

effected by policy.

The victory of Diocletian was distinguished by its singular mild- His clemency

ness. A people accustomed to applaud the clemency of the con- 30 v,ct)ry*

queror, if the usual punishments of death, exile, and confiscation

were inflicted with any degree of temper and equity, beheld, with

the most pleasing astonishment, a civil war, whose rage was confined

to the field of battle. Diocletian received into his confidence Ari-

stobulus, the principal minister of the house of Carus, respected the

lives,

