OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. u

l>lows, the generals with death; and it was an inflexible maxim of

Roman discipline, that a good soldier should dread his officers far

more than the enemy. From such laudable arts did the valour of

the Imperial troops receive a degree of firmness and docility, unattain­

able by the impetuous and irregular passions of barbarians.

And yet so sensible were the Romans of the imperfection of va- Exercises,

lour without skill and practice, that, in their language, the name

of an army was borrowed from the word which signified exercise ,fi.

Military exercises were the important and unremitted object of their

discipline. The recruits and young soldiers were constantly trained

both in the morning and in the evening, nor was age or knowledge

allowed to excuse the veterans from the daily repetition of what

they had completely learnt. Large sheds were erected in the win­

ter-quarters of the troops, that their useful labours might not

receive any interruption from the most tempestuous weather; and it

was carefully observed, that the arms destined to this imitation of

war, should be of double the weight which was required in real

action '7. It is not the purpose of this work to enter into any mi­

nute description of the Roman exercises. We shall only remark,

that they comprehended whatever could add strength to the body,

activity to the limbs, or grace to the motions. The soldiers were

•diligently instructed to march, to run, to leap, to swim, to carry

heavy burdens, to handle every species of arms that was used

either for offence or for defence, either in distant engagement or

in a closer onset; to form a variety of evolutions; and to move to

the found of flutes, in the pyrrhic or martial dance ,s. In the

midst of peace, the Roman troops familiarised themselves with the

practice of war; and it is prettily remarked by an ancient historian

who had fought against them, that the effusion of blood was the

only circumstance which distinguished a field of battle from a field

of exercise ". It was the policy of the ablest generals, and even of

the emperors themselves, to encourage these military studies by their

C 2 presence

