OFTHE ROMAN EMPIRE.

greatness of its cities will serve to confirm the former, and to multiply

the latter. It may not be unpleasing to collect a few scattered instances

relative to that subject, without forgetting, however, that from the

vanity of nations arid the poverty of language, the vague appellation

of city has been indifferently bestowed on Rome and upon Lau-

rentum. Ancient Italy is said to have contained eleven hundred In July,

and ninety-seven cities ;J and for whatsoever æra of antiquity

the expression -might be intended '*, there is not any reason to

believe the country less populous in the age of the Antonines, than

in that of Romulus. The petty states of Latium were contained

within the metropolis of the empire, by whose superior influence

they had been attracted. Those parts of Italy which have so long

languished under the lazy tyranny of priests and viceroys, had

been afflicted only by the more tolerable calamities of war; and

the first symptoms of decay, which they experienced, were amply

compensated by the rapid improvements of the Cisalpine Gaul.

The splendor of Verona may be traced in its remains: yet Verona

was less celebrated than Aquileia or Padua, Milan or Ravenna.

II. The spirit of improvement had passed the Alps, and been felt Gaul and

even irt the woods- of Britain. York was the feat of government, Spam'

and London was already enriched by commerce. Gaul could boast

of her twelve hundred cities 7r; and though, in the northern parts,

many of them, without excepting Paris itself, were little more

than the rude and imperfect townships of a rising people; the

southern provinces imitated the wealth and elegance of Italy 7<s.

Many were the cities of Gaul, Marseilles, Aries, Nismes, Nar-

bonne, Thoulouse, Bourdeaux, Autun, Vienna, Lyons, Langres,

and Treves, whose ancient condition might sustain an equal, and

pefhaps advantageous comparison With their present state. With

regard to Spain, tbat- country flourished as a province, and has de­

clined as a kingdom. Exhausted by the abuse of her strength,

by America, and by superstition, her pride might possibly be con-

Vol. I. H founded,

