OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

situde of fortune *. On the death of that emperor, his testament

was publickly read in the senate. He bequeathed, as a valuable

legacy to his successors, the advice of confining the empire within

those limits, which Nature seemed to have placed as its permanent

bulwarks and boundaries; on the west the Atlantic ocean; the

Rhine and Danube on the north; the Euphrates on the east; and

towards the south, the sandy deserts of Arabia and Africa 4.

Happily for the repose of mankind, the moderate system recom- imitated by

mended by the wisdom of Augustus, was adopted by the fears and

vices of his immediate successors. Engaged in the pursuit of pleasure,

or in the exercise of tyranny, the first Cæsars seldom shewed

themselves to the armies, or to the provinces; nor were they dis­

posed to suffer, that those triumphs which their indolence neglected,

should be usurped by the conduct and valour of their lieutenants.

The military fame of a subject was considered as an insolent in­

vasion of the Imperial prerogative; and it became the duty, as well

as interest of every Roman general, to guard the frontiers entrusted

to his care, without aspiring to conquests which might have proved

no less fatal to himself than to the vanquished barbarians5.

The only accession which the Roman empire received, during Conquest of

the first century of the Christian Æra, wa6 the province of Britain, she first
ex!

In this single instance the successors of Cæsar and Augustus were "P11011 M *

persuaded to follow the example of the former, rather than the

precept of the latter. The proximity of its situation to the coast of

Gaul seemed to invite their arms; the pleasing, though doubtful

intelligence of a pearl fishery, attracted their avarice6; and as

Britain was viewed in the light of a distinct and insulated world,

the conquest scarcely formed any exception to the general system of

continental measures. After a war of about forty years, under­

taken by the most stupid7, maintained by the most dissolute,

and terminated by the most timid of all the emperors, the far

greater part of the island submitted to the Roman yoke8. The

B 2 various

