OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

ported by any principle of loyalty; and treason, against such a

prince, might easily be considered as patriotism to the state. Yet if

we examine with candour the conduct of these usurpers, it will ap­

pear, that they were much oftener driven into rebellion by their

fears, than urged to it by their ambition. They dreaded the cruel

suspicions of Gallienus; they equally dreaded the capricious violence

of their troops. If the dangerous favour of the army had impru­

dently declared them deserving of the purple, they were marked

for sure destruction; and even prudence would counsel them, to

secure a short enjoyment of empire, and rather to try the fortune of

war, than to expect the hand of an executioner. "When the

clamour of the soldiers invested the reluctant victims with the en­

signs of sovereign authority, they sometimes mourned in secret

their approaching fate. "You have lost," said Saturninus, on

the day of his elevation, " you have lost a useful commander, and

"you have made a very wretched emperor ,6'."

The apprehensions of Saturninus were justified by the repeated

experience of revolutions. Of the nineteen tyrants who started up

under the reign of Gallienus, there was not one who enjoyed a life

of peace, or a natural death. As soon as they were invested with

the bloody purple, they inspired their adherents with the fame fears

and ambition which had occasioned their own revolt. Encompassed

with domestic conspiracy, military sedition, and civil war, they

trembled on the edge of precipices, in which after a longer or

shorter term of anxiety, they were inevitably lost. These precarious

monarchs received, however, such honours, as the flattery of their

respective armies and provinces could bestow; but their claim

founded on rebellion, could never obtain the sanction of law or

history. Italy, Rome, and the senate, constantly adhered to the

cause of Gallienus, and he alone was considered as the sovereign of

the empire. That prince condescended indeed to acknowledge the

victorious arms of Odenathus, who deserved the honourable distinc-

Vol. I. O o tion,

