82 • THE DECLINE AND FALL

insensibility j,, "When Persia was governed hy the descendants of Sesi, a race

of the onen-'

tals. of princes, whose wanton cruelty often stained their divan, their

table, and their bed, with the blood of their favourites, there is a

saying recorded of a young nobleman, that he never departed from

the sultan's presence, without satisfying himself whether his head

was still on his shoulders. The experience of every day almost

justified the scepticism of Rustan 5\ Yet the fatal sword suspended

above him by a single thread, seems not to have disturbed the slum­

bers, or interrupted the tranquillity of the Persian. The monarch's

frown, he well knew, could level him with the dust; but the

stroke of lightning or apoplexy might be equally destructive j

and it was the part of a wife man, to forget the inevitable calamities

of human life in the enjoyment of the fleeting hour. He was

dignified with the appellation of the king's slave; had, perhaps,

been purchased from obscure parents, in a country which he had

never known; and was trained up from his infancy, in the severe

discipline of the seraglio His name, his wealth, his honours, were

the gift of a master, who might, without injustice, resume what

he had bestowed. Rustan's knowledge, if he possessed any,

could only serve to confirm his habits by prejudices. His lan­

guage afforded not words for any form of government, except

absolute monarchy. The history of the east informed him, that

such had ever been the condition of mankind The Koran, and the

interpreters of that divine book, inculcated to him, that the sultan

was the descendant of the prophet,, and the vicegerent of Heaven;

that patience was the first virtue of a Mussulman, and unlimited

obedience the great duty of a subject.

Knowledge ^e minds of the Romans were very differently prepared for

and free spi- slavery. Oppressed beneath the weight of their own corruption

lit of the .... c ...

Romans. and of military violence, they for a long while preserved the sen­

timents, or at least the ideas of their freeborn ancestors. The

education of Helvidius and Thrasea, of Tacitus and Pliny, was the

fame

