OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 473

the world itself; which, as it had once perished by the element of

water, was destined to experience a second and a speedy destruction

from the element of fire. In the opinion of a general conflagration,

the faith of the Christian very happily coincided with the tradition

of the East, the philosophy of the Stoics, and the analogy of Nature:

and even the country, which had been chosen from religious motives

for the origin and principal scene of the conflagration, was the best

adapted for that purpose by natural and physical causes; by its deep

caverns, beds of sulphur, and numerous volcanos, of which those

of Ætna, of Vesuvius, and of Lipari, exhibit a very imperfect re­

presentation. The calmest and most intrepid sceptic could not re­

fuse to acknowledge, that the destruction of the present system of -

the world by fire, was in itself extremely probable. The Christian,

who founded his belief much less on the fallacious arguments of

reason than on the authority of tradition and the interpretation

of scripture, expected it with terror and confidence as a certain and

approaching event; and as his mind was perpetually filled with the

solemn idea, he considered every disaster that happened to the em­

pire as an infallible symptom of an expiring world 6;.

The condemnation of the wisest and most virtuous of the pagans, The pa^ani

on account of their ignorance or disbelief of the divine truth, seems
eteevrnai °

to offend the reason and the humanity of the present age But Punisliment-

the primitive church, whose faith was of a much firmer consistence,

delivered over, without hesitation, to eternal torture, the far greater

part of the human species. A charitable hope might perhaps be

indulged in favour of Socrates, or some other sages of antiquity,

who had consulted the light of reason before that of the gospel had

arisen 69. But it was unanimously affirmed, that those who, since

the birth or the death os Christ, had obstinately persisted in the

worship of the dæmons, neither deserved nor could expect a pardon

from the irritated justice of the Deity. These rigid sentiments,

which had been unknown to the ancient world, appear to have in-

Vol. I. P p p fused

