OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

expected, the most lavish rewards. The provinces long oppressed

by the ministers of the republic, sighed for the government of a

single person, who would be the master, not the accomplice, of

those petty tyrants. The people of Rome, viewing, with a secret

pleasure, the humiliation of the aristocracy, demanded only bread

and public shows; and were supplied with both by the liberal hand

of Augustus. The rich and polite Italians, who had almost univer­

sally embraced the philosophy of Epicurus, enjoyed the present

blessings of ease and tranquillity, and suffered not the pleasing dream

to be interrupted by the memory of their old tumultuous freedom.

With its power, the senate had lost its dignity; many of the most

noble families were extinct. The republicans of spirit and ability

had perished in the field of battle, or in the proscription. The door

of the assembly had been designedly left open, for a mixed multi­

tude of more than a thousand persons, who reflected disgrace upon

their rank, instead of deriving honour from it \

The reformation of the senate, was one of the first steps in which *?« fero;ms

r the senate.

Augustus laid aside the tyrant, and professed himself the father of

his country. He was elected censor; and, in concert with his

faithful Agrippa, he examined the list of the senators, expelled a

few members, whose vices or whose obstinacy required a public

example, persuaded near two hundred to prevent the shame of an

expulsion by a voluntary retreat, raised the qualification of a sena­

tor to about ten thousand pounds, created a sufficient number of

Patrician families, and accepted for himself, the honourable title

of Prince of the Senate, which had always been bestowed, by the

censors, on the citizen the most eminent for his honours and services \

But whilst he thus restored the dignity, he destroyed the independ­

ence of the senate. The principles of a free constitution are irre­

coverably lost, when the legislative power is appointed by the ex­

ecutive.

6 Before

