58 2 THE DECLINE AND FALL

End of the

persecutions.

Probable ac­

count of the

sufferings of

the martyrs

and confes­

sors.

he obtained from the citizens of Tyre is still extant. He praises

their zeal and devotion in terms of the highest satisfaction, descants on

the obstinate impiety of the Christians, and betrays, by the readiness

with which he consents to their banishment, that he considered him­

self as receiving, rather than as conferring, an obligation. The priests

as well as the magistrates were empowered to enforce the execution

of his edicts which were engraved on tables of brass; and though it

was recommended to them to avoid the effusion of blood, the most

cruel and ignominious punishments were inflicted on the refractory

Christians

The Asiatic Christians had every thing to dread from the severity

of a bigoted monarch, who prepared his measures of violence with

such deliberate policy. But a few months had scarcely elapsed, be­

fore the edicts publistied by the two western emperors obliged Maxi-

min to suspend the prosecution of his designs: the civil war which he

so rashly undertook against Licinius employed all his attention; and

the defeat and death of Maximin soon delivered the church from the

last and most implacable~of her enemies ,7<s.

In this general view of the persecution, which was first authorized

by the edicts of Diodesian, I have purposely refrained from describ­

ing the particular sufferings and deaths of the Christian martyrs. It

would have been an easy task, from the history of Eusebius, from

the declamations of Lactantius, and from the most ancient acts, to

collect a long series of horrid and disgustful pictures, and to fill

many pages with racks and scourges, with iron hooks, and red-hot

beds, and with all the variety of tortures which fire and steel, savage

beasts and more savage executioners, could inflict on the human

body. These melancholy scenes might be enlivened by a crowd of

visions and miracles destined either to delay the death, to celebrate

the triumph, or to discover the relics of those canonized saints who

suffered for the name of Christ. But I cannot determine what I ought

to transcribe, till I am satisfied how much I ought to believe. The

gravest

