Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

formed to obey rather than so command, though, perhaps, he never

attained the skill of a consummate general, he was capable, by his

valour, constancy, and experience, of executing the most arduous

undertakings. Nor were the vices of Maximian less useful to his

benefactor. Insensible to pity, and fearless of consequences, he

was the ready instrument of every act of cruelty which the policy

of that artful prince might at once suggest and disclaim. As soon

as a bloody sacrifice had been offered to prudence or to revenge,

Diocletian, by his seasonable intercession, saved the remaining few

whom he had never designed to punish, gently censured the severity

of .his stern colleague, and enjoyed the comparison of a golden and

an iron age, which was universally applied to their opposite maxims

of government. Notwithstanding the difference of their characters,

the two emperors maintained, on the throne, that friendship which

they had contracted in a private station. The haughty turbulent*

spirit of Maximian, so fatal afterwards to himself and to the

public peace, was accustomed to respect the genius of Diocletian,,

and confessed the ascendant of reason over brutal violence 8. From

a motive either of pride or superstition, the two emperors assumed

the titles, the one of Jovius, the other of Herculius. Whilst the

motion of the world (such was the language of their venal orators)

was maintained by the all-seeing wisdom of Jupiter, the invincible

arm of Hercules purged the earth of monsters and tyrants 9.

But even the omnipotence of Joviusand Herculius was insufficient to
Association of

two Cæsars,

fdstain the weight of the public administration. The prudence of Dio- Galerius
and

cletian discovered, that the empire, assailed on every side by the barba- a.
d. 292".

rians, required on every side the presence of a great army, and of an Ma '*

emperor. With this view he resolved once more to divide his unwieldy

power, and with the inferior title of Cafars, to confer on two generals

of approved merit an equal share of the sovereign authority ". Ga* ■

terius, surnamed Armentarius, from his original profession of a

iierdsman, and Gonstantius, who from his pale complexion had

5 acquired

