THE DECLINE AND FALL

the principle of evil eternally buried in darkness. The wife benevo­

lence of Ormusd formed man capable of virtue, and abundantly pro­

vided his fair habitation with the materials of happiness. By his

vigilant providence, the motion of the planets, the order of the

seasons, and the temperate mixture of the elements are preserved.

But the malice of Ahriman has long since pierced Ormusd's egg-t

or, in other words, has violated the harmony of his works. Since

that fatal irruption, the most minute particles of good and evil

are intimately intermingled and agitated together; the rankest

poisons spring up amidst the most salutary plants; deluges, earth­

quakes, and conflagrations, attest the conflict of Nature, and the

little world of man is perpetually shaken by vice and misfortune;

Whilst the rest of human kind are led away captives in the chains

of their infernal enemy, the faithful Persian alone, reserves his

religious adoration for his friend and protector Ormusd, and sights

under his banner of light, in the full confidence, that he shall, in

the last day, mare the glory of his triumph. At that decisive

period, the enlightened wisdom of goodness will render the power

of Ormusd superior to the furious malice of his rival. Ahriman and

his followers, disarmed and subdued, will sink into their native^

darkness; and virtue will maintain the eternal peace and harmony

of the universe

The theology of Zoroaster was darkly comprehended by foreigners,,

and even by the far greater number of his disciples; but the most

careless observers were struck with the philosophic simplicity of the

Persian worship. "That people, says Herodotus rejects the

"use of temples, of altars, and of statues, and smiles at the folly of

*' those nations, who imagine that the gods are sprung from,  
"or bear any affinity with the human nature. The tops of the

"highest mountains are the places chosen for sacrifices. Hymns

'* and prayers are the principal worship; the Supreme God who

'* fills the wide circle of Heaven^ is the object to whom they are

6 "addressed."

