144 THE DECLINE AND FALL

flecting on the sure consequences of his own conduct, he would

perhaps have enjoyed the dark prospect of the distress and calamities

which he bequeathed to his successors.

Macrinus at- In the management of this necessary reformation, Macrinus pro-

foraation of ceeded with a cautious prudence, which would have restored health

the army. vigour to the Roman army, in an easy and almost imperceptible

manner. To the soldiers already engaged in the service, he was

constrained to leave the dangerous privileges and extravagant pay

given by Caracalla *, but the new recruits were received on the libe­

ral but more moderate establishment of Severus, and gradually

formed to modesty and obedience *J. One fatal error destroyed the

salutary effects of this judicious plan. The numerous army, as­

sembled in the East by the late emperor, instead of being imme­

diately dispersed by Macrinus through the several provinces, was

suffered to remain united in Syria, during the winter that followed

his elevation. In the luxurious idleness of their quarters, the troops

viewed their strength and numbers, communicated their complaints,

and revolved in their minds the advantages of another revolution.

The veterans, instead of being flattered by the advantageous distinc­

tion, were alarmed by the first steps of the emperor, which they

considered as the presage of his future intentions. The recruits,

with sullen reluctance, entered on a service, whose labours were in­

creased while its rewards were diministied by a covetous and unwar-

like sovereign. The murmurs of the army swelled with impunity

into seditious clamours; and the partial mutinies betrayed a spirit

of discontent and disaffection, that waited only for the slightest occa­

sion to break out on every side into a general rebellion. To minds

thus disposed, the occasion soon presented itself.

Deatii rsthe The empress Julia had experienced all the vicissitudes of
fortune.

lia^Educa- From an humble station, she had been raised to greatness only to

Con- f!nd"l ta^e tne u,Per'or bitterness of an exalted rank. She was doomed

volt of EL- to weep over tne death of one of her sons, and over the life of
the

other.

