OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

garrison of six hundred archers, returned to Emesa, and employed

some time in the distribution of rewards and punishments at the

end of so memorable a war, which restored to the obedience of Rome

those provinces that had renounced their allegiance since the cap足

tivity of Valerian.

When the Syrian queen was brought into the presence of Aure- ^^^r of

lian, he sternly*aiked her, How (he had presumed to rise in arm6

against the emperors of Rome? The answer of Zenobia was a pru足

dent mixture of respect and firmness. "Because I disdained to con-

"sider as Roman emperors an Aureolus or a Gallienus. You alone

"I ackowledge as my conqueror and my sovereign71." But as

female fortitude is commonly artificial, so it is seldom steady or con足

sistent. The courage of Zenobia deserted her in the hour of trial; she

trembled at the angry clamours of the soldiers, who called aloud for her

immediate execution, forgot the generous despair of Cleopatra, which

she had proposed as her model, and ignominioufly purchased life by the

sacrifice of her fame and her friends. It was to their counsels which

governed the weakness of her sex, that she imputed the guilt of her ob足

stinate resistance; it was on their heads that she directed the vengeance

of the conqueror. The fame of Longinus, who was included among

the numerous and perhaps innocent victims of her fear, will survive

that of the queen who betrayed, or the tyrant who condemned him.

Genius and learning were incapable of moving a fierce unlettered

soldier, but they had served to elevate and harmonise the soul of

Longinus. Without uttering a complaint, he calmly followed the

executioner, pitying his unhappy mistress, and bestowing comfort

on his afHicted friends 7\

Returning from the conquest of the East, Aurelian had already Rebellion and

crossed the Streights which divide Europe from Asia, when he was myra.

provoked by the intelligence that the Palmyrenians had massacred

the governor and garrison which he had left among them, and again

erected the standard of revolt. Without a moment's deliberation,

Vol. I. S f he

