320 THE DECLINE AND FALL

He marches

into the East,

and is assassi­

nated.

A. D. 274.

Oaober.

of a citizen, chastised by military execution the flighted offences,

and transferred the stern discipline of the camp into the civil admi­

nistration of the laws. His love of justice often became a blind

and furious passion; and whenever he deemed his own or the

public safety endangered, he disregarded the rules of evidence, and

the proportion of punishments. The unprovoked rebellion with

which the Romans rewarded his services, exasperated his haughty spirit.

The noblest families of the capital were involved in the guilt or

suspicion of this dark conspiracy. A hasty spirit of revenge urged

the bloody prosecution, and it proved fatal to one of the nephews .

of the emperor. The executioners were fatigued, the prisons

crowded, and the unhappy senate lamented the death or absence of

its most illustrious members 9!. Nor was the pride of Aurelian less

offensive to that assembly than his cruelty. Ignorant or impatient

of the restraints of civil institutions, he disdained to hold his power

by any other title than that of the sword, and governed by right of

conquest an empire which he had saved and subdued 9+.

It was observed by one of the most sagacious of the Roman

princes, that the talents of his predecessor Aurelian, were better

suited to the command of an army, than to the government of an

empire95. Conscious of the character in which Nature and expe­

rience had enabled him to excel, he again took the field a few

months after his triumph. It was expedient to exercise the restless

temper of the legions in some foreign war, and the Persian monarch,

exulting in the shame of Valerian, still braved with impunity the

offended majesty of Rome. At the head of an army, less formidable

by its numbers than by its discipline and valour, the emperor ad­

vanced as far as the Streights which divide Europe from Asia. He

there experienced, that the most absolute power is a weak defence a-

gainst the effects of despair. He had threatened one of his secretaries who

was accused of extortion; and it was known that he seldom threat­

ened in vain. The last hope which remained for the criminal, was

to

