S72 THE DECLINE AND FALL

torians, from whom alone we derive a partial and imperfect know­

ledge of this persecution, are at a loss how to account for the fears

and danger of the emperors. Two of these writers, a Prince and a

Rhetorician, weie eye-witnesses of the fire of Nico.media. The one

ascribes it to lightning, and the divine wrath ; the other affirms,

that it was kindled by the malice of Galeriusjiimself,5S. .. .

Executori of ^ t^e aprajnst trie Christians was designed for a general law

the first edict. ° o r- o

of the whole empire, and as Diocletian and Galerius, though they

might not wait for the consent, were assured of the concurrence

of the western princes, it would appear more consonant to our ideas

of policy, that the governors of all the provinces should have

received secret instructions to publish, on one and the same day,

this declaration of war within their respective departments. It

was at least to be expected, that the convenience of the public high^

ways and established posts would have enabled the emperors to

transmit their orders with the utmost dispatch from the palace of Nico-

media to the extremities of the Roman world; and that they would

not have suffered fifty days to elapse, before the edict was published

in Syria, and near four months before it was signified to the cities

of Africa ,s6. This delay may perhaps be imputed to the cautious

temper of Diocletian, who had yielded a reluctant consent to the

measures of persecution, and who was desirous of trying the ex­

periment under his more immediate eye, before he gave way to

the disorders and discontent which it must inevitably occasion in

the distant provinces. At first, indeed, the magistrates were re­

strained from the effusion of blood; but the use of every other

severity was permitted and even recommended to their zeal; nor

could the Christians, though they cheerfully resigned the ornaments

of their churches, resolve to interrupt their religious assemblies,

or to deliver their sacred books to the flames. The pious obstinacy

of Felix, an African bishop, appears to have embarrassed the sub­

ordinate ministers of the government. The curator of the city sent

7 him

