OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

immediate representations of the Gods, and the holy instruments

of their worship, the elegant forms and agreeable fictions con­

secrated by the imagination of the Greeks, were introduced a»

the richest ornaments of the houses, the dress, and the furniture*

of the Pagans 4°. Even the arts of music and painting, of eloquence

and poetry, flowed from the fame impure origin. In the style

of the fathers, Apollo and the Muses were the organs of the

infernal spirit, Homer and Virgil were the most eminent of his

servants, and the beautiful mythology which pervades and animates

the compositions of their genius, is destined to celebrate the glory

of the dæmons. Even the common language of Greece and Rome

abounded with familiar but impious expressions, which the im­

prudent Christian might too carelessly utter, or too patiently

hear 47.

The dangerous temptations, which on every side lurked in Festival*,

ambush to surprise the unguarded believer, assailed him with re­

doubled violence on the days of solemn festivals. So artfully

were they framed and disposed throughout the year, that super­

stition always wore the appearance of pleasure, and often of vir­

tue *8. Some of the most sacred festivals in the Roman ritual were

destined to salute the new calends of January with vows of public

and private felicity, to indulge the pious remembrance of the dead

and living, to ascertain the inviolable bounds of property, to hail*

on the return of spring, the genial powers of fecundity, to per­

petuate the two memorable aeras of Rome, the foundation of the

city, and that of the republic, and to restore, during the humane

license of the Saturnalia, the primitive equality of mankind. Some

idea may be conceived of the abhorrence of the Christians for such

impious ceremonies, by the scrupulous delicacy which they dis­

played on a much less alarming occasion. On days of general

festivity, it was the custom of the ancients to adorn their doors

with lamps and with branches of laurel, and to crown their heads

Vol. I. O o o with

