328 THE DECLINE AND FALL

confidence8"*1 Circular epistles were sent, without delay, to all the
principal

■ cities of the empire, Treves, Milan, Aquileia, Thessalonica, Corinth,

Athens, Antioch, Alexandria, and Carthage, to claim their obe­

dience, and to inform them of the happy revolution, which had

restored the Roman senate to its ancient dignity. Two of these

epistles are still extant. We likewise possess two very singular frag­

ments of the private correspondence of the senators on this oc­

casion. They discover the most excessive joy, and the most un­

bounded hopes. "Cast away your indolence,'' it is thus that one

of the senators addresses his friend, " emerge from your retire-

"ments of Baiæ and Puteoli. Give yourself to the city, to the

"senate. Rome flourishes, the whole republic flourishes. Thanks

".to the Roman army, to an army truly Roman; at length, we

"have recovered our just authority, the end of all our desires.

"We hear appeals, we appoint proconsuls, we create emperors:

"perhaps too we may restrain them—to the wife, a word is suffi-

(* cient These lofty expectations were, however, soon dis­

appointed; nor, indeed, was it possible, that the armies and the

provinces should long obey the luxurious and unwarlike nobles of

Rome. On the flightest touch, the unsupported fabric of their

pride and power fell to the ground. The expiring senate displayed

a sudden lustre, blazed for a moment, and was extinguished for

ever.

A. D. 276. All that had yet passed at Rome was no more than a theatrical

Tacius is ac­

knowledged representation, unless it was ratified by the more substantial
power

by the army. ^ ^ legions. Leaving the senators to enjoy their dream of free­

dom and ambition, Tacitus proceeded to the Thracian camp, and was

there, by the Prætorian præfect, presented to the assembled troops,

as the prince whom they themselves had demanded, and whom the

senate had bestowed. As soon as the præfect was silent, the em­

peror addressed himself to the soldiers with eloquence and propriety.

He

