OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

would prefer even a female scepter to the sanctity of the Roman

laws. The consul then addressing himself to Tacitus, the first of

the senators *, required his opinion on the important subject of a

proper candidate for the vacant throne.

If we can prefer personal merit to accidental greatness, we shall charter of

esteem the birth of Tacitus more truly noble than that of kings. Tacitas*

He claimed his descent from the philosophic historian, whose writ­

ings will instruct the last generations of mankind 5. The senator

Tacitus was then seventy-five years of age 6. The long period of

his innocent life was adorned with wealth and honours. He had

twice been invested with the consular dignity 7, and enjoyed his am­

ple patrimony of between two and three millions sterling with ele­

gance and sobriety 8. The experience of so many princes, whom

he had esteemed or endured, from the vain follies of Elagabalus to

the useful rigour of Aurelian, taught him to form a just estimate of

the duties, the dangers, and the temptations, of their sublime

station. From the assiduous study of his immortal ancestor he derived

the knowledge of the Roman constitution, and of human nature

The voice of the people had already named Tacitus as the citizen

the most worthy of empire. The ungrateful rumour reached his

ears, and induced him to seek the retirement of one of his villas in

Campania. He had pasted two months in the delightful privacy of

Faiæ, when he reluctantly obeyed the summons of the consul to

resume his honourable place in the senate, and to assist the republic

with his counsels' on this important occasion.

He arose to speak, when, from every quarter of the house, he was He is elected

saluted with the names of Augustus and emperor. *' Tacitus Au- empcr0r»

"gustus, the gods preserve thee, we chuse thee for our sovereign .

•*Mto thy care we entrust the republic and the world. Accept the

** empire from the authority of the senate. It is due to thy rank,  
**• to thy conduct, to thy manners." As soon as the tumult of ac­  
clamations subsided, Tacitus attempted to decline the dangerous

honour,

