OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE:

inimitable character of the style of Tacitus; by his reputation, -

which guarded his text from the interpolations of pious fraud, and

by the substance of his narration, which accused the first Christians

of the most atrocious crimes, without insinuating that they pos­

sessed any miraculous or even magical powers above the rest of

mankind 55. 2. Notwithstanding it is probable that Tacitus was

born some years before the fire of Rbme 36, he could derive only

from reading and conversation the knowledge of an event which

happened during his infancy. Before he gave himself to the pub­

lic, he calmly waited till his genius had attained its full maturity,

and he was more than forty years of age, when a grateful regard

for the memory of the virtuous Agricola, extorted from him the

most early of those historical compositions which will delight and

instruct the most distant posterity. After making a trial of his

strength in the life of Agricola and the description of Germany, he

conceived, and at length executed, a more arduous work, the his­

tory of Rome, in thirty books, from the fall of Nero to the acces­

sion of Narva. The administration of Nerva introduced an age of

justice and prosperity, which Tacitus had destined for the occu­

pation of his old age37; but when*he took a nearer view of his

subject, judging, perhaps, that it was a more honourable, or a less

invidious office, to record the vices of past tyrants, than to cele­

brate the virtues of a reigning monarch, he chose rather to relate,

under the form of annals, the actions of the four immediate successors

of Augustus. To collect, to dispose* and to adorn a series of fourscore

years, in an immortal work, every sentence of which is pregnant

with the deepest observations and the most lively images, was an un­

dertaking sufficient to exercise the genius of Tacitus himself during

the greatest part of his life. In the last years of the. reign of Trajan,

whilst the victorious monarch extended the power of Rome beyond

its ancient limits, the historian was describing, in the second and

fourth books of his annals, the tyranny of Tiberius33; and the

6-! . emperot

