OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

superiority of his genius and military power, he determined, with­

out any previous injury, to exert them for the destruction of Licinius,

whose advanced age and unpopular vices seemed tt> offer a very

easy conquest ,0J. But the old emperor, awakened by the approach­

ing danger, deceived the expectations of his friends as well as

of his enemies. Calling forth that spirit and those abilities by which

he had deserved the friendship of Galerius and the imperial purple,

he prepared himself for the contest, collected the forces of the

East, and soon filled the plains of Hadrianople with his troops,

and the Streights of the Hellespont with his fleet. The army con­

sisted of one hundred and fifty thousand foot, and fifteen thousand

horse; and as the cavalry was drawn, for the most part, from

Phrygia and Cappadocia, we may conceive a more favourable opinion

of the beauty of the horses than of the courage and dexterity of their

riders. The fleet was composed of three hundred and fifty gallies p

of three ranks of oars. An hundred and thirty of these were fur­

nished by Egypt, and the adjacent coast of Africa. An hundred

and ten sailed from the ports of Phœnicia and the ifle of Cyprus;

and the maritime countries of Bithynia, Ionia, and Caria, were

likewise obliged to provide an hundred and ten gallies. The

troops of Constantine were ordered to rendezvous at Theflalonica;

they amounted to above an hundred and twenty thousand horse

and foot '°4. Their emperor was satisfied with their martial ap­

pearance, and his army contained more soldiers, though fewer men

than that of his eastern competitor. The legions of Constantine

were levied in the warlike provinces of Europe; action had

confirmed their discipline, victory had elevated their hopes, and

there were among them a great number of veterans, who, after

seventeen glorious campaigns under the fame leader, prepared them­

selves to deserve an honourable dismission by a last effort of their

valour "". But the naval preparations of Constantine were in every

L 1 1 2 respect

