OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 323

memory of their deceased sovereign. Such acknowledgments as.

gratitude could inspire, they returned to the faithful armies of the

republic, who entertained so just a sense of the legal authority of

the senate in the choice of an emperor. Yet, notwithstanding this

flattering appeal, the most prudent of the assembly declined ex­

posing their safety and dignity to the caprice of an armed multi­

tude. The strength of the legions was, indeed, a pledge of their

sincerity ; but could it. naturally be expected, that a hasty repent­

ance would correct the inveterate habits of fourscore years ? Should

the soldiers relapse into their accustomed seditions, their insolence

might disgrace the majesty of the senate, and prove fatal to the

object of its choice. Motives like these dictated a decree, by which

the election of a new emperor was referred to the suffrage of the

military order. , .

. The contention that ensued is one of the best attested, but most A. D. t7y.

improbable events in the history of mankind \ The troops, as if ,A£3fJ'

satiated with the exercise of power, again conjured the senate to in-
rfSJff1^*

vest one of its own body with the imperial purple. The senate months'

still persisted in its refusal; the army in its request. The recipro­

cal offer was pressed and rejected at least three times, and whilst the

obstinate modesty of either party was resolved to receive a master

from the hands of the other, eight months insensibly elapsed: an

amazing period of tranquil anarchy, during which the Roman

world remained without a sovereign, without an usurper, and with­

out a sedition. The generals and magistrates appointed by Aure-

lian continued to execute their ordinary functions, and it is observed,

that a proconsul of Asia was the only considerable person removed

from his office, in the whole course of the interregnum.

An event somewhat similar, but much less authentic, is supposed

to have happened after the death of Romulus, who, in his life and

character, bore some affinity with Aurelian. The throne was va­

cant during twelve months, till the election of a Sabine philosopher,

T t 2 and

