3i* THE DECLINE AND FALL

Persian monarch. The triumphal car of Aurelian, (it had formerly-

been used by a Gothic king) was drawn, on this memorable occasion,

either by four stags or by four elephantst0. The most illustrious of the

senate, the people, and the army, closed the solemn procession. Un­

feigned joy, wonder and gratitude, swelled the acclamations of the

multitude; but the satisfaction of the senate was clouded by the

appearance of Tetricus; nor could they suppress a rising murmur,

that the haughty emperor mould thus expose to public ignominy

the person of a Roman and a magistrate

His treat- But however, in the treatment of his unfortunate rivals, Aure-

uicus and lian might indulge his pride, he behaved towards them with a ge-

1 1' nerous clemency, which was seldom exercised by the ancient con­

querors. Princes who, without success, had defended their throne

or freedom, were frequently strangled in prison, as soon as the tri­

umphal pomp ascended the capitol. These usurpers, whom their defeat

had convicted of the crime of treason, were permitted to spend their

lives in affluence and honourable repose. The emperor presented Ze-

nobia with an elegant villa at Tibur, or Tivoli, about twenty miles

from the capital; the Syrian queen insensibly sunk into a Roman

matron, her daughters married into noble families, and her race

was not yet extinct in the fifth century 8\ Tetricus and his son

were reinstated in their rank and fortunes. They erected on the

Cælian hill a magnificent palace, and as soon as it was finished, in­

vited Aurelian to supper. On his entrance, he was agreeably sur­

prised with a picture which represented their singular history.

They were delineated offering to the emperor a civic crown and the

scepter of Gaul, and again receiving at bis hands the ornaments

of the senatorial dignity. The father was afterwards invested

with the government of Lucania 8}, and Aurelian, who soon admit­

ted the abdicated monarch to his friendship and conversation, fami­

liarly alked him, Whether it were not more desirable to administer

a province of Italy, than to reign beyond the Alps? The son long

continued

