j5g THE DECLINE AND FALL

Seditions of The Prætorian guards were attached to the youth of Alexander.

the Piætorian m , 1 j - ■ e

guard?, and They loved him as a tender pupil, whom they had saved from

u°pfan.°f * tyrant's fury, and placed on the Imperial throne. That amiable

prince was sensible of the obligation, but as his gratitude was re­

strained within the limits of reason and justice, they soon were

more dissatisfied with the virtues of Alexander, than they had

ever been with the vices of Elagabalus. Their præfect, the wife

Ulpian, was the friend of the laws and of the people; he was

considered as the enemy of the soldiers, and to his pernicious

councils every scheme of reformation was imputed. Some trifling

accident blew up their discontent into a furious mutiny; and a

civil war raged, during three days, in Rome, whilst the life of that

excellent minister was defended by the grateful people. Terrified,

at length by the sight of some houses in flames, and by the threats

of a general conflagration, the people yielded with a sigh, and left

the virtuous, but unfortunate Ulpian to his fate. He was pursued

into the Imperial palace, and massacred at the feet of his master,

who vainly strove to cover him with the purple, and to obtain his

pardon from the inexorable soldiers. Such was the deplorable

weakness of government, that the emperor was unable to revenge

his murdered friend and his insulted dignity, without stooping to

the arts of patience and dissimulation. Epagathus, the principal

leader of the mutiny, was removed from Rome, by the honourable

employment of præfect of Egypt; from that high rank he was

gently degraded to the government of Crete; and when, at length,

his popularity among the guards, was effaced by time and ab­

sence, Alexander ventured to inflict the tardy, but deserved punish­

ment of his crimes 7+. Under the reign of a just and virtuous

prince, the tyranny of the army threatened with instant death

his most faithful ministers, who were suspected of an intention to

, correct their intolerable disorders. The historian Dion Cassius had

Ditigcr ot

Dion Caflius. commanded the Pannonian legions with the spirit of ancient dis­

cipline.

