324 THE DECLINE AND FALL

and the public peace was guarded in the fame manner, by the union of

the several orders of the state. But, in the the time of Numa and Ro­

mulus, the arms of the people were controuled by the authority of the"

Patricians; and the balance of freedom was easily preserved in a small

and virtuous community '. The decline of the Roman state, far different

from its infancy, was attended with every circumstance that could

banish from an interregnum the prospect of obedience and harmony,

an immense and tumultuous capital, a wide extent of empire, the ser­

vile equality of despotism, an army of four hundred thousand mer­

cenaries, and the experience of frequent revolution. Yet, notwith­

standing all these temptations, the discipline and memory of Aure-

lian still restrained the seditious temper of the troops, as well as the'

fatal ambition of their leaders-. The flower of the legions main­

tained their station on the banks of the Bosphorus, and the imperial

standard awed the less powerful camps of Rome and of the pro­

vinces. A generous though transient enthusiasm diffused itself?

among the military order; and we may hope that a few real pa­

triots cultivated the returning friendship of the army and the se­

nate, as the only expedient capable of restoring the republic to itsi

ancient beauty and vigour.

A.TT. 17;. On the twenty-fifth of September, near eight"months1 after • the"

The'cmis"5' murder of Aurelian, the consul convoked an assembly of the senate^

senate!*" ant* rePorte(* tne doubtful and dangerous situation of' the empire.
•

He slightly insinuated, that the precarious loyalty of the soldiers-

depended on the chance of every hour; and of every accident; but*

he represented, with the most convincing eloquence, the various?

dangers that might attend any farther delay in the choice of an

emperor. Intelligence, he said, was already received, that the Ger­

mans had passed the Rhine, and occupied some of the strongest and

most opulent cities of. Gaul. The ambition-of the Persian king-

kept the East in perpetual alarms; Egypt, Africa, and lllyricum,

were exposed to foreign and domestic arms, and the levity of Syria

3 would

