THE DECLINE AND FALL

Parthian and Babylonian leather, cottons, silks, both raw and manu­

factured, ebony, ivory, and eunuchs ,co. We may observe that the

use and value of those effeminate slaves gradually rose with the

decline of the empire.

The excise. TC. The excise, introduced by Augustus after the civil wars, was

extremely moderate, but it was general. It seldom exceeded one

per cent.; but it comprehended whatever was fold in the markets

or by public auction, from the most considerable purchases of lands

and houses, to those minute objects which can only derive a value

from their infinite multitude and daily consumption. Such a tax,

as it affects the body of the people, has ever been the occasion of

clamour and discontent. An emperor well acquainted with the

wants and resources of the state, was obliged to declare by a public

edict, that the support of the army depended in a great measure on

the produce of the excise

Tax on lega- III. When Augustus resolved to establish a permanent military

riuncei nhe" force for the defence of his government against foreign and
domestic

enemies, he instituted a peculiar treasury for the pay of the soldiers,

the rewards of the veterans, and the extraordinary expences of

war. The ample revenue of the excise, though peculiarly appro­

priated to those uses, was found inadequate. To supply the defi­

ciency, the emperor suggested a new tax of five per cent, on all

legacies and inheritances. But the noble6 of Rome were more tena­

cious of property than of freedom. Their indignant murmurs were

received by Augustus with his usual temper. He candidly referred

the whole business to the senate, and exhorted them to provide for

the public service by some other expedient of a less odious nature.

They were divided and perplexed. He insinuated to them, that

their obstinacy would oblige him to propose a general land-tax and

capitation. They acquiesced in silence "\ The new imposition on

legacies and inheritances, was however mitigated by some restric­

tions. It did not take place unless the object was of a certain value,

most

