OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1*3

Yet in the contest between Niger and Severus, one city deserves an sie2e of

Byzantium.

honourable exception. As Byzantium was one of the greatest passages

from Europe into Asia, it had been provided with a strong garrison,

and a fleet of five hundred vessels anchored in the harbour The

impetuosity of Severus disappointed this prudent scheme of defence;

he left to his generals the siege of Byzantium, forced the less guarded

passage of the Hellespont, and impatient of a meaner enemy, pressed

forward to encounter his rival. Byzantium, attacked by a numerous

and increasing army, and afterwards by the whole naval power of

the empire, sustained a siege of three years, and remained faithful

to the name and memory of Niger. The citizens and soldiers (we

know not from what cause) were animated with equal fury; se­

veral of the principal officers of Niger, who despaired of, or who

disdained a pardon, had' thrown themselves into this last refuge:

the fortifications were esteemed impregnable, and, in the defence of

the place, a celebrated engineer displayed all the mechanic powers

known to the ancients s*. Byzantium, at length, surrendered to

famine. The magistrates and soldiers were put to the sword, the

walls demolished, the privileges suppressed, and the destined capital

of the east subsisted only as an open village, subject to the insulting

jurisdiction of Perinthus. The historian Dion, who had admired

the, flourishing, and lamented the desolate state of Byzantium, ac­

cused the revenge of Severus, for depriving the Roman people of

the strongest bulwark against the barbarians of Pontus and Asia 5!.

The truth of this observation was but too well justified in the

succeeding age, when the Gothic fleets covered the Euxine, and

passed through the undefended Bosphorus into the center of the Me­

diterranean.

Both Niger and Albinus were discovered and put to death in Deaths of

their flight from the field of battle. Their fate excited neither Jgd

surprise nor compassion. They had staked their lives against the Cruel conse_

* ^ ° quenccs of

chance of empire, and suffered what they would have inflicted; the civil wars.

R 2 nor

