THE DECLINE AND FALL

142

Election and

character of

Macr.nui.

A.D. 217-

March U.

Discontent

os the senate,

having rivalled his valour and magnanimity: but in no one action of

his life did Caracalla express the faintest resemblance of the Mace­

donian hero, except in the murder of a great number of his own and

of hi3 father's friends *\

After the extinction of the house of Severus, the Roman world

remained three days without a master. The choice ot" the army (for

the authority of a distant and feeble senate was little regarded) hung

in anxious suspense; as no candidate presented himself whose distin­

guished birth and merit could engage their attachment and unite

their suffrages. The decisive weight of the Prætorian guards ele­

vated the hopes of their prefects, and these powerful ministers be*

gan to assert their legal claim to fill, the vacancy of the Imperial

throne. Adventus, however, the senior praefect, conscious of his

age and infirmities, of his small reputation, and his smaller abili­

ties, resigned the dangerous honour to the crafty ambition of his

Colleague Macrinus, whose well dissembled grief removed all sus­

picion of his being accessary to his master's death *'. The troops

neither loved nor esteemed his character. They cast their eyes

around in search of a competitor, and at last yielded with reluctance

to his promises of unbounded liberality and indulgence. A short

time after his accession, he conferred on his son Diadumenianus, at

the age of only ten years, the Imperial title and the popular name

of Antoninus. The beautiful figure of the youth, assisted by an

additional donative, for which the ceremony furnished a pretext,

might attract, it was hoped, the favour of the army, and secure

the doubtful throne of Macrinus.

The authority of the new sovereign had been ratified by the cheer­

ful submission of the senate and provinces. They exulted in their

unexpected deliverance from a hated tyrant, and it seemed of little

consequence to weigh the virtues of the successor of Caracalla. But

as soon as the first transports of joy and surprise had subsided, they

began to scrutinize the merits of Macrinus with a critical severity,

2 and

