OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 47

stadium which he constructed at Athens. It was six hundred feet

in length, built entirely of white marble, capable of admitting the

whole body of the people; and finished in four years, whilst

Herod was president of the Athenian games. To the memory of

his wife Regilla, he dedicated a theatre, scarcely to be paralleled in

the empire: no wood except cedar, very curiously carved, was em­

ployed in any part of the building. The Odeum, designed by

Pericles for musical performance, and the rehearsal of new tragedies,

was a trophy of the victory of the arts over Barbaric greatness;

as the timbers employed in the construction consisted chiefly of the

masts of the Persian vessels. Notwithstanding it had been once

repaired by a king of Cappadocia, it was again fallen to decay.

Herod restored its ancient beauty and magnificence. Nor was the

liberality of that illustrious citizen confined to the walls of Athens.

The most splendid ornaments bestowed on the temple of Neptune

in the Isthmus, a theatre at Corinth, a stadium at Delphi, a bath

at Thermopylæ, and an aqueduct at Canusi uni in Italy^ were

insufficient to exhaust his treasures. The people of Epirus, Thef-

faly, Eubœa, Bceotia, and Peloponnesus, experienced his favours;

and many inscriptions of the cities of Greece and Asia gratefully

style Herodes Atticus, their patron and benefactor 7°.

In the commonwealths of Athens and Rome, the modest sim- Molt of the-

plicity of private houses announced the equal condition of freedom; numems"^

whilst the sovereignty of the people was represented in the ma- fempL^he-

jestic edifices destined to the public use 7": nor was this republican a^cue"

spirit totally extinguished by the introduction of wealth and mo­

narchy. It was in works of national honour and benefit,

that the most virtuous of the emperors affected to display their

magnificence.' The golden palace of Nero excited a just indigna­

tion, but the vast extent of ground which had been usurped by his

selfish luxury, was more nobly silled under the succeeding reign*

by the Coliseum, the baths of Titus, the Claudian portico, and

4 the

