394 THE DECLINE AND FALL

possible that such an impatient spirit could find any lasting tran-»

quillity.

Retirement Diocletian, who* from a servile origin, had' raised himself to the

os Diocletian «• » « - in <•«•<■•«•• *

at Salona. throne, pasted th.e rune last years of his Use in a private
condition,

Reason had dictated, and content seems to have accompanied his

retreat, in which he enjoyed for a long time the respect of those

princes to whom he had resigned the possession of the worklj'".

It is seldom that minds, long exercised in business, have formed

any habits of conversing with themselves, and in the loss of power

they principally regret the want of occupation. The amusements

*of letters and, of devotion, which afford so many resources Ln  
solitude, were incapable of fixing the attention of Diocletian;

but he had preserved* or at least he soon recovered a taste for the

most innocent as. well as natural pleasures, and his leisure hours

we*e sufficiently employed in building, planting, and gardening.

His phaoso. His. answer to- Maximian is deservedly celebrated. He was
solicited

by that restless old man to reassume the reins of government and

the imperial purple. He rejected- the temptation with' a smile of

pity, calmly observing, that if he could shew Maximian the cab*

bages which he had planted with, his own hands at Salona, he

should no longer be urged to relinquish, the enjoyment of happiness

for the pursuit of power "\. In his conversations with his friends,

he frequently acknowledged, that of all arts, the most difficult was

the ar t of reigning; and he expressed himself on that favourite topic

with a degree of warmth which could be the result only of ex­

perience. ,c How often, was he accustomed to fay, is it the interest

M of four or five ministers to combine together to deceive their

"sovereign. Secluded from mankind by his exalted dignity, the

"truth is concealed from his knowledge; he can fee only with

"their eyes, he hears nothing but their misrepresentations. He

"confers the most important offices upon vice and weakness, and

"disgraces

i

