OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 223

women, children, and cattle, whilst the warriors of the tribe marched

out to repel a sudden invasion '9. But Tacitus asserts, as a well

known fact, that the Germans, in his time, had no cities *°; and

that they affected to despise the works of Roman industry, as a

places of confinement rather than of security Their edifices were

not even contiguous, or formed into regular villages 12; each bar­

barian fixed his independent dwelling on the spot to which a plain,

a wood, or a stream of fresh water, had induced him to give the pre­

ference. Neither stone, nor brick, nor tiles, were employed in these

flight habitations". They were indeed no more than low huts of

a circular figure, built of rough timber, thatched with straw, and

pierced at the top, to leave a free passage for the smoke. In the

most inclement winter, the hardy German was satisfied with a scanty

garment made of the skin of some animal. The nations who dwelt

towards the North, clothed themselves in furs; and the women ma­

nufactured for their own use a coarse kind of linen **. The game

of various forts, with which the forests of Germany were plenti­

fully stocked, supplied its inhabitants with food and exercise *J.

Their numerous herds of cattle, less remarkable indeed for their

beauty than for their utilitylS, formed the principal object of their

wealth. A small quantity of corn, was the only produce exacted

from the earth: artificial meadows and orchards were unknown to

the Germans; nor can we expect any improvements in agriculture

from a people, whose property every year experienced a general

change by a new division of the arable lands, and who, in that strange

operation, avoided disputes, by suffering a great part of their terri­

tory to lie waste and without tillage *7.

Gold, silver, and iron, were extremely scarce in Germany. Its and of the use

barbarous inhabitants wanted both Ikill and patience to investigate m S*

those rich veins of silver, which have so liberally rewarded the at­

tention of the princes of Brunswick and Saxony. Sweden, which

now supplies Europe with iron, was equally ignorant of its own

2 riches;

