OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5*7

But we are still assured by monuments of brass and marble, by the

imperial medals, and by the Antonine column, that neither the

prince nor the people entertained any fense of this signal obligation,

since they unanimously attribute their deliverance to the providence

of Jupiter, and to tlie interposition of Mercury. During the whole

course of his reign, Marcus despised the Christians as a philosopher,

•and punished them as a sovereign >"'.

By a singular fatality, the hardships which they had endured un- c^Ufi^fir

der the government of a virtuous prince,, immediately ceased on the ^ommodus^

accession of a tyrant, and as none except themselves had experien- •nd-
Severus..

A. D. 180..

ced the injustice of Marcus, so they alone were protected by the

lenity of Commodus. The celebrated Marcia, the most favoured of

his concubines, and who at length contrived the murder of her im­

perial lover, entertained a singular affection for the oppressed

church; and though it was impossible that she could reconcile the

practice of vice with the precepts of the Gospel, she might hope ta

atone for the frailties of her sex and profession, by declaring herself

the patroness of the Christians ,c6. Under the gracious protection

of Marcia, they passed in safety the thirteen years of a cruel ty­

ranny; and when the empire was established in the house of Sever

rus, they formed a domestic but more honourable connexion with

the new court.. : The emperor was persuaded, that, in a dangerous

sickness, he had derived some benefit, either spiritual or physical,

from the holy oil, with which one of his slaves had anointed him.

He always treated with peculiar distinction several persons of both

sexes who had embraced the new religion. The nurse, as well as

the preceptor, of Caracalla, were Christians; and if that young prince

ever betrayed a sentiment of humanity, it was occasioned by an in­

cident, which, however trifling, bore some relation to the cause of

Christianity ,C7. Under the reign of Severus, the fury of the popu­

lace was checked, the rigour of ancient laws was for some time sus­

pended j and the provincial governors were satisfied with receiving

