8o THE DECLINE AND FALL

against the adherents of the traitor 4\ War he detested, as the

disgrace and calamity of human nature; hut when the necessity of

a just defence called upon him to take up arms, he cheerfully ex­

posed his person to eight winter campaigns, on the frozen banks of

the Danube, the severity of which was at last fatal to the weakness

of his constitution. His memory was revered by a grateful posteri­

ty, and above a century after his death, many persons preserved the

image of Marcus Antoninus among those of their household

gods49.

Happiness of If a man were called to fix the period in the history of the
world,

t.eRoman. ^ur-ing which the condition of the human race was most happy and

prosperous, he would, without hesitation, name that which elapsed

from the death of Domitian to the accession of Conuriodus. The

vast extent of the Roman empire was governed by absolute power,

under the guidance of virtue and wisdom. The armies were

restrained by the firm but gentle hand of four successive emperors,

whose characters and authority commanded involuntary respect. The

forms of the civil administration were carefully preserved by Nerva,

Trajan, Hadrian, and the Antonines, who delighted in the image

of liberty, and were pleased with considering themselves, as the

accountable ministers of the laws. Such princes deserved the

honour of restoring the republic, had the Romans of their days

been capable of enjoying a rational freedom.

Its precarious The labours of these monarchs were over-paid by the immense

reward that inseparably waited on. their success; by the honest

pride of virtue, and by the exquisite delight of beholding the

general happiness of which they were the authors. A just, but

melancholy reflection, embittered, however, the noblest of hu­

man enjoyments. They must often have recollected the instability

of a happiness which depended on the character of a single man.

The fatal moment v/as perhaps approaching, when some licentious

youth, or some jealous tyrant, would abuse, to the destruction,

that

nature.

