OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 201

successors. The Medes and the Babylonians divided their power,

and were themselves swallowed up in the monarchy of the Persians,

whose arms could not be confined within the narrow limits of Asia.

Followed, as it is said, by two millions of men, Xerxes, the descendant

of Cyrus, invaded Greece. Thirty thousand soldiers, under the

command of Alexander, the son of Philip, who was intrusted by

the Greeks with their glory and revenge, were sufficient to subdue

Persia. The princes of the house of Seleucus usurped and lost the

Macedonian command over the East. About the same time, that,

by an ignominious treaty, they resigned to the Romans the country

on this side Mount Taurus, they were driven by the Parthians, an

obscure horde, of Scythian origin, from all the provinces of Upper

Asia. The formidable power of the Parthians, which spread from

India to the frontiers of Syria, was in its turn subverted by Ardstiir,

or Artaxerxes; the founder of a new dynasty, which, under the

name of Sassanides, governed Persia till the invasion of the Arabs.

This great revolution, whose fatal influence was soon experienced by

the Romans, happened in the fourth year of Alexander Severus,

two hundred and twenty-six years after the Christian sera *.

Artaxerxes had served with great reputation in the armies of ThePe''"ian

° x monarchy

Artaban, the last king of the Parthians, and it appears that he was <"est°red
by

it- • • Artaxerxes.

driven into exile and rebellion by royal ingratitude, the customary

reward for superior merit. His birth was obscure, and the obscurity

equally gave room to the aspersions of his enemies, and the flattery

of his adherents. If we credit the scandal of the former, Arta­

xerxes sprang from the illegitimate commerce of a tanner's wife

with a common soldier \ The latter represent him, as descended

from a branch of the ancient kings of Persia, though time and

misfortune had gradually reduced his ancestors to the*humble station

of private citizens 4. As the lineal heir of the monarchy, he

asserted his right to the throne, and challenged the noble taste of

delivering the Persians from the oppression under which they

uVol. I. D d groaned

