OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tants. When the return of famine severely admonished them of the

importance of the arts, the national distress was sometimes allevi­

ated by the emigration of a third, perhaps, or a fourth part of their

youth'7. The possession and the enjoyment of property, are the

pledges which bind a civilized people to an improved country. But

the Germans, who carried with them what they most valued, their

arms, their cattle, and their women, cheerfully abandoned the vast

silence of their woods for the unbounded hopes of plunder and con­

quest. The innumerable swarms that issued, or seemed to issue-,

from the great storehouse of nations, were multiplied by the fears

of the vanquished, and by the credulity of succeeding ages. And

from facts thus exaggerated, an opinion was gradually established,

and has been supported by writers of distinguished reputation, that,

in the age of Cæsar and Tacitus, the inhabitants of the North were

far more numerous than they are in our days3*. A more serious

inquiry into the causes of population, seems to have convinced mo­

dern philosophers of the falsehood, and indeed the impossibility,

of the supposition. To the names of Mariana and of Machiavel'%

we can oppose the equal names of Robertson and of Hume *°.

A warlike nation like the Germans, without either cities, letters, German

arts, or money, found some compensation for this savage state in freedom'

the enjoyment of liberty. Their poverty secured their freedom*

since our desires and our possessions are the strongest fetters of des­

potism. "Among the Suiones, (fays Tacitus) riches are held in

*' honour. They are therefore subject to an absolute monarch, who,  
"instead of intrusting his people with the free use of arms, as i6

"practised in the rest of Germany, commits them to the safe cus-

M tody not of a citizen, or even of a freedman, but of a stave.

"The neighbours of the Suiones, the Sitones, are funk even below

"servitude; they obey a woman In the mention of these ex­

ceptions, the great historian sufficiently acknowledges the general

theory of government. We are only at a loss to conceive by what

G g 2 mean*

