THE DECLINE AND FALL

fected to confound themselves with their* subjects, and maintained

with them att equal intercourse of visits and entertainments. Their

habit, their palace, their table were suited only to the rank of an

opulent senator. Their family, however numerous or splendid,

was composed entirely of their domestic slaves and freedmen **•

Augustus or Trajaa wsuld have blushed at employing the meanest

of the Romans in those menial offices, which, in the household and

bedchamber of a limited monarch, are so eagerly solicited by the

proudest nobles of Britain.

The deification of the emperors ** is the only instance in

which they departed from their accustomed prudence and mo­

desty. The Asiatic Greeks were the first inventors, the suc­

cessors of Alexander the first objects, of this servile and im­

pious mode of adulation. It was easily transferred from the kings

to the governors of Asia; and the Roman magistrates very fre­

quently were adored as provincial deities, with the pomp of altars

and temples, of festivals and sacrifices **. It was natural that the

emperors should not refuse what the proconsuls had accepted, and

the divine honours which both the one and the other received

from the provinces, attested rather the despotism than the ser­

vitude of Rome. But the conquerors soon imitated the vanquished

nations in the arts of flattery; and the imperious spirit of the first

Caesar too easily consented to assume, during his life-time, a place

among the tutelar deities of Rome. The milder temper of his

successor declined so dangerous an ambition, which was never after­

wards revived, except by the madness of Caligula and Domitian.

Augustus permitted indeed some of the provincial cities to erect tem­

ples to his honour, on condition that they should associate the wor-

(hip of Rome with that of the sovereign; he tolerated private

superstition, of which he might be the object " ^ but he contented

himself with being revered by the senate and people in his human

character, and wisely left to his successor, the care of his public

deification.

