THE DECLINE AND FALL

A mixed body Jn the

reien of the emperor Caracalla, an innumerable swarm of

osSuevi al- ° 1

fume the name Suevi appeared on the banks of the Mein, and in the neighbour^

of Alemanni,

hood of the Roman provinces, in quest either of food, of plunder,

or of glory Ss. The hasty army of volunteers gradually coalesced

into a great and permanent nation; and, as it was composed from

so many different tribes, assumed the name of Alemanni, or All-

men; to denote at once their various lineage, and their common

bravery S6. The latter was soon felt by the Romans in many a

hostile inroad. The Alemanni fought chiefly on horseback; but their

cavalry was rendered still more formidable by a mixture of light

infantry, selected from the bravest and most active of the youth,

whom frequent exercise had enured to accompany the horsemen in

the longest march, the most furious charge, or the most precipitate

retreat 8\

invade Gaul This warlike people of Germans had been astonished by the im-

and Italy, y

mense preparations of Alexander Severus, they were dismayed by the

arms of his successor, a barbarian equal in valour and fierceness to

themselves. But still hovering on the frontiers of the empire, they

increased the general disorder that ensued after the death of Decius.

They inflicted severe wounds on the rich provinces of Gaul: they

were the first who removed the veil that covered the feeble majesty

of Italy. A numerous body of the Alemanni penetrated across the

Danube, and through the Rhsetian Alps, into the plains of Lom-

bardy, advanced as far as Ravenna, and displayed the victorious

banners of barbarians, almost in fight of Rome 88. The insult and

the danger rekindled in the senate some sparks of their ancient

virtue. Both the emperors were engaged in far distant wars, Vale­

rian in the east, and Gallienus on the Rhine. All the hopes and

are repulsed resources of the Romans, were in themselves. In this emergency.

from Rome 0 ''

by the senate the senators resumed the defence of the republic, drew out the

and people

Prætorian guards, who had been left to garrison the capital, and

filled

