OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97

But the meanest of the populace were affected with shame and Acts as a

• i- • 1 1 • r • gladiator.

indignation when they beheld their sovereign enter the lists as a

gladiator, and glory in a profession, which the laws and manners of

the Romans had branded with the justest note of infamy ,s. He chose

the habit and arms of the Secutor, whose combat with the Retiarius

formed one of the most lively scenes in the bloody sports of the

amphitheatre. The Secutor was armed with an helmet, sword, and

buckler; his naked antagonist had only a large net and a trident;

with the one he endeavoured to entangle, with the other to dis­

patch, his enemy. If he missed the first throw, he was obliged to

fly from the pursuit of the Secutor, till he had prepared his net for a

second cast '7. The emperor fought in this character seven hundred

and thirty-five several times. These glorious achievements were

carefully recorded in the public acts of the empire; and that he

might omit no circumstance of infamy, he received from the com­

mon fund of gladiators a stipend so exorbitant, that it became a new

and most ignominious tax upon the Roman people j8. It may be

easily supposed, that in these engagements the master of the world

was always successful: in the amphitheatre his victories were not

often sanguinary; but when he exercised his skill in the school of

gladiators, or his own palace, his wretched antagonists were fre­

quently honoured with a mortal wound from the hand as Coramo-

dus, and obliged to seal their flattery with their blood ". -He now His infamy

disdained the appellation of Hercules. The name of Paulus, a cele-
!al.!Xirava*

brated Secutor, was the only one which delighted his ear. It was

inscribed on his colossal statues, and repeated in the redoubled accla­

mations 40 of the mournful and applauding senate *'. Claudius

Pompeianus, the virtuous husband of Lucilla, was the only senator

who asserted the honour of his rank. As a father, he permitted his

sons to consult their safety by attending the amphitheatre. As a

Roman, he declared, that his own life was in the emperor's hands,

but that he would never behold the son of Marcus prostituting his

Vol. I. O person

