OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of the Prætorian guards, and animated the legions to arms and to

revenge. He concluded (and the peroration was thought extremely

eloquent) with promising every soldier about four hundred pounds;

an honourable donative, double in value to the infamous bribe with

which Julian had purchased the empire The acclamations of the declared em.

army immediately saluted Severus with the names of Augustus, Perti-
p"°nr0nfjfe

nax, and Emperor; and he thus attained the lofty station to which £S™s'ig}

he was invited by conscious merit and a long train of dreams and April 13th.

omens, the fruitful offspring either of his superstition or policy 3o.

The new candidate for empire saw and improved the peculiar

advantage of his situation. His province extended to the Julian

Alps, which gave an easy access into Italy; and he remembered the

saying of Augustus, That a Pannonian army might in ten days ap­

pear in sight of Rome ". By a celerity proportioned to the great- Marche»into

ness of the occasion, he might reasonably hope to revenge Pertinax, It>y*

punish Julian, and receive the homage of the senate and people, as

their lawful emperor, before his competitors, separated from Italy

by an immense tract of sea and land, were apprized of his expe­

dition, or even of his election. During the march, he scarcely

allowed himself any moments for sleep or food; ever at the head of

his columns, he insinuated himself into the confidence and affection

of his troops, pressed their diligence, revived their spirits, animated

their hopes, and was well satisfied to share the hardships of the

meanest soldier, whilst he kept in view the infinite superiority of

his reward.

The wretched Julian had expected, and thought himself prepared, Advances to-

to dispute the empire with the governor of Syria; but in the invin- vludsRome'

cible and rapid approach of the Pannonian legions, he saw his ine­

vitable ruin. The hasty arrival of every messenger, increased his

just apprehensions. He was successively informed, that Severus had

passed the Alps; that the Italian cities, unwilling or unable to op­

pose his progress, had received him with the warmest professions of

Qw2 joy

