l3o THEDECLINEANDFALL

to preserve the fame of his victory, and several edifices raised

at the expence of Maxentius, were dedicated to the honour of

his successful rival. The triumphal arch of Constantine still re­

mains a melancholy proof of the decline of the arts, and a singular

testimony of the meanest vanity. As it was not possible to find in the

capital of the empire, a sculptor who was capable of adorning that

public monument; the arch of Trajan, without any respect either

for his memory or for the rules of propriety, was stripped of its

most elegant figures. The difference of times and persons, of

actions and characters, was totally disregarded. The Parthian

captives appear prostrate at the feet of a prince who never had

the smallest connexion with that people; and curious antiquarians

can still discover the head of Trajan on the trophies of Constantine.

The new ornaments which it was necessary to introduce between

the vacancies of ancient sculpture, are executed in the rudest and

most unskilful manner 7+.

and conduct The final abolition of the Prætorian guards was a measure of

prudence as well as of revenge. Those haughty troops, whose

numbers and privileges had been restored, and even augmented by

Maxentius were for ever suppressed by Constantine. Their fortified

camp was destroyed, and the few Prætorians who had escaped the

fury of the sword, were dispersed among the legions, and banished

to the frontiers of the empire, where they might be serviceable

without again becoming dangerous 7S. By suppressing the troops

which were usually stationed in Rome, Constantine gave the fatal

blow to the dignity of the senate and people, and the disarmed

capital was exposed without protection to the insults or neglect of

its distant master. We may observe, that in this last effort to

preserve their expiring freedom, the Romans, from the appre­

hension of a tribute, had raised Maxentius to the throne. He ex­

acted that tribute from the senate, under the name of a free gift.

They implored the assistance of Constantine. He vanquished the

tyrant,

