OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 22X

to the Greeks aud Romans the siege of Troy. On a narrow baÆs

of acknowledged truth, an immense but rude superstructure of fable

has been erected; and the wild Irishman", as well as the wild

Tartar '4, could point out the individual son of Japhet, from whose

loins his ancestors were lineally descended. The last century

abounded with antiquarians of profound learning and easy faith,

who, by the dim light of legends and traditions, of conjecture*

and etymologies, led the great-grandchildren of Noah from the

Tower of Babel to the extremities of the globe. Of these judicious-

critics, one of the most entertaining was Olaus Rudbeck, professor

in the university of Upsal ". Whatever is celebrated either in his­

tory or fable, this zealous patriot ascribes to his country. From

Sweden (which formed so considerable a part of ancient Germany)

the Greeks themselves derived their alphabetical characters, their

astronomy, and their religion. Of that delightful region (for such

it appeared to the eye» of a native) the Atlantis of Plato, the coun­

try of the Hyperboreans, the gardens of the Hesperides, the For­

tunate Iflands, and even the Elysian Fields, were all but faint and

imperfect transcripts. A clime so profusely favoured by Nature,,

could not long remain desert after the flood. The learned Rudbeck

allows the family of Noah a few years to multiply from eight to>

about twenty thousand persons. He then disperses them into small

colonies to replenish the earth, and to propagate the human species.

The German or Swedilh detachment (which marched, if I am not

mistaken, under the command of Astcenaz the son of Gomer, the

son of" Japhet) distinguistied itself by a more than common dili­

gence in the prosecution of this great work. The northern hive

cast its swarms over the greatest part of Europe, Africa, and Asia;

and (to use the author's metaphor) the blood circulated back from

the extremities to the heart.

But all this well-laboured system of German antiquities is anni- The Germans,

Dilated by a single fact, too well attested to admit of any doubt, Utters."' °

8 • and.

