OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. £90

and by bestowing them in marriage on some of his principal officers,

gradually introduced between the two nations, the closest and most

endearing connexions ".

But the most important condition of peace was understood rather »nd resigns^

1 A them the ptO«

than expressed in the treaty. Aurelian withdrew the Roman forces vin« of

from Dacia, and tacitly relinquished that great province to the

Goths and Vandals His manly judgment convinced him of the

solid advantages, and taught him to despise the seeming disgrace

of thus contracting the frontiers of the monarchyv The Dacian

subjects removed from those distant possessions which they were

unable to cultivate or defend, added strength and populousnefs to the

southern side of the Danube. A fertile territory, which the repe­

tition of barbarous inroads had changed into a desert, was yielded

to their industry, and a new province of Dacia still preserved the

memory of Trajan's conquests. The old country of that name

detained, however, a considerable number of its inhabitants who

dreaded exile more thart a Gothic master *J. These degenerate Ro­

mans continued to serve the empire, whose allegiance they had re­

nounced by introducing among their conquerors the first notions of

agriculture, the useful arts, and the conveniences of civilised life.

An intercourse of commerce and language was gradually established

between the opposite banks of the Danube; and after Dacia became

an independent state, it often proved the firmest barrier of the

empire against the invasions of the savages of the north. A fense of

interest attached these more settled barbarians to the alliance of

Rome, and a permanent interest very frequently ripens into sincere

and useful friendship. This various colony which filled the ancient

province, and was insensibly blended into one great people, still ac­

knowledged the superior renown and authority of the Gothic tribe,

and claimed the fancied honour of a Scandinavian origin. At the

same time the happy resemblance of the name of Getæ, infused

among the credulous Goths, a vain persuasion, that in a remote

QjJ 2 age,

