478 THE DECLINE AND FALL

I

their pretensions after they had lost their power. Credulity per­

formed the office of faith; fanaticism was permitted to assume the

language of inspiration, and the effects of accident or contrivance

were ascribed to supernatural causes. The recent experience of

genuine miracles mould have instructed the Christian world in the

ways of providence, and habituated their eye (if we may use a

very inadequate expression) to the style of the divine artist. Should

the most skilful painter of modern Italy presume to decorate his

feeble imitations with the name of Raphael or of Correggio, the in­

solent fraud would be soon discovered and indignantly rejected.

Use of the Whatever opinion may be entertained of the miracles of the

miracles? primitive church since the time of the apostles, this unresisting
soft­

ness of temper, so conspicuous among the believers of the second

and third centuries, proved of some accidental benefit to the cause of

truth and religion. In modern times, a latent and even involuntary

scepticism adheres to the most pious dispositions. Their admission

of supernatural truths, is much less an active consent than a cold

and passive acquiescence. Accustomed long since to observe and to

respect the invariable order of Nature, our reason, or at least our

imagination, is not sufficiently prepared to sustain the visible action

of the Deity. But in the first ages of Christianity, the situation of

mankind was extremely different. The most curious, or the most

credulous, among the pagans, were often persuaded to enter into a

society, which asserted an actual claim of miraculous powers. The

primitive Christians perpetually trod on mystic ground, and their

minds were exercised by the habits of believing the most extraor­

dinary events. They felt, or they fancied, that on every side they

were incessantly assaulted by dæmons, comforted by visions, in­

structed by prophecy, and surprisingly delivered from dan­

ger, sickness, and from death itself, by the supplications of the

church. The real or imaginary prodigies, of which they so fre-

-quently conceived themselves to be the objects, the instruments,

or

