OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

tWs or in a future life, the crime of perjury is most assuredly

punished by the avenging gods'. But whilst they acknowledged

the general advantages of religion, they were convinced, that the

various modes of worstiip contributed alike to the fame salutary

purposes; and that in every country, the form of superstition, which

had received the sanction of time and experience, was the best adapted

to the climate, and to its inhabitants. Avarice and taste Very inthepw-

frequently despoiled the vanquished nations of the elegant statues of vinces'

their gods, and the rich ornaments of their temples IO: but, in the

exercise of the religion which they derived from their ancestors,

they uniformly experienced the indulgence, and even protection of

the Roman conquerors. The province of Gaul seems, and indeed

only seems an exception to this universal toleration. Under the fair

pretext of abolishing human sacrifices, the emperors Tiberius and

Claudius, suppressed the dangerous power of the Druids ": but the

priests themselves, their gods and their altars, subsisted in peaceful

obscurity till the final destruction of Paganism *\

Rome, the capital of a great monarchy, was incessantly filled with at Rome,

subjects and strangers from every part of the world ,J, who all in­

troduced and enjoyed the favourite superstitions of their native

country *. Every city in the empire was justified in maintaining'

the purity of its ancient ceremonies; and the Roman senate, using

the common privilege, sometimes interposed, to check this inunda­

tion . of foreign rites. The Egyptian superstition, of all the most

contemptible and abject, was frequently prohibited; the temples of

Serapis and Isis demolished, and their worshippers banished from Rome

and Italy But the zeal of fanaticism prevailed over the cold

and feeble efforts of policy. The exiles returned, the proselytes

multiplied, the temples were restored with increasing splendor,

and Isis and Serapis at length assumed their place among the

Roman deities ,6. Nor was this indulgence a departure from the

old maxims of government. In the purest ages of the common­

er.. I, F wealth,

