THE DECLINE AND FALL

rupted, by the habits of government. In the church as well as in

the world, the persons who were placed in any public station

rendered themselves considerable by their eloquence and firmness,

by their knowledge of mankind, and by their dexterity in business,

and while they concealed from others, and perhaps from them足

selves, the secret motive of their actions, they too frequently

relapsed into all the turbulent passions of active life, which were

tinctured with an additional degree of bitterness and obstinacy from

the infusion of religious zeal.

The government of the church has often been the subject as

well as the instrument of contention. The hostile disputants of

Rome, of Paris, of Oxford, and of Geneva, have each of them

strove to reduce the primitive and apostolic model ***, to the respec足

tive standards of their own policy. The few who have pursued

this inquiry with more candour and impartiality, are of opinion

that the apostles declined the office of legislation, and rather chose

to endure some partial scandals and divisions, than to exclude

the Christians of a future age from the liberty of varying their

forms of ecclesiastical government according to the changes of

times and circumstances. The scheme of policy, which, under their

approbation, was adopted for the use of the first century, may

be discovered from the practice of Jerusalem, of Ephesus, or of

Corinth. The societies which were instituted in the cities of the

Roman empire, were united only by the ties of faith and charity.

Independence and equality formed the basis of their internal con足

stitution. The want of discipline and human learning was sup足

plied by the occasional assistance of the prophets,e*, who were

called to that function without distinction of age, of sex, or of

natural abilities, and who, as often as they felt the divine impulse,

poured forth the effusions of the spirit in the assembly of the faithful.

But these extraordinary gifts were frequently abused Or misapplied

by the prophetic teachers. They displayed them at an improper

season,

