OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, '. i#

"might remain sole emperor j he Was unable to obtain it

"He requested, that the power might be equally divided between

"them; the army would not listen to his speech. He consented

"to be degraded to the rank of Caesar; the favour Was refused

*' him. He desired, at least, he might be appointed Prætorian  
"praefect; his prayer was rejected. Finally, he pleaded for hift

w life. The army, in these several judgments, exercised the Al*

"preme magistracy." According to the historian, whose doubtful

narrative the president De Montesquieu has adopted, Philip, Whos,

during the whole transaction, had preserved a sullen silence, Was

inclined to spare the innocent life of his benefactor; till, recollect­

ing that hit innocence might excite a dangerous compassion iri the

Roman world; he commanded, without regard to his suppliant

cries, that he should be seized, strips, and led aWay to instant death.

After a moment's pause the inhuman sentence was executed 54.

On his return from the east to Rome, Philip, desirous of ob- Reign of

liberating the memory of his-erimes, and of captivating the affections Phll'p'

of the people, solemnized the secular games with infinite pomp

and magnificence* Since their institution' or revival by Au­

gustus they had been celebrated by Claudius, by Domitian* and

by Severus, and were now renewed, the fifth time, on the ac­

complishment of the full period of a thousand years from the foun*

dation of Rome. Every circumstance of the secular games was SecuIar"

J "* games.

skilfully adapted to inspire the superstitious mind with deep and A- P-

solemn reverence. The long, interval between them50 exceeded1 the

term of human life;, and;as none of the spectators had already seen

them, none could flatter themselves with the expectation of be­

holding them a second time. The mystio sacrifices were performed,

during three nights, on the banks of the Tyber ; and the Campus-

Martius resounded with music and dances, and was illuminated

with innumerable lamps and torches. Slaves and strangers

were excluded' from the peculiar ceremonies of the republic. A

chorus

