342 THE DEGLINE AND FALt

Gladiators, reserved with nea* si* hundred others, for she inhuman

sports of the amphitheatre. Disdaining to shed their blood for the

amusement of the populace, they killed their keepers, broke from

the place of their confinement, and filled the streets of Rome With

blood and confusion* After an obstinate resistance they Were over­

powered and cut in pieces by the regular forces; but they obtained

at least an honourable death, and the satisfaction of * just re­

venge 56.

Hisdiseiplinc. The military discipline, which reigned in the camps of Probus,

was less cruel than that of Aurelian, but it was equally rigid and

exact. The latter punished the irregularities of the soldiers With

unrelenting severity, the former prevented them by employing the!

legions iri constant and useful labours. When Probus commanded

in Egypt, he executed many considerable Works for the" splendor

and benefit of that rich country. The navigation of the Nile, so

important to Rome itself, was improved j and temples, bridges,

porticoes', asld palaces, were constructed by the hands of the

soldiers, who acted by turns as architects, as engineers, and as

husbandnteri It was reported of Hannibal, that, in order to pie-

serve his troops from the dangerous temptations of idleness, he

had obliged them to form large plantations of olive trees along the

cOast of Africa s8. Frdm a similar principle, Probus efcercised his

legions in covering, with rich vineyards, the hills of Gaul and

Pahnbhiaj and two considerable spots are described, Whieh were

entirely dbg and planted by military labour One of these, known

under the name of Mount Alma, was situated neat Sifmium, the

country where Probus was torn, for which he ever retained a

partial affection, arid # whose gratitude he endeavoured to secure,

by converting into tillage a large and unhealthy tract of marshy

ground. An army thus employed, constituted perhaps the most use*

ful, as well as the bravest portion Of Romatt subjects.

But

