OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE,

by the abilities of Cyprian, and adorned by the eloquence of Lac-

tantius. But if, on the contrary, we turn our eyes towards Gaul,

we can only discern, in the time of Marcus Antoninus, the feeble and

united congregations of Lyons and Vienna; and even as late as the

reign of Decius, we are assured, that in a few cities, Aries, Nar-

bonne, Thoulouse, Limoges, Clermont, Tours, and Paris, some'

scattered churches were supported by the devotion of a small num足

ber of Christians '7'. Silence is indeed very consistent with devotion,

but as it is seldom compatible with zeal, we may perceive and la足

ment the languid state of Christianity in those provinces which had.

exchanged the Celtic for the Latin tongue, since they did not,

during the three first centuries, give birth to a single ecclesiastical

writer. From Gaul, which claimed a just pre-eminence of learning

and authority over all the countries on this fide of the Alps, the-

light of the gospel was more faintly reflected on the remote pro-

vinces of Spain and Britain; and if we may credit the vehement

assertions of Tertullian, they had already received the first rays of

the faith, when he addressed his apology to the magistrates of the.

emperor Severus ,?\ But the obscure and imperfect origin of the,

western churches of Europe has been so negligently recorded, that

if we would relate the time and manner of their foundation, we.

must supply the silence of antiquity by those legends which avarice,

or superstition long afterwards dictated to the monks in the lazy

gloom of their convents Of these holy romances, that of the

apostle St. James can alone, by its singular extravagance, deserve to

be mentioned. From a peaceful fisherman of the lake of Gennesa-

reth, he was transformed into a valorous knight, who charged at-

the head of the Spanish chivalry in their battles against the Moors.

The gravest historians have celebrated his exploits; the miracu足

lous flirine of Compostella displayed his power; and the sword of a.

military order, assisted by the terrors of the Inquisition, were suffi足

cient to remove every objection of profane criticism.''*;.

i Thee

