OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

•their complaints before the emperor. These military petitioners,

by their own determined behaviour, by inflaming the divisions of

the guards, by exaggerating the strength of the British army, and

by alarming the fears of Commodus, exacted and obtained the mi­

nister's death, as the only redress of their grievances '7. This

presumption of a distant army, and their discovery of the weakness

of government, was a sure presage of the most dreadful convul­

sions.

The negligence of the public administration was betrayed soon

afterwards, by a new disorder which arose from the smallest begin­

nings. A spirit of desertion began to prevail among the troops; and

the deserters, instead of seeking their safety in flight or conceal­

ment, infested the highways. Maternus, a private soldier, of a

daring boldness above his station, collected these bands of robbers

into a little army, set open the prisons, invited the slaves to assert

their freedom, and plundered with impunity the rich and defence­

less cities of Gaul and Spain. The governors of the provinces, who

had long been the spectators, and perhaps the partners, of his de­

predations, were, at length, roused from their supine indolence by

the threatening commands of the emperor. Maternus found that

he was encompassed, and foresaw that he must be overpowered. A

great effort of despair was his last resource. He ordered his fol­

lowers to disperse, to pass the Alps in small parties and various

disguises, and to assemble at Rome, during the licentious tumult of

the festival of Cybele ,8. To murder Commodus, and to ascend

the vacant throne, was the ambition of no vulgar robber. His

measures were so ably concerted, that his concealed troops already

filled the streets of Rome. The envy of an accomplice discovered-

and ruined this singular enterprise, in the moment it was ripe for

Revolt of

Miternus.

execution '9.

Suspicious princes often promote the last of mankind from a vain TV minister

persuasion, that those who have no dependence, except on their

N a favou^

