552 THE DECLINE AND FALL

A.D. 284..

September 12,

Return of

Numerian

with the army

from Persia.

pleasure of the spectators. They were protected from the fun and

rain by an ample canopy, occasionally drawn over their heads. The

air wa9 continually refreshed by the playing of fountains, and pro足

fusely impregnated by the grateful scent of aromatics. In the cen足

ter of the edifice, the arena, or stage, was strewed with the finest

sand, and successively afTumed the most different forms. At one

moment it seemed to rise out of the earth, like the garden of the

Hefperides, and was afterwards broken into the rocks and caverns of

Thrace. The subterraneous pipes conveyed an inexhaustible supply

of water; and what had just before appeared a level plain, might

be suddenly converted into a wide lake, covered with armed vessels,

and replenished with the monsters of the deep95. In the decoration

of these scenes, the Roman empefors displayed their wealth and

liberality; and we read on various occasions, that the whole furni足

ture of the amphitheatre consisted either of silver, or of gold, or of

amber 9<s. The poet who describes the games of Carinus, in the cha足

racter of a shepherd attracted to the capital by the fame of their

magnificence, affirms, that the nets designed as a defence against the

wild beasts, were of gold wire; that the porticos were gilded, and that

the belt or circle which divided the several ranks of spectators from

each other, was studded with a precious Mosaic of beautiful stones 97.

In the midst of this glittering pageantry, the emperor Carinus,

secure of his fortune, enjoyed the acclamations of the people, the

flattery of his courtiers, and the songs of the poets, who, for want

of a more essential merit, were reduced to celebrate the divine

graces of his person 9*. In the same hour, but at the distance of

nine hundred miles from Rome, his brother expired; and a sudden

revolution transferred into the hands of a stranger the scepter of the

house of Carus

The sons of Carus never saw each other after their father's death.

The arrangements which their new situation required, were proba-

6 bly

