37* THE DECLINE AND FALL

Tiridates the

Armenian.

A. D. 282.

A. D. 286.

His restora­

tion to the

throne of

Armenia.

powerful nation, and to force a confession from the successors of

Artaxerxes, of the superior majesty of the Roman empire.

We have observed, under the rejgn of Valerian, that Armenia

was subdued by the perfidy and the arms of the Persians, and that

after the assassination of Chosroes, his son Tiridates, the infant heir

of the monarchy, was saved by the fidelity of his friends, and

educated under the protection of the emperors. Tiridates derived

from his exile such advantages as he could never have obtained on

the throne of Armenia; the early knowledge of adversity, of man­

kind, and of the Roman discipline. He signalized his youth by

deeds of valour, and displayed a matchless dexterity, as well as

strength, in every martial exercise, and even in the less honourable

contests of the Olympian games s\ Those qualities were more no­

bly exerted in the defence of his benefactor Licinius fJ. That offi­

cer, in the sedition which occasioned the death of Probus, was ex­

posed to the most imminent danger, and the enraged soldiers were

forcing their way into hie tent, when they were checked by the

single arm of the Armenian prince. The gratitude of Tiridates

contributed soon afterwards to his restoration. Licinius was in

every station the friend and companion of Galerius, and the merit

of Galerius, long before he was raised to the dignity of Caesar, had

been known and esteemed by Diocletian. In the third year of that

emperor's reign, Tiridates was invested with the kingdom of Ar­

menia. The justice of the measure was not less evident than its

expediency. It was time to rescue from the usurpation of the Per­

sian monarch an important territory, which, since the reign of

Nero, had been always granted under the protection of the empire

to a younger branch of the house of Arsacess+.

When Tiridates appeared on the frontiers of Armenia, he was

received with an unfeigned transport of joy and loyalty. During

twenty-six years, the country had experienced the real and imagi­

nary hardfliips of a foreign yoke. The Persian monarchs had

4 . adorned

