THE DECLINE AND FALL

"soon as the cruel deed was perpetrated, the sectaries drank up the

"blood, greedily tore asunder the quivering members, and pledged

"themselves to eternal secrecy, by a mutual consciousness of guilt.

"It was as confidently affirmed, that this inhuman sacrifice was

." succeeded by a suitable entertainment, in which intemperance

"served as a provocative to brutal lust; till at the appointed mo-

"inent, the lights were suddenly extinguished, shame was banished,

"nature was forgotten; and, as accident might direct, the dark-

'* ness of the night was polluted by the incestuous commerce of

"sisters and brothers, of sons and of mothers "9.

Their impru- But the perusal of the ancient apologies was sufficient to re-

d«ot defence. move even the slightest suspicion from the mind of a candid
adver­

sary. The Christians, with the intrepid security of innocence,

appealed from the voice of rumour to the equity of the magistrates.

They acknowledge, that if any proof can be produced of the

crimes, which calumny has imputed to them, they are worthy of

the most severe punishment. They provoke the punishment, and

they challenge the proof. At the same time they urge with equal

truth and propriety, that the charge is not less devoid of

probability, than it is destitute of evidence; they ask, whether

any one can seriously believe that the pure and holy precepts of

the Gospel, which so frequently restrain the use of the most lawful

enjoyments, should inculcate the practice of the most abominable

crimes; that a large society should resolve to dishonour itself in the

eyes of its own members; and that a great number of persons of

either sex, and every age and character, insensible to the fear of

death or infamy, should consent to violate those principles which

nature and education had imprinted most deeply in their minds10.

Nothing, it should seem, could weaken the force or destroy the ef­

fect of so unanswerable a justification, unless It were the injudicious

conduct of the apologists themselves, who betrayed the common

cause of religion, to gratify their devout hatred to the domestic ene­

mies of the church. It was sometimes faintly insinuated, and some­

times

