OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

fanaticism often prompted its ministers to sanctify the most daring

and the most unjust enterprises, by the approbation of Heaven, and

full assurances of success. The consecrated standards, long revered

in the groves of superstition, were placed in the front of the

battle 67; and the hostile army was devoted with dire execrations

to the gods of war and of thunder 6*. In the faith of soldiers (and

such were the Germans) cowardice is the most unpardonable of

fins. A brave man was the worthy favourite of their martial

deities; the wretch, who had lost his shield, was alike banislied from

the religious and the civil assemblies of his countrymen. Some tribes

of the north seem to have embraced the doctrine of transmigration6',

others imagined a gross paradise of immortal drunkenness 7°. All

agreed, that a life spent in arms, and a glorious death in battle,

were the best preparations for a happy futurity, either in this or in

another world.

The immortality so vainly promised by the priests, was, in some The bards,

degree, conferred by the bards. That singular order of men has

most deservedly attracted the notice of all who have attempted

to investigate the antiquities of the Celts, the Scandinavians, and

the Germans. Their genius and character, as well as the reverence

paid to their important office, have been sufficiently illustrated.

But we cannot so easily express, or even conceive, the enthusiasm

of arms and glory, which they kindled in the breast of their au­

dience. Among a polished people, a taste for poetry is rather an

amusement of the fancy, than a passion of the soul. And yet, when

in calm retirement we peruse the combats described by Homer or

Taflb, we are insensibly seduced by the fiction, and feel a momentary

glow of martial ardour. But how faint, how cold is the sensation

which a peaceful mind can receive from solitary study! It was in the

hour of battle, or in the feast of victory, that the bards celebrated

the glory of heroes of ancient days, the ancestors of those warlike

chieftains, who listened with transport to their artless but ani-

H h 2 mated

