NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. xxvii

ing, were chiefly bears, boars, bulls, stags, elks,

wild asses, &c. Elephants and lions seem to have

been appropriated to imperial magnificence.

[17] See the original letter, in the Augustan

History, p. 152, which at once Ihews Alexander's

respect for the authority of the senate, and his

esteem for the proconsul appointed by it.

[18] By each of his concubines, the younger

Gordian left three or four children. His literary

productions, though less numerous, were by no

means contemptible.

[19] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 243. Hist. August,

p. 144.

[20] Quod tamen patres dum periculosum ex-

ifiimant; inermes armato resistere approbaverunt.

durelius ViSor.

[21] Even the servants of the house, the scribes,

&c. were excluded, and their office was filled by the

senators themselves. We are obliged to the Au­

gustine History, p. 159, for preserving this curious

example of the old discipline of the commonwealth.

[22] This spirited speech, tranflated from the Au­

gustan historian, p. 156, seems transcribed by him

from the original registers of the senate.

[23] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 244,

[24] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 247. 1. viii. p. 277.

Hist-August, p. 156—158.

[25] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 254. Hist. August,

p. 158—160. We may observe, that one month

and six days, for the reign of Gordian, is a just cor­

rection of Cafaubon and Panvinius, instead of the

absurd reading of one year and six months. See

Commentar. p. 193. Zosimus relates, 1. i. p. 17.

that the two Gordians peristied by a tempest in the

midst of their navigation. A strange ignorance of

history, or a strange abuse of metaphors!

[26] See the Augustan History, p. 166, from

the registers of the senate; the date is confessedly

faulty, but the coincidence of the Apollinarian

games enables us to correct it.

[27] He was descended from Cornelius Balbus,

a noble Spaniard, and the adopted son of The-

ophanes the Greek historian. Balbus obtained the

freedom of Rome by the favour of Pompey, and

preserved it by the eloquence of Cicero (see Orat.

pro Cornel. Balbo). The friendship of Cæsar,

(to whom he rendered the most important secret ser­

vices in the civil war) raised him to the consulship

and the potificate, honours never yet possessed by a

stranger. The nephew of this Balbus triumphed

over the Garamantes. See Dictionnaire de Bayle au

mot Balbus, where he distinguishes the several per­

sons of that name, and rectifies, with his usual ac­

curacy, the mistakes of former writers concerning

them.

[28] Zonaras, 1. xii. p. 622. But little depend-

ance is to be had on the authority of a moderate

Greek, so grossly ignorant of the history of the third

century, that he creates several imaginary emperors,

and confounds those who really existed.

[29] Herodian, I. vii. p. 256, supposes that the

senate was at first convoked in the capitol, and is

very eloquent on the occasion. The Augustan His­

tory, p. 1 (6, seems much more authentic.

[30] In Herodian, I. vii. p. 249, and in the Au­

gustan History, we have three several orations of

Maximin to his army, on the rebellion of Africa and

Rome: M. de Tillemont has very justly observed,

that they neither agree with each other, nor with

truth. Histoire des Empereurs, torn. iii. p. 799.

[31] The carelessness of the writers of that age

leaves us in a singular perplexity. 1. We know

that Maximus and Balbinus were killed during the

capitoline games. Herodian, 1. viii. p. 285. The

authority of Censorious (de Die Natali, c. 18.) en­

ables us to fix those games with certainty to the

year 238, but leaves us in ignorance of the month or

day. 2. The election of Gordian by the senate,

is sixt, with equal certainty, to the 27th of May;

but we are at a loss to discover, whether it was in.

the fame or the preceding year. Tillemont and

Muratori, who maintain the two opposite opinions,

bring into the field a desultory troop of authorities,

conjectures, and probabilities. The one seems to

draw out, the other to contract the series of events,

between those periods, more than can be well re­

conciled to reason and history. Yet it is necessary

to chuse between them.

[32] Velleius Paterculus, 1. ii. c.n. The pre­

sident de Montesquieu (in his dialogue between

Sylla and Eucrates) expresses the sentiments of the

dictator, in a spirited and even a sublime manner,

d 2 [33] Muratori

