>34 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Death of Se-

verus^and ac­

cession of his

two sons,

A. D. an.

4th February.

Jealousy and

hatred of the

two-emperor;.

shorten the small remainder of his father's days, and endeavoured,-

but without success, to excite a mutiny among the troops '5. The*

old emperor had often censured the misguided lenity of Marcus,

who, by a single act of justice, might have saved the Romans from,

the tyranny of his worthless son. Placed in the same situation, he

experienced how easily the rigour of a judge dissolves away in the-

tenderness of a parent. He deliberated, he threatened, but he could

not punish -t and this last and only instance of mercy, was more fa­

tal to the empire than a long series of cruelty "5. The disorder of

his mind irritated the pains of his body; he wished impatiently for

death, and hastened the instant of it by his impatience. He ex­

pired at York in the sixty-fifth year of his life, and in the eighteenth*

of a glorious and successful reign. In his last moments he recom­

mended concord to his sons, and his sons to the army. The salu­

tary advice never reached the heart, or even the understanding, of

the impetuous youths; but the more obedient troops, mindful of

their oath of allegiance,, and of the authority of their deceased master,

resisted the solicitations of Caracalla, and proclaimed both brothers

emperors of Rome. The new princes soon left the Caledonians in

peace, returned to the capital, celebrated their father's funeral with

divine honours, and were cheerfully acknowledged as lawful sove­

reigns by the senate, the people, and the provinces. Some pre­

eminence of rank seems to have been allowed to the elder brother;

but they both administered the empire with equal and independent

power '7.

Such a divided form of government would have proved a source

of discord between the most affectionate brothers. It was impossible

that it could long subsist between two implacable enemies, who nei­

ther desired nor could trust a reconciliation. It was visible that oije

only could reign, and that the other must fall; and each of them

judging of his rival's designs by his own, guarded his life with the

most jealous vigilance from the repeated attacks of poison or the

swordk.

