OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

were seldom much inferior to those of the legions themselves S/.

Among the auxiliaries, the bravest and most faithful bands were

placed under the command of prefects and centurions, and severely

trained in the arts of Roman discipline; but the far greater part rer

tained those arms, to which the nature of their country, or their

early habits of life, more peculiarly adapted them. By this in­

stitution each legion, to whom a certain proportion of auxiliaries was

allotted, contained within itself every species of lighter troops, and

of missile weapons; and was capable of encountering every na­

tion, with the advantages- of its respective arms and discipline S*.

Nor was the legion destitute of what, in modern language, would

be styled a train of artillery. It consisted in ten military engines
Artillery,

of the largest, and fifty-five of a smaller size; but all of which,

either in an oblique or horizontal manner, discharged stones and

darts with irresistible violence ■

The camp of a Roman legion presented the appearance of a-for- Encamp--

tisied city60. As soon.as the space was marked out, the pioneers ment*

carefully levelled the ground, and removed every impediment that

might interrupt its perfect regularity. Its form was an exact

quadrangle; and we may calculate, that a square of about seven

hundred yards was sufficient for the encampment of twenty thou­

sand Romans; though a similar number of our own troops would

expose to the enemy a front of more than treble that extent. In the

midst of the camp, the prætorium, or general's quarters, rose above

the others; .the cavalry, the infantry, and the auxiliaries occupied

their respective stations; the streets were broad, and perfectly

straight, and a vacant space of two hundred feet was left on all sides,

between the tents and the rampart. The rampart itself was usually

twelve feet high, armed with a line of strong and intricate palisades»

and defended by a ditch of twelve feet in depth as well as in breadth.

This, important labour was performed by the hands of the legionaries

themselves, to whom the use of the spade and the pick-axe was no

2- less.-

