OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 553

historian) of punishing men who had found no accusers but them­

selves, the Imperial laws not having made any provision for so un­

expected a case: condemning therefore a few, as a warning to their

brethren, he dismissed the multitude with indignation and con­

tempt 9<S. Notwithstanding this real or affected disdain, the intrepid

constancy of the faithful was productive of more salutary effects on

those minds which nature or grace had disposed for the easy recep­

tion of religious truth. On these melancholy occasions, there were

many among the Gentiles who pitied, who admired, and who were

converted. The generous enthusiasm was communicated from the

sufferer to the spectators; and the blood of martyrs, according to a

well-known observation, became the seed of the church.

But although devotion had raised, and eloquence continued to Gradual re-

inflame, this fever of the mind, it insensibly gave way to the more hxMoa'

natural hopes and fears of the human heart, to the love of life, the

apprehension of pain, and the horror of dissolution. The more pru­

dent rulers of the Church found themselves obliged to restrain the

indiscreet ardour of their followers, and to distrust a constancy which

too often abandoned them in the hour of trial97. As the lives of

the faithful became less mortified and austere, they were every day

less ambitious of the honours of martyrdom; and the soldiers of

Christ, instead of distinguishing themselves by voluntary deeds of

heroism, frequently deserted their post, and fled in confusion before

the enemy whom it was their duty to resist. There were three

methods, however, of escaping the flames of persecution, which

were not attended with an equal degree of guilt: the first indeed

was generally allowed to be innocent; the second was of a doubtful,

or at least of a venial nature; but the third implied a direct and cri­

minal apostacy from the Christian faith.

I. A modern inquisitor would hear with surprise, that whenever Thr

tree me­

an information was given to a Roman magistrate of any person ^alping

within his jurisdiction who had embraced the sect of the Christians,
mart)rJon>-

Vol. I. 4 B the

