OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of Mæsia, whilst the main body of the army, consisting of seventy

thousand Germans and Sarmatians, a force equal to the most daring

atchievements, required the presence of the Roman monarch, and

the exertion of his military power.

Decius found the Goths engaged before Nicopolis, on the Jatrus. Various

r ^ _ . , . _ . , _ . . events of th«

one or the many monuments or Trajan s victories . On his Gothic war.

approach they raised the siege, but with a design only of marching A" D" *S°'

away to a conquest of greater importance, the siege of Philippopolis,

a city of Thrace, founded by the father of Alexander, near the

foot of mount Hæmus Decius followed them through a diffi­

cult country, and by forced marches; but when he imagined him­

self at a considerable distance from the rear of the Goths, Cniva

turned with rapid fury on his pursuers. The camp of the Romans

was surprised and pillaged, and for the first time, their emperor fled

in disorder before a troop of half armed barbarians. After a

long resistance, Philippopolis, destitute of succour, was taken by

storm. An hundred thousand persons are reported to have been

massacred in the sack of that great city Many prisoners of con­

sequence became a valuable accession to the spoil, and Priscu6 a

brother of the late emperor Philip, blushed not to assume the

purple under the protection of the barbarous enemies of Rome".

The time, however, consumed in that tedious siege, enabled Decius

to revive the courage, restore the discipline, and recruit the numbers

of his troops. He intercepted several parties of Carpi, and other

Germans, who were hastening to share the victory of their country­

men **, intrusted the passes of the mountains to officers of approved

valour and fidelity '% repaired and strengthened the fortifications of

the Danube, and exerted his utmost vigilance to oppose either the

progress or the retreat of the Goths. Encouraged by the return of

fortune, he anxiously waited for an opportunity to retrieve, by a

great and decisive blow, his own glory, and that of the Roman

arms '6. •

Kk 2 As

