OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401

those ample provinces was sufficient to exercise his talents, and to

satisfy his ambition. Clemency, temperance, and moderation, dis­

tinguished the amiable character of Constantius, and his fortunate

subjects had frequently occasion to compare the virtues of their

sovereign with the passions of Maximian, and even with the arts of

Diocletian \ Instead of imitating their eastern pride and magni­

ficence, Constantius preserved the modesty of a Roman prince.

He declared with unaffected sincerity, that his most valued treasure

was in the hearts of his people, and then, whenever the dignity of

the throne or the danger of the state required any extraordinary

supply, he could depend with confidence on their gratitude and

liberality The provincials of Gaul, Spain, and Britain, sensible

of his worth and of their own happiness, reflected with anxiety

on the declining health of the emperor Constantius, and the tender

age of his numerous family, the issue of his second marriage with

the daughter of Maximian. •

The stern temper of Galerius was cast in a very different mould; Of Galerius.

and while he commanded the esteem of his subjects, he seldom con­

descended to solicit their affections. His fame in arms, and above

all, the success of the Persian war, had elated his haughty mind,

which was naturally impatient of a superior, or even of an equal.

If it were possible to rely on the partial testimony of an injudicious

writer, we might ascribe the abdication of Diocletian to the me­

naces of Galerius, and relate the particulars of a private conver­

sation between the two princes, in which the former discovered

as much pusillanimity as the latter displayed ingratitude and arro­

gance +. But these obscure anecdotes are sufficiently refuted by an

impartial view of the character and conduct of Diocletian. What­

ever might otherwise have been his intentions, if he had appre­

hended any danger from the violence of Galerius, his good fense

would have instructed him to prevent the ignominious contest; and

Vol. I. Fff as

