OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i

ened the life of his son, and of his friends, and of all who ven­

tured to approach his person. The grateful intelligence of the

death of the Gordiaris, was quickly followed By the assurance that

the senate, laying aside all hopes of pardon or accommodation, had

substituted in their room two emperors, with whose merit he could

not be unacquainted. Revenge was the Only consolation left to

Maximin, and revenge could only be obtained by arms. The

strength of the legions had been assembled by Alexander from all

parts of the empire. Three successful campaigns against the

Germans and the Sarmatians, had raised (heir fame, confirmed their

discipline, and even increased their numbers, by filling the ranks

with the flower of the barbarian youth. The life of Maximin had

been spent in War, and the candid severity of history cannot refuse

him the valour of a soldier, or even the abilities of an experienced

general}0. It might naturally be expected, that a prince of such a cha­

racter, instead of suffering the rebellion to gain stability by delay, mould

immediately have maYched from the banks of the Danube to thole

of the Tyber, and that his victorious army, instigated by contempt

for the senate, and eager to gather the spoils of Italy, should have

burned with impatience to finish the easy and lucrative conquest.

Yet as far as we can trust to the obscure chronology of that period

it appears that the Operations of some foreign war deferred the

Italian expedition to the ensuing spring. From the prudent con­

duct of Maximin, we may learn that the savage features of his

character have been exaggerated by the pencil of party, that his'

passions, however impetuous, submitted to the force of reason, and

that the barbarian possessed something of the generous spirit of

Sylla, who subdued the enemies of Rome, before he suffered himself

to reverige his private injuries

When the troops of Maximin, advancing in excellent order, Marches ;nto

Italy.

arrived at the foot of the Julian Alps, they were terrified by the a. d. 238.

silence and desolation that reigned on the frontiers of Italy. The Febraary'

B b 2 villages

