20f5 THE DECLINE AND FALL

The attempt

and sail ot'

.Quintilius.

April.

Origin and

services of

Aurelian.

snatched Claudius from the earth, rewarded his merit and piety by

the perpetual establishmenfof the empire in his family

Notwithstanding these oracles, the greatness of the Flavian family (a

name which it had pleased them to assume) was deferred above twenty

years, and the elevation of Claudius occasioned the immediate ruin

of his brother Quintilius, who possessed not sufficient mpderation

or courage to descend into the private station to which the patriot­

ism of the late emperor had condemned him. Without delay or re­

flection, he assumed the purple at Aquileia, where he commanded

a considerable force; and though his reign lasted only seventeen

days, he had time to obtain the sanction of the senate, and to ex­

perience a mutiny of the troops. As soon as he was informed that

the great army of the Danube had invested the well known valour

of Aurelian with imperial power, he funk under the fame and merit

of his rival; and ordering his veins to be opened, prudently with­

drew himself from the unequal contest ,si.

The general design of this work will not permit us minutely to

relate the actions of every emperor after he ascended the throne,

much less to deduce the various fortunes of his private life. We

shall only observe, that the father of Aurelian was a peasant of the

territory of Sirmium, who occupied a small farm, the property of

Aurelius, a rich senator. His warlike son inlisted in the troops as a

common soldier, successively rose to the rank of a centurion, a tri­

bune, the præfect of a legion, the inspector of the camp, the gene­

ral, or as it was then called, the duke of a frontier; and at length,

during the Gothic war, exercised the important office of commander

in chief of the cavalry. In every station he distinguished himself

by matchless valour '7, rigid discipline, and successful conduct. He

was invested with the consulffiip by the emperor Valerian, who styles

him, in the pompous language of that age, the deliverer of Illyri-

cum, the restorer of Gaul, and the rival of the Scipios. At the re­

commendation of Valerian, a senator of the highest rank and merit,

Ulpius

