2I4 THE DECLINE AND FALL

that all this blaze of imaginary glory, was designed to conceal some

real disgrace.

More proba- Our suspicions are confirmed by the authority of a contemporary

If'thewar.' historian, who mentions the virtues of Alexander with respect, and

his faults with candour. He describes the judicious plan which had

been formed for the conduct of the war. Three Roman armies

were destined to invade Persia at the fame time, and by different

roads. But the operations of the campaign, though wisely con­

certed, were not executed either with ability or success. The first,

of these armies, as soon as it had entered the marflvy plains of Ba­

bylon, towards the artificial conflux of the Euphrates and the

Tigris 5°, was encompassed by the superior numbers, and destroyed

by the arrows of the enemy. The alliance of Chosroes king of

Armenia s', and the long tract of mountainous country, in which

the Persian cavalry was of little service, opened a secure entrance

into the heart of Media, to the second of the Roman armies. These

brave troops laid waste the adjacent provinces, and by several success­

ful actions against Artaxerxes, gave a faint colour to the emperor's

vanity. But the retreat of this victorious army was imprudent,

or at least unfortunate. In repasting the mountains, great numbers

of soldiers perished by the badness of the roads and the severity

of the winter season. It had been resolved, that whilst these two

great detachments penetrated into the opposite extremes of the Per­

sian dominions, the main body, under the command of Alexander

himself, should support their attack, by invading the center of the

kingdom. But the unexperienced youth, influenced by his mother's

counsels, and perhaps by his own fears, deserted the bravest troops

and' the fairest prospect of victory; and after consuming in Meso­

potamia an inactive and inglorious summer, he led back to Antioch

an army diminished by sickness, and provoked by disappointment.

The behaviour of Artaxerxes had been very different. Flying with

rapidity from the hills of Media to the marshes of the Euphrates,

he

