NOTES ON THE Jxxlx SIXTEENTH CHAPTER.

and release of some Jewish priests who were pri­

soners at Rome.

[40] The learned Dr. Lardner (Jewish and Hea­

then Testimonies, vol. ii. p. icx, 103.) has proved

that the name of Galileans, was a very ancient, and

perhaps the primitive, appellation of the Christians.

[41] Joseph. Antiquitat. xviii 1,2. Tillemont,

Ruine des Juifs, p. 742. The sons of Judas were

crucified in the time of Claudius. His grandson

Eleazar, after Jerusalem was taken, defended a

strong fortress with 960 of his most desperate fol­

lowers. When the battering ram had made a

breach, they turned their swords against their

wives, their children, and at length against their

own breasts. They died to the last man.

[42] The Spanish Inscription in Gruter, p. 238,

No. 9, is a manifest and acknowledged imposition.

See Ferreras Histoire d' Espagne, tom._i. p. 192.

[43] The capitol was burnt duiing the civil war

between Vitellius and Vespasian, the 19th of De­

cember, A. D. 69. On the icth of August, A. D.

70, the temple of Jerusalem was destroyed by the

hands of the Jews themselves, rather than by those

of the Romans.

[44] The new capitol was dedicated by Domi­

tian. Sueton. in Domitian, c. 5. Plutarch in

Poplicola, torn, i. p. 230. Edit. Bryan. The

gilding alone cost 12000 talents (above two millions

and a half). It was the opinion of Martial, that

if the emperor had called in his debts, Jupiter him­

self, even though he had made a general auction of

Olympus,would have been unable to pay two shillings

in the pound.

[45] With regard to the tribute, see Dion

Cassius, 1. lxvi. p. 1082, with Rcimarus's notes.

Spanheim, de Usu Numismatum, torn. it. p. 571,

and Basnage, Hist. Des Juifs, 1. vii. c 2.

[46] Suetonius (in Domitian, c. 12.) had seen

an old man of ninety publickly examined before

the procurator's tribunal. This is what Martial

calls, Mentula tributis damnata.

[47] This appellation was at first understood in

the most obvious sense, and it was supposed, that

the brothers of Jesus were the lawful issue of Joseph

and of Mary. A devout respect soothe virginity os

the mother of God. suggested to the Gnostics, and

afterwards to the orthodox Greeks, the expedient of

bestowing a second wise on Joseph. The Latins

(from the time of Jerome) improved on that hinr,

asserted the perpetual celibacy of Joseph, and justi­

fied by many similar examples that Jude, as well as

Simon and James, who are styled the brothers of

Jesus Christ, might be only his first cousins. See

Tillemont, Mem. Ecclesiast. torn, i. part iii. and

Bcausobre, Hist. Critique du Manicheisme, 1. ii. c.2.

[48J Thirty-nine wXi8f«, squares of an hundred

feet each, which if strictly computed would scarcely

amount to nine acres. But the probability of cir*

cumstances, the practice of other Greek writers*

and the authority of M. de Valois, incline ms

to believe that the *x»9por is used to express the

Roman jugerum-

[49] Eusebius, iii. 2cv The story is taken from-

Hegesippus.

[50] Seethe death and character of Sabinus in

Tacitus (Hist. iii. 74, 75-)- Sabinus was the elder

brother, and till the acceslion of Vespasian, had been

considered as the principal support os the Flavian

family.

[51] Flavium Clcmentem patruelem sunm con*

temtijjima inertia ... ex tenuiffima suspicione intere*

mit. Sueton. in Domitian, c. 1.5.

[52] The isle of Pandataria, according to Dion.

Bruttius Præsens (apud Euseb. iii. 18.) banishes her

to that of Pontia, which was not far distant from the

other. That difference, and a mistake either of

Eusebius, or of his transcribers, have given occa­

sion to suppose two Domitillas, the wise and the

niece of Clemens. See Tillemont, Memoires Eccle-

siastiques,. torn. ii. p. 224..

[53] Dion. 1. lxvii. p. 1112. If the Bruttius-

Præsens, from whom it is probable that he collected-

this account, was the correspondent of Pliny,

(Epistol. vii. 3.) we may consider him as a contem­

porary writer,

[54] Sueton. in Domit. c. 17. Philostratus in

Vit. Apollon. 1. viii.

[55] Dion. 1. Ixviii. p. 11-18. Plin. Epistol.

iv. 22.

L56] Plin.

