OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

adjacent to the ocean l\ To repel their desultory incursions, it

was found necessary to create a naval power; and the judicious

measure was pursued with prudence and vigour. Gessoriacum or

Boulogne, in the narrow streights of the British channel, was

chosen by the emperor for the station of the Roman fleet; and the

command of it was intrusted to Carausius, a Menapian of the

meanest origin IS, but who had long signalized his skill as a pilot,

and his valour as a soldier. The integrity of the new admiral

corresponded not with his abilities. When the German pyrates

sailed from their own harbours, he connived at their passage, but

he diligently intercepted their return, and appropriated to his own

use an ample share of the spoil which they had acquired. The

wealth of Carausius was, on this occasion, very justly considered

as an evidence of his guilt; and Maximian had already given orders

for his death. But the crafty Menapian foresaw and prevented the

severity of the emperor. By his liberality he had attached to his

fortunes the fleet which he commanded, and secured the barbarians

in his interest. From the port of Boulogne he sailed over to Britain,

persuaded the legion, and the auxiliaries which guarded that island*

to embrace his party, and boldly assuming, with the imperial

purple, the title of Augustus, defied the justice and the arms of his

injured sovereign l6.

When Britai n was thus dismembered from the empire, its im- Importance

portance was sensibly felt, and its loss sincerely lamented. The °fBslUia

Romans celebrated, and perhaps magnified, the extent of that noble

island, provided on every side with convenient harbours; the tem­

perature of the climate, and the fertility of the foil, alike adapted

for the production of corn or of vines; the valuable minerals with

which it abounded; its rich pastures covered with innumerable

flocks, and its woods free from wild beasts or venomous serpents.

Above all, they regretted the large amount of the revenue of

Britain, whilst they confessed, that such a province well deserved to

A a a 2 become

