240 "THE DECLINE AND FALL

important province on the Upper Danube. After a long and doubt­

ful.conflict, the spirit of the barbarians was subdued. TheQuadi

and the MarcomanniS', who had taken the lead in the war, were

the most severely punished in its catastrophe. They were com­

manded to retire five miles s* from their own banks of the Danube,

and to deliver up the flower of the youth, who were immediately

sent into Britain, a remote island, where they might be secure as

hostages, and useful as soldiers Ss. On the frequent rebellions of

the Quadi and Marcomanni, the irritated emperor resolved to reduce

their country into the form of a province. His designs were dis­

appointed by death. This formidable league, however, the only

one that appears in the two first centuries of the imperial history,

was entirely dissipated, without leaving any traces behind ia

Germany.

Distinction of In the course of this introductory chapter, we have confined
our-

tribes. selves to the general outlines of the manners of Germany, without

attempting to describe or to distinguish the various tribes which

silled that great country in the time of Cæsar, of Tacitus, or of

Ptolemy. As she ancient, or as new tribes successively present them­

selves in the series of this history, we shall concisely mention their

origin, their "situation, and their particular character. Modern na­

tions are fixed and permanent societies, connected among themselves

by laws and government, bound to their native foil by arts and

agriculture. The German tribes were voluntary and fluctuating

associations of soldiers, almost of savages. The fame territory often

changed its inhabitants in the tide of conquest and emigration. The

fame communities, uniting in a plan of defence or invasion, be­

stowed a new title on their new confederacy. The dissolution of an

ancient confederacy, restored to the independent tribes their pecu­

liar but long forgotten appellations. A victorious state often com­

municated its own name to a vanquistied people. Sometimes crowds

of voluntiers flocked from all parts to the standard of a favourite

leader;

