OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 125

The true interest of an absolute monarch generally coincides with The wisdom

° * and just'ce of

that of his people. Their numbers, their wealth, their order, and hi

their security, are the best and only foundations of his real greatness j

and were he totally devoid of virtue, prudence might supply its.

place, and would dictate the fame rule of conduct. Severus con­

sidered the Roman empire as his property, and had no sooner se­

cured the possession, than he bestowed his care on the cultivation

and improvement of so valuable an acquisition. Salutary laws,

executed with inflexible firmness, soon corrected most of the abuses

with which, since the death of Marcus, every part of the govern­

ment had been infected. In the administration of justice, the judge­

ments of the emperor were characterized by attention, discern­

ment, and impartiality; and whenever he deviated from the strict line

of equity, it was generally in favour of the poor and oppressed;

not so much indeed from any sense of humanity, as from the natural

propensity of a despot, to humble the pride of greatness, and to fink

all his subjects to the fame common level of absolute depend­

ence. His expensive taste for building, magnificent shows, and

above all a constant and liberal distribution of corn and provisions,

were the surest means of captivating the affection of the Roman

people59. The misfortunes of civil discord were obliterated. The General

calm of peace and prosperity was once more experienced in the pro- prosperity,

vinces, and many cities, restored by the munificence of Severus,

assumed the title of his colonies, and attested by public monuments

their gratitude and felicity The fame of the Roman arms was

revived by that warlike and successful emperor 6,} and he boasted

with a just pride, that having received the empire oppressed with

foreign and domestic wars, he left it established in profound univer­

sal and honourable peace.

Although the wounds of civil war appeared completely healed, its Relaxation of

mortal poison still lurked in the vitals of the constitution. Severus j^n^7
d,su"

possessed a considerable share of vigour and ability j but the daring

foul

■

