OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. in

had created; nor was there a citizen who did not consider his eleva­

tion with horror, as the last insult on the Roman name. The nobi­

lity, whose conspicuous station and ample possessions exacted the

strictest caution, dissembled their sentiments, and met the affected

civility of the emperor with smiles of complacency and professions

of duty. But the people, secure in their numbers and obscurity,

gave a free vent to their paffions. The streets and public places of

Rome resounded with clamours and imprecations. The enraged

multitude affronted the person of Julian, rejected his liberality, and,

conscious of the impotence of their own resentment, they called

aloud on the legions of the frontiers to assert the violated majesty of

the Roman empire.

The public discontent was soon diffused from the center to the The armies of

frontiers of the empire. The armies of Britain, of Syria, and of andVannonfa

Illyricum, lamented the death of Pertinax, in whose company, or jeJ-l***iua*

under whose command, they had so often fought and conquered.

They received with surprise, with indignation, and perhaps with

envy, the extraordinary intelligence, that the Prætorians had dis­

posed of the Empire by public auction ; and they unanimously re­

fused to ratify the ignominious bargain. Their consent was fatal to

Julian, but it was fatal at the fame time to the public peace j as the

generals of the respective armies, Clodius Albinus, Pescennius Niger,

and Septimius Severus, were still more anxious to succeed than to

revenge the murdered Pertinax. Their forces were exactly balanced.

Each of them was at the head of three legions '% with a numerous

train of auxiliaries; and however different in their characters, they

were all soldiers of experience and capacity.

Clodius Albinus, governor of Britain, surpassed both his compe- ciodius Al.

titors in the nobility of his extraction, which he derived from some bi.0US in
Bri*

'tain.

of the most illustrious names of the old republic ,6. But the branch,

from whence he claimed his descent, was funk into mean circum­

stances, and transplanted into a remote province. It is difficult to

form

