OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 447

new army of fifty or sixty thousand men, while the activity of Coa-

stantine was employed in the siege of Byzantium. The vigilant

emperor did not however neglect the last struggles of his antagonist.

A considerable part of his victorious army was transported over

the Bosphorus in small vessels, and the decisive engagement was

fought soon after their landing on the heights of Chrysopolis, or,

as it is now called, of Scutari. The troops of Licinius, though ,

they were lately raised, ill armed, and worse disciplined, made head

against their conquerors with fruitless but desperate valour, till

a. total defeat and the slaughter of five and twenty thousand men

irretrievably determined the fate of their leader He retired to

Nicomedia, rather with ihe view of gaining some time for nego- fnddewhof

ciation, than with -the hope of any effectual defence. Constantia, L,cimo'-

his wife and the sister of Constantine, interceded with her brother in

favour of her husband, and obtained from his policy rather than from

hiss compassion, a solemn promise, confirmed by an oath, that after the

sacrifice of Martinianus, and the resignation of the purple, Licinius

himself should be permitted to pass the remainder of his life in peace

and affluence. The behaviour of Constantia, and her relation to the

contending parties, naturally recalls the remembrance of that vir­

tuous matron who was the sister of Augustus and the wife of An­

tony. But the temper of mankind was altered, and it was no

longer esteemed infamous for a Roman to survive his honour and

independence. Licinius solicited and accepted the pardon of his

offences, laid himself and his purple at the feet of his lord and mq/lery

was raised from the ground with insulting pity, was admitted the fame

day to the imperial banquet, and soon afterwards was sent away to

Theffalonica, which had been chosen for the place of his confinement11'.

His confinement was soon terminated by death, and it is doubtful

whether a tumult of the soldiers, or a decree of the senate, was sug­

gested as the motive for his execution. According to the rules of

tyranny he was accused of forming a conspiracy, and of holding a

treasonable

