OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ir9

193—197,

empire; he left Rome at the end of thirty days, and, without

suffering himself to be elated by this easy victory, prepared to en­

counter his more formidable rivals.

The uncommon abilities and fortune of Severus have induced an Success of

oeverus

elegant historian to compare him with the first and greatest of the against
Ni-

0 ger, and a-

Cæsars *\ The parallel is, at least, imperfect. Where shall we gainst Aibi-

find, in the character of Severus, the commanding superiority of

soul, the generous clemency, and the various genius, which could

reconcile and unite the love of pleasure, the thirst of knowledge,

and the fire of ambition +1? In one instance only, they may be com­

pared, with some degree of propriety, in the celerity of their mo­

tions, and their civil victories. In less than four years **, Severu6 A. D.

subdued the riches of the east, and the valour of the west. He

vanquished two competitors of reputation and ability, and defeated

numerous armies, provided with weapons and discipline equal to

his own. In that age, the art of fortification, and the principles of

tactics, were well understood by all the Roman generals; and the

constant superiority of Severus was that of an artist, who uses

the fame instruments with more skill and industry than his rivals.

I fliall not, however, enter into a minute narrative, of these mili­

tary operations; but as the two civil wars against Niger and

against Albinus, were almost the fame in their conduct, event,

and consequences, I shall collect into one point of view, the most

striking circumstances, tending to develope the character of the con­

queror, and the state of the empire.

Falsehood and insincerity, unsuitable as they seem to the dignity

of public transactions, offend us with a less degrading idea of mean­

ness, than when they are found in the intercourse of private life.

In the latter, they discover a want of courage; in the other, only a

defect of power; and, as it is impossible for the most able statesmen-

to subdue millions of followers and enemies by their own personal

strength, the world, under the name of policy, seems to have

granted.

Conduct of

the two civil

wars, Ar;s

of Several

