THE DECLINE AND FALL

took refuge in the episcopal palace, and though it was somewhat

early to advance any claims of ecclesiastical immunities, the-bishop-

refused to deliver him up to the officers of justice. For this treason­

able resistance, Mensurius was summoned to court, and instead of

receiving a legal sentence of death or banishment, he was permitted,

after a short examination, to return to his diocese ,6'. Such

was die happy condition of the Christian subjects of Maxentius,

that whenever they were desirous of procuring for their own use

any bodies of martyrs, they were obliged to purchase them from

the most distant provinces of the East. A story is related of Aglae,

a Roman lady, descended from a consular family, and possessed of

so ample an estate, that it required the management of seventy-three

stewards. Among these, Boniface was the favourite of his mistress;

and as Aglae mixed love with devotion, it is reported that he was

admitted to share her bed. Her fortune enabled her to gratify the

pious desire of obtaining some sacred relics from the East. She

intrusted Boniface with a considerable sum of gold, and a large

quantity of aromaticsj and her lover, attended by twelve horsemen

and three covered chariots* undertook a remote pilgrimage, as far as-

Tarslis iniGUiaiR>,:0.. r

andtheEati ^ne sanguinary temper of Galerius, the first and principal au-

"erfula^ds thor osuhe persecution,, was. formidable to those Christians, whom

Ifeximin. tftejr misfortunes had placed within the limits of his dominions;,

and it may fairly be presumed,, that many persons of a middle rank,

who were not confined by the chains either of wealth on of poverty,,

very frequently deserted their native country, and sought a refuge

inr the milder climate of the Welh As long as he commanded only

the armies and provinces of Illyricum, he could with difficulty either

find or make a considerable number of martyrs* in a warlike country,

which had entertained the missionaries of. the .gospel with marc

coldness and reluctance than any other part of the:empire But

when Galerius had obtained the supreme power and the government

of

