THE DECLINE AND FALL

they not already been the objects of secret contempt among the

polished and enlightened orders of society 7.

Notwithstanding the fashionable irreligion which prevailed in

the age of the Antonines, both the interest of the priests, and the

credulity of the people, were sufficiently respected. In their writ­

ings and conversation, the philosophers of antiquity asserted the

dignity of reason; but they resigned their actions to the com­

mands of law and of custom. Viewing, with a smile of pity and

indulgence, the various errors of the vulgar, they diligently prac­

tised the ceremonies of their fathers, devoutly frequented the tem­

ples of the gods; and sometimes condescending to act a part on the

theatre of superstition, they concealed the sentiments of an Atheist

under the sacerdotal robes. Reasoners of such a temper were

scarcely inclined to wrangle about their respective modes of faith, or

of worship. It was indifferent to them what sliape the folly of the

multitude might chuse to assume; and they approached, with the

same inward contempt, and the same external reverence, the altars

of the Libyan, the Olympian, or the Capitoline Jupiter s.

It is not easy to conceive from what motives a spirit of persecu­

tion could introduce itself into the Roman councils. The magis­

trates could not be actuated by a blind, though honest bigotry,

since the magistrates were themselves philosophers; and the schools

of Athens had given laws to the senate. They could not be impelled

by ambition or avarice, as the temporal and ecclesiastical powers

were united in the fame hands. The pontiffs were chosen among

the most illustrious of the senators; and the office of Supreme Pon­

tiff was constantly exercised by the emperors themselves. They

knew and valued the advantages of religion, as it is connected with

civil government. They encouraged the public festivals which

humanize the manners of the people. They managed the arts of

divination, as a convenient instrument of policy; and they respected,

as the firmest bond of society, the useful persuasion, that either in

this

