i48 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Picture of As the attention of the new emperor was diverted by the most tri-

Elagabalus. * *

A. d. 219. fling amusements, he wasted many months in his luxurious progress

from Syria to Italy, passed at Nicomedia the first winter after his vie-

tory, and deferred till the ensuing summer his triumphal entry into

the capital. A faithful picture, however, which preceded his arrival,

and was placed by his immediate order over the altar of Victory in

the senate-house, conveyed to the Romans the just but unworthy

resemblance of his person and manners. He was drawn in his

sacerdotal robes of silk and gold, after the loose flowing fashion of

the Medes and Phœnicians; his head was covered with a lofty tiara,

his numerous collars and bracelets were adorned with gems of an

inestimable value. His eye-brows were tinged with black, and his

cheeks painted with an artificial red and white 5V The grave sena­

tors confessed with a sigh, that after having long experienced the

stern tyranny of their own countrymen, Rome was at length hum­

bled beneath the effeminate luxury of Oriental despotism.

H» soperstL- The Sun was worshipped at Emesa, under the name of Elaga-

balus 5i, and under the form of a black conical stone, which, as k

was universally believed, had fallen from heaven on that sacred

place. To this protecting deity, Antoninus, not without some

reason, ascribed his elevation to the throne. The display of supersti­

tious gratitude, was the only serious business of his reign. The

triumph of the god of Emesa over all the religions of the earth,

was the great object of his zeal and vanity; and the appellation of

Elagabalus (for he presumed as pontiff and favourite to adopt that

sacred name) was dearer to him than all the titles of Imperial great­

ness. In a solemn procession through the streets of Rome, the way

was strewed with gold dust; the black stone, set in precious gems,

was placed on a chariot drawn by six milk-white horses richly ca­

parisoned. The pious emperor held the reins, and supported by his

ministers, moved (lowly backwards, that he might perpetually enjoy

the felicity of the divine presence. In a magnificent temple raised

on the Palatine Mount, the sacrifices ofj the god Elagabalus were cele­

brated

