NOTES ON THE THIRD CHAPTER.

to the emperor, and his most successful lieutenants

were satisfied with some marks of distinction, which,

under the name of triumphal honours, were invent­

ed in their favour.

[n] Cicero {de Legibus, iii. 3.) gives the con­

sular office the name of Regia poteftas: and Poly-

bius (1. vi. c. 3.) observes three powers in the Ro­

man constitution. The monarchical was represented

and exercised by the Consuls.

[12] As the tribunitian power (distinct from the

annual office) was first invented for the dictator

Caesar (Dion, 1. xliv. p. 3^4.), we may easily con­

ceive, that it was given as a reward for having so

nobly asserted, by arms, the sacred rights of the

tribunes and people. See his own commentaries,

deBell. Civil. 1. i.

[13] Augustus exercised nine annual consulships

without interruption. He then most artfully re­

fused that magistracy as well as the dictatorstn'p,

absented himself from Rome, and waited till the fa­

tal effects of tumult and faction forced the senate to

invest him with a perpetual consulship. Augustus,

as well as his successors, affected, however, to con­

ceal so invidious a title.

[14] See a fragment of a Decree of the Senate,

conferring on the emperor Vespasian, all the powers

granted to his predecessors, Augustus, Tiberius,

and Claudius. This curious and important monu­

ment is published in Gruter's Inscriptions, No.

ccxlii.

[15] Two consuls were created on the Calends

of January; but in the course of the year others

were substituted in their places, till the annual num­

ber seems to have amounted to no less than twelve.

The prætors were usually sixteen or eighteen (Lip-

sius in Excurs. D. ad Tacit. Annal. 1. i.). I have

not mentioned the Ædiles or Qu.rstors. Officers

of the police or revenue easily adapt themselves

to any form of government. In the time of Nero

the tribunes legally possessed the right of intercijjion,

though it might be dangerous to exercise it ( sacit.

Annal. xvi. 26.). In the time of Trajan, it was

doubtful whether the tribuneihip was an office or a

name (Plin. Epist. 133.).

[16] The tyrants themselves were ambitious of

the consulship. The virtuous princes were mo­

derate in the pursuit, and exact in the discharge of

it. Trajan revived the ancient oath, and swore be­

fore the consul's tribunal, that he would observe

the laws (Plin. Panegyric, c. 64.).

[17] Quoties Magistratuum Comitus interesset,

tribus cum candidatis suis circuibat: supplicabat-'

que more solemni. Ferebat et ipse suffragium in

tribubus, ut unus e populo. Suetonius in August,

c S6.

[18] Turn primum Comitia e campo ad patres

tranflata sunt. Tacit. Annal. i. 15. The word

frimum seeins to allude to some faint and unsuccess­

ful efforts, which were made towards restoring them

to the people.

[19] Dion Caffius (1. liii. p. 703—714.) has

given a very loose and partial sketch of the Imperial

system. 7o illustrate and often to correct him, I

have meditated Tacitus, examined Suetonius, and

consulted the following moderns: the Abbe de'

la Bleterie, in the Memoires de l'Academie des In­

scriptions, torn. xix. xxi. xxiv. xxv. xxvii. Beau­

fort Republique Romaine, torn. i. p. 255 —27c.

Two Dissertations of Noodt and Gronovius, dt Itge

Regia; printed at Leyden, in the year 1731.

Gravina de Imperio Romano, p. 479—544 of his

Opuscula. Maffei Verona Illustrata, p. i. p. 245.

&c.

[20] A weak prince will always be governed by

his domestics. The power of slaves aggravated the

shame of the Romans; and the senate paid court

to a Pallas or a Narcissus. There is a chance that a

modern favourite may be a gentleman.

[21] See a treatise of Vandale de Confecratione

Principum. It would be easier for me to copy,

than it has been to verify, the quotations of that

learned Dutchman.

[22] See a dissertation of the Abbe Mongault in

the first volume of the Academy of Inscriptions.

[23] Jutandasque tuum per nomen ponimus

araj, fays Horace to the emperor himself, and Ho­

race was well acquainted with the court of Au­

gustus.

[24] See Cicero in Philippic, i. 6. Julian in

Cæsaribus. Inque Deum templis jurabit Roma per

b z umbras,

