OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401

the times was indulged with a pleasant vision of the soul and body of Charles
Mar-

tel, burning, to ail eternity, in the abyss of hell.(l)

The loss of an army, or a province, in the western world, was less painful to
the

court of Damascus, than the rise and progress of a domestic competitor. Except

among the Syrians, the caliphs of the house of Ommiyah had never been the ob­

jects of the public favour. The life of Mahomet recorded their perseverance in
ido­

latry and rebellion; their conversion had been reluctant, their elevation
irregular

and factious, and their throne was cemented with the most holy and noble blood

of Arabia. The best of their race, the pious Omar, was dissatisfied with his
own

title: their personal virtues were insufficient to justify a departure from
the order

of succession; and the eyes and wishes of the faithful were turned towards the
line

of Hashem and the kindred of the apostle of God. Of these the Fatimites were

either rash or pusillanimous; but the descendants of Abbas cherished, with
courage

and discretion, the hopes of their rising fortunes. From an obscure residence
in

Syria, they secretly despatched their agents and missionaries, who preached in
the

eastern provinces their hereditary indefeasible right; and Mohammed, the son
of

Ali, the son of Abdallah, the son of Abbas, the uncle of the prophet, gave
audience

to the deputies of Chorasan, and accepted their free gift of four hundred
thousand

pieces of gold. After the death of Mohammed, the oath of allegiance was
adminis­

tered in the name of his son Ibrahim to a numerous band of votaries, who
expected

only a signal and a leader; and the governor of Chorasan continued to deplore
his

fruitless admonitions and the deadly slumber of the caliphs of Damascus, till
he

himself, with all his adherents, was driven from the city and palace of Meru,
by the

rebellious arms of Abu Moslem. (2) That maker of kings, the author, as he is

named, of the call of the Abbasides, was at length rewarded for his
presumption

of merit with the usual gratitude of courts. A mean, perhaps a foreign,
extraction

could not repress the aspiring energy of Abu Moslem. Jealous of his wives,
liberal

of his wealth, prodigal of his own blood and of that of others, he could boast
with

pleasure, and possibly with truth, that he had destroyed six hundred thousand
of

his enemies; and such was the intrepid gravity of his mind and countenance,
that

he was never seen to smile except on a day of battle. In the visible
separation of

parties the green was consecrated to the Fatimites; the Ommiades were di 'in-

fuished by the white; and the black, as the most adverse, was naturally adoA
?d

y the Abbassides. Their turbans and garments were stained with that gloomy

colous: two black standards, on pike-staves nine cubits long, were borne aloft
in

the van of Abu Moslem; and their allegorical names of the night and the sha­

dow, obscurely represented the indissoluble union and perpetual succession of
the

line of Hashem. From the Indus to the Euphrates, the east was convulsed by

the quarrel of the white and the black factions; the Abbassides were most fre­

quently victorious; but their public success was clouded by the personal
misfortune

of their chief. The court of Damascus, awakening from a long slumber, resolved

to prevent the pilgrimage of Mecca, which Ibrahim had undertaken with a splen­

did retinue, to recommend himself at once to the favour of the prophet and of
the

people. A detachment of cavalry intercepted his march and arrested his person;

and the unhappy Ibrahim, snatched away from the promise of untasted royalty,

expired in iron fetters in the dungeons of Haran. His two younger brothers,

Saffah and Almansor, eluded the search of the tyrant, and lay concealed at
Cufa,

till the zeal of the people and the approach of his eastern friends allowed
them to

expose their persons to the impatient public. On Friday, in the dress of a
caliph,

in the colours of the sect, Saffah proceeded with religious and military pomp
to

the mosch: ascending the pulpit, he prayed and preached as the lawful
successor

of Mahomet; and, after his departure, his kinsmen bound a willing people by an

oath of fidelity. But it was on the banks of the Zab, and not in the mosch of
Cufa,

that this important controversy was determined. Every advantage appeared to

be on the side of the white faction: the authority of established government;
an

army of a hundred and twenty thousand soldiers against a sixth part of that
num­

ber; and the presence and merit of the caliph Mervan, the fourteenth and last
of

(1) This pastoral letter, addressed to Lewis the Germanic, the grandson of
Charlemacne. tad mmt probably

composed by the pen of the artful Hincmar, is datedjin the year 858, and
signed by the bishops of the provinces

or Hheinn and Rouen. (Baronim, Anna!. Ee«let. A. D. 741. Fleory, Hilt. Eccles.
torn. X. p. 314—US.) Te«

Baronius himself, and the French critici, reject with eontempt this episcopal
fiction.

(S) The steed and the saddle, which had carried any of his wives, were
instantly killed or burned, lest they

should be afterwards mounted by a mala. Twelve hundred mules or camels were
required for his kitchen fui-

rriture; and the daily consumption amounted to three thousand cbkfst a hundred
sheep, berides oxen, poultry,

fct. -iAbnlpharaeim, Hi"' Dyrnw, p< H»,J

' vo».nr. si

