<&> T&E DECLINE AND FALL

luxury and pride offended the patricians, exhausted the revenue, and insulted
the

misery of the people. Anna is a faithful witness that his happiness was
destroyed,

and his health was broken, by the cares of a public life: the patience of
Constan­

tinople was fatigued by the length and severity of his reign; and before
Alexius

expired, he had lost the love and reverence of his subjects. The clergy could
not

forgive his application of the sacred riches to the defence of the state; but
they

applauded his theological learning and ardent zeal for the orthodox faith,
which

he defended with his tongue, his pen, and his sword. His character was
degraded

by the superstition of the Greeks; and the same inconsistent principle of
human

nature enjoined the emperor to found a hospital for the poor and infirm, and
to

direct the execution of a heretic, who was burnt alive in the square of St.
Sophia.

Even the sincerity of his moral and religious virtues was suspected by the
persons

who had passed their lives in his familiar confidence. In his last hours, when
he was

pressed by his wife Irene to alter the succession, he raised his head, and
breathed

a pious ejaculation on the vanity of this world. The indignant reply of the
em­

press may be ascribed as an epitaph on his tomb, You die as you have lived—a

hypocrite!

It was the wish of Irene to supplant the eldest of her surviving sons, in
favour

of her daughter, the princess Anna, whose philosophy would not have refused
the

weight of a diadem. But the order of male succession was asserted by the
friends

of their country; the lawful heir drew the royal signet from the finger of his
in­

sensible or conscious father, and the empire obeyed the master of the palace.
An­

na Comnena was stimulated by ambition and revenge to conspire against the life

of her brother; and when the design was prevented by the fears or scruples of
her

husband, she passionately exclaimed, that nature had mistaken the two sexes,
and

had endowed Bryennius with the soul of a woman. The two sons of Alexius,

John and Isaac, maintained the fraternal concord, the hereditary virtue of
their

race; and the younger brother was content with the title of Sebastocr.ator,
which

approached the dignity, without sharing the power of the emperor. In the same

person, the claims of primogeniture and merit were fortunately united; his
swar­

thy complexion, harsh features, and diminutive stature, had suggested the
ironi­

cal surname of Calo-Johannis, or John the Handsome, which his grateful
subjects

more seriously applied to the beauties of his mind. After the discovery of her

treason, the life and fortune of Anna were justly forfeited to the laws. Her
life

was spared by the clemency of the emperor; but he visited the pomp and
treasures

of her palace, and bestowed the rich confiscation on the most deserving of his

friends. That respectable friend, Axuch, a slave of Turkish extraction,
presumed

to decline the gift, and to intercede for the criminal; his generous master
applaud­

ed and imitated the virtue of his favourite, and the reproach or complaint of
an

injured brother was the only chastisement of the guilty princess. After this
ex­

ample of clemency, the remainder of his reign was never disturbed by
conspiracy

or rebellion; feared by his nobles, beloved by his people, John was never
reduced

to the painful necessity of punishing, or even pardoning his personal enemies.

During his government of twenty-five years, the penalty of death was abolished

in the Roman empire, a law of mercy most delightful to the human theorist, but

of which the practice in a large and vicious community, is seldom consistent
with

the public safety. Severe to himself, indulgent to others, chaste, frugal,
abste-,

mious, the philosophic Marcus would have disdained the artless virtues of his
suc­

cessor, derived from his heart, and not borrowed from the schools. He despised

and moderated the stately magnificence of the Byzantine court, so oppressive
to

the people, so contemptible to the eye of reason. Under such a prince,
innocence

had nothing to fear, and merit had every thing to hope; and without assuming
the

tyrannic office of a censor, he introduced a gradual though visible
reformation in

the public and private manners of Constantinople. The only defect of this ac­

complished character, was the frailty of noble minds—the love of arms and
mili­

tary glory. Yet the frequent expeditions of John the Handsome may be
justified,

at least in their principle, bv the necessity of repelling the Turks from the
Helles­

pont and the Bosphorus. The sultan of Iconhim was confined to his capital, the

barbarians were driven to the mountains, and the maritime provinces of Asia
en­

joyed the transient blessings of their deliverance. From Constantinople to
Antioch

and Aleppo, he repeatedly marched at the head of a victorious army, and in the

sieges and battles of this holy war, his Latin allies were astonished by the
superior

spirit and prowess of a Greek. As he began to indulge the. ambitious hope of
re­

storing the ancient limits of the empire, as he revolved in his mind, the
Euphra-

