THE

HISTORY

OF THE

DECLINE AND FALL

OF

THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

CHAPTER XL.

Elevation of Justin the Elder.—Reign of Justinian—I. Tlie Empress
Theodora.—II.

Factions of the Circup, and Sedition of Constantinople.—77/ Trade and
Manufacture

oj'Silk.—IV. Finances and Taxes.—V. Edifices of Justinian.—Church of St.
Sophia.

fortifications and Frontiers of the Eastern Empire ibolilion of the Schools of
Athens,

and the Consulship of Home.

The emperor Justinian was born(l) near the ruins of Sardica (the modern So­

phia,) of an obscure race(2) of barbarians,(3) the inhabitants of a wild and
deso­

late country, to which the names of Dardania, of Dacia, and of Bulgaria, have

been successively applied. His elevation was prepared by the adventurous
spirit

of his uncle Justin, who, with two other peasants of the same village,
deserted for

the profession of arms, the more useful employment of husbandmen or shep­

herds. (4) On foot, with a scanty provision of biscuit in their knapsacks, the
three

youths followed the high road to Constantinople, and were soon enrolled, for
their

strength and stature, among the guards of the emperor Leo. Under the two suc­

ceeding reigns, the fortunate peasant emerged to wealth and honours; and his
es­

cape from some dangers which threatened his life, was afterward ascribed to
the

guardian angel who watches over the fate of kings. His long and laudable
service

in the Isaurian and Persian wars, would not have preserved from oblivion the
name

of Justin; yet they might warrant the military promotion, which in the course
of

fifty years he gradually obtained the rank of tribune, of count, and of
general, the

dignity of senator, and the command of the guards, who obeyed him as their
chief,

at the important crisis when the emperor Anastasius was removed from the
world.

The powerful kinsmen, whom he had raised and enriched, were excluded from

the throne; and the eunuch Amantius, who reigned in the palace, had secretly

resolved to fix the diadem on the head of the most obsequious of his
creatures. A

liberal donative, to conciliate the suffrage of the guards, was intrusted for
that pur­

pose in the hands of their commander. But these weighty arguments were trea­

cherously employed by Justin in his own favour; and as no competitor presumed

to appear, the Dacian peasant was invested with the purple, by the unanimous

consent of the soldiers, who knew him to be brave and gentle; of the clergy
and

people, who believed him to be orthodox, and of the provincials, who yielded a

blind and implicit submission to the will of the capital. The elder Justin, as
he is

(1) There is some difficulty in the date of his birth (Ludewig in Vit.
Jnitiniani, p. 125.:) none in the place—

the district Bederiana—the village Tauresiura, which he decorated wW> his name
and splendour (D'Anvitle,

Hist, de P Acad., he. torn. xxai. p. 287.292.

(2) The names of these Dardanian peasants are Gothic, and almoit English;
Jusliuian is a translation of up.

rautla (upright;) his father Sttuitiui (in Grssco barbarous language stripe!,)
was styled in bis silfcuje /,'«*

(Stock;) his mother Bigleniza was softened into Vigilantia.

(3) Ludewig (p. 127—13J.) attempts to justify the Anician name of Justinian
and Theodora, and to connect

them with a family, from which the house of Austria has been derived.

(4) See the anecdotes of Procopius (c. 0.) with the notes of N. Alemannus. The
satirist would not have

sunk, in the vague and decent appellation of yi*pyor, the fovxtyo; and
(ro^opgo? of Zonaras. Yet why aae

those names disgraceful!—and what German baron would not be proud to descend
from the Eumttus of the

Odymy?

