392 THE DECLINE AND FALB

in the streets of the baths it is their duty to give way or bow down before
the

meanest of the people; and their testimony is rejected, if it may tend to the
pre­

judice of a true believer. The pomp of processions, the sound of bells or of
psal­

mody, is interdicted in their worship: a decent reverence for the national
faith, is

imposed on their sermons and conversations; and the sacrilegious attempt to
enter

a mosch, or to seduce a Mussulman, will not be suffered to escape with
impunity.

In a time, however, of tranquillity and justice, the Christians have never
been

compelled to renounce the Gospel or to embrace the Koran: but the punishment

of death is inflicted upon the apostates who have professed and deserted the
law

of Mahomet. The martyrs of Cordova provoked the sentence of the cadhi, by the

public confession of their inconstancy, or their passionate invectives against
the

person and religion of the prophet. (1)

At the end of the first century of the Hegira, the caliphs were the most
potent

and absolute monarchs of the globe. Their prerogative was not circumscribed,

either in right or in fact, by the power of the nobles, the freedom of the
commons,

the privileges of the church, the votes of a senate, or the memory of a free
consti­

tution. The authority of the companions of Mahomet expired with their lives;

and the chiefs or emirs of the Arabian tribes left behind, in the desert, the
spirit

of equality and independence. The regal and sacerdotal characters were united

in the successors of Mahomet; and if the Koran was the rule of their actions,
they

were th& supreme judges and interpreters of that divine book. They reigned by

the right of conquest over the nations of the east, to whom the name of
liberty-

was unknown, and who were accustomed to applaud in their tyrants the acts of

violence and severity that were exercised at their own expense. Under the last

of the Ommiades, the Arabian empire extended two hundred days' journey from

east to west, from the confines of Tartary and India to the shores of the
Atlantic

ocean. And if we retrench the sleeve of the robe, as it is styled by their
writers,

the long and narrow province of Africa, the solid and compact dominion from

Fargana to Aden, from Tarsus to Surat, will spread on every side to the
measure

of four or five months of the march of a caravan. (2) We should vainly seek
the

indissoluble union and easy obedience that pervaded the government of Augustus

and the Antonines: but the progress of the Mahometan religion diffused over
this

ample space a general resemblance of manners and opinions. The language and

laws of the Koran were studied with equal devotion at Samarcand and Seville:
the

Moor and the Indian embraced as countrymen and brothers in the pilgrimage of

Mecca; and the Arabian language was adopted as the popular idiom in all the
pro­

vinces to the westward of the Tigri*. (3)

CHAPTER LII.

Tlie two sieges of Constantinople by Hie Arabs.—Tlieir invasion of France, and
defeat by

Charles Martel.—Civil war of the Ommiades and Abassides.—Learning of the
Arabs.—

Luxury of the caliphs.—Naval enterprises on Crete, Sicily, and Rome Decay and
di­

vision of the empire of the caliphs.—Defeats and victories of the Greek
emperors.

When the Arabs first issued from the desert, they must have been surprised at

the ease and rapidity of their own success. But when they advanced in the
career

of victory to the banks of the Indus and the summit of the Pyrenees; when they

had repeatedly tried the edge of their scimitars and the energy of their
faith, they

might be equally astonished that any nation could resist their invincible
arms, that

any boundary should confine the dominion of the successors of the prophet. The

confidence of soldiers and fanatics may indeed be excused, since the calm
historian

(1) The martyrs of Cordova, (A. D. 850,Sec.) are commemorated and justified by
St. Eologins, who at length

£Vkl a victim himself*. A synoi^ convened by the caliph, ambignously censured
their rashness. The moderate

Fleury cannot reconcile ttifir conduct with the discipline of antiquity,
toutefois Pautorite de PEgtise, Ifec.

(Fleury, Hist. Eccles. torn. x. p. 415—522. particularly p. 451. 508, 5090
Their authentic acts throw a strung

though a transient light on the Spanish church in the ninth century.

(2) See the article E.tlamin/i (as we soy Christendom) in the Bibliothcque
Orientale, (p. 325.) Thrs chart of

the Mahometan world isstiited by the author. Ebn Alwardi, to the year of the
Hegira 385. (A. D. 998,) Since

that time the losses in Spain has'e been overbalanced bytlie conquest in
India, Tartary, and the European

Turkey.

(3) The Arabic of the Koran is taught as a dead language in the college of
Mecca. By the Danish traveller,

this ancient idiom is compared to the Latin; the vulgar tongue of Hejaz and
Yemen to the Italian; and the

Arabian dialects of Syria, Egypt. Africa, &c. to the Provencal. Spanish, and
Portuguese. (Xiebuhr, Descrip­

tion de I' Arabie, p. 74, etc.;

