OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

a Thracian journey of health, or business, or devotion. Justiiiian was
afflicted by

a pain in his head; and his private entry countenanced the rumour of his
death. Be­

fore the third hour of the day, the bakers' shops were plundered of their
bread,

the houses were shut up, and every citizen, with hope or terror, prepared for

the impending tumult. The senators themselves, fearful and suspicious, were

convened at the ninth hour; and the prefect received their commands to visit
every

quarter of the city, and proclaim a general illumination for the recovery of
the

emperor's health. The ferment subsided; but every accident betrayed the impo­

tence of the government and the factious temper of the people; the guards were

disposed to mutiny as often as their quarters were changed or their pay was
with­

held: the frequent calamities of fires and earthquakes afforded the
opportunities

of disorder; the disputes of the blues and greens, of the orthodox and
heretics, de­

generated into bloody battles; and in the presence of the Persian ambassador,
Jus­

tinian blushed for himself and for his subjects. Capricious pardon and
arbitrary

punishment imbittered the irksomeness and discontent of a long reign; a
conspira­

cy was formed in the palace; and, unless we are deceived by the names of Mar-

cellus and Sergius, the most virtuous and the most profligate of the courtiers
were

associated in the same designs. They had fixed the time of the execution;
their

rank gave them access to the royal banquet; and their black slaves(l) were
stationed

in the vestibule and porticos, to announce the death of the tyrant, and to
excite a

sedition in the capital. But the indiscretion of an accomplice saved the poor
rem­

nant of the days of Justinian. The conspirators were detected and seized, with

daggers hidden under their garments: Marcellus died by his own hand, and Ser­

gius was dragged from the sanctuary. (2) Pressed by remorse, or tempted by the

hopes of safety, he accused two officers of the household of Belisarius; and
tor­

ture forced them to declare that they had acted according to the secret
instruc­

tions of their patron. (3) Posterity will not hastily believe that a hero,
who, in

the vigour of life, had disdained the fairest offers of ambition and revenge,
should

stoop to the murder of his prince, whom he could not long expect to survive.
His

followers were impatient to fly; but flight must have been supported by
rebellion,

and he had lived enough for nature and for glory. Belisarius appeared before
the

council with less fear than indignation: after forty years' service, the
emperor

had prejudged his guilt: and injustice was sanctified by the presence and
authori­

ty of the patriarch. The life of Belisarius was graciously spared; but his
fortunes

were sequestered, and from December to July he was guarded as a prisoner in
his

own palace. At length his innocence was acknowledged; his freedom and ho­

nours were restored; and death, which might be hastened by resentment and
grief,

removed him from the world about eight months after his deliverance. The

name of Belisarius can never die: but instead of the funeral, the monuments,
the

statues, so justly due to his memory, I only read, that his treasures, the
spoils of

the Goths and Vandals, were immediately confiscated by the emperor. Some de­

cent portion was reserved, however, for the use of his widow; and as Antonina
'

had much to repent, she devoted the last remains of her life and fortune to
the

foundation of a convent. Such is the simple and genuine narrative of the fall
of

Belisarius and the ingratitude of Justinian. (4) That he was deprived of his
eyes,

and reduced by envy to beg his bread. " Give a penny to Belisarius the
general!"

is a fiction of later times,(5) which has obtained credit, or rather favour,
as a

strange example of the vicissitude of fortune. (1)

(1) IvJous. They could scarcely be real Indians; and the Ethiopians, sometimes
known by that name,

were never used by the ancients as guards or followers: they were the
trifling, though costly objects of fe­

male and royal luxury (Terent. Eunuch, act 1. scene 2. Sueton. in August, c.
until* with a good note of Ca-

saubon, in Caligula, c. lvii.)

(S) The Sergius (Vandal, lib. ii. c. 21, 22. Anecdot. c. 5.) and Marcellus
(Cloth, lib. iii. c. 32.) are mentioned

by Procopias. See Theophanes, p. 197. 201.

(3) Alernannus, (p. 3.) quotes an old Byzantine MS. which has been printed in
the Imperiam Orientale of

Bandnri.

(4) Of the disgrace and restoration of Belisarius, the genuine original record
is preserved in the fragment

of John Malala (torn. ii. p. 234—243.,) and the exact Chronicle of Theophanes
(p. 194—204.) Cedrenus (Com-

pend. p. 337,388.) and Zonaras (torn. ii. lib. xiv.p. 69.J seem to hesitate
between the obsolete truth and the

growing falsehood.

(a") The source of this idle fable may be derived from a miscellaneous work of
the twelfth century, the

Chiliads of John Tzerzes, a monk (Basil. 1546. ad calcem. Lycophront, Colon.
Allobrog. 1614. in Corp. Poet.

Grac.) He relates the blindness and beggary of Belisarius in ten vulgar or
political verses (Chiliad, iii. No.

88.339—348. in Corp. Poet. Grac. torn. ii. p. 311.)

Vm. III. 15

