OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25

might revere the name of their gracious benefactor. ( 1) Almost every saint in
the

calendar acquired the honours of a temple; almost every city of the empire
obtain­

ed the solid advantages of bridges, hospitals, and aqueducts; but the severe
libe­

rality of the monarch disdained to indulge his subjects in the popular luxury
of

baths and theatres. While Justinian laboured for the public service, he was
not

unmindful of his own dignity and ease. The Byzantine palace, which had been

damaged by the conflagration, was restored with new magnificence; and some no­

tions may be conceived of the whole edifice, by the vestibule or hall, which,
from

the doors perhaps, or the roof, was surnamed choice, or the brazen. The dome

of a spacious quadrangle was supported by massy pillars; the pavement and
walls

were incrusted with many coloured marbles—the emerald green of Laconia; the

fiery red, and the white Phrygian stone intersected with veins of a sea-green
hue:

the Mosaic paintings of the dome and sides represented the glories of the
African

and Italian triumphs. On the Asiatic shore of the Propontis, at a small
distance

to the east of Chalcedon, the costly palace and gardens of Herxum(2) were pre­

pared for the summer residence of Justinian, and more especially Theodora. The

poets of the age have celebrated the rare alliance of nature and art, the
harmony

of the nymphs of the groves, the fountains, and the waves; yet the crowd of
at­

tendants who followed the court complained of their inconvenient lodgings, (3)
and

the nymphs were too often alarmed by the famous Porphyrio, a whale of ten cu­

bits in breadth, and thirty in length, who was stranded at the mouth of the
river

Sangaris, after he had infested more than half a century the seas of
Constantino-

The fortifications of Europe and Asia were multiplied by Justinian; but the
repe­

tition of those timid and fruitless precautions exposes to a philosophic eye
the de­

bility of the empire. (5) From Belgrade to the Euxine, from the conflux of the

Save to the mouth of the Danube, a chain of above fourscore fortified places
was

extended along the banks of the great river. Single watch-towers were changed

into spacious citadels; vacant walls, which the engineers contracted or
enlarged

according to the nature of the ground, were filled with colonies or garrisons;
a

strong fortress defended the ruins of Trajan's bridge,(6) and several military
sta­

tions affected to spread beyond the Danube the pride of the Roman name. But

that name was divested of its terrors; the barbarians, in their annual
inroads, passed,

and contemptuously repassed, before these useless bulwarks; and the
inhabitants

of the frontiers, instead of reposing under the shadow of the general defence,
were

compelled to guard, with incessant vigilance, their separate habitations. The
soli­

tude of ancient cities was replenished; the new foundations of Justinian
acquired,

perhaps too hastily, the epithets of impregnable and populous; and the
auspicious

place of his own nativity attracted the grateful reverence of the vainest of
princes.

Under the name of Justiniana flrima, the obscure village of Tauresium oecame

the seat of an archbishop and a prefect, whose jurisdiction extended over
seven

warlike provinces of Illyricum,(7) and the corrupt appellation of Giustendil
still

indicates, about twenty miles to the south of Sophia, the residence of a
Turkish

sanjak.(8) For the use of the emperor's countrymen, a cathedral, a palace, and

(l) Justinian once gave forty-five centenaries of gold (180,000?.,) for the
repairs of Antioch after the earth­

quake (John Malala, torn. ii. p. 146—149.)

(3) For the Herasum, the palace of Theodora, see Gyllius de Bosphoro Thracio
(lib. iii. c. 11.,) Aleman.

(Not. ad Anecdot. p. BO, 81. who quotes several epigrams of the Aulhology.,)
and Ducange (C. P. Chtist. lib.

vi. c. 13. p. 175,176.)

(3) Compare, in the Edifices (lib. i. c. 11.,) and in the Anecdotes (c.
8—15.,) the different styles of adulation

and malevolence: stripped of the paint, or cleansed from the dirt, the object
appears to be the same.

(4) Procopius, lib. viii. 29. most probably a stranger and wanderer, as the
Mediterranean does not breed

whales. Balsenz quoque in nostra maria penetrant (Plin. Hist. Natur. ix. 2.)
Between the polar circle and

the tropic, the cetaceous animals of the ocvan grow to the length of fifty,
eighty, or one hundred feet. (Hist,

des Voyages, torn. xv. p. 289. Pennants British Zoology, vol. iii. p. 35.)

(5) Montesquieu observes (torn. iii. p. 503. Considerations sur la Grandeur et
la Decadence des Romains, c.

20.,) that Justinian's empire was like France in the time of the Norman
inroads—never so weak as when eve­

ry village was fortified.

(6) Procopius affirms (lib. iv. e. 6.,) that the Danube was stopped by the
ruins of the bridge. Had Apollodo-

rus, tbe architect, left a description of his own work, the fabulous wonders
of Dion Cassius (lib. lxviii. p. 1129.)

would have been corrected by the genuine picture. Trajan's bridge consisted of
twenty or twenty-two stone

piles with wooden arches; the river is shallow, tbe current erentle, and the
whole interval no more than four hun-

• deed and forty-three (Reimar ad Dion, from Marsigli) or five hundred and
fifteen toitet (d'Anville Geographie

Aneienne, torn. i. p. 305.)

(7) Of the two Dacias, MedUerranea and RipetuUt Dardania, Prsevalitana, the
second Msesia, and the second

Macedonia. See Justinian (Novell. 11.,) who speaks of his castles beyond the
Danube, and of homines semper

bellicis stldoribus inhserentes.

(8) See d'Anville (Memoirea de l'Academie, &c. torn. xxxi. p. 289,290.))
Rycaut (Present State of the Turk­

ish Empire, p. 97. 316.) Marsigli (Stato Militare del Imperio Ottomane, p.
130.) The sanjak of Giustrndil is

one of the twenty under the beglerbeg of Komelia, and his district maintains
forty-eight zaims and five hun­

dred and eighty-three timarioti.

Vol.. III. 1

