OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 281

Lombards of the injury: the two nations, hostile in their faith, were
reconciled in

a dangerous and unnatural alliance; the king and the exarch marched to the
con­

quest of Spoleto and Rome: the storm evaporated without effect, but the policy

of Liutprand alarmed Italy with a vexatious alternative of hostility and
truce.

His successor Astolphus declared himself the equal enemy of the emperor and

the pope; Ravenna was subdued by force or treachery,^) and this final conquest

extinguished the series of the exarchs, who had reigned with the subordinate
power

since the time of Justinian and the ruin of the Gothic kingdom. Rome was sum­

moned to acknowledge the victorious Lombard as her lawful sovereign: the an­

nual tribute of a piece of gold was fixed as the ransom of each citizen, and
the

sword of destruction was unsheathed to exact the penalty of her disobedience.

The Romans hesitated; they entreated; they complained; and the threatening

barbarians were checked by arms and negotiations, till the popes had engaged
the

friendship of an ally and avenger beyond the Alps. (2)

In his distress, the first Gregory had implored the aid of the hero of the
age,

of Charles Martel, who governed the French monarchy with the humble title of

mayor or duke; and who, by his signal victory over the Saracens, had saved his

country, and perhaps Europe, from the Mahometan yoke. The ambassadors of

the pope were received by Charles with decent reverence; but the greatness of

his occupations, and the shortness of his lite, prevented his interference in
the af->

fairs of Italy, except by a friendly and ineffectual mediation. His son,
Pepin, the

heir of his power and virtues, assumed the office of champion of the Roman
church;

and the zeal of the French prince appears to have been prompted by the love of

glory and religion. But the danger was on the banks of the Tiber, the succour
on

those of the Seine; and our sympathy is cold to the relation of distant
misery.

Amidst the tears of the city, Stephen III. embraced the generous resolution of
vi>

siting in person the courts of Lombardy and France, to deprecate the injustice
of

his enemy, or to excite the pity and indignation of his friend. After soothing
the

public despair by litanies and orations, he undertook this laborious journey
with

the ambassadors of the French monarch and the Greek emperor. The king of

the Lombards was inexorable; but his threats could not silence the complaints,

nor retard the speed, of the Roman pontiff, who traversed the Pennine Alps,
re­

posed in the abbey of St. Maurice, and hastened to grasp the right hand of his
pro­

tector, a hand which was never lifted in vain, either in war or friendship.
Ste-»

phen was entertained as the visible successor of the apostle; at the next
assembly,

the field of March or of May, his injuries were exposed to a devout and
warlike

nation, and he repassed the Alps, not as a suppliant, but as a conqueror, at
the

head of a French army, which was led by the king in person. The Lombards,

after a weak resistance, obtained an ignominious peace, and swore to restore
the pos­

sessions, and to respect the sanctity, of the Roman church. But no sooner was

Astolphus delivered from the presence of the French arms, than he forgot his
pro*

mise and resented his disgrace. Rome was again encompassed by his arms; and

Stephen apprehensive of fatiguing the zeal of his Transalpine allies, enforced
his

complaint and request by an eloquent letter in the name and person of St.
Peter

himself.(3) The apostle assures his adoptive sons, the king, the clei'gy, and
the

nobles, of France, that dead in the flesh, he is still alive in the spirit;
that they now

hear, and must obey, the voice of the founder and guardian of the Roman
church;

that the virgin, the angels, the saints, and the martyrs, and all the host of
heaven,

unanimously urge the request, and will confess the obligation; that riches,
victo­

ry, and paradise, will crown their pious enterprise, and that eternal
damnation

will be the penalty of their neglect, ifthey suffer his tomb, his temple, and
his people

to fall into the hands of the perfidious Lombards. The second expedition of
Pepin

was not less rapid and fortunate than the first: St. P^ter was satisfied, Rome
was

tores Rcr. Ital. torn. xii. p. 13 5., have preserved thji epistle of Gregory.
The loss snd recovery of Ravenna are

mentioned by Paulus Diaconus (ile Gest. Langobard, lib. vi. c. M- In Scrip.
Ital. torn. i. pan 1. p. S06. SOS.;)

bat our chronologists, Pagi, Muratori, Sec cannot ascertain tK date or
circumstances. .

(1) The option will depend on ihe Tartans readings of theMSS. of
Anaitaiiut—deceperat dtcerpnrat. (Script,

Ital. torn. iii. pars i. p. 167.) ., , . . . „

(2) The Codex Carolinui is a collection of the epistle- of the popes to
Charles Martel (whom they style Sa-

hregulw.) Pepin, and Charlemagne, as far as the rear rt)l» when it was termed
by the last of these princes.

His original aail authentic MS. (Bibliotherae Cubicniarii) is now in the
imperial library of Vienna, and has

been puWishedby Lambeeius anil Muratori (Scrip*. Rerum. IlaJ. torn. iii. pars
2, p. 75, gcc.)

(3) Sec this most extraordinary letter in ihe Cudex Carolinus, epist. iii. p.
92. The enemies of the popes

have charged them with fraud and blasphemy, yet they surely meant to persuade
rather than deceive. This

introduction of the dead, or of immortals, was familiar to the aucient
orators, though it is executed on this oc*

c^sion in the rude fashion of the age,

Vol. 111. 36

