m THE DECLINE AND FALL

crown of martyrdom, and ourlmmortal reward will be liberally paid by God and

posterity." 1 hese magnanimous sentiments were supported by the vigour of his

actions. He repelled the threefold attack of the Persians, improved the
divisions

of their chiefs, and by a well-concerted train of marches, retreats, and
successful

actions, finally chased them from the field into the fortified cities of Media
and

Assyria. In the severity of the winter season, Sabaraza deemed himself secure

in the walls of Salban; he was surprised by the activity of Heraclius, who
divided

his troops and performed a laborious march in the silence of the night. The
flat

roofs of the houses were defended with useless valour against the darts and
torches

of the Romans: the satraps and nobles of Persia, with their wives and
children,

and the flower of their martial youth, were either slain or made prisoners.
The

general escaped by a precipitate flight, but his golden armour was the prize
of the

conqueror; and the soldiers of Heraclius enjoyed the wealth and repose which

they had so nobly deserved. On the return of spring, the emperor traversed in

seven days the mountains of Curdistan, and passed without resistance the rapid

stream of the Tigris. Oppressed by the weight of their spoils and captives,
the

Roman army halted under the walls of Amida; and Heraclius informed the senate

of Constantinople of his safety and success, which they had already felt by
the re­

treat of the besiegers. The bridges of the Euphrates were destroyed by the
Per­

sians; but as soon as the emperor had discovered a ford, they hastily retired
to de­

fend the banks of the Sarus,(l) in Cilicia. That river, an impetuoas torrent,
was

about three hundred feet broad, the bridge was fortified with strong turrets,
and

the banks were lined with barbarian archers. After a bloody conflict, which

continued till the evening, the Romans prevailed in the assault, and a Persian

of gigantic size was slain and thrown into the Sarus by the hand of the em­

peror himself. The enemies were dispersed and dismayed; Heraclius pursued

Ms march to Sebaste in Cappadocia; and at the expiration of three years, the

same coast of the Euxine applauded his return from a long and victorious expe­

dition. (2)

Instead of skirmishing on the frontier, the two monarchs who disputed the em­

pire of the east, aimed their desperate strokes at the heart of their rival.
The

military force of Persia was wasted by the marches and combats of twenty
years,

and many of the veterans who had survived the perils of the sword and the cli­

mate, were still detained in the fortresses of Egypt and Syria. But the
revenge

and ambition of Chosroes exhausted his kingdom; and the new levies of
subjects,

strangers, and slaves, were divided into three formidable bodies. (3) The
first

army of fifty thousand men, illustrious by the ornament and title or the
golden

sfiears, was destined to march against Heraclius; the second was stationed to
pre­

vent his junction with the troops of his brother Theodoras; and the third was
com­

manded to besiege Constantinople, and to second the operations of the chagan,

with whom the Persian king had ratified a treaty of alliance and partition.
Sabar,

the general of the third army, penetrated through the provinces of Asia to the

well-known camp of Chalcedon, and amused himself with the destruction of the

sacred and profane buildings of the Asiatic suburbs, while he impatiently
waited

the arrival of his Scythian friends on the opposite side of the Bosphorus. On
the

29th of June, thirty thousand barbarians, the vanguard of the Avars, forced
the

long wall, and drove into the capital a promiscuous crowd of peasants,
oitizens, and

soldiers. Fourscore thousand(4) of his native subjects, and of the vassal
tribes of

Gepidx, Russians, Bulgarians, and Sclavonians, advanced under the standard of

the chagan: a month was spent in marches and negotiations, but the whole city

was invested on the 31st of July, from the suburbs of Pera and Galata to the

Blachernse and seven towers; and the inhabitants descried with terror the
flaming

signals of the European and Asiatic shores. In the meanwhile the magistrates
of

Constantinople repeatedly strove to purchase the retreat of the chagan: but
their

deputies were rejected and insulted; and he suffered the patricians to stand
before

(1) At ten parasangs from Tarsus the army of the younger Cyrus passed the
Sarus three plethra in breadth;

the^Pjrramus, a stadium in breadth, ran five parasangs farther to the east
(Xenophon, Anabas, lib. i. p.

(2) George of Pisidia, (Bell. Abaricum, 246—28J. p. 49.) celebrates with truth
the persevering courage of

the three campaigns (tp=i< ariptjoo^ow;) against the Persians.

(3) Petavius (Annotationesad Niccphorum, p. 82—84.) discriminates the names
and actions of five Persian

genernls who were successively sent against Heraclius.

(4) Thifnumber of eight myriads is specified by George of Pisidia. (Bell.
Abar.219.) Thepoet (SO—38.)

clearly indicates that the old chagan lived till the reign of Heraclius, and
that his son and s

of a foreign mother. Yet Foggini (Annotat. p. iT.) has given another
interpretation to this passage.

