OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 123

crent prerogative of the Roman kings was transferred, in their respective
offices,

to the consuls and dictators, the censors and pretors; and a similar right was
as­

sumed by the tribunes of the people, the ediles and proconsuls. At Rome, and
in

the provinces, the duties of the subject, and the intentions of the governor,
were

proclaimed; and the civil jurisprudence was reformed by the annual edicts of
the

supreme judge, the pretor of the city. As soon as he ascended his tribunal, he
an­

nounced by the voice of the crier, and afterwards inscribed on a white wall,
the

rules which he proposed to follow in the decision of doubtful cases, and the
relief

which his equity would afford from the precise rigour of ancient statutes. A
prin­

ciple of discretion more congenial to monarchy was introduced into the
republic:

the art of respecting the name, and eluding the efficacy, of the laws, was
improved

by successive pretors; subtleties and fictions were invented to defeat the
plainest

meaning of the decemvirs, and where the end was salutary, the means were fre-

frequently absurd. The secret or probable wish of the dead was suffered to
pre­

vail over the order of succession and the forms of testaments; and the
claimant,

who was excluded from the character of heir, accepted with equal pleasure from

an indulgent pretor, the possession of the goods of his late kinsman and
benefactor.

In the redress of private wrongs, compensations and fines were substituted to
the

obsolete rigour of the twelve tables: time and space were annihilated by
fanciful

suppositions; and the plea of youth, or fraud, or violence, annulled the
obligation,

or excused the performance, of an inconvenient contract. A jurisdiction thus
vague

and arbitrary was exposed to the most dangerous abuse; the substance, as well
as

the form, of justice, were often sacrificed to the prejudices of virtue, the
bias of

laudable affection, and the grosser seductions of interest or resentment. But
the

errors or vices of each pretor expired with his annual office; such maxims
alone

as had been approved by reason and practice were copied by succeeding judges;

the rule of proceeding was defined by the solution of new cases; and the
temptations

of injustice were removed by the Cornelian law, which compelled the pretor of
the

year to adhere to the letter and spirit of his first proclamation. (1) It was
re­

served for the curiosity and learning of Hadrian, to accomplish the design
which

he had conceived by the genius of Caesar; and the pretorship of Salvius
Julian, an

eminent lawyer, was immortalized by the composition of the perpetual edict.

This well-digested code was ratified by the emperor and the senate; the long
di­

vorce of law and equity was at length reconciled; and, instead of the twelve
ta­

bles, the perpetual edict was fixed as the invariable standard of civil
jurispru­

dence. ( 2)

From Augustus to Trajan, the modern Caisars were content to promulgate their

edicts in the various characters of a Roman magistrate; and, in the decrees of
the

senate, the efiistles and orations of the prince were respectfully inserted.
Hadri-

an(3) appears to have been the first who assumed, without disguise, the
plenitude

of legislative power. And this innovation, so agreeable to his active mind,
was

countenanced by the patience of the times, and his long absence from the seat
of

government. The same policy was embraced by succeeding monarchs, and, ac­

cording to the harsh metaphor of Tertullian, " the gloomy and intricate forest
of

ancient laws was cleared away by the axe of royal mandates and constitutions.
"(4)

During four centuries, from Hadrian to Justinian, the public and private
jurispru­

dence-was moulded by the will of the sovereign; and few institutions, either
human

or divine, were permitted to stand on their former basis. The origin of
imperial

legislation was concealed by the darkness of ages and the terrors of armed
des­

potism; and a double fiction was propagated by the servilitv, or perhaps the
igno­

rance, of the civilians who basked in the sunshine of the Roman and Byzantine

courts. 1. To the prayer of the ancient C&sars, the people or the senate had

stitulei flib. i. tit. ii. No. 7.) and more loosely explained in the Greek
paraphrase of Theophilos (p. 33—38.

edit. Reitz.,) who drops the important word honorarium.

(1) Dion P""'—''"™ ■ Klv »t™ n inn > fi«M n»metii

however, is

vicus Vives.

▼ius (ad SuetL—

Cimbricum, detects the forgery (Movie's Works, vol. i. p. 303.)

(2) The history of edicts is compmed.and the text ofthe perpetual edict is
restored by the master-band of

Heineccius (Opp. torn. vii. P. 2. p. 1—S84.J in whose researches I might
safely acquiesce. In the Academy of

Inscriptions, M. Bouchaud has given a series of memoirs to this interfiling;
subject of law and literature.

(3) His laws are the first in the Code. See Dodwell (Prselect. Camden, p.
319—340.,) who wanders from the

subjeetin confused reading and feeble paradox.

(4) Totam illam veterem et sqnallentem sylvam leguni novis principalium
retcriptnrmn et edictorum stcu-

ribus ruscatis et carditis (Apologet. c. W. p. 50. edit. Havercamp.) He
proceeds to praise the recent firmness

of Severus. who repealed the useless or pernicious laws, without any regard (o
their age or authority.

