THE DECLINE AM) FALL

racks: the lands, moveables, and cattle, were confiscated; and our modern
prece»

dents will support the charge, that much wanton or malicious havoc was exer->

cised against the relics, and even the books, of the monasteries. With the
habit

and profession of monks, the public and private worship of images was
rigorously

proscribed; and it should seem, that a solemn abjuration of idolatry was
exacted

from the subjects, or at least from the clergy, of the eastern empire.(l)

The patient east abjured, with reluctance, her sacred images: they were fondly

cherished, and vigorously defended, by the independent zeal of the Italians.
In

ecclesiastical rank and jurisdiction, the patriarch of Constantinople and the
pope

of Rome were nearly equal. But the Greek prelate was a domestic slave under

the eye of his master, at whose nod he alternately passed from the convent to
the

throne, and from the throne to the convent. A distant and dangerous station

amidst the barbarians of the west, excited the spirit and freedom of the Latin
bi­

shops. Their popular election endeared them to the Romans; the public and pri­

vate indigence was relieved by their ample revenue; and the weakness or
neglect

of the emperors compelled them to consult, both in peace and war, the temporal

safety of the city. In the school of adversity the priest insensibly imbibed
the

virtues and the ambition of a prince; the same character was assumed, the same

policy was adopted, by the Italian, the Greek, or the Syrian, who ascended the

chair of St. Peter; and, after the loss of her legions, and provinces, the
genius and

fortune of the popes again restored the supremacy of Rome. It is agreed, that,

in the eighth century, their dominion was founded on rebellion, and that the
rebellion

was produced, and justified,.by the heresy of the Iconoclasts; but the conduct
of the

second and third Gregory, in this memorable contest, is variously interpreted
by

the wishes of their friends and enemies. The Byzantine writers unanimously

declare, that, after a fruitless admonition, they pronounced the separation of
the

east and west.and deprived the sacrilegious tyrant of the revenue and
sovereignty

of Italy. Their excommunication is still more clearly expressed by the Greeks,

who beheld the accomplishment of the papal triumphs; and as they are more

strongly attached to their religion than to their country, they praise,
instead of

blaming, the zeal and orthodoxy of these apostolical men. (2) The modern cham­

pions of Rome are eager to accept the praise and the precedent: this great and

glorious example of the disposition of royal heretics is celebrated by the
cardinals

Baronius and Bellarmine;(3) and if they are asked, why the same thunders were

not hurled against the Neros and Julians of antiquity; they reply, that the
weak­

ness of the primitive church was the sole cause of her patient loyalty. (4) On
this

occasion, the effects of love and hatred are the same, and the zealous
protestants,

. who seek to kindle the indignation, and to alarm the fears, of princes and
magis­

trates, expatiate on the insolence and treason of the two Gregories against
their

lawful sovereign. (5) They are defended only by the moderate catholics, for
the

most part, of the Gallican church,(6) who respect the saint without approving
the

sin. These common advocates of the crown and the mitre circumscribe the

truth of facts by the rule of equity, Scripture, and tradition; and appcal(")
to

(1) Efby&fifM y«o t"-ittt;il><. xaerx zrxtrxv ei'sepx'sef T*'.' -J-o r^; y,t
ipif «'jt5'j, nwTsts ejri) ex\xi zx' tfMWMi Teu*5iTr;-

trxt t*v ir?><rx*>yr<rtvTuv Titrrw n'tcivvv. (Damascen. Oj>. torn. i. p. 625.)
Tbil oath and subscription I do Dot re­

member to have seen in any modern compilation.

(2) Koei Ttti- Pj»p»* <rw itztk Itxkix rr.i &xirt\nxf xurcv «ff0TT(i5"i, says
Theophanes (Chronograph, p. 3-13.) For

this Gregory is stylM by Cedrenus mvxf xrrerToKixs; (p. 450.) Zonaras
specifies the thunder xvxSrpxt* rrvveiStxae

(torn. ii. lib. xt. p. 104> 105.) It may be obse rved that the Greeks are apt
to confound the times and actions

of two Gregories.

(3) See Baronius, Annal.ijccles. A. D. 730. No. 4, 5. dignum fxemplum !
Bellarmin, de Romano Pontifipe,

lib. s'. c. 8, roulctavit enm pane imperii. Sigonius, de Regno Italise. lib.
iii. Opera, torn. ii. p. 169. Yet such

is the chartge or Italy, that Sigcnius is corrected by the editor of Milan,
Phihppus Argelatus, a Bolognese,

And subject of the pope,

(4) Quod si Christian'! olim non (eposucnint Xeronem aut Juliarium, id fuit
quia deerant Tires temporales

Christianis (Honest Bellarmine, de Pom. Pont. lib. v. c. 7.) Cardinal Perron
adds a distinction more honoura­

ble to the first Christians, but not mot* satisfactory to modern princes—the
treason of heretics and apostates,

who break their oath, belie their coin, ami renounce their allegiance to
Christ and his Wear (Perroniana, p. 89.)

(5) Take, as a specimen, the cautious Ibunage (Hist. de. I'Eglise, p. 1350.
1351.,) and the Tenement Span-

heim(Hist. Imagimim,) who, with a hundred more, tread in the footsteps of the
centuriators of Mai

'■ ' ■■— ' dCT (Hi„ -

! (lstoria

.. r-— —.v.,.™,..... .«.uaiiHaii9viiuuji in me nein oi control™-■ "

party, who stand on^the open middle ground, exposed to the fire of both sides

(6> s# m°y (°P«a, 'Oni.T. pars 2.epist. 7. 7. p. 456-474.) Natalis Alexander
(Hist. Not. Test!

secuh Tin. dissert. 1. p. P2-S6..)Pagi (Critica, torn. iii. p. 215,216.,) and
Giannone (lstoria CiTile di 1

torn. i. p. 317—320.,) a disciple of the Gallican school. In the field of
controveny I always pity the m(

party, who stand on the open middle ground, exposed to the fire of both sides.

(7) They appealed to Paul Warnefrid, or Diaconus (de Gestis Langobard. lib.
yi. c. 49. p. 506, 507. in

Ital. Muratori, torn.,. pars 1. J and the nominal Anastasius (de Vit. Pont, in
Muratori, torn. iii. pars. 1.J w.- R~

nus IX p. 154. Gregorius III. p. 158. Zacharias, p. Ml. Stephanns III. p. 165.
Paulns, p. 172. Stephanui IV. p.

174. Hadrianus, p. 179. Leo III. p. 195. Yet I may remark, that the true
Anastasius (Hist. Eccles. p. 134. edit.

Reg.J and the Histona Mi.ce)la,(l,b. xxi. p. 151. in torn. i. Script. Hal.
both of the ninth century; translate

and approve the Greek text of Theophanea. "

