H2 THE DECLINE AND FALL

character, the manners and religion of the Hindoos, are completely
obliterated}.-

and the intrinsic merit of the fables of Pilpay is far inferior to the concise
elegance

of Phiedrus, and the native graces of La Fontaine. Fifteen moral and political

sentences are illustrated in a series of apologues: but the composition is
intricate,

the narrative prolix, and the precept obvious and barren. Yet the Brachman may

assume the merit of inventing a pleasing fiction, which adorns the nakedness
of

truth, and alleviates, perhaps, to a royal ear, the harshness of instruction.
With

a similar design, to admonish kings that they are strong only in the strength
of

their subjects, the same Indians invented the game of chess, which was
likewise

introduced into Persia under the reign of Nushirvan.fi)

The son of Kobad found his kingdom involved in a war with the successor of

Constantine; and the anxiety of his domestic situation inclined him to grant
the

suspension of arms, which Justinian was impatient to purchase. Chosroes saw
the

Roman ambassadors at his feet. He accepted eleven thousand pounds of gold, as

the price of an endless or indefinite peace;(2) some mutual exchanges were
regu­

lated; the Persian assumed the guard of the gates of Caucasus, and the
demolition

of Dara was suspended, on condition that it should never be made the residence
of

the general of the east. This interval of repose had been solicited, and was
dili­

gently improved, by the ambition of the emperor: his African conquests were
the

first-fruits of the Persian treaty; and the avarice of Chosroes was soothed by
a large

portion of the spoils of Carthage, which his ambassadors required in a tone of
plea­

santry, and under the colour of friendship. (3). But the trophies of
Belisarius dis­

turbed the slumbers of the great king; and he heard with astonishment, envy,
and

fear, that Sicily, Italy and Rome itself, had been reduced, in three rapid
campaigns,

to the obedience of Justinian. Unpractised in the art of violating treaties,
he se­

cretly excited his bold and subtle vassal Almondar. That prince of the
Saracens,

who resided atHira,(4)hadnot been included in the general peace, and still
waged

an obscure war against his rival Arethas, the chief of the tribe of Gassan,
and con­

federate of the empire. The subject of their dispute was an extensive sheep-
walk

in the desert to the south of Palmyra. An immemorial tribute for the license
of

pasture, appeared to attest the rights of Almondar, while the Gassanite
appealed

to the Latin name of strata, a paved road, as an unquestionable evidence of
the so­

vereignty and labours of the Romans. (5) The two monarchs supported the cause

of their respective vassals; and the Persian Arab, without expecting the event
of

a slow and doubtful arbitration, enriched his flying camp with the spoil and
cap­

tives of Syria. Instead of repelling the arms, Justinian attempted to seduce
the

fidelity of Almondar, while he called from the extremities of the earth, the
nations

of Ethiopia and Scythia to invade the dominions of his rival. But the aid of
such

allies was distant and precarious, and the discovery of this hostile
correspondence

justified the complaints of the Goths and Armenians, who implored, almost at
the

same time, the protection of Chosroes. The descendants of Arsaces, who were

still numerous in Armenia, had been provoked to assert the last relics of
national

freedom and hereditary rank; and the ambassadors of Vitiges had secretly tra­

versed the empire to expose the instant, and almost inevitable, danger of the
"king­

dom of Italy. Their representations were uniform, weighty, and effectual. " We

stand before your throne, the advocates of your interest, as well as of our
own.

The ambitious and faithless Justinian aspires to be the sole master of the
world.

Since the endless peace which betrayed the common freedom of mankind, that

prince, your ally in words, your enemy in actions, has alike insulted his
friends and

foes, and has filled the earth with blood and confusion. Has he not violated
the

privileges of Armenia, the independence of Colchos, and the wild liberty of
the

Tzanian mountains? Has he not usurped, with equal avidity, the city of Bospho-

rus on the frozen Maeotis, and the vale of palm-trees, on the shores of the
Red sea?

The Moors, the Vandals, the Goths, have been successively oppressed, and each

nation has calmly remained the spectator of their neighbour's ruin. Embrace, O

(I) See the Historia Shahiludi of Dr. Hyde (Syntngm. Mssertat. torn. ii. p.
61—69.)

(!) The endless peace(Procopins, Persic, lib. i. c. 21.) wat concluded or
ratified in the sixth year, and third

consulship of Justinian (A. D. 533, between January 1, and April 1, Pagi,
torn. ii. p. 550.) Marcellinus, in his

Chronicle, uses the style of the Medes and Persians.

(3) Procopius, Persic, lib. i. c. 26.

(4) Almondar, kins; of Hira, was deposed by Kobad, and restored by Nushirran.
His mother, from her beau­

ty, was sumamed Celestial Water* an appellation which became hereditary, and
was extended for a more noble

cause (liberality in famine) to the Arab princes of Syria (Pocock, Specimen
Hist. Arab. p. 69,70.)

(J) Procopius, Persic, lib. ii. c. 1. We are ignorant of the origin and object
of this ttrata, a pared road-of

ten days' Journey from Auranitis to Babylonia (see a Latin note in Delisle's
Map, Imp. Orient.) Wesseling

and D'AhvilIe are silent.

