74 THE DECLINE AND FALL

the fortifications of the Lower Danube; and laboured to secure the alliance of
a

people seated in the direct channel of northern inundation, an interval of two
hun­

dred miles, between the mountains of Transylvania and the Euxine sea. But the

Antes wanted power and inclination to stem the fury of the torrent: and the
light-*

armed Sclavonians, from a hundred tribes, pursued with almost equal speed the

footsteps of the Bulgarian horBe. The payment of one piece of gold for each

soldier procured a safe and easy retreat through the country of the Gepidae,
who

commanded the passage of the Upper Danube.(l) The hopes or fears of the

barbarians; their intestine union or discord; the accident of a frozen or
shallow

stream; the prospect of harvest or vintage; the prosperity or distress of the
Ro­

mans; were the causes which produced the uniform repetition of annual
visits,(2)

tedious in the narrative, and destructive in the event. The same year, and
pos­

sibly the same month, in which Ravenna surrendered, was marked by an inva­

sion of the Huns or Bulgarians, so dreadful, that it almost effaced the memory
of

their past inroads. They spread from the suburbs of Constantinople to the
Ionian

Gulph, destroyed thirty-two cities or castles, erased Potidsea, which Athens

had built and Philip had besieged, and repassed the Danube, dragging at their

horses' heels one hundred and twenty thousand of the subjects of Justinian. In
a

subsequent inroad they pierced the wall of the Thracian Chersonesus,
extirpated

the habitations and the inhabitants, boldly traversed the Hellespont, and
returned

to their companions, laden with the spoils of Asia. Another party, which
seemed

a multitude in the eyes of the Romans, penetrated, without opposition, from
the

straits of Thermopyls to the isthmus of Corinth; and the last ruin of Greece
has

appeared an object too minute for the attention of history. The works which

the emperor raised for the protection, but at the expense of his subjects,
served

only to disclose the weakness of some neglected part, and the walls, which, by
flat­

tery had been deemed impregnable, were either deserted by the garrisons, or

scaled by the barbarians. Three thousand Sclavonians, who insolently divided

tkemselves into two bands, discovered the weakness and misery of a triumphant

reign. They passed the Danube and the Hebrus, vanquished the Roman gene­

rals who dared to oppose their progress, and plundered, with impunity, the
cities

of Illyricum and Thrace, each of which had arms and numbers to overwhelm

their contemptible assailants. Whatever praise the boldness of the Sclavonians
may

deserve, it is sullied by the wanton and deliberate cruelty which they are
accused

of exercising on their prisoners. Without distinction of rank, or age, or sex,
the

captiyte were impaled or flayed alive, or suspended between four posts, and
beat­

en with clu\>= till they expired, or enclosed in some spacious buildings, and
left

to perish in the ft^es wfth the spoil and cattle which might impede the march
of

these savage victors, v?) Perhaps a more impartial narrative would reduce the

number, and qualify the mature, of these horrid acts; and they might sometimes

be excused by the cruel laws ,f retaliation. In the siege of Topirus, (4)
whose ob­

stinate defence had enraged the Slavonians, they massacred fifteen thousand
males;

but they spared the women and chilaien; the most valuable captives were always

reserved for labour or ransom; the servitude was not rigorous, and the terms
of

their deliverance were speedy and moderaie. But the subject, or the historian
of

Justinian, exhaled his just indignation in the language of complaint and
reproach;

and Procopius has confidently affirmed, that in a reign of thirty-two years
each

annual inroad of the barbarians consumed two hundred thousand of the inhabi­

tants of the Roman empire. The entire population of Turkish Europe, which

nearly corresponds with the provinces o5 Justinian, would perhaps be incapable

of supplying six millions of persons, the res.u of this incredible estimate.
(5)

In the midst of these obscure calamities, Europe felt the shock of a
revolution,

whieh first revealed to the world the name and >atjon 0f the Turks. Like Romu­

lus, the founder of that martial people was suckl^j Dy a she-wolf who
afterward

made him the father of a numerous progeny; and th> representation of that
animal

(1) Procopius, Goth. lib. iv. c. 25.

fS) An inroad of the Huns is connected, by Procopius, with a comet: perna-
that of Hi i-Persie lib ii r

4.) A<rathias, (lib. v. p. 154,155.) borrows from his predecessors some
earrvfacls. 531 (Persic, lib. n. e.

(3) The cruelties or tbe Sclavonians are related or magninrd by Procopius (Guh
lib iii c 19—38 For

their mild and liberal behaviour to their prisoners, we may appeal to the
authority, nme, hat more recent, of

tBe emperor Maurice (Stratagem, lib. ii. c. 5.) J, »mev.nat more recent, oi

(4) Topirus was situate near Philippi in Thrace, or Macedonia, opposite to the
isle of Thnsos twelve davs'

journey from Constantinople (Cellarius, torn. i. p. 076—840.) ' *"■»" —f

(s) According to the malevolent testimony of tire Anecdotes, (c. 18.,) these
inroads had reduced the nro-

vinces, south of the Danube, to the state of a Scythian wilderness. ""««" u«u
nuuuu me pro

