THE DECLINE AND FALL

I. A laudable regard for the honour of the first proselytes, has countenanced

the belief, the hope, the wish, that the Ebionites, or at least the Nazarenes,
were

distinguished only by their obstinate perseverance in the practice of the
Mosaic

rites. Their churches have disappeared, their books are obliterated; their ob­

scure freedom might allow a latitude of faith, and the softness of their
infant creed

would be variously moulded by the zeal or prudence of three hundred years. Yet

the most charitable criticism must refuse these sectaries any knowledge of the

pure and proper divinity of Christ. Educated in- the school of Jewish prophecy

and prejudice, they had never been taught to elevate their hopes above a human

and temporal Messiah. (1) If they had courage to hail their king when he ap­

peared in a plebeian garb, their grosser apprehensions were incapable of
discern­

ing their God, who had studiously disguised his celestial character under the
name

and person of a mortal. (2) The familiar companions of Jesus of Nazareth con­

versed with their friend and countryman, who in all the actions of rational
and

animal life, appeared of the same species with themselves. His progress from

infancy to youth and manhood was marked by a regular increase in stature and

wisdom; and after a painful agony of mind and body, he expired on the cross.
He

lived and died for the service of mankind; but the life and death of Socrates
had

likewise been devoted to the cause of religion and justice; and although the
stoic

or the hero may disdain the humble virtues of Jesus, the tears which he shed
over

his friend and country may be esteemed the purest evidence of his humanity.
The

miracles of the gospel could not astonish a people who held with intrepid
faith,

the more splendid prodigies of the Mosaic law. The prophets of ancient days

had cured diseases, raised the dead, divided the sea, stopped the sun, and
ascend­

ed to heaven in a fiery chariot. And the metaphorical style of the Hebrews

might ascribe to a saint and martyr, the adoptive title of Son of God.

Yet in the insufficient creed of the Nazarenes and the Ebionites, a
distinction is

faintly noticed between the heretics, who confounded the generation of Christ
in

the common order of nature, and the less guilty schismatics, who revered the
vir­

ginity of his mother, and excluded the aid of an earthly father. The
incredulity

of the former was countenanced by the visible circumstances of his birth; the
le­

gal marriage of his reputed parents, Joseph and Mary, and his lineal claim to
the

kingdom of David and the inheritance of Judah. But the secret and authentic

history has been recorded in several copies of the gospel according to St.
Mat-

thew,(3) which these sectaries long preserved in the original Hebrew(4) as the

compress ? If I persist in supporting each fact or reflection by its proper
and special evidence, every line

would require a string of testimonies, and every note would swell to a
critical dissertation. But the number­

less passages of antiquity which I have seen with my own eyes, are compiled,
digested, and illustrated by Pe-

tavius and Le Clerc^by Beausobre and Mosheim. I shall be content to fortify my
narrative by the names and

characters of these respectable guides; and, in the contemplation of a minute
or remote object, lam not

ashamed to borrow the aid of the strongest glasses.—1. The Dogmata Theologica
of Petavius. is a work of in­

credible labour and compass; the volumes which relate solely to the
incarnation (two folios, fifth and sixth, of

eigh't'hunilred and thirty-seven pages) are divided into sixteen books—the
first of history, the remainder of

controversy and doctrine. The Jesuit's learning is copious and correct; his
Latinity is pure, his method clear,

his argument profound and well connected: but he is the slave of the fathers,
the scourge of heretics, and the

enemy of truth and candour, as often as they are inimical to the catholic
cnuse. 2. The Arminian lie Cierc,

who has composed, in a quarto volume, (Amsterdam, 1716.) the ecclesiastical
history of the two first centuries,

was free both in his temper and situation;_his sense is clear, bnt his
thoughts are narrow; he reduce* the reason,

or folly of ages to the standard of his private judgment; and his impartiality
is sometimes quickened, and

sometimes tainted, by his opposition to the fathers. See the heretics
(Corinthians,) 80. Ebionites, 103. Cac-

pocratians, 120. Vafentinians, 121. Basilidians, 123. Marrionites, 141, Ice.
under their proper dates. 3. The

Histoire Critique du Manicheisme (Amsterdam. 1734. 1739. in two vols, in
quarto, with a posthumous disserta­

tion sur les Nazarenes, Lausanne, 1745 J of M. de Beausobre is a treasure of
ancient philosophy and theology.

The learned historian spins with incomparable art the systematic thread of
opinion, and transforms himself

by turns into the person of a saint, a sage, or a heretic. Yet his refinement
is sometimes excessive; he betrays

an amiable partiality in favour of the weaker side, and while he guards
against calumny,he does not allow

sufficient scope for superstition and fanaticism. A copious table of contents
will direct tile reader to any point

that be wishes to examine. .4. Less profound than Petavius, less independent
than Le Clerc, less ingenious

than Beausobre, the historian Mosheim is full, rational, correct, and
moderate. In his teamed work, De Re­

bus Christianis ante Constantinum (Helmstadt, 1753, in quarto.) see the
Nazarenes and Ebionites, p. 172—179.

828—332.; the Gnostics in general, p. 173. &c. Cerinthus, p. 196—202;
Basilides, p. 852—361; Carpocrates,'n.

363—367; Valentinus, p. 371—389; Marcion, p. 404—410; the Manichaeans, p.
829—8S7, &c.

(1) _Kae*^-ap ttzvtss y^tsti toi> Xp'TTOw ewSpwa-flv t5 xvbpv-jiv irpso-
Soxcoptv yivxtrxTSxi,says the Jewish Tryphon,

(Justin. Dialog, p. 207.) in the name of his countrymen; and the modern Jews,
the few who divert their

thoughts from money to religion, still hold the same language, and allege the
literal sense of the prophets.

(2) Chrysostom (Basnage, Hist, des Juif"s, torn. v. c. 9. p. 183.) and
Athanasius (Petav. Dogmat. Theolog. torn.

t. lib. i. c. 2. p. 3.) are obliged to confess that the divinity of Christ is
rarely mentioned by himself or his

apostles.

(3) The two first chapters of St. Matthew did not exist in the Ebionite
copies; (Epiphan. Hteres. 3o. 13.)

arid the .miraculous conception is one of the last articles which Dr.
Priestley has curtailed from his scanty

Creed.

(4) It is probable enough that the first of the gospels, for the use of the
Jew ish converts, syas composed in

the Hebrew or Swiac idiom: the fact is attested by a chain of fathers—Papias,
lrenxus, Origin, Jerome, si.

It is devoutly bcEeveil by the catholics, and admitted by Casoubon, Grotius,
and Isaac Vossius, among the

