26. THE DECLINE AND FALL

an aqueduct, were speedily constructed; the public and private edifices were
adapt­

ed to the greatness of a royal city; and the strength of the walls resisted,
during

the lifetime of Justinian, the unskilful assaults of the Huns and Sclavonians.
Their

progress was sometimes retarded, and their hopes of rapine were disappointed,
by

the innumerable castles, which, in the provinces of Dacia, Epirus, Thessaly,
Ma­

cedonia, and Thrace, Appeared to cover the whole face of the country. Six hun­

dred of these forts were built or repaired by the emperor: but it seems
reasonable

to believe,, that the far greater part consisted only of a stone or brick
tower, in the

midst of a square or circular area, which was surrounded by a wall and ditch,
and

afforded in a moment of danger some protection <o the peasants and cattle of
the

neighbouring villages.(l) Yet these military works, which exhausted the public

treasure, could not remove the just apprehensions of Justinian and his
European

subjects. The warm baths of Anchialus in Thrace were rendered as safe as they

were salutary; but the rich pastures of Thessalonica were foraged by the
Scythian

cavalry; the delicious vale of Tempe, three hundred miles from the Danube, was

continually alarmed by the sound of war;(2) and no unfortified spot, however
dis­

tant or solitary, could securely enjoy the blessings of peace. The straits of
Ther­

mopylae, which seemed to protect, but which had so often betrayed, the safety
of

Greece, were diligently strengthened by the labours of Justinian. From the
edge

of the sea-shore, through theforest and valleys, and as far as the summit of
the

Thessalian mountains, a strong wall was continued, which occupied every
practi­

cable entrance. Instead of a hasty crowd of peasants, a garrison of two
thousand

soldiers was stationed along the rampart; granaries of corn, and reservoirs of
wa­

ter, were provided for their use; and by a precaution that inspired the
cowardice

which it foresaw, convenient fortresses were erected for their retreat. The
walls

of Corinth, overthrown by an earthquake, and the mouldering bulwarks of Athens

and Platxa, were carefully restored; the barbarians were discouraged by the
pros­

pect of successive and painful sieges; and the naked cities of Peloponnesus
were

covered by the fortifications of the isthmus of Corinth. At the extremity of
Eu­

rope, another peninsula, the Thracian Chersonesus, runs three days' journey
into

the sea, to form, with the adjacent shores of Asia, the straits of the
Hellespont.

The intervals between eleven populous towns were filled by lofty woods, fair
pas­

tures, and arable lands: and the isthmus, or thirty-seven stadia or furlongs,
had

been fortified by a Spartan general nine hundred years before the reign of
Justi­

nian. (3) In an age of freedom and valour, the slightest rampart may prevent a

surprise; and Procopius appears insensible of the superiority of ancient
times, while

he praises the solid construction and double parapet of a wall, whose long
arms

stretched on either side into the sea: but whose strength was deemed
insufficient

to guard the Chersonesus, if each city, and particularly Gallipoli and Sestus,
had

not been secured by their peculiar fortifications. The long wall, as it was
em­

phatically styled, was a work as disgraceful in the object, as it was
respectable^ in

the execution. The riches of a capital diffuse themselves over the
neighbouring

country, and the territory of Constantinople, a paradise of nature, was
adorned

■with the luxurious gardens and villas of the senators and opulent citizens.
But

their wealth served only to attract the bold and rapacious barbarians; the
noblest

of the Romans, in the bosom of peaceful indolence, were led away into Scythian

captivity, and their sovereign might view, from his palace, the hostile flames
which

were insolently spread to the gates of the imperial city. At the distance only
of

forty miles, Anastasius was constrained to establish a last frontier; his long
wall,

of sixty miles from the Propontis to the Euxine, proclaimed the impotence of
his

arms; and as the danger became more imminent, new fortifications were added by

the indefatigable prudence of Justinian .(4)

Asia Minor, after the submission of the Isaurians,(5) remained without enemies

and without fortifications. Those bold savages, who had disdained to be the
sub­

jects of Galenius, persisted two hundred and thirty years in a life of
independence

•

(1) These fortifications may be compared to the castles in Mingrelin (Chardin,
Voyages en Perse, torn. i. p. 60.

131.)—a natural picture.

(3) The Talley of Tempe is situate along the river Peneus, between the hills
of Oisa and Olympus: it is only

five miles long, and in some places no more than one hundred and twenty feet
in breadth. Its verdant beau­

ties are elegantly described by Pliny. (Hist. Natur. Iib.iv. 15.) and more
diffusely by /Elian (Hist. Yar. lib. iii.

c. 1.)

(3) Xenophon Hellenic, lib. iii. c. 2. Aftera long and tedious conversation
with the Byzantine declaimers,

how refreshing is the truth, the simplicity, the elegance of an Attic writer 1

(4) See the long wall in Evagrius (lib. iv. c. 38.) This whole article is
drawn from the fourth book of the

Sdr&oes, except Anchialus (lib. iii. c. 7.)

(5) In the course of this history, I have sometimes mentioned, and much
oftener alighted, the hasty inroads

of the Iiauriaus, which were not attended with any consequences.

