OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 73

Unction which nature had fixed between the faithful dog and the rapacious
wolf,

■was applied by an ambassador, who received only verbal instructions from the

mouth of his illiterate prince.(l) The Bulgarians, of whatsoever species, were

equally attracted by Roman wealth, they assumed a vague dominion over the
Scla-

vonian name, and their rapid marches could only be stopped by the Baltic sea,

or the extreme cold and poverty of the north. But the same race of Sclavonians

appears to have maintained, in every age, the possession of the same
countries.

Their numerous tribes, however distant or adverse, used one common language;

it was harsh and irregular, and were known by the resemblance of their form,

which deviated from the swarthy Tartar, and approached, without attaining, the

lofty stature and fair complexion of the German. Four thousand six hundred

villages(2) were scattered over the provinces of Russia and Poland, and their
huts

were hastily built of rough timber, in a country deficient both in stone and
iron.

Erected, or rather concealed in the depth of forests, on the banks of rivers,
or the

edge of morasses, we may not, perhaps, without flattery, compare them to the

architecture of the beaver; which they resembled in a double issue, to the
land

and water, for the escape of the savage inhabitants, an animal less cleanly,
less

diligent, and less social, than that marvellous quadruped. The fertility of
the

soil, rather than the labour of the natives, supplied the rustic plenty of the
Scla­

vonians. Their sheep and horned cattle were large and numerous, and the fields

which they sowed with millet and panic,(3) afforded, in the place of bread, a

coarse and less nutritive food. The incessant rapine of their neighbours
compelled

them to bury this treasure in the earth; but on the appearance of a stranger
it was

freely imparted by a people whose unfavourable character is qualified by the
epi­

thets of chaste, patient, and hospitable. As their supreme god, they adored an
in­

visible master of the thunder. The rivers and the nymphs obtained their
subordi­

nate honours, and the popular worship was expressed in vows and sacrifice. The

Sclavonians disdained to obey a despot, aprince, or even a magistrate; but
their ex­

perience was too narrow, their passions too headstrong, to compose a system of

equal law or general defence. Some voluntary respect was yielded to age and
valour;

but each tribe or village existed as a separate republic, and all must be
persuaded

where none could be compelled. They fought on foot, almost naked, and, except

an unwieldy shield, without any defensive armouri their weapons of offence
were

a bow, a quiver, of small poisoned arrows, and a long rope, which they
dexterously

threw from a distance, and entangled their enemy in a running noose. In the

field the Sclavonian infantry was dangerous by their speed, agility, and
hardiness:

they swam, they dived, they remained under water, drawing their h«»th through

a hollow cane; and a river or lake was often the scene of thei' ansusPected
am-

buscade. But these were the achievements of spies or s*aSB'ers; the military

art was unknown to the Sclavonians; their name was ob~drc> and "iCir conquests

were inglorious. (4) . _ .

I have marked the faint and general outline the Sclavonians and Bulgarians,

without attempting to define their intermeddle boundaries, which were not
accu­

rately known, or respected by the barianans themselves. Their importance

was measured by their vicinity to the empire; and the level country of
Moldavia

and Walachia was occupied by the Antes,(5) a Sclavonian tribe, which swelled

the titles of Justinian with an epithet of conquest. (6) Against the Antes he
erected

(1) Procopius (Goth, lib. W. c. 19.) Hi. verbal tnewpf (>* <>«">■ W""""
*"i,liter»e tartarian) i. delivered!

u an epistle. The style is savage, figurative, and ortfina'*

^.^•^Sw'tE 5S3f!l3S^«ff «i« h"» »wilderne,? which quires a Saxon and

Polish guide.

^™^^&%£X?'*'*"team*ri~« Bomare.nd Miller.

.lUition and manner*, of the Sclav on mm. see the original evidence of the

IS1 Ant.. «m» fhrti.,'vni .... Taysis qui rapidus et voriieosus in Histri
flucnta fiirens devnlvilnr (Jor.

nande.," v r° 1™ e Monitor. Procoptui, Goth, Iib.iii.e. 14. et de Edific. lib.
it c. ■>.) Yet the s»mo

p"'>copi„, trliioniVae Goths and Hornas neighbours, yi.T.»w.., to the Danube
(dc Kdific. I.b.iv.c.l.)

fft) The national title of Antkw,\n 'he laws and inscriptions of Justinian,
was adopted by hi« successors,

•od is justified1 by the pious Ludewrig (in Vit. Justinian, p. 515.) it bad
strangely puzzled the civ.hans of

middle age.

Vol. 171. 10

