574 THE DECLINE AN1J FALL

-captives were transplanted from Hyrcania to the isle of Cyprus. On the return  
of spring, Justinian descended into the fertile plains of Assyria, the flames
of war

approached the residence of Nushirvan, the indignant monarch sunk into the
grave,

and his last edict restrained his successors from exposing their person in a
battle

against the Romans. Yet the memory of this transient affront was lost in the
glo­

ries of a long reign; and his formidable enemies, after indulging their dream
of

conquest, again solicited a short respite from the calamities of war. (1)

The throne of Chosroes Nushirvan was filled by Hormouz, or Hormisdas, the

eldest or the most favoured of his sons. With the kingdoms of Persia and
India,

he inherited the reputation and example of his father, the service, in every
rank,

of his wise and valiant officers, and a general system of administration,
harmo­

nized by time and political wisdom, to promote the happiness of the prince and

people. But the royal youth enjoyed a still more valuable blessing, the
friendship

of a sage who had presided over his education, and who always preferred the
ho­

nour to the interest of his pupil, his interest to his inclination. In a
dispute with

the Greek and Indian philosophers, Buzurg(2) had once maintained, that the
most

grievous misfortune of life is old age without the remembrance of virtue; and
our

candour will presume that the same principle compelled him, during three
years,

to direct the councils of the Persian empire. His zeal was rewarded by the
gra­

titude and docility of Hormouz, who acknowledged himself more indebted to his

preceptor than to his parent: but when age and labour had impaired the
strength

and perhaps the faculties of this prudent counsellor, he retired from court,
and

abandoned the youthful monarch to his own passions and those of his favour­

ites. By a fatal vicissitude of human affairs, the same scenes were renewed at

Ctesiphon, which had been exhibited in Rome after the death of Marcus
Antoninus.

The ministers of flattery and corruption, who had been banished by the father,

•were recalled and cherished by the son; the disgrace and exile of the friends
of

Nushirvan established their tyranny; and virtue was driven by degrees from the

mind of Hormouz, from his palace, and from the government of the state. The

faithful agents, the eyes and ears of the king, informed him of the progress
of dis­

order, that the provincial governors flew to their prey with the fierceness of
lions

and eagles, and that their rapine and injustice would teach the most loyal of
his

subjects, to abhor the name and authority of their sovereign. The sincerity of

this advice was punished with death, the murmurs of the cities were despised,

their tumults were quelled by military execution; the intermediate powers
between

the throne and the people were abolished; and the childish vanity of Hormouz,

who affected the daily use of the tiara, was fond of declaring, that he alone
would be

the judge as well as the master of his kingdom. In every word, and in every
ac­

tion, the son of Nushirvan degenerated from the virtues of his father. His
ava­

rice defrauded the troops; his jealous caprice degraded the satraps; the
palace,

the tribunals, the waters of the Tigris, were stained with the blood of the
innocent,

and the tyrant exulted in the sufferings and execution of thirteen thousand
victims.

As the excuse of his cruelty, he sometimes condescended to observe, that the

fears of the Persians, would be productive of hatred, and that their hatred
must

terminate in rebellion: but he forgot that his own guilt and folly had
inspired the

sentiments which he deplored, and prepared the event which he so justly appre­

hended. Exasperated by long and hopeless oppression, the provinces of Babylon,

Susa, and Carmania, erected the standard of revolt; and the princes of Arabia,

India, and Scythia, refused the customary tribute to the unworthy successor of

Nushirvan. The arms.of the Romans, in slow sieges and frequent inroads,
afflict­

ed the frontiers of Mesopotamia and Assyria; one of their generals professed
him­

self the disciple of Scipio, and the soldiers were animated by a miraculous
Image

of Christ, whose mild aspect should never have been displayed in the front of
bat­

tlers) At the same time the eastern provinces of Persia were invaded by the

army from the neighbourhood of Moscow to the coast of Persia (Bell's Travels,
vol. ii. p. 325—352.) Me justly

observes, that such martial pomp had never been displayed on the Volga.

{l) For these Persian wars and treaties, see Menander, in Excerpt. Legat. p.
113—125. Theophanes Byzant.

apiid Photium, cod. Ixiv. p. 77. 80,81. Evagrius, lib. v. c. 7—13.
Theophylact, lib. iii. c. 9—18. Agathias, lib.

iv. p. 140.

(2) Buzurg Mihir may be considered, in his character and station, as the
Seneca of the east; but hit virtues,

and perhaps his faults, are less known than those of the Roman, who appears to
have been much more loqua­

cious. The Persian sage was the person who imported from India the game of
chess and the fables of Pilpav.

Such has been the fame of his wisdom and virtues, that the Christians claim
him as a believer in the gospel;

And the Mahometans revere Buzurg as a premature Mussulman. D'Herbelot,
Bibliotheque Orientale, p.

318.

(3) Seethe imitation Of Scipio in Theophylact, lib. i. e. 14. the image of
Chrisr, !ib. ii. c. 3, Hereafter I ihs'i,

