OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 389

of conscience and religious worship. (1) In a field of battle, the forfeit
lives of the

prisoners were redeemed by the profession of Islam; the females were bound to

embrace the religion of their masters, and a race of sincere proselytes was
gra­

dually multiplied by the education of the infant captives. But the millions of
Asia­

tic and African converts, who swelled the native band of the faithful Arabs,
must

have been allured, rather than constrained, to declare their belief in one God
and

the apostle of God. By the repetition of a sentence and the loss of a
foreskin, the

•subject or the slave, the captive or the criminal, arose in a moment the free
and

equal companion of the victorious Moslems. Every sin was expiated, every en­

gagement was dissolved: the vow of celibacy was superseded by the indulgence
of

nature; the active spirits who slept in the cloister were awakened by the
trumpet

of the Saracens: and in the convulsion of the world, every member of a new so­

ciety ascended to the natural level of his capacity and courage. The minds of
the

multitude were tempted by the invisible as well as temporal blessings of the
Ara­

bian prophet; and charity will hope, that many of his proselytes entertained a
se­

rious conviction of the truth and sanctity of his revelation. In the eyes of
an in­

quisitive polytheist, it must appear worthy of the human and the divine
nature.

More pure than the system of Zoroaster, more liberal than the law of Moses,
the

religion of Mahomet might seem less inconsistent with reason, than the creed
of

mystery and superstition, which, in the seventh century, disgraced the
simplicity

of the gospel.

In the extensive provinces of Persia and Africa, the national religion has
been

eradicated by the Mahometan faith. The ambiguous theology of the Magi stood

alone among the sects of the east: but the profane writings of Zoroaster(2)

might, under the reverend name of Abraham, be dexterously connected with the

chain of divine revelation. Their evil principle, the demon Ahriman, might be

represented as the rival or as the creature of the God of light. The temples
of

Persia were devoid of images; but the worship of the sun and of fire might be

stigmatized as a gross and criminal idolatry. (3) The milder sentiment was
con­

secrated by the practice of Mahomet(4) and the prudence of the caliphs; the
Ma-

gians or Ghebers were ranked with the Jews and Christians among the people of

the written law;(5) and as late as the third century of the Hegira, the city
of He­

rat will afford a lively contrast of private zeal and public toleration. (6)
Under

the payment of an annual tribute, the Mahometan law secured to the Ghebers of

Herat their civil and religious liberties: but the recent and humble mosch was

oversh adowed by the antique splendour of the adjoining temple of fire. A
fanatic

imam deplored, in his sermons, the scandalous neighbourhood, and accused the

weakn-ess or indifference of the faithful. Excited by his voice, the people
as­

sembled in tumult; the two houses of prayer were consumed by the flames, but

the vacant ground was immediately occupied by the foundations of a new mosch.

The injured Magi appealed to the sovereign of Chorasan; he promised justice
and

relief; when, behold! four thousand citizens of Herat, of a grave character
and ma­

ture age, unanimously swore that the idolatrous fane had never existed; the
inquisi­

tion was silenced, and their conscience was satisfied, says the historian
Mirchond,(7)

(1) The distinction between a proscribed and a tolevated sect, between the
Harbii and the people of the

Book, the believers in some divine revelation, is correctly d< fined in the
conversation of the caliph Al Marauo

with the idolaters, or Sabteans, of Chare. Hottinger, Hist. Orient, p.
107,108.

(2) The Zend or Pazend, the bible of the Ghebers, is reckoned by themselves,
or at least by the Mahometans,

among the ten books which Abraham received from heaven; and their religion is
honourably styled the reli­

gion of Abraham. (D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient-p. 701. Hyde, de Religione
veterum Persarum, c. 3. p. 27,28, See.)

I much fear that we do not possess any pm e and free description of the system
of Zoroaster. Dr. Frideaux

(Connexion, vol. i p. 300. oetavo) adopts the opinion, that be had been the
slave and scholar of some Jewish

prophet in the captivity of Babylon. Perhaps the Persians, who have been the
masters of the Jews, would as­

sert the honour, a poor honour, of being their masters.

(3) The Arabian Nights, a faithful and amusing picture of the oriental world,
represent in the jrtost odious-

colours, the Magiam, or worshippers of fire, to whom they attribute the annual
sacrifice of a Mussulman. The

religion of Zoroaster has not the least affinity with that of the Hindoos, yet
they are often confounded by the

Mahometans; and the sword of Timour was sharpened by this mistake. (Hist, de
Timour Bee, par Cherfed-

din Ali Yezdi.lib.v.)

(4) Vie de Mahomet par Gagnier, torn. Hi. p. 114, 115.

(5) Hrec tres seetse, Judsei. Christiani, et qui inier Persas Magorum
institutis addicti sunt, xa-r' egoxxv, populi

Tiiieri dicuntur, (Reland, Dissertat. torn. iii. p. 15.) The caliph Al Mamun
confirms this honourable distinc.

tion in favour of the three sects, with the vague and equivocal religion of
the Sabxans, under which the ac-

cient polytheists of Change were allowed to shelter their idolatrous worship.
(Hottinger, Hist. Orient, p.

167, 188.) a ' 1

(6) This singular story is related by d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p.
448,449.) on the faith of Khondemir, and

by Miichond himself. (Hist, priorum Begum Persarum, Ste. p. 9,10. not. p.
88,89.)

(7) Michond (Mohammed Emir Khoondah Shah,) a native of Herat, composed in the
Persian language a ge­

neral history of the east, from the creation to the jjcar of the Hegira 875.
(A. D. 1471.) In the year 904. (A. D.

1498.) the historian obtained the command of a princely library, and his
applauded work, in seven or twelve

