382 THE DECLINE AND FALL

It is in the fourteenth century, that we may view in the strongest light the
state

•and contrast of the Roman empire of Germany, which no longer held, except on

the borders of the Rhine and Danube, a single province of Trajan or
Constantine.

Their unworthy successors were the counts of Hapsburg, of Nassau, of Luxem-

burgh, and of Schwartzenburgh: the emperor Henry VIL procured for his son the

crown of Bohemia, and his grandson Charles IV. was born among a people,
strange

and barbarous in the estimation of the Germans themselves. (1) After the ex­

communication of Lewis of Bavaria, he received the gift or promise of the
vacant

empire from the Roman pontiffs, who, in the exile and captivity of Avignon,
af­

fected the dominion of the earth. The death of his competitors united the
elec­

toral college, and Charles was unanimously saluted king of the Romans, and
future

emperor: a title which in the same age was prostituted to the Cssars of Germa­

ny and Greece. The German emperor was no more than the elective and impo­

tent magistrate of an aristocracy of princes, who had not left him a village
that

he might call his own. His best prerogative was the right of presiding and
pro­

posing in the national senate, which was convened at his summons; and his
native

Kingdom of Bohemia, less opulent than the adjacent city of Nuremburg, was the

firmest seat of his power and the richest source of his revenue. The army with

which he passed the Alps consisted of three hundred horse. In the cathedral of

St. Ambrose, Charles was crowned with the iron crown, which tradition ascribed

to the Lombard monarchy; but he was admitted only with a peaceful train; the

gates of the city were shut upon him; and the king of Italy was held a captive
by

the arms of the Visconti, whom he confirmed in the sovereignty of Milan. In
the

Vatican he was again crowned with the golden crown of the empire; but, in obe­

dience to a secret treaty, the Roman emperor immediately withdrew, without re­

posing a single night within the walls of Rome. The eloquent Petrarch,(2)
whose

fancy revived the visionary glories of the capitol, deplores and upbraids the
igno­

minious flight of the Bohemian; and even his cotemporaries could observe, that

the sole exercise of his authority was in the lucrative sale of privileges and
titles.

The gold of Italy secured the election of his son; but such was the shameful
po­

verty of the Roman emperor, that his person was arrested by a butcher in the

streets of Worms, and was detained in the public inn, as a pledge or hostage
for

the payment of his expenses.

From this humiliating scene, let us turn to the apparent majesty of the same

Charles in the diets of the empire. The golden bull, which fixes the Germanic

constitution, is promulgated in the style of a sovereign and legislator. A
hundred

princes bowed before his throne, and exalted their own dignity by the
voluntary

honours which they yielded to their chief or minister. At the royal banquet,
the

hereditary great officers, the seven electors, who in rank and title were
equal to

kings, performed their solemn and domestic service of the palace. The seals of

the triple kingdom were borne in state by the archbishops of Mentz, Cologne,
and

Treves, the perpetual arch-chancellors of Germany, Italy, and Aries. The great

marshal, on horseback, exercised his function with a silver measure of oats,

which he emptied on the ground, and immediately dismounted to regulate the

order of the guests. The great steward, the count palatine of the Rhine,
placed

the dishes on the table. The great chamberlain, the margrave of Brandenburg,

Sresented, after the repast, the golden ewer and basin, to wash. The king of
Bo-

emia, as great cup-bearer, was represented by the emperor's brother, the duke

of Luxemburg and Brabant; and the procession was closed by the great huntsman,

who introduced a boar and a stag, with a loud chorus of horns and hounds. (3)

Nor was the supremacy of the emperor confined to Germany alone; the heredi­

tary monarchs of Europe confessed the pre-eminence of his rank and dignity; be

was the first of the Christian princes, the temporal head of the great
republic of

collects them under tlieir respective heads. To this work, in a less pet-feet
state. Dr. Robertson was jrraleful-

lyindebted for that masterly sketch which traces even the modern chances of
the Germanic bod)*. The Cor­

pus Historise Germanicae of Struvius, has been likewise consulted, the more
usefully, as that huge compilation

is fortified in every page with the original texts.

(1) *yelpersonaUy, Charles IV. must not be considered as a harharian. After
his education at Paris, he reco­

vered the use of the Bohemian, his native idiom; and the emperor conversed and
wrote with equal facility in

French, Latin, Italian, and Gel-man. (Struvius, p. 615,610.) Petrarch always
represents him as a polite and

learned prince. •*

(2) Besides the German and Italian historians, the expedition of Charles IV.
is painted in lively and oriet-

xial colours in the curious Memoires stir la Vie de Petrarque, torn. iii. p.
370—130. By the Abbe de SadC

•chose prolixity has never been blamed by any reader of taste and curiosity.

f3)^ee thewholt- ceremony in Strrrriiis, p. 629.

