OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 181

conqueror. (1) The eastern regions of Germany, which had been left vacant by

the emigration of the Vandals, were replenished with the Sclavonian colonists:

the same tribes are discovered in the neighbourhood of the Hadriatic and of
the

Baltic, and with the name of Baian himself, the Illyrian cities of Neyss and
Lissa

are again found in the heart of Silesia. In the disposition both of his troops
and

provinces, the chagan exposed the vassals, whose lives he disregarded,(2) to
the

first assault; and the swords of the enemy were blunted before they
encountered

the native valour of the Avars.

The Persian alliance restored the troops of the east to the defence of
.Europe;

and Maurice, who had supported ten years the insolence of the chagan, declared

his resolution to march in person against the barbarians. In the space of two

centuries, none of the successors of Theodosius had appeared in the field,
their

lives were supinely spent in the palace of Constantinople; and the Greeks
could

no longer understand, that the name of emfieror, in its primitive sense,
denoted

the chief of the armies of the republic The martial ardour of Maurice was op­

posed by the grave flattery of the senate, the timid superstition of the
patriarch,

and the tears of the empress Constantina; and they all conjured him to devolve
on

some meaner general the fatigues and perils of a Scythian campaign. Deaf to

their advice and entreaty, the emperor boldly advanced(3) seven miles from the

capital; the sacred ensign of the cross was displayed in the front, and
Maurice re­

viewed, with conscious pride, the arms and numbers of the veterans who had

fought and conquered beyond the Tigris. Anchialus saw the last term of his
pro­

gress by sea and land; he solicited, without success, a miraculous answer to
his

nocturnal prayers; his mind was copfounded by the death of a favourite horse,
the

encounter of a wild boar, a storm of wind and rain, and the birth of a
monstrous

child, and he forgot that the best omen is to unsheathe our sword in the
defence

of our country. (4) Under the pretence of receiving the ambassadors of Persia,

the emperor returned to Constantinople, exchanged the thoughts of war for
those

of devotion, and disappointed the public hope, by his absence and the choice
of his

lieutenants. The blind partiality of fraternal love might excuse the promotion
of

his brother Peter, who fled with equal disgrace from the barbarians, from his
own

soldiers, and from the inhabitants of a Roman city. That city, if we may
credit

the resemblance of name and character, was the famous Azimuntium,(5; which

had alone repelled the tempest of Attila. The example of her warlike youth

was propagated to succeeding generations; and they obtained, from the first or

the second Justin, an honourable privilege, that their valour should be always
re­

served for the defence of their native country. The brother of Maurice
attempted

to violate this privilege, and to mingle a patriot band with the mercenaries
of his

camp; they retired to the church, he was not awed by the sanctity of the
place;

the people rose in their cause, the gates were shut, the ramparts were manned;

and the cowardice of Peter was found equal to his arrogance and injustice. The

military fame of Commentiolus(6) is the object of satire or comedy rather than
of

serious history, since he was even deficient in the vile and vulgar
qualification of

personal courage. His solemn councils, strange evolutions, and secret orders,

always supplied an apology for flight or delay. If he marched against the
enemy,

the pleasant valleys of mount Hxmus opposed an insuperable barrier; but in his

retreat, he explored, with fearless curiosity, the most difficult and obsolete
paths,

which had almost escaped the memory of the oldest native. The only blood

which he lost was drawn, in a real or affected malady, by the lancet of a
surgeon;

and his health, which felt with exquisite sensibility the" approach of the
barba-

(0 Thii is one of the most probable anil luminous conjectures of the learned
count tie Bunt. (Hist, des Pen­

nies Barbara, torn. xi. p. 54tJ—568.) The Tzeehi and Serbi are found together
near mount Caucasus, in llly-

ricum, and on the lower Elbe. Even the wildest traditions of the Bohemians,
Sec. afford some colour to his

hypothesis.

(2) See Fredegarius, in the historians of France, torn. ii. p. 432. Baian did
not conceal his proud insensibili­

ty. Or* ToiavTsus (not TorouTouc, according to a foolish emendation,)
ittx%htu> t* Pm^'kh »? " **< oypdaoi > *

(3) See the march and return of Maurice, in Theophylact. lib. v. c. 16. lib.
vi. c. 1—3. If he were a wri­

ter of taste or genius, we might suspect him of an elegant irony: but
Theophylact is surely harmless.

(4) 'E'; 0*wvOf apirrei; apuvftrfal srepi irxrfr:. Iliad, ail. 243.

This noble verse, which unites the spirit of a hero with the reason of a sage,
may prove that Homer was in

every light superior to bis age and country.

(5) Theophylact, lib. vii. c. 3. On the evidence of this fact, which had not
occurred to my memory, the

candid reader will correct and excuse a note in the second volume of this
history, which hastens the de­

cay of Asirnus, or Azimuntium: another century of patriotism and valour is
cheaply purchased by such a

confession.

(6) See the shameful conduct of Commcntiolus, in Theophvlact. lib. ii. c.
10—15; lib. vii. e. 13.14; lib. viii.

*. 2. 4.

