. OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. IS

ter this popular concession, Justinian proceeded to the hippodrome to confess
his

own errors, and to accept the repentance of his grateful subjects; but they
distrust­

ed his assurances, though solemnly pronounced in the presence of the holy
gospels;

and the emperor, alarmed by their distrust, retreated with precipitation to
the

strong fortress of the palace. The obstinacy of the tumult was now imputed to
a

secret and ambitious conspiracy, and a suspicion was entertained, that the
insur­

gents, more especially the green faction, had been supplied with arms and
money

by Hypatius and Pompcy, two patricians, who could neither forget with honour,

nor remember with safety, that they were the nephews of the emperor
Anastasius.

Capriciously trusted, disgraced, and pardoned, by the jealous levity of the
mo­

narch, they had appeared as loyal servants before the throne; and, during five

days of the tumult, they were detained as important hostages; till at length,
the

feat's of Justinian prevailing over his prudence, he viewed the two brothers
in the

light of spies, perhaps of assassins, and sternly commanded them to depart
from

the palace. After a fruitless representation, that obedience might lead to
involun­

tary treason, they retired to their houses, and in the morning of the sixth
day, Hy­

patius was surrounded and seized by the people, who, regardless of his
virtuous rc-

sistance^and the tears of his wife, transported their favourite to the forum
of Con-

stantine, and, instead of a diadem, placed a rich collar on his head. If the
usurper,

•who afterward pleaded the merit of his delay, had complied with the advice of
the

senate, and urged the fury of the multitude, their first irresistible effort
might have

oppressed or expelled his trembling competitor. The Byzantine palace enjoyed a

free communication with the sea; vessels lay ready at the garden stairs; and a
se­

cret resolution was already formed, to convey the emperor with his family and

treasures to a safe retreat, at some distance from the capital.

Justinian was lost, if the prostitute whom he raised from the theatre had not
re­

nounced the timidity, as well as the virtues, of her sex. In the midst of a
council,

where Belisarius was present, Theodora alone displayed the spirit of a hero;
and

she alone, without apprehending his future hatred, could save the emperor from

the imminent danger, and his unworthy fears. " If flight," said the consort of
Jus­

tinian, " were the only means of safety, yet I should disdain to fly. Death is
the

condition of our birth; but they who have reigned should never survive the
loss cf

dignity and dominion. I implore Heaven that I may never be seen, not a day,

•without my diadem and purple; that I may no longer behold the light, when i

cease to be saluted with the name of queen. If you resolve, O Caesar! to fly,
you

have treasures; behold the sea, you have ships: but tremble lest the desire of
life

should expose you to wretched exile and ignominious death. . For my own part,
I

adhere to the maxim of antiquity, that the throne is a glorious sepulchre."
The

firmness of a woman restored the courage to deliberate and act, and courage
soon

discovers the resources of the most desperate situation. It was an easy and a
de­

cisive measure to revive the animosity of the factions: the blues were
astonished

at their own guilt and folly, that a trifling injury should provoke them to
conspire

with their implacable enemies against a gracious and liberal benefactor; they
again

proclaimed the majesty of Justinian, and the greens, with their upstart
emperor;

were left alone in the hippodrome. The fidelity of the guards was doubtful;
but

the military force of Justinian consisted in three thousand veterans, who had
been

trained to valour and discipline in the Persian and Illyrian wars. Under the
com­

mand «of Belisarius and Mundus, they silently marched in two divisions from
the

palace, forced their obscure way through narrow passages, expiring flames, and

falling edifices, and burst open, at the same moment, the two opposite gates
of the

hippodrome. In this narrow space, the disorderly and affrighted crowd was
incar

pable of resisting on either side a firm and regular attack; the blues
signalized the

fury of their repentance; and it is computed, that above thirty thousand
persons

were slain in the merciless and promiscuous carnage of the day. Hypatius was

dragged from his throne, and conducted with his brother Pompey to the feet of
the

emperor: they implored his clemency; but their crime was manifest, their inno­

cence uncertain, and Justinian had been too much terrified to forgive. The
next

morning the two nephews of Anastasius, with eighteen illustrious accomplices,
of

patrician or consular rank, were privately executed by the soldiers; their
bodies

were thrown into the sea, their palaces rased, and their fortunes confiscated.
The

hippodrome itself was condemned during several years to a mournful silence:
with

the restoration of the games, the same disorders revived: and the blue and
green

factions continued to afflict the reign of Justinian, and to disturb the
tranquillity of

the eastern empire.(l)

(I) Marccllinus says, in general tcrraS, innumeris populii in circo
trucidatis. rrocopius numbers thirty

