192 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Imperial standard. The natural fortifications of Cilicia protected, and even
con­

cealed, the camp of Heraclius, which was pitched near Issus, on the same
ground

where Alexander had vanquished the host of Darius. The angle which the em­

peror occupied, was deeply indented into a vast semicircle of the Asiatic,
Arme­

nian, and Syrian provinces; and to whatsoever point of the circumference he
should

direct his attack, it was easy for him to dissemble his own motions, and to
prevent

those of the enemy. In the camp of Issus, the Roman general reformed the sloth

and disorder of the veterans, and educated the new recruits in the knowledge
and

practice of military virtue. Unfolding the miraculous image of Christ, he
urged

them to revenge the holy altars which had been profaned by the worshippers of

fire; addressing them by the endearing appellations of sons and brethren, he
de­

plored the public and private wrongs of the republic. The subjects of a
monarch

were persuaded that they fought in the cause of freedom; and a similar
enthusiasm

was communicated to the foreign mercenaries, who must have viewed with equal

indifference the interest of Rome and of Persia. Heraclius himself, with the
skill

and patience of a centurion, inculcated the lessons of the school of tactics,
and the

soldiers were assiduously trained in the use of their weapons, and the
exercises

and evolutions of the field. The cavalry and infantry in light or heavy armour

were divided into two parts; the trumpets were fixed in the centre, and their
sig­

nals directed their march, the charge, the retreat, or pursuit; the direct or
oblique

order, the deep or extended phalanx; to represent in fictitious combat the
opera­

tions of genuine war. Whatever hardship the emperor imposed on the troops, he

inflicted with equal severity on himself; their labour, their diet, their
sleep, were

measured by the inflexible rules of discipline; and, without despising the
enemy,

fhey were taught to repose an implicit confidence in their own valour and the
wis­

dom of their leader. Cilicia was soon encompassed with the Persian arms; but

their cavalry hesitated to enter the defiles of mount Taurus, till they were
circum­

vented by the evolutions of Heraclius, who insensibly gained their rear,
whilst he

appeared to present his front in order of battle. By a false motion which
seemed

to threaten Armenia, he drew them, against their wishes, to a general action.

They were tempted by the artful disorder of his camp; but when they advanced
to

combat, the ground, the sun, and the expectations of both armies, were
unpropi-

tious to the barbarians; the Romans successfully repeated their tactics in a
field of

battle,(l) and the event of the day declared to the world, that the Persians
were

not invincible, and that a hero was invested with the purple. Strong in
victory

and fame, Heraclius boldly ascended the heights of mount Taurus, directed his

march through the plains of Cappadocia, and established his troops for the
win­

ter season in safe and plentiful quarters on the banks of the river Hayls.(2)
His

soul was superior to the vanity of entertaining Constantinople with an
imperfect

triumph: but the presence of the emperor was indispensably required to sooth
the

restless and rapacious spirit of the Avars.

Since the days of Scipio and Hannibal, no bolder enterprise has been attempted

than that which Heraclius achieved for the deliverance of the empire. (3) He

permitted the Persians to oppress for a while the provinces, and to insult
with im­

punity the capital of the east; while the Roman emperor explored his perilous
way

through the Black Sea, (4) and the mountains of Armenia, penetrated into the

heart of Persia,(5) and recalled the armies of the great king to the defence
of

their bleeding country. With a select band of five thousand soldiers,
Heraclius

sailed from Constantinople to Trebizond; assembled his forces which had
wintered

In the Pontic regions; and from the mouth of the Phasis to the Caspian sea,
en-

(1) Foggini (Annotat. p. 31.) suspects that the Persians were deceived by the
qx}mi>z rnvKvyfciw of £lian,

(Taetic. c. xlviii.) an intricate spiral motion of the army. He observed (p.
28.) that the military descriptions

of George of Pisidia are transcribed into the Taetics of the emperor Leo.

(2) George of Pisidia, an eye-witness (Aeroas. ii. 122, &c.) described in
three acroasies or cantos, the first

expedition of Heraclius. The poem has been lately (1777) published at Rome:
but such vague-«nd decla­

matory praise is far from corresponding with the sanguine hopes of Pagi,
D'Anville, &c.

(3) Theonhanes (p. 256.) carries Heraclius swiftly (**t» t*%»;) into Armenia.
Nicephorus' (p. 11.) though

he confounds the two expeditions, defines the province of Lazica. EutycbioJ
(Annal. torn. ii. p. 231.) has

given the five thousand men, with the more probable station of Trebizond.

(4) From Constantinople to Trebizond, with a fair wind, four or five days ;
from thence to Erzerom,five-;

to Erivan, twelve; to Tauris, ten; in all, thirty-two. Such is the Itinerary
of Tavernier (Voyages, torn. i. p.

12—56.) who was perfectly conversant with the roads of Asia. Tournefort, who
travelled with a pasha, spent

ten or twelve days between Trebizond and Erzerom (Voyage do Levant, torn. iii.
lettre 18.:) and Chardin

Vuj-ages, torn. i. p. 249—254.) gives the more correct distance of fifty-three
parasangs, each of five thousand

paces, (what paces ?) between Erivan and Tanris.

(5) The expedition of Heraclius into Persia is finely illustrated by M.
d'Anville (Merooires de l'Acadenrie

des Inscriptions, torn, xxviii. p. 559—573.) He discovers the situation of
Gandzaca, Theharma, Dastagerd,

6cc. with admirable skill and learning: but the o'bscure campaign of 624 he
passes over in silence.

