OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 15£

defend our frontiers, and to chastise the barbarians. You offer aid, you
threaten

hostilities: we despise your enmity, and your aid. The conquerors of the Avars

solicit our alliance; shall we dread their fugitives, and exiles. (1) The
bounty of

eur uncle was granted to your misery, to your; humble prayers. From us you

shall receive a more important obligation, the knowledge of your own weakness.

Retire from our presence; the lives of ambassadors are safe; and if you return
to

implore our pardon, perhaps you will taste of our benevolence. "(2) On the re­

port of his ambassadors, the chagan was awed by the apparent firmness of a Ro­

man emperor, of whose character and resources he was ignorant. Instead of

executing his threats against the eastern empire, he marched into the poor and

savage countries of Germany, which were subject to the dominion of the Franks.

After the two doubtful battles, he consented to retire: and the Austrasian
king re­

lieved the distresses of his camp with an immediate supply of corn and cattle.
(3)

Such repeated disappointments had chilled the spirit ot the Avars; and their

power would have dissolved away in the Sarmatian desert, if the alliance of
Al­

boin, king of the Lombards, had not given a new object to their arms, and a
last­

ing settlement to their wearied fortunes.

While Alboin served under his father's standard, he encountered in battle, and

transpierced with hislance, the rival prince of the Gepidx. The Lombards, who

applauded such early prowess, requested his father, with unanimous
acclamations,

that the heroic youth, who had shared the dangers of the field, might be
admitted

to the feast of victory. " You are not unmindful," replied the inflexible
Audoin,

"of the wise customs of our ancestors. Whatever may be his merit, aprince is
inca­

pable of sitting at table with his father, till he has received his arms from
a foreign

and royal hand." Alboin bowed with reverence to the institutions of his
country;

selected forty companions, and boldly visited the court of Turisund, king of
the

Gepidx, who embraced and entertained, according to the laws of hospitality)
the

murderer.of his son. « At the banquet, whilst Alboin occupied the seat of the
youth

whom he had slain, a tender remembrance arose in the mind of Turisund. "How

dear is that place—how hateful is that person," were the words that escaped
with

a sigh, from the indignant father. His grief exasperated the national resent­

ment of the Gepidx; and Cunimund, his surviving son, was provoked by wine, or

fraternal affection, to the desire of vengeance. " The Lombards," said the
rude

barbarian, "resemble, in figure and smell, the mares of our Sarmatian plains."

And this insult was a coarse ailusion to the white bands which enveloped their
legs.

" Add another resemblance," replied an audacious Lombard, " you have felt how

strongly they kick. Visit the plain of Asfield, and seek for the bones of thy
bro­

ther: they are mingled with those of the vilest animals." The Gepidae, a
nation

of warriors, started from their seats, and the fearless Alboin, with his forty
compa­

nions, laid their hands on their swords. The tumult was appeased by the
venera­

ble interposition of Turisund. He saved his own honour and the life of his
guest;

and, after the solemn rites of investiture, dismissed the stranger in the
bloody

arms of his son—the gift of a weeping parent. Alboin returned in triumph; and

the Lombards, who celebrated his matchless intrepidity, were compelled to
praise

the virtues of an enemy. (4J In this extraordinary visit he had probably seen

the daughter of Cunimund, who soon after ascended the throne of the Gepidx.

Her name was Rosamond, an appellation expressive of female beauty, and which

our own history or romance has consecrated to amorous tales. The king of the

Lombards (the father of Alboin no longer lived) was contracted to the grand-
daugh­

ter of Clovis; but the restraints of faith and policy soon yielded to the hope
of pos­

sessing the fair Rosamond, and of insulting her family and nation. The arts of
per­

suasion were tried without success: and the impatient lover, by force and
strata-

(1) Corippus, lib. iii. 390. The unquestionable sense relates to the Turks,
the conquerors of the Aran: birt

the word scultar has no apparent meaning, and the sole MS. of Corippus. from
whence the first edition (1581.

apod Planlin,) was printed, is no longer visible. The last editor, Feggini of
Rome, has inserted the conjectu­

ral emendation of soldan: but the proofs of Dueange (Joinville, Dissert, xvi.
p. 238—2400 for the early use of

1hu> title among the Turks and Persians, are weak or ambiguous. And I must
incline to the authority of

d'Herbelot (liihlioihequc Orient, p. 825.) who ascribes thesword to the Arabic
and Chaldean tongues, and

the date to the beginning of the eleventh century, when it was bestowed by the
kbalif of Bagdad on Mahniud.

p rince of Gazna, and conqueror of India.

(2) For these characteristic speeches, compare the verse of Corippus (lib.
iii. 251—401.,) with the prose of

Menander, (Eicerpt. Legation, p. 102,103.) Their diversity proves that they
did not copy each other; their

resemblance, that they drew from a common original.

(3) For the Austrasian war, see Menander (Excerpt. Legat. p. 110.) Gregory of
Tours (Hist. Franc. lib. ir.

c. 29.,) and Paul the deacon (Je Ge*t. 1 KMobard. lib. ii.e. 10.)

(4) Paul Waniefrid, the deacon of Friuli, de Gen. Langubarri. lib. i. c. 23.
24. His pictures of national

m»nnera, though rudely sketched, are more lively and faithful than those of
Bedc,or Gregory of Tours.

