OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. I-1J

perty is seldom indulged: it was introduced at Athens by the laws of Solon;
and

the private testaments of the father of a family are authorized by the twelve
ta­

bles. Before the time of the decemvirs,(l) a Roman citizen exposed his wishes

and motives to the assembly of thirty curia; or parishes, and the general law
of in­

heritance was suspended by an occasional act of the legislature. After the
per­

mission of the decemvirs, each private lawgiver promulgated his verbal or
written

testament in the presence of five citizens, who represented the five classes
of the

Roman people; a sixth witness attested their concurrence: a seventh weighed
the

copper money, which was paid by an imaginary purchaser; and the estate was

emancipated by a fictitious sale and immediate release. This singular cere­

mony,^) which excited the wonder of the Greeks, was still practised in the age

of Severus; but the pretors had already approved a more simple testament, for

which they required the seals and signatures of seven witnesses, free from all
le­

gal exception, and purposely summoned for the execution of that important act.

A domestic monarch, who reigned over the fives and fortunes of his children,

might distribute their respective shares according to the degrees of their
merit or

his affection: his arbitrary displeasure chastised an unworthy son by the loss
of his

inheritance and the mortifying preference of a stranger. But the experience of

unnatural parents recommended some limitations of their testamentary powers.

A son, or, by the laws of Justinian, even a daughter, could no longer be
disinheri­

ted by their silence: they were compelled to name the criminal, and to specify
the

offence; and the justice of the emperor enumerated the sole causes that could
jus­

tify such a violation of the first principles of nature and society.(3) Unless
a legi­

timate portion, a fourth part, had been reserved for the children, they were
enti­

tled to institute an action or complaint of inofficious testament, to suppose
that their

father's understanding was impaired by sickness or age; and respectfully to
appeal

frem his rigorous sentence to the deliberate wisdom of the magistrate. In the
Ro­

man jurisprudence, an essential distinction was admitted between the
inheritance

and the legacies. The heirs who succeeded to the entire unity, or to any of
the

twelve fractions of the substance of the testator, represented his civil and
religious

character, asserted his rights, fulfilled his obligations, and discharged the
gifts of

friendship or liberality which his last will had bequeathed under the name of
le­

gacies. But as the imprudence or prodigality of a dying man might exhaust the.

inheritance, and leave only risk and labour to his successor, he was empowered
to

retain the Falcidian portion; to deduct, before the payment of the legacies, a
clear

fourth for his own emolument. A reasonable time was allowed to examine the

proportion between the debts and the estate, to decide whether he should
accept

or refuse the testament; and if he used the benefit of an inventory, the
demands of

the creditors could not exceed the valuation of the effects. The last will of
a citi­

zen might be altered during his life, or rescinded after his death: the
persons whom

he named might die before him, or reject the inheritance, or be exposed to
some

legal disqualification. In the contemplation of these events, he was permitted
to

substitute second and third heirs, to replace each other according to the
order of

the testament; and the incapacity of a madman or an infant to bequeath his
pro­

perty, might be supplied by a similar substitution. (4) But the power of the
testa­

tor expired with the acceptance of the testament: each Roman of mature age and

discretion acquired the absolute dominion of his inheritance, and the
simplicity of

the civil law was never clouded by the long and intricate entails which
confine

the happiness and freedom of unborn generations.

Conquest and the formalities of law established the use of codicils. If a Ro­

man was surprised by death in a remote province of the empire, he addressed a

519.527.)alearned, rambling,spirited writer. In the second and third bookj the
method of the Institutes

is doubtless preposterous; and the chancellor Duqnesseau (CBuvres, torn. i. p.
275.) wishes his countryman Do-

mat in the place of Tribonian. Yet covenants before succession 11 not surely
the natural order of the civil

laws.

(1) Prior example of testaments are perhaps fabnlous. At Athens, a childless
father only could make a

will. (Plutareh. ul Solon, torn. i. p. 164. See Itsetis aud Jones.

(2) The testament of Augustus is specified by Suetonius, (in August, c. 101.
in Neron. c. 4.) who may be

studied as a code of Roman antiquities. Plutarch (Opuscul. torn. ii. p. 270.)
is surprised »x«» Ji Ji»9uk*s y p»f »~

tiv jrtpM- inv at7n\timt9-i ;rAj]psvo,usc, tnpoi Si r -> rmt wiac. The
language of Ulpian (Fragment, tit. xx. p.

627.edit. Schulting) is almost too exclusive,solum in usu est.

(3) Justinian (Novel, lis. No. 3, 4,) enumerates only the public and private
crimes, for which a son might

likewise disinherit his father.

(4) The substitutions fidei commissaries of the modern civil law is a feudal
idea grafted on the Roman juris­

prudence, and bears scarcely any resemblance to the ancient fidei commissa.
(Institutions du droit Francois .

torn. i. p. 347—383. Denissart, Decisions de Jurisprudence, torn. iv. p.
577—604.) They were stretched to th'J

fourth degree by an abuse of the hundred and fifty-ninth Novel; a partial,
perplexed, declamatory law.

