QF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 223

favourable of the two: and the suspicion is countenanced by the unnatural
modera­

tion of the Greek clergy, who appear in this quarrel to be conscious of their
weak­

ness. While the synod debated, a fanatic proposed a more summary decision, by

raising a dead man to life: the prelates assisted at the trial, but the
acknowledged

failure may serve to indicate, that the passions and prejudices of the
multitude

were not enlisted on the side of the Monothelites. In the next generation,
when

the son of Const an tine was deposed and slain by the disciple of Macarius,
they

tasted the feast of revenge and dominion: the image or monument of the sixth

council was defaced, and the original acts were committed to the flames. But
in

the second year, their patron was cast headlong from the throne, the bishops
of

the east were released from their occasional conformity, the Roman faith was
more

firmly replanted by the orthodox successors of Bardanes, and the fine problems

of the incarnation were forgotten in the more popular and visible quarrel of
the

worship of images. (1)

Before the end of the seventh century, the creed of the incarnation, which had

been defined at Rome and Constantinople, was uniformly preached in the remote

islands of Britain and Ireland,(2) the same ideas were entertained, or rather
the

same words were repeated, by all the Christians whose liturgy was performed in

the Greek or the Latin tongue. Their numbers, and visible splendour, bestowed

an imperfect claim to the appellation of catholics: but in the east, they were

marked with the less honourable name of Melchites or royalists;(3) of men
whose

faith, instead of resting on the basis of Scripture, reason, or tradition, had
been

established, and was still maintained, by the arbitrary power of a temperal
mo­

narch. Their adversaries might allege the words of the fathers of Constanti­

nople, who profess themselves the slaves of the king; and they might relate,

with malicious joy, how the decrees of Chalcedon had been inspired and re­

formed by the emperor Marcian and his virgin bride. The prevailing faction
will

naturally inculcate the duty of submission, nor is it less natural that
dissenters

should feel and assert the principles of freedom. Under the rod of
persecution, the

Nestorians and Monophysites degenerated into rebels and fugitives; and the
most

ancient and useful allies of Rome were taught to consider the emperor not as
the

chief, but as the enemy of the Christians. Language, the leading principle
which

unites or separates the tribes of mankind, soon discriminated the sectaries of
the

east, by a peculiar and perpetual badge, which abolished the means of
intercourse

and the hope of reconciliation. The long dominion of the Greeks, their
colonies,

and, above all, their eloquence, had propagated a language, doubtless the most

Eerfect that has been contrived by the art of man. Yet the body of the people,

oth in Syria and Egpyt, still persevered in the use of their national idioms;
with

this difference, however, that the Coptic was confined to the rude and
illiterate

Seasants of the Nile, while the Syriac,{4) from the mountains of Assyria to
the

ed Sea, was adapted to the higher topics of poetry and argument. Armenia and

Abyssinia were infected by the speech or learning of the Greeks; and their
bar-

trnn. vii. sp. 1032.) Bat this was a natural and transient emotion; and I much
tear that the latter is an anticipAr

tion of orthodoxy in the good people of Constantinople.

(1) The history of Monothelitisni may be found in the Acts of the Synods of
Rome(tora. s-ii. p. 77—395.

601—608.) and Constantinople (p. 609—1429.) Baronius extracted some original
documents from the Vaticau

library: and his chronology is rectified by the diligence of Pagi. Even Dupin
(Bibliothcque Eccles. torn. vi.

j>. 57—71.) and Basnage (Hist. <le l'Eglise, torn. i. p. 541—555.) affords a
tolerable abridgment.

(2) In the Lateran synod of 679, Wilfred, an Anglo-Saxon bishop, subscribed
pro omni aquilonali parte Bri­

tannia* et Hthernia*. quae ab Anglorum et Britonum, necnon Seotorum et
Pictorura gentibus colebantur (Ed-

dius, in Vis. St. Wilfrid, c. xxxi. apnd Pagi, Critiea, torn. iii. p. 88.)
Theodore (magna; insula Britannia ar-

chiepiscopus et philnsophus) was long expected at Rome (Concil. torn. vii. p.
714.;) But he contented himself

with holding (A. D. 680) his provincial synod of Hatfield, in which he
received the decrees of pope Martin, and

the first Lateran council against the Monothelites (Concil. torn. vii. p. 597,
&c.) Theodore, a monk of Tarsus

in Cilicia, had been named to the primacy of Britain by pope Vitalian (A. D.
608. 'see Baronius and Pagi.)

whose esteem for his learning and piety was tainted by some distrust of his
national character—ne quid con-

trariura veritati fidei, Grsecorum more, in ecclesiam cui prseesset
imroduceret. The Cilioian was sent from

Rome to Canterbury under the tuition of an African guide (Bedse Hist. Eccles.
Anglorum, lib. iv. c. i.) He

adhered to the Roman doctrine; aad the same creed of the incarnation has been
uniformly transmitted from

Theodore to the modern primates, whose sound understandings are perhaps seldom
engaged with that abstruse

mystery.

(3) This name, unknown till the tenth century, appears to be of Syriac origin.
It was invested by the Ja­

cobites, and eagerly adopted by the Nes*orians and Mahometans; but it was
accepted^ without shame by the

catholics, and is frequently used in the Annals of Eutychius (Asseman.
Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 597, &c,

torn. iii. p. 355. Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alexandria p. 119.) -H/uif JouW*
tow Bart*..*,-, was the acclama­

tion of the fathers of Constantinople (Concil. torn. vii. p. 765.)

(4) The Syriac, which the natives revere as the primitive language, was
divided into ihree dialect!.—1. The

Aramaean, a, it was refined at Edessa and the cities of Mesopotamia. 2. The
Palestine, which was used in

Jerusalem, Damascus, and the rest of Syria. 3. The Nabatbsean, the rustic
idiom of the mountains of Assy­

ria and the villages of Irak (Grcgor. Abulpharag. Hist. Dynnst. p. 11.) On the
Syriac,see Ebrd. Jestt, (Asse>

•tan. fom. iii. p. 326, ostO whoseprejudicesrlnneconld prefer it to the
Arabic.

