OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. iM9

stantinople, leaving an only son, the issue of a plebeian marriage. At the age
of

twelve years, the royal birth of Theophobus was revealed, and his merit was
not

unworthy of his birth. He was educated in the Byzantine palace, a Christian
and

a soldier; advanced with rapid steps in the career of fortune and glory;
received

the hand of the emperor's sister; and was promoted to the command of thirty
thou­

sand Persians, who, like his father, had fled from the Mahometan conquerors.

These troops, doubly infected with mercenary and fanatic vices, were desirous
of

revolting against their benefactor, and erecting the standard of their native
king:

but the royal Theophobus rejected their offers, disconcerted their schemes,
and

escaped from their hands to the camp or palace of his royal brother. A
generous

confidence might have secured a faithful and able guardian for his wife and
his in­

fant son, to whom Theophilus, in the flower of his age, was compelled to leave

the inheritance of the empire. But his jealousy was exasperated by envy and
dis­

ease: he feared the dangerous virtues which might either support or oppress
their

infancy and weakness; and theTJying emperor demanded the head of the Persian

prince. With savage delight, he recognised the familiar features of his
brother:

" Thou art no longer Theophobus," he said: and sinking on his couch, he added,

with a faltering voice, " Soon, too soon, I shall be no more Theophilus!"

The Russians, who have borrowed from the Greeks the greatest part of their

civil and ecclesiastical policy, preserved, till the last century, a singular
institution

in the marriage of the czar. They collected, not the virgins of every rank and

of every province, a vain and romantic idea, but the daughters of the
principal no­

bles, who awaited in the palace the choice of their sovereign. It is affirmed,
that

a similar method was adopted in the nuptials of Theophilus. With a golden ap­

ple in his hand, he slowly walked between two lines of contending beauties:
his

eye was detained by the charms of Icasia, and, in the awkwardness of a first
de­

claration, the prince could only observe, that in this world, women had been
the

cause of much evil: "And surely, sir," (she pertly replied,) " they have
likewise

been the occasion of much good." This affectation of unseasonable wit
displeased

the imperial lover: he turned aside in disgust; Icasia concealed her
mortification

in a convent: and the modest silence of Theodora was rewarded with the golden

le. She deserved the love, but did not escape the severity, of her lord. From

palace garden he beheld a vessel deeply laden, and steering into the port: on

the discovery that the precious cargo of Syrian luxury was the property of his
wife,

he condemned the ship to the flames, with a sharp reproach, that her avarice
had

degraded the character of an empress into that of a merchant Yet his last
chdice

intrusted her with the guardianship of the empire and her son Michael, who was

left an orphan in the fifth year of his age. The restoration of images, and
the

final extirpation of the Iconoclasts, has endeared her name to the devotion of
the

Greeks; but in the fervour of religious zeal, Theodora entertained a grateful
re­

gard for the memory and salvation of her husband. After thirteen years of a
pru­

dent and frugal administration, she perceived the decline of her influence;
but the

second Irene imitated only the virtues of her predecessor. Instead of
conspiring

against the life or government of her son, she retired, without a struggle,
though

not without a murmur, to the solitude of private life, deploring the
ingratitude,

the vices, and the inevitable ruin, of the worthless youth.

Among the successors of Nero and Elagabalus, we have not hitherto found the

imitation of their vices, the character of a Roman prince who considered
pleasure

as the object of life, and virtue as the enemy of pleasure. Whatever might
have

been the maternal care of Theodora in the education of Michael III., her
unfor­

tunate son was a king before he was a man. If the ambitious mother laboured to

check the progress of reason, she could not cool the ebullition of passion;
and

her selfish policy was justly repaid by the contempt and ingratitude of the
head­

strong youth. At the age of eighteen, he rejected her authority, without
feeling

his own incapacity to govern the empire and himself. With 1 heodora, all gra­

vity and wisdom retired from the court: and their place was supplied by the
al­

ternate dominion of vice and folly; and it was impossible, without forfeiting
the

public esteem, to acquire or preserve the favour of the emperor. The millions

of gold and silver which had been accumulated for the service of the state,
were

lavished on the vilest of men, who flattered his passions and shared his
pleasures;

and in a reign of thirteen years, the richest of sovereigns was compelled to
strip

the palace ahd the Churches of their precious furniture. Like Nero, he
delighted

in the amusements of the theatre, and sighed to be surpassed in the
accomplish­

ments in which he should have blushed to excel. Yet the studies of Nero in mu-

Vol. III. 32

