OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97

purified from the Rugian usurper, he reviewed the national force of five
thousand

soldiers, and generously undertook the restoration of the kingdom of Italy.

The successors of Belisarius, eleven generals of equal rank, neglected to
crush

the feeble and disunited Goths, till they were roused to action by the
progress of

Totila and the reproaches of Justinian. The gates of Verona were secretly
opened

to Artabazus, at the head of one hundred Persians in the service of the
empire.

The Goths fled from the city. At the distance of sixty furlongs the Roman
gene­

rals halted to regulate the division of the spoil. While they disputed, the
enemy

discovered the real number of the victors: the Persians were instantly over­

powered, and it was by leaping from the wall that Artabazus preserved a life

which he lost in a few days by the lance of a barbarian, who had defied him to

single combat. Twenty thousand Romans encountered the forces of Totila, near

Fxnza, and on the hills of Mugello, of the Florentine territory. The ardour of

freedmen, who fought to regain their country, was opposed to the languid
temper

of mercenary troops, who were even destitute of the merits of strong and well-
dis­

ciplined servitude. On the first attack they abandoned their ensigns, threw
down

their arms, and dispersed on all sides with an active speed which abated the
loss,

■whilst it aggravated the shame, of their defeat. The king of the Goths, who

blushed for the baseness of his enemies, pursued with rapid steps the path of
ho­

nour and victory. Totila passed the Po, traversed the Apennine, suspended the

important conquest of Ravenna, Florence, and Rome, and marched through the

heart of Italy, to form the siege, or rather blockade of Naples. The Roman

chiefs, imprisoned in their respective cities, and accusing each other of the
com­

mon disgrace, did not presume to disturb his enterprise. But the emperor,

alarmed by the distress and danger of his Italian conquests, despatched to the
re­

lief of Naples a fleet of galleys and a body of Thracian and Armenian
soldiers.

They landed in Sicily, which yielded its copious stores of provisions; but the
de­

lays of the new commander, an unwarlike magistrate, protracted the sufferings

of the besieged; and the succours, which he dropped with a timid and tardy
hand,

•were successively intercepted by the armed vessels stationed by Totila in the
bay

of Naples. The principal officer of the Romans was dragged, with a rope round

his neck, to the foot of the wall, from whence, with a trembling voice, he
exhort­

ed the citizens to implore, like himself, the mercy of the conqueror. They re­

quested a truce, with a promise of surrendering the city, if no effectual
relief should

appear at the end of thirty days. Instead of one month, the audacious
barbarian

granted them three, in the just confidence that famine would anticipate the
term of

their capitulation. After the reduction of Naples and Cumse, the provinces of

< Lucania, Apulia, and Calabria, submitted to the kins of the Goths. Totila
led

his army to the gates of Rome, pitched his camp at Tibur, or Tivoli, within
twen­

ty miles of the capital, and calmly exhorted the senate and people to compare
the-

tyranny of the Greeks with the blessings of the Gothic reign.

The rapid success of Totila may be partly ascribed to the revolution which
three

years' experience had produced in the sentiments of the Italians. At the com­

mand, or at least in the name, of a catholic emperor, the pope,(l) their
spiritual

father, had been torn from the Roman church, and either starved or murdered on

a desolate island. (2) The virtues of Belisarius were replaced by the various
or

uniform vices of eleven chiefs, at Rome, Ravenna, Florence, Perugia, Spoleto,
&c.

who abused their authority for the indulgence of lust or avarice. The improve­

ment of the revenue was committed to Alexander, a subtle scribe, Ion?
practised

in the fraud and oppression of the Byzantine schools; and whose name of
Psalliction,

the scissars,{j) was drawn from the dexterous artifice with which he reduced
the

size, without defacing the figure, of the gold coin. Instead of expecting the
res­

toration of peace and industry, he imposed a heavy assessment on the fortunes
of

the Italians. Yet his present or future demands were less odious than a
prosecu­

tion of arbitrary rigour against the persons and property of all those, who,
under

the Gothic kings, had been concerned in the receipt and expenditure of the
public

(I) SylveriiiJ, bishop of Rome, was fim transported to Fatara, in Lyria, and
at length starved (sub eorum

custodia inedia confectus) in the isle of Patmaria, A. T>. 538, June 20.
(LiberM. in Breviar. c. 22. Anastasiui in

Sylverio. Baroniirs, A. D. 510. No. 2, S. Pagi in Vit. Pont. torn. i. p. 285,
286.) Frocopius (Anecdot. c. 10 ac­

cuses only the empress and Antonina. .

f2) Palmaria, a small uland,opposite to Tarracina and the coast of the Volsci,
(Cluver. Ital. Antiq. lib. in.

c. 7. p. 1014.)

(3) As the Logothete Alexander, and most if his civil and military colleagues,
were either disgraced or

despised, the ink of the Anecdotes (c. 4,5.12.) is scarcely blacker than that
of the Gothic History (lib. iii. c.

1.3,4. 9.20,21, Ike.)

Vol. III. 13

