OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 71

amounted to six hundred and forty-five thousand men: it was reduced, in the
time

of Justinian, to one hundred and fifty thousand; and this number, large as it
may

seem, was thinly scattered over the sea and land; in Spain and Italy, in
Africa and

Egypt, on the banks of the Danube, the coast of the Euxine, and the frontiers
of

Persia. The citizen was exhausted, yet the soldier was unpaid; his poverty was

mischievously soothed by the privilege of rapine and indolence; and the tardy
pay­

ments were detained and intercepted by the fraud of those agents who usurp,
with­

out courage or danger, the emoluments of war. Public and private distress re­

cruited the armies of the state; but in the field, and still more in the
presence of

the enemy, their numbers were always defective. The want of national spirit
was

supplied by the precarious faith and disorderly service of barbarian
mercenaries.

Even military honour, which has often survived the loss of virtue and freedom,
was

almost totally extinct. The generals, who were multiplied beyond the example
of

former times, laboured only to prevent the success, or to sully the reputation
of their

colleagues; and they had been taught by experience, that if merit sometimes
pro­

voked the jealousy, error, or even guilt, would obtain the indulgence, of a
gracious

emperor. (1) In such an age the triumphs of Belisarius, and afterward of
Narses,

shine with incomparable lustre; but they are encompassed with the darkest
shades

of disgrace and calamity. While the lieutenant of Justinian subdued the
kingdoms

of the Goths and Vandals, the emperor, (2) timid, though ambitious, balanced
the

forces of the barbarians, fomented their divisions by flattery and falsehood,
and in­

vited by his patience and liberality the repetition of injuries. (3) The keys
of Car­

thage, Rome, and Ravenna, were presented to their conqueror, while Antioch

was destroyed by the Persians, and Justinian trembled for the safety of
Constanti­

nople.

Even the Gothic victories of Belisarius were prejudicial to the state, since
they

abolished the important barrier of the Upper Danub?, which had been so
faithful-

evacuated Pannonia and Noricum, which they left in a peaceful and flourishing

condition: the sovereignty was claimed by the emperor of the Romans: the
actual

Possession was abandoned to the boldness of the first invader. On the opposite

anks of the Danube, the plains of Upper Hungary and the Transylvanian hills

were possessed, since the death of Attila, by the tribes of the Gepids, who
re­

spected the Gothic arms, and despised, not indeed the gold of the Romans, but

the secret motive of their annual subsidies. The vacant fortifications of the
river

were instantly occupied by these barbarians: their standards were planted on
the

walls of Sirmium and Belgrade; and the ironical tone of their apology
aggravated

this insult on the majesty of the empire. " So extensive, O Cssar, are your
do­

minions; so numerous are your cities; that you are continually seeking for
nations-

to whom, either in peace or war, you may relinquish these useless possessions.

The Gepidrc are your brave and faithful allies; and if they have anticipated
your

gifts, they have shown a just confidence in your bounty." Their presumption
was.

excused by the mode of revenge which Justinian embraced. Instead of asserting,

the rights of a sovereign for the protection of his subjects, the emperor
invited a

strange people to invade and possess the Roman provinces between the Danube

and the Alps; and the ambition of the Gepidai was checked by the rising power

and fame of the Lombards. (4) This corrupt appellation has been diffused in
the-

thirteenth century by the merchants and bankers, the Italian posterity of
these

savage warriors: but the original name of Langobards is expressive only of the
pe­

culiar length and fashion of their beards. I am not disposed either to
question or

to justify their Scandinavian origin;(5) nor to pursue the migrations of the
Lom-

(1) See tlie third and fourth booki of the Gothic War: the writer of the
Anecdotes cannot aggravate these

abnses.

(2) Agathias, lib. v. p. H7,1J8. He confines this weakness of the emperor and
the empire to the old age of

Justinian; but, alas! he was never young.

(3) Thin mischievous policy, which Procopius (Anecdot. c. 19.) imputes to the
emperor, is revealed in hi*

epistles to a Scythian prince, who was capable of understanding it. Ayav
wfOftifins x»' ayxwunarwq t says

Agathias (lib. v. p. 170,171.)

(4) Gens Germana feritate ferocior, says Velleius, Paterculus of the
Lombards(ii. 106.)_ Langobardos pait-

citas nobilitat. Plurimisac valentissimis nationibus cincti non per obseqiiium
sed prseliis et periclitando tuti-

•tint (Tacit, de Moribus German, c. 40.) See likewise Strabo (lib. vii-p.
448.) The best geographers place them

beyond the Elbe, in the bishopric of Magdeburgh and the middle march of
Brandenburgh; and their situation,

-win agree with the patriotic remark of the count de Henzburg, that most of the barbarian conquerors issued,  
from the tame countries, which still produce the.armies of Prussia.

(i) The Scandinavian origin of the Goths anil Lombards, aa stated by Paul
Warnefrid, surnamed the dea­

con, is attacked by Cluverius (Get-mania Autiq. lib. iii. c. 20. p. 102, tee.)
a native of Prussia, and defended by

erotius (Prolegom. ad Hist, Goth. p. 25, &c-)the Swedish ambassador.

For the defence of Italy, the Goths

-

