326 THE DECLINE AND FALL,

city, known under the name of Yathreb, before it was sanctified by the throne
of

the prophet, was divided between the tribes of the Charegites and the Awsites,

whose hereditary feud was rekindled by the slightest provocations: two
colonies

of Jews, who boasted a sacerdotal race, were their humble allies, and without

converting the Arabs, they introduced the taste of science and religion, which
dis­

tinguished Medina as the city of the book. Some of her noblest citizens, in a
pil­

grimage to the Caaba, were converted by the preaching of Mahomet; on their re­

turn they diffused the belief of God and his prophet, and the new alliance was

ratified by their deputies in two secret ano* nocturnal interviews on a hill
in the

suburbs of Mecca. In the first, ten Charegites and two Awsites united in faith

and love, protested in the name of their wives, their children, and their
absent

brethren, that they would for ever profess the creed, and observe the
precepts, of

the Koran. The second was a political association, the first vital spark of
the em­

pire of the Saracens. (1) Seventy-three men and two women of Medina held a

solemn conference with Mahomet, his kinsmen, and his disciples; and pledged

themselves to each other by a mutual oath of fidelity. They promised in the

name of the city, that if he should be banished, they would receive him as a
confe­

derate, obey him as a leader, and defend him to the last extremity, like their

wives and children. " But if you are recalled by your country," they asked
with a

flattering anxiety, " will you not abandon your new allies'"—" All things,"
replied

Mahomet with a smile, "are now common between us; your blood is as my blood,

your ruin as my ruin. We are bound to each other by the ties of honour and in­

terest. I am your friend, and the enemy of your foes."—"But if we are killed

in your service, what," exclaimed the deputies of Medina, "will be our
reward!"

—" Paradise," replied the prophet. " Stretch forth thy hand." He stretched it

forth, and they reiterated the oath of allegiance and fidelity. Their treaty
was

ratified by the people, who unanimously embraced the profession of Islam; they

rejoiced in the exile of the apostle, but they trembled for his safety, and
impa­

tiently expected his arrival. After a perilous and rapid journey along the
sea-

coast, he halted at Koba, two miles from the city, and made his public entry
into

Medina, sixteen days after his flight from Mecca. Five hundred of the citizens

advanced to meet him: he was hailed with acclamations of loyalty and devotion:

Mahomet was mounted on a she-camel, an umbrella shaded his head, and a tur­

ban was unfurled before him to supply the deficiency of a standard. His
bravest

disciples, who had been scattered by the storm, assembled round his person;
and

the equal, though various, merit of the Moslems were distinguished by the
names

of Moajrerians and Ansars, the fugitives of Mecca, and the auxiliaries of
Medina.

To eradicate the seeds of jealousy, Mahomet judiciously coupled his principal
fol­

lowers with the rights and obligations of brethren; and when AH found himself

without a peer, the prophet tenderly declared, that he would be the companion

and brother of the noble youth. The expedient was crowned with success; the

holy fraternity was respected both in peace and war, and the two parties vied
with

each other in a generous emulation of courage and fidelity. Once only the con­

cord was slightly ruffled by an accidental quarrel: a patriot of Medina
arraigned

the insolence of the strangers, but the hint of their expulsion was heard with
ab-

liorrence, and his own son most eagerly offered to lay at the apostle's feet
the head

of his father. ,

From his establishment at Medina, Mahomet assumed the exercise of the regal

and sacerdotal office; and it was impious to appeal from a judge whose decrees

were inspired by the divine wisdom. A small portion of ground, the patrimony

of two orphans, was acquired by gift or purchase;(2) on that chosen spot, he
built

a house and a mosch, more venerable in their rude simplicity than the palaces
and

temples of the Assyrian caliphs. His seal of gold, or silver, was inscribed
with

the apostolic title: when he prayed and preached in the weekly assembly, he

leaned against the trunk of a palm tree; and it was long before he indulged
him-

(1) The triple inauguration of Mahomet is described by Abulieda (p. 30. 33.
40. 86.) and Gagnier (torn. i.

p. 342, &c 349, &c. lorn. ii. p. 223, &c.)

(2) Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 44.) reviles the wickedness of the-impostor,
who despoiled two poor or­

phans, the sons ofa carpenter: a reproach which he drew from the Dispuuttio
contra Saracenos, composed in

Arabic before the year 1130; but the honest Gagnier (ad Abttlfed. p. S3.; has
shown that they were deceived by

the word Al Nagjar, which signifies, in this place,not an obscure trade, tat a
noble tribe of Arab*. The deso­

late state of the ground is described by Abulfeda; and his worthy interpreter
has proved from Al Bochari, the

offer of aprice;from Al Jannabi, the fair purchase; and from Ahmed Ben Joseph,
the payment of Uicmoney

t>y the generous Abubeker. On these grounds the prophet must be honourably
acquitted.

