•040 THE DECLINE AND FALL

their tongue the perfect accomplishment of wickedness and impiety.(l) The>

Sonniles, who are supported by the general consent and orthodox tradition of
the

Mussulmans; entertain a more impartial, or at least a more decent, opinion.
They

respect the memory of Abubeker, Omar, Othman, and Ali, the holy and legiti­

mate successors of the prophet. But they assign the last and most humble place

to the husband of Fatima, in the persuasion that the order of succession was
de­

termined by the degrees of sanctity. (2) An historian who balances the four
caliphs

with a hand unshaken by superstition, will calmly pronounce, that their
manners

were alike pure and exemplary; that their zeal was fervent, and probably
sincere;

and that, in the midst of riches and power, their lives were devoted to the
prac­

tice of moral and religious duties. But the public virtues of Abubeker and
Omar,

the prudence of the first/the severity of the second, maintained the peace and

prosperity of their reigns. The feeble temper and declining age of Othman were

incapable of sustaining the weight of conquest and empire. He chose, and he

was deceived: he trusted, and he was betrayed; the most deserving of the
faith­

ful became useless or hostile to his government, and his lavish bounty was
produc­

tive only of ingratitude and discontent. The spirit of discord went forth in
the

provinces, their deputies assembled at Medina, and the Charegites, the
desperate

fanatics who disclaimed the yoke of subordination atid reason, were confounded

among the free-born Arabs, who demanded the redress of their wrongs and the

punishment of their oppressors. From Cufa, from Bassora, from Egypt, from

the tribes of the desert, they rose in arms, encamped about a league from
Medina,

and despatched a haughty mandate to their sovereign, requiring him to execute

justice, or to descend from the throne. His repentance began to disarm and
dis­

perse the insurgents; but their fury was rekindled by the arts of his enemies;
and

the forgery of a perfidious secretary was contrived to blast his reputation
and pre­

cipitate his fall. The caliph had lost the only guard of his predecessors, the
es­

teem and confidence of the Moslems: during a siege of six weeks his water and

provisions were intercepted, and the feeble gates of the palace were protected
only

by the scruples of the more timorous rebels. Forsaken by those who had abused

his simplicity, the helpless and venerable caliph expected the approach of
death:

the brother of Ayesha marched at the head of the assassins; and Othman, with

the Koran in his lap, was pierced with a multitude of wounds. A tumultuous
anar­

chy of five days was appeased by the inauguration of Ali; his refusal would
have

provoked a general massacre. In this painful situation he supported the
becoming

pride of the chief of the Hashemites; declared that he had rather serve than
reign:

rebuked the presumption of the strangers; and required the formal, if not the
vo­

luntary, assent of the chiefs of the nation. He has never been accused of pro­

moting the assassin of Omar; though Persia indiscreetly celebrates the
festival of

that holy martyr. The quarrel between Othman and his subjects was assuaged

by the early mediation of Ali; and Hassan, the eldest of his sons, was
insulted

and wounded in the defence of the caliph. Yet it is doubtful whether the
father

of Hassan was strenuous and sincere in his opposition to the rebels; and it is
cer­

tain that he enjoyed the benefit of their crime. The temptation was indeed of

such magnitude as might stagger and corrupt the most obdurate virtue. The am­

bitious candidate no longer aspired to the barren sceptre of Arabia: the
Saracens

had been victorious in the east and west; and the wealthy kingdoms of Persia,
Sy­

ria, and Egypt, were the patrimony of the commander of the faithful.

A life of prayer and contemplation had not chilled the martial activity of
Ali:

but in a mature age, after a long experience of mankind, he still betrayed in
his

conduct the rashness and indiscretion of youth. In the first days of his
youth, he

neglected to secure, either by gifts or fetters, the doubtful allegiance of
Telha and

Zobier, two of the most powerful of the Arabian chiefs. They escaped from Me­

dina to Mecca, and from thence to Bassora; erected the standard of revolt, and

usurped the government of Irak, or Assyria, which they had vainly solicited as

the reward of their services. The mask of patriotism is allowed to cover the
mo

glaring inconsistencies: and the enemies, perhaps the assassins, of Othman ni

demanded vengeance for his blood. They were accompanied in their flight

(1) Omar ii the name of the devil; his murderer is a saint. When the Persians
shoot with the bow, they fre­

quently cry,—"May this arrow go to the heart of Omar!" (Voyages deChardin.
torn. ii. p. 239,240. 259, &c.)

(2) This gradation of merit is distinctly marked in a creed illustrated by
Reland(de Retig. Mohamm. lib. i. p.

37.) and a Sonnite argument inserted by Ockley. (Hist, of the Saracens, torn.
ii. p. 230.) The practice of curt-

tng the memory of Ali was abolished, after forty yean, by the Ommiades
themselves (d'Herbelot, p. 0900 aod

there are few among the Turks, who presume to revile bira as an infidel.
(Voyages de Chardin, torn. iv. p. 4*.)

