OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 15

than the truth, was slowly corrected by the knowledge of a valuable insect,
the

first artificer of the luxury of nations. That rare and elegant luxury was
cen­

sured in the reign of Tiberius, by the gravest of the Romans; and Pliny, in
af­

fected though forcible language, has condemned the thirst of gain, which
explored

the last confines of the earth, for the pernicious purpose of exposing to the
public

eye naked draperies and transparent matrons. (1) A dress, which showed the

turn of the limbs, and colour of the skin, might gratify vanity, or provoke
desire;

the silks, which had been closely woven in China, were sometimes unravelled by

the Phoenician women, and theprecious materials were multiplied by a looser
tex­

ture, and the intermixture of linen threads.(2) Two hundred years after the
age

of Pliny, the use of pure or even of mixed silks was confined to the female
sex, till

the opulent citizens of Rome and the provinces were insensibly familiarized
with

the example of Elagabalus, the first who, by this effeminate habit, had
sullied

the dignity of an emperor and a man. Aurelian complained that a pound of silk,

sold at Rome for twelve ounces of gold; but the supply increased with the de­

mand, and the price diminished with the supply. If accident or monopoly some­

times raised the value even above the standard of Aurelian, the manufacturers
of

Tyre and Berytus were sometimes compelled, by the operation of the same
causes,

to content themselves with a ninth part of that extravagant rate. (3) A law
was

thought necessary to discriminate the dress of comedians from that of
senators;

and of the silk exported from its native country, the far greater part was
consumed

by the subjects of Justinian. They were still more intimately acquainted with
a

shell-fish of the Mediterranean, surnamed the silk-worm of the sea; the fine

wool or hair by which the mother-of-pearl affixes itself to the rock, is now
manu­

factured for curiosity rather than use; and a robe obtained from the same
singular'

materials, was the gift of the Roman emperor to the satraps of Armenia. (4)

A valuable merchandise of small bulk is capable of defraying the expense of

land carriage; and the caravans traversed -the whole latitude of Asia in two
hun­

dred and forty-three days from the Chinese ocean to the sea-coast of Syria.
Silk

was immediately delivered to the Romans by the Persian merchants, (5) who fre­

quented the fairs of- Armenia and Nisibis: but this trade, which in the
intervals of

truce was oppressed by avarice and jealousy, was totally interrupted by the
long

wars of the rival monarchies. The great king might proudly number Sogdiana,

and even Serica, among the provinces of his empire; but his real dominion was

bounded by'the Oxus, and his useful intercourse with the Sogdoites beyond the

river depended on the pleasure of their conquerors, the white Huns, and the
Turks,

who successively reigned over that industrious people. Yet the most savage do­

minion has not extirpated the seeds of agriculture and commerce, in a region

which is celebrated as one of the four gardens of Asia; the cities of
Samarcand

and Bochara are advantageously seated for the exchange of its various
productions;

and their merchants purchased from the Chinese(6) the raw or manufactured

silk which they transported into Persia for the use of the Roman empire. In
the

vain capital of China, the Sogdian caravans were entertained as the suppliant
em­

bassies of tributary kingdoms, and if they returned in safety, the bold
adventure

was rewarded with exorbitant gain. But the difficulty and perilous march from

Samarcand to the first town of Shensi, could not be performed in less than
sixty,

-sbvo, nam ante non invenio, says Jwt'ii L'piius (Excursus 1. ad Tacit. Annal. 2.32.) See Dion Cassius (lib-  
xliii. p. S58. edit.) Hcimar, and PamaiiS u (lib. 'i. p. 519. J the first who
describes, however strangely, the Se-

rie insect.

(1) Tarn longinquo crue petitur,ut in publico matrona translucent nt denudet
fceminas Testis (Plin.

vi. 20. xi. 21.) Varro and publtus Syrus had already played on the Toga
rentrea, ventus texilis, and nebula

linea (Horat. Sermon. 1,2.101. with the notes of Torrentius and Dacier.)

(2) On the texture, colours, names, and use of the silk, half silk, and lineo
garments of antiquity, see the

profound, diffuse, and obscure researches of the great Salmasius (in Hist.
August, p. 127. 309,310.339.341, 342.

344. 388—391.395. 513.,) who was ignorant of the most common trades of Dijon
or Leyden.

(3) ^Flavins Vopiscus in Aurelian. c 45. in Hist. August, p. 224. See
Saimasius ad Hist. Aug. p. 392. and

Plmian Excrcitat. in Solinum, p. 694,695. The Anecdotes of Procopius (c. 25.)
state a partial and imperfect

rate of the price of silk in the time of Justinian.

(4) Procopius de Edif. lib. iii. c. 1. These pinnts de mer are found near
Smyrna, Sicily, Corsica, and Minor,

ca: and a pair of gloves of their silk was presented to Pope Benedict XIV.

(5) Procopius Persic lib. i. c. 20. lib. ii. c. 25. Gothic. Iib.iv.c. 17.
Menander in Excerpt. Legat. p. 107. Of

the Parthian or Persian empire, Isidore of Charax (in Stathrais Parthicis, p.
7,8. in Hudson, Geograph. Mi­

nor, torn, ii.) has marked the roads, and Ammianus Marceilinus (lib. xxiii. c.
6. p. 400.) has enumerated the

provinces.

(6) 'f he blind admiration of the Jesuits confounds the different periods of
the Chinese history. They are

more critically distinguished by M. de Guignes (Hist, des Hum. torn. i. parti,
in the Tables, part 2. in the

Geogi-aphy;MemoiresdePAcademiedes Inscriptions, torn. 33. 36. 42,4S.)who
discovers the gradual progress

of the truth of the annals, and the extent of the monarchy, till the Christian
era. He had searched with a cu­

rious eye, the connexions of the Chinese with the nations of the west: but
these connexions are slight, casual,

and obscure; nor did the Romans entertain a suspicion that the Seres or Sinie
possessed an empire not inferior

»their own.

