38 THE DECLINE AND FALL

and maliciously observed, that the word archer is introduced by Homer(l) ass

term of contempt. "Such contempt might perhaps be due to the naked youth,

who appeared on foot in the fields of Troy, and lurking, behind a tomb-stone,
or

the shield of a friend, drew the bow-string to their breast,(2) and dismissed
a fee­

ble and lifeless arrow. But our archers (pursues the historian) are mounted
on.

horses, which they manage with admirable skill; their head and shoulders are
pro­

tected by a casque or buckler; they wear greaves of iron on their legs, and
their

bodies are guarded by a coat of mail. On their right side hangs a quiver, a
sword on

the left, and their hand is accustomed to wield a lance, or javelin, in closer
com­

bat. Their bows are strong and weighty; they shoot in every possible
direction,

advancing, retreating, to the front, to the rear, or to either flank; and as
they are

taught to draw the bow-string not to the breast, but to the right ear, firm
indeed

must be the armour that can resist the rapid violence of their shaft." Five
hun­

dred transports, navigated by twenty thousand mariners of Egypt, Gilicia, and

Ionia, were collected in the harbour of Constantinople. The smallest of these

vessels may be computed at thirty, the largest at five hundred tons; and the
fair

average will supply an allowance, liberal, but not profuse, of about one
hundred

thousand tons, (3) for the reception of thirty-five thousand soldiers and
sailors, of

five thousand horses, of arms, engines, and military stores, and of a
sufficient

stock of water and provisions for a voyage, perhaps, of three months. The
proud

galleys which in former ages swept the Mediterranean with so many hundred

oars, had long since disappeared; and the fleet of Justinian was escorted only
by

ninety-two light brigantines; covered from the missile weapons of the enemy,

and rowed by two thousand of the brave and robust youth of Constantinople.

Twenty-two generals are named, most of whom were afterward distinguished in

the wars of Africa and Italy: but the supreme command, both by land and sea,

was delegated to Belisarius alone, with a boundless power of acting according
to

his discretion, as if the emperor himself were present. The separation of the
na­

val and military professions is at once the effect and the cause of modern
improve­

ments in the science of navigation and maritime war.

In the seventh year of the reign of Justinian, and about the time of the
summer

solstice, the whole fleet of six hundred ships was ranged in martial pomp
before

the gardens of the palace. The patriarch pronounced his benediction, the empe­

ror signified his last commands, the general's trumpet gave the signal of
departure,

and every heart, according to its fears or wishes, explored with anxious
curiosity

the omens of misfortune and success. The first halt was made at Perinthus or

Heraclea, where Belisarius waited five days to receive some Thracian horses, a

military gift of his sovereign. From thence the fleet pursued their course
through

the midst of the Propontis; but, as they struggled to pass the straits of the
Helles­

pont, an unfavourable wind detained them four days at Abydus, where the
general

exhibited a memorable lesson of firmness and severity. Two of the Huns, who,

in a drunken quarrel, had slain one of their fellow-soldiers, were instantly
shown

to the army suspended on a lofty gibbet. The national indignity was resented
by

their countrymen, who disclaimed the servile laws of the empire, and asserted
the

free privilege of Scythia, where a small fine was allowed to expiate the hasty
sal­

lies of intemperance and anger. Their complaints were specious, their clamours

were loud, and the Romans were not averse to the example of disorder and impu­

nity. But the rising sedition was appeased by the authority and eloquence of
the

general: and he represented to the assembled troops the obligation of justice,
the

importance of discipline, the rewards of piety and virtue, and the
unpardonable

guilt of murder, which, in his apprehension, was aggravated rather than
excused

by the vice of intoxication. (4) In the navigation from the Hellespont to
Pelopon-

(1) See the preface of Procopius. The enemies of archery might quote the
reproaches of Diomede, (Iliad,

A. 335, fee.) and the permittere vulncra ventis of Lncan: (viii. 384.) yet the
Romans could not despise the ar­

rows of the Parthians: and in the siege of Troy, Pandarus, Paris, and Tencer,
pierced those haughty warriors

who insulted them as women or children.

(2) Nsupfiw n;v jreXseTfe, to£o> Ss 9-iJnpov. (Iliad. A, 1230 How concise—how
just—how beautiful is the

whole picture! I see the attitudes of the archer—I hear the twanging of the
bow,

&ty%i Pis;, vs-jfn Si pry* oeX.ro o' flfo-TS;.

(3) The text appears to allow for the largest vessels fifty thousand mcdimni,
or three thousand tons (since

the medimnus weighed one hundred and sixty Roman, or one hundred and twenty
avoirdupois pounds.) I

have given a more rational interpretation, by supposing that the Attic style
of Procopiul conceals the legal

and popular modiusy a sixth part of the nadtmnus. (Hooper's Ancient Measures,
p. Ij2, Sec.) A contrary,

and indeed a stranger mistake, has crept into an oration of Dinarehus (ennira
Demosthcnem, in Heiskc Ora­

tor. Grsec. torn. iv. p. 2. p. 34.) By reducing the number of ships from five
hundred to fifty, and translating

fuSittm by mtnetor pounds. Cousin has generously allowed five hundred tons for
the whole of Uie imperial

fleet;—Did he never think ?

(4) I have read of a Greek legislator, who inflicted a double penalty on the
crimes committed in a state of

intoxication, but it seems agreed that this ^ras rather a political than a
moral law.

