THE DECLINE AN 13 FALL

lawful heirs of the blood and sceptre of Clovis, a younger branch, from the
brea­

ther of Dagobert, of the Merovingian house. Their ancient kingdom was reduced

to the duchy of Gascogne, to the counties of Fesenzac and Armagnac, at the
foot

Of the Pyrenees: their race was propagated till the beginning of the sixteenth
cen­

tury; and, after surviving their Carlovingian tyrants, they were reserved to
feel

the injustice, or the favours, of a third dynasty. By the reunion of Aquitain,
France

was enlarged to its present boundaries, with the additions of the Netherlands
and

Spain, as far as the Rhine. II. The Saracens had been expelled from France by

the grandfather and father of Charlemagne; but they still possessed the
greatest

part of Spain, from the rock of Gibraltar to the Pyrenees. Amidst their civil
di­

visions, an Arabian emir of Saragossa implored his protection in the diet of
Pa-

derborn. Charlemagne undertook the expedition, restored the emir, without dis­

tinction of faith, impartially crushed the resistance of the Christians, and
rewarded

the obedience and service of the Mahometans. In his absence he instituted the

Spanish march,{\) which extended from the Pyrenees to the river Ebro: Barce­

lona was the residence of the French governor: he possessed the counties of
2?ou-

sillon and Catalonia; and the infant kingdoms of Navarre and Arragon were sub­

ject to his jurisdiction. III. As king of the Lombards, and patrician of Rome,

he reigned over the greatest part of Italy,(2) a tract of a thousand miles
from the

Alps to the borders of Calabria. The duchy of Beneventum, a Lombard fief,

had spread, at the expense of the Greeks, over the modern kingdom of Naples.

But Arrechis, the reigning duke, refused to be included in the slavery of his
coun­

try; assumed the independent title of prince: and opposed his sword to the
Car­

lovingian monarchy. His defence was firm, his submission was not inglorious,

and the emperor was content with an easy tribute, the demolition of his
fortresses,

• and acknowledgment, on his coins, of a supreme lord. The artful flattery of
his

Son Grimoald added the appellation of father, but he asserted his dignity with
pru­

dence, and Beneventum insensibly escaped from the French yoke. (3) IV. Char­

lemagne was the first who united Germany under the same sceptre. The name

of Oriental France is preserved in the circle of Franconia; and the people of

Hesse and Thuringia, were recently incorporated with the victors, by the
confor­

mity of religion and government. The Alemanni, so formidable to the Romans,

were the faithful vassals and confederates of the Franks; and their country
was

inscribed within the modern limits of Alsace, Sivabia, and Switzerland. The
Ba­

varians, with a similar indulgence of their laws and manners, were less
patient of

a master: the repeated treasons of Tasillo justified the abolition of her
hereditary

dukes; and their power was shared among the counts, who judged and guarded

that important frontier. But the north of Germany, from the Rhine and beyond

the Elbe, was still hostile and pagan; nor was it till after a war of thirty-
three

years that the Saxons bowed under the yoke of Christ and of Charlemagne. The

idols and their votaries were extirpated: the foundation of eight bishoprics,
of

Munster, Osnaburg, Paderborn, and Minden, of Bremen, Verden, Hildesheim,

and Halberstadt, define on either side of the Weser, the bounds of ancient
Saxo­

ny: these episcopal seats were the first schools and cities Of that savage
land; and

the religion and humanity of the children atoned, in some degree, for the
massa­

cre of the parents. Beyond the Elbe, the Slavi, or Sclavonics, of similar man-

tiers and various denominations, overspread the modern dominions of Prussia,
Po­

land, and Bohemia, and some transient marks of obedience have tempted the

French historian to extend the empire to the Baltic and the Vistula. The
conquest

or conversion of those countries is of a more recent age; but the first union
of Bo­

hemia with the Germanic body may be justly ascribed to the arms of
Charlemagne.

V. He retaliated on the Avars, or Huns, of Pannonia, the same calamities which

they had inflicted on the nations. Their rings, the wooden fortifications
which

encircled their districts and villages, were broken down by the triple effort
of a

French army, that was poured into their country by land and water, through the

Carpathian mountains, and along the plains of the Danube. After a bloody con-

xnily of Montesquieu, (not of the president de Montesquieu) is descended in
the female line from Clotaire and

Clovis—an innocent pretension!

(1) The governors or counts of the Spanish march revolted from Charles the
Simple about the year 900; and

a poorpittance, the Ronaillon, has been recovered in 1642. by the kings of
France. (Longnerue, Description

de la France, torn. i. p. 220—222.) Yet the Rousillon contains one hundred and
eighty-eight thousand nine

hundred subjects, and annually pays two million six hundred thousand livres;
(Necker, Administration des

Finances, torn. i. p. 278,279.) more people, perhaps, and doubtless more
money, than the inarch of Charle­

magne.

(2) Schmidt. Hist, des Allemands, torn. ii. p. 200, Sec.

(3) -St« Criannone, torn, i> p. 37*, 375. and the Annals of Muratori.

