180 THE DECLINE AND FALL

tion, the payment of the arrears, with exorbitant interest, was always made
the

first condition of the new treaty. In the language of a barbarian without
guile, '

the prince of the Avars affected to complain of the insincerity of the
Greeks,(l)

yet he was not inferior to the most civilized nations in the refinements of
dissimu­

lation and perfidy. As the successor of the Lombards, the chagan asserted his

claim to the important city of Sirmium, the ancient bulwark of the Illyrian
pro­

vinces. (2) The plains of the Lower Hungary were covered with the Avar horse,

and a fleet of large boats was built in the Hyrcinian wood, to descend the
Danube,

and to transport into the Save the materials of a bridge. But as the strong
garri­

son of Singidunum, which commanded the conflux ot the two rivers, might have

stopped their passage and baffled his designs, he dispelled their
apprehensions by

a solemn oath, that his views were not hostile to the empire. He swore by his

sword, the symbol of the god of war, that he did not, as the enemy of Rome,
con­

struct a bridge upon the Save. " If I violate my oath," pursued the intrepid

Baian, " may I myself, and the last of my nation, perish by the sword! may the

. heavens and fire, the deity of the heavens, fall upon our heads! may the
forests

and mountains bury us in their ruins! and the Save returning, against the laws
of

nature, to his source, overwhelm us in his angry waters!" After this barbarous

imprecation, he calmly inquired, what oath was the most sacred and venerable

among the Christians, what guilt of perjury it was most dangerous to incur._
The

bishop of Singidunum presented the gospel, which the chagan received with de­

vout reverence. " I swear," said he, " by the God who has spoken in this holy

book, that I have neither falsehood on my tongue, nor treachery in my heart."
As

' soon as he rose from his knees, he accelerated the labour of the bridge, and
des­

patched an envoy to proclaim what he no longer wished to conceal. " Inform the

emperor," said the perfidious Baian, " that Sirmium is invested on every side.

Advise his prudence to withdraw the citizens and their effects, and resign a
city

which it is now impossible to relieve or defend." Without the hope of relief,
the

defence of Sirmium was prolonged above three years; the walls were still un­

touched; but famine was enclosed within the walls, till a merciful
capitulation al­

lowed the escape of the naked and hungry inhabitants. Singidunum, at the dis­

tance of fifty miles, experienced a more cruel fate: the buildings were rased,
and

the vanquished people were condemned to servitude and exile. Yet the ruins of

Sirmium are no longer visible; the advantageous situation of Singidunum soon
at­

tracted a new colony of Sclavonians; and the conflux of the Save and Danube is

still guarded by the fortifications of Belgrade, or the White City, so often
and so

obstinately disputed by the Christian and Turkish arms. (3) From Belgrade to

the walls of Constantinople, a line may be measured of six hundred miles; that

line was marked with flames and with blood; the horses of the Avars were
alter­

nately bathed in the Euxine and the Adriatic; and the Roman pontiff, alarmed
by

the approach of a more savage enemy, (4) was reduced to cherish the Lombards

as the protectors of Italy. The despair of a captive, whom his country refused

to ransom, disclosed to the Avarsthe intention and practice of military
engines;(5)

but in the first attempts they were rudely framed and awkwardly managed; and

the resistance of Diocletianapolis and Bersea, of Phillippolis and Adrianople

soon exhausted the skill and patience of the besiegers. The warfare of Baian

was that of a Tartar, yet his mind was susceptible of a humane and generous
sen­

timent: he spared Anchialus, whose salutary waters had restored the health of

the best beloved of his wives; and the Romans confess, that their starving
army

was fed and dismissed by the liberality of a foe. His empire extended over
Hun­

gary, Poland, and Prussia, from the mouth of the Danube to that of the
Oder;(6)

and his new subjects were divided and transplanted by the jealous policy of
the

(1) Theophylact, lib. vi. c. 6. lib. vii. c. 15. The Greek historian confesses
the truth and jmtice of fail

reproacb.

(2) Menander(in Eaccrpt. Legat. p. 126—132.174, 175.) describes the perjury of
Baian and the surrender of

Sirmitiro. We have lost his acoount of the siege, which is commended by
Theophylact, lib. i. c. 3. To a* tm>;

(3) See iTAnvitle, In the Memoires de l'Acad. des Inscriptions, torn, xxviii.
p, 412—443. The Sclavonic

name of Belgrade is mentioned in the tenth century by Constantine
Porphyrogenitus: the Latin appellation

of Alba Gratca is used by the Franks in the beginning of the ninth, (p. 414.)

(4) Baron. Annal. Ecclcs. A. D. 600. No.!. Paul Warnefrid (lib.iv. c. 38.)
relates their irruption into Friuli,

and (c. 39.) the captivity of his ancestors, about A. D. 632. The Sclavi
traversed the Hadriatic, cum mullitu-

dinc navium. and made a descent in the territory of St. Pontnm (c. 47.)

(5) Rr.n the hclepolis,or moveable turret. Theophylact, lit. li. 16,17.

_ (6) The arms and alliances of the chagan reached to the neighbourhood of a
western sea, fifteen months'

journey from Constantinople. The emperor Maurice convened with some itinerant
harpers from that re­

mote country, and only seems to have mistaken a trade for a nation.
Throphvloct, lib. vi. e. 5.

