S5*> THE DECLINE AND FALL

and cruelty; and as soon as the head of Nicephorus was shown from the window,

the tumult was hushed, and the Armenian was emperor of the east. On the day

of his coronation, he was stopped on the threshold of St. Sophia, by the
intrepid

patriarch; who charged his conscience with the deed of treason and blood; and
re­

quired, as a sign of repentance, that he should separate himself from his more

criminal associate. This sally of apostolic zeal was not offensive to the
prince,

since he could neither love nor trust a wom^n who had repeatedly violated the

most sacred obligations; and Theophano, instead of sharing his imperial
fortune,

was dismissed with ignominy from his bed and palace. In their last interview,
she

displayed a frantic and impotent rage; accused the ingratitude of her lover;
as­

saulted with words and blows her son Basil, as he stood silent and submissive
in

the presence of a superior colleague; and avowed her own prostitution in
proclaim­

ing the illegitimacy of his birth. The public indignation was appeased by her

exile, and the punishment of the meaner accomplices: the death of an unpopular

prince was forgiven; and the guilt of Zimisces was forgotten in the splendour
of his

virtues. Perhaps his profusion was less useful to the state than the avarice
of

Nicephorus, but his gentle and generous behaviour delighted all who approached

his person: and it was only in the paths of victory that he trod in the
footsteps of

his predecessor. The greatest part of his reign was employed in the camp and
the

field: his personal valour and activity were signalized on the Danube and the
Ti­

gris, the ancient boundaries of the Roman world; and by his double triumph
over

the Russians and the Saracens, he deserved the titles of saviour of the
empire, and

conqueror of the east. In his last return from Syria, he observed that the
most

fruitful lands of his new provinces were possessed by the eunuchs. "And is it
for

them," (he exclaimed, with honest indignation,) "that we have fought and con­

quered? Is it for them that we shed our blood, and exhaust the treasures of
our

people?" The complaint was re-echoed to the palace, and the death of Zimisces

is strongly marked with the suspicion of poison-

Under this usurpation, or regency, of twelve years, the two lawful emperors,

Basil and Constantine, had silently grown to the age of manhood. Their tender

years had been incapable of dominion: the respectful modesty of their
attendance

smd salutation, was due to the age and merit of their guardians: the childless
am­

bition of those guardians had no temptation to violate their right of
succession: their

patrimony was ably and faithfully administered; and the premature death of Zi­

misces was a loss, rather than a benefit, to the sons of Romanus. Their want
of

experience detained them twelve years longer the obscure and voluntary pupils
of

a minister, who extended his reign by persuading them to indulge the pleasures
of

youth, and to disdain the labours of government. In this silken web, the
weakness

of Constantine was for ever entangled; but his elder brother felt the impulse
of

genius and the desire of action: he frowned, and the minister was no more.
Basil

•was the acknowledged sovereign of Constantinople and the provinces of Europe;

but Asia was oppressed by two veteran generals, Phocas and Sclerus, who,
alter­

nately friends and enemies, subjects and rebels, maintained their
independence,

and laboured to emulate the example of successful usurpation. Against these

domestic enemies the son of Romanus first drew his sword, and they trembled in

the presence of a lawful and high-spirited prince. The first, in the front of
battle,

■was thrown from his horse, by the stroke of poison, or an arrow; the second,
who

had been twice loaded with chains, and twice invested with the purple, was de­

sirous of ending in peace the small remainder of his days. As the aged
suppliant

approached the throne, with dim eyes and faltering steps, leaning on his two
at­

tendants, the emperor exclaimed, in the insolence of youth and power,—"And is

this the man who has so long been the object of our terror!" After he had con­

firmed his own authority, and the peace of the empire, the trophies of
Nicephorus

and Zimisces would not suffer their royal pupil to sleep in the palace. His
long and

frequent expeditions against the Saracens were rather glorious, than useful to
the

empire; but the final destruction of the kingdom of Bulgaria appears, since
the

time of Belisarius, the most important triumph of the Roman arms. Yet, instead

of applauding their victorious prince, his subjects detested the rapacious and
rigid

avarice of Basil; and in the imperfect narrative of his exploits, We can only
discern

the courage, patience, and ferociousness of a soldier. A vicious education,
tvhich

could not subdue his spirit, had clouded his mind; he was ignorant of every

science; and the remembrance of his learned and feeble grandsire might
encourage

a real or affected contempt of laws and lawyers, of artists and arts. Of such
a

character, in such an age, superstition took a firm ajid lasting possession;
after the

