OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 79

Disputes have often arisen between the sovereigns of Asia, for the title of
king

of the world; while the contest has proved that it could not belong to either
of the

competitors. The kingdom of the Turks was bounded by the Oxus or Gihon;

and Touran was separated by that great river from the rival monarch of Iran,
or

Persia, which, in a smaller compass, contained perhaps a larger measure of
power

and population. The Persians, who alternately invaded and repulsed the Turks

and Romans, were ruled by the house of Sassan, which ascended the throne three

hundred years before the accession of Justinian. His cotemporary, Cabades, or

Kobad, had been successful in war against the emperor Anastasius; but the
reign

of that prince was distracted by civil and religious troubles. A prisoner in
the

hands of his subjects; an exile among the enemies of Persia; he recovered his
li­

berty by prostituting the honour of his wife, and regained his kingdom with
the

dangerous and mercenary aid of the barbarians, who had slain his father. His

nobles were suspicious that Kobad never forgave the authors of his expulsion,
or

even those of his restoration. The people were deluded and inflamed by the fa­

naticism of Mazdak,(l) who asserted the community of women,(2) and the equa­

lity of mankind, whilst he appropriated the richest lands and most beautiful
fe­

males to the use of his sectaries. The view of these disorders, which had been

fomented by his laws and example, (3) imbittered the declining age of the
Persian

monarch; and his fears were increased by the consciousness of his design to
reverse

the natural and customary order of succession, in favour of his third and most
fa­

voured son, so famous under the names of Chosroes and Nushirvan. To render

the youth more illustrious in the eyes of the nations, Kobad was desirous that
he

should be adopted by the emperor Justin: the hope of peace inclined the Byzan­

tine court to accept this singular proposal; and Chosroes might have acquired
a

specious claim to the inheritance of his Roman parent. But the future mischief

was diverted by the advice of the questor Proclus: a difficulty was started,
whe­

ther the adoption should be performed as a civil or military rite;(4) the
treaty was

abruptly dissolved; and the sense of this indignity sunk deep into the mind of
Chos­

roes, who had already advanced to the Tigris on his road to Constantinople.
His

father did not long survive the disappointment of his wishes; the testament of

their deceased sovereign was read in the assembly of the nobles; and a
powerful

faction, prepared for the event, and regardless of the priority of age,
exalted

Chosroes to the throne of Persia. He filled that throne during a prosperous
pe­

riod of forty-eight years;(5) and the Justice of Nushirvan is celebrated as
the

theme of immortal praise by the nations of the east.

But the justice of kings is understood by themselves, and even by their
subjects,

with an ample indulgence for the gratification of passion and interest. The
vir­

tue of Chosroes was that of a conqueror, who, in the measures of peace and
war,

is excited by ambition and restrained by prudence; who confounds the greatness

with the happiness of a nation, and calmly devotes the lives of thousands to
the

fame, or even the amusement, of a single man. In his domestic administration,

the just Nushirvan would merit, in our feelings, the appellation of a tyrant.
His

two elder brothers had been deprived of their fair expectations of the diadem:

their future life, between the supreme rank and the condition of subjects, was

anxious to themselves and formidable to their master; fear as well as revenge

might tempt them to rebel; the slightest evidence of a conspiracy satined the
au­

thor of their wrongs; and the repose of Chosroes was secured by the death of

these unhappy princes, with their families and adherents. One guiltless youth

drawn from the Extracts of Menander, (p. 106—110. m—154.161—164.) in which we
often regret the want of

order and connexion.

(1) Seed'Herbelot,(Bibliot. Orient, p. 56B. 929.) Hyde, (de Religione Vet.
Persarum, c. 21. p. 290, 291.) Po-

cock, (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 70,71.) Eutychius, (Anna!, torn. ii.p. 176.)
Teseira, (in Stevens Hist, of Per-

lia, lib. i. c 34.)

(2) The tame of the new law for the community of women was soon propagated in
Syria (Asseman. Bibliot.

. Orient, torn. iii. p. 402.) and Greece. (Procop. Persic, lib. i. c. 5.)

(3) He offered his own wife and sister to the prophet; but the prayers of
Nushirvan saved his mother, and

the indignant monarch never forgave the humiliation to which his filial piety
had stooped: pedes tuos deoscn-

latus, (said he toMazdak)cujusftetor adhue nares occupat. (Pococfc, Specimen
Hist. Arab. p. 71.)

(4) Procopius, Persic, lib. i. c. 11. Was not Proclus overwise ? Was not the
danger imaginary ? The ex-

cnse,at least, was injurious to a nation not ignarant of letters: ou
yea/tueurt oi (SzpSxpt too,- trxtoxi mtoumxt xkk>

oitXmv o-xsutf. Whether any mode of adoption was practised in Persia I much
doubt.

(5) From Procopius and Agathias, (torn. ii. p. 543. 676.) has proved that
Chosroe9 Nushirvan ascended the

throne in the fifth year of the reign of Justinian. (A. D. 531. April t. A. D.
532. April 1.) But the true Chro.

nology, which harmonizes with the Greeks and Orientals, is ascertained by John
Malala, (torn. ii. 211.) Caba­

des. or Kobad, after a reign of forty-three years and two months, sickened the
8th and died the 13th of Sep­

tember, A. D. 531, aged eighty-two years. According to the Annals of
Eutychius, Nushirvan reigned forty-se­

ven years and six months; and his death must consequently be placed in March,
A. D. 579.

