' 5F THJ6 ROMAN EMPtRE. ;«99

monarch of his race illustrious in the west, as the ally of Charlemagne, and
fami­

liar to the most childish readers, as the perpetual hero of the Arabian Tales.

His title to the name of Al Rashid (the Just) is sullied by the extirpation of
the

generous, perhaps the innocent, Barmecides; yet he could listen to the
complaint

of a poor widow who had been pillaged by his troops, and who dared, in a
passage

of the Koran, to threaten the inattentive despot with the judgment of God and

posterity. His court was adorned with luxury and science; but in a reign of
three-

and-twenty years, Harun repeatedly visited his provinces from Chorasan to
Egypt;

nine times he performed the pilgrimage of Mecca; eight times he inTaded the
ter­

ritories of the Romans; and as often as they declined the payment of the
tribute,

they were taught to feel that a month of depredation was more costly than a
year

of submission. But when the unnatural mother of Constantine was deposed and

banished, her successor Nicephorus resolved to obliterate this badge of
servitude

and disgrace. The epistle of the emperor to the caliph was pointed with an
allu­

sion to the game of chess, which had already Bpread from Persia to Greece. "
The

queen," he spoke of Irene, " considered you as a rook and herself a pawn. That

pusillanimous female submitted to pay a tribute, the double of which she ought
to

nave evicted from the barbarians. Restore therefore the fruits of your
injustice,

or abide the determination of the sword." At these words the ambassadors cast

a bundle of swords before the foot of the throne. The caliph smiled at the
menace,

and drawing his scimitar, samaamcih, a weapon of historic or fabulous renown,
he

cut asunder the feeble arms of the Greeks, without turning the edge, or
endanger­

ing the temper of his blade. He then dictated an epistle of tremendous
brevity;

"In the name of the most merciful God, Harun al Rashid, commander of the
faith­

ful, to Nicephorus, the Roman dog. I have read thy letter, O thou son of an
unbe­

lieving mother. Thou shalt no^hear, thoushalt behold my reply." It was writ­

ten in characters of blood and fire on the plains of Phrygia, and the warlike
cele­

rity of the Arabs could only be checked by the arts of deceit and the show of
re­

pentance. The triumphant caliph retired, after the fatigues of the campaign,
to

his favourite palace of Racca on the Euphrates:(l) but the distance of five
hun­

dred miles, and the inclemency of the season, encouraged his adversary to
violate

the peace. Nicephorus was astonished by the bold and rapid march of the com­

mander of the faithful, who repassed, in the depth of winter, the snows of
mount

Taurus: his stratagems of policy and war were exhausted; and the perfidious

Greek escaped with three wounds from a field of battle overspread with forty

thousand of his subjects. Yet the emperor was ashamed of submission, and the

caliph was resolved on victory. One hundred and thirty-five thousand regular

soldiers received pay, and were inscribed in the military roll; and above
three hun­

dred thousand persons of every denomination marched under the black standard

of the Abbassides. They swept the surface of Asia Minor far beyond Tyana and

Ancyra, and invested the Pontic Heraclea, (2) once a flourishing state, now a
pal­

try town; at that time capable of sustaining in her antique walls a month's
siege

against the forces of the east. The ruin was complete, the spoil was ample;
but

if Harun had been conversant with Grecian story, he would have regretted the

statue of Herculus, whose attributes, the club, the bow, the quiver, and the
lion's

hide, were sculptured in massy gold. The progress of desolation by sea and
land,

from the Euxine to the isle of Cyprus, compelled the emperor Nicephorus to re­

tract his haughty defiance. In the new treaty the ruins of Heraclea were left

fov ever as a lesson and a trophy; and the coin of the tribute was marked with
the

image and superscription of Harun and his three sons. (3) Yet this plurality
of

lords might contribute to remove the dishonour of the Roman name. After the

death of their father, the heirs of the ealiph were involved in civil discord
and the

conqueror, the liberal Almamon, was sufficiently engaged in the restoration of
do­

mestic peace and the introduction of foreign science.

Under the reign of Almamon at Bagdad, of Michael the Stammerer at Constan­

cy For theiitttauon of Racca, the old Nicephorium, consult d'Anvilte
(L'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 24—27.)

The Arabian Nights represent Harun al Rashid as almost stationary in Bagdad.
He respected the royal scat

of the Abbassides, but the vices of the inhabitants had driven htm from the
city (Abulfed. Annat. p. 167.)

(2) M. r>. Toumefolt, in his coasting voyage from Constantinople to Tri-
bizond, passed a night at Heraclea

or Eregri. His eye surveyed the present st;tte, his reading collected the
antiquities, of the city (Voyage du Le­

vant, torn. iii. lettre 16, p. 23—35.) We have a separate history of Heraclea
in the fragments of Memnon, which

lire preserved by Pholtus.

(3) The wars of Harun al Rashid against the Roman empire, are related by
Theophanes (394,385. 391.39(>,

407,408.,) Zoimras (torn. ii. lib. IS, p. 115.124.,) Ccdrenus (p. 477,478.,)
Eutythifis (Antral, torn. ii. p. 407.,)

Jilmaciii (Hist. Smacen, p. 13«, 151,152.) ApnlptBragins,(Oynast.j>> 117. Ml.)
and Atiultfila, (p. 1S6. la.S-.15S~)

Vot. nr. . .53

