158 THE DECLINE AND FALL

collected the merits, or dreaded the resentment, of their victorious general.
Bjr

the mediation of the pope, who undertook a special pilgrimage to Naples, their

repentance was accepted; and Narses assuming a milder aspect and a more duti­

ful language, consented to fix his residence in the capitol. His death,(l)
though

in the extreme period of old age, was unseasonable and premature, since his
ge­

nius alone could have repaired the last and fatal error of his life. The
reality, or

the suspicion, of a conspiracy disarmed and disunited the Italians. The
soldiers

resented the disgrace, and bewailed the loss, of their general. They were
igno­

rant of their new exarch, and Longinus was himself ignorant of the state of
the

army and the province. In the preceding years Italy had been desolated by pes­

tilence and famine; and disaffected people ascribed the calamities of nature
to the

guilt or folly of their rulers. (2)

Whatever might be the grounds of his security, Alboin neither-expected nor

encountered a Roman army in the field. He ascended the Julian Alps, and

looked down with contempt and desire on the fruitful plains to which his
victory

communicated the perpetual appellation of Lombakdy. A faithful chieftain, and

a select band, were stationed at Forum Julii, the modern Friuli, to guard the

passes of the mountains. The Lombards respected the strength of Pavia, and

listened to the prayers of the Trevisans: their slow and heavy multitudes
proceed­

ed to occupy the palace and city of Verona; and Milan, now rising from her
ashes,

was invested by the powers of Alboin five months after his departure from
Panno-

nia. Terror preceded his march; he found every where, or he left, a dreary so­

litude; and the pusillanimous Italians presumed, without a trial, that the
stranger

was invincible. Escaping to lakes, or rocks, or morasses, the affrighted
crowds

concealed some fragments of their wealth, and delayed the moment of their ser­

vitude. Paulinus, the patriarch of Aquileia, removed his treasures, sacred and

profane, to the isle of Grado,(3) and his successors were adopted by the
infant re­

public of Venice; which was continually enriched by the public calamities. Ho-

noratus, who filled the chair of St. Ambrose, had credulously accepted the
faith­

less offers of a capitulation; and the archbishop, with the clergy and nobles
of Mi­

lan, were driven by the perfidy of Alboin to seek a refuge in the less
accessible

ramparts of Genoa. Along the maritime coast, the courage of the inhabitants

was supported by the facility of supply, the hopes of relief, and the power of
es­

cape; but from the Trentine hills to the gates of Ravenna and Rome, the inland

regions of Italy became, without a battle or a siege, the lasting patrimony of
the

Lombards. 1 he submission of the people invited the barbarian to assume the

character of a lawful sovereign, and the helpless exarch was confined to the
office

of announcing to the emperor Justin, the rapid and irretrievable loss of
his.pro-

vinces and cities. (4) One city, which had been diligently fortified by the
Goths,

resisted the arms of a new invader; and while Italy was subdued by the flying
de­

tachments of the Lombards, the royal camp was fixed above three years be­

fore the western gate of Ticinum, or Pavia. The same courage which obtains

the esteem of a civilized enemy, provokes the fury of a savage, and the impa­

tient besieger had bound himself by a tremendous oath, that age, and sex, and

dignity, should be confounded in a general massacre. The aid of famine at
length

enabled him to execute his bloody vow; but as Alboin entered the gate, his
horse

stumbled, fell, and could not be raised from the ground. One of his attendants

* was prompted by compassion, or piety, to interpret this miraculous sign as the  
wrath of heaven: the conqueror paused and relented; he sheathed his sword,
and,

geacefully reposing himself in the palace of Theodoric, proclaimed to the
trem-

ling multitude, that they should live and obey. Delighted with the situation
of

the city, which was endeared to his pride by the difficulty of the purchase,
the

11) The Heath of Narses is mentioned hy Paul, lib. ii. c. II. Anastas. in Vit.
.lohan. iii. n. 43.; Agnelliis,

T.iber Pontifical, Raven, in Scrip. Rer. Italiearum, torn. ii. part. i. p.
114.124. Yet I cannot believe with Ag-

nellus that Narses was ninety-five years of age. Is it probable that all his
exploits were performed at four­

score?

(3) The designs of Narses and of the Lombards for the invasion of Italy, are
exposed in the last chapter of

the first book, and the seven first chapters of the second book of Paul the
deacon.

(3) Which from this translation was called New Aquileia, (Chron. Venet. p. 3.)
The patriarch of Grado

soon became the first citizen of the republic, (p. 9, &e.) but his seat was
not removed to Venice till the year

1450. He is now decorated with titles and honours; but the genius of the
church has bowed to that of the

■state, and the government cf a catholic city is strictly Presbyterian.
Thomassin, Discipline de 1'Eglise,

torn. i. p. 156, 157.1M—165. Anielotile la Hr> issaye. Governement-de Venise,
torn. i. p. 256—261.

(4) Paul has given a description of Italy, as ii was then divided, into
eighteen regions, (lib. ii. e, 14—24.)

The Disertatio Chorographica de Italia. Medii. jEvi, by father Beretti, a
Benedictine monk, and reigns pro-

tftssor at Pavia. has been usc-Pillv consulted.

