OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 149

But in the character of a legislator, he respected the prejudices of the
times; and

instead of pronouncing a sentence, of death against the robber or assassin,
the ge­

neral who betrayed an army, or the magistrate who ruined a province, Sylla was

content to aggravate the pecuniary damages by the penalty of exile, or, in
more

constitutional language, by the interdiction of fire and water. The Cornelian,
and

afterwards the Pompeian'and Julian laws, introduced a new system of criminal
ju­

risprudence ;(1) and the emperors, from Augustus to Justinian, disguised their
in­

creasing rigour under the names of the uriginal authors. But the invention and

frequent use of extraordinary fiains, proceeded from the desire to extend and
con­

ceal the progress of despotism. In the condemnation of illustrious Romans, the

senate was always prepared to confound, at the will of their masters, the
judicial

and legislative powers. It was the duty of the governors to maintain the peace
of

their province, by the arbitrary and rigid administration of justice; the
freedom of

the city evaporated in the extent of the empire, and the Spanish malefactor,
who

claimed the privilege of a Roman, was elevated by the command of Galba on a

fairer and more lofty cross. (2) Occasional receipts issued from the throne to
de­

cide the questions, which by their novelty or importance, appeared to surpass
the

authority and discernment of a proconsul. Transportation and beheading were

reserved for honourable persons; meaner criminals were either hanged or burnt,

or buried in the mines, or exposed to the wild beasts of the amphitheatre.
Armed

robbers were pursued and extirpated as the enemies of society; the driving
away

horses or cattle was made a capital offence;(3) but simple theft was uniformly

considered as a mere civil and private injury. The degrees of guilt, and the
modes

of punishment, were too often determined by the discretion of the rulers, and
the

subject was left in ignorance of the legal danger which he might incur by
every

action of his life.

A sin, a vice, a crime, are the objects of theology, ethics, and
jurisprudence.

Whenever their judgments agree, they corroborate each other; but as often as

they differ, a prudent legislator appreciates the guilt and punishment
according

to the measure of social injury. On this principle, the most daring attack on

the life and property of a private citizen, is judged less atrocious than the
crime

of treason, or rebellion, which invades the majesty of the republic: the obse­

quious civilians unanimously pronounced, that the republic is contained in the

person of its chief: and the edge of the Julian law was sharpened by the
inces­

sant diligence of the emperors. The licentious commerce of the sexes may be

tolerated as an impulse of nature, or forbidden as a source of disorder and
cor­

ruption: but the fame, the fortunes, the family of the husband, are seriously
in-

• jured by the adultery of the wife. The wisdom of Augustus, after curbing the

freedom of revenge, applied to this domestic offence the animadversion of the

laws: and the guilty parties, after the payment of heavy forfeitures and
fines,

were condemned to long or perpetual exile in two separate islands. (4)
Religion

pronounces an equal censure against the infidelity of the husband: but as it
is not

accompanied by the same civil effects, the wife was never permitted to
vindicate

her wrongs;(5) and the distinction of simple or double adultery, so familiar
and

so important in the canon law, is unknown to the jurisprudence of the code and

Pandects. I touch with reluctance, and despatch with impatience, a more odious

vice, of which modesty rejects the name, and nature abominates the idea. The

thousand senators and knights; Appian (de Boll. Civil, lib. i. c. 95. torn.
ii. p. 13.1. edit. Sehweigaeuser) more ac­

curately computes forty victims of the tenatorian rank, and one thousand six
hundred of the equestrian ceu-

aus or order.

(1) For the penal law (Leges Cornelia;. Pompeise.Jniise, of Sylla. Pompey,and
(he Caesars.) see (he sentences

of Paulus (lib. is. til. 18—30. p. 497—518. edit. Sehultitig,) the Gregorian
Code (Fragment, lib. six. p. 705, 70S.

in Schulting.) the Cnllatio Legum Mosaicarum et Romanarum (tit. 1. 15.,' the
Theodosian Code (lib. ix..) the

Code af Justinian (lib. ix.,) the Pandects (48.,) the Institutes (lib. iv.
tit. 18.,) and the Greek version of Theo-

pbilus(p.917—926.)

(2) It was a guardian who had poisoned his ward. The crime was atrocious; yet
the punishment is reckoned

by Suetonius (c. ix.) among the acts in which Galba showed himself acer
vehemens, et in delictis coercendis

immodicus.

(3) The abactores or abigeatnres, who drove one horse, or two mares or oxen,
or five hogs, or ten goats, were

subject to capital punishment (Paul. Senlent. R.-cepT. lib. iv. tit. 18. p.
497,498.) Hadrian (ad Concil. Breticae.)

most severe where the offence was most frequent, condemns the criminals, ad
gtadium, ludi damnationem (Ul-

pian de Officio Proconsulis, tib. viii. in Collatione Leguro Mosaic, et Rom.
tit. xi. p. 235.)

(4) Till the publication of the Julius Paulus of Sehnitiug (lib. ii. tit. 26.
p. 317—323.,) it was affirmed and

believed, that the Julian laws punished adultery with death; and the mistake
arose from the fraud or error of

Tribonian. Yet Lipsius had suspected the truth from the narrative of Tacitus
(Annal. ii. 50. iii. 24. iv. 42.,)

and even from the practice of Augustus, who distinguished the treasonable
frailties of his female kindred.

(5) In cases of adultery, Severus confined to the husband the right of public
accusation (Cod. Justinian, lib.

ix. tit. 9. lee. 1.) Nor is this privilege unjust—so different are the effects
of male or female infiddirv.

