228 THE DECLINE AND FALL

sion of the Portuguese, the Nestorian creed is freely professed on the coast
of Ma­

labar. - The trading companies of Holland and England are the friends of
tolera­

tion; but if oppression be less mortifying than contempt, the Christians of
St.

Thomas have reason to complain of the cold and silent indifference of their
bre­

thren of Europe. (1)

II. The history of the Monophysites is less copious and interesting than that
of

the Nestorians. Under the reigns of Zeno and Anastasius, their artful leaders

surprised the ear of the prince, usurped the thrones of the east, and crushed
on

its native soH the school of the Syrians. The rule of the Monophysite faith
#as

defined with exquisite discretion by Severus, patriarch of Antioch: he
condemned,

in the style of the Henoticon, the adverse heresies of Nestorius and Eutyches,

maintained against the latter the reality of the body of Christ, and
constrained the

Greeks to allow that he was a liar who spoke the truth. (2) But the approxima­

tion of ideas could not abate the vehemence of passion: each party was the
more

astonished that their blind antagonist could dispute on so trifling a
difference; the

tyrant of Syria enforced the belief of his creed, and his reign was polluted
with

the blood of three hundred and fifty monks, who were slain, not perhaps
without

provocation or resistance, under the walls of Apamea.(3) The successor of
Anas­

tasius, replanted the orthodox standard in the east: Severus fled into Egypt:
and

his friend the eloquent Xenaias,(4) who had escaped from the Nestorians of
Per­

sia, was suffocated in his exile by the Melchites of Paphlagonia. Fifty-four
bi­

shops were swept from their thrones, eight hundred ecclesiastics were cast
into

prison,(5) and, notwithstanding the ambiguous favour of Theodora, the oriental

flocks, deprived of their shepherds, must insensibly have been either famished
or

poisoned. In this spiritual distress, the expiring faction was revived, and
united,

and perpetuated, by the labours of a monk; and the name of James Baradseus(6)

has been preserved in the appellation of Jacobites; a familiar sound, which
may

startle the ear of an English reader. From the holy confessors in their prison
of

Constantinople, he received the powers of bishop of Edessa, and apostle of the

east, and the ordination of fourscore thousand bishops, priests, and deacons,
is de­

rived from the same inexhaustible source. The speed of the zealous missionary

•was promoted by the fleetest dromedaries of a devout chief of the Arabs; the
doc­

trine and discipline of the Jacobites were secretly established in the
dominions of

Justinian; and each Jacobite was compelled to violate the laws and to hate the

Roman legislator. The successors of Severus, while they lurked in convents, or

villages, while they sheltered their proscribed heads in the caverns of
hermits, or

the tents of the Saracens, still asserted, as they now assert, their
indefeasible right

to the title, the rank, and the prerogatives, of the patriarch of Antioch:
under the

milder yoke of the infidels, they reside about a league from Merdin, in the
plea­

sant monastery of Zapharan, which they have embellished with cells, aqueducts,

and plantations. The secondary, though honourable, place is filled by the ma-

fihrian, who, in his station at Mosul itself, defies the Nestorian catholics,
with whom

he contests the supremacy of the east. Under the patriarch, and the maphrian,

one hundred and fifty archbishops and bishops have been counted in the
different

(1) Concerning the Christians of St. Thomas, see Assemannus, Biblioth. Orient,
torn. iv. p. 391—405^435—

451. Geddes's Church History of Malabar; and, above all, La Croze, Histoire du
Christianhrme des Isjpes, <n

two Tols. 12mo. La Haye, 1758, a learned and agreeable work. They have drawn
from the same source, the

Portuguese, and Italian narratives; and the prejudices of the Jesuits ate
sufficiently corrected by those of the

protestants. >

(2) O*ov e*7T£ik ^imxkiiSk is the expression of Theodore in his treatise on
the incarnation, p. 245. 347. as he is

quoted by La Croze, (Hist, du Christianisme d'Ethiope et d'Armenie,p. 35.) who
exclaims, perhaps too hastily,

°* Quel pitoyable raissonement J" Renaudot has touched (Hist. Patriarch. Alex.
p. 127—138.) the oriental ac­

count of Severus: and his authentic creed may be found in the epistle of John
the Jacobite, patriarch of An­

tioch, in the tenth century, to his brother Mennas of Alexandria. (Asseman.
Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 132

(3) Epist. Archimandritarum et Monachorum Syrite Secundfie ad Papain
Hormisdam. Concil. torn. v. p. 508

—602. The courage of St. Sabas, ut leo animosus, will justify the suspieion
that the arms of these monks

vere not always spiritual or defensive. (Baronius, A. D. 513. No. 7, ice.)

(4) Assemanni (Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 10—46.) and La Croze
(Christianisme d'Ethiope, p. 36—40.) will

supply the history of Xenaias or Philoxenus, bishop of Mabug, or Hierapolis,
in Syria. He was a perfect mas­

ter of the Syriae language, and the author or editor of a version of the New
Testament.

(5) The names and titles of $fty-four bishops, who were exiled by Justin, are
preserved in the Chronicle of

Dionysius. (apud Asseman. torn. ii. p. 54.) Severus was personally summoned to
Constantinople—for his trial,

says Liberatus, (Brev. c. 19.)—that his tongue might be cut out, says
Eragrius. (lib. iv. c. 4.) The prudent pa­

triarch did not stay to examine the difference. This ecclesiastical revolution
is fixed, by Pagi in the month of

* (6) The obscure history of James, or Jacobus Raradeeus, or Zanzalus,may be gathered from Eutychitu, (An-  
nal. torn. IS. p. 144.147.) Renaudot, (Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 133.) and
Assemannus, (Bibliot. Onent. torn. i.

S>. 424. torn. ii. p. 62—69.324—332. p. 414. torn. hi. p. 385—383.) He seems
to be unknown to the Greeks TUe

aconites themselves had rather deduce their name and pedigree lrora St, James
the apostle.

