3 2 THE DECLINE AND FALL

bath, by the order, or with the connivance, of the new king, who instructed
his

turbulent subjects to shed the blood of their sovereigns.

Justinian beheld with joy the dissensions of the Goths; and the mediation of

an ally concealed and promoted the ambitious views of the conqueror. His am­

bassadors, in their public audience, demanded the fortress of Lilybaeum, ten
bar­

barian fugitives, and a just compensation for the pillage of a small town on
the Illyri-

an borders; but they secretly negotiated with Theodatus, to betray the
province

of Tuscany, and tempted Amalasontha to extricate herself from danger and per­

plexity, by a free surrender of the kingdom of Italy. A false and servile
epistle

was subscribed by the reluctant hand of the captive queen: but the confession
of

the Roman senators, who were sent to Constantinople, revealed the truth of her

deplorable situation; and Justinian, by the voice of a new ambassador, most
power­

fully interceded for her life and liberty. Yet the secret instructions of the
same-

minister were adapted to serve the cruel jealousy of Theodora, who dreaded the

presence and superior charms of a rival: he prompted, with artful and
ambiguous

hints, the execution of a crime so useful to the Romans;(l) received the
intelligence

of her death with grief and indignation, and denounced, in his master's name,
im­

mortal war against the perfidious assassin. In Italy, as well as in Africa,
the guilt

of a usurper appeared to justify the arms of Justinian; but the forces which
he

prepared were insufficient for the subversion of a mighty kingdom, if their
feeble

numbers had not been multiplied by the name, the spirit, and the conduct, of a

hero. A chosen troop of guards, who served on horseback, and were armed with

lances and bucklers, attended the person of Belisarius: his cavalry was
composed

of two hundred Huns, three hundred Moors, and four thousand confederates; and
the

infantry consisted only of three thousand Isaurians. Steering the same course
as in

his former expedition, the Roman consul cast anchor before Catana in Sicily,
to

survey the strength of the island, and to decide whether he should attempt the

conquest, or peaceably pursue his voyage to the African coast. He found a
fruitful

land and a friendly people. Notwithstanding the decay of agriculture, Sicily
still

supplied the granaries of Rome; the farmers were graciously exempted from the

oppression of their military quarters; and the Goths, who trusted the defence
of

the island to the inhabitants, had some reason to complain, that their
confidence

was ungratefully betrayed: instead of soliciting and expecting aid of the king
of

Italy, they yielded to the first summons a cheerful obedience; and this
province,

the first fruits of the Punic wars, was again, after a long separation, united
to the Ro­

man empire. (2) The Gothic garrison of Palermo, which alone attempted to re­

sist, was reduced, after a short siege, by a singular stratagem. Belisarius
intro­

duced his ships into the deepest recess of the harbour; their boats were
laborious­

ly hoisted with ropes and pulleys to the topmast head, and he filled them with

archers, who, from that superior station, commanded the ramparts of the city.

After this easy, though successful campaign, the conqueror entered Syracuse in

triumph, at the head of his victorious bands, distributing gold medals to the
people,

on the day which so gloriously terminated the year of the consulship. He
passed the

winter season in the palace of the ancient kings, amidst the ruins of a
Grecian co­

lony, which once extended to a circumference of two-and-twenty miles:(3) but
in

the spring, about the festival of Easter, the prosecution of his designs was
interrupt­

ed by a dangerous revolt of the African forces. Carthage was saved by the pre­

sence of Belisarius, who suddenly landed with a thousand guards. Two thousand

soldiers of doubtful faith returned to the standard of their old commanderr
and he

marched, without hesitation, above fifty miles to seek an enemy whom he
affected

to pity and despise. Eight thousand rebels trembled at his approach; they were

routed at the first onset, by the dexterity of their master: and this ignoble
victory

would have restored the peace of Africa, if the conqueror had not been hastily
re-

(Epist. ii. 96.) celebrates two woody islands that floated on its waters; iF a
fable, how crednlons the ancients I—

if a fact, how careless the moderns ! Yet, since Pliny, the island may have
been fixed by new and gradual

successions.

(1) Yet Procopias discredits his own evidence (Anecdot. c 16.) by confessing,
that in his public history he

had not spoken the truth. See the epistles from queen Gundelina to the empress
Theodora (Var. 10. 20,21.

23. and observes a suspicious word, de ilia persona, &c.) with the elaborate
Commentary of Buat (torn. a. P»

177—185.)

„(2) For the conquest of Sicily, compare the narrative of Proeopius with the
complaints of Totila. (Gothic

2jJ. c. f. lib. iii. c. 16.) The Gothic queen had lately relieved that
thankless bland (Var. 9,10, !!•)

(j)The ancient magnitude and splendour of the five quarters of Syracuse, are
delineated by Cicero fin Ver-

ter Actio 2. lib. iv. e. 52,53.,) Strabo (lib. vi. p. 415.,) and d'Orville
Sicula (torn. ii. p. 174—202.) The new

sonttm tored by Augustus, shrunk towards the iiland.

