AWk THE DECLINE AND FALL

them w*re sewn thousand eunuchs, four thousand of them white, the remaindey

black. The porters or door-keepers were in number seven hundred. Barges-

and boats, with the most superb decorations, were seen swimming upon the Ti­

gris. Nor was the palace itself less splendid, in which were hung up thirty-
eight

thousand pieces of tapestry, twelve thousand five hundred of which were of sdk

embroidered with gold. The carpets on the floor were twenty-two thousand. A

hundred lions were brought out, with a keeper to each lion.(l) Among the other

spectacles of rare and stupendous luxury, was a tree of gold and silver
spreading

into eighteen large branches, on which, and on the lesser boughs, sat a
variety cf

birds, made of the same precious metals, as well as leaves of the tree. While

the machinery affected spontaneous motions, the several birds warbled their
natu­

ral harmony. Through this scene of magnificence, the Greek ambassador was

led by the vizier to the foot of the caliph's throne. "(2) In the west, the
Om-

miades of Spain supported, with equal pomp, the title of commander of the
faith­

ful. Three miles from Cordova; in honour of his favourite sultana, the third
and

greatest of the Abdalrahmans constructed the city, palace, and gardens, of
Zeh-

ra. Twenty-five years, and above three millions sterling were employed Dy.the

founder: his liberal taste invited the artists of Constantinople, the most
skilful

sculptors and architects of the age; and the buildings were sustained or
adorned

by twelve hundred columns of Spanish and African, of Greek and Italian marble.

The hall of audience was incrusted with gold and pearls, and a great basin in
the

centre was surrounded with the curious and costly figures of birds and quad­

rupeds. In a lofty pavilion of the gardens, one of these basins and fountains,
so

delightful in a sultry climate, was replenished, not with water, but with the
purest

quicksilver. The seraglio of Abdalrahman, his wives, concubines, and black eu­

nuchs, amounted to six thousand three hundred persons; and he was attended to

the field by a guard of twelve thousand horse, whose belts and scimitars were
stud­

ded with gold. (3)

In a private condition, our desires are perpetually repressed by poverty and
sub­

ordination; but the lives and labours of millions are devoted to the service
of a de­

spotic prince, whose laws are blindly obeyed and whose wishes are instantly
gra­

tified. Our imagination is dazzled by the splendid picture; and whatever may
be

the cool dictates of reason, there are few among us who would obstinately
refuse a

trial of the comforts and the cares of royalty. It may therefore be of some
use to

borrow the experience of the same Abdalrahman, whose magnificence has per­

haps excited our admiration and envy, and to transcribe an authentic memorial

which was found in the closet of the deceased caliph. " I have now reigned

above fifty years in victory or peace; beloved by my subjects, dreaded by my
ene­

mies, and respected by my allies. Riches and honours, power and pleasure, have

waited on my call, nor does any earthly blessing appear to have been wanting
to

my felicity. In this situation I have diligently numbered the days of pure and
ge­

nuine happiness which have fallen to my lot: they amount to fourteen:—O man!

place not thy confidence in this present world!"(4) The luxury of the caliphs,

so useless to their private happiness, relaxed the nerves, and terminated the
pro­

gress, of the Arabian empire. Temporal and spiritual conquests had been the

sole occupation of the first successors of Mahomet; and after supplying
themselves

with the necessaries of life, the whole revenue was scrupulously devoted to
that

salutary work. The Abbassides were impoverished by the multitude of their

wants, and their contempt of economy. Instead of pursuing the great object of

ambition, their leisure, their affections, the powers of their mind, were
diverted

by pomp and pleasure; the rewards of valour were embezzled by women and eu­

nuchs, and the royal camp was encumbered by the luxury of the palace. A si-

(1) When Bell of Amermony (Travels, vol. i. p. 89.) accompanied the Russian
ambassador to the audience of

the unfortunate Shah Hussein or Persia, <tw> lions were introduced to denote
the power of the king over the

fiercest animals.

(2) Abulfeda, p. 237. d'Herbelor,p. 509. This embassy was received at Bagdad,
A. H. 305, A. D. 917. 1st the

Sassagc of Abulfeda, 1 have used, with some variations, the English
translation of the learned and amiable Air.

[arris of Salisbury, (Philological Inquiries, p. 363,364.)

(3) Cardonne Histoire de l'Afrique et de 1'Kspagne, tons. i. p.330—336. A just
ideaof the taste and architecture

of the Arabians of Spain, may be conceived from the description and plates of
the ALbamhn o* Grenada,

(Swinburne's Travels, p. 171—188.)

(4) Cardonne,tom. i. p. 329,330. This confession, the complaints of Solomon of
the vanity of this world (read

Prior's verbose but eloquent poem,) and the happy ten days of the emperor
Seghed, (Rambler, no. 204, 205.)

will be triumphantly quoted by the detractors of human life. Their
expectations are commonly immoderate;

their estimates are seldom impartial. If I may speak of myself (the only
person of whom I can speak win

certainty,) my happy hours have tar exceeded, and far exceed, the scanty
numbers of tha caliph of Spain: US

1 shall not sample to add, that many sf than are due to the pleasing labour of
fte presmt composition.

