OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. fl&

Called to Sicily, to appease a sedition which was kindled during his absence
in his own

camp.(l) Disorder and disobedience were the common maladies of the times:

the genius to command, and the virtue to obey, resided only in the mind of
Beli­

sarius.

Although Theodatus descended from a race of heroes, he was ignorant of the

art, and averse to the dangers of war. Although he had studied the writings of

Plato and Tully, philosophy was incapable of purifying his mind from the
basest

passions, avarice and fear. He had purchased a sceptre by ingratitude and mur­

der: at the first menace of an enemy, he degraded his own majesty, and that of
a

nation, which already disdained their unworthy sovereign. Astonished by the
re­

cent example of Gelimer, he saw himself dragged in chains through the streets
of

Constantinople; the terrors which Belisarius inspired, were heightened by the
elo­

quence of Peter, the Byzantine ambassador; and that bold and subtle advocate

persuaded him to sign a treaty, too ignominious to become the foundation of a
lasting

peace. It was stipulated, that, in the acclamations of the Roman people, the
name

of the emperor should always be proclaimed before that of the Gothic king; and

that as often as the statue of Theodatus was erected in brass or marble, the
divine

image of Justinian should be placed on its right hand. Instead of conferring,
the

king of Italy was reduced to solicit, the honours of the senate; and the
consent of

the emperor was made indispensable before he could execute, against a priest
or

senator, the sentence either of death or confiscation. The feeble monarch
resigned

the possession of Sicily; offered, as the annual mark of his dependence, a
crown of

gold, of the weight of three hundred pounds; and promised to supply, at the
requi­

sition of his sovereign, three thousand Gothic auxiliaries for the service of
the em­

pire. Satisfied with these extraordinary concessions, the successful agent of
Jus­

tinian hastened his journey to Constantinople; but no sooner had he reached
the

Alban Villa,(2) than he was recalled by the anxiety of Theodatus; and the
dialogue

which passed between the king and the ambassador deserves to be represented in

its original simplicity. " Are you of opinion that the emperor will ratify
this

treaty?" Perhaps. "If he refuses, what consequence will ensue?" War. "Will

such a war be just or reasonable?" Most assuredly: every one should act
accord­

ing to his character. "What is your meaning?" You are a philosopher—Justi­

nian is emperor of the Romans: it would ill become the disciple of Plato to
shed

the blood of thousands in his private quarrel: the successor of Augustus
should vin­

dicate his rights, and recover by arms the ancient provinces of his empire.
This

reasoning might not convince, bu* it was sufficient to alarm and subdue the
weak­

ness of Theodatus; and he soon descended to his last offer, that for the poor
equiva­

lent of a pension of 48,000/. sterling, he would resign the kingdom of the
Goths and

Italians, and spend the remainder of his days in the innocent pleasures of
philosophy

and agriculture. Both treaties were intrusted to the hands of the ambassador,
on the

frail security of an oath, not to produce the second till the first had been
positively re­

jected. The event may be easily foreseen: Justinian required and accepted the
abdi­

cation of the Gothic king. His indefatigable agent returned from
Constantinople to

Ravenna, with ample instructions; and a fair epistle, which praised the wisdom
and

generosity of the royal philosopher, granted his pension, with the assurance
of such

honours as a subject and a catholic might enjoy; and wisely referred the final
exe­

cution of the treaty, to the presence and authority of Belisarius. But in the
inter­

val of suspense, two Roman generals, who had entered the province of Dalmatia,

were defeated and slain by the Gothic troops. From blind and abject despair,

Theodatus capriciously rose to groundless and fatal presumption,(3) and dared
to-

receive with menace and contempt, the ambassador of Justinian, who claimed
his-

promise, solicited the allegiance of his subjects, and boldly asserted the
invio­

lable privilege of his own character. The march of Belisarius dispelled this
vi­

sionary pride; and as the first campaign(4) was employed in the reduction of
Sicily,

(1) Proconius (Vandal. lib. ii. c. 14,15.) so clearly relates the return of
Belisarius into Sicily (p. 146. editv

Hoeschelii.) that I am astonished at the strange misapprehension and
reproaches of a learned critic. (CRuvres:

de la Mothe le Vayer, torn. riii. p. 162,163.)

(2) The ancient Alba was ruined in the first age nf Rome. On the same spot, or
at least in the neighbour­

hood, successively arose; 1. The villa of Pompey, &e. 2. A camp of the
pretorian cohorts. 3. The modern-

episcopal city of Albanum or Albano (Procop. Goth. lib. ii. c. 4. Cluver.
Ital. Antiq. torn. ii. p. 914.)

(3) A Sibylline oracle was ready to pronounce—Africa capta mundui cum nato
peribit; a sentence of por­

tentous ambiguity (Gothic lib. i. c. 7..) which has been published in unknown
characters by Opsopaeus, an-

editor of the oracles. The Pere Maltreat has promised a commentary; but all
his promises have been vain and*

fruitless.

(4) In his chronology, imitated in some degree from Thucydides, Procopms
begins each spring the y*an of

