THE DECLINE AND FALL

on our humility; and they revere, as a god upon earth, the apostle St. Peter,
-whose

image you threaten to destroy.(l) The remote and interior kingdoms of the west

present their homage to Christ and his vicegerent: and we now prepare to visit

one of their most powerful monarchs, who desires to receive from our hands the

sacrament of baptism. (2) The barbarians have submitted to the yoke of the
gos­

pel, while you alone are deaf to the voice of the shepherd. These pious barba­

rians are kindled into rage; they thirst to avenge the persecution of the
east.

Abandon your rash and fatal enterprise; reflect, tremble, and repent. If you
per- "

sist, we are innocent of the blood that will be spilt in the contest: may it
fall on

your own head." >

The first assault of Leo against the images of Constantinople had been
witnessed

by a crowd of strangers from Italy and the west, who related with grief and
indig­

nation the sacrilege of the emperor. But on the reception of his proscriptive
edict,

they trembled for their domestic deities; the images of Christ and the Virgin,
of

the angels, martyrs, and saints, were abolished in all the churches of Italy;
and a

strong alternative was proposed to the Roman pontiff, the royal favour as the

Srice of his compliance, degradation and exile as the penalty of his
disobedience.

Neither zeal nor policy allowed him to hesitate; and the haughty strain in
which

Gregory addressed the emperor displays his confidence in the truth of his
doctrine

or the powers of resistance. Without depending on prayers or miracles, he
boldly

armed against the public enemy, and his pastoral letters admonished the
Italians

of their danger and of their duty.(S) At this signal, Ravenna, Venice, and the

cities of the exarchate and Pentapolis, adhered to the cause of religion;
their mili­

tary force by sea and land consisted, for the most part, of the natives; and
the spi­

rit of patriotism and zeal was transfused into the mercenary strangers. The
Italians

swore to live and die in the defence of the pope and the holy images: the
Roman

people was devoted to their father, and even the Lombards were ambitious to

share the merit and advantage of this holy war. The most treasonable act, but
the

most obvious revenge, was the destruction of the statues of Leo himself: the
most

effectual and pleasing measure of rebellion, was the withholding the tribute
of Italy,

and depriving him of a power which he had recently abused by the imposition of

a new capitation. (4) A form of administration was preserved by the election
of

magistrates and governors: and so high was the public indignation, that the
Italians

were prepared to create an orthodox emperor, and to conduct him with a fleet
and

army to the palace of Constantinople. In that palace, the Roman bishops, the

second and third Gregory, were condemned as the authors of the revolt, and
every

attempt was made, either by fraud or force, to seize their persons, and to
strike at

their lives. The city was repeatedly visited or assaulted by captains of the
guards,

and dukes and exarchs of high dignity or secret trust; they landed with
foreign

troops, they obtained some domestic aid, and the superstition of Naples may
blush

that her fathers were attached to the cause of heresy. But these clandestine
or

open attacks were repelled by the courage and vigilance of the Romans; the

Greeks were overthrown and massacred, their leaders suffered an ignominious

death, and the popes, however inclined to mercy, refused to intercede for
these

guilty victims. At Ravenna,(5) the several quarters of the city had long
exercised

a bloody and hereditary feud; in religious controversy they found a new
aliment of

faction: but the votaries of images were superior in numbers or spirit, and
the

exarch, who attempted to stem the torrent, lost his life in a popular
sedition. To

punish this flagitious deed, and restore his dominion in Italy, the emperor
sent a

(2) Awo mis ecsrioo-j Juntos tou \'.yoptvov iis-TETov (p. 665.) The pope
appears to have imposed on the T|

xanceof the Greeks; he lived and died in the Lateran; and in his time, all (he
kingdoms or the west \

braced Christianity. May not this unknown Septetus have some reference to the
chief of the Saxon /

to Ina, king of Wessex, who, in the pontificate of Gregory II. visited Rome
for the purpose, not of b

of pilgrimage? (Pagi, A. D. 689. No. 2. A. D. 726. No. 15.)

(3) I shall transcribe the important and decisive passage of the Liber
Pontificals. Respiciens ergo pra

profanam principis jussionem, jam contra imperatorem quasi contra hostem se
armavit, rcnuens hauesim t

fccribeos ubique se cavere Chtistianos, eo quod orta fuisset, impietas talis.
Igitur permoti omnes Pcntlpo

ses,atque Venetiarum exercitus contra Imperatoris jussionem restiterunt;
dicentes se nunquam in ejusdem

pontificis con df;scendere necem, sed pro ejus magis defensione viriliter
deeertare. (p. 156.)

(4) A census, or capitation, says Anastasius: (p. 156.) a most cruel tax,
uuknown to the Saracens themselves,

exclaims the zealous Maimbourg. (Hist.des Iconoclastes, lib. i.) and
Theophanes, (p. 344.) who talks of Pha­

raoh's numbering the male children of Israel. This mode of taxation was
familiar to the Saracens; and, most

unluckily for the historian, it was imposed a few years afterward in France by
his patron Louis XIV.

(5) Seethe Liber Pontificalis of Agnellus,fin the Scriptores Rerura Italioarum
of Muratori, torn. ii. pars. I.)

whose deeper shade of barbarism marks the difference between Rome and Ravenna.
Yet we are indebted to

Aim for some curious and domestic facts— the quarrels and factions of Ravenna,
f p. 154.) the revenge of Josl'-

aianll. (p. 150,161.) the defeat of the Greeks, (p. 170,171, &c) - •

pius vir

im eras,

apolen-

