OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

<

was awakened by the last insolent demand of the Persian conqueror; but at the

moment when Heraclius assumed the spirit of a hero, the only hopes of the Ro­

mans were drawn from the vicissitudes of fortune which might threaten the
proud

prosperity of Chosroes, and must be favourable to those who had attained the

lowest period of depression. (1) To provide for the expenses of war, was the

first care of the emperor; and for the purpose of collecting the tribute, he
was al­

lowed to solicit the benevolence of the eastern provinces. But the revenue no

longer flowed in the usual channels: the credit of an arbitrary prince is
annihilated

by his power; and the courage of Heraclius was first displayed in daring to
borrow

the consecrated wealth of churches, under the solemn vow of restoring, with

usury, whatever he had been compelled to employ in the service of religion and

of the empire. The clergy themselves appear to have sympathized with the pub­

lic distress, and the discreet patriarch of Alexandria, without admitting the
pre­

cedent of sacrilege, assisted his sovereign by the miraculous or seasonable
revelation

of a secret treasure. (2) Of the soldiers who had conspired with Phocas, only

two were found to have survived the stroke of time and of the barbarians;(3)
the

loss, even of these seditious veterans, was imperfectly supplied by the new
levies

of Heraclius, and the gold of the sanctuary united in the same camp, the
names,

and arms, and languages, of the east and west. He would have been content with

the neutrality of the Avars; and his friendly entreaty that the chagan would
act,

not as the enemy but as the guardian of the empire, was accompanied with a
more

persuasive donative of two hundred thousand pieces of gold. Two days after the

festival of Easter, the emperor, exchanging his purple for the simple garb of
a

penitent and warrior(4) gave the signal of his departure. To the faith of the

people, Heraclius recommended his children: the civil and military powers were

vested in the most deserving hands, and the discretion of the patriarch and
senate

was authorized to save or surrender the city, if they should be oppressed in
his ab­

sence by the superior forces of the enemy.

The neighbouring heights of Chalcedon were covered with tents and arms; but

if the new levies of Heraclius had been rashly led to the attack, the victory
of the

Persians in the sight of Constantinople might have been the last day of the
Ro­

man empire. As imprudent would it have been to advance into the provinces of

Asia, leaving their innumerable cavalry to intercept his convoys, and
continually

to hang on the lassitude and disorder of his rear. But the Greeks were still
mas­

ters of the sea; a fleet of galleys, transports, and store-ships, was
assembled in the

harbour; the barbarians consented to embark; a steady wind carried them
through

the Hellespont; the western and southern coast of Asia Minor lay on their left

hand; the spirit of their chief, was first displayed in a storm; and even the
eunuchs-

of his train were excited to suffer and to work by the example of their
master. He

landed his troops on the confines of Syria and Cilicia, in the gulf of
Scanderoon,

where the coast suddenly turns to the south :(5) and his discernment was
expressed

in the choice of this important post. (6) From all sides the scattered
garrisons of

the maritime cities and the mountains might repair with speed and safety to
his.

0) ....••..*. * E< t«; ear'axpOvupuEvse; im%tx;

Kurds) to Xoiwov tv xxxoi; tin Ilipo-iJo?

Airio-rpaipw; &c. George Pitid. Acroas. 1. 51, &c. p. 4.

Tbe orientals are not leas fond of remarking this strange vicissitude: and I
remember some story of KhosroT*

Parviz, not very unlike the ring; of Polycrates of Samos.

(2) Baronius gravely relates this discovery, or rather transmutation of
barrels, not of honey, but of gold,.

(Annal. Eccles. A. D. 620. No. 3, See.) Yet the loan was arbitrary, since it
was collected by soldiers, who were

ordered to leave the patriarch of Alexandria no more than one hundred pounds
of gold. Nicephoras, (p. 110

two hundred years afterward, speaks with ill humour of this contribution,
which the church of Constantino­

ple might still feel.

(3) Theophylact, Simocatta, lib. viii. e. 12. This circumstance need not
excite our surprise. The muster-

roil of a regiment, even in time of peace, is renewed in less than twenty or
twenty-five years.

(4) He changed his purple, for black buskins, and dyed them red in the blood
of the Persians (Georg. Pisid,

Acroas, 3.118.121,122. See the notes of Foggini,p. 35.)

(5) George of Pisidia (Acroas. ii. 10.p.8.)has fixed this important point of
the Syrian anil Cilician gates.

They are elegantly described by Xenophon, who marched through them a thousand
years before. A narrow

pass of three stadia between steep high rocks (n-sTpai ,ia.i<3xti»i) and the
Mediterranean was closed at each end by

strong gates, impregnable to the land ( wupvJinv evx *v accessible by sea
(Anabasis, lib. i. p. 35,36. with

Hutchinson's Geographical Dissertation, p. 6.) Tbe gates were thirty.five
parasangs. or leagues from Tarsus

(Anabasis, lib. i. p. 33,34.) and eight or ten from Antioch. (Compare
Itinerar. Wesseling. p. 580, 581. Schul-

rens. Index Geograph. ad calcem Vit. Saladin. p. 9. Voyage en Turquie et en
Perse, par M. Otter, torn. i. p.

(6) Heraclius might write to a friend in the modest words of Cicero.—" Gastra
habuimus et ipsa quae contra

Darium habnerat apud Issum Alexander, imperator haud paulo melior quam aut tu
aut ego." Ad Atticum,

v. 20. Issus, a rich and flourishing city in the time of Xenophon,was ruined
by the prosperity of Alexandria

or Scandaroon, on the other side of the bay.

