OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

terest to throw himself on the favour of the nation and the support of the
Sara­

cens. In his first conference with Amrou, he heard without indignation the
usual

option of the Koran, the tribute, or the sword. "The Greeks," replied Mokaw-

kas, " are determined to abide the determination of the sword; but with the
Greeks

I desire no communion, either in this world or in the next, and I abjure for
ever

the Byzantine tyrant, his synod of Chalcedon, and his Melchite slaves. For
my-.

self and my brethren, we are resolved to live and die in the profession of the
gos­

pel and unity of Christ. It is impossible for us to embrace the revelations of
your

prophet; but we are desirous of peace, and cheerfully submit to pay tribute
and

obedience to his temporal successors." The tribute was ascertained at two
pieces

of gold for the head of every Christian: but old men, monks, women, and
children,

of both sexes, under sixteen years of age, were exempted from this personal
as­

sessment; the Copts above and below Memphis swore allegiance to the caliph,

and promised a hospitable entertainment of three days to every Mussulman who

should travel through their country. By this charter of security, the
ecclesiasti­

cal and civil tyranny of the Melchites was destroyed:(l) the anathemas of St.
Cy­

ril were thundered from every pulpit; and the sacred edifices, with the
patrimony

of the church, were restored to the national communion of the Jacobites, who
en­

joyed without moderation the moment of triumph and revenge. At the pressing

summons of Amrou, their patriarch Benjamin emerged from his desert; and, af­

ter the first interview, the courteous Arab affected to declare, that he had
never

conversed with a Christian priest of more innocent manners, and a more venera­

ble aspect.(2) In the march from Memphis to Alexandria, the lieutenant of

Omar intrusted his safety to the zeal and gratitude of the Egyptians; the
roads

and bridges were diligently repaired; and in every step of his progress, he
could

depend on a constant supply of provisions and intelligence. The Greeks of

Egypt, whose numbers could scarcely equal a tenth of the natives, were over­

whelmed by the universal defection; they had ever been hated, they were no
lon­

ger feared; the magistrate fled from his tribunal, the bishop from his altar;
and

the distant garrisons were surprised or starved by*the surrounding multitudes-

Had not the Nile afforded a safe and ready conveyance to the sea, not an
individual

could have escaped, who, by birth, or language, or office, or religion, was
con­

nected with their odious name.

By the retreat of the Greeks from the provinces of Upper Egypt, a considera­

ble force was collected in the island of Delta; the natural and artificial
channels

of the Nile afforded a succession of strong and defensible posts; and the road
to

Alexandria was laboriously cleared by the victory of the Saracens in two-and-

twenty days of general or partial combat. In their annals of conquest, the
siege

of Alexandria(3) is perhaps the most arduous and important enterprise. The

first trading city in the world was abundantly replenished with the means of
sub­

sistence and defence. Her numerous inhabitants fought for the dearest of human

rights, religion and property; and the enmity of the natives seemed to exclude

them from the common benefit of peace and toleration. The sea was continual­

ly open; and if Heraclius had been awake to the public distress, fresh armies
of

Romans and barbarians might have been poured into the harbour to save the se­

cond capital of the empire. A circumference of ten miles would have scattered

the forces of the Greeks, and favoured the stratagems of an active enemy; but

the two sides of an oblong square were covered by the sea ami the lake
Marccotis,

awl each of the narrow ends exposed a front of nr> more than ten furlongs. The

efforts of the Arabs were not inadequate to the difficulty of the attempt and
the

value of the prize. From the throue of Medina, the eyes of Omar were fixed on

the camp and city: his voice excited to arms the Arabian tribes and the
veterans

of Syria; and the merit of a holy war was recommended by the peculiar fame

and fertility of Egypt. Anxious for the ruin or expulsion of their tyrants,
the

(1) The prefecture of Egypt, and the conduct of the war, liatl been trusted by
Heraclius to the patriarch

Cyrus. (Theophan. p. 280,331.) "In Spain (said James II.) do yon not consult
your priests?"' ** We do (re­

plied the catholic ambassador,) and our affairs succeed accordingly." I know
not how to relate the plans of

Cyrus, of paying tribute without impairing the revenue, and of converting Omar
by his marriage with the

emperor's daughter. (Nicephnr. Breviar. p. 17,18.)

(2) See the Life of Benjamin, in Renaudot, (Hist. Patriarch. Alexandrin. p.
156—172.) who has enriched the

conquest of Egypt with some facts from the Arabic text of Severus the Jacobite
historian.

(3) The local description of Alexandria is perfectly ascertained by the
master-hand of the first of geographers

(d'Anville, Memoire sur PEgypt, p. 52—63.;) but we may borrow the eyes of the
modern travellers, more espe­

cially of Thevenot (Voyage an Levant, part 1. p. 381—395.,) Pocock (vol. i. p.
2—13.,) and Niebuhr (Voyage en

Arabic, torn. i. p. 34—43.) Of the two modern rivals, Savary ant! Volney, the
one may amuse, the other will

instruct.

:

