218 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Justinian has been already seen in the various lights of a prince, a
conqueror,

and a law-giver: the theologian(l) still remains, and it afl'ords an
unfavourable

prejudice, that his theology should form a very prominent feature of his
portrait.

The sovereign sympathized with his subjects in their superstitious reverence
for ,

living and departed saints; his code, and more especially his novels, confirm
and

enlarge the privileges of the clergy; and in every dispute, between a monk,
and a

layman, the partial judge was inclined to pronounce, that truth, and
innocence,

and justice, were always on the side of the church. In his public and private
de­

votions, the emperor was assiduous and exemplary; his prayers, vigils, and
fasts,

displayed the austere penance of a monk; his fancy was amused by the hope, or

belief, of personal inspiration; he had secured the patronage of the Virgin
and St.

Michael the archangel: and.his recovery from a dangerous disease was ascribed
to

the miraculous succour of the holy martyrs Cosmas and Damian. The capital

and the provinces of the east, were decorated with themonuments of his
religion;(2)

and, though the far greater part of these costly structures may be attributed
to his

taste or ostentation, the zeal of the royal architect was probably quickened
by a

genuine sense of love and gratitude towards his invisible benefactors. Among
the

titles of imperial greatness, the name of Pious was most pleasing to his ear;
to pro­

mote the temporal and spiritual interests of the church, was the serious
business

of his life; and the duty of father of his country was often sacrificed to
that of de­

fender of the faith. The controversies of the times were congenial to his
temper

and understanding; and the theological professors must inwardly deride the
dili­

gence of a stranger, who cultivated their art and neglected his own. " What
can

ye fear," said a bold conspirator to his associates, ** from your bigoted
tyrant?

Sleepless and unarmed he sits whole nights in his closet, debating with
reverend gray-

beards, and turning over the pages of ecclesiastical volumes. "(3) The fruits
of these

lucubrations were displayed in many a conference, where Justinian might shine
as

the loudest and most subtle of the disputants; in many a sermon, which, under
the

name of edicts and epistles, proclaimed to the empire the theology of their
master.

While the barbarians invaded the provinces, while the victorious legions
marched

under the banners of Belisarius and Narses, the successor of Trajan, unknown
to

the camp, was content to vanquish at the head of a synod. Had he invited to
these

synods.a disinterested and rational spectator, Justinian might have learned
that re­

ligious controversy is the offspring of arrogance and folly; that true piety
is most

laudably expressed by silence and submission; that man, ignorant of his own
na­

ture, should not presume to scrutinize the nature of his God; and that it is
suffi­

cient for us to know that power and benevolence are the perfect attributes of
the

Deity.(4)

Toleration was not the virtue of the times, and indulgence to rebels has
seldom

been the virtue of princes. But when the prince descends to the narrow and

peevish character of a disputant, he is easily provoked to supply the defect
of ar­

gument by the plenitude of power, and to chastise without mercy the perverse

blindness of those who wilfully shut their eyes against the light of
demonstration.

The reign of Justinian was a uniform yet various scene of persecution; and he
ap­

pears to have surpassed his indolent predecessors, both in the contrivance of
his

laws and the rigour of their execution. The insufficient term of three months

was assigned for the conversion or exile of all heretics;(5) and if he still
connived

at their precarious stay, they were deprived, under his iron yoke, not only of
the

benefits of society, but of the common birth-right of men and Christians. At
the

(1) Tlie strain of the Anecdotes of Prooopius, (c. 11.13. 18. 27,28.) with the
learned remarks on Aleman-

jhi», is confirmed, rather than contradicted, by the Acts of the Councils, the
fourth book of Evagrins, and the

complaints of the Afnean Facundus ia his twelfth book—de tribm eapitnlis, "
cum videri doctus an petit im­

portune . . . spontaneis questonibus ecclesiam turbat." See Procop. de Bell.
Goth. lib. iii. c. 35.

(5) Procop. de Edificiis, lib. i. c. 6,7, &c. passim.

(3) 'Oi Ss xteSifrai wpuXtexTO; att sjrt Xttry^; rtvog sewpi vmcrmi ouoy to*:
raiv ttptav yspowfrtv kit^etov avoxvKAlf*

r*. XftiTTwm, \oj-.» tjouS,» !XProcop. de Bell. Goth. lib. iii. c. 32. In the
life of St. Eutychius, (apud

Aleman. ad Procop. Arcan. c. 18.) the same character is given with a design to
praise Justinian.

(4) For these wise and moderate sentiments, Procopius (de Bell. Goth. lib. i.
c. iii.) is scourged in the preface

of Alemannus, who ranks him among: the political Christians—sed lone* verius
hseresium omnium seminal,

prorsusque Atheos—abominable Atheists, who preached the imitation of God's
mercy to man (ad Hist. Arcan.

c. 13.)

(J) This alternative, a precious circumstance, is preserved by John Malala,
(torn. ii. p. 63. edit. Venet. 1733,)

whodeserves more credit as he draws towards his end. After numbering the
heretics, Nestorians, Eutychians,

&c. ne expectent, says Justinian, ut dierni venia judicentur: jubemus, enim ut
. . . convicti et apertihsere-

tici justse et idonse animadversion! subjicjanttir. Earonius copies and
applauds this edict of the Code. (A. D,

oW. No. 39—40.)

