in THE DECLINE AND FALL

Csesarea(l) records the epistle,(2) but he most strangely forgets the picture
of

Christ;(3) the perfect impression of his face on a linen, with which he
gratified the

faith of the- royal stranger, who had invoked his healing power, and offered
the

strong city of Edessa to protect him against the malice of the Jews. The
ignorance

of the primitive church is explained by the long imprisonment of the image in
a

niche of the wall, from whence, after an oblivion of five hundred years, it
was re­

leased by some prudent bishop, and seasonably presented to the devotion of the

times. Its first and most glorious exploit was the deliverance of the city
from the

arms of Chosroes Nushirvan; and it was soon revered as a pledge of the divine

promise, that Edessa should never be taken by a foreign enemy. It is true, in­

deed, that the text of Procopius ascribes the double deliverance of Edessa to
the

wealth and valour of her citizens, who purchased the absence, and repelled the

assaults of the Persian monarch. He was ignorant, the profane historian, of
the

testimony which he is compelled to deliver in the ecclesiastical page of
Evagrius,

that the Palladium was exposed on the rampart; and that the water, which had

been sprinkled on the holy face, instead of quenching, added new fuel to the
flames

of the besieged. After this important service, the image of Edessa was
preserved

with respect and gratitude; and if the Armenians rejected the legend, the more

credulous Greeks adored the similitude, which was not the work of any mortal

pencil, but the immediate creation of the divine original. Thestyle and
sentiments

of a Byzantine hymn will declare how far their worship was removed from the

grossest idolatry. " How can we with mortal eyes contemplate this image, whose

celestial splendour the host of heaven presumes not to behold? He who dwells
in

heaven condescends this day to visit us by his venerable image; He who is
seated

on the cherubim, visits us this day by a picture, which the Father has
delineated

with his immaculate hand, which he has formed in an ineffable manner, and
which

we sanctify by adoring it with fear and love." Before the end of the sixth
century,

these images, made without hands, (in Greek it is a single word,) (4) were
propa­

gated in the camps and cities of the eastern empire;(5) they were the objects
of

worship, and the instruments of miracles; and in the hour of danger or tumult,

their venerable presence could revive the hope, rekindle the courage, or
repress

the fury of the Roman legions. Of these pictures, the far greater part, the
tran­

scripts of a human pencil, could only pretend to a secondary likeness and
improper

title: but there were some of higher descent, who derived their resemblance
from

an immediate contact with the original, endowed, for that purpose, with a
mira­

culous and prolific virtue. The most ambitious aspired from a filial to a
fraternal

relation with the image of Edessa; and such is the -veronica of Rome, or
Spain, or

Jerusalem, which Christ in his agony and bloody sweat applied to his face, and

delivered to a holy matron. The fruitful precedent was speedily transferred to

the Virgin Mary, and the saints and martyrs. In the church of Diospolis, in
Pa­

lestine, the features of the mother of God(6) were deeply inscribed on a
marble

column: the east and west have been decorated by the pencil of St. Luke; and
the,

evangelist, who was perhaps a physician, has been forced to exercise the
occupa-

(1) Euseb. Hist. Eccles. lib. i. c. 13. The learned Assemannus has brought up
the collateral aid of the three

Syrians, St. Ephrem, Josua Stylites, and James, bishop of Santa;; but I do not
find any notice of the Syriao

original, or-the archives of Edessa (Bibliot. Orient, torn. i. p. 318.
420.554.0 their vague belief is probably de­

rived from the Greeks.

(2) The evidences for these epistles is stated and rejected by the candid
Lardner. (Heathen Testimonies, vol.

i.p.279—309.) Vlmongtbe herd of bigots who are forcibly driven from this
convenient but untenable post, I

am ashamed, with the Grabes, Caves, Tillemonts, &e. to discover Mr. Addison,
an English gentleman; (his

Works, vol. i. p. 528, Baskerville's edition:) but his superficial tract on
the Christian religion owes its credit to

bis name, its style, and the interested applause of our clergy.

(3) From the silence of James of Sarug, (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, p. 289.
3is.) and the testimony of Eva­

grius, (Hist. Eccles. lib. iv. c. 27.) I conclude that this fable was invented
between the years 521 and 594, most

probably after the siege of Edessa in 540. (Asseman. torn. i. p. 416.
Procopius de Bell. P. '-sic. lib. ii.) It is

the sword and buckler of Gregory II. (in Epist. i. and Leon. Isaur. Coneil.
torn. viii. p. fiftri, 657.) of John Da­

mascene, (Opera, torn. i. p. 281, edit. Lequien) and of the second Nicene
council. (Actin, v. p. 1030.) The

most perfect edition may be found in Cedrentis (Compend. p. 175—178.)

.(4) A?5£»p<wo<ito;. See Ducange,in Glos. Grree. et Lat. The subject is
treated with equal learning and

bigotry by the Jesuit Gretser. (Syntagma de Imaginibus non Manu factis, ad
calcem Codini de Officiis, p. 289—

330.) the ass, or rather the fox, of Ingoldstadt (see the Scaligerana-.) with
equal reason and wit by the Protes­

tant Beausobrc, in the ironical controversy which he has spread through many
volumes of the Bibliotbeque

Germanique (torn. 1. p. 18—50. 20. p. 27—68. 25. p. 1—46. 27. p. 85.—112.28.
p. 1—33. 31. p. 111—148. 32. p.

75-107.34. p. 67-96.) re r

(J) Theophylact. Simocatta (lib. ii. c. 3. p. 34, lib. iii. c. i. p. 63.)
celebrates the tsnfyun which he

styles (ra^ipowflijjTow ; yet it was no more than a copy, since he adds
aexeiwov to sxstvov oi Fwjumioi (of Edessa)

ecnrasirevs-i ti nfsnTov. See Pagi, torn. ii. A. D. 586. No. II.

(6) See in the genuine or supposed works of John Damascenus, two passages on
the Virgin and St. Luke,

winch have not Tieen npticed by Grets,cr, nor consequently by Beausobre.
(Opera, Job. Damascen. torn, i.p,

file. 631.)

