140 THE DECLINE AND FALL

citizen. The outcasts of every family were adopted without reproach as the
chil­

dren of the state. (1)

The relation of guardian and ward, or, in Roman words, of tutor and ftufiil,

which cover so many titles of the Institutes and Pandects,(2) is of a very
simple

and uniform nature". The person and property of an orphan must always be

trusted to the custody of some discreet friend. If the deceased rather had

not signified his choice, the agnats, or paternal kindred of the nearest
degree,

were compelled to act as the natural guardians: the Athenians were
apprehensive

of exposing the infant to the power of those most interested in his death; but
an

axiom of Roman jurisprudence has pronounced, that the charge of tutelage
should

constantly attend the emolument of succession. If the choice of the father,
and

the line of consanguinity, afforded no efficient guardian, the failure was
Supplied

by the nomination of the pretor of the city, or the president of the province.
But

the person whom they named to this fiub/ic office might be legally excused by
in­

sanity or blindness, by ignorance or inability, by previous enmity or adverse
inte­

rest, by the number of children or guardianships with which he was already
bur­

dened, and by the immunities which were granted to the useful labours of
magis­

trates, lawyers, physicians and professors. Till the infant could speak and
think,

he was represented by the tutor, whose authority was finally determined by the

age of puberty. Without his consent, no act of the pupil could bind himself to
his

own prejudice, though it might oblige others for his personal benefit. It is
need­

less to observe, that the tutor often gave security, and always rendered an
account;

and that the want of diligence or integrity exposed him to a civil and almost
cri­

minal action for the violation of his sacred trust. The age of puberty had
been

rashly fixed by the civilians at fourteen; but as the faculties of the mind
ripen

more slowly than those of the body, a curator was interposed to guard the
fortunes

of the Roman youth from his own inexperience and headstrong passions. Such a

trustee had been first instituted by the pretor, to save a family from the
blind ha­

voc of-a prodigal or a madman: and the minor was compelled by the laws, to so­

licit the same protection, to give validity to his acts till he accomplished
the full

period of twenty-five years. Women were condemmed to the perpetual tutelage

of parents, husbands, or guardians; a sex created to please and obey was never

supposed to have attained the age of reason and experience. Such at least was

the stern and haughty spirit of the ancient law, which had been insensibly
molli­

fied before the time of Justinian.

II. The original right of property can only be justified by the accident or
merit

of prior occupancy; and on this foundation it is wisely established by the
philoso­

phy of the civilians. (3) The savage who hollows a tree, inserts a sharp stone
info

a wooden handle, or applies a string to an elastic branch, becomes in a state
of na­

ture the just proprietor of the canoe, the bow or the hatchet. The materials
were

common to all; the new form, the produce of his time and simple industry, be­

longs solely to himself. His hungry brethren cannot, without a sense of their
own

injustice, extort from the hunter the game of the forest overtaken or slain by
his

personal strength and dexterity. If his provident care preserves and
multiplies

the tame animals, whose nature is tractable to the arts of education, he
acquires a

perpetual title to the use and service of their numerous progeny, which
derives its

existence from him alone. If he encloses and cultivates a field for their
sustenance

and his own, a barren waste is converted into a fertile soil; the seed, the
manure,

the labour, create a new value, and the rewards of harvest are painfully
earned

by the fatigues of the revolving year. In the successive states of society,
the hun­

ter, the shepherd, the husbandman, may defend their possessions by two reasons

which forcibly appeal to the feelings of the human mind—that whatever they en­

joy is the fruit of their own industry; and that every man who envies their
felici­

ty, may purchase similar acquisitions by the exercise of similar diligence.
Such,

in truth, may be the freedom and plenty of a small colony cast on a fruitful
island.

But the colony multiplies, while the space still continues the same: the
common

(1) The bumble but legal rights of concubines and natural children, are stated
in the Institute! (Kb. i. tit.

10..) the Pandects (Hb. i.tit. 7.,) the Code (lib. t. tit. 25.,) and theNorels
(libJxxri. 89.) The researches ofHein-

ecci'is and Giannome (ad Legem Juliam et Papiam-Poppseain, c it. p. 164—175.
Opere Posthume, p. 108—

158. Jitlustrate this interesting and domestic subject. ■

(2) See the article of guardians and wards in the Institutes (lib. i. tit.
13—26.,) the Pandects (lib. xxvi. xxrii.,)

and the Code (lib. v. tit. 28—70.)

(3) Institm. lib. ii. tit. 1,2. Compare the pure and precise reasoning of
Caius and Heineccius (lib. ii. tit i.

?. e»—91.) with the loose prolixity of Theophilus, (p. 207-265.) The opinions
of Ulnian are presented in the

andecti, (hh. i. tit. 8. leg. xli. No. 1.)

