®F THE ROMAN EMPIRE. is?

church: but they hesitate whether that worship be relative or direct; whether
the

godhead, and the figure of Christ, be entitled to the same mode of adoration.
Of

this second Nicene council, the acts are still extant; a curious monument of
super­

stition and ignorance, of falsehood and folly. I shall only notice the
judgment of the

bishops, on the comparative merit of image-worship and morality. A monk had

concluded a truce with the demon of fornication, on condition of interrupting
his

daily prayes to a picture that hung in his cell. His scruples prompted him to
con­

sult the abbot: " Rather than abstain from adoring Christ and his mother in
their

holy images, it would be better," replied the casuist, "to enter every
brothel, and

visit every prostitute, in the city."(l)

For the honour of orthodoxy, at least the orthodoxy of the Roman church, it is

somewhat unfortunate, that the two princes who convened the two councils of

Nice, are both stained with the blood of their sons. The second of these
assemblies

was approved and rigorously executed by the despotism of Irene; and she
refused

her adversaries the toleration which at first she had granted to her friends.
During

the five succeeding reigns, a period of thirty-eight years, the contest was
main­

tained, with unabated rage and various success, between the worshippers and
the

breakers of the images; but I am not inclined to pursue with minute diligence
the

repetition of the same events. Nicephorus allowed a general liberty of speech
and

practice; and the only virtue of his reign is accused by the monks as the
cause of

his temporal and eternal perdition. Superstition and weakness formed the cha­

racter of Michael I. but the saints and images were incapable of supporting
their-

votary on the throne. In the purple, Leo V. asserted the name and religion of
an

Armenian; and the idols, with their seditious adherents, were condemned to a
se­

cond exile. Their applause would have sanctified the murder of aii impious
tyrant;

but his assassin and successor, the second Michael, was tainted from his birth
with

the Phrygian heresies: he attempted to mediate between the contending parties;

and the intractable spirit of the catholics insensibly cast him into the
opposite

scale. His moderation was guarded by timidity; but his son Theophilus, alike

ignorant of fear and pity, was the last and most cruel of the Iconoclasts. The
en-

thusiam of the times ran strongly against them; and the emperors who stemmed

the torrent, were exasperated and punished by the public hatred. After the
death

of Theophilus, the final victory of the images was achieved by a second
female,

his widow Theodora, whom he left the guardian of the empire. Her measures

were bold and decisive. The fiction of a tardy repentance absolved the fame
and

the soul of her deceased husband: the sentence of the Iconoclast patriarch was

commuted from the loss of his eyes to a whipping of two hundred lashes: the
bi­

shops trembled, the monks shouted, and the festival of orthodoxy preserves the

annual memory of the triumph of the images. A single question yet remained,

whether they are endowed with any proper and inherent sanctity; it was
agitated

by the Greeks of the eleventh century ;(2) and as this opinion has the
strongest re­

commendation of absurdity, I am surprised that it was not more explicitly
decided

in the affirmative. In the west, pope Hadrian I. accepted and announced the
de­

crees of the Nicene assembly, which is now revered by the catholics as the se­

venth in rank of the general councils. Rome and Italy were docile to the voice
efi

their father; but the greatest part of the Latin Christians were far behind in
the race

of superstition. The churches of France, Germany, England, and Spain, steered

a middle course between the adoration and the destruction of images, which
they

admitted into their temples, not as objects of worship, but as lively and
useful me­

morials of faith and history. An angry book of controversy was composed and

published under the name of Charlemagne;(3) under his authority a synod of
three

hundred bishops was assembled at Frankfort;(4) they blamed the fury of the
Ico-

(1) Eu/ts)! BSJ Si o-ot /oj jum\*7TS tv ei» -nj ^3?j( txut>j rro^iif tsv Etc 0
fai BinKSf,^ u wx cepvtjTi) to rraatrxvvetv rov x-jpfov mum

x*- 3fiow InToutf Xpimav /htxtk ceurou ^tp-ao; sv ii*oi/<, Theae visits could
not be innocent, since the Axiftwo

srBpv.tje? (the demon of fornication) arnhiftit <J. wjtov ... iv ftix aw mc
fzre-u'TO etumn o-^oSpx, &c. Actio iv. p. D01.

Actio v. p. 1031.

(2) See an account of this controversy in the Alexius of Anna Comnena (lib. v.
p. 129.) and Moshcim. In-

stitut. (Hist. Eccles. p. 3f1,372.)

(3) TheLibri Carolini, (Spanheim, p. 443—529.) composed in the palace or
winter quarters of Charlemagne,

at "Worms, A. D. 790, and sent by Engebert to pope Hadrian I., who answered
them nya grandis et verbosa

epistola. (Concil.tom. viii.p. 1553.) The Carolines propose one hundred and
twenty objections against the

Nicene synod, and such words as these are the flowers oftheir
rhetoric—dementiam priscae Gentilitatis obsole-

tum errorem argumenta insauissima et absurdissirna .... derisione dignas
nssnias, &c &c

(4) The assemblies of Charlemagne were political as well as ecclesiastical;
and the three hundred members

(Nat. Alexander, sec. viii. p. 53.) who sat ana voted at Frankfort, mast
include net only the bWrops, but th">

abbots*, ami even the principal laymen-.

