OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. .">r

discipline, and humbled by recent disasters. As the level plain of Dara
refused

all shelter to stratagem and ambush, Belisarius protected his front with a
deep

trench, which was prolonged at first in perpendicular, and afterward in
parallel

lines, to cover the wings of cavalry, and advantageously posted to command the

flanks and rear of the enemy. When the Roman centre was shaken, their well-

timed and rapid charge decided the conflict: the standard of Persia fell; the
im­

mortals fled; the infantry threw away their bucklers, and eight thousand of
the van­

quished were left on the field of battle. In the next campaign, Syria was
inva­

ded on the side of the desert; and Belisarius with twenty thousand men,
hastened

from Dara to the relief of the province. During the whole summer, the designs

of the enemy were baffled by his skilful dispositions: he pressed their
retreat, oc­

cupied each night their camp of the preceding day, and would have secured a

bloodless victory, if he could have resisted the impatience of his own troops.
Their

valiant promise was faintly supported in the hour of battle; the right wing
was ex­

posed by the treacherous or cowardly desertion of the Christian Arabs; the
Huns,

a veteran band of eight hundred warriors, were oppressed by superior numbers;

the flight of the Isaurians was intercepted; but the Roman infantry stood firm
on

the left, for Belisarius himself, dismounting from his horse, showed them that
in­

trepid despair was their only safety. They turned their backs to the
Euphrates,

and their faces to the enemy; innumerable arrows glanced without effect from,

the compact and shelving order of their bucklers; an impenetrable line of
pikes,

was exposed to the repeated assaults of the Persian cavalry, and, after a
resistance

of many hours, the remaining troops were skilfully embarked under the shadow

of the night. The Persian commander retired with disorder and disgrace, to an­

swer a strict account of the lives of so many soldiers which he had consumed
in a

barren victory. But the fame of Belisarius was not sullied by a defeat, in
which

alone he had saved his army from the consequences of their own rashness: the

approach of peace relieved him from the guard of the eastern frontier, and his

conduct in the sedition of Constantinople amply discharged his obligations to
the

emperor. When the African war became the topic of popular discourse and se­

cret deliberation, each of the Roman generals was apprehensive, rather than
am­

bitious, of the dangerous honour; but as soon as Justinian had declared his
pre­

ference of superior merit, their envy was rekindled by the unanimous applause

which was given to the choice of Belisarius. The temper of the Byzantine court

may encourage a suspicion, that the hero was darkly assisted by the intrigues
of

his wife, the fair and subtle Antonina, who alternately enjoyed the
confidence, and

incurred the hatred, of the empress Theodora. The birth of Antonina was igno­

ble; £he descended from a family of charioteers; and her chastity has been
stained

with the foulest reproach. Yet she reigned with long and absolute power over

the mind of her illustrious husband: and if Antonina disdained the merit of
con­

jugal fidelity, she expressed a manly friendship to Belisarius, whom she
accom­

panied with undaunted resolution in all the hardships and dangers of a
military

life.(l)

The preparations for the African war were not unworthy of the last contest be­

tween Rome and Carthage. The pride and flower of the army consisted of the

guards of Belisarius, who, according to the pernicious indulgence of the
times, de­

voted themselves by a particular oath of fidelity to the service of their
patron.

Their strength and stature, for which they had been curiously selected, the
good­

ness of their horses and armour, and the assiduous practice of all the
exercises of

war, enabled them to act whatever their courage might prompt; and their
courage

was exalted by the social honour of their rank, and the personal ambition of
favour

and fortune. Four hundred of the bravest of the Heruli marched under the
banner

of the faithful and active Pharas; their untractable valour was more highly
prized

than the tame submission of the Greeks and Syrians; and of such importance was

it deemed to procure a re-enforcement of six hundred Massageta:, or Huns, that

they were allured by fraud and deceit to engage in a naval expedition. Five

thousand horse and ten thousand foot were embarked at Constantinople for the

conquest of Africa; but the infantry, for the most part levied in Thrace and
Isau-

ria, yielded to the more prevailing use and reputation of the cavalry; and the
Scy­

thian bow was the weapon on which the armies of Rome were now reduced to

place their principal dependence. From a laudable desire to assert the dignity
of

his theme, Procopius defends the soldiers of his own time against the morose
cri­

tics, who confined that respectable name to the heavy-armed warriors of
antiquity,

;0 See the birth and character of Antonina, in the Anecdotes, c. 1. and tlie
notes of Alemanm, p, 3.

