OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

of the flesh and of the spirit. Disobedient to the latter, or at least to the
meaning,

of the royal summons, he was attended by fifty Egyptian bishops, who expected

from their patriarch's nod their inspiration of the Holy Ghost. He had
contract­

ed an intimate alliance with Memnon, bishop of Ephesus. The despotic primate

of Asia disposed of the ready succours of thirty or forty episcopal votes: a
crowd

of peasants, the slaves of the church, was poured into the city, to support
with

blows and clamours a metaphysical argument; and the people zealously asserted

the honour of the Virgin, whose body reposed within the walls of Ephesus.(l)

The fleet, which had transported Cyril from Alexandria, was laden with the

riches of Egypt; and he disembarked a numerous body of mariners, slaves, and
fa­

natics enlisted with blind obedience under the banners of St. Mark and the
mother

of God. The fathers, and even the guards, of the council, were awed by this

martial array; the adversaries of Cyril and Mary were insulted in the streets,
or

threatened in their houses; his eloquence and liberality made a daily increase
in

the number of his adherents: and the Egyptian soon computed, that he might

command the attendance and the voices of two hundred bishops. (2) But the au­

thor of the twelve anathemas foresaw and dreaded the opposition of John of An-

tioch, who with a small, though respectable train of metropolitans and
divines,

was advancing by slow journeys from the distant capital of the east. Impatient
of

a delay, which he stigmatized as voluntary and culpable,(3) Cyril announced
the

opening of the synod sixteen days after the festival of Pentecost. Nestorius,
who

depended on the near approach of his eastern friends, persisted, like his
prede­

cessor Chrysostom, to disclaim the jurisdiction, and to disobey the summons,
of

his enemies: they hastened his trial, and his accuser presided in the seat of
judg­

ment. Sixty-eight bishops, twenty-two of metropolitan rank, defended his cause

by a modest and temperate protest; they were excluded from the counsels of
their

brethren. Candidian, in the emperor's name, requested a delay of four days;
the

profane magistrate was driven with outrage and insult from the assembly of the

saints. The whole of this momentous transaction was crowded into the compass
of

a summer's day; the bishops delivered their separate opinions; but the
uniformity

of style reveals the influence or the hand of a master, who has been accused

of corrupting the public evidence of their acts and subscriptions. (4) Without
a dis­

senting voice they recognised, in the epistles of Cyril, the Nicene creed and
the

doctrine of the fathers: but the partial extracts from the letters and
homilies of

Nestorius were interrupted by curses and anathemas; and the heretic was de­

graded from his episcopal and ecclesiastical dignity. The sentence,
maliciously

inscribed to the new Judas, was affixed and proclaimed in the streets, of
Ephesus:

the weary prelates, as they issued from the church of the mother of God, were

saluted as her champions; and her victory was celebrated by the illuminations,

the songs, and the tumult of the night.

On the fifth day the triumph was clouded by the arrival and indignation of the

eastern bishops. In a chamber of the inn, before he had wiped the dust from
his

shoes, John of Antioch gave audience to Candidian the imperial minister; who
re­

lated his ineffectual efforts to prevent or annul the hasty violence of the
Egyptian.

With equal haste and violence, the oriental synod of fifty bishops degraded
Cyril

and Memnon from their episcopal honours, condemned, in the twelve anathemas,

the purest venom of the Apollinarian heresy, and described the Alexandrian
pri­

mate as a monster, born and educated for the destruction of the church. (5)
Hi*

(1) The Christians of the four first centimes were ignorant of the death and
burial of Mary. The tradition

of Ephesus is affirmed by the synod (svfi* o fiio>.oyo? Iwawit;, x*i n
fcoroxoc srspflsi-os M«f<*. Concil. torn,

iii. p. 1102.) yet it has been superseded by the claim of Jerusalem; and her
empty sepulchre, as it was shown

to the pilgrims, produced the fable of her resurrection and assumption, in
which the Greek and Latin churches

have piously acquiesced. See Baronius (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 48. No. 6, &c.)
and Tillemont, (Mem. Eccles.

torn. i. p. 407—477.

(2) The Acts of Chalcedon (Concil. torn. iv. p. 1405,1408.) exhibit a lively
picture of the blind, obstinate ser­

vitude of the bishop of Egypt to their patriarch.

(3) Civil or ecclesiastical business detained the bishops at Antioch, tilt the
eighteenth of May. Ephesus was

at the distance of thirty days* journey; and ten days more may be fairly
allowed for accidents and repose.

The march of Xenophon over the same ground enumerates about two hundred and
sixty parasangs or leagues;

and this measure might be illustrated from aacient and modern itineraries, if
I knew now to compare the

speed of any army, a synod and a caravan. John of Antioch is reluctantly
acquitted by Tillemont himself.

(Mem. Eccles. torn. xiv. p. 286—28°.)

(4) Mff*$a«ivov ftti kxtix to Ssw to tv Egbtw trvmfavat uTD^v^m n-xvouflyi* St
x«i rtvi u$t trfiM xitit/zrofitM K<J0iA.Xai>

•nxvx^om-o;. Evagrius, lib. i. c 7. The same imputation was urged by Count
Ircnseus; (torn. iii. p. 1249.) and

the orthodox critics do not find it an easy task to defend the purity of the
Greek or Latin copies of the

Acts.

(5) O' J, ss* om6s» m s«M"»» rtflu; w ro*psi,-. After the coalition of John
and Cyril, these invectives

Vo-x. nr. 27

