OF THE ROMAS EMPIRE

insult: the design of enclosing it with wall9 and towers exhausted all that
authority

could command, or charity would supply; and the pious labour of fouryears was

animated in every season, and at every hour, by the presence of the
indefatigable

pontiff. The love of fame, a generous but worldly passion, may be detected in
the

name of the Leonine city, which he bestowed on the Vatican; yet the pride of
the

dedication was tempered with Christian penance and humility. The boundary

was trod by the bishop and his clergy, barefoot, in sackcloth and ashes; the
songs

of triumph were modulated to psalms and litanies; the walls were besprinkled
with

holy water; and the ceremony was concluded with a prayer, that under the

guardian care of the apostles and the angelic host, both the old and the new
Rome

might ever be preserved pure, prosperous, and impregnable. (1)

The emperor Theophilus, son of Michael the Stammerer, was one of the most

active and high-spirited princes who reigned at Constantinople during the
middle

age. In offensive or defensive war, he marched in person five times against
the

Saracens, formidable in his attack, esteemed by the enemy in his losses and
de­

feats. In the last of these expeditions he penetrated into Syria, and beseiged
the

obscure town of Sozopetra, the casual birth-place of the caliph Motassem,
whose

father Harun was attended in peace and war by the most favourite of his wives

and concubines. The revolt of a Persian impostor employed at that moment the

arms of the Saracen, and he could only intercede in favour of a place for
which he

felt and acknowledged some degree of filial affection. These solicitations
deter­

mined the emperor to wound his pride in so sensible a part. Sozopetra was le­

velled with the ground, the Syrian prisoners were marked or mutilated with ig­

nominious cruelty, and a thousand female captives were forced away from the
ad­

jacent territory. Among these a matron of the house of Abbas invoked, in an

agony of despair, the name of Motassem; and the insults of the Greeks engaged

the honour of her kinsman to avenge his indignity, and to answer her appeal.
Un­

der the reign of the two elder brothers, the inheritance of the youngest had
been

confined to Anatolia, Armenia, Georgia, and Circassia; this frontier station
had

exercised his military talents; and among his accidental claims to the name of

Octonary,(2) the most meritorious are the eight battles which he gained or
fought

against the enemies of the Koran. In this personal quarrel, the troops of
Irak,

"Syria, and Egypt, were recruited from the tribes ot Arabia, and the Turkish

hordes: his cavalry might be numerous, though we should deduct some myriads

from the hundred and thirty thousand horses of the royal stables; and the
expense

of the armament was computed at four millions sterling, or one hundred
thousand

pounds of gold. From Tarsus, the place of assembly, the Saracens advanced in

three divisions along the high road of Constantinople: Motassem himself
command­

ed the centre, and the vanguard was given to his son Abbas, who, in the trial
of

the first adventures, might succeed with the more glory, or fail with the
least re­

proach. In the revenge of his injury, the caliph prepared to retaliate a
similar

affront. The father of Theophilus was a native of Amorium(3) in Phrygia: the

original seat of the imperial house had been adorned with privileges and monu­

ments; and whatever might be the indifference of the people, Constantinople
it­

self was scarcely of more value in the eyes of the sovereign and his court.
The

name of Armorium was inscribed on the shields of the Saracens; and their
three-

armies were again united under the walls of the devoted citj'. It had been
pro­

posed by the wisest counsellors, to evacuate Amorium, to remove the
inhabitants,

and to abandon the empty structures to the vain resentment of the barbarians.

The emperor embraced the more generous i-esolution of defending, in a siege
and

battle, the country of his ancestors. When the armies drew near, the front of
the

Mahometan line appeared to a Roman eye more closely planted with spears and

javelins; but the event of the action was not glorious on either side to the
national

troops. The Arabs were broken, but it was by the swords of thirty thousand

(1) The Arabs and the Greeks are alike silent concerning the invasion of Rome
by the Africans. The I.atii»

chronicles do not afford much instruction (See the Annals of Barnnius and
Vagi.) Our authentic and cotem-

pnrarjr scuide for the popes of ibe ninth century is Anastasiiis. librarian of
the Roman church. His life of Leo

IV. contains twenty-four parses (p. 175—199. edit. Paris;) and if a great part
consist of superstitious trifles, we

muist blame or commend his hero, who was much oftener in a church than in a
camp.

(2) The same number was applied to the following circu.Fi;staners in thi; life
of Motassem: he was the einhtfi

of the Abbassides; he reigned eight years, tight months, and eight days; left
eight sons, eight daughters, eight

thousand slaves, eight millions ofgold.

(3 ) A morittm it seldom mentioned by the old geographers, and totally
forgotten in the Roman Itineraries

Alter the sixth centory,it became an episcopal see, and at length the
metropolis of the new Galatia (Carol,

svto. Paulo, Geograph. Sacra, p. 234.) The city rose again from its rural, if
we should read Anftmtrin, not>

Jngrxrie, in lire text flf the Nubian geographer (p. 835 )

