136 THE DECLINE AND FALL

nate a youth, the incestuous lover of his step-mother. (1) A private
jurisdiction is

repugnant to the spirit of monarchy; the parent was again reduced from a judge

to an accuser; and the magistrates were enjoined by Severus Alexander to hear

his complaints and execute his sentence. He could no longer take the life of a
son

without incurring the guilt and punishment of murder; and the pains of
parricide,

from which he had been exempted by the Pompeian law, were finally inflicted by

the justice of Constantine. (2) The same protection was due to every period of
ex­

istence: and reason must applaud the humanity of Paulus, for imputing the
crime

of murder to the father, who strangles, or starves, or abandons his new-born
in­

fant; or exposes him in a public place to find the mercy which he himself had
de­

nied. But the exposition of children was the prevailing and stubborn vice of
anti­

quity; it was sometimes practised, often permitted, almost always practised
with

impunity, by the nations who n#ver entertained the Roman ideas of paternal
power;

and the dramatic poets, who appeal to the human heart, represent with
indiffer­

ence a popular custom which was palliated by the motives ot economy and com­

passion. (3) If the father could subdue his own feelings, he might escape,
though

not the censure, at least the chastisement, of the laws: and the Roman empire
was

stained with the blood of infants, till such murders were included, by
Valentinian

and his colleagues, in the letter and spirit of the Cornelian law. 1 he
lessons of

jurisprudence(4) and Christianity had been insufficient to eradicate this
inhuman

practice, till their gentle influence was fortified by the terrors of capital
punish­

ment.^)

Experience has proved, that savages are the tyrants of the female sex, and
that

the condition of women is usually softened by the refinements of social life.
In

the hope of a robust progeny, Lycurgus had delayed the season of marriage; it
was

fixed by Numa at the tender age of twelve years, that the Roman husband might

educate to his will a pure and obedient virgin. (6) According to the custom of
an­

tiquity, he bought his bride of her parents, and she fulfilled the coemption,
by pur­

chasing with three pieces of copper, a just introduction to his house and
household

deities. A sacrifice of fruits was offered by the pontiffs in the presence of
ten wit­

nesses; the contracting parties were seated on the same sheepskin; they tasted
a

salt cake offar or rice; and this confareation,{7) which denoted the ancient
food of

Italy, served a9 an emblem of their mystic union of mind and body. But this
union

on the side of the woman was rigorous and unequal; and she renounced the name

and worship of her father's house, to embrace a new servitude, decorated only
by

the title of adoption. A fiction of the law, neither rational nor elegant,
bestowed

on the mother of a family(8) (her proper appellation) the strange characters
of

sister to her own children, and of daughter to her husband or master, who was
in­

vested with the plenitude of paternal power. By his judgment or caprice, her
be­

haviour was approved, or censured, or chastised; he exercised the jurisdiction
of

life and death; and it was allowed, that in cases of adultery or
drunkenness,(9) the

sentence might be properly inflicted. She acquired and inherited the sole
profit of

her lord; and so clearly was woman defined, not as a fierson, but as a thing,
that

(1) Quod latrohis magis quam patris j'ure eum interfecit, nam patria potestas
in pletate debet non iu atroci-

late consittere (Marcian, Institut. lit), xiv. in Pandect, lib. xlviii. tit.
ix. leg. v.)

(Z) The Pompeian and Cornelian laws de ricartil and paracidis, are repeated,
or rather abridged, with the

last supplements of Alexander Severus, Constantine, and Valentinian, in the
Pandects (lib. xlviii. tit. 8,9.,)

and Code (lib. ix. tit. 16,17.) See likewise the Theodosian Code (lib. ix.
tit. xi. 15.,) with Goderroy's Commen­

tary (torn. iii. p. 84—113.J who pours a flood of ancient and modern teaming
over these penal laws.

(3) When the Chremes of Terence reproaches his wife for not obeying his orders
and exposing their infant,

lie speaks like a father and a master, and silences the scruples of a foolish
woman. See Apuleius (Metamorph.

Kb. x. p. 337. edit. Delphin.)

(4) The opinion of the lawyers, and the discretion of the magistrates, had
introduced in the time of Tacitns

some legal restraints, which might support his contrast of the boni mores of
the Germans to the bonse leges

alibi—that is to say,at Rome (de Morihus Germanorum, c. xix.) Tcrtullian (ad
Nationes, lib. i. c. 15,) refutes

his own charges and those of his brethren, against the heathen jurisprudence.

(5} The wise and humane sentence of the civilian Paul (lib. li. Sentcntiarum
in Pandect, lib. xxv. tit. iii.

leg. iv.,) is represented as a mere moral precept by Gerard Noodt (Opp. torn.
i. in Julius Prmllus, p. 567—508.

and Arnica Responsio, p. 591—606.) who maintains the opinion of Justus Lipsius
(Opp. torn. ii. p. 409. ad Bel-

gas, cent, l.epist. 85.,) and as a positive binding law by Bynkershoek (de
Jure Decidendi Liberos, Opp. torn. i.

p. 318—340. Curse Secundae, p. 391—427.) In a learned but angry controversy,
the two friends deviated into

the opposite extremes.

(6) Dionys. Hal. lib. ii. p. 92,93. Plutarch, in Numa, p. 140,141. To <rw,u*
x«t to kSos x»5xcoi' x*< »S«to, nrs

T» yttfiWvr* ytvio-Seci.

(7) Among the winter frumenta, the triticum, or bearded wheat; the siligo, or
the unbearded; the far, ado-

rea,oryza, whose description perfectly tallies with the rice of Spain and
Italy. I adopt this identity on the

credit of M. Pauetonin his useful and laborious Metrologie (p. 517—529.)

(8) Aulus Gellius (Noctes Atticce, xviii. 6.) gives a ridiculous definition of
£lius Melissus; Matron*, quse se-

roel, matertamilias quae sxpius peperit, as pordetra and scropha in the sow
kind. He then adds the genuine

meaning, quse in matrimonium vel in manum convenerat.

(9) It was enough to have tasted wine, or to have stolen the key of the cellar
(Pan. Hist. Nat. sir. 14 J

