368 THE DECLINE AND FALL

spise a superfluity of fame; and their historians scarcely condescend to
mention

the subordinate conquests which are lost in the splendour and rapidity of
their

victorious career. To the north of Syria, they passed mount Taurus, and
reduced

to their obedience the province of Cilicia, with its capital Tarsus, the
ancient mo­

nument of the Assyrian kings. Beyond a second ridge of the same mountains,

they spread the flame of war, rather than the light of religion, as far as the
shores

of the Euxine and the neighbourhood of Constantinople. To the east they
advanced

to the banks and sources of the Euphrates and Tigris :(1) the long disputed
barrier

of Rome and Persia was for ever confounded; the walls of Edessa and Amida, of

Dara and Nisibis, which had resisted the arms and engines of Sapor or
Nushirvan,

■were levelled in the dust: and the holy city of Abgarus might vainly produce
the

epistle of the image of Christ to an unbelieving conqueror. To the west the
Sy­

rian kingdom is bounded by the sea; and the ruin of Aradus, a small island or
pe­

ninsula on the coast, was postponed during ten years. But the hills of Libanus

abounded in timber, the trade of Phoenicia was populous in mariners; and a
fleet

of seventeen hundred barks was equipped and manned by the natives of the
desert.

The imperial navy of the Romans fled before them from the Pamphylian rocks to

the Hellespont; but the spirit of the emperor, a grandson of Heraclius, had
been

subdued before the combat by a dream and a pun. (2) The Saracens rode mas­

ters of the sea; and the islands of Cyprus, Rhodes, and the Cyclades, were
suc­

cessfully exposed to their rapacious visits. Three hundred years before the
Chris­

tian era, the memorable though fruitless siege of Rhodes,(3) by Demetrius, had

furnished that maritime republic with the materials and the subject of a
trophy.

A gigantic statue of Apollo, or the sun, seventy cubits in height, was erected
at

the entrance of the harbour, a monument of the freedom and the arts of Greece.

After standing fifty-six years, the colossus of Rhodes was overthrown by an
earth­

quake; but the massy trunk, and huge fragments, lay scattered eight centuries
on

the ground, and are often described as one of the wonders of the ancient
world.

They were collected by the diligence of the Saracens, and sold to a Jewish
mer­

chant of Edessa, who is said to have laden nine hundred camels with the weight

of the brass metal: an enormous weight, though we should include the hundred

colossal figures, (4) and the three thousand statues, which adorned the
prosperity

of the city of the sun.

II. The conquest of Egypt may be explained by the character of the victorious.

Saracen, one ot the first of his nation, in an age when the meanest of the
brethren

was exalted above his nature by the spirit of enthusiasm. The birth of Amrou

was at once base and illustrious: his mother, a notorious prostitute, was
unable to

decide among five of the Koreish; but the proof of the resemblance adjudged
the

child to Aasi, the oldest of her lovers. (5) The youth of Amrou was impelled
by

the passions and prejudices of his kindred: his poetic genius was exercised in
sati­

rical verses against the person and doctrine of Mahomet; his dexterity was em­

ployed by the reigning faction to pursue the religious exiles who had taken
refuge

in the court of the Ethiopian king. (6) Yet he returned from this embassy a
secret

proselyte; his reason or his interest determined him to renounce the worship
of

idols; he escaped from Mecca with his friend Caled, and the prophet of Medina

enjoyed at the same moment the satisfaction of embracing the two firmest cham­

pions of his cause. The impatience of Amrou to lead the armies of the faithful

was checked by the reproof of Omar, who advised him not to seek power and do­

minion, since he who is a subject to-day, may be a prince to-morrow. Yet his

(1) Al Walkidi had likewise written a history of the conquest of Diarbekir, or
Mesopotamia, ("Oekley, at the

end of the second vol.) which our interpreters do not appear to have seen. The
chronicle of Dionysins of Tel-

mar, the Jacobite patriarch, records the taking of Edessa, A. D. 637. and of
Dura, A. D. 041. (Asseman. Bibliof.

Orient, torn. ii. p. 103.) and the attentive may glean some doubtful
information from the Chronography of

Theophanes. (p. 285—287.) Most of the towns of Mesopotamia yielded by
surrender. (Abulpharag. p. 113.)

(2) He dreamt that he was at Thessalonica—a harmless and unmeaning vision; but
his soothsayer or his cow­

ardice understood the sure omen of ailefcat concealed in that inauspicious
word, ©*o eexxaj Give to

another the victory. (Theophan. p. 288, Zouras, torn. ii. lib. xiv. p. 88.)

(3) Every passage and everjr fact that relates to the isle, the city, and the
colossus of Rhodes, are compiled in

the laborious treatise of Meursius, who has hestow-ed the same diligence on
the two larger islands of Crete and

Cyprus. See in the third volume of his works, the Rhodui of Meursius. (lib. i.
e. IS. p. 715—719.) The Byzan­

tine writers, Theophanes and Constantine, have ignorantly prolonged the term
to one thousand three hnndred

and sixty years, and ridiculously divide the weight among thirty thousand
camels.

(4) Centum cnlossialium nobilitaturi locum, says Pliny, with his usnal spirit.
Hist. Natur. 34.18.

(5) We learn this anecdote from a spirited old woman, who reviled to their
faces the caliph and his friend.

She was encouraged by the silence of Amrou and the liberality of Moawiyah.
(Abulfeda, Annal. Moslem,

p. 111.)

(6) Gagnier,Viede Mahomet, torn. ii. p. 46, &c. who quotes the Abyssinian
history, or romance or Ahde!

B^lcides. Yet the tact o( the embassy and the ambassador may be allowed.

