76 THE DECLINE AND FALL

vestige maybe discovered of the form and situation of Kamtschatka, of a people
of

hunters and fishermen, whose sledges were drawn by dogs, and whose habitations

were buried in the earth* The Turks were ignorant of astronomy; but the obser­

vation taken by some learned Chinese, with a gnomon of eight feet, fixes the
royal

camp in the latitude of forty-nine degrees, and marks their extreme progress
with­

in three, or at least ten degrees, of the polar circle. (1) Among their
southern con­

quests, the most splendid was that of the Nepthalites or White Huns, a polite
and

warlike people, who possessed the commercial cities of Bochara and Samarcand,

who had vanquished the Persian monarch, and carried their victorious arms

along the banks, and perhaps to the mouths, of the Indus. On the side of the

west, the Turkish cavalry advanced to the Lake Mxotis. They passed that

lake on the ice. The khan, who dwelt at the foot of mount Altai, issued his
com­

mands for the siege of Bosphorus,(2) a city, the voluntary subjects of Rome,
and

whose princes had formerly been the friends of Athens>(3) To the east, the

Turks invaded China, as often as the vigour of the government was relaxed:

and I am taught to read, in the history of the times, that they mowed down

their patient enemies like hemp or grass; and that the mandarins applauded the

wisdom of an emperor who repulsed these barbarians with golden lances. This

extent of savage empire compelled the Turkish monarch to establish three sub­

ordinate princes of his own blood, who soon forgot their gratitude and
allegiance.

The conquerors were enervated by luxury, which is always fatal, except to an

industrious people; the policy of China solicited the vanquished nations to
resume

their independence; and the power of the Turks was limited to a period of two

hundred years. The revival of their name and dominion in the southern
countries

of Asia, are the events of a later age; and the dynasties, which succeeded to
their

native realms, may sleep in oblivion; since their history bears no relation to
the

decline and fall of the Roman empire. (4)

In the rapid career of conquest, the Turks attacked and subdued the nation of

the Ogors or Varchonites on the banks of the river Til, which derived the
epithet

of black from its dark water or gloomy forests.(5) The khan of the Ogors was

slain with three hundred thousand of his subjects, and their bodies were
scattered

over the space of four days* journey; their surviving-countrymen acknowledged

the strength and mercy of the Turks; and a small portion, about twenty
thousand

warriors, preferred exile to servitude, They followed the well-known road of
the

Volga, cherished the error of the nations who confounded them with the Avars,

and spread the terror of that false though famous appellation, which had not
how­

ever, saved its lawful proprietors from the yoke of the Turks. (6) After a
long

and victorious march, the new Avars arrived at the foot of Mount Caucasus, in
the

country of the Alani(7) artd Circassians, where they first heard of the
splendour

and weakness of the Roman empire. They humbly requested their confederate,

the prince of the Alani, to lead them to this source of riches; and their
ambassa­

dor, with the permission of the governor of Lazica, was transported by the
Euxine

sea to Constantinople. The whole city was poured forth to behold with
curiosity

and terror the aspect of a strange people; their long hair, which hung in
tresses

down their backs, was gracefully bound with ribbons, but the rest of their,
habit,

appeared to imitate the fashion of the Huns. When they were admitted to the

audience of Justinian, Cand'wsh, the first of the ambassadors, addressed the
Roman

emperor in these terms:—" You see before you, O mighty prince, the representa-

(1) VUdeIon, p. 141.151. The fact, though it strictly belongs to a subordinate
and successive tribe, may be-

introduced here. ' &

(2) Procopius, Persic, lib. i. c. 12. lib. ii. c. 3. Peysstmuel (Observations
sur les Peuples Barbares, p. 99 ioo.)

defines the distance between Caffa and the old Bosphoru, at sixteen long
Tartar leagues.

(3) See, in a Memoir of M. de Boze (Mem. de I'Academie des Inscriptions, torn.
vi. p. 549-565..) the ancient

kings and medals ot the Cimmerian Bosphorus; and the gratitude of Athens, in
the Oration of Demosthenes

against Leptines (in Reiske, Orator. Greec. torn. i. p. 468,467.)

(4) For the origin and revolutions of the first Turkish empire, the Chinese
details are borrowed from De

Guignes (Hist, des Hons, torn. i. p. 2. p. 367-462,,) and Visdelou (Supplement
a la Bibliotheque Orient. d'Her-

helot, p. 82—114.) The Greek or Roman hints are gathered in Menander (p.
108—164.) and Theophylact Si-

mocatta (lib. vu. c. 7, 8.) 1K

(5?,TJie "ler V Tnl"' accnrdinB «o the geography of De Guignes (torn. i. part
2. p. 58. and 352.,) is a

small though grateful stream of the desert, that Alls into the Orhou, Selinga,
&c. See Bell, Journey from

Petersburg!; to Pekin (vol. ii.p. 124.;) yet his own description of the Keat,
down which he sailed into the Oby,

represents the name and attributes of the black river (p. 139.)

(6) Theophylact, lib. vii. c. 7,8. And yet his true Avars are invisible even
to the eyes of M. de Guignes: and

what canibe moreitllustripns than the false? The right of the fugitive Ogors
to that national appellation is

confessed by the 1 urks theiuselves. (Menander, p. 108.)

(7) The Alani are still found in the Genealogical History of the Tartan, (p.
617.) and in d'Anville's maps.

They opposed the march of the generals of Zingis round the Caspian Sea, and
were overthrown in a grea*

battle (Hist. deGengitcan, ]ib.iv. c. 9. p. 447.1

