OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ?

t

cheeks, and complained with a ridiculous tone and gesture of the blows that
were

inflicted, the whole theatre of Constantinople resounded with laughter and ap­

plause. The beauty of Theodora(l) was the subject of more flattering praise,

and the source of more exquisite delight. Her features were delicate and regu­

lar; her complexion, though somewhat pale, was tinged with a natural colour;

every sensation was instantly expressed by the vivacity of her eyes; her easy
mo­

tions displayed the graces of a small but elegant figure; and either love or
adula­

tion might proclaim, that painting and poetry were incapable of delineating
the

matchless excellence of her form. But this form was degraded by the facility

with which it was exposed to the public eye, and prostituted to licentious
desire.

Her venal charms were abandoned to a promiscuous crowd of citizens and stran­

gers, of every rank, and of every profession; the fortunate lover who had been

promised a night of enjoyment, was often driven from her bed by a stronger or

more wealthy favourite; and when she passed through the streets, her presence

was avoided by all who wished to escape either the scandal or the temptation.

The satirical historian has not blushed(2) to describe the naked scenes which

Theodora was not ashamed to exhibit in the theatre. (3) After exhausting the

arts of sensual pleasure, (4) she most ungratefully murmured against the
parsimo­

ny of nature;(5) but her murmurs, her pleasures, and her arts must be veiled
in

the obscurity of a learned language. After reigning for some time, the delight

and contempt of the capital, she condescended to accompany Ecebolus, a native
of

Tyre, who had obtained the government of the African Pentapolis. But this

union was frail and transient: Ecebolus soon rejected an expensive or
faithless con­

cubine; she was reduced at Alexandria to extreme distress; and, in her
laborious

return to Constantinople, every city of the east admired and enjoyed the fair
Cy­

prian, whose merit appeared to justify her descent from the peculiar island of
Ve­

nus. The vague commerce of Theodora, and the most detestable precautions,

preserved her from the danger which she feared; yet once, and once only, she

became a mother. The infant was saved and educated in Arabia, by his father,

who imparted to him on his deathbed, that he was the son of an empress. Filled

with ambitious hopes, the unsuspecting youth immediately hastened to the pa­

lace of Constantinople, and was admitted to the presence of his mother. As he,

was never more seen, even after the decease of Theodora, she deserves the foul

imputation of extinguishing with his life a secret so offensive to her
imperial vir­

tue.

In the most abject state of her fortune and reputation, some vision, either of

sleep or of fancy, had whispered to Theodora the pleasing assurance that she
was

destined to become the spouse of a potent monarch. Conscious of her approach­

ing greatness, she returned from Paphlagonia to Constantinople; assumed, like
a

skilful actress, a more decent character; relieved her poverty by the laudable
in­

dustry of spinning wool, and affected a life of chastity and solitude in
a,'small house,

which she afterward changed into a magnificent temple. (6) Her beauty,
assisted

by art or accident, soon attracted, captivated, and fixed, the patrician
Justinian, who

already reigned with absolute sway under the name of his uncle. Perhaps she
con­

trived to enhance the value of a gift which she had so often lavished on the
mean­

est of mankind; perhaps she inflamed, at first by modest delays, and at last
by sensual

allurements, the desires of a lover, who from nature or devotion was addicted
to

(1) Her statue was raised at Constantinople, on a porphyry column. See
Procopius, (de Edit. lib. i. c. 11.;

who gives her portrait in the Anecdotes, (c. 10.) Aleman. (p. 47.) produces
one from a Mosaic at Ravenna*

loaded with pearls and jewels, and yet handsome. „

(2) A fragment of the Anecdotes (c. 9,) somewhat too naked, was suppressed by
Alemanmis, though extant

in the Vatican MS. nor has the defect been supplied in the Paris or Venice
editions. La Mothe le Vayer (torn.

8. p. U5.Xgave the first hint of this curious and genuine passage (Jortin's
Remarks, vol. iv. p. 360.) which he

had received from Rome, and it has been since published in the Menagiana
(torn. iii. p. 254—250,) with a Latin

version.

(3) After the mention of a narrow girdle (as none could appear stark naked in
the theatre,) Procopius thu3

proceeds.—AvK^fflTOKmsi Tf ev Tw iffafij wttm ixiito. ©htjc 5s ti«s . . .
xpiSse? auTij wnfAlv tiuv KtSoHov epfinrsv

k; St 01 %ttv=j, 01 £; touto *r«pfcx£u»s^£voi tvTvyy/ivGv TOij gra/ytxrtv
ttixpSe xxTKfffxe ernXopuvol Itrfllflv. I have heard

that a learned prelate, now deceased, was fond of quoting this passage in
conversation.

(4) Theodora surpassed the Crispa of Ansonius (Epigram 71.) who imitated
thecapitalis luxus of the females

of Nola. See 0,uintilian Institut. viti. 6. and Torrentius ad Horat. Sermon,
lib. i. sat. 2. 5.101. At a memora­

ble supper, thirty slaves waited round the table; ten young men feasted with
Theodora. Her charity was uni-

venal.

Et lassata viris, necdum satiata, recessit.

(I) HJf m' Tpi'-ov Tpujnjpaf(ov fpyxi^itfv» fvf%aA.fi Tf| ejurff
oWepopOuiffvif OTi of fjaf xxi TfTTC-j; sfvTS) fuptmpvi- fj

wv ffo-i tpictwv, 0-4* oWth f»< txs tvx fpyxgicrgxf. She wished for a fourth
altar, on which she might pour liba*

tions to the god of love.

(6) Anonym, de Antiquitat. C P. lib. iii. 132, in Banduri Imperium Orient,
torn, l.p.48. Ludewig(p. 154.)

argues sensibly that Theodora would not have immortalized a brothel) but I
apply this fact to her second and

chaster residence at Constantinople.

