Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

Wesus, which the Greeks, after the siege of Troy, had performed in four
days,(l)

the fleet of Belisarius was guided in their course by his master-galley,
conspicuous

in the day by the redness of the sails, and in the night by the torches
blazing from

the mast-head. It was the duty of the pilots, as they steered between the
islands,

and turned the capes of Malea and Tasnarium, to preserve the just order and
regu­

lar intervals of such a multitude of ships; as the wind was fair and moderate,
their

labours were not unsuccessful, and the troops were safely disembarked at
Methone

on the Messenian coast, to repose themselves for awhile after the fatigues of
the

sea. In this place they experienced how avarice, invested with authority, may

sport with the lives of thousands which are bravely exposed for the public
service.

According to military practice, the bread or biscuit of the Romans was twice
pre­

pared in the oven, and a diminution of one-fourth was cheerfully allowed for
the

loss of weight. To gain this miserable profit, and to save the expense of
wood,

the prefect John of Cappadocia had given orders that the flour should be
slightly

baked by the same fire which warmed the baths of Constantinople: and when the

sacks Were opened, a soft and mouldy paste was distributed to the army. Such

unwholesome food, assisted by the heat of the climate and season, soon
produced

an epidemical disease, which swept away five hundred soldiers. Their health

was restored by the diligence of Belisarius, who provided fresh bread at
Methone,

and boldly expressed his just and humane indignation: the emperor heard his
com­

plaint; the general was praised; but the minister was not punished. From the

port of Methone, the pilots steered along the western coast of Peloponnesus,
as far

as the isle of Zacynthus or Zant, before they undertook the voyage (in their
eyes

a most arduous voyage) of one hundred leagues over the Ionian sea. As the
fleet

was surprised by a calm, sixteen days were consumed in the slow navigation;
and

even the general would have suffered the intolerable hardship of thirst, if
the in­

genuity of Antonina had not preserved the water in glass bottles, which she
buried

deep in the sand in a part of the ship impervious to the rays of the sun. At
length

the harbour of Caucana,(2) on the southern side of Sicily, afforded a secure
and

hospitable shelter. The Gothic officers, who governed the island in the name
of

the daughter and grandson of Theodoric, obeyed their imprudent orders, to re­

ceive the troops of Justinian like friends and allies; provisions were
liberally sup­

plied, the cavalry was reraounted,(3) and Procopius soon returned from
Syracuse

with correct information of the state and designs of the Vandals. His
intelligence

determined Belisarius to hasten his operations, and his wise impatience was
second­

ed by the winds. The fleet lost sight of Sicily, passed before the isle of
Malta,

discovered the capes of Africa, ran along the coast with a strong gale from
the

north-east, and finally cast anchor off the promontory of Caput Vada, about
five

days' journey to the south of Carthage. (4)

If Gelimer had been informed of the approach of the enemy, he must have de­

layed the conquest of Sardinia, for the immediate defence of his person and
king­

dom.

A detachment of five thousand soldiers, and one hundred and twenty galleys,

■would have joined the remaining forces of the Vandals; and the descendant of
Gen-

seric might have surprised and oppressed a fleet of deep-laden transports,
incapa­

ble of action, and of light brigantines, that seemed only qualified for
flight. Beli­

sarius had secretly trembled when he overheard his soldiers, in the passage,

emboldening each other to confess their apprehensions: if they were once on
shore,

they hoped to maintain the honour of their arms; but if they should be
attacked at

sea, they did not blush to acknowledge, that they wanted courage to contend at

the same time with the winds, the waves, and the barbarians. (5) The knowledge

of their sentiments decided Belisarius to seize the first opportunity of
landing them

on the coast of Africa, and he prudently rejected, in a council of war, the
proposal

<of sailing with the fleet and army into the port of Carthage. Three months
after

(1) Or even in three'days, siace they anchored the first evening in the
neighbouring isle of Tenedos: the se­

cond day they sailed to Lesbos, the third to the promontory of Eubraa. and on
the fourth they readied Argos.

(Homer, Odys. p. 130—183. Wood's Essay on Homer, p. 40.460 A pirate sailed
from the Hellespont to the

seaport at Sparta in three days. (Xenophon, Hellen. Pih. ii. c. 1.)

(2) Cancan*, near Camarina, is at least fifty miles, (three hundred and fifly
or four hundred stadia) from

Syracuse. (CItlver, Siciiia Antiqua, p. 191.)

(3) Procopius, Gothic,Kb.i.c. 3. Tibi tollit hinnitum apta qundrigis equa, in
the Sicilian pastures of

Grosphuns. Horat. Carnj. 2.15.) Acragas magnanimum quondam generator cquorum.
Virg. iflneid,

3. 704.) Thero's horses, whose victories are immortalized by Pindar, were bred
in this country.

(4) The Ciput Vada of Procopius, (where Justinian afterward founded a city—de
Edific. lib. vi. c. 6.)'is the

promontory of AmmoD in Strabo, the Rrachodes of Ptolemy, the Capaudia of the
moderns, a long narrow slip

that runs into the sea. (Shaw's Travels,p. 111.)

(5) A centuxion of Mark Antony expressed, though in a more manly strain, the
same dislike to the sea and

to naval combats. (Plutarch in Antonio, p. 1730. Edit. Hen. Steph.)

