288 THE DECLINE AND FALL

noclasts, but they pronounced a more severe censure against the superstition
of

the Greeks, and the decrees of their pretended council, which was long
despised

by the barbarians of the west(l) Among them the worship of images advanced

with silent and insensible progress: but a large atonement is made for their
hesita­

tion and delay, by the gross idolatry of the ages, which precede the
reformation,

and of the countries, both in Europe and America, which are still immersed in
the

gloom of superstition.

It was after the Nicene synod, and under the reign of the pious Irene, that
the

popes consummated the separation of Rome and Italy by the translation of the

empire to the less orthodox Charlemagne. They were compelled to choose be­

tween the rival nations; religion was not the sole motive of their choice; and
while

they dissembled the failings of their friends, they beheld, with reluctance
and sus-

Sicion, the catholic virtues of their foes. The difference of language and
manners

ad perpetuated the enmity of the two capitals; and they were alienated from

each other by the hostile opposition of seventy years. In that schism the
Romans

had tasted of freedom, and the popes of sovereignty; their submission would
have

exposed them to the revenge of a jealous tyrant; and the revolution of Italy
had

betrayed the impotence, as well as the tyranny, of the Byzantine court. The

Greek emperors had restored the images, but they had not restored the
Calabrian

estates(S) and the Illyrian diocess(4) which the Iconoclasts had torn away
from

the successors of St. Peter; and pope Hadrian threatens them with a sentence
of

excommunication unless they speedily abjure this practical heresy. The Greeks

were now orthodox, but their religion might be tainted by the breath of the

reigning monarch: the Franks were now contumacious; but a discerning eye might

discern their approaching conversion from the use, to the adoration, of
images.

The name of Charlemagne was stained by the polemic acrimony of his scribes;

but the conqueror himself conformed, with the temper of a statesman, to the
va­

rious practice of France and Italy. In his four pilgrimages or visits to the
Vati­

can, he embraced the popes in the communion of friendship and piety; knelt be­

fore the tomb, and consequently before the image of the apostle; and joined,
with­

out scruple, in all the prayers and processions of the Roman liturgy. Would

prudence or gratitude allow the pontiffs to renounce their benefactor? Had
they

a right to alienate his gift of the exarchate ? Had they power to abolish his
go­

vernment of Rome ? The title of patrician was below the merit and greatness of

Charlemagne; and it was only by reviving the western empire that they could
pay

their obligations or secure their establishment. By this decisive measure they

would finally eradicate the claims of the Greeks from the debasement of a pro­

vincial town: the majesty of Rome would be restored: the Latin Christians
would

be united under a supreme head, in their ancient metropolis; and the
conquerors

of the westrwould receive their crown from the successors of St. Peter. The
Ro­

man church would acquire a zealous and respectable advocate: and, under the

shadow of the Carlovingian power, the bishop might exercise, with honour and

safety, the government of the city. (5)

Before the ruin of paganism in Rome, the competition for a wealthy bishopric

had often been productive of tumult and bloodshed. The people was less nume-

(1) Qui supra sanctissima patres nostii (episcopi et sacerdotes) omnimodis
servitium et adorationem imagi-

num renuentes contempseruut, atque consentientes condemnaverunt. (Concil.
torn. ix. p. 101. canon 2. Frank-

fund.) A polemic must he hard-hearted indeed, who does not pity the efforts of
Baromus, Fagi, Alexander,

Mnimbourg, &c, to etude this unlucky sentence.

(2) Theophanes (p. 343.) specifies tliose of Sicily and Calabria, which
yielded an annual rent of three ta­

lents and a half of pold. (perhaps seven thousand pounds sterling.) Liutprand
more pompously enumerates

the patrimonies of the Roman church in Greece, Judea, Persia, Mesopotamia,
Babylonia, Egypt, and Libya,

which were detained by the injustice of the Greek emperor. (Legat. ad
Nicephorum, in Script. Rerum Itali-

carum. torn. ii. pars i. p. 481.)

(3) The great diocess of the eastern Illyricum, with Apulia, Calabria, and
Sicily; (Thoroassin, Discipline de

l'Eglise.tom. ii. p. 145.) by the confession of the Greeks, the patriarch of
Constantinople had detached from

Rome the metropolitans of Tliessaloniea, Athens. Corinth, Nieopolis, and
Patrse; (Lue. Holsten. Geograph.

Sacra, p. 23.) and his spiritual conquests extended to Naples and Amalphi.
(Giannone, Istoria Civile di Napo-

li,tnm. i. p.517—524. Pagi.A. D. 730, no. 11.)

(4) In hoc ostenditur, quia ex uno capitulo ab errore reversis, in allis
duobos, in eodem (was it the same?)

permaneant errore . . . . de diocesi S. R. E. sen de patrimoniis interum
increpantes commonemiis, ut n ea

restituere noluerit herelieum eum pro hnjusmodi errore persevantia
decernemiifj Enist. Hadrian Pspse ad Ca«

rolum Magnum, in Concil. torn. viii. p. 1508.) to which he adds a reason, most
directly opposite to his conduct,

that he preferred the salvation of so%ls and rule of faith, to the goods of
this transitory worid.

(5) Fontanini considers the emperors as no more than the advocates of rhe
churcb. (advocatns et defensor

S. R. E. See Dueange, Gloss. Lat. torn. i. p. 297.) His antagonist Mnratori
reduces the popes to be no more

than the exarchs of the emperor. In the more equitable view of Mosheim,
(Institut. Hilt. Ecclea. p. 264,

265.) they held Rome under the empire as the most honourable species of fiet
or bjenefice—preruuntur node

caliginosa!

