176 THE DECLINE AND FALL

■will of his sovereign, he showed himself to the soldiers in this unworthy
disguise:

they resented his ignominy and their own: a shout of rebellion ran through the

ranks, and the general accepted their oaths of fidelity and vows of revenge. A

second messenger, who had been commanded to bring the rebel in chains, was

trampled under the feet of an elephant, and manifestoes were diligently
circula­

ted; exhorting the Persians to assert their freedom against an odious and con­

temptible tyrant. The defection was rapid and universal: his loyal slaves were

sacrificed to the public fury; the troops deserted to the standard of Bahram;
and

the provinces again saluted the deliverer of his country. ■

As the passes were faithfully guarded, Hormouz could only compute the number

of his enemies by the testimony of a guilty conscience, and the daily
defection of

those who, in the hour of his distress, avenged their wrongs, or forgot their
obli­

gations. He proudly displayed the ensigns of royalty; but the city and palace
of

Modain had already escaped from the hand of the tyrant. Among the victims of

his cruelty, Bindoes, a Sassanian prince, had been cast into a dungeon; his
fetters

were broken by the zeal and courage of a brother; and he stood before the king
at

the head of those trusty guards who had been chosen as the ministers of his
con­

finement, and perhaps of his death. Alarmed by the hasty intrusion and bold
re-

proaces of the captive, Hormouz looked round, but in vain, for advice or
assist­

ance; discovered that his strength consisted in the obedience of others, and
pa­

tiently yielded to the single arm of Bindoes, who dragged him from the throne
to

the same dungeon in which he himself had been so lately confined. At the first

tumult, Chosroes, the eldest of the sons of Hormouz, escaped from the city; he

■was persauded to return by the pressing and friendly invitation of Bindoes,
who

promised to seat him on his father's throne, and who expected to reign under
the

name of an inexperienced youth. In the just assurance, that his accomplices

could neither forgive nor hope to be forgiven, and that every Persian might be

trusted as the judge and enemy of the tyrant, he instituted a public trial
without

a copy in the annals of the east. The son of Nushirvan, who had requested to

plead in his own defence, was introduced as a criminal into the full assembly
of

the nobles and satraps. (1) He was heard with decent attention as long as he
ex­

patiated on the advantages of order and obedience, the danger of innovation
and

the inevitable discord of those who had encouraged each other to trample on
their

lawful and hereditary sovereign. By a pathetic appeal to their humanity, he
ex­

torted that pity which is seldom refused to the fallen fortunes of a king; and
while

they beheld the abject posture and squalid appearance of the prisoner, his
tears,

his chains, and the marks of ignominious stripes, it was impossible to forget
how

recently they had adored the divine splendour of his diadem and purple. But an

angry murmur arose in the assembly as soon as he presumed to vindicate his
con­

duct, and to applaud the victories of his reign. He defined the duties of a
king,

and the Persian nobles listened with a smile of contempt; they were fired with
in­

dignation when he dared to vilify the character of Chosroes; and by the
indiscreet

offer of resigning the sceptre to the second of his sons, he subscribed his
own con­

demnation, and sacrificed the life of his innocent favourite. The mangled
bodies

of the boy and his mother were exposed to the people: the eyes of Hormouz were

pierced with a hot needle; and the punishment of the father was succeeded by
the

coronation of his eldest son. Chosroes had ascended the throne without guilt,

and his piety strove to alleviate the misery of the abdicated monarch: from
the

dungeon he removed Hormouz to an apartment of the palace, supplied with liber­

ality the consolations of sensual enjoyment, and patiently endured the furious
sal­

lies of his resentment and despair. He might despise the resentment of a blind

and unpopular tyrant, but the tiara was trembling on his head, till he could
sub­

vert the power, or acquire the friendship, of the great Bahram, who sternly
de­

nied the justice of a revolution, in which himself and his soldiers, the true
repre­

sentatives of Persia, had never been consulted. The offer of a general
amnesty,

and of the'second rank in his kingdom, was answered by an epistle from Bahram,

friend of the gods, conqueror of men, and enemy of tyrants, the satrap of
satraps,

general of the Persian armies, and a prince adorned with the title of eleven
vh>

tues.(2) He commands Chosroes, the son of Hormouz, to shun the example and

(1) The orientals suppose that Bahrain convened this assembly and proclaimed
Chosroes; but Theophylact

is, in this instance, moredistinct and credible.

(2) Seethe words of Theophylact, lib. iv.c. 7. Bxpxp *ixo; toi; 0m?, vixataK
iTisjatnj;, TupxviMi* ijgfipo;, «■*•

opiums juytmnw, t«; nipri*,,- afXm Sm*juw, &c. In this answer, Chosroes styles
himself m «vxti v*piZf&n;

c fi»T» .... o tin; Amncs (the genii; jRiffeti/Mts;, This is genuine oriental
bombast.

