THE DECLINE AND FALL

the form of a province. The family of a Greek rhetorician was permitted to

reign in Colchos and the adjacent kingdoms, from the time of Mark Antony to
that

of Nero; and after the race of Polemo(l) was extinct, the eastern Pontus,
which

preserved his name, extended no farther than the neighbourhood of Trebizond.

Beyond these limits the fortifications of Hyssus, of Apsarus, of the Phasis,
of Di-

oscurias or Sebastopolis, and of Pityus, were guarded by sufficient
detachments of

horse and foot; and six princes of Colchos received their diadems from the
lieu­

tenants of Cicsar. One of these lieutenants, the eloquent and philosophic
Arrian,

surveyed, and has described, the Euxine coast, under the reign of Hadrian. The

garrison which he reviewed at the mouth of the Phasis, consisted of four
hundred

chosen legionaries; the brick walls and towers, the double ditch, and the
military

engines on the rampart, rendered this place inaccessible to the barbarians;
but the

new suburbs, which had been built by the merchants and veterans, required, in

the opinion of Arrian, some external defence. (2) As the strength of the
empire

was gradually impaired, the Romans stationed on the Phasis were either with­

drawn or expelled; and the tribe of the Lazi,(3) whose posterity speak a
foreign,

dialect, and inhabit the sea-coast of Trebizond, imposed their name and
dominion

on the ancient kingdom of Colchos. Their independence was soon invaded by a

formidable neighbour, who had acquired by arms and treaties, the sovereignty
of

Iberia. The dependant king of Lazica received his sceptre at the hands of the

Persian monarch, and the successors of Constantine acquiesced in this
injurious

claim, which was proudly urged as a right of immemorial prescription. In the

beginning of the sixth century, their influence was restored by the
introduction of

Christianity, which the Mingrelians still profess with becoming zeal, without
un­

derstanding the doctrines, or observing the precepts, of their religion. After
the

decease of his father, Zathus was exalted to the regal dignity by the favour
of the

great king; but the pious youth abhorred the ceremonies of the Magi, and
sought,

in the palace of Constantinople, an orthodox baptism, a noble wife, and the
al­

liance of the emperor Justinian. (4) The king of Lazica was solemnly invested

with the diadem, and his cloak, and tunic of white silk, with a gold border,
dis­

played, in rich embroidery, the figure of his new patron; who soothed the
jealousy

of the Persian com-t, and excused the revolt of Colchos, by the venerable
names

of hospitality and religion. The common interest of both empires imposed on
the

Colchians the duty of guarding the passes of Mount Caucasus, where a wall of

sixty miles is now defended by the monthly service of the musketeers of Miir-

greha.

But this honourable connexion was soon corrupted by the avarice and ambition

of the Romans. Degraded from the rank of allies, the Lazi were incessantly re­

minded, by words and actions, of their dependant state. At the distance of a

day's journey beyond the Apsarus, they beheld the rising fortress of Petra,(5)

which commanded the maritime country to the south, of the Phasis. Instead of

being protected by the valour, Colchos was insulted by the licentiousness, of
fo­

reign mercenaries; the benefits of commerce were converted into base and
vexatious

monopoly; and Gubazes, their native prince, was reduced to a pageant of
royalty,

by the superior influence of the officers of Justinian. Disappointed in their
ex­

pectations of Christian virtue, the indignant Lazi reposed some confidence in
the

justice of an unbeliever. After a private assurance that their ambassador
should

not be delivered to the Romans, they publicly solicited the friendship and aid
of

Chosroes. The sagacious monarch instantly discerned the use and importance of

Colchos; and meditated a plan of conquest, which was renewed at the end of a

0) We may trace th« rise and fall of the family of Polemo. in Strabo (lib. xi.
p. 755. lib. xii. p. S67.) Dion

Cassius or Xiphilin (p. 588. 593. 601. 719. 754. 915. 946. edit. Reimar.;)
Suetoniui (in Neron. c. xviii. in Ves­

pasian, c. viii.O Eutropius (7.14.:) Josephus, (Antiq. Jadiac. lib. XX. e. 7.
p. 970. edit. Havercamp,) and Kuie-

bins. (ChroD. with Scaliger, Animadvers. p. 196.)

(2) In the time of Procopius, there were no Roman forts on the Phasis. Pityus
and Sebastopolis were eva­

cuated on the rumour of the Persians (Goth. lib. iv. c. 4.:) but the
lstterfwas afterwards restored by Justinian

(de Edif. lib. iv. c. 7.)

(3) In the time of Pliny. Arian, and Ptolemy, the Lazi were a particular tribe
on the northern skirts of Col­

chos (Cellanus. Geograph. Antiq. torn. li. p. 222.) In the age of Justinian
they spread, or at least reigned,

over the whole country. At present they have migrated along the coast towards
Trebizond, and composes

rude sea-laring people, with a peculiar language (Chardin, p. 149. Pevssonnel,
p. 64.)

(4) John Malata, Citron, torn. ii. p. 134—137. Theopbanes, p. 144. Hist.
Miscell. lib. xv. p. 103. The fact is

authentic, but the dates seem too recent. In speaking of their Persian
alliance, the Lazi cotemporaries of Jus­

tinian employ the most obsolete words—£ v y^y.x<rt /<v>j,«s*xs jrpsyovot, occ.
Could they belong to a connexion

which had not been dissolved above twenty years?

(5) The whole vestige of Petra subsists in writings of Procopius and Agathias.
Most of the towns and

castles ot Lazica may be found by comparing their names and position with the
map of Mingrelia, in.

Lamberti.

