380 THE DECLINE AND PALL

crated to the important service. In the vicissitudes of war, the interior
provincef

had been alternately won and lost by the Saracens. But the sea-coast still re*

mained in the hands of the Greeks; the predecessors of Hassan, had respected
the

name and fortifications of Carthage; and the number of its defenders was
recruited

by the fugitives of Cabes and Tripoli. The arms of Hassan were bolder and more

fortunate; he reduced and pillaged the metropolis of Africa; and the mention
of

scaling-ladders may justify the suspicion that he anticipated, by a sudden
assault,

the more tedious operations of a regular siege. But the joy of the conquerors
was

soon disturbed by the appearance of the Christian succours. The prefect and
pa­

trician John, a general of experience and renown, embarked at Constantinople
the

forces of the eastern empire;(l) they were joined by the ships and soldiers of
Si­

cily, and a powerful re-enforcement of Goths(2) was obtained from the fears
and

religion of the Spanish monarch. The weight of the confederate navy broke the

chain that guarded the entrance of the harbour; the Arabs retired to Cairoan,
or

Tripoli; the Christians landed; the citizens hailed the ensign of the cross,
and the

winter was idly wasted in the dream of victory or deliverance. But Africa was

irrecoverably lost; the zeal and resentment of the commander of the
faithful(3)

prepared in the ensuing spring a more numerous armament by sea and land; and

tlie patrician in his turn was compelled to evacuate the post and
fortifications of

Carthage. A second battle was fought in the neighbourhood of Utica: the Greeks

and Goths were again defeated; and their timely embarkation saved them from

the sword of Hassan, who had invested the slight and insufficient rampart of
their

camp. Whatever yet remained of Carthage, was delivered to the flames, and the

colony of Dido(4) and C:esar lay desolate above two hundred years, till a
part,

perhaps a twentieth, of the old circumference was repeopled by the first of
the

Fatimite caliphs. In the beginning of the sixteenth century, the second
capital of

the west was represented by a mosch, a college without students, twenty-five
or

thirty shops, and the huts of five hundred peasants, who, in their abject
poverty,

displayed the arrogance of the Punic senators. Even that paltry village was
swept

away by the Spaniards whom Charles V. had stationed in the fortress of the Go-

letta. The ruins of Carthage have perished; and the place might be unknown, if

some broken arches of an aqueduct did not guide the footsteps of the
inquisitive

traveller. (5)

The Greeks were expelled, but the Arabians were not yet masters of the coun­

try. In the interior provinces of the Moors or Berbers,{&) so feeble under the

first Csesars, so formidable to the Byzantine princes, maintained a disorderly
re­

sistance to the religion and power of the successors of Mahomet. Under the
stand­

ard of their queen Cahina, the independent tribes acquired some degree of
union

and discipline; and as the Moors respected in their females the character of a

(1) Ai9tri9; . . . xxxvrx T* 'P-j^ixa *Sid^ifi jrXoi/ui, ffYAarayw « ijr'
auTOi; IwsevKi rov rTxTPixior, fjuyf ifov rut

stoaijmmv, ff-poxMpOTqviMs wfJ." Kxf^ovx «t» Tu"> ii*p«Ki;vwv »Ei;ri/*'vJv.
Nieephori Constantinopolitani Breviar.

p. 28. The patriarch of Constantinople, with Thcophanes, (Chronograph, p.
309.) have slightly mentioned this

last attempt for the relief of Africa. Pagi (Critica, torn. iii. p. 129. 141.)
has nicely ascertained the chronology

by a strict comparison of the Arabic and Byzantine historians, who often
disagree both in time and fact. Sec

likewise a note of Otter, (p. 121.) ,

(2) Dove's erano ridoni i nt.bili Romani e i Gotti; and afterward, i Romani
suggirono e i Gotti lasciarono Car-

tlmgine. (Leo African, fol. 72. recto.) I know not from what Arabic writer the
African derived his Goths: but

the faet, though new, is so interesting and so probable, that I will accept it
on the slightest authority.

(3) This con>mander is styled by Nicephorus, Bxrit.tu; ixpctxuvwv, a vague
though not improper definition,

of the caliph. Theophanes introduces the strange appellation of
nforotm/ifloxoc, which his interpreter Goar

explains by V'zir Axtn. They may approach the truth, in assigning the active
part of the minister, rather

than the prince-, l,ut they forgot that the Omtniades had only o Aaree, or
secretary, and that the office of vi­

zier wns not revived or instituted till the one hundred and thirty-second ytar
of the Hegira. (D'Herbelot,

p. 912.)

(4) According to Solinut, (lih. 27. p. 3fi. edit. Salmas.) the Carthage of
Dido stood either six hundred and se­

venty-seven or seven hundrtd and thirty-seven years; a various reading, which
proceeds from the difference of

MSS. or editions. (Salinas. Plinian. Exercil. torn. i. 228.) The former of
these accounts, which gives eight

hundred and twenty-three years hefore Christ, is more consistent with the
well-weighed testimony of Velleius

Patercilus; but the latter is preferred l>y our clironologisls, (Marsham.
Canon. Chrou. p. 398.) as more agreea­

ble to the Hebrew and I'yrian annals.

(5) Leo African, fol. 71. verse, 72. recto. M«rn,ol, torn. ii. p. 445—447.
Shaw. p. 80.

(6) The history of the word Barbar may be classed under four periods.—1. in
the time of Homer, when the

Greeks and Asiatics might probably use a common idiom, the imitative sound of
Barbar was applied to the

ruder tribes, whose pronunciation was most harsh, whose grammar was most
defective. Kapj; Bapfifiefoewc.

(Iliad 2. 867. with the Oxford Scholiast, Clarke's Annotation, and Henry
Stephen's Greek Thesaurus, torn. i. p.

720.) 2. From the time, at least, of Herodotus, it was extended to all the
nations who were stranger* to the

language and manners of the Greeks. 3. In the age of Plautus, the Romans
submitted to the insult, (Pompeius

Festus, lib. ii. p. 48. edit. Dacier,)and freely gave themselves the name of
barbarians. They insensibly claimed

an exemption for Italy, and her subject provinces; and at length removed the
disgraceful appellation to the sa­

vage or hostile nations beyond the pale of the empire. 4. In every sense it
was due to the Moors; the familiar

-word was borrowed from the Latin Provincials by the Arabian conquerors, and has justly settled at a local de­  
nomination (Barbary) along the northern coast of Africa.

