44 , THE DECLINE AND FALL

ger, Belisarius passed an apprehensive night in the field of victory: at the
dawn of

day, he planted his standard on a hill, recalled his guards and veterans, and
gra­

dually restored the modestv and obedience of the camp. It was equally the con­

cern of the Roman general to subdue the hostile, and to save the prostrate
barba­

rian; and the suppliant Vandals, who could be found only in churches, were
pro­

tected by his authority, disarmed, and separately confined, that they might
neither

• disturb the public peace, nor become the victims of popular revenge. After
des­

patching a light detachment to tread the footsteps of Gelimer, he advanced
with

his whole army, about ten days' march, as far as Hippo Regius, which no longer

possessed the relics of St. Augustin.(l) The season, and the certain
intelligence

that the Vandals had fled to the inaccessible country of the Moors, determined
Be­

lisarius to relinquish the vain pursuit, and to fix his winter quarters at
Carthage.

From thence he despatched his principal lieutenant, to inform the emperor,
that

in the space of three months he had achieved the conquest of Africa.

Belisarius spoke the language of truth. The surviving Vandals yielded, with­

out resistance, their arms and their freedom: the neighbourhood of Carthage
sub­

mitted to his presence; and the more distant provinces were successively
subdued

by the report of his victory. Tripoli was confirmed in her voluntary
allegiance;

Sardinia and Corsica surrendered to an officer, who carried, instead of a
sword,

the head of the valiant Zano; and the isles of Majorca, Minorca, and Yvica,
con­

sented to remain an humble appendage of the African kingdom. Csesarea, a royal

city, which in looser geography may be confounded with the modern Algiers, was

situate thirty days' march to the westward of Carthage: by land, the road was
in­

fested by the Moors; but the sea was open, and the Romans were now masters of

the sea. An active and discreet tribune sailed as far as the straits, where he
oc­

cupied Septem or Ceuta,(2) which rises opposite to Gibraltar on the African
coast;

that remote place was afterward adorned and fortified by Justinian; and he
seems

to have indulged the vain ambition of extending his empire to the columns of
Her­

cules. He received the messengers of victory at the time when he was preparing

to publish the pandects of the Roman law; and the devout or jealous emperor
cele­

brated the divine goodness, and confessed, in silence, the merit of his
successful

general.(3) Impatient to abolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny of the
Van-

'dals, he proceeded, without delay, to the full establishment of the catholic
church.

Her jurisdiction, wealth, and immunities, perhaps the most essential part of
epis­

copal religion, were restored and amplified with a liberal hand; the Arian
worship

was suppressed; the Donatist meetings were proscribed;(4) and the synod of
Car­

thage, by the voice of two hundred and seventeen bishops, (5) applauded the
just

measure of retaliation. On such an occasion, it may not be presumed, that many

orthodox prelates were absent; but the comparative smallness of their number,

which in ancient councils had been twice or even thrice multiplied, most
clearly

indicates the decay both of the church and state. While Justinian approved
him­

self the defender of the faith, he entertained an ambitious hope, that his
victorious

lieutenant would speedily enlarge the narrow limits of his dominion to the
space

which they occupied before the invasion of the Moors and Vandals; and
Belisarius

was instructed to establish five dukes or commanders in the convenient
stations of

Tripoli, Leptis, Cirta, Casarea, and Sardinia, and to compute the military
force

of fialatines or borderers that might be sufficient for the defence of Africa.
The

kingdom of the Vandals was not unworthy of the presence of a pretorian
prefect;

and four consulars, three presidents, were appointed to administer the seven
pro-

(1) The relics of St. Augustin were carried by tlie African bishops to their
Sardinian exile: (A. D. 500) and

it was believed in the eighth century, that I.iutprand, king of the Lombards,
transported them (A. D. 721.)

from Sardinia to Pavia. In the year 1695, the Angusrin friars of that city
found a brick arch, marble coffin,

silver case, silk wrapper, bones, blood, fee, and perhaps an inscription of
Agostino, in Gothic letters. But

this useful discovery has been disputed by reason and jealousy. (Baronint,
Annaj. A. D. 735. no. 2—9. Til-

leniont, Mem. Eccles. torn. xiii. p. 944. Montfaucon, Diarium Ital. p. 26—30.
Muratori. Antiq. Ital. Medii.

M,r\. torn. v. dissert. 58. p. 9. who had composed a separate treatiie before
the decree of the bishop of Pavia,

and pope Benedict XIII.)

(2) T» tji,- *roXmi«; ^-pcot^ia, is the expression of Procopius (de Edific.
lib. vi. c. 7.) Ceuta, which has been

defaced by the Portuguese, nourished in nobles and palaces, in agriculture and
manufactures, under the more

prosperous reign of the Arabs (I'Afriquede Marmol. torn. ii. p. 236.)

(3) Sec the second and third preambles to the Digest, or pandects, promulgated
A. D. 533, December 16. To

the titles of Vandalicus and jtfricanvs, Justinian, or rather Belisarius, had
acquired a just claim: Gothicut was

premature, and_Francicus faise, and offensive to a great nation.

(4) See the original acts in Baronius, (A. D. 535. no. 21—54.) The emperor
applauds his own clemency to

the heretics, cum sufficiat eis vivere.

(5) Dupin (Geograph. Sacra. Afrioarra, p. 59. ad Optat. Milev.) observes and
bewails this episcopal decay.

In the more prosperous age of the church, he had noticed six hundred and
ninety bishoprics: but however

minute were the diocesses, it is not probable that they all existed at the
same time.

