152 THE DECLINE AND FALL

defendant: and the judges of Milo, by the retrenchment of fifteen on each
si.de;>

•were reduced to fifty-one voices or tablets, of acquittal, of condemnation,
or of fa­

vourable doubt. (1) 3. In this civil jurisdiction, the pretorof the city was
truly

a judge, and almost a legislator; but as soon as he had prescribed the action
of

law, he often referred to a delegate the determination of the fact. With the
increase

of legal proceedings, the tribunal of the centumvirs, in which he presided,
ac­

quired more weight and reputation. But whether he acted alone, or with the ad­

vice of his council, the most absolute powers might be trusted to a magistrate
who

was annually chosen by the votes of the people. The rules and precautions of

freedom have required some explanation; the order of despotism is simple and
in­

animate. Before the age of Justinian, or perhaps of Diocletian, the decuries
of

Roman judges had sunk to an empty title; the humble, advice of the assessors

might be accepted or despised; and in each tribunal, the civil and criminal
juris­

diction was administered by a single magistrate, who was raised and disgraced
by

the will of the emperor.

A Roman accused of any capital crime might prevent the sentence of the law

by voluntary exile, or death. Till his guilt had been legally proved, his
inno­

cence was presumed, and his person was free; till the votes of the last
century had

been counted and declared, he might peaceably secede to any of the allied
cities

of Italy, or Greece, or Asia. (2) His fame and fortunes were preserved, at
least

to his children, by this civil death; and he might still be happy in every
rational

and sensual enjoyment, if a mind accustomed to the ambitious tumult of Rome

could support the uniformity and silence of Rhodes or Athens. A bolder effort

was required to escape from the tyranny of the Cxsars; but this effort was
ren­

dered familiar by the maxims of the stoics, the examples of the bravest
Romans,

and the legal encouragements of suicide. The bodies of condemned criminals

were exposed to public ignominy, and their children, a more serious evil, were
re­

duced to poverty by the confiscation of their fortunes. But if the victims of
Ti­

berius and Nero anticipated the decree of the prince or senate, their courage
and

despatch were recompensed by the applause of the public, the decent honours of

burial, and the validity of their testaments. (3) The exquisite avarice and
cru­

elty of Domitian, appeared to have deprived the unfortunate of this last
consola­

tion, and it Was still denied, even by the clemency of the Antonines. A
voluntary

death, which, in the case of a capital offence, intervened between the
accusation

and the sentence, was admitted as a confession of guilt, and the spoils of the
de­

ceased were seized by the human claims of the treasury. (4) Yet the civilians

have always respected the natural right of a citizen to dispose of his life;
and the

posthumous disgrace invented by Tarquin(5) to check the despair of his
subjects,

was never revived or imitated by succeeding tyrants. The powers of this world

have indeed lost their dominion over him who is resolved on death; and his arm

can only be restrained by the religious apprehension of a future state.
Suicides

are enumerated by Virgil among the unfortunate, rather than the guilty;(6) and

the poetical fables of the infernal shades could not seriously influence the
faith or

Jiractice of mankind. But the precepts of the gospel, or the church, have at

ength imposed a pious servitude on the minds of Christians, and condemn them

to expect, without a murmur, the last stroke of disease or the executioner.

The penal statutes form a very small proportion of the sixty-two books of the

code and pandects; and, in all judicial proceeding, the life or death of a
citizen is

determined with less caution and delay than the most ordinary question of
cove­

nant or inheritance. This singular distinction, though something may be
allowed

for the urgent necessity of defending the peace of society, is derived from
the na-

£1) We are indebted for this interesting fact to a fragment of Asconius
Pedianus,who flourished under the

reign of Tiberius. The loss of his Commentaries on the Orations of Cicero, hai
deprived us of a valuable

fund of historical and legal knowledge.

(2) Polyb. lib. vi. p. 643. The extension of the empire and city of Rome,
obliged the exile to seek a roore

distant place of retirement.

(3) Quidesestatuebant.humabantur corpora, manebant testamenta; pretium
festinandi. Tacit. Annal. 6.

25. with the notes of Lipsius.

(4) Julius Paulus (Sentent. Recepr. lib. v. tit. 12. p. 476, the Pandects
(lib. xlviii. tit. 810 the Code (lib. ix. tit.

1.,) Bynkershoek (torn. i. p. 59. Observat. J. C R. 4.4.,) and Montesquieu
(Esprit des Loix, lib. xxix. c. 9.J de­

fine the civil limitations of the liberty and privileges of suicide. The
criminal penalties are the production of

a later and darker age.

(i) Plin. Hist. Natur. 36.24. When he fatigued his subjects in building the
Capitol, many of the labourers

were provoked to despatch themselves; be nailed their dead bodies to crosses.

(*) The sole resemblance of a violent and premature death has engaged Virgil
(ASnetd, vi. 434—439.) to con­

found suicides with infants, lovers,and persons unjustly condemned. Heyne, the
best of his editors, is at a loss

o deduce the idea, or ascertain the .iiirisprudence'of the Roman poet.

