84 THE DECLINE AND FALL

Chosroes breathed a purer air amidst her groves and fountains; and some
idolater*

in his train might sacrifice with impunity to the nymphs of that elegant
retreat*

Eighteen miles below Antioch, the river Orontes falls into the Mediterranean.

The haughty Persian visited the term of his conquests: and, after bathing
alone in

the sea, he offered a solemn sacrifice of thanksgiving to the sun, or rather
to the

Creator of the sun, whom the Magi adored. If this act of superstition offended

the prejudices of the Syrians, they were pleased by the courteous and even
eager

attention with which he assisted at the games of the circus; and as Chosroes
had

heard that the blue faction was espoused by the emperor, his peremptory com­

mand secured the victory of the green charioteer. From the discipline of his

camp the people derived more solid consolation; and they interceded in vain
for

the life of a soldier who had too faithfully copied the rapine of the just
Nushirvan.

At length, fatigued, though unsatiated, with the spoil ol Syria, he slowly
moved to

the Euphrates, formed a temporary bridge in the neighbourhood of Barbalissus,

and defined the space of three days for the entire passage of his numerous
host.

After his return he founded at the distance of one day's journey from the
palace of

Ctesiphon, a new city, which perpetuated the joint names of Chosroes and of
An­

tioch. The Syrian captives recognised the form and situation of their native
abodes:

baths and a stately circus were constructed for" their use; and a colony of
musicians

and charioteers revived in Assyria the pleasures of a Greek capital. By the
mu­

nificence of the royal founder, a liberal allowance was assigned to these
fortunate

exiles; and they enjoyed the singular privilege of bestowing freedom on the
slaves

whom they acknowledged as their kinsmen. Palestine, and the holy wealth of

Jerusalem, were the next objects that attracted-the ambition, or rather the
avarice,

of Chosroes. Constantinople, and the palace of the Caesars, no longer appeared

impregnable or remote; and his aspiring fancy already covered Asia Minor with

his troops, and the Black Sea with the navies, of Persia.

These hopes might have been realized, if the conqueror of Italy had not beep

seasonably recalled to the defence of the east.fl) While Chosroes pursued his

ambitious designs on the coast of the Euxine, Belisarius, at the head of an
army

without pay or discipline, encamped beyond the Euphrates, within six miles of

Nisibis. He meditated, by a skilful operation, to draw the Persians from their

impregnable citadel, and improving his advantage in the field, either to
intercept

their retreat, or perhaps to enter the gates with the flying barbarians. He
ad­

vanced one day's journey on the territories of Persia, reduced the fortress of
Si-

saurane, and sent the governor, with eight hundred chosen horsemen, to serve
the

emperor in his Italian wars. He detached Arethas and his Arabs, supported by

twelve hundred Romans, to pass the Tigris, and to ravage the harvests of
Assyria,

a fruitful province, long exempt from the calamities of war. But the plans of
Be­

lisarius were disconcerted by the untractable spirit of Arethas, who neither
re­

turned to the camp, nor sent any intelligence of his motions. The Roman gene»

ral was fixed in anxious expectation to the same spot; the time of action
elapsed,

the ardent sun of Mesopotamia inflamed with fevers the blood of his European
sol­

diers; and the stationary troops and officers of Syria affected to tremble for
the

safety of their defenceless cities. Yet this diversion had already succeeded
in

forcing Chosroes to return with loss and precipitation; and if the skill of
Belisarius

had been seconded by discipline and valour, his success might have satisfied
the

sanguine wishes of the public, who required at his hands the conquests of
Ctesi­

phon and the deliverance of the captives of Antioch. At the end of the
campaign,

he was recalled to Constantinople by an ungrateful court, but the dangers of
the

ensuing spring restored his confidence and command; and the hero, almost
alone,

was despatched, with the speed of post-horses, to repel, by his name and
presence,

the invasion of Syria. He found the Roman generals, among whom was a ne­

phew of Justinian, imprisoned by their fears in the fortification of
Hierapolis.

But instead of listening to their timid counsels, Belisarius commanded them to
fol­

low him to Europus, where he had resolved to collect his forces, and to
execute

whatever God should inspire him to achieve against the enemy. His firm atti­

tude on the banks of the Euphrates restrained Chosroes from advancing towards

Palestine; and he received with art and dignity, the ambassadors, or rather
spies,

of the Persian monarch. The plain between Hierapolis and the river, was
covered

with the squadrons of cavalry, six thousand hunters, tall and robust, who
pursued

(1) In the public hiitory of Procopius, (Persic, lib. ii. c. 18.18—21. 24—28.)
and with tome slight exceptions,

we may reasonably shut our ears against the malevolent whisper of the
Anecdotes rc. 2, 3. with the notes, as

usual, of Alemanus.)

