OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. > 231

of the three chapters, were separated from the communion of the saints, and
so­

lemnly delivered to the prince of darkness. But the Latin churches were more

jealous of the honour of Leo and the synod of Chalcedon; and if they had
fought as

they usually did under the standard of Rome, they might have prevailed in the
cause

of reason and humanity. But their chief was a prisoner in the hands of the
ene­

my, the throne of St. Peter, which had been disgraced by the simony, was be­

trayed by the cowardice of Vigilius, who yielded, after a long and
inconsistant

struggle, to the despotism of Justinian and the sophistry of the Greeks. His

apostacy provoked the indignation of the Latins, and no more than two bishops

could be found who would impose their hands on his deacon and successor Pela-

gius. Yet the perseverance of the popes insensibly transferred to their
adversa­

ries the appellation of schismatics: the Illyrian, African, and Italian
churches,

were oppressed by the civil and ecclesiastical powers, not without some effort
of

military force;(l) the distant barbarians transcribed the creed of the
Vatican, and

in the period ot a century, the schism of the three chapters expired in an
obscure

angle of the Venetian province. (2) But the religious discontent of the
Italians

had already promoted the conquests of the Lombards, and the Romans them­

selves were accustomed to suspect the faith, and to detest the government of
their

Byzantine tyrant.

Justinian was neither steady nor consistent in the nice process of fixing his
vola­

tile opinions and those of his subjects. In his youth, he was offended by the

slightest deviation from the orthodox line, in his old age he transgressed the
mea­

sure of temperate heresy, and the Jacobites, not less than the catholics, were

scandalized oy his declaration, that the body of Christ was incorruptible, and
that

his manhood was never subject to any wants and infirmities, the inheritance of
our

mortal flesh. This fantastic opinion was announced in the last edicts of
Justinian;

and at the moment of his seasonable departure, the clergy had refused to tran­

scribe, the prince was prepared to persecute, and the people were resolved to
suf­

fer or resist. A bishop of Treves, secure beyond the limits of his power, ad­

dressed the monarch of the east in the language of authority and affection:

" Most gracious Justinian, remember your baptism and your creed! Let not your

gray hairs be defiled with heresy. Recall your fathers from exile, and your
fol­

lowers from perdition. You cannot be ignorant, that Italy and Gaul, Spain and

Africa, already deplore your fall, and anathematize your name. Unless, without

delay, you destroy what you h ive taught; unless you exclaim, with a loud
voice, I

have erred, I have sinned, anathema to Nestorius, anathema to Eutyches, you
will

deliver your soul to the same flames in which they will eternally burn." He
died and

made no sign (3) His death restored in some degree the peace of the church,
and

the reigns of his four successors, Justin, Tiberius, Maurice, and Phocas, are
dis­

tinguished by a rare, though fortunate, vacancy, in the ecclesiastical history
of the

east. (4)

The faculties of sense and reason are least capable of acting on themselves;
the

eye is most inaccessible to the sight, the soul to the thought: yet we think,
and

even feel, that one will, a sole principle of action, is essential to a
rational and con­

scious being. When Heraclius returned from the Persian war, the orthodox hero-

consulted his bishops, whether the Christ whom he adored, of one person, but
of

two natures, was actuated by a singular, or double will. They replied in the
sin­

gular, and the emperor was encouraged to hope that the Jacobites of Egypt and

Syria might be reconciled by the profession of a doctrine, most certainly
harmless,

and most probably true, since it was taught even by the Nestorians themselves.
(5)

(1) See the complaints of l.iberatus and Victor, and the exhortations or pope
Pelagius to the conqueror and

exarch of ltaK Scliisma .... |»ee potestates publicas oppdimatur, &c. (Concil.
torn. vi. p. 487, &c.) An

•o suppress »"• si ctiiiors of an Illyrian city. (Sec Procopius, de Bell.
Goth. lib. iv. c. 25.)

* Sixf*xxovT*i. He seems to promise an ecclesiastical history. It would have

of Aquileia were reconciled by pope Honorius, A. D. 638t (Muratori,

-again relapsed, and the schism was not finally extinguished till 698.  
■in had overlooked the fifth general council with contemptuous si-

m. vii. p. 487—404.)

I. torn. 6. p. 511—513.) he himself, like most of the Gallican prelates,

. torn. vi. p. 1007.) was separated from the comlnonion of the four pa­

ce chapters. Baronius almost pronounces the damnation of Justi-

tinian, (lib. iv. e. 39—41.) and the edict of his successor, lib. v. v

s is filled with civil, instead of ecclesiastical events,

consistent doctrine of the Nestorians, had been observed 1-

•iidn more fully exposed bv Atmlnharajpii-. . B>!>' i

'tt»

