THE DECLINE AND FALL

and the arms of the Greeks were idly employed in the reduction of Modena and

Parma, which were torn from them after the retreat of their transalpine
allies.

The victorious Autharis asserted his claim to the dominion of Italy. At the
foot

of the Rhaetian Alps, he subdued the resistance, and rifled the hidden
treasures of

a sequestered island in the lake of Comum. At the extreme point of Calabria,
he

touched with his spear a column on the sea-shore of Rhegium,(l) proclaiming
that

ancient land-mark to stand the immoveable boundary of his kingdom. (2)

During a period of two hundred years, Italy was unequally divided between the

kingdom of the Lombards, and the exarchate of Ravenna. The offices and pro­

fessions, which the jealousy of Constantine had separated, were united by the
in­

dulgence of Justinian; and eighteen successive exarchs were invested, in the
de­

cline of the empire, with the full remains of civil, of military, and even of
ecclesi­

astical power. Their immediate jurisdiction, which was afterward consecrated

as the patrimony of St. Peter, extended over the modern Romagna, the marshes

or valleys of Ferrara and Commachio,(3) five maritime cities from Rimini to
An-

cona, and a second, inland Pentapolis, between the Adriatic coast and the
hills of

the Apennine. Three subordinate provinces, of Rome, of Venice, and of Naples,

which were divided by hostile lands from the palace of Ravenna, acknowledged

both in peace and war, the supremacy of the exarch. The duchy of Rome ap­

pears to have included the Tuscan, Sabine, and Latin conquests, of the first
four

hundred years of the city, and the limits may be distinctly traced along the
coast,

from Civita Vecchia, to Tevracina, and with the course of the Tiber from
Ameria

and Narni to the port of Ostia. The numerous islands from Grado to Chiozza,

composed the infant dominion of Venice; but the more accessible towns on the
con­

tinent were overthrown by the Lombards, who beheld with impotent fury, a new

capital rising from the waves. The power of the dukes of Naples was circum­

scribed by the bay and the adjacent isles, by the hostile territory of Capua,
and by

the Roman colony of Amalphi,(4) whose industrious citizens, by the invention
of

the mariner's compass, have unveiled the face of the globe. The three islands
of

Sardinia, Corsica, and Sicily, still adhered to the empire; and the
acquisition of the

farther Calabria removed the land-mark of Autharis from the shore of Rhegium

to the isthmus of Consentia. In Sardinia, the savage mountaineers preserved
the

liberty and religion of their ancestors; but the husbandmen of Sicily were
chained

to their rich and cultivated soil. Rome was oppressed by the iron sceptre of
the

exarchs, and a Greek, perhaps a eunuch, insulted with impunity the ruins of
the ca­

pital. But Naples soon acquired the privilege of electing her own dukes;(5)
the inde­

pendence of Amalphi was the fruit of commerce; and the voluntary attachment of

Venice was finally ennobled by an equal alliance with the eastern empire. On
the

map of Italy, the measure of the exarchate occupies a very inadequate space,
but it

included an ample proportion of wealth, industry, and population. The most
faith­

ful and valuable subjects escaped from the barbarian yoke; and the banners of
Pa-

via and Verona, of Milan and Padua, were displayed in their respective
quarters

by the new inhabitants of Ravenna. The remainder of Italy was possessed by the

Lombards; and from Pavia, the royal seat, their kingdom was extended to the

east, the north, and the west, as far as the confines of the Avars, the
Bavarians,

and the Franks of Austrasia and Burgundv. In the language of modern geogra­

phy, it is now represented by the Terra Firma of the Venetian republic, Tyrol,

the Milanese, Piedmont, the coast of Genoa, Mantua, Parma, and Modena, the

grand duchy of Tuscany, and a large portion of the ecclesiastical state from
Peru­

gia to the Adriatic. The dukes, and at length the princes, of Beneventum sur­

vived the monarchy, and propagated the name of the Lombards. From Capua to

Tarentum, they reigned near five hundred years over the greatest part of the
pre­

sent kingdom, of Naples. (6)

CO The Columns Rhegina, in the narrowest part of the Paro of Messina, one
hundred stadia from Rhe­

nium itself, is frequently mentioned in ancient Geography, Cluver. Ital.
Antiq. torn. ii. p. 1295. Lucas Hol-

stein. Annotat. ad Cluver. p. 301. Wesseling, Itinerar. p. 100.

(2) The Greek historians afford some faint hints of the wars of Italy
(Menander, in Encerpt. Legat. p. 124,

126 Theophylact, lib. iii. c. 4.) The Latins are more satisfactory; and
especially Paul Warnefrid, (lib. iii. 13.

34^) who had read the more ancient histories of Secundus and Gregory of Tours.
Baronius produces some

letters of the popes, &c. and the times are measured by the accurate scale of
Pagi and Muratori.

(3) The papal advocates.Zacagni and Fontanini, might justly claim the valley
or morass of Comraachio as

a part of the exarchate. But the ambition of including Modena, Reggio, Parma,
and Placentia, has darkened

a geographical question somewhat doubtful and obscure. Even Muratori, as the
servant of the house of Este,

is not free from partiality and prejudice.

(4) See Brenchmann, Dissert. I ma de Republica Amalphitana, p. 1—42. ad
calcero Hist. Pandect. Florent.

(3) Gregor. Magn. lib. iii. epist.23. 25—27.

<6) I have described the state of Italy from the excellent Dissertation of
Beretti. Giaanone (Istoria Ci-

