114 THE DECLINE AND FALL

If the emperor could rejoice in the death of Belisarius, he enjoyed the base
sa­

tisfaction only eight months, the last period of a reign of thirty-eight, and
a life of

eighty-three years. It would be difficult to trace the character of a prince
who

is not the most conspicuous object of his own times: but the confessions of an
ene­

my may be received as the safest evidence of his virtues. The resemblance of

Justinian to the bust of Domitian, is maliciously urged;(2) with the
acknowledg­

ment, however, of a well proportioned figure, a ruddy complexion, and a
pleasing

countenance. The emperor was easy of access, patient of hearing, courteous and

affable in discourse, and a master of the angry passions, which rage with such

destructive violence in the breast of a despot. Procopius praises his temper
to

reproach him with calm and deliberate cruelty; but in the conspiracies which
at­

tacked his authority and person, a more candid judge will approve the justice
or

admire the clemency of Justinian. He excelled in the private virtues of
chastity

and temperance: but the impartial love of beauty would have been less mischie-

vious, than his conjugal tenderness for Theodora, and his abstemious diet was
re­

gulated, not by the prudence of a philosopher, but the superstition of a monk.

His repasts were short and frugal: on solemn fasts, he contented himself with

water and vegetables; and such was his strength as well as fervour, that he
fre­

quently passed two days and as many nights without tasting any food. The mea­

sure of his sleep was not less rigorous: after the repose of a single hour,
the body

was awakened by the soul, and, to the astonishment of his chamberlains,
Justinian

walked or studied till the morning light. Such restless application prolonged
his

time for the acquisition of knowledge, (3) and the despatch of business: and
he

might seriously deserve the reproach of confounding, by minute and
preposterous

diligence, the general order of his administration. The emperor professed him­

self a musician and architect, a poet and philosopher, a lawyer and
theologian: and

if he failed in the enterprise of reconciling the Christian sects, the review
of the

Roman jurisprudence is a noble monument of his spirit and industry. In the go­

vernment of the empire, he was less wise or less successful: the age was
unfortu­

nate; the people was oppressed and discontented: Theodora abused her power; a

succession of bad ministers disgraced his judgment; and Justinian was neither
be­

loved in his life, nor regretted at his death. The love of fame was deeply im­

planted in his breast, but he condescended to the poor ambition of titles,
honours,

and cotemporary praise; and while he laboured to fix the admiration, he
forfeited

the esteem and affection of the Romans. The design of the African and Italian

wars was boldly conceived and executed: and his penetration discovered the
talents

of Belisarius in the camp, of Narses in the palace. But the name of the
emperor

is eclipsed by the names of his victorious generals; and Belisarius still
lives to up­

braid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign. The partial favour of mankind

applauds the genius of a conqueror, who leads and directs his subjects in the
exer­

cise of arms. The characters of Philip II. and of Justinian are distinguished
by

the cold ambition which delights in war, and declines the dangers of the
field. Yet

a colossal statue of bronze represented the emperor on horseback, preparing to

march against the Persians in the habit and armour of Achilles. In the great
square

before the church of St. Sophia, this monument was raised on a brass column
and

a stone pedestal of seven steps; and the pillar of Theodosius, which weighed
se­

ven thousand four hundred pounds of silver, was removed from the same place by

the avarice and vanity of Justinian. Future princes were more just or
indulgent

to Ma memory; the elder Andronicus, in the beginning of the fourteenth
century,

Tbii moral or romantic tale was imported into Italy with the language and
manuscripts of Greece; re­

peated before the end of the fifteenth century by Crinitus. Pontanus, and
Volateranus; attacked by Alciat,

for the honour of the law; and defended by Baromus (A. D. 491. No. 2. &c.,)
for the honour of the church.

Yet Tzetzes himself had read in other chronicles, that Belisarius did not lose
his sight, and that he recovered

his fame and fortunes.

(1) The statue in the villa Borgbese at Rome, in a sitting posture, with an
open hand; which is vulgarly

given to Belisarius, may be ascribed with more dignity to Augustus in the act
of propitiating Nemesis (win-

kleraan, Hist, de l'Art. torn. iii. p. S46.) Ex-nocturno visu etiam stipem,
quotannis, die certo, emendicabat a

pupolo, cavam manum asses porrigentibus prebeus (Sueton. in August, c. 91.
with an excellent note of

Catanbon.)

(2) Theruow of Domitian is stigmatized, quaintly enough, by the pen of Tacitus
(in Vic. Agricol.

and has been likewise noticed by the younger Pliny (Panegyr. c. 48.,) and
Suetonius (in Domitian. c. 18.)

and Casaubon ad locum.) Procopius (Anecdot. c. 8.) foolishly believes that
only one bust of Domitian had

reached the sixth century.

(3> The studies and science of Justinian are attested by the confession
(Anecdot. c. 8.13.) still more than by

the praises (Gothic lib. iii. e. 31. de Ecliric. lib. i. Proem, c. 7.) of
Procopius. Consult the copious index ot

Alemanous, and read the life of Justinian by Ludewig, (p. I3i—142.)

