188 THE DECLINE AND FALL

•who is distinguished among a crowd of saints by the epithet of alms-giver:{l)
and

the revenues of the church, with a treasure of three hundred thousand pounds,

were restored to the true proprietors, the poor of every country and every
deno­

mination. But Egypt itself, the only province which had been exempt, since the

times of Diocletian, from foreign and domestic war, was again subdued by the
suc­

cessors of Cyrus. Pelusium, the key of that impervious country, was surprised

by the cavalry of the Persians: they passed, with impunity, the innumerable
chan­

nels of the Delta, and explored the long valley of the Nile, from the pyramids

of Memphis to the confines of Ethiopia. Alexandria might have been relieved

by a naval force, but the archbishop and the prefect embarked for Cyprus; and

Chosroes entered the second city ot the empire, which still preserved a
wealthy

remnant of industry and commerce. His western trophy was erected, not on the

walls of Carthage,(2) but in the neighbourhood of Tripoli: the Greek colonies
of

Cyrene were finally extirpated; and the conqueror, treading in the footsteps
of Alex­

ander, returned in triumph through the sands of the Lybian desert. In the
first

campaign, another army advanced from the Euphrates to the Thracian Bosphorus;

Chalcedon surrendered after a long siege, and a Persian camp was maintained
above

ten years in the presence of Constantinople. The sea-coast of Pontus, the city
of

Ancyra, and the isle of Rhodes, are enumerated among the last conquests of the

great king; and if Chosroes had possessed any maritime power, his boundless
am­

bition would have spread slavery and desolation over the provinces of Europe.

From the long disputed banks of the Tigris and Euphrates, the reign of the

grandson of Nushirvan was suddenly extended to the Hellespont and the Nile,
the

ancient limits of the Persian monarchy. But the provinces, which had been fa­

shioned by the habits of six hundred years to the virtues and vices of the
Roman

government, supported with reluctance the yoke of the barbarians. The idea of

a republic was kept alive by the institutions, or at least by the writings, of
the

Greeks and Romans, and the subjects of Heraclius had been educated to
pronounce

the words of liberty and law. But it has always been the pride and policy of
ori­

ental princes, to display the titles and attributes of their omnipotence; to
upbraid

a nation of slaves with their true name and abject condition, and to enforce,
by

cruel and insolent threats, the rigour of their absolute commands. The
Christians

of the east were scandalized by the worship of fire, and the impious doctrine
of

the two principles; the Magi were not less intolerant than the bishops, and
the

martyrdom of some native Persians, who had deserted the religion *of
Zoroaster,(3)

was conceived to be the prelude of a fierce and general persecution. By the
op­

pressive laws of Justinian, the adversaries of the church were made the
enemies

of the state; the alliance of the Jews, Nestoriansi and Jacobites, had
contributed

to the success of Chosroes, and his partial favour to the sectaries provoked
the

hatred and fears of the catholic clergy. Conscious of their fear and hatred,
the

Persian conqueror governed his new subjects with an iron sceptre; and as if he

suspected the stability of his dominions, he exhausted their wealth by
exorbitant

tributes and licentious rapine, despoiled or demolished the temples of the
east,

and transported to his hereditary realms the gold, the silver, the precious
marbles,

the arts, and the artists of the Asiatic cities. In the obscure picture of the
cala­

mities of the empire,(4) it is not easy to discern the figure of Chosroes
himself, to

separate his actions from those of his lieutenants, or to ascertain his
personal me­

rit in the general blaze of glory and magnificence. He enjoyed with
ostentation

the fruits of victory', and frequently retired from the hardships of war to
the luxu­

ry of the palace. But in the space of twenty-four years, he was deterred by
su­

perstition or resentment from approaching the gates of Ctesiphon: and his
favour­

ite residence of Artemita, or Dastagerd, was situate beyond the Tigris, about

sixty miles to the north of the capital. (5) The adjacent pastures were
covered

with flocks and herds: the paradise or park was replenished with pheasants,
pea-

(1) The lire of this worthy saint is composed by Leontius.a coremporary
bishop; and I find in Baroniiif.

(Annal. Eccles. A. D. 610. No. 10, &c.) and Fleury, (torn. viii. p. 235—242.)
sufficient extracts of this edifying

work,

(2) The error of Baronius, and many others, who have carried the arms of
Chosroes to Carthage, instead

of Chalcedon, is founded on the uear resemblance of the Greek words KaKmSovx
and K»px>iJev*, in the

text of Theophanes, && which have been sometimes confounded by transcribers
and sometimes by critics.

(3) The genuine acts of St. Anastatius are published in those of the seventh
general council, from whence

Baronius (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 614.626,627.) and Butler (Lives of the Saints,
vol. i. p. 242—248.) have taken

their accounts. The holy martyr deserted from the Persian to -the notnan army,
became a monk at Jerusa­

lem, and insulted the worship of the Map, which was then established at
Cxsarea in Palestine.

(4) Abulpharagius, Dynast, p. 99. Elmacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 14.

(5) D'Anville, Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn, xxxit. p. 568—571.

t

