THE DECLINE AND FALL

fenced the intemperate shouts and execrations, which degraded the episcopal
gra­

vity: but, on the formal accusation of the legates, Dioscorus was compelled to

descend from his throne to the rank of a criminal, already condemned in the
opi­

nion of his judges. The orientals, less averse to Nestorius than to Cyril, ac­

cepted the Romans as their deliverers: Thrace, and Pontus, and Asia, were
exas­

perated against the murderer of Flavian, and the new-patriarchs of
Constantinople

and Antioch secured their places by the sacrifice of their benefactor. The bi­

shops of Palestine, Macedonia and Greece, were attached to the faith of Cyril;

but in the face of the synod, in the heat of the battle, the leaders with
their obse­

quious train, passed from the right to the left wing, and decided the victory
by

this seasonable desertion of the seventeen suffragans who sailed from
Alexandria,

four were tempted from their allegiance, and the thirteen, falling prostrate
on the

ground, implored the mercy of the council, with sighs and tears, and a
pathetic

declaration, that, if they yielded, they should be massacred, on their return
to

Egypt, by the indignant people. A tardy repentance was allotted to expiate the

guilt or error of the accomplices of Dioscorus: but their sins were
accumulated on

his head; he neither asked nor hoped for pardon, and the moderation of those
who

pleaded for a general amnesty, was drowned in the prevailing cry of victory
and

revenge. To save the reputation of his late adherents, some personal offences

were skilfully detected—his rash and illegal excommunication of the pope, and
his

contumacious refusal (while he was detained a prisoner) to attend the summons
of

the synod. Witnesses were introduced to prove the special facts of his pride,
ava­

rice, and cruelty; and the fathers heard with abhorrence, that the alms of the

church were lavished on the female dancers, that his palace, and even his
bath,

•was open to the prostitutes of Alexandria, and that the infamous Pansophia,
or

Irene, was publicly entertained as the concubine of the patriarch.(l)

For these scandalous offences Dioscorus was deposed by the synod, and banished

by the emperor: but the purity of his faith was declared in the presence, and
with

the tacit approbation, of the fathers. Their prudence supposed, rather than
pro­

nounced the heresy of Eutyches, who was never summoned before their tribunal;

and they sat silent and abashed, when a bold Monophysite, casting at their
feet a

volume of Cyril, challenged them to anathematize in his person the doctrine of
the

saint. If we fairly peruse the acts of Chalcedon as they are recorded by the
or­

thodox party,(2) we shall find that a great majority of the bishops embraced
the

simple unity of Christ; and the ambiguous concession, that he was formed of or

from two natures, might imply either their previous existence, or their subse­

quent confusion, or some dangerous interval between the conception of the man

and the assumption of the God. The Roman theology, more positive and precise,

adopted the term most offensive to the ears of the Egyptians, that Christ
existed

in two natures: and this momentous particle(3) (which the memory, rather than

the understanding, must retain) had almost produced a schism among the catho­

lic bishops. The tome of Leo had been respectfully, perhaps sincerely,
subscribed:

but they protested, in two successive debates, that it was neither expedient
nor

lawful to transgress the sacred landmarks which had been fixed at Nice,
Constan­

tinople, and Ephesus, according to the rule of Scripture and tradition. At
length

they yielded to the importunities of their masters, but their infallible
decree, after

it had been ratified with deliberate votes and vehement acclamations, was
over­

turned in the next session by the opposition of the legates and their oriental
friends.

It was in vain that a multitude of episcopal voices repeated in chorus, " The
de­

finition of the fathers is orthodox and immutable! The heretics are now disco-

(1) Concil. torn. iv. p. 1276.—A specimen of the witand mRliee of tbe people
it preserved in the Greek An­

thology (lib. ii. c 5. p. 188. t'dit. Wechel.) although the application was
unknown to the editor Brodastls. The

nameless epigrammatist raises a tolerable pun, by confounding the episcopal
salutation of u Peace be to all!"

with the genuine or corrupted name of the bishop's concubine.

Etptv)) wolvrtrrmv £r,irrxoi,os tintv S7ri\Smvt

IIujs £uvxtm< TTXtrtv Hv iwovec tvSov ;

I am ignorant whether the patriarch, who seems to have been a jealous lover,
is the Cimon of a preceding

epigram, whose *«o5 eorijxoc was viewed with envy and wonder by Priapus
himself.

(2) Those who reverence the infallibility of synods may try to ascertain their
sense. The leading bishopi

were attended bv partial or careless scribes, who dispersed their copies round
the world, pur Greek MSS.

ore sullied with the false and proscribed reading of ik tmv oua-tiov (Concil.
torn. iii. p. 1460.) the authentic

translation of Pope Leo I. does not seem to have been executed; and the old
Latin versions materially differ

ftom the present Vulgate, which was revised (A. D. 550) by Rusticus,a Roman
priest, from tbe best MSS.of

'the Axoijtorroi at Constantinople, (Ducange, C. P. Christiana, lib. iv. p.
151. a famous monastery of Latins,

Greeks, and Syrians. See Cuncil, torn. iv. p. 19(0—2049. and Pagi Critics,
torn. ii. p. 326, &c.

(3) It is darkly represented in the microscope of Petavius (torn. v. lib. iii.
c. 5.;) yet the subtle theologian is

■himself afraid—ne quis foriasse supervaeaneam, et nimisauxiam putet bnjnimodi
vacularum irrquisitionem,

-et ab imtitmi Uieologici gravitate alienism (p. 124J

