OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

sole evidence of their faith. The natural suspicions of the husband, conscious
of

his own chastity, were dispelled by the assurance fin a dream) that his wife
was

pregnant of the Holy Ghost; and as this distant and domestic prodigy could not
fall

under the personal observation of the historian, he must have listened to the
same

voice which dictated to Isaiah, the future conception of a virgin. The son of
a,

virgin, generated by the ineffable operation of the Holy Spint, was a creature

without example or resemblance, superior in every attribute of mind and body
to

the children of Adam. Since the introduction of the Greek or Chaldean philo­

sophy^ 1) the Jews(2) were persuaded of the pre-existence, transmigration, and

immortality of souls; and Providence was justified by a supposition, that they
were

confined in their earthly prisons to expiate the stains which they had
contracted in a

former state. (3) But the degrees of purity and corruption are almost
immeasura­

ble. It may be fairly presumed, that the most sublime and virtuous of human
spi­

rits was infused into the offspring of Mary and the Holy Ghost;(4) that his
abase­

ment was the result of his voluntary choice; and that the object of his
mission was

to purify, not his own, but the sins of the world. On his return to his native
skies,

he received the immense reward of his obedience; the everlasting kingdom of
the

Messiah, which had been darkly foretold by the prophets, under the carnal

images of peace, of conquest, and of dominion. Omnipotence could enlarge the

human faculties of Christ to the extent of his celestial office. In the
language of

antiquity, the title of God has not been severely confined to the first
parent, and

his incomparable minister, his only-begotten Son, might claim without presump­

tion the religious, though secondary, worship of a subject world.

II. The seeds of the faith, which had slowly arisen in the rocky and
ungrateful

soil of Judea, were transplanted, in full maturity, to the happier climes of
the

Gentiles; and the strangers of Rome or Asia, who never beheld the manhood,

were the more readily disposed to embrace the divinity of Christ The Polythe-

ist and the philosopher, the Greek and the barbarian, were alike accustomed to

conceive a long succession, an infinite chain of angels or demons, or deities,
or

sons, or emanations, issuing from the throne of light. Nor could it seem
strange

or incredible, that the first of these asons, the Logos, or Word*of God, of
the

same substance with the Father, should descend upon earth to deliver the human

race from vice and error, and to conduct them in the paths of life and
immortality.

But the prevailing doctrine of the eternity and inherent pravity of matter
infected

the primitive churches of the east. Many among the Gentile proselytes refused

to believe that a celestial spirit, an undivided portion of the first essence,
had been

personally united with a mass of impure and contaminated flesh: and, in their
zeal

for the divinity, they piously abjured the humanity of Christ. While his blood
was

still recent on mount Calvary,(5) the Docetes, a numerous and learned sect of
Asi­

atics, invented the fantastic system, which was afterwards propagated by the
Mar-

cionites, the Manichaians, and the various names of the Gnostic heresy. (6)
They de­

nied the truth and authenticity of the gospels, as far as they relate the
conception of

protectant critics. But this Hebrew Gospel of St. Matthew ii most
unaccountably lost; and we may accuse

the diligence or fidelity of the primitive charehes, who have preferred the
unauthorized version of some

nameless Greek. Erasmus and his followers, who respect our Greek text as the
original gospel, deprive

themselves of the evidence whiclt declares it to be the work of an apostle.
See Simon, Hist. Critique, See.

torn. iii. c. 5—9. p. 47—101. and the Prolegomena of Mill and Wetstein to the
New Testament.

(J) The metaphysics of the soul are disengaged by Cicero (Tuscalan. lib. 1.)
and Maximus of Tyre (Disser-

tat* xvi.,) from the intricacies of Dialogue, which sometimes amuse, and often
perplex the readers of the Phse-

drus, the Phsedon, and the Laws of Plato.

(2) The disciples of Jesus were persuaded that a man might have sinned before
lie was born (John, ix. 2.,)

and the pharisees held the transmigration of virtuous souls (Joseph, de Bell.
JudaicoJih. ii. c. 7.,) and a mo­

dern rabbi is modestly assured that Hermes, Pythagoras, Plato, &c. derived
their metaphysics from his illus­

trious countrymen.

(3) Four different opinions have been entertained concerning the origin of
human souls. 3. Thatrheyare

eternal and divine. 2. That they were created in a separate state of
existence, before their union with the

body. 3. That they have been propagated from the original stock of Adam, who
contained in himself the

mental as well as the corporeal seed of his posterity. 4. That each soul is
occasionally created and embodied

in the moment of conception. The last of these sentiments appears to have
prevailed among the moderns;

and our spiritual history is grown less suhlime, without becoming more
intelligible.

(4) Or* q tou yjwnjpat, if tou AS*** ttv—was one of the fifteen heresies
imputed to Origen, and denied

by his apologist (Photius, Bibliothec. Cod. 117. p. 296.) Some of the rabbies
attribute one and the same soul tu

the persons of Adam, David, and the Messiah. '

(5) Apostolisadhnc in seculo superstitibus,apud Judseam Christ! sanguine
recente, Phantasma domini cor­

pus asserebatur. Hieronym. advent. Lucifer, c. viii. The epistle of Ignatius
to the Smynseans, and even

the gospel according to St. John, are levelled against the growing error of
the Docetes, who had obtained too

much credit in the world (1 John iv. 1—5.)

(A) About the year 200 of the Christian era, Irenecus and Hippolytus refuted
the thirty-two sects, nrc if/.-uJ*-

fjuev yvtoTjw; which had multiplied to fourscore in the time of Epiphanius.
(Phot. Biblioth. Cod. 120—122.>

The five books of Irenseus exist only in barbarous Latin; but the original
might perhaps he found in some mo­

nastery of Greece.

Vol. III. 26

