Sl2 'FHE DECLINE ANB FALL

the Caaba ascends beyond the Christian era: in describing the coast of the Red
Sea,

the Greek historian Diodorus(l) has remarked, between the Thamudites and the

Sabsans, a famous temple, whose superior sanctity was revered by all the
Arabians:

the linen or silken veil, which is annually renewed by the Turkish emperor,
was

first offered by a pious king of the Homerites, who reigned seven hundred
years,

before the time of Mahomet. (2) A tent or a cavern might suffice for the
worship

of the savages, but an edifice of stone and clay has been erected in its
place; and

the art and power of the monarchs of the east have been confined to the
simplicity

of the original model. (5) A spacious portico encloses the quadrangle of the
Caaba:

a square chapel, twenty-four cubits long, twenty-three broad, and twenty-seven

high; a door and a window admit the light; the double roof is supported by
three

pillars of wood; a spout (now of gold) discharges the rain-water, and the well

Zanzem, is protected by a dome from accidental pollution. The tribe of
Koreish,

by fraud or force, had acquired the custody of the Caaba; the sacerdotal
office de­

volved through four lineal descents to the grandfather of Mahomet; and the
family

of the Heshemites, from whence he sprung, was the most respectable and sacred

in the eyes of their country. (4) The precincts of Mecca enjoyed the rights of
sanc­

tuary; and, in the last month of each year, the city and the temple were
crowded

with a long train of pilgrims, who presented their vows and offerings in the
house

of God. The same rites, which are now accomplished by the faithful Mussulman,

were invented and practised by the superstition of the idolaters. -At an awful
dis­

tance they cast away their garments: seven times, with hasty steps, they
encircled

the Caaba, and kissed the black stone: seven times they visited and adored the

adjacent mountains; seven times they threw stones into the valley of Mina; and

the pilgrimage was achieved, as at the present hour, by a sacrifice of sheep
and

camels, and the burial of their hair and nails in the consecrated ground. Each

tribe either found or introduced in the Caaba their domestic worship: the
temple

' was adorned, or defiled, with three hundred and sixty idols of men, eagles,
lions, and

antelopes; and the most conspicuous was the statue of Hebal, of red agate,
holding

in his hand seven arrows, without heads or feathers, the instruments and
symbols

of profane divination. But this statue was a monument of Syrian arts: the
devotion

of the ruder ages was content with a pillar or a tablet; and the rocks of the
desert

were hewn into gods or altars, in imitation of the black stone(5) of Mecca,
which

is deeply tainted with the reproach of an idolatrous origin. From Japan to
Peru,

the use of sacrifice has universally prevailed; and the votary has expressed
his

gratitude or fear by destroying or consuming, in honour of the gods, the
dearest

and most precious of their gifts. The life of a man(6) is the most precious
oblation

to deprecate a public calamity: the altars of Phoenicia and Egypt, of Rome and

Carthage, have been polluted with human gore: the cruel practice was long pre­

served among the Arabs; in the third century, a boy was annually sacrificed by

the tribe of the Dumatians;(7) and a royal captive, was piously slaughtered by
the

(1) l£pov eeyicurarcu top-jra* riftm/ievou urrc Tstvrviv ApaiSmy
srspiTTOTsp°v. (Diod. Sicul. torn. i. Hb. iii. p. 2.) The cha­

racter and position are so correctly apposite, that I am surprised how this
curious passage cnuld nave been read

without notice or application. Yet this famous temple had been overlooked by
Agatharcides (de Man Rubro,

p. 58. in Hudson, torn, i.) whom Diodorus conies in the rest of the
description. Was the Sicilian more knowing

than the Egyptian? Or was the Caaba built between the year of Rome 650 and
746, the dates of their respective

histories? (Dodwell, in Dissert, ad torn. i. Hudson, p. 72. Fabricins,
Bibliot. Greec. torn. ii. p. 770.)

(2) Pocock, Specimen, p. 60,61. From the death of Mahomet we ascend to 68,
from his birth to 129, years

before the Christian era. The veil or curtain, which is now of silk and gold,
was no more than a piece of Egyp­

tian linen. (Abulfeda, in Vit. Mohammed, c. 6. p. 14.)

(3) The original plan of the Caaba (which is servilely copied in Sale, the
Universal History, &c.) was a Turk­

ish draught, which Ileland (de Religione Mohammedica. p. 113—123.) has
corrected and explained from the

best authorities. For the description and legend of the Caaba, consult Pocock,
(Specimen, p. 113—122.) the

.Bibliotheque Orientate of d'Herbelot, (Caaba, Hagir, Ztmzcm, &c.) and Sale.
(Preliminary Discourse, p.

114—122.)

(4) Cosa, the fifth ancestor of Mahomet, must have usurped the Caaba A. D.
440. but the story is differently

told by Jannebi,(Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. i. p. 65—69.) and by Ahutfeda
(in Vit. Moham. c. 6. p. 13.)

(5) In the second century, Maximus of Tyre attributes to the Arabs the worship
of a stone— Ap*2

Htv ovTifce Si otix oiSa, t3 Si »yaXfiot e»Jo»; KtGo? w T£Tfx*j-*ivoc,
(Dissert. S. ton). 1. p. 142. edit. Reiske) and the

reproach is furiously re-echoed by (he Christians. (Clemen^ Alex, in Protn
ptieo, p. 40. Arnobius contra Gen-

tea. lib.vi. p. 246.) Yet these stones were no other than the &xwxa. of Syria
and G< eece, so renowned in sacred

and profane antiquity. (Eoseb. Prsep. Evangel, lib. i. p. 37. Marsham. Canon.
Chron. p. 54—56.)

(6) The two horrid subjects of AvapoSuo-.» and IIxtSoQutrix, are accurately
discussed by the learned Sir John

Marsham. (Canon. Chron. p. 76—78. 301—304.) Sanchoniatho derives the
Phcenician sacrifices from the ex­

ample of Chronus: but we are itpiorant whether Chronus lived before or after
Abraham, or indeed whether he

lived at all.

(7) Ko6T* iTog Exoea-To* ttxiSx e5uov, is the reproach of Porphyry: but he
likewise imputes to the Roman the same

barbarous custom, which A. U. C. 657. had been finally abolished. Dumtetha,
Dnumatal Gendal.is noticed by

ytolemy fTabul. p. 37. Arabia, p. P—29.) and Abulfeda: (p. 57.) and may be
found in d'Anville's maps, in the.

mid-desert between Cbaibar and Tadmor,

