OF THE ROMAN EMP1RE< 265

the unsuccessful general. Eudocia still attended his motions; at midnight,
their

tent was suddenly attacked by her angry brothers, impatient to expiate her
infamy

in his blood: his daring spirit refused her advice, and the disguise of a
female habit;

and, boldly starting from his couch, he drew his sword, and cut his way
through

the numerous assassins. It was here that he first betrayed his ingratitude and

treachery: he engaged in a treasonable correspondence with the king of Hungary

and the German emperor; approached the royal tent at a suspicious hour, with a

drawn sword: and, under the mask of a Latin soldier, avowed an intention of
re­

venge against a mortal foe; and imprudently praised the fleetness of his horse
as

an instrument of flight and safety. The monarch dissembled his suspicions;
but,

after the close of the campaign, Andronicus was arrested and strictly confined
in a

tower of the palace of Constantinople. '

In this prison he was left above twelve years; a most painful restraint, from

which the thirst of action and pleasure perpetually urged him to escape. Ajone

and pensive, he perceived some broken bricks in a corner of his chamber, and
lie

gradually widened the passage, till he had explored a dark and forgotten
recess.

Into this hole he conveyed himself, and the remains of his provisions,
replacing

the bricks in their former positions, and erasing with care the footsteps of
his re­

treat. At the hour of the customary visit, his guards were amazed with the
silence

and solitude of the prison, and reported, with shame and fear, his
incomprehensi­

ble flight. The gates of the palace and city were instantly shut: the
strictest or­

ders were despatched into the provinces for the recovery of their fugitive;
and his

wife, on the suspicion of a pious act, was basely imprisoned in the same
tower.

At the dead of night she beheld a spectre: she recognised her husband; they

shared their provisions; and a son was the fruit of these stolen interviews;
which

alleviated the tediousness of their confinement. In the custody of a woman,
the

vigilance of the keepers was insensibly relaxed; and the captive had
accomplished

his real escape, when he was discovered, brought back to Constantinople, and

loaded with a double chain. At length he found the moment and the means of his

deliverance. A boy, his domestic servant, intoxicated the guards, and obtained
in

wax the impression of the keys. By the diligence of his friends, a similar
key,

with a bundle of ropes, was introduced >nt0 'he prison, in the bottom of a
hogshead.

Andronicus employed, with industry and courage, the instrument of his safety,
un­

locked the doors, descended from the tower, concealed himself all day among
the

bushes, and scaled in the night the garden-wall of the palace. A boat was sta­

tioned for his reception; he visited his own house» embraced his children,
cast

away his chain, mounted a fleet horse, and directed his rapid course towards
the

banks of the Danube. At Anchialus in Thrace, an intrepid friend supplied him

with horses and money: he traversed with speed the desert of Moldavia and the

Carpathian hills, and had almost reached the town of Haliez, in the Polish
Russia,

when he was intercepted by a party of Walachians, who resolved to convey their

important captive to Constantinople. His presence of mind again extricated him

from this danger. Under the pretence of sickness, he dismounted in the night,

and was allowed to step aside from the troop: he planted in the ground his
long

staff, clothed it with his cap and upper garment; and, stealing into the wood,
left a

phantom to amuse, for some time, the eyes of the Walachians. From Haliez he
was

honourably conducted to Kiow, the residence of the great duke: the subtle
Greek

soon obtained the esteem and confidence of Ieroslaus; his character could
assume

the manners of every, climate; and the barbarians applauded his strength and
cou­

rage in the chase of the elks and bears of the forest. In this northern region
he

deserved the forgiveness of Manuel, who solicited the Russian prince to join
his

arms in the invasion of Hungary. The influence of Andronicus achieved this im­

portant service: his private treaty was signed with a promise of fidelity on
one

side, and of oblivion on the other; and he marched, at the head of the Russian

cavalry, from the Borysthenes to the Danube. In his resentment Manuel had

ever sympathized with the martial and dissolute character of his cousin; and
his

free pardon was sealed in the assault of Zemlin, in which he was second, and
se­

cond only, to the valour of the emperor.

Ho sooner was the exile restored to freedom and his country, than his ambition

revived, at first to his own, and at length to the public misfortune. A
daughter of

Manuel was a feeble bar to the succession of the more deserving males of the
Com-

nenian blood: her future marriage with the prince of Hungary was'repugnant to

the hopes or prejudices of the princes and nobles. But when an oath of
allegiance

Vas required to the presumptive heir, Andronicus alone asserted the honour of
the

Vol. in. 34

