320 THE DECLINE AND FALL

infidelity. But the modest or angry tone of his apologies betrays his weakness
and

vexation; and these passages of scandal, establish beyond suspicion, the
integrity

of the Koran. (1) 1 he votaries of Mahomet are more assured than himself of
his

miraculous gifts, and their confidence and credulity increase as they are
farther

removed from the time and place of his spiritual exploits. They believe or
affirm

that trees went forth to meet him: that he was saluted by stones; that water

gushed from his fingers; that he fed the hungry, cured the sick, and raised
the

dead; that a beam groaned to him; that a camel complained to him; that a
shoul­

der of mutton informed him of its heing poisoned; and that both animate and
in­

animate nature were equally subject to the apostle of God.(2> His dream of a

nocturnal journey is seriously described as a real and corporeal transaction.
A

mysterious animal, the borak, conveyed him from the temple of Mecca to that of

Jerusalem, with his companion Gabriel, he successively ascended the seven hea­

vens, and received and repaid the salutations of the patriarchs, the prophets,
and

the angels, in their respective mansions. Beyond the seventh heaven, Mahomet

alone was permitted to proceed: he passed the veil of unity, approached within

two bow-shots of the throne, and felt a cold that pierced him to the heart,
when

his shoulder was touched by the hand of God. After this familiar, though im­

portant conversation, he again descended to Jerusalem, remounted the borak,
re­

turned to Mecca, and performed in the tenth part of a night, the journey of
many

thousand years. (3) According to another legend, the apostle confounded in a
na­

tional assembly the malicious challenge of the Koreish. His resistless word
split

asunder the orb of the moon: the obedient planet stooped from her station in
the

sky, accomplished the seven revolutions round the Caaba, saluted Mahomet in

the Arabian tongue, and suddenly contracting her dimensions, entered at the
col­

lar, and issued forth through the sleeve, of his shirt. (4) The vulgar are
amused

with these marvellous tales; but the gravest of the Mussulman doctors imitate
the

modesty of their master, and indulge a latitude of faith or interpretation.
(5)

They might speciously allege, that in preaching the religion, it was needless
to

violate the harmony, of nature; that a creed unclouded with mystery, may be
ex­

cused from miracles; and that the sword of Mahomet was not less potent than
the.

rod of Moses.

The polytheist is oppressed and distracted by the variety of superstition: a

thousand rites of Egyptian origin were interwoven with the essence of the
Mosaic

law; and the spirit of the gospel had evaporated in the pageantry of the
church.

The prophet of Mecca was tempted by prejudice, or policy, or patriotism, to

sanctify the rites of the Arabians, and the custom of visiting the holy stone
of the

Caaba. But the precepts of Mahomet himself inculcate a more simple and ra­

tional piety: prayer, fasting and alms, are the religious duties of a
Mussulman; and

he is encouraged to hope, that prayer will carry him half way to God, fasting
will

bring him to the door of his palace, and alms will gain him admittance. (6) J.

(1) See more remarkably, Koran, c. 2. 6.12,13.17. Prideaux (Life of Mahomet,
p. 18,19.) has confounded

the impostor, Maracci, with a more learned apparatus, has shown that the
passages which deny his miracles

nre clear and positive, (Alcoran, torn. i. part si. p. 7—12.) and those which
seem to assert them, are ambiguous

and insufficient, (p. 12—22.)

(2) See the Specimen Hisr. Arabum. the text of Abulpharagius, p. 17. the notes
of Pocock, p_. 187—190.

d'HerbelotBibliothequeOrientale, p. 76,77. Voyages de Chardin. torn. iv. p.
200—203. Maracci (Alcoran,

torn. i. p. 22—64.) has most laboriously collected and confuted the miracles
and prophecies of Mahomet, which,

according to some writers, amount to three thousand.

(3) The nocturnal journey is circumstantially related by Abulfeda (in Vit.
Mahommed, c. 19. p. 33.,) who

wishes to think it a vision; by Prideaux (p. i. 40.) who aggravates the
absurdities; and by Gagnier (torn. i. p.

252—343.), who declares, from the zealous Ali Jannabi, that to deny this
journey is to disbelieve the Koran.

"Yet the Koran, without naming either heaven, or Jerusalem, or Mecca, has only
dropped a mysterious him:

Lauiilli qui transtulitservum suum ab oratorio Haram ad oratorium
rerootissimum (Koran, e. zvii. 5.1. in

Maracci, torn. ii. p. 407. for Sale's version is more licentious.) A slender
basis for the aeriel structure of tradi­

tion.

(4) In the prophetic style, which uses the present or past for the future,
Mahomet had said,—Appropinqua.

vit hora et scissa est luna (Koran, c 54.5. 1. in Maracci, torn. ii. p. 688.)
This figure of rhetoric has been con­

verted into a fact, which is said to be attested by the most respectable eye-
witnesses (Maracci, torn. ii. p. 690.)

The festival is still celebrated by the Persians (Chardin, torn. iv. p. 201.0
and the legend is tediously spun out

by Gagnier (Vie de Mahomet, torn. i. p. 183—234,) on the faith, as it should
seem, of the credulous Ali Jannabi.

Yet a Mahometan doctor has arraigned the credit of the principal witness (apud
Pocock, Specimen, p. 187.;)

the best interpreters are content with the simple sense of the Koran ( Al
Beidawi, apud Hottinger, Hist. Orient,

lib. ii. p. 302; and the silence of Abulfeda is worthy of a prince and a
philosopher.

(5) Abulpharagius, in Specimen. Hist. Arab. p. 17. and his scepticism is
justified in the notes of Pocock, p.

190—194. from the purest authorities.

(4) The most authentic account of these precepts, pilgrimage, prayer, fasting,
alms, and ablutions, is ex­

tracted from the Persian and Arabian theologians by Maracci (Prodrom, part iv.
p. 9—24.) Behind, (in his et-

cellent treatise de Religione Mohammedica, Utrecht, 1717, p. 67—123.) and
Chardin, (Voyages rn Perse, torn,

iv. p. 47—195.) Maracci is a partial accuser; but the jeweller, Chardin, had
the eves of a philosopher: and

Behind, a judicious student, had travelled over the east in his closet at
Utrecht.' The fourteenth letter of

