OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

were seated on the right hand of God; but the gracious, and often supernatural
fa­

vours, which in the popular belief were showered round their tomb, conveyed an

unquestionable sanction of the devout pilgrims, who visited, and touched, and

kissed these lifeless remains, the memorials of their merits and sufferings.
(1) But

a memorial, more interesting than the skull or the scandals of a departed
worthy,

is a faithful copy of his person and features, delineated by the arts of
painting or

sculpture. In every age, such copies, so congenial to human feelings, have
been

cherished by the zeal of private Iriendship, or public esteem: the images of
the

Roman emperors were adored with civil and almost religious honours; a
reverence

less ostentatious, but more sincere, was applied to the statues of sages and
patriots;

and these profane virtues, these splendid sins, disappeared in the presence of
the

holy men, who had died for their celestial and everlasting country. At first
the

experiment was made with caution and scruple; and the venerable pictures were

discreetly allowed to instruct the ignorant, to awaken the cold, and to
gratify the

prejudices of the heathen proselytes. By a slow though inevitable progression,

the honours of the original were transferred to the copy: the devout Christian

prayed before the image of a saint: and the pagan rites of genuflexion,
luminaries,

and incense, again stole into the catholic church. The scruples of reason or
piety,

were silenced by the strong evidence of visions and miracles; and the pictures
which

speak, and move, and bleed, must be endowed with a divine energy, and may be

considered as the proper objects of religious adoration. The most audacious
pencil

might tremble in the rash attempt of defining, by forms and colours, the
infinite Spi­

rit of the eternal Father, who pervades and sustains the universe.(2) But the
super­

stitious mind was more easily reconciled to paint and to worship the angels,
and,

above all, the Son of God, under the human shape, which, on earth, they have
con­

descended to assume. The second person of the Trinity had been clothed with a

real and mortal body; but that body had ascended into heaven, and, had not
some si­

militude been presented to the eyes of his disciples, the spiritual worship of
Christ

might have been obliterated by the visible relics and representations of the
saints. A

similar indulgence was requisite, and propitious, for the Virgin Mary: the
place of

her burial was unknown; and the assumption of her soul and body into heaven
was

adopted by the credulity of the Greeks and Latins. The use, and even the wor­

ship of images, was firmly established before the end of the sixth century;
they

were fondly cherished by the warm imagination of the Greeks and Asiatics; the

Pantheon and Vatican were adorned with the emblems of a new superstition; but

this semblance of idolatry was more coldly entertained by the rude, barbarians
and

the Arian clergy of the west. The bolder forms of sculpture, in brass or
marble,

which peopled the temples of antiquity, were offensive to the fancy or
conscience

of the Christian Greeks; and a smooth surface of colours has ever been-
esteemed

a more decent and harmless mode of imitation. (S)

The merit and effect of a copy depend on its resemblance with the original;
but

the primitive Christians were ignorant of the genuine features of the Son of
God,

his mother and his apostles: the statue of Christ at Paneas in Palestine(4)
was more

probably that of some temporal saviour; the Gnostics and their profane
monuments,

were reprobated; and the fancy of the Christian artists could only be guided
by the

clandestine imitation of some heathen model. In this distress, a bold and
dexterous

invention assured at once the likeness of the image and the innocence of the
wor­

ship. A new superstructure of fable was raised on the popular basis of a
Syrian

legend, on the correspondence of Christ and Abgarus, so famous in the days of

Eusebius, so reluctantly deserted by our modern advocates. The bishop of

(t) See ibis history, vol. ii. p. 4S0. vol. iii. p. 147. 478—487.)

(3) Ou yoq to ©itov u;rXouv xcet te^jiToi/ uipcjxi, tinwi T-xjfiuvriv
ces-.ucx^ou: vi. Our; joipw Jt*» JjuA-aif rnv uwipavrtav

x»» nyitmxpys"1 ov<r*xv n/xav ilms SuyvMapuv. (Concilium Nicenum, ii. in
Collect. Labb. torn. viii. p. 1025. edit.

Venet.) II seroit pentetre a-propos de ne point souflVir d'images de la
Trinite ou de la Divinite; les defensenrs

les plus 7-elei del images ayant condamne celles ci, et le conciie de Trente
ne parlant que des images de Jesus

Christ et des saints. (Dupin. Bibliot. Eceles. torn. vi. p. 1S4.)

(3) This general history of images is drawn from the twenty-second book of the
Hist, des Ea:lise Reforroees

of Basnage, torn. ii. p. 1310—1337. He was a protestant, but of a manly
spirit; and on this bead the protestants

are so notoriously in the right, that they can venture to be impartial.) See
the perplexity of poor Friar l'agi,

Critica. torn. i. p. 42.

(4) After removing some rubbish of miracle and inconsistency, it may be
allowed, that as late as the year

360, Paneas in Palestine was decorated with a bronze statue, representing a
grave personage wrapt in a cloak,

with a grateful or suppliant female kneeling before him;—and that an
inscription—to» Zmrt-p* tu> £u£py£T>r,—was

perhaps inscribed on the pedestal. By the Christians, this groupe was
foolishly explained of their founder and

the poor woman whom he had cured of the bloody-flux. (Euseb. vii. 18.
Philostorg. 7. 3, &c.) M. de Reau-

eoure more reasonably conjectures the philosopher Apollonius, or the emperor
Vespasian: in the latter suppo­

sition, the female is a city, a province, or perhaps the queen Berenice.
(Bibtiotheque G.ermanique, torn,. siji,

I—P2.)

