2Z8 THE DECLINE AND FALL

throne of Constantinople, displayed the trophies of chivalry, and almost
realized the

wonders of romance. VII. The Latins; the subjects of the pope, the nations

of the west, who enlisted under the banner of the cross for the recovery and
relief

of the holy sepulchre. The Greek emperors were terrified and preserved by the

myriads of pilgrims who marched to Jerusalem with Godfrey of Bouillon and the

peers of Christendom. 1'he second and third crusades trod on the footsteps of

the first: Asia and Europe were mingled in a sacred war of two hundred years;

and the Christian powers were bravely resisted, and finally expelled, by
Saladin

and the mamalukes of Egjpt. In these memorable crusades, a fleet and army of

French and Venetians were diverted from Syria to the Thracian Bosphorus; they

assaulted the capital, they subverted the Greek monarchy; and a dynasty of La­

tin princes was seated near threescore years on the throne of Constantine.
VIII.

The Greeks themselves, during this period of captivity and exile, must be con­

sidered as a foreign nation; the enemies and again the sovereigns, of
Constantino­

ple. Misfortune had rekindled a spark of national virtue; and the imperial
series

may be continued with some dignity from their restoration to the Turkish
conquest.

IX. The Moguls and Tartars. By the arms of Zingis and his descendants,

the globe was shaken from China to Poland and Greece; the sultans were over­

thrown; the caliphs fell, and the Caesars trembled on their throne. The
victories

of Timour suspended above fifty years the final ruin of the Byzantine empire.
X.

I have already noticed the first appearance of the Turks, and the names of the

fathers, of Seljuk and Othman, discriminate the two successive dynasties of
the

nations, which emerged in the eleventh century from the Scythian wilderness.

The former established a potent and splendid kingdom from the banks of the

Oxus to Antioch and Nice; and the first crusade was provoked by the violation
of

Jerusalem and the danger of Constantinople. From an humble origin, the Otto­

mans arose, the scourge and terror of Christendom. Constantinople was besieged

and taken by Mahomet II. and his triumph annihilates the remnant, the image,

the title of the Roman empire in the east. The schism of the Greeks will be
con­

nected with their last calamities, and the restoration of learning in the
western

world. I shall return from the captivity of the new, to the ruins of Ancient
Rome;

and the venerable name, the interesting theme, will shed a ray of glory on the

conclusion of my labours.

The emperor Heraclius had punished a tyrant and ascended his throne; and the

memory of his reign is perpetuated by the transient conquest, and irreparable
loss,

of the eastern provinces. After the death of Eudocia, his first wife, he
disobeyed

the patriarch, and violated the laws, by his second marriage with his niece
Marti­

na; and the superstition of the Greeks beheld the judgment of heaven in the
dis­

eases of the father and the deformity of his offspring. But the opinion of an
il­

legitimate birth is sufficient to distract the choice, and loosen the
obedience, of

the people: the ambition of Martina was quickened by maternal love, and
perhaps

by the envy of a step-mother; and the aged husband was too feeble to withstand

the arts of conjugal allurements. Constantine, his eldest son, enjoyed in a
mature

age the title of Augustus; but the weakness of his constitution required a
colleague

and a guardian, and he yielded with secret reluctance to the partition of the
em­

pire. The senate was summoned to the palace to ratitify or attest the
association

of Heracleonas, the son of Martina: the imposition of the diadem was
consecrated

by the prayer and blessing of the patriarch; the senators and patricians
adored

the majesty of the great emperor and the partners of his reign; and, as soon
as

the doors were thrown open, they were hailed by the tumultuary but important

voice of the soldiers. After an interval of five months, the pompous
ceremonies,

which formed the essence of the Byzantine state, were celebrated in the
cathedral

and the hippodrome: the concord of the royal brothers was affectedly displayed

by the younger leaning on the arm of the elder; and the name of Martina was

mingled in the reluctant or venal acclamations of the people. Heraclius
survived

this association about two years; his last testimony declared his two sons the
equal

heirs of the eastern empire, and commanded them to honour his widow Martina

as their mother and their sovereign.

When Martina first appeared'on the throne with the name and attributes of

royalty, she was checked by a firm, though respectful opposition; and the
dying

embers of freedom were kindled by the breath of superstitious prejudice:—" We

reverence (exclaimed the voice of a citizen,) we reverence the mother of our

