Ol' THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 363

a peremptory order, that the fate of the province and the war should be
decided

by a single battle. The Syrians were attached to the standard of Rome and of

the cross; but the noble, the citizen, and the peasant, were exasperated by
the in­

justice and cruelty of a licentious host, who oppressed them as subjects, and
des­

pised them as strangers and aliens. (1) A report of these mighty preparations
was

conveyed to the Saracens in their camp of Etnesa; and the chiefs, though
resolved

to fight, assembled a council: the faith of Obu Obeidah would have expected on

the same spot the glory of martyrdom; the wisdom of Caled advised an honoura­

ble retreat to the skirts of Palestine and Arabia, where they might await the
suc­

cours of their friends, and the attack of the unbelievers. A speedy messenger

soon returned from the throne of Medina, with the blessings of Omar and Ali,
the

prayers of the widows of the prophet, and a reinforcement of eight thousand
Mos­

lems. In their way they overturned a detachment oT Greeks, and when they

joined at Yermuk, the camp of their brethren, they found the pleasing
intelligence^

that Caled had already defeated and scattered the Christian Arabs of the tribe
of

Gassan. In the neighbourhood of Bosra, the springs of mount Hermon descend

in a torrent to the plain of Decapolis, or ten cities; and the Hieromax, a
name

which has been corrupted to Yermuk, is lost after a short course in the lake
of Ti­

berias.^) The banks of this obscure stream were illustrated by a long and
bloody

encounter. On this momentous occasion, the public voice, and the modesty of

Abu Obeidah, restored the command to the most deserving of the Moslems. Ca­

led assumed his station in the front, his colleague was posted in the rear,
that

the disorder of the fugitives might be checked by his venerable aspect and

the sight of the yellow banner which Mahomet had displayed before the walls of

Chaibar. The last line was occupied by the sister of Derar, with the Arabian

women who had enlisted in this holy war, who were accustomed to wield the bow

and the lance, and who in a moment of captivity had defended, against the
uncir-

cumcised ravishers, their chastity and religion.(3) The exhortation of the
gene­

ral was brief and forcible. "Paradise is before you, the devil and hell-fire
in your

rear." Yet such was the weight of the Roman cavalry, that the right wing of
the

Arabs was broken and separated from the main body. Thrice, did they retreat in

disorder, and thrice were they driven back to the charge by the reproaches and

blows of the women. In the intervals of action, Abu Obeidah visited tire tents
of

his brethren, prolonged their repose by repeating at once the prayers of two
diffe­

rent hours; bound up their wounds with his own hands, and administered the
com­

fortable reflection, that the infidels partook of their sufferings without
partaking

of their reward. Four thousand and thirty of the Moslems were buried in the

field of battle; and the skill of the Armenian archers enabled seven hundred
to

boast that they had lost an eye in that meritorious service. The veterans of
the

Syrian war acknowledged that it was the hardest and most doubtful of the ciays

which they had seen." But it was likewise the most decisive: many thousands of

the Greeks and Syrians fell by the swords of the Arabs; many were slaughtered
»

after the defeat, in the woods and mountains; many, by mistaking the ford,
were

drowned in the waters of the Yermuk; and however the loss may be magnified,(4)

the Christian writers confess and bewail the bloody punishment of their sins.
(5)

Manuel the Roman general, was either killed at Damascus, or took refuge in the

monastery of mount Sinai. An exile in the Byzantine court, Jabalah lamented
the

manners of Arabia, and his unlucky preference of the Christian cause.(6) He

(1) I have read somewh vein Tacitus, or Grotius, Snbjectos haber.t lanqtiam.
suos, viles tnnquam alieno*.

Same Greek officer* ravished the wife, and murdtrcd thechild, of their Syrian
iandlord; .and Manuel smiled at

Iiis imdutiful complaint.

(2) See Reelaml, Palestine, torn. i. p. 272. 233. torn, ii. p. 771. 775. This
learned profVsior was equal to the

task of describing the Holy Land, sineehe wns alike conversant with Grfek and
Latin, with Hebrew and Ara­

bian literature. The Yermuk, or Hieromax, is noticed hyCellarius (Geoeraph.
Antiq. torn. ii. p. 3Q2.;and

d'Anville (Geographic Ancienne, torn, ii, p. 185.) The Arabs anil even
Abulfcda himself, do not see™ tp re­

cognise the scene of their victory.

(3) These women were of the tribe of the Hamyrites, who derived their origin
from the ancient Amalekitef.

Their females were accustomed to ride on horseback, and to fight like the
Arra/.ons of old (Ockley, vol. i. p. 67.)

(4) We killed of them, says Abu Obeidah to the caliph, one hundred and fifty
thousand, and made prisoners

fnrty thousand (Ockley, vol.*i. p. 241.) As I cannot doubt his veracity, nor
believe his computation, I must

suspect that the Arabic historians indulged themselves in the practice of
composing speeches and letters for

their heroes.

(5) After deploring the sins of the Christians, Theopbr.nes adds (Chronograph,
p. 276.) uvurrn » *pw**e

Aux?~',x ivrrTMV tifiet; tov tou XpWTOv, jtai ytvtTeit TTtt'jrrn $>op*
Trrwtr*," tou P»/*x«sa« TrpXTtu h xecrce to TowSoxw Keyto

(does he mean Aiznadin?) teat Itfpwtuv, xca tijv »6,-rj«ow a^«tTo;£wi«v. His
account is brief and obscure, but he

accuses the numbers of the enemy, the adverse wind, and the cloud of dust: p*
SmtS'.mK (the Homan*)«vr<*pi<r-

o)»Trr»i c^Spei; Sin rev gcvipSTSe, (jttmitmi, xsc< tetvrovf Sttl.h'ivns (I;
rcrs o-rwaSoti; roy Xifftixysj trormuiv ixm

KswX.st'ra aeJV. (Chronograph, p. 280.)

(») See Abulfcda (Anna". Moslem, p. 70,7!.) who transcribes the poetical
complaint of Jabalah himself, am)

