THE DECLINE AND FALL

attested by the seals of twelve interpreters. The liberty of commerce and
reli­

gion was fixed and defined; the allies of the emperor and the great king were
in­

cluded in the same benefits and obligations; and the most scrupulous
precautions

were provided to prevent or determine the accidental disputes that might arise
on

the confines of two hostile nations. After twenty years of destructive though

feeble war, the limits still remained without alteration; and Chosroes was
persuaded

to renounce his dangerous claim to the possession or sovereignty of Colchos
and its

dependant states. Rich in the accumulated treasures of the east, he extorted
from

the Romans an annual payment of thirty thousand pieces of gold; and the
smallness

of the sum revealed the disgrace of a tribute in its naked deformity. In a
previous

debate, the chariot of Sesostris, and the wheel of fortune, were applied by
one of the

ministers of Justinian, who observed, that the reduction of Antioch, and some
Sy­

rian cities, had elevated beyond measure the vain and ambitious spirit of the
bar­

barian. " You are mistaken," replied the modest Persian: "thekin^ of kings,

the lord of mankind, looks down with contempt on such petty acquisitions; and

of the ten nations, vanquished by his invincible arms, he esteems the Romans
as

the least formidable. "(1) According to the orientals, the empire of Nushirvan
ex­

tended from Ferganah in Transoxiana to Yemen or Arabia Felix. He subdued the

rebels of Hyrcania, reduced the provinces of Cabul and Zablestan on the banks
of

the Indus, broke the power of the Euthalites, terminated by an honourable
treaty

the Turkish war, and admitted the daughter of the great khan into the number
of

his lawful wives. Victorious and respected among the princes of Asia, he gave

audience, in his palace of Madain, or Ctesiphon, to the ambassadors of the
world.

Their gifts or tributes, arms, rich garments, gems, slaves, or aromatics, were
hum­

bly presented at the foot of his throne; and he condescended to accept from
the king

of India, ten quintals of the wood of aloes, a maid seven cubits in height,
and

a carpet softer than silk, the skin, as it was reported, of an extraordinary
ser­

pent (2)

Justinian had been reproached for his alliance with the Ethiopians, as if he
at­

tempted to introduce a people of savage negroes into the system of civilized
soci­

ety. But the friends of the Roman empire, the Axumites, or Abyssinians, may

be always distinguished from the original natives of Africa. (3) The hand of
na­

ture has flattened the noses of the negroes, covered their heads with shaggy
wool,

and tinged their skin with inherent and indelible blackness. But the olive
com­

plexion of the Abyssinians, their hair, shape, and features, distinctly mark
them

as a colony of Arabs; and this descent is confirmed by the resemblance of lan­

guage and manners, the report of an ancient emigration, and the narrow
interval

between the shores of the Red Sea. Christianity had raised that nation above

the level of African barbarism;(4) their intercourse with Egypt, and the
succes­

sors of Constantine,(5) had communicated the rudiments of the arts and
sciences;

their vessels traded to the isle of Ceylon, (6) and seven kingdoms obeyed the
Ne­

gus or supreme prince of Abyssinia. The independence of the Homerites, who

reigned in the rich and happy Arabia, was first violated by an Ethiopian
conque­

ror; he drew his hereditary claim from the queen of Sheba,(7) and his ambition

■was sanctified by religious zeal. The Jews, powerful and active in exile, had
se­

duced the mind of Dunaan, prince of the Homerites. They urged him to retali­

ate the persecution inflicted by the imperial laws on their unfortunate
brethren:

some Roman merchants were injuriously treated; and several Christians of Ne-

(1) The negotiations And treaties between Justinian and Chosroes are copiously
explained byProeopius

(Persic, lib. ii. c. 10.13. 28—28. Gothic, lib. iL c. 11—15.;) Agathias (lib.
iv. p. 141.142..) and Menander (in

Excerpt. Legat. p. 132-147.) Consult Barbeyrac, Hist, des Anciens Traites,
torn. ii. p. 154.161—184. 193.

200.

(2) D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 680,681. 294,295.

e colony of

- ,-, --- .— , — , j the nestoa

of the adjacent and similar regions.

(4) The Portuguese missionaries, Alvarez, (Ramutio, torn. i. fol. 204. rect.
274. vers.;) Rermude/. (Pnrchas's

Pilpims, vol.ii. lib. v.c.7.p. 1149—US8.0 Lobo (Relation, &c. par. M. le
Grand, with fifteen Dissertations!

Pa™, 1728.,) and Tellcz (Relations de Thevenot. part 4.,) could only relate of
modern Abyssinia what they

had seen or Invented. The erudition of Ludolpliui (Hist. £ihiopica,
Francofurt. 1681. Commentariiii, 1691.

Appendix, 1694 > in twenty-fire languages, conld add little concerning its
ancient history. Yet the tame of

* o£r **lll,t"aeus' the conqueror of Yemen, is celebrated in national songs and legends.

(5) The negotiations of Justinian with the Axumites, or Ethiopians, are
recorded by Procoplus (Persic, lib.

i. c. 19,20,) and John Malala (torn. ii. p. 163-165.193—196.) The historian of
Antioch quotes the original

narrative of the ambassador Nonnolus, of which Phofius (Bibliot. cod. 3.) lias
preserved a curious extract.

(«)The trade of the Axumites to the coast of India and Africa, and the isle of
Ceylon, is curiously repre­

sented by Cosmas Indicopleustes (Topograph. Christian, lib. ii. p. 132.
138-140. lib, xi» p. 338,339.)

(7; Ludolplt. Hist, et Comment. *thiop. lib. ii. c. 3.

