24f> THE DECLINE AND FALL

and it was decreed in her bloody council that Constantine should be rendered
in­

capable of the throne: her emissaries assaulted the sleeping prince, and
stabbed

their daggers with such violence and precipitation into his eyes, as if they
meant

to execute a mortal sentence. An ambiguous passage of Theophanes persuaded

the annalist of the church that death was the immediate consequence of this
bar­

barous execution. The catholics have been deceived or subdued by the authority

of Baronius; and protestant zeal has re-echoed the words of a cardinal,
desirous,

as it should seem, to favour the patroness of images. Yet the blind son of
Irene

survived many years, oppressed by the court, and forgotten by the world; the

Isaurian dynasty was silently extinguished; and the memory of Constantine was

recalled only by'the nuptials of his daughter Euphrosyne with the emperor Mi­

chael II.

The most bigoted orthodoxy has justly execrated the unnatural mother, who may

not easily be paralleled in the history of crimes. To her bloody deed
superstition

has attributed a subsequent darkness of seventeen days; during which many
vessels

in mid-day were driven from their course, as if the sun, a globe of fire so
vast and

so remote, could sympathise with the atoms of a revolving planet On earth, the

crime of Irene was left five years unpunished; her reign was crowned with
exter­

nal splendour; and if she could silence the voice of conscience, she neither
heard

nor regarded the reproaches of mankind. The Roman world bowed to the govern­

ment of a female; and as she moved through the streets of Constantinople, the

reins of her four milk-white steeds were held by as many patricians, who
marched

on foot before the golden chariot of their queen. But these patricians were
for

the most part eunuchs; and their black ingratitude justified, on this
occasion, the

popular hatred and contempt. Raised, enriched, intrusted with the first
dignities

of the empire, they basely conspired against their benefactress: the great
treasu­

rer Nicephorus was secretly invested with the purple; her successor was intro­

duced into the palace, and crowned at St. Sophia by the venal patriarchs In
their

first interview, she recapitulated with dignity the revolutions of her life,
gently ac­

cused the perfidy of Nicephorus, insinuated that he owed his life to her
unsuspi­

cious clemency, and, for the throne and treasures which she resigned,
solicited a de­

cent and honourable retreat. His avarice refused this modest compensation; and

in her exile to the isle of Lesbos, the empress earned a scanty subsistence by
the

labours of her distaff.

Many tyrants have reigned undoubtedly more criminal than Nicephorus, but

none perhaps have more deeply incurred the universal abhorrence of their
people.

His character was stained with the three odious vices of hypocrisy,
ingratitude,

and avarice; his want of virtue was not redeemed by any superior talents, nor
his

want of talents, by any pleasing qualifications^ Unskilful and unfortunate in
war,

Nicephorus was vanquished by the Saracens, and slain by the Bulgarians; and

the advantage of his death overbalanced, in the public opinion, the
destruction of

a Roman army. His son and heir Stauracius escaped from the field with a mortal

wound: yet six months of an expiring life were sufficient to refute his
indecent,

though popular declaration, that he would in all things avoid the example of
his

father. On the near prospect of his decease, Michael, the great master of the

palace, and the husband of his sister Procopia, was named by every person of
the

palace and city, except by his envious brother. Tenacious of a sceptrer now
fall­

ing from his hand, he conspired against the life of his successor, and
cherished the

idea of changing to a democracy the Roman empire. But these rash projects
served

only to inflame the zeal of the people, and to remove the scruples of the
candidate:

Michael L accepted the purple, and before he sunk into the grave, the son of
Ni­

cephorus implored the clemency of his new sovereign. Had Michael in an age

of peace ascended an hereditary throne, he might have reigned and died the
father

of his people: but his mild virtues were adapted to the shade of private life,
nor

was he capable of controlling the ambition of his equals, or of resisting the
arms

of the victorious Bulgarians. While his want of ability and success exposed
him

to the contempt of the soldiers, the masculine spirit of his wife Procopia
awakened

their indignation. Even the Greeks of the ninth century were provoked by the

insolence of a female, who, in the front of the standards, presumed to direct
their

discipline and animate their valour; and their licentious clamours advised the
new

Semiramis to reverence the majesty of a Roman camp. After an unsuccessful

taimpaign, the emperor left, in their winter quarters of Thrace, a disaffected
army

under the command of his enemies; and their artful eloquence persuaded the
sol-

fliers to break the dominion of the eunuchs, to degrade the husband of
Procopia,

