306 THE DECLINE ANB FALL

hair, which falls each year and is renewed, is coarsely manufactured into the
gar­

ments, the furniture and the tents, of the Bedoweens. In the rainy seasons
they

consume the rare and insufficient herbage of the desert: during the heats of
sum­

mer and the scarcity of winter, they remove their encampments to the sea-
coast,

the hills of Yemen, or the neighbourhood of the Euphrates, and have often ex­

torted the dangerous license' of visiting the banks of the Nile, and the
villages of

Syria and Palestine. The life of a wandering Arab is a life of danger and
distress;

and though sometimes, by rapine or exchange, he may appropriate the fruits of

industry, a private citizen in Europe is in the possession of more solid and
pleasing

luxury, than the proudest emir, who marches in the field at the head of ten
thou­

sand horse.

Yet an essential difference may be found between the hordes of Scythia and the

Arabian tribes, since many of the latter were collected into towns, and
employed

in the labours of trade and agriculture. A part of their time and industry was

still devoted to the management of their cattle: they mingled, in peace and
war,

with their brethren of the desert; and the Bedoweens derived from their useful

intercourse, some supply of their wants, and some rudiments of art and know­

ledge. A mong the forty-two cities of Arabia, (1) enumerated by Abulfeda, the
most

ancient and populous were situate in the hafifty Yemen; the towers of
Saana,(2)

and the marvellous reservoir of Merab,(3) were constructed by the kings of the

Homerites; but their profane lustre was eclipsed by the prophetic glories of
Me-

dina(4) and Mf.cca,(5) near the Red Sea, and at the distance from each other
of

two hundred and seventy miles. The last of these holy places was known to the

Greeks under the name of Macoraba; and the termination of the word is expres­

sive of its greatness, which has not indeed, in the most flourishing period,
exceed­

ed the size and populousness of Marseilles. Some latent motive, perhaps of su­

perstition, must have impelled the founders, in the choice of a most unpro­

mising situation. They erected their habitations of mud or stone, in a plain
about

two miles long, and one mile broad, at the foot of three barren mountains: the
soil

is a rock, the water, even of the holy well of Zemzem, is bitter or brackish;
the

pastures are remote from the city: and grapes are transported above seventy
miles

from the gardens of Tayef, The fame and spirit of the Koreishites, who reigned

in Mecca, were conspicuous among the Arabian tribes; but their ungrateful soil

refused the labours of agriculture, and their position was favourable to the
enter­

prises of trade. By the sea-port of Gedda, at the distance only of forty
miles, they

maintained an easy correspondence with Abyssinia; and that Christian kingdom

afforded the first refuge to the disciples of Mahomet. The treasures of Africa

were conveyed over the peninsula to Gerrha or Katiff, in the province of
Bahrein,

a city built, as it is said, of rock salt, by the Chaldean exiles:(6) and from
thence,

with the native pearls of the Persian gulf, they were floated on rafts to the
mouth

of the Euphrates. Mecca is placed almost at an equal distance, a month's jour­

ney, between Yemen on the right, and Syria on-the left hand. The former was

the winter, the latter the summer, stations of her caravans; and their
seasonable

arrival relieved the ships of India from their tedious and troublesome
navigation

of the Red Sea. In the markets of Saana and Merab, in the harbours of Oman

the camel; bat the diet of Mecca, and Medina, was already more luxurious.
(Gagnier, Vie de Mabomet, torn.

iii. p. 404.)

(1) Yet Marcian of Heraclea fin Periplo, p. 16. in torn. i. Hudson, Minor.
Geograph.) reckons one hundred

and sixty-four towns in Arabia Felix. The size of the towns might be small—the
faith of the writer might be

large.

(2) It is compared by Abulfeda (in Hudson, torn. iii. p. S4.) to Damascus, and
is still the residence of the Iman

of Yemen. (Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. i. p. 331—342.) Saana is twenty-four
parasangs from Dasar, (Abulfeda,

p. 51.) and sixty-eight from Aden. (p. 53.)

(3) Pocock, Specimen, p. 57. Geograph. Nubiensis, p. 52. Moriaba, or Merab,
six miles in circumference

was destroyed by the legions of Augustus, (Plin. Hist. Nat. 6. 32.) and had
not revived in the fourteenth cen­

tury. (Abulfed. D-script. Arab. p. 58.)

(4) The name of city, Medina, was appropriated x«t> ile-/x«, to Yatreb, (the
Latrippa of the GreeksJ tke

seat of the prophet. The distances from Medina are reckoned by Abulfeda in
stations, or days'journey of a

caravan: (p. 15.) to Bahrein, fifteen; to Bassora. eighteen: to Cusah, twenty;
to Damascus or Palestine, twen­

ty; to Cairo, twenty-five; to Mecca, ten; from Mecca to Saana, (p. 52.) or
Aden, thirty; to Cairo, thirty-one

days, or four hundred and twelve hours; (Shaw's Travels, p. 477.) which,
according to the estimate of d'An-

ville, (Misures Itineraires, p. 90.) allows about twenty-five English miles
for a day's journey. From the land

of frankincense (Hadramant. in Yemen, between Aden and Cape Fartasch) to Gaza,
jn Syria, Pliny (Hist.

Nat. 12. 32.) compiit s sixty-five mansions of camels. These measu res may
assist fancy and elucidate tacts.

(5) Our notions of M -cca mnst be drawn from the Arabians. (d'Herbelot,
Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 368—

371. Pocock, Specimen, p. 125—128. Abulfeda, p. 11—40.) As no unbeliever is
permitted to enter the city,

our travellers are silent; and the short hints of Thevenot, (Voyages du
Lavant, part 1. p. 408.) are taken from

the suspicious mouth of an African renegado. Some Persians counted six
thousand houses. (Cbardin, torn.

iv. p. 167.) '

(6) Strabo, lib.xvi. p. 1110. Sec one of these salt-houses near Baswra, in
d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 6­

