224, THE DECLINE AND FALL

baric tongues, which had been revived in the studies of modern Europe, were
un­

intelligible to the inhabitants of the Roman empire. The Syriac and the
Coptic,

the Armenian and the Ethiopic, are consecrated in the service of their
respective

churches; and their theology is enriched by domestic versions,(l) both of the

Scriptures and of the most popular fathers. After a period of thirteen hundred

and sixty years, the spark of controversy, first kindled by a sermon of
Nestorius,

still burns in the bosom of the east, and the hostile communions still
maintain the

faith and discipline of their founders. In the most abject state of ignorance,
po­

verty, and servitude, the Nestorians and Monophysites reject the spiritual
supre­

macy of Rome, and cherish the toleration of their Turkish masters, which
allows

them to anathematise, on one hand, St. Cyril and the synod of Ephesus; on the

other, pope Leo and the council of Chalcedon. The weight which they cast into

the downfall of the eastern empire demands our notice; and the reader may be

amused with the various prospects of, I. The Nestorians. II. The Jacobites.
(2) III.

The Maronites. IV. The Armenians. V. The Copts; and, VI. The Abyssinians.

To the three former, the Syriac is common; but of the latter, each is
discrimi­

nated by the use of a national idiom. Yet the modern natives of Armenia and

Abyssinia would be incapable of conversing with their ancestors; and the
Chris­

tians of Egypt and Syria, who reject the religion, have adopted the language,
of

the Arabians. The lapse of time has seconded the sacerdotal arts; and in the

east, as well as in the west, the Deity is addressed in an obsolete tongue,
unknown

to the majority of the congregation.

I. Both in his native and his episcopal province, the heresy of the
unfortunate

Nestorius was speedily obliterated. The oriental bishops, who at Ephesus had

resisted to his face the arrogance of Cyril, were mollified by his tardy
concessions.

The same prelates, or their successors, subscribed, not without a murmur, the
de­

crees of Chalcedon: the power of the Monophysites reconciled them with the

catholics in the conformity of passion, of interest, and insensibility of
belief; and

their last reluctant sigh was breathed in the defence of the three chapters.
Their

dissenting brethren, less moderate or more sincere, were crushed by the penal

laws: and as early as the reign of Justinian, it became difficult to find a
church of

Nestorians within the limits of the Roman empire. Beyond those limits they had

discovered a new world, in which they might hope for liberty, and aspire to
con­

quest. In Persia, notwithstanding the resistance of the Magi, Christianity had

struck a deep root, and the nations of the east reposed under its salutary
shade.

The catholic, or primate, resided in the capital: in his synods, and in their
dio-

cesses, his metropolitans, bishops, and clergy, represented the pomp and
honour

of a regular hierarchy: they rejoiced in the increase of proselytes, who were
con­

verted from the Zendavesta to the gospel, from the secular to: the monastic
life;

and their zeal was stimulated by the presence of an artful and formidable
enemy.

The Persian church had been founded by the missionaries of Syria; and their
lan­

guage, discipline, and doctrine, were closely interwoven with its original
frame.

The catholics were elected and ordained by their own suffragans; but their
filial

dependance on the patriarchs of Antioch is attested by the canons of the
oriental

church.(S) In the Persian school of Edessa,(4) the rising generations of the
faith­

ful imbibed their theological idiom; they studied in the Syriac version the
ten

thousand volumes of Theodore of Mopsuestia, and they revered the apostolic
faith

0) I shall not enrich ray ignorance with the spoilt of Simon, Walton* Mill,
Wetstein, Assemannus, LudoT-

phus. La Croze, whom I have consulted with some care. It appears, 1. That of
all the versions which are ce­

lebrated by the fathers, it is doubtful whether any are now extant in their
pristine integrity. 2. That the Sy­

riac has the best claim; and that the consent of the oriental sects is a proof
that it is more ancient than their

schism.

(2) On the account of the Monophysites and Nestorians, 1 am deeply indebted to
the Bibliotheca Orientalis

Clementino-Vaticana of Joseph Simon Assemannus. That learned Maronite was
despatched in the year 1715,

by pope Clement XI. to visit the monasteries of Egypt and Syria in search of
MSS. His four folio volumes,

published at Rome in 1719—1728. contain a part only, though perhaps the most
valuable of his extensive pro­

ject. As a native and as a scholar he possessed the Syriac literature; and,
though a dependent of Rome, he

wished to be moderate and candid.

(3) See the A rabic canons of Nice in the translation of Abraham Ecchelensis,
No. 37—40. Concil. torn. ii. p.

335, 33a. edit. Venet. These vulgar titles, Nicene and Arabic, are both
apocryphal. The council of Nice

enacted no more than twenty canons (Theodoret,' Hist. Eccles. lib. i.c.
viii.;) and the remainder, seventy or

eighty, were collected from the synods of the Greek church. The Syriac edition
ofMaruthas is no longer ex­

tant (Asseman. Bibliot. Oriental, torn. i. p. 195. torn. iii. p. 74.,) and the
Arabic version is marked with many

recent interpolations. Tet this code contains many curious relics of
ecclesiastical discipline; and rinee it b

equally revered by all the eastern communions, it was probably finished before
the schism of the Nestorians

and Jacobites (Fabric. Bibliot. Grrec. torn. xi. p. 363—367.) i '

(4) Theodore the Reader (lib. ii. c. 5.40. ad calcem Hist. Eccles.) has
noticed this Persian school of Edessa.

Its ancient splendour, and the two eras of its downfall (A. D. 431 and 489.)
are clearlvdiscussed by Asscmamn

fBlblmtb. Onent. trim. ii. p. 492. iii. p. 376.379. iv. p. 70. 924.

