OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. .325

and, holy martyrdom of his disciple Nestorius, whose person and language were

equally unknown to the nations beyond the Tigris. The first indelible lesson
of

Ibas, bishop of Edessa, taught them to execrate the £gyfitiant, who, in the
synod

of Ephesus, had impiously confounded the two natures of Christ, The flight of

the masters and scholars, who were twice expelled from the Athens of Syria,
dis­

persed a crowd of missionaries, inflamed by the double zeal of religion and
revenge.

And the rigid unity of the Monophysites, who, under the reigns of Zeno and

Anastasius, had invaded the thrones of the east, provoked their antagonists,
in a

land of freedom, to avow a moral, rather than a physical union of the twO
persons

of Christ. Since the first preaching of the gospel, the Sassanian kings
beheld,

with an eye of suspicion, a race of aliens and apostates, who had embraced the

religion, and who might favour the cause, of the hereditary foes of their
country.

The royal edicts had often prohibited their dangerous correspondence with the

Syrian clergy; the progress of the schism was grateful to the jealous pride of
Pe-

rozes; and he listened to the eloquence of an artful prelate who painted
Nestorius

as the friend of Persia, and urged him to secure the fidelity of his Christian
sub­

jects, by granting a just preference to the victims and enemies of the Roman
ty­

rant. The Nestorians composed a large majority of the clergy and people: they

were encouraged by the smde, and armed with the sword of despotism; yet many

of their weaker brethren were startled at the thought of breaking loose from
the

communion of the Christian world, and the blood of seven thousand seven
hundred

Monophysites or catholics, confirmed the uniformity of faith and discipline in
the

churches of Persia. (1) Their ecclesiastical institutions are distinguished by
a

liberal principle of reason, or at least of policy: the austerity of the
cloister was

relaxed and gradually forgotten; houses of charity were endowed for the educa­

tion of orphans and foundlings; the law of celibacy, so forcibly recommended
to

the Greeks and Latins, was disregarded by the Persian clergy; and the number
of

the elect was multiplied by the public and reiterated nuptials of the priests,
the

bishops, and even the patriarch himself. To this standard of natural and
religious

freedom, myriads of fugitives resorted from all the provinces of the eastern
em­

pire: the narrow bigotry of Justinian was punished by the emigration of his
most

industrious subjects; they transported into Persia the arts both of peace and
war:

and those who deserved the favour, were promoted in the service of a
discerning

monarch. The arms of Nushirvan, and his fiercer grandson, were assisted with
ad­

vice, and money, and troops, by the desperate sectaries who still lurked in
their

native cities of the east: their zeal was rewarded with the gift of the
catholic

churches; but when those cities and churches were recovered by Heraclius,
their

open profession of treason and heresy compelled them to seek a refuge in the

realm of their foreign ally. But the seeming tranquillity of the Nestorians
was

often endangered, and sometimes overthrown. They were involved in the com­

mon evils of oriental despotism: their enmity to Rome could not always atone
for

their attachment to the gospel: and a colony of three hundred thousand
Jacobites,

the captives of Apamea and Antioch,- was permitted to erect a hostile altar in
the

face of the catholic, and in the sunshine of the court. In his last treaty,
Justinian

introduced some conditions which tended to enlarge and fortify the toleration
of

Christianity in Persia. The emperor, ignorant of the rights of conscience, was

incapable of pity or esteem for the heretics who denied the authority of the
holy

synods: but he flattered himself that they would gradually perceive the
temporal

benefits of union with the empire and the church of Rome; and if he failed in
ex­

citing their gratitude, he might hope to provoke the jealousy of their
sovereign.

In a later age, the Lutherans have been burnt at Paris, and protected in
Germa­

ny, by the superstition and policy of the most Christian king.

The desire of gaining souls for God, and subjects for the church, has excited
in

every age the diligence of the Christian priests. From the conquest of Persia

they carried their spiritual arms to the north, the east, and the south; and
the sim­

plicity of the gospel was fashioned and painted with the colours of the Syriac
the­

ology. In the sixth century, according to the report of a Nestorian traveller,
(2)

.(l) A dissertation on the state of the Nestorians has swelled in the hand* of
Assemanni to a folio volume of

nine hundred and fifty pa£es,aml his learned researches are digested i'> the
most lucid order. Resides (his

fourth volume of the RibliothecaOrier.tftlis,the extracts in the three
preceding tomes (torn. i. p. 203. ii. p.331—

483. iii. 64~7o. 378—395, &e. 403—408. 580— 589.) may be usefuily consulted.

(3) See the Topoerraphia Chrtstiani of Cosmas, surnamed Indico-pleustes, on
the Indian navigator, !ib.-iii. p.

178,179. lib. ai. p. 337. The entire work,of which some curious extracts may
te found in Photius (Cad. ixxvl.

Vox.. III. -29

