172 THE DECLINE AND fc'ALL

as odious and oppressive; whilst he protested against the imperial edicts-,
the pious

cowardice of the soldiers who deserted a military for a monastic life. If we
may

credit his own declarations, it would have been easy for Gregory to
exterminate

the Lombards by their domestic factions, without leaving a king, a duke, or a

count, to save that unfortunate nation from the vengeance of their foes. As a

Christian bishop, he preferred the salutary offices of peace; his mediations
ap­

peased the tumult of arms; but he was too conscious of the arts of the Greeks,

and the passions of the Lombards, to engage his sacred promise for the obser­

vance of the truce. Disappointed in the hope of a general and lasting treaty,
he

presumed to save his country without the consent of the emperor or the exarch.

The sword of the enemy was suspended over Rome; it was averted by the mild

eloquence and seasonable gifts of the pontiff, who commanded the respect of
he­

retics and barbarians. The merits of Gregory were treated by the Byzantine

court with reproach and insult; but in the attachment of a grateful people, he

found the purest reward of a citizen, and the best right of a sovereign, (1)

CHAPTER XLVI.

Revolutions of Persia after the death of Chosroes or Nushirian.—His son,
Hormouz, a ty­

rant, is deposed.—Usurpation of Baharam.'—Flight and restoration of Chosroes
II.—

His gratitude to the Romans.—The chagan of the Avars.—Revolt of the army
against

Maurice—His death.—Tyranny of Pluscas.—Elevation of Heraclius.—Tlie Persian

war.—Chosroes subdues Syria, Egypt, and Asia Minor.—Siege of Constantinople by

the Persians and Avars—Persian Expeditions.— Victories and triumph of
Heraclius.

Tse conflict of Rome and Persia was prolonged from the death of Crassus to

the reign of Heraclius. An experience of seven hundred years might convince

the rival nations of the impossibility of maintaining their conquests, beyond
the

fatal limits of the Tigris and Euphrates. Yet the emulation of Trajan and Ju­

lian was awakened by the trophies of Alexander, and the sovereigns of Persia
in­

dulged the ambitious hope of restoring the empire of Cyrus. (2) Such
extraordi­

nary efforts of power and courage will always Command the attention of
posterity;

but the events by which the fate of nations is not materially changed, leave a
faint

impression on the page of history, and the patience of the reader would be ex­

hausted by the repetition of the same hostilities, undertaken without cause,
pro­

secuted without glory, and terminated without eifect. The arts of negotiation,

unknown to the simple greatness of the senate and the Casars, were assiduously

cultivated by the Byzantine princes; and the memorials of their perpetual
embas­

sies^) repeat, with the same uniform prolixity, the language of falsehood and
de­

clamation, the insolence of the barbarians, and the servile temper of the
tributary

Greeks. Lamenting the barren superfluity of materials, I have studied to com­

press the narrative of these uninteresting transactions: but the just
Nushirvan is

still applauded as the model of oriental kings, and the ambition of his
grandson

Chosroes prepared the revolution of the east, which was speedily accomplished

by the arms and the religion of the successors of Mahomet.

In the useless altercations that precede and justify the quarrels of princes,
the

Greeks and the barbarians accuse each other of violating the peace which had

been concluded between the two empires about four years before the death of
Jus­

tinian. The sovereign of Persia and India aspired to reduce, under his
obedience,

the province of Yemen, or Arabia Pelix;(4) the distant land of myrrh and fran­

kincense, which had escaped, rather than opposed, the conquerors of the east.

After the defeat of Abrahah under the walls of Mecca, the discord of his sons
and

brothers gave an easy entrance to the Persians: they chased the strangers of

. (1) The temporal reign of Gregory 1. is ably exposed by Sigonius in the
first book, de Regno Italia. See

hit works, torn. ii. p. 44—75.

> (2) Missi qui . . . reposeerent .. . veteres Persarum ac Macedonnm terminus,
seqne invasurura possessa

Cvro et post Alexandre, per vanilnquentiam ac minus faciebut. Tacit. Annal. 6.
31. Such was the language

of the Arsacidfe; I have repeatedly marked the lofty claims of tbe Sassanians.

(5) See the embassies of Menander, extracted and preserved in the tenth
century by the order of Constan-

tine Po-phyrogenitus.

(4) The general independence of the Arabs, which cannot be admitted without
many lln. itions, is blindly

asserted in a separate dissertation of the authors of the Universal History,
vol. xx. p. 190- A perpetual

miracle is supposed to have guarded the prophecy in tbvour of the posterity of
Ishmael; at /hew leasined bi­

gots are not afraid to risk the truth or Christianity on this frail and
slippery fotradaHion.

