OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.

the 1ok> and usurpation of the ecclesiastical patrimonies, that they could
neither

support the state of a prince, nor exercise the charity of a priest. (1) The
influ­

ence of two sister prostitutes, Marozia and Theodora, was founded on their
wealth

and beauty, their political and amorous intrigues: the most strenuous of their

lovers was rewarded with the Roman mitre, and their reign(2) may have sug­

gested to the darker ages(3) the fable(4) of a female pope. (5) The bastard
son,

the grandson, and the great grandson, of Marozia, a rare genealogy, were
seated

in the chair of St. Peter, and it was at the age of nineteen years that the
second

of these became the head of the Latin church. His youth and manhood were of

a suitable complexion; and the nations of pilgrims could bear testimony to the

charges that were urged against him in a Roman synod, and in the presence of

Otho the great. As John XII. had renounced the dress and decencies of his pro­

fession, the soldier may not perhaps be dishonoured by the wine which he
drank,

the blood that he spilt, the flames that he kindled, or the licentious
pursuits of

gaming and hunting. His open simony might be the consequence of distress; and

his blasphemous invocation of Jupiter and Venus, if it be time, could not
possibly

be serious. But we read with some surprise, that the worthy grandson of
Marozia

lived in public adultery with the matrons of Rome; that the Lateran palace was

turned into a school for prostitution, and that his rapes of virgins and
widows had

deterred the female pilgrims from visiting the tomb of St. Peter, lest, in the
devout

act, they should be violated by his successor. (6) The protestants have dwelt
with

malicious pleasure on these characters of antichrist; but to a philosophic
eye, the

vices of the clergy are far less dangerous than their virtues. After a long
series

of scandal, the apostolic see was reformed and exalted by the austerity and
zeal

of Gregory VII. That ambitious monk devoted his life to the execution of two

projects. I. To fix in the college of cardinals the freedom and independence
of

election, and for ever to abolish the right or usurpation of the emperors and
the

Roman people. II. To bestow and resume the western empire as a fief or be­

nefice^) of the church, and to extend his temporal dominion over kings and
king­

doms of the earth. After a contest of fifty years, the first of these designs
was

accomplished by the firm support of the ecclesiastical order, whose liberty
was

connected with that of their chief. But the second attempt, though it was

crowned with some partial and apparent success, has been vigorously resisted

by the secular power, and finally extinguished by the improvement of human

reason.

In the revival of the empire of Rome, neither the bishop nor the people could

bestow on Charlemagne, or Otho, the provinces which were lost, as they had

been won, by the chance of arms. But the Romans were free to choose a master

(1) T*e oppression and vices of the Roman church in the tenth century
arestrongly painted in thehistory

and legation of Liutprand; (see p. 440.450. 471—476. 479, &c.) and it is
whimsical enough to observe Murato-

ri tempering the invectives of Baronius against the popes. But these popes bad
been chosen, not by the

cardinals, but by lay-psjtrons.

(2) The time of pope Joan (papissa Joanna) is placed somewhat earlier than
Theodora or Marozia; and the

two years of her imaginary reign are forcibly inserted between Leo IV. and
Benedict III. But the cotetnpora-

ry Anastasius indissoluhly links the death of Leo and the elevation of
Benedict: (illico, mox, p. 247.) and the

accurate chronology of Pagi, Muratori. and Leibnitz, fixes both events to the
year 857.

(3) The advocates for pope Joan produce one hundred and fifty witnesses, or
rather echoes, of the four­

teenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries. They bear testimony against
themselves and the legend, by multi­

plying the proof that so curious a story must have been repeated by writers of
every description to whom it

was known. On those of the ninth and tenth centuries, the recent event would
have hashed with a double

force. Would Photius have spared such a reproach? Could Liutprand have missed
such scandal? It is

scarcely worth while to discuss the various readings of Martinus Polonus,
Sigebert of Gemblours, or even

Marianm Scotus; but a most palpable forgery is the passage of pope Joan, which
has been foisted into some

MSS. and editions of the Roman Anastasius.

(4) As false, it deserves that name; but I would not pronounce it incredible.
Suppose a famous French che­

valier of our own times to have been born in Italy, and educated in the
church, instead of the army: her me-

rit or fortune might have raised her to St. Peter's chair; her amours would
have been natural; her delivery id

the streets unlucky, bat not improbable.

(5) Till the reformation, the tale was repeated and believed without offence;
and Joan's female statue long

occupied her place among the popes in the cathedral of Sienna. (Pagi, Critica,
torn. iii. p. 621—623.) She has

been annihilated by two learned protestants. Blonde) and Bayte; (Dictionnaire
Critique, Papesse, Polonus,

Jtlondel) but their brethren were scandalized by this equitable and generous
criticism. Spaoheitn and Len.

fant attempt to save this poor engine of controversy; and even Mosheim
condescends to cherish some doubt

and suspicion, (p. 289.)

(6) Lateranense pabttium .... prostibulnm meretricum .... Testis omnium
gentium, praterquam Ro-

manorum, absentia mulierum, qua? sanctorum apostolorum limina orandi gratia
timent visere, cum nonnullas

ante diespancos, nunc audierint conjugata* viduas, virgines vi oppressisse.
(Liutprand, Hist. lib. vi. c. 6. p.

471. See the whole affair of John XI I. p. 471 —476.)

(7) A new example of the mischief of equivocation it the benrfirium (Ducange,
torn. i. p. 617, &c.) which

the pope conferred on the emperor Frederic I. since the Latin word may signify
either a legal fief, or a simple

favour, an obligation, (we want the word bienfalt.) See Schmidt, Hist, des
Allemands, torn. iii. p. 398—40G.

PfeffeJ, Abrege Chronologique, torn. i. p. 229.296.317.324.420.430. 500. 505.
S09. &c.

Vol. Ill 38

