OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 39

changes of each instant, weighed every possible advantage, transported his
person

to the scenes of danger, and communicated his spirit in calm and decisive
orders.

The contest was fiercely maintained from the morning to the evening; the Goths

were repulsed on all sides, and each Roman might boast that he had vanquished

thirty barbarians, if the. strange disproportion of numbers were not
counterba­

lanced by the merit of one man. Thirty thousand Goths, according to the con­

fession of their own chiefs, perished in this bloody action; and the multitude
of the

wounded was equal to that of the slain. When they advanced to the assault,
their

close disorder suffered not a javelin to fall without effect; and as they
retired the

populace of the city joined the pursuit, and slaughtered, with impunity, the
backs

of their flying enemies. Belisarius instantly sallied from the gates; and
while the

soldiers chanted his name and victory, the hostile engines of war were reduced
to

ashes. Such was the loss and consternation of the Goths, that, from this day,
the

siege of Rome degenerated into a tedious and indolent blockade; and they were
in­

cessantly harassed by the Roman general, who, in frequent skirmishes,
destroyed

above five thousand of their bravest troops. Their cavalry was unpractised in
the use

of the bow; their archers served on foot; and this divided force was incapable
of con­

tending with their adversaries, whose lances and arrows, at a distance, or at
hand,

were alike formidable. The consummate skill of Belisarius embraced the favour­

able opportunities: and as he chose the ground and the moment, as he pressed
the

charge, or sounded the retreat,(l) the squadrons which he detached were seldom

unsuccessful. These partial advantages diffused an impatient ardour among the

soldiers and people, who began to feel the hardships of a siege, and to
disregard

the dangers of a general engagement. Each plebeian conceived himself to be a

hero, and the infantry, who, since the decay of discipline, were rejected from
the

lineof battle, aspired to the ancient honours of the Roman legion. Belisarius

praised the spirit of his troops, condemned their presumption, yielded to
their cla­

mours, and prepared the remedies of a defeat, the possibility of which he
alone

had courage to suspect. In the quarter of the Vatican, the Romans prevailed;
and

if the irreparable moments had not been wasted in the pillage of the camp,
they

might have occupied the Milvian bridge, and charged in the rear of the Gothic

host. On the other side of the Tiber, Belisarius advanced from the Pincian,
and

Salarian gates. But his army, four thousand soldiers perhaps, was lost in a
spa­

cious plain; they were encompassed and oppressed by fresh jnultitudes, who
con­

tinually relieved the broken ranks of the barbarians. The valiant leaders of
the

infantry were unskilled to conquer: they died: the retreat (a hasty retreat)
was

covered by the prudence of the general, and the victors started back with
affright

from the formidable aspect of an armed rampart. The reputation of Belisarius

was unsullied by a defeat; and the vain confidence of the Goths was not less
ser­

viceable to his designs than the repentance and modesty of the Roman troops.

From the moment that Belisarius had determined to sustain a siege, his assidu­

ous care provided Rome against the danger of famine, more dreadful than the
Go­

thic arms." An extraordinary supply of corn was imported from Sicily; the har­

vests of Campania and Tuscany were forcibly swept for the use of the city: and

the rights of private property were infringed by the strong plea of the public
safe­

ty. It might easily be foreseen that the enemy would intercept the aqueducts;

and the cessation of the water-mills was the first inconvenience, which was
spee­

dily removed by mooring large vessels, and fixing mill-stones in the current
of the

river. The stream was soon embarrassed by the trunks of trees, and polluted

with dead bodies; yet so effectual were the precautions of the Roman general,
that

the waters of the Tiber still continued to give motion to the mills and drink
to the

inhabitants; the more distant quarters were supplied from domestic wells; and
a

besieged city might support, without impatience, the privation of her public
baths.

A large portion of Rome, from the Pranestine gate to the church of St. Paul,
was

never invested by the Goths; their excursions were restrained by the activity
of

the Moorish troops; the navigation of the Tiber, and the Latin, Appian, and
Os-

tian ways, were left free and unmolested for the introduction of corn and
cattle,

or the retreat of the inhabitants, who sought a refuge in Campania or Sicily.
Anx­

ious to relieve himself from a useless and devouring multitude, Belisarius
issued

his peremptory orders for the instant departure of the women, the children,
and

(1) For the Roman trumpet and its various notes, consult Lipsius, de Militia
Romano, (Opp. torn. iii. lib. iv.

Dialog, x. p. 125—120.) A mode of distinguishing the charge by the horse
trnmpet of solid brass, and the re­

treat by the foot trumpet of leather anrt light wood, was recommended bv
Procopius, and adopted by Belisa­

rius (Goth. lib. ii. c. 23.)

