THE DECLINE AND FALL

scourged by the hand, or the command of Musa. Yet so strict was the
discipline*

so pure the zeal, or so tame the spirit, of the primitive Moslems, that after
this

public indignity, Tarik could serve and be trusted in the reduction of the
Tarra-

gonese province. A mosch was erected at Saragossa, by the liberality of the
Ko-

reish; the port of Barcelona was opened to the vessels of Syria; and the Goths
were

pursued beyond the Pyrenean mountains into their Gallic province of Septimania

or Languedoc.(l) In the church of St. Mary at Carcassone, Musa found, but it
is

improbable that he left seven equestrian statues of massy silver; and from his
term

or column at Narbonne, he returned on his footsteps to the Gallician and
Lusitanian

shores of the ocean. During the absence of the father, his son Abdelaziz chas­

tised the insurgents of Seville, and reduced, from Malaga to Valentia, the
sea-coast

of the Mediterranean: his original treaty with the discreet and valiant
Theode­

mir,^) will represent the manners and policy of the times. " The conditions of

peace agreed and sworn between Abdelaziz, the son of Musa, the son of Nassir,

and Theodemir, prince of the Goths. In the name of the most merciful God, Ab­

delaziz makes peace on these conditions: that Theodemir shall not be disturbed
in

his principality; nor any injury be offered to the life or property, the wives
and

children, the religion and temples, of the Christians; that Theodemir shall
freely

deliver his seven cities, Orihuela, Valentola, Alicant, Mola, Vacasora,
Bigerra

(now Bejars,) Ora (or Opta,) and Lorca; that he shall not assist or entertain
the

enemies of the caliph, but shall faithfully communicate his knowledge of their

hostile designs: that himself, and each of the Gothic nobles, shall annually
pay

one piece of gold, four measures of wheat, as many of barley, with a certain
pro­

portion of honey, oil, and vinegar; and that each of their vassals shall be
taxed

at one moiety of the said imposition. Given the fourth of Regeb, in the year
of

the Hegira ninety-four, and subscribed with the names of four Mussulman wit­

nesses. "(3) Theodemir and his subjects were treated with uncommon lenity; but

the rate of tribute appears to have fluctuated from a tenth to a fifth,
according to

the submission or obstinacy of the Christians. (4) In this revolution, many
partial

calamities were inflicted by the carnal or religious passions of the
enthusiasts.

Some churches were profaned by the new worship; some relics or images were

confounded with idols; the rebels were put to the sword; and one town (an
obscure

place between Cordova and Seville) was rased to its foundations. Yet if we
com­

pare the invasion of Spain by the Goths, or its recovery by the kings of
Castille

and Arragon, we must applaud the moderation and discipline of the Arabian con­

querors.

The exploits of Musa were performed in the evening of life, though he affected

to disguise his age by colouring with a red powder the whiteness of his beard.

But in the love of action and glory, his breast was still fired with the
ardour of

youth; and the possession of Spain was considered only as the first step to
the mo­

narchy of Europe. With a powerful armament by sea and land, he was preparing

to repass the Pyrenees, to extinguish in Gaul and Italy the declining kingdoms
of

the Franks and Lombards, and to preach the unity of God on the altar of the
Va­

tican. From thence subduing the barbarians of Germany, he proposed to follow

the course of the Danube from its source to the Euxine sea, to overthrow the

Greek or Roman empire of Constantinople, and returning from Europe to Asia,

to unite his new acquisitions with Antioch and the provinces of Syria. (5) But
his

(1) Boih the interpreter! of Novairi, de Goignes (Hist, dej Huns, torn. i. p.
349.) and Cardonne, (Hilt, de

I'Afrique et de 1'Espagne, torn i. p. 93,94. 104,105.) lead Mnsa into the
Narbonnese Gaul. But I find no men­

tion of ihis enterprise either in Rodeiic of Toledo, or the MSS. of the
Escurial, and the invasion of the Sara­

cens » posrpom d.by a French chronicle till the ninth year after the conquest
of Spain, A. D. 721.(Pagi, Critica,

torn. iii. p. 177.195. Historians of France, torn, iii.) I much question
whether Musa ever crossed the Pyrenees.

(2) Four hundred years after Theodemir, his territories of Murcia and
Carthagena retain in the Nubian geo­

grapher F.drisi (p. 154.161.) the name of Tadmir. (D'Anville, Etats de
l*Europe, p. 156. Pagi, torn. iii. p. 174.)

In the present decay of Spanish agriculture, Mr. Swinburne (Travels into
Spain, p. 119.) surveyed with plea­

sure the delicious valley from Murcia to Orihuela, four leagues and a hall of
the finest com, pulse, lucern,

oranges, &c.

(3) See the treaty in Arabic and Latin, in the B'.bliotheea Arabico-Hispana,
torn. ii. p. 105,100. It is signed

the 4th of the month of Kegel), A. H. 94, the 5th of April, A. D. 713; a date
which seems to prolong the resist­

ance of Theodemir and the government of Musa.

(4) From the history of Sandoval, p. 87. Fleury (Hist, Eccles. torn. ix. p.
281.) has given the substance of

another treaty concluded A.M.C 782, A. D. 734, between an Arabian chief, and
the Goths and Romans, of

the territory of Conimbra in Portugal. The tax of the churches is fixed at
twenty-five pounds of gold; of

the monasteries, fifty; of the cathedrals, one. hundred: the Christians are
judged by their count, bat in capital

cases hentuit consult the_alcaide. The church-doors must be shut, and they
must respect the name of Maho­

met. I have not the original before ine; it would confirm or destroy a dark
suspicion, that the piece had been

forged tc introduce the immunity of a neighbouring convent.

(5) This design, which is attested by ttverat Arabian historians, (Cardonne,
torn. i. p. 95, 96.) may be com­

pared with that of Mithridatct, to march from the Crimea to Rome; or with that
of Csesar, to conquer the east.

