OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 121

stood without alteration above two hundred years.(l) From a similar motive of

national pride, both Livy and Dionysius are willing to believe, that the
deputies of

Rome visited Athens under the wise and splendid administration of Pericles;
and

the laws of Solon were transfused into the twelve tables. If such an embassy
had

indeed been received from the barbarians of Hesperia, the Roman name would

have been familiar to the Greeks before the reign of Alexander;(2) and the
faint­

est evidence would have been explored and celebrated by the curiosity of
succeed­

ing times. But the Athenian monuments are silent; nor will it seem credible
that

the patricians should undertake a long and perilous navigation to copy the
purest

model of a democracy. In the comparison of the tables of Solon with those of
the

decemvirs, some casual resemblance may be found; some rules which nature and

reason have revealed to every society; some proofs of a common descent from

Egypt or Phoenicia. (3) But in all the great lines of public and private
jurispru­

dence, the legislators of Rome and Athens appear to be strangers or adverse to

each other.

Whatever might be the origin or the merit of the twelve tables,(4) they ob­

tained among the Romans that blind and partial reverence which the lawyers of

every country delight to bestow on their municipal institutions. The study is
re­

commended by Cicero(5) as equally pleasant and instructive. " They amuse the

mind by the remembrance of old words and the portrait of ancient manners; they

inculcate the soundest principles of government and morals; and I am not
afraid

of civil prudence, and our superiority is the more conspicuous, if we deign to
cast

qur eyes on the rude and almost ridiculous jurisprudence of Draco, of Solon,
and

of Lycurgus." The twelve tables were committed to the memory of the young,

and the meditation of the old; they were transcribed and illustrated with
learned

diligence: they had escaped the flames of the Gauls; they subsisted in the age
of Jus­

tinian, and their subsequent loss has been imperfectly restored by the labour
of

modern critics. (6) But although these venerable monuments were considered as

the rule of right, and the fountain of justice,(7) they were overwhelmed by
the

weight and variety of new laws, which at the end of five centuries, became a
grie­

vance more intolerable than the vices of the city. (8) Three thousand brass
plates,

the acts of the senate and people, were deposited in the capitol:(9) and
sorrfe of

the acts, as the Julian law against extortion, surpassed the number of a
ljundred

chapters. (10) The decemvirs had neglected to import the sanction of Zaleucus,

na,who,by a strange error of Diodorut Siculus,(tom. i. lib. 12. p.485—493.J is
celebrated long afterward as

the author of the policy of Thorium.

(1) Zaleucus, whose existence has been rashly attacked, had the merit and
glory of converting* band of

outlaws (the Locriaus) into the most virtuous and orderly of the Greek
republics (See two Memoires of the

Baron de St. Croix, sur la Legislation dc la Grande Grece; Mem. de 1'Academie,
torn. xiii. p. 276—333.) Buc

the laws of Zaleucus and Charondas, which imposed on Diodorus and Stobieus,
are 'he spurious composition*

of a Pythagorean sophist, whose fraud has been detected by the critical
sagacity of Bentley (p. 33J—377.)

(2) I seize the opportunity of tracing the process of this national
intercourse: 1. Herodotus and Tlmey-

dides(A. U. C. 330—350.) appear ignorant of the name and existence ofllome
(Joseph. Contra Apion. torn. n.

lib, i. e. 12. p. 444. edit. Havercamp. 2. Theopompus (A. U. C. 400. Plin.
3.9.) mentions the invasion of the

Gauls, whirl, is noticed in looser terms by Heraclldes Ponticus (Plutarch in
Cainillo, p. 292. edit. H. Stephan.)

3. Thereat or fabulous embassy of the Romans to Alexander (A. U. C. 430.) is
attested byClitarchus (Plin. 3.

9.) by Aristws and Asclepiades (Arian. lib. vii. p. 294,295.) and by Memnon of
Heracl* a (apud Phntiuin. cod,

224. p. 725.3 though tacitly denied by Livy. 4. Theophrastus (A. U. C. 440.)
primus rxtemorura aliqua He Ro-

man» dilig-entius scripsit (Plin. 3. 9.) 5. Lyeophron (A. U. C. 4B0—500.)
scattered the first seed of a Trojan

colony, and the fable of the -£neid, Cassandra, 1226—1280.

A^SsiTs;.

A bold prediction before the end of the first Punic war.

(3) The tenth table, demodo sepulture, was borrowed from Solon (Cicero de
Legihns, n. 23—26;) the fertttm

per lance in et Ik-turn concept,,m, is derived bv Heincpcius from the manner*
of Athens (Antiq-jitat. Rom. fom,

li. p. 167—175.) The right of kill'int? a nocturnal thi< f, was declared by
Mcset, Solon, and the decemvirs, (Exo­

dus, xxii. 3. Demosthenes contra Timocratem, torn. i. p. 736. edit. Heiske.
Macro!;. Saturnalia, lib. i. c. 4. Col-

latio Legum Mosaicarum et Romananttn, tit. vii. no. 1, p. 218. edit.
Caimegicter.)

(4) Rp*xi<»; xxi Kan^n-w;, is the praise of Diodorus (torn. i. lib. xii. p.
49-1.) which may be fairly translated by

theeleganti at que absohita brevitate verborum of Aitlus Gelltus (Voct.)
Attic, xxi. 1.)

(5) Listen to Cicero (de Legibui,ii. 23.) and his representative Crassus (de
Onitore, I. 43.44.)

(6) See Heineccins (Hist. J. R. no. 29—33.) I have followed the restoration
«>f the twelve tables by Gravina

(Origines J. C. p. 280—307.) and Terasson (Hist de la Jurisprudence Romnine,
p. 94—205.)

(7) Pintssequi juris (Tacit. Annal.iii. 27.) Fonsomnia publiciet privati,juris
(T. Liv. iii, 34.)

(8) De principles .|uris,et quibua modis ad banc multitudinem infinitam ae
varietatem legum perventum

sit altiusdisieram (Tacit. Anna), iii. 25.) This deep disquisition fills only
two pages, but they are the pages

of Tacitus. With equal sense, but with less energy, Livy (iii. 34.) had
complained, in bac iminenso aliarura

super alias acervatarum legum cumulo. See.

(9) See Suetonius in V«spa«iauo, c. 8.

(10) Cicero ad Fsunillarts, 8.1.

Vol. III. 1G

f

