SCARPOXA. "29 SCEPSIS.

rrpbtU to Ileradeia (xxxiii. 3). Hence the town

mv be placed between the modern villages of

Ulrmind Molo. (Leake, Northern Grace, vol. ii.

. K8.) Scarpheia is said by Strabo to have been

*tr«ed by an inundation of the sea caused by an  
invoke (i. p. 60), but it most have been alter-

in!* rebuilt, as it is mentioned by subsequent

r'mdoira to a late period. (Phn. iv. 7. s. 12;

W.iii.15. § 11; Hierocl. p. 643; Geog. Rav. iv.

0; C«st Porpbyr. dt Them, ii. 5. p. 51, Bonn.)

irjoaa i> also mentioned by Lycophr. 1147;

Syr. 19; Paus. ii. 29. § 3, x. 1. § 2.

M'ARi'O'NA or SCARPONNA, in Gallia, is

•ml is the Antonine Itin. and in the Tsble on a

tl tetwten Tullum (Tout) and Divodurum ( Jfete).

kt t«o lathocitie* agree in placing it at the dis-

» nf z. from Tullum; bnt the Itin. makes the

ittat* fntn Scarpona to Divodurum xii., and the

ibie makes it xiiii. The larger number comes

inr to tie truth, for the place is Charpagne, on

> Afojal An inscription has been found at Char-

it. which is as follows: "imvir viarnm

iei Sake". V. a P. M. Scarp. Civit. Leuc."

upw vu in the territory of the Leuci. [I.El'CI.]

n™, Eqattorn Magister, defeated the Alemanni

i Varpnona in A. D. 366. in the reign of Valsn-

jb tad Valens. (Amm. Marc, xxvii. 2; D'AnviUe,

•W. 4V.: Ukert, CaUea, p. 506.) [G. L.]

<* i..VAf (Xrqnl). 1. A town of Mesopotamia

> <anal from the Euphrates, and on the borders

bakilooia, 18 schoeni from Seleucia, and 25 days'

vv from the passage of the Euphrates at

rata. (Strab. xvi. p. 748.) It belonged to the

*fal and nomadic tribe of the Scenitae, and  
van, though called by Strabo ifidAo-yo* wrfAu,

probably only a city of tents, as, indeed, its

r raphes.

Vuai Maxdiuk, a place in Middle Egypt,

> r.gbt bank of the Nile, between Aphroditopolis

Babylon, a little SE. of Memphis, (/fas. Ant.

0) It had a Roman garrison, and in later

• became the see of a Christian bishop. (A'ot.

trap. Weaaeling, ad Itm. I. e.)

Nocae V'nsKAiioct'M, a place in Lower

<ss an arm of the Nile, and on the road from

to Vlrna Jodaeorum. (/tsa. Ant. pp. 163,

) It by SVY. of Bubastus. [T. H. D.]

.'EMTAE (Xravrrcu), a general name for

»> Arab tribes in Pliny, often distinguished by

**t*rappellation. Thus, towards the lower part  
■ Euphrates, beyond the " Attali latrones, Ara­

rat*," he places the Scenitae (vi. 26), whom he

-r* again more fully (c 28), " Nomad as inde  
*[<neque Chaidaeorum Scenitae, nt diximus  
■it, at ipai vagi, sod a tabemaculis cognominati,

riLcua roeCastur, ubi libuit. Deinde Nabataei,"

Tbra again below the confluence of the Eu-

e» and Tigris be places tin Nomadea Soe-

■i the right bank of the river, the Chaldaei on

ft. He » peaks also of the Scenitae Sabaei.

» also uses the name in the same latitude of

A30B of many various tribes of Arabia, Syria,

Hnripotamis (see Index, #. v.); but Ptolemy

:« litem a definite seat near the mountains

stretch along the north of the peninsula,

of the Thaditae (ni Oadrtae) and Saraceni

'§ 21): and in this vicinity, towards the

~x_ it is that Ammianns Marcellinus places

i~rtc Arabs, whom posterity called Saracens

6) fSAKACJCWl] The remark nf Bochart

iHve borne out by authorities: "Ubi Sce-

nitas Eratosthenes, ibi Saracenos ponunt Procopius

et Marcianus. Saraceni nimirum a Scenitis hoc

solum diflerunt, quod Scenitarum nomen est vetus-

titis." (ffeoor.Sacr.iv.2. p. 213.) [G.W.]

SCEPSIS (Xrijd-ii: Eth. 2*i,+tot),» to™ >n the

SE. of Mysia, on the river Aesepus, 150 stadia to the

SE. of Alexandria Truss, and not far from Dicle, one of

the highest points of Mount Ida, It was apparently a

place of the highest antiquity; for it was believed to

have been founded immediately after the time of the

Trojan War, and Demetrius, a native of the place,

considered it to have been the capital of the domi­

nions of Aeneas. (Strab. xiii. p. 607). The same

author stated that the inhabitants were transferred

by Scamandrius, the son of Hector, and Ascanius.

the son of Aeneas, to another site, lower down the

Aesepus, about 60 stadia from the old place, and that

there a new town of the same name was founded.

The old town after this was distinguished from the

new one by the name of Palaescepsis. For two ge­

nerations the princes of the house of Aeneas main­

tained themselves in the new town; but the form of

government then became an oligarchy. Daring this

period,colonists from Miletus joined the Scepsians, and

instituted a democratic form of government. The

descendants of the royal family, however, still con­

tinued to enjoy the regal title and some other dis­

tinctions. (Strab. /. e. comp. xiii. p. 603; xiv. p.

635; Plin. v. 2; Steph. B. s. r.) In the time of

Xenophon (II til. iii. 1. § 15), Scepsis belonged to

Mania, a Dardanian princess; and after her death

it was seized by Meidias, who had married her

daughter; but Dercyllidas, who had obtained admission

into the town under some pretext, expelled Meidias,

and restored the sovereign power to the citizens.

After this we hear no more of Scepsis until the time

of the Macedonian supremacy, when Antigonus

transferred its inhabitants to Alexandria Troas, on

account of their constant quarrels with tlie town

of Cebrene in their neighbourhood. Lysimachus

afterwards allowed them to return to their ancient

home, which at a later time became subject to tho

kings of Pergamum. (Strab. xiii. p. 597.) This

new city became an important seat of learning and

philosophy, and is celebrated in the history of the

works of Aristotle. Strabo (xiii. p. 608) relates that

Neleus of Scepsis, a pupil of Aristotle and friend of

Theophrastus, inherited the library of the latter,

which also contained that of Aristotle. After Ne­

leus' death the library came into the hands of per­

sons who, not knowing its value, and being unwilling

to give them up to the library which tile Pergamonian

kings were collecting, concealed these literary trea­

sures in a pit, where they were exposed to injury

from damp and worms. At length, however, they

were rescued from this place and sold to Apellicon

of Tens. The books, in a very mutilated condition,

were conveyed to Athens, and thence they were car­

ried by Sulla to Rome. It is singular that Scylax

(p. 36) enumerates Scepsis among the Aeolian

coast-towns; for it is evident from Strabo (coinp.

Demosth. c. Aristocr. p. 671) that it stood at a con­

siderable distance from the see. The town of Palae­

scepsis seems to have been abandoned entirely, for in

Pliny's time (v. 33) not a vestige of it existed,

while Scepsis is mentioned by Hierocles (p. 664)

and the ecclesiastical notices of bishoprics. In the

neighbourhood of Scepsis there existed very produc­

tive silver mines. It was the birthplace of Deme­

trius and Mctnxlorus. The fonner, who bestowed

much labour on the topography of Troas, spoke of

