THBACIA. 1183 THHACIA.

taozbter, offered to buy her as a wife. (A nab. vii.

!. S 39; ef. Mela, ii. 2.)

The want of union among the Thracians is men-

wimvI by Herodotus (v. 3) as the only cause of

Krir weakness. Their tribes, like the Highland

.uk seem to have been constantly engaged in petty

nrfare with one another, and to have been inca-

..'i!* of co-operating even against foreign foes, except

- vt-ry brief i*riods, and rarely with any higher  
wjert than plunder. Until a late period (Klor. iv.

2- §17) they appear to have been destitute of dis-

uptiae, sbd this, of course, rendered their bravery of

•tnparatively little avail. Thus we learn from

rhucrdides (ii. 96, 98) that, although Sitalces was

'i* i:K»t powerful Thracian king that had ever

tinned—(he seems indeed to have been subsequently

cirltrd as a kind of national hero; Xen. A nab.

11. §6),—yet a large part of the army with which

invaded Macedonia consisted of mere volunteers,

ormidabie chiefly for their numbers, and attracted

> bis standard by his offers of pay, or by their

iop» of plunder. Any one, in fact, who held out

t*K inducements, could easily raise an army in

Nime. Thus Clrarchus no sooner received sup-

.m of money from Cyrus the Younger, than he

,TtHii a force in the Chersnnesus, which, although

;:-*at part undoubtedly Thracian, was employed

y htm in ntaking war upon other Thracians, until

- required to join Cyrus in Asia Minor (lb. i. 1.  
i 2. § 9, &c). So when Seuthes undertook the

:j»d:iion against Ins so-called revolted subjects, his

r.v wis soon tripled by volunteers, who hastened

rrcn other parts of Thrace to serve him, as soon as

<7 l.eard of bis enterprise (lb. vii. 4. § 21). Such

ii:rrs could not, of course, be depended upm for

ne moment after a reverse. A considerable number

: Tiirician mercenaries in the army of Cyrus took

- rarJiest opportunity to desert to Artaxerxes after  
bn battle of Cunaxa (lb. ii. 2. § 7).

Tacitus (Arm. iv. -46) informs us that the prin-

ifai cause of the insurrection (a. d. 26) of the

Lrjcitns who dwelt iu the elevated mountain dis­

til (probably of Khodope), was their dislike of

> roiiscription, which, it would appear, the Ro­

mans had introduced iuto Thrace. This was a yoke

which they could not submit; they were not ac-

^j:fined to obey even their own rulers, except when

i>i<'ased them; and when they sent troops to the

stance of their princes, they used to appuiut their

«ti commanders, and to war against the neigh­

ing tribes only. (Cf. I.iv. xlii. 51; Xen. A nab.

a. 4. §24, 7. §29, seq.)

Thnv ian troops were chiefly light-armed infantry

>d irregular horse. (Xen.^nao.i. 2. § 9, vii.6. § 27,

frmor. in. 9. § 2; Curt iii. 9.) The bravest of the

■it-vddiers in the army of Sitalces were the free

'autainrers of Khodope, who were armed with

ivt swords (uaxtup*>4>4poi; Thucyd. ii. 98). The

(lament of the Asiatic Thracians is described by

erudotu (vii. 75), and as this description agrees

'h what Xeuophon states respecting Seuthes'

rces {A nab. vii. 4. § 4), it is no doubt sub-

aatiaUy true of the Thracians generally. They

j** fap» covering their ears, made of fox-skins,

and party-coloured mantles (£«ipal, ? —

ai.l>); their boots, which came high up the leg,

wt mads of deer-skin; their amis were shields,

retina, and daggers (cf. Thucyd. vii. 27). The

bnrtatts in the army of Philip V. were armed

iih Terr long rhvmphaeae, a word which some

uulate jatclau, others stconU. (Liv. xssi. 39;

PIuL Paul. AtmiL\7.) Thracian soldiers fought

with iinpeniosity and with no lack of bravery; but

they, like all barbarian and undisciplined troops

were incapable sf sustained efforts. Livy (xlii. 59)

describes them as rushing to the attack like wild

beasts long confined in cages: they hamstrung the

horses of their adversaries, or stabbed them in the

belly. When the victory was gained on tjiis occa­

sion (the first encounter in the war between the

Romans and Perseus), they returned to their

camp, singing loud songs of triumph, and carrying

the heads of the slain on the toj* of their weapons

(lb. 60). When defeated, they fled with rapidity,

throwing their shields upon their backs, to protect

them from the missiles of the pursuers. (Xen. A nab.

vii. 4. § 17.)

About the time of the Peloponneaian War, Thrace

began to be to the countries around the Aegean

what Switzerland has long, to its disgrace, been to

the despotic powers of modern Europe, a land where

men might be procured to fight for any one who

could bold out sufficient inducements in the shape

of pay or plunder. (Thucyd. vii. 27, et alibi; Xen.

A nab. i. pass.; Just. xi. 1 & 9.) The chief causes

of this, apart from the character of its people, appear

to have been the want of any central government,

and the difficult nature of the country, which ren­

dered its savage independence tolerably secure; so

that there was nothing to restrain those who might

wish to seek their fortune in foreign warfare. Dur­

ing the period of Macedonian supremacy, and after

its close, under the Roman power, Thracians are

often mentioned as auxiliaries in Macedonian and

Roman armies; but few of these, it is probable, were

volunteers. (Liv. xxxi. 39, xlii. 29, 51,etal.; Caea.

B. C. iii. 4; Veil. Pat. ii. 112; Tac. Hist. I 68, &c,)

Cicero (de Prov. Cow. 4) seems to imply that

Thracians were sometimes hired to assassinate like

the modem Italian bravos; these were perhaps gla­

diators, of whom great numbers were Thracians.

Caligula gave the command of his German body­

guard to Thracians. (Suet. Caluj. 55.)

Another point in which the Thracians remind us

of the natives of India, is mentioned by Thucydides

(ii. 97) in these words: "The tribute of the bar­

barians and of the Greek cities received by Seuthes,

the successor of Sitalces, might be reckoned at 400

talents of silver, reckoning gold and silver together.

The presents in gold and silver amounted to as much

more. And these presents were made not only to

the king, but also to the most influential and dis­

tinguished of the Odrysae. For these people, like

those of Thrace generally, differ in this respect from

the Persians, that they would rather receive than

give; and among them it is more shameful not to

give when you are asked, than to be refused when

you ask. It is true that abuses arise from this

custom ; for nothing can be done without presents."

(Cf. Liv. xlii. 19, xlv. 42; Tac Germ. 15.) Xeno-

phon (A nab. vii. 3) gives some amusing illustrations

of this practice among the Thracians.

Mention is often made of the singing and dancing

of the Thracians, especially of a martial kind. Xe-

nophon (Anab. vi. 1. § 5, seq.) gives an account of a

dance and combat performed by some Thracians, to

celebrate the conclusion of a peace between the rem­

nant of the 10,000 Greeks and the Papblagouians:

they danced fully armed to the music of the flute,

jumping up nimbly to a considerable height, and

fencing with their swords: at last, one man struck

another, to all apDearauce mortally and ho fell as if

