LIBYA. 17'1 LIBYA.

Xsumones, who inhabited the Syrtis and the district

east of it (the present gulf of Suira), crossed the

Insert in a westerly direction, and came to a great

river wbich ran towards the rising sun, and had

crocodiles in it, and black men inhabiting its banks.

N"twithstanding some marvellous circumstances, the

narrative is probably true in substance; and, com­

bined with the known activity of the Carthaginian

tnule in slaves, gold-dust, ivory, elephants, &c, ren­

ders it likely that the interior was known to the

indents as well as the western coast, within 11°

of the equator. But such knowledge as was acquired

bt travellers was rarely employed by the Greek

reographers, who were more intent on accumulating

names of places, thau on recording the physical

features, through which alone names become in­

structive.

The mountain and river system of Libya Interior

his been partly described in the article Atlas; and

the principal features of its indigenous population

urvier the heads Gaktcli and Gakamantes. It

will iuffice, then, to point out here the effect which

the general conformation of the mountains has upon

tbe climate and the rivers. The absence of snow

'O the Atlas range denies to this continent, in its

r^rthem portion at least, the privilege of partial

rtfriperition, although in the loftier regions of the

Aethiopian highlands the heat is mitigated by the

'<* upon their summits. Hence arises the superior

vilonw of the Aethiopian rivers, the tributaries of

the Nile, and the milder temperature of the plains

mrroanding the lake of Ztemoio, which, although

within the tropics, enjoy a perpetual spring. Again,

the northern range of Atlas runs so close to the

Mediterranean that the watershed is brief and

ibro.pt, and the rivers are properly mountain streams,

which, after a short course, discharge themselves

into the sea. The western slope of the Libyci

Mjctes also presents a succession of terraces, which

& net propel the rivers with force enough upon the

kiwiaMs to produce a continuous course ; so that

Hther they lose themselves in swamps, or are ab-

«W by the sands. In some cases, indeed, they

(<reentrate themselves in vast inland lakes,

which in tlieir turn drain off their superfluous waters

in thread-like rivulets. On the southern inclination

*f Atlai, there is a similar impediment to the for-  
Mtjfin of large rivers, and not until within a few

^;r?«of tbetquator, and in districts beyond the

t«nndi of ancient Libya, do we meet with majestic

'•jTjims, like lire Senegal, the Quorra, &c, rivalling

the Nile. On this side, indeed, the irrigated por-

'n» of the lowlands are rich pasture-lands, and

the Great Desert is bordered and encroached upon

I* laxorioas patches both of forest and arable land.

Tbe more remarkable mountains not included in the

AlUsran^* are the following:—On the northern fron-

ti«r of tbe Desert, Mons Ater or Niger (rTm. v. 5. s.

S< n. 30. a 35), the modern flarusch or Black Moun-

ki.\ which, running from east to west, separated the

•tarn lM:az*uia (Fezzari) from Africa ltomana.

Westward of this was the Usargala (QvaapyaXa

&*t, KtoL iv. 6. § 7, &c), the present Adameh-

h&tLjregiad, which ran far into the territory of

the Garunantes, and contained the sources of the

™*t Bagrada. Tlus may be regarded as a con-

fooatiaa of the Atlas Major, S. of Numidia and

KMretaiua. Next, running in a N. direction to the

T*T* (4 Xnmidia, and a branch of the Usargala,

*■* M-jos (iirgiri (to Tifryipi&poi), Tibesti, in which  
t*t rirw Cuiypbu* arose. Along the Atlantic coast,

and parallel with the Greater Atlas were the follow­

ing mountains and headlands: — Mount Sagapola

(icrydVoAo, Ptol. iv. 6. § 8, &c), from which the

river Subus sprang, to SW. of which was Mount

Mandrus (to MavSpov opos), a long chain of hills,

reaching to the parallel of the Fortunate Islands,

and containing the fountains of all the rivers that

discharge themselves into the Atlantic, from the

Salathus to the Massa, or from Cape Aon to Cape

Bojador. Mt. Caphas (Kdtpas), 8 degrees to S.,

from which the D.iradas flowed, stretched in a SE.

direction far into the Desert: Mount Ryssadius

(to 'PwTtrdb'iov Spot) terminated i na headland of the

same name, probably Cape Blanco, and in it rose

the river Stachir. Of all these mountains, however,

the most remarkable as regards the Libyan rock

system, because it exhibited unquestionable tokens

of volcanic action, was that denominated the Chariot

of the Gods (®*wv "O^/xa), probably the present

Kong, or Sierra Leone. This was the extreme point

of ancient navigation on the Atlantic; for the Phoe­

nician Periplus, if it indeed was actually performed,

formed the single exception to the otherwise uni­

versal ignorance of the coast beyond. As far as

modern discoveries have made known the interior,

Libya, from the ocean to the borders of Aegypt, is

crossed by a succession of highlands, arising at cer­

tain points to a considerable elevation, and sending

forth terraces and spurs towards the south. It is

possible that these may form a continuous chain,

but our acquaintance with its bearings is very im­

perfect. The ancient geographers distinguished

some portions of these highlands by the names of

Mount Bardctus (Bdp&nTov opos), west of the

Lunae Montes; and in the same line, but at a con­

siderable interval, M. Mesche (Mtaxfi); Zipha

(Zi<pdy, north of Mesche; and, approaching the

Atlantic, Mount Ion ("lor ooos), and Duuchis

(Aaux'O^ In a line with the Chariot of the Gods,

and northward of the line of Bardetus, were the

elevations Arualtes (5 'ApovdATns) and Arangas (i

'Apoyyas), the latter of which ran down to the

equatorial line. These, with Mount Tbala (to

QdXa 5poj), and, further eastward, the serrated

range entitled the Garamantic Pharanx or Combo

(tj TapafiavTiKij <pdpay£), may be regarded as offsets

of the Aethiopian highlands. That these mountains

contain considerable mineral wealth is rendered pro­

bable by their feeding the sources of rivers in the

gold region, and from the copper pyrites discovered

on their flanks. That they were the cradles of

innumerable streams is also certain from the rich

pasture and woodland which mark the confines of

the equatorial region of Libya Interior.

The voyage of Hanno was undertaken for the

purpose of planting upon the coast of the Atlantic

trading stations, and to secure with the regions

that produced gold, aroraatics, and elephants, a

readier communication with Carthage than could

be maintained across the Sah&ra. That this trade

was materially impaired when the Romans becamo

masters of Africa, is probable, because the con­

quering people had little genius for commerce, and

because they derived the same articles of trade

through the more circuitous route of Egypt and

Aethiopia. Yet the knowledge acquired by the

Carthaginians was not altogether lost, and the

geographers of the empire have left us some im­

portant information respecting the western coast of

Libya as far as 11° N. lat. According to Ptolemy,

the principal promontories were, beginning from the

N 2

