ITALIA. 87 ITALIA.

ferent raee and origin from those by which they were

surrounded. This strongly marked distinctness from

the other Italian races appears to have been recog­

nised both by Roman and Greek writers. Dionysius

even affirms that the Etruscans did not resemble,

either in language or manners, any other people

whatsoever (Dionys. i. 30); and, however we may

question the generality of this assertion, the fact in

regard to their language seems to be borne out by

the still existing remains of it. The various theories

that have been proposed concerning their origin, and

the views of modern philologers in regard to their

language, are more fully discussed under the article

Etruria. It may suffice here to state that two

points may be considered as fairly established: —

1. That a considerable part of the population of

Etruria, and especially of the more southern portions

of that country, was (as already mentioned) of Pe-

lasgic extraction, and continued to speak a dialect

doeriy akin to the Greek. 2. That, besides this,

there existed in Etruria a people (probably a con­

quering race) of wholly different origin, who were

the proper Etruscans or Tuscans, but who called

themselves Rasena; and that this race was wholly

distinct from the other nations of Central Italy.

As to the ethnical affinities of this pure Etruscan

race, we are almost as much in the dark as was

Dionysius; but recent philological inquiries appear

to have established the fact that it may be referred

to the same great family of the Indo-Teutonic na­

tions, though widely separated from all the other

branches of that family which we find settled in

Italy. There are not wanting, indeed, evidences of

many points of contact and similarity, with the

Umbrians on the one hand and the Pelasgians on

the other; but it is probable that these are no more

than would naturally result from their close juxta­

position, and that mixture of the different races

which bad certainly taken place to a large extent

before the period from which nil our extant monu­

ments are derived. It may, indeed, reasonably be

assumed, that the Umbrians, who appear to have

been at one time in possession of the greater part, if

not the whole, of Etruria, would never be altogether

expelled, and that there must always have remained,

tspecially in the N. and E., a subject population

of L'mbriau race, aa there was in the more southern

districts of Pelasgian.

The statement of Livy, which represents the

Bhaetians as of the same race with the Etruscans

(v. 33), even if its accuracy be admitted, throws

but little light on the national affinities of the latter;

for we know, in fact, nothing of the Khaetians, either

u to their language or origin.

It only remains to advert briefly to the several

branches of the population of Northern Italy. Of

these, by far the most numerous and important were

the Gauls, who gave to the whole basin of the Po

the name of Gallia Cisalpina. They were universally

admitted to be of the same race with the Gauls who

inhabited the countries beyond the Alps, and their

migration and settlement in Italy were referred by

the Roman historians to a comparatively recent

period. The history of these is fully given under

Gallia Cisalpina. Adjoining the Gauls on the

SW.,both slopes of the Apennines, as well as of the

Maritime Alps and a part of the plain of the Po,

were occupied by the Liguriamb, a people as to

wh.'« national affinities we are almost wholly in the

dark. [Liguria.] It is certain, however, from

the p*hive testimony of ancient writers, that they

were a distinct race from the Gauls (Strab. U. p. 128),

and there seems no doubt that they were established

in Northern Italy long before the Gallic invasiun.

Nor were they by any means confined to the part of

Italy which ultimately retained their name. At a

very early period we learn that they occupied the

whole coast of the Mediterranean, from the foot of

the Pyrenees to the frontiers of Etruria, and the

Greek writers uniformly speak of the people who

occupied the neighbourhood of Massilia, or the modern

Provence, as Ligurians, and not Gauls. (Strab. iv.

p. 203.) At the same period, it is probable that

they were more widely spread also in the basin of

the Po than we find them when they appear in

Roman history. At that time the Taurini, at the

foot of the Cottian Alps, were the most northern of

the Ligurian tribes; while S- of the Padus they ex­

tended probably as far as the Trebia. Along the

shores of the Mediterranean they possessed in the

time of Polybius the whole country as far as Tisne

and the mouths of the Arnus, while they held the

fastnesses of the Apennines as far to the E. as the

frontiers of the Arretine territory. (Pol. ii. 16.)

It was not till a later period that the Macro, became

the established boundary between the Roman pro­

vince of Lignria and that of Etruria.

Bordering on the Gauls on the E., and separated

from them by the river Athesis (Adtge), were the

Veseti, a people of whom we are distinctly told that

their language was different from that of the Gauls

(Pol. ii. 17), but of whom, as of the Ligurians, we

know rather what they were not, than what they

were. The most probable hypothesis is, that they

were an Illyrian race (Zeuss, Die Deutechen, p. 251),

and there is good reason for referring their neigh­

bours the Istkiaks to the same stock. On the

other hand, the Carni, a mountain tribe in the

extreme NE. of Italy, who immediately bordered

both on the Venetians and Istrians, were more pro­

bably a Celtic race [Carni].

Another name which we meet with in this part

of Italy is that of the Euganei, a people who had

dwindled into insignificance in historical times,

but whom Livy describes as once great and power­

ful, and occupying the whole tracts from the Alps

to the sea. (Liv. i. 1.) Of their national affinities

we know nothing. It is passible that where Livy

speaks of other Alpine races besides the Rhaetians,

as being of common origin with the Etruscans (v.

33), that he had the Euganeans in view; hut this

is mere conjecture. He certainly seems to have re­

garded them as distinct both from the Venetians

and Gauls, and as a more ancient people in Italy

than either of those races.

V. History.

The history of ancient Italy is for the most part

inseparably connected with that of Home, and cannot

be considered apart from it. It is impossible here

to attempt to give even an outline of that history;

but it may be useful to the student to present at one

view a brief sketch of the progress of the Koman

arms, and the period at which the several nations of

Italy successively fell under their yoke, as well as

the measures by which they were gradually con­

solidated into one homogeneous whole, in the form

that Italy assumed under the rule of Augustus.

The few facts known to us concerning the history

of the several nations, before their conquest by the

Komans, will be found in their respective articles;

that of the Greek colonies in Southern ltalv, and

o 4

