INTEMELIL INTERAMNA. 53

Instate (*lyyikiiyTi), the name of a small province

of Armenia near the sources of the Tigris mentioned

by Epiphanius {ITaeres. LX. voL i. p. 505, ed

Valerius; comp. St. Martin, Mem. sur tArt/tenie,

toL i. pp. 23, 97.) [E.B. J.]

INTEME'LII QlmtfLiXtoi), a maritime people of

Liiruria, situated to the W. of the Ingauni, at the

f*4 of the Maritime Alps. They are but little

known in history, being only once mentioned by

Livy, in conjunction with their neighbours, the In­

gauni, as addicted to piratical habits, to repress

which their coast was visited by a Roman squadron

inB.c.180. (Lir. xL 41.) Strabo speaks of them

as a still existing tribe (Strab. iv. p. 202); and their

capital, called Albium Intemelium or Albintemc-

lium. now corrupted into Vintimiglia, was in his

time a considerable city. [Aluium Istemelium.]

We have no means of determining the extent or

limits of their territory; but it seems to have bor­

dered on that of the Ingauni on the E., and the Ve-

diaotii on the W.: at least, these are the only tribes

inentiwed as existing in this part of Liguria by

writers of the Roman Empire. It probably com­

prised also the whole valley of the Rutuba or

Xoja, one of the most considerable of the rivers, or

rather mountain torrents, of Liguria, which rises at

the fcot of the Col di Tenda, and fulls into the sea

at VMmiglia. [E. H. B.]

INTERAMNA {'IrrtpafAva: EOu Interamnaa,

-itia), was the name of several cities in different parts  
of Italy. Its obvious etymology, already pointed out

fcj Varro and Festus, indicates their position at the

confluence of two streams (" inter amnes," Van*. L. L.

v.28, Fest. c. Amnes, p. 17,Mull.); which is,however,

bat partially borne out by their actual situation. The

f »roi IvrKK.oiNttrM (Jlrrtpauvtov), and the ethnic

Jurm Interamnis, are also found, but more rarely.

1. A Roman colony on the banks of the Liris,

thence called, for distinction's sake, Interamna Ll-

koias. It was situated on the left or northern

bank of the Liris, near the junction of the little river

which flows by Aquinum (confounded by Strabo

with the MelpiSr a much more considerable stream),

and was distant 6 miles from the latter city,

and 7 from Casinum. Its territory, which was

included in Latium, according to the more ex­

tended use of that name, must have originally

Ulcnged to the Volscians. but we have no men­

tion of Interamna as a Volscian city, nor indeed

anv evidence of its existence previous to the establish­

ment of the Roman colony there, in u. c. 312. This

ta-k place at the same time with that at the neigh-

bmmn<: town of Casinum, the object of both being

obviously to secure the fertile valley of the Liris from

the attacks of the Samnites. (Liv. ix. 28; Diod.

air. 105; Veil. Pat. i. 14.) Hence we find, in b. c.

294, the territory of Interamna ravaged by the Sam-

nite*, who did not, however, venture to attack the

city itself; and, at the opening of the following cam­

paign, it was from Interamna that the consul Sp. Car-

viUus commenced his operations against Sainnium.

(Liv. x. 36, 39.) Its territory was at a later period

Uid waste by Hannibal during his march by the Via

Lalina from Capua upon Rome, B. c. 212 (Liv. xxvi.

TJ): and shortly afterwards the name of Interamna

appears among the twelve refractory colonies which

cc» lared themselves unable to furnish any further

■np^ltes, xnd were subsequently (b. c. 204) loaded

with heavier burdens in consequence (Id. xxvii. 9,

nii. 15). After the Social War it pasted, in com-

cacc with the other Latin colonies-, into the state of

a municiplum; and we find repeated mention of it

as a municipal town, apparently of some consequence.

(Cic Phil. ii. 41, pro Mil. 17; Strab. v. p. 237;

Plin. hi. 5. 6. 9.) It received a colony under the

Second Triumvirate, but does not appear to have en­

joyed colonial rank, several inscriptions of imperial

times giving it only the title of a municipium. {Lib.

Col p. 234; Orcll. Inter. 2357, 3828.) Its por­

tion at some distance from the line of the Via Latina

was probably unfavourable to its prosperity in later

times: from the same cause its name is not found in

the Itineraries, and we have no means of tracing its

existence after the fall of the Roman Empire. The

period at which it was ruined or deserted is unknown;

but mention is found in documents of the middle

ages of a "Castrum Teranic," and the site of the

ancient city, though now entirely uninhabited, is

still called Teraine. It presents extensive remains

of ancient buildings, with vestiges of the walls, streets,

and aqueducts; and numerous inscriptions and other

objects of antiquity have been discovered there,

which are preserved in the neighbouring villages.

(Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 384; Cluver, Hal. p. 1039.

The inscriptions are given by Moinmsen, Inter. Regn.

Neap. pp. 221,222.)

Pliny calls the citizens of this Interamna " Inter-

amnales Succasini, qui et Lirinatas vocantur." The

former appellation was evidently bestowed from their

situation in the neighbourhood of Casinum, but is

not adopted by any other author. They are called

in inscriptions "Interamnates Lirinates," and some­

times "Lirinates" alone: hence it is probable that

we should read uLirinatum" for "Larinatum" in

Silius Italicus (viii. 402), where ho is enumerating

Volscian cities, and hence the mention of Laiinum

would be wholly out of place.

2. (7*erni),&city of Umbria, situated on the river

Nar, a little below its confluence with the Velinus,

and about 8 miles E. from Narnia. It was sur­

rounded by a branch of the river, so as to be in fact

situated on an island, whence it derived its name.

The inhabitants are termed by Pliny " Iuteramnntes

cognomine Nartes," to distinguish them from those

of the other towns of the name; and we find them

designated in inscriptions as Interamnates Nartes and

Nahartes; but we do not find this epithet applied to

the city itself. No mention is found of Interamna in

history previous to its passing under the Roman

yoke; but there is no doubt that it was an ancient

Umbrian city, and an inscription of the time of Ti­

berius has preserved to us the local tradition that it

was founded in b. c. 672, or rather more than 80

years after Rome. (Orell. Inscr. 689.) When we

first hear of Interamna in history it appears as a

flourishing municijal town, deriving great wealth

from the fertility of its territory, which was irrigated

by the river Nar. Hence it is said to have been, as

early as the civil wars of Marius and Sulla, one of

the "florentissima Italiae municipia" (Florus, iii.

21); and though it suffered a severe blow upon that

occasion, its lands being confiscated by Sulla and

portioned out among his soldiers, we still find it

mentioned by Cicero in a manner that proves it to

have been a place of importance (Cic ad Att. iv.

15), Its inhabitants were frequently engaged in li­

tigation and disputes with their neighbours of Reate,

on account of the regulation of the waters of the Ve­

linus, which joins the Nar a few miles above Inter­

amna; and under the reign of Tiberius they were

obliged to enter an energetic protest against a pro­

ject that had been started for turning aside the

K 4

