TAREXTIM. TARENTUM. 1097

in territory. Meanwhile, however, he had quar-

'I-nl with his allies the Tarentines, so that he

.~j«r.i against them, took their colony of lleracleia,

-.1 endeavoured to transfer the congress of the  
rwk cities from thence to a place on the river

talaodrtw, in the territory of Thurii. (Strab. vi.

2*0 : Liv. viii. 24; Justin, xii. 2.) Hence his

in B.C. 226, only liberated the Tarentines

u-n an enemy instead of depriving them of an ally,

try appear from this time to have either remained

.r ,uil or carried on the conlest single-handed, till

c. 903, when we find them again invoking foreign

trance, and, as on a former occasion, sending to

art* for aid. This was again famished them,

1 a Urge army of mercenaries landed at Tarentum

irr Clronytnus, the uncle of the Spartan king.

.* though he compelled the Mcssapians and Luca-

i:-^ to sue for peace, Cleonymus soon alienated the

ui> of hi* Greek allies by his arrogance and

rinous habits, and became the object of general

trei before he quitted Italy, (biod. xx. 104.)

■ i»rdmg to Strabo, the Tarentines subsequently

in the assistance of Agathocles (Strab. vi. p.

U i; but we find no mention of this elsewhere, and

; ru» tells us that he concluded an alliance with

■ UfTciam and Peucetians, which could hardly

re Urn dune with favourable intentions towards

mitum, (Died. xxi. p. 490.)

V< looe after this trie Tarentines first came into

.**. 3Q with a more fonnidable foe than their neigh-

:r», the Mosapians and Lucanians. The wars of

Romans with the Samnites, in which the de-

iuiU of the latter people, the Apulians and

».*.ana, were from time to time involved, had

«to1 the name and power of Home familiar to

Greek cities on the Tarentinc gulf and coast of

Agnatic, thotich their arms were not carried

> that part of Italy till about b. c. 283, when

v rendered assistance to the Thurians against the

raruans [TilUBll]. But lunt; before this, as

ry as the commencement of the Second Samnite

a-(n.C- 326), the Tarentines are mentioned in

:tin history as supporting the Neapolitans with

autea of succour, which, however, tliey never

t; aftd afterwards exciting the Lucanians to war

zi*t the Romans. (Liv. viii. 27.) Again, in

- 321 vrc are told that they sent a haughty em-

■ • i j command tlte Samnites and Romans to

y! from hostilities, and threatened to declare war

»h.«: never party refused to obey. (Id. ix. 14.)

L on this occasion also they did nut put their

rat is execution. At a subsequent period, pro-

.y aboot B. C. 303 (Arnold's Home, vol. ii. p.

>j, the Tarentines concluded a treaty with Rome,

*hich it vtt stipulated that no Roman ships of  
lUmJd pass the Lacinian cape. (Appian, iiam-

7) It was therefore a direct breach of this

tfy when, in B. c. 302, a Roman squadron of ten

• ander L. Cornelius, which had been sent to

a*at»tanee of the Thurians, entered the Tarrn-

r-jlf. and even approached within sight of the

The Tarantines, whose hostile disposition was

ady only half concealed, and who are said to

- iwen the prime movers in organising the con-  
racy against Rom* which led to the Fourth S.mi-

War (Zooar. viii. 2.), immediately attacked the

aao snips, sank four of them, and took one. After

i Utrj proceeded to attaclTOie Thurians on ac-

aa of their having called in the Romans, expelled

Ionian garrison, and made themselves masters

~r city. (Appian, Samn. 7. § 1 ; Zooar. viii.

2.) The Romans sent an embassy to Tarentnm to

complain of these outrages; but their demands being

refused, and their ambassador treated with con­

tumely, they had now no choice hut to declare war

upon the Tarentines. B.C. 281. (Appian, /. c. § 2;

Zonar. I.e.; Dion Cass. Fr. 145.) Nevertheless,

the war was at first carried on with little energy;

but meanwhile the Tarentines, following their usual

policy, had invited Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, to their

asMstance. That monarch readily accepted the over­

ture, and sent over his general Milo to occupy the

citadel of Tarentum with 3000 men, while he himself

followed in the winter. (Zonar. viii. 2; Plut. J'yrrh,

15. 16)

It is usual to represent the Tarentines as at this

period sunk in luxury and effeminacy, so that they

were unable to defend themselves, and hence com­

pelled to have recourse to the assistance of Pyrrhus.

But there is certainly much exaggeration in this

view. They were no doubt accustomed to rely much

upon the arms of mercenaries, but so were all the

more wealthy cities of Greece; and it is certain that

the Tarentines themselves (apart from their allies

and mercenaries), furnished not only a considerable

body of cavalry, but a large force or phalanx of

heavy-armed infantry, called the Leucaspids, from

their white shields, who are especially mentioned as

serving nnder Pyrrhus at the battle of Asculum.

(Dionys. xx. Fr. Didot. 1, 5.) It is unnecessary

here to repeat the history of the campaigns of that

monarch. His first successes for a time saved

Tarentum itself from the brunt of the war : but

when he at length, after his final defeat by Curius,

withdrew from Italy (b. c. 274), it was evident that

the full weight of the Koman arms would fall upon

Tarentum. Pyrrhus, indeed, left Milo with a gar­

rison to defend the city, but the Tarentines them­

selves were divided into two parties, the one of which

was disposed to submit to Koine, while the other

applied for assistance to Carthage. A Carthaginian

fleet was actually bent to Tarentnm, but it arrived

too late, for Milo had already capitulated and sur-

rendeied the citadel into the hands of the Roman

consul Papirius, B.C. 272. (Zonar. viii. 6; Oros.

iv. 3.)

From this time Tarentum continued subject to

Rome. The inhabitants were indeed left in posses­

sion of their own laws and nominal inde|»endence,

but the city was jealously watched; and a Koman

legion seems to have been commonly stationed there.

(IVl. ii. 24.) During the First Punic War the

Tarentines are mentioned as furnishing ship* to the

Romans (Pol. i. 20): but with this exception we

hear no more of it till the Second Punic War, when

it became a military post of great importance.

Hannibal was from an early period desirous to make

himself master of the city, which, with its excellent

port, would at once have secured his communications

with Africa. It is evident also that there was a strong

Carthaginian party in the city, who shortly after

the battle of Cannae, opened negotiations with Han-

nibal, and renewed them upon a subsequent occasion

(Liv. xxii. 61, xxiv. 13); hut they were kept down

by the presence of the Koman garrison, and it was

not till b. c. 212 that Xico and Pliilemenus, two of

the leaders of this party, found an opportunity to

betray the city into his hands. (Liv. xxv. 8—10;

Pol. viii. 2C—33.) Even then the Roman garrison

still held the citadel; and Hannibal having failed in

i his attempts to carry thU f.irtress by assault, was

1 compelled to resort to a blockade. Ue cut it off on

