ITALIA. ITALIA. 9]

h lis wee «t find Cicero alluding to " Italia tri-

kcn donipti" u a matter of interest to the can-

U public offices. (Q. Cic. de Petit. Com. 8.)

3. Italy wider the Roman Empire. — No material

< iaace introduced into the political condition of

hi; ibe esublisbment of the imperial authority

rtn; the constitution and regulations that ex -

•tat brfn the end of the Republic continued, with

■u< i rrw modincations, in full force. The most

.-rjnuat of these was the system of municipal or-

;iiiiaic which pervaded every part of the country,

at abidk was directly derived from the days of

huaa freed-xn, when every town had really pos-

•wl as independent government. Italy, as it

nA'-i mler the Romans, may be still regarded as

t Kzrr&Xe of individual communities, though these

.j>t ill prrtensions to national independence,

i*i rruiaed oolr their separate municipal existence.

Inn osnicipiuin had its own internal organisation,

■ttMiiu* Terr nearly a miniature copy of that of

3p republic. It had its senate or council,

btki of which were called Decuriones, and

•_r itself Ordo Ifecurionum, or often simply

"•u. ;ti popular assemblies, which, however, soon

w2 iata dilute under the Empire; and its local

A.-:=t»iei. cf whom the principal were the Duum-

or ametimes Quataorviri, answering to the Ro-

o*ieaii and praetors: the Quinquennales, with

baoai asakifrous to those of the censors; the

iiij Quaestors, whose duties nearly corre-

'- 3b'i «i: b tin** of the same magistrates at Rome.

>'jtm current magistrates were annually elected, at

wc W the popular assembly, subsequently by the

flrjBe w Dccuxiuns : the members of the latter body

J". btir offices for life. Nor was this municipal

; ■'■no«a oDLnoed to the town in which it was

: rrrrr inch Municipiuin possessed a terri-

1 7 w Arer, of which it was as it were the capital,

■M <n» which it exercised the same municipal

,'i*rj] as within its own walls. This district

«ane ru-.ed much in extent, but in many in-

ian rjOipri»ed a very considerable territory, in-

*-^>r amy smaller towns and villages, all which  
«wt Apodest, fcr municipal purposes, upon the

■~zal mi chief town. Thus we are told by Pliny,

=air cf the tribes that inhabited the Alpine

-*7» tcriering on the plains of Gallia Cisalpina,  
*r» It t£j ly.j pompeii assigned to certain neigh-  
v-csjj Bsskspk (Lege J'ompeiu ottributi muni-

apti. PSa. in. 20. s. 24), that is to say, they

wet untied in their territory, and subjected to

."-nsi-tiua. A/rain, we know that the terri-

m Cnrai'jca and Mantua adjoined one another,

■-.p Zm aties were at a considerable distance.

U "^m naaaer, the territory of Beneventum coni-

F^w* > Wj» put of the land of the Hirpini. It is

Ea r-mi which give* a great importance to the

••sake between municipal towns and those which

'-»n»; that the former were not only them-

'.w ~ iaipL.runt places, but were, in fact, the

t^xi* rf istras*, into winch the whole country

** cmied. The villages and minor towns in-  
wcLa these districts were distinguished by

't-cx (y«naliabula, vici, castella," and were

<^A>at -foa the chief town, though sometimes

t luboruiiiate and imperfect local organi-

*-:3,<'-<o«n. In some cases it even happened  
^rm. bral chruinstances, one of these subordi-

''fana would rise to a condition of wealth and

lrfr*T37 u.' sjrpissuig tinjee of the mnnicipinm, on

t arveribelesi cuotiiiued dej^ndcut. Thus,

the opulent watering-place of Baiae always remained,

in a municipal sense, a mere dependency of Cumae

The distinction between coloniae and municipia,

which had been of great importance under the Ko-

man republic, lost its real significance, when the

citizens of both alike possessed the Roman franchise.

But the title of colonia was still retained by those

towns which had received fresh colonies towards the

close of the Republic under Caesar or the Trium­

virate, as well as under the Empire. It appears to

have been regarded as an honorary distinction, and

as giving a special claim upon the favour and pro­

tection of the founder and his descendants; though

it conferred no real political superiority. (Gell.

xri. 13.) On the other hand, the l'raefecturae — a

name also derived from the early republican period—

were distinguished from the colonies and municipia

by the circumstance that the juridical functions were

there exercised by a Praefectus, an officer sent direct

from Rome, instead of by the Duumviri or Qua-

tuorviri (whose legal title was Ilviri or Jlllviri

Juri dicundo) elected by the municipality. But as

these distinctions were comparatively unimportant,

the name of " municipia" is not unfrequently applied

in a generic sense, so as to include all towns which

had a local self-government. "Oppida" is sometimes

employed with the same meaning. Pliny, however,

generally uses "oppida" as equivalent to "muni­

cipia," but exclusive of colonics: thus, in describing

the eighth region, he says, "CoUmiae Bononia,

Bfixillum, Mutinu, etc Oppida Caesena,

Claterna, Forum Clodi, etc." (iii. 15. 8. 20, et

passim). It is important to observe that, in all

such passages, the list of " oppida " is certainly meant

to include only municipal towns; and the lists

thus given by Pliny, though disfigured by corruption

and carelessness, were probably in the first instance

derived from official sources. Hence the marked

agreement which may be traced between them and

the lists given in the Liber Coloniarum, wliich, not­

withstanding the corruptions it has suffered, is un­

questionably based upon good materials. (Concerning

the municipal institutions of Italy, see £avigny,

Vermischle Schriflen, vol. iii. pp. 279—412. and

Gesch. det Horn. Rechti, vol. i.; Marquardt, Uandb.

d. Jiihn. Alterthiimtr, vol. iii. pt i. pp. 44—55;

Hoeck, Rvm. Geschichte, book 5, chap. 3 ; and the

article Gallia Cisalpina.)

The municipal organisation of Italy, and the ter­

ritorial distribution connected with it, lasted through­

out the Roman empire, though there was always a

strong tendency on the part of the central authority

and its officers to encroach upon the municipal

powers: and in one important point, that of their

legal jurisdiction, those powers were materially cir­

cumscribed. But the municipal constitution itself

naturally acquired increased importance as the cen­

tral power became feeble and disorganised: it sur­

vived the fall of the Western Empire, and continued

to subsist under the Gothic anil Lombard conquerors,

until the cities of Italy gradually assumed a ]>jsitioii

of independence, and the municipal constitutions

which had existed under the Roman empire, became

the foundation of the free republics of the middle

ages. (Savigny, Gesch. des Runiuchen liechtt im

MitUl Alter, vol. i.)

The ecclesiastical arrangements introduced after

the establishment of Christianity in the Roman em­

pire, appear to have stool in clo=e connection with,

the municipal limits. Ahnubt every town which was

then a flourishing municipitim became the see of a

