958 SELINUS. SELIXUS.

wiUIs; but the outlines of two Urge edifices, built

of squared stones and in a massive style, are dis­

tinctly traceable outside the walls, near the NE. and

NW. angles of the city, though we bin no cat %

their nature or purpose.

But much the most remarkable of the nia i£

PLAM OF SELINl'S.

A (' D. Temples within the city.

H. Small temple or actlienla in the city.

E F CI. Great templea without the city.

Selinus are those of three temples on the hill to the

E., which do not appear to have been included in

the city, hut, as was often the case, were built on this

neighbouring eminence, so as to front the city itself.

.All these temples are considerably larger than any

of the three above described; and the most northerly

of them is one of the largest of which we have any

remains. It had 8 columns in front and 17 in the

sides, anil was of the kind called pseudo-dipteral.

Its length was 359 feet, and its breadth 102,so that

it was actually longer than the great temple of Ju­

piter Olympius at Agrigentnm, though not equal

to it in breadth. From the columns being only par­

tially tinted, as well as from other signs, it is clear

that it never was completed; but all the more im­

portant parts of the structure were finished, and it

mu«-t have certainly been one of the most imposing

fabrics in antiquity. Only three of the columns are

now standing, and these imperfect; hut the whole

area is tilled up with a heap of fallen masses, por­

tions of columns, capitals, &c, and other huge archi­

tectural fragments,all of the most massive character,

and forming, as observed by Swinburne, " one of the

most gigantic and sublime ruins imaginable," The

two other temples are ilso prostrate, but the ruins

have fallen with such regularity that the portions of

almost every column lie on the ground as they have

fallen; and it is not only easy to restore the plan and

design of the two edifices, but it appears as if they

could be rebuilt with little difficulty. These tem­

ples, though greatly inferior to their gigantic neigh­

bour, were still larger than that at Segesta, and even

exceed the great temple of Neptune at Paestum; so

that the three, when standing, must have presented

a spectacle unrivalled in antiquity. All these build­

ings may be safely refesred to a period anterior to

H If. Remains of edifices on tint* the i

M. Hirer Selinus, now the V .

the Carthaginian conquest (b.c. 409),

three temples last described appear to have

of them of later date than those within the

the city. This is proved, among other orcta

by the scnlptured metopes, several of wai

been dUcovered and extricated from amoetg t

fragments. Of these sculptures, those wi

longed to the temples within the walls,

peculiar and archaic style of art, and are

recognised as among the earliest extant sse

of Greek sculpture, (They are figured By 1

JJeiihnaler, pi. 4, 5, as well aa in many other

and casts of them are in the British Mx-eum.)

on the contrary, which have been found aa*

ruins of the temple marked E. on the

are of a later and more advanced -*.-..-.

retaining considerable remains of the

earliest art. Besides the interest attached 1

Selinuntine metopes from their important bes

the history of Greek sculpture, the mnaise <

temples are of value as affording the dm

qui vocal testimony to the use of psanlinr. ■

the architectural decoration of the tenipiea.

applied to the sculptures with which tas

adorned. A very full ai>d detailed amort

ruins at Selinus is given in the Duke of S

Falco's Antichita Sicilitme, tdL it, froro wfci

preceding plan is derived. A more c*n*r*i4

tion of them will be found in Swinburne's I

vol. ii. pp. 242—245; Smyth's £*niy. pp.

221; and other works on Sicily isi

The coins of Selinus are

The earliest, as already mentioned,

figure of a parsley-leaf on the

somewhat later date (including the

below) represent a figure sacrificinc

