LIGURIA. LIGURIA. 185

yrvpilto ns, we find perpetually recurring notices of

campaigns against the Ligurians; and while the Ro­

man arms were overthrowing the powerful empires of

Macedonia and Syria in the East, one, and some­

time* both, of the consuls were engaged in petty and

inglorious hostilities with the hardy mountaineers of

Liguria. But the annual records of these cam­

paigns for the most part throw little light on the

true btate of the case or the progress of the Roman

anna. It is evident, indeed, that, notwithstanding

the nften repeated tales of victories, frequently cele­

brated »t Koine by triumphs, and often said to have

Wn followed by the submission of the whole Ligu-

rian nation, the struggle was really an arduous one,

ami it was long before the Romans made any real

progress in the reduction of their territory.

One of the most formidable and powerful of the

Ligurian tribes was that of the ApUANI, who in-

Iuhitttl the lofty group of mountains bordering on

Etroria, and appear to have occupied the valleys of

tin? Macra and Ausar {Magra and Serchw), while

they extended eastwards along the chain of the

A]*nnmes to the frontiers of the Arretines and

the territory of Mutina and Bononia. To oppose

their iiiroaiis, the Romans generally made Risae the

Lead-qaarters of one of their armies, and from thence

cirried their arms into the heart of the mountains:

bat their succe«tes seldom effected more than to

compel the enemy to disperse and take refuge in

their villages and castles, of which the latter were

mountain fastnesses in which they were generally

able to defy the Roman arms. It was not till B. c.

180 that the first effectual step was taken for their

reduction, by the consuls Cornelius and Baebius,

*no. after having compelled them to a nominal sub-  
irLwion, adopted the expedient of transporting the

*Me nation (to the number of 40,000, including  
women and children) to a distance from their own

r»«ntiy, and settled them in the heart of Samnium,

where they continued to exist, under the name of

"Litres Corneliani et Baebiani," for centuries after-

war.l*. (Liv. xl. 38, 41.) The establishment of

k-tnan colonic at Pisae and Luca a few years after-

winls tended to consolidate the conquest thus ob­

tained, and established the Roman dominion per-

moently as far as the Macra and the port of Luna,

(llxl. 43. xli. 13.) The Fkiniates, a tribe on

tl* N. of the Apennines, near the sources of the

Sriil'enna (Panaro), had been reduced to subjection

hr C. Flaminius in B. c. 187, and the obscure tribes

<i* the Briniates, Garnli, Hercates, and Lapicini ap-

\-v to have been finally subdued in b. c. 175.

(Id. xxxix. 2, xli. 19.) The Ingai ni, one of the

Bw*t powerful tribes on the coast to the \V. of

Genoa, had been reduced to nominal submission as

tiriy ** b.c 181) but appear to have been still

urj imperfectly subdued; and they, as well as their

Betfhbours the Intemelii, continued to harass the

tfritwy of the Romans, as well as of their allies the

JU-wlians, by piratical expeditions. (Liv. xl. 18,

IS—28, 41.) In b. c. 173 the Statiklli were

fttiwed to subjection (Id. xlii. 8, y); and the name

*f (Lis j>-ople, which here appears for the first time,  
*hw» that the Komans were gradually, though  
t'-My, making good their advance towards the \V.

rram the year 167 B.C., when we lose the guidance

>i Lvy, -we are unable to trace the Liguriun wars in

iot liruil. but we find triumphs over them still re-

i*»:*oly recorded, ami it is evident that they were

•nil mtahdued. In B.C. 154 the Romans for the

fiw tia* attacked the Ligurian tribes of the Oxybii

and Deciates, who dwelt W. of the Varus, and were

therefore not included in Italy, according to its later

limits. (Liv. Epit. xlvii.; Polyb. xxxiii. 7.) It

was not till more than thirty years afterwards

(b.c 123—122) that two successive triumphs ce­

lebrated the reduction of the more powerful tribes of

the Vocontii and Salluvii, both of them in the same

neighbourhood. But while the Ligurian tribes W.

of the Maritime Alps were thus brought gradually

under the Roman yoke, it appears that the subjec­

tion of those in Italy was still incomplete; and in

B.C. 117, Q. Marcius for the last time earned a tri­

umph "de Liguribus." {Fast. Capit.) Even after

this, M. Aemilius Scaurus is said to have distin­

guished himself by fre;-.h successes over them; and

the construction by him (b. c. 109) of the Via

Aemilia, which extended along the coast from Luna

to Vada Sabbnta, and from thence inland across the

Apennines to Dertona, may be considered as marking

the period of the final subjugation of Liguria.

(Strab. v. p. 217; Aur. Vict, de Vir. Illustr. 72.)

But a remarkable expression of Strabo, who says

that, after eighty years of warfare, the Romans only

succeeded in securing a space of 12 stadia in breadth

for the free passage of public officers, shows that

even at this time the subjection of the mountain

tribes was but imperfect. (Strab. iv. p. 203.)

Those which inhabited the Maritime Alps, indeed,

were not finally reduced to obedience till the reign of

Augustus, b. c. 14. (Dion Cass. liv. 24.) This had,

however, been completely effected at the time that

Strabo wrote, and Liguria had been brought under

the same system of administration with the- rest ot

Italy. (Strab. I.e.") The period at which the Ligu-

rians obtained the Roman franchise is unknown : it is

perhaps probable that the towns obtained this privi­

lege at the same time with those of Ci.-alpine Gaul

(B.C. 89); but the mountain tribes, even in the

days of Pliny, only enjoyed the Latin franchise,

(l'lin. iii. 20. s. 24.)

In the division of Italy under Augustus, Liguria

(in the more limited sense, as already defined) con­

stituted the ninth region (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 7), and its

boundaries on the K. and W. appear to have con­

tinued unchanged throughout the period of the Roman

Empire: but the Cottian Alps, which in the time of

Augustus still constituted a separate district under

their own native chieftain, though dependent upon

Koine, and, from the reign of Nero to that of Con*-

stantine, still formed a t-eparate province, were incor­

porated by Con»tantine with Liguria; and from this

period the whole of the region thus constituted came

to be fcuown as the Alves Cottiae, while the name

of Liguria was transferred (on what acoount we

know not) to the eleventh region, or Gallia Trans*

padana [Italia, p. 93]. Hence we find late writers

uniformly speaking of Mediolanum and Ticinnm as

cities of Liguria, while the real land of the Ligurians

had altogether lost that appellation, and was known

only as "the province of the Cottian Alps." {Lib.

1'rorinc. ; 1\ Disc. Jlist. Lang. ii. 15, 16; Jornand.

Get. 30, 42; IVocop. B. G. i.14; Bo* king, ad Not.

Ltifjji. ii. pp. 442, 443.) It is evident that long

before this change took place the Ligurians must

have lost all traces of their distinct nationality, and

become blended into one common mass with the

other Italian subjects of Rome.

Liguria is throughout the greater part of its ex­

tent a mountainous country. The Maritime Alps,

which formed the western boundary, descend com­

pletely to the sea in the neighbourhood of AVoe aikl

