3»0 MYS1US. MYTILENE.

civilisation. Their language was, according to

Strabo (xii. p. 572), a mixture of Lydian and

Phryginn, that is, perhaps, a dialect akin to both of

thcin. Their comparatively low state of civilisation

(■coma also to be indicated by the armour attributed

to them by Herodotus (vii. 74), which consisted of

a common helmet, a small shield, and a javelin, the

l*iint ot which was hardened by fire. At a later

liine, the influence of the Greeks by whom they

were surrounded seems to have dono away with

everything that was pecidiar to them as a natiou,

and to have drawn them into the sphere of Greek

civilisation. (Cimip. Korbiger, llandbuch der alien

Gmi/rnp/tie, vol. ii. p. 110, &c.; Cramer, Asia

Mim>r, i. p. 30, Stc.; Xiebuhr, Lect on Ar.c. Hist.

vol. i. p. 83, &c.) [L. S.]

MY'Sll'S (Mvmoj), a tributary of the Cuicus, on

the frontiers of Mysia, having its sources on Mount

Temnus, and joining the C.'iicus in the neighbour-

hood of I'ergamum. (Strab. xiii. p. 616.) Ac­

cording to Ovid (Mtt. xv. 277) Mysius was only

another name for Caicus, whence some have inferred

1 hat the upjicr part of the Caicus was actually called

Mysius. It is generally believed that the Mysius is

the same as the moileru Ht-rgma. [L. ,S.]

MYSOCAliAS (KvtroKipas, Ptol. iv. 1. § 3),

a harbour on the W. coast of Maurctania, near the

l'huth, probably the same as the Cabicus Mi'Rtis

(Kaputliv t«xoi) of Hnnno (p. 2, ed. Hudson;

comp. Kphor. ap. Steph. B. s. r.), now Aghovs, near

the Watl Tensift, where Kcnou* map of Marocco

marks ruins. (Geog. Graze. Min. vol. i. p. 4, ed.

Miiller, Paris, 1855.) f E. Ii. J.]

MYSOMACE'DOXES (Muiro^ax.Sowi), a tribe

of the Mysinus, probably occupying the district

about the sources of the small river Mysius. (Ptol.

v. 2. $ 15; 1'lin. v. 31.) In tin- time of the

Italians this tribe belonged to the conventus of

Kphesus; but further particulars arc not known of

them. [L.S]

MY'STIA (Mirtrrfa: Elk. Muo-T«u«Sr: AlunatU-

race), ii town of Bruttrum, which seems to have

been situated on the E. coast of that province, be­

tween Scylacium and the Zcphyrian promontory,

apparently not far from Cape Cocinthus (Capo di

Slilo). (Mela, ii. 4. § 8; riin. iii. 10. s. 15.)

■Stephanus of Byzantium cites I'lulistus as calling it

a city of tlie Samnites, by which he must evidently

mean their Lucanian or Bruttian descendants. (Steph.

B. s. v.) Its position cannot be more exactly deter­

mined, but it is placed conjocturally at Monasterace,

near the Ca\m di Stilo. (Oluver. Hal. p. 1305;

Romanelli, vol. i. p. 175.) [E. H. B.]

MYTHETOLlSor.YIYTIIO'POLIl>(Mv*tyr°A<>,

Mi/tMiroAis), a town of Bilhynia, of uncertain bite,

though it was probably situated on the north-west

side of the Lacus Asrania, It is said that during

the winter all the artiticial wells of the place were

completely drained of water, but that in summer they

became filled again to the brim. (Aristot. Mir. Ause.

55; Autig. Caryst. 188.) Stephanus Byz. (?. r.

rioOdiroAir) and I'liny (v. 43) mention a town

of the name of Pythopolis in Mysia, which may pos-

siblv be the same as Mvthopolis. [L. S.J

MYTILENE or MITYLE'NE (MirriA>>n or Mi-

ToAiJKfl: Eth. MvTtXrjvaiox or Mivi/Anvcuor), the

most im|>ortant city in the island of Lesbos. Tliere

is some uncertainty about the orthography of the

name. Coins arc unanimous in favour of Mi/tiA^kij.

Inscriptions vary. Greek manuscripts have gene­

rally, but not univertally, MiruA^n). Latin uinnu-

scripts hare generally Mitylene; but Velleiui Pa-

terculus, Pomponius Mela, and sometime* I'liny.

have Mytilene. In some cases we find the Latia

plural form Mitylcnae. (Suet. Cars. 2. Tib. 10;

Liv. EpU. 89.) Tacitus has tlie adjective Myti-

Icnensis (Ann. xiv. 53). It is generally agreed

now that the word ought to be written Mytilene;

but it does uot seem necessary to alter those pas-

sagos where tlie evidence of JISS. preponderates Urn

other way. A full discussion of this subject may

be seen in l'lehn ( Ltibiacorum Liber). The modem

city is called MitgUn, and sometime** Ctutro,

The chief inu-rest of the history of Lcsau* a

concentrated in Mytileue. Its eminence is evidewt

from its lung series of coins, not only in the aat»-

nomons periixl, when they often bore the legend

nPHTH AECBOT MTTIAHNH, but m the inv-

prrial period down to the reign of Gallieoua. Loisa.

from the earliest to the lalcst times, has been the

most distinguished city of the island, whether we

consider the history of poetry or politics, or th«

annals of naval warfare and commercial enterprise.

One reason of the continued pre-eminence of

Mytilene is to be found in its situation, which («•

common will] tliat of Mktiiymxa) wm fiuroorahw

to the coasting trade, its harbours, too, appear tt

have been excellent Originally it was built upoo a

small island; and thus (whether the small iriaos

were united to the main island by a causeway t*

not) two harbours were formed, one oo the rsrth

and the other on the south. The former of these

was the harbour for ships of war, and was capable

of being closed, and of contaiuing fifty triremes,

the latter was the mercantile harbour, and was

larger and deeper, and defended by a mole. (Strab.

xiii. p. 617; l'aus. viii. 30.) The best elucidation

of its situation in reference to the sea will be 1* uas

in tlie narratives contained in the 3rd book of TLscj-

dides and the 1st book of Xenophon's Uelir*mi.

The northern harbour seems to have been rabies

MaAdfis [Malka]. This harmonises with what

we find in Thucydides, and with what AristeO

says concerning the action of the NE. wind (aauiiai)

on Mytilene. The statements of Xenopbo«i art tar

from clear, unless, with Mr. Grote (Hut. of Grrstr.

vol. viii. p. 230), we suppiue the Euripm U

Mytilene to te that ann of the sea which we has*

mentioned, in the article LnmiS, under lbs

name of l'ortus Hieraeus, anil which runs up sua

the interior of the island, to tbe very neighbour­

hood of Mytilene. A rude plan is given by Tvoroe-

fort; but for accurate informal in the English Ad­

miralty charts must be consulted. The bra*-'/

of the ancient city, and tlie strength of its fo-t_-

fications, are celebrated both by Greek and lirr-as

writers. (See especiallyCic. c. RvlL ii. 16.) I'luUrra

mentions a theatre (1'i'inp. 42), and Atbrcseai

a Prytaneium (x. p. 425). Vitmrina an (l 6)

licit the winds were very troublesome in the hsvtssar

and in the streets, and thut the changes of wvmlhrr

were injurious to health. Tbe products of the mC

near Mytilene do net seem to have been disua-

guislied by any very remarkable prruliantios.

Theophravtus and Pliny nuke ineutbon »>f its mush­

rooms : Galen says that its wine was inferior to tial

of Methymna. In illustraliou of tbe appraraaor <4

Mytilene, as seen from tlie sea, we may refer !•• a

view iu Choiscul-GoutBrr; and to another. »b> fc

shows the fine forms of the moiiDtains miite4ist*-ly

behind, in Convbeare and Howson's U\ft ami Eff.

of St. I'atU.

