PELASGIOTIS. PELIGNI.

XTrbewohner Rattens, t)V\, 184.3: Mommsen, Un-

teritalischen Dialecle, 1850; Pochard, Natural

History of Man, vol. lit. 4; Heffter, Geschichte der

Lutein Sprache, p. 11; G. C. Lewis, Credibility of

early Roman llutory, vol. i. p. 282; and Schwe-

glor. as quoted above.

The last-mentioned historian, after a careful re­

view of all that ancient and modern authorities

have said on the subject, agrees with Mr. Grote in

concluding that there is no historical foundation for

the commonly received traditions about the Pelasgi.

lie says: "The traditional image of the Pelasgic

lace, everywhere driven out, nowhere settling them­

selves for good,— of the race which is everywhere

and nowhere, always reappearing, and vanishing

again without leaving any trace,—the image of this

L'ipsey nation is to me so strange, that we must

entertain doubts as to its historic existence."

After they became a powerful nation in Italy, the

tradition, which Dionysius follows, tells us that they

suddenly dispersed. This is in itself strange; but,

were any other conclusion of the Pelasgi an migra­

tions invented, we should have to point out Pelas-

gians in Italy, which is impossible. Nothing re­

mains of them but a few names of places, which are

manifestly Greek. Lepsius thought an inscription

found at Agylla was Pelasgic, but Mommsen (irn-

tertt. Vial. p. 17) says it is nothing but old

Etruscan.

It is not difficult to account for the prevalence of

traditions relating to Pelasgi in Italy. Schwe^ler

has ably analysed the causes of this, and disproved

on historical and linguistic grounds the views of

Niebuhr and 0. Miiller, which they set up in oppo-

sdtion to the Roman grammarians.

There is considerable doubt, as he remarks, in

what light we are to regard the name Pelasgi,—

whether in that of an ethnographic distinction, or in

that of an epithet — nut urh (fumes or aborigines.

We have both in Greek and Latin words resembling

is sufficiently in form to warrant this supposition,—

v. g. riaAaioy, UaXaix^v, and Priscus. The change

from A to r is so common as to need no illustration,

and the termination -701 is nearly the same as -cits.

These remarks, though they apply with con­

siderable force to the indiscriminate use of the word

l VlasL'ian as applied to Italian races, need not affect

the statement of Herodotus concerning the townships

of So lace, Placie, and Creston, which were accounted

in his time Pelasgic, and spoke a different language

from their neighbours.

That the name Pelasgi once indicated an existing

race we may fairly allow ; but we cannot form any

historical conception of a people whom Herodotus

calls stationary and others migratory, and whose ear­

liest abode was between the mountains of Ossa and

Olympus, and alto in Arcadia and Argolis. On the

whole we can partly appreciate Niebuhr'a feelings

when he wrote of the Pelasgi,—" The name of this

people is irksome to the historian, hating as he does

that spurious philology which raises pretensions to

knowledge concerning races so completely buried in

silence." {Rom. Hist. i. p. 26, Transl.)

If the Pelasgi have any claims on our attention

above other extinct races, it is not because they have

left more trustworthy memorials of their existence,

but because they occupy so considerable a space in

the mythic records of Greece and Italy. [G. B,]

PELasGIO'TIS. [Thi-:ssalia.]

PKLE (IlifA.1): Eth. nrjAcuos), a small island,

forming one of a cluster, off the coast of Ionia, oppo-

1 site to Clazomenae. (Thuc. viii. 31; Fl'ra. ~ 11

's. 38, xxxii. 2. s. 9; Steph. B. *. r.; we Vii L

p. 6:32, a.)

PE'LECAS (n«At«5y). a mountain in M*:a,

which lay between the Apian plain and the mrr

Megistus, (Polyb. v. 77 ) It is pniablj tiw «o-

tinuation of Mt. Temnus, separritinz the villfT <f

the Aesepus from that of the Meatus. It bfc b«

remarked by Forbi^er that there is a strikifts snm-

larity between this name and that of th* wiwh1

mountain TlAaKor mentioned by Homer, at *t*a

foot Thebe is said to have stood, but the josi:Mi <f

which was subsequently unknown. (Ham. ft tl

397. vii. 396. 42o, xxii. 479: Strab. xuL p 614.)

PELE'CES. [Attica, p. 326, a.]

PELE'NDONES (neA^So^r, PtoL ii. 6. 5 M\

a Celtiberian people in Hispanis TamuwwDiH. be­

tween the sources of the Durius and lbens, vii

situated to the E. of the Areraci. Under tbt

mans they were in the jurisdiction of Clunia. TV*

consisted of four tribes, and one of their to*?~>

Xuutantia. We find also amon? their cities, Va­

lium, Olibia, Varia, &c. (Piin. iii. 3. s. 4. i* JO.

s. 34.) [T. H. D.]

PELETHRO'NIUM (T\*\*epovu>r), a part V

Mt Pelium, whence Vircil gives The

epithet of Pelethronii. (Strab. vii. p. 299 ; Suf s. A

3. v.: Virg. Georg. iii. 115.)

PELIGNI (neAr^oi) a people of Central hVfc

occupying an inland district in the heart ef ft*

Apennines. They bordered on the Mara vyr&*

the VV., on the Sammies to the S., the Krentao •

the E., and the Vestini to the N. Their

was of very small extent, being confined to tinn&f

of the Gkio, a tributary of the A terms, of »tA

j the ancient name is nowfiere recorded, and 1 s~J

part of (he valley of the At emus itself ak-ftc »

right bank. The valley of the Gizict is one of *>*

upland valleys at a considerable elevation abow 4f

sea, running parallel with the course of the A

nines, which form so remarkable a feature n *J>

configuration of the central chain of those? m'^BfJA

[ApknninusJ. It is separated from the Ma» *

the basin of the lake Fucinus on the W. bv a m

row and strongly marked mountain ridsre of ac- r«

elevation; while towards the S. it terminates u: o

lofty mountain group which connects the crata

ranges of the Apennines with the creat mass 4

Majella. This last group one of the most

in the whole of the Apennines, attaining a hsrrta

9100 feet above the sea. rises on the i>£. mc:«tf

the Peligni; while the Monte Morrtmr, a ]jong rA

of scarcely inferior height, rana out fn>m the

of its junction with the Sfajtlla in a NW. dirrrrr

forming a gigantic barrier, which compJeteh HS«

in the Peligni on the NE., separatina- them fnmf

Prentani and Marrucini. This n>->untarn ricc^

almost continuous with that which de^eettd*. frc

the Gran Sasso towards the SE. through tb* c- atf

of the Vestini, but the great mountain barrier t*

formed is interrupted by a deep (j.irpe, thm

which the Atenius forces its way to the sea. ban

turned abruptly to the NK. immediatelT af^ir ■

ceiving the river Gizio [Ateknl'a]. Tb* aacW

district of the Peligni was thus shut m on atf •

by natural barriers, except towards the wfc

they met the Vestini in the valley of ihe Afteraa

A tradition recorded by Festus (s. ».

p. 222), but on what authority we know Dot, rqp

sented the Peligni as of Illvriau oriiriu; bw t

1 statement is far outweighed by the express feajttsfJH

