LUCL'S ASTURUM 213 LUGDUNUM.

pulilcss is written in some MSS. "Angitia," in

ntliei-s "Anguitia;" but the authority of numerous

inscriptions is decisive in favour of the first form.

(Ore!!. laser. 115, 116, 1845.) [E. H. B.J

LUCUS A'STIJRUM. [Asturks.]

LUCUS AUGUSTI, a town in Gallia Narbonensis,

and east of the Rhone, which Tacitus (/fist i. 66)

calls "mnnicipium Vocontiomm;" and Pliny (iii. 4)

names Vasio ( Vaison) and Lucus Angusti the two

chief towns of the V'ocontii. Lucus is placed in the

Itins. on a road from Vapincum (Gap) to Lugdu-

num {Lyon): it is the first stage after Mons

Meucus, and lies between Mons Seleucus and Dea

Vivontiorarn (Die). The name is preserved in Luc.

• This town has been destroyed by the fall of a rock,

which, having stopped the course of the Drome, has

rsiused the river to spread out and form lakes which

have covered part of its territory: there remains,

however, in the neighbourhood and at the outlet of

th^e lakes a place which preserves the name of

Lnc" (D'Anville, Notice, <fc.) It is stated in the

Guide da Voyayeur (Richard et Hocquart), that

"on the mountain called the Pied de Life, in the

commune of Luc-en-Dioi9, there are considerable

remains of old buildings. The column of the public

fountain of this little place is a fragment of an old

capital, and the basin is a sarcophagus of a single

•tone." There is an inscription on it in Roman cha­

racters. [G. L.]

LUCUS AUGUSTI (Aowros kxryoiarov, Ptol. ii.

6. § 24: L>iyo), a city in the centre of Gallaecia, in

HUpania Tarraconensis. was originally the chief town

of the insignificant tribe of the Capori, but under

the ftmians it was mode the seat of a conventits ju-

ririicus, and became one of the two capitals of Gal-

lapcia, and gave its name to the Callai'ci Lucenses.

[Gallaecia.] The Conventus Lucensis, according

to Pliny, began at the river Xavilubio, and contained

16 peoples, besides the Celtici and Lebuni; and

tlwujh these tribes were insignificant, and their

names barbarous, there were among them 166,000

freemen (Plin. iii. 3. 8. 4, iv. 20. s. 34). The city

ttiwi on one of the upper branches of the Minius

(Vino), on the road from Biiaoara to Astuiiica

(/lia. Am. pp. 424, 430), and had some famous

Intbs of which there are now no remains. (Floras,

£«p. & vol. xl., xli.; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. I, p.

«:). [P. S]

LUCUS FF.RCNIAE. [Feroxia.]

_ LUCUS HE'CATES (SAffos 'E/ttvnjjfcrpor (Ptol.

iii 5. § 7), the westernmost point of the peninsula

of Hvlaea, now the alluvial tongue of land Kin-

»■«. [E. B. J.]

LUCUS MARI'CAE. [Liris.]

LU'UIAS, LY'WAS (Aoo.'ijs, Herod, vii. 127;

Arfiaj. Eur. Bacch. 565; Scyl. p. 26; Ptol. iii.

IS. | 15; AovBtat, Strab. vii. p. 330), a river of

bWiiaei* in Macedonia, or discharge of the marshes

•f Pel la. In the time of Herodotus (/. c.) it joined

tie Haliacmon, but a change has taken place in its

trorse. as it is now an affluent of the Axius ( Var-

««W). The river which now emerges from the

i*»er end of the lake of Pella is called Karasmnk

«• ifaenniri. The river of Jfoyleni, now called

Kurmljii, by the Turks, Meglemitj. by the Bul-

nriaiM, and by the Greeks Mogtenitiho, which falls

Mo the lake of Pella, and which in its course

►tVe entering the lake follows the same direction

"ta» Mnrrimeri, was probably called by the

•"Haiti the Lydias. (Leake, Northern Greece,

*L ui. pp. 270, 437.) [E. B. J.]

LUEXTfNUM (Aovimivov), in Britain, men­

tioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3) as a town of the Dimetae,

Maridunum (Caer-martiien) being the other.

The Monumenta Britaimica suggests Llan-detcy-

brevy. [R. G. L.]

LUGDU'NUM(Aou75ou>'o>': Eth. AouySovvfitrio!,

Lugdunensis: Lyon), a. Roman settlement in Gallin,

at the junction of the Arar (Saune) and Rhodanus.

It was in the territory of the Segusiani, who were

the neighbours of the Aedui (Caes. B. G. i. 10, vii.

64): in Pliny's time the Segusiani had the title of

Libert. (Plin. U. N. iv. 18.) Ptolemy incorrectly

places Lugdunum among the cities of the Aedui; he

calls it Lugdunum Metropolis.

The writing of the name does not seem to have

been quite fixed. Dion Cassius (xlvi. 50, ed. Reim.)

observes that the place was originally named Lugu-

dunum (Aovyov&ovvov), and then Lugdunum. In

Stephanus («. v.) the name is Lugdunus, and he

refers to Ptolemy; but in P'.olemy (ii. 8. § 17) it is

Lugdunum. It is also written "Lugdunus" iu

Atmnianus Marcellinus. In the Treatise on Rivers

printed among Plutarch's works ("Apop, c. 4), the

hill of Lyon is named Lugdunus; and it is added,

on the authority of Clitophon, that Lugm means

"a crow" and dunum " an eminence." Though the

explanation of dun is l ight, we cannot accept the

explanation of the other part of the word.

The colonia of Lugdunum is said to have been

settled B. c. 43, by L. Munatius Plancus, and the

settlers were the people of Vienna ( Vienne) who

were driven from their homes by the Allobroges.

(Dion Cass. xlvi. 50; Strab. pp. 192, 193.) The

position, according to Dion, was the place between the

Saoite and the Rhone. Strabo says that it was

"under" a hill, the position of which he determines

by referring it to the junction of the two rivers;

but this does not show exactly where the town was,

and probably Strabo did not know. In the passage in

Strabo, the word " under" (inri) has been corrected

to "upon" (6rl), which may be a true correction. The

old town of Lugdunum was on the right side of

the Rhone, on the slope of a hill named Fourviere,

whirl: is supposed to be a corruption of Forum

Vetus. The largest part of modern Lyon is be­

tween the Saone and the Rhone, but this is a modern

addition, not earlier than the time of Louis XII. and

Francis I.

In Strabo's time Lugdunum was the most popu­

lous of the Gallic towns after Narbotine: it was a

place of trade, and the Roman governors had a mint

there for coining gold and silver. Its great com­

mercial prosperity was due to its excellent position,

and to the roads which the Romans constructed in

several directions from Lugdunum as a centre.

[Gai.ua Tkansai.pina, Vol. I. p. 966.] In the

time of the younger Pliny there were booksellers at

Lugdunum, and Pliny's works might be got there

(Plin. Ep. ix. 11). The city was destroyed by fire

in Seneca's time (Ep. 91), but shortly after it

was restored through the liberality of the em­

peror Nero, to whom the inhabitants of Lug­

dunum continued faithful when Galba revolted

(Tacit. Ann. xvi. 13, Hist. i. 51). Lugdunum

was plundered and again burnt by the soldiers

of Septimius Severus (a. d. 197), after the defeat of

Albinus near the city (Herodiaii, iii. 23). It was nil

important position under the later Empire, but the

name only occurs occasionally in the scanty historical

notices of that time. When Julian was governor of

Gallia, Lugdunum was near being surprised by a

r a

