WM SPARTA.

SPAETA.

'the ■other of the cods,—and the heroa of Hippo-

'.'r:=s *nd Aulon. The Aphetais upon quitting the

- tj j nod the great Hyacinthiau road which led to  
i^e Amydaeum. (Paus. iii. 12. §§ 1—9.)

The next most important street leading from the

Agi ra r.in in a south-easterly direction. It is

anally called Soias, though Pausanias gives this

name only to a building at the beginning of tire

street, erected by Theodoras of Samos. and which

was used even in the time of Pausanias as a place

for the assemblies of the people. Near the Scias

was a round structure, said to have been built by

Kpimenides. containing statues of the Olympian

/eus and Aphrodite; next came the tombs of Cv-

nortaa, Castor, Idas, and Lynceus, and a temple of

Core Soleira. The other buildings along this street

or in this direction, if there was no street, were the

temple of Apdlo Cameius, who was worshipped

here before the Dorian invasion,—a statue of Apollo

Aplietaeus,—a quadrangular place surrounded with

colonnades, where small-wares (^tiros) were an­

ciently sold,—an altar sacred to Zeus, Athena, and

the Dioscuri, all surnained Ambulii. Opposite was

the place called Colona and the temple of Dionysus

Colonatas. Near the Colona was the temple of

Zeus Euanemus. On a neighbouring hill was the

temple of the Argive Hera, and the temple of Hera

Hypercheiria, containing an ancient wooden statue of

Aphrodite Hera. To the right of this hill was a

statue of Hetoemocles ,who had gained the victory in

the Olympic games. (Paus. iiL 12. § 10—iii. 13.)

Although Pausanias does not say that the Colona

was a hill, yet there can be no doubt of the fact, as

aaAaVa is the Doric for «o*i»r!i, a hilL This height

and the one upon which the temple of Hera sV<*l

are evidently the heights NW. of the village of Psy-

rAiiu between the Eurotas and the plain to the S.

of the theatre (Map, C).

After describing the streets leading from the

A;ora to the S. and >K. Pausanias next mentions a

third street, running westward from the Agon. It

led past the theatre to the royal sepulchres of the

Ar-»iae. In front of the theatre were the tombs of

1'aujarias and Leocidas (iii. 14. § 1>

Frets the theatre Pausanias probably went by the

h^i.jw way to the Earous. lor he says that near the

Sefcicirei of the Agiadae was the Lesche of the

Crvtani. and that the Crotani were a portion of the

Pitaaatae. It would appear from a passage in

Alheaaeos (i. p. 31) that Pitane was in the neigh-

Uorbood of the Onus; and its proximity to the

Eancas has been already shown. [See above, p.

1026. a.] It is not improbable, as Curtias observes,

that Pit at bry partly within and partly without

fjf, ixr the Ceramekus at Athens. Alter

t t» the taenb of Taesams. and the sanc-

(4 Ptfnica Hippocunsa and the Arginetan

paosaatas returns to the Lesche, Dear

i -^n :ec:ie of Arteois Issoria, also called

; • ■ •.- :.-;. ••• .-.

n :ie II ■■ '~r" /PJ »- f U;

di . t Ml B saacaeeii bv CarUis to be the bill

T ™ onjT sera, refifis ti» as the Acropets

^ f W atone, t^ l-»r,.r.a.:.- t* bearht

T t. _T 7l" « circs. Paa-

t£zrz^> «- ^ <«-

r Cbihoma. 4

Zeus. Ha that

^ iB lu» d»r»»J"J*^*^

nasia, one of which was dedicated Vj a

Euryclcs. The Roman amphitheatre sat

dium, of which the remains ban b

described, were included in the Dm

Dromus was a statae of Hercules, sea

outside the Dromus. was the boose i

The Dromus must have formed putt

Menelaus is called a Pitanatan. (H

Proceeding from the Dromus occurred

of the Dioscuri, of the Graces, of

Apollo Carneius, and of Artemis!

right of the Dromus was a statue

Agnitas; at the beginning of the

were statues of the Dioscuri Apbetarii;

further the heronm of Alcon and

Poseidon Domatites. (Pans. iii. 14. §§

South of the Dromus was a broader

was called Platanistaa, from the

which it was thickly planted. It is

round island, formed by streams of

and was entered by two bridces, i

there was a statue of Hercules a

Lvcurgus at the other. Two divisions «f

Ephehi were accustomed to cross these T

fight with one another in the I

though they had no arms, they freer*

severe wounds upon one another. (Pat

seq.; Lucian, Anachart. 38; Cic. Tm

27.) The running streams snrroondiig

ton were the canals of the TrypmGhm,

by several springs in the iieigbr>

into the Eurotas. Outside the city i

called Phoebaeum, where each division af

sacrificed the night before the (

baeum occupied the narrow comer i

taniston formed by the TrypwtHo and

Pausanias describes it as near Tl

situated upon the Menelaium,

upon the other side of the Eurotas. z

The proximity of the Phoebaeum

mentioned in another passage of Ps

§ 20), and by Herodotus (vL 61).

Cynisca. the first female who conquered i

race in the Olympic games, stood <"

niston, which was bordered upon a

nade. Behind this colonnade then

heroic monuments, among which were

mus, Enaraephorus, of Dorceus, with

Dorceia, and of Sebrus. Near the

sepulchre of the poet Alcman; this wi

the sanctuary of Helena and that of [

the monument of Oeonus, whose death b*

by slaying the sons of Hippccoon.

Hercules was close to the city wall

14 § 8—15. § 5.) Since the post I

tomb was in this district, is described aa I

Mesoa [iXrt. of Biogr^ art. Aiotas}. it1

that this was the position of Muna, \ *

which might indicate a tract lying i

(Cotnp. MforjiT]—vwh 3wo:

Stepb. B. *. r. Muroin).)

After reaching the SE. I

raosanias returns to the Dromus. Here

two ways: the one to the right las ding

of Athena Axiopoenus, and the otb

aanther temple of Athena, fimnilsd I

which was a temple of Uippostheoes,

wooden statue of Enyalias in f

scribes, but without giring any i

siaon, the painted Lesche, with id

heroa of Cadmus, Oeolycus, Aegrus, i

