91 t SARMATIA. SARDOXES.

SARDONES. [Sordohks.]

SARDONYX (2ap8u>eu£). a mountain or chain

of mountains in ffindottan, noticed by Ptolemy (vii.

1. §§20 and 65). It would seem to have been part

of the range now known by the name of the Vhidkya

Mountains. Lassen,in his map, has identified them

with the Pd\japippali Mountains on the right bank

of the Narmada (Xerbudda), and Forbigw has

supposed them to be the Sdtpui*a Mountains, a con­

tinuation of the same chain. [V.]

SARDO'UM or SARDO'NIUM MARE (to Zap-

Syov ir4Kayos, Strab., Pol, but to SapSoVtoi' ireAa-

yos, Herod, i. 166), was the name given by the

ancients to the part of the Mediterranean sea ad­

joining the island of Sardinia on the \V. and S.

hike all similar appellations it was used with con­

siderable vagueness and laxity; there being no na­

tural limit to separate it from the other parts of the

Mediterranean. Eratosthenes seems to have applied

the name to the whole of the sea westward of Sar­

dinia to the coast of Spain (ap. Plin. iii. 5. s. 10),

so as to include the whole of what was termed by

other authors the Maul: Hist an um or Baleaki-

CUM; but this extension does not seem to have

been generally adopted. It was, on the other hand,

clearly distinguished from the Tyrrhenian sea, which

lay to the E. of the two great islands of Sardinia

and Corsica, between thein and Italy, and from

the Libyan sea (Mare Libycum), from which it

was separated by the kind of strait formed by the

Lilybaean promontory of Sicily, and the opposite

point (Cape Bon) on the coast of Africa. (Pol. i.

42; Strab. ii. pp. 105, 122; Agathem. ii. 14;

Dmnys. Per. 82.) Ptolemy, however, gives the

name of the Libyan sea to that immediately to the

S. of Sardinia, restricting that of Sardouin Mare to

the W., which is certainly opposed to the usage of

the other geographers. (Ptol. iii. 3. § 1.) Strabo

speaks of the Sardinian sea as the deepest part of

the Mediterranean; its greatest depth was said by

Posidonius to be not less than 1000 fathoms.

(Strab. ii. pp. 50, 54.) It is in fact quite un­

fathomable, and the above estimate is obviously a

mere guess. [E. H. 15.]

SAREPTA (2ap«p8a), the " Zarephatb, a city

of Sidon " of the Old Testament (1 Kings, xvii. 9.

10; com p. St. Luke, ir. 26), apparently at the most

extreme north (Obad. 20), celebrated in the his­

tory of Elijah the prophet. It is said by Josephus

to be not far from Tyre and Sidon, lying between

the two. (Ant. viii. 13. § 2.) Pliny places it be­

tween Tyre and Ornithon, on the road to Sidon (v.

19. § 17). In the Itineranum Hierosohmi tan urn

the name does not occur, but it is described by a

periphrasis and placed viii. m. p. from Sidon (p.

583). The Arabian geographer Sherif Ibn Idris,

quoted by Reland, places Zarapkand 20 miles from

Tyre, 10 from Sidon. (Palaestina, p. 985.) It

was formerly cWubrated for its wine, and is supposed

to be intended by Pliny under the name of Tyrian,

which he commends with that of Tripolis and

Berytua (xiv. 7). Several of the later Latin poets

have also sung Lhe praises of the "dulcia Bacehi

inunera, quae Sarepta ferax, quae Gaza crearet,"

the quantity of the first syllable being common (ap.

Reland, p. 986). The place is noticed by modern

travellers. Dr. Robinson found 41 a large village

bearing the name of Surapend* five hours north of

Tyre, three south of Sidon, near the sea-shore,

where is a saint's tomb called ELKhiidr (— St.

George)) which lie imagined to mark the site of a

| Christian chapel mentioned by tnmlm ii U

middle ages. (Bibl. He*. toL iiL \T 411,

| 413.) [G.W.]

SARGANTHA. [Sekgitctia.]

SARGARAUSE'NE (SotryatKwnw^), \ istna

of Cappadocia, on the east of Commagene iad i

the frontiers of Pont us, containing, acoanuag i

Ptolemy (v. 6. § 13), the town* of Phuca, 1

gena, Gauraena, Sabalassus, Arianthin. ud!

ruga. (Strab. xii. pp. 534, 537; PUn. tl1) [i

SARGETLA (Zapyrria, Dion Cass, urriu. I

2ap7«»Tia, TzeU. Chdl. ii. 61; "Hapyirtm^ Tai

Chil. vi. 53), a river of Dicta, upon waica i

the royal palace of Deoebalus, This rim Dm

identified with the Strei or Strey, a tribolarr el:

Marosch, since we know that SariniarprtLei

the residence of Decebalus. [SAunz&cr

(Ukert, vol. iii. pt. it p. 603.)

SARI PHI MONTES (ra 2ap*^«

of mountains, extending, according to Ptoleaf,!

tween Maigiana and Ariana, and the waUohfl

several small streams. They are probaUf t

now called the Ilazdras. Matinert (v. 2, p. 65),

supposed them the same as the

Dion. Perieg. v. 1099), but this Uooutrirjl

probability.

SARMA'LIUS (It.AnL p. 203) orS.4

(Za-pfxaJyta, Ptol. v. 4. § 8), a town ia I

the road from Ancyra to Tavia or ravinn, ii

posed by some to be the modern KarndjeUL |~

SARMATIA (Zappdna: Etk.

name of a country in Europe and Asia. Fur t

lier and Greek forms of the word see Saca

That S-rm is the same root as >-r\ i

Sarmatae and Serbi, Servi, Sfjrdbi, Srb, &C, J

be, not only the name for the sam

but also the same name, lias been

that upon not unreasonable grounds. TW I

seems to have tit>t reached the Greeks

the Scythians of the lower Dnieper and J

applied it to a non-Scythic population,

this non-Scythic population uaed it

and whether it was limited to them fcf 1

thians, is uncertain. It was a name, toa,'

the Getae used ; also one used by some of 1

nonian populations. It was, probably, the <

the Sarmatians themselves used partially.t

hours generally, just like Galli, Gryci, i

others.

More important than the origin of the \

the questions concerning (1) the aim,

pulation to which it applied. Oar chief 1

on this point is Ptolemy; Strabo**

dental and fragmentary.

The area given by Strabo to the

Germani, extends as far as the

even the Am, the Tyrigetae

western of the non-German txaiatrirs. <

east, and the Bastarnae being doubtful

haps, German (vii. p. 289). Of

nations, such as the JaxYge:

olani, a brief notice ia given, wit

special statement as to their

matian aJHnities. In Asia, the coaatxr otf 1

romatae is called the plains, of the

opposed to the mountains of Caucm&ns.

dinate size given to Germany by Strabo

obliterates, not only SannaDa, bat ScjtUa> i

as well.

Pliny's notices are as incidental aa

nearly as brief,—the development of <

