STtJRA. STYMPHALUS. 1U39

fTCRA (Sura), a river of Northern Italy, one

uV confluent* of tbe Padua (Plin. iii. 16. a. 20),

kich jitos that river a few mile* below Turin

umsta Taorinwutn), within a few miles of the

n Minor or JJora Jiijiaria. It still retains its

rxnt rurae and is a considerable stream, rising in

r rbders of tbe Alps, between the Roche Melon

< Matt Item*. [E. H. B.]

•il'KA (2Tovp«t), a small place in Psttalene,

r the mouths of the Indus, mentioned by Arrian

it c 4). [V.]

MURIUM INSULA. [Phila].

STCHNIUM (SrovfVM: £«A. Sturninus: Sfer-

rno), ft town of Calabria, mentioned both by

mj knd Ptolemy among the municipal towns of

it region. (Plin. iii. 11. a. 16; PtoL iii. 1. § 77.)

nune u not otherwise known, but it is supposed

be it presented by the modern village of Ster­

na, about 10 miles S. of Lecce (Lupiae) and a

rt distance NE. of Soleto (Soletum). (Cluver.

I p. 1231; Bomanelli, Tol. ii. p. 114.) There

lc csnt with the inscription 2TT, and types

mlrling those of the Taren tines, which are as-

kru to Sturnium. [E. H. B.]

MYLLANGIUM (Zrvf^dyytoy, Polyb. iv. 77,

- ■ <djtor, Steph. B. *. v.: Kth. ^rvWdyios,

■ \i~,uvi), a town of Triphylia in EHs of un-

•tn file, which surrendered to Philip in the

al W'u.

sTY'MBARA (Zrvfitapa, Strab. vii. p. 327;

Atya. Polyb. xxTiii. 8. § 8; Stubera, Liv.xxxi.

ihk 20, 22), a town on the frontier of regal

rrj ,fiis, which is by some assigned to Peuriopus,

I by others to Pelagonia, which in the campaign of

l 400 was the third encampment of the consul

j»cai»; it moat be looked for in the basin of tbe

:na. (Leake, Northern Greece* vol. iii. p.

V) [E. B. J.]

►TVHPHAXIS, a district annexed by the Ro­

to, iii'ffig with Atintania and Elimiotis, to Mace-

is a poo the conquest of this kingdom, A.D. 108.

r. ilv. 30.) From the mention of this district

« with Atintania and Elimiulis, which were

t*es of Epeirus upon the borders of Thessaly, it

. appear that Stytnpbalis is only another form

is* mure common name Tymphalis or Tym-

; though it is true, as Cramer has observed,

I Dtodorns has mentioned Stymphaha (Diod. xx.

, aod Calli mac bus sneaks of the Stymphalian

"iu that territory {Hymn, in J Han. 179).

Ittay (iii. 13. § 43) hkowise mentions a town

t<sui in Stymphalia, but in this passage other

rrsd Tymjjfaalift. (Cramer, Ancient Greece^

i. p. 19&)

TVMPHA'LUS (Xrvn(pa\o!,2Tvn$riKot, Paus.

it; t4 i:u...:.7j\.-f. Schol. ad Pind. 01. vi. 129;

*Jum. PUn. iv. 6. s. 10; Stymphala, Lucret.  
1: Elk. 1rvfi$4\ios, 2rvfxipi)\ios), the name of

*n, district, mountain, and river in the NE. of  
fclia. Tbe territory of Stytnphalus is a plain,

it ux miles in length, bounded by Achaia on tbe

Ncvoaia and Phliasia on the E., the territory of

ttibeia on the S., and that of Orchomenus and

tmu on the W. This plain is shut in on all

»by mountains. On the K. rises the gigantic

■ of Cyllene, from which a projecting spur,

■d Ml Stymphalus, descends into the plain.

-r-iAo* fipot, Ptol. iii. 16. § 14; Hesych. $. v.;  
I* Styaphalos, Stat. Site. iv. 6. 100.) The

wtaia at the southern end of the plain, opposite

kte, was called Apclauruin (t£ 'Atc(\avpovj

Polyb. iv. 69) *, and at its foot is the kala-

vdthra or subterraneous outlet of the lake of Stytn­

phalus (/') %Tvu4>a\h Aiumj. Strab. viii. p. 371;

n Srwut^Ain Mfirn, Herod, vi. 76). This lake

is formed partly by the rain-water descending

from Cyllene and Apelaurum, and partly by three

streams which flow into it from different parts

of the plain. From the west descends a small

btream, which rises in Mount Gcronteium in the

neighbourhood of Kastania: and from the east

comes another stream, which rises near Dusa. But

the most important of the three streams is the

one which rises on the northern hido of the plain,

from a copious kefaloVrysi. In summer it Hows

about two miles through tho plain into the kata-

vdthra of Apelaurum; but in winter it becomes

almost immediately a part of the waters of the lake,

though its course may be traced through the shal­

lower water to the katavothra. This stream was

called Stymphalus by the ancients; it was regardrd

by them as the principal source of the lake, and was

universally believed to make its reappearance, after a

subterranean course of 200 stadia, as the river

Erasinus in Argolis. (Herod, vi. 76; Fhus. ii. 3. §

5, ii. 24. § 6, viii. 22. § 3; Strub. viii. p. 371;

AitGOS, Vol. I. p. SOI, a.) The Stympbalii wor­

shipped the Erasinus and Metope (Mtrwirij, Aelian,

V. II. ii. 33), whence it has been concluded that

Metope is only another name of the river Stym­

phalus. Metope is also mentioned by Callimuehus

{Hymn, in Jov. 26), with the epithet pebbly (*o-

KvffTttos), which, as Leake observes, seems not very

appropriate to a stream issuing in a l>ody from the

earth, and flowing through a marsh. (Peluponnesiuca,

p. 384.) The water, which formed the source of

the Stymphalus, was conducted to Corinth by the

emperor Hadrian, by means of an aqueduct, of which

considerable remains may still be traced. The state­

ment of Pausanias, that in summer there is no lake, is

not correct, though it is confined at that time to a

small circuit round the katavothra. As there is no

outlet fcr the waters of the lake except tbe katavothra,

a stoppage of this subterraneous channel by stones,

sand, or any other substance occasions an inundation.

In the time of Pau>anias there occurred such an

inundation, which was ascribed to the anger of

Artemis. The water was said to have covered tbe

plain to the extent of 400 stadia; but this number

is evidently corrupt, and we ought probably to read

TttrcrapoKoma instead of T«Tpa*o<rious. (Paus. viii.

22. § 8.) Strabo relates that Iphicrates, when be­

sieging Stymphalus without success, attempted to

obstruct tho katavothra, but was diverted from his

purpose by a sign from heaven (viii. p. 389).

Strabo also states that originally there was no sub*

terraneous outlet for the waters of the lake, so that

the city of the Stympbalii, which was in his time 50

stadia from the lake, was originally situated upon

its margin. But this is clearly an error, even if his

statement refers to old Stymphalus, for the breadth

of the whole lake is less than 20 stadia.

The city derived its name from Stymphalus, a son

of Elatus and grandson of Areas . but the ancient

city, in which Temenus, the son of Pelasgus, dwelt,

had entirely disappeared in the time of Pausanias,

* There was also a small town, Apelaurus, which  
is mentioned by Livy as the place where the Achae­

an* under Kicostratus gained a victory over the

Macedonians under Andro&thenes, b. c. 197. (Liv.

xxxui. 14.)

