30 IGLETKS. IGUVIUM.

Ktruria, directly opposite to the Mons Argeutaiius

and the port of Cum. It is, next to llva, the most

considerable of the Elands near the coast of Ktruria,

being 6 miles long by about 3 in breadth, and con­

sists of a group of mountains of considerable eleva-

tion. Hence Kutilius speaks uf its " silvosa cacu-

mina." {/tin. i. 325.) F'rom tliat author vre lenrn

that, when Kome was taken by Alaric (a. d. 410), a

number of fugitives from the city took refuge in

lgilium, the insular position of which arlorded them

complete security. Caesar also mentions it, during

the Civil War, in conjunction with the neighbouring

port of Cusa, as furnishing a few vessels to Domi-

tius, with which that general sailed for Massilia.

(Cues. li. C. i. 34; Pun. iii. 6. s. 12; Mela, ii. 7.

§ 19.) It is evident, therefore, that it was inhabited

iu ancient as well as modem time*. [E. II. B.J

IGLfcTES, IGNE'TES. [HiaPAKiA.]

IGULLIO'NES, in European Sarmatia, mentioned

by 1'tolemy as lying between the Stavani and Cois-

toboci, and to the east of the Vctiedi (iii. 5. § 21).

Now the Stavani lay south of the Galindae and

Sudini, populations of which the locality is known to

be that uf the Ualinditae and Sudovitae of the middle

ages, i. e. the parts about the Spirding-tet in East

Prussia. This would place the IgulUones in the

southern part of Lithuania, or in purls of Grodno,

I'odolia, and P'ottyiuio, in the country of theJaxicinai

of the thirteenth century, — there or thereabouts.

Zeuss has allowed himself to consider some such form

as 'Uvyylmrts as the truer rending; anil, so doing,

identities the nanus, as well as the localities, of the

two populations ("iTt/jrytW, Jacuring),—the varieties

•f form being very numerous. The Jaevingt were

IMkwmiaitt—Lithuanians as opposed to Slavonians;

and in this lies their ethnological importance, inas­

much as the southward extension of that branch of

the Sannatian stuck is undetermined. (See Zeuss,

t. v. Jazuringi.) [K. G. !-•]

IGU'VIUMO'yoww: £/A.i£iivinus: VvUno),m

ancient and important town of L'inbria, situated on

the W. slope of the Apennines, but not far from

their central ridge, and on the lelt of the Via Fla-

minia. It* existence as an ancient Umbrian city is

sufficiently attested by its coins, as well as by a re­

markable monument presently to be noticed; but we

find no mention of it in history previous to the period

of its subjection to Koine, and we only learn inci­

dentally trom Cicero that it enjoyed the privileged

condition of a " toederala civitas," and that the terms

of its treaty were of a highly favourable character.

(Cic. pro Balb. 20, where the reading of the older |

editions, "Fulginatiuni," is certainly erroneous: see

Orelli, ad loc.) i he first mention of its name oc­

curs in Livy (xlv. 43, where there is no doubt we

should read lguvinm for " Igiturvium ") as the place I

■elected by the Koman senate for tlie confinement of

the Illyrian king Gentius and his sons, when the I

people of Spolclium refused to receive them, lis

natural strength of position, which was evidently the I

cause of iU selection on this occasion, led also to its |

bearing a conspicu.ms part in the beginning uf the I

civil war between Caesar and I'otnpey, when it was .

uccnpisd by the praetor Minucius Ihermus with live

cohorts; but on the approach of Curio with three

cohorts, Thermns, who was apprehensive of a re­

volt of the riiiiens, abandoned the town without 1

resistance. (Can. li. C. L 12; Cic «d Att. vii. 13, |

b.) Under the Risnan dominion Iguvium seems to j

have lapsed into the condition of an ordinary mu- |

nicipal town: we find it noticed in an inscription as I

one of the '■ xv. populi Umbriao " (OrelL Inter. 98),

as well as by Pliny and Ptolemy (l'lin. iii. 14. s. 19;

Ptol. iii. I. § 53), and it is probable that in Stral«>

also we should read ,l7ot»»oi' for tlie corrupt nam*

"iToupoF of the MSS. and earlier editions. (Strah.

v. p. 227; Cluver. Ital p. 626.) But ita secluded

position in the mountains, and at a distance of some

miles from the line of the Via Flaminia, was pro­

bably unfavourable to its prosperity, and it does n».t

seem to have been a place of much importance.

Siliua Italicus speaks of it as very subject to fogs

(viii. 459). It early became the see of a bishop,

and retained its episcopal rank throughout the middle

ages, when it rose to be a place of considerably more

importance than it had enjoyed under the [Ionian

empire.

The modern city of Gulbio contains no ruins of

ancient date; but about 8 miles to the E. of it. at a

place now called La ScAieggia, on tlie line of tho

ancient Flaminian Way, and just at tlie highest

point of the pass by which it crosses the main ridge

of the Apennines, some vestiges of an ancient temple

are still visible, which are suppiwed with good reason

to be those of the temple of Jupiter Apenninus.

This is represented in the Tabula Peutingeriana a*

existing at the highest point of the pass, and is

noticed also by Claudian in describing the pro?re*»

of Honorius along the Flaminian Way. (Claudian.

de VI. Com. Hon. 504; Tab. Peut.) The oracle

consulted by the emperor Claudius "in Apennino"

(Treb. Poll. Claud. 10) may perhaps have reference

to tlie same spot. Many bronze idols and other

small objects of antiquity have been found near the

ruins in question; but a far more important dis­

covery, made on the same site in 1444, was that of

the celebrated tables of bronze, commonly known as

the Tabulae Kugubinae, which are still preserved in

the city of Gufjbio. These tables, which are seven

iu number, contain long inscriptions, four of which

are in Etruscan characters, two in Latin, and oue

partially in Etruscan and partially in Latin cha­

racters; but the language is in all cases appareutly

tlie same, and is wholly distinct from that of the

genuine Etruscan monuments on the one band, aa

well as from Latin on the other, though exhibiting;

strong traces of affinity with the older Latin forms,

as well as with the existing remains of the Dm

dialects. There can be no doubt that the language

which wo here find is that of the L'uibriaiis them­

selves, who are represented by all ancient writers as

nationally distinct both from the Etruscans and the

Sabellian races. The ethnological and linguistic

inferences from these important monuments will be

more fully considered under the article Umiiiua. It

is only of late years that they have been investigated

with care; early antiquaries having fanned th* moat

extravagant theories as to their meaning: Lanzi had

the merit of first pointing out that they evidently

related only to certain sacrificial and other reli^ioua

rite* to be celebrated at the temple of Jupiter by tha

lgoviana themselves and tome neighbouring com­

munities. The interpretation has since been carried

out, as far aa our imperfect knowledge wdl permit,

by Lepaiua, Grotefend, and still more recently in th*

elaborate work of Aufrecht and Kinhhoff. (Laiui,

Stggio di Lingua Etruaca, vol. iii. pp. 657—768;

Lepsius, dt Tubmlit Ewjubinil, 1833 ; Intcriptianm

Cmbrieae tt Oteat, Lips. 1841; Grotefend, HmH.

mtnta Linguae I'mbriau, Hannov. 1835—18391

Aufrecht n. Kirchboff, Dit Vntbritekm Sproxk.

Ihninvil.r. 4to. Berlin, 1849.) In (ha still int-

