564 PELASGI. PELASGI.

port them, they crossed over in ships to Italy, culled

Saturnia, in obedience to the oracle. The winds

bore them to Spines, on one of the mouths of the Po,

where they established themselves, and by the help

of their fleet acquired great power. They were,

however, eventualiy driven out by an insurrection ot"

the neighbouring barbarians, who were in turn over­

powered by the Komans (i. 18). The Pelasgians

thence migrated inland, crossed the Apennines, and

entered the country of the Umbrians, who bordered

on the Aborigines, and extended over a great part of

Italy, being a numerous and powerful people. Here

they established themselves for some time, and took

some small towns from the Umbrians; but, being

overpowered by them, they removed into the country

of the Aborigines. When they came to Cotyle, they

recognised the spot where the oracle had told them

they were to offer up a sacrifice to Jupiter, Pluto,

and Phoebus, On this they invited the Aborigines,

who came to attack them, to join alliance with

them; which invitation they, being hard pressed by

t he Siculi, accepted, and gave the Pelasgi Velia to

dwell in. The latter then helped the Aborigines to

conquer Crotona in Umbria, and to drive the Sicels

out of their land. Together they founded several

cities, Caere. Agylla, Pisa, Saturnium, and others,

which wen- taken by the Tyrrhenians. Dionysius

says that Phalerium and Feseennia retained in his

time certain faint traces of the old Pelasgic popula­

tion, especially in the weapons of war—viz, Argohc

spears and shields—and the institution of fetials.

and other religious rites. There was a temple of

Hera at Falerium, exactly like that at Argos, where

were similar sacrifices, and similar priestesses, eane-

phori, and choruses of maidens.

The Pelasgi also occupied parts of Campania,

driving out the Aurunci, and founded Larissa and

other cities. Some of these remained, after under­

going many changes of inhabitants, in Dionysius's

time. Of Larissa there was no memorial save the

name, and this was not commonly known ; but its

site was not far from Forum Popilii. (Plin. iii. 15.)

They took many cities from the Sicels, too, and

established their power along the coast and inland.

The Pelasgi, having driven out the Sicels, increased

in power and extent of territory. Eventually, how­

ever, they incurred the anger of the gods, and suffered

various penalties at their hands. On consulting the

oracle, they were told that they had neglected to

perform their oaths, in not sacrificing their first-born

;is well as the fruits of the Held. Myrsilms tells this

story, adding that the Pelasgi were soon dispersed in

different directions, some returning to Greece, and

others remaining in Italy by the friendly intervention

of the Aborigines. They were a warlike race, and

acquired great skill in naval matters from their resi­

dence with the Tyrrhenians. On this account they

were often invited by other nations to serve as auxili­

aries, and were called by the names Tyrrheni and

Pelasgi indiscriminately (i. IS — 23).

Respecting the former name he says that it was

uivcu them on account of the forts, rvprav, which they

built. Hellantcus of Lesbos says that the Tyrrheni,

formerly called Pelasgi, received the name which they

bear after their arrival in Italy. For the counter-

theory of MyrsiluK see Dionys. i. 28.

Dionysius thinks all are mistaken who hold the

Tyrrheni and the Pelasgi to 1* the same race. He

thinks no argument can be drawn from the fact of

their names being used indiscriminately, as that was

very common, e.g., in the case of the Trojans and

Phrygians. Moreover, the Greeks called all luia»—

Latins, Umbrians, Ausones, &c—Tyrrhenians. E?s*

Rome was believed by many to be a Tvrrbtw e'».

Dionysius quotes Herodotus (i. 5") in support tf tu

opinion that the Pelasgians and Tyrrhenian* u* n*

of the same origin. It would be a wonderful tfaiaf,

he says, if the Crotoniatae spoke the same dnWtn

the Placieni on the Hellespont, both beta: Pt'a*-

plans, but should not speak the same dialed a t>

Tyrrhenians, if they were also Pela*2i. F« tb

contrary of the proposition — if AmryAunrffK. tiw

onotfli'fts — holds good : i.e. if aWffyKmaeot. ifcsi

&Xkot6viis. If the case- were reversed, tb^re nafta

be a show of reason for believing thrtn of tb* its*

origin ; for it might be said that distance hil

1 iterated early traces of resemblance: bat *ber.

are so near each other as the Crotomatap am; i}~

rheni this supposition is untenable (i. 29V

Hence Dionysius believes the IVlaagians iriTts

rhenians to be distinct He sums up all tiy a*1^

that those Pelasgians who survived the final <li?T*J

si on and ruin of the race existed among the AbortfBB

and their descendants helped them and other tra

to build Rome (i. 30).

It is unnecessary to remark the difference brtw

Crotona in Umbria and Creston in Thrace,

Dionysius unsuspectingly josses over. The «SW

somewhat lengthy extracts have been made fmtall

Roman Antiquities, because they pive w a tptt I

specimen of the way in which scattered tncnl

were dressed up in a quasi-historical garb, and 6sk

out with any stray evidence which local nama

language might supply.

The common native tradition of the Latin* >t

testifies to an immigration of so called Aboriffl

not to any mixture of Pelasgi with thera. Ob I

other hand, another, which has received th* tt

mony of Varro, and which agrees in other refjd

with the narration of Dionysius, sjieaks of a\

migration of Pelasgians, but says nothing of Ab^rrJ

mixed with or allied with them. Certain i: i

historians have combined these two trad/:-r** i

different way to that of Dimrrnvs, makhu:

Aborigines, namely, declare themselves Xn btcw

the same people with the Pelasgians. Tbi?, M

stance is, without any doubt, the meaning "f 0

assertion that the Aborigines came over iatol

many generations before the Trojan War. «4

Aehaia; for so he named the old Pelasc* G*

by the common appellation of his time. ^Seiiwj

Romucfte Ge$ch. iii. 2.) We find the >.■»■• tr^i

of a Pelasgic immigration into I-atinm enrfinad

many other testimonies. Pliny declares trial wi

was brought into Latinm by the Pelasgi. 11

question, however, whether by tlie>e PeLv^gi b* a

those who came out of Thessaly arjd l>»*it*5a, 4

Arcadians of Evander.

Other traditions assert the name of" Rin*f 1

Pelasgian, and derive the Saturnalia fnwD %

originally instituted by the PcU.sg-ii.na whi* 4

on the Saturnian hill.

"In other parts of Italy we srtimbW rer^C

says Schwegler, 11 on the same wide*-ex tended

Thus, it is said that tiie Hernk-i were

from the Pelasgi. Picenum also is sani to h**

occupied by the Pelasgi. Keport also aawi

the towns of Nuceria. HercuUneum, and p

were founded by them, or that thev dwrh in

a certain time. Other instance* havt- ben a

given of towns and districts with w'lich

history has associated the name U tUr Ptimi ~

