ROMA. ROMA. 775

seem rather exaggerated, as the whole XW. tide of

the Palatine hill does not exceed about 2 stadia.

We most conclude that it was continued through

the Velabrum to the circus. Its length as Canina

observes (for. Rom. pt. i. p. 67) is a proof that

the forum must have extended from NW. to SE.,

and not from NE. to S\V.; as in the latter case, the

space for the street, already too short, would have been

considerably curtailed. This street, probably from

the habits of its primitive colonists, became the

abode of fishmongers, fruiterers, bird-fanciers, silk-

mercers, and perfumers, and enjoyed but an indifferent

reputation (" Tusci turba impia vici," Hor. & ii. 3.

29.) It was here, however, that the best silks in Rome

were to be procured (" Nec nisi prima velit de Tusco

serica vico. Mart xi. 27.11). In fact, it seems to

have been the great shopping street of Rome; and

the Roman gentlemen, whose ladies, perhaps, some­

times induced them to spend more than what

was agreeable there, vented their ill humour by

abusing the tradesmen. According to the scholiast

on the passage of Horace just cited, the street was

also called Vitus Turarius. This appellation was

doubtless derived from the frankincense and per­

fumes sold in it, whence the allusion in Horace (£p.

I I. 267):—

"Ne capsa porreotus aperta

Deferor in vicum vendentem tus et odores,

Et piper, et quicquid cbartis amicitur ineptis."

hia Ulan lie plalea dicitur, ubi mercatorcs et

Centura Metis causa ronvenire solebant." In

t it was the Roman Change. The ascent from

t Umn to the summit of the Capitoline hill,

Mn tie Sacra Via terminated, was, we know,

M Cliru Capitolinus.

1: 'till remains to notice Becker's dictum (i/r

<™, p. 23) that the name uf this street should

nji be written Sacra Via, and not in reversed

ar V» Sacra. To the exceptions which he noted

Mmseif, be adds some more in the Handbuch

i\'),yte\ and another from Seneca (Controv.

rip 299. Dip) in his Addenda; and Urlichs

•a. Tipter. p. 8) increases the list. On the

r, it wuuld teem that though Sacra Via is the

n i-cal expression, the other cannot be regarded

lawi J*fvruu — Of the name of the street which

liu; tie toutb side of the forum we are utterly

not; bat from it issued two streets, which were

»; the most busy, and best known, in Rome.

»ct tbs Vic us Jugarius and Vicus Tuscua.

in before bad occasion to mention that the

*u ckee under the Capitoline hill, from the  
"i k tat 1'orta Carroentalis. It was thought to

n iti n from an altar which stood in it to Juno

i ti» presiding deity of wedlock. (Paul. Diac.

M. lUll) It does not appear to have contained

*ber jeered places in ancient times; but Au-  
» taliuled in it altars to Ceres and Ops

-JU. (/'«»<. Amit. IV. Id. Aug.) At the top  
t* »ireet, where it entered the forum, was the

tn» tailed Lacus Serrilius, which obtained a

wnritty during the proscriptions of Sulla, aa it

lf» list the heads of the murdered senators

apwei (Cic jVoac. Am. 32; Senec Prov. 3.)

Iptpps adorned it with the effigy of a hydra

p 290. Milll.). Between the Vicus Ju-

■ ud Capitoline hill, and close to the foot of

aS>, lay the Aequimaelium (Liv. xxxviii. 28),

I kiir derived its name from occupying the

( ttt boose of the demagogue, Sp. Maelius,

» fud been razed (Varr. LA. v. 157, Mull.;

n. 16). It served aa a market-place, espe-

hc the sale of lambs, which were in great

* tar sacrifices, and probably corresponded  
modern Via del Monte Tarpeo. (CicDw.

rw Tiuraf.—In the imperial times the Vicus

'«ai bounded at its eastern extremity by the

Jiiu; and on the further side of this build-

P«a, Uy the Vicus Tu*cus. According to some

'this street was founded in B c. 507,

"■i„ned to such of the Etruscans in the van-

•1 tat of Aruns aa had tied to Rome, and felt

•»""ttfc there (Lit. ii. 15; Dionys. v. 36);

* before related, on the authority of Varro  
fa.'j* that it <raa foonded in the reign of

-■• Time conflicting statements may, per-  
'imartfed, by considering the later aettle-

*j bod of second or subsidiary one. How-  
•* nay bt, it is with the topographical facts

* are bare more particularly concerned, about  
!' triiii communicates some interesting

'-■*<• He describes the ground assigned to

»*«• u a sort of hollow or gorge situated

r '•• Pslatine aDd Capitoline hills; and in

i tworh; 4 stadia, or half a Roman mile, from

■»» if the Circus Maxim us (v. 36). We

K-oa« that this measurement included all

of the street; and even then it would

Being the road from the forum to the circus and

Aventine, it was much used for festal processions.

Thus it was the route of the Pompa Circeusis,

which proceeded from the Capitol over the forum,

and by the Vicus Tuscua and Velabrum to the

circus. (Dionys. vii. 72.) We have seen that the

procession of the virgins passed through it from the

temple of Apollo outside the Porta Carmentalis to

that of Juno Rcgina on the Aventine. Yet not­

withstanding these important and sacred uses, it is

one of the charges brought by Cicero against Verres

that he had caused it to be paved so villanously

that he himself would not have ventured to ride

over it. ( Verr. i. 59.) We see from this passage

that a statue of Vertumnus, the national Etruscan

deity, stood at the end of the street next the forum.

Becker (Handb. p. 308) places him at the other ex­

tremity near the Velabrum. But all the evidence

runs the other way; and the lines of Propertius (iv.

2. 5), who puts the following words into the

pod's mouth, are alone sufficient to decide the matter

(Clou. Mue. vol. iv. p. 444):—

"Nec me tura juvant, nec templo laetor eburno

Romanum satis est posse vidcre forum."

Comitium.—Having thusdescribed thestreets which

either encircled the forum or afforded outlets from it,

we will now proceed to treat of the forum itself, and

the objects situated upon and around it, and endea­

vour to present the reader with a picture of it as it

existed under the Kings, during the Republic, and

under the Empire. But here, as in the case of the

Capitol, wc are arrested in the outset by a difficult

investigation. We know that a part of the forum,

called the comitium, was distinguished from the

rest by being appropriated to more honourable uses;

but what part of the forum it was has been the

subject of much dispute. Some, like Canina, have

considered it to be a space running parallel with the

forum along its whole southern extent; whilst others,

like Bunsen and Becker, have thought that it formed

3 D 4

