652 POMPEII.

and was erected by a certain M. Tullius, a citizen

am! magistrate of Pompeii, who has been supposed

to be of the family of Cicero; but the absence of the

cognomen renders this highly improbable. The

epithet of Fortuna Augusta shows that the temple

and its inscription are not earlier than the time of

Augustus. It is much in ruins, having probably

.suffered severely from the earthquake of 63; and

lias little architectural effect.

Pompeii possessed two Theatres and an Amphi­

theatre. The former were situated, as seems to have

been usual in Greek towns, close together; the larger

one being intended and adapted for theatrical per­

formances properly so called; the smaller one serving

as an Odeum, or theatre for music. Both are un­

questionably of lloman date: the larger one was

erected (as we learn from an inscription found in it)

by two members of the same family, M. HolconiUS

Iiufus and M. Holconhis Celcr, botli of whom appear

to have held high civil offices in the municipal

government of Pompeii. The period of its con­

struction may probably be referred to the reign of

Augustus. The smaller theatre seems to be of ear­

lier date, and was erected at the public expense

under the direction of the Duumviri or chief magis­

trates of the city. The large Theatre is to a con­

siderable extent excavated out of the side of a hill,

on the slope of which it was situated, thus saving a

considerable amount of the expense of construction.

But the exterior was still surrounded by a wall, a

part of which always rose above the surface of the

soil, so that it is singular it should not have long

before led to the discovery of the buried city. Its

internal disposition and arrangements, without ex­

actly coinciding with the rules laid down by Vi-

truvius, approach sufficiently near to them to show

that it was constructed on the Roman, and not the

Greek model. Its architect (as we learn from an

inscription) was a freedman of the name of M. Ar­

teritis Primus. It seems to have been almost wholly

cased or lined with marble, but the greater part of

this, as well as the other decorations of the building,

has been carried away by former excavations, pro­

bably made soon after the catastrophe. The interior

diameter of the building is 223 feet: it had 29

rows of seats, divided into three stories by galleries

or proecncnKMieJ, and was capable of containing

about 5000 spectators. The smaller Theatre, which

communicated with the larger by a covered portico

on the level of the orchestra, was not above a fourth

of the size of the other, being adapted to receive only

about 1500 spectators. We learn from an inscrip­

tion that it was covered or permanently roofed in,

a rare thing with ancient theatres, and doubtless

owing to its small size. Its chief architectural pe­

culiarity is that the seats are cut off by the walls at

the two sides, so that it is only the lower seats of

the cavta, of which the semicircle is complete.

Adjoining the two theatres, and arranged so as to

have a direct communication with both, is a large

quadrangular court or area (183 feet long by

148 wide), surrounded on all sides by a Doric

portico. Its destination is very uncertain, it

has been called a provision market (Forum Nun-

dinarium); but is more generally regarded as having

served for the barracks or quarters of the soldiers.

Perhaps a more plausible conjecture is that it was

a barrack, not of soldiers but of gladiators. On

the \V. of this, as well as of the great theatre,

was the triangular area or forum already noticed, in

which the Greek temple was situated. The opening

of this on the N., wl

street, was ornament**

composed of eight 1

style, but consisting I

cased with stucco.

The Amphitheatre

above 500 yards from

SK. angle of the city,

differences from other

dimensions (430 feet

place it in the first ran

of the class; and from

out of the soil, it has I

character of the am pi

BOS, or Pola. It had

20.000 feet of sittins

to receive at least 10,

the inscriptions found

built, or at least com

trates, named C. Qu'm

after the establishment

and probably in the re

The only public bi

noticed is that of th

were situated in the i

adjoining the short str

Temple of Fortune,

with the magnificent s

the name of Thermae

great cities; but are

complete suite of all a

bathing, and from tfc

much light upon all s

of their construction

given in the Itictk

Balheak], as well as

to Pompeii.

It is impossible he

concerning the results

to the private dwvlfinj

are, in many respects, I

light they have thrown

ancient inhabitants, th

well as from the artis

objects discovered. A

character of the house

of Pompeii are all that

these are almost the oi

that have been preserv<

mind that they can hai

tag in their purity th<

Greek or Roman mod

hand Pompeii, though f

civilisation, was not a C

though there is no doul

present much more the

than that of the Greek

they represent them in

least, that Rome itself

in a very different r

known passage, contra

lofty houses, and iir

capital with the broad

meat of Capua, nsjej

level plain; and it is

Pompeii more resembl

than the imperial city,

ready stated) were nar

straight and regular, a

low, seldom exceeding

even of these the upper

