PELASGI. PELASGI. 565

Zi*Wt,tl* whole of Italy was, if we are to be­

lt* u* authorities adduced, inhabited in ancient

tin b; the Pelasgians. In later times they appear

anaaW the Italiots; the common fate of original

am that bare been subjugated.

Cp> tbM and similar traditions Niebuhr has

pwatad i hypothesis, which at present is generally

sMtttiaad igainst which conclusive objections can

■Vf bt natd from the side of comparative philology,

leadicr. to Niebuhr, the Pelasgians were the original

Mskuo, Dot only of Greece, but also of Italy.

9km tu s time, be said, when the Pelasgians,

fcawl; perhaps the moot widely-spread people in

aWeot, inhabited all the countries from the Arnus

idu to the Bosporus; not as wandering tribes,

enters of history represent it, but as finnly-

pvwerfa!, honourable people. This time lies,

most part, before the beginning of our

history. However, at the time that the

sod Hellanicua wrote, there were only

and scattered fragments of this

— at of the Celtic race in Spain —

summit*, which stand out like islands

• lowlands hare been changed by floods into

These sporadic Pelasgic tribes did not seem

HpVI1' ■■ ■ to be fragments and relics, but

that had been sent out and had migrated,

•qvaDy scattered colonies of the Hellenes,

ie numerous traditions about the expeditions

of the Pelasgi AH tliese traditions

the slightest historical value. They are

sat a hypothesis of the logographers, framed

at supposition that those scattered colonies

Pelasgi had arisen and were produced by a

•f mirations. There is nothing historical

except, indeed, the fact which lies at the

the hypothesis, namely, the existence in

of scattered Pelasgic tribes,—a fact which,

npbea much inure the original greatness

of the Pelasgic nation. If the Pelas-

gndually aa historical times begin, the

this is, that they were transformed into other

Thus, in Greec« they became gradually

as a nation which, in spite of all distinc-

artaally related to the Hellenes ; and even

they form a considerable portion of the later

ffcj—iiimli which owed their origin in the

the mixture of races.

element which the Latin Un­

it, according to this view of Nie-

and owes ita origin to the Pelasgian

the Latin nation, which Niebuhr and

(Etrusier) agree in finding in the

k aj|a!afsrii of Xiebuhr's, generally received

i» aevvrtheleaa, a sound historical found-

PssW received at the hands of Schwegter

iCwca.) a careful examination, and is con-

Tel the following grounds: —

■aimcc of any indigenous name for the

lit Italy.

rriaant traces of Roman writers on the

Mf obtained their information from the

Hav o^iradictory accounts

i given by different

arf tat ■sig.laiiisni "f the PeUsgians, accord-

Hellanicua and Pherecydes or

of anj historical monument of

y, whether literary or of another

It only remains to make a few general observa­

tions on the evidence for the existence of the Pelasgi,

and on the views taken by modern writers on the

subject.

). The modem authorities on the Pelasgi in

Greece are: Larcher, Chronologic (Tfferodote, ch.

viii. pp.215—217; K. 0. Miiller Etrusker, vol. i.

Einleitung, ch. ii. pp. 75—100; Kruse, Jh Has,

vol. i. p. 398—425; Mannert. Geographie, part viii.

introduction, p. 4; Thirlwall, History of Greece,

ch. ii.; Grote, vol. i. ch. ix., vol. ii. ch. ii. sub finem.

The latter historian treats of the Pelasgi as belong­

ing not to historical, but legendary Greece. He

says, " Whoever has examined the many conflicting

systems respecting the Pelasgi, — from the literal

belief of Cluvier, Larcher, and Kaoul-Kochette, to

the interpretative and half-incredulous processes

applied by abler men, such as Niebuhr, or 0. Muller,

or Dr. Thirlwall, — will not be displeased with my

resolution to decline so insoluble a problem. No

attested facts are now present to us — none were

present to Herodotus or Thucydides even in their

age — on which to build trustworthy affirmations

respecting the ante-Hellenic Pelasgians; and, when

such is the case, we may without impropriety apply

the remark of Herodotus respecting one of the

theories which he had heard for explaining the in­

undation of the Nile by a supposed connection with

the ocean — that the man who carries up his story

into the invisible world, passes out of the range of

criticism.*' (Vol. ii. p. 345.) Those who think

Mr. Grote's way of disposing of the question too

summary, will find it treated with great patience

and a fair spirit of criticism by Bishop Thirlwall.

The point on which he and Mr. Grote differ —

namely, the question whether the language of the

Pelasgi was a rough dialect of the Hellenic, or non-

Hellenic— has been already referred to. Ah we

possess no positive data for determining it, it is

needless to do more than refer the reader to the

passages quoted. Respecting the architectural re­

mains of the Pelasgi in Greece, a very few words

will suffice. The Gate of the Lions at Mycenae, men­

tioned by Pausanias (ii. 15—16), is the only monu­

ment of the plastic art of Greece in prehistoric

times. The walls of Tiryns, of polygonal masonry,

appear to be of equal antiquity, and are ascribed to

the Cyclopes. [Mvcknak.] These bear a strong

resemblance to the Tyrrheno-Pelasgic remains in

Italy, specimens of which are given in Dempsters

Etruria JiegalU, v. g. the walls of Cosa, Segnia

(Scyni) and Faesulae (Fiesole). And a small

amount of evidence is thereby afforded in favour of

Niebuhr's theory of an original Pelasgic population

existing in the peninsulas of Greece and Italy, but

this is much diminished by the fact, that similar

remains are found in parts of Asia Minor where no

traces exist of any Pelasgic traditions. And we are

obliged therefore to fall back upon the view 6rst

adopted by A. W. Schlegel, that the peninsulas of

Greece and Italy were successively peopled by

branches of one original nation, dwelling once upon

a time in the central part of Western Asia, and

speaking one language, out of which, by successive

modifications, sprang the different Greek and Italian

dialects.

2. The authorities on the Pelasgians in Italy are

Niebuhr (//. R. vol. i. p. 25, Tr.); Muller, Etriuker

(quoted above); Lanzi, Saggio di Lingua Etrtuica,

O'c, Flor. 1824; Lepsius, uber die Tyrrhen, Pe-

lasgtr in Etrurien, Leipz. 1842; Steub, titer die

ool

