IHARSAHS. 5U1 PHARUSII.

dr^ilim Cienr's description, which have been

upon by Leake in an essay printed in

\ j Tmmetm of tie Royal Society of Literature

(ni it. p. 68,2nd Series), from which the fol-

<nx KOMBt u taken.

A lev dsys previous to the battle Caesar had taken

f«ai if Metropolis, ■ city westward of Phar-

aii, ad had encamped in the plain between these

:■• atiea. Hsuume Pompey arrired at Larissa,

at hm tbmte edtinced southwards towards Piiar-

*»•; or erased the Enipeus, and encamped at the  
*« <i the bnr, hts, which are adjacent to the modern  
frost ce the east. Caesar's camp, or rather his

** paa he&n the battle, was in toe plain be-  
*« Phanalu and the Enipeos, at the distance  
s1 et>«j 3 mike from the still extant north-western

ay* of tar walls of Pharsalus. There was a dis-

iro «f JO stadia, or about 4 Roman miles, from

o» tm caawa. (Appian, B. C. ii. 65.) Appian

•ati thai the array of Pompey, when drawn np fur

■ua, ertsaded from the city of Pbursal tis to the

uar*».and that Caesar drew up his forces opposite

**rx (B. C. ii. 75.) The battle was fought in  
it sail inantdiately below the city of Pharsalus

* B» tMth. Then is a level of about 2) miles in  
•Wih between the Enipeos and the elevation or

■u tfaa which stood the northern walls of Phar-

wa. Merirsle is mistaken in saying that " the

so </ Phsrsahu, 5 or 6 miles in breadth, extends

ai,' the Uft bank of the Enipeus." It is true

* i «rI nika is about the breadth of the plain,  
e iau breadth is equally divided between the two

*• ■.<■ the river; nor is there anything to support  
"»»>'« conjecture that the coarse of the river may

wi beared since the time of the battle. Leake

ana that ths plain of 2 J miles in breadth was

'■•-> lai-ieat for 45,000 men drawn up in the

■» «s«aa> of three orders, each ten in depth, and

■ then weald be still space enough for the

tt» auahy, upon which Pompey founded chiefly

1 kfel of victory; fur the breadth of the plain

W gnat for Caesar's numbers, be thought

■wj ran of being able, by his commanding force

w'eirt, to torn the enemy's right.

at Sf* Pompey drew up his forces at the foot of

'*!•■ hat when Caesar refused to fight in this

■we, sad brean to towards Scotuasa, Pom-

1 "tended into the plain, and arranged his army

'* r-*tiioo eiready described. His right wing

■J fwaclei by the Etripeeie, which has preci-

•» waha, he placed his cavalry, as well aa all

•**"» sad dingers, on the left. Caesar's left

I vis a like manner protected by the Enipeus;

■ uwraaraf his right wing, behind his small

I d bwaa, be su tinned six cohorts, in order to

P the anticipated attack of the enemy's

Petri per resolved to await the charge.

»wi bat advanced running, halted midway to

** uW breath, and then charged the enemy.  
^ two Unas wen thus occupied, Pompey's

** • the left began to execute the movement

■ vein be placed his hopes of victory; but after

wit hark Caesar's small body of horse, they were

■peieeih assailed by the six cohorts and put to

* Tone cohorts now advanced against the  
''Pauper', left; while Caesar at the same time

<P rp a> bis front the third line, which had

■ w? n reserve. Pompey's troops now gave

I'wwatws. Caesar then advanced to

at the twtififd camp of the enemy, which was

■ex: W toeai time by the cohorts left in charge

of it; but at length they fled to the mountains at

the back of the camp. Pompey proceeded straight­

way to Larissa, and from thence by night to the

sea-coast. The hill where the Pompeians had taken

refuge being without water, they soon quitted it

and took the road towards Larissa. Caesar fol­

lowed them with four legions, and, by taking a

shorter road, came up with them at the distanco of

6 miles. The fugitives now retired into another

mountain, at the foot of which there was a river;

but Caesar having cut off their approach to tho

water before nightfall, they descended from their

position in the morning and laid down their arms.

Caesar proceeded on the same day to Larissa.

Leake observes that the mountain towards Larissa

to which the Pompeians retired was probably near

Scotussa, since in that direction alone is any moun­

tain to be found with a river at the foot of it

In the time of Pliny, Pharsalus was a free

state (iv. 8. s. 15). It is also mentioned by Hie-

roclea (p. 642) in tbe sixth century. It is now

named Ftrtala (to ve'pcraAa), and the modern

town lies at the foot of tho ancient Acropolis.

COIN OF PHAIISALl'S.

PHARU'SH (OofMoVwi, Strab. ii. p. 131, xvii.

pp. 826, 828; Ptol. iv. 6. § 17; Polyb. op. Plin.

v. 1. s. 8, vi. 35), a people on the W. coast of N.

Africa, about the situation of whom Strabo, Pliny,

and Ptolemy are in perfect agreement with one

another, if the thirty journeys of Strabo (p. 826)

between them and Lixus (Kl-AraUh), on the W.

coast of Morocco, to the S. of Cape Spartel, be set

aside as an error either of his information or of the

text; which latter is not improbable, aa numbers in

MSS. are so often corrupt. Nor is this mere con­

jecture, because Strabo contradicts himself by as­

serting in another place (p. 828) that the Pharusii

had a great desert between them and alauretania,

which they crossed, like natives of the present day,

with bags of water hung from the bellies of their

horses. (Leake,Loruhn Gtog. Jovrn. vol. ii. p. 16.)

This locality, extending from beyond Cape Bojadvr

to the banks of the Senegal, was the seat of the

many towns of the Tyrians, amounting, according to

some (Strab. p. 826), to as many as 300, which

were destroyed by the Pharusii and Kigritac. (Comp.

Humboldt, Comot, vol. ii. p. 129, note 123, trans.)

Strabo reckons this number of 300 commercial set­

tlements, from which this part of the coast of tbe

Atlantic received the name of SiNt:s Emportcub,

as an exaggeration. He appears in this to have

followed the criticism of Artcniidorus upon Erato­

sthenes, whom Strabo depreciates. Tho number 300

may be an exaggeration, or one not intended to be

literally taken; but it is incredible that Eratosthenes

should represent a coast as covered with Phoenician

factories where none existed.

When Ezekiel prophesies the fall of Tyre, it is

said (xxvii. 10) " The men of Pheres (the common

version reads Persia), and Lud, and Phut were in

thine armies." These Pheres thus joined with the

Phut or Mauretanians, and the Ludim, who were

