ITALICA. 07 ITHACA.

I:s coins, ail of the imperial age, boar military

emblems which attest the story of its origin, and on

tame of them is the title jilia au<;ista. The

city flourished under the Goths, and. for some time,

under the Moors, who preserved the old name, in the

form Taliixi or Talca; but, in con.>ei|uence of a

change iu the bed of the river, its inhabitants aban­

doned it, and migrated to Seville. Hence, in con­

tradistinction to the city which (although far more

ancient, see HisrAUs) became thus its virtual

•successor, Italica received the name of Old Seville

(SarUia la Vicja), under which name its ruins Btill

exist near the wretched village of Santi Ponce, while

the surrounding country retains the ancient name,

lot compos de Talca. The chief object iu the ruins

is the amphitheatre, which was in good preservation

till 1774, " when it was used by the corporation of

Seville for ri>er dikes, and for making the road to

Batlajuz." (Ford.) Mr. Ford also states, that "on

Dec. 12, 1799, a fine mosaic pavemmt was dis­

covered, which a poor monk, named Jose Moscoso,

ta hi* honour, enclosed with a wall, in order to save

it from the usual fate in Spain. Didot, in 1802,

published for Laborde a splendid folio, with en­

gravings and description. .... Now, this work is

ill thit remains, for the soldiers of Soult converted

the enclosure into a goat-pen." The only other

portion of the ruins of Italica to be seen above-

ground consists of some vaulted brick tanks, called

La Cata de fos Banos, which were the reservoirs of

the aqueduct brought by Adrian from Tejada, 7

I-ja^ues distant. (Caes. B. C. ii. 20; BelL Alex. 53;

OelL Xoct. Att. xt. 13; Oros. v. 23; Geog. Rav.;

FIi*ex, Exp. S. vul. xii. pp. 227, foil.; Coins, op.

Klicei, Med. de Ksp. vol. ii. p. 477; Mionnet, vol. i.

p. 17, Suppl vol. i. p. 31; Sestini, p. Gl: Eckhel,

voL I p. 23; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 372; Ford,

Handbook of Spain, pp. 63, G4.) [1\ S.]

ITAT.ICA. [Cobkinilm.]

ITANUM PR. [Itanl'S.]

IT ANUS ("trow, Ptol. iii. 17. § 4; Stcph. B.:

F.tk. Iroyjoi). a town on the E. coast of Crete, near

the promontory which bore the name of Itanum.

(Fan. iv. 12.) In Coronelli's map there is a place

called Itagnia, with a Paleohaxtron in the neigh­

borhood, which is probably the site of Itanus; the

P*itiuo i.f the headland must be looked for near

Xaero jf«rue (Hook, Krrt/i, vol. L p. 42G), unless

it be placed further N. at Capo Salomon, in which

ex* the (irawlcs islands would correspond with the

< >sisia and Lki:ck of Pliuy (/. c.; comp. Mag. Class.

Antiq. vol. ii. p. 303).

According to Herodotus (iv. 131), the Theraeans,

when founding Cyrene, were indebted for their

knowledge of the Libyan coast to Corobius, a seller

«tf purple at Itanus. Some of the coins of this

city present the type of a woman terminating in

tbe toil of a fish. (E<ihel, vol. ii. p, 314.) This

Vf*- recalling the figure of tlie Syrian goddess,

coupled with the trade in purple, suggests a Phoe­

nician origin. [E. B. J.]

COIN OF ITANl'S.

ITABCU& [iLABGl'S.]

vol. il

ITHACA ('WaKij: F.th. T0a«V«>s and 'I0cu«Js:

It bacons is and lthacus: Th'uiki, Qidxi), vulgarly;

but this is merely an alteration, by a simple meta­

thesis of the two first letters, from 'I&fcij, which is

known to be the correct orthography by the Ithacans

themselves, and is the name used by all educated

Greeks. Leake, Northern Greece, chap. xxii.) This

island, so celebrated as the scene of a large portion

of the Homeric poems, lies oft' the coast of Acar-

nania, and is separated from Ccphallenia by a

channel about 3 or 4 miles wide. Its name is said

by Eustathius (ad II. ii. 632) to have been derived

from the eponymous hero Ithacus, mentioned in Od.

xviii. 207. Strabo (x. 2) reckons the circumfe­

rence of Ithaca at only 80 stadia: but this measure­

ment is very short of the truth; its extreme length

from north to south being about 17 miles, its great­

est breadth about 4 miles, and its area nearly 4,5 sq.

miles. The island may be described as a ridge

of limestone rock, divided by the deep and wide

Gulf of Molo into two nearly equal parts, connected

by a narrow isthmus not more than half-a-mile

across, and on which stands the Pakocastro of

Actus ('Aertij), traditionally known as the "Castle

of Ulysses." Ithaca everywhere rises into rugged

hills, of which the chief is the mountain of Anoye

(jAvwyij: I tat And), in the northern division, which

is identified with the Nekitos of Virgil (Aen. iii.

271) and the Nr)ptTov clvoalrpvWoy of Homer (Od.

ix. 21). Its forests have now disappeared; and this

is, doubtless, the reason why rain and dew are not so

common here in the present as in Homer's age, and

why the island no longer abounds in hugs fattened

on acorns like those guarded by Eumaeus. In all other

points, the poet's descriptions (Od. iv. 603, seep, xiii.

242, seq., ix. 27, seq.) exhibit a perfect picture of

the island as it now appears, the general aspect being

one of ruggedness and sterility, rendered striking by

the bold and broken outline of the mountains and

cliffs, indented by numerous harbours and creeks

(Ai/xcVes irdvopfAOi, Od. xiii. 193). The climate is

healthy (aryadrt KovpoTp6<pos, Od. ix. 27). It may

here be observed, that the expressions applied to

Ithaca, in Od. ix. 25, 26, have puzzled all the com­

mentators ancient and modern: —

ainfy 5e x^au-a^-h travimiprar-n eiV dAl hutch

■jrpbs £6<poVj at 5« a\v€uUe irpbs 7jw t* rjeAioV re.

(Cf. Nitzsch, ad loc.; also Od. x. 196.) Strabo (x.

2) gives perhaps the most satisfactory explanation:

he supposes that by the epithet \0ap.a\i) the poet

intended to express how Ithaca lies under, as it were,

the neighbouring mountains of Acamania; while by

that of iravvTrcpra.Tr) he meant to denote its position

at the extremity of the group of islands fenned by

Zacynthus, Cephallenia, and the Echinadcs. For

another explanation, see Wordsworth, Greece, 77c-

torifd, </'cM pp. 355, seq.

Ithaca is now divided into four districts (Batii',

'Aerds, 'Pivuyri, 'E^tuyrj, i. e. Peep Bay, Eayles Clijf,

Highland, Outland); and, as natural causes are likely

to produce in all ages similar effects, Leake (I. c.)

thinks it probable, from the peculiar conformation of

the island, that the four divisions of the present day

nearly correspond with those noticed by lleracleon,

an author cited by Stephanus B. (s. v. KponvXtiov).

The name of one of the.^e districts is lost by a defect

iu the text; the others were named NeTum, Crocy-

leium, and Aegireus. The Aegilips of Homer (//.

ii. G33) is probably the same with Aegircus, and is

placed by Leake at the modern village of Anoye;

