TIIKKAMBOS. THERMOPYLAE. 1161

era wu the nunc of the city, supposing that

\n here signifies only the political community of

TVriAtnf. Chi the other band, it was so usual

the islands of the Aegaean to poetess a capital of

mot name, that, taken in connection with the

np.'jon last mentioned, it is probable, either that

■uoij has accidentally omitted the name of the

or that in his time the Theraeans had re-

f.i from the lofty site at Messa- Vouno toOea upon

tea-roast at Kamari, where submarine ruins still

Upon the other or S. side of the Cape Messa-

imw, at i'erissa, there are also so many ancient re­

in w to lead us to suppose that this was the site of

uicwat city, but no inscription has beeu discovered

•111 a clae to its name. Upon either side of the

ii.tain of Mtsta- Vouno there are numerous tombs,

loath of Veritta is C. Eromiti, and a little to

X. of this cape there are the remains of an

fin city, which is probably the EIcums of Pto-

r. Here are the ruins of a mole under water,

upjfl the tide of tlie mountain many curious

■k There are likewise some ruins and tombs

f. KUumboi in the NE. of the island, which

i object ores may be the site of Melaenae. The

>.i «f Tbcrasia |xwses»ed a town of the same

r(r*toL iii. 15. § S8), the ruins of which were

trivd by Ko»ss opposite Epanomeria in Thcra.

udes the earlier writers, aucb as Tournefort and

n, the reader is particularly referred to Koss,

em an J den Griechischen Irwin, vol. i. pp. 53.

»eq., 180, «q.; and Lieut. Leycester, Some

mmi of the Volcanic Group of Santorin or

>*a, ia the Jtmrnal of the lioyal Geograplucal

tty, rot xx. p. 1, acq.)

HEKAMBOS or THKAMBUS (BtpdpSws,

d tu» 123; ©pofttfoi, Steph. B. a. v.; &pap€nU,

u. p. 26; SpapJSovala. ottpds, Lycophr. 1404),

«ti nf the peninsula Pallene, in Chalcidice in

^••rtia, id called a promontory by Slephanus II.,

it lean supposed by Leake (Northern Greece,

a. p. 156) to bare occupied a position very near

promontory Caiiastraeum, the most southerly

"f J'allene; but from the order of the names in

li «e would rather place it at the promontory

tie western side of the peninsula, called Posi-

> by Thucydidea (ir. 129).

1EKAXDA, * town of Moesia, now Trenonitza

rr. Rar. it. 15; Tab. PeiU.). [T. H. D.]

&&APXAE (efodwwu: Eth. Btparfcuof), a

iu Um territory of Thebes, between this city

■n Asopus. (Eurip, Bacck. 1029 ; Strab. ix.

9: Leake. Northern Greece, vol ii. p. 369.)

1KHAPNE. [Spakta, p. 1029, b.]

iKKA'SlA. [Thera.]

IE HI O DES SINUS (enpwWjj* k6\t0$, Ptol.

i 2), i gulf on the coast of the Sinae, be-

i tba promontories Notium (NoVior), and

■fi (Sarvpwr). Perhaps the gulf of Tonkin,

it between tlie Cape i>L James and the river

■H^l [T. H. IX]

IhVMA. f Thessau>mca.]

IKKMAE (&*ppxu) was the name of two cities

:!*. both of which derived their name from their

an m the neighbourhood of hot springs. .

Tbe northern Thermae, sometimes culled for

riMo'i sake TiikrmaK Himkrknmih (iu.w

«<i), wm* t»itoated ou the N. coast of tlie island,

i-nmediate neighbourhood of the more ancient

f llutiera, to tlie place of which it may be con-

J a» succeeding. Hence its history is given in

2. The southern Thermae, or Thermae Seu-

numtiak (Sciacca), was situated on the SW. coast of

the island, and,as its name imports, within the territory

of Sclinus, though at a distance of 20 miles from

that city in the direction of Agrigentum. There

can be no doubt that it occupied the same site as

the modern town of Sciacca, about midway between

the site of Selinus and the month of the river Haly-

cus (Platani). where there still exist sulphureous

waters, which are in constant use. (Smyth's Sicily,

p. 217; Cluver, Sicil p. 223.) We have no account

of the existence of a town on the site during the

period of the independence of Selinus, though thero

is little doubt that the thermal waters would always

have attracted some population to the t>pot. Nor

even under the Romans did the place attain to any­

thing like the same importance with the northern

Thermae; and there is little doubt that Pliny is

mistaken in assigning the rank of a colonia to the

southern instead of the northern town of the name.

[LiiMKKA.] Strabo mentions the waters (to. voara

to. StAii'uwTia, Strab. vi. p. 275); and they am

again noticed in the Itineraries under the name of

Aquae Labodes or Labrodes (/fin. Ant. p. 89; Tub.

Pent.) [E. H. B.j

THERMAICUS SINUS, [TmasAuancA.]

THEKMO'DOX (G*ppu**p: 7'AennM),ariverof

Pont us, celebrated in the story about the Amazons,

i» described by Pliny (vi. 3) as having iu sources

in the Amazonian mountains, which are not men­

tioned by any other ancient writer, but are believed

still to retain their ancient name in the form of

Mason fJagh. (Hamilton, Kesearc/iej, i. p. 28.1.)

Strabo (xii. p. 547J places ita many sources near

Phanaroea, and says that many streams combine to

form the Tbennodon. Its course is not very lone,

but its breadth was nevertheless three plelhra, and it

was a navigable river (X«*n. A nab. v. 6. § 9( vi. 2.

§ 1; A man, PeripL P.E. p. 16.) It discharged

it.self into tlie Eimne near tlie town of Themiscvra,

at a distance of 400 stadia to the north-fa* t of the

mouth of the Iris. This river ia very often noticed

by ancient writers. See Aeschyl. 7Vimi. 274, Suppl.

290; Herod, ix. 27; Scylax, p. 33; Strab. L p. 52,

vii. p. 298 ; Anon. Peripl. P. E. p, 10 ; Ptol. v. 6.

§ 4; Pomp. Mela. I 19; Plin. xl 19, xxxvii. 37;

Virg. Aen, xl 659; Or. ex Pont. ir. 19. 51 ; Pro-

pert, iv. 4. 71. and many other passages. [L. S.]

THERMO'PYLAE \&*ppowvhat), or aimpty

PYLAE (n^Aoi), that is, the Hot Gates or the

Gates, a celebrated narrow pass, leading from

ThesMtly into Locris, and the only nad by which

an enemy can penetrate from northern into southern

Greece. It lay between Mount Oeta ami an in­

accessible inorass, funning the eJge of the aluliau

^ulf. Iu cun»e»]uence of the change in tlie course of

the rivers, and in the conriguralitai of the coast,

this pass is now very different from its condition

iu ancient times; und it is therefore necessary

Hrst to give the statement of Herodotus and other

ancient writers respecting the locality, and then to

compare it with its present state. In the time of

Herodotus the river Spercheiua tiowed into the M*a

in an easterly direction at the town of Ant icy ra,

considerably \Y. of the pass. Twenty stadia E.

of the Spercheiua was another river, called Dvras,

and again, 20 stadia further, a third river, named

Melas, 5 stadia from which was the city Tracln*.

Between the mountains where Trachis btauds and

the tea the plain is widest. Still further E. « j*

the Asopus, issuing from a rocky gorge (xiao-^u{).

