XIXUS. NIPHATES. 439

Si* (nam to have been, in an especial sense,

titan; of Nineveh) comprehends about 1800 Eng-

aa urn, u4 u in form an irregular trapezium,

■sal 7J mils round. The two mounds occupy

itaaaittlj 100, and 40 acres of this space, and

aan toukltu the palaces and citadels of the place.

Cot. Joon calculates that, allowing 50 square

jab to eaca inhabitant, the population may have

wml to about 174,000 souls.

Fran an tiabnrate examination of the inscriptions

■Hmd a tubs, on cylinders, and on tablets,

CM Batlioaon has arrived at the following

■and Knluions and identifications in the history

jfltt Batlmiiii and Assyrian empires.

Hi oaaiden that the bUtorical dates preserved

•rots, and substantiated by Callisthenes (who

to Aristotle the astronomical observations he

had at Babylon, extending as far back as

before the time of Alexander, i. e. to

) are, in the main, correct; and hence that

Babylonian chronology ascends to the

'ceotary u. c. The Chaldaean monarchy

Mmd was established in u. c. 1976, and

Hal to a. c. 1518; and to this interval of 458

fan «P most assign the building of all the great

■*»<*' Babylonia, in ti e ruins of which we now

■ kkbttamped with the names of the Chaldaean

pa**" At the present time, the names of about

•atrt n. earths have been recovered from the

IhbtaoJ st Sippara. Xiffer, Warka, Senkerth,

BJhaaaer (I'r), belonging to the one genuine

■Warn dynasty of Be roe us, which reigned from

It 1876—1518. Among the Scriptural or his-

pWama in this series, may be noticed those of

•ad Arioch, Bel us and Horus, and pos-

TUprmn of Aelian. An Arab family

Iran a. c. 1518 to B. c 1273, of whom,

as certain remains have been found. The

of Assyria, or what is usually called

■ dynasty, commenced, Colonel Rawlinson

a a. c. 1273, 245 years after the extinc-

■ aat Chaldaean line, and 52G years before

of Nabunassar in ». c. 747. Of the kings

■na, w» bare now nearly a complete list;

there is some difference in the reading

af aomt of the names, we may state that

of Dr. Uincks and Colonel Raw-

rw ia all important particulars. To the

this race is attributable the foundation of

at Sminid. The series corn-

la* names of Ashurbanipal. probably the

of the Greeks, the founder of

(St'hol. ad Aristoph. A ens,

X*ad tot contemporary of Ahab, about B. c.

■d Pbal-akha, the +<iA»x of the I.XX., and

tftf 1 Swg$ (xr. 19), who received a tribute

JhauW, long of Israel; and Semiramis, the

fbsl -ukha, whose name with her husband's

■tojy nand ou a statue of the god Kebo,

tan the SE. palace at Nimrud.

Kawliaaon considers the line of the family

■ ban terminated with Pbalukha or l'ul

'47. and that the celebrated aery of Nabo-

Wk dates from this year, was established

ither as a refugee or as a conqueror,

at Babylon. The last or Scrip-

according to this system, com-

"B» Hfkttk Pikwar in B. c. 747. It is

J Bsc bt represents the Baletar of Poly-

■i Ptiatlny's Canon, and possibly the

■ Clones, whs is I

»is said (Diod. ii. 27) to I

been the actual taker of Nineveh. From this period

the names on the Assyrian inscriptions are coinci­

dent with those in the Bible, though, naturally, many

additional particulars are noticed on them, which are

not recorded in Sacred History. Some of the indi­

vidual facts the inscriptions describe are worthv of

notice: thus, the campaigns with the king of Samaria

(Hoshea) and with a son of Rezin, king of Syria, are

mentioned in those published by the British Museum

(pp. 66—72); the names of Jehu andofHazacl have

been read (independently) by Colonel Rawlinson and

Dr. Uincks on the black obelisk from Nimriid, the

date of which, therefore, must be early in the ninth

century B.C.; and the latter scholar has detected on

other monuments the names of Menahcm and Ma-

nasseh, kings respectively of Israel and Jonah.

Lastly, the same students have discovered in the

Annals of Sennacherib (which are preserved partly

on slabs and partly on cylinders) an account of tlio

celebrated campaign against Hezekiah (described in

2 Kingi Erin. 14), in which Sennacherib states that

he took from the Jewish king "30 talents of gold,"

the precise amount mentioned in Scripture, besides

much other treasure and spoiL

There is still considerable doubt as to the exact

year of the final destruction of Nineveh, nnd as to

the name of the monarch then on the throne. From

the narratives in Tobit and Judith (if indeed these

can be allowed to have any historical value), compared

with a prophecy in Jeremiah written in the first year

of the Jewish captivity, B.C. 605 (Jerem. xxv. 18

—26), it might be inferred that Nineveh was still

standing in B. c. 609, but had fallen in B.C. 605.

Colonel Rawlinson, however, now thinks (and his

view is confirmed by the opinion of many of the elder

chronologists) that it was overthrown B. c. 625, tlio

Assyrian sovereignly being from that time merged

in the empire of Babylon, and the Canon of Ptolemy

giving the exact dates of the various succeeding

Babylonian kings down to its capture by Cyrus in

B. c. 536, in conformity with what we now know

from the inscriptions. We may add, in conclusion,

that among the latest of the discoveries of Colonel

Rawlinson is the undoubted identification of the

name of Belshazzar as the son of Nabonidus, the

last king of Babylon; and the finding the names ot

the Greek kings Seleucus and Antiochus written in

the cuneiform character on tablets procured by Mr.

Loftus from Warka. (Rawlinson, As. Journ. 1850,

1852, 1855; Athenaeum, Nos. 1377, 1381, 1383,

1388; Hincks.Zioy. Soc. of Liter, vol. iv.; Tram.Roy.

IruhAcad. 1850,1852, 1855;Layard. A'ineittA and

BabyUm; and, for an entirely new view of the Assyrian

chronology, Bosanquet, Sacred and Profane Chro­

nology, Lond. 8vo. 1853.) [V ]

NINUS river. [Daedala.]

NIPHATES (oNiextTBf, Strab. xi. pp. 522,

523, 527, 529; Ptol. v. 13. § 4, vi. 1. § 1; Mela,

i. 15. § 2; Plin. v. 27; Amm. Marc, xxiii. 6. § 13;

Virg. Geog. iii. 30; Horat. Cam. ii. 9. 20: the later

Roman poets, by a curious mistake, made Niphates a

river; comp. Lucan, iii. 245; Sil. Ital. xiii. 775;

Juven. vi. 409), the "snowy range" of Armenia,

called by the native writers Sebad or Nbadagnn

(St. Martin, Mem. stir tArmenie, vol. i. p. 49).

Taurus, stretching E. of Commagcno (Jin Tub)*

separates Sophene (Klun-put Bawassi), which is

contained between Taurus and Anti-Taurus (Strab.

xi. p. 521), from Osroene (i/r/iiA), and then divides

itself into three portions. The most northerly, and

highest, are the Niphates (Asi A'ur) in Aci1'

rM

