410 NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS.

though more commonly known as the Fhime della

Maddalena, which still forms the extreme limit of

the suburbs of Naples on the E. side; from thence

it probably extended as far as the mole and old

castle, which bound the port on the W. Pliny

speaks of the small island which he calls Mcgaris,

and which can be no other than the rock now occu­

pied by the Cattel delt Uovo, as situated between

Pausilypus and Neapolis (Plin. iii. 6. s. 12): it is

therefore clear that the city did not extend so far as

this point. Immediately above the ancient portion

of the city rises a steep hill, now crowned by the

Cattle of St. F.lmo; and from thence there runs a

narrow volcanic ridge, of no great elevation, but

steep and abrupt, which continues without interrup­

tion in a SW. direction, till it ends in a headland

immediately opposite to the island of Nesis or Sitida.

It is the western portion of this ridge which was known

in ancient times as the Moxs I'ArsiLYPua, and is

still called the Hill of Potilipo. It formed a marked

barrier between the immediate environs of Neapolis

and those of Puteoli and liaise, and must have been

a great obstacle to the free communication between

the two cities; hence a tunnel was opened through

the hill for the passage of the high-road, which has

served that purpose ever since. This passage, called

in ancient times the Crypta Neapolitans, and now

known as the Grotto di Potilipo, is a remarkable

work of its kind, and has been described by many

modem travellers. It is 2244 feet long, and 21

feet broad: its height is unequal, but, towards the

entrance, is not leas than 70 feet. It is probable,

however, that the work has been much enlarged in

later times. Seneca, in one of his letters, gives a

greatly exaggerated view of its fancied horrors,

arising from the darkness and dust. (Sen. Ep. 57.)

Stnibo assigns its construction to Cocceius, probably

the M. Cocceius Ncrva, who was superintendent of

aqueducts under Tiberius, and who constructed a

similar tunnel from the lake Avemus to Cumae

(Strab. v. p. 245); and there is no reason to doubt

this statement, though many Italian antiquarians

liave maintained that the work must be much more

ancient On the hill immediately above the E. en­

trance of the grotto is an ancient sepulchre designated

by tradition as the tomb of Virgil; and though

popular tradition is a very unsafe guide in such

cases, there seems in this instance no sufficient

reason to reject its testimony. We know, from the

precise statement of Donatus, that the poet was

buried on the road to Puteoli, within less than two

miles from Naples (" via Puteolana intra lapidem

secundem," Dotiat. Vit. Virg.; Hieron. Chrvn. ad

01. 190), which agrees well with the site in ques­

tion, especially if (as is probable) the high-road at

that time passed over the hill, and not through the

grotto beneath. The argument of Cluverius, who

inferred, from the description of Statius (Silv. iv. 4.

50—55), that the tomb of Virgil was situated at

the fc«t of Mount Vesuvius, is certainly untenable.

(Cluver. Ital. p. 1153; Eustace's Clattical Tour,

Tol. ii. pp. 370—380; Jorio, Guida di Pozzuoli,

pp. 118, &c )

Near the Capo di Potilipo, as the headland oppo­

site to Nitida is now called, are the extensive ruins

of a I; ■mill villa, which are supposed to be those of

the celebrated villa of Vedius Pollio, which gave

lumc to the whole hill, and which he bequeathed by

his will to Augustus. (Dion Cass. liv. 23; Plin.

ix 53. s. 78.) Immediately opposite to the head­

land, between it and the islund of Sitida (Nesis),

lie two Bmall islets, or rather n«k<. one ef whjh

now serves for the Lazzaretto.—the other, which a

uninhabited, is called An Gajola; these are soppoasd

to be the islands called by Statius Liroon and Lo-

ploea. (Stat. Sih. ii. 2. 79, iii. I. 149.) From

their trifling size it is no wonder that tbey an set

noticed by any other author. Recent exrarationi

on the supposed site of the villa of p..'.-. ban

brought to light far more extensive remains than

were previously known to exist, and which affrd a

strong illustration of the magnificent scale on which

these edifices were constructed. Among Use rains

thus brought to light are those of a theatre, the

seats of which are cut out of the tnfo rock ; an

Odeon, or theatre for music; a Basilica; aaaaJM na-

merous porticoes and other edifices, and extensive

reservoirs for water. But the moot remarkable

work connected with these remains is a tunnel *

gallery pierced through the promontory, which ii

actually longer than the Grotta di Potilipo. This

work appears from an inscription to have been re­

stored by the emperor Honorius; the period of its

construction is wholly uncertain. (Ba/fcft at IxM.

Arch. 1841, pp. 147—160; Avclhno, BuOttt. Ar-

chcol. NapoL 1843, Nas. 4—6.) Many writers hare

assigned the extensive ruins visible on the hill of

Potilipo to a villa of Lucullus; and it is certain

that that statesman had a Neapolitan villa distinct

from that at Miscnum (Cic. Acad. ii. 3). bat i*-»

site is nowhere indicated; and the supposition that

it was the same which afterwards passed into the

hands of Vedius Pollio is not warranted by any

ancient authority.

Though the neighbourhood of Naplet abounds oa

all sides in ancient remains, those which are still

extant in the city itself are inconsiderable. Twe

arches of a It-man theatre in the street oiled A*ti-

caglia, a fragment of an aqueduct known by the

name of the Ponti Rotti, and the remains of a

temple dedicated to Castor and Pollux, incorporated

into the church of S. Paolo, are all the ancient ruins

now visible. But the inscriptions which have been

discovered on the site, and are for the moat part pre­

served in the museum, are numerous and interesting.

They fully confirm the account given by anrwat

writers of the Greek character so long retained by

the city, and notice its division into Phratriea, which

must hare continued at least as late as the reign rf

Hadrian, since we find one of them named after hat

favourite Antinous. Others bore the names of Ea-

melidac, Eunostidae, &c, the origin of which n>»y

probably be traced back to the first foundation af

the Cumaean colony. From some of these hi

tions we learn that the Greek language i

be used there, even in public documents, as hat* aa

the second century after the Christian era. ( B»»*ih,

C. I. vol. iii. pp. 714—750; Mgtumsrn, later.

Regn. Neap. pp. 127—131.)

COBf Or XKAFOU8 or caxii-aau.

2. (A'nowi).a city of Sardinia, and apparently on* af

the most considerable places in that island, was ■ta­

sted on the W. coast, at the southern extremity of

