414 NEMAUSUS. NECTIBKRES.

vest. Strabo speaks of it as rising opposite to

Aetna, so that he would seem to apply the name to

the mountains between that peak and the northern

coast, which are still covered with the extensive

forests of Caronia. Silius Italicux, on the other

hand, tells us that it was in the Mons Nebrodes the

two rivers of the name of Himera had their sources,

which can refer only to the more westerly group of

the Monti di Madonia, the most lofty range in

Sicily after Aetna, and this indentification is gene­

rally adopted. But, as already observed, there is no

real distinction between the two. Silius Italicus

speaks of the Mons Nebrodes as covered with forests,

and Solinus derives its name from the number of

fawns that wandered through them; an etymology

obviouslv fictitious. (Strab. vi. p. 274; Solin. 5.

§§ 11, 12; Sil. Ital.xiv.236; Cluver.Sicil p. 364;

Fazell. de Reb. Sic. x. 2. p. 414.) [E. H. B.]

NECTIREUES. [Maukktaxta.]

NEDA (Nton), now Biai, a river of Peloponnesus,

rises in Sit. Ccrausium, a branch of Mt. Lycacus in

Arcadia, and flows with many windings in a westerly

dimrtion past Phigalia, first forming the bound­

ary between Arcadia and Messenta, and afterwards

between Elis and Messenia. It falls into the Ionian

sea, and near its mouth is navigable for small boats.

(1'aus. iv. 20. §§ 1, 2, iv. 36. § 7, v. 6. § 3, viii. 38.

§ 3, viii. 41. §§ 1,2; St rati. viii. pp. 344,348; Leake,

Morea, vol. i. pp. 56, 485; Ross, Reisen im Pelo-

ponnet, p. 84; Curtius, Pelopometot, vol. ii. pp.

152, 185.)

NEDAD, a river of Pannonia, mentioned only

by Jornandes (de Jitb. Get. 50), as the river on the

banks of which the Huns were defeated by the

Gepidac. The name is in some MSS. Kedao, and the

river is believed to be the modern Neytra. [L. S.]

NEDINUM QHfiamr, Ptol. ii. 16. § 10; Geog.

Kav. iv. 16; Neditae, Orelli, Inter. 3452), a town of

the Liburni, on the road from Siscia to Iadera (PeuL

Tab.), identified with the ruins near Nadin. Orelli

(I. c.) refers the inscription to Norigrad. (Wilkinson,

Dalmalia and Montenegro, vol. i. p. 93.) [E. B. J.]

N'EDON. rMtasKXiA, p. 342, b.]

NEGRA. [Marsyabae, pp. 284, 285.]

NKI.CYXDA (Ttt N«Ajtw8a, PcripL §§ 53, 54,

ed. Mutter, 1855), a port on the W. coast of India,

in the province called Limyrica, without doubt the

Mine as that now called Nelueram. It is in lat

12° 10' N. It is mentioned in various authorities

under names slightly modified one from the other;

thus, it is the Mclcynda of Ptolemy (vii. 1. § 9),

in the country of the Aii; the "porlitt gentis Nca-

cyndon " of Pliny (vi. 26. s. 104), which was also

culled Bacare or Barace; the Nincylda of the Peu-

tingerian Table; and Nileinna of the Gengr. Raven.

(ii. 1). The name is certainly of Indian origin,

and may be derived, as suggested by Ritter (v.

p. 515) from NUakhandu, the blue county. Other

derivations, however, have been proposed for it.

(Vincent, Prripliu, ii. p. 445; Rennell, Mem. //tn-

dotttm, p. 48; Gosselin, iii. p. 227.) [V.]

NELEUS. [Euboba, Vol. I. p. 872, a.]

NE'LIA (NnXia), a town of Magnesia in Thes-

saly, between which and Iolcus Demetrias was situ­

ated. Leake identifies it with the remains of a

small Hellenic town above I*ekhtmia. (Strab. ix.

p. 436; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 379.)

NELO, a small river of Hispania Tarraconinsis,

in the territory of the Asturcs, and on the N. coast

of Spain; probably the Rio de la J'uente. (Plin. iv.

20. a. 34; Ukert, voL ii pU 1. p. 299.) [T.H.D.]

NEMALONT, an Alpine people. In the Trophy

of the Alps the name of the Nemaloni ocean be­

tween the Brodiontii and Edenates. (Plin. iii. 20 )

The site of this people is uncertain. It is a mere

guess to place them, as some do, at MioUuu. in the

valley of Barcelonette. [G. L.]

NEMAUSUS (NinaiMTot: Eth. Nefuuxna*, Ne-

tnausensis: Nhnei), a city of Gallia Narboneost* un

the road from Arelate (Aries) through Narbo

(Snrbonne) into Spain. Ptolemy (ii. la § 10) calls

it Nemausus Colonia, but he places it in the same

latitude as Arausio {Orange), and more than a

degree north of Arelate; which are great blunders.

Nemausus was the chief place of the Volcae Arero-

mici: "with respect to number of foreigners and tl*»«

engaged in trade (says Strab. iv. p. 186) much infe­

rior to Narbo, but with respect to its population much

superior; for it has subject to it twenty-four Tillages

of people of the same stock, populous villages which

are contributory to Nemausus, which has what is

called the Latium (Jus Latii or Latinitas). By

virtue of this right those who have obtained tin

honour of an aedileship and quaestorship in Ne­

mausus become Roman citizens; and for this reason

this people is not under the orders of the governors

from Rome. Now the city is situated on the road

from Iberia into Italy, which road in the summer is

easy travelling, but in the winter and sprint; »

muddy and washed by streams. Some of these

streams are passed by boats, and others by brkirw

of wood or stone. The wintry torrents are the can**

of the trouble from the water, for these torrm'.i

sometimes as late as the summer descend from the

Alps after the melting of the snow."

Strabo fixes the site of Nemausus about 100 stadia

from the Rhone, at a point opposite to Taraacon. and

720 stadia from Narbo. In another place (iv. p. 178)

Strabo estimates the distance from Narbo to Ne­

mausus at 88 M. P. One of the Ilin. routes makes

it 91 M. P. from Narbo to Nemausus. Strabo'a two

distances do not agree, for 720 stadia are 90 M. P.

The site of the place is certain. In the middle aj»

documents the name is written Nemse (D'Anvilfe).

There seems to be no authority for writing tlie

modern name Niemes; and yet Mimes, as it is now

properly written, supposes a prior form .Yemees.

Ximet is the present capital of the arroodiastiimit

of Card, the richest in Roman remains of all the

districts of France.

The twenty-four smaller places that were attar Led

(attributa) to Nemausus are mentioned by Pliny

(iii. 4). The territory of Nemausus produced p<j

cheese, which was carried to Rome (Plin. si. 42).

This cheese was made on the Cecennes, and Fliny

appears to include Mons Lesura in the territory «f

Nemausus. Latera [Latf.ra] on the Ledtu (La)

west of Nemausus was in the territory, which pro­

bably extended through Cgemum eastward to lb*

Rhone. Nemausus was an old Gallic town. The

name is the same that Strabo gives with a alight

variation (Xemossus) to Augustoneinetum or t'fer-

mont in Awergne. The element A'raa appears in

the name of several Gallic towns. Nemausus wan

made a Colonia probably by the emperor Aognetwa,

An inscription on one of the gates, called the r>-«

of Augustus, records the eleventh or twelfth ror»ol-

ship of Augustus, and that he gave gale* and watts

to the colony. There is a bmnu medal of Se-

mausus in the Museum of Arigmon, tbe so calml

Pied de Btche, on one side of which tbrre is the

legend col. Hex. with a crocodile chained to a palm­

