MESSENIA. 343 MESSENIA.

tinaed to belong to the kings of Pylus. (Pans, iv.

3. § 1.) Hence Euripides, in referring to the mythic

tunes, makes the Pamisus the boundary of Laconia

and Messenia; for which he is reproved by Strabo,

because this was not the case in the time of the

geographer. (Strab. viii. p. 366.) Of the seven

cities which Agamemnon in the Iliad (ix. 149)

offers to Achilles, some were undoubtedly in Messe­

nia ; bat as only two, Phente and Cardamyle, retained

their Homeric names in the historical age, it is diffi­

cult to identify the other five, (Strab. viii. p. 359;

Diod. xr. 66.)

With the conquest of Peloponnesus by the Dorians

a new epoch commences in the history of Messenia.

This country fell to the lot of Cresphontes, who is

represented as driving the Keleidae out of Pylus and

making himself master of the whole country. Ac­

cording to the statement of Ephorus (ap. Strab. viii.

p. 361), Cresphontes divided Laconia into tive parts,

of which he made Stenyclerus the royal residence.*

In the other four towns he appointed viceroys, and

bestowed npon the former inhabitants the same rights

and privileges as the Dorian conquerors. But this

pave offence to the Dorians; and he was obliged to

collect them all in Stenyclerus, and to declare this the

* Of the other four parts Strabo mentions Pylus,  
KHium, and Hyameitis; but the passage is corrupt,

and the name of Mesola should probably be added

to complete the number. (M tiller, Dorians, vol. i.

!'. Ul,transl.) Stephanas B. calls Mesola, a city

of Messeoe, one of the five (*. r. MearfAa); and Strabo

in another passage (viii. p. 361) describes it as

lying towards the gulf between Taygetus and Mes­

senia; and as the latter name can only apply to the

western part of the country, Mesola was probably

the di&trict between Taygetus and the Pamisus.

Pylus apparently comprehended the whole western

coast Khinm is the southern peninsula, opposite

Taenarum. (Strab. viii. p. 360.) The position of

Hunwitis, of which the city was called Hyameia

(Tf^wa, Steph. B. $. p.), is quite uncertain.

only city of Messenia. Notwithstanding these con­

cessions, the Dorians put Cresphontes and all his

children to death, with the exception of Aepytus,

who was then very young, and was living with his

grandfather Cypselus in Arcadia. When this youth

had grown up, he was restored to his kingdom by the

help of the Arcadians, Spartans, and Argives. From

Aepytus the Messenian kings were called Aepytidae,

in preference to Heracleidae, and continued to reign

in Stenyclerus till the sixth generation,—their names

being Aepytus, Glaucus,Isthmius, Dotadas, Sybotas,

Phintas,— when the first Messenian war with Sparta.

began. (Paus. iv. 3.) According to the common

legend, which represents the Dorian invaders as

conquering Peloponnesus at one stroke, Cresphontes

immediately became master of the whole of Messenia.

But, as in the case of Laconia [Laconia], there is

good reason for believing this to be the invention

of a later age, and that the Dorians in Messenia were

at fir&t confined to the plain of Stenyclerus. They

appear to have penetrated into this plain from

Arcadia, and their whole legendary history points to

their close connection with the latter country.

Cresphontes himself married the daughter of the

Arcadian king Cypselus; and the name of his son

Aepytus, from whom the line of the Messenian kings

was called, was that of an ancient Arcadian hero.

(Horn. //. ii. 604, Schol. ad loc. ] comp. Grote, Hist

of Greece, vol. ii. p. 437, seq.)

The Messenian wars with Sparta are related in

every history of Greece, and need not be repeated

here. According to the common chronology, the first

war lasted from B.C. 743 to 724, and the second

from B.C. 685 to 668; but both of these dates are

probably too early. It is necessary, however, to glance

at the origin of the first war, because it is connected

witli a disputed topographical question, which has

only recently received a satisfactory solution. Mt.

Taygetus rises abruptly and almost precipitously

above the valley of the Eurotas, but descends more

gradually, and in many terraces, on the other side.

The Spartans had at a very early period taken pos­

MAP OF THE AGER DKNTIIEUATES,

e a. Site of the boundary stones.

z 4

