SYRACUSAE. SYRAGTSAE.

ployed as prisons. Thus, after the Athenian expe­

dition, the whole number of the captives, more than

7000 in number, were confined in these quarries

(Thue.vii. 86,87; Diod. xiii. .33); and they continued

to he used for the same purpose under successive

despots and tyrants. In the days uf Cicero they

were used as a general prison for criminals from all

parts of Sicily. (Cic. Verr. v. 27.) The orator

in one passage speaks of them as constructed ex­

pressly for a prison by the tyrant Dionysius (/6.55),

which is a palpable mistake if it refers to the Lau-

tumiae in general, though it is not unlikely that the

despot may have made some special additions to them

with that view. But there is certainly no authority

for the popular tradition which has given the name

of the Ear of Dionysius to a peculiar excavation of

singular form in the part of the quarries nearest to

the theatre. This notion, like many similar ones

now become traditional, is derived only from the

suggestion of a man of letters of the 16th century.

5. Eni'oLAK ('E7ri7roAaj), was the name ori­

ginally given to the upper part of the table-land

which, as already described, slopes gradually from

its highest point towards the sea. Its form is that

of a tolerably regular triangle, having its vertex at

Euryalus. and its base formed by the western wall

of Achradina. The name is always used by Thu-

cydides in this sense, as including the whole upper

part of the plateau, and was doubtless so employed

as long as the space was uninhabited; but as the

suburbs of Tycha and Temenitis Kradoallr

themselves over a considerable put of the

the name of Epipolae came to be applied is *

stricted sense to that portion only which was w

to the vertex of the triangle, it is pewnh

sinned that there subsequently arose % crtt&aSB j

town near this angle of the walls, and that tai

the fifth quarter of the city alluded to by iw

and those who spoke of Syracuse as a Ptattaa*

aggregate of Jice cities. But there a so&lfc

it as such in the passage of Cicero already

or in the description of the capture rf Syncs* fcf

Marcellus; and it seems very doubtful vast

there w as ever any considerable popcUta* at I

remote point. No vestiges of any ancient basfc

remain within the walls; but the Uneofthaaa

be distinctly traced along the top of the cafttk

bound the table-land both towards the X ear

S.; in many places two or three counr* d

masonry remain; but the meet important

those at the angle or vertex of the triangle, rti

spot named MongibeUui is still crowned by

ruins of the ancient castle or fort <f EcttJ

(Evpv7}\os, Thuc, but the Doric form «*t I

aAos, which was adopted by the Kamam).

ruins in question afford one of the best ax

extant of an ancient fortress or castle,

once to serve as a species of citadel and Si i

the approach to Epipolae from this qaartst

annexed plan will give a good idea of a pawl

FLAM OF THE FORT EURYALVS.

form and arrangement. The main entrance to the

city was hy a double gate (A.), flanked on both

sides by walls and towers, with a smaller postern or

sally-port a little to the right of it. The fortress

itself was an irregular quadrangle, projecting about

200 yards beyond the approach to the gate, and

fortified by strong towers of solid masonry with a

deep ditch cut in the rock in front of it, to which a

number of subterraneous passages gave access from

within. These passages communicating with the

f>rt above by narrow openings and stairs, were evi­

dently designed to facilitate the sallies of the be­

sieged without exposing the fortress itself to peril.

As the whole arrangement is an unique specimen of

ancient fortification a view is added of the external,

or N. front of the fort, with the subterranean

openings.

There can be no doubt that the fortress at Mun-

rpMlisi is the one anciently known a*

This clearly appears from the mention d

at the time of the siege of Syraruse by ]

as one capable of being held by a srparan

after the capture of the outer walk rf

and threatening the army of MarreUu is

if he proceeded to attack Achradina,

25, 26.) Euryalus is also mentioned by

at the time of the Athenian expedition, *>■

still unfortified, as the point which anonifti-

ascent to the heights of Epipolae (Toae.

vii. 2); and it must indeed have always b*

military point of view, the key of the whoa* 1

Hence, the great care with which it was 1

after the occupation of Epipolae by lbs

had shown the paramount importance ef

sition in case of a siege. The

may, indeed, be in part the work ef

