94 ITAMA. ITALIA.

for a long time extended their dominion over a con­

siderable jiart of the S., and wrested from the thilo-.s

of Benevcnto the districts to which they pave the

names of the CapUanaJa and the BasMcato (a part of

the ancient Apulia and Lucania), and of which they

retained possession till the 11th century. It was

then that a new enemy first appeared on the scene,

and the Normans, under Robert Guiscard, completed

the final expulsion of the Greek emperors from Italy.

The capture of Bari in 1071, and of Salerno in

1077, destroyed the last vestiges of the dominion

that had been founded bv the generals of Justinian.

(D'Auville, E'tats formes en Europe apres la Chute

de T Empire Jiomuin, 4to. Paris, 1771.)

vi. popilation of italv under the

Romans.

The statements transmitted to us from antiquity

concerning the amount of the population in different

cities and countries are for the most part of so vague

a character and such uncertain authority as to be

little worthy of consideration ; but we have two

facts recorded in connection with that of Italy,

which may lead us to form at least an approximate

estimate of its numbers. The first of these data is

the statement given by Polybius, as well as by

several Roman writers on the authority of Fabius,

and which there is every reason to believe based on

authentic documents, of the total amount of the

forces which the Romans and their allies were able

to oppose to the threatened invasion of the Gauls in

li. c 225. According to the detailed enumeration

given by Polybius, the total number of men capable

of bearing arms which ajtpeared on the registers

of the Romans and their allies, amounted to above

700,000 foot and 70,000 horsemen. Pliny gives

them at 700,000 foot and 80,000 horse; while

Eutrnpius and Orosius state the whole amount in

round numbers at 800,000. (Pol. ii. 24; Plin. iii.

SO. s. 24; Eutrop. iii. 5; Oros. iv. 13.) It is

evident-, from the precise statements of Polybius, that

this was the total amount of the free population of

military ape (to avfurar w\rj6os rwr &vvap.*vwv

iw\a. fkurrdfyar'), and not that which could be

Actually brought into the field. If we estimate the

proportion of these to the total free population us

1 to 4, which appears to have been the ratio cur­

rently adopted in ancient times, wo should obtain a

total of 3,200,000 for the free population of the

Italian peninsula, exclusive of the greater part of

Cisalpine Gaul, and the whole of Liguria* : and

even if wo adopt the proportion of 1 to 5, more

commonly received in modern times, this would still

give a total of only 4,0tX),000, an amount by no

means very large, as the population of the same

part* nf Italy at the present day considerably ex­

ceeds 9,000,000. (Serriatori, Matistica d Italia.}

Of the amount of the senile population we have

no means of funning an estimate: but it was pro­

bably not large at this period of the Ionian history;

and its subsequent rapid increase was contempo­

raneous with the diminution of the free population.

The complaints of the extent to which this had

* The Cenomani and Veueti were among the  
allies who sent assistance to the Romans on this

occasion, but their actual contingent of 20,000 men

it all that is included in the estimate of Polybius.

They did not, like the Italian allies, and doubtless

could not, send registers of their total available

resources.

taken place as early as the time of the Gracchi, an**

their lamentations over the depopulation of Italy

(Plut. T. Gracch. 8), would lead us to suppose that

the number of free citizens bad greatly fallen off.

If this was the case in b. c. 133, the events of lbs

next half century — the sanguinary struggle of the

Social War, which swept off, ai-cording to Vclleiua

Paterculus (ii. 15), more than 300,000 men in the

vigour of their age, and the cruel devastation of

Saninium and Etruria by Sulla—were certainly ir«:

calculated to repair the deficiency. But, notwith­

standing this, we find that the census of B. c 70,

which included all the new citizens recently ad­

mitted to the Roman franchise, and did Dot yet

comprise any population out of Italy, nor even the

Transpadane Gauls, gave a result of 910,000 Io­

nian citizens (capita civium); from which we may

fairly infer a free population of at least 4.50O.0UU.

(Liv. EpU. xcviii. ed. Jahn, compared with PhJecon,

ap. Phot. Bill p. 84. ed. Bekker.) The rapid ra-

tension of a Roman population in Gallia CUpadaict,

as well as Venetia and Liguria, had evidently mora

than compensated for the diminution in the central

provinces of the peninsula.

Of the populousness of Italy under the Empire,

we have no data on which to found an estimate.

But there are certainly no reasons to suppose that

it ever exceeded the amount which it had attained

under the Republic. Complaints of its depopu­

lation, of the decay of flourishing towns, and tb*

desolation of whole districts, are frequent in the

writers of the Augustan age and the first century f-f

the Christian era. We arc told that Caesar in

B. c. 46, already found a dreadful diminution of tbe

population (huv^v 6\iyay0punrla*'1 Dion Cass. xJiiu

25); and the period of the Triumvirate must hav«

tended greatly to a^ravate the eviL Augnatua

seems to have used every means to recruU th*

exhausted population: but that bis efforts were bos

partially successful is evident from the picture*

which Strabo (writing in the reign of Tiberim*)

gives us of the state of decay and desolation to

which the once populous provinces of Saraninxet,

Apulia, and Lucania, were in his day reduced; while

Livy confirms his statement, in regard even to di«-^

tricts nearer Rome, such as the land of the A^jaiana

and Volscians. (Strab. v. p. 249, vi pp. 25s"*,

281; Liv. vi. 12.) Pliny, writing under Vespasian,

speaks of the " Iatifundia" as having been "tbe ruin

<i Italy;" and there seems no reason to suppose

that this evil was afterwards checked iu any material

degree. The splendour of many of tbe municipal

towns, and especially the magnificent public build­

ings with which they were adorned, is apt to comer

a notion of wealth and opulence which it seems hard

to combine with that of a declining p>'|>ulation. Rat

it must be remembered that these great works w*t»

in many, probably in most instances, erected by thai

munificence either of the emperors or of private in­

dividuals: and the va*t wealth of a few nobles waa

so far from being the sign of general prosperity, thai

it was looked upon as one of tbe main causes k4

decay. Many of the towns and cities of Italy wnr.

however, noojnubt very flourishing and t*>palixi»:

but numerous testimonies of ancient writers seem to

prove that this was f-tr from being the case with lb«

country at large; and it is certain that no ancirot

author lends any countenance to the notion enter­

tained by some modern writers, of "tbe iarrctlibW

multitudes of people with which Italy abounded

daring the reigns of tbe Raman emperors" (Ad*

