320 MELITA. Jff.LIN0rH.VGI.

(//. ii. 717). It was situated upon the sea-coast

(H.Tod. vii. 188; Scylax, p. 25; Apoll. Rhod. i.

591'), andis described byLivy(xliv. 13) us situated

at tlie roots of Mt. Ossa, and by Strain (ix. p. 443)

as lying in the gulf between Ossa and Pelium.

Leake therefore places it near Atjhia {Northern

Greece, vol. ir. p. 414). Meliboea was taken and

plundered by the Romans under Cn. Octavius, b. c

168. (Lir. xliv 46: Meliboea is also mentioned

by Strab. ix. p. 436; Stepb. B. >. v.; Mela, ii. 3;

Plin. it. 9. b. 16.)

The Meliboean purple is said by Lucretius (ii.

499; Virg. Aen. v. 251) to have derived its name

from this town. Many modem writers, however,

suppose the name to have come from the small

island Meliboea at the mouth of the Orontes in

Syria ; but there is no reason for this supposition, as

the shellfish from which the purple dye is obtained

is found in the present day off the coast of Thessaly.

2. A town of Histiaeotis in Thessaly, is conjec­

tured by Leake to be represented by Voiruda. (Liv.

xxxvi. 13; Leake. Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 536.)

MELIXOTHAGI (MtAico^Kryoi), a people of

Thrace upon the coast of the Euxine, near Salmy-

dessus. (Xen. Anab. vii. 5. § 12 ; Theopomp. ap.

Steph. B. t. r.) They are, perhaps, the same people

as the Asti (Affrol) whom Strabo places in the

aame neighbourhood (vii. pp. 319, 320).

ME'LITA (M<A(r»: Kth. M«Aitb7oi, Melitensis:

Malta), an island in the Mediterranean sea, to the S.

of Sicily, from the nearest point of which it is dis­

tant 47 geogr. miles, but 55 from cape Pachynum.

Strabo gives this last distance as 88 miles, which is

greatly overstated; while Pliny calls it 84 miles

distant from Cainarina, which equally exceeds the

truth. (Strab. vi. p. 277; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14.) The

island is about 17 miles long, and between 9 and 10

in breadth, and is separated only by a narrow channel

from the adjoining island of Gaulos, now Goto.

Notwithstanding its small extent, the opportune situ­

ation of Melita in the channel between Sicily and

Africa, and the excellence of its harbours, must

have early rendered it a place of importance as a

commercial station, and it was occupied, probably at

a very early period, by a Phoenician colony. (Diod.

v. 12.) The date of this is wholly uncertain, and

it is called by later writers for the most part a

Carthaginian settlement (Scyl. p. 50. § 110;

Steph. B. s. u.), which it certainly became in after

times; but there can be no doubt that Dindorus is

right in describing it as originally a Phoenician one,

established by that people as an emporium and har­

bour of refuge during their long voyages towards

the west. The same author tells us that in con­

sequence of this commercial traffic, the colony rose

rapidly to prosperity, which was increased by the

industry of its inhabitants, who practised various

kinds of manufactures with great success. (Diod.

I. c) But notwithstanding this account of its pros-

l«rity we have scarcely any knowledge of its his­

tory. The notice of it by Scylax as a Carthaginian

colony, seems to prove that it had not in his day

received a Greek settlement; and indeed there is no

trace in history of its having ever fallen into the

hands of the Greeks of Sicily, though its coins, as

well as inscriptions, indicate that it received a strong

tincture of Greek civilisation; and at a later period

it appear* to have been in a great measure llcllen-

i»e»t. Sunc of these inscriptions point to a close

connection with Syracuse in particular, but of the

origin aud nature of this wc have no account.

(Boeckh, Corp. Inter. Gr. 5752, Ac.) In the

First Punic War we find Melita still in the hands of

the Carthaginians; and though it was ravaged ia

B. c. 257 by a Koman fleet under Atiliua Rernlo*.

it docs not appear that it fell permanently mu> the

hands of the Romans. At the outbreak of il*

Second Punic War it was held by a Carthaginian

garrison under llamilcar, the son of Giago, wan,

however, surrendered the island to Tib. Sem promos,

with a Roman fleet, B.C. 218 (Liv. xxi. 51); aad

from this time it continued without intermia-mn

subject to the Roman rule. It was annexed to the

province of Sicily, and subject to the government of

the praetor of that island. During the perkd that

the Mediterranean was so severely infested by the

Cilician pirates, Melita was a favourite resort of

those corsairs, who often made it their winter-qaar-

ters. (Cic. IVrr. iv. 46, 47.) Notwithstanding

this it appears to have been in the days of Cicero

in a flourishing condition, and the great orator more

than once during periods of civil disturbance* en­

tertained the project of retiring thither into a kiad

of voluntary exile. (Cic ad Alt. iii. 4, x. 7, 8, 9,

&c.)

The inhabitants of Melita were at this period

famous for their skill in manufacturing a kind of

fine linen, or rather cotton, stuffs, which appear to

have been in great request at Rome, and were gene­

rally known under the name of "vestia Melitensia."

(Cic. Terr. ii. 72, iv. 46; Diod. v. 12.) There ia no

doubt that these were manufactured from the cotton.

which still forms the staple production of the island.

Melita is celebrated in sacred history at the seen*

of the shipwreck of St. Pan! on his voyage to

Rome, A.D. 60. {Act. Apoit. xxviii.) Tlie error

of several earlier writers, who have transferred this

to the Melita on the E. coast of the Adriatic (now

Meleday, has evidently arisen from the vague u*e

of the name of the Adriatic, which is employed in

the Acta of the Apostles (xxvii. 27), in the manner

that was customary under the Roman Empire, as

corresponding to the Ionian and Sicilian eea* of

geographers. [Adhiaticxm JUue.] The whole

course and circumstances of the voyage leave no

doubt that the Melita in question was no other them

the modern Malta, where a bay called St. PauTa Hay

is still pointed out by tradition as the landittz-plsre of

the Apostle. (The question is fully examined and

discussed by Mr. J. Smith, in his Voyage and Ship.

tcreci o/St. Paid, 8vo. I.ond. 1848; also in Cucybeare

and Howson's Life of St. Paul, vol ii. p. 353, 4c)

No other mention is found of Melita during taw

period of the Roman Empire, except in the geo­

graphers and the Maritime Itinerary, in which last

the name already appears corrupted into its modern

form of Malta. (Strab. vi. p. 277; Plin. iii- 8. a.

13; Mel. ii. 7. § 18; Plol. iv. 3. § 37; Itm. Mm-

riL p. 518; Sil. lul. xiv. 251.) After the fail of

the Itoman Empire it fell for a time into the hands

of the Vandals; but was recovered from thetn by

Ilelisarius in A. D. 533 (Procop. B. 1'. i. 14). and

appears to have continued from this time lul^n: u

the Byxantine empire, until it wai conquered by

the Arabs in a. i>. 870.

The present population is principally deriT-«d

from an Arabic stick; hut it is jirubable that

the Arab conquerors here, as wtU a* in Africa*

have been to a great extent ama'ramated with

the previously existing Punic pupalstiua. law

inscriptions discovered at Malta aufikieollv |arovw

that tho Greek language was at on* liana ia has­

