NAXOS. 40:7 NAXOS.

probable that enmity to their neighbours at Messana

was a strung motive in inducing them to join the

Athenians; and during the hostilities that ensued, the

Me^sanians having on one occasion, in B.C. 425,

made a sudden attack upon Naxos both by land and

sea, the Naxians vigorously repulsed them, and in

their turn Inflicted heavy loss on the assailants. (Id.

ir. 25.)

On occasion of the great Athenian expedition to

Scily (b.c- 415), the Naxians from the first espoused

their alliance, even while their kindred cities of

Bhegium and Catana held aloof; and not only fur­

nished them with supplies, but received them freely

into their city (Diod. xiii. 4; Thuc. vi. 50). Hence

it was at Naxos that the Athenian fleet first touched

after crossing the straits; and at a later period the

Naxians and Catanaeans are enumerated by Thu-

cydides as the only Greek cities in Sicily which

aided with the Athenians. (Thuc. vii. 57.) After

the failure of this expedition the Chalcidic cities

were naturally involved for a time in hostilities with

Syracuse; but these were suspended in B.c. 409, by

the danger which seemed to threaten all the Greek

cities alike from the Carthaginians. (Diod. xiii. 5G.)

Their position on this occasion preserved the Naxians

from the fate which befell Agrigentum, Gela, and

Camarina; but they did not long enjoy this immu­

nity. In B.C. 403, Dionysius of Syracuse, deeming

himself secure from the power of Carthage as well

as from domestic sedition, determined to turn his

arms against the Chalcidic cities of Sicily; and having

mada himself master of Naxos by the treachery of

their general Procles, he sold all the inhabitants as

slaves and destroyed both the walls and buildings of

the city, while he bestowed its territory upon the

neighbouring Siculi. (Diod. xiv. 14, 15, G6, 68.)

It is certain that Naxos never recovered this blow,

nor rose again to be a place of any consideration:

but it is not easy to trace precisely the events which

followed. It appears, however, that the Siculi, to

whom the Naxian territory was assigned, soon after

formed a new settlement on the hill called Mount

Taurus, which rises immediately above the site of

Naxus. and that this gradually grew up into a con­

siderable town, which assumed the name of Tauro-

men turn. (Diod. xiv. 58, 59.) This took place about

B.C. 396; and we find the Siculi still in possession

ef this stronghold some years later. (76.88.) Mean­

while the exiled and fugitive inhabitants of Naxos

and Catana formed, as usual in such cases, a con-

aiderable body, who as far as possible kept together.

An attempt was made in b. c. 394 by the Rhegians

to tettle them again in a body at Mylae, but without

success; for they were speedily expelled by the Mes-

unians, and from this time appear to have been

dispersed in various parts of Sicily. (Diod. xiv. 87.)

At length, in b. c. 358, Andromachus, the father of

the historian Timaeus, is said to have collected

t^fether again the Naxian exiles from all parts of

the island, and established them on the hill of Tau-

rumraiam, which thus rose to be a Greek city, and

became the successor of the ancient Naxos. (Diod.

xn. T.) Hence Pliny speaks of Tanromenium as

having been formerly called Naxos, an expression

which is not strictly correct. (Plin. iii. 8. s. 14.)

The fortunes of the new city, which quickly rose

to be a place of importance, are related in the

article TAt'KOMKSirM. The site of Naxos itself

awns to hare been never again inhabited; but the

altar and shrine of Apollo Arcbegetes continued to

mark the spot where it had stood, and are mentioned

in the war between Octavian and Sextus Pompey in

Sicily, b. c 36. (Appian, B. C. V. 109.)

There are no remains of the ancient city now

extant, but the site is clearly marked. It occupied

a low but rocky headland, now called the Capo di

Schisdy formed by an ancient stream of lava, im­

mediately to the N. of the Alcantara, one of the

most considerable streams in this part of Sicily. A

small bay to the N. affords good anchorage, and

separates it from the foot of the bold and lofty hill,

still occupied by the town of Taormtna; but the

situation was not one which enjoyed any peculiar

natural advantages.

The coins of Naxos, which are of fine workman­

ship, may almost all be referred to the period from

B.C. 460 to b.c. 403, which was probably the

most flourishing in the history of the city. [E. H. B.]

COHf OF NAXOS IJT SICILY.

NAXOS or NAXUS (Nci£oj, Suid. s. r.), a town of

Crete, according to the Scholiast {ad Pind. hth, vi.

107) celebrated for its whetstones. Hock (Kreta,

vol. i. p. 417) considers the existence of this city very

problematical. The islands Crete and Naxos were

famed for their whetstones (Plin. xxxvi. 22; comp,

xviii. 28), and hence the confusion. In Mr. Pashley's

map the site of Naxos is marked near Spina

Longa. [E. B. J.]

NAXOS orNAXUS(N#or: Eth.Vd^tos: Narta),

the largest and most fertile of theCyrlades, situated in

the middle of the Aegean sea, about halfway between

the coasts of Greece and those of Asia Minor. It

lies east of Paros, from which it is separated by a

channel about 6 miles wide. It is described by Pliny

(iv. 12. s. 22) as 75 Roman miles in circumference.

It is about 19 miles in length, and 15 in breadth in

its widest part. It bore several other names in an­

cient times. It was called Strongyle (Stpo^i'Atj)

from its round shape, Dionysias (aiowofus) from

its excellent wine and its consequent connection with

the worship of Dionysus, and the Smaller Sicily

(ptKpa SifccAfa) from the fertility of its soil (Flin.

iv. 12. s. 22: Diod. v. 50—52);* but the poets fre­

quently give it the name of Dia (&Ut\ comp. Ov.

Met. ii. 690, viii. 174.) It is said to have been

originally inhabited by Thracians, and then by Ca-

rians, and to have derived its name from Naxos, the

Carian chieftain. (Diod. v. 50, 51; Staph. P. *. r.

No^or.) In the historical ages it was colonised by

lonians from Attica (Herod, viii. 46), and in con­

sequence of its position, size, and fertility, it became

tho most powerful of the Cyclades. The govern­

ment of Naxos was orignally an oligarchy, but was

overthrown by Lygdamis, who made himself tyrant

of the island. (Aristot. op, Ath. viii. p. 348.)

Lygdamis, however, appears not to have retained his

power long, for we find him assisting Peisistratus in

his third restoration to Athens, and the latter in re­

turn subduing Naxos and committing the tyranny

to Lygdamis. (Herod, i. 61, 64; comp. Aristot.

Pol v. 5.) But new revolutions followed. The

D D 3

