770 ROMA. ROMA.

hill than the auguraculum, and probably near its

declivity. The building of it by Marius is testified

by Vitruvins (iii. 2, 5), and from an inscription

(Orelli, 543) it appears to hare been erected out of

the spoils of the Cimbric and Teutonic war. We

learn from Cicero that this was the temple in which

the first senatus consultum was made decreeing his

recall. (Sat 54, Plane. 32, de Div. i. 28.)

We have already had occasion to allude to the

temple erected by Augustus to Jupiteb Ton an s.

Like that of Fortune it must have stood on the SW.

height and near the top of the ascent by the Clivus,

as appears from the following story. Augustus

dreamt that the Capitoline Jove appeared to him

and complained that the new temple seduced away

his worshippers; to which having answered that

the Jupiter Tonans had been merely placed there

as his janitor or porter, he caused some bells to be

hung on the pediment of the latter temple in

token of its janitorial character. (Suet. Aug. 91.)

That the same emperor al>o erected a temple to

Mails Ultoii on the Capitoline, besides that in his

forum, seems very doubtful, and is testified only by

Dion Cassias (It. 10). Domitian, to commemorate

his preservation during the contest with theVitellians,

dedicated a saccllum toJlTPITEB Conservator, or

the Preserver, in the Velabrum, on the site of the

house of the aedituus, or sacristan, in which he had

taken refuge; and afterwards, when he had obtained

the purple, a large temple to Jititer Custos on the

Capitoline, in which he was represented in the bosom

of the god. (Tac. //. iii. 74; Suet. Dom. 5.) We

also hear of a temple of Beneficence (Zvffrytala)

erected by M. Aurelius. (Dion, lxxi. 34.)

But one of the most important temples on the

SW. summit or Arx was that of Juno Moneta,

erected, as we have said, in pursuance of a vow made

by Camillus on the spot where the house of M.

Man 1 ius Capitolinus had stood. (Liv. vii. 28.) The

name of Moneta. however, seems to have been con­

ferred upon the goddess some time after the dedica­

tion of the temple, since it was occasioned by a voice

heard from it after an earthquake, advising (monens)

that expiation should be made with a pregnant sow.

(Cic. de Dir. i. 45.) The temple was erected in b. c.

345. The Roman mint was subsequently established

in it. (Liv. vi. 20; cf. Soldae, Mor^ro.) It was

rebuilt n, c. 173. (Liv. xlii. 7.) Near it, as we

have before endeavoured to establish, must be placed

the temple of Concord erected by Camillus and re­

stored by Tiberius; as well as the other smaller

temple to the same deity, of no great renown, de­

dicated during the Second Punic War, b. c. 217.

(Liv. xxii. 33.)

Such were the principal temples which occupied

the summit of the Capitoline hill. Hut there were

also other smaller temples, besides a multitude of

statues, sacella, monuments, and offerings. Among

these was the temple of Ykjov is, which stood in the

place called " inter duos lucus" between the Capitol

and the Tarpeian height. An araJovn PisToRisand

aedea VknerisCalvak must also be reckoner! among

them. (Ovid. F. vi. 387; Lactant. i. 20.) Among

tlie statues may be mentioned those of the Koman

Kings in the temple of Fides (App. B. C. i. 16;

Dion, K)Ui.45), and on the lull the twocolossal statues

of Apollo and Jupiter. The former of these, which

w.ts 30 cubits high, was brought by M. Lucullus

from Apo!Ionia in 1'ontus. The Jupiter was made

by Sp. Carvilius out of the armour and helmets of

the conquered Samnitee, and was of such a size that

it could be seen from the temple of Jupiter LxLsre

on the Alban Mount (Plin. xxiiv. IS.) It t«U

be useless to run through tbe whole list of objects d

might be made out. It will suffice to ay tail 4

area Capitoliua was so crowded with the i

illustrious men that Augustus was compelled 1

move many of them into the Campus J

Cat 34.)

We know only of one profane buildup i

summit of the Capitoline hill—tbe Tabi i

record office. We cannot tell the exact t*.* ef I

original one; but it could not have stood

the Capitoline temple, since it appears lol

burnt down together with the Utter doriaf. i

wars of Sulla, Polybius (iii. 26)

earlier one, and its burning, alluded to by 4

(M D. iii. 30, pro Kubir. PtnL 3). seena to I

been effected bv a private band, like that F

Capitol itself. (Tac. Hist. iii. 72.) When r

Q. Lutatius Catulus it occupied a Urge part 1

eastern side of the depression between the t

mits of the Capitoline, behind the temple of C

and much of it still exists under tbe /toIaa»|

torio. In the time of Poggio it was

a salt warehouse, but the inscription

it was built by Catulus, at his own expense (4

was still legible, though nearly eaten away 1

saline moisture. (Dt Varitt Fort 14. L |

This inscription, which was extant in the 1

Xardini, is also given by him { Rom. .tnr. f

and by Gruter (clxx. 6; cf. (ML 31),wi

variations, and shows that the edifice, as

Catulus, must have lasted till the latcat

the Empire. It is often called •

authors. (LW. iii. 69 &c)

AKOH OF TABlUIUtTI.

We shall now proceed to rieaaVUi mmm\«

remarkable spots on the bill and its

And first of the Astxitc. Becker

assumes that it occupied the wbi *

the two summits, and that this

modern topographers has been called h?

classical name of fnterimontitm^

duos lucos." Bnt here his authorities do i

him out. Whether the whole of tlus

the original asylnm of Romulus, it

say; but it is quite certain thai that

asylum of later times. It would

description of Dionysias (ii. 15) that m -t> j

state (flr tots, it. t. A.) the gror* may haves

from one summit to tbe other; bat it £m

that it occupied the whole space. It n

for Becker to assume this, on account of 1

pretation of the passage in Tacitus

