826 ROMA. ROMA.

by the inscription of Ursus Togatus: tiiermis

TRAIANI THERMIS AURIPI'AK ET TITI, &C.

(Grater, dcxxxviL 1). The site of the baths of

Trajan, close to the church of S. Martina, may be

determined from another inscription found near that

church, in the pontificate of Paul IIL. which records

some improvements made in them; as well as from

a notice by Anastasius, in his Life of Symmachus

(p. 88, Blanch.), stating that the church alluded to

was erected "juxta Thermas Trajanas." It is a very

common opinion that the house of Maecenas occupied

part of the site of the baths of Titus, and this opinion

is as probable as any other. It was a very ljfty

building. Horace describes it as a " molern propin-

quain nubibus ard u is" (Od. Hi. 20. 10), and from its

situation and height must no doubt have commanded

a view of Tibur and its neighbourhood; though we

do not draw that conclusion from the immediately

preceding lines, where we think the far better reading

is, " Ct semper udmn Tibur," &c, the semper belong­

ing to u udum," and not to " conteuiplere " (cf. Tate's

Horace, I'reL Diss. p. 24). We have before related

how Nero beheld the fire of Koine from the house of

Maecenas. Suetonius, in his account of that scene,

calls the house M turris Maeeenatiana" (A'ero, 38),

by which, perhaps, we are not to understand a tower,

properly so called, but a lofty superstructure of several

stories over the lower part of the house (Becker,

Charikle*, i. p. 195). Maecenas bequeathed his

house and gardens to Augustus; and Tiberius lived

there after his return from Rhodes, and before he

succeeded to the empire (Suet. Tib. 15). The

subsequent history of the house is unknown; but, as

we have said, it may probably have been included in

the baths of Titus.

Close to the gardens of Maecenas lay the HOST]

L ami am (Philo Jud. vol. ii. p. 597, Mang.), belong­

ing perhaps, to the Aelius Lamia celebrated by Horace

(Od. i. 26, &c). We learn from Valerius Maxim us

(iv. 4. 8) that the ancient family of the Aelii dwelt

where the monument of Marius afterwards stixxl;

whence it seems probable that the Hortj Lamiani

may have lain to the E. of those of Maecenas, to­

ward* the church of 5. Bibtnna. It was here that

the body of Caligula was first hastily buried, which

was afterwards burnt and reinterred by his sisters

(Suet. Cal 59).

There appear to have been several more gardens

between the Porta Esqirilina and the molern I'orta

Afagghre; as the Hukti Pallantmni. founded ap­

parently by Pallas, the powerful freedman of Claudius

(Tac.^'fin.xi.29; Suet. Claud, 28; Plin. Ep. viii.G);

and which, from several passages of Front inus (Ay.

19, seq.). appear to have been situated between

/'. Afagt/iore, the Marian monument, and the church

of S. Jiibiono. Krontinus also mentions (A a. 68)

certain Horti Ei'ArintoDiTiAM. perhaps belonging

to Epaphroditus, the liberty of Nero, who assisted in

putting that em]>eror to death (Suet. Aer.49, l>otn.

14; Tac. Ann. xr. 55); as well as boom Hokti ToR-

QUATIAJn (c. 5). apparently in the same neighbour­

hood. The Campi s Vimin w.is BUB Aggkre of

the Xotitin was probably an exercise ground for the

Praetorian troops on the outside of the agger near

the Porta Viminalis. Hence the eastern ridge of

the Viminal and Esquiline beyond the Servian walls

must have been very open and airy.

The Esquiline derives more interest from its having

oeeii the residence ot several distinguished poets and

authors than the most splendid palaces could have

conferred upon it. Virgil dwelt upon the Esquiline,

close to the gardens of his j*vtron Maecroas. WW-Wf

Horace also had a house there cannot be wui: as

he was certainly a frequent guest ailh Macaw,

he loved to saunter on "the sonny *Rger." iai W

was at last buried close to the tomb of hit naaSaal

benefactor at the extremity of the hilL (Sott-TAr.

20.) Properties himself informs as that ha aaat

was on the Esquiline (hi. (iv.). i(3. 23); what*

dwelt the younger Phny. apparently is tht I

formerly belonging to the poet I'edo ,

(Plin. Ep. iii. 21; Mart. x. 19). lttprecaei

tion will be examined a littie farther oa.

treating of the Lacus UrpheL

The Esquiline and its neighbourhood ttj

contain many temples of note. That d

already mentioned, was the mcst imported I

the rest seem for the most part to hsTt -n c

remarkable f«.r antiquity loan for an <

W e have already adverted to the anaenl

mentioned here by Varro ( L. L. v. 49, stq.); I

Ltcrs and Sacelu.:m of JtprrtK FAor

the southern side of the Oppius; the Lcctil

LINUS, probably near the Esquiline gate; % 1

Poeteeus; a Luces Mefitis, with 1

near the Vicus Patricius (Kestus, *.».«

p. 351, Mull.); and a Luces of Jcso |

where, according to Pliny (xvi. 85), a 1

built to that goddess, B.C. 374; although ill

apjicar from Dionystus (iv. 15) that there 1

been one there previously in the time of i

lius. An inscription relating to this '<

found in 1770, in digging the fouDdatvaa

monastery dtlle Puollotte, in the road 1

rated the Oppius and C is pi us. We lear

{Fa$t. ii. 435) that the grove lay

Esquiline; but as it appears from Yam 1

temple stood on the Cispius, whiUt the:

the inscription in question was found oa tht t

the Oppius: it is probable that it may ]

down from the monastery of the FUtppimt <

opposite height (Nibby, Roma nelAmm 16

Lrlicbs, Ham. Top. p. 120; Canina, /■

The Sacellum ."-tkeniae, where the |

began, probably lay on the S. side of thai

near the Colosseum. It seems not imp

the Lucus Veneris Libitinae mij ■

situated on the Esquiline, on account ttf I

bourhood of the Campus Esquilinus . boll

no authorities by which its site can be 1

detennined. It was the great magazine I

paraphernalia (cf. Dionys. ir. 15; Festos. |

Vitudia, p. 265; Plut. <l R. 23). (

line were also Altars ok Mala Kob

Ferris, the latter close to the Marian 1

(Cic. AT. D. iii. 25; Plin. ii. 5; Val. Max a.I

We may likewise mention a Tfmimjj. or F«

Rhm-kjens (Plut. Fort. R.\0\at Fc

in the Vicus Sandaliarius (/nsrr. op. C/ror*. 1

p. 288; Plin. xxxvi. 46), and one of 1

Vicus Patricius, from which men 1

Q. H. 3). The Hjcrculrs Victor or 1

ScLLAXtja of the Xottiia was prrhanaas^ri

We shall close this list by mentioning 1

Spes Vetus, near the Horli Pm

times allAded to by Fmutinos; of I

probably in the Vicus Patricias; and rf I

Medica, commonly identified with tW 1

large circular building in a vineyard dr

Afaggiore. This building bare, in the t

the name of Is 6Wu£ze, whence Cardan i

that it was the place where the aaaaajaj

