A DICTIONARY

OF

GREEK AND ROMAN GEOGRAPHY,

IABADIUS.

IABA'DIUS CloSoSiou vriaot, PtoL vii. 2. § 29,

viii. 27. § 10), an island off the lower half of the

Golden Chersonesus. It is said by Ptolemy to mean

the " Island of Barley," to have been very fertile in

grain and gold, and to have had a metropolis called

Augvke. There can be little doubt that it is the same

as the present Java, which also signifies "barley."

Humboldt, on the other hand, considers it to be Su­

matra (Krititche VnUri. i. p. 64); and Mannert,

the small island of Banco, on the SE. side of Su­

matra. [V.]

JABBOK ('IoeoitKoj, Joseph.; 'lag&x, LXX.),

a stream on the east of Jordan, mentioned first in the

history of Jacob (Cat. xxxii. 22). It formed, ac­

cording to Josephus, the northern border of the

Amorites, whose country he describes as isolated by

the Jordan on the west, the Amon on the south, and

the Jabbok on the north. (.1 ut. iv. 5. § 2.) He

farther describes it as the division between the

dominions of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og,

whom he calls king of Galadene and Ganlouitis

(§ 3)—the Bashan of Scripture. In the division of

the land among the tribes, the river Jabbok was

assigned as the northern limit of Gad and Reuben.

(DcuL iii. 16.) To the north of the river, in the

country of Bashan, the half tribe of Manasseh had

their possession (13,14.) [Ammonitae ; Amorites.]

It is correctly placed by Eusebina (Onomast. t. v.)

between Ammon, or Philadelphia, and Gerasa (G'e-

rtuh); to which S. Jerome adds, with equal truth,

that'it is 4 miles from the latter. It flows into the

Jordan. It is now called El-Zerka, and "divides

the district of Moerad from the country called El-

Belia." (Burckhardt's Syria, p. 347.) It was

crossed in its upper part by Irby and Mangles, an

hour and twenty minutes (exactly 4 miles) SW. of

Gtratk, on their way to Et-Szalt. (Travels, p. 319,

comp. p. 475.) [G. W.]

JABKSH ('Iog«», LXX.; IdSnr, 'lagurvi, 'Io-

eVdi, Joseph.), a city of Gilead, the inhabitants of

which were exterminated, during the early times of

the Judges (see xx. 28), for not having joined in

the national league against the men of Gibeah (xxi.

9, &c). Three centuries later, it was besieged by the

Ammonite king, Nahash, when the hard terms offered

to the inhabitants by the invaders roused the indig­

nation of Saul, and resulted in the relief of the town

and the rout of the Ammonites. (1 Sum. xi.) It

was probably in requital for this deliverance that the

inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead, having heard of the

indignity offered to the bodies of Saul and his sons

VOL. IL

JACCETANI.

after the battle of Gilboa." arose, and went all night,

and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sous,

from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh and

burnt them there; and they took their bones and

buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven

days." (1 Sam. xxxi. 11 — 13; 2 Sam. ii. 4 — 7.)

It was situated, according to Eusebius, in the hills,

6 miles from Pella, on the road to Gerash ■ and its

site was marked in his time by a large village (s. w.

'AptawO and 'Id&f). The writer was unsuccessful in

his endeavours to recover its site in 1842; but a tra­

dition of the city is still retained in the name of the

valley that runs into the plain of the Jordan, one hour

and a quarter south of Wady Mus, in which Pella

is situated. This valley is still called Wady Yabtt,

and the ruins of the city doubtless exist, and will

probably be recovered in the mountains in the vicinity

of this valley. [G. W.]

JABNEH. [Iajisia.]

JACCA. [Jaccetani; Vascones.]

JACCETA'NI ('IoKKJTayof), the most important

of the small tribes at the S. foot of the Pyrenees, in

Hispania Tarraconensis, E. of the Vascones, and N.

of the Ilergetes. Their country, Jaccetania

('Iojckctwui), lay in the N. of Arragon, below the

central portion of the Pyrenaean chain, whence it

extended towards the Iberus as far as the neigh­

bourhood of Ilerda and Osca; and it formed a part

of the theatre of war in the contests between Ser-

torius and Pompey, and between Julius Caesar and

Pompey's legates, Afrnnius and Petrcius. (Strab.

iii. p. 161; Caes. B. C. i. 60: concerning the reading,

see Lacetani; Ptol. ii. 6. § 72.) None of their

cities were of any consequence. The capital, Jacca

(Jaca, in Biscaya), from which they derived their

name, belonged, in the time of Ptolemy, to the Vas­

cones, among whom indeed Pliny appears to include

the Jaccetani altogether (iii. 3. s. 4). Their other

cities, as enumerated by Ptolemy, and identified,

though with no great certainty, by 1,'kert (vol. ii.

pt, 1. p. 425), are the following: — Iespi'S ('Ifinrot,

Igualcda); Ceresus (Kiptah, S. Columba de Ce-

ralto); Anabis ('A»dSij, Tarrtaa); Bacasis

(BoKoals, Manresa, the district round which is Mill

called Jlaije*); Teix>bis (TrjAogfr, Marlorell);

Ascerris ('Aa/tippls, Sagami); Udura (06-

Sovpa, Curdojia); Lissa or Lesa (A-iinu, near Mtm-

reso); Setelsis (2«t«Ao-i'i < 2f Affair, SoUona);

Cinna (Kikvo, near Guisona), perhaps the same

place as the Scissum of Livy (xxi. 60, where the

MSS. have Scissis, Stissum, Sisa), and the Cissa of

