IDUNUM. 15 IERNE.

jnK usque ad Petram et Ailam (haec est posscssio

Esau) in specubus habitatiunculas habet; et propter

nimios calores solis, quia meridian:! provincia est,

subterraiieis tuguriis utitur." {Comment, in Obad.

tt. 5. 6.) And again, writing of the same country,

he says that south of Tekoa " ultra nnllus est viculus,

ne agrestes quidem casae et funiorum similes, quas

Afri appellant mapalia. Tanta est cremi vastitas,

quae u»que ad Mare Rubrum Peraarumquc et Aethio-

pum atque Indorum terminos dilatatur. Et quia

kumi ariiio atque arenoso nihil omnino frugum gig-

nitur, cuncta sunt plena pastoribus, ut sterilitatcm

terrae compenset pecorum mullitudiue." {Prolog.

nJAmamm.) [G. W.]

IDUXTJM, a town in the extreme south of Pan-

noiiia (Piol. ii. 14. § 3), which, from inscriptions

found on the spot, is identified with the modern

Judtuburg. [L. S.]

JEBUS. JEBUSI'TES. [Jerusalem.]

JEHOSHAPHAT, VALLEY OF. [Jeru­

salem.]

1EXA, in Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3.

§ 2) as an estuary between the outlets of the rivers

AbraTannus and Deva to the south of the promon­

tory of the Novantae (= Wigton Bay). [R. G. L.]

1EBABR1GA. [Arabkica.]

JERICHO (Upix<i, 'I'P'Xow, Strab.), a strongly

fortified city of the Canaanites, miraculously taken

by Joshua, who utterly destroyed it, and prohibited

it from being rebuilt under pain of an anathema

(■loth. ii. vi.), which was braved and incurred by

Hiel of Bethel, five centuries afterwards, in the reign

of Ahab, king of Israel. (1 Kings, xvi. 34.) It

then became a school of the prophets. (2 Kings, ii.

4, 5.) It lay in the border of Benjamin, to which

tribe it was assigned (Joth. xviii. 12, 21), but was

not far from the southern border* of Ephraim (xvi.

1). It is mentioned in the New Testament in con-

wction with the wealthy revenue-farmer Zacchaeus,

»bo resided there, and probably farmed the govern­

ment dues of its rich and well cultivated plain.

Josephus describes it as well situated, and fruitful

in palms and balsam. (Ant. iv. 8. § 1, B. J. i. 6.

§ 6.) He places the city 60 stadia from the Jor­

dan, 150 from Jerusalem (B. J. iv. 8. § 3), the

intervening country being a rocky desert. He ac­

counts for the narrow limits of the tribe of Benjamin

by the fact that Jericho was included in that tribe,

the fertility of which far surpassed the richest soil

in other parts of Palestine (§§ 21, 22). Its plain

vbs 70 stadia long by 20 wide, irrigated by the waters

of tbe fountain of Elisha, which possessed almost

miraculous properties. (Ant. iv. 8. §§ 2, 3.) It was

one of tbe eleven toparchies of Judaea. (B. J. iii. 2.)

Its palm grove was granted by Antony to Cleopatra

(i. 18. | 5). and the subsequent possession of this

envied district by Herod the Great, who first farmed

the revenues for Cleopatra, and then redeemed tbem

(Ant. xiv. 4. §§ 1, 2), probably gave occasion to

the proverbial use of his name in Horace (Ep. ii. 2.

184): —

"cessare et ludere et ungi,

Praeferat Herodis palmetis pinguibus."

It is mentioned by Strabo (xvi. p. 763) and Pliny

(v. 14) in connection with its palm-trees and foun­

tains. The former also alludes to the palace and

in garden of balsam, the cultivation and collecting

of which is more fully described by Pliny (xii. 25).

The palace was built by Herod the Great, as his

own residence, and there it was that he died;

having first confined in the hippodrome the most

illustrious men of the country, with the intention

that they should be massacred after his death, that

there might be a general mourning throughout

the country on that occurrence. (B. J. i. 33. § 6.)

Josepbus further mentions that Jericho was visited

by Vespasian shortly before he quitted the country,

where he left the tenth legion (B. J. iv. 8. § 1,9. § 1);

but he does not mention its destruction by Titus on

account of the perfidy of its inhabitants; a fact which

is supplied by Eusebius and St Jerome. They add

that a third city had been built in its stead; but that

the ruins of both the former were still to be seen.

(Onomatt. t. v.) The existing ruins can only be

referred to this latest city, which is frequently men­

tioned in the mediaeval pilgrimages. They stand

on the skirts of the mountain country that shuts in

the valley of the Jordan on the west, about three

hours distant from the river. They are very exten­

sive, but present nothing of interest. The waters of

the fountain of Elisha, now 'Ain es-Sultan, well

answer to the glowing description of Josepbus, and

still fertilise the soil in its immediate neighbourhood.

But the palms, balsam, sugar-canes, and roses, for

which this Paradise was formerly celebrated, have

all disappeared, and the modern Riha consists only

of the tents of a Bedouin encampment [G. W.]

IERNE, is a better form for the ancient name of

Ireland than Hibernia, Iberkia, Ivernia, &c,

both as being nearer the present Gaelic name Art,

and as being the oldest form which occurs. It is

the form found in Aristotle. It is also the form

found in the poem attributed to Orpheus on the

Argonautic expedition, which, spurious as it is, may

nevertheless be as old as the time of Onomacritus

(i. e. the reign of the first Darius): —

■—rfjaoiaiv *Upytffiv iaaov iKtafuu.

(Orpheus, 1164, ed. Leipzig, 1764.)

Aristotle (de Mundo, c. 3) writes, that in the ocean

beyond the Pillars of Hercules "are two islands,

called Britannic, very large, Albion and Ierne, be­

yond the Celtae." In Diodorus Siculus (v. 32) the

form is Iris; the island Iris being occupied by Britons,

who were cannibals. Strabo (ii. p. 107) makes

Ierne the farthest voyage northwards from Celtica.

It was too cold to be other than barely habitable, the

parts beyond it being absolutely uninhabited. The'

reported distance from Celtica is 500 stadia. The

same writer attributes cannibalism to the Irish;

adding, however, that his authority, which was pro­

bably the Bame as that of Diodorus, was insufficient

The form in Pomponius Mela is Iverna. In Iverna

the luxuriance of the herbage is so great as to cause

the cattle who feed on it to burst, nnless occasionally

taken off. Pliny's form is Hybernia (iv. 30). So-

linus, whose form is Hibernia, repeats the statement

of Mela as to the pastnre, and adds that no snakes

are found there. Warlike beyond the rest of her sex,

the Hibernian mother, on the birth of a male child,

places the first morsel of food in bis mouth with the

point of a sword (c. 22). Avienus, probably from

the similarity of the name to Upa, writes: —

"Ast in duobus in Sacram, sic insulam

Dixerc prisci, solibus cursus rata est

Haec inter undas multa eespitem jacit

Eamque late gens Hibernorum colit."

(Ora ManL 109—113.)

Avienus's authorities were Carthaginian. More im-

