1054 SVMAKTIIUS. SYCE.

as lie speaks of a Tillage of this name (ivKautvuv

iniA.is)on the cout between Ptolctna'is and Caesareia,

near Mount Carntel, called also Ilepha ('H<f>ct) in his

day. (Onomait. s. v. '\a<p€&.) Dr. Wilson, however,

thinks that the modern Haifa '* more probably oc­

cupies the site of the ' Mutatio Calamon,' given in

the Jerusalem Itinerary as 12 Roman miles from

Ptolemaif, while the ' Mansio Sicamenos' of the same

work was 3 miles farther on. Ruina have been dis­

covered along the shore, about 2 Roman miles to the

the W. of Haifa ; . . . these ruins may have been

those of Syeaminos." (Lands of' the Bible, vol. ii.

p. 241.) Haifa is a small walled town to the S. of

the Bay of Acre, at the northern base of the pro­

montory of Mount Cannel, distant about 10 miles

from Ptolemaia (Acre); a distance far too small to

Htiafy the statement of the Itinerary of Antoninus,

or even that of the Jerusalem Itinerary. But, not­

withstanding this, its identity with Syeamina seems

to be sufficiently established by the testimony of

Euscbius, joined to the historical fact recorded by

Joaephua, which better suits this than any other

place on the coast, being in fact the very place where

Ibrahim Pasha, when engaged in a similar enterprise

against Acre, landed some of his troops and concen­

trated his army, in 1831, preparatory to forming

the siege of the town. (Aldcrson, Note* on Acre,

pp. 23, 24.) [G. W.]

SYCE (SuVij), a town of Cilicia, which accord­

ing to the Ravenna Geographer, who calls it Sycae

(i. 17), was situated between Arsinoe and Celenderis.

(Athen. iii. 5; Steph. B. s. v. 2u*ai'.) Leake

(Asia Minor, p. 202) looks for its site near the

moder Kizliman. [L. S.]

SYCKON, a town of Galatia, situated at the

point where the river Siberis flowed into the

Sangarina, (Procop. tie Aed. v. 4: ViL Theod.

Syceotae, 2; Weasel, ad Bierod. p. 697.) [L. S.]

SYCU'RIUM, a town of Theaulj in the district

Pelasgiotis, at the foot of Mt. Ossa, which Leake

idi-uiities with Marmarianu (Lav. xhi. 54; Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. iii. p. 374.)

SYEBI MONTES (to. 2inj€a Uprj, PtoL vi 14.

§ 8). a mountain chain in Sevthia, running from

the Tapori mountains in a NE. direction towards

Imaua. [T. H. D.]

SYEDRA (2iJ*Spa: Eth. 2uefy«i>'s), a coast-town

in the west of Cilicia, between Coracesium and

Selinua (Strab, xiv. p. 669, when the common

but erroneous reading is Arsinoe; Steph. B. s. v.;

PtoL v. 8. § 1; HierocL p. 683; Lucati, viii. 259;

Klor. iv. 2.) It should, however, be observed that

Stephamu B. calls it a town of Iaauria, and that

Hierocles assigns it to Pamphylia. Beaufort

(Karamania, p. 178) observed some ruins on a

steep hill in that district, which he thinks may murk

the site of Syedra; and Mr. Hamilton, in his map

of Asia Minor, also marks the ruins of Sydre on

the same spot, a little to the south-cast of Alaya,

the ancient Coracesium. [L. S.]

SYENE (SvftffV, Herod, ii. 30; Strab. ii. p. 133,

xvii. p. 797, acq.; Steph. B. s. v.; PtoL vii. 5. §

15, viii. 15. § 15; 1'lin. ii. 73. a. 75, v. 10. s. 11,

vi. 29. s. 34; It. Ant. p. 164), the modern Assouan,

was the frontier town of Aegypt to the S. Syene

•tood upon a peninsula on the right bank of the

Nile, immediately below the Great Falls, which ex­

tend to it from Phi lee. It is supposed to have de­

rived its name from Suan, an Aegypt ian goddess,

the llithya of the Greeks, and of which the import

is "the opener;" and at S\eue Upper Aegypt was

in all ages, conceived to open or begia.

quarries of Syene were celebrated f«r tier

and especially for the marble called Zyende.

furnished the colossal statues, obelisks, ud

iithal shrines which are found throughout

and the traces of the quarrymen who

these 3000 years ago are still risible is the I

rock. They lie un either bank ut the Nik. i

road, 4 miles in length, was cut b*-<iie ti-ea

Syene to Philae. Syene was equally lm

military station and as a plait- "I t-ar: .

every dynasty it was a garrison town; aed ft

were levied toll and custom on all boats aw

southward and northward. The latitude of Sreai

24° 5' 23" — was an object of great interest*

ancient geographers. They believed that it i

seated immediately under the tropic, tatt

the day of the summer solstice a vertical staff t

no shadow, and the suns disc was reflected iaa<

at noonday. This statement U iadeed tnosn

the ancients were not acquainted with tat I

tropic: yet at the summer-sulst ice the lengthef

shadow, or Ti^th of the atari", could scareeiy be I

cemed, and the northern limb of the sunsdit***:

be nearly vertical. The Nile is neaxir *} **j m

wide above Syene. From this frontier tewa to

northern extremity of Aegypt it flows tor mm t!

750 miles without bar or cataract. Tfte «ajJ

from Syene to Alcxaudreia usually occupied few*

21 and 28 days in favourable weather. [W.BJ

SYGAMBKL [Sicambkl]

SYLIXA INSULA. [Shara.]

SYLUUM (SoAAiOK), a fortified un

Pamphylia, situated on a lofty height mtm

Aapendus and Side, and between the riven

don and Ce>trus, at a distance of 40 stadia

the coast. (Strab. xiv. p. 667; Amin, Am

25; Scylax, p. 40; PtoL v. 5. § 1; HwrorL p,

Polyb. sxii. 17; Steph. B. mention* ii

name iv\tiov, while in other passages it n

\aiov, SuAAoy, and Xt\ouov.) Sir C. Feiaiwa(J

Mimr, p. 200) thinks that the remains of at*

town which he found in a wood on the oate

rocky hill near Bolcascooe belong to the aad

SyIlium; but from his description they do not ^

to exist on a lofty height. [L ■

SYMAETHUS (iv/uutos: &wt>>, mm ef'

most considerable rivers of Sicily, which nan ii

chain of lions Nebrodes, in the great tare? I

called the Bosco di Car\mia, and flows from litem

a southerly direction, skirting the U*»* of Aer=a,

it turns to the K. and flows into the ten atai,

miles S. of Catania. In the lower part of *cso*

it formed the boundary between the terrifcwj

Leontini and that of Cat ana. (Thuc n 6S)

receives in its course many tributaries, of

most considerable are, tne Fiuate Saim,

from the neighbourhood of AVvm and

probably the Cyamosorus o:' Polyoma (L 9\

he describes as flowing near <-::... (O

and the ItUtaino, which rises in the

Asaro, the ancient Asaorus. This is und--al

str&im called in ancient times Chkyaas. Sk

of Byzantium apparently gives the nam* ef

to the upper part or main branch of the

itself, which flows under the walls of Ji

(Ailerno). This part of the river is stifl

the Simeto; but in the lower part of na

where it approaches the sea, it is now knawa

OiarrcUa. Such differences of name are c

in modern, as well as in ancient turn*. The!

