ROMA. ROMA.

■ ,• with Prrrbas which soon ensued, and after-

nrit Ibe still larger and more destructive ones

ivvl »ith tin Carthaginians, prevented the pro­

ps* "bits mijrbt hare been anticipated from these

ejinMp. The construction nf a second aqueduct,

> ten Vets*, in the censorship of Man. Curius

Miioa ud L. Papiriu Cursor, B. c 272, testifies,

••mr, that the population of the city most have

■mad to iacreue. In the year b. c. 220 we find

i aaa C. Flaoiinius constructing the Flaniinian

ii.« nil u the circus which bore his name.

:.•/',«! it; Paul Diac. p. 89.) But it was the

«vu>u (f the Romans in Lower Italy, in Sicily,

il linen, which first gave them a taste for archi-

siil ToeaiSceoce. The first basilica was erected

■■<■" ,r.the rear B. c 184, and was soon followed

din, u there will be occasion to relate when

r east to speak of the forum. But it was not till

11«n liter that the city was first paved by the

r> 4 tot own Q. Fulvius Flaccus and A. Post-

in Altau. They also paved the public high-

n, rdntracted numerous bridges, and made many

■r aprtait improvements, both in the city and

wrUmrheod. (Liv. xli. 27.) Yet, notwith-

ai:t( then additions to the public convenience

i 'twdooT, the private houses of the Romans

tr.oal, with few exceptions, to be poor and in-

►ewu down to the time of Sulla. The house

Ba < Irurios, on the Palatine, seems to have ex-

ad « of the earliest examples of elegant do-

a» architecture. (Cic. iU Off. i. 39.) This was

lai down by Scauras in order to enlarge his own

»- The latter seems subsequently to have come

'lipoaeanon of Clodius (Ascon. ad Cic. Mil

>) ki magnificence may be inferred from the

wwun that he gave 14,800,000 sesterces fur

'>»«u 130,000/. (Plin. xxxvi. 24. a. 2.) In-

L ■ •ttppraach the imperial times, the dwellings

"Wading Romans assume a scale of extraordinary

awe, as we see by Pliny'a description of that of

th« orator, who was censor in b. c. 92. It

oo the Palatine, and was remarkable for

T&eot lotus-trees, which I'liny had seen

■ .'nth, and which continued to flourish till

*■» destroyed in the fire of Nero. It was also  
wfaibtd by four columns of Hymettian marble,

w* «< that material erected in Rome. Yet even

•» orgaued by the house of Q. Catulus, the

■en t/ Uarius in the Cixnbrian war, which was

■a 11* Palatine ; and still more so by that of

™ui> on the Vim mat, a Roman knight, dis-

^ far hi. knowledge of civil law. (Plin.

') hi Linus Drusua, tribune of the people

'M. also possessed an elegant resilience, close

c 'CatiUa. After his death it came into the

■as of the wealthy M. Crasaus, of whom it

"tin by Cicero for about 30,000/. (ad Fam.

h «eos to have stood on the N. side of the

«, oe the declivity of the hill, not far from

"a Tat, so that it commanded a view of the

«=d CapKoL It was burnt down in the Clo-

■ti, sad a temple of Freedom erected on the

after the return of Cicero was restored

1 "ttilt at the public expense. (Cic. udAU.

I'm. v. 6.; VelL Pat. ii. 45; Dion Cass.

«• IT, mix. 11, 20; App. B. C. ii. 15, 8tc.)

s( Lepidus, consul in B. c 77, was also

**^* far Us magnificence, having not only  
c* hit even its thresholds, of solid Kumi-

•aAh. (Plin. xxxvi. 8.) The luxury of

• rraceoo, at Rome teems to have attained

its acme in those of Sallnst and Lucullus. The

distinguishing feature of the former, which lay on

the Quirinal, was its gardens (Horti Sallustiani),

which probably occupied the valley between the

Quirinal and Pincian, as well as part of the Utter

bill. (Becker, llandb. p. 583.) The house of Lu­

cullus, the conqueror of Mithridates and Tigranes,

was situated on the Pincian, and was also surrounded

with gardens of such remarkable beauty, that the

ilesiro of possessing them, which they awakened in

the breast of Messalina, caused the death of their

subsequent owner, P. Valerius Asiaticus. (Tac.

Ann. xi. 1; Dion Cass. lx. 31.) From this period

tbey formed one of the most splendid possessions of

the imperial family. (Plut LucalL 39.)

The ambitious designs entertained by the great

leaders of the expiring Republic led them to court

public favour by the foundation of public buildings

rather than to lay out their immense wealth in

adorning their own residences. The house inhabited

by Pompey in the Carinae was an hereditary one;

and though, after his triumph over Mithridates and

the pirates, he rebuilt it on a more splendid scale

and adorned it with the beaks of ships, yet it seems

even then to have keen far from one of the most

splendid in Rome. (Plut. romp. 40, seq.) On the

other hand, he consulted the taste and convenience

of the Romans by building a theatre, a curia, anil

several temples. In like manner Caesar, at the height

of his power, was content to reside in the ancient

Regia; though this indeed was a sort of official

residence which his office of Poutifcx Maximus com­

pelled him to adopt. (Suet Caa. 46.) But ho

formed, and partly executed, many magnificent de­

signs for the embellishment of the city, which his

short tenure of power prevented him from accom­

plishing. Among these were a theatre of unexampled

magnitude, to be hollowed out of the Tarpeian rock;

a temple of Mars, greater than any then existing;

the foundation of two large public libraries; the

construction of a new forum ; besides many other

important works, both at Rome and in the provinces.

(Snet. Cat*. 26, 44; App. B. C. ii. 102, &C.)

The firm and lengthened hold of power enjoyed by

Augustus, and the immense resources at his dis­

posal, enabled him not only to carry out several of

his uncle's plans, but also some new ones of his own;

so that his reign must be regarded as one of the most

important epochs in the history of the city. The

foundation of new temples and other public buildings

did not prevent him from repairing and embellishing

the ancient ones; and all bis designs were executed

with so much magnificence that be could boast in

his old age of having found Rome of brick and left

it of marble. (Suet. Aug. 28.) In these under­

takings he was assisted by the taste and munificence

of his son-in-law Agrippa, who first founded public

and gratuitous baths at Rome (Dion Cass. Mr. 29):

but as we shall have occasion to give aa account of

these works, as well as iif those executed by Pompey

and Caesar, in the topographical portion of this

article, it will not be necessary to enumerate them

here; and we shall proceed to describe the im­

portant municipal reforms introduced by Augustus,

especially his new division of the city into Vici and

Regions.

Region* of A uyustiu.—Although Rome bad long

outgrown its limits under Servius Tullius, yet the

municipal divisions of that monarch subsisted till

the time of Augustus, who made them his model,

I so far as the altered circumstances of the city would

3u

