VELLA. VELIA. 1267

palliation of the inhabitants of that city in order to

avoid falling under the Persian yoke, at the time of

the cononest of Ionia by Harpagus, n. c. 544. The

I'hocaean emigrants proceeded in a body to Corsica,

where they had already founded the colony of Alalia

about 20 years before; and in the first instance

established themselves in that island, but, having

provoked the enmity of the Tyrrhenians and Cartha­

ginians by their piracies, they sustained such severe

loss in a naval action with the combined fleets of

these two powers, that they found themselves com­

pelled to abandon tho colony. A part of the emi­

grants then repaired to Massilia (which was also a

I'hocaean colony), while the remainder, after a tem­

porary halt at Rhegium, proceeded to found the new

colony of Hyele or Velia on the coast of Lucania.

This is the account given by Herodotus (i. 164—

167), with which that cited by Strabo from An-

tiochus of Syracuse substantially agrees. (Strab.

ri. p. 254.) Later writers have somewhat con­

fused the narrative, and have represented the foun­

dation of Massilia and Velia as contemporaneous (Hy­

trin, op. A. GelL x. 16; Ammian. Marc. xv. 9. § 7);

but there is no doubt that the account above given is

tbe correct one. Scylux alone represents Velia as a

colony of Thurii. (Scyl. p. 4. § 12.) If this be not

altogether a mistake it must refer to the admission

at a later period of a body of fresh colonists from

that dty; but of this we find no trace in any other

author. The exact date of the foundation of Velia

cannot be determined, as we do not know how long

the Phocaeans remained in Corsica, but it may be

placed approximately at abont 540 n. c.

There is no doubt that the settlers at Velia, like

those of the sister colony of Massilia, followed the

example of their parent city, and devoted themselves

a*siduou>ly to the cultivation of commerce; nor that

the city itself quickly became a prosi*rous and flou­

rishing place. Tho great abundance of the silver

coins of Velia still in existence, and which arc found

throughout the S. of Italy, is in itself sufficient evi­

dence of this fact; while the circumstance that it

Lvcame the seat of a celebrated school of philosophy,

the leaders of which continued through successive

fenerations to reside at Velia, proves that it must

f^avc been a place of much intellectual refinement

and cultivation. But of its history we may be said

to know absolutely nothing. Strabo tells us that it

was remarkable for its good government, an advan-

t-ipe for which it was partly indebted to l'armenides,

who gave his fellow-citizens a code of laws which

t lie magistrates from year to year took an oath to

obey. (Smb. ri. p. 2.>4; Diog. Lacrt. ix. 3. § 23.)

Hut the obscure story concerning the death of Zeno,

the disciple of l'armenides, who was put to de.ith by

m tyrant named Nearchus or Diomedon, would seem

To ahow that it was not free from the same kind of

violent interruptions by the rise of despotisms as

wen common to most of the Greek cities, (I)iog.

I.jtMt- ix. 5; Cic. Tutc. ii. 22.) Strabo also tells us

that the Kleans came off victorious in a contest with

tiw Pcwidonians, but of the time and circumstances

iA this we are wholly ignorant; and he adds that

they maintained their ground against the l.ucanians

also. (Strab. lc) If this is correct they would

iiave been one of the few Greek cities which pre-

■.«-rved their national existence against those barba­

rians, but their name is not found in the scanty

historical notices that we possess of the wars be­

tween the Lucaniana and the cities of Magna

But the statement of Strabo is iu some

degree confirmed by the fact that Velia was certainly

admitted at an early period (though on what occa­

sion we know not) to the alliance of Rome, and

appears to have maintained very friendly relations

with that city. It was from thence, in common

with Neapolis, that the Romans habitually derived

the priestesses of Ceres, whose worship was of Greek

origin. (Cic.pro Balb. 24; Val. Max. i. 1. § I.)

Cicero speaks of Velia as a well-known instance of a

"foederata civitas," and we find it mentioned in the

Second Punic War as one of those which were bound

by treaty to contribute their quota of ships to tho

Roman fleet. (Cic. /. c.; Liv. xxvi. 39.) It even­

tually received tho Roman franchise, apparently in

virtue of the Lex Julia, B. c. 90. (Cic I. c.)

Under the Roman government Velia continued to be

a tolerably flourishing town, and seems to have been

from an early period noted for its mild and salu­

brious climate Thus we are told that P. Aemi-

lius was ordered to go there by his physicians for the

benefit of his health, and we find Horace making

inquiries about it as a substitute for liaiae. (Plut.

Aemil. 39; Hor. F.p. i. 15. I.) Cicero's friend Tre-

batius had a villa there, and the great orator him­

self repeatedly touched there on his voyages along

tho coast of Italy. (Cic. Verr. ii. 40, v. 17, ad

Fam. vii. 19, 20, ad A It. xvi. 6, 7.) It appears to

have been at this period still a place of some trade,

and Strabo tells us that tbe poverty of the soil com­

pelled the inhabitants to turn their attention to

maritime affairs and fisheries. (Strab. vi. p. 254.)

It is probable that the same cause had in early times

co-operated with the national disposition of the

I'hocaean settlers to direct their attention especially

to maritime commerce. We hear nothing more of

Velia under the Roman Empire. Its name is fonnd

in I'liny and Ptolemy, but not in the Itineraries,

which may, however, probably proceed from its se­

cluded position. It is mentioned in the Liber Colo-

niarum (p. 209) among the I'racl'ccturae of Lucania;

and its continued existence as a municipal town is

proved by inscriptions. (Mommsen, Inscrip. R. A*.

190, App. p. 2.) It became an episcopal see in the

early ages of Christianity, and still retained that

dignity as late as the time of Gregory the Great

(a. d. 599). It is probable that the final decay of

Velia, like that of Paestum, was owing to the ravages

of the Saracens in the 8th and 9th centuries. The

bishopric was united with that of Capacciii, which

had succeeded to that of Paestum. (Mtinter, Ve/ia,

pp. 69—73.) During the middle ages there grew

up on the spot a fortress which was called VaslelC a

Mure delln lirucca, and which still serves to mark

the site of the ancient city.

The ruins of Velia are situated on a low ridge of

hill, which rises about a mile and a half from the

mouth of the river Alento (the ancient Hales), and

half a mile from the coast, which here forms a

shallow but spacious lay, between the headland

formed by the Monte delta Stella and tbe rocky

point of rurticrllo near Atcea. Tho mediaeval

castle and village of CastelT a Mart della Bntcca

occupy the point of this hill nearest the sea. The

outline of the ancient walls may be traced at inter­

vals round the hill for their whole extent. Their cir­

cuit is not above two miles, and it is most likely that

this was the old city or acropolis, and that in the

days of its prosperity it had considerable suburbs,

especially in the direction of its port. It is probable

that this was an artificial basin, like that of Meta-

pontum, and its site is in all probability marked by

* 4 M 2

