DTTEROCREA. IOL. 59

i. 163) laid open the W. const of this sea. During

the period of the Roman Universal Empire, the

Mediterranean was the lake of the imperial city.

Som after the conclusion of the First Mithridatic

War, piracy, which has always existed from the car-

lot periods cf history to the present day in the

(Irtcian waters, was carried on systematically by

large armies and fleets, the strongholds of which

*rrc Cilicia and Crete. From these stations the  
pirates directed their expeditions over the greater

fnrt vi the Mediterranean. (Appian, Bell. Mithr.

92: Pint. Pomp. 24.) Piracy, crushed by Pom-

peias, was never afterwards carried on so extensively

i> to merit a place in history, but was not entirely

extirpated even by the fleet which the Roman em-

pemre maintained in the East, and that cases still

oE-earfcd is proved by inscriptions. (Bockh, Corp.

Inner. Graec. nn. 2335, 2347.) The Romans

de»pi$ed all trade, and the Greeks, from the time of

Hadrian, their great patron, till the extinction of the

Koman power in the East, possessed the largest

thare of the commerce of the Mediterranean. Even

after the Moslem conquests, the Arabs, in spite of

the Virions expeditions winch ther fitted out to

attack Constantinople, never succeeded in forming a

maritime power; and their naval strength declined

with the numbers and wealth of their Christian

■objects, until it dwindled into a few piratical

Kjaadrons. The emperors of Constantinople really

remained masters of the sea. On all points con­

nected with this sea. see Admiral Smyth, The Me-

dkerraitean. London, 1854. [E. B. J.]

IXTKROCKEA (Trr«po*cpe'a, Strab.), a email

ti.ti-n or village of the Sabines, between Amitemum

ind Ifcate. It was placed on the Via Salaria, at the

junction of its two branches, one of which led east­

ward* to Amiterntiin, the other, and principal one,

up tlie valley of the Velinus, to Asculum. It is now

failed Antrodwo, and is a position of great military

importance, from its commanding the entrance to the

two raises just mentioned, which must in all ages

lure furmed two of the principal lines of communi­

cation across the Apennines. It seems, however, to

hare been in ancient times but a small place: Strabo

calls it a village; and its name is otherwise found

<«ry in the Itineraries, which place it at 14 M. P.

from Beate, a distance that coincides with the position

cf Antrodooo. (Strab. v. p. 228; Itin. Ant. p. 307;

Tab. Peut.) Its ancient name is evidently derived

nvm ha position in a deep valley between rugged

iiwmrains ; for we learn from Festus (p. 181, ed.

MijlL) that Ocris was an ancient word for a moun­

tain and it is interesting to find this form still

preserved in thi» name of the Montagne di Ocra,

a lefty and nigged group of the Apennines, near

Arpuia. (Zannoni, Carta del Regno di Napoli,

3. fol.) [E. II. B.]

INTERPROMIUM, a village of the Marrucini,

fjrmrng a station on the Via Claudia Valeria be­

tween Corfiniam and Teatc. It is repeatedly men­

tioned in the Itineraries, but the distances are

nrioosly given. {Itin.Ant.pp. 102.310; Tub.Peut.)

The line of the ancient highroad is, however, well

ascertained, and the position of Interpromium is fixed

W am-ient remains, as well as mediaeval records, at

a place on the right bank of the Aternus, just

t*l'.w the narrow gorge through which that river

ftW* below Popoti. The site is now marked only

by a tavern called the Osteria di S. Valentino, from

thehttte town of that name on the hill above; it is

**tant 12 Roman miles from Corfininm (S. Pellino),

and 13 from Teate (Chieti), or 21 from Pescant,

at the mouth of the Aternus. (Holsten. Not. ud

Cluv. p. 143; D'Anville, Analyse de Vltalie, p. 178;

Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 117.) An inscription also

mentions Interpromium under the name of Pagus

lnterprominus (Orell. Inscr. 144; Romanelli, l.c.)\

it is called "Interpromium vicus " in the Itineiary

of Antoninus (p. 102). and was evidently a mere

village, probably a dependency of Teate, [E.H.B.]

JKTI'BILI. 1. [Edetaki.] 2. A town of

Hispania Uaetica, near Illiturgis, the scene of a

battle rained by the Romans over the Carthaginians

in the Second Punic War. (Liv. xxiii. 49; Fron-

tin. Stratag. iii. 3.) [P. S.]

INUI CASTRUM. ["Castrl-m I»ox]

INYCUM or INYCUS Clrvicov, Steph. B., but

Tl'lvuKotj Herod.: Kth. 'XvvKivos), a town of Sicily,

situated in the SW. of the island, on the river

Hypsas. It is principally known from its connection

with the mythical legends concerning Minos and

Daedalus; the capital of the Sicanian prince Cocalus,

who afforded a shelter to the fugitive Daedalus

against the Cretan monarch, being placed by some

writers at Inycum, and by others at Camicus. (Paus.

vii. 4. § 6; Charax, ap. Steph. B. v. KafuK6sJ) It

is mentioned in historical times by Herodotus as the

place of confinement to which Scythes, the ruler of

Zanclc, was sent by Hippocrates, who had taken

him prisoner. (Herod, vi. 23, 24.) Aelian, who

copies the narrative of Herodotus, represents Scythes

as a native of Inycum; but this is probably a mis­

take. (Ael. V. II. viii. 17.) Plato speaks of Inycum

as still in existence in his time, but quite a small

place (x«pio" wdVu o-fwtp6v); notwithstanding

which he makes the sophist Hippias boast that he

had derived from it a sum of 20 minae. (Plat.

Hipp, M. p. 282, e.) It is evident that it always

con tinned to be an inconsiderable place, and was

probably a mere dependency of Selinus. Hence we

never again meet with its name, though Stephamis

tells us that this was still preterved on account of

the excellence of its wine. (Steph. B. $. v. "Ivvkov;

Hesych. a. r.) Vibius Sequester is the only author

that affords any cluo to its position, by telling us

that the river Hypsas (the modem Belici) flowed by

it (Vib. Sequest. p. 12, according to Clover's cmen

dation); but further than this its site cannot be

determined. [E. H. B.]

IOBACCHI. [Marmarica.]

IOL, afterwards CAESARE'A (*Iw\ Katff&ptia,

Ptol. ii 4. § 5; r} Kaiodptta, Strab., &c), ori­

ginally an obscure Phoenician settlement on the N.

coast of Africa, became afterwards famous as the

capital of Bocchus and of Juba II. [Mauritania.]

The latter king enlarged and adorned the city, and

gave it the name of Caesarea, in honour of his

patron Augustus. Under the Romans it gave its

name to the province of Mauretania Caesariensis, of

which it was the capital. It was made a colony by

the emperor Claudius. Under Valens it was burnt

by the Moors; but it was again restored; and in

the 6th century it was a populous and flourishing

city. It occupied a favourable position midway be­

tween Carthage and the Straits, and was conveniently

situated with refe.ence to Spain, the Balearic islands,

and Sardinia; and it had a natural harbour, pro­

tected by a small island. To the E. of the city

stood the royal mausoleum. (Strab, xvii. p. 831;

Dion Cass. Ix. 9; Mela, i. 6. § 1; Plin. v. 2. s. 1;

Eutrop. vii. 5 ; Itin. Ant. pp. 5, 15, 25, 31; Oros.

vii. 33; Ammian. xxix. 5; Procop. B. Yand. ii. 5.)

