LONGUM PROMONTORIUM. 205 I.OTOPHAGI

LOXGUM PROMONTORIUM. [Sicilia.]

LOXGUS, in North Britain, mentioned by Pto­

lemy (ii. 3) as a river to the north of the Epi-

diau Promontory (Mull of Cantyre). Identities

in the iionumtnta Britanniea with Lynntltch,

lnerloehy, and Loch Melfort. [R. G. L.]

LOPADUSSA (AoToSuOo-tro, Strab. xvii. p. 834;

AoroSoiwii, Ptol. iv. 3. § 34: Lampedusa), a small

island off the E. coast of Africa Propria, opposite to

the town of Thapsus, at the distance of 80 stadia,

according to an ancient Periplus (Iriarte, Bibl. MatriL

Cod. Grate, p. 488). Pliny places it about 50 M. P.

N. of Cercina, and makes its length about 6 M. P.

(Plin. iii. 8. s 14, v. 7. s. 7.) It really lies about

60 English miles E. of Thapsus, and about 90 NE.

ofCerrina. [P. S.]

L0PH1S. [Boeotia, p. 413, a.]

LOPOSAGIUM, in Gallia, is placed by the Table

between Vesontio (Besaneon) and Epamanduodui urn

(Uandeure). It is xiii. leagues from Vesontio. D'An-

rille supposes tliat it may be a place called Baumes-

fet-.Vones: others guess Bauntes-les-Dames, or a

place near it named Luciol or Luriol. [G. L.]

LOPSICA (AA|«*a), a town of Libumia, which

Ptolemy (ii. 16. § 2; comp. Plin. iii. 25) places

near the mouth of the river Tedanius (Zermagna):

perhaps the same place as the Ostki.a of the

Geosrapher of Ravenna. [E. B. J.]

LO'KIUM, or LAU'RIUM, a village in Southern

Etmria and station on the Via Aurelia, 12 miles

fr.m Rome. (/tin. Ant. p. 290; Tab. Peut.) It

ii chiefly known from the circumstance that the

£mily of Antoninus Pius had a villa there, in which

that emperur was brought up, and where he after­

wards constructed a palace or villa on a more mag­

nificent scale, which was his place of residence at

the time of his death. (Jul. Capit. Ant. P. 12;

Vict, it Cats. 15, Epit. 15; Eutrop viii. 8.) It

wa» afterwards a favourite place of resort with his

successor M. Aurelius, as we learn from his letters

toFronto (Pronto, Ep. ii. 18, iii. 20, vi. 3, &c);

hot had already fallen into decay in the time

of Capitolinus, who speaks only of its ruins No

other mention of Laurium occurs except in the

Itineraries, by which we are enabled to fix its

pRitiffl with certainty. The 12th mile from Rome

opacities with a bridge over a small stream between

> farm called Botlaccia and the Caitel di Guido:

here the remains of ancient buildings and sepulchres

hire been found; and on the high ground above are

the rains of an edifice of a more extensive and

Mcoptooos character, which, from the style of

construction, may probably have belonged to the

vilia of the Antonines. (Nibby, vol. ii. p. 271.)

The name is variously written Lorium, Lorii, and

Uiriam, but the first form, which is that adopted

in tie epistles of pronto and M. Aurelius, is the

heit warranted. The place appears to have con­

tinued to be inhabited during the early ages of

C'brUlianity, and we even meet with a bishop of

Lflriam in the 5th century. [E. H. B.]

L0 BY MA (tA Aipvua), a small fortified place

with a port, close to Cape Cynossema, on the westeru-

mo»t point of the Khodian Chersonesus, in Caria.

Iti harbour was about 20 Roman miles distant from

Baodra. (Lir. xxxvii. 17, xlv. 10; Steph. B.

«.r.; Plin. r. 29 j Ptol. v. 2. § 11; Thncyd. viii.

41; Senec (juaesL fi'at. iii. 19 ; Appian, Bell. Civ

f. 72.) Strabo (xiv. p. 652) applies the name

l*rrroa to the whole of the rocky district, without

Eoiiuoing the town. The Larumna of Mela (i.

16) and the Lorimna of the Tab. Peut. perhaps

refer to Loryma, although it is also possible that

they may be identical with a place called La-

rynina mentioned by Pliny in the same district.

Leake (Aria Minor, p. 223) regards the ruins in

the west of Port Aplotheca as belonging to the an­

cient town of Loryma. These ruins are seen on the

spur of a hill at the south-western entrance of the

port; the town was long and narrow, running from

west to cast; on each of its long sides there are still

visible six or seven square towers, and one large

round one at each end : the round tower at the east

end is completely demolished. The walls are pre­

served almost to their entire height, and built in the

best style, of large square blocks of limestone. To­

wards the harbour, in the north, the town had no

gate, and on the south side alone there appear three

rather narrow entrances. In the interior no remains

of buildings are discernible, tho ground consisting of

the bare rock, whence it is evident that the place

was not a town, but only a fort. Sculptures and in­

scriptions have not been found either within or

outside the fort, but several tombs with bare stelae,

and some ruins, exist in the valley at the head of

the harbour. (Ross, Reisen auf den O'riech. Inseln,

vol. iv. pp. 46. &c.) [L. S.]

LORNE, a fortress in Mesopotamia, situated on

the northern frontier, upon Mount Izala. (Amm.

Marc. xix. 9.)

LOSA, a station in Gallia Aquitania. placed by

the Antonine ltin. on the road from Pompelo (Pam-

pelona) in Spain to Burdigala (Bordeaux). From

Segosa (Escousse or Escoursc) to Losa is xii.

(leagues), from Losa to Boii [Bon] xii., and from

Boii to Burdigala xvi. D'Anville conjectures Losa

to be at a little canton, as lie calls it, named Leche.

Walckenaer fixes it at IheBoisde Licogas. [G. L.]

LOSO'HIUM (Aotrdpioy), a fortress in Lazica,

built by Justinian (Procop. de Atd. iii. 7), which

Dubois de Montpereux ( Voyage Autour du Caucase,

vol. ii. p. 360) identifies with the modern village of

Loussiatklteri. [E. B. J.]

LOSSONUS. |"Ot>oosotw.]

LOTO'PHAGl (AuTotpdyot, i. e. lotus-eaters), a

people on the N. coast of Africa, between the Syrtes,

who first appear in mythical, but afterwards in his-

j torical geography. Homer (Od. ix. 84, et seqq.)

J represents Ulysses as coming, in his wanderings, to

the coast of the Lotophagi, who compassed the

destruction of his companions by giving them the

lotus to eat. Por whoever of them ate the sweet

, fruit of the lotus, lost all wish to return to his

native country, but desired to remain- there with the

i Lotophagi, feeding on the lotus, and forgetful of

return. (The poetical idea is exquisitely wrought

out by Tennyson in his Lotos-Eaters, works, vol. i.

I pp. 175—184.) The Greeks of the historical

period identified the country of these Lotus-eaters

with the coast between the Syrtes, where they found

an indigenous tribe, who used to a great extent

(Herodotus says, as their sole article of food) the

fruit of a plant, which they therefore supposed to be

the lotus of Homer. To this day, the aboriginal

inhabitants who live in caves along the same

coasts eat the fruit of the plant, which is doubtless

the lotus of the ancients, and drink a wine made

from its juice, as the ancient Lotophagi also did

(Herod, iv. 177). This plant, the /.izyphus iMus

or Rhamnus Lotus (jujube tree) of the botanists

(called by the Arabs Seedra), is a prickly branching

shrub, bearing fruit of the size of a wild plum, of a

