223 LYCUS. LYDIA.

Wolf-river is plainly identical with the Dog-river of

the present clay (XaAr-el-Kelb), about 2 hour* nortli

of Beyrnt; which derives its name, says Maundrell,

from an idol in the form of a dog or wolf, which was

worshipped, and is said to have pronounced oracles,

at this place. It is remarkable lor an ancient via­

duct cut in the face of a rocky promontory imme­

diately on the south of the stream, the work of

Antoninus Pius, as a Latin inscription, copied by

Maundrell, and still legible, records (Jourmy. March

17, pp. 35—37). Cuneiform inscriptions and figures

resembling those found at Behiitun [Hauistam's

Moss] would seem to indicate that the Roman em­

peror did but repair the work cf some Persian king.

There are casts of the inscriptions and figures in

the British Museum. [G. \V. |

LYCUS (Ai/kos), a river of Sarmat ia, w hich flows

through the country of the Thyssagetae, nnd dis­

charges itself into the Pains Maeotis. (Herod, iv.

1*24.) Herodotus was so much in error about the

position of the Maeotis, that it is difficult to make

out his geography here. The Lycus has been iden­

tified with the Lauois of Pliny (vi. 7), or the

r.ppcr course of the Volija. (Comp. Shafarik, Slav.

All. vol. i. p. 499.) Iicnnell (Ueog. of Herod, vol.

i. p. 119) supposes it may l»e the Mrdiwlitza.

It must be distinguished from the Lycus of Ptolemy

(iii. 5. § 13), which is the modern Knlmiiu. (Scha-

farik, I c.) [K. B. J.]

LYCUS (Awror, Ptol. t. 14. § 2), a river of

Cyprus. W. of Anialhus. At a little distance inland

from Capo drlle Oatte [Cukias] are some salt

marshes, which receive an arm of a river correspond­

ing with the Lycus of Ptolemy. (Kngel, A'>//>ra>,

vol. i. 37.) [E.B. J.]

LYDDA. [Diosrous.]

LY'DI A(AvSia: Etk. AoSor. Lvdus), a country in

the western part of Asia Minor. Its boundaries

varied at different times. Originally it was a small

kingdom iu the east of the Ionian colonies; but

during the period of the Persian dominion it ex-

tended to the south as far as the river Mueandcr,

and, perhaps, even to Mount Messogis, whence some

writers speak of the Carian towns of Aromata,

Tralles, Nysa, and Magnesia on the Maeander, as

I.vdian towns, ami Strabo (xii. p. 577) mentions

the Maeander as the frontier between Lydia and

Caria. To the east it extended as far as the river

Lycus, so as to embrace a portion of Phrygia. In

the time of Croesus, the kingdom of Lydia embraced

the whole of Asia Minor between the Aegean and

the river Halys, with the exception of Cilicia and

Lycia. The limits of Lydia during the Koman

period are more definitely fixed; for it bordered in

the north on Mysia, from which it was separated

near the coast by the river Hermus. and in the

inland parts by the range of Mount Temuus; to the

east it bordered on Phrygia, and to the south on

Caria, from which it was separated by Mount Mes­

sogis. To the west it was washed by the Aegean

(Plin. v. 30; Strab. L p. 58, ii. p. 130, xii.

pp. 572, 577, fee), whence it is evident that item-

braced the modern province of Saruk/tnn and the

northern part of Sigkla. This extent of country,

however, includes alvj Ionia, or the coast country

between the mouth of the lleruius and that of the

Maeander, which was, properly speaking, no part of

Lydia. [Ionia.]

1. Physical Feature* of Lydia.—In the southern

and western juris Lydia was a monntainonv country,

Leing bounded on the south by the Mmujoota, and

traversed by the range of Tmoli-", which race

parallel to it, and includes the valley of the Cay-

strus. In the western [arts we have, as continua­

tions of Tmnlus, Mounts Dracob and OLrMif»

iu the north of which 'rises Mount SlPTLL's. 11*

extensive plains and valleys between these heigh'*

are traversed in a western direction by tlie river*

Caystris and Hkiuus, and their numerous tri­

butaries. The whole country was one of the meat

fertile in the world, even the sides of the moantame

admitting of cultivation ; ita climate was nuld aud

healthy, though the country has at all times been

visited by severe earthquakes. (Xenoph. Cyr"p.

vi. 2. § 21; Strab. L p 58.) Its most important

productions were an excellent kind of wine, saffron,

and gold. The accounts of the ancients alsot tbe

quantity of gold found in Lydia, from which Crue-

sus was believed to have derived his wealth, are no

doubt exaggerated, for iu later times the sand raT

the river Paclolus contained no gold at all, a:id tLe

proceeds of the gold mines of Mount Tnmlus were

so small as scarcely to pay for the labour of working

them. (Strab. xiii. p. 591.) The plains about

the Hermus and Caystrus were the most tntiia

parts of the country, if we except the coast diatnrta

of Ionia. The most celebrated of these plains atsi

valleys bore distinct names, as ;he Ciibiaxia*, Use

Cayhtkian, the Hykcamax; and the Catack-

cai'MKSK in the northeast. Some of these plana

also contained lakes of considerable extent, the moat

important of which are the Gyuaka Lacra, on

the north of the Hermits, and some smaller ones in

the neighbourhood of L'phesus, which were parti­

cularly rich in fish. The capital of the country at

all times was Sunny.

2. Xantes and InitabitanU of the Country. — la

the Homeric ps-ms the names Lycia and Lyciane 0*

not occur; but the people dwelling about Mount Ttrsdna

and Lake Gygaea, that is the country afterwards ralint

Lydia, bear the name Meones or Maeones (Mijurei,//.

ii. 865, v. 43, x. 431), and are allied with the Tro­

jans. The earliest author who mentions tbc name

Lydians is the lyric poet Mitnncnnus (Fragm. 14.

ed. Bergk), whose native city of Colophon was con­

quered by the Lydians. Herodotus (i. 7) state*

that the people originally railed Meones aftenrarda

adopted the name of Lydians, from Lvdus the sod of

Atys; and he accordingly regard* Lydians and

Meonians as the same people. But some of ti.e

ancients, as we learn from Strabo (xii. p 572. an.

p. 679), considered them as two distinct races, — a#

view which is unquestionably the correct ire. ar>l

has been adopted in modern times by Niebuhr and

other inquirers. A change of name like that of

Maconians into Lydians alone suggests the idea i«f

the former people being either subdued or eipr.W

by the latter. When once the name Lydians had

been established, it was applied indiscriminately to

the nation that had been conquered by tbem at wssl

as to the conquerors, and hence it happens that later

writers use the name Lydians even when speak nag

of a time when there were no Lydians in the ceaszt-

try, but only Maconians. We shall first rndearmr

to show who the Maconians were, and then prw«t4

to the more difficult question about the I.ydiane a d

the time when they conquered the Mneoiiiatu. 1 !»•

Maconians unquestionably belonged to the lr»v-

Eurupran stock of nations, or that branch of thra

which at generally called Tyrrhenian or Prbvcaa,

for these latter "inliabited Lesbos before the tirrvea

took possession of Uiose islands (Slrab. v. p. S31,

