SYRACUSAE. SYRACUSAE. 1063

'r the purpose of facilitating the communication

nth "toe outer city," as that on the mainland was

Ken railed. At a later period it was again severed

ram the land, probably by the elder Dionysius, when

ie constructed his great docks in the two ports.

It was, however, undoubtedly always connected with

tie mainland by a bridge, or series of bridges, as it

i »t the present day. The citadel or castle, con­

tacted by Dionysius, stood within the island, but

^mediately fronting the mainland, and closely ad-

uaing the docks or navalia in the Lesser Port.

:* front towards the mainland, which appear? to

are been strongly fortitied, was known as the Pen-

apyla (v« wtrrdwuXa, Plut. JHon. 29); and this

kids to hare looked directly upon the Agora or

"rum, which we know to have been situated on the

inland. It is therefore clear that the citadel must

nve occupied nearly the same position with the

..•jdern fortifications which form the defence of Sy-

mne on the land side. These were constructed

i the reign of Charles V., when the isthmus by

rhkh Ortygia had been reunited to the mainland

-i cut through, as well as a Roman aqueduct de­  
igned to supply this quarter of the city with water,

i utracted, as it appeared from an inscription, by

lie emperor Claudius. (Fazell. Sic. iv. i. p. 169 )

Ortygia was considered from an early time as

^serrated to Artemis or Diana (Diod. v. 3),

!*Tire Pindar terms it "the couch of Artemis,"

id "the sister of Delos" (hiuviov 'AprtfuBos,

t.-Ui U maakyv6.ro., A em. L 3). Hence, as we learn

>«n Cicero (J. c), one of the principal edifices in

> island was a temple of Diana. Some remains

T this are supposed to be still extant in the NK.

rner of the modern city, where two columns, with

{(Ttiou of their architrave, of the Doric order, are

Mill into the walls of a private house. From the

and character of these it is evident that the

iJice was one of very remote antiquity. Much

;«t# considerable remains are extant of the other

■n:p]i\ ni diced by the orator in the same passage—

u: uf Minerva. This was one of the most mag-

ifecent in Sicily. Its doors, composed of gold and

ary, and conspicuous for their beautiful workman-

up, were celebrated throughout the Grecian world:

Ue the interior was adorned with numerous paint-

r*. among which a series representing one of the

itti» of Agathocles was especially celebrated. All

*•* works of art, which had been spared by the  
tv-r«jtv of Marccllus, were carried off by the in-

ttaole Verres- (Cic. Verr. iv. 55, 56.) On the

uanrit of the temple was a shield, which served as

U-'klinark to sailors quitting or approaching the

Tt. (Polemon, ap. A then. xi. p. 462.) There

li be no doubt that this temple, which must have

ood en the highest point of the island, is the same

: u l has been converted into the modern cathedral

- church of Sia Maria delle Colonne. The co-  
r:;n» <«" the sides, fourteen in number, are still per-

■t, though built into the walls of the church; but

firtico and Jaqade were destroyed by an earth-

take. It was of the Doric order, and its dimcn-

cs (185 feet in length by 75 in breadth), which

arty approach those <if the great temple of Nep-

ii * at Paestum, show that it must have belonged

LSe first class of ancient edifices of this deserip-

au. The style of the architectural details and

^-portions of the columns would render it probable

Bit temple may be referred to the sixth cen-

rr n, c, that confirming an incidental notice of

isdantt (viii. Fr. 9), from which it would ap­

pear that it was built under the government of the

Geomori, and therefore certainly prior to the des­

potism of Gelon. No other ancient remains are now

extant in the island of Ortygia; but the celebrated

fountain of Arethusa is still visible, as described by

Cicero, near the son them extremity of the island, on

its western shore. It is still a very copious source,

but scarcely answering to the accounts of its mag­

nitude in ancient times; and it is probable that it

has been disturbed and its supply diminished by

earthquakes, which have repeatedly afflicted the

modern town of Syracuse.

At the extreme point of the island, and outside

the ancient walls, probably on the spot where the

castle built by John Maniacea now stands, was situ­

ated a temple of the Olympian Juno, with an altar

from which it was the custom for departing sailors

to take a cup with certain offerings, which they flung

into the sea when they lost sight of the shield on the

temple of Minerva (Polemon, ap. Athen. lc). Of

the other edifices in the island the most remarkable

were the Hexecontaclinus (oTa-or 6 *E(i}KOKTcUAtFor

Ka\ovfi€vos. Diod. xvi. 86), built, or at least finished,

by Agathocles, but the purpose and nature of which

are uncertain ; the public granaries, a building of so

massive and lofty a construction as to serve the pur­

poses of a fortress (Lir. xxiv. 21); and the palace

of king Hieron, which was afterwards made the resi­

dence of the Roman praetors (Cic. Verr. iv. 52).

The site of this is uncertain: the palace of Diony­

sius, which had been situated in the citadel con­

structed by him, was destroyed together with that

fortress by Timoleon, and a building for the courts

of justice erected on the site. Hence it is probable

that Hieron, who was always desirous to court popu­

larity, would avoid establishing himself anew upon

the same site. No trace now remains of the ancient

walls or works on this side of the island, which

have been wholly covered and concealed by the mo­

dern fortifications. The remains of a tower are,

however, visible on a shoal or rock near the N. angle

of the modern city, which are probably those of one

of the towers built by Agathocles to guard the en­

trance of the Lesser Harbour, or Portus Lacccius

(Diod. xvi. 83); but no traces have been discovered

of the corresponding tower on the other side.

2. Aciihadina ('AxpaMvy, Diod., and this seema

to be the more correct form of the name, though it is

frequently written Acradina; both Livy and Cicero,

however, give Achradina), or " the outer city," as it

is tenned by Thucydides, was the most important

and extensive of the quarters of Syracuse. It con­

sisted of two portions, comprising the eastern part

of the great triangular plateau already described,

which extended from the angle of Epipolae to the

sea, as well as the lower and more level space which

extends from the foot of this table-land to the Great

Harbour, and borders on the marshes of Lysimcleia.

This level plain, which is immediately opposite to

the island of Ortygia, is not, like the tract beyond it

extending to the Anapus, low and marshy ground,

but has a rocky soil, of the same limestone with the

table-land above, of which it is as it were a lower

step. Hence the city, as soon as it extended itself

beyond the limits of the island, spread at once over

this area; but not content with this, the inhabitants

occupied the part of the table-laud above it nearest

the sea, which, as already mentioned in the general

description, is partly separated by a cross valley or

depression from the upper port of the plateau, or the

heights of Epipolae. Hence this part of the city

3 t 4

