986 SIC1LIA.

SICI

like course, from the mountains to the sea. Their

identification is for the most part very obscure and

uncertain. Thus we find three rivers mentioned in

connection with Segesta, and all of them probably

flowing through its territory, the Porpax, Telmessus,

and CitlMEssiTS or Crimiscs. The last of these is

probably the Fiume di S. Bartolomeo, about 5 miles

E. of Segesta: the other two, which are mentioned

only by Aelian ( V. II. ii. 33), cannot be identified,

though one of them is probably the Fbtme. Gag-

gera, which flows beneath Segesta itself, and

falls into the F. di S. Bartolomeo near its mouth.

Hut, to complicate the question still more, we are

told that the names of Scamander and Siinois were

given by the Trojan colonists to two rivers near

Segesta; and the former name at least seems to have

been really in use. (Strab. xiii. p.608; Diod. XX. 71.)

Proceeding eastward we find: 1, the Ore thai (Vib.

Se«|uest. p. 15), still called the Orcto, a small stream

flowing under the walls of Panorama ; 2, the Kleu-

therns ('EAfuflfpov, PtrX iii. 4. § 3), placed by Pto­

lemy between Panormus and Soluntum, and which

must therefore be the/turns tHBagaria; 3,the Dorth-

ern Himkra, commonly ideniiried with the Fiume

di S, Leonardo, near Tertnint, but more probably the

Flume Grandet about 8 miles further E. [Hikeba];

4, theMonalus (MoVaAos, Ptol.), between Cephaloe-

dium and Alaesa, now the Fvllinn; 5, the Ilalesus

or Alacsus, flowing beneath the city of Alaesa, now

the Pettmeo; 6, the Chydas (XisSas, Ptol.), tetween

Alaesa and Aluntium; 7, the Timethus (TtprjOos,

Id.), between Agathyrna and Tyndaris; 8, the Heli­

con ('E\ikwp, Id.), between Tyndaris and Mylac;

0, the Phacelinus (Vib. Sequent.), which was near

My lap, or between that city and Mcssana (the nearer

determination of these four last is wholly uncertain);

10, the Melna of Ovid (Fast. iv. 476) is generally

placed in the same neighbourhood, though without

any obvious reason.

Along the E. coast the names may be more

clearly identified. 1. The Onobalas of Appian

(B. C. v. 109) is probably identical with the Ace-

sines already noticed; 2, the Acis, a very small

stream, is the Fiume di Jaci; 3, the Amesani:s,

flowing through the city of Catana, is the Giudicelh;

4, the Terias is the Fiume di S. Leonardo, which

flows from the Lake of Lentini; 5, the Pantagias

is the Porcari; 6, the ALABU8 is the Cantaro, a

small stream flowing into the bay of Augusta. The

Anapus and its confluent the Cyane have been

already mentioned. S. of Syracuse occur three

small rivers, memorable in the retreat of the Athe­

nians: these are, 1, the Cacypabis (CastibiU); 2,

the EitiNi-:tTs (Fiume di Avoid); and 3, the Asina-

RUfl (Fulconara). A few miles S. of this was the

HsLOBUS, now called the Abisso, flowing by the city

of the same name. No other stream occurs between

this and Cape Pachynum.

Sicily contains no lakes that deserve the name;

hut there are a few pools or marshy lagoons, of which

the names have been preserved to us. Of the latter

description were the Lysimki.ia Palus near Syra­

cuse, and the Camari.na Palus adjoining the

city of the same name. The LACU8 PAUOOBUM,

on the contrary, was a deep pool or basin of volcanic

origin: while the small lake called by the poets

Pcrgus or Pergusa is still extant in the neighbour­

hood of Euna. The Logo di Lentini, though much

the most considerable accumulation of waters in

Sicily, is not mentioned by any ancient author.

1 he towns and cities of Sicily were very numerous.

The Greek colonies and

dencies have been alread;

history of their settlemen

towns so far as they can

enumerated in geographh

to thpir origin, omitting

in the Itineraries, which \

or stations. 1. Beginning

ceeding along the E. coa

were: M esaa sa, Tauro

Catana and Syracuse.

early period, as well as M

tuated between Catana an

colonies of Calupolis a

disappeared at an early

situated on or near the 1

to the N. of Syracuse, bu

to their situation. S. of

Cape Pachynus, was Hei

river of the same name.

pn>ceeding along the S.cos

PlUNTIAS, AGRIOEXTt

Thermae Selinuntiai

LtLTBAKUlL Besides th

of CAMICUS, Cae>a, an

dependencies of Agrigem

must be placed on or neai

3. N. of Lilybaeum was

exist at a comparatively©

(Trapani) at the N\V.

tween this and Panormt

of the mountain of the si

tance from the coast, the .

CABA, and Cetaria.

Panormus, along the N

Soiantum, Thermae,

Alaesa, Caiacta, J

Tyndaris, and Mytak.

The towns in the int

enumerate: with regard

are at a loss to determi

the island they were siU

enumeration it will be

island into three portion:

western half of Sicily sj

and a line drawn from i

the other two, the NE. a

rated by the course of tl

of the Syinsethus to tl

district were Segesta

westerly of the inland cit

Hypsas, about midway b<

and Macella, both of

planed in the mountaino

and Panormus; Trioca1

the mountains inland froi

Sohkra, of very uncer

tuated in the same part

the neighbourhood of J

the sources of the W. br

Madonia mountains; anc

head of the Fiume Gra

same river. Paroits

on the northern declivh

but further to the W.

A little to the E. of tl

possible in the centre of t

fortress of Enna (Cost

boundary line between t

may be conveniently di

the NE. region were:

