610 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA.

worship of the national deities Astarte, Belus, and i

piiiticul.iily Melcarth, or the Tyrian Hercules. Ac-;

cording to Justin, indeed, the oldest temple of Her­

cules was in Paine-Tyms (xi. 10; com p. Curt. iv.

2); but this assertion may have been made l>y the

Tyrians in order to evade the request of Alexander,

who wished to train an entrance into their inland

city under pretence of sacrificing to that deity.

Hiram succeeded to the crown of Tyre a little

before the bnilding "f Solomon's temple (n. c. 969).

He added to and improved the new city, and by

means of substructions even pained space enough to

build a lame square or place, the eury chorus. He

maintained friendly relations with kins David, which

were confirmed by commerce and by intermarriages.

Hiram furnished the Jewish monarch with cedar-

wood and workmen to construct his palace, as well

as materials for his proposed temple, the building of

which, however, was reserved fur his son. The

Phoenicians, on the other hand, imported the corn

and oil of Judah. Under the reign of Solomon this

intercourse was cemented by a formal treaty of com­

merce, by which that monarch engaged to furnish

yearly 20.000 cors of wheal*, and the like quantity

of oil, for the use of Hiram's household, while Hiram,

in return, supplied Solomon with workmen to cut

and prepare the wood for his temple, and others

skilful in working metal and stone, in engraving,

dyeing, and manufacturing fine linen. Solomon

also ceded to Tyre a district in Galilee containing

twenty towns. (I Kings, ix. 13; Joseph. Ant. viii.

5.) In these transactions we perceive the relations

nf a commercial and an agricultural people; but

Hiram was also of great assistance to Solomon in his

maritime and commercial enterprises,and his searches

after the gold of Ophir, when his victories over the

Kdomites had given him the command of the Aelan-

itic, or eastern, gulf of the Weil Sea. The pilots and

mariners for these voyaizes were furnished by Hiram.

Except, however, in connection with the Israelites,

we know little concerning the reign of this monarch.

He appears to have undertaken an expedition against

Citiuin in Cyprus, probably a revolted colony ot the

Phoenicians, and to have established a festival in

honour of Melcarth, or Hercules. (Joseph. /. c.) By

his (jreat works at Tyre he entailed an enormous

expense upon the people; and his splendid reign,

which lasted thirty-four years, was followed at no

great interval by political troubles. His dynasty was

continued for seven years in the person of his son Bale-

azar, <»r Baleastartus, ami nine years in that of Ins

grandson Abdastartus. The latter was put to death

by the four sons of his nurse, the eldest of whom

usurped the supreme power for a space of twelve

years. This revolution is connected by Movers

(ii. pt. i. p. -'142) with the account of the servile

insurrection at Tyre given by Justin (xviii. 3),who,

however, with his usual neglect of chronology, has

placed it a great deal too late. This interregnum,

which, according to the account adopted, was a

complete reign of terror, was terminated by a counter-

rcvolution. The usurper, whose name is not men­

tioned, either died or was deposed, and the line of

Hiram was restored in the person of Astartus,—the

Strato of Justin.—a sou of Baleastarius. This

prince reigned twelve years, and was succeeded by his

brother Astarymus.or Aserynms. who ruled nine years.

The latter was murdered by another brother, Phales,

who after reigning a few months was in turn assas-

* The cor was equal to 7j gallons, or 32 peeks.

i sinatcd by Ithohaal, a priest of Atfarie. I'.babaaL *

, the Kthbaal of Scripture, father of JeaebeL U» *rt»

of A hah. who endeavoured to restore the v--?ti:: H

Uaal and A>ht. iret h in the k.rr .-i ti-r;

(1 Kings, xvi. 31.) In the reign of Itnlihsai r*»»-

nicia was visited with a remarkable dmarht. m***

also prevailed in Judaea in the lime nf Ahah. (Jcw*A

Ant. viii. 13. §2:1 Kings, c. xviL 7.) Helm*

nothing further of Ithobaala reign, except u»: it

founded Botrys. on the roast N. of Sidon, atK Aai

in Numidia. (Joseph, viii. 7, 13. § 2.) He rend

thirty-two years, and was the founder of a w* cT-

nasty. Badezor, his son, succeeded to the threw, id

after a reign of six years was followed brMi&ea ■

Mutto, who ruled for thirty-two years. The rrr>4

his successor, Pygmalion, brings us iuto crotaftrtl

classical history and tradition, through the intfc

tun of Carthage by his sister Eiisa, or l)i*>,

took place not long after his accession. Prota**'

however, this was only a second foundation.as Btt

case of Tyre itself. The whole story, which umrm

a struggle between an aristocratic*) and aa*?re-*i

party and the monarchical power, has tw-en nfrwTi

by mythical traditions and the exnbelh&hxpsH t

poets; but it need not be repeated here, as it «u I

found in the Dictionary of Jiu>graj>h^ at*i Alji

logy, s. v. Dido.

Pygmalion occupied the throne fnrtT-seves

and after his reign there is a gap in lb* btwt

Tyre. When we can next trace the Pho^oc-i.-*

the Scriptures, we hnd them at war with Iatu^ T

prophet Joel, who flourished about the Vwjrra f1

the eighth century B.C., bitterlv complains wt S

outrages committed by Tyre iind Sidon oo th*«l

of Judaea, and his complaints are repeated by Am

a contemporary prophet. This was thr chief pari

of the mar itime ascendency of the Phoenicia, i

their main othnce seems to have been the carH

oft' of youths and maidens and selling th«* 1

slavery. Towards the end of the sajne cen*r^

find Isaiah prophesying the destruction uf Vi

It was about this period that the A-ssvriazsW

to grasp at the countries towards the west, um

seek an establishment on the sea-t»«rd of 'Jn- 1

diterranean; a policy w hich was onntuiori b«

succeeding empires of the Babyh-nians. il«i?v i

Persians. The expedition of Shahnan*w, i

after reducing tlie kingdom of ]>rael. t»jr^

arms against Phoenicia, is recoriieil br I - -

from t he history of Menander. (.■<**/. Lx, 1

Alter overrunning the whole of Phoenicia, t* etf

without attempting any permanent owkju**!.

seems to have been assisted by several 1'm«

cities, as Sidon, Ace, and even Palae-Trm^ «i

were oppressed by the domination ot Eluia*w».'

of Tyre. These cities furnished him wirh i

ships for a second attempt upnn Trnp; b*i

Heet was defeated by the Tyrians with osN

vessels. Shalmaneser blockaded them «n tiw

side f-T a space of five years, and prevrrtei:

from having any fresh water except what th^ri

preserve in tanks. How this b I .

arc not informed, but it was pmhabrr <av

We have no further acconnt* ot \ tir h i ■ ■

that he had reduced to obedience th« tw.vH

of Citium in Cyprus previooslr tt> thr* rp^i

After his reign another long gap ocrore in £i-r

lory of Phoenicia, or rather of Tyr*. ita hnd

silence would seem to indicate that it mu m

the blessings of peace, and c.>n?*-}nen:lv u&rm

in prosperity. The Phoenician ailiaace w« fp

