812 ROMA. ROMA.

Whence we may perhaps conclude that the baths

also were near the same spot (v. PreUer, AV/wmen,

p. 200; Canina, Indian, p. 533, icq.), where they

•seem to be indicated by the Capitoline plan (HelJori,

tav. 4) and by traces of ruins. The baths of

Deems are mentioned by Kutropius (ix. 4). Near

the same .spot Appears to have been the House of

Trajak before he became emperor, designated in the

Kotitia as Privata Trajani, in which neighbourhood

an inscription relating to a Domus Ulpionun was

found. (Grater, xlv. 10.) Hence we may conclude

that under the Empire the Avetitine had become a

more fashionable residence than during the Republic,

when it seems to have been principally inhabited by

plebeian families. The residence of Knnius, who, as

we have said, possessed a house here, was, however,

Sufficient to ennoble it.

The narrow strip of ground between tlie hill and

the Tiber also belonged to the district of the Aven-

tine. In ancient times it was called "Extra

I'oktam Tkhikminam," and was one of the busiest

parts of the city, in consequence of its containing

the emporium, or harbour of discharge for alt lailen

ships coming up the river. Here also was the prin­

cipal corn-market, and the Basil CapitoHma men*

* Hons a Vicus Frnmentarins in this neighbourhood.  
The period of its development was between the

Second and Third Runic Wars, when the aediles M.

Aemilius Lepidos and L. Aemilius Paullns first

founded a regular EMPORIUM, and at the same time

thePOKTICUSAkmilta. (Liv.xxxv. 10.) Theirsuc-

cessors, M. Tuccius and 1\ Junius Urutus, founded

a second jx>rtico inter lignarios, which epithet seems

to refer to the timber yards at this spot. (Id. xxxv.

41.) Subsequently, in the censorship of If. Aemilius

Lepidos and SI. Fulvius Nobilior, the building of a

harbour and of a bridge over the Tiber was commenced,

as well as the foundation of a market and of other por­

ticoes. (Liv. xl. 51.) The next censors, Q. Fulvius

Flaccus and A. Postumius Albinue, paved the em­

porium with slabs of stone, constructed stairs lead-

ing down to the river, restored the Portions Aemilia,

ami built another portico on the summit of the

Aventine. (Lit, xli. 27.) The neighlwurhood still

hears the name of La Murmwata; and as numerous

blocks of unwrought marble have at different times

been discovered near the Vigna Ccmrini, sometimes

bearing numbers and the names of the exporters, it

seems to have been the principal place for landing

foreign marbles, and perhaps also tor t he workshops

of the sculptors. (Vacca, Mem. 9;>—98; Fea,

Miscett. i. p. 1*3; Bunsen. Heschr. \\\. p. 432.) Just

in this neighbourhood stood a temple of Jl imtkk

Douches US or Dolicenus, indicated in the Sotitia

under the name of Doloccnum. It is connected

with the worship of the sun-god, brought from

Heliopolis in Syria, concerning which there are nu­

merous inscriptions, treated of by Marini {Atti, <*&

pp. 538—.r)48). In these the god is called J up. 0.

M. Dolichenus. and sometimes a Juno Assyria Ke-

gina Oolicliena is also mentioned. The worship re­

sembled that brought to Rome by Elagabaltts, but was

previous to it, as some of the inscriptions relate to

the time of Commodus. The temple seems to have

been in the neighbourhood of S. Alessin, as scTeral

inscriptions relating to the god were found here,

(l'rellcr, Heg'umm. p. 202.)

The broad level to theS. of the hill in which the

Monte Testaceio stands, probably contained the large

and important magazines mentioned in the Xotitia,

such as the UouuEAitALbiAXA kt Ank.iana,which

seem to hare been a kind of warehouses for ttantt

ported goods. They are sometimes mentioned a is»

script ions. (Gruter, liar. 1; Orell. 45.) The Mm

Teitaccio itself is an artificial hill of potihenU. \>

high according to Conti, and about one-third of is

in circumference. Its origin is enveloped in n

According to the vulgar legend it wis compi

the fragments of vessels in wbkJb the

nations brought their tribute, A man

opinion was that tins was the quarter of it* |

teries, and that the hill rose from the ptrtssi

in the process of manufacture; but thai I

refuted by the discovery of a tomb, curing tat I

cavation of some cares in the interior tai

wine-cellars. (ifon-Ar. iii. p. 434.) Tbe »bat|

trict round the hill is strewed to s depth sf I

20 feet with the same sort of rubbish; tat]

Ostiensis, built by Honorios, stands oe tail I

tious soil, which is thus prored to hs*e i

the beginning of the fifth century; but itti

will never, perhaps, be explained.

The hist object we need mention bet

Fori m RisTouiuM, or Bakers' Market, i

apparently not because they nude or soli I

goods here, but because this was the pistes

they bought their corn. We nut remark

was just opposite this point, under lb* j

that the corn-mills la;. (Preller, Rtgia

VIII. The Velarium. Foki m Boaara,J

ducts Maxlmvs.

Between the Palatine, the Aventiae,

Tiber, the level ground was occupied by1

tricts called the Velabrum and fhe For™

whilst the valley between the two hills

was the site of the Circus Maximo*. U'

the object of the present section to describe 1

tricts and the monuments which they coatai

were comprehended in the 11 th Regies of i

called " Circus Maximus." of which the'

formed the boundary on the X.. where it j

8th Hegion. or " Forum Romanom.*

All accounts conspire in representba;ttBJ

nict'M as a marsh, or lake, at the time i

was founded, whence we may conclude

not have been built npon till the jrc-inc I

thoroughly drained by the construction of I

Maxima. Thus Tibullus (ii. 5. 33): —

"At <[ua Velabri regio patet, ire i

Exiguus pulsa per rada 1

(Cf. Varr. L. L. v. 43, seq. Miill.; Proj. I

i >v. Fait. vi. 399, &c.) Its situation'

Vicus Tnscus and Forum Baarium is

from the descriptions of tbe route taken by t

and festal processions. (LiT. xxrii. 37.

I'lut. Am. v. &c.) Its breadth, that is. j

sion between the Vicus Tuscus

Boarium, cannot be accurately determiaed.b

not to have been very great. Ita

the S. was by the Areas Arjrntmnav

modem church of S. Giorgio m V.

marked the entrance into tbe Fanun 1

site of the Velabrum is also piviieg by I

which connect it with tbe Norm Vi

Komanula, and the sepulchre of Ac

(Varr. /. /,. vi. § 24, MulL: cf. CSe. i

15; Macron. S. i. la) It i

the Sacklixm Volvpiab, which

Nova Via. should be assigned to tke'

to the Palatine. (Van. Ib. t. § I64>;

