ITALIA. SI ITALIA.

period (Strab. v. p. 231); and Cicero even extols the

situation of Rome, as compared with the rest1 of La-

tinni, as "a healthy spot in the midst of a pes­

tilential region." (Cic de Rtp. ii. 6.) Bnt the

imperial citj itself was far from being altogether

ex. mpt Horace abounds with allusions to the pre­

valence of fevers in the summer and autumn (£p.

i. 7, Sal. ii. 6. 19, Cam. ii. 14. 16), though the

dense, population must have tended materially to

repress them. Even at the present day the most

thickly peopled parts of Rome are wholly exempt

from malaria. (This qnestion is more fully dis­

cussed under the article Latipm.)

The volcanic phenomena displayed so conspicu­

ously in some parts of Italy did not fail to attract the

attention of ancient writers. The eruptions of Ae-

naria, which had occurred soon after the first settle­

ment of the Greek colonists there, were recorded by

Timaeoi (ap. Strab. v. p. 248); and the fables con­

certed with the lake Avemus and its neighbourhood

hid evidently a similar origin. Strabo also correctly

arjoed that Vesuvius was itself a volcanic mountain,

long before the fearful eruption of A. d. 79 gave such

si-nal proof that its fires were not, as he supposed,

extinct. (Strab. v. p. 247.) This catastrophe,

frirful as it was, was confined to Campania; but

earthquakes (to which Italy is so subject at the

present day) appear to have been not less frequent

»ni destructive in ancient times, and were far from

beini limited to the volcanic regions. They are

mentioned as occurring in Apulia, Picenum, Umbria,

Ktroria, Liguria, and other parts of Italy; and

thengh their effects are generally noticed some­

what vaguely, yet the leading phenomena which ac­

company them at the present day—the subsidence

of tracts of land, the fall of rocks and portions of

mountains, the change of the course of rivers, the

irmption of the sea, as well as the overthrow of

buihUntrs, and sometimes of whole towns and cities —

are all mentioned by ancient writers. (Liv. xxii. 5;

JuL Obseq. 86. 96, 105, 106, 122, &c.) Slight

shocks were not unfrequent at Rome itself, though

it never suffered any serious calamity from this

can*. But the volcanic action, which had at a far

dwlant period extended over broad tracts of Central

Italy, and given rise to the plains of the Campagna

and the Phlegraean Fields, as well as to the lofty

props of the Alb&n and Cimioian hills, had ceased

l«02 befure the age of historical record; and no

R'rnari writer seems to have suspected that the

Allan lake had once been a crater of eruption, or

that the "silex" with which the Via Appta was

pared was derived from a stream of basaltic lava.

[Laticx.]

The volcanic region (in this geological sense) of

Central Italy consists of two separate tracts of

ecantry, of considerable extent; the one comprising

U» greater port of Old Latinm (or what is now called

the Campagna of Rome), together with the southern

part of Etruria; and the other occupying a large

Jftrtion of Campania, including not only Vesuvius

and the volcanic hills around the lake Avemus, but

the broad and fertile plain which extends from the

Bat of Sapkt to the banks of the Liris. These

two tracts of volcanic origin are separated by the

Vobciaa mountains, a series of calcareous ranges

branching off from the Apennines, and filling np the

space from the banks of the Liris to the borders of

tat Pontine marshes, which last form a broad strip

of alluvial soil, extending from the volcanic district

<t the Roman Campagna to the Monte Circelio.

vou u.

The volcanic district of Rome, as we may term the

more northern of the two, is about 100 miles in

length, by 30 to 35 in breadth; while that of Cam­

pania is about 60 miles long, with an average,

though very irregular, breadth of 20. North of the

former lie the detached summits of Afte. Amiata and

Radicqfani, both of them composed of volcanic rocks;

while at a distance of 60 miles E. of the Campanian

basin, and separated from it by the intervening mass

of the Apennines, is situated the isolated volcanic

peak of Mt Vnltur (Voltore), a mountain whose

regular conical form, and the great crater-shaped

basin on its northern flank, at once prove its volcanic

character; though this also, as well as the volcanoes

of Latium and Etruria, has displayed no signs of

activity within the historical era. (Daabeny, On

Volcanoes, ch. xi.)

It is scarcely necessary to enumerate in detail

the natural productions of Italy, of which a summary

view has already been given in the passages cited

from ancient authors, and the details will be found

under the heads of the several provinces. But it is

worth while to observe how large a portion of those

productions, which are at the present day among the

chief objects of Italian cultivation, and even impart

to its scenery some of its most peculiar characters,

are of quite modem introduction, and were wholly

unknown when the Greek and Roman writers were

extolling its varied resources and inexhaustible fer­

tility. To this class belong the maize and rice so

extensively cultivated in the plains of Lombaruy,

the oraages of the Ligurian coast and the neigh­

bourhood of Naples, the aloes and cactuses which

clothe the rocks on the sea-shore in the southern

provinces; while the mulberry tree, though well

known in ancient times, never became an important

object of culture until after the introduction of the

silk-worm in the 13th century. Of the different

kinds of fruits known to the ancient Romans, many

were undoubtedly of exotic origin, and of some the

period of their introduction was recorded; hut almost

all of them throve well in Italy, and the gardens

and orchards of the wealthy Romans surpassed all

others then known in the variety and excellence of

their produce. At the same time, cultivation of the

more ordinary descriptions of fruit was so extensive,

that Varro remarks : "Arboribus consita Italia est,

nt tota pomarium videatur." (S. R. i. 2. § 6.)

Almost all ancient writers concur in praising the

metallic wealth of Italy; and Pliny even asserts

that it was, in this respect also, superior to all other

lands; but it was generally believed that the go­

vernment intentionally discouraged the full explora­

tion of these mineral resources. (Plin. iii. 20. s. 24,

xxxvii. 13. s. 77; Strab. vi. p. 286; Dionys. i. 37;

Virg. Georg. ii. 166.)

It is doubtful whether this policy was really de­

signed to husband their wealth or to conceal their

poverty; but it is certain that Italy was far from

being really so rich in metallic treasures as was

supposed, and could bear no comparison in this re­

spect with Spain. Gold was unquestionably found

in some of the streams which flowed from the Alps,

and in some cases (as among the Ictymuli and

Salassi) was extracted from them in considerable

quantities; but these workings, or rather washings,

appear to have been rapidly exhausted, and the gold-

works on the frontiers of Noricum, celebrated for

their richness by Polybius, had ceased to exist in

the dayB of Strabo. (Strab. iv. p. 208.) Silver is

enumerated, also, among the metallic treasures of

a

