VALLUM ROMANUM. 1255 VALLUM ROMAXUM.

The origin of the barrier may have been the

forta and stationary camps which Agricola (a.d. 79)

nil—ll to be erected in Britain (Tac. Agr. 20); but

tlic account which Tacitus gives of this measure is

•o vague that it is quite impossible to found any

certain conclusion on his words. In A. I>. 120,

Hadrimn visited Britain, where he determined on

6xing the boundary of the Roman Empire consi­

derably to the S. of the most N. conquests of Agri-

a>la. He chose this boundary well, as it coincides

with a natural one. The Tyne flows almost due E.,

just S., and nearly parallel to the 55° N. lat, for

more than two thirds of the breadth of the island.

The valley of the Tyne is separated from that of the

Irtkixg, a branch of the Eilen, by the N. extremity

of the great chain of hills sometimes called the Back-

Uino of England; and the Irthing, with the Eden,

completes the boundary to the Sohoay FrWu In

order to strongthen this natural frontier, Hadrian, as

we are informed bySpartianus, "drew a wall (murus)

80.1100 paces in length, to divide the barbarians from

the Romans" which wall followed the same general

direction as the line above indicated.

Kutropius (viii. 19) states that the Emperor

Septiiniu* Severus, who was in Britain during A. D.

—211, constructed a rampart (vallum) from sea

to sea, for the protection of the Roman provinces in

the Sw of the island.

Now, as will be seen from the following descrip­

tion, tiie lines of works designated by the general

name, Roman Wall, consist of two main parts, a stone

nail and an earthen rampart; and most writers on

the subject have regarded these as two distinct,

t Umgh connected, works, and belonging to two dif­

ferent periods; the earthwork ban generally been

ascribed to Hadrian, the stone wall to Severus. Such

:» the opinion of lloreley, whose judgment, as Mr.

Bruce emphatically admits, is always deserving of

ll* highest consideration. Mr. Bruce himself ex­

presses an opinion, founded on repeated and careful

• lamination of all the remains of the wall. "that

tiat line* of the barrier are the scheme of one great

military engineer The wall of Hadrian

wan not a fence such as that by which we prevent

llie straying of cattle; it was a line of military ope­

ration, similar in its nature to the works which Wel­

lington ruised at Turret Yedros. A broad belt of

riHintry was firmly secured. Walls of stone and

earth crossed it Camps to the north and south of

ih«-m broke the force of an enemy in both directions;

r<r, m the event of their passing the outer line,

enabled the Romans to close upon them both in front

and rear. Look-out stations revealed to them the

movements of their foes; beacons enabled them to

rtwiimunicate with neighbouring garrisons; and the

wants, which they always maintained, assisted them

in mocentrating their forces upon the points whore it

might be done with the best effect Snch, I am per-

■ aaded.was the intention of the Roman wall, though

maeut still maintain that the murus and vallum are

independent structures, the productions of different

tKriods" (pp. ix. x. Pre/. 2nd ed.)

We confess that tin reasoning here does not seem

to us to be very conclusive. Grant that the system of

<i•fence has consistency and unity, yet it by no means

follows that the whole was executed at one time.

1 be earliest works were probably detached stationary

ramps; the next step would naturally be to connect

t hem together by a wall, whether of earth or stone;

and if experience should afterwards prove that this

barrier was insufficient, it would be on obvious pro­

ceeding to strengthen it by a parallel fortification.

The common opinion, therefore, that Agricola com­

menced the defensive line, Hadrian strengthened it,

and Severus completed it, appears to be probable in

itself, and is supported by the little that we find

upon the subject in the classical writers. If we may

assume that the words murtu and vallum were used

by Spartianus and Kutropius in their strict signifi­

cations, it would seem that the stone wall was the

work of Hadrian, the earthen rampart of Severus.

That some portion of the barrier was executed under

the direction of the latter, is rendered still more pro­

bable by the fact that the Rritons called the wall

gual Sever, gal Sever, or mur Sever, as Camden

states. U has been designated by various names in

later times; as the ricU' Wall, the Thirl Wall, the

Kept Wall/ but is now generally called the Hotnan

Wall.

The following description is taken almost entirely

from Mr. Brace's excellent work, mentioned at the

end of this article.

The barrier consists of three parts: (i.) ■ stone

wall or murtu, strengthened by a ditch on its

northern side; (ii.) an earthen wall or vallum, south

of the stone wall; (iii.) stations, castles, watch-

towers, and roads: these lie for the most part be­

tween the stone wall and the earthen rampart.

The whole of the works extend from one side of

the island to the other, in a nearly straight line, and

comparatively close to one another. The wall and

rampart are generally within 60 or 70 yards of each

other, though the distance of course varies accord­

ing to the nature of the country. Sometimes they are

so close as barely to admit of toe passage of the

military way between them; while in one or two

instances tbey are npwards of half a mile apart It

is in the high grounds of the central region that they

are most widely separated. Hers the wall is carried

over the highest ridges, while the rampart runs along

the adjacent valley. Both works, however, are so

arranged as to afford each otlier the greatest amount

of support which the nature of the country allows.

The stone wall extends from Wallsendon the Tyne

to Bournes* on the Soheay, a distance which Horelcy

estimates at 68 miles 8 furlongs, a measurement

which almost exactly coincides with that of General

Roy, who gives the length of the wall at 68) miles.

The vallum falls shoit of this length by about 3

miles at each end, terminating at Kevxastle on the

E. side, and at Drumburgh on the W.

For 19 miles out of Newcastle, the present high­

road to Carlisle runs upon the foundations of the

wall, which pursues a straight course wherever it is

at all possible, and is never curved, but always bends

at an angle-

In no part is the wall perfect, so that it is difficult

to ascertain what its original height may have

been. Bede, whose monastery of Jarrow was near

its eastern extremity, and who is the earliest authority

respecting its dimensions, states that in his time it

was 8 feet thick and 12 high. Sir Christ Ridley,

writing in 1572, describes it as 3 yards bread, arid

in some places 7 yards high. Samson Erdeswick, a

well-known antiquary, visited the wall in 1574, when

he ascertained its height at the W. end to be 16 feet.

Camden, who saw the wall in 1599, found a part of

it on a hill, near Carvoran, to be 15 feet high and

9 broad. Allowing for a battlement, which would

probably soon be destroyed, we may conclude that

the average height was from 18 to 19 feet The

thickness varies from 6 to 9.J feet

