402 NAUCRATIS. NAUPACTUS.

into any other port or mouth of the Nile, they were

compelled either to sail round to Naucratis, or to

transmit their cargoes thither in the country boats.

Besides these commercial privileges, the Greeks of

Naucratis received from Amasis many civil and

religious immunities. They appointed their own

magistrates and officers for the regulation of their

trade, customs, and harbour dues, and were per­

mitted the free exercise of their religious worship.

Besides its docks, wharves, and other features of an

Hellenic city, Naucratis, contained four celebrated

temples:—(1) That of Zeus, founded by colonists

from Aogina; (2) of Hera, built by tho Samians

in honour of their tutelary goddess; (3 ) of

AjHtllo, erected by the Milesians; and (4) the most

ancient and sumptuous of them all, the federal

temple entitled the Ucllenium, which was the com­

mon property of the lonians of Chios, Teas, 1'ho-

caea, and Claz-imcnae; of the Dorians of Phodes,

Cuidus, and Halicarnassus; and of the Aetolians of

Mytilene. They also observed the Dionysiac fes­

tivals; and were, according toAthenaeus (xiii. p. 596,

xv. p. 676), devout worshippers of Aphrodite.

The two principal manufactures of Naucratis

were that of porcelain anil wreathes of flowers. The

former received from the silicious matter abounding

in the earth of the neighbourhood a high glaze; and

the potteries were important enough to give names

to the J'otter's Gate and the Potter's Street, where

sucli wares were exposed for sale. (Id. xi. p. 480.)

The garlands were, according to Athenaeus

(xv. p. 671, seep), made of myrtle, or, as was some­

times said, of Mowers entwined with the filaments

of t lie papyrus. Kither these garlands must have

been artificial, or the makers of them possessed some

secret for preserving the natural flowers, since they

were exported to Italy, and held in high esteem by

the Roman ladies. (Lloettichcr, Sabhut, vol. i. pp.

228, sc<p) Athenaeus gives a particular account

(iv. pp. 150, seq.) of the Prytancian dinners of

the Naucratites, as well as of their general disposi­

tion to luxurious living. Some of their feasts appear

to have been of the kind called "vvfiSoAa,''

where the city provided a banqueting-room and

wine, but the guests brought their provisions.

At wedding entertainments it was forbidden to

introduce either eggs or pastry sweetened with honey.

Naucratis was the birthplace of Athenaeus (iii.

p. 73, vii. p. 301); of Julius Pollux, the an­

tiquary and grammarian; and of certain obscure

historians, cited by Athenaeus, e.g. Lyccas, Phylar-

chus, lVychannus, Herostratus, &c. Heliodorus

(Aeffiiop. vi. p. 229) absurdly says that Aristo­

phanes, the comic poet, was born there. Naucratis.

however, was the native city of a person much more

conspicuous in his day than any of the above men­

tioned, viz., of Cleomenes, commissioner-general of

finances to Alexander the Great, after his conquest

of Aeeypt. But neither the city nor Acgypt in

general hail much reason to be proud of him; for he

was equally oppressive and dishonest in his admi­

nistration; and having excited in the Delta a

general feeling of discontent against the Macedonians,

he was put to death by Ptolemy Lagus. (Arrian,

Exp. Alex. iii. 5, vii. 23; Diodor. xviii. 14; Pseud.

Aristot. (kconom. ii. 34. s. 40.)

Herodotus probably landed at Naucratis, on his

entrance into Aegypt; but he did not remain there.

It was, however, for some time the residence of the

le^'isLitor Solon, who there exchanged his Attic oil

aud honey for Aegyptian millet; and is said to have

taken sundry hints for his code of laws fr-"^n

statutes of tho Pharaohs, (Plutarch, Sofoa, id)

Naucratis, like so many others of the W/.ic

cities, W*gnn to decline after the foundation of Akx-

andreia. Situated nearly 30 miles from thr sta, tf

could not compete with the most extensive ltd

commodious haven then in the world; and w:th tr<

Macedonian invasion its monopoly of the M'-ii".?:-

ranean traffic ceased. Its exact site is urikD-i^x,

but is supposed to correspond nearly with ibx ^

the modern hamlet of Salkathchar, where cnofwr'.

able heaps of ruin are extant. (Niebuhr. Imrti

in Arabia, p. 97.) The coins of Naucratis a/* <

the age of Trajan, and represent on th*-ir ob*?rw

laureated head of the emperor, and on their ivtr-n

the figure of Anubis, or a female holding a

(Basche, Leric. Ji. Xttvior. s. r.) [\V. B. 1>)

NAVILUBIO (Plin. iv. 20. s. 34; NwwJ

Xooviwyos -noTafLO\> <\'§o\af, Ptol. ii. 6. § 41

river on the N. coast of Hispunia TarTacoLEjs

now Aaria.

NAU'LOCIirS, an island, or rather reef, off d

Sammonian promontory, in Crete (Plin. if. Vl\ il

same as the Navmachos of Porni*mius MfU (il

§ 13; Hock, Kreta, toI. i. p. 439.) [L. B. J ]

NAU'LOCHUS or NAUXOCHA (Nav>m

Apjiian). a place on the N. ccost of Sicily, brtw

Mylae and Cape Pelorus. It is known only tn

the great sea-fight in which Sextus Pomp^ios *

defeated by Agrippa, b. c. 36, and whi< h was :". m

between Mylae and Nauloehus. (Suet. A*$. I

Appian, B. C. v. 116—122.) [Mylae.] *F«

perns himself during the battle bad It-en encan]

with his land forces at Nauhxhus (Appian L c. 13

and after his victory, Octavian, in his turn, toafc

his station there, while Agrippa and Lejida*

vanced to attack Messana. (/6. 122.) It ■> d

from its name that Naulochus was a place wj

there was a good roadstead or anchorage *J

ping; but it is probable that there was no tnwj

the name, though Silius Italicus includes it is

list of Sicilian cities. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 264.) F

the description in Appian it is clear that A

situated between Mylae and Capo /toj<vuisM» i

Phalacrian Promontory of Ptolemy), and j-ro6

not very far from the latter point; but tbtr

nothing to fix its site more definitely. [E. H.

KAU'LOCHUS (NauAoxos), a small pud or,

coast of Thrace, belonging to Mrscmbria, eal*»

Plinv Tetranaulochus. (Strab. vii. p. 319, ix.;

Plin. iv. 11. s. 18.)

NAUMACHOS. [NAtLocm-s. K«. 1.]

NAUPACTUS (NoAromw: A'rA. Ncowi

JCpakto by the Greek peasant*, Is*pant& fci

Italians), an important town of the Locri O*

and the best harbour on the northern rxn*t *n

Corinthian gulf, was situated just within the est

of this gulf, a little east of the proraaatorT J|

rhium. It is said to have derived its name frcx

Heracleidae having here built the fleet witfe *

they crossed over to Peloponnesus. ^Stxai

p. 426; Pans. x. 38. § 10; Apollod. ii. &.

Though Naupactus was indebted for its o»t

importance to its harbour at the entraxscv e

Corinthian gulf, it was probably originmiir e

as a site for a city on account of its streams

fertile plains, and copious supply of rniiT;xxi£ 1

I (Leake, Northern Greece, ToL ii. p. 6iVfr.y

I the Persian wars it fell into the power of

| nians, who settled there the Messcmans, vrbo buk

I compelled to leave their country at tin »<i

