MELOS. 323 MELPES.

Heracleides (Plin. lc.% and also Byblis by Ste­

phanos B. (*. r. M'"jAoj); the latter name is said to

lure been derived from its receiving a colony frum

the town of Byblus in Phoenicia. Other writers

mention this Phoenician colony, and Festus derives

the name of Melos from the founder of the colony.

(Fest a v. MtlosS) Some connect the name with

P3&*r, an apple, on account of the round shape of

the island- The Phoenician settlement is probable;

bat we know that it was colonised at an early period

by the Lacedaemonians, and that it continued to be

inhabited by Dorians down to the time of the Pelo-

poonesian War. According to the Melians themselves,

the Lacedaemonians settled in the island 700 years

before this war. (Herod, viii. 48; Thuc ▼. 84,

111) In the Peloponnesian War, the Melians re­

mained faithful to their mother city. In i\. c. 426,

the Athenians made an unsuccessful attempt upon

the island; but in 416 they captured the principal

town, pot all the adult males to death, sold the

women and children into slavery, and colonised the

bland afresh by 500 Athenians. (Thuc v. 84—

116; Diod. xii. 80; Strab. I c.)

Melos is now called Afilo. It is mountainous and

of volcanic origin. Its warm springs, which are

no* used for bathing, are mentioned in ancient times.

(Plin. xxxx 6. s. 23; Athen. ii. p. 43.) Pliny says

Uiat the best sulphur was found in Melos (xsxv. 15.

a. 50): and among other products of the island he

toomerates alum (xxxv. 15. s. 52), pummice-stone

(xxxvi. 21. s. 42), and a bright colour, called Sft-

Ummjh piffwtentum (xxxv. 6. s. 19; comp. Vitruv.

vti. 7; Diosc. v. 180; Plant. Most. i. 3. 107).

The mines of alum are on the eastern side of the

i-Lnd, near a height which emits smoke, and has

every appearance of having been a volcano. In the

south-western half of the island, the mountains are

more rugged and lofty; the highest summit bears

lite name of St. Elias. The Island produces good

wine sod olives, but there is not much care taken

in the cultivation of the vine. In antiquity Melos

w« celebrated for its kids. (Athen. i. p. 4.) One

c£ its greatest deficiencies is want of water. The

inhabitants of Kastron depend almost exclusively

spun cisterns; and the only spring in the vicinity is

to the westward of the ancient city, on the sea-side,

where is a chapel of St. Nicolas.

to ancient times the chief town in the island was

called Melos. It btood upon the great harbour. It

is celebrated as the birthplace of Diagoras, snrnamed

toe Atheist. [/>«"/. of Biogr. art. Diagokas.] The

VjWo appears to have been small, since it is called

bjTbocydides a x^P^t n°t *<*A<f; and of the 3000

mtn who originally composed the Athenian expe-

citujo, the smaller half was sufficient to besiege the

pUee. (Thuc, v. 84, 114.) The present capital of

Molos is named Kastron, and is situated upon a

steep hill above the harbour. The former capital

was in the interior, and was deserted on account of

hs snbealtby situation. Between Kastron and the

northern shore of the harbour are the ruins of the

anrient town, extending down to the water-side.

*0n the highest part, which is immediately over­  
looked by the village, are some remains of polygonal

wail*, and others of regular masonry with round

unrera. The western wall of the city is traceable

all the way down the hill from the summit to the

m: on the east it followed the ridge of some cliffs,

hot *ome foundations remain only in a few placet,"

(Leake). Within the enclosure there is a small hill,

•a which stand a church of St. Eliaa and a small

monastery, and which perhaps served in aatiquity

as a kind of acropolis. Here several architectural

fragments have been found. On the south-eastern

side of the hill are some seats cut out of the rock in a

semi-circular form, of winch only four remained un­

covered when Ross visited the island in 1843. They

appear to have been the upper seats of a small theatre

or odeum, which was perhaps mure ancient than the

large theatre mentioned below. In front of these

seats is a quadrangular foundation of regular masonry,

of which in one part four or five courses remain.

About 40 steps eastward of this foundation are the

remains of a temple or some other public building,

consisting of fragments of a Corinthian capital and

part of a cornice. About a hundred steps SW. is

the larger theatre, which was cleared from its rub­

bish in 1836 by the king of Bavaria, then Crown

Prince. The nine lowest rows of seats, of white

marble, are for the most part still remaining, but

the theatre, when entire, extended far up the hill.

From the character of its architecture, it may

safely be ascribed to the Roman period. There

are no other remains of the ancient town worthy of

notice.

Eastward of the ancient city is a village named

TpvjnjT^j, from the tombs with which the hill is

pierced in every part. Eastward of Tptnrrjr-ft is a

narrow valley sloping to the sea, which also contains

several sepulchral excavations. Some of them con­

sist of two chambers, and contain niches for several

bodies. There are, also, tombs in other parts of the

island. In these tombs many works of art and

other objects have been discovered; painted vases,

gold ornaments, arms, and utensils of various kinds.

Some very interesting Christian catacombs have also

been discovered at Melos, of which Boss has given a

description. (Tournefort, Voyage, vol. i. p. 114,

Engl, tr.; Tavernier, Voyage, vol. i. p. 435; Olivier,

Voyage, vol. ii. p. 217; Leake, Northern Greece,

vol. iii. p. 77; Prokesch, I hnhturtliy fatten, vol. L

p. 531, vol. ii. p. 200; Fiedler, Reise, vol. ii. p. 3G9;

Ross, Reisen auf den Griechischen Itisdn} vol. iii.

pp. 3, 145.)

COIN OF MELOS.

MELOS (MtjAos: Eth. MtjAioj), a Tillage of

Acarnania, mentioned only by Stepbanus B. (.«. t?.)

MELOTIS, a district of Triphylia in Epirus.

(Liv. .\\\ii. 13.) The names of Triphylia and Me-

lotis. in connection with Epirua, occur only in Livy.

Leake supposes that Melotis, which name indicates a

sheep-feeding district, was probably tho pastoral

highlands around Oitamtza, on the borders of Mo-

lossis and Atintauia. (Northern Greece, vol. it.

pp. 101, 119.)

MELl'EIA (M«'AT*ia). a village in Arcadia, situ­

ated upon Mt. Noniia, which is a portion of Mount

Lycaeus, so called because Pan was said to huve

here discovered the melody (/t«Aos) of the syrinx.

(Paus. viii. 38. § 11.)

MELPES, a small river of Lucania, flowing into

the Tyrrhenian sea, near the promontory of l'a­

Y-2

