SELEUCIS. 955 SELGE.

■il Cntm did not himself reach Seleuceia. On

• sivime of Trajan from Asia Minor, Seleuceia

u taken by Erucius Cams and Julius Alexander,

•:;artully burnt to the ground (Dion Cass, lxviii.

));indafew years later it was still more com-

itclt aatroyed by Cassius, the general of Lucius

ru, daring the war with Vologeses. (Dion Cass.

U.S; Eutiop. t. 8; Capitol. Vena, c. 8.) When

-Tn, during the Parthian War, descended the  
ijintes, be appears to bare found Seleuceia and

iilon equally abandoned and desolate. (Dion

av Iiit. 9.) Still later, in his expedition to the

at, Julian found the whole country round Seleu-

> m Tart marsh full of wild game, which his

am hunted. (Amtn. Marc. xxiv. 5.) It would

a from the indistinct notices of some authors,

■'■ SeJenoria once bore the name of Cnclie.

ocni.] [V.]

SELEUCIS (2«A«v«if), a district of Syria, men­

ial by Ptolemy ,as containing the cities of Gephura,

idani», and Imina (r. 15. § 15). Strabo calls it

i bat of ill the districts: it was also called

rapolis, on account of its four most important

■, for it had many. These fonr were, Antioch,

■oris in Pieria. Apameia, and Laodiceia (xvi.

149). It also comprehended, according to Strabo,

r u!npies ; and it is clear that he uses the name

i mod) wider cense than Ptolemy, who places the

r ritiaa of the tetrapolis of Strata's Seleucis in so

>T separate districts; Antioch in Cassiotis,

ineia in Apamene, Laodiceia in Laodicene, while

talj implies, but does not state, that Seleuceia lies

Wraria. [G. W.]

i£LGE (2i\yr): Elk. 2fVy«oi), an important

m Piaidia, on the soul hem slope of Mount

iris, at the part where the river Eurymcdon

es its way through the mountains towards the

a. The town was believed to be a Greek colony,

Strabo (xii. p. 520) states that it was founded

-uvsiirrnonians, but adds the somewhat unin-  
r>bie remark that previously it had been founded

■alcbaa (Cotnp. Polyb. v. 76; Steph. B. ». v.;

L Per. 858). The acropolis of Selge bore the

• ofCesbedium (K«r£<Siov; Polyb. I.e.) The

vt in which the town was situated was ex-

fcly fertile, producing abundance of oil and wine,

tbt town itself was difficult of access, being

w>W by precipices and beds of torrents flowing

rda the Euxymedon and Oestrus, and requiring

[a to make them passable. In consequence of

xcrllent haws and political constitution, Selge

*> the rank of the most powerful and populous

I i'isiJia. and at one time was able to send

ray of 20,000 men into the field. Owing to

:t unutanccB, and the valour of its inhabitants,

aica they were regarded as worthy kinsmen of

-•▼daemon!ana, the Selgians were never subject  
7 I ceign power, but remained in the enjoyment

■nr own freedom and independence. When

aader the Great passed through Pisidia, the

Dt sent an embassy to him and gained his

r aad friendship. (Arrian, A nab. i. 28.) At

irae they were at war with the Telmissians. At

lowing terms: they agreed to

Selgians were at war with

besieged by them; and

ma, ea tb« invitation of Pednelissus, sent a

fare* against Selge. After a long and vigorous

. the Selgians, being betrayed and despairing of

iag Arbaeui any longer, sent deputies to sue

granted to them on the fol-

pay immediately

400 talents, to restore the prisoners of Pednelissus,

and after a time to pay 300 talents in addition.

(Polyb. v. 72—77.) We now have for a long timo

no particulars about the history of Selge: in tho

fifth century of our era Zosimus (v. 15) calls it

indeed a little town, but it was still strong enough

to repel a body of Goths. It is Btrange that Pliny

does not notice Selge, for we know from its coins

that it was still a flourishing town in the time of

iladrinn; and it is also mentioned in Ptolemy (v. 5.

§ 8) and Hierocles (p. 681). Independently of wine

and oil, the country about Selge was rich in timber,

and a variety of trees, among which the storax was

much valued from its yielding a strong perfume.

Selge was also celebrated for an ointment prepared

from the iris root. (Stmb. L c; Plin. xii. 55, xxi.

19; comp. Liv. xxxv. 13.) Sir C. Fellows (Aiia

Minor, p. 171, foil.) thinks that he has discovered

the ruins of Selge about 10 miles to the north-east

of the village of Uoojak. They are seen on a lofty

promontory now presenting magnificent wrecks of

grandeur." "I rode," says Sir Charles, " at least

3 miles through a part of the city, which was one

pile of temples, theatres, and buildings, vying with

each other in splendour The material of these

ruins had suffered much from the exposure to the

elements, being grey with a lichen which has euten

into the marble, and entirely destroyed the surface

and inscriptions; but the scale, the simple grandeur,

and the uniform beauty of style bespoke its date to

be the early Greek. The sculptured cornices fre­

quently contain groups of figures fighting, wearing

helmets and body-armour, with shields and Jong

spears; from the ill-proportioned figures and general

appearance, they must rank in date with tho Aegina

marbles. The ruins are so thickly strewn, that little

cultivation is practicable; but in the areas of theatres,

cellas of temples, and any space where a plough can

be used, the wheat is springing up. The general

style of the temples is Corinthian, but not so florid

as in less ancient towns. The tombs are scattered

fur a mile from the town, and are of many kinds,

some cut in chambers in face of the rock, others

sarcophagi of the heaviest form: they have had in­

scriptions, and the ornaments are almost all martial;

several seats remain among the tombs. I can

scarcely guess the number of temples or columned

buildings in the town, but I certainly traced fifty or

sixty Although apparently unnecessary fur de­

fence, the town has had strong walls, partly built

with large stones in the Cyclopean mode.... I never

conceived so high an idea of the works of the ancients

as from my visit to this place, standing as it does in

a situation, as it were, above the world." It is to

be regretted that it was impossible by means of

inscriptions or coins to identify this place with the

ancient Selge more satisfactorily. (Comp. Von

Hammer, in the H'iener Jahrbiicher, vol. cvi. p.

92.) [L. S.]

COIN UK StLUK.

