196 LIPARIS. LISSUS.

Strabo and some other ancient writers speak of

volcanic phenomena as occurring on the island of

Lipara itself (Strab. vi. p. 275); but though it

abounds in hot Bprings, and outbreaks of volcanic

vapour, it does not appear probable that any volcanic

eruptions on a larger scale have occurred there

within the period of history. Those of the neigh­

bouring island of Hiera (the VtbCAKI Insula of

the Romans, now Volcano), from its proximity to

Lipara, of which it was a mere dependency, are

sometimes described as if tliey hail occurred at

Lipara itself. (Oros. v. 10; JuL Obs. 89.) The

volcanic phenomena of the Aeolian islands in general

are more fully noticed under the article Aeouae

Issixae. [E. H. B.J

coin or I.IPARA.

LI'PARIS (Adraon), a small river in the east of

Cilicia, which emptied itself into the sea at Soli,

and was believed to derive its name from the oily-

nature "fits waters. (Plin. v. 22; Antiu. CarysL

150; Vitruv. viii. 3.) [L. S.]

L1PAXUS (Airo^oi), a town of Crusis, or Cros-

saea, in Macedonia, mentioned only by Hecataeus

(Stepb. B. J. ».) and Herodotus (vii. 123).

LIPPOS, AD. [Vkttonks.]

LIPSYDRIUM [Attica, p. 326, b.]

LIQUE'NTIA (it'renso), a considerable river of

Ven-'tia, which rises in the Julian Alps to the N. of

Opitergium (Oderzo), and fljws into the Adriatic

near Caorle, about midway between tlie P'utvn

(Plavis) and the Tagliamtnto (Tilaventum). (i'lin.

iii. 18. a. 22.) It had a poi-t of the same name at

its month. Servius (ad Ac*, ix. 679) correctly

places it between Altinurn and Concordia. The

name is not found in the Itineraries, but l'aulus

Diaoonu* mentions the ll jinns Liquentiae Hurninis *'

on tlic read from Forum .lulii towards Patavtmn.

(1'. L>iac. /list. Iamij. v. 39; Anon. liAvenn. iv.

36.) [K.H.B.]

LI'BIA. [Edbta.]

I.IK1MIIUS (Aiuifiiofs), a town in the north of

Germany, between Murionis and Lcnplmna, about

10 miles to the north of Hamburgh. Its exact site,

however, is unknown, (Ptol. ii. 11. § 27-) (L, S.]

I.WIS (Avion: Garitjlumo'), one of the prin­

cipal rivers of central Italy, flowing into the Tyr­

rhenian Sea a little below Minturnae. It had its

source in the central Apennines, only a few miles

from the Lacua Fuiinus, of which it lias been some­

times, but erroneously, regarded as a subterranean

outlet. It flows at first in a SK. direction through

a long troughlike valley, parallel to the general

direction of the Apennines, until it reaches the city

of Sora, where it turns abruptly to the SW., and

pursues that course until after its junction with the

Trerua or Sacco, close to the site of Kregellae ; from

thence it again makes a great bend to the SE., but

ultimately resumes its SW. direction before it

enters the tea near Miulurnae. Both Strabo and

Pliny tell as that it was originally called Clania, a

name which appears to have been common to t

Italian rivers [Clanis]: the former writer

neously assigns its sources to the country of the

Vestini; an opinion which is adopted also by Loxa-"..

(Strab. v. p. 233; Luian. ii. 425.) The' Liris u

noticed by several of the Roman pueta, as a very

gentle and tranquil stream (Hor. Cam. i.31.8:

Sil. Ital. iv. 348),—a character which it well

deserves in the lower part of its course, where it is

described by a modern traveller as "a wide ai*J

noble river, winding under the shadow of poplar*

through a lovely vale, and then gliding gently

towards the sea." (Eustace's Clatncal Tour, voL 6-

p. 320.) But nearer its source it is a dear and

rapid mountain river, and at the village of I tola,

about four miles below Sora. and just after its junc­

tion with the Fibrenus, it forms a cascade of above

90 feet in height, one of the most remarkable wales-

tails in Italy. (Craven's Abruzzi, vol. L p. 93.)

The Liris, which is still called Liri in the upper

part of its course, though better known by the name

of Garigluino, which it assumes when it becomes- a

more considerable stream, has a course altogether cf

above 60 geographical miles: its most considerable

tributary is the Trerus or Sacco, which joins it

about three miles below Ctprano. A few mike*

higher up it receives the waters of the Fihreuns,

so celebrated from Cicero's description (de J*g. U.3);

which is, however, but a small stream, though re­

markable for the clearness and beauty of its waters.

[Fibjiknus.] The Meltis (Mel/a), which joins it

a few miles below the Sacco. but from the oppositr

bank, is equally inconsiderable.

At the mouth of the Liris near Mintumae, waa

an extensive sacred grove consecrated to Maricm, a

nymph or local divinity, who was represented by a

tradition, adopted by Virgil, as mother of I at inns,

while others identified her with Circe. (Virg. An.

vii. 47; Laetant. Intt. bin. i. 21.) Her grove

and temple (Lccus Makicae: Mopfiraf iAirar,

Pint. Mar. 39) were not only objects of great vene­

ration to the people of the neighbouring town <«"

Minturnae, but appear to have enjoyed considrrabie

celebrity with the Romans themselves, (Strab. v.

u. 233; Liv. xxvii. 37; Serv. ad Aen. viL 47.)

i Immediately adjoining its mouth was an extensive

I marsh, formed probably by the stagnation of the

river itself, and celebrated in history in coruiectioa

with the adventures of Marius. [K. H. B.]

LISAE (Aiffoi), a town of Crusis or Cmsinf a. is

Macedonia, mentioned only by Herodotus (vii. 123).

[CitL'Sia.]

LIS1NAE, a town of Histiaeotis. in Thessmhr, on

the borders of Athamania. (Liv. xxxii. 14.)

LISSA. [Jaccktani.]

LISSA (Afo-ffB, Procop. B.G. i. 7; Itm. Amhm.\

m island off the coast of Illyricnm. placed by Puny

(UL 30) over against laden. I alian, noted for Us

marbles, and an island which obtained a momentary

j importance during the wars of the Venetians, re­

presents Lissa. (Wilkinson, Dalmatia and M,mu-

ntgro, vol. L p. 78.) [E. B. J.]

i LISSUS. [Lkontixi.]

; LISSUS (Ataeot, PtoL iii. 17. § 3), • town <a

| the S. coast of Crete, which the anonymous C-»a->i-

i describer places between Suia and Calamyde. (Mi-

diaim.) The Peutinger Table gives 16 M. P. as the

I distance between C'antanuin and l.wx 1 his «_'rrt*a

city w:is an episcopal see in the time </ Hier.« !-».

j (Comp. Cornel. Cnta Sacra, voL i. p. 235.) 11*

, order in which he mentions it with the other biaborcu

