342 MESSENIA. MESSEKIA.

were the Electra ('HA«Vrpa) and the CoEim

(K ioi). Near Ithome the Balyra rewires the

united waters of the Lkccasia (AtvKturia) and the

Amphitus ('A^(toi), of which the fonner flows

from the valley of Boguri, in a direction from N.

to E., while the latter rises in Mt. Matrypldi, and

flows through the plain from E. to VY. This river

(the Amphitu*), which maybe regarded as the prin­

cipal one, is formed out of two streams, of which

the northern is the Charadrus (Kajxtopot). (On

the Bilyra and its tributaries, see Pans. iv. 33.

§§ 3—6.) The Balyra above the junction of the

Amphitus and Leueasia is called Vtuililco, and be­

low it Macruzumtno, though the latter name is

sometimes given to the river in its upper course

also. At the junction of the Balyra and the

Amphitus is a celebrated triangular bridge, known

by the name of the bridge of Mavrotimtno. It con­

sists of three branches or arms meeting in » common

centre, and corresponding to the three principal

roads through the plain of Stenyclerus. The arm,

running from north to south passes over no river,

but only over the low swampy ground between the

two streams. At the southern end of this arm,

the two others branch off, one to the SW. over the

Balyra, and the other to the SE. over the Amphitus,

tho former leading to Messene and the other to

Thuria. The foundations of this bridge and the

up]>er parts of the piers are ancient; and from the

resemblance of their masonry to that of the neigh­

bouring Messene, they may be presumed to belong to

the same period. The arches are entirely modem.

The distance of this bridge from the Mcgalopolitan

gate of Messene agrees with the 30 stadia which

l'ansanias (iv. 33. § 3) assigns as the interval be­

tween that gate and the Balyra; and as he says

immediately afterwards that the Leucasia and Am­

phitus there fall into the Balyra, there can be little

doubt tbat the bridge is the point to which Pausanias

proceeded from the gate. (Leake, Alorca, voL i.

pp. 480, 481.)

FLAN OP THE BRIDGE OF MAVRnZl'MEXO.

The Marrozumeno, shortly after entering the

lower plain, received on its left or western side a

considerable stream, which the ancients regarded as

the genuine Pamisus. The sources of this river

•re at a north-eastern corner of the plain near the

chapel of .SI. /Wo, and at the foot of the ridge of

Shnla. The position of these sources agrees suf­

ficiently with the distances of l'ansanias (iv. 31.

§ 4) and Strabo (viii. p. 361), of whom the fonner

writer describes them as 40 stadia from Messene,

while the latter assigns to the Pamisus a course of

only 100 stadia. Between two and three miles

south of the sources of the Pamisus there rises

another river called Pidhinm, which flows SW. and

falls into the itarrvsumeno, lower down in the

plain below Xui, and at no great distance from ti-e

sea. Aius ('A/mi) was the ancient name of tj«

rUAima. (Paus. iv. 31. $ 3.) The Jfamn-

meno, after the junction of the Pidhima, assumes th*

name of Ithipotamo, or the double river, and is

navigable by small boats. Pausanias deacribes it

as navigable 10 stadia from the sea. He further

•ays that seafish ascend it, especially in the sprier,

and that the mouth of the river is 80 stadia from

Messene (iv. 34. § 1).

The other rivers of Measenia, with the excepts*

of the Neda, which belongs to Arcadia also [Xeoa],

are little more than mountain torrents. Of these

the most important is the Neuor (NeoWr), not t» be

confounded with the above-mentioned Neda, (towing

into the Messenian gu If, east of the Pamisus, at Pherv.

It rises in the mountains on the frontiers of Larooia

and Messenia, and is now called the river of Kala-

muta: on it there was a town of the same name,

and also a temple of Athena N'edusia. (Strab. rih.

pp. 353, 360; Leake, Morea, vol. L pp. 344,345;

Hoss,/tajentm/V//>;x>Rae«,p. 1.) The other mountain

torrents mentioned by name are the Bias (Bi«X

flowing into the western tide of the Messenian gait

a little above Corone (Pans. iv. 34. § 4); and on

the coast of the Sicilian or Ionian sea. tha Scla*

(Zs'Aat, Ptol. iii. 16. § 7), now the Longorarrlh*.

a little S. of the island Protc, and the Cti'akusi s

(Kktojjhto-oj), or river of Arkhadkia. [See Voi. L

p. 728.]

4. IslnntU.—TmcoAirrmA (Oirya»tfi«go'a), dw

Venetiko, distant 37(H) feet from the southern point

of the promontory Acritas, ia called by PaumnUs

a desert island ; but it appears to hare been in­

habited at some period, as graves hare been found

there, and rains near a fountain. (Paus. ir.34. § IS;

&T\varyov<ra or &tvayov<ra, Ptol. iii. 16. § 23;

Plin. iv. 12. s. 19. § 56; Curtius, Pehpomme**, vol.

ii. p. 172.) West of Theganussa is a group of

islands called Okncssak (Olrovaaat), of which tht

two largest are now called Cabrera (by the Greeks

2x'Ca) ana* Sapienza. They are valuable f-*r lb*

pasture which they afford to cattle and horses in the

spring. On the eastern side of Sapieuen there » a

well protected harbour; and here are found citterns

and other remains of an ancient settlement. (Paus.

iv. 34. § 12; Plin. iv. 12.s. 19. § 55; Leake, voLi.

p. 433; Curtius, vol. ii. p. 172.) On the wratan

coast was the island of SriiAiTKRiA, oppoaite the

harbour of Pylcs; and further north the small

island of Pkotk (fl^wr^), which still retains its

ancient name. (Thuc. iv. 13; Plin. iv. 12. a. 19.

§ 55; Mela, ii. 7; Steph. B. t. r.)

III. HaSTOHT.

The enrliestinhabitan'sof Messenia are said tohar*

been Lelege.n. Polvcaon, the younger son of LeWx,

the king of Laronia, married the Arrive Mrwete,

and took possession of the country, whirh he named

after his wife. He built several towns, and i

others Andania, where b** took up his

(Paus. L 1.) At the end of fire grneratlints A>>4ian«

came into the country under Perieres, a son of Aet-Oua.

He was succeeded by his son Apharru*. who

founded Arene, and received the Aeolian Nrlrus,

a fugitive from Thessaly. Neleus founder! Pjlos,

and his descendants reigned here over th** wes­

tern coast. (Paus. i. 2.) On the extinrtion at the

family of Aphareus, the eastern half of Mewrma

was united with 1-aconia, and came under the «m»>

rcignty of the Atridae; while the western half cue-­

