44 INDIA. INDIA,

1831), tlie Indi nnd the Indus (Fragm. 174 and

178), the Argante {Fragm. 176), the people of Opia

on the banks of the Indus (Fragm. 17.1), the Calaliae,

(Fragm. 177; Uerod. iii. 38 ; or Calantioe, Herod, iii.

97). Gondora and the Gandarii (Fragm. 178) and

their city Caspapyrus {Fragm. 179; Caspotyrus,

Herod, iii. 102, it. 44), are mentioned, in company

with other Eastern places. Further, it appears, from

the testimony of Herodotus, that Scylax of Caryanda,

who was sent by Dareius, navigated the Indus to

Caspatyrns in I'actyice, and thence along the

Erythraean sea by the Arabian gulf to the coast of

Egypt (iv. 44); in the course of which voyage he

must have seen something of India, of which he is

said to have recorded several marvels (cf. Aristot.

1'oliL vii. 14; Philostr. Vit. Apoli. Tgan. iii. 14;

Tzetx. ChU. vii. 144); though Klausen has shown

satisfactorily, in his edition of the fragments which

remain, that the Periplus usually ascribed to this

Scylax is at least as late as the time of Philip of

Macedon.

The notices preserved in Herodotus and the re­

mains of Ctesias are somewhat fuller, both having

had opportunities, the one as a great traveller,

the other as a resident for many years at the court

of Artaxerxes, which no previous writers had had.

The knowledge of Herodotus (b. c. 484—408) is,

however, limited to the account of the satrapies of

Dareius; the twentieth of which, be states, compre­

hended that part of India which was tributary to

the Persians (iii. 94), the country of the most

Eastern people with whom be was acquainted (iii.

95—102). To the S. of them, along the Indian

Ocean, were, according to his view, the Asiatic

Aethiopians (iii. 94); beyond them, desert. He adds

that the Indians were the greatest and wealthiest

people known; he speaks of the Indus (on whose

banks, as well as on those of the Nile, crocodiles

were to be seen) as flowing through their land (iv.

44), and mentions by name Caspatyras (a town of

Pactyice), the nomadic Padai (iii. 99), and the Ca-

latiae (iii. 38) or Calantiae (iii. 97). He places

al?o in the seventh satrapy the Gandarii (iii. 91)

[Gaxdabak], a race who, under the name of

Gandkarat, are known as a genuine Sanscrit-

speaking tribe, and who may therefore be considered

as connected with India, though their principal seat

seems to have been on the W. side of the Indus,

probably in the neighbourhood of the present Can-

dahtir.

Ctesias (about B. 0. 400) wrote twenty-three

books of Pertica, and one of Indica, with other

works on Asiatic subjects. These are all loot, except

some fragments preserved by 1'hotius. In his Per­

tica he mentions some places in Bactria {Fragm. 5,

ed. Babr) and Cyrtaea, on the Erythraean sea

(Fragm.40); and in his Indica he gives an account

of the Indus, of the manners and customs of the

natives of India, and of its productions, some of

which bear the stamp of a too credulous mind, but

are not altogether uninteresting or valueless.

On the advance of Alexander through Bactriana

to the banks of the Indus, a new light was thrown

on the geography of India; and tho Greeks, for the

first time, acquired with tolerable accuracy some

knowledge of the chief features of this remarkable

country. A number of writers—some of them offi­

cers of Alexander's army—devoted themselves to

a description of different parts of his route, or to

an account of the events which took place during

his progress from Babylon to the Hyphuia; and to

the separate narratives of Betoo and Diognetas,

Nearchus, Oncsicritus, Aristobulus, and Callis-

thenes, condensed and extracted by Strabo, Pliny,

and Arrian, we owe most of our knowledge of

India as it appeared to the ancients. None of the

original works of these writers have been preserved,

but the voyage of Nearchus (the most important of

them, though the places in India he names are few

in number) has been apparently given by Arrian

(in his Indica) with considerable minuteness. Ne­

archus seems to have kept a day-book, in which be

entered the distances between each place. He notices

Pattala, on the Indus (from which he started), and

Coreatis (perhaps the present A'urdcflt). Pliny,

who calls this voyage that of Neaochus and One-

sicritus, adds some few places, not noticed by Arrian

(vi. 23. s. 26). Onesicritus himself considered the

land of the Indians to be one-third of the whole

inhabited world (Strab. xv. p. 691), and was lbs

first writer who noticed Taprobane(Cejrfcm). (Ibid.

p. 691.) Both writers appear, from Strabo, to have

left interesting memorials of the manners and cus­

toms of the natives (Strab. xi. p. 517, xv. p. 726)

and of the natural history of the country. (Strab.

xv. pp. 693, 705, 716, 717; Aelian, Hut. An. xvi.

39, xvii. 6; Plin. vi. 22. s. 24, vii. 2. s. 2; Tie**.

C/iiL iii. 13.) Aristobulus is so frequently qnotrd

by Arrian and Strabo, that it is not improbable that

he may have written a distinct work on India: bt

is mentioned as noticing the swelling and floods of

the rivers of the Punjab, owing to the melting of tin

snow and the rain (Strab. xv. p. 691), the mouths

of the Indus (p. 701), the Brachmanes at Taxila

(p. 714), the trees of Hyrcania and India (si

p. 509), the rice and the mode of its tillage (xv.

p. 692), and the fish of the Nile and Indus, respec­

tively (xv. p. 707, xvii. p. 804).

Subsequently to these writers,—probably all in the

earlier part of the third century B. c., — were soms

others, as Mcgasthenes, Daimachus, Patrocles and Ti-

mosthriies, who contributed considerably to the in­

creasing stock of knowledge relative to India. Of

these, the most valuable addilious were those acquired

by Megosthenes andDaimachus,who were respectively

ambassadors from Seleucus to the Courts of San-

drocottus (Chandragupta) and his successor Alli-

trochades (Strab. ii. p. 70, xv. p. 702; Plin. vi.

17. s. 21), or, as it probably ought to be written,

Amitrochades. Mcgasthcncs wrote a work often

quoted by subsequent writers, which he called ts

'lySuci (Atlien. iv. p. 153; Clem. Alex. Strum. L

p. 132; Joseph, c. Apian, i. 20, Antiy. x. 11. $ I),

in which he probably embodied the results of his

observations. Prom the fragments which remain,

and which have been carefully collected by Stbwan-

beck (Mcgastlienu Indica, Bonn, 1846). it apprars

that lie was the first to give a tolerably accu­

rate account of the breadth of India, — making it

about 16,000 stadia (Arrian, iii. 7,8; Strab. i. p. 68.

xv. p. 689),—to mention the Ganges by name, and

to state that it was larger than the Indus (Arrian.

v. 6, 10, Indie. 4, 13), and to give, besides this, **ne

notice of no less than fifteen tributaries of the Indus,

and nineteen of the Ganges. He remarked that

India contained 118 nations, and so many cities tlut

they could not be numbered (Arrian, Indie. 7.

10); and observed (the first among the Greeks)

the existence of caste* among the people (Mrab-

xv. p. 703; Arrian, Ind. II, 12; Diod. ii. 40, 41;

Solin. c. 5*2), with some peculiarities of the Indiaa

religions system, and of the Brachmanes (or Bra\-

