MM LLCANIA. LOTUM.

saffron colour and sweetish taste (Herodotus likens

its taste to that of tbe date). It must not be con­

founded with the celebrated Egyptian lotus, or

water-lily of the Nile, which was also used for food.

(There were, in fact, several plants of the name,

which are carefully distinguished by Liddell and

and Scott, Gr. Lex. t. v.)

The ancient geographers differ as to the extent

of coast which they assign to the Lotophagi. Their

chief seat was around the Lesser Syrtis, and east­

ward indefinitely towards the Great Syrtis; but Mela

carries them into Cyrenaica. They are also placed

in the large Island of Mk.m.nx or Lotophagitis, E. of

the Lesser Syrtis. (Horn. Herod. U. cc; Xen.

A nab. iu. 2. §25: Scylax. p. 47; Mela, i. 7. § 5;

Plin. T. 4. a. 4: Si. lii. 310; Hygin. Fab. 125;

Shaw; Delia Cclla; Barth; Hecren, Idem, vol. ii.

p'. 1. p. 54: Bitter, Erdbmde, vol i. p. 989.) [P.S.]

LOTUM, in Gallia, is placed by the Antoninc

Iiin. on a mad from Juliobona (LUlebonne) to

Botomagus (Rouen). It is vi. leagues from Julio­

bona to Lotum, and xiii. from Lotum to Kotomagus.

The actual distances seem to fix Lotum at or near

(.'audebec, which is on the north bank of the Seine

between LUIebtmne and Jtouen. [G. L.]

LOXA, in Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3)

as a river on the western coast of Scotland, north of

the Vara (Oi/dpa) aettuary, i. e. the Murray Firth.

Identified in the Monumcnta Britannica with the

Jjoth in Sutherland; the Lossie. and Cromarty

Firth. [It. G. L.]

LUANCL [Gai.laf.cia.]

LUBAKXI. [Gai.laf.cia.]

LUCA (AoCita, Strab., Pud.: F.Ui. Lucensis:

Jmcco), a city of Ktruria, situated in a plain at the

foot of the Apennines, near the left bank of the

Ausar (Serchio) about 12 miles from the sea, ami

10 NE. of Pisae. Though Luca was included within

the limits of Etruria, as these were established in

the time of Augustus (Plin. iii. 5. s. 8; PtoL iii. 1.

§47), it is very doubtful whether it was ever an

Etruscan town. No mention of it is found as such,

and no Etruscan remains have been discovered in its

rcighbourhood. But it is probable that the Etrus­

cans at one time extended their power over the level

country at the foot of the Apennines, from the

Arnus to the Macra, leaving the Ligurians in pos­

session only of the mountains, — and at this period,

therefore, Luca was probably subject to them. At

a later period, however, it bad certainly fallen into

the hands of the Ligurians, and being retaken from

them by the Komans, seems to have been commonly

considered (until the reign of Augustus) a Ligurian

town. For this reA&on we find it comprised within

the province assigned to Caesar, which included

Liguria as well as Cisalpine Gaul. (Suet. Caet. 24.)

The first mention of Luca in history is in n. c. 218,

when Livy tells us that the consul Sempronius

retired there after his unsuccessful contest with

Hannibal. (Liv. xxi. 59.) It was, therefore, at this

period certainly in the hands of the Komans, though

it would seem to have subsequently fallen again into

those of the Ligurians; but it is strange that during

the long protracted wars of the Romans with that

jssiple, v,e meet with no mention of Luca, though it

must have been of importance as a frontier town,

especially in their wars with the Apuani. The

next notice of it ii that of the establishment there

of a Koman colony in ». c. 177. (Veil. Pat. i. 15;

Liv. xli. 13.) There is, indeed, some difficulty with

regard to this; the MSS. and editions of Livy vary

between Luca and Luna; but there is no such dis­

crepancy in those of Velleiua, and there Mean at

least no reason to doubt the settlement of a Ijitim

colony at Luci; while that mentioned in Livy beine,

a "colonia civium," may, perhaps, with more pro­

bability, be referred to Luna. (Madvig, de Colon.

p. 287; Xumpt, de Colon, p. 349 ) That at Luca

became, in common with the other I*atin colonies, a

municipal town by virtue of the Lex Julia (B-C.4S),

and hence is termed by Cicero "municipium La-

cense." (Cic. arlFam. xiii. 13.) It appears to have

lieen at this time a considerable town, as we find it

r.;ieatcdly selected by Caesar during his adminis­

tration of Gaul as the frontier town of his province,

to which he repaired in order to consult with nil

friends, or with the leaders of political partita at

Rome. (Suet. Caet. 24; Plut. Caet. 21, Cram. 14,

l'omp. 51; Cic. «</ Fam. i. 9. § 9). On one of

these occasions (in n. c 56) there are said to have

been more than 200 senators assembled at Lura,

including Pompey and Crasaus, as well as Caoar

himself. (Plut./. c.; Appian, B.C. il 17.) Luca

would seem to have received a fresh colony ben*e

the time of Pliny, probably under Augusta*. (Plin.

iii. 5. & 8; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 349.) We hear

little of it under the Koman Empire; but it seem*

to have continued to be a provincial town of sou*

consideration: it was the point where the Via

Clodia, proceeding from Home by Amrlium, Fio-

rentia, and Pistoria, was met by other rvads front

Parma and Pisae. (Plin. L e.; PtoL iii. 1. §47;

Itin. Ant. pp. 28.1, 284, 289; Tab. J'euL) During

the Gothic wars of Narscs. Luca figures as an in>

jiorlant city and a strong fortress (Araih. B. ij.

i. 15.), but it was not till after tbe fail of the

Lombard monarchy that it attained to the degree of

prosperity and importance that we find it enjoyjar.

during the middle ages. Lucca is still a flou­

rishing city, with 25,000 inhabitants: the only

relic* of antiquity visible there are those of an am­

phitheatre, considerable part of which maj still 1*

traced, now converted into a market-place tail's)

the Piazza del Mrrcato, and some small remains of

a theatre near the church of Sta. Maria aW Corte

Landini. [E. II. B.]

LUCA'NUS, a river of Bruttinm. [Bbcttu,

p. 450, Ii. J

1.1 CA'.VI A (Aroxayfo, Strab. Tbe name of the

peoplo is written Atvitavoi by Strabo and 1'olybius,

but Ptolemy has Aovkovo'i, and this is found also on

coins), a province or district of Southern Italy, ex­

tending across from the Tyrrhenian sea to the gulf

of Tamitum, and bounded by the Bruttians on the S,

by Samnium and Apulia on the N., and by Cam­

pania, or the district of the Piccnlini. on the XW.

Its more precise limits, which are fixed with un­

usual unanimity by the geographers, were, the r.tev

Silarus on the NW.; the Bradauus, which Howi leio

the gulf of Tarentum, just beyond Mctapontum.

on the NE.; while the mouths of the LaiU and the

Crathis marked its frontiers towards the Bruttians

on the two sides of the peninsula. (Strab. vi

pp. 252, 253, 255; Plin. iu. 5. a. 10, 11. a. 15;

Ptol. iii. 1. §§ 8, 9.) Its northern fruntxr. Crow

the sources of the Silarus to those of the lira.Ux.-j-.

must have been an arbitrary line; but nearly fal­

lowing the main ridge of the Apennines ia this part

of ita course. It thus comprised the modern pro­

vince of the Baiilicata, together with the (creator

part of tbe I'rineipato Citeriort and the exrretce

northern portion of Calabria.

