LUCERIA. 211 LUCRETILIS MONS.

after an obstinate resistance, made himself master of

the city, which was defended by a garrison of above

7000 Sammies. (Id. ix. 12—15.) Besides re­

covering the hostages, he obtained an immense booty,

so that Lnceria was evidently at this period a

nourishing city, and Diodorus (xix. 72) calls it the

most important place in Apulia. A few years after

(B.C. 314), the city was again betrayed into the

hands of the Samnites; but was quickly recovered

by the Romans, who put the greater part of the

inhabitants to the sword, and sent thither a body of

2500 colonists to supply their place. (Id. ix. 26;

Veil. Pat. i. 14; Diod xix. 72.) The possession

of so important a stronghold in this part of the

country became of material service to the Romans in

the subsequent operations of the war (Diod. /. c);

and in B. c, 294, the Samnites having laid siege to it.

the Kuman consul Atilius advanced to its relief, and

defeated the Samnites in a great battle. According

to another account, Luceria afforded shelter to the

flattered remnants of the consul's army after he

had sustained a severe defeat, (Liv. x. 35, 37.)

Not less important was the part which Luceria

bore in the Second Punic War. The establishment

of this powerful colony in a military position of the

utmost importance, was of signal advantage to the

Konuns during all their operations in Apulia; and it

»as repeatedly chosen as the place where their

armies took up their-winter quarters, or their gene­

rals established their head-quarters during successive

esmpaijiis in Apulia. (Liv. xxii. 9, xxiii. 37, xxiv.

3. 14.20; Pol iii. 88, 100.) But though it was

tins exposed to a more than ordinary share of the

sufferings of the war, Luceria was nevertheless one

of the eighteen Latin colonies which in B. c. 209

eiprersed their readiness to continue their contri­

butions, both of men ami money, and which in con­

tinence received the thanks of the senate for their

fidelity. (Liv. xxvii. 10.)

I'rom this time we meet with no notice of Luceria

till near the close of the Roman Republic; but it ap­

pears from the manner in which Cicero speaks of it

{pro ChmL 69) that it was in his time still one

of the most considerable towns in this part of Italy;

aid intbrCivil War between Caesar and Pompey, it is

erident that much importance was attached to its

pK**ion by the latter, who for some time made it

h's head-quarters before he retired to Brundusium.

(Cats. B. C. i. 24; Cic. ad Alt. vii. 12, viii. 1; Ap-

!«in, B. C. ii. 38.) Strabo speaks of Luceria as

laving fall™ into decay, like Canusium and Arpi

('i. p 284): but this can only be understood in

wmparifon with its former presumed greatness; for

it «nra certain that it was still a considerable town,

afal ate of the few in this part of Italy that retained

their prosperity under the Roman Empire. Pliny

tains it a Colonia, and it had therefore probably re­

ceived a fresh colony under Augustus (Plin. iii. 11.

f-M.Lib. Colon, p.210; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 349).

Its colonial rank is also attested by inscriptions

(M.«nm«en, /n»cr. R. N. pp. 50, 51); and from the

Tabula it would appear to have been in the 4th cen­

tury one of the most considerable cities of Apulia

(Too. Pent., where the indication of a great building

»i:h the name " Praetorium Laverianum" evidently

psuits to the residence of some provincial magistrate).

fc*en after the fall of the Roman Empire Luceria

l^i? retained its prosperity, and is enumerated in

ti* 7th century by P. Diaconus among the ''• nrbes

■t'w oj.nlentas" which still remained in Apulia.

(P. Diac. iL 21.) But in a. d. G63 it was taken by

the emperor Constans II. from the Lombards, and

utterly destroyed (Id. v. 7). Nor does it appear to

have recovered this blow till it was restored by the

emperor Frederic II. in 1227. The modern city of

Lucera still retains its episcopal see and about

12,000 inhabitants. It occupies the ancient site, on

a hill of considerable elevation (one of the last under-

falls of the Ajjennines) overlooking the extorsive

and fertile plains of Apulia. I.ivy speaks of it as

situated in the plain (" urhs sita in piano," ix. 26);

but if this was the case with the Apulian city, the

Roman colony must have been removed to the heights

above, as existing remains leave no doubt that the

ancient city occupied the same site with the modern

one. The remains of buildings are not of much im­

portance, but numerous inscriptions, fragments of

sculpture, &c. have been found there. The inscrip­

tions are collected by Mommsen (Inscr. Regn. Seap.

pp. 50—54). The neighbourhood of Luceria was ce­

lebrated in ancient, as it still is in modem, times for

the abundance and excellence of its wool (Hor.

Carm. iii. 15. 14), an advantage which was indeed

common to all the neighbouring district of Apulia.

(Strab. vi. p. 284; Plin. viii. 48; K. Craven, SouiA-

ern Tour, p. 45.)

Ptolemy writes the name Nuceria; and that this is

not merely an error of the MSS. in our existing

copies is shown by the circumstance that the epithet

Apula is added to it (Novnipia 'AirovAwy, Ptol. iii.

1. § 72), as if to distinguish it from other towns of

the name. Appian also writes the name Nouxcpia

(if. C. ii. 38): and the same confusion between A'o-

cera and Lucera occurs perpetually in the middle

ages. But the correctness of the orthography of

Luceria is well established by inscriptions and coins.

The latter which have the name Lovceki in

Roman characters are certainly not earlier than the

establishment of the Roman colony. [E. H. B.]

COIN OF LliCEUIA.

LI'CEIUM. [Bi.ucivm.]

LUCENSES, CALLAICI. [Gm.i.at.cia.]

LTJCENTUM (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4; Lucentia, Mela,

ii. 6. § 6; AoiweVrot t) AovKtvror, Ptol. ii. 6. § 14:

Alicante), a city on the sea-coast of the Contestini,

in Hispania Tarraconensis, with the Latin franchise.

(Marco, Ifitp. ii. 6: Ukert. ii. 1. p. 403 ) [P. S.]

LUCl'NAE OPP1DUM. [Iijtiiyia.]

I.UCOPII1IA (AourajriSfo), in North Britain,

mentioned by Ptolemy, (ii. 3) as one of the towns of

the Novantae (Galloway), Rhetiponinm being the

other. Probably, this lay on Luce Bay, in Wig-

tomhire. The Monvmenta Britannica suggests

Brmiqhtern. and Whiten*. [R. G- L.]

LUCRETILIS MONS (M<mte Ccnnaro), a

mountain in the land of the Sabines. whose name is

known to us only from the mention of it by Horace,

who calls it " the pleasant Lucretilis," whose shades

could allure Faunus himself from Monnt Lycaeum.

(Hor. Carm. i. 17.) It is evident from the expres­

sions of the poet that it was in the immediate neigh-

