SYRIA. SYRIA. 1075

'tht monstrous Atargalis, tbe Perceto of the

mlu); Chalcis ad Belum, which gave its name to

i* r*cion of Chalcidene, the most fertile in Syria;

■hi Cjrrnestiee, numed from Cyrrhum; tbe Gazatae,

mikreni, Gabeni; two tetrarchies named Granu-

nuue; the Kmeuni; Hylatae; the Ituraeans and

etr kindred Baetarveni; tbe Mariammitani, tbe

'.nnhi of Mammisea, Paradisua, Pagrae, Pinaritae;

r» other Seleuciae, the one at the Euphrates, the

i«T »t Bclus; the Card)tenses. All these he

ra in Cuelesyria: the towns and peoples enume-

lai in tbe rest of Syria, omitting those on the

■panics, which are separately described, are the

viiiasii, Berceenses, Epiphanoenses; on the east,

t Ludiceana by Libanus, tlie Leucadii, Larisaci,

■«1h seventeen tetrarchies with barbarous names

; further specified. The towns named in connec-

ii with the Euphrates are, Samosata, the head of

tnmigene, xL M. P. below the cataracts, where it

^na, the Marsyas; Cingilla tbe end, and Im-

> U« commencement, of Commagene; Epiphania,

Umliia ad Eaphraten; then Zeugma, Ixxii. M. P.

m Samotala, celebrated for the bridge over tbe

phratas—whence its name—which connected it

-1 Apuneia on tbe left bank of the river; Euro pus;  
awarui, then called AmphipoUs. On reaching

u the river turned to the east, leaving the vast

rrt of Palmyra on the right. Palmyra was

rxxvii. M. P. from the Parthian city of Seleuceia

Ii.-rira, cciii. M. P. from the nearest part of the

ian coast, and xxvii. M. P. from Damascus. Be-

(" infra*) the deserts of Palmyra was the region

^lendena,a^ld the above-named Hierapolis, Beroea,

Chalcis; and beyond ("ultra") Palmyra,Emesa

hulios, half as near again (" dimidio propior ")

Via aa waa Damascus (lb. cc. 23—26).

I » difficult to discover many of these names in

< Latin disguise still further obscured by corrupt

Iters; but many of them will occur in the mure

irate and methodtcal notices of Ptolemy, in con-

.<'!> witii which a comparative Geography of

iret and Modern Syria may be attempted. Tbe

•iaries of Syria are fixed by Ptolemy consist-

» with earlier writers. On the N., Ciiicia. part

appodocia, and Mons A mail us; on the W. the

an sea; an the S. Judaea; on the E. the Ara-

draert as far as the ford of the Euphrates,

Tlmpaacus; then tbe river itself as far as

fadooa(Ftol. v. 15. §§ 1—8).

tie districts and towns are enumerated under

f-'.l'iwing subdivisions: —

The Coast (§§ 2,3) after Issus and the Cili-

Gatea, 1. Alexandreia by the Issus. 2. Myrian-

3. RbosKus. 4. The lihossian Rock (owd>«Aoj).

foxaia of Pieria. 6. The mouth of the Orontes.

**ilion. 8. Heracleia. 9. Laodieeia. 10. Gabala.  
Pakoa. IS. Balaneae. [Then follows l'hoe-

(rum the Eleutlieras to tbe Churseus, S. of

. S* Phoexice.] Of the above-named maritime

a of Syria, No. 2 alone has occurred in Xeno-

. 5 perasangs S. of the Cilician Gates. Both

nsl most of the others occur in Strabo and

r, and tbe distances are furnished by the author

* Madiaamus Maris Magni, and the Itinerarium  
*i*iaitairam. Alexandreia (hkawleri'm). not

oil by Strabo or Pliny, was 45 stadia from

-i cian Prlac. Myriandms was 80 stadia from  
lib J ma. Its site has not been identified (Ains-

h. TrartU m the Tract of the Ten Thousand.

') bat is conjoctursJIy. though probably, placed

uscle on tbe river JMJgehan. (Observations

on Syria, p. 179.) Rhossus (now Arriu) is90 stadia

from Myriandrus ; while the Iihossicus Scopulus,

80 stadia from Khossus, is to be ideutilied in the

Rat Khanzeer, the southern promontory of the Gulf

of Iskanderim, a well-known nautical feature oil

this coast. (76. p. 180; Chesney, Expedition,

1. p. 410.) Between Seleuceia and tbe Rhossic

rock the Stadiasmus inserts Georgia, 40 stadia

from the former, 80 from the latter. Seleuceia is

clearly marked by extensive and important ruins.

[Skleuckia.] From Seleuceia to the Orontes, 40

stadia. Between the Orontes and Poseidion the

Stadiasmus enumerates Nymphaeum, 15 stadia;

Long Island (Moxpa i^itoi), one of the Pigeon Rocks,

50 stadia; Chaladrus, or Chaladropolis (obviously

the Charadrus of Ptolemy), 10 stadia; Sidonia,

60 stadia, above which was a lofty mountain called

the Throne (fcVoVus), distant 80 stadia from

Poseidium. Heracleia (Ras-el-Basit), situated on a

cape called Folia, was 100 stadia from Poseidium,

and Luodiceia 120 stadia direct distance from

Heracleia; between which the Stadiasmus inserts

Pasieria and Albus Port us, the former 120 stadia

from Polia, the latter 30 stadia from Laodieeia,

with a like interval between the two. From Lao­

dieeia the Stadiasmus reckons 200 stadia to Balaneae

(Baniai), in direct distance, subdivided as follows:

from Laodieeia to a navigable river, probably A'oAr-

el-Kebir, 70 stadia; from that to Gabala (Jtbili).

80; to Paltus (Boldo), 30; to Cape Balaneae, 70

stadia.

ii. Br the Euphrates (§ 11). 1. Cholma-

dara. 2. Samosata.

iii. 1'ibkia. (§ 12.) 1. Pinara. 2. Pagrae. 3.

The Syrian Gates. This was the N.-western part

of the country, where Bagras still marks about the

centre of the district. [Faorae.]

iv. Cyrrhestice (§ 13). 1. Ariseria. 2.

Rhegias. 3. Buba. 4. Heracleia, 5. Ninra. 6. Hier­

apolis. 7. Cyrrbus. 8. Berrboea. 9. Baena. 10. Pa-

phara. This district lay to the east of Pieria, and

corresponded with the fertile plain watered by the

three streams that flow into the lake of Antioch, the

Labotas, the Arceutlius, and the Oenoparas of

Strabo; on tho last and easternmost of which, now

called the Afrtn, the modern village of Com

still represents the ancient Cyrrhua, the capital of

the district to which it gave its name. This part

of Syria is so little known that it is impossible to

identify its other ancient towns, the names of which,

however, might doubtless be recovered in existing

villages or sites. The village of Coras, which hus

ruins in its vicinity, is situated on the slopes of

the Taurus, about 40 miles N. by W. of Aleppo

and 15 miles NW. of Kiln, the seat of the Turco­

man government, whose limits nearly correspond

with those of the ancient Cyrrhestice. (Chesney,

Euphrates Expedition, vol. i. p. 422, and map i.)

v. Br tub Euphrates (§ 14). 1. llriina.

2. Arustis. 3. Zeugma. 4. Europus. 5. Caecilia.

6. Bethamania. 7. Gerrbe. 8. Ariniara. 9. Kragiza

or Errhasiga. These towns of the Euphrates were

situated lower down the stream than those mentioned

above (iii.), apjiarently between Samosat and tho

river Sftjiir, a tributary of the Euphrates, which,

rising near 'A in Tab, enters tint river a little below

some ancient ruins, supposed to represent the

Caecilia of Ptolemy (No. 5). The names of

several of these towns are still preserved in the

native villages situated between the Sajnr and the

Euphrates; and it is clear that the geographer did

3 z 2

