140 LATIUM. LATIUM.

more severely punished; but the people of this city

also were soon after Admitted to the Roman fran­

chise, and the creation shortly after of the Maecian

and Scaptian tribe** was designed to include the new

citizen* added to the republic as the result of these

arrangements. (Liv. viii. 14,17; Niebuhr, vol. iii.

pp. HO—145.)

From this time the Latins as a nation may be

said to disappear from history: they became gndu-

ally more and more blended into one mass with the

Roman people; and though the formula of ** the

allies and Latin nation" (socii et nomen I^atmum)

is one of perpetual occurrence from this time forth

in the Roman history, it must be remembered that

this phrase includes nlso the citizens of the so-called

Latin colonics, who formed a body far superior in

importance and numbers to the remains of the old

Latin people. [Italia, p. 90.]

In the above historical review, the history of the

old Latins, or the Latins properly so called, has been

studiously kept separate from that of the other

nations which were subsequently included under the

general appellation of Latium,— the Aequians, Her-

nicans, Volscians, and Aus >nians. The history of

the?e several tribes, as long as they sustained a

separate national existence, will be found under thi-ir

respective names. It may suffice here to mention

that the Heniicans were reduced to complete sub­

jection to Rome in ii. c. 306, and the Aequians iu

n.c. 304; the period of the final subjugation of the

Volscians is more uncertain, but we meet with no

mention of them in arms after the capture of Pri-

vernum in n. c. 329; and it seems certain that they,

as well as the Ausonian cities winch adjoined them,

li.-id fallen into the power of Rome before the com­

mencement of the Second Samnite War, n. c. 326.

[Vouici.] Hence, the whole of the country sub­

sequently known as Latium had become finally

subject to Rome before the year 300 d. c.

3. Ixttium under the Romans. — The history of

Latium, pnperly speaking, ends with the breaking1

up of the Latin League, Although some of the

cities continued, as already mentioned, to retain a no­

minal independence down to a late period, and it was

not till after the outbreak of the Social War, in ».<*.

90, that the Lex Julia at length conferred upon all

the Latins, without exception, the rights of Roman

citizens, they had long before lost all traces of na­

tional distinction. The only events in the interven­

ing period which belong to the history of Latium are

inseparably bound up with that of Rome. Such was

the invasion by I'yrrhns iu n.c. 280, who advanced

however only as tar as Pracneste, from whence he

looked down upon the plain around Rome, but with­

out venturing to descend into it. (Eutrop. it. 12 j

Flor. i. 18. § 24.) In the Second Punic War, how­

ever, Hannibal, advancing like Pyrrhus by the line of

the Via Latina, established his camp within four miles

of the city, and carried his ravages up to the very

gates of Rome. (Liv. xxvi. 9—11; Pol. ix. 6.)

This was the last time for many centuries that La­

tium witnessed the presence of a foreign hostile army;

but it suffered severely in the civil wars of Mariui

and Sulla, and the whole tract near the sea-coast

especially was ravaged by the Samnite auxiliaries of

the former in a manner that it seems never to have

recovered (Slrab. v. p, 232.)

Before the close of the Re'public Latium appears

to have lapsed almost completely Into the condition

of the mere suburban district of Rome, Tibur, Tna-

cul'Uii, and Pracneste became the favourite resorts of

the Reman nobles, and the fertile slopes of the Albas

Hills and the Apennines were studded with villas and

gardens, to which the wealthier citizens of the metro­

polis used to retire in order to avoid the heat re

bustle of Rome. But the plain immediately around

the city, or the Campagna, as it is now called,

seems to have lost rather than gained by its prox­

imity to the capital. Livy, in more- than one pas­

sage, speaks with astonishment of (lie incihausubie

resources which the infant republic appears to have

possessed, as compared with the condition of the same

territory in his own time, (Liv. vi. 12, vii. 25.) We

leam from Cicero that Gabii, I,abicum, Cdlatia, Fi-

denae, and Bovillae were in his time sunk into almoM

complete decay, while even those towns, such as

Aricia and Lanuvium, which were in a comparativeiv

flourishing condition, were still very inferior to the

opulent municipal towns of Campania. (Cic pro

Plane. 9, de Lrg.Agrar. ii. 35.) Nor did this state

of things become materially improved even under the

Roman Empire. The whole Laurentine tract, or lac

woody district adjoining the sea-coast, as well a* tl*e

adjacent territory of Ardea, had already couie to be

regarded as unhealthy, and was therefore thinly in­

habited. In other parts of the Campagna Miotic

farms or villages already occupied the sites of an­

cient cities, such as Autemnae, Collatia, Fidenae, &<.

(Strab. v. p. 230); and Pliny gives a long lut of

cities of ancient Latium which in his time had al­

together ceased to exist (Plin. iii. 6. s- 9.) The

great lines of highway, the Appian, Latin, Salarun.

and Valerian Ways, became the means of r.iJlecticj

a considerable population along their immediate lir**,

but appear to have had rather a contrary erlec: ui

regard to all intermediate tracts. The notices that

we find of the attempts made by successive emperors

to recruit the decaying population of many of the

towns of Latium with fresh colonies, sur£c;'b'Jy

show how far they were from sharing in the prospe­

rity of the capital; while, on the other hand, tlie*«

colonies seem to have for the most part succeeded

only in giving a delusive air of splendour to the t<»« n»

in question, without laying the foundation of any real

and permanent improvement.

For many ages its immediate proximity te list

capital at least secured Latium from the ravage* «*f

foreign invaders; but when, towards the decline of

the Empire, this ceased to be the case, and each eur>

cessive swarm of barbarians carried their arms Dp

to the very gates and walls of Rome, the district

immediately round the city probably buffered m.-re

severely than any other. Before the fall of tLe

Western Kmpire the Campagna seem* to have twa

reduced almost to a desert, and the evil moat have

been continually augmented after that period by tLe

long continued wars with the Gothic kings, as wvil

as subsequently with the I-om bards, who, tbeeagh

they never made themselves masters of Rome iter..',

rejfcatedly laid waste the surrounding temt.cy.

All the records of the middle aires represent to u»

the Roman Campagna as reduced to a stale of con-

plete desolation, from which it has never more than

partially recovered.

In the divi.-ion of Italy under Augustus. I-»''mnT

in the wider sense of the term, together with Cam.

pania, constituted the First Region. (Plin. ui. 3>.

a. 9.) But gradually, tor what reason we kzmiw

not, the name of Campania came to be generally

employed to designate the whole region; while tHaa

of Latium fell completely into disuse. Hence Use

origin of the name of La Campagna tii Aw—n, Vy

