454 NUMIDIA.

NUMIDIA.

<rat(rv\tot, Pulvb. iii. 33; Strab. ti. p. 131, xvii. pp.

827. 8*9, 833; Dionrs. 187; Sail. Jug. 92; Plin. v.

1; M:L-dpsyii, l.iv. xxviii. 17). occupying the country

to the W. as far as the river Mulucha. Nomad life,

under all the differences of time and space, presents

one uniform type, the 4' armentarius Anr" of Virgil

(Geory. iii. 344), and Sallust {Jvg. 18), who, as

governor of Numidia, had opportunity for observation,!

may be recognised in the modern Kabyte. These

live in huta made of the brandies of trees and co­

vered with clay, which resemble the *' niagalia " of

the old N amid una, spread in little group* over the

tide of the mountains, and store away their grain in |

holes in the ground. Numidia, a nation of horsemen,

■applied the Carthaginians with the wild cavalry,

who. without saddle and bridle, scoured the country,

as it bone and rider were one creature. Masinissa,

who, till the age of ninety, could spring upon his

horse's back (Appiau, i'un. 107), represents the true

Numidian: faithless, merciless, unscrupulous, he is a

man of barbaric race, acquiring the tastes and the

polish of civilisation w ithout any deeper reformation, i

Agriculture and the arts of life were introduced under

Masinissa, and still more by Micipsa. After the tall

of Carthage, the Romans presented the Numidian

kings with its library; but Punic influence mast have

been very slight. Procopius (/_/. 1'. ii. 10), indeed,

nays, of tiie inhabitants of both Maurctania and

Numidia, that they used the Phoenician language in

his time; but it is extremely improbable that they

ever ttaed Punic, nor can it be supposed that Prooo-

piua p»ses>e»i the information reijuisite for ascer­

taining the fact. They used a language among

themselves, unintelligible to the Greeks ami Romans,

who imagined it to be Punic, while there can be

little doubt that it was the idiom which they spoke

before the arrival of the Phoenician colonists, and

which continued to be their vernacular dialect loni:

after the Carthaginians and Romans hod ceased to

be known among ihein, even by name. Latin would

be the language of the cities, and must have been

very generally intelligible, us the Christian teachers

never appear to have used or lo have thought il

necessary to learn any other language.

IF. Physical O'tayraiihy.

Recent investigation has shown that the distinc­

tion between what was called the 4i Greater and the

Lester Atlas" must he abandoned. There is oidy

one Atlas, formerly called iu the native language

*' Dyiis and this name is to be applied to the  
foldings, or succession of crests, which iurm the di­

vision between the water.-, flowing to the Mediter­

ranean and those which How towards the Stdnra

lowland. The K. prolongation of the mow-covered

\V. summits of the Atlas, has a direction or strike

from K. to W. Numerous projections iiom this

tham run out into the tea, and form abrupt pro-

inontories: the first of these in a direction from E.

to U ., was HiiM'l Prom, {"itnrov &Kpa, Ptol. iv. 3.

§ 5: C. tie iianU, or liaj-el-I/amrah); then Sto-

tlOBKCM (2T(fSof^W, Ptol. I.e.: C, de /Vr, A'djt

Ilndtd); Ki sicaha; Collofs Maokub; at TlUCS

I'm til., or the cove at Stba A'fii, the Slnus Ni mi-

DICUI {Novfit5iKos koAttos, Ptol. iv. 3. § 3). into

which the rivers Amjisaga, Audus, and Si:-ar dis­

charged themselves, with the headland luil.GlLl

{Dtchidscheli) and SALDAE (C. Curium, liowjU,

Ibiischoj'ih)\ after passing lirsrcrKi M and C.

Matyi or Jias Temmdfiiz, the- bold shores of the

Bay <>/A hjiers, to which the ancients gave no name.

succeed. The chief rivers were the Tcsta, On

boundary between Numidia and the Iwman pro.

vince, the RuBBJCATDS or Urns, and the A»mr,i

The S. boundaries, towards the widely extruded

low region of the Sahara, are still but little kanS

From the 'researches of MM. Kuurnel, hVww, anl

Carette, it appears that the Sahara is (ompuei

of several detached basins, and that the nnrchersai

the population of the fertile oases u much sratsr

than had been imagined. Of larger wilii animah,

only gazelles, wild asses, and ostriches are to beast

With. The lion of the Numidian desert exirt* «lf

iu imagination, as that animal naturally srihl

spots where food and water can be found 1st

camel, the "ship of the desert,** was tiTunwm ■

the ancient horsemen of Numidia; its diffi»wo na*

be attributed to the period of the Ptolemies, *h»

employed it for commercial operations in the nBrj

of the Nile, w hence it spread through Cyrene totfct

whole of the NW. of Africa, where it was fint

brought into military use in the train of armie»»

the times of the Caesars. The later intmdurtiai■

this carrier of the desert, so important to tbtaV

madic life of nations, and the patriarchal rtijt

development, belongs to the Mohammedan epeb

the conquering Arabs. The maritime tract «f

country displays nearly the same vegetable ft

the coasts of Andaluria and Valmcia. Tbe«oa|

the orange-tree, the arborescent ricinus, the (j

maerops humilis, and the date-tree flourish «n I

sides of the Mediterranean; and when the wan

sun of N. Africa produces different species, they

generally belonging to the same families as the

ropean tribes. The marble of Numidia, *|j

antico,'* golden yellow*, with reddish veins, was

most highly priced at Rome for its colour. flH

xxxv. 1, xxxvi. 8.) The pavement of theC^niriaj

at Rome consiMed of slabs of this beautiful 1

rial. (Niebuhr, Led. on Arte. Gtog. vol. ii. p.

III. History and Political Geograpkf.

The Romans became acquainted with these tnaj

in the First Punic War, when they served

Carthaginian cavalry. After the great

Regulus, the Numidians threw off the yoke of

tliage. (Polyb. i. 31; Died. Fragm, Vol. ixiivl

The wild array of their horsemen was the nwot tj

inidable arm of Hannibal, and with the h*lf-ca4ttsf

tines at their head,carried destruction throurheeH

cily. In tlie great struggle of the Second Posse tj

the Romans made use of these faithleas barharuas*|

great success. The t-erviees of M . -

the E. Numidians, were not unrewarded, ai

end of the war, he obtained the dominions of Stffl

his rival, and prince of the W, tribes, the

and a great part of the Carthaginian terrii

that his kingdom extended from the Mulucha

W., to tlie Cyrenaica on the E , ooxnpl

rounding the small strip allowed to Carthaf*

c*iast. (Appian, Ptau 106). W'lien

died he left lii> kinc:d"m to his three mbs,

Micip>a, and Mastanahal. (Julusaa and

died; the latter left, no legitimate children,

Jugurtha and Gaada, sons by a. i

thus the vast dominions of Numidia feU

hands of Micipsa, the Philhellenc Ha

sons, Adherbal and II. . ... with wbon

ciated Jugurtha in tlw throne. The lattar,

a divided empire, murdered Hienip&sJ, and

Adherbal to tly to Rome, where he appeaiad

senate against tho usurpation of his

