NASAVA. 401 NAUCRATIS.

i». 7.) Their modem representatives are equally

inhospitable, as the traveller Bruce, who was

shipwrecked on their coast, experienced. (Bruce,

Tmrfit, Introduction, vol. i. p. 131.) The Nasa-

dkdcs. however, were breeders of cattle, since Hero­

dotus informs us (iv. 172) that in the summer sea-

ion, " thej leave their herds on the coast and go up

toAugila to gather the date harvest*1—the palms

of that oasis being numerous, large, and fruitful.

And here, again, in existing races we find corre­

spondences with the habits of the Nasamones. For

according to modern travellers, the people who dwell

on the coast of Derna. gather the dates in the plain

of Gtyabib. five days* journey from Augila. (Pro-

teeajnat of Afric. Association, 1790, ch. x.)

Herodotus describes the Nasamones as practising

a kind of hero-worship, sacrificing at the graves of

their ancestors, and swearing by their manes. They

were Dolrgnmists on the widest scale, or rather held

their women in common ; and their principal diet,

roita dates, was dried locusts reduced to powder and

kneaded with milk intoa kind of cake—polenta. Their

land produced also a precious stone called by Pliny

(iv-.™ 10. a. 64) and Solinus (c. 27) Nasamonitis;

it was of a blood red hue with black veins.

Herodotus introduces his description of this tribe,

with a remarkable story relating to the knowledge

possessed by the ancients of the sources of the Nile.

He says (ii. 32) that certain Nasamones came from

the neighbourhood of Cyrene, and made an expedition

into the interior of Libya; and that they explored

the continent as far as the kingdom of Timbuctoo, is

rendered probable by his account of their adventures.

For, after passing through the inhabited region, they

came to that which was infested by wild beasts;

nert their course was westward through the desert

(SoAdra), and finally they were taken prisoners by

black men of diminutive stature, and carried to a

city washed by a great river flowing from W. to E,

and abounding in crocodiles. This river, which the

historian believed to be the upper part of the Nile,

was more probably the Niger. The origin of the

story perhaps lies in the fact that the Nasamones, a

wandering race, acted as guides to the caravans

which annually crossed the Libyan continent from

the territories of Carthage to Aethiopia, Meroe, and

tie forts of the Eed Sea. [W. B. D.]

XASAVA (Noo-oua, of. Nao-ai!a9, Ptol. iv. 2. §

9). a river of Mauritania Caesariensis, the mouth of

which is to the E. of Saldae. This river of Borjeiyah,

is made by a number of rivulets which fall into it

from different directions, and, as the banks are rocky

and mountainous, occasion inundations in the winter.

(Shaw, 7Vot. p. 90.) [E. B. J.]

SASCL [Khipaei Moktks.]

KASCUS (Ndffwoi, of. MaoVjccnros /MrrpcSwoAir),

an inland city of Arabia Felix, in long. 81° 15',

sat. 20° 40" of Ptolemy. (Ptol. vi. 7. § 35.)

Mr. Forster takes it to be Ncssa of Pliny, the chief

town of the Amathei, who occupied the present dis-

trietof Yemama. (Geography of Arabia, vol. ii. pp.

265,267.) [G. W.]

NASI. [Caphtae-j

NASIUM (Ndo-ioi-), in Gallia. Ptolemy names

two cities of the Leuci, Tullum ( Tout) and Nasium,

which he places 20 minutes further south than

Tuihm, and as many minutes east Both these

indications are false, as the Itins. show, for Nasium

■ oo a mad from Durocortorum (Reims) to Tullum;

and eunaeouently west of 7W, and it is not south.

Aa old chronicle places Nasium on the Ornain or

vou rt.

Ornez, a branch of the Maas; and its name exists

iu Naix or AfaiV, above Ligny. The Antonine Itin.

makes it 16 leagues from Nasiftm to Tullum. The

Table places Ad Fines between Nasium and Tullum,

14 leagues from Nasium and 5J from Tullum. [As

to Ad Fines, see Fines, No. 14.] [G. L.]

NASUS. [Okhiadae.]

NAT1S0 (Not/o-bk, Strab.: Natisone), a river

of Venetia, which flowed under the walls of Aqui-

leia, on the E. side of the city, and is noticed in

connection with that city by all the geographers as

well as by several other ancient writers. (Plin. iii.

18. s. 22; Strab. v. p. 214; Mela, ii. 4. § 3; Ptol.

iii. 1. § 26; Ammian. xxi. 12. § 8; Jornand. (Jet.

42.) Pliny speaks of the Xatiso together with tho

Turrus (Natiso cum Turro), as flowing by the co­

lony of Aqnileia. At the present day the Natisone,

a considerable stream which descends from the Alps

near Cividak, falls into the Torre (evidently the

Turrus of Pliny), and that again into the homo;

so that neither of them now flows by Aquileia; but

it is probable that they have changed their course,

which the low and marshy character of the country

renders easy. A small stream, or rather canal, com­

municating from Aquiieia with the sea, is still called

Natita; but it is clear that the Natis.-a of Jor-

nandes, which he describes (I. c.) as flowing under

the walls of Aquileia, must be the far more impor­

tant stream, now called the Natisone, as he tells us

it had its sources in the Mons Picis, and it would

be vain to look for any mountains nearer than tho

Alps. Strabo (7. c.) also speaks of the Natiso as

navigable for ships of burden as far as Aquileia, 60

stadia from the sea; a statement which renders it

certain that a considerable river must have flowed

under the walls of that city. [K. H. B.]

NAVA, the river Nava in Tacitus (Hist iv. 70)

and in Ausonius (Moiella, v. 1) is the Nahe, a

small stream which flows into the Rhine, on the left

bank just below Bingium (Bingen). [G. L.]

NAVA'LIA or NABA'LIA (NouoAfo), a small

river on the north-west coast of Germany (Tac.

Hist. v. 26), either an eastern branch of the Rhine,

at the month of which Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 28) places

the fort Xavalia, or some river in the country of the

Frisians. [L. S]

NAVARI. [Neuri.]

NAVARUM. [Neuri.]

NAUBARUM. [Neuri.]

NAU'CRATIS (NoiinpaTir, Herod, ii. 179;

Strab. xvii. p. 801 ; Ptol. iv. 5. § 9; Callimacb.

Epigr. 41; Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Sleph. B. t. v.: Eth.

HavKparirvs or NauKpaTiwrrjs), was originally an

emporium for trade, founded by colonists from Mi­

letus, in the Saitic nome of the Delta. It stood

upon the eastern bank of the Canopic arm of

the Nile, which, from the subsequent importance

of Naucratis, was sometimes called the Ostium

Naucraticum. (Plin.v.lO.s.Il.) There was, doubt­

less, on the same she an older Aegyptian town,

the name of which has been lost in that of the

Greek dockyard and haven. Naucratis first at­

tained its civil and commercial eminence in the

reign of Amasis (n. c. 550) who rendered it, as re­

garded the Greeks, the Canton of Aegypt. From

the date of his reign until the Persian invasion, or

perhaps even the founding of Alexandras, Naucratis

possessed a monopoly of the Mediterranean com­

merce, for it was the only Deltaic harbour into

which foreign vessels were permitted to enter; and

if accident or stress of weather had driven them

D D

