ROMA ROMA

nil kmt limn, according to indications offered

Ij '!.f Blare (if the ground.

»> hen) from Cicero that Servius, like Romu-

ta vol puided in the construction of his wall

9 ike ratline of the hills: ** Cojos (urbis) is est

rjcutu dnctnsque muri qaum Komuli tum etiam

"*)»ffum regain sapientia definitus ex omni parte

•ian preeropusque montibus, nt anus aditus, qui

Ml later Esquihnum Quirinalemque montem,

uiw arrrre objecto fussa cingeretnr vastissima;

:..;ue at iu nronita arx circnmjectu arduo et quasi

TaiKita mxo niteretur, ut etiam in ilia tempestate

mbili GaUici adventua incolumis atque intacta

- i-.-irit." (fit Rep. ii. 6.) Becker (deMurit,  
14, Hakdb. p. 129) asserts that Cicero here

arcly oars that Servius erected walls only where

■ Rrrt Do bills, or across the valleys, and con-

ifi that the greater part of the defences of

* nir eoroiited of the natural ones offered bj  
'sills alone. Becker, however, appears tu

m limed no very clear ideas upon the subject;

mitlieunduig what is here said, we find him

l"» pjges farther on, conducting the line of

I w «ly along the height of the Quirinal, but

■• 'f the summit of the Capitolinc hill itself!

M pp. 131, 136, de Murit, pp. 65, 70.)

t^*r ha first, or theoretical, nor his second, or

ttul, view, is correct. The former is in di-

I <ctradicuoa to his authority; for Cicero says

- other kings did like Romulus; and he, as  
bm> tan, and as Becker himself has shown,

Ued a his dry all round. Cicero says, as plainly

» "a sptai, that there teas a wall, and that it

i irtard along itt whole extent (" definitus ex

a (arte") by the line of the bills. If it did not

i-iv Umr summit, we cannot explain Pliny's

■•:.'•)) that the agger equalled the height of

vxfis("Kamque rum(aggerem) muris aequavit

launt patebat (urbs) aditu piano: caetero

u> erst praccelsis muris, aut abmptis montibus/'

I asrt it would be a no great extolling of its

:i 1 to ssy that it was raised to the level of a

1 •* the valley. Cicero, however, notices two

¥*i» to the continuous line, and the fact of his

Sxr, these oat proves the continuity of the wall

hj m.njer of the circuit. The first exception

•srjter just mentioned, upon the top of which,

r*. according to Dionysius (ix. 68), there

» uo u> have been a sort of wall, though

•ty !■* of so great a height as the rest, at

Is uea the comparative when speaking of it:

■ «»vr«f>aj i''.*:■ .-( ,>.,»• (iv. 54). The second

r^"* was the Arx, or Capitoline hill, which,

I • its western aide much more abrupt and

'.*»» than the other hills, was considered as

cvJIy defended by nature, with a little as-

» from on m escarping its sides. That there

»• rail at this spot is also proved, as Niebohr

«k» (Hi*, vol i. p. 396) by the account of

etala sealing the height. (Liv. v. 47; comp.

Class. Mm. voL Ui. p. 347.) The C*>

lurrta-e. most have been the spot to which

Mi alluded, when be said that Rome was

I irfmdsd by its hills, and partly by the Tiber

»' ss well as Pliny in the passage just cited,

'<t msM not infer from the plural (montibus)

hi ?«aot more than one hill. This is merely,

I fee. Taut also, a general mode of expression;

'bare before observed that Pliny's own ac-

'>hws that the wall crowned the bills. Lastly,

loan ban as wall upon them, it is difficult to

see how there could have been gates; yet we find

Becker himself placing gates at spots where, ac­

cording to his theoretical view, there could have

been no wall. Niebuhr (L c), who, like Becker,

does not confine the escarpment to the Capital, but

thinks that the greater part of the city was fortified

solely by the steepness of its hills, places towers, w alls,

and gates just at the different ascents; but this

view, improbable in itself, and unsupported by any

authority, cannot be maintained against the express

testimony of Cicero. There seems, however, to have

been an interior fortification on the E. side of the

Capitoline, protecting the ascent by the clitms, as

we shall see in the sequel. It was probably in­

tended to secure the citadel, in case an enemy suc­

ceeded in forcing the external walk. We have seen

before that the hill was fortified by Romulus; but

whether these ancient fortifications, as well as those

on the Palatine, were retained by Servius, it is im­

possible to say.

We may assume then that the wall of Servius,

or his predecessor,—which seems to have been built

of stone ("muro lapideo," Liv. i. 15),—surrounded

the whole city, with the exception of the Capitoline

hill and a small part defended by the Tiber,—thus

justifying the uoble lines of Virgil (Georg. ii.

533.) :—

"rcrum facta est pulcerrima Roma

Septcmque nna sibi muro circutndedit nrces."

Our next task will be to determine the outline of

this wall by means of the site of the different gates;

though, of course, where the outline of the hills is

well defined this alone will be a guide. The situ­

ation of two of the gates may be considered certain,—

tliatof the Porta CoixiSA,at the N. extremity of the

agger, and that of the Esquiline ut its southern end.

Taking, therefore, the former as a starting-point, and

proceeding continually to the left, we shall make the

circuit of the whole city, till we again arrive at the

Porta Collina.

This, the most northerly of all the gates, lay near

the point where the Via Salaria branches off from the

Via Nomentana. From this spot the first gate to the

W. was probably the Porta Salutarls, so named, ap­

parently, from its being on that division of the Qui­

rinal which in the time of Numa and in the sacred

books of the Argivea was called Collis Salularis,

from an ancient sacellum of Saius which stood upon

it (Varr. L.I.. v. § 51). When Paulus Diaconua

tells us (p. 327, Mull.) that it was named after the

temple of Salus, he seems to be alluding to the later

and more famous temple dedicated by C. Junius

Bubulcos in s. c. 303, which we shall have occasion

to describe in the sequel: but it is probable that it

obtained its name, as we have said, at a much earlier

period. As the new temple probably stood at or near

tho site of the ancient one, and as the Notitia in de­

scribing the 6th Regio, or Alta Semita. takes this

temple for a starting point, and, proceeding always in

a circuit to the left, arrives at last at the baths of

Diocletian, it may be assumed that this gate was the

first important object westward of the baths. It

seems to have spanned a Clivus Salutis, which Ca-

nina {Roma Antica, p. 187) places, with much pro­

bability in the Via detle Quuttro Fimtane, w here it

ascends from the Piazza Barberina. (Cf. Preller,

Regionen, p. 134.)

The next gate to the left scorns to have been the

Porta SA2iQt;ALis,so named from the temple of San­

ctis. (Paul. JJiac. p. 345, Mull.) This was the same

