IIU.MA. ROMA.

the middle .nges. In tlie inscription, however, which

is still extant upon it, it is called Pons G RATI AN us,

and its restoration by Valentinian, Valena, and Gra-

tian is commemorated (Canina, Indie, y. 576: ef.

Aimi). Marc xivii. 3; Symst. EpitLT. 76, x. 45).

Besides these bridges we find four others recorded

in the summary of the NbtUia, namely, the Actios,

Aurelius, Probi,and Milvhw. The last of these lay

two miles X. of Rome, at the point where the Fla-

minian Way crossed the Tiber, and has been already

described in this dictionary. [PONS MlLVIUS.] The

PoJCS Aelivs (now Ponte S. Angela) was built by

Hadrian when he founded his mausoleum, to which

it directly leads. (Spart. Hadr. 19.) In tlie time

of the Anonymous of Einsiedlen, who has preserved

the inscription, it was called Pons S. Petri. But

before the time of Hadrian there was a bridge

which connected the district of the Vatican with the

city near the gardens of Caligula ami Nero, remains

of which still exist near S, SpiritO. Tins is probably

the bridge which is called in the Mirabilia " Pons

Neronianus," and by the ancient topographers

"Pons Vath ancs." The Pons Triumphaus

lias also been sometimes identified with this bridge;

hut Piranesi, who is followed by Bunsen, places the

Pons Triumphalis above tlie Aelian bridge; and it

is said that there are still remains of one of the piles

near Tor di Xoua. But in the time of Procopius

these had disappeared, and the Pons Aelius formed

the only communication between the city and the

Vatican district

The Pons Aurvijus was most probably the

present Ponte. Sistot leading to the .laniculum and

the Porta Amelia. It appears to have been called

Pons Antonini s in the middle ages. What the

Pons Probi may have been it is impossible to say,

Becker assigns the name to the bridge by the

Porta Trigemina, but merely because, having denied

that to be the Sublicins, he has nowhere else to

place it. Canins, on the contrary (/mite. p. 609},

places it where we have placed the Pons Amelias.

XVIII. Aqueducts.

In the time of Frontinus there were at Home nine

principal aqueducts, viz., tlie Appia, Anio Vet us,

Marcia, Tepula, Julia, Virgo, Alsietina, Claudia,

Anio Novus; and two subsidiary ones, the Augusta

and Rivus Uercnlaneus. (Aq, 4.) Between the

time of Frontinus and that of Procopius their num­

ber had considerably increased, since the latter his­

torian relates that the Goths destroyed 14 aque­

ducts that were without the walls. (B. G. i. 19.)

The Xottiiu enumerates 19, viz. tlie Trajana, Annia,

Attica, Marcia, Claudia, Hercules, Cerulea, Julia,

Augustea, Appia, Alseatina, Ciminia, Aurelia,

Damnata, Virgo, Tepula, Sevcriana, Antooiniana,

Alexandrina. To enter into a complete history of

all these would almost require a separate treatise;

. and we shall therefore confine ourselves to a state­

ment of the more important particulars concerning

them, referring those readers who are desirous of

more information on the subject to the Dictionary

of Antiquities, art. Aquakductus.

The Aqua APPIA was, as we have already re­

lated, the first aqueduct conferred on Home by the

care of the censor Appius Claudius Caecus, after

whom it was named. It commenced on the

Via Praeneattna, between the 7th and 8th mile­

stone, and extended to the Salinae, near the Porta

'1 rigemina. The whole of it was underground, with

the exception of sixty pasrw conducted ce irdsa

from the Porta Capena. Its water began to W at­

tributed at the imus CUvus Pablicius, Dear the

Porta Trigemina. (Front. Aq. 5 )

The Anio Vetts was comtnenced by usre

M\ Curins Dent at us in n.c. 273, jr.d couijirasj

M. FulviusFlaccus. (/6.6; Aur.Yict. Vr.ULf

It began above Tibur, and was 43 miks taf;

only 221 jmssus, or le>s than a quarter ef is

was above ground. It entered the city a t:tle I

Porta Sfaggiurt-.

The AQUA Makcia, one of the nobfeft i

Roman aqueducts, was built by Q. M-ircias I

pursuance of a commission of the - ■ s'.mcI

It began near the Vis Valeria at a distant

miles from R»me; but its whole ler.cth wis sssfl

62 miles, of which 6935 passu* were ss ansa

Respecting its source, see the article Ftctscs It]

crs [Vol. I. p. 918.] It was lofty enoa^S »I

ply tlie Moas Capitolintis.

source to it, lying at the distance of nearly ■

and this duct was called after him, A*jca Ace

but was not reckoned as a separate asai

(Frontin. Aq. 12.; Plin. xxxi. 24; St rah.

The AQUA TbfDLA was built by the

Cn. S-'rvilius Caepio and L. Cas&u* Loncna

127. Its source was 2 miles to the rigk

10th milestone on the Via Latino.

The preceding aqueduct was united by Afl|

with the Aqua Julia, which began 2 mueal

down ; and they flowed together as fir ms X

cina on the Via Latins. From this paint tfcetf

conducted in separate channels inconjonctiB

Aqua Marcia, so that the Aqua Julia w»

uppermost canal, the Marcia in the lowest,

Tepula in the middle. (Front. Aq. 8,9, 19t)

mains of these three aqueducts are still ts*

at the Porta S. Lorenzo and Porta JA

The AQUA Virgo was also conducted ts

by Agrippa in order to supply his baths. .

ing to Frontinus (Aq. 10) iu name ws»

from its source having been pointed out by

maiden, but other explanations are giten.

xxxi. 25; Cassiod. Cor. vii. 6.) It cms

a marshy district at the 8th mile*t«»

Via Collatina, and was conducted by

cuitous route, and mostly underground, to the

hill; whence, .is we have before meet u af

continued to the Campus Martius on arcbea

began under the gardens of LucuUu*. It-

only aqueduct on the left bank of the TiWB

is still in some degree serviceable, and KffSsfl

Fontana Treri.

The Aqua Alsiettna belonged to the TJ

berine Keg ion. It wxs construct «-d by Aagfl

and had its source in the Lacus AtsacfcSBBfl

Logo di Martlfjnano), lying 6} miles to tin

of the 14th milestone on the Via ClanJa^fl

water was bad, and only fit fur water.r.j fljefl

and such like purposes. (Front. 11.)

The Aqua Claudia was begun by CaTfsM

dedicated by Claudius, a. d 50. Tbis

Anio Novus were the most giganLc of al> ta«H

aqueducts. The Claudia was derived

abundant sources, called Caerulus and CxrjsM

the 38th milestone of tbe \*U SobUceBsss^H

its curse was auirnieired !,v ir :-r '-as.

Atbudinus. Its water was particulariT ptfSfl

the best after that of the Marcia.

The Anio Novus began 4 miles low

Via Sublacensis than the

