93 JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM.

the name which are elsewhere called the Monument

of Herod, and, from the character of their decora­

tions, may ven-well be ascribed to theHerodian period.

M. de Saulcy has lately added to our previous in­

formation concerning them, and, by a kind of ex­

hausting process, he endeavours to prove that they

could have been no other than the tombs of David

and the early kings of Judah, which have always

hitherto been plamt on Mount Stun, where the tra­

ditionary site is still guarded by the Moslems.

( Voyage en St/rie, torn. ii. pp. 228—281.)

(4) The Fuller's monument is the last-mentioned

point on the new wall, and, as an angular tower

occupied this site, the monument must have been

at the north-east angle of the New City; probably one

nf the many rock graves cut in the perpendicular

face of the Valley of Jehoshnpliat, near one of which

Dr. Schultz has described the foundations of a tower.

(Jerusalem, pp. 38, G4.) The Monument nf the

Fuller probably gave its name to the Fuller's field,

which is mentioned by the prophet Isaiah as the

spot near which the Assyrian army under Rabshakeh

encamped (xxxvi. 2, vii. 3); and the traditionary

site of the camp of the Assyrians, which we shall

find mentioned by Josephus, in his account of the

siege, was certainly situated in this quarter. From

this north-cast angle the third wall followed the brow

of the Valley of Jehoshaphat until it reached the

wall of the Outer Temple at its north-cast angle.

Having thus completed the circuit of the walls,as

described by Joseph us, and endeavoured to fix the

various points mentioned in his description (which

furnishes the most numerous topographical notices

now extant of ancient Jerusalem), we shall lie in a

condition to understand the most important his­

torical facts of its interesting and chequered history,

when we have further taken a brief survey of the

Temple. Hut, first, a singular and perplexing dis­

crepancy must be noticed between the general and

the detailed statements of the historian, as to the

extent of the ancient city; for, while he states the

circuit of the entire city to be no more than 33 stadia,

or 4 Roman miles plus 1 stadium, (he specification

of the measure of the wall of Agrippu alone gives,

on the lowest computation, an excess of 12 stadia,

or 1$ mile, over that of the entire city !— for it had

90 towers, 30 cubita wide, at intervals of 200 cubits.

No satisfactory solution of this difficulty has yet

been discovered.

IV. Tub Temple Mount.

The Temple Mount, called in Scripture the Moan-

tain of the Lord's House, and Moriah (2 Ckron. iii. 1),

is situated at the south east of the city, and is easily

identified with the site of the Dome of the Mosk in

modern Jerusalem. It was originally % third hill of

the Old City, over against Arm, but serrated from

it by a broad ravine, which, however, wma filled up

by the Asmonaean princes, so that these two hills

became ooe, and are generally so reckoned by the

historian (B.J.r. 4.)

1. The Outer Court—The Temple, in the widest

signification of the word (to Up6v), consisted if two

courts, one within the other, though the inner one

Is sometimes subdivided, and distributed into four

other courts. The area of the Outer Court was in

great part artificial, for the natural level space on

the summit of the mount being found too confined

for the Temple, with its surrounding chambers,

oourta, and cloisters, was gradually increased by

mechanical expedients. This eaten-ion was com*

menced by Solomon, who raised from the depth of

the eastern valley a wall of enormous stones, bound

together with lead, within which he raised a bank

of earth to a level with the native rock. On this was

erected a cloister, which, with its successors, always

retained the name of " Solomon's Porch." (er-rok

2oAo/i<vror, St. John, x. 23; Acts, iii. 11, v. 12.)

This process of enlarging the court by artificial

embankments was continued by successive kings;

but particularly by Herod the Great, who, when he

reconstructed the Temple Proper (va6s), enlarged the

Outer Court to double its former size, and adorned

it with stately cloisters. {Ant. xv. 11. § 5.) Of

these, the Royal Porch, on the south, was the most

remarkable of all his magnificent works. It consisted

of four rows of Corinthian columns, distributed into

a central nave and lateral aisles; the aisles being

30 feet in width and 50 in height, and the nave

half as wide again as the aisles, and double their

height, rising into a clerestory of unusually large)

proportions. The other cloisters were double, and

their total width only 30 cubits. To this Outer

Court there were four gates on the west, towards

the city, and one on each of tho other sides; of

which that on the east is still remaining, commonly

called i he Golden Gate.

2. The Inner Court — The Inner Temple (/fpoV)

was separated from the Outer by a stone wall (<ppay-

pos, sec Epkes. ii. 14) 3 cubits in height, on which

stood pillars at equal distances, with inscriptions,

in Greek and Latin, prohibiting aliens from acres*.

To this court there was an ascent of fourteen steps,

then a level Bpacc of 10 cubits, and then a further

ascent of five stei* to the gates, of which there were

four on the north and south sides, and two on the

east, but none on the west, where stood the Sanctuary

(Wi).

The place of the Altar, in front of the rait, is

determined with the utmost precision by the ex­

istence in the Sacred Kock of the Moslems, under

their venerated dome, of the very cesspool and drain

of the Jewish altar, which furnishes a key to the

restoration of the whole Temple, the dimensions of

which, in all its parts, are given in minute detail in

tho treatise called Middoth (i. e» measures), one of

the very ancient documents contained in the MUhoa.

The drain communicating with this cesspool, through

which the blood ran off into the Kedron, was at

the south-west angle of the Altar; and there was a

trap connected with this cave. 1 cubit square (com­

monly closed with a marble slab), through which a

man occasionally descended to cleanse it and to clear

obstructions. Both the drain and the trap are to be

seen in tlie rock at this day.

The Altar was 32 cubits square at its bate, baft

gradually contracted, so tliat its hearth was only

24 cubits square. It was 1 *> cubits high, and had an

ascent by an inclined plane on the south aide, 38

cubits long and 16 wide.

Between the Altar and the porch of the Temple

was a space of 22 cubits, rising in a gentle nscnit

by steps to the vestibule, the door of which was

40 cubit* high and 20 wide. The total length of

the Holy House itself was only 100 cubits, and this

wan subdivided into three farts: the Pronaus 11,

the Sanctuary 40, the Holy of Holies 20, allowiasj

29 cubits for the partition walls and a small chamber

behind (i. e. we»t of) the Most Holy place. The)

total width of the building was 7o cubita; of which

the Sanctuary only occupied 20, the remainder bring

distributed into side chambers, in three stories, as­

