ILLYEICUM. 37 1LLYRICUM.

with scarcely a hidden danger, give ships a secure

passage between them. Cherso, Otero, Lussin, San-

tryo (AbsyrtiJes), abound with fossil bones. The

bone-breccia of these islands appears to be the same

conglomerate with those of Gibraltar, Cerigo, and

other places in the Mediterranean. The Liburnian

group (AiSvpvtSts yrjaot, Strab. ii. p. 124, rii.

pp. 315, 317; "Libamicae Insulae," Plin. iii. 30),

Lisa* (Groasa), Brattia (Brazia), Issa {Lissa),

Meuta (Mtlada), Corcyba Nigra {Cvrzula),

Phabos (Lema) and Olynta (Solta), hare good

ports, but are badly supplied with drinkable water,

and are not fertile. The mountainous tract, though

industriously cultivated towards the shore, is for

the most part, as in the days of Strabo (£ c),

wild, rugged, and barren. The want of water and

the arid soil make Dalmatia unfit for agriculture;

and therefore of old, this circumstance, coupled with

the excellency and number of the harbours, made the

natives more known for piracy than for commercial

enterprise. A principal feature of the whole range

is that called Monte-Negro {Czernagora'), consisting

chiefly of the cretaceous or Mediterranean limestone,

to extensively developed from the Alps to the Archi­

pelago, and remarkable for its craggy character.

The general height is about 3000 feet, with a few

higher summits, and the slopes are gentle in the

direction of the inclination of the "strata," with

precipices at the outcroppings, which give a line

variety to the scenery.

There is no sign of volcanic action in Dalmatia;

and the Nymphaeum near Apollonia, celebrated tor

the flames that rose continually from it, has probably

no reference to anything of a volcanic nature, but is

connected with the beds of asphaltum, or mineral

pitch, which occur in great abundance in the num-

mnlitic limestone of Albania.

The coast of what is now called Middle Albania,

or the Illyrian territory, N. of Epirus, is, especially

in its N. portion, of moderate height, and in some

places even low and unwholesome, as far as Alxom

(Yalona or Avluiui), where it suddenly becomes

ragged and mountainous, with precipitous dill's

descending rapidly towards the sea. This is the

Khimara range, upwards of 4000 feet high, dreaded

by ancient mariners as the Acro-Ccraunian promon­

tory. The interior of this territory was much su­

perior to N. Illyricum in productiveness: though

mountainous, it has more valleys and open plains for

cultivation. The sea-ports of Epidamnus and Apol­

lonia introduced the luxuries of wine and oil to the

barbarians; whose chiefs learnt also to value the

woven fabrics, the polished and carved metallic

work, the tempered weapons, and the pottery which

«m furnished them by Grecian artisans. Salt fish,

and, what was of more importance to the inland re­

sidents en lakes like that of Lychnidus, salt itself,

was imported. In return tbey supplied the Greeks

with those precious commodities, cattle and slaves.

Silver mines were also worked at Damastium.

Wax and honey were probably articles of export;

and h is a proof that the natural products of II-

ltria were carefully sought out, when we find a

species of iris peculiar to the country collected and

sent to Corinth, where its root was employed to give

the special flavour to a celebrated kind of aromatic

unguent. Grecian commerce and intercourse not

only tended to civilise the S. Illyrians beyond their

northern brethren, who shared with the Thracian

tribes the custom of tattooing their bodies and of

ofiering human sacrifices; but through the intro-

duction of Grecian exiles, made them acquainted

with Hellenic ideas and legends, as may be seen by

the tale of Cadmus and Harmonia, from whom the

chiefs of the Illyrian Enuhelees professed to trace

their descent. (Comp. Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. iv.

pp. 1—10, and the authorities quoted there; to

which may be added, Wilkinson, Dalmatia and

Montenegro, vol. i. pp. 38—42; J. F. Neigebaur,

Die Sudslaven, Leipzig, 1851; Niebnhr, Lect. on

Ethnog. and Geog. vol. i. pp. 297—314; Smyth,

The Mediterranean, pp. 40—45; Hahn, AUtane-

sische Siiidien, Wieu, 1854.)

4. Race and National Character.—Sufficient is

not known either of the language or customs of the

Illyrians, by which their race may be ascertained.

The most accurate among the ancient writers have al­

ways distinguished them as a separate nation, or group

of nations, from both the Thracians and Epirots.

The ancient Illyrians are unquestionably the an­

cestors of the people generally known in Europe by

the name Albanians, but who are called by the

Turks " Arnauts," and by themselves" Skipetares,"

which means in their language " mountaineers," or

"dwellers on rocks," and inhabit the greater part

of ancient Illyricum and Epirus. They have a pe­

culiar language, and constitute a particular race,

which is very distinct from the Slavonian inhabit­

ants who border on them towards the N. The an­

cients, as has been observed, distinguished the Il­

lyrians from the Epirots, and have given no intima­

tions that they were in any way connected. But

the Albanians, who inhabit both Illyricum and

Epirus, are one people, whose language is only varied

by slight modifications of dialect. The Illyrians

appear to have been pressed southwards by Slavonian

hordes, who settled in Dalmatia. Driven out from

their old territories, they extended themselves to­

wards the S., where they now inhabit xiany districts

which never belonged to them in former times, and

have swallowed up the Epirots, and extinguished

their language. According to Schafarik {Slav. A It

vol. i. p. 31) the modern Albanian population is

1,200,000.

Ptolemy is the earliest writer in whose works the

name of the Albanians has been distinctly recognised.

He mentions (iii. 13. § 23) a tribe called Aluani

('AASavot) and a town Albanopolis ('AA£a-

koVoAu), in the region lying to the E. of the Ionian

sea; and from the names of places with which

Albanopolis is connected, it appears clearly to have

been in the S. part of the Illyrian territory, and in

modern A Ibania. There are no means of forming a

conjecture how the name of this obscure tribe came

to be extended to so considerable a nation. The

latest work upon the Albanian language is that of

F. Hitter von Xylander {Die Sprache tier Albdticsen

oder Skhipetaren, 1835), who has elucidated this

subject, and established the principal facts upon a

firm basis. An account of the positions at which

Xylander arrived will be found in Frit-hard {The

Physical History of Mankind, vol. iii. pp. 477—

482).

As the Dalmatian Slaves have adopted the name

Illyrians, the Slavonian language spoken in Dalmatia,

especially at liagusa, is also called Illyrian; and

this designation has acquired general currency; but

it must always be remembered that the ancient

Illyrians were in no way connected with the Slave

races. In the practice of tattooing their bodies, and

offering human sacrifices, the Illyrians resembled the

Thrackns (Strab. vii. p. 315; Herod, v. 6): the

D 3

