LESBOS. 165 LESBOS.

purposes of a harbour. Its ichthyology is repeatedly

mentioned by Aristotle as remarkable. (Hist. Animal.

v. 10. § 2, v. 13. § 10, viii. 20. 8 15, ii. 25.

The surface of the island is mountainous. The

principal mountains wereOrdymnus in the W„Olym­

pus in the S., and Lepethymnus in the N. Their ele­

vations, as marked in the English Admiralty Charts,

are respectively, 1780, 3080, and 2750 feet. The

excellent climate and fine air of Lesbos are celebrated

by [>ii)dorus Siculus (v. 82). and it is still reputed

tu be the most healthy island in the Archipelago.

(Purdy's Sailing Directory, p. 154.) Tacitus (Ann.

ri. 3) calls it "insula nobilis et amoena." Agates

were found there (Plin. xxxvii. 54), and its quarries

produced variegated marble (xxxvi. 5). The whole­

some Lesbian wines (" innocentis pocula Lesbii,"

Hut. Carm. i. 17, 21) were famous in the ancient

world; but of this a more particular account is

pren under McriiYftCVA. The trade of the island

vii active and considerable; but here again we

mast refer to what is said concerning its chief city

Mvtilese. At the present day the figs of Lesbos

are celebrated; but its chief exports are oil and

(Tall-nuts. The population was estimated, in 1816,

at 25,000 Greeks and 5000 Turks.

Tradition says that the first inhabitants of Lesbos

were Pelasgians: and Xanthus was their legendary

leader. Next came Ionians and others, under Ma-

careus, who is said by Diodorus (v. 80) to have

introduced written laws two generations before the

Tniian war. Last were the Aeolian settlers, under

the leadership of Lesbus, who appears in Strabo

under the name Grails, and who is said to have

married Methymna, the daughter of Macareus.

Mrtilene was the elder daughter. This is certain,

thai the early history of Lesbos is identical with

that of the Aeolians. Strabo regards it as their

central seat (ax'°°y /xirrpoVoAir, xiii. pp. 616,

Hi). In mercantile enterprise, in resistance to the

Persians, and in intellectual eminence, the insular

As.lians teem to have been favourably contrasted

with their brethren on the continent. That which

Horace calls "Aeolium carmen" and "Aeoliae

Mejr (Carm. ii. 13. 24, iii. 30. 13) was due to

the senilis of Lesbos: and Niebuhr's expression

resrarding this island is, that it was "the pearl of

the Aeolian race." (Lectures on Ancient FAknology

t*f Geography, vol. i. p. 218.)

Lei-bos was not, like several other islands of the

Archipelago, such as Cos, Chios and Samos, the

territory of one city. We read of six Aeolian cities

in Letbos, each of which had originally separate

p^sesfiotjs and an independent government, and

which were situated in the following geographical

order. Methyxsa (now Molivo) was on the north,

almost immediately opposite Assos, from which it

was separated by one of the previously mentioned

tfraits. Somewhere in its neighbourhood was

Arisba, which, however, was incorporated in the

Mrtbrmnaean territory before the time of Herodotus

(i. 151). Near the western extremity of the island

were A.vnssA and Erkssi'S. The former was a

little to the north of Cape Sigrium, and was situated

w a snail island, which in Pliny's time (ii. 91) was

crniiected with Lesbos itself. The latter was on the

troth of the promontory, and is still known under

tb! name of Erissi, a modern village, near which

nuai hate been fonnd. At the head of Port Caloni

w» Pyemia, which in Strabo's time had been swal-

Ijwed op by the sea, with the exception of a suburb.

(Strab. xiii. p. 618; see Plin. v. 31.) The name of

Pera is still attached to this district according to

I'ococke. On the eastern shore, facing the main­

land, was Mytilene. Besides these places, we

must mention the following: — Hiera, doubtless at

the head of Port Olivier, said by Pliny to have been

destroyed before his day; Agamede, a village in

the neighbourhood of Pyrrha; Nape, in the plain of

Methymna; Aegiris, between Methymna and

Mytilene; and Polium, a site mentioned by Ste-

phanus B. Most of these places are noticed more

particularly under their respective names. All of

them decayed, and became unimportant, in compa­

rison with Methymna and Mytilene, which were si­

tuated on good harbours opjtosite the mainland, and

convenient for the coasting-trade. The annals of

Lesbos are so entirely made up of events affecting

those two cities, especially the latter, that we must

refer to them for what does not bear upon the general

history of the island.

From the manner in which Lesbos is mentioned

both in the Iliad and Odyssey (//. xxiv. 544, Od. iv.

342), it is evident that its cities were populous and

flourishing at a very early period. They had also

very large possessions on the opposite const. Lesbos

was not included in the conquests of Croesus.

(Herod, i. 27.) The severe defeat of the Lesbians

by the Salmans under Polycrates (iii. 39) 6eems

only to have been a temporary disaster. It is said

by Herodotus (i. 151) that at first they had nothing

to fear, when Cyrus conquered the territories of

Croesus on the mainland: but afterwards, with other

islanders, they seem to have submitted voluntarily

to Harpagus(i. 169). The situation of this island on

the very confines of the great struggle between the

Persians and the Greeks was so critical, that its

fortunes were seriously affected in every phase of

the long conflict, from this period down to the peace

of Antalcidas and the campaigns of Alexander.

The Lesbians joined the revolt of Aristagoras

(Herod, vi. 5, 8), and one of the most memorable

incidents in this part of its history is the consequent

hunting down of its inhabitants, as well as those of

Chios and Tenedos, by the Persians (Herod, vi. 31;

Aesch. Pers. 881). Aftor the battles of Salamis and

Mycale they boldly identified themselves with the

Greek cause. At first they attached themselves to

the Lacedaemonian interest: but before long they

came under the overpowering influence of the naval

supremacy of Athens. In the early part of the

PeloponneBian War, the position of Lesbos was more

favourable than that of the other islands: for, like

Corcyra and Chios, it was not required to furnish a

money-tribute, but only a naval contingent (Thuc.

ii. 9). But in the course of the war, Mytilene was

induced to intrigue with the Lacedaemonians, and to

take the lead in a great revolt from Athens. The

events which fill so large a portion of the third book

of Thucydides — the speech of Cleon, the change

of mind on the part of the Athenians, and the

narrow escape of the Lesbians from entire massacre

by the sending of a second ship to overtake the first —

are perhaps the most memorable circumstances con­

nected with the history of this island. The lands of

Lesbos were divided among Athenian citizens (icAn-

poDyoi), many of whom, however, according to

Boeckh, returned to Athens, the rest remaining as a

garrison. Methymna had taken no part in the revolt,

and was exempted from the punishment After the

Sicilian expedition, the Lesbians again wavered in

their allegiance to Athens; but the result was unim­

M 3

