IMAUS. 41 IMliROS.

Seroda, in Granada and California), and survives

in the modern Himalaya.

From very early times the Greeks were aware of

a great line of mountains running throughout Central

Asia, nearly E. and \Y., between the 36th and 37th

degrees of latitude, and which was known by the

name of the diaphragm of Dicaearchus, or the

parallel of Rhodes.

The Macedonian expeditions of Alexander and

Self ocus Xicator opened up Asia as far as the sources

of the Ganges, but not further. But the knowledge

which the Greeks thus obtained of Asia was much

enlarged by intercourse with other Eastern nations.

The indications given by Strabo and Ptolemy (7. a),

when compared with the orographic configura­

tion of the Asiatic continent, recognise in a very

remarkable manner the principal features of the

mountain chain of Central Asia, which extends from

the Chinese province of /loupe, S. of the gulf of

Pelckeli, along the line of the Kuen-liin (not, as has

generally been supposed, the Himalaya), continuing

from the Hmdu-Kush along the S. shores of the

Caspian through Mnzanderan, and rising in the

crater-shaped summit of Damdvend, through the

pus of Elburt and Ghilan, until it terminates in the

Turns in the SW. corner of Asia Minor. It is

true that there is a break between Taurus and the

W. continuation of the Hindi-Kiish, but the cold

"plateaux" of Aterbijan and Kurdistan, and the

isolated summit of Ararat, might easily give rise to

the (apposed continuity both of Taurus and Anti-

Tanros from Karamania and Argaeus up to the

high chain of Elburz, which separates the damp,

wooded, and unhealthy plains of Mazanderdn from

the arid * plateaux " of Irak and Khurasan.

The name of Imaus was, as has been seen, in the

first instance, applied by the Greek geographers to

the Hindii-Kush and to the chain parallel to the

equator to which the name of Himalaya is usually

given in the present day. Gradually the name was

transferred to the colossal intersection running N.

sod S.,—the meridian axis of Central Asia, or the

Bolor range. The division of Asia into " intra et

extra Imauin" was nnknown to Strabo and Pliny,

though the latter describes the knot of mountains

formed by the intersections of the Himalaya, the

Bwtit-Kush, and Bohr, by the expression " quorum

(Monte* Emodi) promontorium Imaus vocatur " (vi.

17). The Bolor chain has been for ages, with one

or two exceptions, the boundary between the empires

of China and Turkestan; but the ethnographical

distinction between " Scythia intra et extra Imaum"

was probably suggested by the division of India into

"intra et extra Gangem," and of the whole con­

tinent into " intra et extra Taurum." In Ptolemy,

or rather in the maps appended to all the editions,

and attributed to Agathodaemon, the meridian chain

of Imaus is prolonged up to the most northerly plains

of the Irtych and Obi. The positive notions of the

aodents upon the route of commerce from the

Eophrsta to the Seres, forbid the opinion, that the

idea of an Imaus running from N. to S., and N. of

the Himalaya, dividing Upper Asia into two equal

parts, was a mere geographic dream. The expres­

sions of Ptolemy are so precise, that there can be

little doubt but that he was aware of the existence

of the Bolor range. In the special description of

Central Asia, he speaks twice of Imaus running from

&• to N., and, indeed, clearly calls it a meridian

chain (inra uAonutoirhy w«m ypaufiiiv, Ptol. vi.

'*• § I: comp, vL 13. § 1), and places at the foot

of Imaus the Byltae (BPxtoi, vi. 13. § 3), in the

country of Little Thibet, which still bears the in­

digenous name of Baltistan. At the sources of the

Indus are the Daradrae (viii. 1. § 42), the

Dardars or Derders mentioned in the poem of the

Mahdbhdrata and in the fragments of Megnsthenes,

through whom the Greeks received accounts of the

region of auriferous sand, and who occupied the S.

slopes of the Indian Caucasus, a little to the W. of

Kaschmir. It is to be remarked that Ptolemy does

not attach Imaus to the Comedorum Months

(Koundout), but places the Imaus too far to the E.,

8° further than the meridian of the principal source

of the Ganges (Gungotri). The cause of this mis­

take, in placing Imaus so far further towards the

E. than the Bolor range, no doubt arose from the

data upon which Ptolemy came to his conclusion

being selected from two different sources. The

Greeks first became acquainted with the Comedorum

Monies when they passed the Indian Caucasus be­

tween Cttbul and Balkh, and advanced over tho

"plateau " of Bamian along the W. slopes of Bolor,

where Alexander found, in the tribe of the Sibae,

the descendants of Heracles (Strab. xvi. p. 688),

just as Marco Polo and Burnes (Travels in Bokhara,

vol. ii. p. 214) met with people who boasted that

they had sprung from the Macedonian conquerors.

The N. of Bolor was known from the route of the

traffic of the Seres, as described by Marinus of

Tyre and Ptolemy (i. 12). The combination of

notions obtained from such different sources was

imperfectly made, and hence the error in longi­

tude.

These obscure orographical relations have been

illustrated by Humboldt upon the most logical prin­

ciples, and the result of many apparently contra­

dictory accounts is so presented as to form one

connected whole. (Asie Centrah, vol. i. pp. 100

—164, vol. ii. pp. 365—440.)

The Bolor range is one link of a long series of

elevated ranges running, as it were, from S. to N.,

which, with axes parallel to each other, but alter­

nating in their localities, extend from Cape Comorin

to the Icy Sea, between the 64th and 75th degrees

of longitude, keeping a mean direction of SSE. and

NNW. Lassen (lndische A Iterthumskunde) coincides

with the results obtained by Humboldt. [E. B. J.]

I'MBRASUS ("lM6>a<rot), one of the three small

rivers flowing down from Mount Ampelus in tho

island of Samos. (Strab. xiv. p. 637 ; Plin. v. 37.)

According to a fragment from Callimachus (213;

comp. Schol. ad Apollon. Shod. i. 187, ii. 868), this

river, once called Parthenius, flowed in front of the

ancient sanctuary of Hera, outside the town of Samos,

and the goddess derived from it the surname of

Imbrasia. [L. S.]

IMBRIKIUM. [Samnium.]

IMBROS ("I/ts>f: Eth. "Ifitpios), an island in

the Aegaean sea, off the SW. coast of the Thraeian

Ghersonesns, and near the islands of Samothrace

and Lomnos. According to Pliny (ir. 12. s. 23), Im-

bros is 62 miles in circumference; but this is nearly

double its real size. It is mountainous and well

wooded, and its highest summit is 1845 feet above

the level of the sea. It contains, however, several

fertile valleys, and a river named Ilissus in antiquity.

(Plin. I. c.) Its town on the northern side was

called by the same name, and there are still some

ruins of it remaining. Imbros was inhabited in

early times by the Pelasgians, and was, like the

neighbouring islind of Samothrace, celebrated for its

