METELLIXUM. METHANA 349

won as the Carthaginian general discovered the

arrival of Claudius, with an auxiliary force of 6000

foot and 1000 horse, he broke up his camp and re­

treated in the nipht to the Metaurus, which was

about 14 miles from Sena. He had intended to cross

the river, but missed the ford, and ascended the right

bank of the stream for some distance in search of

one, till, finding the banks steeper and higher the

further he receded from the sea, he was compelled

to halt and encamp on a hill. With the break of

day the Soman armies overtook him, and compelled

him to a general engagement, without leaving him

time to eross the river. From this account it is

clear that the battle was fought on the right bank of

the Metaurus, and at no great distance from its

mouth, as the troops of Hasdrubal could not, after

their light march from Sena, have proceeded many

miles np the course of the river. The ground,

which is weH described by Arnold from personal

inspection, agrees in general character with the de­

scription of Lrvy; but the exact scene of the battle

cannot be determined. It is, however, certainly an

error to place it as high up the river as Fossombrone

(Fomm Sempronri), 16 miles from the sea, or even,

as Cramer has dune, between that town and the

pass of the Furlo. Both he and Vaudoncourt place

the battle on the left bank of the Metaurus, which

is distinctly oppeeed to the narrative of Livy. Appian

and Z^naras, though they do not mention tiie name

of the Metaurus, both fix the site of the Soman camp

at 6eaa; but the former has confounded this with

Sena ia Etruria, and has thence transferred the whole

theatre of operations to that country. (Appian,

Awui. 52; Znnar. ix. 9; Arnold's Rome, vol. iii. pp.

364—374; Vaudoncourt, Campagnes dAnnibul, vol.

iii. »p. 59—64; Cramer's Italy, vol. i. p. 260.)

2. (Mrrtwoos), a river of Brattium, flowing into

the Tyrrhenian sea, between Medma and the Scyl-

laeaa promontory. It is mentioned both by Pliny

and Strabo; and there can be no doubt that it is the

river now called the Marro, one of the most consi­

derable streams in this part of Bruttium, which flows

into the sea about 7 miles S. of the Mesima, and

18 from the rock of Scilla. (Strab. vi. p. 256; Plin.

iii. 5. s. 10; Romanelb, vol. i. p. 66.) There was a

torn of the same name at its mouth. [Metau-

im] [E. H. B.]

JiETELLFNUM (ft. Anton, p. 416; Metelion,

GeoRr. Rav. iv. 44), or METALLl'NUM (Colonia

Meiillinensis, Plin. iv. 21. a. 35), a Roman colony

of I.usitania on the Anas, 24 Roman miles from

Augusta Emerita, now Medellin. The modern town

lies on the southern side of the river, so that the

ancinu town ought to have been included in Baetica

Hettce some modem writers have conjectured that the

Anas may here have changed it* bed. The form of

the name would lead to the supposition that the co­

ke; was founded by Metellus, in which case Metel-

Imun would be a more correct form than Metal-

biim.

METEON", a town oi the Labeate*, to which

Gmtins removed his wife and family. (Liv. xliv.

32; Medinn, Geogr. Rav.) It may perhaps be

ifresnited by the village of Meterees in the Iiieka

d.wxiet of Mrmle-Segro, to the N. of fxike Scutari.

(Wiiltinwn, Dalmatia, vol. i. p. 552.) [E. B. J.]

METHA'NA (tb Mtfaya, Pans., Strab., et alii;

Mrtava», Thuc iv. 45; Diod. xii. 65; Mtvrfvq,

* Stmbo says (viii. p. 374), "that in some copies  
■f Thocydidea it was written ttiiwrn, like the town

Ptol. iii. 16. § 12: Methana), a striking rocky

peninsula, connected by a narrow isthmns with the

territory of Troezen in Argolis, and containing a

city of the same name. Pausanias describes Me-

thana as an isthmus running far into the sea (ii. 34.

§ 1); Thucydides more correctly distinguishes be­

tween the isthmus and chersonesus (iv. 45); and

Ptolemy also speaks of the chersonesus (iii. 16.

§ 12). The isthmus is only about 1000 feet broad,

but it immediately spreads out equally on both sides.

The outline of the peninsula is grand and picturesque.

The highest mountain, called Chelona, which is

2281 (French) feet above the level of the sea, is of

a conical form, and was thrown up by a volcano.

The whole peninsula bears marks of volcanic agency.

The rocks are composed chiefly of that variety of

lava called trachyte; and there are hot sulphureous

springs, which were used in antiquity for medicinal

purposes. Pausanias speaks of hot baths at the

distance of 30 stadia from the city of Methana,

which were said to have first burst out of the gruund

in the time of Antigonus, son of Demetrius, king of

Macedon, after a violent volcanic eruption. Pausanias

adds that there was no cold water tor the use of the

bather after the warm bath, and that he could not

plunge in the sea in consequence of the sea-dogs and

other monsters. (Pans. /. c.) Strabo, in describing

the same volcanic eruption to which Pausanias al­

ludes, says that a hill 7 stadia high, and fragments

of rocks as high as towers, were thrown up; that in

the day-time the plain couid not be approached in

consequence of the In at and sulphureous smell, while

at night there was no unpleasant smell, but that the

heat thrown out was so great that the sea boiled at

the distance of 5 stadia from land, and its waters

were troubled for 20 stadia (i. p. 59). Ovid de­

scribes, apparently, the same eruption in the lines

beginning

"Est prope Pittheam tumulus Troezena"

{Met. xv. 296), and says that a plain was upheaved

into a hill by the confined air seeking vent. (Comp.

Lyett's Principles of Geology, pp. 10, 11, 9th ed.)

The French Commission point out the site of two

hot sulphureous springs; one called Vroma, in the

middle of the north coast, and the other near a

village Vromolimni, a little above the eastern shore.

There are traces of ancient baths at both places;

but the northern must be those alluded to by Pau­

sanias.

The peninsula Methana was part of the territory

of Troezen; but the Athenians took possession of

the peninsula in the seventh year of the Peloponne-

siau War, b. c. 425, and fortified the isthmus.

(Thuc. iv. 45.) There are still traces of an

ancient fortification, renewed in the middle ages,

and united by means of two forts. In the penin­

sula there are Hellenic remains of three different

mountain fortresses; but the capital lay on the

west coast, and the ruins are near the small vil­

lage of the same name. Part of the walls of the

acropolis and an ancient town on the north side

still remain. Within the citadel stands a chapel,

containing stones belonging to an ancient building,

and two inscriptions on marble, one of which refers

so called in Macedonia." This form is now found in

all the existing MSS. of Thucydides. But there can

be no doubt that M/fara, which has prevailed down

to the present day, is the genuine Doric form of the

name.

