1302 VIA LATIXA. VIA LATIKA.

natural lines of communication that must have been

in use from the earliest times. But it is not pro­

bable th.it the line of the Via Latina was completed

as a regular road till after the complete reduction

of botli the Latins mid Voiscians under the Roman

authority. It is true that Livy speaks of the Via

Latina as if it already existed in the time of Corio-

lanus (ii. 39), but he in fact uses the name only as

a ce"grapliieal description, both in this passage and

apain in the history B.C. 296, when he speaks of

Interamna as a colony " quae via Latina est" (x. 36).

Neither passage affords any proof that the rr*ad was

then in existence; though there is no doubt that there

was already a way or line of communication. The

course of the Via Latina is, indeed, more natural for

such a line of way than that of the more celebrated

Via Appia, and must have offered less difficulties

before the construction cf nn artificial road. Nor

did it present any such formidable passes in a mili­

tary point of view as that of Laatulae on the Ap-

pian Way, for which reason it w;is the route chosen

both by Pyrrhus when he advanced towards Home

in it. c. 280, and by Hannibal in B. c. 211.

(Liv. xxvi. 8, 9.) On the latter occasion the Car­

thaginian general seems certainly to have followed

the true Via Latina across Mount Algid03 and by

Tusculum (Liv. L o.) ; Pyrrhus, on the contrary,

turned aside from it as he approached Praeneste,

which was the farthest point that he reached in his

advance towards Rome,

Whatever may have been the date of the construc­

tion of the Via Latina, it is certain that long before

the close of the Republic it was one of the best

known and most frequented highways in Italy.

Strain) speaks of it as one of the most important of

the many roads that issued from the gates of Rome

(v. p. 237), and takes it as one of the leading and

most familiar lines of demarcation in describing the

cities of Latium. (Ib.) It was, however, in one

respect very inferior to its neighbour the Via Appia,

that it was not capable of any considerable extension,

but terminated at Casilinum, where it joined the

Via Appia. (St rah. /. c.) There was, indeed, a

branch road that was continued from Teanuin by

Allit'.ie and Telesia to Beneventum; but though this

is given in the Itineraries in connection with the Via

Latina (//in. Ant. pp. 122,304), it certainly was

not generally considered as forming a part of that

road, and was merely a cross line from it to the

Appian. On the other hand, the main line of the

Via Latina, which descended the valley of the Sacco,

received on its way the two subordinate lines of road

called the Via Labicana and Via Praenestina,

which issued from Rome by a different gate, but

both ultimately joined the Via Latina, and became

merged in it. (Strab. I.e.) Such at least is Strabo's

statement, and doubtless was the ordinary view of

the case in his time. Hut it would seem as if at a

later period tiie Via Labicana came to be the more

frequented road of the two, so that the Antonine

itinerary represents the Via Latina as joining the

Labicaua, instead of the converse. (Itin. Ant. p.

30G.)

The stations, as given in the Itinerary just cited,

arc as follow;—

Ad Decimum - - - x. M. p.

Koboraria - iii. (vi.)

Ad Pictas - xvii.

Compitum Anagninum - xv.

Kerentinnm (Ferentino) - viii.

Friisino (Frosinoru) - - vii.

Fregellar.um (Ceprano) - xrv. n*.

Fabrateria (5. Giovanni in

Cnrico) - - - iii.

Aquinum (Agvino) - - viii.

Casinum (5. Germane) - vii.'

Tearmm (Teano) - - xxriL

Cales (Calri) ~ - vi.

Casilinum (Capnua) - - til.

Capua (Sta Ataria) - - m.

(The four last stages are fu^piied fne? &+

Tabula. The Antonine Itinerary pves ocJy

branch of the road that led, as abore naxni- :j

Beneventum.)

It will be observed that, in it» rnr*.

as above set down, from R^me to F<TCt5i

the Via Latina did not pass through ar^ tow- •<

importance, the stations given being m*re M^i-

tiones, or places for changing borves. B-x n

account of the importance of this line rf read. £

will be necessary to describe it somewhat s>tv ta

detail.

The Via Latina issued from the Porta C»te*a to­

gether witli the Via Appia. It was not tul aire

half-way between that gate and the later F

Appia (Porta di S. Stbastiano), that the two

rated, and the Via Latina pursued its own cjl?*

through the gate in the walls of AurelisE thax de­

rived from it the name of Porta Latinau Frrr ti»

gate (now long closed) to a point 2 miles fnzr 'jj

Porta Latina, where it crosses the nxderr r*: ~"

Koine to A Ibano, the line of the ancient road as*?"

readily traced by portions of the pavemect, and tzji

of sepulchres, with which the Latin Way. as well a*rae

Flatninian and Appian (Juv. Sat. i. 171), was iff «d.

From that point the road may be seen proceeding 21

perfectly straight line, which is marked from hs:cr*

to distance by tombs and other mias, to tfct &•< rf

the Tusculan hills. The only one of them nzm

which deserve* any notice is that crimmccJy caj^d

the temple of Fort una Muliebris, which is in ma^ry

a sepulchre of imperial times. About 9 rraVs r-*^

the Porta Capena is a farm or hamlet aHai

rena, near which are the extensive remain* «i a

Roman villa, supposed to be that of Laci_ s*: a.

about a mile farther must be placed the star**

Decimum, the 10 miles being undoubtedly recira*

from the Porta Capena. Almost immediate fno

this point began the ascent of the TusroiaB LTi»

road still preserved nearly its former direct**, kw-

ing Grotta Fzrrata on the richt, and the crta*o &

Tusculum on the left; it then passed, as it *

scribed by Strain (v. p. 237), be;w?«i Tuseua

and the Alban Mount, following the lice ef a w*»

valley or depression between them, till it rt**4*itS»

foot of Mount Algidus, and, passing thrsora a txi

of notch in the ridge of that mountain, at a &

called La Cava, descended to the stati-m Ai Pica*

in the plain below. The course of the anaret rmJ

may be distinctly traced by remains of t!i*

ment still visible at intervals ; the sec-»d o-c.

It.iboraria (if the distance of six inJes grvw «

some MSS. be correct), must have sy>\i re*

the ruins of a mediaeval castle ailed J/

Thence to Ad Pictas the distance is cusk <

17 miles, which is certainly greatly aiKw* th- trsn

It was at this station that the Via L*bicma

the Latina; and from this cirramstaiice. rsr"?i"^

with the distances given thence t^ FTOtcsTX

we may place the site of Ad Pictas *«TDrj»^rT

the Ostrrin dS Afrzza Stlra, about 10 mSm Wrrai

Koboraria. Strabo calls it 210 *ta-fca

