SORACTE. 1023 SOTIATES.

W Sme (Plot. /. c), and tin royal residence of

iif named Arcatea. Th« people are evidently

am m the Surae of I'liny (vi. 30. a. 23).

m plana them in the mountains above Hadrut

•«p). [V.]

ORACTE (M<mte S. Orate), a mountain of

-l. litoated between Falerii and the Tiber,  
t 26 miks N. of Rome, from which it fonns a

in i 11* object. It is detached from the chain

lie Apennines, from which it is separated by the

*-■ ■ ing valley of tb« Tiber; yet in a geological  
tit belongs to the Apennine range, of which it

■ wilting offset, being composed of the hard

tome limestone, which at once distinguishes it

i the Hons Ciinimu and the other volcanic hills

thtch it is surrounded. Though of no great

iiun, hring only 2420 feet in height, it rises in

«W and abrupt mass above the surrounding

t (or rather table-land), which renders it a

:iag and picturesque object, and a conspicuous

m» in ill views of the Camjmgnn. Hence the

tan of its name by Horace in a well-known ode

m. i. 9) is peculiarly appropriate. It was con-

<tfJ ki Apollo, who had a temple on its summit,

M) 'o the Mine spot now occupied by the mo-

rrrt4S.SUrrstro, and was worshipped there with

kv rrligiou rites. His priests were supposed

Ute power of passing unharmed through

t-: tending on tin? hot cinders with their bare

(Virf. Am. viL 696, xi. 785—790; Sil. ItaL

J—ISl.rii. 662; Plin.vii.2.) Its rugged and

J peaks were in the days of Cato still the

I of wild goats. (Varr. K. R. ii. 3. § 3.)

* t* ktands about 6 miles from Cirita Castel-

uvtita of the ancient Falerii, and 2 from the

■ It derives its modern appellation from the

» of Samt Oreste, which stands at its S. ex-

t» no a steep and rocky hill, forming a kind of

r hdge at the foot of the more elevated peaks

net* itself. This site, which bears evident

of urient habitation, is supposed to be that of

*"iot Fero5IA or Lucus Feroxtak. (Den-  
Ftruria, vol. i. p. 179.) [E. U. B.]

WHODirxUM, or SORVIOnU'NUM, a town

**3nu Roman*, in the territory of the Belgao.  
-<»'. pp. 483, 486.) It is identified with Old  
K wfcere coins of several Roman emperors have

hmt, and where the traces of the ancient

■ vails show it to have been about half a

a rjrumfrrenee. (Camden, p. 113.) [T.H.D.]

KDICE, a lake in Gallia. A river Sordus ran

tii« Ptmg Sordice, in the country of the Sor-

w Sunii. [Sordoxks.]

i hie paltuque, qnippe ditTuse patet,

ae istam Sordicen cognominant."

*•», Or. Mar., mm I. Vossius reads it.)

I Santie* u supposed by some geographers to

■ ■>',.; tie Leueate; but others take it to be

ap fanner south, called E'tang de SL Nazaire,

r Kttmg He, Isemcate to be that near Salsulae,

m described hv Strabo, Mela, and others,

nat; Rcsctun.] [G. L.]

Umj.NES, or SAKDONKS, as the name has

i*s been written, a people in Gallia. Mt-la

*ritw ; after tbe Salsnlae fons "is the or a  
and the unall streams Telia and Tichis ;,

u bosriuo, and the virus Illiberis." Pliny

I begins his description of Gallia, Narbonen-

b Uw Ui of the Pyrenees* He taya: ** On

the const is the regio Sordonum or Sardomim, and

in the interior the Consuarani; the rivers Techum,

Veniodubrum; towns, llliberis and Ruscino." Thexo

Sortlones are the Sordi of Avienus (Or. Marit.

562): —

"Sordm inJe denique

Populns agebat inter avios locos

Ac perlinentes usque ad intcrius mare,

Qua pinifertae stint Pyrenae vertices.

Inter ferarurn lustra ducebat greges,

Et arva late et gurgitem ponti preinit:"

as I. Vossius reads the passage in his edition of Mela.

The Sordi then occupied the coast of the Mediter­

ranean from the Pyrenees northward, and the neigh­

bouring part of the interior at the north foot of the

Pyrenees. Ptolemy, as D'Anvillc observes, does not

mention the Sordoncs, and he has made the territory

of the Volcae Tectosages comprehend llliberis and

Ruscino. The Sordones probably occupied the whole

of the territory called ItmissilLm, and they would bo

in possession of that pass of the Pyrenees called

Cot de Pertta, which is defended by the fort of

Bellegartle. They bordered on the Consorani. [Con-

hokani.] [G. I,.]

SORICATtlA, a place in Hispania Baetica, men.

tioned by Hirtius (B. Hisp. c. 24), and the same

called also " Soritia " by that author (c. 27). Ukert

(ii. pt. i. p. 361) seeks it in tho neighbourhood of the

Finnan Salsnm (the Salado), S. of tbe Baetis, and

between Osttfia and Anteqnera. [T. H. !>.]

SORING! (JlprrM, ftripL Af. E. p. 34), a

people of the southern part of Hmdostan, who ap­

parently dwelt along the banks of the Chaberua

(KAvtri). Lassen places them below the Sorae, on

the slopes of the hills above Madras. [V.}

SORITIA. [SoMCAJUA.]

SORNUM, (Zo>ok, Ptol. iii. 8. § 10), a city of

Dacia; now Gieritza. [T. H. D.j

SORO'RES (AD), a station in Lusitanin, N. of

Emerita. (Itin.Ant. p. 433.) Variously identified

with Monfanchfs and Aliseda. [T. H. I>.]

SOSTOMAGUS, in Gallia, is placed by the Jeru­

salem Itin. between Tolosa (Toulmse) and Carcaso

(CarcoMone), 38 miles from Toulouse and 24 from

Carcassone. The road is nearly direct, and if the

distances are correct, we might perhaps find some

name like Sosto in the proper place. Some geo­

graphers have found Sostomagus near Castelnau-

dari. [G. L]

SOTERA, a place in Ariana, mentioned by Am-

mianus (xxiii. 6). It is probably the same as that

called br Ptolemy Zttrrupa (vi. 17. § 7). [V.]

SOTIA'TES or SONTIATES, a people of Aqni-

tania. Schneider (Caesar, B. G. iii. 20) who writes

M in Sontiatium fines rt has a long note on the various

forms of this word. Kicolaus I>amascenus (quoted

by Athenaeus.vi. p. 249) writes the name Sotiaui, but

as Caesar was his authority for what he says,

he may have altered the form of the word. In Dion

Cassius (xxxix. c. 46) the reading is 'Amrfrar (ed.

Reimarus); but there are other variations in the

MSS. In Pliny (iv. 19) we find among the na­

tions of Aquitania "Ansei, Elusates, Sottiates,

Osquidatee Campestres.*' Orosius (v\. 8. ed. Haver-

kamp) has Sontiates, but one MS. has Sotiates and

others have Sociates.

In B. c. 56 Caesar sent P. Crassns into Aqui­

tania. Crassns came from the north, and after sum­

moning tho men of fighting age who were on tho

muster rolls of Toulouse^ Carcasscne,Mnd Narbonne,

