RHAGAE. 7D1 RHAMNUS.

V. Cam. rr. 14. IS). Like all mountaineers,

*v eseriabed pmt love of freedom, and fought  
■nt the Rrcnana with rage and despair, as we

n from Flora (it. 12), who states that the

brum women, who also took part in the war,

la? oarrof spent their arrows, threw their own

atrea in the face* of the Romans. Still, however,

r< m obhred to yield, and in B.C. 15 they were

air subdued, and their country was made a

ma amine*. During the later period of the

vsn their territory was almost entirely depopu-

* tot it aomewhat recovered at the time when  
r utroroths. under Theodoric, took possession of

i nsatry, and placed its administration into the

kk ef a Dux (Euipp. YU. S. Seterini, 29;

afd. Per. ir. 4). After the death of Theodoric,

i Bonaoru spread over Rhaetia and Noricum, and

I nror Liens became the boundary between the

eaam in Vindelicii, and the Boioarii in Rhaetia.

rm ViL Carol. M 11.) The more important

ast :b* various tribes mentioned in Rhaetia, such

iif IKTOSTH. VlBERI. CALUCONKS, VeMNOICES,

niro, Ikarci. Brixextes, Gexauni, Tki-

■mv and Eloaxei, are discussed in separate

aba Tridentnrn was the most important among

i (rw towns of the country; the others are

srs ahnoat exclusively through the Itineraries,

■ having been made through Rhaetia by

aVnaaa, the one leading from Augusta Vindc-

ra M Cuonm, and the other from the same

■ Si Verona; Paolus DUconus, however, mon­

ks sear towns of the interior which wero not

aaaf oa these high-roads, such as the town of

•.wakh was destroyed in the eighth century by

tal of a mountain, and the site of which is now

Barf by the town of Her an. [L. S.]

HaGAE (TNryol, Arrian, Andb. iii. .30; Strab.

p. 414, 524; 'Patycia, Isidor. Char. § 7; v 'Pd-ya,

ft. B. *. v.; 'Pd-youa. Ptol. vi. 5. § 4; Rhagcs,

a l 14: Etk. 'Paryerdr), a great town of Media

pat, the capital of the province of Rhagianu,

- o first known to ns in history as tho place to  
B the Jewish exiles were sent. (/'•', i. 14,

13 ix. 2.) It was sit tutted in the eastern part

k» uajatjy towards Parthia, one day's journey

I tat PyW Caspiae (Arrian, Anab. iii. 20) and

pjrV fsaarrh from Ecbatana (Hamatlon). The

r of taw place is stated by Strabo to have been

ad from the frequent earthquakes to which it

Van aabject, bat this is contrary to all proba-

I (Smb. xi. p. 514); he adds, also, that,

■as&y other places in the neighbourhood, it had

suit (or rather rebuilt) by the Greeks (p.

la hater times it appears to have been re-

vt Srlencos Nicator, who called it Europus.

t. L c.) Still later it appears to have been

^-airt by one of the house of Arsaces, who

t rt ia coaaeqnence Arsacia. (Strab. I. a.;

L E. a. o ) In modem times the ancient name

arsraed; sod the rains of Rkey, which have

»- ■:*#-! and described by many travellers, no

-•f resent the site of the ancient Rhngae.

Pater. TVojretV, vol. i. p. 358.) Pliny men-

a town of Parthia, which he calls Apameia

anr («L 14. § 17). Some geographers have

:>~i that this it the same as Rhagae; but the

ar- ia rather that it is not. [V.]

lAOtA'SA- [Bhaoae.]

1AMAE, a town in the interior of Thrace.

rrwroa. p. 5«8.) [T. H. D.]

VMASITAE. I. CPo^'toi, Strab.xri. p.

782), supposed by Mr. Forstcr to be identical with tho

Rhabanitae of Ptolemy ('PaSaviTai, vi. 7. § 24),

whom that geographer places under Mount Climax.

He says "their common position, north of Mount

Climax, concurs with the resemblance of the two

names to argue the identity" (Geoff, of Arabia,

vol. i. p. 68, note); but it is by no means clear

that the Rhamanitae lay near Mount Climax. All

that Strabo says of them is, that Marsiaba, the

limit of the expedition of Aelius Gallus, the siege

of which he was forced to raise for want of water,

lay in the country of the Rhamanitae; but nothing

in geography is more difficult to determine than the

situation of that town. [Maksyaba.]

2. A people of the same name is mentioned by

Pliny, as existing on the Persian Gulf, identical

with the Anariti of Ptolemy and the Epimara-

NUM.. [G. W.]

RHAMIDAVA. [Dacia, p. 744, b.]

RHAMNUS. 1. ('Pauvovt, -ow-toj: Elh. 'Paji-

vouaios, fern. 'Pafwovcia, 'Pa/xfowWj), a demus of

Attica, belonging to the tribe Acantis (Stcph. B.,

Harpocr., Suid., *. v.), which derived its name from

a thick prickly shrub, which still grows upon the

site. ('Pafwous, contr. of bapy6tis from bdixvot.)

The town stood upon the eastern coast of Attica, at

the distance of 60 stadia from Marathon, and upon

tho road leading from the latter town to Oropus.

(Paus. i. 33. § 2.) It is described by Scylax (p.

21) as a fortified place; and it appears from a

decree in Demosthenes (pro Cor. p. 238, Reiske)

to have been regarded as one of the chief fortresses

in Attica. It was still in existence in the time of

Pliny('-Rhamnus pagus, locus Marathon,''iv.7.s.11).

Rhamnus was the birthplace of the orator Antiphn

[Diet of Bioffr. t. r.] ; but it was chiefly celebrated

in antiquity on account of its worship of Nemesis,

who was hence called by the Latin poets Rhammaia

rirr/o and Rhamnusia ilea. (Catull. Ixvi. 71; Claud.

B. Get. 631: Or. Met. iii. 406, Trial. V. 8. 9; Slat.

Silt. iii. 5. § 5.) The temple of the goddess was

at a short distance from the town. (Paus. /. cj

comp. Strab. ix. p. 399.) It contained a celebrated

statue of Nemesis, which, according to Pausanias,

was the work of Pheidias, and was made by him out

of a block of Parian marble, which the Persians had

brought with them for the construction of a trophy.

The statue was of colossal sine, 10 cubits in height

(flesych. t. r.; Zenob. Prov v. 82). and on its basis

were several figures in relief. Other writers say

that tho statue was tho work of Agoracritus of

Paros, a disciple of Pheidias. (Strab. ix. p. 396;

Plin. xxxvi. 5. s. 4. § 17, Sillig.) It was however

a common opinion that Pheidias was the real author

of the statue, but that he gave up the honour of tho

work to his favourite disciple. (Suid, t. v.; Zenob.

Lc.; Tietz. Chil. vii. 960.) Rhamnus stood in a

small plain, 3 miles in length, which, like that of

Marathon, was shut out from the rest of Attica by

surrounding mountains. The town itself was situ­

ated upon a rocky peninsula, surrounded by the sea

for two-thirds of its circumference, and connected

by a narrow ridge with the mountains, which closely

approach it on tho land side. It is now culled

Ovrid'Kattro. (JO€pi6-Kaarpo, a corruption of

'E6ptu6v-KaffTpov, Jetcs-CastU, a name frequently

applied in Greece to the ruins of Hellenic fortresses.)

It was about half a mile in circuit, and its remains

are considerable. The principal gate was situated

upon the narrow ridge already mentioned, and is

still preserved; and adjoining it is the southern wall,

