616 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA.

annals of one of the oldest and most remarkable

people of antiquity; and, by a perver.se fate, t he in­

ventors of letters have been deprived of that benefit

which their discovery has bestowed on other, and

often less distinguished, nations which have bor­

rowed it.

The arithmetical system of the Phoenicians re­

sembled that of the Egyptians. The units were

marked by simple strokes, whilst 10 was denoted

either by a horizontal line or by a semicircle; 20 by

the letter N; and 100 had also a special mark, with

strokes for the units denoting additional hundreds.

(Gesen. Moti. Phoen. i. I. c. 6.) Their weights and

measures were nearly the same as those of the

Jews.

The Phoenicians, and more particularly the Si-

doniana, excelled in the glyptic and plastic arts.

Their drinking vessels, of gold and silver, are fre­

quently mentioned in Homer: as the silver vase

which Achilles proposed as the reward of the victor in

the funeral games in honour of Patroclus (TZusdf, xxiii.

743), and the bowl given to Telemachus by Mene-

l.ius. (Od. iv. 61S; comp. Strab.xvi. p. 757.) The

Phoenicians probably also manufactured fictile and

glass vases; but the origin of the vases called Phoe­

nician, found in Sonthern Italy, rests on no certain

authority. They particularly excelled in works in

bronze. Thus the pillars which they cast fur Solo­

mon's temple were 18 cubits in height and 12 in

circumference, with capitals 5 cubits high. From

the nature of their country their architecture must

have consisted more of wood than of stone ; but they

must have attained to great art in the preparation

of the materials, since those designed for the temple

of Solomon required no further labour, but only to

be put together, when they arrived at Jerusalem.

The internal decorations were carvings in olive-wood,

cedar, and gold. The Phoenicians do not appear to

have excelled in sculpture. This was probably

owing to the nature of their religion. Their idols

were not, like those of Greece and Home, elaborate

representations of the human form, but mere rude and

shapeless stones called Baetuli; and frequently their

temples were entirely empty. Figures of the Phoe­

nician Venus, but of very rude sculpture, have, how­

ever, been found in Cyprus. The Phoenicians

brought to great perfection the art of carving and

inlaying in ivory, and the manufacture of jewellery

and female ornaments, which proved of such irre­

sistible attraction to the Grecian and Jewish women,

as may be seen in the story of Kumaeus in Homer

(Of/, xv. 415), and in the indignant denunciations

of Isaiah (in. 19). They likewise excelled in the

art of engraving gems. (2 Chron. ii. 14.) Music-

is said to have been an invention of the Sidonians

(Sanchoniath. p. 32, ed. Orel!.), and a peculiar sort

of cithara was called \vpo<potvt{. (Athen. iv. 183.)

VIII. Manufactures, Commerce, and Navi­

gation.

The staple manufacture of Phoenicia was the

celebrated purple dye; but it was not a monopoly,

Kzekiel (xxvii. 7) characterises the purple dye as

coming from Greece; and Egypt and Arabia also

manufactured it, but of vegetable materials. The

peculiarity uf the Phoenician article was that it was

obtained from fish of the genera buccinum and

inurex, which were almost peculiar to the Phoenician

coast, and which even there were found in perfection

only on the rocky part between the Tynan Climax

and the promontory of Canned. The liquor is 00O-

tamed in a little vein or canal which tttM u>

spiral line of these molluscs, and yields lutiverr

small drop. The fluid, which is extracted wili s

pointed instrument, is of a yellowish white, or tm

colour, and smells like garlic. If applied to

cotton, or wool, and exposed to a strong

it successively becomes green, blue, red, ml

purple; and when washed in soap and

bright and permanent crimson is produced,

buccinum, which is so named from iti

shape, is found on rocks near the t-hore, bi

Enures must be dredged in deep water. The

in its general form, resembles the

is rougher and more spinous. The Helix

also found on the Phoenician coast, yield* i

fluid. The superiority of the Tynan porpli

owing to the abundance and quality of trie "'

probably also to some chemical secret. The

accounts of these fish will be found in

(//. Anim. lib. v.) and Pliny (ix. 61. s. 62)

pceially in a paper of Keaumur in the flfi

I'Acadirnie des Sciences, 1711 j and of tiie

facture of the purple in Amati, fM Hesi

pitrarum, and lion Michaele Rosa, Itittai

delle Purport e delle Materie Veft tar if yramA

Antichi. Tlic trade seems to have been coooseu

Tyre, though the poets speak of Sidotuan pop

(Ovid, TV. iv. 2. 27.) Tyre, under the E«

had the exclusive privilege of manufactorac

imperial purple, and decrees were pmraalgaud

hihiting its use by all except magistrates.

Vopisc. Aurei. c.45; Suet. Aero, 32.) The

fixture seems to have flourished till the I

Constantinople by the Turks.

As lyre was tamed for its purple, so

renowned for its glass, which was made

fine land on the coast near Mount CanneL

(xxxvi. 65) describes its discovery as

Some merchants who had arrived on this

a cargo of natron, employed some lumps

instead of stones, to prop op their cautdroi

natron being melted by the heat of the fire,

stream of glass on the sand. It is prvbabie,

that the art was derived from Egypt, when

rished in very ancient times. The Sidoniaaa

of the blowpipe, the lathe or wheel, and the

They also cast glass mirrors, and were

quainted with the art of imitating previous

means of glass. (Plin. I. c.) [*he Phoearissl^H

also famous for the manufacture of cloth,

and embroidered robes, as we see in the

of thoM brought from Sides by Paris (

and in Scriptural allusions. (2 Cknm. iL ls|

Phoenicia was likewise cvlebraied for tta

(Juv. viii. 159; Plin. xi. 3. a. 2.)

Assyria and Egypt, as well as PI

reached a high pitch of civilisation, jet

phical position of the fonner, and

policy of the latter, prevented thr

mealing it. Ou the Phoenician*

the beneficent task of civilising

of commerce, for which their maritime

the borders of Europe and Asia adm

them. Their original occup

carriers of the produce and macnCactnimsjj

and Egypt (Herod, i. 1); but their marie m»i

riority led them to combine with it the p*4sflj

piracy, which in that age was not iec;u-ii*is •

graceful. (Thucyd. i. 5; Hi:-.. OtL x*. 4lJh

They were especially noted &a slave-dealera.

