NAUPLIA

403 NAUP0RTUS.

Third Messenian War, n. c. 455; and daring the

Peloprmnesian War it was the bead-quarters of the

Athenians in all their operations in Western Greece.

(Pans. iv. 24. § 7; Thnc i. 103, ii. 83, seq.)

After the battle of Aegospotami the Messenians were

upelled from Naupactus, and the Locrians regained

possession of the town. (Paus. x. 38. § 10.) It

afterwards passed into the hands of the Achaeans,

from whom, however, it was wrested by Epami-

nondas. (Diod. xv. 75.) Philip pave it to the

Aetolians (Strab. is. p. 427; Dem. I'liil. iii. p. 120),

sod hence it is frequently called a town of Aetolia.

(Scylax, p. 14; Mela, ii. 3; Plin. iv. 2. s. 3.) The

Aetolians vigorously defended Naupsctus against the

Romans for two months in B. c. 191. (Liv. xxxvi.

30, seq.; Polyb. v. 103.) Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 3)

calls it a town of the Locri Ozolac, to whom it must

therefore have been assigned by the Romans after

Pliny's time.

Pansanjas saw at Naupactns a temple of Poseidon

near the sea, a temple of Artemis, a cave sacred to

Aphrodite, aud the rains of a temple of Asclepius

(x. 38. §§ 12, 13). Naupactus is mentioned by

Hirrocles (p. 643); but it was destroyed by an earth­

quake in the reign of Justinian. (Procop. B. Goth.

iv. 25.) The situation and present appearance of

the town are thus described by Leake: —" The for­

tress and town occupy the south-eastern and southern

sides of a hill, which is one of the roots of Mount

Rigim. and reaches down to the sea. The place is

fortified in the manner which was common among

the ancients in positions similar to that of E'pakto,

—that is to say, it occupies a triangular slope with

a citadel at the apex, and one or more cross walls on

the slope, dividing it into subordinate enclosures.

At ITpaJcto there are no less than five enclosures

between the summit and the sea, with gates of com­

munication from the one to the other, and a side gate

on the west leading out of the fortress from the

second enclosure on the descent. It is not improbable

that the modern walla follow exactly the ancient plan

of the fortress, for in many parts they stand upon

Hellenic foundations, and even retain large pieces of

the ancient masonry amidst the modern work. The

present town occupies only the lowest enclosure; in

the middle of which is the small harbour which made

to great a figure in ancient history: it is now choked

with rubbish, and is incapable of receiving even the

larger sort of boats which navigate the gulf."

(.VortAerw Greece, vol. ii. p. 608.)

NAKTLIA (NovrXfo), a rock above Delphi.

[Dtaj-m. p. 764, a.]

NAU'PLIA (i) NavwXfa: Eth. NatnAifut), the

part of Argos, was situated upon a rocky peninsula,

connected with the mainland by a narrow isthmus.

It was a rerj ancient place, and is said to have de­

rived its name from Nanplius, the son of Poseidon

and Amrmone, and the father of Palamedes, though

it more probably owed its name, as Slrabo has ob­

served, to its harbour (av6 tov reus vav<j\ trpo-

<rwA.<irftu, Strab. viii. p. 368; Pans. ii. 38. § 2.)

Panamas tells us that the Nauplians were Egypt­

ians belonging to the colony which Danaus brought

to Argot (iv. 35. § 2); and from the position of their

city upon a promontory running out into the sea,

which is quite different from the site of the earlier

Grecian cities, it is not improbable that it was

oritriullv a settlement made by strangers from the

Kaat. Xanplia was at first independent of Argos,

and a member of the maritime confederacy which

"1 its meetings in the island of Calaarria. (Strab.

viii. p. 374.) About the time of the Second Mes-

senian War, it was conquered by tho Argives; and

the Lacedaemonians gave to its expelled citizens the

town of Methone in Messenia, where they continued

to reside even after the restoration of the Messenian

state by Epaminondas. (Paus. iv. 24. § 4, iv. 27.

§ 8, iv. 35. § 2.) Argos now took the piace of

Nanplia in the Calaureiau confederacy; and from this

time Nauplia appears in history only as the seaport

of Argos (o NafaAiot Af/ar/v, Eurip. Cheat. 767;

Aiaei'es NafarAioi, Electr. 451). As such it is

mentioned by Strabo (L c), but in the time of Pau-

sanias the place was deserted. Pansanins noticed

the ruins of the walls of a temple of Poseidon, certain

forts, and a fountain named Canathus, by washing

in which Hera was said to have renewed her vir­

ginity every year. (Paus. ii. 38. § 2.)

In the middle ages Nauplia was called to Nau-

■wKiov, to 'AMbrAiop, or to ArairAio, but has now

resumed its ancient name. It became a place of

considerable importance in the middle ages, and has

continued so down to the present day. In the time

of the Crusades it first emerges from obscurity. In

1205 it was taken by the Franks, and became the

capital of a small duchy, which commanded the plain

of Argos. Towards the end of the 14th century it

came into the hands of the Venetians, who regarded

it as one of their most important places in the Le­

vant, and who successfully defended it both against

Mahomet II. and Soliman. They ceded it to the

Turks in 1540, but wrested it from them again in

1686, when they constructed the strong fortifications

on Ml. Palomidhi. This fortress, although,reckoned

impregnable, was stormed by the Turks in 1715, in

whose bands it remained till the outbreak of the

war of Grecian independence. It then became the

seat of the Greek government, and continued such,

till the king of Greece removed his residence to

Athens in 1834.

The modern town Is described by a recent ob­

server as having more the air of a real town than

any place now existing in Greece under that title;

having continuous lines of houses and streets, and

offering, upon the whole, much the appearance of a

second-rate Italian seaport. It is built on the

peninsula; and some remains of the Hellenic fortifi­

cations may be seen in the site of the walls of Fort

ItekaU, which is the lower citadel of the town, and

occupies the site of the ancient Acropolis. The

npper citadel, called Palamidhi (naAaynr/5ioi'), is

situated upon a steep and lofty mountain, and is one

of the strongest fortresses in Europe. Although its

name is not mentioned by any ancient writer, there

can be little doubt, from the connection of Palamedes

with the ancient town, that this was the appellation

of the hill in ancient times. (Leake, Morea, vol. ii

p. 356, Peloponncriaca, p. 252; Mure, Tour in

Greece, vol. ii. p. 187 ; Boblaye, Recherchcs, tfe.

p. 50; Curtius, Peloponnaot, vol. ii. p. 389.)

NAUPOKTUS (Naifcropror). 1. (Laybach), a

small but navigable river in the south-west of

Pannonia, flowing by the town of Nauportus, and

emptying itself into the Savus a little below Ae.

mona. (Strab. iv. p. 207, comp vii. p. 314, where

some read Nowroiroj; Plin. iii. 23.)

2. A town in the south-west of Pannonia, on the

small river of the same name, was an ancient and

once flourishing commercial town of the Taurisci,

which carried on considerable commerce with Aqui-

leia. (Strab. vii. p. 314; Tac .dnn. i. 10; Plin

iii. 22; Veil Paterc ii. 110.) But after the

DDl

