JERUSALEM. 27 JERUSALEM.

This memorable siege baa been thought worthy of

special mention by Tacitus, and his lively abridg­

ment, as it would appear, of Josephus's detailed

narrative, mast have served to raise his country­

men's ideas, both of the military prowess and of the

powers of endurance of the Jews.

The city was wholly demolished except the three

towers Hippicus, Phasaelus, and Mariamne, and so

much of the western wall as would serve to protect

the legion left there to garrison the place, and pre­

vent any fresh insurrectionary movements among

the Jews, who soon returned and occupied the ruins.

The palace of Herod on Mount Sion was probably

converted into a barrack for their accommodation, as

it had been before used for the same purpose. (JBelL

Jwi. vii. I. § 1, ii. 15. § 5, 17. $§ 8, 9.)

Sixty years after its destruction, Jerusalem was

visited by the emperor Hadrian, who then conceived

the idea of rebuilding the city, and left his friend

and kinsman Aquila there to superintend the work,

a. t>. 130. (Epiphanius, de Pond, et Mem. §§ 14,

15.) He had intended to colonise it with Roman

veterans, but his project was defeated or suspended

by the outbreak of the revolt headed by Barco-

chebas, his son Rufus, and his grandson Romulus.

The insurgents first occupied the capital, and at­

tempted to rebuild the Temple: they were speedily

di=l<*lged, and then held out in Bethar for nearly

three years. [Bbthar.] On the suppression of

the revolt, the building of the city was proceeded

with, and luxurious palaces, a theatre, and temples,

with other public buildings, fitted it for a Roman

population. The Chronicon Alexandrinum men­

tions tA Svo Sr/poVta Kai to Utarpev xal to toikc£-

fitpov ttal to Terpdwfjupov teal rb oaiitKdwv\oy rb

•wplw ivofia{6n<voy 6va6a9uo\ xal t^v Kobpav.

A temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, from whom the

city derived its new naine, occupied the site of the

Temple, and a tetrastvle fane of Venus was raised

over the site of the Holy Sepulchre. The ruined

Temple and city furnished materials for these build­

ings. The city was divided into seven quarters

(a/i£o8ai),e*ch of which had its own warden (&n$o-

Mpx1)')- Part of Mount Sion was excluded from

the city, as at present, and was "ploughed as a

field.' (Micah, iii. 12; St. Jerome, Comment, in

be.; Itinerarium Hirrosol. p. 592, ed. Wcsseling.)

The history of Aelia Capitolina has been made the

subject of distinct treatises by C. E. Deyling, "Aeliae

Cipitclinac Origines et Historia" (appended to his

father's Obtervationet Sacrae, vol. v. p. 433, &c),

and by Dr. Miinter, late Bishop of Copenhagen

(translated by W. Wadden Turner, and published

in Dr. Robinson's Bibliotlteca Sacra, p. 393, &c),

«ho have collected all the scattered notices of it as

a pagan city. Its coins also belong to this period,

sad extend from the reign of Hadrian to Severus.

Ote of the former emperor (imp. caes. traian.

nADKlAirvs. avg., which exhibits Jupiter in a

Utrastyle temple, with the legend col- aei,. cap.)

confirms the account of Dion Cassius (lxix. 12), that

a temple to Jupiter was erected on the site of God's

temp'e (Eckhel, Doct. Num. Vet. pars i. torn. iii.

p. 443); while one of Antoninus (antokinvs. avo.

Piva. p. p. TR. P. cos. in., representing Venus in a

similar temple, with the legend c. A. c. or col. ael.

tap.) no less distinctly confirms the Christian tra­

dition that a shrine of Venus was erected over the

Sepulchre of our Lord. ( Vaillant, Numismata A erea

ImprraL m Col pt. i. p. 239; Eckhel, /. c. p. 442.)

Under the emperor Constantine, Jerusalem, which

had already become a favourite place of pilgrimage

to the Christians, was furnished with new attractions

by that emperor and his mother, and the erection of

the Martyry of the Resurrection inaugurated a new

aera of the Holy City, which now recovered its an­

cient name, after it had apparently fallen into com­

plete oblivion among the government officers in

I'alaestine itself. (Euseb. de Mart. PalauL cap. ii.)

The erection of his church was commenced the year

after the Council of Nicaea, and occupied ten years.

It was dedicated on the tricennalia of the emperor,

A. d. 336. (Euseb. Vita Comtantini, iii. 30—40,

iv. 40—47.) Under the emperor Julian, the city

again became an object of interest to the pagans,

and the account of the defeat of Julian's attempt to

rebuild the Temple is preserved by Ammianus Mar-

cellinus, an unexceptional witness (xsiii 1: all the

historical notices are collected by Bishop Warburton,

in his work on the subject, entitled Julian.) In

451, the sec of Jerusalem was erected into a patri­

archate; and its subsequent history is chiefly occu­

pied with the conflicting opinions of its incumbents

on the subject of the heresies which troubled the

church at that period. In the following century

(cir. 532) the emperor Justinian emulated the zeal

of his predecessor Constantine by the erection of

churches and hospitals at Jerusalem, a complete

account of which has been left by Procopius. {De

Aedificiis Justin ani, v. 6.) In A. D. 614, the city

with all its sacred places was desolated by the

Persians under Chosroes II., when, according to the

contemporary records, 90,000 Christians, of both

sexes and of all ages, fell victims to the relentless

fury of the Jews, who, to the number of 26,000,

had followed the Persians from Galilee to Jerusalem

to gratify their hereditary malice by the massacro

of the Christians. The churches were immediately

restored by Modestus; and the city was visited by

Heraclius (a. d. 629) after his defeat of the Per­

sians. Five years later (a. d. 634) it was invested

by the Saracens, and, after a defence of four months,

capitulated to the khalif Omar in person; since

which time it has followed the vicissitudes of tho

various dynasties that have swayed the destinies of

Western Asia.

It remains to add a few words concerning the

modern city and its environs.

V. The Modekx City.

El-Kods, the modem representative of its most

ancient name Kadeshah, or Cadytis, " is surrounded

by a high and strong cut-stone wall, built on the

solid rock, loop-holed throughout, varying from

25 to 60 feet in height, having no ditch." It was

built by the sultan Suliman (a. n. 1542), as is de­

clared by many inscriptions on the wall and gates-

It is in circuit about 2J miles, and has four gates

facing the four cardinal points. 1. The Jaffa Gate,

on the west, called by the natives Bab-el-Hallil, i. e.

the Hebron Gate. 2. The Damascus Gate, on tho

north, Bab-el-'AmQd, the Gate of the Column.

3. The St. Stephen's Gate, on the east, Bab-Sitti-

Miryam, St. Mary's Gate. 4. The Sion Gate, on

the south, Bab-cn-Nebi Dade!, the Gate of the Pro­

phet David. A fifth gate, on the south, near the

mouth of the Tyropoeon, is sometimes opened to

facilitate the introduction of the water from a neigh­

bouring well. A line drawn from the Jaffa date

to the Mosk, along the course of the old wall, and

another, cutting this at right angles, drawn from

the Sion to the Damascus Gate, could divide the

