PYTHO. QUADRATAE. 689

of Xrimgoras, a Greek mathematician, who

*srarsl the height of Olympus from these parts  
p. Plot A am I. Paul 15). Games were also

*-tTat*d here in honour of Apollo. (Steph. B. *. v.  
-*.»».) Pvthium commanded an important pass  
tmo Mount Olympus. 'I bis pass and that of

rsepe an the only two leading from Macedonia

Lh* r»rth-east of Thessaly. Leake therefore

■rss Pjthiam on the angle of the plain between

• Itmrylo and Lirddhi. though no remains of tbe

irr.t town have been discovered there. (Liv. xfii.

:. Hbu Steph. B., IL ce.; Ptol. iii. 13. § 42; Leake,

■ tesjs Greece, vol. iii. p.341,seq.)

i'l THO. [Delphi.]

rTTHCPOLIS. [Mtthepous.]

rV URATES. [Euphrates.]

I V X1TES (rii>{in|i), a small river in the east of

that, emptying itself into the Euxine 60 stadia

•tr north-east of Prytanis. (Plin. vi. 4;

san. Peripl P. K. p. 6; Anonym. Peripl. P. E.

Ik.) It 19 possibly tbe same as the Cissa mcn-

»■! by Ptolemy (v. 6. § 6), and is commonly

ninl with toe modern Vitzeh. [L.S.]

rTXDS. [BUXEHTUM.]

rTACEBXI. [QrEBqiERsi.]

(1 AX>f ( K i. a great German tribe in the

of Bohemia, in Moravia and Hungary,

Gabreta, the Uercynian and .Sar-

and tbe Danube. (Tac. Germ.

4am. ni. 29, Out. iii. 5, 21; Ptol. ii. 11. §

Ilsv rr. 25.) They were surrounded on the

■ •■■ ->t by the Marcomaniii, with whom they

always closely connected, on the north by the

afc Bad Obi, on tbe east by the Jazyges Me-

Hjv. and on tbe south by tbe Pannonians. It

tkssnrn when they came to occupy that country,

( ncu probable that they arrived there about

anT tune w ben the Murcomanni established

Bohemia. At tbe time when the

king Maroboduus and his successor

ring; driven from their kingdom, im-

prutection of the Romans, the latter in

I y assigned to them and their companions in

!<:»<.•!! the riven Munis and

a ax-i appointed Vannius, a Quadian. king of

tnvry (Tac Amm. ii. 63; Plin. iv. 25). This

txjduoi of the Quadi, after the expulsion of

has, wast divided between his nephews Vangio

Ian. who, how ever, continued to keep up a good

»Ct3.i-.r.s7 with the Romans. (Tac. Ann. xii.

fc> Tsaotas (<,trm. I c.) says that down to

ka usr tbe ilsrcomanni and Quadi had been

a*J by kings of the house of Maroboduus, but

tsss fcreigrjera ruled over them, though the

• sf these mlrrs was dependent on that of the

t •x.terrm. At s later tune the Quadi took an

-ssrt as Use war of t lie Marcomanni against the  
ry annihilated the whole army

was saved only by a sudden

i Ihon lass. l»i-8). Notwithstanding the

tarn ^vsocJnded with tbem, they still continued

=4* tar Bornaxt* by renewed acts of hostility,

|a sfanyssrar was obliged, for the protection

i asm sWaniiisarii. to erect several forts both

I sr=«xn*i their kingdom, in consequence of

la* people were nearly driven to abandon

rmjKXj. (Dion Cast. bui. 11, 13, 20.) Io

. a.

A. D. 180 the emperor Commodus renewed the peace

with them (Dion Cass. Ixxii. 2; Lamprid. Com. 3;

Herodian, i. 6), but they still continued their in­

roads into the Roman empire (Eutrop. ix. 9; Vo-

pisc. Aurel. 18; Amm. Marc. xvii. 12, xxix. 6).

Towards the end of the fourth century the Quadi

entirely disappear from history; they had probably

migrated westward with the Suevi, for Quadi are

mentioned among the Suevi in Spain. (Hieron. Ep.

9.) According to Ammianus Marcellinus (xvii. 12)

the Quadi resembled in many respects the Sarma-

tians, for they used long spears and a coat of mail

consisting of linen covered with thin plates of horn;

they bad in war generally three swift horses for

every man, to enable him to change them, and were

on the whole better as skirmishers than in an open

battle in the field. Ptolemy (I. c.) mentions a

considerable number of towns in their country,

such as Kburodunum, Meliodunum, Caridorgis, Me-

doslanium, &c.; the Celtic names of which suggest

that those districts previous to the arrival of the

Quadi had been inhabited by Celts, who were either

subdued by them or had become amalgamated with

them. The name Quadi itself seems to be con­

nected with the Celtic word col, cold, or coad, that

is, a wood or forest, an etymology which receives

support from tbe fact that Strabo (vii. p. 290), the

first ancient author that notices them, mentions

them under the name of KiiAJoi/oi. Tacitus evi­

dently regards them as Germans, but Latham (ad

Tac. Germ. p. 154) is inclined to treat them as

Sarmatians. (Conip. Wilhelm, Germanien, p. 223,

fol.) [L. S.]

QUADIA'TES. In the inscription on the arch

of Susa, published by Maffei, there is a list of tbe

Alpine peoples who were under the dominion of

Cottius. The first name is the Seguvii, and the

last is the Quadiates. There is nothing that enables

us to fix tbe position of the Quadiates.

Pliny (iii. 4) mentions a people in Gallia Nar-

bonensis under tbe name of Quariates. After naming

the Oxybii and Lingauni [Linoaini], he adds:

"Super quos Suetri, Quariates, Adunicates." The

valley of Queirat on the left bank of the Durance,

below Brianeon, and a little above Embran, is sup­

posed to represent the position of the Quariates.

D'Anville conjectures that the Quadiates of the

inscription may be the same as the Quariates, for

the R of the inscription, if it is not very clear, may

have been taken for a D; or the complete name

may have been Quadriates, the name of Queirat in

old records being Quadriatium. [G. L.]

QUADRA'TA (sc. Castra). 1. A Roman fort

in Upper Pannonia, on the river Savus, between the

towns of Noviodunum and Siscia. (It. Ant. pp.

260, 274; Gcogr. Rav. iv. 19; Tab. Peat.) No

remains appear to be extant, and tbe site accordingly

is unknown.

2. A fort in Upper Pannonia, on tbe road be­

tween Arrabona and Camuntum, not far from the

banks of the Danube. (It. Ant. p. 247.) Muchar

(Xoricum, p. 264) identifies it with a place be­

tween Orar and Orotzcar, now occupied by a large

farm of Count Zitsi. [L. S.]

QUADKA'TAE, a village or station in Gallis

Cisalpina, on tbe road from Augusta Taurinorum to

Ticinum. The Itineraries place it 22 or 23 miles

from the former city and 16 or 19 from Rigomagus

(Itin. Ant. pp. 340, 356; ltin. Hier. p. 557); hut

the latter station is itself of uncertain site. Qua-

dratao must have been situated between Csmuas

