U4i) THEBAE AEOYPTI. TI1F.BAE AEGYPTT.

the name of Haineses II. and III., the latter of whom

is the Sesostris of Herodotus, and who may therefore

be regarded as a clearly historical personage.

There can be do doubt of the greatness of Thehes

under bis sceptre. In this, as in many other in­

stances where Aepypt is concerned, the monuments

of the country enable us to approach the truth,

while the credulity of the Greek travellers and his­

torians in accepting the narrations of the Aegypt ian

priests — naturally eager, after their subjection by

the Persians, to exalt their earlier condition — only

tends to bewilder ami mislead. Thus, for example,

Diodorus (i. 54) was informed that Seaostria led into

tiie field 6UO,000 infantry, 24,000 cavalry, and

27,000 chariots; and he appeals to the passage

already cited from Homer to show that Thebes sent

so many chariots out of its hundred pales. There

is no evidence that the Aegypt ians then possessed a

fleet in the Mediterranean; yet Diodorus numbers

among his conquests the Cydades, and Dicaearchus

(SchoL in A poll. Jihxl. iv. 272) assigns to him

"the greater part of Europe." The monuments, on

the contrary, record nothing so incredible of this

monarch; although if we may infer the extent of his

conquesta and the number of his victories from the

space occupied on the monuments by their pictorial

records, he carried the arms of Aegypt beyond any

previous boundaries, and Counted among his subjects

races as various as those which, nearly 17 Centuries

later, were ruled by Trajan and the Antonines. The

reign of Kameses was of GO years' duration, that is

nearly of equal length with his life, for the first of

J lis victories—that recorded on the propylaea of the

temple of Luxor, and much more fully on those of

Ahousiinbel —was gained in his fifth year. We

must refer to works professedly dealing with Ae-

gyptian annals for his hisotry: here it will be

sufficient to observe of Barneses or Sesostris that

he added to Thebes the Baffiesctoo, now gene­

rally admitted to be the " monument of Osyman-

dyas" upon the western bank of the Nile; that he

was distinguished from all his predecessors by the

extent of bis conquests and the wisdom of bis laws;

and among his subjects for his strength, comeliness,

and valour. The very pre-eminence of Hameses III.

has, indeed, obscured his authentic history. To him

were ascribed many works of earlier and of later

monarch*,— such as the canal of the Pharaohs, be­

tween the Kile and the Red Sea; the dykes and

embankments which rendered the Delta habitable;

the great wall, 1500 stadia in length, between IV-

IttSlura and lleliujxdis, raised as a barrier against

the Syrians and Arabians; a rc-partition of the

land of Aegypt; the law of hereditary occupation

(Aristot. PoL vii. 10); and foreign conquests, or at

least expeditions into Western Asia, which rendered

tributary to him even the Cokhians and the Hae-

trians. (Tacit. Ann. ii. 60.)

With the 21st dynasty appear the trices of a

revolution affecting the Upper Kingdom. Tanks and

Bubastite Pharaohs are now lords of the Nile-valley:

and these are succeeded by an Aethiopian dynasty,

marking invasion and occupation of the Thebnid by

a foreigner. Perhaps, as Aegypt became mure in­

volved with the affairs of Asia—a result of the con­

quests ot the house of Barneses it may have peered

expedient to remove the seat of government nearer

t" the Syrian frontier. The dynasty of Sethns, the

Aethiopian, however, indicates a revolt of the pro-

vmies S. of the cataracts; and even after the Ae-

thiopians had withdrawn, the Lower Kingdom rc-

tained its pre-eminence. The Suite Pluraiai fcan"t

or despised the native militia, sod •sraassM

themselves with foreign mercenaries. Greek co­

lonies were established in the Delta ; asd A^ji

maintained a Meet an innovation extresNh pej*.

dicial to Thebes, since it implied that the oU iaes-

tion of the land was at on end. and thai tot ****

power was on the Syrian, and not an U* J

frontier. The stages of its decline cannot b» t

but Thebes seems to hare offered no opnnutiac

the fall of Memphis, to the Persians, sod i

after its occupation by Cambyses, new

place as a metropolitan city. Thit These* «•

partially restored after the destruction e/ at Sari in

secular buildings by the Persians, adais af at

doubt, since it was string enouzb in ic.K»

hold out against the forces of I*ua>my Loarm

Hut although the circuit of its walls oar? see

been undiminished, it seems never again to b»n ass

tilled as before with a dense population. The fcaai-

ation of Alcxandreia was more fatal to Thabo tss> 1

even the violence of Cambyses ; and it* ntcsas

against the Macedonians was perhaps pR>*sae

by jealousy of Greek commerce and rclapss- Tot j

hand of Lathyrus lay heavy on Thebes ; as* tan

this epoch probably dates the second stare ef sb

decline. From the glimpses we gain of it tbasfft

the writings of the Greeks and Romans, it apnea* v»

have remained the head-quarters of the ssnresnr I

order and of old Aegypt ian life and morxen. is* 1

Macedonian or Komon prefecture, it took bshsrsr

pirt in the affairs of Aegypt ; yet it prafoJ rrB» J

general peace of the world under the Caesars, Son

employed its wealth or labour in the rejair *r mm ,

ration of its monuments. The names •a'Akxassr )

and some of the Ptolemies, of the Caesars fren W

berius to the Antonines, ore inscribed on it* dbbb» i

meuts; and even in the fonrt b centnry a. n. s aajJ

of sufficient importance to attract the dock* af atsaj

torians and travellers. Perhaps its final ma aaji

owing as much to the fanaticism of the Caaansfl

of the Thebaid, who saw in its scnlptoret oa^ll

abominations of idol-worship, as to its icvapansiM

the Blemmyes and otlter barbarians from Xu'sa sail

Arabia. When the Saracens, who also were ■****]

clasts, broke forth from Arabia, Thebes encodes

firuil desolation, and for many centuries A asnan

almost disappears: nor can its iinriiiinssti 'i sad in

have generally attracted the notice if Ear^aSflfl

until the French expedition to Aecypt err sssarj

disclosed its monuments. From that period, mm

esjecially since the labours of Beizooi, as sbsIbbi

city has been more frequently visited or asearaanVfl

The growth of Thebes and the nddituea aa^M

it by successive monarch* or dynasties hare ansa

partly traced in the foregoing sketch of* SB) nassH

history. A few only of its principal kssm sj

here be noticed, bince the rains cf this city arxesi

subject of many works, and even the most o—sssj

account of them would almost demand a naasasfl

itself. Ancient Thebes, as bos already been saaarsaBJ

occupied both the eastern and western baa

Nile; and four villages, two, on each

river, now occupy a portion ui its erirjaaal

these villages two, Luxor and Karmk,

eastern bank, and two, Gomrmeh and M

on the western. There is stun* difference i

racier and purpose of the structures is the ej

quarters of the city. Those on the anassBB

fonned part of its east necrcfuha; asal km

found the rock-hewn painted kxnhe,—* al» <

