144' LATMUS. LAVIANESINE.

stadia, and its whole length, from Miletus to He-

racleia, 100 stadia. (Strab. xiv. p. 635.) The bay

now exists only as an inland lake, its mouth having

been closed up by the deposits brought down by the

Maeander, a circumstance which has misled some

modern travellers in those parts to confound the

lake of Bajfi, the ancient Latmic gulf, with the lake

of Mvus. (Leake, Asia Minor, p. 239; Chandler,

c. 53.) [L. S.]

LATMUS (Actr/ior), a mountain of Can a, rising

at the heail of the Latmic bay, and stretching along

in a north-western direction. (Strab. xiv. p. 635;

Apollon. Khod. iv. 57; Plin. v. 31: Pomp. Mel. i.

17.) It is properly the western offshoot of Mount

Albanus or Alhacus. Tliis mountain is probably

alluded to by Horner (IL ii. 868), when he speaks

of the mountain of the I'hthirians, in the neighbour­

hood of Miletus. In Greek mythology, Mount

Latmus is a place of some celebrity, being described

as the place where Artemis (Luna) kissed the

sleeping Kndymion. In later times there existed on

the mountain a sanctuary of Kndymion, and his tomb

was shown in a cave, (Apollod. i. 7.§5; Hygin. Fab.

871 ; Ov. Trut it. 299; VaL Flacc, iii. 28; Pans,

v. 1. § 4; Stat. Sitv. iii. 4. § 40.) [L. S.]

LATO. [Camara.]

LATOUKUil When the Helvetii determined to

leave their country (b. c. 58), they persuaded " the

Rauraci, and Tulingi and latobrigi, who were their

neighbours, to adopt the same resolution, and after

burning their towns and villages to join their ex­

pedition." (Caes. B. G. i. 5.) The number of the

Tulingi was 36,000 : and of the Latobrigi 14,000.

(/?. G. i. 29.) As there is no place for the Tulingi

and Latobrigi within the limits of Gallia, we must

look east of the Rhine for their country. Walckenaer

(Giog. Ac, vol. i. p. 559) supposes, or rather con­

siders it certain, that the Tulingi were in the district

of Thu-ngen and Stuhltngcn in liatlen, and the I-a-

tobrigi about fJotuiuetchinyen, where the Briggach

and the Brrgge join the Danube. Tins opinion

is founded on resemblance of names, and on the fact

that these two tribes must have been cast of the

Khinc. If the Latobrigi were Celtae, the name of

the people may denote a position on a river, for the

Celtic word ** brig" is a ford or the passage of a

river. If the Latobrigi were a Germanic people,

then the word " brig " ought to have some modern

name corresponding to it, and Walckenaer finds this

correspondence in the name Brugge, a small place

on the Brrgge. [G. L]

LATO'POLIS or LATO (AotoVoA.j, Strab. xvii.

pp. 812, 817; t6\h Adw, PtoL iv. 5. § 71;

Adrrmf, Hierocl. p. 732; J tin. Anttmin. p. 160),

the modern Etntk, was a city of Upper Egypt,

seated upon the western bank of the Kile, in lat.

25° 30' N. It derived ite name from the fish Lato,

the liirg«»t of the 6 fly-two species which inhabit the

Nile (Kusscgger, lieuen, vol. i. p. 300), and which

appears in sculptures, among the symbols of the

goddess Xeith, Pal las- Athene, surrounded by the

oval shield or ring indicative of royalty or divinity

(Wilkinson, M. and C. vol. v. p. 253). The tute­

lary deities of Latopolis seem to have been the triad,

—Kneph or Chnuphis, Keith or Sate, and Hak, their

offspring. The temple was remarkable for the beauty

of its site and the magnificence of its architecture.

It was built of red sandstone; and its portico con­

sisted of six rows of four columns each, with lotus-

leaf capitals, all of which however differ from each

ether. (Deuon, Voyage, vol. I p. 148.) But with

the exception of the jamb of a gateway—now me-

verted into a door-sill—of the reigu of Tholhrues lid.

(xviiith dynasty), the remains of Latopolis belong

to the Macedonian or Roman eras. Ptolemy Erw-

getes, the restorer of so many temples in Upper

Egypt, was a benefactor to Latopolis, aud he is

painted upon the walls of its temple followed by a

tame lion, and in the act of striking down the chief*

of his enemies. The name of Ptolemy Kpiphane*

is found also inscribed upon a doorway. Yet,

although from their scale these ruins are impounc,

their sculptures and hieroglyphics attest the decline

of Aegyptian art. The pronaos, which alone exists,

resembles in style that of Apollinopolis Magna

(Edfoo), and was begun not earlier than the reign

of Claudius (a. t>. 41 —54), and completed in thai

of Vespasian, whose name and titles are carved on

the dedicatory inscription over the ent ance. On

the ceiling of the pronaos is the larger Lat"f»litan

Zodiac. The name of the emperor Geta, the last

that is read in hieroglyphics, although |*rt.iahy

erased by his brother and murderer Caracal la (a. i>.

212), is still legible on the walls of I-itopolu.

Before raising their own edifice, the Itomaus set-oi

to have destroyed even the basements of the earlier

Aegyptian temple. There was a smaller temple, de­

dicated to the same deities, about two miles and

a half X. of Latopolis, at a village now called

K'Dayr. Here, too, is a small Zodiac of the age of

Ptolemy Evergetes (n. c. 246—221). This Utter

building has been destroyed within a few Tears,

as it stood in the way of a new canal. The temple

of Ktneh has been cleared of the soil and ruhbt-h

which filled its area when Denon visited it. and now

serves for a cotton warehouse. (Lepsiua, Finieitumg,

p. 63.)

lhe modern town of Emrh is the emporium o/

the Abyssinian trade. Its camel-market is much

resorted lo, aud it inntains manufactories of cot­

tons, shawls, and pottery. Its population is about

4000. [W. B. D-]

LATOVICI (AaT<f*«oi, Ptol. ii. 15. § 2), • tribe

in the south-western part of I'annonia, on the rrrer

Saras. (Plin. iii. 28.) Ther appear to bare been

a Celtic tribe, and a place Praetoriam Laloricortun

is mentioned in their country by the Aiil<ainc Itine­

rary, on the road from Aetnona tu Sinuium, prrliap.

on the site of the modern Nttutatitl, in lilyna.

(Comp. Zeuss, die DeuUekn, p. 256.) [1—">.J

LATU'KUS SINUS. [Maibktakia.]

LA'VARA. [Lisitania.]

LAVATRAE, a station in Britain, on the road

from Londinium to Lngurallum, near the wall a/

lluiirian, distant, according to one paasai.'e in th*

Autoninc Itin., 54 miles, according to another, 59

miles, from Eboracuin, and 55 miles from Lanjra-

Tullum. (Anton. Itin. pp. 468, 476.) Perhaps

thu same as Bouxs, on the river Orrta, iu tha

North Hiding of Yorkshire. The church of Botrrm

containeil in the time of Camden a liewn alah,

bearing an inscription dedicatory to the Ruoiaa

emperor Hadrian, and there used fur the commonim

table. In the neighbourhoud of Bows, there are Use

remains of a Roman camp and of an aqueduct.

LAU'GONA, the modem LaJtn. a rirer of Ger­

many, on the east of the Rhine, into whirh it etnptin

it-self at l^ahiutrin, a few miles above Cuolras. Tba*

ancients praise it for it* clear water (Vrnant Fort.

riii. 7; tieogr. Bar. iv. 24, where it is called

Logna. f I. S.]

LAVIANKSINE or LAVIKIANESINK (A*-

