814 ROMA,

ROMA.

temple of Vesta, may have been that of Hercules,

ami the little temple near it, nw the church of S.

Maria Egiztaca, that of Fudicitia I'atricia. {/IiiiidO.

p. 478, esq.)

This question is, however, in some degree con­

nected with another respecting the sites of the Tkm-

vi.ks ok I'oiiTLNA and Mati:i: jMauta. Canina

identities the remains of the round temple at tl.e

church of S. Maria del Sole with the temple of

Mater Matuta; whilst the little neighbouring temple,

n*>w the church of S. Maria Eguaaca, lie holds to

have been that of Foiotxa Vikims. His chief rea­

son for maintaining the latter opinion is the following

passage of Dionysius, which points, lie thinks, to a

temple of Fortune Virilis, built by Serviua TulUus

close to the banks of the Tiber, a position which

would answer to that of S. Maria Egiziaca: xtd

vaovs tvo KaTaiKtvavdntvos Tox7/s. rov pev eV

ayopa tt) Ka\ouu.€i'T} Boapm, top 5' trtpov tirt

reus 7\C6(Ti tov Ti€(ptos, 'AvSptlav TrpocnjyO'

ptvatv, &s Kat vvv virb rdv 'PwmoiW KaAeirat.

{Ant. Horn. iv. 27.) It should be premised that

Canina does not bold the two temples in question to

have been in the Forum Boarium, but only just at

its borders. ('* Corrispondevano da viciiio al Fan

Boario," Indicaz. p. 338.) The temple of Fort una

V'irihs here mentioned by Dionysius was, he con­

tends, a distinct thing from the temple of Fors

Fortuna, which he allows lay outside of tlie city on

the other bank of the Tiber (p. 506). Indeed the

distinction between them is shown from the circum­

stance that their festivals were celebrated in different

months \ that of Fortuna Virilis being in April,

that of Fors Fortuna in June. (Coinp. Ov. Fast*

iv. 145, seq., with the Fasti Praenestmi in April:

u Frequenter mulieres supplicant . . . Fortunae Virili

bumiHores." Also oomp. Ov. Fart. vi. 773, seq., with

the Fatti Amitcniini, 17//. Kal. Jul.; " Forti For­

tunae Trans tiber. ad MHliar. Prim, et Sext.")

Now these pas-ages very clearly show the distinc­

tion between Fortuna Yirilis and Fors Fortuna; and

it may be shown just as clearly that Dionysius

confounded them, as Plutarch has also done. {De

Fort. Rom. 5.) Servius TulUus, as Dionysius says,

built a temple of Fortuna in the Forum Boarium;

hut this Fortuna was not distinguished by any par­

ticular epithet. Dionysius gives her none in the

passage cited; nor does any ap]>ear in passages ijf

other authors in which her temple is mentioned.

Thus Livy: "De manubiis duos fomicee in foro

Boariu ante Fortunae nedem et Matris Matutae,

unum in Maximo Circo fecit" (xxxiii. 27). So also

in the passages in which he describes the fire in

that district (xxhr. 47, xxv. 7). One of the two

temples of Fortuna built by Serrius TulUus was

then that on the Forum Boarium, as shown in the

preceding passages from Livy and from Dionysius:

that the other was a temple of Fors Fortuna and

not of Fortuna Virilis appears from Varro: "Dies

Fortis Fortunae appeUatus ab Servio Tullio Rege,

quod is fanum Fortis Fortunae secundum Tiberim

extra Urbetn Romam dedieuvit Junio smwss" {L.L.

vi. § 17, Mill.) Heme it is plain that both Diony­

sius and Plutarch have made a mistake which

foreigners were likely enough to fall into. Temples

being generally named in the genitive case, they

have taken fortis to be an adjective equivalent to

avtipuos or virilis (v. linnsen, Beschr. iii. Nachtr.

p. C65; Becker, Bandb. p. 478, note 99S), and

thus confounded two different temples. But as

this temple of Fors Fortuna was "extra Vrbem/'it

could not have been the same as that v4 *

Canina indentifies it, which, as Livy exfrasr; i

was "intra portam Cannentalem * (xxt. ~\

site of the temple of Fortuna Vinla cttstl

determined, and Bunsen {L c.) denies tint I

was any such temple: but it seem* pneabie f

the passage of Ovid referred to above that tsatl

was one, or at all event* an altar; sod Pis

(<ltmest. Rom. 74) mentions a T»xv

Upuv. On the other hand, there wen w 1

been no fewer than three temple* of Fors Fa

on the right bank of the Tiber. Firs:, La* I

by Serrius Tullius, described by Varro w'

Urbcin secundum Tiberim." Second, irutiurt

close to that of Serviua by the consul Se>(

Uns Maximus (b. C. 293): "l>e rel^uo sai

Fortis Fortunae de in&nubiis facitsoin

prope aedem ejus Deae ab rege Ser. lsfl

catam." (Liv. x. 46.) Third, angler |"

under Tiberius (a. D. 16) ne^r the Til*

gardens of Caesar, and hence, of coone, )

riglit bank of the rivet: "Aedis F«rti»r'«

'1 iberim juxta, in hortis quo* Caesar c.c

pulo Romano legaver.it." (Tac. A»u u. 41.)

the llorti Caesuris were on the right bast |

Tiber we know from Horace (5. i. y. IS) I

tarch. (Brut. 20.) The temple btult if 1

must also have been on the right bank, as it I

be referred to in the following passage of 1

"Fors Fortuna est cujns diem fesrom <

sine arte aliqua vivnnt: hujua aedea i

est'' {ad Terent. Phorm, v. 6. 1). The*

may be inferred from the Fcuti Amitti

Fortunae Transtiber. ad Milliar. Prim, et 1

( MIL Kal Jul). The temple in tfaef

Caesar seems here to be alluded to

tance of one mile from the city,

Serrius, and the neighbouring one

vilius appear to have been at a distance «fsj

| But this need not excite our susjjeion.

other instances of temples ljinj: al a i

distance from Rome, as thai of Fortuna]

the fourth milestone on Uie Via

p. 542; cf. Val. Max. i. 8. § 4, S. tlal

&c.) It w ould appear, too. to have beea i

down the river, as it was customary to i

in boats, and to employ the time ut ihsl

drinking {Fast. vi. 777) : —

"Pars pede. pars ctiam celeri decunri!e<

Xec pudeat potos inde redire «

Ferte coronatae juvenum cutmTia 1

Multaque per mediae vina Uibaulars

We have entered at more length

than its importance may perhaps, sosai

because the elegant remains of the

forming the Armenian church of S. Mm

cannot fail to attract the notice1 of every I

classical antiquity that visits Rome. We

have shown that it could not po&aiblv 1

temple of Fortuna Virilis, a* a&sunxd

and others. The assumption that the I

round temple was that of Muter Mattxtai

be considered as disposed of at the a

only grounds for that aasuinptsoo

vicinity to the supposed teinp4c of Fa

Livy's description (xxxiii. 27) of the I

arches erected in the Koiam Boa nam 1

temples appearing to indicate that the*]

together.

With regard to the probability of this J

