LERINA. 163 LERNA.

Inter Libya. Bat the remains of the New City

,->-:ii to belong almost entirely to the period of the

!;■■■■ i'i Empire, and especially to the reign of Septi-

mias Severus, who restored and beautified this his

native city. (Spart. Sev. 1; Aurel. Vict. Sp. 20.)

It bad already before acquired considerable import­

ance under the Romans, whose cause it espoused

in the war with Jogurtha (Sail. Jug. 77—79: as to

iu later condition see Tac. JJUt. IT. 50); and if, as

Eekhel inclines to believe, the coins with the epi­

graph tt>L. vic. lui- lep. belong mostly, if not

entirely, to Leptis Magna, it must have been made

a colouy in the earliest period of the empire. It was

itil] a flourishing and populous fortified city in the

4th century, when it was greatly injured by an as­

sault of a Libyan tribe, called the At'itusiANi (Am-

rr.ua. xxviii. 6); and it never recovered from the

blow.

3. Justinian is said to hare enclosed a portion of

it wi:h a new wall; but the city itself was already

IM far buried in the sand to be restored; and, as

tar as we can make out, the little that Justinian

attempted seems to have amounted only to the en-

cliteure of a mi barb, or old Libyan camp, some dis­

tance to the E. of the river, on the W. bank of

which the city itself had stood. (Procop. de Aed.

ri. 4; coin p. Barth.) Its ruin was completed

coring the Arab conquest (Leo, Afr. p. 435);

and, though we find it, in the middle ages, the seat

rf p>pulous Arab camps, no attempt has been made

lo make use of the splendid site, which is now

factapird by the insignificant village of Legatah,

a&d the hamlet of El-Hush, which consists of only

fjor houses. (For particulars of the ruins, sec

Lucas, Proceedings of the Association, <fc. vol. ii.

p. 66. Loni 1810; Delia Cella, Viaggio, tj-c.

p. 40: Beechey, Proceedings, tfc. chap. vi. pp. 50,

ML; BunlTi Barbary; Barth, Wanderungtn, ifc.

H*. 305—315.) [**•*>■]

COD* OP LEPTIS.

LF.RIXA and LERON. Strabo (p. 185) says:

■ Aft*r the Stoeobades are Planasia and Leron

(i TlKavturia col A-qpw), which are inhabited;

n»-i in Leron there ia also a Leroum of Lcron, and

Leron is in front of Antipolia." (Antibes.) Pliny

(iii. 5) has * Lero. et Lcrina adversus Antipolim."

rVUmy (ii. 10. § '21) places Lerone (A^pwnj)

Wort the month of the Var. Lerina once had a

town named Vergoanum (Pliny). The Maritime

I'l. place* "Lero et Lerinas insnlae ■ 11 M. P.

mm Antipolia.

The* two islands are the Lerinsy off the coast of

tie French department of Tor. Strabo's Planasia

i* aappnted to be Lerina, because it is Mat; Leron

mast then be the larger island, called Salute Mar-

frite; and D'Anville conjectures that the mo-

nasterr dedicated to Sainte Marguerite took the

p** of the Leroum of Lero, which is mentioned by

&rabo. The position of these two small islands is

fixed more accurately by the Itin. than by the

geographers. Lerina, from which the modern name

Ltrtns comes, is very small; it is called St. Honwat,

from a bishop of Aries in the fifth century, who was

also a saint. [G.L.]

LERNA or LERNE (A*>a, Acpvy), t,ie 1,;ime

of a marshy district at the south-western extremity

of the Argive plain, near the sea, and celebrated as

the spot where Hercules slew the many-headed

Hydra, or water-snake. [SecWc/. of Biogr. Vol. II.

p. 394.] In this part of the plain, there is a

number of copious springs, which overflow the district

and turn it into a marsh; and there can be little

doubt that the victory of Hercules over the Hydra, is

to be understood of a successful attempt of the

ancient lords of the Argive plain to bring its marshy

extremity into cultivation, by draining its sources

and embanking its streams. The name of Lcrna is

usually given to the whole district (Paus. ii. 15. § 5,

ii. 24. § 3, ii. 36. § 6, ii. 38. § 1; Plut Cltom.

15), but other writers apply it more particularly to

the river and the lake. (Strab, viii. p. 368.) The

district was thoroughly drained in antiquity, and

covered with sacred buildings, of which Panamas

has left us an account (ii. 3G, 37). A road led

from Argos to Lerna, and the distance from the gate

of the city to the sea-coast of Lerna was 40 stadia.

Above Lerna is the Mountain Pontinus (rioiriVos),

which according to Pausanias absorbs the rain

water, and thus prevents it from running off. On

its summit, on which there are now the ruins of a

mediaeval castle, Pausanias saw the remains of a

temple of Athena Saitis, and the foundations of the

house of Hippomedon, one of the seven Argive chiefs

who marched against Thebes, (Acpycua 8' oucet

vd^iaO' 'lirwofjLfSuv &fa£, Eurip. Phoen. 126.)

The grove of Lerna, which consisted for the most

part of plane trees, extended from Mount Pontinus

to the sea, and was bounded on one side by a river

called Pontinus, and on the other by a river named

Amymone. The grove of Lerna contained two

temples, in one of which Demeter Prosymna and

Dionysus were worshipped, and in the other Dionysus

Saotes. In this grove a festival, called the Lernaea,

was celebrated in honour of Demeter and Dionysus.

Pausanias also mentions the fountain of Amphiaraus,

and theAlcyonian pool (jj 'AAxveWa \ifivrj), through

which the Argives say that Dionysus descended into

Hades in order to recover Semele. The Alcyonian

pool was said to be unfathomable, and the emperor

Nero in vain attempted to reach its bottom with a

sounding line of several fathoms in length. The

circumference of the pool is estimated by Pausanias

as only one-third of a stadium: its margin was

covered with grass and rushes. Pausanias was told

that, though the lake appeared so still and quiet,

yet, if any one attempted to swim over it, he was

dragged down to the bottom. Here Pmsymnus is

said to have pointed out to Dionysus the entrance in

the lower world. A nocturnal ceremony was con­

nected with this legend; expiatory rites were per­

formed by the side of the pool, and, in consequence of

the impurities which were then thrown into the pool,

the proverb arose of a Lerna of ills. (Atpvy mump;

see Preller, Demeter, p. 212.)

The river Pontinus issues from three sources at

the foot of the hill, and joins the sea north of some

mills, after a course of only a few hundred yards.

The Amymone is formed by seven or eight copious

sources, which issue from under the rocks, and

which arc evidently the subterraneous outlet of one of

M 2

