794 ROMA.

The funeral of Cnesar was also that of the Repuolic.

After his death and apotheosis, first an Altaic and

then an ABDBfl Dm JuUA were erected to iiira, on

the spot where hit) body had been burnt (flupjiv tikci

CVTtp TT}S TTVpUS Xa'Pt(P 'tbpVffa.fJ.fVOl, DlOIl CaSS. xllV.

51; Kat r}pt£ov ui ec re tt; ayopa. nut 4v toV^

4v $ ^KfKavro TTpoKaTfGdWovro, Id. xlvti. 18;

"Aedem Divi Juli—feci," Man. Ancyr.) We also rind

mention of a column of Nuniidian marble nearly

120 feet high, erected to him on the forum by the

people, with this inscription: M Parenti Patriae,"

(Suet. Com. 88.) This, however, seems to have been

the same monument sometimes called tira; for

Suetonius goes on to say that the people continued

for a long while to offer sacrifice and make vows at

it (M A pad eandem longo tempore sacrificare, vota

suscipere, cont rovers ias quasdani interpoito per

C acsa rem jureju raudo distrahere perseveravit"). This

ara or columna was afterwards overthrown by

Dolabella (Cie. Phil. i. 2, ad A tt. xiv. 15). We have

before seen that Caesar's body was burnt on the

forum, l>efore the Regia and the new rostra which lie

had erected, and we must therefore conclude that

this wis the spot where the altar was set up by the

people, and subsequently the temple by Augustus,

lint tliis has been the subject of a warm controversy,

liunsen placed the temple on the Velian ridge, so

that its trout adjoined the Sacra Via where it crosses

the eastern boundary of the forum, whilst liecker

(/fawlb. p. 330) placed it on the forum itself, so that

its back adjoined the same road. The authorities

are certainly in favour of the latter view; and the

difficulties raised by Urlichs (Hum. Top. p. 21, seq.),

who came to the rescue of Bonsen's theory, arise

from the mistake shared alike by all the disputants,

that this end of the forum was the coinitium.

Urlichs might have seen that this was not so from a

passage he himself quotes (p. 22) from the Fasti

A mikrnini, X V. Km. Sept., showing that the temple

stood on the forum ("DivoJulioad Forum"). lie seeks,

however, to get rid of that passage by an unfortunate

appeal to the SekoL Cntq. ad Hot. &. i. 6.35,in order

to show that after the time of Caesar there was no

longer any distinction made between the forum and

eomitium, since the puteal is there named as being

on the forum, instead of on the eomitium as Urlichs

thinks it should be. But this is only trying to

support one error by another, since we have already

shown that the puteal really was on the forum and

not on the eomitium. We need not therefore meddle

with this controversy, which concerns only those

who have taken a wrong view of the eomitium.

We will, however, remark that the passage ad­

duced by liecker in his Anttcort, p. 41, from the

Scholiast on Persius (iv. 49), where the puteal is

mentioned as '* in porticu Julia ad Fabianum ar-

cum,'' confirms the sites of these places: from which

passage we also learn that the temple had a portico.

Vitruvius says (hi. 3) that the temple, which must

have been a small one, was of the order called

ptripteros pyt-ru^sti/los, that is, having columns all

round it, at a distance of one diameter and a half of

a column from one another. It must have been

raised on a lofty base or substruction, with its front

towards the Capitol, as wc see from the following

lines of Ovid (Met. XT. 841):—

"ut semper Capitolia nostra forumquc

Divus ab excels* propectet Julius aedc."

The same circumstance, as well as its close prox­

imity to the temple of Castor, are indicated in the

following verses of the same poet (Ex fW 1

285): —

"Fratribus assimtlis, quos proxima tra$is

tenentes

Divus ab excels* Julius aede ridel"

This substruction, or *fnr*ii. as it it caW 1

Dion, served, as we have beta, fur a third i

and, after the battle of Actiom. was * -r-4 1

Augustus with the beaks of the captured I

ships, from which time it was called ttoenu J

(Djou Cass. li. 19.)

Such were the alterations made by Juset (

in the foruin, and by Augustus in

adoptive father. The latter also m*>

additions. He erected at the head of thefi

der the temple of Saturn, the Miuaricm .

which we hare before had occa&iuo U

(Dion Cass. liv. 8; Suet. Otito, 6; Tai

It was in shape like a common milet<«*. Ma

to have been of bronze gilt It* u.xr is sat 1

clear, as the milestones along: the rai

noted the distances from the gates. Bat i

recollect that Augustus included a cremt i

new streets in his Regions, it seems ant i

that it was intended as a measure a

within the city; and indeed we find

made the starting point in the surrey

under Vespasian. (Plin. ui. 9.) Has

be regarded, as Plutarch says (6*aV

common centre at which all the reads ef

minated. The Umbilici's Romak

confounds with it (p. 344) appears to 1

different thing, as the Xotitia mentions 1

separately under Regio viiL The pin

excavated near the arch of Severn* mi

longed to this umbilicus, or to suae eta

ment, not to the miliarium. which appears

Xotitia and Curiosnm to have retained

period its original position near the tenapM

at the head of the forum.

We also read of a Forwix Arormirl

arch erected on the forum in bonoor sf .

but its position is nowhere accurately defiaatll

from some Scholia on Virgfl (Jem.

edited by Mai, it is supposed to

the temple of J"

note.)

fesm

