ITALIA. 83 ITALIA.

(5) the Aesis (Ermo); (6) the Potentia (Potcnm);

(7)the Flusor(CAienji); (8)thcTruentus(7>wi<o);

(9) tbe Vomanus (Pomiuio); (10) the Atcraus

(Altrno or Pexara); (11) the Sagrns (Sangro);

(12) the Trinius (Trtgno); (13) the Tifernus

(Biferno); (14) the Frento (Fortore); (15) the

Orh.ilus (Cerroro); (16) tlie Aufidus {Ofantd),

which his much the longest course of all the rivers

filling into the Adriatic

Beyond this, not a single stream worthy of notice

flows to the Adriatic; those which have their sources

in the central Apennines of Lucania all descending

towards the Tarentine gulf; these are, the Brada-

nus (Bradano), the Casuentus (Basiento'), the

Aciris (Agri), and the Siris (St'nno). The only

rivers of Bruttium worthy of mention are the C rat his

(ireli) and the Neaethus (ATeto).

(The minor streams and those noticed in history,

but of no geographical importance, are enumerated

ir. the descriptions of the several provinces.)

The Italian lakes may be considered as readily

arranging themselves into three groups:—1. The

lakes of Northern Italy, which are on a far larger

scale than any of the others, are all basins formed

by the rivers which descend from the high Alps, and

tbe waters of which are arrested just at their exit

from tbe mountains. Hence they are, as it were,

valleys filled with water, and are of elongated form and

considerable depth; while their superfluous waters

are carried off in deep and copious streams, which

become some of the principal feeders of the Po.

Such are the Lacus Verbanus {Logo Maggiore),

farmed by the Ticinus; the Lacus Larius (Logo di

Omc), by the Addua; the Lacus Sebinus (Lago

tflstQ), by the Ollius; and the Lacus Benacus (Lago

di Garda\ by the Mincius. To these Pliny adds

tae Lacus Eupilis, from which flows the Lamber or

Lambro, a very trifling sheet of water (Plin. iii. 19.

s. 23); while neither he, nor any other ancient

writer, mentions the Logo di Lvgano, situated be­

tween the Lake of Como and Logo Maggiore,

though it is inferior in magnitude only to the three

great lakes. It is first mentioned by Gregory of

Tours in the 6th century, under the name of Cere-

sius Lacus, an appellation probably ancient, though

not now found in any earlier author. 2. The lakes

of Central Italy are, with few exceptions, of volcanic

origin, and occupy the craters of long extinct vol­

canoes. Hence they are mostly of circular or oval

firm, of no great extent, and, not being f«l by

perennial streams, either require no natural outlet,

« have their surplus waters carried off by very in-

cMisiderable streams. The largest of these vol­

canic lakes is the Lacus Vulsinicnsis, or Logo di

BnUrxa, in Southern Etruria, a basin of about 30

miles in circumference. Of similar character and

origin are, the Lacus Sabatinus {Logo di Brac-

cwao) and Lacus Ciminua (Lago di Vico), in the

same district; the Lacus Albanus (Logo d'Albano)

and Lacus Neraorensis {Logo di JVemi), in Latium;

and the Lake Avemus in Campania. 3. Wholly

differing from the preceding are the two most con­

siderable lakes in this portion of Italy, the Lacus

Trasimenua (Logo di Perugia) and Lacus Fucinus

{Logo Facino or Logo di CWorao); both of which

are basins surrounded by hills or mountains, leaving

eo natural outlet for their waters, but wholly un­

connected with volcanic agency.

Tbe mountains of Italy belong almost exclusively

ether to the great chain of the Alps, which bounds it

ob the K., or to that of the Apennines. The prin­

cipal summits of the latter range have been already

noticed under the article Apenninus. The few out­

lying or detached summits, which do not properly be­

long to the Apennines are :—(1) the Monte Amiata

or Monte di Santa Flora, in the heart of Etruria,

which rises to a height of 5794 feet above the sea;

(2) the Mons Ciminus, a volcanic group of very

inferior elevation ; (3) the Mons Albancs, rising

to above 3000 feet; (4) the Moss Vesuvius, in

Campania, attaining between 3000 and 4000 feet;

(5) the Mons Vultuk, on the opposite side of the

Apennines, which measures 4433 feet; and (6) the

Mons G arc an us, an isolated mass, but geologically

connected with the Apennines, while all the pre­

ceding are of volcanic origin, and therefore geo­

logically, as well as geographically, distinct from

the neighbouring Apennines.

To these may be added the two isolated mountain

promontories of the Mons Argentarius (Monte Ar~

gentaro) on the coast of Etruria, and Mons Circeius

(Monte Circello) on that of Latium,— both of them

rising like rocky islands, joined to the mainland

only by low strips of alluvial soil.

IV. Ethnography of Ancient Italy.

The inquiry into the origin and affinities of the

different races which peopled the Italian peninsula

before it fell altogether under the dominion of Kome,

and the national relations of the different tribes with

which the rising republic came successively into con­

tact, is a problem which has more or less attracted

the attention of scholars ever since the revival of

letters. But it is especially of late years that the

impulse given to comparative philology, combined

with the spirit of historical criticism, has directed

their researches to this subject. Yet, after all that

has been written on it, from the time of Niebuhr to

the present day, it must be admitted that it is still

enveloped in great obscurity. The scantiness of the

monuments that remain to us of the languages of

these different nations; the various and contradictory

statements of ancient authors concerning them; and

the uncertainty, even with regard to the most ap­

parently authentic of these statements, on what

authority they were really founded; combine to em­

barrass our inquiries, and lead us to mistrust our con­

clusions. It will bo impossible, within the limits of

an article like the present, to enter fully into the

discussion of these topics, or examine the arguments

that have been brought forward by different v.liters

upon the subject. All that can be attempted is to

give such a summary view of the most probable re­

sults, as will assist the student in forming a con­

nected idea of the whole subject, and enable him to

follow with advantage the researches of other writers.

Many of the particular pints here briefly referred to

will be more fully investigated in the several articles

of the different regions and races to which they re­

late.

Leaving out of view for the present the inhabitants

of Northern Italy, the Gauls, Ligurians, and Veneti,

the different nations of the peninsula may be grouped

under five heads:—(1) the Pelasgians; (2) the U>-

cans; (3) the Sabellians; (4) the Umbrians; (5) the

Etruscans.

1. Pelasgiaks.—All ancient writers concur in

ascribing a Pelasgic origin to many of the most

ancient tribes of Italy, and there seems no reason to

doubt tliat a large part of the population of the

peninsula was really of Pelp-sgic race, that is to say,

that it belonged to the same great nation or family

o 2

