640 PLATAEA.

I

vantage of it to restore the Plataeans to their native

city. (Pans ix. 1. § 4; bocrat Plataic.§ 13,aeq.)

But the Plataeans did not long retain possession of

their city, for in B.C. 372 it was surprised by the

Thebans and again destroyed. The Plataeans were

compiled once more to seek refuge at Athens.

(I'aus. ix. 1. 5—8; Diodor. xv. 46.) The wrongs

dmie to the Plataeans by Thebes are set forth in a

speech of Isocrates. entitled IHutaictis, which was

perhaps actually delivered at this time by a Platacan

hjH'aker before the public assembly at Athens.

(Grotc's Greece, vol. x. p. 220.) After the battle

of Chaeroneia (ii. c. 338) the Plataeans were once

more restored to their city by Philip. (Paus. ix. 1.

§ 8, iv. 27. § 11.) It was shortly after this time

that Plataea was visited by Dicaearchus, who calls

the Plataeans 'Attymloi BotafToi', and remarks that

they have nothing to say fur themselves, except

tli.it they are colonists of the Athenians, and that

tlie battle between the Greeks and the Persians took

place near their town. (Dtscript. Grate, p. 14,

Hudson.)

After its restoration by Philip, the city continued

to be inhabited till the latest times. It was visited

by Pausanias, who mentions three temples, one of

Hera, another of Athena Areia, and a third uf I>e-

lncter Kleusinia. Pausanias speaks of only one tem­

ple of Hera, which he describes as situated within

the city, and worthy of admiration on account of its

magnitude anil of the offerings with which it was

adorned (ix. 2. § 7). This was apparently tlie temple

built by the Thebans after the destruction of Plataea.

(Time, iii. 68.) It is probable that the old temple

of Hera mentioned by Herodotus, and which he de­

scribes as outside the city (ix. 52), was no longer

repaired after the erection of the new one. and had

disappeared before the visit of Pausanias. The

temple of Athena Areia was built according to Pau­

sanias (ix. 4. § 1) out of a share of tlie spoils of

Marathon, but according to Plutarch (Arut. 20)

with the 80 talents out of the spoil* of Plataea, as

mentioned above. The temple was adorned with

pictures by Polygnotus and Onatas, and with a statue

of the goddess by Pbeidias. Of the temple of J>e-

ineter Kleusinia we have no details, but it was pro­

bably erected in consequence of the battle having

been fought near a temple of Demeter Kleusinia at

Arpopius. (Herod, ix. 57.) The temple of Zeus

Klcutherius (Strab. ix. p. 4P2) seems to have been

reduced in the time of Pausanias to an altar and a

statue. It was situated outside the city. (Paus.

2- $

Plataea is mentioned in the sixth century by

Hieroclea (p. 645, Weaseling) among the cities of

Boeotia; and its walls were restored by Justinian.

(Procop. dc Atdif. iv. 2.)

The ruins of Plataea are situated near tlie small

village of Kokhla. The circuit of the walls may

still be traced in great part. They are about two

miles and a half in circumference; but this was the

size of the city restored by Philip, for not only is

the earlier city, before its destruction by the The­

bans, described by Thucydides (ii. 77) as small, but

we h"nd at the southern extremity of the existing

remains more ancient masonry than in any other

part of the ruins. Hence Leake supposes that the

ancient city was confined to this part. He observes

that " the masonry in general, both of the Acropolis

and of the town, lias tlie appearance of not being so

old as the time of the battle. The greater part is

ol the fourth order, but mixed with portions of a

less regular kind, alk

masonry. The Acn

can be so called, whu

tlie site, is constructe

evidently been taken

towers of this citadt

flanks to the inner as

intermediate walls. 1

towers, like those of t

Above the southern v

of a third inclosure; i

than the rest, and is

as the Persian War

Acropolis of the Plat

a rocky height, and t

angle, which is only

yards from tlie foot of

roo. This inclosure

any other part of the

the village of KokhU

distant to the E.

eastern side along a I

nearly as far as the s

inclosui"e of tlie city,

inclosure are some fra

(Northern Grctc^

Kriederich, Sjtedmen

Munscher, l)Us. dc 1

PLATAMO'DKS.

PLATANISTAS.

PLATANISTON

tain in Messenia, nea

[Cokone.]

2. A river of An

Xeda, flowing westw;

necessary to cross in

39. § 1,: Leake, Mm

PLATAN'LSTUS

ern promontory of Cj

2. Another name c

of Triphvlia in Elis.

PLATA'NIUS (E

flowing by Corseia in

PLATANUS (n

Stadiasmus (§§ 178

A.-pera, 350 stadia

distance is incorrect,

tween the plain of

Amtmur, a distance

rocky hills forming t

by narrow valleys, w

rents to the sea. Tl

the other is halfway

wmr.n The latter, t

tanas, that is, about

The whole of that

dangerous to navigat

name of Platanistus

tanus. (Leake. Asm

PLA'TANUS (n>

$, V. nAOTCUTf; Jos

riAciTai'fi''s), a town

seplius (/. c.) as a

situated ui>ou a pa&

