602 ] PHLIUS.

It mu at length obliged to surrender through failure

of provisions in b,c 379; aud Agesjlauit appointed

a council of 100 members (half from the exiles and

half from the besieged), with powers of life and

death over the citizens, and authorised to frame a

new constitution. (Xen. I fell, v. 3. § 10. seq.;

Plut. Ages. 24; Diod. xv. 20.) From this time

the Phliasians remained faithful to Sputa through-

out the wln.le of the Theban War. though they had

tosuffer much from the devastation of their terri­

tory by their hostile neighbours. The Argivcs

occupied and fortified Tricarannm above Phlius, and

the Sicyonians Thyamia on the Sicyonian frontier.

(Xen. ffeU. vii. 2. § 1.) In B.C. 368 the city was

nearly Liken by the exiles, who no doubt belonged

to the democratical party, and had been driven into

exile after the capture of the city by Agesilaui.

In this year a body of Arcadians and Eleisns, who

were marching through Nemea to join Epaininondas at

the Isthmus, were persuaded by the Phliasian exiles

to assist them in capturing the city. During the

night the exiles stole to the foot of the Acropolis;

and in the morning when the scouts stationed by the

citizens on the hill Tricarannm announced that the

enemy were in sight, the exiles seized the oppor­

tunity to scale the Acropolis, of which they obtained

possession. They were, however, repulsed in their;

attempt to force their way into the town, and were 1

eventually obliged to abandon the citadel also. The

Arcadians and Argives were at the same time re-

pulsed from the walls. (Xen. ffcB. vii. 2. §§ 5—9.)

In the following year Phlius was exposed to a still

more formidable attack from the Theban commander

at Sit-yon, assisted by Euphron, tyrant of that city.

The main body of the army descended from Tri­

carannm to the Heraeum which stood at the foot of

the mountain, in order to ravage the Phliasian plain. .

At the same time a detachment of Sicyonians and

Peilenians were posted NK. of the Acropolis before

the Corinthian gate, tit hinder the Phliasians from ■

attacking them in their rear. But the main body

of the troops was repulsed; and being unable to

join the detachment of Sicyonians and PaUenians in

consequence of a ravine (<papdy£), the Phliasians

attacked and defeated them with loss. (Xen. BtlL

vii. 2. § 11, seq.)

After the death of Alexander, Phlius, like many

of the other Peloponneaian cities, became subject to

tyrants; but upon the organisation of the Achaean

League by Aratus, Cleonymus, who was then tyrant

of Phlius, voluntarily resigned his power, and the

city joined the league. (Polyb. ii. 44.)

Phlius is celebrated in the history of literature as

the binhplace of Pratmas, the inventor of the Sa-

tyrie drama, and who contended with Aeschylus for

the prize at Athens. In the agora of Phlius was

the tomb of Aristias, the son of Pratinas. (Paus.

ii. 13. § 6.)

Pausanias says that on the Acropolis of Phlius

was a temple of Hebe or Ganymeda. in a cypress

grove, which enjoyed the right of asylum. (Comp.

St rah. viii. p. 382.) There was also a temple of

]>emeter on the Acropolis. On descending from the

citadel there sbtod on the right a temple of As-

clepius, and below it the theatre and another temple

of Demeter. Id the agora there were also other

public buildings. (Paus. ii. 13. § 3, seq.) The

priori pal place at present in the Phliasia is the vil­

lage of St. George, situated at the southern foot of

Tricaranum, a mountain with three summits, which

bounds the plain to the Kt). The ruins of Phlius

are situated three qna

on one of the spurs of

bank of the Asopas.

tent, but present little

the south-western uk

church of our Lady ol

TKTfTa), from which

V tV 'PaxiwTMTffav.

of the temple of Asc

remains of several Do

the town on the Asopi

considers to be those o

meter was worshipped,

supposed Phlius to be

the western side of th

J'myo; but these are rr

to the ancient city of ,

from those already des

stadia which, accordinj

from Araethyrea to PI

On ML Tricaranum

Hellenic fortress caller

bably the fortress ere

mountain. (Xen. fit

Dent. Mtgal p. 206:

Stepb. B. *. r. TpiKif,

Sicyonians fortified, as

vii. 2. § 1), is placed

Spirit, the northern

between the villages

the summit are the rer

probably built by the I

southern part of the

(AiuiTKui'pior), which i

(iv. 67. 68, 73). and

Corinth over the mourn

phalia. (Peake, Mart

tteism im /W('/x>/mejf,

jKmnrsos, vol. ii. p. 47(

MAT OF THE NEIG

A. Plilim.

B. Arat-ihyrea or Ar

C. Mount Tricaranu

I> I). The Atopm.

I. Kuilit, perhaps of

'i. The R.ue IcaiHng

a, PalrdkMtron on i

4. The way to Nmie

PULVA. [Attic,

