NARDINIUM. NARO. 3D 9

I £i ibc to Jfasulia. ( Diod. v. 38.) There was |

i: Xarbo a rrrat variety of dress and of people, who

wi ittrartAl by the commercial advantages of the

otr. Il *u adorned with pablic buildings, after

ik Wiine of Boman towns. (Martial, viii. 72;

Aura .Varto; Sidim. Apollin. Cam. 23.) A

of I'arian marble, probably some poetical ex-

■croliai, is spoken of by Ausonius; and Sidonius

•xamaa, u half a dozen miserable lines, the

rwm «f mcKSt Sarbonne, its gates, porticoes,

'..ua, ikotrt. and other things. Ue speaks of a

bridge over the Atax. The coast of

Str^mr m ami b famed for oysters.

Si a single Roman monument is standing at

bat the sites of many bnildings are ascer-

ij'tot Numerous architectnral fragments, friezes,

^-Mwfj, tombstones, and inscriptions, still remain.

>« iwcripfwns are or were preserved in the

wj tM on the great staircase of the episcopal

•a*. There is a museum of antiquities at A'ar-

vhith contains fragments of mosaic, basts,

rxmrv Bras, and a gnat number of inscrip-

•<* [G. I..]

XARM'XIITM (HapSinov, Ptol. ii. 6. § 34), a

*■» «f tie Swlini, a tribe of the Astures, in  
Ttmcmenxis, probably near Villalpando

::*Eda. (Sestini, p. 172.)

VUUSCI. a German tribe of the Snevi, oceupy-

* tim nuatry in the west of the Gabretn Silva,  
at eat of the Hermunduri. Tliey extended in the

■ far as the Sudeti Montes, and in the south

■ fcr u Ike Danube. In the reign of M. Aurelius,

•■'« tbem emigrated southward into the Koman

rT»* (Dion Cass. lxxi. 21, where they arc

■ »i *wt*L) After the Marcomannian war,

■7 *«npWttly disappear from history, and the

T3'7 <*<» occupied by them is inhabited, in the

TaHe, by a tribe called Annalausi. (Tac.

«; JuL Capitol. If. Ant 22*; Ptolemy

l II. j 23) calls them Varisti (Oiapiffroi), which

f^if the more genuine form of the name, since

ages a portion of the country once in-

•**d by them bore the name of Provincia Va-

**» [L. S.J

N i KX1A (Moyrfa, Strata Ptol.: F.th. Narnicnsis:

the most important cities of I'mbria,

M oi tat left bank of the river Nar, about 8

* »wv in confluence with the Tiber. It was on  
1 * rf Ibe Via FLaminia, by which it was distant

■ r, kr-a Rome. (/On. Ant. p. 125; /fin. liter.

Ii) Weafpbal, Bdm. A'amp. p. 145.) It appears

btec an accient and important city of the

=r», kA previons to the Roman conquest bore

»»of SiQtma-Jt (Plin. Hi. 14. s. 19; Liv. x.

""".I Byz. writes the name Nqxoiua.) In B. c.

"•» besieged by the Koman consul Appu-

» -*s tt* aatoral strength enabled it to defy his

't>J tie was protracted till the next year,

■ a vat at length surprised and taken by the

■< *. Fah-ioa, m. c. 299. (Mr. x. 9, 10.) Ful-

'** a crtweqoeuce honoured with a triumpli

"*"auiy»i Srquinatibusque" (f'ast.Capit.); and

*-^xr. irraite determined to secure their new

by iptxiing thither a colony, which assumed

of Xirnia from its position on the banks

hi Set (Lrr. x. 10.) It ia strange that all men-

1 eoiaar is omitted by Velleius Patercnlus;

>j ure train occurs in Livy, in the list of the

Utx rokojes daring the Second Punio War.

(a. c. 209). it was one of those

any longer to bear the burdens of the war; for which

it was subsequently punished by the imposition of a

double contingent and increased contribution in money.

(Liv. xxvii. 9; xxix. 15.) Yet the complaint seems,

in the case of Namia at least, to have been well

founded; for a few years afterwards (b. c. 199), tha

colonists again represented their depressed condition

to the senate, and obtained the appointment of tri­

umvirs, who recruited their numbers with a fresh

body of settlers. (Id. xxxii. 2.) During the Second

Punic War, Narnia was the point at which, in B. c.

207, an army was posted to oppose the threatened

advance of Hasdrubal upon Rome; and hence it w is

some Namian horsemen who were the first to bring

to the capital the tidings of the great victory at the

Metaurus. (Liv. xxvii. 43. 50.) These are the only

notices we find of Narnia under the republic, but it

seems to have risen into a flourishing municipal town,

and was one of the chief places in this part of Um-

bria. (Strab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii.

1. § 54.) It probably owed its prosperity to its posi­

tion on the great Flaminian highway, as well as to

the great fertility of the subjacent plain. In the civil

war between Vitellius and Vespasian, Narnia bore an

important part, having been occupied by the generals

of the former as a stronghold, where they hoped to

check the advance of the army of Vespasian; but

the increasing disaffection towards Vitellius caused

the troops at Narnia to lay down their arms without

resistance. (Tac. Hist. iii. 58—63, 67, 78.) The

natural strength of Narnia, and its position as com­

manding the Flaminian Way, also rendered it a fort­

ress of the utmost importance during the Gothic wars •

of Belisarins and Names. (I'rocop. B. G. i. 16, 17;

ii. 11; iv. 33.) It became an episcopal see at an

early period, and continued throughout the middle

ages to be a considerable town.

The position of Narnia on a lofty hill, precipitous

on more than one side, and half encircled by the

waters of the Nar, which wind through a deep and

pitturr-squc woodtfd valley immediately below the

town, is alluded to by many ancient writers, and

described with great truthfulness and accuracy by

Clandian, as well as by the historian Procopius.

(Claudian, </e VI. Cons. Hon. 515—519; Sil. Ital.

viii. 458 ; Martial, vii. 93; Procop. B. G. i. 17.)

It was across this ravine, as well as the river Nar

itself, that the Via Flaminia was carried by a bridge

constructed by Augustus, and which was considered

to surpass all other structures of the kind in bold­

ness and elevation. Its ruins are still regarded with

admiration by all travellers to Rome. It consisted

originally of three arches, built of massive blocks of

white marble ; of thi^se tho one on the left bank is

still entire, and has a height of above sixty feet;

the other two have fallen in, apparently from the

foundations of the central pier giving way; but all

the piers remain, and the imposing style of the

whole structure justifies the admiration which it

appears to have excited in ancient as well as modern

times. Martial alludes to the bridge of Narnia as,

even in his day, the great pride of the place.

(Procop. I. c. ; Martial, vii. 93. 8; Cluver. Ital.

p. 636; Eustace's Italy, vol. i. p. 339.) The em­

peror Nerva was a native of Narnia, though his

family would seem to have been of foreign extrac­

tion. (Vict. Epit. 11 ; Cats. 12.) [E. H.B.]

NARO (o tidpuv, Ptol. ii. 16. § 5; Tim. iii. 26 j

Nar, Pomp. Mela, ii. 3. § 13; Narenum, Gcogr.

Rav. iv. 16: A'arcnfa), a river of Illyricum, which

Scylax (pp. 8, 9) describes as navigable from its

