113S THEBAE AEGYPTI. THEBAE AEGYPTI.

the guardianship of this deity, bincc she was believed

to receive the sun in her arms as he sank behind the

loestrrn hill*. This quarter, again, in the age of

the Ptolemies, was termed "the Libyan suburb"

which was subdivided also into particular districts,

such as the Memnoneia (rd Mefivovud, Young,

Hieroglyph. Literature, pp. 69, 73) and Thyna-

bunmn, where the priests of Osiris were interred.

(Wilkinson, Atic. Egj/ptkmt, vol. v. p. 387.)

The power and prosperity of Thebes arose from

three sources — trade, manufacture*, and religion.

Its position on the Nile, near the great avenues

through the Arabian hills to the Ited Sea, and to the

interior of Libya through the western desert, render­

ing it a common entrepot for the Indian trade on the

one side, and the caravan trade with the gold, ivory,

and aromatic districts on the other, and its com­

parative vicinity to the mines which intersect the

limestone borders of the Red Sea, combined to make

Thebes the greatest emporium in Eastern Africa,

until Alexandrei*turned the stream of commerce into

another channel. It was also celebrated for its linen

manufacture—an important fabric in a country

where a numerous priesthood was interdicted from

the use of woollen garments (Plin. ix. 1. b. 4). The

glass, pottery, and intaglios of Thebes were also

in high repute, and generally the number and

magnitude of its edifices, sacred and secular, must

have attracted to the city a multitude of artisans,

who were employed in constructing, decorating, or

repairing them. The priestsalone and their attend­

ants doubtless constituted an enormous population,

for, as regarded Aegypt, and for centuries Aeihiopia

also, Thebes stood in the relation occupied by

Rome in medieval Christendom,—it was the sacer­

dotal capital of all who worshipped Amnion from

ivlusium to Axume, and from the Oases of Libya

to tiic Red Sea.

The history of Thebes is not entirely the same

with that of Aegypt itself, since the predominance of

the Upper Kingdom implies a very different era in

Aegyptian annals from that of the lower, or the

Delta. It may perhaps be divided into three epochs:

I. The period which preceded the occupation of

Lower Aegypt by the Assyrian nomades, when it is

doubtful whether Memphis or Thebes were the ca­

pital of the entire country, or whether indeed both

the Thebaid and the Delta were not divided into se­

veral smaller states, such as that of Heliopolis in

the N., and Abydus in the S., the rivals respec­

tively of Memphis and Thebes. 2. The interval

between the expulsion of the Assyrians by Thou-

tMiosis, and the 21st dynasty of Tanite kings. Dur­

ing all this period, Thebes was unquestionably the

capital of all the Nile-valley, from the Mediterranean

to the island of Argo iu lat. Ht°31'N. 3. The pe-

riod of decadence, when the government of Aegypt

was centered in the Delta, and Thebes was probably

little more than the head-quarters of the sacerdotal

caste and the princi[wtl refuge of old Aegyptian life

and manners. And this threefold division is ren­

dered the more probable by the consideration that,

until the Assyrian empire became formidable, and

Phoenicia important from its maritime power, Aothio-

pia. rather than Arabia or Syria, was the formidable

neighbour of Aegypt.

Under the Old Monarchy there is no trace of

Aegyptian dominion extending beyond the peninsula

of Sinai, the northern shores of the lied Sea. or the

Libyan tribes adjoining the Delta. During this

period invasion was apprehended almost exclusively

ic *«-. <*> .

from the S. The Aethiopians woe *o ha *r-

like, and perhaps as civilised, as tbe Aeryptaa;

the Nile afforded them direct iafrea to fta Re­

gions north of the Cataract*, and they werrtias.ii

the Syrians and north-ea*t#ro states htaart dm-

wards, the immediate objects of war. tnaD(t, era-

termarriages with the Pharaohs of Ttcbf*. ¥*■

the Theban state was powerful enough teexpri at

Assyrian nomades, it must have already ascent

alliance or the subjection of Aethiopis: tad u* at­

tention of its ruler* was thenceforward <fcnCid »

the eastern frontier of the Lower Kingdom. A«*±

ingly we find that while only one uome in u* uV

baid and one in Middle Aegypt were ase^ud »t»

native militia, the bulk of the Cala&irisiami H*a>

bytians was permanently quartered is ibe Deka

The greatness of Thebes ctxnmeDces «tk ar

ISth dynasty of the Pharaohs and the a**effej

cause of it appears to have been the ccikaw

efforts of the Upper Country to expel tbe ,

shepherds from the Delta. Tbe Tbehtid i

capital were, probably, at do pc

these invaders; since, according to MideoVsi

count of the 17th dynasty, there were thee r«a

temporaneous kingdoms in Aegypt — tbe ttai |

rented by the Hykaos, and the Thebaid W a*aj

monarchs. Thoutmosis, king of Thebes, «a> at I

principal agent in the expulsion of tbe intrGiafcaaj

his exploits against them are caniroetrvyntp: « a»j

temples at Kanttik. Memphis and tbe *>|

gether with the lesser states, such MXob,*CBaal

from the invaders, thenceforward were uoJff nV** j

minion of the kings of Thebes. Its noaraaaftw

lasted nearly eight centuries, i. e, from aaataas

to 800 b. c.

During this period the moat coo5p»cca» iseaaar

were Amenophia L, who appears, freea tot a^-

ments. to have received divine bonoon

decease, and to ha\e been regarded as tbr *oa»

fonnderofthe monarchy. He probah!* rsrak la

arms beyond the north-eastern frontier aflat Ifl

into Syria, and his presence in Aethiopi* a ••■■J

in a grotto at I brim near A loofimlxl. Tal^flfl

or conquests of Amenophis in the X iaii*

inferred from the circumstance that ia tbe «ag

tares he is represented as destroying or lescrea^

tire Asiatic and Aethiopian tribe*. Next is aaaa^

sion is Thothmes I., with whose reaz* ifoaaM

have begun the scries of Theban ^

cited the wonder of tbe Greeks,

almost in their original magruficerjee. aad al J a*

sequent travellers. The foundation*, at least «*ai

palace of the kings were laid by th» aa»aa

Tliothmes also, like his predecessors, appev\ aa

the monuments, to have made war with A*?ra. ea

to have extended las dominion as hi»jh c» 'J*M

as the island of Argo in upper Nut m. ] <r"»B

maintained or even enlarged tbe n-aiai whka al

herited, since his name has been knjtd «i

Birkel. theNapata of the Koroans. hs. ifju'XM

this period Aeihiopia was apparently an ■

the Theban kingdom, ami it* rulers «r i"

to have been of tlie blood royal «f Aegypt. I

for the first lime, and until the

Menephthah (liosellini, J/on.Ay.taa.zxxi.—k

meet with the title of the t».ya! ;.t .» jn«4

Aethiopia. The records of this reiki. ha«»

perished; the great obelisks of AVnsai. ti^aS

uttest the flourishing condition of eant*BD?«*T &

They were erected by Xeoit Amen. tfc» aa*>4

Thothmes II., who appears, like the Nit«o» <im

