PISAE. PISAURUM.

"viytift rapitals, probably belonging to the vcs-

'.^cie rf * tanple of tbe age of the Antonines, now

nWW in tin will of the ruined church of S.

•'Lit.' (Duiih, Etruria, vol. ii. p. 89.) But

a-Muii nrcoptup of Roman date, some of them

'nrritperior workmanships and some fragments

u:*s «rr preserved in the Campo Santo, as well

» xcMnnu inscriptions, of which the most in-

rwrer are those already alluded to, recording the

;.r,an Baid bv the colony to the deceased grand-

>i Aafostus. These have been published with

i laiwd sad elaborate commentary by Cardinal

fr> (Caulapiia Pinna, fol. Venet. 1681); as

u by Gori (Intcript. Etruriae, vol. ii. p. 10,

it i tod more recenllv by Haubold (Monumenta

'y^u. f. 179) and Orelli (L c>

r» Maritime Itinerary mentions the Portus

Vjr» u distinct from Pisae itself, from which it

■ s» lea than 9 miles distant (/tin. Marit.

SOI.) Ratilins also describes the port of Pisae,

« «u in lus day still much frequented and the

tw "f ta active commerce, as at some distance

»lbi city itself. (Rutil. Itin. i. 531—540, 558

■SiS, iL 11) Bat the exact site has been a sub-

". ' noch controversy. Cluverius and other

■fci plated it at the month of the Arm), while

■ty-i ud Mr. Dennis would transfer it to the

• nitrated port of Leghorn or Livorno. But

• «::«r pnrt is distant 10 miles from the mouth

na Arm, and 14 from Pisa, which does not

Pa «aa the distance given in the Maritime Itine-

vbils the mouth of the Amo is too near Pisa,

i • :i unlikely that tbe entrance of the river

a! iiw bare been available as a harbour. Ru-

■ iV> describes tbe port (without any mention

■» rim) at formed only by a natural bank of

-»■»■-. which afforded shelter to the vessels that

> t anchor within iL Much the most probable

• that advocated by a local writer (Targioni

wWj). that the ancient Portus Pisanus was

N H i point between tbe mouth of the

• ltd Ltokorn, but considerably nearer the

iw'-rr. wi an old church of St. Stefano. The

abf./ itm ipot agrees with that of the Itine-

f. a«i it is certain from mediaeval documents

> 1* Porto Pitano, which in the middle ages

*t m tit port of Pita, when it was a great

(•*rr?al republic, was situated somewhere in

*";htjunrhuod. (Targioni Tozzetti, Viaggi in  
►»•». rol ii. pp. 225—240, 378—420; Zumpt,

kW i, J27.) Roman remains have also been

■ •Ik*spot, and some ruins, which may very

law (hoar of the villa called Triturrita, described

•&ii> as adjoining tbe port, designated in the

ak s> Twrrita, (RnliL Itm. i. 527; Tab. Peut.)

»" erery probability that the Porto Pitano of

•ai& area occupied the same site with the

*s i'wtui Pitanus, which is mentioned by P.  
»a si siill in u>e under the Lombard kings,

w>a by a Frankiab chronicler in the days of

r«i^< (!'. l>i»f. JlUt. Lang. vL 61; Arnoin.

■ frw. ir. 9); and there is no doubt that the

■Wai sort was quite distinct from Livorno.

'he* cay. which is now one of the most important

■t ftxa u> Italr, was in tbe 13th century an

** '»iart, and diil not ri»e to consideration till  
r o* dntraetion of the Porto lHtano. But it

n t Ultk thavt it was occasionally used even in

*r < rata, ami i. the Labko noticed by Cicero  
'"fr.i.6) ii i seaport near Pisae. It has

1 « fnal akw to be already mentioned by Zosi-

mus (v. 20) under the name of Liburnnm; but

there is really no authority for this, or for the names

of Portus Liburni, and Portus Hercnlis Liburni

employed by modern writers on ancient geography.

The Antonine Itinerary, however, gives a station

"Ad Herculem," which, as it is placed 12 miles

from Pisae, could not have been far from Leghorn.

(Itm. Ant. p. 293.)

Pliny alludes to the existence of warm springs in

the territory of Pisae (it. 103. s. 106). These are

evidently the same now called the Bagni diS. Gmhano,

situated about 4 miles from the city, at the foot of

the detached group of Apennines, which divide the

territory of Pita from that of Lucca. [E. H.B.I

PISA'NUS PORTUS. [Pisak.]

PISA'TIS. [Pisa.]

PISAVAE, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placed in the

Table at the distance of xviii. from Aquae Sextiae

(Aix), and on a road leading towards Glanum (St.

Remi). The place is supposed to be in the district

of Pelittane; and it has accordingly been conjec­

tured that the name in the Table should be Pisanae.

Roman remains have been dug up in the district of

Pelittane near the chapel of St. Jean de Bernatte.

There are traces of the old Roman road near A ix,

and it is said that two Roman milestones are still

there. (D'Anville, Notice, frc; Statittique du Depart,

da Boucliet du Rhone, quoted by Ukert, Gallien, p.

436.) [G. L.]

PISAURUM (Tluravpov: Eth. Pisaurensis: Pe-

taro), a considerable town of Umbria, situated on

the coast of the Adriatic, between Fanum Fortunao

(Fano) and Ariminum (Rimini). It was on tho

line of the Via Flaminia, 24 miles from Ariminum

(Itin. Ant. p. 126), at the mouth of the Bmall river

risaurus, from which it in all probability derived

its name. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19.) This is now

called the Foglia. The site of Pisaurum, together

with all the adjoining country, had been originally

included in the territory of the Galli Senones; but

we have no account of the existence of a Gaulish

town of the name, and the first mention of Pisaurum

in history is that of the foundation of a Roman

colony there. This took place in B.C. 184, simul­

taneously with that of Potentia in Picenum, so that

the same triumvirs were charged with the settle­

ment of both colonies. The settlers received 6

jugera each, and enjoyed the full rights of Roman

citizens. (Liv. xxxix. 44; Veil. Pat. i. 15 ; Madvig,

de Colon, pp. 253, 286.) A few years later we

hear of the construction there of some public works,

under the direction of the Roman censors (Liv.

xli. 27); but with this exception, we hear little of

the new colony. It seems, however, to have cer­

tainly been a prosperous place, and one of tho most

considerable towns in this part of Italy. Hence, it

was one of the places which Caesar hastened to

occupy with his advanced cohorts as soon as he had

passed the Rubicon, u. c. 49. (Caes. B. C. i. \ \,

12; Cic ad Fam. xvi. 12.) It is also repeatedly

alluded to by Cicero as a flourishing town (Cic. pro

Sett. 4, Phil. xiii. 12); hence it is impossible that

the expression of Catullus, who calls it " moribunda

sedes Pisauri" (farm. 81. 3), can refer to the con­

dition of the town itself. It would seem that its

climate was reputed unhealthy, though this is not

the case at the present day. Pisaurum received a

fresh body of military colonists, which were settled

there by M. Antottius; but suffered severely from

an earthquake, which seems to have destroyed a

great part of tho town, just before the battle of

