LACHISH. 107 LACIPPO.

tania auae tnhjecta PyrenaeU montibtu est, Lit.).

Their "pathless forests" {tlevia et rileutru gens,

Liv.) lay S. of the Cerkktani, W. of the Indi­

cates, and X. of the Lai.etani. (It is impossible

toaruid the suspicion that these names are identical,

especially as we have the intermediate fonn Lae-

aetaxi, and that Lacetania is only the N. part of

Laletatiia. Moreover, the name is confounded with

tLe Jacetasi in the MSS. of Caes. B. C. i. 60.)

Only one town is mentioned as belonging to them,

and that without a name, but simply as having

been taken by M. Cato. (Plut. Cat. Maj. 11 ; Liv.

xii. 23, 26, 60, et seq., xxviii. 24, 26, et seq.,

niiiu 34, xxxiv. 20; Dion Cass. xlv. 10; Martial,

L 49. 22.) [P. S.]

LACHISH (Aoxi'j, LXX.; Aax«*. Aax«i«ro,

Joseph.), a city to the south of the tribe of Judah

(Jotk. xv. 39), the capital of one of the petty kings

or sheikhs of the Canaanites (x. 3). It was taken

and destroyed by Joshua (iv. 31—33), and is joined

with Adoraim and Azekali (2 Chron. xi. 9) as one

of the cities built, or rather fortified, by Behoboam.

It was besieged by Sennacherib on bis invasion of

Judaea, B. c. 713. (2 King; xviii. 14,17, xix. 8.)

It is placed by Eusebius and St Jerome (Onomast.

t. *.) seven miles south of Eleulheropolis, in Darana

or " the valley." (Josh, xv. 39.) But for this it

might hare been identified with Um Litis, on the

left of the road between Gaza and Hebron, about

fire boors from the former, where is an ancient site

'* sow covered confusedly with heaps of small round

stones, among wbich are seen two or three fragments

of marble columns." (Robinson, BibL lies. vol. ii.

p. 388.) The objections to the identification are not,

perhaps, so great as is represented: the title Um, equi­

valent to metropolis, would seem to mark it as a

place of importance; and there is no other vestige of

a town in those ports that can be referred to Lachish.

It is considerably south of west from Beit Jebrm

(Eleotheropolis), which is near enough to satisfy the

description of Eusebius, who is not remarkable for

precUe accuracy in his bearings, nor, indeed, in his

distances, except in the parts with which be was

familiar, and on the more frequented thoroughfares.

So argument can be drawn from its juxtaposition

with Adoraim and Azekah, in 2 Chron. xi. 9, as it

might be near enough to group with them in a list

<i names which, it is evident, does not pretend to

geographical precision. [G. W.]

LACIACA or LACIACUM (in the Peut. Table

it U railed Laciacis), a town in the north-west of

Soricam {It Ant. pp. 235, 258). The name seems

to be connected with "lacus," and thus to point to

the lake district in upper Austria; hence some have

identified the place with Seewaichen, or St. Georgen

on the Attertee. But Muchar (jioricum, p. 267)

U probably right in identifying it with Franken-

mait [L. S.]

LA'CIBI (Plin. iii. I. s. 3; A«uti«!, Ptol. ii. 4.

5 11), a tributary town of Hispania Baetica, which

I'iiny assigns to the conventus of Gades, while Pto-

lemy places it among the cities of the Turduli, in

in the neighbourhood of Hispalis. [ P. S.]

LACIBITRGIUM (tuutiSovpyior'), aGerman town

ra the south coast of the Baltic, between the rivers

ClialasuB, and Suevus or Sucbus. It is mentioned

only by Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 27). and it is certain that

tu site must be looked for to the west of Warnemunde,

bat the precise spot cannot be ascertained, whence

«ne have identified it with Wismar, others with

ftstttbury, and others again with Lauenburg. [L.S.]

LACIDAE. [Attica, p. 326, a.]

LACI'NIA. [Iapydia.]

LACl'NIUM (to AokIciov txpov: Capo delle

Colonne"), a promontory on the E. coast of the

Bruttian peninsula, about 6 miles S. of Crotona.

It formed the southern limit of the gulf of Ta-

rentum, as the Iapygian promontory did the northern

one: the distance between the two is stated by

Strata, on the authority of Polybins, at 700 stadia,

while Pliny apparently (for the passage in its

present state is obviously corrupt) reckons it at

75 Roman miles, or 600 stadia; both of which

estimates are a fair approximation to the truth, the

real interval being 65 geog. miles, or 650 stadia.

(Strab. vi. p. 261 ; Plin. iii. 11. s. 15; Jlel. ii. 4.

§ 8.) The Lacinian promontory is a bold and

rocky headland, forming the termination of one of

the offshoots or branches of the great range of the

Apennines (Lucan. ii. 434; Plin. iii. 5. s. 6): it

was crowned in ancient times by the celebrated

temple of the Lacinian Juno, the ruins of which,

surviving through the middle ages, have given to

the promontory its modern appellation of Capo delle

Colonne. It is also known by that of Capo Nau,

a name evidently derived from the Greek No<ir, a

temple; and which seems to date from an early

period, as the promontory is already designated in

the Maritime Itinerary (p. 490) by the name of

Naus. That Itinerary reckons it 100 stadia from

thence to Crotona: Strabo gives the same distance

as 150 stadia; but both are grcatlv overrated.

Livy correctly says that the temple (which stood at

the extreme point of the promontory) was only

about 6 miles from the city. (Liv. xxiv. 3.) For

the history and description of this famous temple,

see Ckotona.

Pliny tells ns (iii. 10. 8. 15) that opposite to the

Lacinian promontory, at a distance of 10 miles

from the land, was an island called Dioscoron (the

island of the Dioscuri), and another called the

island of Calypso, supposed to be the Ogygia of

Homer. Scylax also mentions the island of Calypso

immediately after the Lacinian promontory (§ 13,

p. 5). But there is at the present day no island at

all that will answer to cither of those mentioned by

Pliny: there is, in fact, no islet, however small, off

the Lacinian cape, and hence modern writers have

been reduced to seek for the abode of Calypso in a

small and barren rock, close to the shore, near Capo

Rizzuto, about 12 miles S. of Lacinium. Swinburne,

who visited it, remarks how little it corresponded

with the idea of the Homeric Ogygia: but it is

difficult to believe that so trifling a rock (which is

not even marked on Zannoni's elaborate map) could

have been that meant by Scylax and Pliny* The

statement of the latter concerning the island which

he calls Dioscoron is still more precise, and still

more difficult to account for. On the other hand,

he adds the names of three others, Tiris, Eranusa,

and Meloessa, which he introduces somewhat vaguely,

as if he were himself not clear of their position.

Their names were probably taken from some poet

now lost to us. [E. H. B.]

LACIPEA. [LusiTAMA.]

LACIPPO (Aoximra, Ptol. ii. 4. § 11; Lacii-o,

coin ap. Sestini, Med. Jsp. p. 57 ; Mionnet, Suppl.

* The different positions that have been assigned  
to the island of Calypso, and the degree of pro­

bability of their claims, will be discussed ucder the

article Ogtcia.

