PALAESTINA. I'ALAKSTINA.

between Ekron and Gaza, which the Israelites did not

occupy; in the mountains 11+9+ 10+6 + 2 =

35 cities, with their villages; and in the wilderness,

i. e, the western side of tlie Dead Sea, 6 towns and

their villages; in nil, according to the Hebrew ver­

sion, no less than 112 towns, exclusive of their

future capital, of which the Jebusite still held pos­

sesion. But the Septuagint version inserts the

names of 11 other cities in the mountain district,

among which arc the important towns Bethlehem

anil Tekoa, which would make the total 123 in the

tribe of Judah alone, implying an enormous popu­

lation, even if we admit that these towns were only

large villages with scattered hamlets. It must be

remarked, however, that tlie tribe of Simeon was

comprehended within the limits above assigned to

the tribe of Judah; and that 17 cities in the south

of Judah are referred to Simeon, as is expressly

stated: "Out of tlie portion of the children of Judah

was the inheritance of the children of Simeon: for

the part uf the children of Judah was too much for

them; therefore the children of Simeon had their

inheritance within the inheritance of them" (Josh.

xis. 1— It.)

As Simeon possessed the southern part of the ter­

ritory assigned to Judah, so did tlie tribe of Dan im­

pinge upon its north-west border; and in the list of

its seventeen cities are some before assigned to

Judah (Josh. xix. 41—46); a limited extent of

territory on the confines of the plain of the Philis­

tines, from which they early sent out a colony to the

extreme north of the Holy Land, where their city,

synonymous with their tribe, situated at the southern

base of Mount Hcrmon, became proverbial in Israel

for the worship of the golden calf. (Jtaiijes, xviii.)

Benjamin.— The tribe of Benjamin was bounded

by Jud:ili on the south, by the Jordan on the east.

The northern line was drawn from Jericho west­

ward through the mountains, by Bethel and Ata-

roth-adar, to a hill that lay to the south of the

lower Belh-horon, from « Inch j*>int the boundary was

drawn to Kirjath-jcarim of the tribe of Judah.

They po*se>sed twenty-six cities, including Jeru­

salem. (Josh, xviii. 11—28.) It is evident

that Josephus is mistaken in stating that they ex­

tended in length from Jordan to the sea; for it is

clear that tlie tribe of Dan and the plain of 1'hilistia

lay between them and the Mediterranean. His

remark that the width of their territory was least of

all, is more accurate, though his explanation of the

fact may be doubted, when he ascribes it to the

fruitfulness of the hmd, which, he adds, compre­

hended Jericho and Jerusalem.

Epkmim.—Tlie tribe uf Kphraim was contermi­

nous on the south with the tribe of Benjamin, as

far as the western extremity of the hitler; from

whence it passed by Tappuah and the river Kanah

to the sea. On the east side are named Ataroth-

addar and Beth-horon the upper, and on the north,

beginning at the sea and going east, Michmethah,

Taanath-shiloh, Jaiiohah, Ataroth, Xaarath, Jericho,

ami the Jordan. The cities of Kphraim are not

catalogue,!; but it is remarked that " the separate

cities tor the children of Kphraim were among the

inheritance of the children of Manasseh, all the

cities with their villages" (xri. f>—9). According

to Josephus it extended in width from Bethel even

to the great plain of Ksdraelon.

Mnnasseh.—The portion of Managed on tlie we>t

of Jordan was contiguous to that of Kphraim, and

appears to have been allotted to the two tribes

I jointly, as the same boundaries are aligned V-V.^

I (xvi. L—4. com p. 5-—8 with xvii. "—10). W: a

general the southern part was Ephraim, i'i :.u

north Manasseh, which latter also possessed ttn<»

in the borders of Asher anil Issachar, as Betkbaa

and Kndor, on the east, in Issachar. ami Tit-ira.

Megiddo, and Dor, on the west, in Asher (vw. Hi­

lt will have been seen that these twin trite

not extend as far as the Jordan eastward, bo: tal

their eastern boundary excluded the vaIW of ta

Jordan, and formed, with their northern bwi&iin, i

curved line from Jericho to the sea, south ii ilea

Carmel.

Issachar.—This tribe covered the whole of li

north-east frontier of Manasseh and EphninLOii

comprehended the valley of the Jordan wtUt»b

from Jericho to Mount Tabor, and the ea^era]*

of the plain of Ksdraelon, in which Tabor U siTuatii

containing sixteen cities, among which were Sua*

and Jezreel of Scripture note, the latter tor tus

years the capita! of the kingdom of Israel.

Asher.—To the west of Issachar was Ash*.*

cupying the remainder of the rmlley of EsIt**

now the Plain of Acre, and extending »laa£ I

coast of the Mediterranean, from Mount Canwt

Sidon. Our ignorance of the modern eeogr^*

Upper Galilee does not allow us to assign it^ iw

to the east; but there is little doubt that car*

inquiry would still recover the sites at least cf*

of their twenty-two cities, and so restore toe ***

boundary of their territory, which extended ill

the western borders of" Zebu Inn and Nsphtnh, wi

two tribes occupied the highlands of Galilee »

extremity of the Land of Promise,

j Zebvlun.— Of these two, Zebulun was to

I south, contiguous to Issachar, having toe s*J

Tiberias for its eastern boundary, as far prrbi:i

the mouth of the northern Jordan. None 4

twelve cities can now be identified with ceru*

but Japhia is probably represented bvthf3i>i

village of Yapha, in the plain, not far to tfie *

of Nazareth, which was certainly situated *i

the borders of this tribe; and Bethlehem may.1

great probability, be placed at the mi J*"T. vi:j<

btitlakemy not far from the ruins ot Stryp^e*

the north-west. [Caksarea-Dio. J

Xophtali.—The northernmost of* tie into

Naphtali, bounded by the Upper Jordan on It*

from its source to its mouth, near which «a* i

ated the city of Capernaum, expresslr drr AT*

St. Matthew to have been in the borders of 7A

and Naphtali (iv. 13). On the south was IA\

on the west A>her, and on the north tiit r>i

Libanus and the valley of Coelesyria, now eau'w

Btlkaa. Of their nineteen cities K.cd*sJi i

, most noted in Scripture history; and its ruin*.*

'ing under tlie same name at this da*. *U«

ancient importance. Josephus absnrdlr a

their territory to Damascus, if the reading to

j corrupt, as Be land suspects.

Having completed this surrey of the trfi

may be remarked iu anticipation of lb* ttx4

I section, that the subsequent divisions of lb* «

followed very much the divisions of the tnsesi

1 the district of Judaea was formed \*r £T«

I together the tribes of Judah. Simeon, ttea

Benjamin; Samaria was coextensive with

| and the half of Manasseh; Issachar amd A-V-1

[tied Lower Galilee; Zebulun and Xaphtali

Galilee.

I Trans-Jordanic trCbeg, — A few w-ged* m

