RHEGIUM. RHEGIUM. 705

kcaaJon the siege. (Ib. 100.) The next year (b.c.

HI fait great victory over the confederate forces

I •■ Itsjwt Greeks at the river Helorua left him

art* to prosecute his designs against Rhegium

-Jt«t apposition: the Rhegians in vain endeavoured  
'rat the danger by submitting to a tribute of

w titauv, and b* surrendering all their ships, 70

i: rrbrr. Br these concessions they obtained only

frKsrvns truce, which Dionyaius found a pretext

r t imkiog the very next year, and laid siege to

■ dry with all his forces. The Khegians, under

> cu.nand of a general named Phyton, made a

isnti resistance, and were enable I to prolong

ar krtact for eleven months, but were at length

■Dt'lai to surrender, after having Buffered the

tat extremities of famine (b. c. 387). The

ptnaj inhabitants were sold as slaves, their

mat Pay ton put to an ignominious death, and

ts' haetf totally destroyed. (Diod.xiv. 106—108,

-..IS. Sbab. vi. p. 258; Pseud.-Arist. Oecun.

IWtt a as doubt that Rhegium never fully rc-

asa iaa great calamity; but so important a site

M ast long- remain unoccupied. The younger

■axes partially restored the city, to which he

» to name of Phoebias, but the old name soon

a arvaiied. (Strab. I. c.) It was occupied with

Baa by the despot, but in B.C. 351 it was

aaa and taken by the Syracusan commanders

i»s and Callippos, the garrison driven out, and

am restored to independence. (Diod. xvi. 45.)

ax tary were, a few years later (b. c. 345),

■ the foremost to promise their assistance to

■be. who halted at Rhegium on his way to

'. and from thence, eluding the vigilance of the

sarcajcs by a stratagem, crossed over to Tau-

tawa. (Diod. xri. 66, 68; Pint Tim*. 9, 10.)

litis tune we hear no more of Rhegium, till

ajtai of Pyrrhns in Italy (b. o. 280), when it

anna the scene of a memorable catastrophe,

nsaai on that occasion, viewing with appre-

Mtto progress of the king of Epirus, and dis-

% the Carthaginians, had recourse to the

Eexssaaee, and received into their city as a

jjs, s body of Campanian troops, 4000 in

r. siier the command of an officer named

I Bat these troops had not been long in pos-

ben they were tempted to follow

of their countrymen, the Mamertincs,

tide of the strait; and they took advan-

d attempt at defection on the part

to make a promiscuous massacre of

while they reduced the women

fees te> slavery, and established themselves

iter of the town. (Pol. i. 7; Ores.

JjjiiL. Himnit. iii. 9 ; Diod. xxii. Exc. II.

. £jr. Vala, p. 562; Dion Cass. Fr. 40. 7;

|a JM.) The Romans were unable to

xsbbb for this act of treachery so long as they

with the war againBt Pyrrbus; and

for some years continued to reap

«f ttoir crime. But as soon as Pyrrhus

sSt wvrhdrawn from Italy, the Romans turned

aaa* spiwT their rebellious soldiers; and in

K sxexaaj actively supported by Uieron of

Ftaas caoaul Genncius succeeded in re-

■■xrftmzn by force, though not till after a

ssl Great part of the Campanians perished

trxaezr; the nst were executed by order of

«u people. (Poi. i. 6,7; Oros. iv. 3; Dionys.

C ids. 1, xx. 7.)

Rhegium was now restored to the survivors of its

former inhabitants (Pol. i. 7; Liv. xxxi. 31;

pian, I.e.); but it must have suffered severely, and

does not seem to have again recovered its former

prosperity. Its name is hardly mentioned during

the First Punic War, but in the second the citizens

distinguished themselves by their fidelity to the

Roman cause, and repeated attempts of Hannibal to yC

make himself master of the city were uniformly

repulsed. (Liv. xxiii. 30, xxiv. 1, xxvi. 12, xxix. 6.)

From this time the name of Rhegium is rarely men­

tioned in history under the Roman Republic ; but

we learn from several incidental notices that it con­

tinued to enjoy its own laws and nominal liberty as

a "foederata civitas," though bound, in common

with other cities in the same condition, to furnish

an auxiliary naval contingent as often as required.

(Liv. xxxi. 31, xxxv. 16, xxxvi. 42.) It was not

till after the Social War that the Rhegians, like the

other Greek cities of Italy, passed into the condition

of Roman citizens, and Rhegium itself became a

Roman Municipium. (Cic. Kerr. iv. 60, Phil i. 3,

pro Arch. 3.) Shortly before this (d. c. 91) the

city had suffered severely from an earthquake, which

had destroyed a large part of it (Strab. vi. p. 258;

Jul. Obseq. 114); but it seems to have, in great

measure, recovered from this calamity, and is men­

tioned by Appian towards the close of the Republic

as one of the eighteen flourishing cities of Italy,

which were promised by the Triumvirs to their

veterans as a reward for their services. (Appian,

B. C. ir. 3.) Rhegium, however, had the good

fortune to escape on this occasion by the personal

favour of Octavian (Ib. 86); and during the war

which followed between him and Sextus Pompeius,

B. c. 38—36, it became one of the most important

posts, which was often made by Octavian the head­

quarters both of his fleet and army. (Strab. vi.

p. 258; Appian, B. C. v. 81,84; Dion Cass, xhrai

18, 47.) To reward the Rhegians for their services

on this occasion, Augustus increased the population,

which was in a declining state, by the addition of a

body of new colonists; but the old inhabitants were

not expelled, nor did the city assume the title of a

Colonia, though it adopted, in gratitude to Augustus,

the name of Rhegium Julinm. (Strab. /. e.; Ptol. iii.

1. § 9; Orell. Inter. 3838.) In the time of Strabo it

was a populous and flourishing place, and was one

of the few cities which, like Keapolis and Tarentum,

still preserved some remains of its Greek civilisation.

(Strab. vi. pp. 253, 259.) Traces of 'his may be

observed also in inscriptions, some of which, of the

period of the Roman Empire, present a curious

mixture of Greek and Latin, while others have the

names of Roman magistrates, though the inscriptions

themselves are in Greek. (Morisani, Inter. Utginae, ,

4to. Neap. 1770, pp. 83, 126, &c.; Boeckh, C. I.

5760—5768.)

Its favourable situation and its importance, as

commanding the passage of the Sicilian straits,

preserved Rhegium from falling into the same state

of decay as many other cities in the south of Italy.

It continued to exist as a considerable city through­

out the period of the Roman Empire (Plin. iii. 5.

s. 10; Ptol. /- e. ; /tin. Ant. pp. 112, 115, 490),

and was the termination of the great highway

which led through the southern peninsula of Italy,

and formed the customary mode of communication

with Sicily. In A. d. 410 Rhegium became the

limit of the progress of Alaric, who after the cap­

ture of Rome advanced through Campania, Lucania,

z z

