K05IA. 837 ROMA.

imy corrupt passage in Pliny (xxxvi. 24. s. 1),

pgnpiim hare related that the temple was dc-

ci:nl to Jupiter Ultur; but this is altogether in-

.i»»ifnt with other accouDts of its destination;

ed it appears from an emendation of Jan, derived

no the Codex Bambergensis, that we should read

VAfcru (or Jam VUori (Becker, Uandb. p.

3j). Dim Cassias states that it received the namo

of Pantheon because it contained the images of many

gods (liii. 27), which, however, seem to have been

those of the deities mythically connected with the

Julian race, and among them that of Caesar himself.

The temple is circular, and its magnificent portico

with triple row of columns, thongh perhaps not quite

in harmony with the main building, cannot fail to

excite the admiration of the beholder. It owes its

of AcmrrA.

"dent state of preservation partly to the solidity I

ra autrnction, partly to its having been conse- I

!»d u a Christian church as early as the reign

P!"-u. under the title of 5. if aria ad Martyret,

Uia Rutmda. To the lover of the fine arts it

interesting from containing the tomb of

tarL Some architects have thought that it was

vrioally intended for a temple, but as part of

•aths; a notion, however, that is refuted by

•aw in ancient writers, where it is styled

a»» (Pun. xxxvi. 5. s. 38; Macrob. Sat. ii. 13).

■ IHatbeijn stood in the centre of the Campus

fes*, taking that name in its widest sense. The

ttiui of which only a few unim; urtatit remains

■. Kl/ined it on the. S., and must have extended

•fine Hecatostylon. The Dirimtorktm was a

'Saiding destined, according to Becker {Uandb.

K\ to the examination of the voting tablets

1 s> the comjtia, in order to determine the result

ttVca, and must therefore have been situated

tvtrpta. It seems to have been left unfinished

{ttppa't death, and was dedicated by Augustus,

". Its vast unsupported roof was one of the

-t> of Home, and, when destroyed in the fire of  
». o«ld not be replaced. (Dion Cass. Iv. 8;

■ ni 40.) In hot weather Caligula some-

• named it into a theatre (Dion Cass. lix. 7).

P*tico which Agrippa erected in the Campus

sppears to have been called Porticus

■o»*cTA«o>t, from its being adorned with a

V the Argonauts, and was erected in com-

mlian of Agrippa's naval victories (Dion Cass.

C; Mart, iii. 20. 11). Becker {Uandb. p. 637)

■tii that this was the same building called

hra Xeptuni by Spartian {Uadr. 19). and

'Hum by Dion Cassias (lxvi. 24). But a

a not equivalent to a portico, nor can we

pm that Dion would have used the term FIo-

•w ct a o-red; whence it seems more probable,

ntraed by Canina {Indie, p. 406) and other

Paphm, that Agrippa also erected a Temple

flTm, which.was connected with, or probably

Aitsd by the portico. Nardini and Canina—

•tier bora recent researches— are of opinion that

the eleven columns now existing in the front of the

Dogana di Terra in the Piazza di Pietra, near the

Antonine column, belonged to this temple. Of a

Portkts Melkagri mentioned in the Noliiia in

connection with that of the Argonautarum, we know

nothing further.

Augustus also erected a few monuments on the

Campus Martins. Among them was the Solarium

Augusti, an obelisk which now stands on Monte

Citorio, w hich served as a gigantic gnomon, and,on an

immense marble flooring that surrounded it,exhibited

not only the hours, but also the increase and de­

crease of the days (Plin. xxxvi. 15). In the north­

ern part of the Campus, between the Via Klaminia

and the Tiber, he caused to be constructed during

his life-time that superb Mausoleum, a description

of which by Strabo has already been cited in the

former part of this article. This district had for

some time previously served as a burying place for

the most distinguished persons. Among others

buried near this spot were Sulla, Caesar together

with his aunt and daughter, and the two consuls

Hirtius and Pansa, who fell at Mutina. Several

members of the family of Augustus had been

entombed in the mausoleum before the ashes of

Augustus himself were deposited within it; as

Marcellus, Agrippa, Octavia, and Drusus (Dion

Cass. liii. 30; Virg. A en. vi. 873, seq.; Ov. Cons,

ad Lir. 67). By the time of Hadrian it was com­

pletely filled; which caused him to build a new one

on the opposite side of the river (Dion Cats. Ixix. 23).

There are still considerable remains of the monument

of Augustus. The area on which the sepulchre of the

Caesars stood is now converted into a sort of amphi­

theatre for spectacles of the lowest description: sic

transit gloria mundi. It is doubtful whether a third

building of Augustus called Porticus AD Nati-

oxes, or xiv. Natioxks, stood in tho Campus

Martins or in the Circus Flaminius. It appears to

have been near the theatre of Pompey, and contained

statues representing different nations (Plin. xxxvi.

5. s. 4 j Scrv. ad Aen. viii. 721.)

Near the Mausoleum appears to have been a por­

tico called Via Tecta, the origin of which is un­

3 it 3

