123 LAODICEIA. LAODICKIA.

of the hill msy possibly have belonged to the temple

of Juno So* pita; and a small portion of a theatre,

brought t.i light by excavations in 1832, arc all

that are now viable The inscriptions discovered

on the spot belong principally to the time of the

Antonines, and excavations in the last century

brought to lii;ht many status of the &amc period.

(Nibhy, IHntorni di Roma. vo). ii. pp. 173—187;

Abeken, Mittel /(alien, p. 215.)

Lamivium, as already observed, was situated at a

short distance from the Appiau Way, on the right

of that road: the station " Sub Lanuvio," marked in

the Tabula Peutingeriana between Aricia and Tres

Talwrnac, was evidently situated on the high road,

probably at the eighteenth milestone from Rome,

from which point a branch road led directly to the

ancient city. (Westphal, Rum. Kamp, p. 28; Nibby,

Lc.)

The remains of two other ancient roads may be

traced, leading from the W. and S. of the city in

the direction of Antinm and Asttira. The existence

of this line of communication in ancient times is

incidentally referred to by Cicero {a4 Att.xW. 41,

43, 46). The tract of country extending S. of

Lanuvium in the direction of Ant'mm and the Pon­

tine marshes, was even in the time of Strabo

very unhealthy (Strab. v. p. 231), and is now

almost whollv depopulated. [K. H. B.]

LAODICEIA COMBl-STA (AaoBimua Karant-

KavjMVYj or KtKtxiutvr}), one of the five cities built

by Selcucus I., and named after his mother Selcura.

Its surname ( Lat. Combusta) is derived by Strabo

(xii. pp. 576.579. xiii. pp. 626,628,637) from trie

volcanic nature of the surrounding country, hut

Hamilton {Researches, ii. p. 194) asserts that there

is "not a particle of volcanic or igneous rock in the

neighbourhood;" and it may be added that if such

were the case, the town would rather have been

called A. rfjj KaTaKfttavfitrns. The most prolwible

solution undoubtedly is, that the town was at one

time destroyed by fire, and that on being rebuilt it

received the distinguishing surname. It was si­

tuated on the north-west ot Iconium, on the high road

leading from the west coast to Melitene on the

Euphrates, Some describe it as situated in Lycaonia

(Steph. B. #. r.; Strab. xiv. p. 663), and others as

a town of 1'isidia (Socrat. Hint. Reel. vi. 18; llierocl.

p. 672), and Ptolemy (v. 4. § 10) places it in

<_ialatia; but this discrepancy is easily explained by

recollecting that the territories just mentioned were

often extended or reduced in extent, so that at one time

the town belonged to Lycaonia, while at another it

formed part of Pisidia. Its foundation is not men­

tioned by any ancient writer.

Both Leake {Asia Minor, p. 44) and Hamil­

ton identify Laodiceia with the modern Ladik;

and the former of these geographers states that

at Ladik he saw more numerous fragments of

ancient architecture and sculpture than at any

other place on his route through that country.

Inscribed marbles, altars, columns, capitals, friezes,

cornices, were dispersed throughout the streets,

and am»n£ the houses and burying grounds.

From this it would appear that Laodiceia must

wire have been a very considerable town. There

are a few imperial coins of Laodiceia, belonging

to the reigns of Titus and Domitian. (Sestini,

Mtm. Ant p. 95; comp. Druyaen, Gesch. des

JMlen. I p. 663, foil.) [L. S.]

LAODICEIA AD LYCPM (AaoftXrsia s-poi t<?

.\vtctf: EsJti Uitsar), a city in the south-west of

Phrvgia* about a mile from the rapid river f-ym%

is situated on the long spur of a hill between tl *

narrow valleys of the small rivers Asnpos and

Caprus, which discharge their waters into the

Lycus. The town was originally called Diospolia,

and afterwards Khoas (Plin. v. 29), and La*«iiceia,

the building of which is ascribed to Antiorhaa

Then*, in honour of his wife Laodice, was jimtuhly

foanded on the site of the older town. It was n 4

far west from Colossae, and only six miles to the

west of Hierapolis. (/*. Ant p. 337; Tab. Pmt;

Strab. xiii. p. 629.) At first Laodiceia was set a

place of much importance, but it soon acquired a high

degree of prosperity. It suffered greatly during

the Mithridatic War (Appian, Bell. Mithr. 20;

Strab. xii. p. 578), but quickly recovered under the

dominion of Itome; and towards the cud of the

Kepublic and under the first emperors, Laodiceia

became one of the most important and flourishing

commercial cities of Asia Minor, in whirh lar^w

money transactions and an extensive trade in wood

were carried on. (Cic. ad Fatn, ii. 17, iii. 5;

Strab. xii. p. 577; comp. Vitniv. viii. 3.) The

place often suffered from earthquakes, especially

from the great shock in the reign of Tiberius, in

which it was completely destroyed. But the inha­

bitants restored it from their own means. (Tar.

Arm. xiv. 27.) The wealth of its inhabitant* created

among them a taste for the arts of the Greeks, as is

manifest from its ruins; and that it did not remain

behind-hand in science and literature is attested by

the names of the sceptics Antiochus and Theiodav,

the successors of Aenesidcmus (Diog. Larrt, ix. 11.

§ 106, 12. § 116), and by the existence of a great

medical school. (Strab. xii. p. 580.) During tl:*

Roman period Laodiceia was the chief city of a

Koman conventus. (Cic. ad Fam. iii. 7, ix. 25,

xiii. 54, 67, xr. 4, ad Att. r. 15, 16, 20. 21, tx.

1, 2, 3, 7, m Verr. i. 30.) Many of its inhabitants

were Jews, and it was probably owing to this cir­

cumstance, that at a very early jrriod it l*varre

one of the chief beats of Christianity, and the see <*T

a bishop. (St. Paul, Ep. ad Coins*, ii. 1, it. 1 5,

foil. ; Apocal. iii. 14, toll.; Joseph. Ant. Jmt xir.

10,20; llierocl. p. 665.) The Byzantine writers

often mention it, especially in the time of the Oom-

neni; and it was fortified by the emperor Manual

(N'icet. Chon. Ann. pp.9, 81.) During the inveshsi

of the Turks and Mongols the city was much ex­

posed to ravages, and fell into decay, but the exist­

ing remains still attest its former greatness. 'I lie

ruins near Jknisli are fully described in Pococke's,

Chandler's, Cockerell s, Arundel's and Leaks'* week*.

'• Nuthing," says Hamilton {Researches, rol. i. p.

515), ''can exceed the desolation and melanchn}*'

appearance of the site of Laodiceia; no pictnnr?-i*.e

features in the nature of the ground on which it

stands relieve the dnll uniformity of its undulating;

and barren hills; and with few exception*, its gerr

and widely scattered rains possess do architectural

merit to attract the attention of the travrhVr. Y*t

it is impossible to view them without interest, when

we consider what Laodiceia once was, and htm It is

connected with the early history of Christianity.

Its stadium, gymnasium, and theatres (sds>

of which is in a state of great preservation, with its

* Ptolemy (v. 2. § 18) and PhiUtratu* (I'A  
Soph. i. 23) call it a town of Caria, while Nephasras

B. («. v.) describes it as belonging to Lydia; which

arL.cs from the uncertain frontiers of these i

