1036 STENA. STOBL

territory of Capcna in southern Etrnria. It was

from this district that the Stcllatine tribe derived its

name (Ke.st. s. r. Stella firm). [£. 11. li.]

STENA, a station in Macedonia,on the road from

Tauriana (Doirati) to Stobi (rent. Tub.), which is

evidently the pass now called Ih'/nirknpi, or " Iron

(iate," where the river AxiuS is closely bordered by

perpendicular rocks, which in one place have been

excavated tor the road (Leake, Northern Greece,

vol. iii. p. 442.) [E. B. J.]

STE'NTOKIS LACtJS (SrevTopU \^otj, Herod,

vii. 58; AcropoL p. 64), a lake on the south-cast

coast of Thrace, formed by the Hebrus, and opening

into the Aegean near the town of Aenos. Pliny

(it. ll.s. IS) incorrectly places on it a STEKTORN

PoRTUS; and Manncrt conjectures that perhaps the

right reading in Ilcrodutus (t c.) is ktfttva, not

\lfirrftr. [J. R.]

STENTS, a river of Thrace, mentioned by Mela

only (ii. 2. § 8) as near Maronea,on the south coast,

'1'lie name is probably corrupt, as it ocean in the

MSS. in a great variety of forms,—Stenos, Stonos,

Schoenus, Seenas, Sithenos, &c. (See Tnchncke,

ad he). [J. R.]

STENYCLA'RUS (XTfK&Aapor, 2tcvvk\vpos:

Eth. ^TtwH\y}pios)t a town in the north of Mcs-

senia, and the capital of the Dorian conquerors,

built by Cresphontes. Andania had been the an­

cient capital of the country. (Pans. iv. 3. § 7;

Strab. riii. p. 3G1.) The town afterwards ceased

to exist, but its name was given to the northern of

the two Messenian plains. (Tans. iv. 33. § 4, iv.

15. § 8; Herod, ix. G4.) [Messema, p. 341.]

STEPHANAPHANA, more correctly, perhaps,

Stepbani Fanum, a place in Illyris Graeca, on the

Via Epnatia {Itin. llieros. p. 608). It was the

castle of St. Stephen (tou ayiov 2Tf</>d»'ou), repaired

by Justinian. (Procop. de Aed. iv. 4.) Lapte places

it on the river Boscovitza. [T. II. I).]

STEPHANE (SreeWpn), a small port town on the

cast of Paphlajjonia, according to Arrian (JPtripL

P. E. p. 15) ISO stadia east of Cimolis, but

according to Mareian (p. 72) only 150. The place

was mentioned as early as the time of Hecataeus as

a town of the Mariandyni (Steph. IS. s. v. ^Tttpavh),

under the name of Stephanie. (Comp. Scylax, p. 34;

Ptol. v. 4. § 2.) The modern village of Slephanio

or Est!fan probably occupies the site of the ancient

Stephane. [L. S.]

STEREaNTIUHCSreoeorrior^atown in North.

Western Germany, probably in the country of the

Iiructeri or Marsi, the exact site of which cannot be

ascertained. (Ptol. ii. U. § 27.) [**■&]

STIPHANE (IrKpamj), a lake in the north­

western part of Pontus, in the district called

Phtseraonitis. The lake was en tensive and abounded

in fish, and its shores afforded excellent pasture

(Strab. xii. p. 560.) Its modern name is Boghaz

K'uui Ghieid. (Hamilton, Kcsearchcs, i. p. 336.

full.) [L. S.]

STITHA. [Attica, p. 332, a.]

STIRJS (2Tipfs: Eth. STtpiTTjs), a town of Pbocia

situated 120 stadia from Chaeroncia, the road between

the two places running across the mountains. The

inhabitants of Sliris claimed descent from an Athe­

nian colony of the Attic demos of Steiria, led by

Potent, when he was driven out of Attica by Aepeus.

Panaanias describes the city as situated upon a

rocky summit, with only a few wells, which did not

supply water fit for drinking, which the inhabitants

obtained from a fountain, four stadia below the city,

to which fountain there was s descent extantst

amonr; the rocks. The city contained hi tbe ia»

of Pausaniat a temple of Artemis Stiritis, tankef

crude brick, containing two statues, one 4 Peaeft

marble, the other of ancient workmanship,

with bandages. (Pans. x. 35. §§ 8-1G.)

was one of the Pbocian cities destroyed hr Ptnsf

the close of the Sacred War (Pans, x. 3. § t);

it was afterwards rebuilt and was iniulibftl

time of the visit of Pausaaias. The nun d

now called Paled Miora, are situated npoe i

height defended, by precipitous rocks, about i

of an hour's ride from the monastery of St

The summit is surrounded with a wall of

struction, and the surface of the rock ■

inclosure is excavated in many places for

The fountain of water described by

probably the copions soorce within the wifli

monastery issuing from tbe side of the huX

fountain is mentioned in an inscription fixed

outer wall of the church. (Leake, .Yortlrm

vol. ii. p. 528, seq.)

STMJP1 or STLUPPI (IrXolv^XTXam.

ii. 16. (17.) § 9). a place in Liburnii- TW

bitants are. called Stlupini by Pliny (iii-iLi

Perhaps the present SlunL [T.~

STOBI (Srdffoi, Strab. viL p. 329, fr

389; Ptol iii. 13. § 4; Lit. xxxiii. 19,

xl. 21, xlv. 29; PI in. iv. 17), s towD intl

Paeonia in Macedonia, which appears Is

a place of some importance under the

kin^s, although probably it had bee

by the incursions of the Danlani.

an intention of founding a new city assr

memory of a victory over these troobiesea

hours, and which he proposed to call IN

honour of his son. At the Roman conqw

was made the place of deposit of salt for rat

of the Danlani, the monopoly of which «s»

the Third Macedonia. In the time cf Pta

Stobi was a municipal town, bat probable a

the time of Heliogab.illis it was made a u

When about A. D. 400 Macedonia was i

'* consular," Stobi became the chief Inn of 1

donia H or Salutaris (Marqoardt in Btdbertl

Alter, vol. iii. pt i. p. 118). Acceptor.

Tabular Itinerary ft stood 47 M. P. fnml

of Lyncus, which was in tbe Via I

55 M. P. from Tauriana, and w

in the direct road from Heracleia to i

position must have been therefore oa

10 or 12 miles above the junction of thai r

the Axius, a situation which agrees'

Livy, who describes it as belonging t» I

Paeonia, which was watered by the En***,

was a point from which four roads i

Tab.) One proceeded NW. to Scop*, and f

to Naissus on the great SE. route from I

on the Dannbe to Byzantium; the

Serdica, 100 M. P. SE. of Naissus on the i

the third SE. to Thessalonica; and the

to Heracleia, the last forming a contra usar:

that central point on the YiaEgnatia India

Stobi from all the places on the three 1

In a. P. 479 Stobi was captured bw f

Ostrogoth (Makh. Philadelph. £rr. <Vi

pp. 78—86, ap. Alulier. Fragm-fftML (

p. 125); and in the Bulgarian cam pi

1014, it was occupied by Basil IL and t

army (^roweio*. Cedren. p. 709)^ The |

of the basin of the Ergon in which Stobi i

