ITHACESIAE INSULAE. 99 ITIUS PORTUS.

—74, bat they have been successfully confuted by

Biihle von Lilienstera, Veber das IJomerische Ithaca.

The fullest anthorities on the subject of this article

are Gell, Geography and Antiquities of Jtltaca,

London, 180"; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp.

24—55; Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. i. pp. 38—81;

Bowen./tfrtOi t'a 1850, London, 1852.) [G. F. B.]

ITHACE'SIAE INSULA E, is the name given by

Pliny (iii. 7. s. 13) to some small islets opposite to

Vibo on the \V. coast of Bruttium. These can be

do other than some mere rocks (too small to be

marked on ordinary maps) which lie just opposite

to the remains of Bicona, in the Golfo di Sta. Eu-

femia, and on which some traces of ancient build-

in?* (probably connected with that port) were still

risible in the days of Barrio. (Barrius, de Situ Calabr.

ii. 13: Romanelli, vol i. p. 57). [E. H. B.]

ITHO'ME ('l&inri: Eth. '18»^<rjjt, 'Wupuuos).

1. A town of Histiaeotis in Thessaly, described by

Homer as the" rocky Ithome " (^l&wun KKca/xaKdaraa,

A ii. 729), is placed by Strubo within a quadrangle

f.rraed by the four cities, Tricca, Metropolis, Pelin-

raeum, and Gomphi. (Strab. ix. p. 437.) It pro­

bably occupied the site of the castle which stands on

the summit above the village of Fandri. Leake

ofcwrteJ, near the north-western face of the castle,

some remains of a very ancient Hellenic wall, consist­

ing of a few large masses of stone* roughly hewn on

the ontside, but accurately joined to one another

without cement. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv.

p. 510.)

1 A mountain fortress in Messcnia, where the

Mtssniaiis long maintained themselves against the

Spiruns in the First Messenian War. It was after­

wards the citadel of Messene, when this city was

founded by Epaminondas. For details, see Mks-

SEXK.

lTHtyRIA ClOvpla), a town in Aetolia, near the

Achelous, and a short distance south of Conope. It

was situated at the entrance of a pass, and was

strongly fortified both by nature and by art. It was

taken by Philip V., and levelled to the ground,

B.C.219. (Pol. iv. 64.)

ITIUM PROMONTO'RIUM, is placed by Ptolemy

(5- 9. § 1) in Celtogalatia Belgica. After the mouths

of the Seine, he mentions the outlet of the river Phru-

da [Frudis], Icium (^\kiov aVpov), and then Ge-

•xiacam (rVropiaxov twiveiov), which is Boulogne.

One of the old Latin versions of Ptolemy has Itium

Pronwntorium, and others may have it too. He places

Gooriacum and Itium in the same latitude, and

Itiom dne west of Gesoriacum. This is a great mis-

lake, for, Itium being Cap Grisnez, the relative po-

"tiw of the two places is north and south, instead

«f east and west. There is no promontory on this

part of the French coast north or south of Boulogne

u»pt Grisnez, at which point the coast changes its

direction from south to north, and runs in a general

EXE. direction to Calais, Grarslmes, and Dun-

bryv. It is therefore certain that there is a great

■isiake in Ptolemy, both in the direction of the coast

•ad the relative position of Gesoriacum and Itium.

'-tp Gritaez is a chalk cliff, the termination on the

^ast of the chalk hills which cross the department

'Pot at Calais. The chalk cliffs extend a few

*»'« '* each side of Cap Grisnez, and are clearly  
<*n from the English coast on a fine day. This

^i* is the nearest point of the French coast to the'

IfiMt* coast of A'enr. [G. L.]

ITWS PORTUS (to 'Itiok, Strab. p. 199).

"i« Caesar was preparing for his second British ex-

pedition (n. c. 54), he says (Z?. G. v. 2) that he or­

dered his forces to meet at "Portus Itius, from which

port he had found that there was tie most conve­

nient passage to Britannia, — about 30,000 passus."

In his first expedition, B. c. 55, he says that he

marched, with all his forces, into the country of the

Morini, because the passage from that coast to Bri­

tannia was the shortest (B. G. iv. 21) ; but he does

not name the port from which he sailed in his first

expedition ; and this is an omission which a man

can easily understand who has formed a correct no­

tion of the Commentaries. It seems a plain conclu­

sion, from Caesar's words (v. 2) that he sailed from

the Itius on his first expedition; for he marched

into the country of the Morini, in order to make the

shortest passage (iv. 21) ; and he made a good pas­

sage (iv. 23). In the fifth book he gives the distance

from the Itius to the British coast, but not in tlio

fourth book; and we conclude that he ascertained

this distance in his first voyage. Drumann (G'e-

schichte Jioms, voL iii. p. 294) thinks that the pas­

sage in the fifth book rather proves that Caesar did

not sail from Itius on his first voyage. We must ac­

cordingly suppose that, having had a good passage

on his first voyage to Britannia, and back to the

place from which he had sailed, he chose to try a

different passage the second time, which passage he

had learned (cognoverat) to be the most convenient

(coimnodissimum). Yet he landed at the same place

in Britannia in both his voyages (v. 8) ; and he had

ascertained (cognoverat) in the first voyage, as he

says, that this was the best landing-place. So Dru­

mann, in his way, may prove, if he likes, that Caesar

did not land at the same place in both voyages.

The name Itius gives some reason for supposing

that Portus Itias was near the Promontorium Itium;

and the opinion now generally accepted is, that Portus

Itius is Wissant or Witsand, a few miles cast of Cap

Grisnez. The critics have fixed Portus Itius at va­

rious places; but not one of these guesses, and they

are all guesses, is worth notice, except the guess that

Itius is Gesoriacum or Boulogne. But the name

Gesoriacum is not Itius, which is one objection to

the supposition. The only argument in favour of

Boulogne is, that it was the usual place from which

the Romans sailed for Britannia after the time of

Claudius, and that it is in the country of the Mo­

rini. Gesoriacum was the best spot that the Romans

could choose for a regular place of embarkation, for

it is adapted to be the site of a town and a fortified

place, and has a small river. Accordingly it became

the chief Roman position on this part of the French

coast. [Gksouiacitm.]

The distance of Portus Itius from the nearest port

of Britannia, 30 M.P., is too much. It seems to be

a just conclusion, that Caesar estimated the distance

from his own experience, and therefore that he esti­

mated it either to the cliffs about the South Foreland,

where he anchored, or to the place seven or eight

miles (for the MSS. of Caesar vary here) further

along the coast, where he landed. It is certain that

he first approached the British coast under the high

clialk cliffs between Folkestone and Walmer. It is

a disputed point whether he went from his anchorage

under the cliffs northwards to Deal, or southward to

Sandgate or Ilythe. This matter does not affect the

position of Itius, and it is not discussed here; but

the writer maintains that Caesar landed on the beach

at DeaL There are difficulties in this question, which

the reader may examine by referring to the autho­

rities mentioned at the end of this article. The pas­

It 2

