4 OKBELUS. oppidum NOVUM.

Mantiana, and the Antonine Itinerary IS M. F. to

the W.j Ptolemy** position agrees with the Sinaab

of Shaw (Trav. p. 58), where that traveller found

ruins on the W. bank of the Chinalaph. The town

of the Itinerary corresponds with El Khrhfarnh, tlie

"Chadrn " of Edrisi (O'eog. Nub. p. 81), situated on

h rising ground, on the brink of the same river, where

then are also ruins. [K. B. J.]

OPPIDUM NOVUM, of Aquitania in Gallia, is

placed by the Antonine It in. on the road from Aquae

TarbelHcae (Dax) to Tolona (Toulouse), and be­

tween lietiehaniuun and Aquae Convenarum. [Bb-

JiEHAUNUM; AtjUAR CoNVENABVM.] D'Amille

has fixed Oppidum Novum at Xfiye, the chief reason

for which is some resemblance of name. [G. L.]

OPSICELLA, a town mentioned only by Strabo

(iii. p. 157), and said to have been founded by one

of the companions of An tenor, in the territory of the

Cantabri. [T. H. D.]

OPTATIAXA. [Pacta. Vol. I. p. 744, b.]

OPU'NTIUS SINUS [Ori s.]

OPUS ( Ojt<w, contr. of 'Outfit, ii. 531: Eth,

'OttouVtios), the chief town of a tribe of the Locri,

who were called from this place the Locri Opuntii.

Jt stood at the head of the Opnntian gnlf (<S Ottouv-

tios Kokiros, Strab. ix. p. 425; Opuntius Sinus, Plin.

iv. 7. s. 12; Mela, ii. 3. § 6), a little inland, being

15 stadia from the shore according to Strabo (/. c),

or only a mile according to Livy (xxviii, 6). Opus

was believed to be one of the most ancient towns in

Greece. It was said to have been founded by Opus,

a son of Looms and Protogeneia; and in its neigh­

bourhood Deucalion and Pyrrha were reported to

have resided. (Pind. 01. ix. G2, 87; Schol. ad foe.")

It was the native city of Patroclus. (Horn. //. xviii.

32*1), and it is mentioned in the Homeric catalogue

as one of the Locrian towns subject to Ajax, son of

Oileus (//. ii. 531). During the flourishing period

of Grecian history, it was regarded as the chief city

of the eastern Locrians, for the distinction between

the Opuntii and Epicnemidii is not made either by

Herodotus, Thucydides, or Polybius. Eren Strabo,

from whom the distinction is chiefly derived, in one

place describes Opus as the capital of the Epiene-

midii (ix. p. 416); and the same is confirmed by

Pliny (iv. 7. s. 12) and Stephanus (s. v. 'Osnfof;

from Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 181.) The

Opuntii joined Leonidas with all their forces at

Thermopylae, and sent seven ships to the Grecian

fleet at Arteinisium. (Herod. eii. 203, viii 1.) Sub­

sequently they belonged to the anti-Athenian party

in Greece. Accordingly, after the conquest of Boeotia

by the Athenians, which followed the battle of

Oenophyta, B.C 456, the Athenians carried off 100

of the richest Opuntians as hostages. (Thuc. i. 108.)

In the Peloponnesian War the Opuntian privateers

annoyed the Athenian trade, and it was in order to

check them that the Athenians fortified the small

island of Atalanta off the Opuntian coast. (Thuc.

ii. 32.) In the war between Anttgonua and Cas-

lander, Opus espoused the cause of the latter, and

was therefore besieged by Ptolemy, the general of

Antigonua. (Diod. xix. 78.)

The position of Opus is a disputed point. Mele-

tius lias fallen into the error of identifying it with

Pundonitaa, which is in the territory of the Kpiene­

midii. Many modern writers place Opus at Tdlanda,

where are several Hellenic remains; but Leake ob-

at Kardhenitza, a village situated an hew to 4a

south-eastward of Tafandtt, at a dihtanct tr-ratj*

sea corresponding to the 15 stadia of Stribo, ssl

where exist the remains of an ancient city. (Jfefjfl

Greece, vol. ii. p. 173. seq.)

2. A town in the mountainous district of Acraw

in Elis, taken by the Spartans, when thf? iansel

Elis at the close of the Peloponnesian Wat Tta

Scholiast on Pindar mentions a river Opos is Hta

The site of the town is perhaps reprewntrd byih

Hellenic ruins at Siiada, and the river tipei a*

be the stream which there flows from a uoall hfc

into the Peneius. (I)iod. xiv. 17: Steph. B.it

Strab. ix. p. 425; Schol. ad /W. 01 ix.W;Uh

I\loponne.<iacn} p. 220; Curtius, ],el>tpoitmmtM

i. p. 41.)

ORA ("Opo), a place mentioned by PtoKnyfl

8. § 14) in Carmania. but apparently oo 0* •

fines of Gedrosia, It seems not improbable tssti

has confounded it with Orae, or Oraes, which 1

certainly in the latter province. Strabo (rv

723) and Arrian (vi. 24) botb apparentlj <JSS1

from the same authority, speak of a place ef1

name in Gedrosia,— the capital, probably, ef J

Oritae. '[V.]

< HIA (to, *ftya), a town in the NW. part of hi

apparently at no great distance from the Km

river, of which Arrian describes the cafteiti

Alexander the Great, on his march towards*

Punjab (iv. c. 27). It does not appear to haw|

identified with any existing ruins; but it meet!

been situated, according to Arrian's notice,ban

the Guraei (Uauri) and the crlebratei I

Aoinos.

ORAE ("ripen, Arrian, vi. 22, 28). the chief 1

in alt probability, of the people who are geaaj

called Oritae, though their name is written in -lA

ways. It was situated in Gedrosia, and ist

likely the same as is called in the Periphft ej

Erythraean Sea, the Emporium Ormea (e. 57

Miiller). The neighbouring country wa» lid

corn, wine, barley, and dates. ^

ORATHA COpada), a city described by

nns B. (*. r.), as in the district of M^flw,

Tigris. As he does not state in which Us

supposes it to have been, it is inv

identify it. Some commentators have sn\_

it is the same as u Ur of the Chaldees." it is,

ever, more likely that it is "Ur castcllum I

(Amm. Marc. xxv. 8), now believed to

sen ted by the ruins of Al-Uatkrr; or, i«

Ura of Pliny (v. 24. s. 21).

ORBELUS ("O^Aos. Herod, v. 16:

p. 329; Diodor. xx. 19; Arrian. ^4*4*. fcJ

Ptol. iii. 9. § 1, iii. 11. § 1; Pomp. Mela, ft]

Plin iv. 17), the great mountain oo the

Thrace and Macedonia, which, beginning^

Strymonic plain and lake, extends

sources of the Strymon, where it unites wi

summit called Scomius, in which the i

origin. The amphibious inhabitants of

procured their planks and piles, oo which t\\

structed their dwellings, from this mountain.

L c) Cassander, after having agisted

king of Paeonia, against the I'm nan

and having conquered them, transported

women, and children to Mt. Orb? I us. (Duel

The epitomiser of Strabo (i c\ who lr

before the commencement of the 11th

serves that the distance of Taltmtfa from the sea

much too great to correspond with the testimony of j plies this name to the
ridge of Haenms asd M

Strabo and Livy. Accordingly Leake places Opus 1 Gatterer {Comment. Soc. Got.
voL it. j>.

