404 NAUSTALO. KAXOS.

foundation of Aemona, at a distance of only 15

miles from Nauportus, the latter place lost its for­

mer importance and decayed. During the insur­

rection of the Pannonian legions after the death of

Augustus, the town was plundered and destroyed.

(Tac. L c.) The place is now called Ober-Lay-

bach; its Itoman name Nauportus (from navis and

porto) w.-is connected with the story of the Argo­

nauts, who were believed on their return to have

sailed up the Ister to thin place, and thence to have

carried their ships on their shoulders across the

Alps to the Adriatic [L. S.J

NAI'STALO. a place on the south coast of Gallia,

west of the Khodanus. mentioned in the Ora Mari-

titttn of Aviemis (v. 613) —

"Turn M:insa vicus, oppidumque Naustalo

Et urbs.w

The name Naustalo looks like Greek, and if it is

genuine, it may be the name of some Greek settle­

ment along this coast. Nothing can be determined

as to the site of Naustalo further than what Ukert

rays (Go/fen, p. 412): it is somewhere between Ctttt

ai.'d the Rhtmt. [G. L.]

NAUSTATHMUS (NawTatyioj). a port-town

on the Kuaine, in the western part of Pont us, on a

salt lake connected with the sea, and 90 stadia to

the east of the river Halys. (Arrian, Peripl. p. 16;

Marcian. Heracl. p. 74; Anonym. PeripL p. 9;

7'ab. Peut.f where it is erroneously called Nautag-

mus.) The Peri plus of the Anonymus places it

only -10 stadia east of the mouth of the Halys.

Comp Hamilton (Researches, i. p. 295), who has

identified the salt lake with the modern JIamamli

Ohiettlf but no remains of Naustathmus have been

found. [L. S.]

NAUSTATHMUS (NavtrraOnos), an anchorage

on the coast of Cyrenaica, 100 stadia from Apollonia.

(Scylax, p. 45; Stndiatm. § 56; Strab. xvii. p. 838;

l'tol iv. 4. § 5; Pomp. Mela, i. 8. § 2.) It is

identified with EUtlilAl, which Bcechey (Krped, to

the .\. Coast of Africa, p. 479) describes as a point

forming a bay in which large ships might find shel­

ter. Tl»e remains which have been found there

indicate an ancient Mte. (Comp. Pacho, Voyage, p.

144 Barth, Wanderungen, pp. 461, 495; Thrige,

Res Cyrenens, p 103.). [E. B. J.]

NAUTACA (Nai/ro*a, Arrian, Anab. Hi. 28,

iv. 18), a town of So^diana, in the neighbourhood of

the Ox us (Jihon), on its eastern bank. It has been

conjectured by Professor Wilson that it may be the

same as S'aksheb. (Arinna, p. 165.) [V.]

NAXOS or NAXUS(No£ot: A'w.Ndfcot: Capo

di Schiso), an ancient city of Sicily, on the E. coast

of the Uland between Catana and Messana. It was

situate.! on a low point of land at the mouth of the

river Acp-Mnes (Alcantara), and at the foot of the

hill on which was afterwards built the city of Tau-

romenium. All ancient writers agree in represent­

ing Naxos as the most ancient of all the Greek

colonies in Sicily; it was founded the year before

Syracuse, or B.C. 735, by a body of colonists from

Chain* in Euboea, with whom there was mingled,

according to Ephorus, a certain number of Ionians.

The same writer represented Theories, or Thucles,

the leader of the colony and founder of the rity, as

an Athenian by birth; but Thucydides takes no

notice of this, and describes the city as a purely

Chalcidic colony; and it seems certain that in later

times it was generally so regarded. (Thuc. vi. 3;

Ephor. ap. Strab. vl p. 267; Scymo. Ch. 270—277;

Dual. xir. 88. Concerning the date of its found-

ation see Clinton, F. TJ. vol. I p. 164; Eusek Chrm.

ad 01. 11. 1.) The memory of Naxos as the nr.

licst of all the Greek settlements in Sicily was pre­

served by the dedication of an altar outside tot

town to Apollo Archegetes, the divine patron under

whose authority the colony had sailed; and it was a

custom (still retained long after the deslnKti-m >i

Naxos itself) that all Theori or envoys prrceniinf

on sacred missions to Greece, or retuniinr, tr-x

thence to Sicily, should offer sacrifice on this ahar.

(Thuc. i c.; Appian. B. C. v. 109.) It is arajralar

that none of the writers above cited allude to ti*

origin of the name of Nsxus; but there can be httlt

doubt that this was derived, as stated by HriUniros

(ap. Strph. B. s. r. XaAxtr), from the j.-merrt

among the original settlers of a body of otauusti

from the island of that name.

The new colony must have been speedily j"iwd

by fresh settlers from Greece, as within six yearn

after its first establishment the ChalcUiam at S*i •

were able to send out a fresh colony, which foundVj

the city of Leontini, u.c. 730; and thin was speedily

followed by that of Catana. Theoclos hini»elf be­

came the Oekist, or recognised founder, of the fvmrr,

and Euarchus, probably a Chalcidic citi/en, of the

latter. (Thuc I c; Scymn. Ch. 283—286; Strnh.

vi. p. 268.) Strabo and Scymnus Chins both repre­

sent /ancle also as a colony from Naxos, bat do allu­

sion to this is found in Thucydides. But, as it was

certainly a Chalcidic colony, it is probable that kc*

settlers from Naxos joined those fr<»m the parrel

country. (Strab. vi. p. 268; Scymn. Ch. 286; That

vi. 4.) Callipolis also, a city of uncertain site, ai-4

which ceased to exist at an early period, was a co­

lony of Naxos. (Strab. vi. p. 272; Scymn. Ch. If)

But notwithstanding these evidences of its early jtv-

sperity, we have very little information as to tbt

early history of Naxos; and the first facta trans­

mitted to us concerning it relate to disaster* thai it

sustained. Thus Herodotus tells us that it was one ef

the cities which was besieged and taken by Hipen*

crates. despot of Gela, about B.C. 498—491 (Umd.

vii. 154); and his expressions wonld lead us to infer

that it was reduced by him under peTmawr.t :n'-

jeclion. It appears to have afterwards surtv-*n*lT

passed under the authority of Grl<»n of Syrs*-j«r,

and his brother Hieron, as we find it subjeit u t^•

latter in b. c. 476. At that time Hieron, with a view

to strengthen his own power, removed the inhabitants

of Naxns at the same time with those of Catana. and

settled them together at Leontini, while be rrp**<pM

the two cities with fresh colonists from other >ja*r-

ters (Diod. xi. 49). The name of Naxos is not spe­

cifically mentioned during the revolutions that ro-

sued in Sicily after the death of Hieron; hot there

seems no doubt that the city was restored to *.t*

old Chalcidic citizens at the same time as tbr»* iri

reinstated at Catana, B.C. 461 (Id. xi. 76); and

hence we find, during the ea«iing |ierv<d, the th*«*

Chalcidic cities, Naxos. Leontini, and Catana, fees*»

ralty united by the bonds of amity, and maintain; nf

a close alliance, as opposed to Syracuse and the «4a*ar

Doric cities of Sicily. (Id. xiii. t*6. xir. 14; Tame.

iu. 86, W. 25.) Thus, in B.C. 4S7, when tbe> Imm-

tini were hard pressed by their neichhrmrv «-/ Sir*.

cuse, their Chalcidic brethren afforded thrai ail iba

askance in their power (Thuc- iii. 86): «i»! w>*n

the first Athenian expedition arrived in Sirtfy M*»*rr

Laches and Charoeade% the Naxians hnme4snt*ry

1 joined their alliance. With them, an weU as) vnh

I the Rhegians ou the opposite aide of the strains * *

