776 ROMA, ROMA.

a section of the area at its eastern extremity, in size

about one-third of the whole forum. An argument

advanced by Becker himself (Ifarxlb. p. '278) seems

decisive against both these views, namely, that we

never hear any building on the S. side of the forum

spoken of as bein^ on the comitium. Yet in spite

of this just remark, he ends by adopting the theory

of Bunsen, according to which the comitium began

at or near the ruin of the three columns and ex­

tended to the eastern extremity of the forum:

and thus both the temple of Vesta and the Regia

must have stood very close to it. The two chief

reasons which seern to have led him to this con­

clusion are, the situation of the rostra, and that

of the Tribunal I'raetoris. Respecting the former,

we shall have occasion to speak further on. The

argument drawn from the latter, which is by far the

more important one, we shall examine at once. It

proceeds as follows (Handb, p. 280): "The original

Tribunal Pnietoris was on the comitium (Lit. ri.

15, xxix. 16; GelL xx. I, 11, 47 (from the XII.

Tables); Varro, L. L. v. 32. p. 154; Tlaut. Pom.

iii. 6. 11 ; Macroh. Sat. ii. 12), which, however, is

also mentioned as being merely on the forum.

(Liy. xxvii. 50, si 2, 44.) But close to the tri­

bunal was the Puteal Libonis or Scribonianum, and

this is expressly mentioned as being near the Fornix

Fabius, the Atrium Vestae, the rostra, and lastly

the aedes Divi Julii (Porphyr. ad Uor. Ep. i. 10.

8; Schol. Cruq. Ib. Id. ad. Sat. ii. 6. 35; Fest. p.

333; Schol. ad Pers. Sat. iv. 49); consequently the

comitium also must have been close to all these

objects."

We presume that Becker's meaning in this passage

is, that the Jirst or original tribunal was on the co­

mitium, and that it was afterwards moved into the

forum. It could hardly have been both on the

comitium and forum, though Becker seems to hint

at such a possibility, by saving that it is "also

mentioned as being merely on the forum;" and indeed

there seems to be no physical impossibility in the

way, since it is evident that the tribunal at first was

merely a movable chair ("dictator— stipatus ea

multitudine, sella in comitio posita, viatorem ad M.

Manlium misit: qui--agmine ingenti ad tribunal

venit," Liv. vi. 15). But if that was his meaning,

the passages he cites in proof of it do not bear him

out. In the first Livy merely says that a certain

letter was carried through the forum to the tribunal

of the praetor, the latter of course being on the

comitium (*'eae literae per forum ad tribunal pnie­

toris latae," xxvii. 50). The other two passages cited

contain nothing at all relative to the subject, nor can

there be any doubt that in the early times of the

Republic the comitium was the usual place on which

the praetor took his seat. But that the tribunal was

moved from the comitium to the forum is shown by

the scholiasts on Horace whom Becker quotes. Thus

Porpbviio says: "Puteal autem Libonis sedes prae-

toris fuit prope A renin Fabianum, dictumque quod

a Libone illic piimum tribunal et subsellia locata

sint." Primnm here is not an adjective to be joined

with tribunal—i. e. "that the first or original tri­

bunal was placed there by Libo;" but an adverb —

''that the tribunal was first placed there by Libo."

The former version would be nonsense, because

Libo's tribunal could not possibly have been the

first. Besides the meaning is unambiguously shown

by the Schol. Cruq.: "puteal Libonis; tribunal:

Quod autem ait Libonis, hinc sumsit, quod is

jtrimus tribunal in foro staUitrit" If the authority

of these scholiasts is suspicions as to th* fart rf'£*

removal, thoueh there are no apparent pr«aJ»Sr

su-piciun. ret Becker at all event is not is a ac­

tion to invalidate their testimony. Hetusq

them to prove the situation of the puteal; i

they are good for that, they are also pnd tap

the removal of the tribunal. Yet with ptati

consistency, he tacitly assume* that the 1

had always stood in its original place, tiat a,* I

comitium, and by the puteal, contrary to the «

evidence that the latter was on the forum. (*

locus erat in foro," Sch. Cruq. ad Sat. u.€»l

Libo flourished about a century and a half \

Christ. [See Diet of Buyr. Vol*. II. p. 779 ]

all the examples cited by Becker in which the d

is alluded to as being on the comitium, ait

to this date. The first two in note 457 n^fl

passed over, as they relate not to the rxatttriefl

the dictator and consuls; nevertheless, they ■

anterior to the time of Libo, the first belonpaf I

year n. c. 382 and the second to 204. Tfa* |

from (Jellius " ad praetorem in comitinm'fc

quotation from the XII. Tables, is of MVal

prior to the same period. The possace fcl

(v. § 155. Mull.), which derives th* aaa

comitium from the practice of coming togetlxrfl

(coire) for the decision of suits, of coon* i"

the very origin of the place. A

Plautus can prove nothing, since he died i

a century before the change effected by LiW 1

passage alluded to in Macrobiaa (ii. 12) i

the quotation from the speech of C. Titioaal

of the Lex Fannia: M Inde ad comitium i

litem suam faciant; veniunt in comitiom I

&c." But the Lex Fannia was passed in a.C

(Macrob. ii. 13); or even if wa put it

later, in B. c. 160, still before the proS»N»j|

of Ubo's alteration; who appears to have bl

bunc in n. c. 149. Thus the argument *

merely break down, but absolutely recall I

its inventor; for if, as the Scholia

form us, Libo moved the tribunal from

tium to the forum, and placed it near tfat]

then it is evident that this port of the ana

have been the comitium.

The comitium. then, being neither m t

nor the east sides of the forum, we moat 1

fortune on the north and west, when it i

honed we shall be more successful. The i

thod which promises a satisfactory result a, i

it with other objects with which we know at!

Iteen connected. Now one of these is the 1

We learn from Festus that the comuiaai

neath the Vulcanal: "in Volcanadi, quod <

Comitium" (p. 290, MfilL). In like r.uca

sius describes the Vulcanal as t-Uaiiaf 1

above the forum, using, of course, the atOl

in a general sense for the whole area, ii

the comitium: ical rat irwoSovf Irrapeae*

«V 'H^aitTTou Xf17uaT1C,,,"r** **P*. i****** 1

(TTTjfcoTi tT|I £>opa5 (ii. 50). Where t«j4l

to be taken of a proper temple (faei), bat i

merely an area consecrated to the pod, aaat 1

probably an altar. It was a rule that a 1

Vulcan should be outside the town ;Vhr

and thus in later times we find one in the (

Martina ('' tactam de caelo aedem in camya V

Liv. xxiv. 10). That the Volcanml im *

open space is manifest from its afpeilaljaB t

and from the accounts we read uf rain faft

it (Liv. xxxix. 46, xl. 19), of I iiiiilifl

