THERMIM THF.BMUM. 1163

» loner tenable, embarked on board their ships

od retired without further lots. (Paus. x. 19—22.)

n att 207, when the Romans were carrying on war

n Greece acainst Philip, king of Macedonia, the

taoiians, who were then in alliance with the

;,mana, fortified Thermopylae with a ditch and a

input, but Philip shortly afterwanla forced his

ray through the pass, (Liv. xxviii. 5, 7: Polyb.

- 41.) In n. c. 181, Anliochos, who was then at  
>ar with the Romano, took up his position at Ther-

^vlae, which lie fortified with a double rampart,

i)i:rh, and a wall ; and, in order to prevent the

lawawj from crossing the mountains and descending

sal his rear, he garrisoned with 2000 Aetoliana the

\rrt summits, named Callidromum, Teichios, and

Montis- The consul Acilius sent some troops

raia*t these fortresses anil at the same time at-

irknl the army of Antiochus in the pass. While

the battle was going on in the pass, the Roman de­

tachment, which had succeeded in taking Callidro­

mum, appeared upon the heights, threatening the

king's rear, in consequence of which Antiochus im­

mediately took to flight. (Liv. xxxvi. 15—19.)

There are still remainsof three Hellenic fortresses

upon the heights above Thermopylae, which probably

represent the three places mentioned by Livy. Appian

{Syr. 17) speaks only of Callidromum and Teichius,

but Strabo (ix. p. 428) mentions Rhoduntia also.

Procopins relates that the fortifications of Thermo­

pylae were restored by Justinian (</. Aid. iv. 2).

(On the topography of Thermopylae, see the excel­

lent account of Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. pp. 5,

seq., 40, seq.; there is also a treatise by Gordon,

Account of tiro Visits to the Anopaea or the Iliijh-

landt above Thermopylae, Athens, 1838, which the

writer of this article has not seen.)

MAP OF I I! I.I.M' ■ I - V J w. AMD TIIK SL'MtOL'XUlNO COINTUY.

A A. ADavUl deposits.

a>t. Prrsctit line of coast,

M. Present course of the Spercheius.

cc. A'.imt line of coast,

drf. Present course of the Dyras.

ft. Pr—sot course of the Atupiis.

TITERMUM, THERMUS or THERMA (to 8s>-

t, Pol r. 8: t4 H(>,ua. Strab. x. p. 463; Pol v. 7;

>«tei. Staph. B.S.V.: F.th. Bipfuos: Vlotho), the

ef city of Aetolia during the flourishing period of

Artolian League, and the place where the meet­

's <i the league were usually held and an annual

Nral celebrated. It possessed a celebrated temple

Apollo, in connection with which the festival was

^aaly celebrated. It was situated in the very

ir! of Aetolia, N. of the lake Trichonis, and on a

At of Ml Panaetolium ( Viena). It was con-

rred inaccessible to an army, and from the strength

its situation was regarded as a place of refuge,

I as it were, the Acropolis of all Aetolia. The

J to it ran from Metapa. on the lake Trichonis,

»urb the village of Pamphia. The city was

taut CO stadia from Metapa, and 30 from Pam-

a . and from the latter place the road was very

If and dangerous, running along a narrow crest

K praeipices on each side. It was, however,

Jii»*<l by Philip V., king of Macedonia, in his

in B c. 218. The Aetolians,

ff. Track of the Persians under Hydamcs.

g. Hot spring's at the western entrance, or the

false Thermopylae,

a. Hot spring? at the eastern entrance, or the

real Thermopylae,

t'. Pbocian wall.

who had never imagined that Philip would have

penetrated so far into their country, had deposited

here all their treasures, the whole of which now

fell into the hands of the king, together with a vast

quantity of arms and armour. He carried off the

most valuable part of the spoil, and burnt all the

rest, among which were more than 15,000 suits of

armour. Not content with this, he set fire to the

sacred buildings, to retaliate for the destruction of

Diam and Dodona. He also defaced all the works

of art, and threw down all the statues, which were

not less than 2000 in number, only sparing those of

the Gods. (Pol. v. 6—9, 13.) A few years after­

wards, when the AetolianB had aided with the Ro­

mans, Philip again surprised Thermits (about B. a

206), when he destroyed everything which had

escaped his ravages in his first attack. (Pol. xi. 4.)

We have no further details of the history of Ther-

mum. Polybius alludes, in one or two other pas­

sages (xviii. 31, xxviii. 4), to the meetings of the

league held there. In the former of these passages

Livy (xxxiii. 35) has misunderstood the words Tj|r

