MANTUA. 26.5 MAXTZICIERT.

said to signify in the Albanian language " abounding

in springs.* The road next passed by the fountain

of the Meliastae (MeAiao-Tai), where were temples

of Dionysus and of Aphrodite Melaenis: this foun­

tain was 7 stadia from the city, opposite Ptolis

or Old Mantineia. (Paus. viii. 6. §§ 4, 5.) Tiie

preceding account is rendered clearer by the map

on p. 263.

(For the geography of Mantinice, aee Leake,

Motto, toI. i. p. 100, scq, vol. iii. p. 44, seq.;

FeiirpmtKsiaca, p. 369, seq.j Koss, Neisen im

J'tlopvitnes, Tul. i. p. 121, seq.; Curtius, Ptlopon-

maot, toL i. p. 232, seq.)

MA'NTUA (Mdrrova: Eth. Mantuanus: Man-

J«ro),a city of Cisalpine Gaul, situated on the river

Mincins, on an island formed by its waters, about

12 miles above its confluence with the Padus.

There seems no doubt that it was a very ancient

city, and existed long before the establishment of

the Gauls in this port of Italy. Virgil, who was

naturally well acquainted with the traditions of his

native [.bee, tells ns that its population was a

mixed race, but the bulk of the people were of Etrus­

can origin; and Pliny even says that it was the

only city beyond the Padus which was still inhabited

by an Etruscan people. (Virg. Am. x. 201 — 203;

Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) Virgil does not tell us what

were the other national elements of its population,

and it is not easy to understand the exact meaning

of bis expression that it consisted of three "ger.tes,"

and that each gens comprised four " populi;" but it

seems certainly probable that this relates to the

internal division of its own territory and population,

and has no reference (as MUller has supposed) to

the twelve cities founded by the Etruscans in the

valley of the Padus. (MUller, Etnuker, vol. i.

fv 137; Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 296, note 757.) The

Etruscan origin of Mantua is confirmed by its name,

wbich was in all probability derived from that of

t&e Etruscan divinity Mantus, though another tra­

dition, adopted by Virgil himself, seems to hare de­

duced it from a prophetic nymph of the name of

Manto. (Serv. ad A en. I.e.; Schol. Veron. ad he.

p. 103, ed. Keil.) According to one of the oldest

srbuliasts on Virgil, both Verrius Flaccus and

Caedna, in their Etruscan histories, ascribed tiie

foundation of Mantua to Tarchon himself, while

Virgil represents Ocnus, the son of Manto, as its

founder. (Virg. Aen. x. 200; Schol. Veron. I.e.)

The only historical fact that can be considered as

reuniting from all these statements is that Mantua

really was an Etruscan settlement, and that for

aoow reason (probably from its peculiar and in­

accessible situation) it retained much of its Etruscan

character long after this had disappeared in the

other cities of Cisalpine Gaul.

After the settlement of the Gauls in Northern

Italy, Mantua was probably included in the territory

(/the Ceoomani (Ptol. iii. 1. § 31); but we find

no mention of its name in history, nor do we know

a: what period it passed under the Roman dominion.

From as incidental notice in Livy (xxiv. 10) during

t!w Second Punic War, we may probably infer that it

wit then on friendly terms with Hume, as were the

C«x>mani and Veneti; and as its name is not men­

tioned during the subsequent wars of the Romans in

Ciaalpioe Gaul, it is probable that it passed gra­

dually, with the other towns of the Cenomani, from

a state of alliance to one of dependence, and ulti­

mately of subjection. But even under the Roman

CtoomJoa the name of Mantua scarcely appears in

history, and it is clear that it was far from pos­

sessing the same relative importance in ancient

times that it did in the middle ages, and still re­

tains. It was undoubtedly a municipal town, and

is mentioned as such by all the geographers, as well

as in inscriptions, but both Strabo and Martial speak

of it as very inferior to the neighbouring city of

Verona, in comparison with which the latter terms

it " parva Mantua." (Strab. v. p. 213; Plin. iii. 19.

s. 23; Ptol. iii. 1. §31; Martial, xiv. 195.)

During lhe civil wars after the death of Caesar,

Mantua suffered the loss of a part of- its territory,

for Octavian having assigned to his discharged

soldiers the lands of the neighbouring Cremona,and

these having proved insufficient, a portion of the

territory of Mantua was taken to make up the

necessary amount. (Virg. Eel. ix. 28, Geary, ii.

198; Serv. ad loc.) It was on this occasion that

Virgil was expelled from his patrimonial estate,

which he however recovered by the favour of Au­

gustus.

The chief celebrity of Mantua under the Roman

Empire was undoubtedly owing to its having been

the birthplace of Virgil, who has, in consequence,

celebrated it in several passages of his works; and its

name is noticed on the«ame account by many of the

later Roman poets. (Virg. Georg. iii. 12; Ovid,^lmor.

iii. 15. 7 ; Stat. Silv. iv. 2. 9 ; Sil. Ital. viii. 595;

Martial, i. 62.2, xiv. 195.) According to Donatus,

however, the actual birthplace of the poet was the

village of Andes in the territory of Mantua, and not

the city itself. (Donat. Vit. Virg. 1; Hieron. Chron.

ad ann. 1947.)

After the fall of the Roman Empire, Mantua appears

to have become a place of importance from its great

strength as a fortress, arising from its peculiar situa­

tion, surrounded on all sides by broad lakes or ex­

panses of water, formed by the stagnation of the

river Miucius. It, however, fell into the hands of the

Lombards under Agilulf (P. Diac. iv. 29), and after

the expulsion of that people was governed by in­

dependent counts. ■ In the middle ages it became

one of the most important cities of the N. of Italy;

and is still a populous place, and one of the strongest

fortresses in Italy. It is still so completely sur­

rounded by the stagnant waters of the ilineio, that

it is accessible only by causeways, the shortest of

which is 1000 feet in length.

Mantua was distant from Verona 25 miles; so

that Procopius calls it a day's journey from thence.

(Procop. B. G. iii. 3.) It was situated on a line of

road given in the Tabula, which proceeded from

Mediolanum, by Cremona and Bedriaeum, to Mantua,

and thence to Hostilia, where it crossed the Padus,

and thence proceeded direct to Ravenna. {Tab. l'eut.)

Mantua was distant from Cremona by this road

about 40 miles. It would appear from one of the

minor poems ascribed to Virgil (Catalect. 8.4), that

this distance was frequently traversed by muleteers

with light vehicles in a single day. [E. H. B. j

MANTZICIEKT (Mw-rfurifpr, Const. Porph. <lc

Adm. Imp. c. 44), a fortress of great importance

upon the Armenian frontier. In A.u. 1050, it offered

so determined a resistance to Togrul Bet, the founder

of the Scljukian dynasty, that he had to give up all

hope of breaking through the barrier of fortresses

that defended the limits of the empire, and retired

into Persia. (Cedrcn. vol. ii. p. 780; Le Beau, Bos

Empire, vol. xiv. p. 367; Finlay, Byzantine Empire,

p. 023.) It is identified with Melasyerd or Ua-

natkkert, situated to the N\V. of lake I'dn, and the

