LAT1UM. 137 LATIUM.

from those which surrounded them, from the Vol-

scians and Aei|uians on the one hand, as well as

from the Sabines and Etrnscans on the other. But

the views and traditions recorded by the same

writers concur also in representing them as a mixed

people, prodaced bj the blending of different races,

and not as the pare descendants of one common

stock. The legend most commonly adopted, and

which gradually became 6rmly established in the

popular belief, was that which represented Latium

as inhabited by a people termed Aborigines, who

received, shortly after the Trojan War, a colony or

bsnil of emigrant Trojans under their king Aeneas.

At the time of the arrival of these strangers the

Aborigines were governed by a king named Lati­

nos, and it was not till after the death of Latiuus

led tlie union of the two races under the rule

of Aeneas, that the combined people assumed the

Dame of Latini. (Liv. i. 1,2; Dionys. i. 45, 60;

Strab. v. p. 229; Appian, Rom. i. 1.) But u tra­

dition, which has much more the character of a

rational one, preserved to us on the authority both

of Varro and Cato, represents the population of

tatiom. as it existed previous to the Trojan colony,

as already of s mixed character, and resulting from

the anion of a conquering race, who descended from

tie Central Apennines about Beate, with a people

"horn they found already established in the plains

of Latium, and who bore the name of Siculi. It is

strange that Varro (according to Dionysius) gave

the name of Aborigines, which must originally have

been applied or adopted in the sense of Autochthones,

» the indigenous inhabitants of the country [Abo-

eiubu], to these foreign invaders from the north.

Cato apparently used it in the more natural signi­

fication as applied to the previously existing popula­

tion, tbe same which were called by Dionysius and

Varro. Siculi. (Varr. ap. Dionys. i. 9, 10; Cato, ap.

Pritcm. v. 12. § 65.) Bat though it is impossible

to retire ihe statement of Varro with regard to the

■aw of the invading population, the fact of such a

narration having taken place may be fairly ad­

mitted as worthy of credit, and is in accordance with

lit else that we know of the progress of the popula­

tion of Central Italy, and the course of the several

weeessive waves of emigration tliat descended along

tbe central line of the Apennines. [Italia, pp. 84,

85.]

Ibe authority of Varro is here also confirmed by

the result of modem philological researches. Niebuhr

*a the first to point out that the Latin language  
fore in itself the traces of a composite character, and

«i made up of two distinct elements; the one nearly

resembling the Greek, and therefore probably derived

frwn a Pelasgic source; the other closely connected

*ith the Oscan and Umbrian dialects of Central  
Italy. To this he adds the important observation,

tk«t the terms connected with war and arms belong

»fo*w*t exclusively to the latter class, while those of

ipkullunr and domestic life have for the most part

ft strong resemblance to the corresponding Greek.

tow. (Xiebc.hr, voL i. pp. 82, 83; Donaldson, Var-

™*iiawt. p. 3.) We may hence fairly infer that the

raqueriog people from the north was a race akin to

t» <><aa«, Sabines and Umbrians, whom we find in

inttnrical times settled in tbe same or adjoining re-

P>*& of tbe Apennines: and that the inhabitants of

ti» jiaias whom they reduced to subjection, and with

»b.*n they became gradually mingled (like the Nor-

n*m with the Saxons in England) were a race of

Pcfatgtc extraction. This last circumstance is in

accordance with the inferences to be drawn from

several of the historical traditions or statements trans­

mitted to us. Thus Cato represented the Aborigines

(whom he appears to have identified with the Siculi)

as of Hellenic or Greek extraction (Cato, ap. Dionys.

i. 11, 13), by which Roman writers often mean no­

thing more than Pelasgic: and the Siculi, where they

reappear in the S. of Italy, are found indissolubly

connected with the Oenotrians, a race whose Pelasgic

origin is well established. [Siculi.]

Tbe Latin people may thus be regarded as com­

posed of two distinct races, both of them members of

the great Indo-Teutonic family, but belonging to dif­

ferent branches of that family, the one more closely

related to the Greek or Pelasgic stock, the other to

that race which, under the various forms of Umbrian,

Oscan and Sabellian, constituted the basis of the

greater part of the population of Central Italy.

[Italia.]

But whatever value may be attached to the his­

torical traditions above cited, it is certain that the two

elements of the Latin people had become indissolubly

blended before the period when it first appears in his­

tory: the Latin nation, as well as the Latin language,

is always regarded by Roman writers as one organic

whole.

We may safely refuse to admit the existence of a

third element, as representing the Trojan settlers, who,

according to the tradition commonly adopted by the

Romans themselves, formed an integral portion of the

Latin nation. The legend of the arrival of Aeneas

and the Trojan colony is, in all probability, a mere

fiction adopted from the Greeks (Schwegler, Rom,

Gesch. vol. i. pp. 310—326): though it may have

found some adventitious support from the existence

of usages and religious rites which, being of Pelasgic

origin, recalled those found among the Pelasgic races

on the shores of the Aegean Sea. And it is in ac­

cordance with this view that we find traces of similar

legends connected with the worship of Aeneas and the

Penates at different points along the coasts of the

Aegean and Mediterranean seas, all the way from the

Troad to Latium. (Dionys. i. 46—55; KlAusen,

Aeneas v. die Penatcn, book 3.) The worship of

the Penates at Lavinium in particular would seem to

have been closely connected with the Cabeiric wor­

ship so prevalent among the Pelasgians, and hence

probably that city was selected as the supposed ca­

pital of the Trojans on their first settlement in Italy.

But though these traditions, as well as the sacred

rites which continued to be practised down to a late

period of the Roman power, point to Lavinium as the

ancient metropolis of Latium, which retained its sa­

cred character as such long after its political power

had disappeared, all the earliest traditions represent

Alba, and not Lavinium, as the chief city of the La­

tins when that people first appears in connection with

Rome. It is possible that Alba was the capital of the

conquering Oscan race, as Lavinium had been tli.it,

of the conquered Pelasgians, and that there was thus

some historical foundation for the legend of the trans­

ference of the supreme power from the one to the

other: hut no such supposition can claim to rank as

more than a conjecture. On the other hand, we may

fairly admit as historical the fact, that, at the period

of the foundation or first origin of Rome, the Latin

people constitutor1 a national league, composed of nu­

merous independent cities, at the head of which stood

Alba, which exercised a certain supremacy over the

rest. This vague superiority, arising probably from

its greater actual power, appears to have given rise

