METIIORA.

METROPOLIS. 351

METIIORA (MtSopa, Anrian, Indie. 8), a small

■lite in the centre of India, which was subject to

the peat tribe of the Prat.ii. It was situated near,

if not upon, the Joinanes or Jumna (Plin. vi. 19.

l 22), and has, with much probability, been as­

sumed to be on the site of the present A Italia-

bid. [v.]

METHITUADES (Mc&n/pictoes), a group of

small is lands. lying between Nisaea, tlie port of

M _".m. and Salamis. (Plin. iv. 12. s. 19.) Strabo

describes them, without mentioning their names, as

five until islands, lying before Nisaea to a person

■ailing into Attica (ix. p. 393). Stephanus B.

(i. v.) loosely speaks of them as lying between

Af.nfta and Attica.

METHYMNA (Vl-h9vfiva. and on coins TAtBvfum,

M.i ■....! j: Kik, Vir]Qvtxvaioi), a town in Lesbos,

tbe most important next after Mytilene. It was

Mtnated on the northern shore of the island, where

a channel of 60 stadia (Strab. xiii. p. 618) inter­

vened between it and the coast of the mainland

near Asks.

One of the earliest notices of the Methymnaeans,

is the mention of their conquest of Arisba, another

Uwn of Lesbos, and their enslaving of its citizens.

(Herod, i. 151.) The territory of Methymna seems

to hare been contiguous to that of Mytilene, and

this may bare been one cause? of the jealousy be­

tween the two cities. The power and fame of

Mytilene was on the whole far greater; but in one

period of the history of Lesbos, Methymna enjoyed

prater prosperity. She did not join the revolt of

tbe other Lesbians from Athens in the Peloponnesian

War(Tbuciii.2,18 .and she was therefore exempted

from the severe punishment which fell on Mytilene.

(Thoc.iii.50.) Hence she retained the old privilege of

famishing: a naval contingent instead of a tribute in

moaey. (Thuc vi. 85. rii. 57.) Shortly before the

battle of Anrinusae. Methymna fell into the power

of the Lacedaemonians, and it was on this occasion

thai the magnanimous conduct of Callicratidas pre­

sented so remarkable a contrast to that of the Athe­

nian* in reference to Mytilene. (Xen. Htllen. i. 6.

§ U.) After this time Methymna seems to have

lemne less and less important. It comes into

notice, however, in every subsequent period of

outcry. It is mentioned in the treaty forced by

tl* Komans (d. c 154) between Attalus II. and

Pnuiaa II. (Polyb. xxxiii. 11.) It is stated by

LHy (xlr. 31) and by Pliny (v. 31) to have in-

wprated the inhabitants of Axtissa with its own.

Iu coins, both autonomous and imperial, are nu­

merous. H was honourably distinguished [see

Ljmos] for its resistance to the Mahomedaus, both

ia tie 12th and 15th centuries; and it exists on the

■une spot at the present day, under the name of

.'/ iro.

We have no information concerning the buildings

asd appearance of ancient Methymna. It evidently

p**e*ed a good liarbour. Its chief fame was con­

nected with the excellent wine produced in its

nejbbouruood. (Virg. Georg. ii. 90; Ovid, Art.

-<«. i- 57; Hot. SaL ii. 8. 50.) Horace (Od. i. 17.  
jll jcilU Lesbian wine " innocens; " and Athenaeus

(o- p. 45) applies the epithet tv<rr6naxos to a

,r*-' Lesbian wine. Id another place (i. p. 32) he

^•tnhei the medicinal effect of the wine of this

■W (See also i. pp. 28,29; and Aul. Gell. xiii. 5.)

H»y amy» (xiv. 9) that it had a salt taste, and ap-

F^festly mentions this as a merit. Pausanias, in his

•"wit of Delphi (x. 19), tells a story of some

fishermen of Methymna dragging in their nets out

of the sea a rude image of Bacchus, which was

afterwards worshipped.

Methymna was the birthplace of the poet and

musician Arion. Myrsilus also, who is said to have

written a history of Lesbos, is supposed to have

been born here. [J. S. H-]

COIN OF METHYMNA.

METHYMNA (MijfliWO, a city in Crete, near

Rhocca, which Aelian (iV. A. xiv. 20) mentions in

connection with a curious story respecting a remedy

for hydrophobia discovered by a Cretan fisherman.

Mr. Pashley (7'rap. vol. ii. p. 40) considers that the

remains near the chapel of flaghios Georghios, by

Nopia, on the extreme eastern edge of the plain of

Kisarno-kasteli, represent Methymna, [K. B. J.]

METHYDRIUM (M«0vo>0*': Kth. M*0i/&>«i/s),

a town in central Arcadia, situate 170 stadia north

of Megalopolis (Pans. viii. 35. § 5), obtained its

name, like Interamna, from being situated upon a

lofty height between the two rivers Maloetas and

Mylaon. (Paus. viii. 36. § 1.) It was founded by

Orchomenus; but its inhabitants were removed to

Megalopolis, upon the establishment of that city.

It never recovered its former population, and is

mentioned by Strabo (viii. p. 388) among the places

of Arcadia which had almost entirely disappeared.

It continued, however, to exist as a village in the

time of Pausanias, who saw there a temple of

Poseidon Hippius upon the river Mylaon. He also

mentions, above the river Maloetas, a mountain

called Thaumasium, in which was a cave where

Rhea took refuge, when pregnant with Zeus. At

the distance of 30 stadia from Methydrium was a

fountain named Nymphosia. (Paus. viii. 36. 1—3,

comp. viii. 12. § 2, 27. §§ 4, 7.) Methydrium is

also mentioned in the following passages: Thuc. v. 58;

Polyb. v. 10, 11,13: Plin. iv. 6. s. 10 ; Stepb. B.#. r.

There is some difficulty in determining the exact

site of Methydrium. Some writers identify it with

the Hellenic remains called Palatia; but these are

not on a lofty hill between two rivers, but iu a low

situation above the junction of the rivers on the

right bank of one of them. Methydrium should

rather be placed 45 minutes further, at the distance

of 10 minutes SE. of the village of Nimnitza, where

there are some ancient ruins, one between two

streams, on a height below Pyrgo, otherwise called

Pyrgdko. It is true that this also is not a lofty

hill; but Pausanias uses the expression kuAwi or

VyTjAo'r, and v^t}\6? has reference to KoAuWr,

which means only a slight elevation. (Leake, Jforeo,

vol. ii. p. 57; Pelopotinesiaca, p. 201; BoMaye,

Recherche*, ifc. p. 151; Ross, Heisen %m Peloponnet^

p. 116; Curtius. Peloponnesos, vol. i. p. 309.)

METINA INSULA. [RnoPA.Nts.]

MKT10SEDUM. [Mklodunum.]

ME'TOKES (M«Vo^«s, Ptol, vi. 4. § 3). a branch

of the great robber tribe of the Mardi, who were

settled in Persia. Their name is sometimes written

Mai-rope *. [V.]

METRO'POLIS (MrrrpoVoAtr: Kth. Mvrpovo-

Airnj). 1, A town in the Cayslrian plaiu ia

