VENETI. 1271 VENETIA.

(the Mast of the French department of Morbihan,

tliich corresponds pretty nearly to Caesar's Venena­

ta this coast there are many bays and many " lin-

■ulae " as Caesar calls them (Pointes). The most

• markablc peninsula is Quiberon, which runs out

nlo the sea near 10 miles, and is insulated at high

. .iter. The Veneti commanded the sea in these

arts, and as the necessities of navigation often drove

c.tsela to their ports, they made them pay for the

belter. The V'eneli had trade with Britain, with

runthire and Ct>rnwaU, the parts of the island

rhich were nearest to them. They were the most

owerful maritime state on tile Atlantic.

Their vessels were made nearly 6at-bottomcd, in

nJcr that they might the better take the ground

rben they were left dry by the ebb. The heads

rrre very high, and the sterns strong built, to stund

lie violence of their seas. The material was oak.

nstead of ropes they had chain cables, the use

f which has been revived in the present cen-

ury. Strabo (iv. p. 195) writes as if the ropes of the

iccing were chains, which is very absurd, and is

untraiiicted by Caesar, who says that the yards

rere fastened to the masts by ropes, which the

tomans cut asunder in the sea-fight with the Ve-

rti (iii. 14). Instead of sails they used skins and

rather worked thin, either because they had no

ax and did not know its use, or, as Caesar supposes

to be more likely, because flaxen sails were not

nited for tlie tempests of that coast.

The Veneti rose against the Komans in the win-

;r of b. c. 57, and induced many other neighbour-

tg states to join them, even the Morini and Menapii.

"bey also sent to Britain for help. Caesar, who

« absent in Italy during the winter (h.c. 57—

6), sent orders to build ships on the Loire, probably

i the territory of the Andes, Turones and Carnutes,

here his legions were quartered, and the ships were

• •atod down to the Ocean. He got his rowers from the

'rovincia. In the meantime he came himself into

■allia. lie protected his rear against attack by

ending Labienua to the country of the Treviri, to

erp tlie Belgae quiet and to stop the Germans

mm crossing tin Rhine. He sent 1'. Crassus with

■reive cohorts and a large body of cavalry into

iqnitania to prevent the Celtae from receiving any

id from these parts; and he kept the Unelli

Usklli], Curimolites and Lexovii in check by

i line Q. Titurius Sabinus into those parts with

area legions. D. Brutus commanded Caesar's fleet

Use Gallic ships furnished by the Pictones and

.intones, and other states that had been reduced to

bedienca.

Caesar began the campaign by besieging the

'<?netian towns that were situated on the extremities

f the tongues of land; but as the Veneti had abund-

dc*> of ships, they removed themselves by water

mm. one town to another, when they could no longer

fsihl the besieger. They did this during a great

art of the summer, and Caesar could not prevent

:, for he had not yet got together all his ships,

liter taking several of their towns he waited for the

remainder of his fleet. The Veneti with about

20 of their best equipped ships came out of

■jet to meet the Romans. The Roman ships

ixikl not do the Gallic ships any damage by

riving the heads of their vessels against them, for

be Gallic ships were too high at the prow and too

trong; nor could the Romans have attacked tbem

r raising wooden frameworks on their decks, for

le Gallic ships were too high. The only advantage

that the Roman ships had was in the oars, which the

Gallic ships had not. They could only trust to

their sails. The Romans at last fixed sharp hooks

at the end of long poles, and laying hold of the

enemy's rigging with them, and then putting their

own vessels in motion by the oars, they cut the ropes

asunder, and the yards and sails falling down, the

Venetian ships were useless. Everything now de­

pended on courage, in which the Romans had the

advantage; and the men were encouraged by the

presence of Caesar and the army, which occupied

all the hills and higher ground which commanded a

view of the sea. The Roman ships got round the

Venetian, two or three about each, for they had the

advantage in number of vessels, and the men began

to board the enemy. Some ships were taken and the

rest tried to sail away, but a dead calm came on

and they could not stir. A very few ships escaped

to the land at nightfall. 1 lie battle lasted from

the fourth hour in the morning to sunset. Thus

was destroyed the first naval power that was formed

on the coast of the Atlantic. The Veneti lost their

ships, all their young men of fighting age, and most

of their men of mature age and of rank. They

surrendered unconditionally. Caesar put to death

all the members of the Venetian state assembly, on

the ground that they had violated the law of nations

by imprisoning Q. Velanius and T. Silius, who had

been sent into their country in the previous winter

to get supplies for the Roman troops who were

quartered along the Loire (B.C. iii. 7, 8). The rest

of the people were sold by auction; all, we must

suppose, that Caesar could lay hold of. Thus the

territory of the Veneti was nearly depopulated, and

an active commercial people was swept from tlie

earth. The Veneti never appear again as a power­

ful stale. When Vercingetorix was rousing all

Gallia to come against Caesar at Alesia (b. c. 52),

the contingent of all the Armoric states, seven or

eight in number, was only 6000 men(fi. G. vii. 75).

Dion Cassius (xxxix. 40—43) has four chapters

on the history of this Venetian war, which, as usual

with him, he puts in confusion, by misunderstanding

I Caesar and making his own silly additions. [G. I..]

VENETIA (Oo«.<T(a: Eth. Owivrrtt or"E«Toj,

Venetus). a province or region of Northern Italy, at

the head of the Adriatic sea, extending from the

foot of the Alps, where those mountains descend to

the Adriatic, to the mouths of the I'adus, and west­

ward as far as the river Athesis (Adige), or the lake

Benacns. But the boundaries of the district seem to

have varied at different times, and there is Bonie dif­

ficulty in determining them with accuracy. In

early times, indeed, before the Roman conquest, we

have no account of the exnet line of demarcation be­

tween the Veneti and the Cenomani, who adjoined

them on the \V\, though according to Livy, Verona

was a city of the latter people (v. 35). After the

Roman conquest, the whole of Verielia was at first

included as a part of Cisalpine Gaul, and was not

separated from it till tlie time of Augustus, who

constituted bis Tenth Region of Venetia and Istria,

but including within its limits not only Verona, but

Brixia and Cremona also (Plin. iii. 18. s. 22, 19. s.

23), both of which were certainly cities of the Ceno­

mani, and seem to have continued to be commonly

considered as belonging to Cisalpine Gaul. (1'toL

iii. 1. § 31.) Some authors, however, extended the

appellation of Venetia still further to the W., so as

to include not only Brixia and Cremona, but Bergo-

mum also, and regarded the Addua as the boundary

4 M 4

