PHRYGIA. 621 THKYG1A.

i' -tm ssttW in Asia; for the Phrygians are not

»i ircxmudlr »pnktn of in the Homeric poems (//.

iW, ii. I8J, x. 441, xtI 717, xxiv. 535), but

r> .famCr admitted to be one of the most ancient

■« r» a .iu Minor (see the story in Herod, ii. 2),

uti Uwr, w nther a portion of them, must at

i- ■*« hire mirrated into Europe; so that in onr

:r»: :rei Uk account of their migrations has been

-r rwi, w ii manv other cases, The geographical  
f»i>c if lbs Phrygians points to the highlands of

Iran* ai the kind of their first abode, and the

:»unstop brlwtM the Phrygians and Armenians

■ t'tsbi by vmm singular coincidences. In the

ii' '/.Vents these two nations appear under one

"Tzander and using the same armour; and

iWti»(tiL 7.1) adds the remark that the Ar-

»a» «w( the descendants of the Phrygians,

lataai (op. Sbpk, B. a. v. 'Apuf via, and EusUUh.

«7v« /'jr. 694) mentions the same circumstance,

ill fvrwrer alludes to a similarity in the Un-

aaf» <f the two peoples. Both are said to have

n-i • subterraneous habitations (Vitruv. ii. 1;

bvjA Amai. jr. 5. § 25; Diod. xiv. 28); and the

i--< «f both, lastly, are used as synonyms.

fuel Crate. Omn. ir. p. 257, eil. Cramer.)

toe* circumstances it is impossible not to

»» te the conclusion that the Phrygians were

awniass; though here, again, the account of their

-,-»!»« hi been rerersed, the Armenians not  
r-i iocrodfd from the Phrygians, but the Pbry-

fam the Armenians. The time when they

awJtd nwn the Armenian highlands cannot 1*

ir-i.;w»l, and unquestionably belongs to the re-

««t «». fur the Phrygians are described as the

u mm inhabitants of Asia Minor. (Paus. i.

Lfz:Csndian, ta Entrap, ii. 251,&c.; Appulei.

awa. ti p. 762, ed. Oud.) The Phrygian legends

4 fiwtf duod, connected with king Annacus or

m>. alw are very significant. This king re-

>4 « lrorium, the moat eastern city of Phrygia;

ku death, at the age of 300 years, a great

•S Jwrabclmed the country, as bail been foretold

u axinl oracle. (Zo*im. vi. 10; Suid. s. r.

■ww; Steph B. /. r. 'Isrdnoi'; comp. Or. Met.

■ ^i'v sir.) Phrygia is said to have first risen

■ •> firtl, and the ark ami Mount Ararat are

£ »i in connection with the Phrygian town of

w*-l*. fail Phrygians are said to

» '.be first to adopt idolatry. (Orac. Sibyll.

*> Hi, 366, rii. 12—15.) The influence of  
'41 Testament upon these traditions is unniis-

*»- kn the identity of the Phrygians and Ar-  
*" a thereby nevertheless confirmed. Another  
E*^i to faronr of our supposition mny be de-

I trm taw architectural remains which have

i ujn-.fred in modern times, and are scarcely

■4 at aD by the ancient writers. Vitruvius

l)t»»srk«. that the Phrygians hollowed out the

rw hilia uf their country, and formed in them

a^i aa4 moms for habitations, so far as the

"« the hills permitted. This statement is

'i3» rearmed by modern travellers, who liure

4 ■-» s habitations cut into rocks in almost all

• * la* Astatic peninsula. (Hamilton, Re-

•*» i p. 2iO. 288; Texier, Description de

* slm^urr, i. p. 210, who describes an immense  
'fnroed oot of the natural ruck.) A few

arrhitactural monuments are adomed with

■* •» x Phrygian. (Texier and Stenart. A

"»'•» »/ itrmt nncirnt Monuments tcilh In-

r*"» atitf existing in Lydut and I'hryijia,

London, 1842.) These inscriptions most bo of

Phrygian origin, as is attested by such proper names

as Midas, Ate*, Aregastes, and others, which occur

in them, though some have unsuccessfully attempted

to make out that they are Greek. The impression

which these stupendous works, and above all the

rock-city, make upon the beholder, is that he has be­

fore him works executed by human hands at a most

remote period, not, as Vitruvius intimates, because

there was a want of timber, but because the first

robust inhabitants thought it safest and most con­

venient to construct such habitations for themselves.

They do not contain the slightest trace of a resem­

blance with Greek or Roman structures; but while

vre assert this, it cannot be denied, on the other

hand, that they display a striking resemblance to

those structures which in Greece we are in the

habit of calling Pelasgian or Cyclopian, whence

Texier designates the above mentioned rock-city

(near Boghagldeui, between the Hairs and Iris) by

the name of a Pelasgian city. (Comp. Hamilton,

Researches, i. pp. 48, 490, ii. pp. 226, &c, 209.)

Even the lion gate of Mycenae reappears in several

places. (Ainsworth, Travels and Researches, ii.

p. 58; Leake, Asia Motor, p. 28.) These facts

throw a surprising light upon the legend about the

migration of the Phrygian Pelops into Argolis, and

the tombs of the Phrygians in Peloponnesus, men­

tioned by Athenaeus (xiv. p. 625). But yet much

remains to be done by more systematic exploration of

the countries in Asia Minor, and by the interpreta­

tion of their monuments. One conclusion, however,

can even now be arrived at, viz. that there must have

been a time when the race of the Phrygians formed,

if not the sole population of Asia Minor, at least

by far the most important, bordering in the east un

their kinsmen, the Armenians, and in the south­

east on tribes of the Semitic race. This conclusion

is supported by many facts derived from ancient

writers. Independently of several Greek and Trojan

legends referring to the southern coasts of Asia

Minor, the name of the Phrygian mountain Olympus

also occurs in Cilicia and Lycia; the north of

Bithynia was in earlier times called Bebrycia, and

the town of Otroin on the Ascanian lake reminds ns

of the Phrygian chief Otreus. (Horn. It iii. 186.)

In the west of Asia Minor, the country about Mount

Sipylus was once occupied by Phrygians (Strab.

xii. p. 571): the Trojan Thebe also bore the name

Mygdonia, which is synonymous with Phrygia (Strub.

xiii. p. 588); Mygdonians are mentioned in the

neighbourhood of Miletus (Aelian, V. H. viii. 5);

and Polyaenus (Strateg. viii. 37) relates that the

Bcbryces, in conjunction with the Phocaeans, carried

on war against the neighbouring barbarians.

From all this we infer that Trojans, Mysians,

Maeonians, Mygdonians, anil Dolionians were all

branches of the great Phrygian race. In the Iliad

the Trojans and Phrygians appear in the closest

relation, for Hecuba is a Phrygian princess (xvi.

718), Priam is the ally of the Phrygian* agsinst

the Amazons (iii. 184, &c), the name Hector is

said to be Phrygian (Hesych. s. r. Aaoeios), and

the names Paris and Scamandrius seem likewise to

be Phrygian for the Greek Alexander and A-tya-

nax. It is also wi-ll known that both the Greek

and Roman poets use the names Trojan and Phry­

gian as synonyms. From the Homeric hymn on

Aphrodite (113) it might be inferred that Trojans

and Phrygians sjwke different languages; but that

]«ssnge is equally clear, if it is taken as alluding

