SABA. 863 SABADIBAE.

!»/ the traveller Xiebuhr. (Description de

AraHe* p. 125.) He asserts, and be has not

mi contradicted, that Yemen neither produces

«*«, our trer could hare produced, gold; but that,

i dalrict of Soode. it has iron* mines, — a fact

jmi'reJ by earlier describers, —which were worked

ben be vUited the country. He states, moreover, |

w. tiie native frankincense is of a very ordinary |

-x'.:r. Sahara yielding only the species called Li- i  
it, *bile the better sorts of that gum are imported 1

.*«jMi/ra, Siain, and Java, The distance from

axh the iuperior kind* of myrrh, frankincense,

ir*, and cajt-ia were fetched, probably gave rise

:tr jtran^a tales related about the danger of

hlferriajt them from the trees, with which the Sa­

una regaled the Aepyptian and Greek mercliants,

i tiiDuph them the Greek geographers also. One

ax *J danger alone is likely to have been truly re-

t'ft. ilw t pice-woods were the abode of venomous

, one of w hich, apparently a purple cobra, was

;.T;*,vr, and, springing on intruders, inflicted an

rwa.Sk wound. The ancients, however, said and be­

nd that cinnamon was brought to Yemen by large

*v wbicli build their nests of its chips, and that  
r '^UmMot was combed from the beards of he-goats.

I j:* Ns.t*4e:uis were governed by a king. (Dion

m. Yui. 29.) One inexorable condition of the

hi 'ivT wi», that he should never quit his palace:

isd bryood ita precincts, it was allowable to stone

11* death. The rule which governed the succes-

r. f*i the throne was singular. A certain number

fc-fcie families possessed equal claims to the crown:

u# first child (females were eligible) born utter

arr—ion wms presumptive heir to the reigning

tank. This seclusion of the king, and the

a^re mode <af electing him, Mem to indicate a

aslutai influence, similar to that which regulates

dMce of tl»e Grand Lain a and the homage paid

lan by the Thibctians.

precise loundaries of Sabaea it is impoasible

ucsnain. The area we have presumed is coin­

ed within the A rabian Sea \\\, the Persian Gulf

*-- Jmiian Oream S-, and an irregular line skirt-  
Ue [Assert, and running up in a narrow point to

saK.

"jc the principal divisions of the Sabaeans see the

can on Akabia; Adramitae; Minaei.

[.« irrru* of the Sabaeans seems to have pro-

Int frmn two causes: (1) the more direct inter­

ne the Aecypto-Grecks with India, and (2)

r •x.;r at the powerful tribe of the Honieritae,

i «u jagmstd them. In the account of their

traffic, e-nd of the characteristics of their

•*e l.ave traced the features of the race. Com-

nth the Arabs of the Desert, the Sabaeans

* a highly civilised nation, under a regulnr go-  
axat, and, aa a mercantile community, jealous of

R^bta of property. The author of the lVriplus

iriu upuoftirailar security among the Adramitae;

Ptrrests of the merchant had curbed and softened

safural ferocity of the Arab. This also, according

L^vshr (IMacripi. tk fArabie, p. 315), is still

r » ,n IVflirs, iu comparison with the inland

'sm— of Hej**, and XtgeeL [W. B. D.]

Three cities of this name are distinguished

Kiorrrt rrxjfXapbers: the name indeed was a

■»« appellation of towns, and signified head of

^nmxt, or of its leader divisions. (Cotnp. 1'lin.

ttf a. 32.)

XaCoi, Strph. B. s. r. ZaGai, Agatharch. ap.

c j». 63), wms the chief city of the Sabaeans. Jt

is described by Diodoi-us (iii. 46) as situated upon

a lofty wooded hill, and within two days* journey of

the frankincense country. The position of Saba is,

however, quite uncertain: Manner! (Grogr. drr

Griech. u. Rom. vol. vi. pt. i. p. 6G) place* it at tho

modern Saade; other geographers identify it with

Mareb [Mariaba]; and again Sabbat ha, both from

its site in the interior and its commerc ial importance,

seems to have a good title to be considered as Saba.

(2as*T/ of Agatharchides) or Sheba, the capital of tho

Sabaeans.

2. (2a'ftj.Ptol. vi. 7. §§ 38,42; Plin.vi. 23. s.34),

was also seated in the interior of the Sabaean territory,

26 miles NE. of Aden. Niebuhr (Descript. de CAra­

ble, vol. ii. p. 60) identifies it with the modern Saaba.

3. (Scffeu, Strab. xvii. p. 771; 2a€oT, Ptol.

iv. 7. § 8), on the western shore of the Ked Sea,

was the capital city of the Sabaeans, and its har­

bour was the Sabaiticum Os (SaSatritcov arSfia,

Strab. xvii. p. 770). The position of Sabae, like

that of so many Aethiopian races and cities, is very

uncertain. Some writers place it at the entrance of

the Arabian gulf (Heeren, I/istor. Rrgearche*, vol.

i. p. 333); others carry it up as high as the bav of

Adule, 1»L 15° N. Bruce (Traceh, vol.iii. p. 144)

identifies the modern Azab with the Sabae, and

places it between the tropics *nd the Abyssinian

highlands. Combes and Tamisier ( Voyages, vol. i.

p. 89) consider the i*land Massotca to have a better

claim: while Lord Valentin (Travels, vol. ii. p. 47)

finds Subae at Port Momington. But nithmigh

neither ancient geographers nor modern travellers

are agreed concerning tho site of tho Aethiopian

Sabae, they accord in placing it on the sea-coast

of the kingdom or island of Meroe, and between

the Sinus Avalites and the hay of Adnle, i. e.

between the 12th and 15th degrees of N. latitude.

On the opposite shore were seated the Sabaeans

of Arabia, and as there was much intercourse

between the populations of the opposite sides of

the Ked Sea, the Aethiopian Sabaeans may havo

been a colony from Arabia. Both races are de«

scribed as lofty in stature and opulent (Psalm

lxxii.; I A'/'.'/■*. x. 1; Isaiah, xiv. 14), and this

description will apply equally to the Sabaeans who

dwelt in the spice country of Arabia, and to those

who enjoyed almost a monopoly of the Libyan spue-

trade, and were not far removed from the gold­

mines and the emerald and topaz-quarries of the Ae-

gyptian and Aethiopian mountains. The remarkable

personal beauty of the Sabaeans is confirmed by the

monuments of UpperNubia.andwas probably rented

to the Greek geographers by the -slave-dealers, to

whom height and noble features would be n recom­

mendation. The Sabaeans, at least in earlier pe­

riods, may be regarded as one of the principil tribes

of the Aethiopian kingdom of Meroe. [Mkkok.]

Josephus (Antiq. ii. 5) affirms that the Queen of

Shel«i or Saba came from this region, and that it bore

the name of Saba before it wan known by that of

Meroe. There seems also some affinity between the

word Saba and the name or title of the kings of the

Aethiopians, Saha-co. [\V. B. I).]

SABADI'BAK (ZaBa&uGai wtktoi, Ptol. vii. 2.

§ 28), three islands, mentioned by Ptolemy, in the

neighbourhood of the Aurea Chersonesus in India

extra Gangcm. From the great resemblance of the

name, it is not unlikely that he has confounded it

with that of the island of Iabadius (or Sabadius), now

Java, which he mentions in his next section. [Ia­

badius.] [V.J

