ROMA. ROMA. 805

Ltrou (Saet. Aug. 29; Dion Can. liii.

is

!<*. Ancjr.) These far-famed libraries were quite

4..na uatiiaUons, as appears from monumental

Dcijdaa to slaves and freedmen attached to

lav, «so are mentioned as "a Bibliotbeca Latina

,ptluii«," or, "a Bibliotlieca Graeca Palatina"

Kutiaiu in Graevius, Thet. iii. col. 305; Orell.

**v. 40, 41X Id them were the basts or clipeatae  
■aywa of distinguished authors. (Tac .U/r ii.

I) fMpruas, in a short poem (iii. 29), has

•a at rind a description of the whole building,

at '» cannot do better than insert its—

"cjostrij cur reniam tibi tardior? Aurea Phoebo

I'articus a magno Caesare aperta fuit.

Tvta erat to speciem Poenis digesta columnis

Inter quas Danai femina turba senis.

H:e npiideni Phoebo visus mihi pulchrior ipso

Mimwreus tacita carmen hiare lyra.

A: |M mm dream steterant armenta Myronis

i,"utour arti6cis, vivida signs, boves.

Tarn median) claro surgebat marmore templum

Et patha Phoebo carius Ortygia.

b Sofia erat supra fastigia currus

Et vahrae Libyci nobile dentis opus.

A..vra dejectos Parnassi Venice Gallos

Ahera nwerebat funera Tantalidos.

limit inter mat rem deus atque inter sororem

Pythias in longa carmina veste sonat."

■an we learn that the columns of the portico

• 4 African marble, and between them stood

mm ef the fifty daughters of Danaos (cf. Ovid.

«e. u. i. 4.) According to Acron, fifty eques-

a tfataes of the sons of Danaus also stood in the

■ 'tace. (Schol. ad Pert. ii. 56.) The temple

• -j» -f solid white marble from Luna (Car­

s', (Jar. Virg. Am. viii. 720.) The statue

.*< to by I'ropertiua as "Phoebo pulchrior

'*as that of Augustus himself, which repre­

ss sua in the dress and attitude of Apollo.

»* Cruq. ad lior. Ep. i 3, 17: Serv. ad Virg.

1. 10.) 1b the library was also a colossal

■> tfatn* of Apollo, 50 feet in height (Plin.

'• In. as well as many precious works of

(Ik. ixxir. 8, xxxrii. 5, &c.) The Sibylline

• preserved in the temple (Suet. Aug. 31;

d. lUrcxxiii- 3) befor ewhich was the spacious

i rafted the Auu Apolums.

obi all these notices we may gather some idea of

timlmm of this celebrated temple; but its exact

as wall as that of the Palace of Augustus,

twurr clearly intimated. From several pas-

h tuerrer, which hare been cited when dis-

or Urn sitnmtioo of the Porta Mugionis, we may

fntry accurately that the latter must liave

at xm NK. aide of the Palatine, between the

ef Teas mad Um temple of Vesta. (S. Maria

ismre.) It appears from a passage in Ovid

h lroarc pari/ TritL iii. 1. 59), tii.it the

■ aval have lain some way beyond tlie palace,

can seems to be no reason why we may not

a aear h". Teoduro, though it stood perhaps

• emut of the hill. T his seems to be the

auatoi in the Xotitia. The temple is there

- s»iis Apolliois JCJuimmtni"—an epithet not  
n.aainnrl. notwithstanding the attempt of

r(ifasM«wav, p. 182); although there can he no

r^a: the temple built by Augustus is meant,

tw asnat nWiimrnt a Domus Tibkriasa, or

■s Tiberias, is mentioned as distinct from that

~->a»; a hooae, indeed, which be probably

inherited, as he was born on the Palatine. (Suet.

Tib. 5.) In his youth, when he lived in a quiet,

retired manner, lie first inhabited the house of

Pompey in the Carina*, and afterwards that of

Maecenas on the Esquilinc (/6. 15); but when he

became emperor, it is most probable that he resided

on the Palatine, till he secluded himself in the island

of Capreae. The Domus Tiberiana must have stood

near the NW. corner of the Palstine, since it is

described as affording an exit into the Velabrum (" per

Tiberianam domum in Velabrum," Tac Hut. i. 27).

Suetonius, speaking of the same departure of Otho,

says that he hastened out at the back of the palace

(" proripuit se a postica parte l'alatii," Otho, 6); from

which passages it would appear that the two palaces

were connected together, that of Augustus being the

more conspicuous towards the forum, whilst that of

Tiberius formed the back front. It was from the latter

that Vitellius surveyed the storming of the Capitol.

(Suet. Kit 15.) At a later period of the Empire we

find a Bibuotiieca mentioned in the palace of Ti­

berius, which had probably superseded the Palatine

Library, as the latter is no longer mentioned. (A.

Gell. xiii. 19; Vopisc. Prob. 2.) All these build­

ings must, of course, have been destroyed in the fire of

Nero; but we must assume that, after they were re­

built, the Domus August) et Tibcrii still continued

to be distinguished, as they are mentioned as separate

buildings in the Notitia; and indeed Josephus ex­

pressly says that the different parts of the complex

of buildings forming the imperial palace were named

after their respective founders. (Ant. Jud. xix. 1.

§15)-

On or near the Palatine we must also place the

Tkmplum Auousti — one of the only two public

works which Tiberius undertook at Rome, the other

being the MM of the theatre of Pompey. Even

these he did not live to finish, but left them to lie

completed and dedicated by Caligula. (Tac. Ann.

vi. 45; Suet. Tib. 47, Cat. 21.) The circumstance

of Caligula using this temple as a sort of pier for

his bridge to the Capitoline makes it doubtful

whether it could have stood on the Palntine hill.

(Suet. /*. 22.) Yet Pliny (xii. 42) alludes to

it as "in Palatii templo;" and if it was not exactly

on the summit of the bill, it could not have been

very far from it. Becker conjectures that the

Bridge of Camgui-a passed over the Basilica

Julia; but the only proof is, that Caligula was

accustomed to fling money to the |ieople from the

roof of the basilica, which he might have ascended

without a bridge. (Suet. Ccii 37, Jos. Ant.

Jud. xix. 1. § 11.) The bridge, perhaps, did not

stand very long. Caligula seems to have made ex­

tensive alterations in the imperial palace, though

we cannot trace the n accurately. (" Bis vidimus

urbem totam cingi domibus principum Caii et

Neronis," Plin. xxxvi. 24. s. 5.) We have already

mentioned that he connected the temple of Castor

with it. Yet in his time there must have been

still some private dwellings on the NE. side of

the Palatine, as Pliny mentions that the lotus-

trees belonging to the house of Crassus at that spot

lasted till the fire of Nero. (Ib. xvii. I.) The

enormous buildings of the last-named emperor

prubably engrossed the whole of the Palatine; at all

events we hear no more of private houses there

after the commencement of his reign. We have

already adverted to Nero's two palaces. The first of

these, or Donua Traxsitouia, with its gardens,

though not finished iu the same style of splendour

3 F 3

