41G NEMAUSUS-

NEMEA.

duct tin* waters of the springs of the Evrt and Aizan

Dear I'zt's, were brought toNematuns. The river Gor­

don, the ancient Vardo, is deep just alum* the aque­

duct. The channel is sunk between rugged rocks,

on which scattered shrubs prow. The river rises in

the CVnewtes, and i.s subject to floods, which would

have destroyed a less solid structure than this

lioman bridge. The bridge is built where the valley

is contracted by the rocks, and in its ordinary state

all the water passes under one arch. The best view

of the bridge is from the side above it. The other

Bide is disfigured by a modern structure of the same

dimensions as the lower range of arches; it is a

bridge attached to the lower arches of the Roman

bridge, and is used for the passage of carts and

horses over the Gordon.

There are three tiers of arches. The lowest tier

consists of six arches; that under which the water

flows is the largest. The width of this arch is said

to bo about ,r><) English feet, and the height from

the surface of the water is about 65 fret. The

second tier contains eleven arches, six of which cor­

respond to those below, but they appear to be wider,

itnd the piers are not so thick as those of the lowest

tier. The height of the second tier is said to be

about 6-1 feet; but some of these dimensions may

rmt be very accurate. The third tier has thirty-five

arches, or thereabouts, making a length, u it a

said, of about 870 English feet. It U about M

feet high to the top of the creat slabs u£ sUat

which cover it. These slabs lie across the anas

in whic h the water was conveyed over tbt ritir,

and they project a little so as to fnrra a cornea.

The whole height of the three tiers, if the 'fltol

dimensions arc correctly given, is about 155 fob

It is generally said that the bridge is eatirdj

built of stones, without mortar or cement. Tht

stones of the two lower tiers are without craea;

but the arches of the highest tier, which are baft

of much smaller stones, are cemented. At tat

north end of the aqueduct the highest tier of 1

and the water channel are higher than the g

on which the aqueduct abuts, and there most I

been a continuation of small arches along the to]

this hill; but there are no traces of them, at 1

near the bridge. On the opposite or south adit

aqueduct abuts against the hill, which

than the level of the channel. There is not

the hiil having been pierced; and an inU

man, who lives near the bridge, says that 1

aqueduct was carried round the hill, and

pierced another hill further on, where the ta

still exists.

ROMAN ACil EDLCT NEAR NI.M Vt SI S, TlOW Called THE PONT DO GAUD.

The stone of this bridge is a yellowish colour. 1

Seen under the sun from the west side, the bridge |

has a brightish yellow tint, with patches of dark

Colour, owing to the weather. The stone in the

highest tier is a concretion of shells and sand, and

that in the lower tiers appears to be the same. In

the stones in the highest tier there are halves of a

bivalve shell completely preserved. The stone also

contains lots of rough quartzose rock, and many

small rounded pebbles. In the floods the Gordon

rises 30 feet above its ordinary level, and the

water will then pass under all the arches of the

lowest tier. The piers of this tier show some marks

of being worn by the water. But the bridge is still

fcolid and strong, a magnificent monument of the

grandeur of lioman conceptions, and of the boldness

of their execution.

There are many works which treat of the an­

tiquities of Affsssa. Some are quoted anil extracts

from them are printed in the Guide tht Voyagemrt

par Richard and K. Hocquart. [G.L.]

NEMEA {!} Nf/if'a, Ion. N«^f'ij: Adj. N«?tfi05, Bekker; r\ XapdSpa, Xen. Hell.
ir. 2. § 15.)

titftwuos, Nemeaeus), the name of a valley in the mountains, which enclose the
valley, bar* ,

territory of Cleonae, where Hercules slew the Ne- natural caverns, one of
which, at the I

mean lion, and where the Neinean games were stadia from the sacred grove of
Nemea, and

Celebrated every other year. It is described by road named Tret us, from the
Utter place tol

Strabo as situated between Cleonae and Phlins was pointed out as the cave of
the

(viii. p. .177). The valley lies in a direction (Pans. ii. 15. § 2.)

nearly north and south, and is about two or three , The name of Nemea was
strictly applied

miles long, and from half to three quarters of a mile sacred grove in which
the games went i

in breadth. It is shut hi on every side by moon- Like Olympia and the
sanctuary at tbe t

tains, and is hence called by Pindar a do

(0a6vn(5os% .Vera. iii. IS.) There is a ren

mountain on the NE., called in ancient

APZSAS ('Airt'-ros), now Fuka, nearly

high, with a fiat summit, which is visible from J

and Corinth. On this mountain Perseus is

have first sacrificed to Zeus Apesantius. (I

15. § 3; Staph. H. s. p. *A*f>as; SUL'

4G0. seq.) Theocritus rives Xemea the «

u well-watered" (tvvbpov Nfjx*7jt

xxv. 182). Several rivulets descend from 1

rounding mountains, which collect in the

form a river, which flows northward thr

ridges of Apesas, and falls into the Corint]

forming in the lower part of its sonrce the I

between the territories of Sicyon and Conntla,

river also bore the name of Ketuea (StJ

p. 3S2; Died. xiv. 83; Liv. xxiiii. 15); 1

was dependent for its supply of water

season of the year, it was sometime* called t

mean Chandra. (Aesch. dt Fals. Let}. %

11..1.1 a «. j» v "•» • - * - -

