.150 METHONE. MKTUOXE.

to Isis. This, accordingly, was the site of the tem­

ple of Isis, mentioned by Pausanias, who also speaks

of statues of Hermes and Hercules, in the Agora.

(Leake, Storea vol. ii. p. 453, seq., Peloponnesiaca,

p. 278; Boblavc, hecherches, die. p. 59; Curtius,

J'cloponnegos. vol. ii. p. 438, seq.)

METHO'NE (M«8«i<n, Staph. B.), a town of

Pieria in Macedonia, on the Thermaic gulf, mentioned

in the Periplus of Scylax (p. 26), and therefore one

of the Greek colonies established in early times on

this coast. According to Plutarch (Quacst. Grate.

p. 293), a party of Eretrians settled there, who were

called by the natives avofftp(vi6injToi, and who

appear to have come there nearly at the same time

as the o -cupation of Corcyra by the Corinthians

n. c. 730—720.

The town was occupied by the Athenians with a

view of annoying Perdiccas, by ravaging his ter­

ritory, and affording a refuge to his discontented

subjects. (Thuc. vi. 7.) It appears to have been in

334—353 D. c. that Philip attacked Methane, the

last remaining possession of Athens on the Mace­

donian coast. The position was a convenient station

for Athenian privateers to intercept trading vessels,

not merely to and from Macedonian ports, but also

from Olynthus and Potidaeo. The siege was vigo­

rously pressed by Philip ; and the Methonacans, who

gallantly held out until all their means were ex­

hausted, were at length compelled to surrender.

The inhabitants were allowed to depait with one

garment; but the walls were razed to the ground,

and the land apportioned among Macedonian co­

lonists. Philip lost the sight of one eye in this siege.

(Diod. xvi 31-34; Dem. Olyrdk. i. p. 12, Philip.

i. p. 41, iii. p. 117; Plut. Par. 8; Luc. de Scrib.

Hist. 38: Strab. vii. p. 330; Justin, vii. 6.) Mr.

Groto (Hist, of Greece, vol. xi. pp. 363, foil., comp.

p. 488) is of opinion that this happened afterwards

(B.C. 348), at another place called Methone, situated

in the Chalcidic peninsula, near Olynthus and Apol-

lonia. The epitomiser of Strabo (vii. p. 330) places

Methone at a distance of 40 stadia from Pydna.

This statement does not agree with the jusition

assigned by Leake (North. Greece, vol. iii. p. 435)

to Methone at Eteftiitro-khori, 2 miles from the

sea; but the Epitome is not much to be depended on

in this passage. [K. B. J.]

METHONE. I.(McAtri), Strab.; Mofcinj, Paus.,

Scylax, p. 17: Kth MotWcuos, Paus, iv. 18. § 1, and

Coins; Vlt&avaitvs, Steph. B. *. r.: Mothoni, Mo-

lion), an ancient town in the S\V. corner of Mcssenia,

has always been an important place, both iu ancient

and in modem times, on account of its excellent

harbour and salubrious situation. It is situated at

the extreme point of a rocky ridge, which runs into

the sea, opposite the island Sapienza, one of the

group called in ancient times Oenussae. "03* the

outer end of the town, is the little insulated rock

which Pausanias (iv. 35. § 1) calls Motbon, and

which he describes as forming at once a narrow

entrance and a shelter to the harbour of his time: it

is now occupied by a tower and lantern, which is

connected by a bridge with the fortification of

Mothoni. A mole branches from it, which runs

parallel to the eastern wall of the town, and forms a

harbour for small vessels. It seems to be exactly in

Die position of the ancient port, the entrance into

which was prolably where the bridge now stands."

(I>eake.) According to the unanimous testimony of

the ancient writers (Strab. v iii. p. 359; Pan*, iv.

35. § I), Methone was the Homeric Pednsiu, one

of the seven cities which Agamemnon offered to

Achilles. (Horn. II. ix. 294.) Homer give* to

Pedasus the epithet iuvtXinraa, and Methone

seems to have been celebrated in antiquity for the

cultivation of the vine. The eponymous heroine Me-

thone, is called the daughter of Oeneos, the ** wise*

man" (Paus. L c); and the same name occurs in

the islands Oenussae, lying opposite the city. The

name of Methone first occurs in the Measenian wan.

Methone and Pylus were the only two places whirl

the Messeninns continued to hold in the second war.

after they had retired to the mountain fortress of

Ira. (Paus. iv. 18. § 1, iv. 23. § 1.) At the end

of the Second Measenian War, the Lacedaemonian

gave Methone to the inhabitants of Kauplia, who bad

lately been expelled from their own city by the

Argives. (Paus. iv. 24. § 4, iv. 35. § 2.) The de­

scendant* of the Naupliana continued to inhabit

Methone, and were allowed to remain there even

after the restoration of the Measenian stale by

Epaminondas. (Paus. iv. 27. § 8.) In the first

year of the Peloponnesian War, B. c. 431, the Athe­

nians attempted to obtain pceaenion of Metbone, bat

were repulsed by Brasidas. (Thuc. ii. 25.) Methone

suffered greatly from an attack of some Illyriaa

privateers, who, under the pretext of purchasing

wine, entered into intercourse with the inhabitant*

and carried off a great number of them. (Pans. iv.

35. §§ 6, 7.) Shortly before the battle of Artium,

Methone, which had been strongly fortified by

Antony, was besieged and taken by Agrippa, whit

found there Bogud, king of Manretania, whom he

put to death. (Dion Cass. L 11; Strab. viii. p. 359:

Oros. vi. 19.) Methone was favoured by Trajan,

who made it a free city. (Paus. iv. 35. § S.) it

is also mentioned by Mela (ii. 3), Pliny (iv. 5. a. 7),

Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 7), and HierocJes (p. 647).

Pausanias found at Methone a temple of Athens

Anemotis, the "storm-stiller," and one of Artemis.

Ho also mentions a well of bituminous water, similar

both in smell and colour to the ointment of Cyurna,

but of which no trace is now found. In 1124

Modon was conquered by Venice, but did not become

a permanent possession of the republic till 1204.

In the middle of the old Venetian piazza there still

stands the shaft of an ancient granite column, about

3 feet in diameter and 12 feet high, with a bar­

barous base and capital, which appear to have been

added by the Venetians, when they fixed spun the

top of it, in 1493, a figure of the Lion of St. Mark.

Five years afterwards it was taken by the Tarka,

and remained in their hands till it was recaptured

by Morosini. In 1715 the Turks again toi pos­

session of it, and retained it till the last Greek re­

volution, when it was wrested from them by that

French in 1828. Like other places in Grarc*.

which have been continuously inhabited, Mnamm

contains few ancient remains. Some Hellenic foun­

dations may be traced in tbe city-walla, and anmd

sepulchres may be seen above tbe suburb. (Leake,

Morea, vol. i. p. 429. seq.; Boblaye, /biracrrae*.

dr. p. 113; Curtius, Ptlopomtsos, voL ii. p. 169,

««*)•)

2. A town of Tliesealy, mentioned by Homer (IL

ii. 716) as belonging to Philurtetee. Later writers

describe it as a town of Magnesia, but we have ne

further particulars respecting it. (Scylax. p. 15;

Strab. ix. p. 436; Plin. iv. 9. a. 16; Soli*, c Uj

Steph. B. «. v.)

3. More pnperly called Methane, a town and pen­

insula of TrocKiiia. [Mktiiasa.]

