7G8 , ROMA. ROMA.

parallel toonc another with common walls, the centre

one being that of Jove, on each side those of Juno

■lid Minerva. In Livy, however (vi. 4), Juno is

It presented as being in the same celia with Jupiter.

Bat though the temple had three cells, it had but

one J'a$ti<jiuiii} or pediment, and a single roof.

TEMPLE OF JLTITKK CAP1TOLIXC8.

(From a Coin of Vespasian.)

Now the first thing that strikes us on reading this

description is, that the front being so ornamented,

and the hack so very plain, the temple must have

stood in a situation where the former was very con­

spicuous, whilst the latter was but little seen. Such

a situation is afforded only by the XE. summit of

the Capitoline. On this site the front of the temple,

being turned to the south, would not only be visible

from the forum, but would also present its best

aspect to those who had ascended the Capitoline hill;

whilst on the other hand, had it stood on the S\V.

summit, the front would not have been visible from

the forum, and what is still worse, the temple would

hare presented only its mule and unadorned back

to those who approached it by the usual and most

important ascent, the Clivus Capitolinus. Such a

state of tilings, in violation of all the rules which

commonly regulate the disposition of public buildings,

is scarcely to be imagined. *

We will now revert to Becker's objection respecting

the Akka Caimtoi.inw. It must be admitted that

the dimensions of the temple would have allowed but

little room for this area on the height of Araceli,

esju'ciully as this must have contained other small

temples and monuments, such as that of Jupiter

Feretrius, &c. Yet the Area Capitolina,we know, was

often the scene not only of public meetings but even

of combats. There are very striking indications that

this area was not confined to the height on which

the temple stood, but that it occupied part at least of

the extensive surface of lower ground lying between

the two summits. One indication of this is the great

bright of the steps leading up to the vestibule of the

temple, as shown by the story related by Livy of

Annius, the ambassador of the Latins; whe being

rebuked by Manlius and the fathers fur his insolence,

rushed frantically from the vestibule, and falling

down the steps, was either killed or rendered insen­

sible (viii. 6). That there was a difference in the

level of the Capitol may be seen from the account

given by l'at<*rcuhis of Soipio Nasiea's address to

the people in the sedition of the Gracchi. Standing

apparently on the same lofty steps,—"ex tuperiore

parte CopttoUftsummisgradibns insistens** (ii. 3),—

Nasiea incited by his eloquence the senators and

knights to attack Gracchus, who \v;ls standing in

the area below, with a large crowd of his adherents,

and who was killed in attempting to escape down

the Clivus Capitolinus. The area must bare been

of considerable size to hold the carerrae of Gaahav;

and the same fact is shown by several other ptaepi

in the classics (Liv. ext. 3. xlv. 36, At). Sbs

all these circumstances suit much better wiA t

temple on the NK. summit thin with act ca OS

opposite height. An area in front of the latter, »•

sides being out of the way for public meeting, *wM

not have afforded sufficient space f r them; aa

would it have presented the lofty stepi berw *■

scribed, nor the ready means of escape den an

clivus. These, then, are the reasons whj 4am

the NE. summit the more probable si:e d M

Capitoline temple.

We have already mentioned that thii \)3tm

temple was at least planned by the elder Ti

and according to some authors the fooodana

completely laid by him (Dion vs. iv. 5ft\ui.i

building continued nnder Servius (Tac. Hut :d Taj

However this may be, it is certain that u n* afl

finished till the time of Tarqninius Snperis»,efl

tasked the people to work at it (Liv. L 56); iat

the tyrant was expelled before it could be d*£csJ

which honour was reserved for M. Bacatiai Pthaaj

one of the first two consols of the Republic (Nfl

iii. 22; Liv. ii. 8; Hut. Popl. 14). Whea j|

foundations were first laid it was necessary tsa"^

gurate the temples of other deities whkh >toad I

the site destined for it; on which occasion To

and Juventaa, who had altars there, aloat I

to move, and it became necessary to ecckse i

shrines within the temple; a happy omen fie*l

future greatness of the city! (Liv. v. 54; DioajM

G9.) It is a well-known legend that ha asa_

Capitolium was derived from the finding of aj

head in digging the foundation (Varr. /»]

§ 41, Mull.; Tlin. xxviii. 4, &c) The]

of the god, originally of clay, was made by 1

of Fregellae, and represented him

posture. The face was painted with i

the statue was probably clothed in a tonics safl

and toga picta, as the costume wu borrfvaH

triumphant generals. On the acroterttim efl

pediment stood a quadriga of earthenware, ^fl

portentous swelling in the furnace was asaj

garded as an omen of Koine's future gre*"«s H

xxviii. 4; Plut. Popl 13). The brother* CM

Ogulnius subsequently placed a bronze qmda^H

a statue of Jupiter on the roof; but this pnWaS

not supersede that of clay, to which so muehaafl

importance was attached. The same aeB^M

presented a bronze threshold, and consecrafl^H

silver plate in Jupiter's cells (Liv. x. 23; c£M

Trin. i. 2. 46.) By degrees the temple P*t

ceedingly rich. Camillus dedicated

puftrae out of the spoils taken from the Eti

(Liv. vi. 4), and the dictator Cincincafna

the temple a statue of Jupiter Imperator,

had carried orT from Praeneste (ld.ri.tffl

length the pediment and columns became a^^

bcred with shields, ensigns, and other <

the censors M. Fulvius Nobilior and

Lepidua were compelled to rid the ten

superflaoua ornaments (Id. xL 51).

As we have before related, the oi

ing lasted till the year b. o S3, when

down in the civil wars of Sulla, accordii

by design (M privata fraude," Hist, ii

restoration was undertaken by Sulla

quently confided to Q. Lut alias Catulta

the opposition of Caesar, who wished to

name of Catulus from the teinrdo, tad to

