1030 SPARTA. SPARTA.

in the neighbourhood of the temple of Poseidon, and

consequently must not he confounded with the

Dromu*, The Tbebans did not advance further, for

they were driven back by a body of picked hopUtes,

whom Agesilaua hud placed in ambush in the

sanctuary of the Tjmdaridae (Dioscuri), which we

likewise know from Pausanias was in the Pkoebaeum,

(Xen. Mell.vl 5. §§ 31, 32.) In B.C. 362 Epa-

minondas made a daring attempt to surprise Sparta,

and actually penetrated into the market-place; but

tlie Spartans baring received intelligence of his ap­

proach, the city had been put into a state of de­

fence, and Kpamiuondas again withdrew without

venturing upon an assault. (Xen. Hell. vii. 5.

11 —U; Polyb. is. 6; Diod xv. 83.) In

b. c. 218 Philip unexpectedly entered Laconia,

descended the vale of the Eurotas by the left bank of

tho river, passing by Sparta, and then laid waste

the whole country as far as Taenartu and Males.

Lycurgus, the Spartan kin^, resolved to intercept

him on his return: he occupied the heights of the

Menelaium with a body of 2000 men, ordered the

remaining forces of Sparta to be ready to take up

their position between the city and the western bank

of the river, and at the same time, by means of a

dam, laid the low ground in that part under water.

Philip, however, contrary to the cxppctavx L*.

curgus, stormed the Menelaium, sod

whole army safely through the past, sad ea

two stadia above the city. (Pofrb. v. 11

In it. c. 195 Quinctios FLsnunioos attacked

because Xabis, the tyrant of the city, nfaad

obedience to the terms which the Btfcia p

imposed. With an army of 50,000 ma fmm

assaulted the city on its three undefeDiJed tt

Phcebaeum, Dictynnaeum, and Heptagesisa.

forced his way into the city, and after orero

the resistance which he met with in tat 1

ways at the entrance of tbe city, tnarehaa akaf

broad road (probably the Aphetais) lea&izt to

citadel and the surrounding heights.

Xabis set fire to the buildings nearest totai

walls, which compelled the Romans to

the main object of Klamininus hid been

for three days afterwards Xabis sent fc>

to implore peace. (Liv. xxxiv. 38, 33.)

position of the Phoebaenm has been ai-raiy

plained. The Dictynnaeum was so cafci

temple of Artemis Dictynna, which

scribes as situated at the end of tbe

to the walls of the city (iii. 12. § 8).

that the name of the village of KaJagomi

HAP OI SrARTA AND ITS ENVIRONS,

Acropnli*,

M. laeorium.

Hit! Colon*.

Now Sparta.

Thc.it re.

Agora.

Amphitheatre or Odeum.

Bridge acron the Burotai

Villaga of Magula.

Village of Psycht&i.

Village of Kulagonid.

8. Temple of Menetaus.

ana. Circuit of Wall*.

AO. CanaK

c c. The Tiasa. River of 3

*/ ii. Street Aphetait.

ce. The Hjarinthinn Road.

//. Hollow Way leading fmw the Bndgc 41

tat to MngiiUi and Mulrd.

pp. Modern Road.

/:/.. The PandelHmcma.

