MANDAXF. 257 MAXDUB1T.

lnwever, to have lived rather lower down the river

Brtir Monghir, in the district now called BeJtar.

(Sr* Lassen's map.) [V.]

MANDANE (Mwoanj), a town on the coast of

Ciltcia, between Celenderis, and Cape Pisidium, from

which it was only 7 stadia distant (Stadiasm.

§§ 174,175.) It is probably the same place as the

Mn.j.ii or Mv-anda in Pliny (v. 27); and if so, it

most also be identical with the town of My us (Muoiij)

iRfOtioned by Scylax (p. 40) between Nagidus and

Celenderis. [L. S.]

MANDARAE (MarSopaQ, the district about

Cvrrhns in Macedonia. (Steph. B. s. p.) [E. B. J.]

MANDELA. [Digkntia.]

MANDORL [Mandrus.]

MANDROGIUM. [Carthago, Vol. I. p. 551, a.]

MANDRUANl (Plin. vi. 16. s. 18), a people

iwntioned by Pliny as occupying a part of Western

Bsctriana, nnder the spurs of the Paropamisus. They

are now, like several other tribes whose names are

pven by that geographer to the same locality, no

longer to be identified. [V.]

HAN'DRUTOLIS (MwSpouwoAir or Mwtyo*-

tbJuj), a town in Mysia (Hierocl. p. 664), now called

Mnduria or Sfendreghora, at the foot of Mount

lemons. Stephanas of Byzantium («. r.) erroneously

fixes the town in Phrygia. There seems to be little

doubt bat that Mandrupolis is the same town as

Hindropos or M&ndrupium, mentioned by Livy

(rariii. 15). [L.S.]

MAXDRUS MOKS(to MdBpov,!} MdvZpov Spot),

mk of the chief mountains of Libya, from whence

nW ill the streams from Salathus to Massa; the

middle of the mountain has a position of 14° E. long,

and 19° N. lat, assigned to it by Ptolemy (iv. 6.

§ 8). Afterwards (§ 14) he describes the river

Kieeir as unitirig, or yoking together (ewi^eu-

7fw). Mount Mandrus with Mount Thala. [Ni-

cnt] (Comp. London Geogr. Journ. vul. ii. p. 19;

Ifcadttn, Dissertation on the Niger, p. 81.) Ptolemy

(j 17) places the following tribes in the neighbour­

hood of this mountain; the Rauii ('Pd£<oi), the

Malooae (MoAic&u), and the Manpori (M&-

Sopoi). [E.B.J.]

MANDU'BII (Mav$o6€toi), a Gallic people whom

Strabo(iv. p. 191) erroneously calls the neighbours of

the Arverni. When Caesar (b. c. 52) was march­

ing through the territory of the Lingones, with the

intention of retreating through the Sequani into the

Provincia, he was attacked by the confederate Galli

under Vercingetorix (B. G. vii. 68). The Galli

were defeated, and Vercingetorix, with his men, took

refuge in Alesia, a town of the Mandubii. The site

of the battle is not indicated by Caesar, but the po­

sition of Alesia is at Alise, or A lise Sainte Heine, as

it is also called, in the department of the Cote dQr.

The railroad from Paris to Dijon crosses the hills of

the Cote d'0r}o( which Alesia and the heights around

it are a part. The Mandubii were a small people

who fed their flocks and cattle on the grassy hills of

the Cote dOri and cultivated the fertile land at the

foot of Alesia. Before the blockade was formed, they

had driven a great quantity of their animals (pecuo)

within the walls. {B. G. vii. 71.)

The Mandubii who had received their countrymen

into the city, were turned out of it by them, with

their wives and children, during Caear's blockade, in

order that the scanty supply of provisions for the

troops might last longer. The Romans refused to

receive the Mandubii and give them food. The cer­

tain conclusion from Caesar's narrative is, that these

unfortunate people died of hunger between their own

walls and the Roman circumvallation (B. G. vii. 78;

Dion Cass. xl. 41). Caesar's description of Alexia

is true; and the operations of his army about the

place (£. G. vii. 69—90) are easily understood.

This plan of Alesia and the surrounding country

is taken from Casern's large map of France. The

city of the Mandubii, or Alesia, was " on the summit

of a hill, in a very elevated position," as Caesar cor­

rectly describes it. This hill stands alone, and, ex­

cept on the west side, where there is a plain, it is

surrounded by hills of the same height, which are se­

parated from Alesia by valleys. In the flat valley

PLAJC OF THK KttVIROXS OF ALESIA.

* TV.»* md of the hill of Alrtia, where Vercingetorix I  
bwlt bu alone walL h \

I H»l. pwily occupied by Caesar.

T Ditrq.

DiOfti*,

& Ditto.

K. Hospital of Alite.

a a. Koail from Mutrtbard and Auxerre*

lib. Itnad tu Dijon.

