SYRACUSAE. 1067 SYRACUSAE.

by Col. Leake); hut it is certain that a

t w«i erected there by Dionysius I.*, and

the importance of this was sufficiently shown in the

reign of Agatbocles, when the attack of Hamilcar

of the roi:T KL'IIYALUS.

a r«po!«ed by means of a strong garrison posted

Kuryalus, who attacked his army in flank, while

rsnrinjr, to the attack of Kpipolae. (Diod. XX. 29.)

Sne writers on the ti>pography of Syracuse have

p»«r^i the fortress of AltmgiUUiri to be the

Mat liexapylum, and that Euryalus occupied the

t of ftelrclrre, a knoll or hill on the ridge which

continued from MonyUxllisi inland, and forms a

nziunication with the table-land of the interior,

t the hill of Btlrttiert, which is a mile distant

m MimgibellUi, though somewhat more elevated

in the latter point, is connected with it only by a

■row ridge, and is altogether too far from the

1^-Lxnd of Kpipolae to have been of any import-

re in connection with it; while the heights of

mgSbtUiti, as already observed, form the true key

that position. Moreover, all the passages that

ite to Hexapylum, when attentively considered,

:it to its position on the N. front of the heights,

kittaf towards Megara and Thapsus; and Colonel

ike has satisfactorily shown that it was a fort

structed for the defence of the main approach

Syracuse on this side; a road which then, as

r, ascended the heights at a point a short distance

of the Seala Grtca, where a depression or break

lim line of cliffs affords a natural approach,

war. Xote* on Sgraauc, pp. 258, 342, fee.)

r gate at Hixapylum thus led, in the first in-

n«e. into the suburb or quarter of Tycha, a

:ansatmxuoe completely in accordance with, if not

r«ariiy required by, a passage in Livy (xxiv.

). where the two are mentioned in close cou-

irm.

It is more difficult to determine the exact position

\t,i»A t.t-M, where the Athenians erected a fort

■ins the siege of Syracuse. The name is not

rw-t^oently mentioned in history, so that we liave

knowledge of its relation to the fortifications as

y existed iu later times; and our only clue to its

••mo is the description of Thucydides, that it

id "on the summit of the cliffs of Kpipolae, Iook-

t /wards Megara." It was probably situated (as

1 by GSIler and Mr. Uruie) on the point of

ms heights which forms a slightly projecting

• This must have been the fort on Kpipolae

m by Dion, which was then evidently held by a

(Pint Dion. 29.)

angle near the farmhouse now called Taryin. Its

purpose was, doubtless, to secure the communications

of the Athenians with their fleet which lay at

Thapsus, as well as with the landing-place at

Leon.

It was not till the reign of the elder Dionysius

(as we have already seen) that the heights of

Kpipolae were included within the walls or forti­

fications of Syracuse. Nor are we to suppose that

even after that time they became peopled like tho

rest of tho city. The object of the walls then

erected was merely to secure the heights against

military occupation by an enemy. For that purpose

he in B. c. 402 constructed a line of wall 30 stadia

in length, fortified with numerous towers, and ex­

tending along the whole N. front of the plateau,

from the NW. angle of Achradina to the hill of

Euryalus. (Diod. xiv. 18.) The latter point must

at the 6anie time have been occupied with a strung

fort. The north side of Kpipolae was thus securely

guarded; but it is singular that we hear of no

similar defeuce for the S. side. There is no doubt

that this was ultimately protected by a wall of the

same character, as the remains of it may be traced all

around the edge of the plateau j but the period of its

construction is uncertain. The portion of the cliffs

extending from Euryalus to Neapolis may have been

thought sufficiently strong by nature; but this was

not the case with the slope toxvards Neapolis, which

was easily accessible. Yet this appears to have

continued the weakest side of the city, as in B. c.

396 Himilco was able to plunder the temples in the

suburb of Temenitis with apparently little difficulty.

At a later period, however, it is certain from exist­

ing remains, that not only was there a line of forti­

fications carried along the upper escarpment as far

as Neapolis, but an outer line of walls was carried

round that suburb, which was now included for all

purposes as part of the city. Strabo reckons the

whole circuit of the walls of Syracuse, including tho

fortifications of Epipolae, at 180 stadia (Strab. vi.

p. 270); but this statement exceeds the truth, the

actual circuit being about 14 English miles, or 122

stadia. (Leake, p. 279.)

It only remains to notico briefly the different

localities in the immediate neighbourhood of Syra­

cuse, which are noticed by ancient writers in con­

nection with that city. Of these the most important

