Ml MASSILIA. MASSILIA

iv. 179, 180.) Caesar, who knew the site well, de­

scribes Massalia as washed by the sea almost along

three parts of its extent; ttie fourth part was that

by which the city was connected with the main­

land; and here also the part that was occupied by

the citadel was protected by the nature of the ground

and a very deep valley (£. C. ii. 1). He speaks of

an island op[«>site to Massalia. There are three small

islands nearly opposite the entrance of the present

port. It was connected with the mainland, as Eu-

menius describes it, "by a space of fifteen hundred

pares." D'Anville observes that these fifteen hun­

dred paces, or a Roman mile and a half, considerably

exceed the actual distance from the bottom of the

p.rt to the place called the Grande Pomte; and he

supposes that we must take these to 1* single paces,

and so reduce the space to half the dimensions.

Walckenaer (Geog. <yc. vol. i. p. 25) supposes

Kmnenius to mean that the tongue of land on which

Massalia stood was 1500 paces long. At present

the port of Maneitle is turned to the west; but the

old |wrt existed for a long time after the Roman

jeriod. This old port was named Lacydon (Mela,

il. 5), a name which also appears on a medal of

Massalia. The houses of Massalia were mean. Of

the public buildings not a trace remains now, though

it seems that there were not very long ago some re­

mains of aqueducts and of baths. Medals, urns, and

other antiquities have often been dug up.

Tbo friendship of Rome and Massalia dates from

the Second Punic War, when the Massaliots gave the

Romans aid (Liv. xxi. 20, 25, 26), and assisted

them all through the long struggle. (Polyb. iii. 95.)

In ii. c. 208 the Massaliots sent the Romans intel­

ligence of Asdmbal having come into Gallia. (Liv.

xxvii. 36.) Massalia was never safe against the

Ligurians, who even attacked them by sea (Liv.

xl. 18). At last (B.C. 154) they were obliged to

ask the Romans for aid against the Oxybii and

Deceatcs, who were defeated by Q. Opimius. The

story of the establishment of the Romans in Southern

Gallia is told in another place [Gallia Trans-

ALPHA, Vol. I. p. 953.]

TLAX OF TUB F.NVIROXS OF MARSEILLE.

A. Site of the modern town.

B. Mount above the ClUUel.

C. Modern Port.

1). Port Nruf.

P.. Citadel.

F. Catalan village and harbour.

G. 1-.■■• I'l ,:,■

II Id If.

I. ILuei.rail I.

K. Potnrguci 1.

By the victory of the Romans over the Ligurians

the Mii&nuhuts got some of the Ligurian lands; and

after tin defeat of the Tcutones by C, Minius (n. c.

102) near Aquae Sextiae (AU), the Roman

mander gave the Massaliots the canal which he had

constructed at the eastern outlet of the Rhone, and

they levied tolls on the ships that used it [Fossa

Mariana]. The Massaliots were faithful to tot

Romans in all their campaigns in Gallia, and fur­

nished them with supplies. (Cic. pro Font, c I.)

Cn. Pompeius gave to the community of Massalia

lands that had belonged to the V'olcae Arecoti-.in

and the Helvii; and C. Julius Caesar increased their

revenue by fresh grants. (B. C. i. 35.)

When Caesar (b. c. 49) was marching from Italy

into Spain against the legati of Pompeius, Massalia

shut her gates against him. The excuse was that

they would not side with either party; hot they

showed that they were really favourable to Pom­

peius by admitting L. Dotnitius within their walk

and giving him the command of the city (B. C. i.

34—36). At the suggestion of Pompeius the.

Massaliots also had made great preparations fa-

defence. Caesar left three legions under his legates

C. Trebonius to besiege Massalia, and he gave

D. Brutus the command of twelve ships which be

had constructed at Artlatc (Aria) with great ex-

pedition. While Caesar was in Spain, the MasKahots

having manned seventeen vessels, eleven of which

were decked ships, and put on board of them many

of the neighbouring mountaineers, named Albki.

fought a battle with Brutus in which they lost niie

ships. (B. C. i. 56—59.) But they still held out,

and the narrative of the siege and their sufferings is

one of the most interesting parts oT Caesar's History

of the Civil War (B. C. ii. 1—22; Dion Cassia,

xli. 25). When the town finally surrendered to

Caesar, the people gave up their arms and military

engines, their ships, and all the money that was hi

the public treasury. The city of Massalia appeared

in Caesar's triumph at Rome, uthat city," says

Cicero, "without which Rome never triumphed

over the Transalpine nations" (Philipp. Tin. C,

de Offic. ii. 8). Still it retained its freedom (awra-

vofiia\ or in Roman language it was a Libera Civitaa,

a term which Strain correctly explains to -unity

that tho ilassaliots "were not under the governors

who were sent into the Provincia, neither the city

itself, nor the dependencies of the city." Pliny names

Massalia a "foedcrata civitas" (iii. 4). a term which

the history of its early connection with Rome explains.

The constitution of Massalia was aristocratic and

its institutions were good (Strab. iv. p. 179). It had

a council of 600, who held their puues for lite, and

were named Timuchi (ti/ioDxoi). The council had

a committee of fifteen, in whose hands the ordinary

administration was: three out of the fifteen presided

over the committee, and bad the chief power: they

were the executive. Strain's text hers ten ansa

corrupt, and it is doubtful whether he means to say

that no man could be a Timuchus, unless be had

children and unless he could trace his descent for

three generations from a citizen, or that no mas

could be one of the fifteen unless he fulfilled Uaeaa

conditions. (See Groskurd, Traiul. Strabo, rat. i

p. 310.) Their laws were Ionic, says Strabo, what­

ever this means; and were set up in public. Pro­

bably we may infer that they were not overloaded

with legislation. Aristotle (Pol. v. 6) seems to say

that Massalia was once an oligarchy, and w« may

conclude from this and other authorities that it be­

came a Tiinocracy, that is, that the political power

came into the hands of tliw who had a certaia

amount of wealth. Cicero (de Krp. i. S7, SS) a

