MOTYA.

M0XOENE. 375

Hannibal landed at the promontory of Lilybaeum,

that general laid up his fleet for security in the gulf

around Motya, while he advanced with his land

forces aloug the coast to attack Selinus. (I)iod. xiii.

64, 61.) After the fall of the latter city, we are

told that Hermccrates, the Syracuaan exile, who

had established himself on its ruins with a numerous

band of followers, laid waste the territories of Motya

and Panomius (Id. xiii. 63); and again during the

second expedition of the Carthaginians under Ha-

milcar (b. c. 407), these two cities became the per­

manent station of the Carthaginian fleet. (Id. xiii.

88.)

It was the important position to which Motya

had thus attained that led Dionysius of Syracuse to

direct his principal efforts to its reduction, when in

B. c. 397 he in his turn invaded the Carthaginian

t«Titory in Sicily. The citizens on the other hand,

reiving on succour from Carthage, made preparations

for a vigorous resistance; and by cutting off the

causeway which united them to the mainland, com­

piled Dionysius to have recourse lo the tedious and

laborious process of constructing a mound or mole of

earth across the intervening space. Even when

this was accomplished, and the military engines of

Dionysius (among which the formidable catapult on

this occasion made its appearance for the first time)

were brought np to the walls, the Motynns continued

a desperate resistance; and after the walls and towers

were carried by the overwhelming forces of tlio

enemy, still maintained the defence from street to

street and from house to house. This obstinate

struggle only increased the previous exasperation of

the Sicilian Greeks against the Carthaginians; and

when at length the troops of Dionysius made them­

selves masters of the city, they put the whole sur­

viving population, men, women, and children, to the

»word. (Diod. xiv. 47—63.) After this the Syra-

cosan despot placed it in charge of a garrison under

an officer named Biton; while his brother Leptinea

made it the station of his fleet. But the next

spring (B-c. 396) Himilcon, the Carthaginian ge­

nera), having landed at Panormns with a very large

force, recovered possession of Motya with compa­

ratively little difficulty. (Id. ib. 55.) That city,

however, was not destined to recover its former im­

portance; for Himilcon, being apparently struck

with the superior advantages of Lilybaeum, founded

a new city on the promontory of that name, to which

be transferred the few remaining inhabitants of

Motya. (Diod. xxii. 10. p. 498.) From this period

the latter altogether disappears from history; and

the little islet on which it was built, has probably

ever since been inhabited only by a few fishermen.

The site of Motya, on which earlier geographers

were in mnch doubt, has been clearly identified and

described by Captain Smyth. Between the pro­

montory of Lilybaeum (Capo Boeo) and that of

Aegithallua (S. Teodoro), the coast forms a deep

bight, in front of which lies a long group of low

rocky islets, called the Stagnone. Within these,

and considerably nearer to the mainland, lies the

small island called & Pantaleo, on which the re­

mains of an ancient city may still be distinctly

traced. Fragments of the walls, with those of two

gateways, still exist, and coins as well as pieces of

ancient brick and potteiy—the never failing indi­

cations of an ancient site — are found scattered

thnmghoat the island. The circuit of the latter

data not exceed a mile and a half, and it is inha­

bited only by a few fishermen; bnt is not devoid of

fertility. (Smyth's Stcih/, pp. 235, 236.) The con­

fined space on which the city was built agrees

with the description of Diodorus that the houses

were lofty and of solid construction* with narrow

streets (orcranrof) between them, which facilitated

the desperate defence of the inhabitants. (Diod. xiv.

48, 51.)

It is a singular fact that, though we have no

account of Motya having received any Greek po­

pulation, or fallen into the hands of the Greeks

before its conquest by Dionysius, there exist coins of

the city with the Greek legend MOTTA10N.

They are, however, of great rarity, and are ap­

parently imitated from those of the neighbouring

city of Segesta. (Eckhel, vol. i. p.225.) [E.H.B.J

COIX OK MOTYA.

MO'TYCA, or MU'TYCA (MoVowta, Ptol.: Eth.

Mutycensis, Cic. et Plin.: Modica), an inland town

in the SE. of Sicily, between Syracuse and Cama-

rina. It was probably from an early period a de­

pendency of Syracuse; and hence we meet with no

mention of its name until after the Roman conquest

of Sicily, when it became an independent muni-

cipium, and apparently n place of some consequence.

Cicero tells us that previous to the exactions of

Verres, its territory (the "ager Mutycensis") sup­

ported 187 farmers, whence it would appear to have

been at once extensive and fertile. (Cic. Verr.

iii. 43, 51.) Motyca is also mentioned among the

inland towns of the island both by Pliny and Pto­

lemy; and though its name is not found in the

Itineraries, it is ngain mentioned by the Geographer

of Ravenna. (Plin. iii. 8. § 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 14;

Geogr. Rav. v. 23.) Silius Italicus also includes it

in his list of Sicilian cities, and immediately asso­

ciates it with Netum, with which it was clearly in

the same neighbourhood. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 268.)

There can be no doubt that it is represented by the

modern city of Modica, one of the largest and most

populous places in the Val di Aofo. It is situated

in a deep valley, surrounded by bare limestone moun­

tains, about 10 miles from the sea.

Ptolemy notices also a river to which he gives the

name of Motychanus (Motoxwoi *otoh6s), which

he places on the S. coast, and must evidently derive

its name from the city. It is cither the trifling

stream now known as the Fiume di Sckli, which rises

very near Modica; or perhaps the more considerable

one, now known as fiume di Jiaguta, which flows

within a few miles of the same city. [E. H. B.]

MO'TYUM (Motvov), a small town or fortress of

Sicily, in the territory of Agrigentum. It was besieged

in B. c. 451 by the Siculian chief Ducctius, and fell

into his hands after a battle in which he defeated

the Agrigentines and their allies; but was recovered

by the Agrigentines in the course of the following

summer. (Diod. xi. 91.) No other mention of it is

found, and its site is wholly unknown. [E. H. B.]

MOXOE'NE, one of the five provinces beyond

the Tigris, ceded by Names to Galcrius and tho

Romans, and which Sapor afterwards recovered

B u 4

