TKNLHCIO. 1129 TEKGESTE.

■ilinp of one of the lateral chambers, behind the

truco, and on the right hide of the temple, was a

i.*!Wr group of mythological figures, which hits

m been atyled a planisphere or sodiac. This being

■lipiuml on a kind of sandstone, was removeable,

ill bx the permission of Mchemet Ali, in 1821,

u cat out of the ceiling by M. Lelorrain, and

nchl to Paris. It was purchased by the French

rerunwnt, and is now in the Imperial Museum,

it probably a few years older than the larger

1 Tkm Iseivm. — " The chapel of Isis is behind

* teinple of Athor." (Strab. xvii. p. 814.) It  
mis indeed, immediately behind its SW. angle.

^jriditB of one central and two lateral chambers,

th a corridor in front. Among its hieroglyphics

itr the names of Augustus, Claudius, and Nero.

• uf 170 paces K. of this chapel stands a pylon,

■fi a Greek inscription, importing that in the

irtj-first year of Caesar (Augustus) it was dedi-

'«i to lain. (Letronne, lb. pp. 82, 84.)

( The Typhimimm, as it is denominated from

• rmhlems of Typbon on its walls, stands about

>ir» N. of the great temple. It comprises two

itr }«*fiag*-cluunber* and a central and lateral ady-

ti. A perifvtyle of twenty-two columns surrounds

■ »i ies and the rear of the building. On its walls

inscribed the names of Trajan, Hadrian, and

t'nious Pius, But although the symbols of the

aople of destruction are found on its walls, Ty-

« can hardly have been the presiding deity of

* Temple, from the circumstance that all the  
*r .sculptures refer to the birth of Eluwu, Cham-  
.> *> (Lettrts sur CEgypte, vol. ii. p. 67) suggests

t this was one of the chapels styled " Mammeisi,"

"tying-in places," and that it commemorated the

■ uibment of Athor, mother of Ehovu. Typhon

wrr accordingly in a subordinate character, and

riS»ix» not destruction, but darkness, chaos, or

** sight primeval," which precedes creation and  
b.

ir the monuments of Tentyra, besides the works

wiy eaomerated, Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians

Mudern Egypt and Thebes, and the volumes

Library of Entertaining Knowledge^ en-

»! lirtiUk Museum, Egyptian Antiquities, may

ic<ulted; and for the zodiacs, Visconti, Oenrres

. tr.; Letronne, Observations sur fObjet ties He-

*~Utit»tms JCodiacalts de CAntiquite\ 8vo. Paris,  
!4; or Hal ma, Examen tt Explicutums des Zu-

fms Efyptiennes, 8ro. 1822. [W. IS. D.]

EXI'KCIO. [Tdjcktiuji.]

EOS (iVatf: Eth. T^toj), an Ionian city on the

.: of Axis Minor, on the south side of the isthmus

*"rf;ng the Ionian peninsula of Mount Mimas  
i the mainland. It was originally a colony of

MmTM of Orchomenos led out by Athamas, but

fljf thr Ionian migration the inhabitants were

by numerous colonists from Athens under

'lu>, a son cf Codrus, Ajioecus, and Damasus;

*;terwards their number was further increased  
fVwtians under Geres. (Strab. xiv. p. 633;

a. vu. 3. § 3; Herod, i. 142; Scylu, p. 37;

i fa. B. #. r.) The city had two gtxxl harbours,

at which is mentioned even by Scylax, and tlie

- 30 stadia distant from the former, is called by  
bo re^oi&u (xiv. p. 644), and by Livy (xxxvii.

<>er»eslicus. Teos became a flourishing com-

. &j U'wn.antl enjoyed its prosperity uutiI the time

«r i'mdan dominion, when its inhabitants, unable

-as tbe uoboknee of the barbarians, abandoned

their city and removed to Abdera in Thrace, (Herod,

i. 168; Strab. I c.) But though deserted by the

greater part of its inhabitants, Teos still continued

to be one of the Ionian cities, and in alliance with

Athens. (Thucyd. iii. 32.) After the Sicilian

disaster, Teos revolted from Athens, but was speedily

reduced (Thucyd. viii. 16, 19, 20). In the war

against Antiochus, the fleet of the Komans and Kho-

dians gained a victory over that of the Syrian king

in the neighbourhood of this city. (Liv. /. c; cornp.

Polyb. v. 77.) The vicinity of Teos produced ex­

cellent wine, whence Bacchus was one of the chief

divinities of the place. Pliny (v. 38) erroneously

calls Teos an islam), for at must it could only be

termed a peninsula. (Comp. Pomp. Mela, i. 17; Ptol.

v. 2. § 6.) There still exist considerable remains of

Teos at a place called SighajiJc, which seems to have

been one of the ports of the ancient city, and the

walls of which are constructed of the rains of Teos,

so that they are covered with a number of Greek in­

scriptions of considerable interest, referring,as they do,

to treaties made between the Teiansand other states,

such as the Romans, Aetoliaus, and several cities

of Crete, by all of whom the inviolability of the

Teian territory, the worship of Bacchus, and the light

of asylum are confirmed. The most interesting

among the ruins of Teos are those of the theatre and

of the great and splendid temple of Bacchus; the

massive walls of the city also may still be traced

along their whole extent. The theatre commands

a magnificent view, overlooking the site of the an­

cient city and the bay as far as the bold promontory

of Myonnesus and the distant island of Samoa. For

a detailed description of these remains, see Hamilton,

Researches, u. p. 11, foil.; comp. Leake, Asia Minor,

p. 350. [L. S.]

\

lOIS OK TKUS.

TEUACATKIAE (T^oKirr^a.), a German

tribe in Noricum, on the banks of the Dunube,

probably on the south of the territory occupied by

the Baemi (Ptol. ii. 11. § 26.) [L. S.]

TEKEDON. [ErniRATKs].

TEKEN* (TDpriv, Diod. v. 72), a river in Crete,

perhaps a tributary of the Amnisus, or the modern

Afytselemi [T. H. I>.]

TEKENU'THIS(T«p«roD0ij, Not. Imp.), the mo­

dern Teranieh. a town in Lower Aegypt, was situated

on the left bank of the Canopic arm of the Nile,

At this point a pass through the hills conducted to

the Natron Lakes, about 30 miles to the W. of the

town. The people of Terenuthis farmed of the go­

vernment a monopoly for collecting and exporting

natron. [Nitriak]. Ruins at the modern hamlet

of Abou-Belleu represent the ancient Terenuthis.

(Soniiini, Voyages, vol. i. p. 228.) [W. B. U]

TEREPS FLUVIUS. [Tader]

TERKSES FORTUNALES, a place in the W. of

Hispania Baetica (Piin. iii. 1. a. 3). [T. H. U]

TERGESTE (Tifryttrrt, Strab. Tipytaror, Ptol:

Eth. Tergestiuus: 7rk*fe),a city of Venetia or Intria,

situated on a bay to which it gave the name of Tkk-

OKSTtNUS Sinus, which forms the inner bight or

extremity of the Adriatic sea towards the N. It

