ROMA. ROMA. 763

. wiii rs often used without any precise aigni-

tm.

Tail time preliminary remarks we shall proceed

utjm ibe qaestion as to which summit was oc-

fti b» the Capitoline temple. And as several

nwj bare been adduced by Becker (Htmdb.

J93) in faronr of the SW. summit, which

teas to bt «f soch force and cogency as " com-

ri u ivxbt" the qnestiou, it will be necessary

u-r.rtf them trriatim, before we proceed to state

c^«pmwo. Tbey are chiefly drawn from nar-

w <i attempts to surprise or storm the Capitol.

> tnt -a the list is the well-known story of

irn, at related by Dionyshis of Halicarnas-

(L II): "Herdonius," Bays Becker, '• lands

:tt it the spot where the Capitol lies, and

t tbt bill u aot the distance of a stadium from

Birr, iod therefore manifestly opposite to its

m pint He f>TCfu a passage through the

n'i! pur. whkh lay on this side, ascends the

i»i Kizts the fortress (Qpoitpiov). Hence he

n f'Tvirds still farther to the neighbouring

4. rf whieb he also gains possession. This

en Uav suffices to decide the question, since

Jfttoi a expressly mentioned as being next to

**r, i i the Carmental gate near it: and since  
*fcJ.of Herdonius, after taking possession of the  
~ bcight, proceed* to the adjoining citadel"

■*» interpretation of the narrntiTe some things

-"M which are necessary to the proper under-  
4 it, and others are inserted which are by

at* to b« (bund there. Dionysins does not say

hsj tutu landed at the spot trAcre Me Capitol

ai wWe the hill is only a stade from the

that he landed at that part of Rome

'> Ctpito&K kill is, at the distance of not

» <tvie from the riTer. Secondly, Becker

"that fpoupiow is the Capitol, or, as he rails

k*ztng the whole question, "the western

L" Bat bis greatest misrepresentation arises

■ittzsf to state that Dionysios, as his text

* earriftst the Carmental gate as left open in  
a--* (/ some divine or oracular command (koto1

fBw): whereas Beckers words ("er dringt

4> Cinnentalische Thor"') would lead the

tJ fefine that the passage was forced by

am. Now it has been shown that the Purta

■*da was one of the city gates; and it is im-

»ta tefieve that the Romans were so besetted,

ir ti aoch a state of idiotcy, that, after build-

bp- stnee wall round their city at great ex-

tad troeble, they should leave one of their

Y*~ tad that too without a guard upon it;

wawiaj all their elattorate defences useless

We hare said without a avard, be-

t i. from the narrative that the first

► eocosstered by Herdonius was the tppovptov,

Kccrhsg to Becker was the Capitol; so that

* km passed through the Vicus Jugarius,  
■ forma, ar.d ascended the Clivus Capitolinus

I rtrropti-m. It is evident, however, that

*■ mold not hare intended the Carmental  
*t be makes it an entrance not to the city  
1 tat Capitol .'.a. wvAeu too Kaw.TcnA.oy);

* * rfrmrded it as seated upon an eminence,  
"- the expression that Herdonius made his

"rW tkrosgh it (a,ra€t4dcas rV Mvapu*).

l* -f afccTnua is manifestly corrupt or inter*

'. *nch farther appears from the fact that

^ ra describing the real CarmenUl gate

(i. 32), he used the adjective form Kaput yr is (irapit

rati Kap'LtvTuTi a-vAcus), whilst in the present in­

stance he is made to use the form KappAmivos. Her­

donius must have landed btlowthe line of wall running

from the Capitoline to the river, where, as the wall

was not continued along its bunks, he would have

met with no obstruction. And this was evidently

the reason why he brought down his men in boats;

for if the Carmental gate had been always left open

it would have been better for him to have marched

overland, and thus to have avoided the protracted

and hazardous operation of landing his men. It is

clear, as Preller has pointed out (Schneidewin's Phi-

lofogu* L p. 85, note), that Dionysius, or rather per­

haps his transcribers or editors, has here confounded

the Porta CarmenUlis with the Porta Pandana,

which, as we have before seen, was seated on the

Capitoline hill, and always left open, for there

could hardly have been two gates of this descrip­

tion. The Porta Pandana, as we have already said,

was still in existence in the time of Varoi (A. L. v.

§ 42, Mull.), and was in fact the entrance to the

ancient fort or castellum — the <ppovptov of Diony-

sius — which guarded the approach to the Capitoline

hill, of course on its £. side, or towards the forum,

where alone it was accessible. Thus Solinus; 44 lidera

(Herculiscomites) et montemCapitolinum Saturnium

nominurunt, Castelli quoque, quod excitaverunt, por-

tam Saturniam appellaverunt, quae postmoduni Pan­

dana vocitata est" (i. 13). We also learn from

Festus, who mentions the same castrum, or fort,

that it was situated in the lower part of the

Clivus Capitolinus. "Saturmi quoque dicebantur,

qui cast mm in imo clivo Capitolino incolebant"

(p. 322, Mtill.). This, then, was the ippovpiov first

captured by Herdonius, and not, as Becker supposes,

the Capitol: and hence, as that writer says, he pressed

on to the western height, which, however, was not

the Capitol bnt the Arx. When Dionysius says of

the latter that it adjoined, or was connected with, the

Capitolium, this was intended for his Greek readers,

who would otherwise have supposed, from the fashion

of their own cities, that the Arx or Acropolis formed

quite a separate hill.

The story of Herdonius, then, instead of being

"alone decisive," and which Becker ( Warnung, pp.

43,44) called upon Braun and Prelk>r to explain, be­

fore they ventured to say a word more on the subject,

proves absolutely nothing at all; and we pass on to

the next, that of Pontius Cominius and the Gauls.

"The messenger climbs the rock at the spot nearest

the river, by the Porta Carmentalia, where the

Gauls, who had observed his footsteps, afterwards

make the same attempt. It is from this spot that

Maiilius casts them down " (p. 389). This is a fair

representation of the matter; but tl-e question re­

mains, when the messenger had clomb the rock was

he in the Capitol or in the Arx? The passages

quoted as decisive in favour of the former are the

following: "lnde (Cominius) qua proximum fuit

a ripa, per praeruptum eoque neglectum hostiura

custodiae saxum in Capitolium evadit." (Liv. r. 46.)

u Galli, scu vestigio notato humano, seu sua spoute

ani mad verso ad Garment is saxorum adscensu aequo

— in summum evascre" (76.47). Now, it is plain,

that in the former of these passages Livy means

the Capitoline hill, and not the Capitol strictly so

called; since, in regard to a small space, like the

Capitol Proper, it would be a useless and absurd

distinction, if it lay, and was known to lie, next the

. river, to say that Cominius mounted it *' where it

