RHIZONICTJS STNU& RI10DANUS.

t retires am the Enchelees. (Scylax, /. c.)

rtkrr the Phoenicians had reached the E. shore

LV Adriatic don not appear, but it could onlj be

n traces of Phoenician settlements that this term

i wiped to his wanderings. (Wilkinson, Dal-

as, lal L p. 381; Neigebaur, Die Sud-Slaven,

H) [E. B. J.]

lillZOXICUS SINUS. [Rmzo.x.]

ihWPHAGI AETUIOPES ('PifoaXryoi, Dio-

.u U; Strab. xvii. p. 770, seq.; Ptol. it. 8. §

i at of the numerous tribes of Aetbiopia, whom

«d after the diet peculiar to them.

Arthiopians dwelt above Merov, on

■r bask of the Astaboras (Tactizzt), and de-

. tleir principal sustenance from a kind of cake

• Bade from the reeds and bulrushes that

r? that alluvial region. The roots were first

iKiauIr cleansed, then powdered between stones,

■a palp thus obtained was dried in the sun. The

a^Aari are described as a mild and harmless race,

C p amity with their neighbours, and, probably

Bar :brr bad nothing to lose, unmolested by them.

• (Air foes were lions, who sometimes com-

la! tin greatest havoc among this unarmed race;

Ceir best friends, according to Diodorus (com p.

Ouih. ap. Hudton, Geog. Grate. Min. p. 37),

1a ABebss of gnat, or more probably gadfly,

a t: tbs summer solstice (wro ri;e avaroAV

»■■■>) assailed the lions in such numbers, that

I ad -.-.an the marshal, and permitted the Rhi-

iari to recruit their losses. The site of this

aw tribe probably corresponds with that of the

■ (Bruce. TrwetU. vol. iii. pp. 69—72), who

•ropy the southern part of the territory of

■ t Minn, on the upper Tacazze. [W. B. D.]

BZUS (P<»w), a port-town of Pontus, at the

l> 'the river Khizrus, about 120 stadia to the

i lie river Caina, and 30 stadia west of the

u if the Ascurus. In the time of Procopius

I (rota. iv. 2) the place had risen to consider-

mfnrta&ce, ao that Justinian surrounded it

_,jrig fortificatiuns. The Table mentions on

'> place under the name of Beila. which is pro-

'ady a corruption of the right name, which

io the form of Rizeh, though the place

'iillad Irritk. (Couip. Procop. de Aed.

< hel v. 1 § 6.) [L. S.]

• rv'.o J'.'. PifoiiiTioi), a town of

"** in TWaaaly, whose inhabitant were

'>n& u Uernetrias upon the foundation of the

i dry. (Smb. ix. pp. 436, 443; Steph. B. «. ».;

"■ 9. s. 16.) We learn from Scylax (p. 24)

aaaia was outside the Pagasaean gulf upon

>Vntr shore; but its exact position is uncer-

tnkt places it at the ruins eastward of

an (.Vortfcns Greece, toI. iv. p. 383).

ta?CA('P<Vuc«)tatownof Crete,wberetherewas

CIS Artemis Khoccaea ( Aelian. .V. A. xii. 22).

(vol. ii. p. 247) found remains at the Tillage

I Kill bears the name of Rkokka, to the S. of

K*u alethymna; and there can be little doubt

sit this ia the kite of Rhocca, which, as is shown

■asa (,V. a xiT. SO), was near Methymna

i. Anlo, voL i. p. 391; Pasbley, Crete, vol. ii.

! [E. B. J.J

i'.'l>A or RHODUS CPiSn, Steph. B. : e.;

• JWa. ii. 6; Lit. xxxiv. 8; Tocos, Strab. xiv.

4: Eeatalh. ad Dion. Per. 504; called by

a a. § 20, V liwo* u . where we should pro.

"ad Fv3w toAii), a Greek emporium on the

■' tlx Indigttae in Uispania TarraconensU,

fonnded according to Strabo (/. c.) by the Rhodinns,

and subsequently taken possession of by the Mas-

sitiots. It is the modem Rotas; but tradition says

that the old town lay towards the headland at San

Pedro de Roda. (Ford, Handbook of Spain, p.

249; comp. Meuro. Rhod. i. 28; Marca, Jliip. ii.

18; Martin, Hut. dee Gaulee, p. 218; Florez, Med.

iU. p. 114; Mionnet, i. p. 148.) [T. H. D.]

RHOTMNUS ('PooWs: Rhone). The Rhone

rises in Switzerland, in a glacier west of the pass of

St. Gothard and south of the Goilenstock, a moun­

tain above 12,000 feet high. It has a general

course, first SW., then W. by S. as far as Martigny,

the Octodurus of Caesar (B. G. iii. 1). The course

from Martigny to the Lake of Genera forms nearly

a right angle with the course of tbo river above

Martigny. The length of the valley through which

the Rhone flows to the Lake of Geneva is above 90

miles. This long valley called Wallis, or the I'aZ-

lait, is bounded by the highest Alpine ranges: on

the north by the Bernese Alps, which contain the

largest continuous mass of snow and ice in the

Swiss mountains, and on the south by the Le-

pontian and Pennine Alps. The Lake of Geneva,

the Lac us Lemannus of the Romans [Lemasus],

which receives the Rhone at its eastern extremity,

is more than 1200 feet above the surface of the

Mediterranean.

The Lake of Geneva lies in the form of a crescent

between Switzerland and Savoy. The convex part of

the crescent which forms the north side is above 50

miles in length; the concave or southern side is less

than 50 miles in length. The widest part, which

is about the middle, is 8 or 9 miles. The great­

est depth, which is near some high cliffs on the

south coast, is stated variously by different author­

ities, some making it as much as 1000 feet. The

Rhone enters the lake at the east cud a muddy

stream, and the water flows out clear at the western

extremity past Geneva, an ancient city of the Al-

lobroges. [Geneva.]

Below Geneva the Rhone runs in a rapid course

and in a SW. direction past Fort lEclute. Fort

I Erliw is at the point described by Caesar (/(. G.

i. 9) where the Jura overhangs the course of the

Rhone. [Helvktii.] The river then runs south

past Seyseel, and making a bend turns north again,

and flowing in an irregular western course to Lyon

(Lugdunum) is joined there by the Savne, the

ancient Arar [Arab; Luodi'num]. The length

of the course of the Rhone from the Lahe of Ge­

neva to Lyon is about 130 miles. The Saune, as

Caesar says, is a slow river, but the current is seen

very plainly under the bridges in Lyon. The Rhone is

a rapid stream, and violent when it is swelled by

the rains and the waters from the Alpine regions.

From Lyon the Rhone flows in a general south­

ern course. The direct distance is about 150 miles

from Lyon to Arlet (Arclate) where the river divides

into two large branches which include the isle of

Carmague. The whole course of the Rhone from the

ice-fields of Switzerland to the low shores of the

Mediterranean is above 500 miles.

The valley of the Rhone below Lyon is narrow

on the west bank as far as the junction of the Ar-

deche, and it is bounded by high, bare, and rocky

heights. Some of the hill slo| es are planted with

vines. All the rivers which flow into the Rhone

from the highlands on the west are small: they

I are the Ardicke, Che, Gordon (Vardo), and some

I smaller streams. The left bank of the Rhone from

z z 4

