SICULI. 989 SICYON.

c scanty knowledge goes, therefore, we most

■elude that the two shores of the Sicilian strait

n at an* period peopled by the same tribe, who

tn known to the Greeks by the name of Sicels or

nkj and that this tribe was probably a branch of

«'>notrian or Pelasgic race. The legends which

aarcted these Sicnli with those who were expelled

m Latimn seem to have been a late invention, as

I a a? infer from the circumstance that Sicelus,

U u represented by Antiochus as taking refuge

II Morgt*, king of Italia, was called a fugitive

m Home. (Dionys. L 73.)

i The Sicuh or Siceli were the people who oc-

; -l me greater part of the island of Sicily when

itjrrek cuionirs were first established there, and

!jtu«l throughout the period of the Greek domi-

toa to oerapy the greater port of the interior,

•iaily tlx more rugged and mountainous tracts

thi island. [Siciua.] The more westerly

• • »<-re. however, occupied by a people called

at:i. whom the Greek writers uniformly distinguish

» the Sicnli, notwithstanding the resemblance of

i l«o name*. These indeed would seem to have

a in their origin identical, and we find Roman

t> oiing them as such; so that Virgil more than

i -'>y» the name of Sicani, where he can only

■a the ancient Latin people called by Dionysius

au. OTrjr. Aen. viii. 795, xi. 317.)

I- The trace* of the Siculi on the western shores

&e Adriatic are more uncertain. Pliny indeed

i u distinctly that Numana and Ancona were

ial by the Siculi (Plin. iii. 13. s. 18); but it

J t» means improbable that this is a mere con*

• i- we know that the latter city at least was

I" founded by Sicilian Gretla, as late as the time

-' ty-ius of Syracuse [Ancona]. When,  
ever, he tells us that a considerable part of this

a af Italy was held by the Siculians and Libiir-

a. before it was conquered by the Umbrians (lb.

a 19), it seetna probable that he must have

i xh-r authority for this statement; Pliny is,

r*er, tiw only author who mentions the Siculi

"is part of Italy.

ran these statements it is very difficult to arrive

ry definite conclusion with regard to the ethno-

tuc affinities of the Siculi. On the one hand,

nxices of them in Southern Italy, as already

rrad, seem to bring them into close connection

tike I tali and other Oenotrian tribes, and would

aa to assign them to a Pelasgic stock: but on

caber it must be admitted that Dionysius dis­

hy separates them from the Pelasgi in Lalium,

represents them aa expelled from that country

a* Peiasgi, in conjunction with the so-called

igiaa*. Hence the opinions of modern scholars

been divided: N'iebuhr distinctly receives the

i as a Pelasgic race, and as fonning the Pelas-

r Greek element of the Latin people; the same

b adopted by O. Muller (Etruiker, pp. 10—

kr.) and by Abeken (Mittel Italian, p. 5);

i Grotefend {Alt /(alien, vol. iv. pp. 4—6), fol-

I by Forbiger and others, regards the Siculi as a

ah or Celtic race, who had gradually wandered

rwsxda through the peninsula of Italy, till they

y in—nil over and established themselves in the

I of Scary. This last hypothesis is, however,

v conjectural. We hare at least some foun-

l for auppusing the Siculi as well as the Oeno-

i to be of Pelasgic origin : if this be rejected,

r» wholly in the dark as to their origin or

■aa. [E. H. U.]

SI'CULUM MARE (to Simaiko* ire'An-ros, Pol.

Strab. &c), was the name given in ancient times to

that portion of the Mediterranean sea which bathed

the eastern shores of Sicily. Rut like all similar

appellations, the name was used in a somewhat

vague and fluctuating manner, so that it is difficult

to fix its precise geographical limits. Thus Strabo

describes it as extending along the eastern sh 'te uf

Sicily, from the Straits to Cape Pachynus, with the

southern shore of Italy as far as Loch, and again to

the eastward as far as Crete and the Peloponnese;

and as filling the Corinthian Gulf, and extending

northwards to the lapygian promontory and the

mouth of the Ionian gulf. (Strab. ii. p. 123.) It

is clear, therefore, that he included under the name

the whole of the sea between the Peloponnese and

Sicily, which is more commonly known as the Ionian,

sea [Ionium Make], but was termed by later

writers the Adriatic [Adbiaticum Make]. Poly-

bins, who in one passage employs the name of

Ionian sea in this more extensive sense, elsewhere

uses that of the Sicilian sea in the same general

manner as Strabo, since he speaks of the island of

Cephallenia as extending out towards the Sicilian

sea (v. 3); and even describes the Ambracian gulf

as an inlet or arm of the Sicilian sea (iv. 63, v. 5).

Eratosthenes also, it would appear from Pliny, up-

plied the name of Siculum Mare to the whole extent

from Sicily to Crete. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 10.) The

usage of Pliny himself is obscure; but Mela distin­

guishes the Sicilian sea from the Ionian, applying

the former name to the western part of the broad sea,

nearest to Sicily, and the latter to its more easterly

portion, nearest to Greece. (Mel. ii. 4. § 1.) Rut

this distinction does not seem to have been generally

adopted or continued long in use. Indeed the name

of the Sicilian sea seems to have fallen much into

disuse. Ptolemy speaks of Sicily itself as bounded

on the N. by the Tyrrhenian sea, on the S. by the

African, and on the E. by the Adriatic; thus omit­

ting the Sicilian sea altogether (Ptol. iii. 4. § 1);

and this seems to have continued under the Rouiau

Empire to be the received nomenclature.

Strabo tells us that the Sicilian sea was the -ann:

which had previously been called the Au < m m

(Strab. ii. p. 133, v. p. 233); but it is probable that

that name was never applied in the more extended

sense in which he uses the Sicilian sea, but was con­

fined to the portion more immediately adjoining the

southern coasts of Italy, from Sicily to the lapygian

promontory. It is in this sense that it is employed

by Pliny, as well as by Polynias, whom he ciles as

his authority. (Plin. I. c.) [E. H. H.]

SICUM (Su-ovf, Ptol. ii. 16. § 4; Plin. iii. 22;

Siclis, Peut. Tab.), a town of Dalmatia, to the E. of

Traguriuin, on the road to Salona, where Claudius

is said U> have quartered the veterans. (Plin. L c.)

From its position it cannot be Sebtnieo, with which

it has been identified, but may be represented by the

vestiges of a Roman station to the KW. of Cattel

Vttturi, on the Hitiert iki Catttlli, where a column

with a dedicatory inscription to M. Julius Phllippus

has been lately found, as well as much pottery

and Roman tiles. (Wilkinson, Dalmatia, vol. i. p.

176.) [E. B. J.]

Sl'CYON (4 and i Ximiiv, also 2<autvv, Bekker,

Anted, p. 555: Eth. 2iKuei»iof: the territory 2i-

Kiwria: Vaiilikd.)

I. Situation.—Sicyon was an important city of

Peloponnesus,situated upon a table-height of no great

elevation, at the distance of about 2 uiiles from the

