88 ITALIA. ITALIA.

their relations with the surrounding tribes, are given

under the head of Magna Gkakcia.

1. Conquest of Italy by the Romans, ii. c. 509—

264.—The earliest wars of the Romans with their

immediate neighbours scarcely come here under our

consideration. Fiaeed on the very frontier of three

powerful nations, the infant city was frum the very

fir>t engaged in ]<crj>etual hostilities with the Latins,

the Sabmes, and the Etruscans. And, however 1 it tie

dej-endence can be placed upon the details of these

wars, as related to us, there .seems no doubt that, j

even under the kin^s. Home had risen to a superiority

over must of her neighbours, and had extended her

actual dominion over a considerable part of Lutinm.

The earliest period of the Republic, on the other

hand (from the expulsion of the Tarquins to the

Gaulish invasion, B. 509—390), when stripped

of the romantic garb in which it has been clothed by

Roman writers, presents the spectacle of a difficult

and often dubious struggle, with the Etruscans on

the one hand, and the Volscians on the other. The

capture of Veii, in B.C. 396, and the permanent an­

nexation of its territory to that of Home, was the

first decisive advantage acquired by the rising re-

public, and may be looked upon as the first step to

the domination of Italy. Even the great calamity

sustained by the Romans, when their city was taken

and in part destroyed by the Gauls, B.C. 390, was

so far irom permanently checking their progress,

that it would rather seem to have been the means

of opening out to them a career of conquest. It is

probable that that event, or rather the scries of pre­

datory invasions by the Gauls of which it formed a

part, gave a serious shock to the nations of Central

Italy, and produced among them much disorganisa­

tion and consequent weakness. The attention of the

Etruscans was naturally drawn oft' towards the N.,

and the Romans were able to establish colonies at

Sutrium and Ncpetc; while the power of the Vol­

scians appears to have been greatly enfeebled, and

the series of triumphs over them recorded in the

Fasti now marks real progress. That of M. Valerius

Corvus, after the destruction of Satricum in n. c. 346

(Liv. vii. 27; Fast. Capit.), seems to indicate the

total subjugation of the Volscian people, who never

again apjiear in history as an independent power.

Shortly alter this, in B.C. 343, the Romans for the

first time came into collision with the Samnites.

That people were then undoubtedly at the height

of their power: they and their kindred Sabellian

tribes had recently extended their conquests over

almost the whole southern portion of the peninsula

(see above, p. 86); and it cannot l>e doubted, that

when the Romans and Samnites first found them­

selves opposed in arms, the contest between them

was one for the supremacy of Italy. Meanwhile, a

still more formidable danger, though of much briefer

duration, threatened the rising power of Rome. The

revolt, of the Latins, who had hitherto been among

the main instruments and supports of that power,

threatened to shake it to its foundation; and the

victory of the Romans at the foot of Mt. Vesuvius,

under T. Manlius and P. Decius (n. c. 340), was

perhaps the most important in their whole history.

Three campaigns sufficed to terminate this formid­

able war (n. c. 340—338). The Latins were now

reduced from the condition of dependent allies to

that of subjects, whether under the name of Roman

citizens or on less favourable terms [Latitm]; and

the greater part of Campania was placed in the same

condition.

At tliis time, therefore, only seventy years before

the First Funic War, the [Soman dominion still com.

prised only Latium, in the more limited sense of the

name (for the Aeqni and Hernici were still inde­

pendent), together with the southern part of Etruria,

the territory of the Volscians. and a part of Cam­

pania. During the next fifty years, which was the

period of the great extension of the Roman arms and

influence, the contest between Rome and Samnium

was the main point of interest; but almost all th«

surrounding nations of Italy were gradually drawn

in to take part in the struggle. Thus, in the ^ raid

Samnite War (b. c. 326—304), the names of tin

Lucanians and Apulians — nations with which (ai

Livy observes, viii. 25) the Roman people had. up to

that period, had nothing to do—appear as taking an

active part in the contest. In another part of Italy,

the Marsi, Vestini, and Feligni, all of them, as w

have seen, probably kindred races with the Samnites,

ti-ok up arms at one time or another in support of

that people, and were thus for the first time brought

into collision with Home. It was not till B.C. 311

that the Etruscans on their side joined in the con­

test: but the Etruscan War at once assumed a

character and dimensions scarcely less formidable

than that with the Samnites. It was now that the

Romans for the first time carried their arms beyond

the Ciminian Hills; and the northern cities of

Etruria, Ferusia, Cortona, and Arretiuin, now first

appear as taking part in the war. [EtrcbU-]

Before the close of the contest, the Umbrians also

took up arms for the first time against the Romans.

The peace which put an end to the Second .Sam­

nite War (it. c. 304) added nothing to the territorial

extent of the Roman power; but nearly contemporary

with it, was the revolt of the Hcmicans, which ended

in the complete subjugation of that people (b.c.306);

and a few years later the Aequiaus, who followed

their example, shared the same fate, u. c. 302.

About the same time (b. c. 304) a treaty was con­

cluded with the Marsi, Marrucini, IVdigni, and

Frentani, by which those nations appear to have

passed into the condition of dependent aliies of

Rome, in which we always subsequently rind them.

A similar treaty was granted to the Vestini in

n. c 301.

In B. c. 208, the contest between Rome and

Samnium was renewed, but in this Third Samnite

War the people of that name was only nne member

of a powerful confederacy, consisting of the Samnites,

Etruscans, Umbrians, and Gauls; nevertheless, their

united forces were defeated by the Romans, who, after

several successful campaigns, compelled both Etrus­

cans and Samnites to sue for peace (it. c. 290).

The same year in which this was concluded wit­

nessed also the subjugation of the Sabmes, who had

been so long the faithful allies of Rune, and now

appear, for the first time after a long interval, in

arms: they were admitted to the Roman franc-Lb*.

(Liv. Epit. xi.; Veil. Fat. i. 14.) The fchurt in­

terval which elapsed liefore hostilities were generally

renewed, afforded an opportunity for the subjugation

of the Galli Senones, whose territory was wasted

with tire and sword by the consul Dolabella, in 283;

and the Roman colony of Sena (Sena Gallica) tsts-

blished there, to secure their permanent submission.

Already in b. C- 282, the war was renewed both

with the Etruscans and the Samnites; but this

Fourth Samnite War, as it is often called, was w.«>n

merged in one of a more extensive character. The

I Samnites were at first assisted by the Lucanians

