MOTTA. MOXOENE. 375

3a&d ZuoW at the promontory of Lilybaeum,

a* pmtal kid op hi* fleet Tor security in the gulf

irm llatri, while he advanced with his land

inwikr lie coast to attack Selinus. (Diod. xiii.

KM.) After the fall of the latter city, we are

feat tau Hmuocraters the Syracusan exile, who

tu etiolated himself on its ruins with a numerous

j»i cf to!i>«ws. laid waste the territories of Motya

ti Pawmin (Id, xiii. 63); and again during the

apeditmn of the Carthaginians under Ha-

racsr(s.c407), these two cities became the per-

uaoi Malkn of the Carthaginian fleet. (Id. xiii.

*)

It mi the important position to which Motya

M tas> attaiotd. that led Dionysius of Syracuse to

rrai 1* frjutipal finals to its reduction, when in

«■ J97 bt ia bis tarn invaded the Carthaginian

twiaay ia .v. .. v. The citizens on the other hand,

►TBfMtacojer from Carthage, made preparations

*• I nomas resistance; and by cutting off the  
which united them to the mainland, com-

aaW Ittinas to have recourse to the tedious and

J*"* freccw of constructing a mound or mole of

aria an the intervening space. Even when

fiw wm arrompliabed, and the military engines of

• -i.•» (among "hich the formidable catapult on

*> waiwo made its appearance for the first time)  
t up to the walls, the Motyans continued

e; and after the walla and towers

rarried by the overwhelming forces of the

away, uj; maintained the defence from street to

•a* and from bouse to house This obstinate

ar.jrW •aly increased the previous exasperation of

*" Viia Greeks against the Carthaginians; and  
•*"» at aorta the troops of Dionysius maile them-

te'wameacf the city, they put the whole sur-

"c- fpulatias, men, women, and children, to the

(Wad. xrr. 47—53.) After this the Syra-

■aw *»p* placed it in charge of a garrison under

■ 6rr aarned Biton; while his brother Leptinea

la* 4 the atataoB of his fleet. But the next

l|w>at(a.c. 396) Him ikon, the Carthaginian ge-

JM. aarraf landed at I'anormns with a very large

■*»■ ntortmi possession of Motya with com pa-

mrij aula aifficaity. (Id. to. 55.) That city,

hwmr, wis sat destined to recover its former im-

K»*t; aar Hunilcon, being apparently struck

P» lea ayia advantages of Lilybaeum, founded

fw cry ea (he promontory of that name, to which

tttatferi^ii the few remaining inhabitants of

pa. (Dial xxii. la p. 498.) From this period

■ atitr altogether disappears from history; and

■ tear aiwt on which it was built, has probably

** aw *a inhabited only by a few fishermen.

I ate ate ef Motya, on which earlier geographers

■» a atach doubt, has been clearly identified and

pakal ay Captain Smyth. Between the pro­

of Lfybaeom (Capo Boeo) and that of

i (& Ttodoro), the coast forms a deep

a treat of which liea a long group of low

eaM the Stagnant. Within these,

to the mainland, lies the

•sM called .i I'tintaieo, on which the re­

st aa aacjeat city may still be distinctly

Insnssnts of the walls, with those of two

. , awn exist, and coins as well as pieces of

I hVX and pottery—the never failing indi-

i wf at ancient site — are found scattered

i taw huand. The circuit of the latter

1 a mile and a half, and it is inba-

•by a fa» fishermen; bat is not devoid of

fertility. (Smyth's Sicily, pp. 235, 236.) The con­

fined space on which the city was built agrees

with the description of Diodorus that the houses

were lofty and of solid construction, with narrow

streets (ffTfvaiirof) between them, which facilitated

the desperate defence of the inhabitants. (Diod. xiv.

48, 51.)

It is a singular fact that, though we have no

account of Motya having received any Greek po­

pulation, or fallen into the hands of the Greeks

before its conquest by Dionysius, there exist coins of

the city with the Greek legend MOTTAION.

They are, however, of great rarity, and are ap.

parently imitated from those of the neighbouring

city of Segesta. (Eckhel, vol. i. p.225.) [E. H.B.]

COltt OF MOTYA.

MO'TYCA, or MUTYCA (MoVowra, Ptol.: Elh.

Mutycensis, Cic. et Plin.: Motlica), an inland town

in the SE. of Sicily, between Syracuse and Cama-

rina. It was probably from an early period a de­

pendency of Syracuse; and hence we meet with no

mention of its name until after the Roman conqnest

of Sicily, when it became an independent muni-

cipium, and apparently a place of some consequence.

Cicero tells us that previous to the exactions of

Verres, its territory (the u ager Mutycensis") sup­

ported 187 farmers, whence it would appear to have

been at once extensive and fertile. (Cic. Verr.

iii. 43, 51.) Motyca is also mentioned among the

inland towns of the island both by Pliny and Pto­

lemy; and though its name is not found in the

Itineraries, it is again mentioned by the Geographer

of Ravenna. (Plin. iii. 8. § 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 14;

Geogr. Rav. v. 23.) Silius Italicus also includes it

in his list of Sicilian cities, and immediately asso­

ciates it with Netum, with which it was clearly in

I the same neighbourhood. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 268.)

There can be no doubt that it is represented by the

modern city of Alodica, one of the largest and most

populous places in the Val di Soto. It is situated

in a deep valley, surrounded by bare limestone moun­

tains, about 10 miles from the sea.

Ptolemy notices also a river to which he gives the

name of Motychanus (Motuxwos world's), which

he places on the S. coast, and must evidently derive

its name from the city. It is either' the trifling

stream now known as the Fiume di Sckli, which rises

very near Modica; or perhaps the more considerable

one, now known as Fiume di Kagusa, which flows

within a few miles of the same city. (E. H. B.]

MO'TYUM (Motik»-), a small town or fortress of

Sicily, in the territory of Agrigeiitum. It was besieged

in B.C. 451 by the SicnUaa chief Ducetius, and fell

into his hands after a battle in which he defeated

the Agrigentines and their allies; but was recovered

by the Agrigentines in the course of the following

snmmer. (Diod. xi. 91.) No other mention of it is

found, and its site is wholly unknown. [E. H. B]

MOXOE'NE, one of tho five provinces beyond

the Tigris, ceded by Nam-* to Galerius and tho

Romans, and which Sapor afterwards recovered

B H 4

