PARMA. 551 PAROLISSUM.

panose, ai a curiosity, that there existed at Pa-

naa i aadt called the Ophiogenes ('(tyioTfarff),

UttMmbtfi of which, like the Librae Psjlli, had it

■ tfcnr jam to core the bite of a snake by merely

ttacfap the person that had been bitten. Parium

■ ■IwaatMBad in Herod, t. 117; Xenoph. A nab.

fil}7,l§l6; Ptol. v. 2. § 2 : Appian, Mdkrid,

JMt, L 19; Polyaen. ri 24. The present

law «ccapriB|r the site of Purium bears the name of

Imtr or A"iarea, and contains a few ancient re-

■ia The wills fronting the sea still remain, and

a»talt of Urge square blocks of marble, without

awtar. There are also rains of an aqueduct, reser-

•wj for nier, and the fallen architraves of a por-

Tbt aodern name Kamarts 6eems to be de-

)M Iran i«Df ancient subterraneous buildings

factan.) which still exi*t in the place. (Walpole,

IW4rj, pt fit; Sestfni, AW Fet. p. 73.) [L. S.]

OOIX OF PABIL'M.

FARMA (no>aa: £YA. Parmeasis: Parmn), a

tf cMialaa i.Vpa'lana. situated on the Via Aemilia,

MrlietiBpeof I!* M. ]'. baa Bsfran Lepidum,

■MfraBPlarentia. (/ftn. ^ai. p. 286.) [twas

15 mil« distant from the Padua, on the

of a imall stream called the Parma, from

it probably derived its name; and about 6

the more considerable Tarns or Taro.

mention of the name before the establish-

•f the Human colony, though it is Tery pro-

bt there already existed a Gaulish town or

« the ipot: bat in B. c. 183, after the

rakjoration of tJje Boii, and the construc-

hi Via Aemilia, the ltomana proceeded to

their footing in this part of Gaul by

the cotoniea of Matina and Parma, along

af the newly opened highway, which, in

with the two previously existing colonies

and Placentia, formed a continuous chain

towns, from one end to the other of the

Parma was a "colonia cmum," its

their privileges as Roman citizens;

in the first instance 2000 colonists, each

kuined 8 jogera of land for his allotment.

55.) We bear little of Parma for some

tfaia: it ts mentioned incidentally in B.C.

* head-qoarters of the proconsul C. Clau-  
*&. 17); bat appears to have suffered  
the wars with the Gaols and Lignrians;

ft** with rapidity to be a flourishing and

ta*n. Bat its name is scarcely men-

till the period of the Civil' Wars,

a ■evere blow, having in n. c. 43

part in favour of the senatorial

■* M. Antony, in consequence of which it

r hv that general, and plundered in the

•anas* Banner by his troops. (Cic. ail

ja,xil3,VxiL5,/*aZxiv.3, 4.) Cicero

Booth* occasion a Colonia, and there can

■at tint it still retained that rank; but

it received a fresh colony, from

the title of Colonia Julia Augusta,

I wfad it bearing in inscriptions. (Gruter,

1 r **t 5; /umpt, de Colon, p. 354.) Pliny

™:» » a Cvlonia, and there teems no doubt

that it continued under the Roman Empire to be, as

it was in the time of Strabo, one of the principal

towns of this populous and flourishing part of Italy.

(Plin. iii. 15. s. 20; Strab. v. p. 216; Ptol. iii. 1.

§ 46; Phlegon, Macrob. 1.) But its name is

scarcely mentioned in history: a proof perhaps of the

tranquillity that it enjoyed. Its territory was

celebrated for the excellence of its wool, which

according to Martial was inferior only to that

of Apulia. (Martini, xiv. 155; Colum. vii.2. §8.)

In a. l>. 377, a colony of Goths was settled by order

of Gratian in the territory of Parma, as well as the

adjoining districts (Aminian. xxxi. 9. §4),— a

proof that they were already suffering from a decay

of the population; and it is probable that it did not

escape the general devastation of the province of

Aemilia by Attila, But it survived these calamities:

it still bears a part as an important town during the

wars of Narses with the Goths and their allies, and

is noticed by P. Diaconus, as one of the wealthy

cities of Aemilia after the Lombard conquest.

(Agath. 14 - 17; P.Diac.//u/. Lang. ii. 18.)

It retained its consideration throughout the middle

ages, and is still a populous and flourishing place

with above 30,000 inhabitants, but has no remains

of antiquity, except a few inscriptions.

The Roman poet Cassius Pannensis would appear

from his name to have been a native of Parma,

but there is no distinct testimony to this effect.

The Itinerary (p. 284) mentions a line of cross­

road which proceeded from Parma across the Apen­

nines to Luca: this must have ascended the valley

of the Parma, or the adjoining one of the Tarus, as

far as the main ridge, and and thence descended

the valley of the Macra to Luna, This passage,

though little frequented in modern limes, is one

of the main lines of natural communication across

this part of the Apennines, and is in all probability

that followed by Hannibal on his advance into

Etruria. [E. H. B.]

PARMAECAMPI (XlapnatKapvot), a trite of

Southern Germany, on the east of Mount Abnoba

and the Danube; tlicy probably occupied the dis­

trict about the town of Cham in Bavaria. (Ptol. ii.

11. §24.) [L.&]

PAKNASSUS (Vlaprcuraii) a town in the north-

em part of Cappaducia, on the right bank of the

Halys, and on or near a lull, to winch it owed its

name, on the mad between Ancyra and Archelnis

about 63 miles west of the latter town. (Polvb.

ixv. 4; It. Ant. pp. 144,206; /(. Uieron. p. 576;

Geogr. Sacr. p. 255.) [L. S.]

PARNASSUS MONS. [Delphi.]

PARNES. [Attica, p. 321, seq.j

PARNON. [Laconia, p. 109.]

PAROIXO'POLIS (rbpMcAraAu, Ptol. iii. 13.

§ 30), a town of Sintice, in Macedunia, on the right

of the river Strymon. Niyrita, on the road fr.>m

Saloniki to Sere*, was cither Tristolus (ToiVtu-

Aoj, Ptol. /. c.) or Paroecopolis, for these are the

only two towns besides Heracleia which Ptolemy

assigns to Sintice. If Nigrita be assigned to T i-

stolus, Paroecopolis will be represented by Skafitcha,

which lies to the N. of the former town. (Leake,

Northern Grtect, vol. iii. p. 229.) [E. R. J.]

PAR0L1SSUM (napoAiffo-oF, or It^Awnr,

Ptol. iii. 8. § 6: Parolissos, Tab. Pevt.; cf. Orelli,

Inter. No. 3433), a municipal town of [>acia. seated

nt tiic termination of the Human road towards the

N. According to Marsili (ii. p. 85), Micaza; ac­

cording to Manual (iv. p. 216), on the Maroechi

K N 4

