Jfi2 *MAXTIN'EIA. "MANTIKEIA.

Orehomenns and Caphyae on the N., and that of

Tegea ant) Pallnntium on the S. The distance be­

tween Mantineia and Tegcn is about 10 English

mil«'s in a direct line. The height of the plain

where Mantineia stood is 2067 feet altovo the level

of the sea. Owing to its sit tuition, M;intineia was

a place of great military importance, and its territory

was the >cene of many important buttles, as has been

already related. It stood npon the river Ophis,

nearjy in the centre of the plain of Tripolitzti as to

length, and in one of the narrowest part.s as to

breadth. It was enclosed between two ranges of

hilU, on the E. and the W., running parallel to Mts.

Artemi.sium and Maenalas respectively. The eastern

hill was called Alkhitm ('AA^o-iov, Paus. viii. 10.

§ 1), and between it and Artemisium lay the plain

called by Panamas (viii. 7. § 1) to apybv xtliiov,

or the ** Uncultivated Plain." (viii. 8. § 1.) The

range of hills on the W. had no distinct name:

between them and Mt. Maenahis there, was also a

plain called Alcimedon ('AAjupcSwr, Paus. viii. 12.

•y . . . • , . . . ,

Mantineia was not only situated entirely in the

plain, but nearly in its lowest part, an appears by the

course of the waters. In the regularity of its forti­

fications it differs from almost all other Greek cities

of which there are remains, since very few other

Greek cities stood so completely in a plain. It is

now called Paleopoli. The circuit of the walls is

entire, with the exception of a small space on the

N. and W. sides. In no place are there more than

three courses of masonry existing above ground,

and the height is so uniform that we may conclude

that the remainder of the walls was constructed of

unbaked bricks. The city had 9 or 10 gates, the

approach to which was carefully defended. Along

the walls there were towers at regular distances.

Leake reckoned 118 towers, and says that the city

was about 2£ miles in circumference; but Ross

makes the city considerably larger, giving 129 or

130 as the number of the towers, and from 28 to

30 stadia, or about 3J Knglish miles, as the cir­

cuit of the city. The walls of the city are surrounded

by a ditch, through which ths river Ophis flows.

This stream is composed of several rivulets, of which

the most important rises on Mt. Alcsium, on the E.

side of the city : the different rivulets unite on the

NW. side of the town, and flow westward into a

katavothra. Before the capture of Mantineia by

Agesipolis, the Ophis was made to flow through the

city : and it is probable that all the water-courses

of the surrounding plain were then collected into one

channel above the city. Of the buildings in the in­

terior of the city, described by Pausanias, few remains

are left. Nearly in the centre of the city arc the

ruins of the theatre, of which the diameter was about

240 feet; and west of the theatre, R<*ts observed

the foundations of the temple of Aphrodite Sym-

machia, which the Mantineians erected to com­

memorate the share they had taken in the battle of

Actium. (Paus. viii. 9. § 6.)

The territory of Mantineia is frequently described

by the ancient writers, from its having been so often

the neat of war; but it in difficult, and almost im­

possible, to identify any of the localities of which we

And mention, from the disappearance of the sanc­

tuaries and monuments by which spots are indicated,

and also from the nature of the plain, the topography

of which must have been frequently altered by the

chnuge of the water-courses. On the latter subject

a few words axe necessary. The plain of Tripuliudy

of

which Mantmice formed part, is one of tbosa

valleys in Arcadia, which is so completely (•but in by

I mountains, that the streams which flow into it have

no outlet except through the chasms in the maun-

; tains, called katavothra. [Akcama.] The part of

the plain, which formed the territory of Mantineia,

is so complete a level, that there is not, in »nne

parts, a sufficient slope to carry off the waters; and

the land would be overflowed, unless trenches were

made to assist the course of the waters towards sow*

one or other of the katavothra which nature hs*

provided for their discharge. (Pol. xi. 11.) N<

only must the direction of these trenches have been

sometimes changed, but even the course of the

streams was sometimes altered, of which we Itaw an

interesting example in the history of the camj*irn

of 418. It appears that the regulation of the moun­

tain torrent on the frontiers of Mantinice and Tepr-

atis was a frequent subject of dispute and ewi >4

war between the two states; and the one frequently

inundated the territory of the other, as a means </

annoyance. This was done in 418 by Airis, wb-» let

the waters over the plain of Mantineia (I hut T. 65).

This river can only lw the one called Ophis by the

Geographers of the French Commission. It rises a

litjc N. of Tegea, and after flowing through Tere-

atis falls now into a katavothra north of the hill

Scope. In general the whole plain of Mantineia

bears a very different aspect from what it presented

in antiquity; instead of the wood of oaks and curk-

trees, described by Pausanias, there is now not a

single tree to be found; and no poet would now

think of giving the epithet of "lovely " (foavu^)

to the naked plain, covered to a great extent with

stagnant water, and shut in by gray treeless racks.

(Knss, Rtiwn im J'tloponnes, p. 128.)

About a mile X. of the ruins of Mantineia is aa

isolated hill called Gurtzx'di; north of which acaln,

also at the distance of about a mile, is another hilL

The latter was probably the site of the ancirnt Man­

tineia, and was therefore called Ptolis (TIt^Ah) in

the time of Pausanias (viii. 12. § 7). This apfeara

to have been one of the five villages from the inha­

bitants of which the city on the plain »as peopled.

There were several roads leading from Matninrta.

Two of these roads led north of the city to Orcbotne-

nus: t lie more easterly of the two passed by Ptolis, just

mentioned, the fountain of Alalcomrnria, and a de­

serted village named Makra (Mtupa), 30 stadia from

Ptolis; the rt*d on the west parted over Mt. Anchi-

siar on the northern td»pe of which was the temple of

Artemis Hymnia, which formed the boundary be­

tween Mantinice and Onhommia. (Paus. riu. 12.

§§ 5—9, comp. viii. 5. § 11.)

A road led from Mantineia on the VY. to Methy.

drium. It j«asscd through the plain Ahimedici,

which was 30 stadia from the city, above wbtra

was Mount Ostracina; then by the fountain l"i»>a,

and, at the distance of 40 stadia from the fountain,

by the small place Pktrosaca (Jl IleTpaerawaX

which was on the confines of the Mantineian and

Megalopolitan territories. (Pans. viii. 12. §§ 2—4 )

Two roads led from Mantineia southwards,—tba

one SE. to Tegea, and the other SW. to Pnllan-

tiara. On the left of the road to Terra, calVd

Xkxm (Serfs) by Polybius(xi. 11. § 3),ju*t oaUida

! the gates of Mantineia, waa the hippodrome, and a

] little further on the stadium, above which rat

I Mount Alesium: at the spot where the mountain

1 cea-od was the temple of Poseidon Hipjiua, which

; was 7 stadia from the city, as we learn from Poiy-

