106 LABICU.M. LACETANL

occupied by the village of La Colonna; a height a

little in advance of the Tusculan hills, and com­

manding the adjoining portion of the ]ilain. It is

about a mile from the 15th milestone on the Roman

road, where, aa we have seen, the suburb Ad Quin­

tanas afterwards grew up, and is certainly the only

position that accords with Strata's descritition. No

ruins arc visible; but the site is one well calculated

for an ancient city, of small magnitude, and the

discovery of the inscriptions already noticed in it*

immediate neighbourhood may be considered con­

clusive of the point. The modem village of Iai

Colonna dates only from the 11th century. (Holsten.

Not. ati Clue. p. 194; Fabrett. de Aquaedui't.

p. 182; Nibby, Dintorni di Roma, vol. ii. pp. 157

—164.) Ficoroni, in liis elaborate work (Memorie

delta Prima e Seconda Ciltii di Labien, 4lo. Koma,

1745), has laboured to prove, but certainly without

success, that I.sbioum was situated on the ColU dei

U'uidri, near Lwjnano, about 5 miles beyond La

Colonna. The remains there discovered and de­

scribed by him render it probable lltat lAtgnano was

an ancient site, probably that of Bola [Bola] ; but

the distance from Rome excludes the supposition

that it was that of Labicum.

The Via Labicana, which issued from the Porta

Esqoilina at Rome together with the Via l'rao-

nestina, but separated from tho latter immediately

aftenvards, held a course nearly parallel with it as

far as the station Ad Quintanas; from whence it

turned round the foot of the Alban hills, and fell

into the Via Latina at the Btalion Ad I'ictas, where

the latter road had just descended from Mt. Algidus.

(Strab. T. p. 237; Itin. Ant. pp. 304, 3U5.) It is

strange that the Itinerary gives the name of La-

vicana to the continuation of the road after their

junction, though the Via Latina was so much the

more important of the two. The course of the

ancient Via Labicana may be readily traced from

the gates of Koine by the Torre Rgnatara, Cento

Ceile, Torre Xuova, and the Osteriti di Fintxchio

to the Otttria delta Colonna, at the foot of the hill

of that name. This Osteria is 16 miles from Rome

and a mile beyond the ancient station Ad Quintanas.

From thence the road proceeded to San Ce*arv>, and

soon after, quitting the line of the modern rojid to

\'ahvmtone, struck off direct to join the Via La-

tina: but the exact site of the station Ad l'iclas

has not been determined. (Westphal, Hum. Kam-

jiayir, pp. 78—80; Cell's Tojiogr. of Rome,

p. 279.)

On the left of the Via Labicana, about thirteen

miles anil a half from Rome, is a small crater-formed

lake, which has often been considered as the ancient

Lacus Regillus: but the similar bxsin of the Iahjo

di Cornuftlle, near Tusculuiu, apjK'ars to have a

tatter claim to that celebrated name. [Kegh.lcs

Lacis]

The course of the Via Labicana in the immediate

neighbourhood of Rome was bordered, like the other

highways that issued from the city, with numerous

sepulchres, many of them on a large scale, and of

massive construction. Of these, the one now known

a* the Torre PignaUira, about ttiree miles from

the Porta Maggi'jre, is represented by very ancient

tradition, but with no other authority, aa the mau-

■oleum of Helena, the mother of Constantine the

Great (Nibby, vol. iii. p. 243.) We learn, also,

that the family tomb of the emperor Didius Julianna

was situated on the same road, at the distance of

5 miles from Rome. (Spartian. Did. Jul. 8.)

LABISCO. [Lavisco.]

LABISCTM. [Lavisco.]

LA'BOTAS (AoSotoi), a small river of ihe pl*in

of Antioch. (Strab. xvi. p. 751.) It runs from the

north, parallel to the Ahckl'thi's,and,mixing with

its waters and those of the Oenojiaras coming from

the east, in a small lake, they flow off in one stream

and join the Orontes a little above Antioch. It U

the western of the two rivers shown in map, VoL L

p. 115, and Pagrae (Ragraji) is situated on ita

western bank near ita mouth. [G. W.]

LAURANDA (ri AagpavSa or \ASpavria), a

village in the west of Caria, about 60 stadia from

the town of Mylasa, to which the village taritnce>l.

and with which it was connected by a road rallol

the sacred. I*abranda was situated in the mountain*,

and was celebrated for its sanctuary of Zeus Si ratios,

to which processions went along the sacred road

from Mylasa. Herodotus describes (v. 119) tba

sanctuary as an extensive grove of plane trees, within

which a body of Carians, in their war against tba

Persians, retreated for safety. Strabo (xiv. p. 659)

speaks of an ancient temple with a tuayov of Zen*

Stratios, who was also surnamed " Labrandenua **- tar

"Labrandeus." Aelian (//. A. xii. 30), who atatca

that the temple of Labranda was 70 stadia from

Mylasa, relates that a spring of clear water, withia

the sanctuary, contained fishes, with golden neck­

laces and rings. Chandler (Antiq. of Ionia, pt. 1.

c. 4, and Aria Minor, c. 58) was the first who

stated his belief, that the ruins at lakti, south of

Kiseljik, consisting of a theatre and a ruined tempi*

of the Ionian order, of which 16 colnmns, with the

entablature, were then still standing, were thot* of

ancient I*abranda and of the temp'e of Zeus Stratios.

But Choiseul Gouftier, Barbie* du Bocage. aod I^eake

{Atia Mitutr, p. 2.32), agree in thinking that these

ruins belong to F.uromus rather than Labranda.

Their view is supported by the fact that the rains

of the temple have nothing very ancient al»out thrm,

but rather show that they belong to a structure of

the Roman period. The remains of Labranda must

be looked fur in the hills to the north-east of Mylasa.

Sir C. Fellows (Journal, p. 261), apparently not

knowing what had been done by his predecessor*,

unhesitatingly speaks of the ruins at lakli aa tboa*

of l.i branda, and gives an engraving of the remains

of the temple under the name of the "Temple at

Labranda." [L. Sj

LABRONIS PORTfS. [LincmitTi ]

LABIS or LABUTAS (tiiMot or Aafoifroi),

a mountain range in the N. of Parthia, mentioned

by Polybius (x. 29). It seems to have a part of

the greater range of M. Coronus, and is probably

represented now by the Sobad-Koh, a part of the

Elbttrz mountains. C^"*J

LACANITIS (AaKavrrir), the name of a district

in Cilicia Proper, above Tarsus, between the rivers

Cydnna and Sams, and containing the town of

Irenopolis. (Ptol. v. 8. § 6.) [L. S-]

LACCU'RIS. [Ouktam.J

LACEA. [Lt'BiTAKiA.l

LACEDAKMUN (Aa»«4ol/ia.», Strph. B. a. r.;

Eustath. ad. II. ii. 582), a town in the interior of

Cyprus. (Engel, Kgprot, vol. i. p. 158.) [E. B. J.]

LACEDAEMON, LACLDAEMO'NIL [LAO-

MA.]

LACKREIA. [Dotii.s CAMria.]

LAC ETA'S I (AaxtTaviii), on* of tbt small

peoples of Hispania Tarraconensis, wbo occnjiicd th*

valleys at the S. foot of the Pyrenees, (f.4

