406 NAXUANA. NAXOS.

aristocratical party appear to have again pot the

upper hand; but they were after a short time ex-

pelted by the people, and applied lor assistance to

Ari&tagoras of Miletus. The Persians, at the per­

suasion of Aristagoras, sent a large force in B.C.

501 to subdue Naxos: the expedition proved a fail­

ure; and Aristagoras, fearing the anger of the Per­

sian court, persuaded the Iouians to revolt from the

great king. (Herod, v. 30—34.) At this period

the Naxians had 8000 hoplites, many ships of war,

and numerous slaves. (Herod, v. 30, 31.) From

the 8000 hoplites we may conclude that the free

population amounted to 50,000 souls, to which num-

ber we may add at least ;ts many slaves. In B. c.

490 the Persians under Datis and Artaphernes lauded

upon the island, and in revenge for their former

failure Laid it waste with fire and sword. Most of

the inhabitants took refuge in the mountains, but

those who remained were reduced to slavery, and their

city set on fire. (Herod, vi. 96.) Naxos became a

dependency of Persia; but their four ships, w hich

were sent to the Persian fleet, deserted the latter and

fought on the side of Grecian independence at the

battle of Sal a mis. (Herod, viii. 40.) They also

took part in the battle of Plataeae. (Diod. v. 52.)

After the Persian wars Naxos became a member of

the confederacy of Delos under the headship of

Athens; but about B.C. 471 it revolted, and was

subdued by the Athenians, who reduced the Naxians

to the condition of subjects, and established 500

Athenian Cleruclis in the island. (Thuc. i. 98, 137;

Plut. Pericl. 11; Pans. i. 27. § 6.) From this

time Naxos is seldom mentioned in aucient history.

It was off Naxos that Chabrias gained a signal victory

over the Lacedaemonian fleet in it. c. 370, which

restored to Athena the empire of the sea. (Xen.

Jlell v. 4. § 60, seq.; Diod. xv. 34.) During the

civil wars of Koine Naxos was for a short time sub*

ject to the Rhodians. (Appian, B. C. v. 7.)

After the capture of Constantinople by the Latins

in 1204, the Aegaean sea tell to the lot of the Vene­

tians; and Marco Sanudo, in 1207, took possession

cf Naxos, and founded there a powerful state under

the title of the Duchy of the Aegaean Sea (Dux

Acgaei Pelagi). He built the large castle above the

town, now in ruins, and fortified it with 12 towers.

His dynasty ruled over the greater part of the Cy-

cladea for 360 years, and was at length overthrown

by the Turks in 1566. (Finlay, Aft-ducal Greece,

p. 320, se<].) Naxos now belongs to the new king­

dom of Greece. Its population does not exceed

12,000, and of these 300 or 400 are Latins, the de­

scendants of the Venetian settlers, many of whom

bear the names of the noblest families of Venice.

The ancient capital of the island, also called

Naxos, was situated upon the N\V. coast. Its site

is occupied by the modern capital. On a small de-

tached rock, called Paldti, about 50 yards in front

of the harbour, are the ruins of a temple, which tra­

dition calla a temple of Dionysus. The western

l^irtal still remains, consisting of three huge marble

slabs, two ]**r|>endicular and one laid across, and is

of elegant, though simple workmanship. A drawing

of it is given by Tournefoct. Stephanus B. men­

tions another town in Naxos called Tragia or Tra-

gaea {s. r. T^cry/a), but which Koss believes to be

the small island Makares, between Naxos and I)o-

nussa. Aristotle also (ap. Allien, viii. p. 348) men­

tioned a plat e, named Lestadae (AT)ora5at)f of which

nothing further is known.

In the centre of the island a mountain, now called

Zta, rises to the height of 3000 foot Fmro itt

summit 22 islands may I* counted: and in tt* dis­

tance may be seen the outline of the incuninrc. of

Asia Minor. This mountain aj-jjears to have Wta

called Drius (A^i'os) in antiquity (Diod. t. 51); in

modern name is probably derived from the acnett

name of the island (Dia). On it there is a cun:<&a

Hellenic tower; and near the bottom, on tbe nai

towards Philoti, an inseriptiun, bpos Atos MtjA^kt^p.

Another mountain is called Kororwn (to Kft^wi,

which is evidently an ancient name, and mru&ds»«s

of the Naxian nymph Gonads, who brought up tw

young Dionysus (Diod. v. 52). The mountain* d

Naxos consist partly of granite and partly of m*r^k,

the latter being scarcely inferior to that of rare*.

Good whetstones were also obtained from Xud

(Hesych. s. v. Ka^ta Aitfus; Plin. xxxvi. 6. &. 9.)

There are several streams in the island, one of »h:-c!i

in ancient times was called Biblus (Bi§Aoi. SlejMi.

li. v. BiSMvT)).

The fertility of Naxos lias been equally celebrated

in ancient and modem times, Herodotus says tiul

it excelled all other islands in prosperity (v. 4»J

It produces in abundance corn, oil, wine, ar^i fnJ

of the finest description. In consequence of the ex­

cellence of its wine Naxos was celebrated in tin

legends of Dionysus, jtarticularly those n-Utiag I

Ari:idne. [See Diet of Bi<«jr. art. Aiuai»s.

Mureover, the priest of Dionysus gave 1m nan* H

the year, like the Archon Eponymus at AlM

(Iilk-kh, Insi'r. 2265.) The finest wine of Nan

is now produced at a place called AjxrdLho*. hi

a superior white wine, and is celebrated uj ti

islands of the Aegaean under the name ctf Juiced

Wine.

The plant which produces ladanum is foar»d i

Naxos; and in Thevenot's time it was collected trx

the beards of goats, in the rnaniicr describe* *

Herodotus (iii. 112). Emery is also found Uiei

iKiiticularly in the southern part of the island, fl

forms an article of exjort. The goats of Sax

were celebrated in antiquity. (Allien, xii. f*. 6-W

One of the most remarkable mrintjti—1 in ti

island is an unfinished colossal figure, ttiil hia£

an ancient marble quarry near the northern extrruu

of the island. It is about 34 feet in leuzliu a

has always been called by the inhabitants a 6g*J

of Apollo. On the side of the hill, at thr di-Au

of live minutes from the statue, we still find Lb* i

script ion, opos xwPl0V i*/»S 'AvdWwvos. Itoe* «

jectures that the statue may have been int«?r»ioi

a dedicatory offering to Deloa. (Thevenot, 7V»n

p. 103, Engl, trans].; Tournefurt, Vvffa^e, mi.

p. 1G3, Engl, trans).; Leake, AorrArm Gr*»

vol. iii. p. 93; Ru&s, Reiaen amfden Orin-a. inm

vol. i. p. 22, seq.; Grliter, Jte A'ozo Jnsubi, L

1833- Curtius, Naxo*t BerL 1846.)

COIN' OK THE ISLAND OP >'AX(»Sw

NAXIT.VNA (Na^oucb'tt, Ptnl. t. 13w § 1 3

city on the N. bank of the river Artie*, now J\

dgCvaOy a city of some importance ui Armenian

