MORGANTIA 371 MORIDUNUM.

eikwbpmt part by lh« assistance of a body

i adenrj traps from Murgantia and other

'j» 4 tt» iaterinr, that that tyrant succeeded in

lUtUigr bit de»potic power at Syracuse, u. a

!ir. (Juiia. ixii. 2: Diod. xix. 6.) Morgantia

> irpawlj rationed daring the Second Punic

tit Duitf <"» of Syracuse by Marcellus

i tm *'by a Roman garrison, and great

aioasa uf cm collected there; but the place

. «"osj the inhabitants to the Carthaginian

,-ncJ Huoiko, ud was for some time occupied by

i» Snsrjju loder Hippocrates who from thence

n>*i lie proceedings of tile siege- (Liv. .xxiv.

KB.) It isj ultimately recovered by the Roman

• :._!:.[ resulted again after the departure of

kirfeii tmsn Sicily, b. c 211; and being retaken

""«(cxter Jl. Cornelius, both the town and its

r~.-jri tm usgned to a body of Spanish merce-

«n «lu had deserted to the Romans under

*w (lixxri.21.)

Hvattie >i|iears to have still continued to 1«

tfrini'TsW tMD under the Roman dominion. In

*» mat Sard* insurrection of B. c 102 it was  
bj tht leaden of the insurgents, Tryphoo

aj i^suuti; bat being a strong place and well

triil i/tmi a vigorous resistance; and it is not

*» »i»Uw it ultimatelv fell into their hands or  
»»• (baa. xxxri. 4, 7. fcxc Phot pp. 53.3, 534.)

6** npftsiedly notations its territory as one fertile

• sis well cultivated, though it suffered se-

aw trsn the exactions of Verres, (Cic Verr.

• l>. 41) It was therefore in his time still a

f*J town, and we find it again mentioned as

May (Li. 8. a. 14); so that it must be an

Pr a) tit part of Strabo, that he speaks of Mor-

s> a city that no Icaiger existed. (Strab.

Jr**0-) It may, however, very probably have

P ■ s state af great decay, as the notice of Pliny

*» «Jr lahsMjoenl mention of it* name, and  
■ im una Mil trace of it is lost.

Tu piUa of Morgantia is a subject of great

"^at?. and it is ioipoasible to reconcile the

fca,' nateawats of ancient writers. Most

■atifl, tamcrer, concur in associating it with

'**iaa lewms of the interior, that border on

,n*7>*f the Srmaethua and its tributaries,

Aryriasn, Assurua, &c (Diod. xL 78,

U». Cie. Vtnr. I e,; SiL ItaL xiv. 265); and

■*pea» testimony to the (June effect ia found

*■ vaawnt that the Carthaginian general  
W Ganoid m tie territory of Aoyrium, by

!"»»• Caryos, am tie road leading to Mor-

Pt (IW. xiv. 95.) The account of its siege

■* Sard* War also indicates it as a place of

P» «t«tth, bnilt on a lofty bill. (Diod. xxxvi.

») than it a very strange that Livy in one

pajsafa rf the Kumar fleet as lying at Mor-

P*» af it nam a place on the sea-coast , a

'tally at Tarianca with all other accounts

of its position, and in which there must probably be

some mistake. (Liv. xxiv. 27.) On the whole we

may safely place Morgantia somewhere on the bor­

ders of the fertile tract of plain that extends from

Catania inland along the Simeto and its tributaries;

and probably on the hills between the Dittaino and

the Gurna Longa, two of the principal of those tribu­

taries; but any attempt at a nearer determination

must be purely conjectural.

There exist coins of Morgantia, which have the

name of the city at full, MOPrANTINnN: this is

unfortunately effaced on the one figured in the pre­

ceding column. [£. H. B.]

MORGE'TES (Mofryn-rM), an ancient people of

southern Italy, who had disappeared before the

period of authentic history, but are noticed by several

ancient writers among the earliest inhabitants of

that part of the peninsula, in connection with the

Oenotrians, Itali, and Siculi. Antiochus of Syracuse

(op. Diow/s. i. 12) represented the Sieuli, Morgetes

and Italietes as all three of Oenotrian race; and

derived their names, according to the favourite

Greek custom, from three successive rulers of the

Oenotrians, of whom Italus was the first, Morges

the second, and Siculus the third. This last

monarch broke up the nation into two, separating

the Siculi from their parent stock; and it would

seem that the Morgetes followed the fortunes of the

younger branch; for Strabo, who also cites An­

tiochus as bis authority, tells us that the Siculi and

Morgetes at first inhabited the extreme southern

peninsula of Italy, until they were expelled from

thence by the Oenotrians, wlieu they crossed over

into Sicily. (Strab. vi. p. 257.) The geographer

also regards the name of Morgantium in Sicily as

an evidence of the existence of the Morgetes in that

island (Ibid. pp. 257. 270); but no other writer

notices tbem there, and it is certain that in the

time of Thucydidea their name must have been

effectually merged in that of the Siculi. In the

Etymologicon Magnum, indeed, Morges is termed a

king of Sicily: but it seems clear that a king of

the Siculi is intended; for the fable there related,

which calls Siris a daughter of Morges, evidently

refers to Italy alone. (A'lym. if. v. 2ip/s.) All

that we can attempt to deduce as historical from

the legends above cited, is that there appears to

have existed in the S. of Italy, at the time when

the Greek colonists first became acquainted with it,

a people or tribe bearing the name of Morgetes,

whom they regarded as of kindred race with the

Choncs and other tribes, whom they included under

the more general appellation of the Oenotrians.

[Oinotkia.] Their particular place of abode

cannot be fixed with certainty; but Strabo seems

to place them in the southern peninsula of Brut-

tiuni, adjoining Khegium and Locri. (Strab. vi.

p. 257.) [E.H.B.]

MOIiGINXUM, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placed

by the Table on the road from Vienna (Vienne)

to Alpis Cottia, and 14 M. P. short of Cularo

(Grenoble). The place is Motraru. [G. L.]

MORl'AH. [Jerusalem.]

MORICAMBA (Mopiad/iSt), PtoL ii. 3. § 3), an

estuary of Britain, Morecambe Bay, on the coast of

Lancashire. [C. R. S-]

MORIDU'NUM, in Britain, placed both by the

Antonine Itin. and Geogr. Rav. near Isca of the

Dumnonii (Exeter'): it was one of the stations

termed iKamiones and mutationes, probably the

latter : its site has by no means been agreed upon by

B B 2

