862 SABA. SARA.

accounts of them from the historical books of the

Aegyptian kings, which ha consulted in the Alex*

andreian Library. (Diod. iii. 38, 4ri.) There can

he little question that Herodotus, although lie does

not name the Sabaeans, describes them in various

jn-ssaires, wlien speaking of the Arabians, the south­

ernmost people of the earth. (Herod, ii. 86, iii. 107

—113.) The commerce of Yemen with Phoenicia

and Aegypt under the Pharaohs would render tlie

name of the Sabaeans familiar in nil the havens of

the lied Sea and the eastern Mediterranean. The

Aegyptiana imported spices largely, since they em­

ployed them in embalming the dead; and the Phoe­

nicians required them for the Syrian markets, since

perfumes have in all ages been both favourite

luxuries and among the most popular medicines of

the East. At the time when Ptolemy wrote (in the

second century A.D.) their trade with Syria and

Aegypt, as the carriers of the silks and spices so

much ill request at Rome, brought the Sabaeans

within ken of the scientific geographer and of the

learned generally.

3. Accordingly, we nuet in the Roman poets

with numerous, although vague, allusions to the

wealth and luxury of the Sabaeans. '* Molles," "di-

vites," "beati,' are the epithets constantly applied

to them. (See Catull. xi. 5; Propert. ii. 10. 16.

i6. 2\). 17, iii. 13. 8; Virgil, Gwrg. i. 57, ii. 150.

Aeneid. i. 416; Horace, Coras, i. 29. S, ii. 12. 24;

Id. EpieL i. 6. 6. ih. 7. 36; Statins, SUv. iv. 8. 1 j

Scuec. If trail*.*, Ott. v, 376.) The expedition of

Aelius ('alius, indeed (». r. 24), may have tended

ti» bring Southern Arabia more immediately under

the notice of the Romans. But their knowledge

wis at best very limited, and rested less on facts

than on rumours of Sabaean opulence and luxury.

Pliny and the geographers are rather better in­

formed, but even they had very erroneous conceptions

of the physical or commercial character > f this nation.

Not until the passage to India by the Cape had

been discovered was Sabaea or Yemen really explored

by Europeans.

Assuming, then, that the Sabeans were a widely,

spread race, extending from the Persian Gulf to the

lied Sen, and running up to I lie borders of the

desert in the Arabian peninsula, we proceed to exa­

mine the grounds of their reputation for excessive

opulence and luxury. A portion of their wealth

was undoubtedly native; they supplied Aegypt and

Syria from the remotest periods with frankincense

and aromatics; and since the soil of Yemen is highly

productive, they took in exchange, not the com or

wine of their neighbours, but the precious metals.

But aromatics were by no means the capital source

of their wealth. The Sabaeans possessed f<>r many

centuries the keys of Indian commerce, and were

the intermediate factor?, between Aegypt and Syria,

as these countries were in turn the Indian agents

for Kurope, During the Pharaontc eras of Aegypt,

no attempt was made to disturb the monopoly of the

Sabaeans in this tralh'c. Ptolemy Pliiladelphus (n.c.

274) was the first Aegyptian sovereign who dis­

cerned the value of the lied Sea and its harbours to

hi* kingdom. He established his Indian emporium

at Myos-HormuJ or Arsinoe, and under his succes­

sors Berenice, which was connected with CoptOJ on

the Nile by a canal, shared the profits of this re­

munerative trade. But even then the Sabaeans lost

a small portion only of their former exclusive ad-

rant ages. They were no longer the carriers of

Indian exports to Aegypt, but they were still the

importers of them from India itself. The Af^tal

fleets proceeded no further than the hues d SaW

batha or Mariaba; while the Sabaeans, kssj feat

even to t he voyage of Ncarchus (a, c. 330V luris**

across the ocean with the monsoon to Oyt* sal

the Malabar coast. Their vessels «ens a* Sams

build than the ordinary mercuam-ihits a ua

Greeks, and their mariners were n*«* skitfti eat

intrepid than the Greeks, who. it is recorded, ttrmm

back with terror from the Indian Ocean. Ti» task

of the Sabaean navigators lay alone the eo»rt a?(a>

drnsia, since Nearcbus found along its t

Arabic names of places, and at Pot** eacsf^i

pilot acquainted with those seas. In pnawtssar

luxury increased in the Syro-Macedooisn <

their extravagance in the article of perfm

is recorded by Athenaeus, xiL), and sal

in Home, the Indian trade became more i

the Sabaeans. It was computed in the third c

of the Empire, that, for every pvund of s"

to Italy, a pound of silver c

Arabia: and the computation might fairly k

tended to the aromatics employed so lavishly 1

Romans at their banquet* and funerals. (0

Petroniua, c. 64, with Plutarch, SsZJa,

Then were two avenues of this traffic, (

by Petra and the Elauitic gulf, the o

lied Sea to Arsinoe, the Ptolemaic canal, i

andreia. We may therefore fairly ascribe ts*«

ordinary wealth of the Sabaeans to task* I

monopoly of the Indian trade. Their country,!

ever, was itself highly productive?, andd-nUiesvi

the general character of the Arabian peasasaw

southern extremity was densely popoiatfd. 11

Sabaeans are docrihed by the Hebrew, tw Geuj

and the Arabian writers as a nn

lofty stature, implying abundance of tbet

life; and the recurrence of the name of Sabat

out the entire region between th* Red Sea tad (

mania shows that they were populous and ]

enough to send out colonies. The (teoeral k

of the northern and central districts at 1

the population down to the south. T

that border on the Italian Ocean arc

by the plenty of wood and water; tbt

perate, the animals are numerous (the

Yemen are strong and serviceable), and i

delicious. With such abundance at boast 1

baeans were enabled to devote themselves n»1

with undivided energy and success.

Nothing more strikingly di* plays tbe i

of the ancient geographers as regards Sib

their descriptions of the opi

Their narratives are equally pompous and i

gant. According to Agatbarchides and I*a

the odour of the spice-woe*Is was so potest I

inhabitants were liable to apoplexies, nwk I

acted the noxious perfumes by the ill i

goats -hair and asph.iltite. The deecrctaas *

houses, their furniture, and even th* trd-*nestsM

sils were of g< Id and silver: they draaa trtaut

blazing with gems; they used annanaai i

firewood; and no king could compete ia tuias^fl

the merchant-princes of the Sabaeans. Yajsasssal

to remember the real or imputed suoiptu

few of the I'utch and English East Iadia(

merchants in the 18th century, while

the East was in a few hands, in order N

the worth of these descriptions by

and Diodorus.

The delusions of the

