LUTETIA. 221 LUTEVA.

fined to the island which afterwards was called La

CUe (civitas), a name given to the old Roman part

of several French towns. But the island on which

stands the church of Notre Dame was then and

f»r a long time after of leas extent than it is now;

fur the site of the Place Dauphine was once two

small islands which were not joined together and

united to the Cite before the sixteenth century; and

the *pot called Le Terrein was another addition

produced by the ruins of the buildings which were

erected in this part of the city. Paris was never a

large place under the Roman dominion. Ammianus

(xr. 11) calls it a Castellurn, and Julian (Afwo-

fogon, p. 340) and Zosimus name it a small city

(roAxx*^). Zosimus, who was no great geographer,

places it in German ia. Lutetia may probably have

occupied some ground on the nrnth or on the south side

«if the river, or even on both sides, for the island

was joined to the mainland by bridges in Caesar's

time (/i. G. vii. 58), made of wood, as we may as­

sume. Julan spent a winter in Paris, A. i>. 358,

and was proclaimed Augustus there. (Ammian.

Marcell. xvii. 2, 8, xx. 4.) The Franks under

Cluvis took Paris about the close of the 6fth century,

a. D.; and about A. D. 508 Clovis made Paris

is residence.

A- A. The ri»er Sequana (St-ine).

li. It. Th»- Hirer Mutrona (Manur).

\. I.utt-tia {Paris <t on mi Inland.

2. Nrlodunum (Mtlun). on an island or point.

The scale u tu English inilei.

When Caesar (b. c. 52) was betting oat to attack

Geiyovia, he sent Labienus with four legions against

the Senones and Parisii. ( />. G. vii. 34.) Labienus

adruiced upon Lutetia from Agedincum, where he

left his store*. His march was along the left bank

of the Seine. The commander of the Gallic forces

occupied a marshy tract, the water of which ran

into the Seine, and here he waited, with the inten­

tion of preventing the Romans from crossing the

river (B.G.\u. 57) to Lutetia. Labienus attempted

to make a mad across the marsh, but, finding it

inipuHsible, he left his camp silently in the night,

and, returning by tbe route by wliich he hud ad-

tanied, he reached Melodunum (Mthtn), a town of

the Srnories on an island in the Seine. He there

K>2ni about fifty vessels, and easily got possession

of MthoL After repairing the bridge from the

island to the right bank of the river, he carried over

his men to the right side, and marched again upon

Lutetia. He took the vessels with him, and used

them, as we must suppose, for crossing tbe Matrona

(Marne), though the Marne is not mentioned in

the narrative. Before Labienus could reach Paris,

the Galli set Lutetia on fire, and broke down the

bridges which united the island to the main. They

also quitted the marsh, and placed themselves on

the banks of the Seine opposite to Lutetia and to

the cainp of Labienus, which was on the right side

of the river. In the meantime Caesar's defeat before

Gergovia was known, and Lahienus was threatened

from the north by the Bellovaci in his rear. In

front of him, on the opposite side of the river, were

the Parisii and their allies. His safety depended on

getting to the left bank of the Seine, and he ac­

complished it by a clever movement. Soon after

nightfall he left half a legion in his camp; he

ordered another half legion, with their baggage,

to march up the river, making a loud noise; and he

sent tip the river, in the same direction as the half

legion as many boats as he could collect, which

made a great splashing with their oars. He sent

the ships that he brought from Melodunum four

miles down the river, and, soon after despatching the

half legion up the river, he marched with his three

legions down the stream in great silence, and found

his ships. The scouts of the enemy, who were

placed all along the stream, were surprised and

slaughtered, for there was a great storm raging, and

they were off their guard. The three legions were

carried across the river in the vessels. The enemy

were confounded by the unusual noise purposely

made in the Roman camp, by the boats moving up

the river, and by the news of the enemy crossing

lower down. Accordingly, the Galli left part of

their forces to watch the opposite camp, and sent

another part up the river towards Metioseduin, as it

is in Caesar's text, which is either a mistake fur

Melodunum, or it is some place higher up the Seine

than Paris. Either supposition will explain Caesar.

The Galli led the rest of their forces to oppose the

three legion which had crossed the Seine with

Labienus, and, after a hard fight, they were defeated

and dispersed. Labienus led his troops back to

Agedincum, where his stores and baggage were.

This is the substance of Caesar's narrative, which is

correctly explained by D'Anville (Notice, <J?c, art.

Melodunum), and Ukert (Gallien, p. 476) has done

well in following him. Some of the old critics com­

pletely misunderstood Labienus' movements; and

even, of late years, the passage has been wrongly

explained.

The Romans built both on the island La Cite and

on both sides of the Seine, but the Homan memorials

of Paris are very few. Some sculptured stones were

dug up under the choir of Notre Dame. The in­

scriptions were of the time of Tiberius Caesar, and

show that the Roman and Gallic deities were wor­

shipped jointly. The remains of a subterranean

aqueduct have been discovered both on the north and

south sides of the river. The materials of the Roman

city were doubtless employed for more recent con­

structions, and thus Roman Lutetia has disap­

peared. [^* k*3

LUTE'VA (Eth. Lutevani: JLodere), in Gallia

Narbonensis, is placed by the Table, where the name

is written Loteva, on a road from Agatha (Agile) to

Segoduuum (Uhodtz). Pliny (iii. 5) says, ** Lute­

vani qui et Koroneronicnscs," whence it has been

