TIBERIS. 1199 TIBULA.

3, liv. 1.) Great attention was bestowed by An­

imus upin the subject, and he first instituted

•i_*irtrates with the title of Curatorcs Tibcris,

ttnae special duty was to endeavour to restrain the

;ttt within due bounds, to preseire the etnbank-

ants, 4c (Suet Oct. 37.) These officers received

xrtased powers under Tiberius, and continued

own to the close of the Empire. We frequently

«t with mention in inscriptions of the " Curatores

iTca Tiberis et riparum," and the office seems to

-i^e been regarded as one of the most honourable in  
be rtate. (Dion Cass. Ivii. 14; Orell. truer. 1172,

2«4, fcc.; Grater, Inter, pp. 197, 198.") But it is

ridtot that all their efforts were ineffectual. In

M reign of Tiberius so serious was the mischief

mwd hy an inundation in A. D. 15 that it was

ropnaed in th« senate to diminish the bulk of the

-itrrs by diverting some of the chief tributaries of  
ie strain, such as the Nar, Velinua and Clanis.

Tae. Ann. i. 76; Dion Cass. Ivii. 14.) This

Ian wax, however, abandoned as impracticable;

ad a a. I). 69 another inundation took place,

h.t b appears to have caused still more damage

iin any that had preceded it (Tar. U'ut. i. 86).

; is strange that in face of these facts Pliny

>>*i\i assert that the Tiber was so confined within

"ifedal banks as to have very little power of out-

Tii, ami that its inundations were rather subjects

'.uprrttitious alarm than formidable in themselves.

'm. iii. 5. a. 9.) During the later ages of the Em-

r indeed we hear but little of such outbreaks of the

.vr, but this is very probably owing only to the

aaty nature of our records. One great inundation

!)3*ever, recorded as doing great mischief in the

••m »{ Trajan, another in that of Macrinus, and a

irl in that of Valerian. (Dion Cass, Ixxviii. 25;

kU Cat*. 34, EpiL 13.) One of the most de­

ntin" of all is said to have been that of A. D.

10, which added to the various calamities that at

V. time almost overwhelmed the city. (IlitL

faced, xviii. p. 683; Greg. Turon. x. 1.) At the

> -tnt day the lower parts of Home are still frequently

nded by the river, for though the soil of these parts

the ci'.y has unquestionably been raised, in some

ares many feet, the bed of the Tiber has un-

ib'edly been also elevated, though probably in a

t.- decree. The whole subject of the inundations

id navigation of the Tiber, and the measures

kra is ancient times in connection with them, is

ily illustrated by Preller in an article entitled

-n vui tier Tiber in the Berickte der Siichsitchen  
••ilUeJmft for 1848 and 1849.

Tha Tiber appears to have been in ancient times

-x^Kiilly frown,at least partially; a circumstance  
«h:ch the Latin poets repeatedly allude. But we

■st not construe their rhetorical expressions too

mfy; and it is clear from the terms in which

-y notices its being frozen over in the extraor-  
eary winter of B. c. 398, that such an occurrence

i» A extreme rarity. (" Insignis annus hieme gelida

Twvoaa fait, adeo ul viae clausae, Tiberis innavi-

iui fserit. Liv. v. 13.) St Augustin also alludes

'tv i) a winter (apparently the same noticed by

vr), * at Tiberis quoque glacie duraretur," as a

V unheard of in bis times. (Augustin, Civ. Dei,

17.)

It wa» a tradition generally received among the

—ins that the Tiber had been originally called

I'rala; and that it changed its name in consequence

TiKerinoa, one of the fabuloua kingB of Alba,

i'itj been drowned in its waters. (Liv. i. 3; Dionys.

i. 71; Vict. Orig. G. Rom. 18.) Virgil, however,

who calls the king Thybris, assigns him to an earlier

period, prior to the landing of Aeneas (Ant. viii.

330). Hence the river is not unfrequentlv called by

the Roman poets Albula. (Sil. Ital. vi. 391, viii.

455, &c.) It had naturally ita tntelary divinity or

river-god, who, as we learn from Cicero, was regu­

larly invoked in their prayers by the augurs under

the name of Tiberinus (Cic. dr N. IK iii. 20). He

is frequently introduced by the Roman poets as

"pater Tiberinus" (Enn. Am. i. p. 43; Virg. Aen.

viii. 31, 72; &c ) [E. H. B.]

TIBIGEXSE OPPIDUM, a town in Africa

Propria, apparently the Thlgiln (Siyf&i) of Pto­

lemy (iv. 3. § 29; Plin. v. 4. s. 4). [T. H. D.]

TIBILIS, a town in the interior of Numidia, 54

miles from Cirta having hot mineral spring*

(Aquae Tibilitanae) (August. Ep. 128: Itin. AnL

p. 42), commonly identified with llammom J/eaAu-

tin in the mountains near the river Seibvnse; but,

according to D'Avezac and the map of the province

of Constantino (Par. 1837), it U Hammam-el.

Benin, somewhat more to the N. IT. H. D.]

T1BISCUM (Tido-aw. Ptol. iii. 8. § 10), a town

of Dacia, on the river Tibiscus. By the Geogr. Rav,

it is called Tibis (iv. 14), and in the Tab. rent

Tiviscum. Its ruins exist at Kavaran. at the

junction of the Tcmetz (Tibiscus) and Biftra (cf.

Ukert, iii. 2. p. 616). [T. H. D.]

TIBISCUS(T.'S.ffKoi,Ptol. iii. 8. § l),atributary

river of the Danube in Dacia. We also find it called

Tibissus {Inter. Grnt. p. 448. 3) and Tibisia (Gaigr

Rav. iv. 14). Several authors identify it with the

Tisianns or Tysia (the modern Theiu), with which,

indeed, Ptolemy seems to have confounded it, as he

does not mention the latter (Mannert, iv. p 203;

Sickler, i. p. 196; cf. Ukert, iii. 2. p. 603). But

Forbiger, after Reicliard, identifies it with the Te-

meat; his grounds for that opinion being that Jor-

nandes (Get. c. 34) and the Geographer of Ravenna

((. c.) mention the Tysia and Tibisia as two distinct

rivers, and that the site of the ancient town of Ti-

biscum appears to point to the Donetz {Hondb. d.

alt. Geogr. iii. p. 1103, note). It is probable that

the Pathiasus of Pliny (iv. 12. s. 25) and I'artbiarus

of Ammianus Marcellinus (xvii. 13. § 4 ) are the

same river, though some identify them with the

Tisianns. [T. H. I).]

TIBISIS (T(Siffit), a large river of Scytuia,

which Herodotus describes as rising in Ml. IlHenitis.

and flowing into the Maris (iv. 49). It is identified

by some with the Kara Imw.

TIBULA (TiSooao, Ptol.), a town of Sardinia,

near the N. extremity of the island, which appears

to have been the customary landing-place for travel­

lers coming from Corsica; for which reason the

Itineraries give no leas than four lines of route, taking

their departure from Tibula aa a starting-point.

{Itin. Ant. pp. 78—83.) It is very unfortunate

therefore that ita position is a matter of great un­

certainty. That assigned to it by ltolemy would

place it on the site of Caste! Sardo on the N. eoaat

of the island, and only about 18 miles from Porto

Torres, but this is wholly incompatible with the

statements of the Itineraries, and must certainly

be erroneous. Indeed Ptolemy himself places the

Tibulates, or Tibulatii (TifovAarioi), who must

have been closely connected with the town of that

name, in the extreme N. of the island (Ptol. iii. 3.

§ 6), and all the data derived from the Itinerariea

concur in the same result The most probable post­

