SCILLUS. SCIRI. 931

fi r.\ wit calls it merely a " city of Italy." We

ansrdore no doe to its position; for even its

ttuiitn cn toe Tyrrhenian sea is a mere inference

ii ihe nanner in which it is mentioned by Hero-

•iu in conjunction with Laiis. But there exist at

■•pri. «o the Gulf of Polieastro, extensive remains

'u saeiait city, which are generally considered,

I apparently not without reason, as indicating

watt of Sodrus. They are said to consist of the

nuns of a theatre and other public buildings of

« istient valla, and constructions around the

at (Aalmini, Lucania, part ii. c. 11; Rmnanelli,

4. L av 377.) This last is a remarkable land-

ixal taiia, though of small extent; and it is

-nisr that, even if the town had ceased to exist,  
i illusion should be found to the existence of this

-it? port, on a coast almost wholly destitute of  
Mai harbours. But the high mountains which

at it hi and debar it from all communication with

r l&terior probably prevented it from ever attain-

[ to say importance. Sapri is at the present day

rnn fishing Tillage, about 6 miles E. of /Wi­

lt* [E. H. B ]

SCILLUS (IjciAAoOi: Etk. SkiAAoiWios), a

n of Triphylia, a district of Elis, situated 20

ru sooth of Olympia. In B.C. 572 the Scil-

itu* assisted Pyrrhus, king of Pisa, in making

r nr>n the Eleiaus; but they were completely

ttiarrd by the latter, and both Pisa and Scillus

trued to the ground. (Paus. v. 6. § 4, vi. 22.

.) .Villus remained desolate till about n. c. 392,

i ihe Lacedaemonians, who had a few years

n-aahr compelled the Eleians to renounce their

fwnacy over their dependent cities, colonised

bat and pare it to Xenophon, then an exile from

«. Xestopboa resided here more than twenty

i bat was expelled from it by the Eleians soon

'!h» battle of Leuctra, B. a 371. He has left

description of the place, which be says was silu-

10 stadia from the Sacred Grove of Zeus, on

n*l to Olympia from Sparta. It stood upon the

'Minus, which was also the name of the river

tf by the temple of Artemis at Ephesus, and

■tf latter it abounded in fish and shell-fish.

\Ts,phon, from a tenth of the spoils acquired in

Lsntic campaign, dedicated a temple to Artemis,

■UZne of the celebrated temple at Ephesus, and

Med a festival to the goddess. Scillus stood

< v.vjda and meadows, and afforded abundant

it for cattle; while the neighbouring moun-

•eprJied wild hogs, roebucks, and stags. (Xen.

lv. 3.$* ~—13.) When Pausanias visited

a fire centuries afterwards the temple of Ar-

■VilJ remained, and a statue of Xenophon, made

'• fiu- marble. (Paus. r. 6. § 5, seq.; romp

. rut pp. 344, 387; Plat, de ExsU. p. 603.)

i art ao remains to identify Scillus, but there

I u> doubt that it stood in the woody vale, in

i is a email village called Jiata, and tlirongh

nmi a river Calling into the Alplieius nearly

t» the Cladena- (Leake, JUorta, vol. ii. p.

en. Peiopomesiacn, p. 9; Boblaye, Rechrrehit,

IU: Curtioa, Peiopomesos, vol. ii. p. 91.)

INCOMAGUS (3«<ry«W7°0- This place is

rrrtiooral by Strabo (iv. p. 179), who says,

•» is speaking of one of the passes of the

list from Kbrodunum (Embrvn) on the

sadt through Brigantium (Briancon) and

'iocus and the pan of the Alps to Ocelum,

■a of that land of Cottius is 99 miles; and at

I:aly begins: and the distance -from

Scincomagus to Ocelum is 27 mile*. (See Groslnrd's

note on the passage, Trantl. Strab. i. p. 309.)

Pliny also (ii. 108) makes Italy extend to the

Alps at Scincomagns, and then he gives the breadth

of Gallia from Scincomagns to the Pyrenees and

Uliberis. (See the notes and emendations in Har-

duin's edition.) It appears then that Scincomagus

was at the foot of the Alps on the Italian side: and

if the position of Ocelum were certain, we might pro­

bably determine that of Scincomagus, which must

be on the line of the passage over the Alps by

the Mont Genivre. It was a great mistake of

Bouche and Harduin to suppose that Scincomagns

was the same as Segusio or Suta. D'Anville

guesses that Scincomagus may be a place which he

calls " Chamlat de Sipvin. at the entrance of the

Col de Cestriires, which leads from the valley of

Sfzane (Cesano) into that of Pra-gelat" As usual,

he relies on the resemblance of the ancient and

modern names, which is often useful evidence; for

11 magus" in Scincomagus is merely a common

Gallic name for town. D'Anville also supposes thnt

this position of Scincomagus is confirmed by the site

of Ocelum, as be has fixed it. [Ocelum.] But all

this is vague. [G. L.]

SCIO'NE (2kic6ki>,Herod, vii. 123.viii. 128; Time

iv. 120—123,133, v. 32; Strab. vii. p. 330 ; Pomp.

Mela, ii. 2. § 11; Plin. iv. 17: Eth. 1*mvaios,

Herod.; Zmurcit, Steph. B. >. v.), the chief town on

the isthmus of Pallene in Macedonia. Although it

called itself Achaean, like many other colonial towns,

in default of any acknowledged mother-city, it traced

its origin to warriors returning from Troy. Under con­

cert with Brasidas the Scionarans proclaimed their re­

volt from Athens, two days after the truce was swom,

March, B.C. 421. Brasidas, by a speech which ap­

pealed to Grecian feeling, wound up the citizens to

the highest pitch of enthusiasm. The Athenians,

furious at the refusal of the Lacedaemonians to give

up this prize, which they had gained after the truce,

passed a resolution, under the instigation of Cleon

to kill all the grown-up male inhabitants of the

place, and strictly besieged the town, which Bra­

sidas was unable to relieve, though he had pre­

viously conveyed away the women and children to a

place of safety. After a long blockade Scione sur­

rendered to the Athenians, who put all the men of

military age to death, and sold the women and

children to slavery. The site of this ill-fated city

must be sought for between the capes Paltitri

and Potkthi. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii.

p. 157.) [E.B.J.]

SCIRA'DIUM. [Saijvmis.]

SCIlil or SCIRRI, a population variously placed

by various authors. The first who mentions them

is Pliny (iv. 13. s. 27), who fixes thein in Eningia,

i. c. in the parts to the NE. of the extreme fron­

tier of what he and his contemporaries call Genna-

nia, i. e. East Prussia, Courland, Livonia, Esthimia,

and part of Emnland," qmdam haec habitari ad Vis-

tulsm usque iluvium a Sarmatjs, Venedis, Seine,

Hirris,tradunt" No other author either mentions

the Hirri or places the Sciri thus far northward.

The most interesting notice of them is in the so-

called Olbian inscription (Buckh, Inter, no. 2058).

wherein they are mentioned as dangerous neighbours

to the town of Olbia along with the Galatae, the

Thisamatae, the Scythae, and the Sandaratae (Zeuss,

lHe heutschen, rfc, #.P. Galatae); and, doubtless,

the neighbouring town of Olbia was their true

locality.

3 ii 1

