ITALIA,

93 ITALIA.

portion containing Samnium (to which the land of

the Hirpini, included by Augustus in the second

re<:i.fl. was reunited), together with the Krentani

ami Pelig-ni; while the land of the Sabines, the Marsi,

tad liie Vestini, constituted a separate district, which

tore the name of Valeria, from the great highway,

the Via Valeria, by which it was traversed. 2. The

portion of the sixth region which lay between the

Apennines and the Adriatic (originally inhabited by

the Gauls) was separated from Umbria properly so

called, and distinguished by the name of Picennm

Annooarinm, while the true Picenum was called, for

the »ske of distinction, Picenum Suburbicarium.

8. The eighth region, or Gallia Cispadana, was di­

vided into two, of which the westernmost portion

»*umed the name of Akmilla, from the highroad of

that name; an appellation which seems to have come

into common use as early as the time of Martial

(iii. 4, vi. 85): while the eastern portion, much the

unaller of the two, received that of Fijvminia, though

the highroad of that name only extended to Ari-

minnm, on the very frontier of this district This

new division seems to have been generally united

*iih Picenum Annonariiun, though retaining its  
separate name. 4. The Alpes Cottiae, a mountain

datrict which in the time of Augustus had still

retained its nominal independence, though incor-

j»>rued with the Roman empire by Nero, seems to

hare continued to form a separate district till the

time of Constantine, who united it with the ninth

retim, the whole of which now came to be known

a> the Alpes Cottiae: while, still more strangely,

the name of Liguria was transferred from this

region, to which it properly belonged, to the eleventh

reiinn. or Gallia Transpadana; so that late writers

•peak of Mediolanum as the capital of Lignria.

[LiciRiA.] 5. The only other change that re­

quires notice was the division of Etruria into two

portions, called Tuscia Annonaria and Tuscia Urbi-

earia. This, as well as the similar distinction be­

tween the two Picenums, had its origin in the ad-

mimatrative arrangements introduced by Maximian,

who, when he established the imperial residence at

Milan, imposed upon the northern and adjoining

provinces the task of finding supplies (annonae) for

tie imperial court and followers, while the other

}**Ufin& ot Italy were charged with similar burdens

far the supply of Rome. (Mommsen. ad Lib. Col

pp. 198—200.) Hence Trebcllins Pollio, writing

in the reign of Diocletian, after enumerating the

districts of Southern and Central Italy, comprises

•II that lay N. of r'laininia and Etruria under the

fwera) appellation of "otlinis annonaria regio."

(Treb. Pull. Trig. Tgr. 24.)

In addition to these changes, Constantine, in the

(T*ial reorganisation of his empire, united to Italy

the two provinces of Rhaetia (including Vindelicia),

« well as the three great islands of Sicily, Sar­

dinia, and Corsica. These last, together with all

the central and southern provinces of Italy, were

placed under the jurisdiction of the Vicarius Urbis

Eunae, while all the northern provinces were subject

to the Vicarius Italiae. The minor arrangements

*"n to have frequently varied in detail, but the  
"VHiteen provinces into which the "Dioecesis

lialtae" was now divided, are thus enumerated in

u» Sotitia Dignitatum (ii. pp. 9,10): —

1. Venetia.

2. Aemilia.

3- Li^uria (L e. Gallia Transpadana).

4. Klaminia et Picenum Annoiiurimn.

5. Tnscla et Umbria.

6. Picenum Suburbicarium.

7. Campania.

8. Sicilia.

9. Apulia et Calabria.

10. Lucania et Bruttii.

11. Alpes Cottiae (Lignria).

12. Raetia Prima.

13. Raetia Secunda.

14. Samnium,

15. Valeria.

16. Sardinia.

17. Corsica.

This list substantially agrees with that in the

Libellus Provinciarum (published by Gronovius,

Lugd. Bat. 1739), a document of the time of

Theodosius I., as well as with that given by Paulus

Diaconus in his geographical description of Italy

(Hut. Lang. ii. 14—22), though he has added an

eighteenth province, to which he gives the name of

"Alpes Apennini;" which can be no other than the

northern part of Etruria, or Tuscia Annonaria. Of

the seventeen provinces enumerated in the Notitia

eight were placed under governors who bore the

title of Consulares, seven under Praesides, and the

two southernmost under Correctores, a title which

appears to have been at one time common to them

all.

(For further details on the administrative divisions

of Italy during the latter period of the Roman empire,

see the Notitia Dignitatum in Portions Occident!*,

Bonn, 1840,with Backing's valuable commentary;

Mommsen, lifter oTte Lib. Colon, in the Schriften

der Romiscben Fcldmetser, vol. ii. Berlin, 1852;

Marquardt, Bandb. der Horn. Alterthumer, vol. iii.

pt. 1. pp. 55—71.)

The divisions thus established before the close of

the Western Empire, were continued after its fall

under the Gothic monarchy, and we find them fre­

quently alluded to as subsisting under their old

names in Cassiodorus and Procopius. It was not

till the establishment of the Lombards in Italy that

this division gave place to one wholly different,

which became the foundation of that which subsisted

in the middle ages. The Lombards divided the

part of Italy in which they established their power,

including all the N., or what is now called Lorn*

bardy, together with a part of Tuscany and Umbria,

into a number of military fiefs or governments, under

the name of Duchies (Ducatus): the Duchy of

Friuli, Duchy of Verona, Duchy of Pavia, &c. Be­

sides those immediately subject to the Lombard kings,

two of these were established further to the S.,—the

Duchy of Spoleto and Duchy of Benevcnto, which

enjoyed a semi-independent position: and the lost

of these was extended by successive conquests from

the Greek Empire, till it comprised almost the

whole of the S. of Italy, or the modern kingdom of

Naples. The Greek emperors, however, still re­

tained possession of the Exarchate of Ravenna, to­

gether with the district called the Pentapolis, com­

prising a considerable part of Picenum, and what

was called the Duchy of Rome, including a pnrt of

Etruria and Umbria, as well as Latium. In the S.

also they always kept possession of some of the

maritime places of Campania, Naples, Oaita, and

Salerno, as well as of a part of Calabria, and the

cities of Otranto and Gallipoli. After the fall of

the Lombard kingdom, in a. d. 774, though they

had now lost their possessions in the N., the Exar­

chate and the Pentapolis, the Byzantine emperors

